{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__bosman___book_of_genesis_unveiled.pdf","mytitle":"Book Of Genesis Unveiled","mylang":"de"}
The
BOOK of GENESIS
UNVEILED
By
LEONARD BOSMAN
FIRST SERIES
TH E DHARMA PRESS
1 6, O aklfield R o a d , C l a p t o n
L o n d o n , E.5
Printed by
P E R C Y L U N D , H U M P H R I E S & C O . L T D .
T H E C O U N T R Y P R E S S
B R A D F O R D
Made and printed in Great Britain
PUBLISHERS’ ANNOUNCEMENT
In the series of volumes of which this forms
the first, the author presents an explanation
of the Genesis stories never before offered,
save in vague hints and suggestions scattered
throughout numerous ancient writings.
A study of comparative religion is essential
for the perfect comprehension of the deeper
meaning of the Bible stories, hence each
story and interpretation will be preceded by a
study of similar records found in the different
Sacred Scriptures of the world ; hence also
the necessity for the introductory volume
here presented.
This first volume contains a general critical
study, and shows the method used for the
unveiling of the Book of Genesis, describes
the Creation stories of all the great religions,
whilst the stories of Chaldea and Ancient
America will form the subjects of the second
volume. The reader will need to consider
this introductory matter with patience, for
its assimilation is indispensable to a complete
understanding of the explanation of the story
of Creation, which will form the subject of
the later volumes of this series.
The third volume will present a deep and
carefully reasoned interpretation of the
Creation story of Genesis, together with many
comparisons from the best authorities and
the Sacred writings of the world; the
different ideas of creation will be compared,
and the real, but hitherto hidden, meaning of
the Hebrew account will be given, in accord­
ance with the method outlined in the present
volume.
The Garden of Eden story will later be
treated in the same manner, the fullest
definition of the Characters depicted being
attempted, and the true meaning of the
Garden of Eden itself, from different points
of view, unfolded.
Finally, the deep inner significance of the
Story of the Flood will be expounded, after
an exhaustive comparison with the many
Flood stories of the world.
The whole task, more comprehensive and
illuminating than it is here possible to indicate
will, it is hoped, be completed in a series of
ten volumes.
N.B.— The author will welcome any informa­
tion or constructive criticism regarding
the matter of the present volume, or any
enquiries relating to thefirst ten chapters
of GENESIS. All replies or comments
will he given and considered in the later
volumes.
VI.
CONTENTS
PAGE
I n t r o d u c t i o n
Chapter i. T h e I n n e r S i d e o f t h e
P e n t a t e u c h
23
Chapter 2. A r e t h e r e T w o C r e a t i o n
S t o r i e s i n G e n e s i s ? . . 43
Chapter 3. A r e t h e G e n e s i s S t o r i e s
O r i g i n a l ? 60
Chapter 4. T h e K e y t o t h e M y s t e r y 80
Chapter 5. A n c i e n t C r e a t i o n S t o r i e s
99
INTRODUCTION
Despite the wealth of criticism collected
and offered in this work, it is not even
remotely intended in a destructive sense, but
has as its foundation a truly religious and
constructive Ideal.
The work is not addressed to those who,
full of faith in the fundamentals of religion,
can afford to close their eyes to the obvious
defects of editing and collating found in the
Scriptures. Rather is it offered to the
Gnostic and would-be Gnostic, to the
religious and philosophical students of a
modern and critical age, and to all such as do
not fear criticism if it be constructive, least
of all if a deeper meaning be discovered in
the Scriptures by means of such a criticism,
as it is certainly intended shall be the case
here.
Notwithstanding the process of re-arrange­
ment through which the different writings
have passed in the building up of the “ Book,”
in spite of the fact that much of it was written
long after the recorded statements, and apart
from its many obvious and proved con­
tradictions, its various authors and editors,
the Bible yet remains, in many senses, the
grandest and perhaps most wonderful Book
the world has yet seen.
Therefore, it is impossible that this work
should be written in any spirit of antagonism.
It aims at nothing save the helping forward
of a new alignment of religious belief, the
preparing of the way for a wider and deeper
view of religion, based on Faith, Works, and
above all, Understanding. It is this Under­
standing that alone can save, for true Faith is
useless without i t ; nor need it be feared, for
the Intelligence which will unveil the deep
inner meaning of the Sacred Writing will
also demonstrate its essential Truth. As
the Rev. j. B. Lightfoot, D.D., has well put
it : “ The abnegation of reason is not the
evidence of faith but the confession of
despair. Reason and reverence are natural
allies.”1
That Scripture needs in these days a far
deeper interpretation than has hitherto been
placed upon it, that the work of the con­
structive critic is necessary to the sweeping
away of the mass of wrong-thinking engen­
dered by the literalists around the Genesis
stories, is admitted by many learned writers,
clerical and orthodox.
Even Cory, the famous translator of the
Greek Fragments, writing in pre-Victorian
times, does not accept Genesis as a special
or new “ revelation.”
1 St. Paul's Epistle to the Galatians (1866), p .x i.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
INTRODUCTION
“ It is manifest,” he says, “ that the circumstances of the
Creation and the Fall were well known to all mankind previous
to the dispersion. And the writings of Moses give to the
chosen people not so much a new revelation as a corrected,
authenticated and inspired account of circumstances which
had then become partially obscured by time and abused by
superstition . . . . they must (both the ancient and
Mosaic systems) have been ultimately derived from the
common source of revelation.” 1
Hermann Gunkel, the noted Evangelical
professor of Old Testament Theology,
although a sympathetic commentator, says :
“ Many things are reported in Genesis which go directly against
our better knowledge : we know that there are too many
species of animals for all to have been assembled in any ark ;
that Ararat is not the highest mountain on earth ; that ‘ the
firmament of heaven ’ . . . i s not a reality, but an
optical illusion ; that the stars cannot have come into exist­
ence after plants, as Genesis II., 10-14 reports ; that the
rivers of the eartb do not come from four principal streams
. . . that the Tigris and the Euphrates have not a common
source, and so on.” 1
2
Coming from such a source, this is indeed
a confession. The Professor is, however,
not perturbed by these discrepancies, and
rightly concludes that:
“ the evangelical churches would do well not to dispute the
fact that Genesis contains legends— as has been done too
frequently— but to recognize that the knowledge of this fact
is the indispensable condition to an historical understanding
of Genesis. This knowledge is too widely diffused among
those trained in historical study ever again to be suppressed.
It will surely spread among the masses of our people for the
process is irresistible. Shall not we Evangelicals take care
that it be presented to them in the right spirit.” 3
1 Fragments, Cory., p. xli.
2 The Legends of Genesis, trans. Carruth, p. 7.
3 The Legends of Genesis, pp. n -12 .
3
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
This is, indeed, all the more necessary in
that, as Prof. Taylor Lewis, LL.D., says :
“ As there is no chapter in the Bible more important than the
first of Genesis, so also may it be said that there is no one
whose interpretation is more likely to be affected by the
prejudgments, popular, scientific, or philosophical (or
clerical), which the reader brings with him.”1
Says Dean Farrar :
“ Scripture ought always to have been interpreted with direct
primary reference to what must have been the original
meaning and intention of those who wrote, and of those who
received it. It has been for centuries interpreted with
reference to dogmatic bias and traditional conceptions.” 1
2
Elsewhere he adds :
“ A man may be a most useful preacher . . . without
any pretence to learning which is essential to a profound and
thorough knowledge of Scripture. And such men are some­
times misled into the supposition that they can speak with
authority on the meaning and interpretation of particular
passages. The supposition is entirely baseless. . . He
who would aspire not only to found upon Scripture texts a
moral and spiritual exhortation, but to ascertain and unfold
the actual meaning of Scripture . . . must have at his
command a multifarious knowledge. Without this he may be
at home in the shallows which the child can ford, but not in
the depths where the elephant must swim . . . The
discovery of the true meaning . . . is only possible by
an acquaintance with the original languages, and with the
historic and other conditions under which the Scriptures
were written. . . It is study alone which has in any
degree rescued the Bible from masses of untenable exegesis,
traditionally repeated in dull catenae and biassed com­
mentaries.” 3
Says Professor Kuenen (Leyden) :
“ Some narratives of the Pentateuch manifestly do not proceed
from one and the same hand, but have been compiled out of
1 In Clark’s Commentary on the Old Testament, vol. I., p. 125.
2 Intro, to Pulpit Commentary, vol. I., p. iii.
3 Intro, to Genesis in The Pulpit Commentary.
4
INTRODUCTION
different documents or records, which related probably to
the same fact, but not exactly in the same manner. Such a
difference between the documents, which the narrator had
at his disposal, may certainly have been got rid of in the
process of retouching.”1
This is possible, but as the Rev. C. C.
Martindale admirably points out:
“ Involved in any such study is the distinction between what
an author says and the way in which he chooses to say it.
An author may write history in the modern sense, or poetry,
or moral truth. There is no a priori reason why a Scriptural
author might not write inspired fiction. Whether he ever
has is another matter. . . The Church, then, has no
difficulty whatever, in principle, in admitting that this
element or that in a Biblical narrative, may be metaphorical.
In fact she (the Roman Catholic Church) would declare
heretical the man who should affirm that the phrase which
says that God breathed into man’s nostrils the breath of life,
was anything else.” 1
2
Says Bishop Colenso :
“ The Pentateuch as a whole was not written by Moses, and
with respect to some, at least, of the chief portions, it cannot
be regarded as historically true. It does not on that account
cease to contain the true word of God.” 3
Bishop Cotterill, though considering the
Pentateuch to be of Mosaic origin, says :
“ Of course this does not imply either that Moses did not make
use of more ancient documents, or that the book was not
revised by Ezra or others who had authority.”1
“ The strongest evidence of the non-Israelite origin of the
story of the Fall is furnished by the Biblical account itself,
in the many mythological conceptions, of which traces still
remain in Genesis.”
1 The Pentateuch and Book of Joshua Critically Examined, p. 12.
2 Anthropology and the Fall, p. 10.
3 The Pentateuch Critically Examined, p. 14.
1 The Pulpit Commentary, p. v.
5
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
Thus writes Dr. John Skinner in his com­
mentary on Genesis, and in confirmation
quotes another Doctor of Divinity, the well-
known Driver, who says :
“ The narrative contains features which have unmistakeable
counterparts in the religious traditions of other nations ;
and some of these, though they have been accommodated
to the spirit of Israel’s religion, carry indications that they
are not native to it.” 1
Says Skinner :
“ Among the features which are at variance with the standpoint
of Hebrew religion we may put first of all the fact that the
abode of Jahwe is placed, not in Canaan or at Mount Sinai,
but in the far east. The strictly mythological background
of the story emerges chiefly in the conceptions of the garden
of the gods, the tree of life and knowledge, the serpent, Eve,
and the Cherubim. It is true . . . that each of these
conceptions is rooted in the most primitive ideas of Semitic
religion ; but it is equally true that they have passed through
a mythological development for which the religion of Israel
gave no opportunity. Thus the association of trees and
serpents in Semitic folk-lore is illustrated by an Arabian
story, which tells how, when an untrodden thicket was
burned down, the spirits of the trees made their escape in the
form of white serpents ; but it is quite clear that a long
interval separates that primitive superstition from the ideas
that invest the serpent and the tree (in the Bible story). If
proof were needed, it would be found in the suggestive
combination of the serpent and the tree in Babylonian and
Phoenician art ; or in the fabled gardens of the Hesperides,
with its golden fruit guarded by a dragon, always figured in
artistic representations as a huge snake coiled round the
trunk of a tree. . .
There has certainly been an endeavour
throughout the ages to “ improve ” the story ;
the editors have not only materialised every
1 Commentary to Genesis, p. s i.
2 Ibid.
6
INTRODUCTION
detail, but have anthropomorphised the story
also. Thus they have seen Eve as a person,
the first woman, the mother of earth’s
teeming millions, and this first error com­
mitted, the next step, the making real of the
curse from their eastern point of view, was
easy, woman being considered only as a
possession of man.
As Skinner puts it :
“ The doom of the woman consisted in the hardships incidental
to her sex and social position in the East. The pains of
child-birth and the desire which made her the willing slave
of man, impressed the ancient mind as at once mysterious
and unnatural, therefore to be accounted for by a curse
imposed on woman from the beginning.”
The idea of a special and divine inspiration
on which the story is supposed to be based,
is not, however, upheld by such criticisms.
Skinner himself certainly says little concern­
ing inspiration ; in fact, his commentary,
though orthodox, contains much which shows
that he does not accept the Garden of Eden
story as literal history.
The belief that Genesis, as it is now, was not
actually written by Moses, but edited and
written up by Ezra from earlier documents, is
by no means new. The Essenes, the students
of the inner side of Judaism, considered that
the original revelation was falsified by later
interpolations, and this idea was held also
7
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
by the later Gnostic sects and the esoteric
Hebrews.
In the middle ages, the Jewish authorities
were themselves uncertain of the origin of
the Pentateuch, the so-called “ Five Books
of Moses.” Many writers, such as Rabbi
Moses, Isaac, Ben Jasos, and Aben Ezra,
commenced a “ genuine criticism,” but all
this did not seem to have much effect on
ancient and accepted ideas.
In the 16th century, Carlstadt issued his
De Canonicis Scripturis, Moses non pnisse
scriptorem quinque liborum. Andreas Mascius
suggested, as is believed by the present
writer, that “ the Pentateuch in its present
form is the work of Ezra, or another inspired
man.”
In the 17th century, Hobbs, in his Leviathan,
stated that “ the Pentateuch is a work about
Moses, not by Moses, yet based on originals
by the hand of Moses,” and this view was
accepted by the learned Jesuit, Isaac
Peyrerius. Spinoza definitely affirmed in his
Tractatus that “ Ezra is the author of the
Pentateuch and of the remaining historical
books in their present form.” Father Simon,
in his Critical History of the Old Testament,
says : “ Moses wrote the Laws ; the history
of his time he had written by annalists, from
which followed the later composition of the
8
INTRODUCTION
Pentateuch.” Clericus, another writer of the
period, went much farther in his Sentimens;
while Von Dale stated that “ the Pentateuch
was written by Ezra on the basis of the
Mosaic Book of the Laws, and other historical
documents
The 18th century brought a return to the
idea of the absolute genuineness of the
writings, but this was soon followed by a
reaction. Professor Hasse, of Konigsberg
University, stated that at the time of the exile
the Pentateuch was composed from old
records. Many other writers followed in
the same strain, and the arguments for and
against authenticity went steadily on, and
are continued to this day.1
The at-one-time very heated controversy
between the geologists and literalists might
have proved interminable had not the clergy
themselves, endeavouring to protect the Bible
from what they considered profanation, taken
the side of the geologists and acknowledged
that in some cases the “ days ” of creation
were geological periods. The deeper students,
however, soon realised that there was no
connection between the mystical Genesis
story and geological discoveries pertaining
only to the physical plane ; others, on the
other hand, decided that it was better to evade
1 See Clark’s Commentary, vol. I (1871).
B 9
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
the issue by showing that it was, in fact, not
an issue at all. An illustration of this is given
by Dean Farrar in his Introduction to The
Pulpit Commentary :
“ We no sooner open the Book of Genesis than we are met by
whole volumes of controversy as to the relation between
science and religion, and the supposed contradictions between
the results of the one and the declarations of the other. Do
such controversies lie within the ordinary sphere of homi-
lectics ? We should say decidedly not, and that for many
reasons. In the first place, few are competent really to deal
with the question, and nothing is more irritating to men of
science than to see obvious ignorance assuming the airs of
infallibility, and demonstrating the impiousness of proved
conclusions, the very elements of which it does not under­
stand. The clergy in so many thousands of instances, in
age after age, have so conclusively proved their entire
incompetence to decide upon points of science, and have
been so repeatedly forced to modify their interpretations of
Scripture in accordance with finally demonstrated and
universally accepted truths.”1
In spite of his declaration that the results
of science “ have not in a single instance
clashed with any truth of religion ”— a very
doubtful statement, to say the least— the
Dean gives valuable advice which, if followed
by the clergy and the laity, would certainly
soon bring Science and Religion together.
In this very orthodox Pulpit Commentary
(Genesis), edited by the Examining Chaplain
to the Bishop of Gloucester, it is said :
“ that this initial section is not history is apparent from the
circumstance that the occurrences it describes belong to a
period of time which antedates the dawn of history. That
it is not science is evinced by the fact that in some, at least,
1 The Pulpit Commentary, by the Rev. Canon F. W . Farrar, p. x.
10
INTRODUCTION
of its particulars, it refers to a condition of our globe concern­
ing which even modern science has attained to no definite
conclusion, while in all of them it claims to be regarded not
as uttering the findings of reason, but as declaring the course
of nature.”
Yet, after this striking utterance, the writer
contends that :
“ still less can it be called myth must be obvious to any who will
carefully contrast it with those heathen cosmogonies which
it is said to resemble . . . The absurdities, puerilities,
and monstrosities that abound in them are conspicuously
absent from it.”
The Pulpit Commentary further states that
Genesis is :
“ the inspired original of which heathen creation stones are the
corrupted traditions, it may be ; impartial reason and honest
criticism alike forbid its relegation to a common category
with them. Since, then, it is neither history, nor science,
nor mythology, it must be REVELATION.”
Unfortunately for us, the reverend writer
does not say what it is supposed to reveal, if it
is neither history, science, nor myth. More­
over, it is a curious “ revelation ” of which a
Dean of Westminster should declare that its
language is “ childlike, parabolical, and
unscientific.”
In addition to this decidedly belittling
utterance, it is noteworthy that the Dean
considers it futile to endeavour to make the
facts of Geology fit the Genesis stories. He
says :
“ The early Biblical records . . . were not and could not
be literal and prosaic matter-of-fact descriptions of the
world, of which . . . no man knoweth nor can conceive,
except by figure and parable.” 1
1 Sermons on Special Occasions, by Dean Stanley.
II
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
St. Chad Boscawen, the gifted author and
British Museum Lecturer, confirms, with
many others, the belief that the Bible stories
were not original. He was a deep student of
Assyriology, and the charm of its study, he
says, in his dedication to The First of Empires,
had been “ the one object ” of his life. He
points out that when the great Assyrian
discoveries were made, little critical faculty
was used in the work of comparison :
“ The Biblical element was always predominant, and the
referendum of all outside material. The Mosaic origin of
the Pentateuch was enunciated as a proved fact, and therefore
all the Assyrian and Babylonian material was merely of a
confirmatory nature— no suggestion that it was rather of the
nature of (an) original could he entertained. The rise of
Higher Criticism on the Continent and in this country has,
however, effected a strange change, and one which has also
had a corresponding development in Assyriology. Just as it
is now clearly demonstrated that the Mosaic origin of the
Pentateuch is no longer tenable, so also is it shown that the
literature of Babylonia, of which that of Assyria was but a
later edition, has an antiquity exceeding, by more than a thousand
years, that of the Mosaic age. The immense number of
religious and poetical inscriptions obtained from the buried
libraries of Chaldea, enable us to trace the growth and develop­
ment of the literature of those ancient peoples in a manner
not to be met with in any other ancient nation.
“ The labours of Wellhausen and Haupt on the Continent, and
Cheyne and Driver in this country, and especially those of
the late Professor Robertson Smith, have shown that, like all
other Oriental literature, that of the Hebrew people was
capable of being analysed and shown to be, not a series of
concrete works, each to be assigned to a definite epoch, but
that in most cases the works had undergone several editings,
and that the Pentateuch and many of the other books of the
Old Testament were a mosaic of fragments of varying
authorship and date.”1
1 The First of Nations, pp. x.-xi.
12
INTRODUCTION
Boscawen then enumerates the many proofs
of this, and points out that the reduplication
of the stories in Genesis is also evident in the
Babylonian myths. This is perfectly true,
as all Assyriologists are well aware. He
concludes that the Babylonian stories are not
only older than the Hebrew, but are them­
selves repetitions of more ancient Sumerian
traditions, as the discoveries since made by
the Pennsylvania University have amply
demonstrated.
Says the Rev. T. K. Cheyne, D.L., D.D.:
“ At the point which we have now, as a body of workers,
reached, an enlargement of our methods is enforced upon us.
It is our slowness to act upon this which is almost the chief
hindrance to our progress in biblical study. Old methods,
where sound, must not indeed be renounced, but new
methods must be applied, and that on an extensive scale (to
avoid hasty conclusions), for it must be confessed that even
critics whom one could not justly call unmethodical, have
often gone astray through relying too much on a single
method, and deciding questions before the whole body of
facts lay spread out before them.”1
After all these sincere statements, it is
obvious that a new interpretation is necessary,
though the Book of Genesis in its essence
remains, and will remain, a monumental,
age-defying work. It is neither to be cast
aside, repudiated, nor ignored. All the
criticism of the ages has been powerless to
destroy it, nor will any future criticism be
powerful enough to wipe out its world-
1 Art. Paradise, Ency. Biblica.
*3
influence or its innate Wisdom as a Book of
Ritual-Myth.
Its crudities are many and its faults not a
few, but its timeless wisdom shines through
the darknesss of the literal and superficial
translations, and will not deny itself to those
students who come prepared to search
and to find, whatever it may cost them of
sacrifice and endeavour.
They who seek to make it fit into modern
scientific conceptions or geological discoveries
and the theories arising therefrom, will fail,
as others have failed, for the Old Testament
stories are, in many cases, myths containing
truths relating mainly to creative periods of
which the science of Geology has, as yet,
no knowledge. Yet in the study of it there
is room alike for the Scientist, the Geologist,
and the Bible Student ; each should bring
his quota of wisdom and illumination, each
should have respect for the other, and though
the method of each must of necessity be
different, their united discoveries may yet
be found to be complementary.
BISHOP COLENSO ON THE
PENTATEUCH
The first awakening of the national Church
to the newer ideas took place as far back as
i860, when the discoveries of the geologists
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
INTRODUCTION
began to shake the faith of the more discern­
ing amongst the clergy, and gradually forced
them to a more rational interpretation of the
Pentateuch.
Following this came the challenge of Colenso,
the famous and intrepid Bishop of Natal,
who with great daring boldly declared, in his
The Pentateuch Critically Examined, that the
Pentateuch was not an actual historical
record, and that “ as a true man ” he could
no longer close his eyes “ to the absolute
palpable self-contradictions of the narrative.”
This bombshell— and in those days of
narrow orthodoxy it could be no less— was,
needless to say, not without its effect both
upon the clergy and upon the position of the
Bishop himself. He certainly was a very
brave man, considering the times in which
he lived ; and it is not surprising that after
the first two volumes of his book had been
published, a fierce attack was made upon him,
two Archbishops, to his own great astonish­
ment, swelling the almost universal cry of
“ Heresy ! Blasphemy ! ”
His episcopal brethren and the then Arch­
bishop of Canterbury endeavoured to force
him to resign his see and office, and a Com­
mittee was appointed to examine the two
incriminating volumes. The prime mover
in the matter, Archbishop Denison, who was
*5
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
finally elected Chairman of the Committee,
may have failed in discernment and a sense
of balance, but most certainly did not fail in
zeal ! Expressing the pious hope that there
were many present (on the Committee) who
had not read thefirst part of the work, and the
belief that few would read the second,1 he
exclaimed : “ If any man assert such things
as are asserted in this book, Anathema esto !
Let him be put away ! ”
In spite of all this, however, Colenso calmly
persevered with and completed his work.
“ Must we,” he said, “ live on, as men did in former ages,
under strict ecclesiastical restraints as if there was a ‘ dark
chamber ’ in the house into which we have once looked but
have shut to the door and dare not look again lest we should
see something to frighten us out of our ‘ hopes of eternity ’
and cause us the loss of ‘ all our nearest and dearest con­
solations ’ ? How much better to open wide the door and
let in the blessed light and air of day into every part of our
spiritual dwelling ! That light, indeed, may show us that the
stories of the 6 days’ Creation, the Noachian Deluge and the
slaughter of 68,000 Midianitish women and children, are no
longer to be spoken of as historical facts. . . . What a
day of regenerated life will it be for the Church of England
when these things shall be spoken of plainly and freely in
every pulpit of the land— when the Bible shall be opened and
the story of its origin explained and the real value of its
histories discussed, as the records of living men, like our­
selves, written down by living men— with the reverence due
to a Book so venerable and endeared to the heart of every
Christian . . . we can only thus serve God acceptably
and discharge our duty before Him as Christian men and
Ministers by such free enquiry and such free utterance of it.” 2
Amongst many enemies, however, Colenso
had fortunately one good friend, and how
1 The Pentateuch Critically Examined, vol. III. p. xxxi.
2 Ibid.
l6
INTRODUCTION
precious to the harassed Bishop must have
been the help and encouragement he received
during these dark days ! This good man, the
Rev. W. Houghton, of Wellington, Salop, a
writer on zoological subjects and a contributor
to a well-known dictionary of Natural
History, had the courage to express his own
convictions in no uncertain voice, both
privately and publicly. In a letter to the
Bishop, he says :
“ You have been judged a heretic for promulgating a doctrine
expressly taught by our Lord Himself and by the Evangelist,
St. Luke.”
After quoting many Church writers whose
views confirmed Colenso’s, he continues :
“ The more I examine the whole question for myself, the more
certain I become that in the Bible legend is mixed with history,
poetic imaginings with prosaic narrative, that no miraculous
power has been exerted to preserve it from omissions,
interpolations and corruptions of the text. . . the Bible
is, therefore, not infallible in the sense in which the popular
creed assumes it to be. . . . Notwithstanding a large
admixture of the human and therefore fallible element in
the Bible . . . in the Book there is a jewel of heavenly
lustre and priceless value. Why are we to suppose that the
jewel shines less brilliantly or loses one iota of its value
because the gold of its setting has a considerable percentage
of alloy ? Why will men refuse to drink of the ‘ water of
life ’ because it is offered to them in an earthen vessel ? 1,1
Fortunately the anathemas of the Committee
were not echoed by the higher tribunal, and
Colenso was finally freed by the Privy
Council. But as he himself was free from
what he termed “ the intolerable yoke of
1 The Pentateuch Critically Examined, vol. III., p. xl.
*7
absolute Church authority,” so also he
desired that all his brethren in Holy Orders
should be free “ to speak their honest con­
victions on these points and instruct their
people in such knowledge as they had gained.”1
“ For our ordination vows as Ministers,” he says, “ not only
do not forbid, but positively bind us in the most solemn
way . . . to make such enquiries and to declare the
results of them, if we think it needful or desirable to do so.
Every Presbyter of the National Church is solemnly pledged
at his ordination ‘ to be diligent in reading of the holy
scriptures and of such studies as help to the knowledge of
the same,’— of such critical study, therefore, as contributes
to the more thorough understanding of the Pentateuch as
well as the New Testament. Further, he is then solemnly
pledged to teach nothing as necessary to salvation but what
he ‘ shall be persuaded may be concluded and proved by
same.’ He is not, therefore, to teach that ‘ all our hopes for
eternity depend upon belief in the historical truth of Noah’s
Flood or the story of the Exodus, or in the trustworthiness
of every line in the Bible, if in his own mind and conscience
he is not persuaded that the Scriptures, when carefully
examined, suffice to ‘ conclude and prove ’ the truth of such
statements.” 8
It was the chief theme of his work, the
challenge as to the actual historicity of the
Pentateuch, which made his book so remark­
able. He repeatedly points out that “ the
unhistorical character of the so-called Mosaic
narrative seems to be forced upon us,”
and emphatically declares his conviction that:
‘ The Pentateuch, as a whole, was not written by Moses, and
that, with respect to some, at least, of the chief portions of
the story, it cannot be regarded as historically true. It does
not on that account cease to contain the true word of God, to
enjoin things necessaryfor salvation, to be profitablefor doctrine,
reproof, correction, and instruction in righteousness. It still
1Ibid. vol. V ., p. xlii.
8Ibid, vol. IV., p. xxxi.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS] UNVEILED
18
INTRODUCTION
remains an integral portion of that Book . . . with
whatever admixture it may show of human error, infirmity,
passion and ignorance . . . and has been the means
of revealing to us His True Name. . . . We must be
content to take the Bible as it is and draw from it those
Lessons which it really contains.”1
One important matter Colenso did not
overlook, as the above clearly shows, and as
he elsewhere makes clear :
“ Our belief in God remains as sure as ever though not the
Pentateuch but the whole Bible were removed. . . There
will be others . . . — meek, lowly, loving souls, who are
walking daily with God, and have been taught to consider a
belief in the historical veracity of the story of the Exodus an
essential part of their religion ; upon which, indeed, as it
seems to them, the whole fabric of their faith and hope in
God is based. It is not really so : the Light of God’s Love
did not shine less truly on pious minds when Enoch walked
with God of old, though there was then no Bible in existence,
than it does now. And it is, perhaps, God’s will that we
shall be taught in this our day . . . not to build up our
faith upon a Book, though it be the Bible itself, but to realise
more truly the blessedness of knowing that He Himself, the
Living God, our Father and Friend, is closer to us than any
book can be,2
— that His Voice within the heart may be heard
continually by the obedient child that listens for it, and that
shall be our Teacher and Guide. . . when all other
helpers— even the words of the Book of Books— may fail us.” 3
This saintly insight into the real need of the
human soul, can, surely, only have sprung
from such a flame of mystical conviction as
is spoken of by the late F. W. H. Myers, in
his inexpressibly beautiful, Saint Paul:
“ Ay, and when Prophecy her tales hath finished,
Knowledge hath witheredfrom the trembling tongue,
Love shall survive and Love be undiminished,
Love be imperishable, Love be young.
1 The Pentateuch Critically Examined, vol. I., p. 14.
2 “ Closer is He than breathing, and nearer than hands and feet.” Tennyson
The Higher Pantheism.
3 The Pentateuch Critically Examined, vol I., p. 12.
*9
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
Oh could I tell ye surely would receive i t !
Oh could I only say what I have seen !
How should I tell or how can ye receive it,
How, till he bringeth you where I have been ?
Scarcely I catch the words of his revealing,
Hardly I hear him, dimly understand,
Only the Power that is within me pealing
Lives on my lips and beckons to my hand.
Whoso hathfelt the spirit of the Highest
Cannot confound nor doubt him nor deny :
Yea with one voice, O world, tho’ thou deniest,
Stand thou on that side,for on this am I.”
This, undoubtedly, expresses the real in­
spiration which upheld Colenso during the
dark period through which he passed,
undismayed and unabashed. Even whilst
insisting that the Bible stories were not always
historical, he persistently looked forward to
that time when in each man’s heart the Voice
of God would make itself heard, and man
should rest not on a book, however holy, but
on the ONE Himself, and surely this is the
only at-one-ment.
“ How different it would be,” he exclaims, “ if all the more
enlightened of the clergy were to take at once the stand ,
which in the end must surely be taken— were to take boldly
God’s facts, as they are, and bring them forth, in their
habitual teaching, so making them, by degrees, familiar to
the people. When such teaching as this is confirmed by the
speaking earnestness of a pure and holy life, and enforced by
a course of loving and devoted labour for the good of men,
there need be no fear of men making shipwreck of their trust
in God or finding suddenly their hopes for eternity failing,
all their ‘ nearest and dearest consolations ’ taken from them.
Without any dangerous shock to their faith, a superstitious
reverence for the Bible would then give way to a right and
20
INTRODUCTION
intellectual appreciation of the true value of the Scriptures
as containing God’s word, a blessed and glorious revelation
of Eternal Truth to man.” 1
The day of exhortation is ending, as Colenso
saw, and as we well know, and in the East
already glimmers the dawn of a new day
wherein explanation shall give place to
understanding, wherein perhaps One, greater
than Colenso, greater than the world has seen
these two thousand years, may appear amongst
men to make known to them the Reality
that IS.
The whole purpose of this work is to
elucidate the meaning hidden in the first ten
chapters of Genesis, but there will be no
attempt to destroy religion, which of course,
would be doomed to failure, but simply to
clarify as far as possible the conceptions of
religion. Truth must remain and needs no
defence, but truth is often veiled, and there­
fore an attempt to lift the veil must be made.
Though no attempt, then, will be made to
attack religion itself, but rather the opposite,
there may be some readers who have accepted
the conventional commentaries of Genesis
and who regard the Bible stories as simple
literal history, “ all true and nothing wanting,”
to whom this work will come not as a revela­
tion, but as a shock.
Of such it must be said that Truth itself is
1 The Pentateuch Critically Examined, vol. IV., p. xl.
21
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
indestructible, though human conceptions
enforced and imposed by assertion and
“ authority ” must be continually changing
if progress is a fact in nature. Indeed,
certain views, opinions and conceptions of
Truth will surely be found wanting as the
race progresses. If such views are destroyed
no great harm will result.
The writer, therefore, offers the whole of
this work with the hope that it will aid
religionists to think for themselves. If this
be accomplished, it will not matter if the
present work be rejected.
22
CHAPTER ONE
THE INNER SIDE OF THE
PENTATEUCH
The Pentateuch is a collection of writings
around which, throughout the ages, much
controversy has raged, each disputant seeing
it in the light of his own more of less limited,
and usually sectarian, knowledge, each sect
claiming its infallability, yet reading into it
just whatever suited the requirement and the
occasion, thus giving rise to the saying that
“ the Devil quotes scripture for his own
purpose.”
The original tongues in which these scrip­
tures were written are often unknown to
religionists and agnostics alike, hence the
endless controversy and argument over what,
after all, are literal and sometimes incorrect
translations, as could easily be demonstrated.
It is, unfortunately, the fashion with many
to belittle and condemn all those things
which are beyond the comprehension of the
man in the street, with his partial intuition,
his limited leisure and opportunity for study
23
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
and thought; many, too, there be, as in the
days of Butler’s Hudibras :
“ Who will not credit their own souls,
Nor any science understand
Beyond the reach of eye and hand ;
But measuring all things by their own
Knowledge, judge nothing’s to be known.”
It is this inability to grasp what lies beyond
personal knowledge which gives rise to
doubting statements regarding the Bible
which are heard from every side, from Jew
and Christian alike. Some would reject the
whole; others, afraid to lose their hold,
compromise according to custom, accepting
part, rejecting part, and turning upon the
rest the light of the so-called “ higher
criticism.” This higher criticism sometimes
fails, because it often commences without a
firm foundation, without adequate knowledge
of the original scriptures, and therefore with
a false premise. Moreover, the translation
of Genesis as in the “ authorised ” version, is,
as will be shown, not entirely to be relied
upon, for it is a literal translation of a
symbolical original.
Thus, ignorant of its inner teaching, lacking
the key which may unlock the door of the
treasure-house, many sink into a slough of
despond, becoming agnostics or atheists for
lack of knowing how to believe, for lack of a
friendly torch to lighten the darkness. Such
24
as these, when asked if they “ believe in the
Bible,” answer with a decided negative;
they become the sport of thepseudo rationalist,
the despair of the deeper student. As has
been said, they “ throw away the baby with
the dirty water from the bath.”
Do we believe in the Bible ? The purpose
of these pages is to answer this question with
an emphatic affirmative, an affirmative which
will carry with it certain definite proofs, and
which is the result of study under the
guidance of a valued friend and teacher,
Elias Gewurz (to whom there must ever be a
lasting debt of gratitude), and also of the
providential discovery of an old volume of
La Langue Hebraique Restituee, a wonderful,
inspirational work by Fabre D ’Olivet.1
This book, published in Paris in the year
1816, is a key to, and a commentary upon,
the first ten chapters of Genesis, a com­
mentary which itself requires another to
unravel its mysteries, for though unveiling a
mystery it yet contains many more in its
pages.
It is necessary as an introduction to the
present work to offer some idea of the inter­
pretation placed upon these writings by the
erudite and gifted author in question, adding
1 Recently translated by Nayan Redfield as The Restoration of the Hebrew
Language. (Putnams).
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
C 2 5
to it much that it is believed he was not
permitted to give expression to, or perhaps
did not think it wise to publish to the world,
evidently feeling that the times in which he
wrote, during the first French Revolution,
were not such as permitted him to explain
the very deep meanings hidden in the Book
of Genesis. It was, certainly, not then safe
to make the attempt. He, however, did
translate the first ten chapters, but his trans­
lation was so difficult to understand that it
needed a further commentary upon every
line, a commentary which would far have
exceeded the limits of the work itself.
D ’Olivet himself evidently felt this, for he
says that he does not profess to explain the
mysteries of the Book of Genesis, being a mere
translator ; he expresses the hope that others
may come forward to finish the work he has
begun.
His method of analysis is a qabalistic one,
and consists in translating not only the root
meanings of the words, but also the meaning
deeply hidden in the letters themselves.
From this point of view, the words and letters
are symbols which hide the true inter­
pretation from the superficial reader, and
which, when translated literally, show forth
the husk alone and leave the marvellous
interior beauties unrevealed.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
26
It is not only the Hebrew letters which have
picture and hieroglyphical significations, as
H. P. Blavatsky notes in The Secret Doctrine1
where she points out that the letter I
“ signified with the Alexandrian Initiates
a body erect, a living standing man, he being
the only animal that has this privilege, and
by adding to the ‘ I ’ a head, it was trans­
formed into a ‘ P,’ a symbol of paternity,
‘ a moving man,’ one on his way.”
Apart from this meaning of the letters,
a fundamental key to the Scriptures, there
are other methods used by which, in a simple
literal historical version, a deeper meaning is
hidden, so that those who know the method
of hiding may easily understand the mystery.
This must now be explained.
No nation is left without guidance, as can
be ascertained by all who study the literature
of the past. In the East as well as in the
West, on the stones of Babylon and Egypt,
in the stories of the ancient Mayas and
Quiches, in the Runes of the Northmen, in
Greek and Hebrew, in Sanskrit, Chinese and
Japanese, in Tibetan and Assyrian, on ancient
papyrii and palm-leaves, and the modern
printed pages— in all the same story is found,
in all the Divine Wisdom stands revealed.
Throughout the civilised and uncivilised
1 3rd Edition, Vol. II., p. 607.
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
27
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
world, the Ancient Wisdom was known, being
given out by the wisest of the race as occasion
and opportunity called it forth, modified
only to suit time, place and circumstance, and
therefore called by many and various names,
but itself “ one and the same forever.”
As far back as can be traced in the earliest
times of India, there was always a dual
doctrine, the exoteric and the esoteric. The
former gave rise to materialised beliefs, and
whilst administering relief and consolation
to those not ready to think independently,
who required dogma because constitutionally
unable to grasp what lay behind the dogma,
it yet inevitably tended to bring about the
degradation of religion. Just as to-day we
have, on the one hand, the Salvation Army,
expressing crudely the great truths of Chris­
tianity whilst doing much good and useful
work, and, on the other hand, the higher
forms of Christianity, from the lowest to the
finest type of mysticism, so, in all ages when
men and women were, as now, in different
stages of development, there were always
graded forms of religious teaching sufficient
for the needs of mankind as a whole. Hence,
in ancient India there was the exoteric form
of religion which has produced many very
argumentative sects, but there was also a
deeper and more mystical WISDOM which
28
was at the root and base of all the varied
sectarian beliefs. This WISDOM was then,
and is now, known under the title of GUPTA
VIDYA, or BRAHMA VIDYA, the DIVINE
WISDOM.
In later ages, in the region of Babylonia, the
same DIVINE WISDOM again appeared
under the name of MAG, the “ great ” or
divine Wisdom, its followers being known
as MAGI. Outwardly, it tended to sun and
star worship, but the inner meaning of the
teaching was known to the philosophers and
mystics of that period. To the “ children ”
amongst mankind, the WISDOM was ex­
plained by glyph and symbol, by fairy story
or mythological tale. All the stories which
the sectarian claims as the sole possession of
the Hebrews and Christians, were then
known, as the discoveries of modern times
have proved to the satisfaction of even the
orthodox. Indeed, the stories brought to
light by the deciphering of the writing on
ancient stones from Babylonia, have been
published by no less a house than The Sunday
School Times Company (Philadelphia) under
the title of Light on the Old Testament from
Babylon, and edited by Arthur Clay, pro­
fessor of the University of Pennsylvania.1
In later periods, the WISDOM is to be
1 All this will be explained in a later chapter.
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
29
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
traced in the mythologies of Egypt and of
Greece, the deeper teaching being understood
by the student and philosopher, whilst the
many, the people, were content with the
literal interpretation. This Wisdom gradually
became incorporated in the later teachings of
Christianity as the Greeks became christian­
ised, the dogmas of Christianity becoming
infused with the Greek myths and the two
so finely blended that a new form of religion
arose. Thus among the early Christians the
WISDOM came to be known as the
GNOSIS, literally, the Wisdom, again showing
forth the esoteric or inner meaning of all
literal myths.
To the Hebrews the same DIVINE
WISDOM was taught, Jesus himself using
its methods, for, of course, the Master was a
JEW— a fact which should be remembered
when the Jews are persecuted in His Name—
and so it is not strange that this mystical or
deeper teaching should be discovered in
Christianity. It will be seen in this great
religion, as in others, that there is an inner
meaning as well as an outer presentation.
In the earliest days of Hebrew tradition,
this Wisdom was named “ secrets and
mysteries,” but later a new name was given
and exists to this day, viz., the term Qabalah,
from the root, QBL, meaning literally the
3°
received doctrine, the inner teaching, oral
rather than written.
The great outstanding work in which these
“ secrets and mysteries ” were reduced to
regular form was the inspired effort of the
Rabbi Moses de Leon, the Book of the Zohar,
in which he either collected together the
different teachings of the famous Rabbi
Shimeon ben Jochai and edited and arranged
them as a complete work, or was impressed,
or inspired, to give forth certain knowledge
as if emanating from a company of ancient
Hebrews. It is said by the French trans­
lator of the book, that the word Qabalah was
first used by Rabbi Aaron Ashkenazi, but
otherwise the doctrines, “ the superstitions
and mysteries,” as the famous Jesuit
Athanasius Kircher calls them, were known
previously simply as “ secrets and mysteries.”
The Qabalists, the students and interpreters
of Divine Wisdom, whether called Free­
masonry, Brahma Vidya, Mystic Christianity,
Sufism, or Gnosis, read the Scriptures in a
peculiar manner. They had four ways of
reading and interpreting that collection of
symbols known as the Old Testament, each
symbol having four (some say, more correctly,
seven) meanings. The first of these, the
literal, superficial manner, was called Pshat
or simple ; this was the way for the ordinary
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
31
folk. Next came Ramaz, literally a hint, for
the student; and Darash, meaning inferential
or, perhaps, intuitional, for the disciple.
For the Sage, there was a final method called,
literally, secret or Sud. In this estimate, the
Sage is thus the true Past Master, he who
has attained to, and been purged thoroughly
by, the fire of the Lion’s Grip, who sees no
sect as more important than another, sees
each religion as useful and necessary accord­
ing to the time and people to whom it was
given. Such a man has obviously extracted
from his experiences, whilst studying the
sacred Scriptures, whether in books or in the
hearts of men, that which is necessary for the
development of perfection. He is the true
Mystic who knows no real differences, and
has attained thereby to Paradise whilst still
on earth.
This may be symbolised qabalistically in
the following manner : The governing letter
of a word denotes its dominating idea ; thus
as man learns to read the Scriptures of experi­
ence or Book of Life, in the simple, literal
manner, he obtains that essence which,
symbolically, is the letter “ P,” the ruler of
the word Pshat. In the same way, he passes
through the experiences constituting the
other methods, Ramaz, Darash, and Sud,
and extracts their essence, the initial letters
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
32
of the words symbolising the process. Taking
these governing letters, which, as we have
seen, epitomise the dominating idea of each
word, we get the word PRDS, i.e., Paradise,
written in Hebrew without points or “ vowels.’
This simple play on letters holds a deep
secret, one on which the student may well
ponder.
These four ways of reading and inter­
pretation, may also be expressed partly in the
words of the Book of Zohar and partly in
Masonic terms, as follows :
Pshat, the superficial method, may be
compared to a beautiful robe in which a still
more beautiful figure is enwrapped ; the
superficial observer is lost in admiration of
this outer covering and looks no deeper,
forgetting the figure, which is itself not even
the actual reality, but a mere physical
structure, a containing vessel, or a hint,
Ramaz, the outline of the Secret Doctrine,
within which is the heart, the middle
chamber of King Solomon’s Temple wherein
the “ wages ” are paid, and in which dwells
the Overseer, the purified mind. This Over­
seer is comparable to Darash, the power of
inductive reasoning, or inference. But there
is One higher than the Overseer, and this is
the Essence, the true Self, the Jewel which is
the symbol of Sud, the Secret Divine Wisdom.
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
33
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
The outer knowledge, the Pshat, is that of
the apprentice ; the Ramaz method is for the
craftsman ; the Barash serves the Master
as a link to that exalted state which will one
day be his, that of Past Master, in which he
will be expected to learn the secrets of the
art, to exercise his intuition, and to make
real in himself the whole purpose of Free­
masonry and of Life itself. The true Past
Master is thus a follower of Sud, the secret
way ; he is not necessarily supposed to be
able to remember more of a written ritual than
his brother Masons, but he is expected to be
able to instruct them in the true meaning
which lies hidden in all ritual. To him, all
the so-called secrets of Freemasonry are in
themselves as nothing, mere husks of
realities, husks which must be broken open
ere the life-giving grain can nourish man.
To the Qabalist, the Scripture could be
interpreted in four ways, viz. : the literal-
historical, the mythological, the mystical, and
the fundamental or secret way.
The modern Christian mystic may now be
called to confirm what has been written.
The late Dr. Anna Kingsford, writing in her
most illuminating work, The Perfect Way,
declares emphatically that every symbol is
fourfold in meaning, and instances the Cross,
which has relation to “ all four planes and
34
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
all four worlds— phenomenal, intellectual,
psychic, and celestial.” She continues:
“ Being thus the key of all the worlds, from the outer to the
inner, the Cross presents, as it were, four wards or signifi­
cations ; and according to these, the mystery of the Cruci­
fixion bear relation :
First, to the natural and actual sense, and typifies the
Crucifixion of the Man of God by the world.
Secondly, to the intellectual and philosophical sense, and
typifies tbe Crucifixion in man of the lower nature.
Thirdly, to the personal and sacrificial sense, and sym­
bolises the Passion and Oblation of the Redeemer.
Fourthly, to the celestial and creative sense, and represents
the Oblation of God for the Universe.”
(It is interesting to note in passing that the
sense symbolising the Oblation and Passion
of the Redeemer, relates to all Redeemers,
whether called Christ, or Hiram, the Widow’s
Son.)
Further, the Master says, “ Unto you it is
given to know the mystery of the kingdom
of God, but unto them that are without all
those things are done in parables.”1 Again
He says : “ Give not that which is holy to
the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before
swine, lest they trample them under their
feet;” 2 and once more to His disciples:
“ I have yet many things to say unto you
but ye cannot bear them now.” 3
The famous Sermon on the Mount, which
‘ S. Mark IV., n .
a S. Matt. V II., 6.
s S. John X V I., ia.
35
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
causes so much heartburning among the
devout who vainly strive to live its precepts,
is itself an inner teaching, and was given, not
to the multitude, but only to the disciples,
as noted in the text : “ And seeing the
multitudes, He went up into a mountain :
and when He was set His disciples came unto
Him.”1 thus clearly showing that he avoided
the multitude and did not expect them to be
“ perfect even as your Father which is in
Heaven is perfect.” 2 This one incident
alone would prove that, following the Hebrew
custom, the Jewish Teacher knew of the
inner as well as an outer teaching.
To those who oppose the idea of a secret or
mystical teaching in Christianity by producing
Matthew X, 26, it may be said, as was said by
S. Clement of Alexandria, that certainly
Truth must become manifest, but only
according to the degree in which men were
able to receive it.3
Origen, the Christian Father, who lived
between 180 and 250 A.D., although accepting
the orthodox beliefs, such as that of the Virgin
Birth, etc., nevertheless understood the
special method in which the scriptures were
written, though he himself forgets to apply
1 S. Matt., V. 1.
2 S. Matt., V. 48.
3 Stromata, bk. X IV ., par. 12.
36
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
it to the New Testament. In his De Prin-
cipiis1, he shows that as man consists of body,
soul, and spirit, so, likewise, are the scriptures
written in a threefold manner, having a body,
soul and spirit, an outer or historical mean­
ing, a spiritual, and a deeper meaning. In
ordinary language, and under the cover of
literal stories, hidden mysteries were con­
cealed ; the description of battles, as given
in the Old Testament, contains “ certain
ineffable mysteries which are made known
to those who know how to investigate state­
ments of this kind.”
Origen accepts the inspiration of the Scrip­
tures, but maintains that the wisdom of God
caused to be mingled in the historical
narrative “ not a few things by which the
history was, as it were, broken up so that the
attention of the reader was recalled to a more
strict examination of the inner meaning.”
He examines the Scriptures in order to
explain this, and says :
“ Who is there, pray, possessed of understanding, who will
consider as appropriate the statement that at the creation,
the first day, and the second and the third, in which also both
evening and morning are mentioned, existed without sun,
moon, and stars— the first day even without a sky ? Who is
so ignorant as to believe that God, like a gardener, planted
trees in Eden, towards the East, and a tree of life therein, a
visible and material tree of wood, so that anyone eating of it
with bodily teeth should thus obtain life, and eating of the
other tree come to a knowledge of good and evil. No one
1 Ibid, bk. IV., chap. i.
37
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
can doubt, I] think, that the statement that God walked
in the afternoon in Paradise and that Adam hid himself under
a tree are figurative allusions, and that some mystical meaning
may be indicated.”
He goes further, and adds :
“ The same style of scriptural story is found abundantly in the
Gospels, as when the devil is said to have placed Jesus on a
lofty mountain that he might show Him the kingdoms of the
world as if beneath his bodily eyes. Many other instances
may be found in those narratives which appear to be literally
written to show the reader that in them are inserted and
interwoven things which cannot be admitted as historical,
but which have a deep and spiritual signification.”
Origen was the greatest Church-teacher of
the East, says Dr. Neander, and was one of
the earliest defenders of Christianity,1 yet
some of his translators waver between their
modern orthodoxy (or fear of losing caste)
and their desire to express appreciation of his
great gifts. Thus the Rev. F. Crombie, M.A.,
Professor of Biblical criticism, in his trans­
lation of Origen,2 speaks of “ the illustrious
Origen ” whose “ principles of interpreting
Scripture are also brought out in this
treatise,” and says that “ while not a little
ingenuity is displayed in illustrating and
maintaining them, the serious errors into
which they might easily lead will be at once
perceived by the reader.” Perhaps the
opposite may also be the case, for the present
writer at least has not perceived these
“ serious errors ! ” In spite of this warning,
1 See Origen’s Contra Celsus.
2 Ante-Niccne Christian Library, vols. X . and X X III.
3
8
however, Crombie speaks very highly of this
“ admirable work of Origen,” which “ was
written in the old age of our author, and is
composed with great care ; while it abounds
with proofs of the greatest erudition. It is
also perfectly orthodox.”
This last is certainly a tremendous admission,
and shows that it is not only the mystic who
is the authority for the statements made in
this work ; they are dependant as well on the
writings of the orthodox !
Fabre D ’Olivet likewise, says that Moses,
in his Book of Genesis, has followed the
methods of the Egyptian priests, who made
use of three kinds of characters, the first
being clear and simple and capable of
expressing literal matters in a literal manner,
the second expressing symbolic and figurative
ideas, and the third sacred and hieroglyphical.
Such was the genius of their tongue that the
same word took, at their pleasure, the literal,
figurative, or hieroglyphic, sense.
Heraclitus, quoted by this writer, also says
that there are three styles of explanation ;
these he designates by the epithets spoken,
significant, and hidden. “ The first two
methods,” says D ’Olivet:
“ those which consisted in taking words in the literal or
figurative sense, were spoken ; but the third . . . existed
but for the eyes, and was thus used only in writing. Our
modern tongues are incapable of this distinction. Moses,
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
39
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
initiated in all the mysteries of the Egyptian priesthood, made
use of these three ways with unbounded skill. . . pre­
senting always three meanings to his words, so that no kind
of word-for-word translation can render his thought.” 1
This idea that most scripture has deeper
significations than that which appears on the
surface cannot be strange to those who have
studied Eastern writings and know the
figurative methods employed therein. This
is found throughout the Old and New
Testaments, and much controversy has raged
because of the desire in the minds of the
literalists to make a history of a mystery.
They forget that the Bible, especially the
first ten chapters of Genesis as understood in
the original Hebrew, is a symbolically
written narrative. Many thousands of com­
mentaries have, consequently, been written
to explain a literal translation of a symbolical
original, which latter statement is here
deliberately repeated.
This, it is true, is mainly in regard to the
Old Testament, though even in the New
Testament there are innumerable plays upon
words and mysterious writings which can by
no means be taken literally, notably the
famous Revelations, for which every student
has a different meaning. Some see “ the
beast ” as the German Emperor, forgetting
that in earlier times these revelations were
1 La Langue Hebraique Restituee, Cosmogonie, VI.
4°
THE INNER SIDE of THE PENTATEUCH
applied to what was happening in the world
then ; others, more enlightened, and under­
standing the original Greek, insist that “ the
beast,” which is 666, “ the measure of a
man,” is ho phren, and signifies the passional
mind of man, driven by desire and thus
acting as an animal.
It may well be that there has been much
orthodox caution at work, holding too tightly
to the literal interpretation of Biblical things
generally, and it is here, if anywhere, that
the danger lies. It is good to follow the
method of Pythagoras and take the golden
mean in all things, to preserve the balance
and walk carefully midway between the
orthodox exaggerations and the numerical
and other systems which tend to become
manias when unscientifically handled.
H. P. Blavatsky says :
“ There are very few in our days who are still prepared to
assure their readers that the Bible ‘ had God for its author,
salvation for its end, and truth without any mixture of error
for its matter.’
“ Could Locke be asked the question now, he would perhaps
be unwilling to repeat again that the Bible is ‘ all pure, all
sincere, nothing too much, nothing wanting.’
“ The Bible, if it is not to be shown to be the very reverse of
all this, sadly needs an interpreter acquainted with the
doctrines of the East, as they are to be found in its secret
volumes ; nor is it safe now, after Archbishop Laurence’s
translation of the Book of Enoch, to cite Cowper and assure
us that the Bible :
‘ . . . gives a light to every age,
It gives, but borrows none.’
D 41
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
for it does borrow and that very considerably ; especially
in the opinion of those who, ignorant of its symbolical
meaning and of the universality of the truths underlying and
concealed in it, are able to judge only from its dead-letter
appearance. It is a grand volume, a masterpiece composed
of clever, ingenious fables containing great verities ; but it
reveals the latter only to those who, like the Initiates, have a
key to its inner meaning ; a tale sublime in its morality and
didactics truly— still a tale and an allegory ; a repertory of
invented personages in its older Jewish portions, and of dark
sayings and parables in its later additions, and thus quite mis­
leading to anyone ignorant ofits Esotericism. Moreover, it is
Astrolatry and Sabaean worship, pure and simple, that is
to be found in the Pentateuch when it is read exoterically,
and Archaic Science and Astronomy to a most wonderful
degree, when interpreted esoterically.” 1
The same writer says :
“ We must choose therefore perforce between two methods—
either to accept the Bible exoterically or esoterically. Against
the former we have the following facts : that after the first
copy of the Book of God had been edited and launched on
the world by Hilkiah, this copy disappeared, and Ezra had
to make a new Bible which Judas Maccabeus finished ; that
when it was copied from the horned letters into square
letters, it was corrupted beyond recognition ; that the
Masorah completed the work of destruction ; that finally we
have a text . . . abounding with omissions, inter­
polations, and premeditated perversions ; and that, con­
sequently, as this Masoretic Hebrew text has fossilised
its mistakes, and the key to the ‘ word of God ’ is lost, no
one has a right to enforce upon so-called ‘ Christians ’ the
divagations of a series of hallucinated and, perhaps, spurious
prophets, under the unwarranted and untenable assumption
that the author of it was the ‘ Holy Ghost ’ in propria
personce.”1
Let us now turn to the consideration of
some of these matters in detail.
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd. ed., vol. iii., p. 8.
2 Isis Unveiled.
42
CHAPTER TWO
ARE THERE TWO CREATION
STORIES IN GENESIS?
As is well known to students of Scripture,
many writers have noticed in the accounts
of the Flood and the Creation, that not only
do they bear marks of editing and re-writing,
but that there appear to be two versions of
the stories interwoven, one being more
reasonable than the other, and each appar­
ently contradicting the other.
Whether this is absolutely correct is difficult
of proof; the evidence certainly shows that
it needs consideration, and as it concerns the
explanations of the stories which will be given
in this work, it is, perhaps, well to devote a
few pages to an elucidation.
This idea as to the existence and inter­
weaving of the two accounts, was first well
examined by English clerics round about the
time of Bishop Colenso’s challenge (i860),
as to the historicity of the stories.1 Writers
who then and later took up the matter were
1 See Colenso, On the Pentateuch. The actual idea of there being two
stories is much earlier than Colenso’s time, but he was the Bishop res­
ponsible for making it public in England.
43
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
forced to the conclusion that two accounts
of the Creation and Flood were, apparently,
involved, and to this day the same arguments
are repeated.
There are, however, two ways of reading
these writings. The critics who consider
only the literal version, easily prove that two
writers are concerned in the narrative,
because the stories interwoven seem to be
written in two different styles. This, however,
is not certain. The fact is that in one part
of the narrative the word Jehovah appears
and is translated God, whereas in another
part the names Jehovah-Elohim, or merely
Elohim, are given, and translated respectively
Lord God and God. This confusion in the
names leads many students to accept the
idea that two stories are interwoven, but such
evidence is inconclusive. What is certain is
that the stories were edited and continually
re-written, and the apparent contradictions
left unnoticed until a very late date.
From Colenso’s time until to-day, there
have been many such criticisms, the later
writers sometimes copying from the earlier
ones, sometimes making the necessary re­
searches themselves. They, of course, follow
the literal translation all the time, and so do
not realise that even though the statements
be contradictory, the truth of the cosmic
44
story is behind them and is not impaired to
any great extent by such discrepancies.
Of the more modern criticisms, that by
Frazer, is, perhaps, one of the most exact,
especially as he compares the original Hebrew
with the English authorised version. Yet,
in spite of this, he saw only the literal narra­
tive and did not realise the truth behind it,
for the simple reason that he had not the key.
His criticism is the most simple, though
certainly that of Bishop Colenso is the more
full and scholarly.
“ In this account of the deluge,” says
Frazer,
“ Biblical critics are now agreed in detecting the presence of
two originally distinct and partially inconsistent narratives,
which have been combined to present the superficial appear­
ance of a single homogeneous story. Yet the editorial task
of uniting them has been performed so clumsily that the
repetitions and inconsistences left standing in them can
hardly fail to attract the attention of even a careless reader.” 1
He prints the two versions, making, by
means of italics, a distinction between them
which he says is now generally accepted by
critics. He mentions the sources of his
information, which are, however, all of a
very late date, and says nothing of Bishop
Colenso and the earlier writers, who were the
most notable of the originators of the con­
troversy.
1 Folk-lore in the Old Testament, p. 130.
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
45
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
The two documents, he says :
“ differ conspicuously in character and style and they belong
to different ages ; for while the Jehovistic narrative is pro­
bably the oldest, the Priestly code (that is to say, those parts
in which the word Elohim occurs with or without the word
Jehovah) is now generally admitted to be the latest . .
and believed to have been written in Judea ; the former
(Jehovistic) dates to probably the ninth or eighth century
before our era ; the Priestly code'Elohistic) dates from the
period after the year 586 B.C., when Jerusalem was taken
by Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, and the Jews were
carried away by him into captivity.”
This is, however, open to question, and the
writer himself is merely quoting from
W. Robertson Smith’s The Old Testament
in the Jewish Church, p. 445. It is more
probable that the whole story was written up
by the scribe Ezra from various documents
before him at the time. This idea appears
even more feasible in the light of the modern
discoveries by the University of Pennsylvania,
which show that the story of Creation and the
Flood as told by the Babylonians was but a
copy of a very much older account left them
by the former inhabitants of Babylonia, the
Sumerians, who were not Semites, but an
older race of people.
All these points matter very little as regards
the purpose of the present work, which is to
attempt an explanation of the actual stories,
with all their modern faults; it would,
nevertheless, be inadvisable to evade them,
because so many students consider that they
46
prove the stories mere folk-lore and fairy­
tales, whereas, as a matter of fact, the stories
enshrine cosmic history and deep meta­
physical truths.
It will be necessary, then, to give some
explanation as to how these two accounts are
interwoven, and how they differ.
In the first Chapter of Genesis, during the
six days of creation, and until the third verse
of the second chapter, the English version
speaks of God creating, the Hebrew word
used being Elohirn (ALHIM). From that
point until verse 3 of Chapter III, the English
words Lord God are mainly used, the Hebrew
being Jehovah-Elohim (YHVH-ALHIM).
Immediately after the birth of Cain (Ch. IV.
v. 1.), Eve declares that she has “ gotten a
man from the Lord,” and the Hebrew word
Jehovah (YHVH) stands for the first time
alone and continues until almost the end of
the chapter. In Chapter V., the word
Elohim (God), once more appears alone, but
suddenly (verse 29) gives place once more to
Jehovah, which is again translated Lord.
In Chapter VI., the word Elohim (God)
stands as it did in the first chapter, but is used
alternately with Lord (YHVH). In Chapter
VII., Jehovah (“ the Lord ”) is again replaced
by Elohim (God), and also in Chapter VII.,
except at the end, verses 21-22, and so on.
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
47
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
This is apparently one of the reasons why
the critics have concluded that two writers
are responsible for the stories, and they
distinguish them by calling one Jehovistic
and the other Elohistic. Yet as there are
parts of the stories where the two names are
used as one, Jehovah-Elohim, it would be
equally reasonable to assume that three
writers were concerned with the complex
narrative.
On the ground, then, that different names are
used for the Creator, it cannot be said that
the story gives proof of two or three different
writers. On the contrary, it seems more likely
to have been the work of one editor doing his
best to make a purely monotheistic narrative
from more ancient polytheistic stories, such as
the Babylonian traditions.
On the other hand, there are differences in
the account which cannot so easily be brushed
aside, and it is to these that the critics point
as proving that two stories are interwoven.
Thus Frazer,1 who states that he has studied
the Hebrew version, finds that in the
Jehovistic version (Ch. VII., v. 2) the Hebrew
words used for male andfemale are Aish and
Aishta, whereas in the Elohistic version
(Ch. VI., v. 19, and VII., v. 9, 16), the words
1 Folk-lore in the Old Testament, I., p. 137.
48
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
translated male and female are Zochar and
Nekavah (i.e., Lingam and Yoni— incisio,
vesica piscis, etc.). Yet even in this case the
idea is not well-founded and gives no surety
of two writers, for the words Aish and
Aisha are used indiscriminately for male and
female, man and woman or even man and wife,
as the Hebrew commentators note, and the
Samaritan version uses Zochar and Nekavah
where the Hebrew has Aish and Aisha.
The student will notice that Adam is formed
in verse 7, Chapter II., of Genesis, and that
previous to this “ there was not a man to till
the ground ” ; the animals were created later
(see v. 19). Yet in the earlier part of Genesis
(Chapter I., verse 24), the animals are first
created and man follows (v. 27). This is
found also in the Babylonian stories.
These are facts which cause the critics to
conclude that two separate stories are inter­
woven in the narrative. But this is not
necessarily so, as we find in considering the
matter from another point of view. H. P.
Blavatsky says that the “ animals ” created
before “ man ” in the first chapter, are the
“ Cosmic ” animals, that is, the signs of the
Zodiac, whilst the “ man ” represents the
cosmic beings, the host of cosmic forces, or
Angels, who are made in God’s image. This
49
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
puts aside the idea that the human being, as
a body, is made in the image of God, yet, as
will be seen later, there is a further explana­
tion which shows that even the human form
was made in the image of the Elohim, the
Creative Powers (Pitris).
The same writer says that the “ God ” of
the first chapter of Genesis is the Logos, and
the “ Lord God ” of the second chapter the
Elohim, the creative powers.1 It should be
mentioned, however, that even if this writer
is correct, the words themselves are not, for
the word God of Chapter I. is, in the original,
Elohim, whilst the words Lord God are
Jehovah-Elohim. In any case, these views
tend to show that there are not two stories
blended in one narrative, but that the account
contains many different aspects of creation
which, though roughly thrown together, are
none the less capable of being understood.
Frazer also states that verse 2 of Chapter
VII. is a Jehovistic writing, because the word
Jehovah is used in the preceding verse. But
in the Samaritan version, the statement is
evidently Elohistic, for the verse reads “ and
God said ” (Elohim said), whilst the Hebrew
states “ the Lord (Jehovah) said.”
There are other and more serious dis­
crepancies which cannot be so easily
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd ed., vol. II., p. 1.
5°
explained. Thus Genesis, Chapter VII., verse
17, declares that the flood was upon the earth
“ forty days and nights,” whereas verse 12
says that the rain was upon the earth. In
verse 24, it is stated that “ the waters pre­
vailed upon the earth one hundred and fifty
days,” but according to verses 8 to 12 of
Chapter VII., Noah was in the ark three
weeks after the “ forty days,” i.e., sixty-one
days in all, while verse 13 says that the flood
lasted until the six hundred and first year and
one month (of Noah’s life), and verse 14
states that the flood was not completely dried
up until the seven and twentieth day of the
second month— thus giving its duration as
twelve months and ten days.
All these contradictions are not, of course, to
be taken seriously, for they are merely errors.
Yet it is curious to note that there is a
suggestion of time-measuring here, which
shows that the flood is not an earthly matter,
as will be explained later. This is a curious
muddle in a purely historical narrative, and
gives those writers who see everything as a
solar myth good cause to claim that the story
of the Flood is of that nature.
It is interesting to note the views of another
well-known writer on this subject. C. W.
King, M.A., in the Schzveich Lectures (p. 42)
says :
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
51
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
“ In any comparison it is usually admitted that two accounts
have heen combined in the Hebrew narrative. I should like
to point out that this assumption may be made by anyone,
whatever his views may be with regard to the textual pro­
blems of the Hebrew Bible and the traditional authorship of
the Pentateuch. And for our purpose at the moment it is
immaterial whether we identify the compiler of these Hebrew
narratives with Moses himself, or with some later Jewish
historian whose name has not come down to us.”
It should be noticed that he does not suggest
that this later scribe may have been Ezra, as
has already been hinted and as is most likely,
for it is said that he was “ a ready scribe in
the Law of Moses.”1 Moreover, it was at
this period, in the reign of Cyrus and at the
end of the Babylonian sojourn, that the
religious affairs of the Hebrews were re­
organised and the Temple rebuilt. With
the permission of Artaxerxes, at a later date,
Ezra went up to Jerusalem and “ prepared
his heart to seek the law of the Lord and do
it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judg­
ments.” 2 Artaxerxes, moreover, instructed
him : “ And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of
thy God, that is in thine hand, set magistrates
and judges, which may judge all the people
beyond the river, all such as know the laws
of thy God ; and teach ye them that know
not.” 3
It is, therefore, quite reasonable to conclude,
with many writers, that “ the lost books of
1 Ezra, V II., 6.
2 Ibid, V., lg.
3 Ezra, V II., 25.
52
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
Moses were restored by Ezra.”1 or that he
was the adaptor of the modernised books.2
H. P. Blavatsky even suggests3that Ezra may
have been the author of the Book of Moses,
which does not seem entirely improbable.
She says further :
“ It is sufficient to read the criticisms of Erasmus, and even of
Sir Isaac Newton, to see clearly that the Hebrew Scriptures
had been tampered with and remodelled, had been lost and
rewritten a dozen times before the days of Ezra. This Ezra
himself may turn out to have been Azara,4 the Chaldaean
priest of the Fire and Sun-God, a renegade who, through his
desire of becoming a ruler, and in order to create an Eth-
narchy, restored the old lost Jewish books in his own way.
It was an easy thing for one versed in the secret system of
Esoteric numerals, or symbology, to put together events
from the stray books that had been preserved by various
tribes, and make of them an apparently harmonious narrative
of creation and of the evolution of the Judaean race. . . .
Its co-ordination, however, is only apparent ; and the human
hand appears at every moment.” 8
This same writer quotes a few lines from
S. Clement, the Christian Father, which do
not appear to have seen the light of day in
other commentaries. He says that:
“ . . . the scriptures having perished in the captivity of
Nebuchodonozar, Esdras, the Levite, the priest, in the
times of Artaxerxes, king of the Persians, having become
inspired in the exercise of prophecy, restored again the whole
of the ancient scriptures.” (Stromata, XXII.).
It is as well that the good Father mentioned
this, else would the statement, emanating
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd ed., vol. II, p. 483.
2Ibid, vol. II., p. 152.
3Ibid, vol. II., p. 474.
4 Azarias was the Father of Ezra according to the Second Book of Esdras
(ch. i., I.).
5 Ibid, vol. II., p. 172.
S3
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
from such a source as Madame Blavatsky,
have received scant attention from those who
misguidedly judge her as a destroyer, rather
than as the light-bringer and founder of a new
epoch in philosophy and religion she is con­
sidered by the present writer and thousands of
others throughout the world.
However, it matters little who wrote the
stories, for the truth, even though distorted,
is still to be found within them, and when
compared with the ancient writings from
which, doubtless, they were compiled, can be
understood in the sense intended by the
ancient initiates.
C. W. King states that the scribe “ has
scrupulously preserved his two texts, and
even when they differ he has given each as he
found it. Thanks to this fact anyone, by a
careful examination of the narrative, can
disentangle the two versions for himself. He
will find each gives a consistent story. One
of them appears to be simpler and more
primitive than the other.”1 This disentang­
ling, however, is not such an easy matter as
the professor imagined, and he himself did
not succeed in it.
It must be confessed that there are extra­
ordinary contradictions in the Scriptures
which may be seized upon by would-be
1 Schweich Lectures, p, 42,
54
destroyers of religion; they form good
handles for those who read them in the purely
literal sense and in a tongue other than the
original. But examining these contra­
dictions from a higher point of view, it is
possible to find such a wealth of information
behind them that the Scriptures become real
and living things, not mere empty forms, but
chalices brimming with Divine Wisdom.
Thus, in Chapter I. of Genesis, the animals
are first created ; this refers to a period of
evolution not on this earth. In Chapter II.,
the animals are the second to appear, Adam
being first, and it is he who names them :
this is descriptive of the present period of
evolution on this earth. It is in the arche­
typal world that creation first takes place, and
the account of creation given in the first
chapter of Genesis refers not to earth but to
heaven, the world of emanations ; whilst the
second refers to the bringing together, the
shaping-up and preparing, of the ideas of the
higher world.
Thus the Bible is not alone an account of
the creation of our little world and of man,
but is of far greater scope, relating to the
whole cosmos. It is all largely in the cosmic
sense, but is, of course, repeated on lower
planes.
The same idea is found in the Qabalistic
55
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
work, Zohar, which states that when the
Holy One wished to create, all the worlds
were present in idea before Him, and only in
a later period was the actual, i.e., outer,
creation continued.
According to qabalistic teachings, there are
four Adams, as there are four “ worlds,” or
planes, as modern Theosophists term them.
The first is the Adam qadmon, or the Adam
“ outside ” of space and time, God Himself
and the archetypal creation within His con­
sciousness, i.e., the primordial manifestation
of God ; the second Adam is the Adam of
the world of “ Creation,” slightly more
materialised, being, in a way, an image of the
creation-in-Ideation reflected in the world
(or plane) of creation in thought ; the third is
the collective creation in the world of forms ;
whilst the fourth brings to being the actual
material creation of the earth and also the
human kingdom, or collective man (ADAM).
Thus only the fourth Adam is man as known
after the “ Fall,” clothed in “ coats of skin,”
i.e., in a material form.
Creation, then, as set forth in the first
chapter of Genesis, where it is said : “ We
will make man in our own image.”1 took
place, primitively, in the world of Ideation,
or in the mind of “ God ” ; that is to say,
1Or “ Let us make man,” in any case a future tense.
56
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
the idea of making Adam was expressed in
the future tense ; it did not yet take outward
form. In the second chapter we read
“ VADM AIN ,” “ and Adam was not,” or,
as in the authorised version, “ there was no
man (to till the ground.)” It is only in
verse 7 of Chapter II. that the form is created
“ out of the dust of the ground.” (This will
be explained in the story of the Garden of
Eden which, in the esoteric interpretation,
gives much food for contemplation).
Similar ideas are also found in the Greek
writing, The Chaldean Oracles (trans. Cory),
where it is said that from the Nous, the Inner
Mind, of the Father, sprang omniform ideas
as from a single fountain, and were divided
and spread abroad.
“ For the King previously placed before the multiple world an
intellectual, incorruptible pattern, the print of which form
is promoted through the world, according to which things
the world appeared beautified with all-various Ideas. . . .
The primary self-perfect fountain of the Father poured
forth these primogenial ideas.” 1
A little further on, it is said that the plastic
Substance from which the worlds and all
things are formed, received the impress of the
Divine Thought or Idea. “ Rhea, the foun­
tain and river of the blessed Intellectuals,
having first received the powers of all things
in her ineffable bosom, pours forth perpetual
1 The Chaldean Oracles, p. 248.
E 5 7
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
generation upon every thing.”1 This Rhea,
as a “ matrix, contains all things,” 2 contains
all divisions and yet is indivisible, pervading
the whole of space.
Other have noticed this ideal creation
preceding the actual creation. The famous
Thomas Vaughan writes of it in his strange
but splendid work, Anthroposophia Theo-
magica (1648), where he points out that
before all things were made, God meditated
on the creation which was to come. He
says :
That meditation foreruns every solemn work is a thing so
well known to man that he needs no further demonstration
of it than his own practice. That there is also in God some­
thing analogical to it, from whence man derives this customary
notion of his, as it is agreeable to reason, so withal is it very
suitable to Providence. ‘ The Gods,’ says Iamblichus,
‘ did conceive the whole work within themselves before it
was brought forth by them.’ ”
Vaughan mentions the vision of Esdras,
when God (the Angel speaking for Him) says
to Esdras that before all things were created
He had considered them.3 He also suggests,
and it must be remembered how far back was
the date of his writing, that creation took
place first in the mind of God and was then
impressed as a pattern in space, or, as he
says, “ in those primitive waters, like an
ARE THERE TWO CREATION STORIES ?
image in glass.” He speaks of “ the idea ”
of God, and says :
“ The idea I speak of here is the true, primitive, exemplar one,
and a pure influence of the Almighty. This idea, before the
coagulation of the seminal principles to a gross outward
fabric— which is the end of generation— impresseth in the
vital, ethereal principles a model or pattern after which the
body is to be framed, and this as the first inward production
or draft of the creature. This it is which the Divine Spirit
intimates to us in that scripture where He saith that God
created ‘ every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew.’ (Genesis II., 5)”
This idea of a pre-creative meditation is
found in many scriptures, notably in the
Hindu, as will be seen later. Other writers
than those quoted have noticed it, as also the
statement that Adam was first created and
that later there was no Adam (man) “ to till
the ground.” The words of Vaughan, how­
ever, are interesting as showing that these
ideas were working even in that distant and
supposedly dark age. A. E. Waite, in editing
a new edition of these writings of Vaughan,
recalls the fact that there is nothing new in
the statement, since it is but a “ combination
of Kabalistic and Platonic theosophy ” ; yet
it was new to those to whom it was given, and
is unknown to many to this day.
59
CHAPTER THREE
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES
ORIGINAL ?
The idea that Moses was learned in the lore
of the Egyptians offers a key to many who
believe that the Book of Genesis is written
symbolically. Indeed, it is the belief of the
writer that the first ten chapters of Genesis
constitute all that remains of a book of ritual
appertaining to the Mysteries, whether of
Egypt, Greece, or Rome, gathered together
from even earlier sources. Donnelly, in his
Atlantis, expresses the opinion that their
origin was in Atlantis itself, and this may
well be so.
From time immemorial, as has already been
said, there has existed the inner doctrine
known to the few and the literal or outer
teaching accepted by the people. As Christ
taught His disciples in secret, or “ in the
house,” reserving for those who could under­
stand the “ mysteries of the kingdom of
heaven,” so with those other and lesser
Masters who inaugurated the ceremonies
60
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
and teachings which together are generically
termed The Mysteries.1
In these Mysteries, the facts of Nature
hidden from the ignorant masses were taught
to a chosen few by means of symbol and
allegory, and by pictorial dances, and in the
deeper Mysteries by pictures visible for a
while to the stimulated clairvoyant faculty of
the disciple, pictures which were seen only
by those who were called the “ Mystae,”
those who had but to lift the last corner of the
veil to see and understand Truth in its
nakedness.
The true Mystery teaching is to be seen in
these stories of the Book of Genesis, veiled
with great care, but clear to all who have the
key, or who understand the inferential way
of reading.
Many have thought that the whole of the
Scripture has been re-written and edited in
order to make it appear more historical, and
that it has “ the appearance of being carefully
revised with an ethical purpose.” 2 Whether
this is so or not, the first ten chapters of
Genesis still contain the secret teachings
relating to Astronomy and the birth and
growth of the Universe, to the development
of this world and other worlds in space, and
1 The reader who is not familiar with the subject will find an outline of
its history in the Encyclopaedia Britannica and in many other works.
2 St. Clair, The Secret of Genesis.
61
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
to the development of the human and other
kingdoms. They were written symbolically
so that, according to the plane from which
they were viewed, would the teaching relating
to that plane be understood.
Hence it is accepted by many students,
following the teaching of H. P. Blavatsky,
that every symbol and symbolical writing
has seven meanings, according to the plane
on which it is viewed. For the present
purpose, it is sufficient to consider only the
four which have already been explained from
the Hebrew standpoint ; but in order to have
evidence from various sources, and also
because of its erudition, the teaching from
The Secret Doctrine is appended :
“ For the comprehension of the Occult Doctrine is based upon
that of the Seven Sciences ; and these sciences find their
expression in the seven different applications of the Secret
Records to the exoteric texts. Thus we have to deal with
modes of thought on seven entirely different planes of
Ideality. Every text relates to, and has to be rendered
from, one of the following standpoints :
1. The Realistic Plane of Thought.
2. The Idealistic.
3. The purely Divine or Spiritual.
The other planes too far transcend the average consciousness,
especially of the materialistic mind, to admit of their being
even symbolised in terms of ordinary phraseology. There is
no purely mythical element in any of the ancient religious
texts ; but the mode of thought in which they were originally
written has to be found out and closely adhered to during
the process of interpretation. For it is symbolical, the
archaic mode of thought ; emblematical, a later though
62
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
very ancient mode of thought ; parabolical or allegorical ;
hieroglyphical ; or again, logographical, the most difficult
method of all ; every letter, as in the Chinese language,
representing a whole word. Thus, almost every proper
name, whether in the Vedas, the Book of the Dead, or, to a
certain degree, in the Bible, is composed of such logograms.
No one not initiated into the mystery of the occult religious
logography can presume to know what a name in any ancient
fragment means, before he has mastered the meaning of
every letter that composes it.”1
It should, then, be remembered that the
Genesis stories apply, according to the method
by which the symbols are interpreted, not
only to the literal history of a world and its
inhabitants, but also to the history of a
Universe. They are to be understood, that
is, in many ways— historically, astronomi­
cally, terrestrially, cosmically, metaphysically,
numerically (as relating to time-measuring
processes), etc. ; though it is, of course,
impossible to explain every myth and symbol
from each and every point of view.
The astronomical and time-measuring
method has been used by a few writers who
have endeavoured to understand the Book
of Genesis, notably Railston Skinner and
George St. Clair. Their explanations are,
however, very difficult, and need much
thought ; for to decipher symbolical writings
is one thing, and to understand that which is
thus revealed another.
1 H. P. Blavatsky, The Secret Doctrine, 3rd ed., vol. II., p. 350.
63
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
In the present work, the metaphysical and
cosmic meanings of Genesis will be presented
and considered, together with the terrestrial
happenings and the human aspects of the
“ That the narratives (of Genesis) are not literal,” says St. Clair,
“ ought not to surprise us. The ancients spoke much in
figure and allegory and dealt much in symbolic and dramatic
representation. Egyptologists can translate the book of the
Dead, but they tell us they cannot understand it because
very often a mystic or mythic meaning underlies the gram­
matical. Theologians are often in the same position, for it
was the way of the biblical writers to use figurative language.
. The legends of Genesis are allegories ; and so old
that the very language of them has long been disused and
dead . . . hardly anything is called by its ordinary and
direct name, but things are indirectly alluded to under some
other name, and every word has to be understood as implying
something else than its ordinary connotation.” 1
He further reminds his readers that :
“ the books of the Bible . . . were penned by many
authors and extend over many centuries in their composition ;
so that errors in one part should not vitiate the whole. It
will here be contended that not even the Book of Genesis is
to be given up as discredited but that rather, when read
aright, it is a substantially true record of events.” 2
With these sentiments the writer of the
present work is in perfect agreement. It is,
however, difficult to discover the true record
without the key. Obviously no man of sense,
as Origen puts it, will take the Genesis stories
literally. Who would believe that a snake
on two legs could have tempted the first
woman to lead her perfect husband on to the
1The Secret of Genesis, p. io.
2 Ibid, p. 16.
64
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
breaking of a simple rule which precipitated
them both out of a beautiful Garden of
Delight, and brought the present evils to
humanity ; that the sufferings of humanity
ever since, and the pangs of labour which the
woman alone knows, are the result P
1
Other curiosities abound, such as the snake
on two legs who has the power of speech :
the naming by Adam of the animals led
before him, like some huge circus, by God :
the flaming sword which never melted away
from above the gate of the Garden after the
departure of Adam and Eve : the walking
of God in the Garden in the cool of the day ;
the tree of life, and the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil; and the four rivers which
never have been geographically found. All
these things surely prove that there was not
the remotest intention on the part of the
original writers of detailing merely historical
happenings.
“ While these ancient stories were taken
literally,” says St. Clair, “ it was easy to carp
at them ; when the true meaning is made
plain they will command respect.” 2
It has long been imagined that the Old
1 In this connection, it is to be observed that no apple is mentioned in the
original scripture, and never in the translations, not even the English
authorised version, Yet, curiously enough, all the world repeats the
story that Eve gave an apple to Adam after having herself been tempted
by the Snake.
2 The Secret of Genesis, p. 10.
6
5
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
Testament is the word of God, either written
“ from cover to cover ” by Him, or directly
inspired from the Divine Source. Gradually,
however, as the work of excavators has
progressed in many lands, and translations
of writings on ancient monuments have been
obtained, this view has become more
modified. Indeed, in these modern days,
it is no longer possible to consider the Genesis
stories as actual and original historical narra­
tives relating merely to a “ chosen people.”
That they are partly historical is undeniable ;
but in the light of modern research, and the
translations of the ancient Sumerian,
Assyrian, and Babylonian texts from the
stones and cylinders of ages past, it is impos­
sible to doubt that the Hebrew scribes
recorded events which were already traditions
of the people amongst whom they themselves
sojourned.
It may be conceded that in spite of such
editing, or even because of it, these later
Genesis stories are, in a certain sense, superior
to their predecessors ; for if an original story
is written and re-written, age after age, it is
inevitable that, with the growing knowledge
of mankind, the style of writing would be
improved, and the crudities toned down.
But the facts recorded are not altered thereby,
nor are they necessarily improved, as may be
66
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
found by comparing them with the trans­
lations from the ancient stones upon which
the originals are recorded.
It is now realised by those who do not fear
to face new facts, that the Old Testament,
far from being a complete work, is a collection
of many different manuscripts arranged and
collected together, and declared “ genuine ”
by councils of men, often self-appointed to
the work and not always sufficiently educated
to judge of the value of ancient documents,
who certainly knew nothing of the original
writings or of the now-discovered stones.
Prof. Albert Clay, in a series of lectures to
Bible classes, since published by The Sunday
School Times Co., under the title of Light on
the Old Testament from Babylon, says that
although much evidence has been produced
through the archeological researches of
modern times as to the “ historical character
of portions of the Old Testament,” yet
“ certain discoveries have given a totally different conception
of other portions, forcing us to lay aside a number of anti­
quated views, and to reconstruct our ideas on many important
questions. Old interpretations, which have been copied or
revised by a succession of commentators, and have been
handed down from century to century, disappear, and that
which approaches nearer to the truth becomes known. . . .
While we are disappointed in not being able to reach still
nearer the primitive beginnings, our knowledge of the history
of man has been projected backward several thousand years,
and is attended by many surprises. We find that cultured
peoples antedated Israel by milleniums ; and that instead
67
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
of Abraham’s descendants belonging to the dawn of history,
they lived in the late pre-Christian period; instead of Israel
being an all-powerful nation of antiquity, we find that with
the exception of the time in the days of David and Solomon,
when the borders of the nation were temporarily extended,
it scarcely can be classed with such world-conquering powers
as Babylonia, Assyria, Egypt, Persia and other nations.”
Ibid, p. 4-5.
Thus the stories in Genesis are now found
to be copies of early editions of similar
narratives, or at least compilations of such
records. The difficulty with some is to
determine whether the stories of Babylonia
are earlier than the Genesis stories, or vice
versa, but no true archeologist or other
unprejudiced student would wish to give
first place to Genesis, for it is obviously a
much later collection of writings.
These references are to the tablets dis­
covered by the expedition sent out from
Pennsylvania in 1914, particulars of which
may be found in the books published by the
Museum of Philadelphia, as well as in such
books as Jastrow’s Hebrew and Babylonian
Tradition, The Seven Tablets of Creation
(1914), and Hilprecht’s Explorations in Bible
Lands. The results of the excavations deal
with the writings upon the stones found at
the ancient city of Nippur, one of the oldest
of all the ancient cities.
According to the leading authorities on the
subject, the stories deciphered from the
68
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
stones are similar to those of Genesis. L. W.
King, M.A., the well-known authority on,
and Keeper of, the Egyptian and Assyrian
Antiquities in the British Museum, states
that “ there is a great bulk of new material
of recent discovery of some early texts,
written towards the close of the third
millenium B.C., which incorporate traditions
extending from this period far back into the
remote periods in unbroken outline,” texts
which, he says, claim equally with Genesis
to trace the history of man back to creation.1
“ They represent,” he continues, “ the
early national tradition of the Sumerian
people, who preceded the Semites or the
ruling race in Babylonia ; and, incidentally,
they necessitate a revision of current views
with regard to the cradle of Biblical civili­
sation. The most remarkable of the new
documents is one which relates in poetical
narrative an account of the creation, of
antediluvian history, and of the deluge. It
thus exhibits a close resemblance in structure
to the corresponding Hebrew tradition. . .
More primitive than any of the Semitic
versions. . . They are written in the
language spoken by non-semitic people, whom
the Semitic Babylonians conquered and dis­
placed, and they include a very primitive
1 Preface to Legends of Babylonia and Egypt in Relation to Hebrew Tradition.
69
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
version of the Deluge story and the creation
myth.”1
There are still many who consider that the
Bible versions of these stories are infinitely
superior to the ancient writings, because
in the former the stories are told in relation
to the One God, whereas on the earlier
stones they are mainly polytheistic. The
late Canon Driver touched upon this in his
lectures,2 when he said :
“ The Babylonian narratives are both polytheistic, while the
corresponding Biblical narratives are made the vehicle of
a pure and exalted monotheism ; but in spite of this funda­
mental difference . . . the resemblances are such as to
leave no doubt that the Hebrew cosmogony and the Hebrew
story of the deluge are both ultimatelyfrom the same original.”
An equally valid theory would be that the
Hebrews copied the ancient stories and
incorporated them in their scriptures, for it
has been discovered that some of these are
far older even than the people amongst whom
Israel sojourned. Nevertheless, this is a
striking acknowledgment coming from such
an orthodox source, though the idea that the
Genesis writings are superior merely because
they relate the stories monotheistically in­
stead of polytheistically, is open to question.
It might also well be suggested that the
statement is not entirely accurate, for an
unprejudiced reader, who knows the original
1 Legends of Babylonia and Egypt, p. i.
2 Modern Research as Illustrating the Bible (1908).
70
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
Hebrew and has studied the Sumerian
version also, will realise that the plurality of
Powers described in the Sumerian are to be
compared with the plurality of Powers in the
original Hebrew version, whether the latter
be called collectively Elohim or translated,
as in modern versions, by the singular God,
Jehovah, Adonai, etc. All these things make
little difference to the mythos itself.
There is, however, no doubt that Ezra, or
the later editors of the Genesis stories,
endeavoured to fit them into the mono­
theistic belief current amongst the Hebrews.
Canon Driver, though acknowledging the
stories to be unoriginal, nevertheless states,
as proving the superiority of the Hebrew
version, that they were “ transformed by the
magic touch of Israel’s religion and infused
by it with a new spirit.”1 This may be so,
but no explanation has as yet been given
which proves the superiority of the modern
version over the ancient in its essential points.
Bishop Colenso, writing many years ago,
quotes many writers to show that there were
earlier legends amongst nations more ancient
than the Hebrew, and includes the following
from the very orthodox and literal Tuch :
“ If we compare,” says Tuch, “ these oriental speculations
with the Hebrew cosmogony, it must be plain that we cannot
seek the first free evolution of the legend among the Hebrew
1 Modern Research as Illustrating the Bible, p. 23.
7 1
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
people, but must consider it as an inheritance which their
ancestors brought with them into their new place of settle­
ment. Yet withal the glory remains to the Hebrews for
having placed this inheritance in the most beautiful and
exalted form, in connection with their purer ideas of deity.” 1
Delitsch, also quoted by Colenso, while
clinging to the utmost to the traditional
view, yet admits, as the necessary result of
his enquiries, the following points :
“ The creation story was not revealed to the writer of Genesis I.,
1-23, whoever he may have been, but, if revealed at all— if it
was not, in its original form, the expression of the clear­
sighted intuition of man before the Fall— was revealed within
the family of the first made man and from then handed down
by tradition, from Adam to Enos, etc., and from them to
Noah and his family.
At the ‘ confusion of tongues,’ it was shattered . . . and
existed henceforward in broken fragments in different
nations— the most perfect perhaps in Babylonia.
From Babylon, perhaps, or perhaps in direct line within the
chosen family, the writer of Genesis may have received the
tradition which, before it had reached him had lived through
many metamorphoses.” 2
This derivation of the Genesis stories from
older records has its parallel in the Mosaic
and Levitical Laws, which were thought to be
original and impossible of emulation until
the discovery of the Code of (C)hammurabi
at the great mound, the Acropolis of Susa, in
1901-2, by M. de Morgan.3
This wonderful stone, which is of black
diorite, may be viewed at any time in the
1 Colenso, On the Pentateuch, Vol. IV., p. 120.
2 Ibid, p. 123.
3 Memoires de la Delegation en Perse, par Pfere Scheil.
7 2
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
British Museum. At the top is seen a
representation of Shemash, the Sun-God,
handing to King (C)hammurabi the dual
tablets of stone on which the Law is in­
scribed. Shemash is seated on a stone
throne upon an edifice ; he wears swathed
head-gear and a flounced robe, and from his
shoulders radiate sun-rays, whilst he clasps
a sceptre and a ring in his right hand. King
(C)hammurabi, who by some writers has been
identified with the biblical Amraphel, con­
temporary of Abraham (Gen. XIV.) stands
before (the) God in a reverent attitude,
evidently picturing the idea which Ezra or
some later scribe wove into the story of Moses
receiving the two tables of stone from God
on Mount Sinai.
This Code is said to be about 4,225 years
old, but it may well be much older, for the
authorities did not, in the early days of these
discoveries, wish to go too carelessly against
rigid sectarian opinion.
With reference to it, Dr. Driver, speaking
as an orthodox leader and Canon of his
Church, says that there are “ resemblances
which call for explanation,” and that “ while
direct borrowing on the part of the Hebrew
legislators is not probable, the two codes do
stand in some direct relation towards each
other, either both, in the provisions which
r 73
are similar, exhibit independent codifications
of old customary Semitic usage, common to
the ancestors of both the Babylonians and the
Hebrews, or some knowledge of (C)ham-
murabi’s laws reached the Hebrews in­
directly.”1
This is a poor apology, and does not explain
the need for all these objections to the idea
that the Hebews copied ancient laws and
traditions ; yet if he were to acknowledge
this, the Canon would have to acknowledge
that earlier nations than the Hebrew were
favoured with Divine Command, and that
the Hebrew Scriptures were not original.
Long previous to the archeological dis­
coveries which have had such a profound
effect on Biblical scholarship and Biblical
research generally, there were those who saw
that the Old Testament stories were not a
new revelation. Thus Bishop Lawrence, in
his translation of the Book of Enoch, mentions
a quotation from a catalogue of Bruce’s
manuscripts in which the Rev. E. Murray
made a note to the effect that “ the narrative
(of Enoch) is bold and fabulous, but highly
impressive of the sentiments and character
of those speculative enthusiasts who blended
the Chaldaic philosophy with the Sacred
history of the Jews.”2
1 Modern Research as Illustrating the Bible, p. 27.
* I b i d( 1838), p. X IX .
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
74
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
That the Babylonian stories are either the
originals from which the Hebrews copied,
or that they have been blended with other
traditions, is now accepted by most Assyrio-
logists. Indeed, so deep an impression did
the Babylonian discoveries make upon the
minds of students and theologians that the
Sunday School Times Publishing Co., and
even The Society for the Promotion of
Christian Knowledge, took up the subject,
and treated it in a very sympathetic manner,
the latter publishing a valuable book on them
by T. B. Pinches, LL.D., M.R.A.S., wherein
valuable comparisons are made and the
differences in the two stories pointed out.
The orthodox writer, however, carefully
states that, in spite of all these resemblances,
“ it must not be thought that it interferes
with the doctrine of inspiration.”
This is suspiciously like what might be
termed “ playing to the gallery.” Neverthe­
less, the writer does not leave the matter
there, and continues :
“ Without binding ourselves down to any hard and fast line
as to date, we may regard, for the purposes of this enquiry,
the Hebrew account of Creation as one of the traditions
handed down in the thought of many minds extending over
many centuries and as having been chosen and elaborated by
the inspired writer of Genesis for the purpose of his narrative
Dr. Skinner, the well-known commentator
on Genesis, dealing with various passages
1The Old Testament in the Light of Historical Records, p. n .
75
which are akin to the biblical, says : “ in view
of these passages it seems impossible to doubt
that the cosmogony of Genesis rests on a
conception of the process of creation funda­
mentally identical with that of the Babylonian
tablets ” ; and adds “ it was long ago apparent
that the Bible account of Creation is in its
main conceptions Babylonian.”1
“ Many features in the biblical account of
creation,” says Morris Jastrow, “ are not at
all original; they find their parallel in the
Babylonian versions and, like the latter,
point to the real character of the tale as a
nature myth. . . . But in the form
assumed by the old traditions regarding the
Creation and the Deluge, once held in common
by the Hebrews and the Babylonians, reduces
the original mythical element to a minimum.
So thoroughly has the process been carried
out that it was only through the discovery of
the parallel tales on cuneiform tablets that
the original character of the biblical Creation
and Deluge stories was revealed. . . The
story, retained partly because of its popularity,
partly because of that natural desire to carry
back history to its beginnings, is in all other
respects completely remodelled and becomes
a sublime poem, furnishing in impressive
diction the picture of a great, spiritually
1 Genesis, p. 41.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
76
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
conceived power creating the universe by the
mere utterance of his intent— God wills and
it comes to pass . . . The narrative of
the order of Creation becomes merely the
illustration used in order to bring out this
conception of Deity, due to the transformation
that the view of divine government under­
went among the Hebrews through the
influence of the prophets.”1
“ But this biblical story is raised far above
the level of a primitive tale as the nature-myth
underlying the story of the Deluge is removed
into an entirely different sphere, by their
both being made the medium for illustrating
the dire consequences of disobedience to the
dictates of a God who demands adherence
to His behests, that are promulgated in man’s
interest.” 2
“ Primitive tales are thus retained and
transformed. They are given a new inter­
pretation in the light of the teachings of the
prophets whose discourses are all so many
melodies based on the one theme— the dire
results of disobedience.” 3
Yet in spite of his sympathetic treatment of
the Bible stories, Jastrow confirms, with
many other authors, the belief held by the
present writer, namely, that they are “ edited ”
1 Hebrew and Babylonian Traditions, pp. 37 & 39.
2Ibid, p. 40.
3 Ibid, p. 41.
77
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
editions, improved or not, as the case may be,
by different writers (or by Ezra), since the
Babylonian sojourn.
The well-known John Skinner, D.D., late
Principal and Professor of O. T. Languages
and Literature at Cambridge (1910), says :
“ The influence of foreign mythology is most
apparent in the primitive traditions (Genesis,
Ch. 1-2). The discovery of the Babylonian
version of the Creation and Deluge traditions
has put it beyond reasonable doubt that these
are the original from which the Bible accounts
have been derived.”1
“ All these (as well as the story of the Tower
of Babel) were originally genuine myth-
stories of the gods ; and if they no longer
deserve that appellation it is because the
spirit of Hebrew monotheism has exorcised
the polytheistic notions of deity, apart from
which true mythology cannot survive.” 2
He says further : “ the few passages where
the old heathen conception of god-head still
appears (I. 26 ; III. 22-24 ; VI. 1 ; XI. 1
Genesis) only serve to show how completely the
religious beliefs of Israel have transformed and
purified the crude speculations ofpagan theology
and adapted them to the ideas of an ethical
monotheistic faith.”3
1 Critical and Exegetical Commentary of Genesis (Clark, 1910), p. ix.
2 Ibid, p. ix.
3 Ibid, p. ix.
78
The words italicised support the view upheld
in this chapter, namely, that the Genesis
stories are not original, but are improved
versions of much more ancient traditions,
which later writers were “ inspired ” to edit
and rewrite. They are, as Dr. Skinner says :
“ Babylonian myths naturalised in Israel.”
ARE THE GENESIS STORIES ORIGINAL?
79
CHAPTER FOUR
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
It will by now be evident that the originals
of the Old Testament stories are much less
history than mystery. The creation stories
of Genesis, certainly, are symbolically written ;
indeed, the Genesis story is rather a formula
explaining creation generally than a historical
account of the formation of our own little
marble in God’s Great Playground of Space.
By analogy, of course, it may be read as a
history of the creation of our own world, but
it is equally the history of those which pre­
ceded it, and of that creation which, as
astronomers well know, is continuous. Since
the original writings are symbolical, there
will inevitably be many meanings hidden
within them, even though they are set down
in the form of a story of creation and the
history of “ a chosen race.”
This is the great difficulty in the way of all
students of divinity, who have to wade
through hundreds of commentaries, opinions
of weight only according to the authority of
the “ divine ” responsible. It is even worse
80
for those who do not know the original
writings and the keys to their unveiling, for
they are thus confined to the study of a literal
translation of a symbolical original. Herein
lies the cause of most of the difficulties of
students and teachers, for it is useless to
study bare appearances, to weigh mere
opinions ; that way lies agnosticism, or even
atheism. It is the Inner Reality that alone
will suffice.
There are other difficulties which confront
the student, also almost insurmountable
without the key. For instance, many of the
words in the original scriptures are left
untranslated, whilst many different words
are translated by the same English term
thus making “ confusion worse confounded.”
It is, therefore, necessary, before attempting
a study of any part of the Old Testament,
to comprehend how very difficult it is to
understand the existing translations, even
the Revised Version and those written in
modern-style language. The latter may in­
deed be practical, but they are also extremely
ugly. As regards its style and arrangement,
there is no finer book in the world than the
Old Testament, and to alter the version
which is already accepted, even though it is
not a correct translation, would not help
matters. As it is now, it is a very beautiful
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
81
thing, if only the method of writing be under­
stood.
It would, of course, be easy, with Bishop
Welldon, to put aside all that we do not
comprehend, and attempt to publish an
expurgated edition “ with all the repugnant
passages omitted ” ; but this would not help
understanding : it would only show how
squeamish and conventional even Church
dignitaries may become in the face of public
opinion, which is, after all, not often worth
very much, being a mere conventional cry,
easily awakened, though not easily laid to
rest.
The Bishop candidly confesses (in a note
to the writer) that he does not know much of
the inner side of the Hebrew Scriptures and
has no knowledge of Hebrew methods of
studying them, and apparently does not see
that his lack of knowledge may lead him to
reject important and most valuable parts of
the Bible. He, in fact, does what the so-called
“ higher critics ” do, namely, rejects that
which he does not understand or that which
he deems repugnant. But it is not well to
reject the Bible, either in part or as a whole :
it is better to understand it, to know the
methods of writing and the keys which will
reveal the true, inner meaning.
It will be as well to turn to the report of the
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
Bishop’s sermon in Durham Cathedral in
December, 1922, in which he enlarges on the
matter. “ I sometimes wish it were possible,’’
he says, “ to publish an expurgated Bible
with certain passages that are repugnant to
modem feeling omitted.” He then refers to
the length of the Bible, and declares that it
is not all of equal value : indeed, that some
parts of it are of little value, and suggests
that Christians should concentrate their
thought, not so much upon the Bible as a
whole as upon the New Testament, and,
especially, the Gospels. This is a very
curious frame of mind for a Bishop belonging
to a Church whose members have declared
that the Bible is the handiwork of God
Himself, written, indeed, by the finger of
God, and, as such, beyond error !
Yet despite the many misunderstandings of
the original Sacred Scriptures, on the part of
both Eastern and Western translators, and
of the many mistranslations of the original
tongues in which they were written, the
Divine Wisdom has ever been preserved
within it, as a fossil is embedded in rock.
Even in the incorrect translations, the Reality
is concealed, and a Master Mind behind it
all; even where deliberate attempts to falsify
and manipulate the original writings have
been made, the WISDOM is plainly to be
83
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
seen. The Intuition will discover it, a pure
heart and mind and a determination to follow
Truth will show the way, but it needs the
mind which, like unto the geologist’s hammer,
can crush and clear away the surrounding
mass of extraneous matter and reveal—
REALITY.
There seems little doubt that the original
compiler of this “ Book of Ritual ” was
learned in the lore of the Egyptians and
initiated into their most holy and sacred
mysteries, and that he put the result of it into
the scrolls from which the Pentateuch is
derived. In it are found sentences written
as words, and letters as words. It is truly a
Sepher (book), or Cipher, which cannot be
de-ciphered without a key ; and, fortunately,
the long-lost key which will unlock the door­
way to the ancient science is now found.
“ This Science,” says Fabre D ’Olivet,
“ Moses modified by a special inspiration
and immured in Bereshith (Genesis), that is
to say, in the first book of his Sepher, reserving
the following four books to serve as a safe­
guard to the former.”1
D ’Olivet seems unable to find words suffi­
ciently expressive of his admiration for the
author of this wonderful work.
“ Offspring of the past,” he exclaims, “ and
1 La Latigue Hebraique Restitute, p. 9, v. 2.
84
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
teeming with the future, this book, heir to all
the science of the Egyptians, carries still the
germs of future sciences. Fruitage of a divine
inspiration, it contains in its pages. . . all
the secrets of Nature . . . and in
Bereshith alone more than in all the books
accumulated in the libraries of Europe.”
Now, the fundamental key to the Scriptures
is contained in the sound of the names of the
letters themselves. Each man, each animal,
each letter of a true, “ holy ” language, has
a distinct note which to the ear of the
intuitive, carries a deep and perfect meaning,
and gives a key to the nature of that which
sounds it forth.
The Secret Doctrine quotes P. Christian in
this connection :
“ The ‘ Army of the Voice ’ is a term closely connected with
the mystery of Sound and Speech, as an effect and corollary
of the Cause— Divine Thought. As beautifully expressed by
P. Christian, the learned author of Histoire de la Magie and
L'Homme Rouge des Tuileries, the words spoken by as well
as the name of every individual largely determine his future
fate. Why ? Because :
“ When our soul (mind) creates or evokes a thought, the
representative sign of that thought is self-engraved upon
the Astral fluid, which is the receptacle and, so to say, the
mirror of all the manifestations of being.
“ The sign expresses the thing : the thing is the (hidden or
occult) virtue of the sign.
“ To pronounce a word is to evoke a thought, and make it
present: the magnetic potency of human speech is the
commencement of every manifestation in the Occult World.
To utter a Name is not only to define a Being (an Entity),
but to place it under, and condemn it through the emission
85
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
of the Word (Verbum) to the influence of one or more Occult
potencies. Things are. for every one of us, that which it
(the Word) makes them while naming them. The word
(VERBUM) or speech of every man, is, quite unconsciously
to himself, a blessing or a curse ; this is why our present
ignorance about the attributes and properties of the idea, as
well as about the properties and attributes of matter, is often
fatal to us.
“ Yes, names (and words) are either beneficent or maleficent :
they are, in a certain sense, either venomous or health-giving,
according to the hidden influences attached by Supreme
Wisdom to their elements, that is to say, to the letters which
compose them, and the numbers correlative to these letters.”
The key to Genesis, then, is discovered by
means of a knowledge of the deep esoteric
meaning, not only of the roots, but of the
letters themselves. This method will be
found to be both definite and certain in its
results, and is the basis upon which the
succeeding volumes of this work will be
written. A description of this method of
tracing the meaning of words in their roots
and letters has already been given in the
author’s Amen, the Key to the Universe, but
for the sake of convenience it is summarised
here.
It is obvious that letters are symbols,
literally writings, “ thrown together,” as the
word implies, to express an idea or to picture
certain sounds. A letter, generally, is given
a name which, by its sound, expresses the
idea underlying it. In modern language,
however, this has been overlooked, with very
86
disastrous results. Thus it is a well-known
rule that, because a word sounds like another
word, it is not necessarily from the same root,
and by no means conveys the same meaning
nor shows a derivation from the same source.
It is not difficult to understand the meaning
of words, generally, but when it is a question
of tracing them back to the original roots, it
is certainly more of a problem. Even when,
after much research, the actual roots are
discovered and their origin known, the
“ authority ” still eludes the seeker ; for—
and here is the problem— why should a root
of two or three letters, a simple, single
syllable, convey the accepted idea, why, in
fact, should words mean exactly what they do
mean, and nothing else ?
The modern names of letters, such as eigh
{eh), bee, see, etc., convey no meaning. Indeed,
if one were asked : “ What does a mean ? ”
the answer would probably be : “ It doesn’t
mean anything ; it is just the first letter of
the alphabet.” If the questioner insisted
further : “ But what is the alphabet ? ” the
reply would be : “ Why, the ABC, of
course.” The ABC, however, is not the
alphabet, for the word alphabet is made up
of the first two Greek letters, Alpha and Beta,
alone, whereas that which is termed the
alphabet is the whole series of writings, i.e.,
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
87
the letters, by which language is expressed
as symbols.
The reason why modern names of letters,
such as eigh, bee, see, etc., convey no meaning,
is because they are merely derived, and
therefore incomplete, names, whereas the
Greek and Hebrew letters were named with
complete names, names given according to
the power or sound expressed by the letter.
Thus, in Greek, the sound-power symbolised
by the letter A, or alpha, was so named
because it expressed a sound of dominance, of
leading, a power or direction, the word alpha
meaning leader, that which takes precedence,
etc. In the Hebrew, the same letter was
named Aleph, meaning powerful, bull, great,
etc., or even a great number, a thousand.
If, therefore, letters are named by names
expressing their sounds, the purpose and
meaning of such names may reasonably be
asked, since an understanding of them should
provide a key to the meaning of the majority
of roots in many different tongues.
In many languages, such as Hebrew and
Chinese, the letters were originally pictures
representing certain ideas and sounds ; these
pictures being used as symbols to express the
meaning of the sounds they represented.
Thus the picture which has now become the
modern A was the symbol of the powerful
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
88
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
vowel-sound ahhh, or a, the most important
of all sounds, and was written or carved as a
Bull’s head, the symbol of causative power.
Moreover, in order to retain the idea even if the
picture were altered, the name Aleph, also
meaning bull, was given to it, so that the idea
could never be lost, although the picture
might be changed in form.
It is not known whether the Greek Alpha,
or A, is directly derived from the Hebrew,
but it is certain that the same idea is conveyed
by the name, for this word, Alpha, especially
expresses the idea of power, leadership, the A
filling the whole mouth or going forth as a
dominating sound. Thus it may well be
deduced that A is the sound of power, of
active forth-going, the first in creation as it is
the first in letters—-God’s causative, creative
Power. In like manner it is also the sound
and symbol of anything causative, active,
dominating, the inner reality of anything or
anybody, the true Self, Man, in his body, or
God in His Universe.
The letter B is likewise the sound symbol of
that which is internally developed, not ex­
pressed or sent forth, unless a vowel sound is
added, as in Be, Ba, Bu, etc. It is a sound
indicating internal activity, a development
within an enclosed space, generally the mouth,
and hence it was well symbolised by the
8
9
G
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
picture of a house, the letter B in Hebrew
being written or carved as the picture of a
house, and actually named Beth, which means,
literally, house, that in which there is some
kind of internal activity, and from which
something or somebody may be expected to
come forth.
The letter G (the modern C) was named
Camel, or Gimel, and is the symbol of
hollowness, the camel being supposed to have
a hollow hump, and the sound itself being
made in the hollow of the throat. It is also,
as a sound, an expression of that which links
and binds, or anything appertaining to bodily
organism, things which are linked or joined
together, according to Fabre D ’Olivet; hence
the idea of its being called camel was perhaps
that the camel was a link between towns
divided by great deserts.
The letter M was named water {Mem),
which, as the reader will know, is a symbol
of plasticity or extraction, of that from which
all things come forth : matter, substance. All,
however, that remains of the Hebrew word
Mem is the sound of the letter M, as in
English.
U or V, the Hebrew Vauv, is also expressive
of a link, but a link which joins separated or
polarised opposites, bringing them into
relation by sympathy rather than by actually
90
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
binding them as with organisms. The word
means literally hook or link, and so it is not
difficult to realise the underlying idea.
All other letters were named in this manner,
not only the Greek and Hebrew, but in other
tongues also the same method has prevailed,
certain sounds made naturally and spontane­
ously by man being expressed by letters and
their names. But there are few students
who have studied deeply this aspect of
languages. Davies, however, in his Celtic
Researches, shows it clearly of even modern
letters, in Irish and English. He says :
“ Certain actions will he found, of course, to
generate spontaneously their corresponding
articulations ” ; and illustrates this by des­
cribing how, when we push heavy bodies
before us, make our way, or thrust ourselves
forward, we naturally collect the air into the
lungs as an internal support, and uncon­
sciously endeavour to derive all possible aid
from its elasticity by giving it the full range
of the mouth ; the cheeks are inflated,
lips pressed together with the intense com­
pression of breath adapted with force, to
express the articulation of P : and as often
as breath escapes during the violence of such
exertion, it will burst forth with no articulation
but this.
Now, the Hebrew letter P is called Pye, or
9 1
Pei, and means, literally, mouth. Even in
modern language the letter P gives a picture
of I (the Ego, or Individual) going forth,
projecting Itself as P, thus becoming a
symbol of the Ego, the “ I ” acting as Parent,
Pater, or Father. In original languages, it
is often found that the first letter of a root is,
as it were, the governing letter, that which
shows the main idea expressed in the word.
Thus this letter P, symbol of effort going
forth, or givingforth, Paternity, etc., is at the
head of many words expressing these ideas,
such as Pater, parent, produce (to lead
forward), protrude, push, plump, etc. ; and in
other languages also, whether pronounced
hard or soft (as F or Ph), it is the governing
letter of various words, all expressing the
same idea.
Davies gives many other explanations of the
origin of the sounds which are expressed by
letters, and offers strong proof that such
articulate sounds are neither fanciful nor
imitative, but “ sounds naturally descriptive.
They are produced unconsciously by the
various impressions that are felt, and are
calculated for communicating the same
impressions to those who hear them. As they
undoubtedly entered into the root of the
first language, they retain their places, more
or less, in the various dialects which have
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
92
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
branched from this original stem.”1
He says :
“ As the Hebrews were careful to distinguish this (Aleph) and
other letters by names of known and definite import, it may
be presumed that they were aware of some adequate reason
for such an accurate distinction. The most obvious reason
must be that, in the structure of language, the power of each
letter was perceived to have a force, analogous to the meaning
of the name assigned to it. We might, therefore, expect
that Aleph had something of a positive, demonstrative, or
intensive quality— that it tended and directed forwards, or
enhanced the meaning of the powers with which it stood
connected.”
This is a very important corroboration of
the views set down here, and may be of
assistance to those who need outside con­
firmation. The reader will be greatly helped,
also, by pronouncing the various letters and
meditating on the sounds produced. This
is the method pursued by the writer and by
George Russell (A. E.). To the intuitive
reader, the result of such meditation carries
its own conviction, the clear relationship of
the name-sound to the underlying idea of
each letter becoming abundantly evident.
“ I have no doubt,” says A.E., “ that in a remoter antiquity
the roots of language were regarded as sacred, and when
chanted every letter was supposed to stir into motion or evoke
some subtle force in the body. Tone and word combined,
we know, will thrill the nervous system, and this is especially
so with lovers of music and persons whose virgin sensitiveness
of feeling has never been blunted by excess. A word chanted
or sung will start the wild fires leaping in the body, like
1 Celtic Researches, p. 368.
93
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
hounds which hear their master calling them by name, and
to those whose aspiration heavenward has purified their being
there comes at last a moment when, at the calling of the
Ineffable Name, the Holy Breath rises as a flame and the
shadow man goes forth to become one with the ancestral self.
What is obvious in that ancient (Hindu) literature,” he
continues, ‘ is the belief in a complete circle of correspond­
ences between every root sound in the human voice and
elements, forms and colours, and that the alphabet was
sacred in character. Intuitions which modern psychologists
regard as evidence of decadence are found present in the
literature of antiquity. The attributions sometimes are the
same as mine ; sometimes they differ, but they suggest the
same theory of a harmony of microcosm with macrocosm,
and it is carried out so that every centre in the body is named
by the name of a divine power. It is only by a spiritual
science we can recover identity, renew and make conscious
these affinities.”1
Says Agrippa, guardedly, in his Philosophy
of Natural Magic, (Chap. L X X IV ):
“ Now if there be any language whose words have a natural
signification, it is manifest that this is the Hebrew, the order
of which he that shall profoundly and radically observe
and shall know to resolve proportionably the letters thereof,
shall have a rule exactly to find any idiom. There are,
therefore, two-and-twenty letters which are the foundation
of the worlds and of creatures that are in it and are named in it,
and every saying and every creature are of them, and by
their revolutions receive their name, being and virtue.”
An illustration of this may be given. When
blended, certain sounds make, as it were, the
picture of an idea in the “ mind’s eye,” or,
better, in the mental atmosphere; this
picture is visualised by the Seer who is
helping to form letters to represent sounds,
and he names the vibratory picture according
to the effect on his mind, and this name is then
used to describe the object or idea, which it
1 Candle of Vision, p. 133.
9 4
thus truly represents. Thus the Hebrew word
for pig, chozzar, symbolises certain powers
of nature blended in the individual animal,
for the letters of the word themselves repre­
sent these powers.
There is, for instance, in nature, a power of
effort, the elementary rooting desire which
keeps even the lowest being alive and
existent, and this is expressed by a sound
which represents such an idea, and sym­
bolised by a letter which represents in turn
the sound itself, the letter ch, pronounced in
Hebrew as in the Scotch word loch, i.e., as a
guttural, the same as the Greek X. or Spanish
X, as we have it in the title of the famous
work, Don Quixote. This guttural is thus
used to express the low, elementary nature of
anything, and the proof that it actually does
represent such can be gained by sounding
the word which names the letter, viz., chess
or cheth, as a guttural sound : the effect of
the sound upon the mind is to make clear the
idea behind the sound, thus enabling one to
“ visualise ” the idea it represents.
Another power in nature is symbolised by
the letter Z, called in Hebrew, Zawyin, or
Zahyin, which is written as a twisted nail or
implement, and named zawyin, meaning
nail, or weapon. The sound of this letter, as
we find by repeatedly pronouncing it and
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
95
considering its effect on the mind, is repre­
sentative of a twisting, rooting force. The
Hebrew letter R, called by the name Reish,
which means head or seat of intelligence, is the
symbol of mind, but the sound of the letter
represents also determined and directed motion
or activity, which is mind.
If, now, these three letters are joined
together, they form the word chozzar, thus
symbolising a low elementary effort (ch),
rooting, twisting and delving (z), crushing out
or governing mind, or preventing the full
development of mind (r). As we have seen,
the letters which rule a word are generally
those which commence the root, and hence
the letter which represents mind is last in
this word, chozzar, which means, literally,
pig. The three letters are, therefore, admir­
ably and aptly chosen, and well define the
nature of this particular animal.
Another illustration of the wonderful manner
in which roots are built up is seen in the word
ChD, which, in Hebrew, means one, or apex,
and is sometimes written as AChd, thus
making the word more forceful by the addition
of the symbol of power, A. As said above,
the letter ch is a symbol of effort; this, added
to the symbol of division, D, called in Hebrew
daleth, forms the word ChD, the result of the
combination of the letters representing two
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
96
sounds, those of effort and division, the ch,
symbol of effort, governing the d, symbol of
division, i.e., effort holds back division. Hence
the word one is rightly used to translate this
word, the idea of one obviously being division
checked, division held back by effort, and such
is the idea of unity as seen in this root.
Now, if these letters be reversed so that
effort is conquered or governed by division, if,
that is, the D precedes the Ch, the word
DCh arises, pronounced dag or tag, as in the
German. According to the orthodox lexicons
the Hebrew DCh, means, to goforth ; hence,
on the authority of reason, one may say that
the German tag and the British day are both
derived from this root, for the day is the going
forth of the sun, or was so considered in
ancient times. It is curious to see how
radically the position of the letters affects the
meaning, for when the word is written ChD,
it represents effort holding back division, but
when it is written DCh, it symbolises division
governing effort and gives rise to the idea of
day, that which makes a division between
light and darkness.
Such, then, very briefly explained, is the
method which serves as a key to the Sacred
Scriptures, an etymological and hiero-
glyphical key which will be used in this work
in the endeavour to discover the fundamental
THE KEY TO THE MYSTERY
97
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
truths of the Bible. In these pages, its
application will, of necessity, be almost
entirely confined to the interpretation of the
Hebrew, additional explanations of it being
given as the translation of the Book of Genesis
proceeds. A fuller account of the origin of
languages and letters, with a chapter devoted
to each letter, is reserved for a later work,
The Origin of Language and Letters.
98
CHAPTER FIVE
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
Before attempting an explanation of the
Creation story of Genesis, it will be useful to
have an account of other ancient stories, to
see where they differ and where they coincide.
“ One of the most authentic accounts of
creation may be found,” says Cory in his
Fragments, “ in the remains of the Phoenician
history of Sanchoniatho, who is considered
to be the most ancient writer of the heathen
world. It was translated into Greek by
Philo Byblius and for the preservation of the
fragment we are indebted to Eusebius.”1
Sanchoniatho supposed “ that the beginning
of all things was a dark and condensed windy
air, or a breeze of thick air and a Chaos
turbid and black as Erebus : and that these
were unbounded and for a long series of ages
destitute of form.”
This is a literal translation, but it cannot be
rendered more accurately. As is well known,
Cory gives both the Greek and English text
in all the fragments which he translated, thus
making it possible to compare the two
versions.
1 Ibid (1832), p. vii.
99
He says further that when this “ wind ”
became enamoured of its own principles, the
Chaos, “ and an intimate union took place,
that connection was called Pothos : and it
was the beginning of the creation of all
things . . . from its embrace with the
wind was generated Mot, which some call
Ilus, but others the purification of a watery
mixture. And from this sprang all the seed
of the creation and the generation of the
universe.” This union, explains Cory, was
symbolised among the heathens, and particu­
larly among the Phoenicians, by an egg
enfolded by a serpent, which disjunctively
represented the Chaos and the Ether, but
when united, the hermaphroditic first prin­
ciple of the Universe, Cupid or Porthos.
It is interesting to note in this story that
from this Hyle or Mot, the sun, the moon
and the stars were eventually formed.1 This
gives an idea of some original root-substance,
a plastic Hyle (literally, mud), from which all
material things were fashioned.
Next it is said that the “ wind,” i.e., of
course, the Spirit, produced with his wife,
Baau (night), two beings called Aeon and
Protogonus. It is instructive to notice that
whereas the Hebrew word, Bohu, or BHU,
used in the Bible is generally translated void,
1 Fragments, Cory, p. 4.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
IOO
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
in this story it is rendered night— a very
significant term. But a full explanation of
this, as of much else, is reserved for a later
volume.
Cory next gives a description of the gradual
development of man and the arts and crafts,
curiously like that of the Genesis story,
excepting only that the names of the men and
women are generally in Greek and Latin.
It appears that the translator changed the
ancient names for others then well known to
the Greeks, thereby making it almost impos­
sible to understand the meaning of the
original Phoenician names. One exception
to be noted is that of Sydyc, “ who was called
the just,” this name being obviously the
Hebrew or Phoenician Tzaddik (holy or just).
The name Astarte also remains ; she is
supposed to be the same as Aphrodite.
A similar story is told by Hesiod in his
Theogony,-1
“ From the beginning, say who first arose.
First Chaos was ; next ample bosom’d Earth,
The seat immovable for evermore
Of those immortals, who the snow-top’d heights
Inhabit of Olympus . . . .
From Chaos, Erebus and ebon Night :
From Night the Day sprang forth and shining Air,
Whom to the love of Erebus she gave.
Earth first produced the Heaven ; . . . .
. . . Then, with Heaven
Consorting, Ocean from her bosom burst
With its deep-eddying waters.”
Trans., Elton.
IOI
The poem then goes on to tell of the birth
of the gods and Titans, of the struggles to
create, of the wars of the gods, the birth of
demigods and other beings.
The next fragment of history recorded is by
Berossus, and this also is translated by Cory.
Berossus, who was for some years at Athens
and was a priest of Belus, was a Babylonian
by birth, and lived in the reign of Alexander
the Great. He appears to have sketched his
history of creation, says Cory, from the temple
wall pictures, but this is unlikely, for as a
priest he would naturally have access to the
manuscripts then in existence. His history
was preserved by Alexander Polyhistor, and
repeated in a fashion by Eusebius.
Berossus himself states that there were
written accounts preserved at Babylon with
great care, and that these writings, which
covered an almost incredible period, con­
tained a history of the heaven, of the sea,
and of the birth of mankind, etc. The
inhabitants of the world, at that early period,
he says, lived in a lawless manner, and a
Law-giver was sent to instruct them. This
Law-giver is mystically described as having
a body part fish and part man, and a repre­
sentation of him is preserved “ to this day.”
He taught men letters, and the arts and
sciences of every kind, and lived among them
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
102
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
as a human being, which of course he could
not have done had he had the tail of a fish
instead of the legs of a man. He taught them
to construct cities, to build temples, to
compile laws, and explained to them the
principles of geometrical knowledge. When
the “ sun had set,” this amphibious being,
who was called Oannes, retired again into the
sea.
Berossus wrote concerning the generation
of man somewhat as follows : There was a
time when there existed nothing but darkness
and an abyss of waters in which there were
all kinds of undeveloped and unevolved
creatures. Over all this the Sea presided,
symbolised as a female named Omorooa.
Later, Belus, who is the equivalent of Jupiter,
came and divided this sea, or darkness, and
formed from one-half the earth, and from the
other the heavens ; he destroyed all the
unformed animals, reduced the universe to
order, created man, the stars, the sun, the
moon and the planets— that is, made a cosmos
from a chaos.
Berossus does not, with most scripture
writers, leave his readers to imagine that this
is literal history, but says plainly that it is
an allegorical description of the beginning of
things. Most of his writings are unfortunately
lost; had this not been so, further comparison
103
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
could doubtless have been made with the
Genesis stories, and helped towards the
solution of the question as to whether these
were copies of the Babylonian tales, as they
undoubtedly seem to be. Berossus narrates
also a Flood story which certainly appears to
be the original from which Ezra or some
other scribe copied whilst in Babylon.1
The Creation stories of China are interesting
on account of their deeply philosophical
basis and, in many cases, the absence of the
usual exaggerated legendary element. They
may be studied in the wonderful series of
The Sacred Books of the East, edited by the
great Sanskritist, Max Muller. The Li Ki,
translated by Legge,2 says that “ man is the
product of the qualities (attributes) of Heaven
and Earth by the interaction of the dual
power of nature, the union of the animal and
intelligent (souls) and the finest subtile
matter of the elements.” This, however,
does not appear to be a perfect translation, for
the writer adds a footnote in which, quoting
the editors of another Chinese Scripture, he
says that “ the characteristic attributes of
Heaven and Earth are blended and hid in the
two forces of nature. . . If we speak of
these forces in their fundamental character,
1 See Cory’s Ancient Fragments (1832), pp. 22-5.
2 Sacred Books of the East, vol. X X V II., p. 381.
IO4
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
we call them YIN and YANG. If we speak
of them as they develop their power we call
them KWEI and SHAN. If we speak of
them as they become substantial we call them
the five elements.” These two forces of
Nature, the Yin and the Yang, are considered
by the Chinese philosophers to be the root
and cause of all things.
In the beginning, says the Li Ki, “ there
was the Grand Unity (Thai Ye) which
separated and became heaven and earth
(i.e., spirit and substance). It revolved and
became the dual force in nature.”1 This
teaching is the same as that of the Hebrew
Qabalist, the Hindu, the Egyptian, and many
other religions.
Apparently the Chinese philosophy accepted
the idea of the creation of the world by means
of sound vibrations, for we find it is said that
“ music appeared in the grand beginning of
all things,” and that through the interaction
of the produced “ pairs of opposites ” all
things have since appeared.
This is also the idea expressed in the Tao
Teh King of China.2 The TAO is the One
Divine Reality from which are emanated the
polarised opposites called (in English) Heaven
and Earth. “ In the grand beginning of
* Sacred Books of the East, vol. X X V II., pp. 386-7.
2 Ibid, vol. X X IX ., p. 19 et seq.
I 0 5
H
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
things there was nothing in all the vacancy
of space p there was nothing that can be
named.” Under the guidance of the One
Reality,the Tao, the polarisation of this11noth­
ing that can be named ” took place, and there
proceeded an 11 evolution and not a creation.”
How it arose that God caused this to appear
in Space is a question which the Chinese
philosopher does not answer ; but he accepts
the idea, as does the translator,11 not attempt­
ing to explain it, the one mystery, the sole
mystery of the Universe.” This idea is also
found throughout “ The Secret Doctrine ”
and in many ancient teachings.
In the Hindu accounts of Creation, some of
which are highly philosophical, creation does
not occur until Mahat (Cosmic Intelligence)
is produced. It is this principle {Mahat)
which gives individuality to all things and all
beings, which alone makes a finite creation
possible, which lends, as it were, a kind of
self-consciousness to creation, as the Com­
mentary of Telang on the Anugita notes.2
In the Anugita story of creation, as in the
Chinese, five elements are born from the
operation of Mahat, but this is termed the
second creation, for previously there was only
the SELF-Existent Vishnu, otherwise the
1 Other writers say there was nothing cognisable, which is more correct.
2 Sacred Books of the East, vol. V III., Anugita, xxvi.
106
Great SELF, the pure SPIRIT or Purusha.
Here, as in the Genesis story, is an account
of a dual creation.
In the sacred scriptures of the Hindus, the
Upanishads,1 the same idea is set forth : All
things come from SAT, the One Reality, the
same as the Chinese TAO, that which is One
“ without a second ” (as is said in the Hebrew
prayer, Yigdol, one of the most beautiful of
metrical writings). From this Sat, the
unrealisable, “ that which is, was born. It
thought (meditated) ‘ May I be many, may I
grow forth and the elements were then
produced from the root of all, the subtile
essence which is in the nature of the Self-
Existent. Of this it is said : “ the SELF,
the Infinite, is everywhere and in all things,”
one before creation, but appearing as many
afterwards. This is the same idea as the
Christian Immanence and Transcendence of
God.
This “ subtile essence ” was non-apparent
in the beginning. “ It became existent, it
grew. It turned into an egg ” (that is, the
original root-substance took upon itself an
ovoid form, a nebula), and after a period of in­
cubation it broke open and showed two halves,
one of silver and the other of gold. From
these opposites was generated the universe.2
* Khandogya Upanishad, Part I., p. 93. (Sacred Books of the East.)
9Khandogya Upanishad, Part I,, p. 55-
107
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
In the beginning, then, there was nothing
save an ocean of ether, an ocean in Space, in
which the Cosmic Egg developed, and in
which, eventually, God arose, manifesting
as the Creative Powers, the Prajapati, The
Former and Fabricator of the worlds. He
produced the angelic beings (Devas or shining
ones) by His breath, and then appeared
“ daylight.”1 His breathing next generated,
or caused to emanate, lesser beings, thereby
causing “ darkness.” He made all things in
His own image, literally “ created a counter­
part of Himself.” 2 By brooding over (itap)
the waters of space He caused to come forth
other great Prajapati who were associated
with Him in the work of creation.3
Another and perhaps even more philoso­
phical explanation is given in the famous
Bhagavata Purana. Brahma, wishing to
become known, and desirous of producing
a finite series of worlds within the Infinite,
defined certain boundaries in space, or
inflicted upon the ultimate essence of space a
certain measure of His Power or Will, thus
making the Root-Substance of the Universe
subject to Time (Kala) and Necessity, and
bringing it under the sway of Law {Karma).
1 Here is evidently a play upon the words Diva (shining one) and Diva
{daylight).
2 Satapatha Brahmana, p. 12-4, vol. X L IV . Sacred Books of the East.
3 P. 238, vol. 1. Sacred Books of the East.
108
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
Next followed the development of this
Root-Substance (Svabhavat), different grades
of matter, or qualities, thus being produced.
Brahma then manifested as Mind, as an
Individual Creator, and the sense of “ I-ness ”
(Ahankara) arose. The production of the
elements proceeded and He permeated all
things with His Life, forming the Cosmic
Egg, or sphere of Creative Activity. Brahma
is the Three-in-One Creator, Preserver and
Regenerator (Destroyer) of the Universe.
Creation, according to this account, is in
two stages : first, the Principles of things are
produced, and this is called the Causal
Creation, or Crown of things (Karana) ; next
comes the actual creation or, as it is called,
the resultant or Karya creation, Matter being
set in active transformation as the life of God
becomes manifest therein.
Before Creation, Brahma conceived it “ in
principle,” thought it all out ere it was pro­
duced as fact; in the words of the scripture
“ He meditated ” for many hundred years
before commencing to create. He then
“ dried up the waters ” (of space) and pro­
ceeded to bring into manifestation the Ideal
Creation He had thus planned. (Here again
is seen the idea of a dual creation, the first
being ideal, the second actual).1
1 See A Study of the Bhagavata Purana, by P. N. Sinha, M .A ., p. 12-24.
IO 9
The Mundaka-Upanishad also states that
creation began after Brahma had expanded
Himself by meditation or brooding (Tapas).1
The “ Great waters were outspread every­
where and within them was the germ of all
things.” In the same writing there is an
account of the coming forth of all beings like
sparks from a Blazing Fire, from the Im­
perishable One Reality who emanates all
things.
The Taittiriyaka-Upanishad also says : “ He
wished, ‘ May I become many, may I grow
forth ’ ” : He then brooded over Himself and
sent forth all things as ideas, entering into,
or ensouling, them.
The Sathapatha-Brahmana says : “ verily
in the beginning this (the Universe) was
water, nothing but a sea of water : ” these
waters interacted and produced the Cosmic
Egg from which the worlds were generated
after the Creator had arisen.
All these accounts may be compared with
the Hebrew and other versions. The separa­
tion of the Egg into two parts is equivalent to
the creation of “ Heaven and Earth,” the
generation of light and darkness, and the two
creation stories which are found in Genesis.
The waters of Space are also found in Genesis
and are there called Shamayeem, meaning,
1 Vol. X X X II., I., 8. Sacred Books of the East.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
no
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
literally, the High waters, but usually trans­
lated the Heavens above. The idea of Brahma
creating a counterpart of Himself and co­
operating with the Prajapati, is also found in
the same book, where the Creative Powers
called Elohim (a plural word signifying
collectivity of Creative Power) say : “ let us
make man in our own image.” In Genesis,
too, is noted the idea of the drying up of the
waters of Space, in the separation of the
waters from the waters. Further comparisons
may be noted in the Hebrew tradition of the
Cosmic Adam (Qadmon) separating from his
formative principle, Eve, in order to produce
the Universe. In this sense, the Garden of
Eden and the Egg of Brahma are the same.
The Chinese story illustrates a similar idea,
and it is also found throughout The Secret
Doctrine.
The conception of God creating by His
Word (“ and God said ”) appears also in the
Hindu Maitrayana-Brahmana Upanishad.1
“ This world was unuttered ;” 2 afterwards,
Prajapati, having meditated, uttered it in the
words : Bhah, Bhuvah, and Swar (i.e., the
three worlds were manifested).
In many Scriptures is seen the idea of the
production of a form which is inanimate and
1 Vol. I., 6., Sacred Books of the East.
2 Compare Babylonian story : “ When in the height Heaven was not
named.” See Vol. II.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
into which the Soul or Vital Air is then
breathed. “ In the beginning,” says the
Maitrayana-Brahmana,x “ Prajapati stood
alone. . . Meditating on Himself, he
created many creatures . . . without
understanding and lifeless. . . He thought,
‘ I shall enter within that they may awake.’
Making Himself like air (Vayu) he entered in
the forms . . . Dividing Himself as the
fivefold breath.” This is also found in the
Genesis version, in the Arabian traditions,
and in the Mexican and other stories.
Orpheus, so Appion states, likened Chaos
to an egg, “ in which was the confused
mixture of the primordial elements. This
chaos, which Orpheus calls an egg, is taken
for granted by Hesiod, having a beginning,
produced from infinite matter, and originated
in the following way.” 2 He then describes
how primordial matter, becoming fourfold,
generated the egg from itself, which, being
impregnated with the Divine Spark, became
the Manifested Cosmos of ovoid form.
“ The Egg,” says Kenealy, “ was carried in procession at the
celebration of the Mysteries, because, as Plutarch says (like
the Pomegranate), it was the material of generation, contain­
ing the seeds and germs of life and motion without being
actually possessed of either. For this reason it was a very
proper symbol of Chaos, containing the seeds and materials
of all things, which, however, were barren and useless until
the Creator fructified them by the incubation of His Vital
* Vol. X V ., p. 292, Sacred Books of the East.
2 Clementine Homilies, III. & IV. Ante-Nicene Library.
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
Spirit, and released them from the restraints of inert matter
by the efforts of his divine strength. The incubation of the
Vital Spirit is represented on the colonial medals of Tyre by
a Serpent wreathed round an Egg, for the Serpent having the
power of casting his skin, and apparently renewing his youth,
became the symbol of life and vigour, and as such is always
made an attendant on the mythological Deities presiding
over health. . . . The Creator, delivering the fructified
seeds of things from the restraints of inert matter by his
divine strength, is represented on innumerable Greek medals
by the Urus, or Wild Bull, in the act of butting against the
Egg of Chaos and breaking it with his horns ; or in other
words, God conjoining himself to the Spirit.” 1
This idea of a Primordial Chaos or Virgin
Mother of the Worlds is most beautifully
told in the famous Kalevala of ancient
Finland, which has been rightly placed by
Max Muller on a level with the greatest epics
of the world.2 It is undoubtedly of great age
and existed prior to the introduction of
Christianity, the doctrines contained in it
being themselves much more ancient.
“ The Kalevala,” says Crawford, “ dates
back to an enormous antiquity. One reason
for believing this lies in the silence of the
Kalevala about Russians, Germans or Swedes,
their neighbours. This shows that the poem
must have been composed at a time when
these nations had but very little or no inter­
course with the Finns. The coincidence
between the incantations adduced, proves
that these witch-songs date from a time when
1Introduction to the Apocalypse, p. 351.
2 The Kalevala, trans. J. M . Crawford, p. xxxix.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
the Hungarians and Finns were still united
as one people ; in other words, at a time at
least 3,000 years ago. The whole poem
betrays no important signs of foreign influence
and in its entire tenor is a thoroughly pagan
epic. There are excellent reasons for be­
lieving that the story of Mariatta, recited in
the 15th Rune, is an ante-Christian legend.” 1
This view of its antiquity is supported by
many writers. The creation stories of the
Epic are interesting to comparative religion­
ists, and seem to be akin to, if not derived
from, ancient Hindu stories.
“ The Finns proper regard the chief heroes
. . . as descendants of the Celestial
Virgin, Ilmatar, impregnated by the winds
when lima (air, wind, breath or spirit), Light,
and Water were the only material exist­
ences.”2
All this is akin not only to the Hindu account,
but to the Hebrew as well. The Bible shows,
as already stated, that in the beginning were
the “ uplifted waters ” (Sha-mayim) or
“ heavens above,” a virgin sea or flux of
cosmic substance, the Mother(-stuff) or
Matrix of all created things, over which the
Spirit of God brooded to make manifest the
Creation.3 Whether it is called the Spirit of
1 Ibid, p. xliv-v.
2Ibid, p. xxxii.
3 This will be fully explained in Vol. iii. of this work.
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
God, or lima, as with the Finns, the concept
is the same. The idea, moreover, that Spirit
(lima), Water (Sha-mayim of the Hebrew
story), and Light, were the first in Creation
is the same as that of the Bible, though the
differences in the stories show clearly that
there were no “ Christianising ” influences
at work in the Finnish Epic.
In the first Rune the story of the Virgin
Mother of Space is told :
“ In primeval times a maiden,
Beauteous daughter of the ether,
Passed for ages her existence
In the great expanse of Heaven,
O ’er the prairies yet unfolded.
Wearisome the maiden growing,
Her existence sad and hopeless,
Thus alone to live for ages
In the infinite expanses
Of the air above the sea-foam,
In the far outstretching spaces,
In a solitude of ether,
She descended to the ocean.” 1
After being tossed about for some time,
Ilmatar travailed for seven hundred years ere
“ her first-born was delivered.” Previous to
this, a Bird lays its eggs upon the knees of
the “ Water-Mother,” but she shakes the
nest and the eggs fall into the primeval ocean
and are dashed to pieces, all the fragments,
however, coming together in a wonderful
manner, from their conjunction being formed
Heaven and Earth, as in the Hindu and
1 The Kalevala, trans. J. M . Crawford, p. 5.
us
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
Egyptian stories. The difference is that, in
the Finnish version, there are six eggs of gold
and one of iron, whereas in the Hindu
account there is but one egg of Gold and
Silver, which divides in order that creation
may proceed.
The Virgin Mother, however, continues to
swim in the Ocean and “ begins at last her
workings ” ; then the earth or dry land
appeared as “ her hand turned in the waters,”
and “ the level banks arose.” At length the
Great Hero, “ Wainamoinen (the wonderful
enchanter), was delivered from his Mother,
Ilmatar, the Ether’s daughter.”1
The story of Creation as told by the ancient
Zoroastrian writers, makes Ahriman the
Opposer of God, the Evil Spirit, who wars
with Mazda, apparently with Mazda’s own
permission. This Evil One, like all the
opposers in the different stories, swears he
will have nothing to do with man and will
never assist in such a creation, the result
being that he himself is cast into darkness
with all his demons.2
In the Zoroastrian story, the first produced
of God’s creation was Vohuman, or good
thought, as in the Hindu version ; the actual
creation followed, the first thing produced
1 Ibid, Rune I.
2Bundahis, Sacred Books of the East, Vol. V., p 6.
n6
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
being the sky (more correctly, the Aether,
though the translator has not noticed this) ;
the second, water; the third, earth; the
fourth, plants ; the fifth, animals ; and lastly,
mankind, the creation of the sixth epoch, as
in the Hebrew account. A similar descrip­
tion of the production of the “ great lumi­
naries ” is also given in this version, but there
are more details than in the Bible story.1
The Evil One determined, it is said, to
destroy man, and was helped in this evil
design, not by the first woman as in the Bible,
but by a female demon of a very determined
and atrocious character. Ahriman, we are
told, had the form of a log-like Lizard, which
is a variant of the Snake ; it is also said that
he fell from the sky like a snake.2
Gayomard, as far as can be understood,
seems to have been the first man, but he is
apparently destroyed by the machinations of
Ahriman. Before his death, however, there
is a curious creation of man from this pro­
genitor of the race ; he was caused by God
to break out in a sweat, and from the drops of
this was formed a beautiful youth. Gayomard
passed away “ to the left hand,” but his seed
was thoroughly purified by the sun, and forty
years afterwards the first parents grew up
from the earth as haermaphrodite, joined
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
together so that it was not clear which was
male and which was female. (This is, of
course, also implied in the Genesis story, for
from Adam sprang two beings, both male
and female).
The idea of the Zoroastrians that a beautiful
youth was produced from drops of sweat, is
not so strange when clearly understood, for
whether the egg is extruded from the body,
having the appearance of a huge excrescence,
or held within the body, makes little differ­
ence. The conception is also found in the
account of creation given in The Secret
Doctrine, where it is stated that one of the
very early races of mankind propagated by a
kind of budding or exudation, a phenomenon
graphically described by the ancient writer as
“ sweat drops.” All this, however, is a
matter for the physiologist.
The two first parents in the Zoroastrian
story were called Matri and Matroyao, or,
in a later part of the work Bundahis {Creation),
Mashya and Mashyoi, names curiously like
the Hebrew Aish and Aisha. The writer
says that there was breathed into their bodies
the soul {nisme ; Heb : Neshamah) which
pre-existed, the body being merely the base
of operations, as in the Hebrew. These two,
like other first parents, were corrupted by
Evil Spirits, but later the desire for each
118
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
other again arose, and offspring was pro­
duced. (Previously, as in the Garden of
Eden, there was “ no marrying or giving in
marriage,” for Adam “ knew his wife ” after
the “ fall ” ). Seven pairs were born from
the first Zoroastrian pair, and the “ constant
continuance of the generation of the world
arose.” 1
Whilst the Bible speaks of two original
human beings from whom all are descended,
these and other traditions mention seven
great ancestors of the different races of men,
and this, considering the great differences in
type of the many peoples of the earth,
certainly seems more probable.
The traditional histories of ancient Mexico
and Peru speak of the peopling of the South
American states by seven Grand Originals,
Sahagun, the early Spanish historian, quoted
by the Abbe De Bourbourg in his Popul Vuh,
says that these seven came out from seven
caves ; he understands this to mean that they
came in seven boats, but the idea is not very
reasonable.
The Secret Doctrine of H. P. Blavatsky,
quoting from the ancient Hindu doctrines,
says that there were seven different human
groups evolved on seven different portions of
the globe. The ancient book from which
1 Bundahis, Sacred Books of the East, Vol. V ., p. 58,
I I 9
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
the author quotes states : “ The Great
Chohans called the Lords of the Moon, of the
airy (ethereal) bodies : ‘ Bring forth men,
men of your nature ’ They went,
each to his allotted land ; seven of them,
each on his lot.” 1
The same idea of seven originals is
mentioned in The Chaldean Account of
Creation, where seven kings, all brothers,
grew up and replenished the earth. In the
Hebrew Sepher Dtzeniouta of the Zohar,
there is a vague description of seven Kings
who perished before the balance was adjusted,
i.e., as H. P. Blavatsky says, before the sexes
had separated.2 A further creation then
followed and a new race was born.
Hermes, in Pymander, also speaks of seven
ancestors. Pindar, in the Philosophumena3
,
likewise relates a story of the seven primitive
men born from the bosom of the earth
(autochtones) ; and the same idea is echoed
in Greek and South American stories. Hesiod
(about 900 B.C.) speaks of a kind of Garden
of Eden on earth in the beginning, a golden
age, followed by a “ fall.”
“ When gods alike and mortals rose to birth,
Th’ immortals form’d a golden race on earth
Of many-languaged men ; they lived of old
* The Secret Doctrine, 3rd ed., Vol. II., p. 18.
2 De Pauly’s translation does not mention Seven Kings, but merely
“ Kings who perished.”
3 Ibid, M iller’s ed. : v. 7.
120
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
When Saturn reigned in Heaven ; an age of gold.
Like gods they lived, with calm, untroubled mind,
Free from the toil and anguish of our kind ;
Nor e’er decrepid age mis-shaped their frame,
The hand’s, the foot’s proportion still the same.
Death as a slumber pressed their eyelids down.
The gods then formed a second race of man,
Degenerate far, and silver years began ;
Unlike the mortals of a golden kind,
Unlike in frame of limbs, and mould of mind . . .
Their frantic follies wrought them pain and woe ;
Nor mutual outrage would their hands forego,
Nor would they serve the gods, nor altars raise
That in just cities shed their holy blaze.
Them angry Jove engulf’d, who dar’d refuse
The gods their glory and their sacred dues. . .
The sire of Heaven created then
A race, the third of many-languaged men,
Unlike the silver they ; of brazen mould,
Strong with the ashen spear, and fierce and bold ;
Their thoughts were bent on violence alone. . . .
Them (the third race) when the abyss had covered from
the skies,
Lo ! the fourth age on nurt’ring earth arise ;
Jove form’d the race a better, juster line ;
A race of heroes, and of stamp divine ;
Lights of the age that rose before our own ;
As demigods o’er earth’s wide regions known.”1
The poet goes on to describe the advent of
the “ iron age,” the present race, and all its
difficulties, and bemoans his fate at having
been born at such a time. This idea of four
ages or creations is also found in the Hindu
and South American stories.
Probably the most important account of
Creation is that given, in veiled language, in
1 Works and Days, trans., Elton.
I 121
the Book of Dzyan from which Madame
Blavatsky compiled her famous Secret Doct­
rine, a marvellous work of over 2,500 pages.
Madame Blavatsky translates this most
ancient writing, and comments voluminously
upon it, having seen a copy of it whilst,
apparently, on her journeys to Thibet. “ An
archaic manuscript,” she calls it, “ a collection
of palm leaves made impermeable to water,
fire, and air, by some specific and unknown
process.” She describes the account of
creation given therein, which is, in many
ways, the same as that of the ancient Hindu,
though infinitely more clear. Her great
work shows the gradual development of
Cosmos, the primordial creation of the
heavens, the slow awakening of the Cosmos
from its sleep.
The first beginning is the “ point in the
Mundane Egg,” from which all things spring,
“ the germ which is latent and active periodi­
cally and by turns.” All things have their
rise within the ever unknowable Abstract
Space, the All-inclusive Reality. In the
Divine Thought which emanates therefrom
lies “ concealed the plan of every future
cosmogony and theogony.”1
There is, according to this authority, a One
Life, eternal, invisible, yet omnipresent,
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd. ed., vol. I., p. 31.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
122
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
“ without beginning or end, yet periodical
in its manifestations— between which periods
reigns the dark mystery of Non-Being;
unconscious, yet absolute consciousness,
unrealisable, yet the one self-existent Reality ;
truly ‘ a Chaos to the senses, a Kosmos to
the reason.’ Its one absolute aspect, which is
Itself, eternal ceaseless motion, is called, in
esoteric parlance, the Great Breath, which is
the perpetual motion of the Universe, in the
sense of limitless, ever-present Space. That
which is motionless cannot be Divine. But
then there is nothing motionless within the
Universal Soul.” 1
“ The Secret Doctrine affirms the Eternity of the Universe
in toto as a boundless plane ; periodically the playground of
numberless universes incessantly manifesting and disappear­
ing, called the manifesting stars, and the Sparks of Eternity.
The appearance and disappearance of Worlds is like a regular
tidal ebb of flux and reflux.” 2
The mystery of creation is fully dealt with
in this great work, and a commentary upon
the different stanzas of the Book of Dzyan
is given. These stanzas, H. P. Blavatsky
explains, present an “ abstract formula which
can be applied, mutatis mutandis, to all
evolution ; to that of our tiny earth, to that
of the chains of planets of which the earth
forms one, to the Solar Universe to which
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd cd., vol. I., p. 32.
2Ibid, p. 45.
123
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
the chain belongs, and so on, in an ascending
scale, till the mind reels and is exhausted
with the effort.
“ They refer to the seven great stages of the
evolutionary process which are spoken of in
the Hindu Puranas as the ‘ seven creations ’
and in the Bible as the ‘ Days ’ of creation.
“ Stanza one describes the state of the ONE ALL, during
Pralaya (the rest of Nature), before the first flutter of re­
awakening Manifestation. . .
“ Stanza two describes a state which, to a western mind, is so
nearly identical with that mentioned in Stanza one, that to
express the idea of its difference would require a treatise
in itself....................
“ Stanza three describes the rewakening of the Universe to life
after Pralaya. It depicts the emergence of the Monads (the
unclothed souls in their Garden of Eden) from their state of
absorption within the One (God), the earliest and highest
stage in the formation of worlds, the term Monad being one
which may apply equally to the vastest Solar System or the
tiniest atom (and likewise to the Reality or Spirit within the
body of Man).
“ Stanza four shows the differentiation of the ‘ Germ ’ of the
Universe into the septenary Hierarchy of conscious Divine
Powers, which are the active manifestations of the One
Supreme Energy. They are the framers, the shapers, and
ultimately the creators (builders) of all the manifested
Universe, in the only sense in which the name ‘ creator ’ is
intelligible ; they inform and guide it ; they are the only
intelligent Beings who adjust and control evolution, embody­
ing in themselves those manifestations of the One Law,
which we know as the ‘ Laws of Nature ’ . . . This
stage of evolution is spoken of in Hindu mythology as the
‘ Creation of the Gods.’ ”
(All this is echoed in the ancient myths of Greece and Rome,
of Egypt, and of ancient America.)
“ Stanza five describes the process of world-formation. First,
diffused Cosmic Matter, then the ‘ fiery whirlwind,’ the first
stage in the formation of a nebula. This nebula condenses,
and after passing through various transformations, forms a
124
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
Solar Universe, a Planetary Chain, or a single Planet, as the
case may be.
“ Stanza six indicates the subsequent stages in the formation
of a ‘ world ’ and brings the evolution of such a world down
to its fourth great period, corresponding to the period in
which we are now living.
“ Stanza seven continues the history, tracing the descent of
life down to the appearance of Man ; and thus closes the
First Book of the Secret Doctrine.” 1
The second volume of this remarkable work,
ignored by scientists generally, though itself
containing all the seeds of future sciences,
describes the whole of the evolutionary
process which makes of non-conscious man
a highly-evolved, intellectual being, who, as
he slowly develops throughout the course of
ages, will become first a superman, and
eventually a demigod.
“ It teaches (a) the simultaneous evolution
of seven human Groups on seven different
portions of our globe ; (b) the birth of the
etheric form2before the denser physical, the
former being a model for the latter, and (c)
that man in this Round (of evolution), pre­
ceded every mammalian— the anthropoids
included— in the animal kingdom.”
These seven human groups develop on dif­
ferent continents, the first of which, existing
millenia ago, is called by the writer, “ The
Imperishable Sacred Land. The second is
termed the Hyperborean Land, the second
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd ed., vol. I., pp. 48-49-
2The mould around which the body is built.
125
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
continent which stretched out its promon­
tories southward and westward from the
North Pole to receive the second race of man,
and comprised what is now known as
Northern Asia. . . It was a real continent,
a bona fide land, which knew no winter in
those days.” The third continent, on which
the third race developed, she calls Lemuria,
following the nomenclature of P. L. Sclater,
who, between 1850 and i860, asserted on
zoological grounds the actual existence, in
prehistoric times, of a Continent which he
proved to have extended from Madagascar
to Ceylon and Sumatra. It included some
portions of what is now Africa, and stretched
from the Indian Ocean to Australia, but
otherwise has now wholly disappeared be­
neath the waters of the Pacific, leaving here
and there, as islands, some of its highest
peaks. The fourth continent is Atlantis,
made famous by Plato, on which the fourth
race developed and fell. Europe is part of
the fifth great Continent, and on it, the fifth
race, is now evolving, to produce, in turn, a
new race.
Thus, according to these teachings, there
are seven races, and seven great Continents
over which they rule. After the seventh will
follow Pralaya, the Rest of the world, wherein
126
all will return to the primordial state of bliss.1
All the ideas dealt with in The Secret
Doctrine can be traced, though sometimes
only with difficulty, in the many sacred books
of the Hindus and the Zoroastrians, as well
as in the Egyptian and ancient American
legends. It will be shown, moreover, in the
later volumes of this work, that they are also
deeply hidden in the Hebrew-Christian
stories of creation as laid down in the Book
of Genesis.
The famous Book of the Zohar, the mystical
and esoteric work of the origin of which no
one is sure, and which was translated com­
pletely only by Jean De Pauly into French
and published posthumously in 1906, makes
many mysterious allusions to creation very
similar to those given already ; indeed, one
portion of the work is called the Book of
Dzenioutha, a title which is curiously like
that of the Book of Dzyan from which H. P.
Blavatsky quotes : she says, in fact, that both
drew from a common source.
In this Book of Dzenioutha, it is said that all
ideas of the things to be made, were in the
mind of God before creation, just as in the
Hindu account it is said that God thought out
His creation before making it manifest.
Even the Great Patriarchs were in the thought
1 The Secret Doctrine, 3rd ed., vol. II., pp. 6-7.
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
127
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
of God before creation.1 We are told also
that there is a secret which was before
creation, but De Pauly confuses this idea by
“ adding words to make sense,” which,
unfortunately, make nothing but the opposite.
In the beginning, says the Zohar, God
produced a point which became the Divine
Thought; in this, He devised all things
which were to be, and sent forth from it all
the ideas which were later to be clothed in
matter and become forms. This, again,
shows two creations, the first in Idea, the
second in Form. In a later portion of the
book, it is said that God formed for Himself
a kind of Palace in which was contained the
seeds of all things destined to exist, and this
Palace, curiously enough, is called Elohim, the
plural name which is usually translated by
the singular God. This suggests that the
Creative Powers, the Elohim, were emanated
by the thought of God for the purpose of
building up His ideal creation into form, for,
before creation, the two, the Absolute and the
Manifested God, the MI and the ALH,
were one.2 (This idea is also mentioned in
The Secret Doctrine). Hence, the Zohar
says, there are two beginnings involved, two
beginnings united together.3 A play upon
1 Zohar, i., Ib.
2 Ibid, i., 15a.
3 Ibid, i. 7b.
128
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
words also shows that in the beginning God
created the Six Powers, making with them
Himself the Primordial Seven.1
After the planning of the work and the
thinking out of the creation, God “ knocked
upon the void,” that is, He disturbed the
equilibrium of the Primordial Substance
from which He produced the differentiated
matter.2 He disturbed the balance of this
Substance, which otherwise would have
remained uncreate, as will be explained in
Yol. Ill, when the Old Testament story is
considered. The sound of this knock, or as
De Pauly adds, the sound of the Word (which
is not in the original Hebrew), was the com­
mencement of all creation. The Memrah
is mentioned later as being the manifestation
of God as Sound, and this De Pauly translates
Word, to make the dogma of Christianity fit
into the ancient Hebrew teaching, though it
is not found there except in interpolations.
Having caused the development of Sound
by which creation commenced, God polarised
the “ waters ” of Space, the Substance in
and from which He intended to create the
necessary forms, and having separated the
waters from the waters, He made an alliance
between them, thus developing different
1 Instead of reading the word B R A ShITh literally, i.e., in the beginning
the Rabbis read it as BRA ShITh, he has created six.
2 Zohar, i., 15a.
129
kinds of matter. The Zohar describes this
mystically as a linking by God of the male
with the female ; that is, to use Hindu
terms, He linked the Rajasic (active) matter
to the Tamasic (resistant) by means of the
Sattvic or balanced quality, thus producing
the three primordial states of matter in which
all things have their origin as forms. The
full explanation of this idea will have its place
in a later volume.
This Supreme (Point), then, caused matter
to assume different qualities, one quality
serving as clothing for another, thus pro­
ducing, by reason of these different degrees,
what the Theosophist calls the different
“ planes,” or states, of matter. “ The
Supreme Point radiated a Light so subtle
that it entered into all things which were
produced,”1 thus generating the layers of
heaven. Such is the Qabalistic idea of
creation.
In a very curious 15th century work, the
Rausat-Us-Safa {Garden of Purity), there
are many strange stories told of creation and
the flood which appear to fill in the gaps left
in the Hebrew narratives, though they cer­
tainly do not improve on the original and are
apparently inventions of the Arabian com­
mentators.
1 Zohar, i.. 19b.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
130
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
When God decided to create Adam, it is
said in this work, He called the angel Gabriel
to Him and told him to bring a handful of
loam of various colours and of different
qualities from the surface of the earth. The
Spirit of the Earth was evidently annoyed at
the idea of man being created, and disliked
parting with His substance for such a purpose;
other angels had, therefore, to be sent to
argue the point, and eventually Azrael con­
quered and collected the handful of earth
required. (This is supposed to account for
the differing colours of the resultant races).1
Another account, ignoring the idea of differ­
ent coloured earth, says that God formed the
body of Adam of “ black putrid clay ” which
was forty years in drying. This handful of
earth was then placed between Mekkah and
Tayif, and the Lord rained “ showers of
mercy ” on it for many years, until it was
ready for creation.2
It was then that Eblis, the Devil, passed by,
and contemptuously struck the clay figure on
the abdomen ; hearing a hollow sound, he
caustically remarked : “ this individual is
hollow, his architecture is neither substantial
nor firm, he will soon be liable to get the
colic.” Nevertheless, in spite of his contempt,
1 Rausat-Us-Safa, by Muhammad Ben Mahmud, trans. E. Behatzek
from the Persian, p. 41. (Oriental Trans. Fund, New Series, 1891).
2 Rausat-Us-Safa, p. 42.
w
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
the Devil seems to have been jealous of such
a creature and afraid that “ man will become
like one of us,” for he there and then deter­
mined to destroy him.
Later, the Holy Spirit, or Soul, descended
to ensoul the body of Adam, but as his nature
seems to have been “ thick and dark,” it
refused to enter.1 Eventually, at God’s
command, it was persuaded to enter the body,
and went in at the head, penetrating the
whole body and changing it to flesh and skin.3
This, it is said, occurred on a Friday, the
tenth day of Moharam, when the first degree
of Capricorn was on the eastern horizon ;
Saturn was in Gemini, Jupiter in Pisces,
Mars in Aries, the Moon in Leo, Sun in
Mercury, and Venus in Libra. Here is a
fine horoscope for an astrologer to study !
Eblis, the Devil, refusing to honour Adam
with the other angels, was forbidden to enter
Paradise, but planned to evade the pro­
hibition and seduce Adam in such a way as to
cause his exclusion from the Holy Place also.
He first tried to induce the Peacock to take
him, literally, under his wing, but the bird
refused, advising him to try the Serpent;
the Serpent was more easily persuaded, and
1 Compare the refusal of the descending egos to enter the bodies prepared
for them, in The Secret Doctrine account of creation.
2
Rausat-Us-Safa, pp. 43-44.
13
2
the Devil, entering the Serpent’s throat, was
introduced into Eden.
After the “ fall,” Adam took with him from
the Garden a bag of wheat, thirty plants of
corn, and also the famous Black Stone which
is now set up in the Temple at Mecca.1
Europeans who have seen the Stone declare
it to be merely a meteorite ; this, however,
does not seem to have disturbed the orthodox
amongst the Mohammedans.
1 Rausat-Us~Safa, p. 49.
ANCIENT CREATION STORIES
!33
B y th e sam e a u th o r : —
THE TEACHINGS OF THEOSOPHY
SCIEN TIFICALLY PROVED.
S i x p e n c e , post free. S i x p e n c e , post free.
CONTENTS :— Science and Occultism.— What is proof ?—
Many ways of obtaining proof— The legal method— Evidence
— Researches of specialists— Dr. Kilner’s experiments seen
by a Daily Express reporter— Proof that the Aura exists—
Proof that the atom exists— Dr. Baraduc’s experiments— The
researches of Reichenbach— The Etheric Body under Hyp­
nosis— The interpenetrability of matter— Life everywhere—
The experiments of Professor Bose— Psychic phenomena—-
The researches of Sir William Crookes, Professor De Morgan
— Evidence from the world’s greatest conjurors in favour of
occult phenomena— Evidence from Judges and others—
The experiments of the Dialectical Society— An electrician’s
evidence— Opposition from the orthodox— Belief that the
Devil is the cause of phenomena— The Society for Physical
Research— their voluminous proofs— The difference between
Psychism and Spirituality— Conclusion.
This little booklet should be in the hands of every enquirer.
It marshals much excellent testimony, as the reviewer has
said, and gives over thirty pages of proof.
THE DHARMA PRESS,
16, OAKFIELD ROAD, CLAPTON, E.5.
S i x p e n c e post free, f r o m t h e p u b lis h e r s .
AMEN, THE KEY TO THE UNIVERSE.
A new work by L e o n a r d B o s m a n .
CONTENTS :— The meaning of the word Amen— The funda­
mental principles of the universe— The Trinity explained
scientifically—-The Magnet shows the trinitising process. The
Virgin Mother of the worlds— The ‘ waters of space ’— Letters
and their meaning to be known— Why are names given ?—
What are letters and roots ?— Why does a name mean what it
is accepted as meaning ?— Letters and their meaning in Hebrew
and other languages— A universal language. The sacred
word of East and West explained— The Key to the universe—
The One as the many— The Hindu Om,the Egyptian Amen—
Their affinity— The Egyptian origin of the Divine Immanence
— Amen, the All.
Price T h r e e S h i l l i n g s and E i g h t p e n c e , post free, from
the publishers, booksellers, or from the author.
THE DHARMA PRESS,
16, O a k f i e l d R o a d , C l a p t o n , E.5.
REVIEWS.
“ The author’s explanation starts from the very beginning of things, from
the principles of the universe. He discusses the apparently different
attitudes of all the existing schools of thought, the materialists, Christian
scientists and others, and gives an apt and common solution to all their
theories as, he says, they all aim at and end in one. . . . This work is
a valuable addition to the modem religious literature and will prove very
useful for the evolution of a Universal Religion. The style is exceedingly
clear, climbing to brilliance here and there and will adorn all serious
libraries.” — From “ Princely India.”
“ Students of the occult will find much information and mental stimulus in
*Amen, the Key to the Universe,’ in which the author contributes valuable
information concerning the sacred word. O f the interpretations of sym­
bolism there can be no end and every serious contribution by an earnest
student of the deeper things is welcomed. All power and potentiality
reside in the Ineffable Name and happy he who solves the riddle.”— From
“ The New Age ” (Washington).
“ Intellectual efforts can usually trace the roots of a name, but the real
problem is to understand why a root of two or three letters should be linked
with a certain idea : why words should mean exactly what they do mean
and nothing else. . . . In the ancient languages, such as Hebrew and
Greek, names were given according to the sound power expressed by letters
which were sound-pictures perceptible to the soul energising by imagination.
M r. Bosman, taking Amen as a key-symbol of the universe, provides some
very stimulating and penetrating suggestions on that wide subject. There
are several Masonic terms and proper names which would repay investiga­
tion on the lines laid down by M r. Bosman, and we commend his little
volume very heartily to our readers.”— From “ The Co-Mason.”
“ The author is a deep and masterful student who understands the funda­
mental truths of the universe. . . . The book throws a scholarly flood
of light on a subject on which comparatively little has been written— the
meaning of letters and words.”— From “ The Messenger ” (Chicago).
“ As M r. Bosman truly says, it is necessary, in order to understand the
fundamental meaning of the word ‘ Amen ’ or ‘ Aum ,’ to have ‘ at least an
intellectual comprehension, if not an absolute realisation, of the basic prin­
ciples on which the Universe is founded. He deals with these, as revealed
by philosophy, religion and science, and submits, as the most rational
theory, the idea that ‘ spirit and matter, life and form, are opposite poles
of one and the same substance. . . . aspects of God, W ho, in creating
a Universe, must . . . polarise Himself, or, as it were, send out two
aspects of Himself.’ He then considers the doctrine of the Trinity, and
the conception of the ‘ Mother-Substance,’ or ‘ Virgin-M other of the
Universe,’ the quaternary being seen only when Father, Mother, Son and
Holy Ghost are considered together.’ Finally we come to an interesting
chapter on ‘ Letters and their Meaning,’ which leads to a detailed study
of ‘ the Sacred Word of East and West.’ He states that its origin is not
Hebrew, but Sanskrit, and his exposition of its occult power, when properly
used, its connection with the fundamental principles before-mentioned, and
the separate and combined meanings of the letters that compose it, is full of
fascination for students of such matters. We are glad to learn that he is
returning to the little understood subject of the meanings of individual
letters in a later work. T h e brief glimpse given here whets the mental
appetite for more.”— From the “ Occult Reviezu.”
“ This little book . . . is yet another testimony to the fact that the
whole phenomenal universe is rooted in one primordial reality. . . . M r.
Bosman takes us to the banks of the Nile and shows us the sacred word
A M N playing the same great rdle in ancient Egyptian life that the Aum
did in India. . . .
“ Students who already know M r. Bosman’s Music of the Spheres will
remember the method of analysis used in that book of taking certain letters
of the Hebrew alphabet and then considering the corresponding hieroglyph,
then the number, to arrive finally at the inner significance by repeatedly
sounding out and meditating on the effects of the sound on the mind, a
method of research that would probably be dubbed at least * novel ’ by the
modern historian. Its actual worth can only be estimated by the individual
student himself ; the very least we can say is that the result throws an
immense amount of light upon the origin of many words and becomes
extraordinarily illuminating when the letters are built up into words and
the inner meaning of the objects named, as it were, crystallises o u t ..............
“ This is a little book that . . . makes one ask for more, and we are most
glad to note that he will soon be publishing another and fuller work, on the
same lines, on the signification of the letters of the alphabet. Meanwhile
this book will be of great interest to us all, and no T . S. Lodge library should
be without a copy.” — From “ Theosophy.”
THE DHARMA PRESS, 16, Oakfield Road, Clapton, E.5.
3/8 post free. 3/8 post free.
