{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__estep___key_to_biblical_mysteries.pdf","mytitle":"Key To Biblical Mysteries","mylang":"de"}
The Key to Biblical
Mysteries .
PROF. WM. ESTEP
PROF. WM. ESTEP
Master Psychologist, Teacher, Author
PREFACE
THE AUTHOR sends forth this little
booklet with a sincere desire that it will
enlighten some of the seekers of knowledge
along the path of Ancient Wisdom.
He offers it as his own personal revelation
regarding the mysteries of the Bible herein
mentioned. He dedicates it to his many
students with the thought that it may clear
up many things which have long been an
enigma to the mind of mankind.
A. U.M.
PROF. WM . ESTEP
Founder of Super-Mind Science
Super Mind Science
Key to Biblical Mysteries
By PROFESSOR WM. ESTEP
THE BIBLE
The Bible was written by mystics, who had
the gifts of All Seeing Sight, Astral Traveling,
and the phases of development commonly known
to adeptship throughout the Far East. These
men lived at a time when there was no skepticism ·
predominating on the earth. They developed
these gifts through fasting, prayer and medita-
tion, thereby coming in contact with the Invisible
Master, whom they often referred to as the
"Angel of the Lord," "the Lord," or "God." The
word "GOD" in the Hebrew Scriptures is a
plural word, being spelled Elohim, and never was
intended to be used in a singular sense, such as
we now know it to be.
Many of these mystics who saw the visions
recorded in the Bible and witnessed the powerful
demonstrations of their day could not interpret
those mysteries by the power of their conscious
mind, owing to the fact that they had a very
poor material educational system, so they gave
us a record telling their psychic experiences the
best they possibly could, yet leaving thousands
of unsolved mysteries to be solved by a psychic
mind of one who practices going into differ-
3
ent states of mind as prophets of those days
practiced.
Theologians have tried to explain by material
laws these demonstrations. Not being competent
because of lack of spiritual development, they
have caused an almost disbelief in the Bible;
their explanations being so unreasonable that
even their own congregations in many instances
have turned almost to atheism.
Super-Mind Science declares that the Bible
must be read with a spiritual Eye, and that no
one without having unfolded his powers is capa-
ble of interpreting it. Also, there must be a
power of discrimination exercised by the minds
of people who interpret the Bible, as many things
in the Bible are good and many things would be
absolutely against all laws of reason and morality
of this day and age. So, with a keen sense of
discrimination and unfolded psychic faculties one
may perceive in reading between the lines the
deep mysteries in this book of Divine knowledge.
By these myteries we learn the great lesson of
life. It is not our desire to put forth a new
belief in regard to the Bible, but simply assert
that the Bible is not a material book; that it
cannot be understood by materialists; it never
has been and it never will be. It is a book to be
understood by adepts of the Inner Mysteries,
having a free, unbiased mind and the ability of
discrimination through the power of reason, so,
knowing these things to be facts, we set forth
many of the truths of the Bible having been
discovered through the adeptship and unfold-
4
ment of the Founder of Super-Mind Service-
, Professor William Estep-in periods of cosmic
consciousness when his powers and faculties were
concentrated on opening up, through the Aquasiac
Record, the true meaning of these mysteries.
THE FOUR BOOKS OF MOSES
GENESIS:
The Laws of Creation and the Creation of the
Earth, as set forth in the Book of. Genesis, is
symbolically correct, but literally incorrect, as
symbols are the form of ideas and not actual
happenings that took place on the physical
plane. The seer who beheld the vision of creation,
as recorded in Genesis, was in the state of mind
known as cosmic consciousness, where his power
of vision and the cosmic voice showed him the
manifestation of all life and the period of growth
and creation. He was a mystic who lived many
years previous to Moses, and this account was
an old book when Moses was born.
Being in a state of mind where he saw visions
and heard the cosmic voice, he was out of the
vibration of space, place and time, and therefore
could not have cognized definitely the amount
of time according to material conception required
for the creation of the earth and all thinf;S therein.
So he saw a vision; the vision passing before his
eyes probably in a few minutes time, showing
him six periods of creation, when the light, and
the water, and the earth, and the animal kingdom
came into being simultaneously. Then he was
shown a divine period of time, a time when the
5
.:...
laws of physical creation rested. These laws of
creation have long been understood by the adepts
of all the different countries of the globe to be
governed by cycles of time, each cycle of time
numbering 700,000 years.
Six cycles of time is the age of a civilization,
all life forms, and development of physical beings,
including man and animals, developed during
these cycles to the highest state of perfection
possible for them to reach on the physical plane.
The seventh cycle of time being the perfect cycle
when all physical manifestation of life is com-
pleted through unfoldment and development,
then the supreme creative force of the universe,
which fa the Super-Mind, and the seven creative
spirits before the throne, as far as physical crea~
tion is concerned, rest. This is the perfect cycle
of time. This perfect cycle of time being repre-
sented in the Book of Genesis as the Sabbath or
the day upon which the Gods of Creation rested,
is the period on the physical plane during which
no physical life manifests, and all forms of life
being born in the mental and spiritual vibrations
have reached perfection physically, and therefore
have a complete invisible existence.
During this period, as taught by all masters
of the Occult Science of the Far East, the earth
undergoes a cosmic night, because of the absence
of physical intelligence on the earth, and then
another round of creation takes place in its due
course of time. Thus we understand when a
man's mind is in a rate of vibration where it
neither cognizes space, place nor time, it is pos-
6
sible for him to think that these periods of time
are days of twenty-four hours each, and thus
write in a book a cosmic doctrine which causes
great discussions to take place as to its reason-
ability in future years to come. This wisdom is
taught in the great schools of esoterics, wisdom
in what is known as the symbol of the seven-
pointed star.
ADAM AND EVE
This science seeks to explain the presence of
Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden by point-
ing out the fact that in the 4th Chapter of the
Book of Genesis we find an account of Cane find-
ing a wife in the Land of Nod among people
who .dwelt in tents. Undoubtedly, there had to
be people in the Land of Nod, dwelling in tents
or living in some way, for Cane to find himself
a wife there; this being conclusive proof that
people did exist on the earth before the creation
of Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve, as understood
by many masters of the Occult and the deeper
mysteries of life, were a specially created pair
of individuals who were supposed to create their
offsprings through the powers of Alchemistry,
independently of the physical laws of creation,
and bring up a perfect race of individuals to
guide the materialistic race that were then
throughout the earth.
These people did not have a very high spiritual
conception at that time, so this special creation
took place something like four thousand years
ago, as our Bible relates. But owing to the fact
7
that the man and woman thus created were too
physical in aspect and subject to physical influ-
ences, these specimens of the human being did
not prove an entire success, as Eve was com-
manded not to partake of the Knowledge of
Right and Wrong from a physical standpoint by
the Angel of the Invisible Realm, but Eve would
not take this advice, and thereupon used her own
judgment as to the laws of physical creation and
did partake of the knowledge of right and wrong,
and thus brought about a physically created race
but of spiritually inclined parentage, which is
now on the earth, but fell short of the original
intention of the Supreme Being that performed
or caused this creation to take place. People
coming from that generation are the White Race,
which symbolizes more soul power; and the dark
races are descendants from those people who
lived in tents when Cane found his wife in the
Land of Nod.
The Garden of Eden was situated, we are told,
at the head of a river which had four branches,
the River Euphrates being one of the rivers.
These rivers have been discovered to be located
and proven to be in that part of Arabia to the
northwest, and the story of the Garden of Eden
has been proven as far as its actual existence is
concerned, by numerous seers, astral travelers
and mystics throughout the world, to have been
correct. But the world has looked at this creation
in a wrong light, forgetting that spoken news-
papers have been in existence in China for fifty
thousand years and spoken Bibles in existence
8
in India for one hundred thousand years. They
have tried to impress the world with their own
materialistic conception of this creation and to
make people believe that this earth is only four
thousand years old, but this theory has been
disproved by every branch of science, including
the recent investigations on the Mongolian
Desert, as to the origin of man.
If this explanation seems reasonable to you,
accept it, but if not, unfold your own faculties
and either disprove or prove it to your own sat-
isfaction - this is the desire of the author of this
science.
MOSES
Moses was a highly developed adept guided
by an invisible master who had appeared to his
forefathers and had vowed to liberate the chil-
dren of Israel from the Pharaohs of Egypt. This
invisible master never claimed to be God of the
Universe, only claiming to be the God of Isaac,
Abraham, Jacob and Moses. He pronounced his
name to Moses Jehovah, which when interpreted
from the Hebrew language is the name of a per-
sonality pronounced Yahweh. In tracing back
through the annals of history, in the Egyptian
symbology we find that a kind-hearted king had
lived one time in the history of Egypt whose
name was Yahweh, and upon his death he made
a statement that he had lived and developed and
progressed and hoped to reach a state of being
in the invisible where he would be able to influ-
ence the liberation of the children of Israel and
all slaves of Egypt who might be bound by the
9
Pharaohs and thus rid his country of the taint
of slavery. Whether or not he is the.same Yah-
weh in the form that appeared to Isaac, Abraham
and Jacob, and also unto Moses, is to be conjec-
tured upon. But this Yahweh which appeared
to Moses did liberate the children of Israel and
carried out the plans of the ancient king by that
name. Undoubtedly Moses was selected as an
instrument which could be handled by an invisi-
ble master to perform all of the mysteries that
were to be performed by the powers of Alchem-
istry, and he was probably selected because ·of
his receptivity. But, being so negative, he could
not even impress the people as a speaker, and his
brother Aaron had to function for him in that
capacity. This shows that Moses was entirely
under the control of unseen powers and was not
a positive master of the physical plane but more
a negative master of the astral and spiritual
planes. There is no reason to believe that he
himself wrote the four books attributed to him,
because in one of these books - the Book of
Numbers - it tells us of Moses' death and the
children of Israel mourning for him thirty days,
and how he was buried in a place where to this
day his sepulcher is unknown. This being the
fact, we are convinced that Moses could not have
written of his own funeral, and that undoubt-
edly some other mystic of the children of Israel
must have been the recorder of these remarkable
events. In the Egyptian history, the account of
Moses stated that he could not write in the
Egyptian characters, neither could he write in
10
the Hebrew characters, but was a man who lived
by inspiration and did not have any of the arts,
especially the art of writing, which is attributed
to him. Therefore, this science understands
Moses as a highly developed mystic of the White
Brotherhood that guided people from physical
bondage to physical liberty, and having estab-
lished an Oracle in the cloud where the Voice of
the Cosmic would speak and guide the children
of Israel in their journeys in the wilderness, we
think of Moses as a great proof of the invisible
power of the White Brotherhood to liberate all
people in bondage. We look forward to the day
when the Vvhite Brotherhood through some in-
visible power will continue its policy, which it
is now doing, until a leader is selected to liberate
the masses from their mental bondage, because
where they were once sold to physical masters
and kept in physical bondage they in this day
sell themselves to masters of certain creeds and
dogmas and are in mental bondage. So may the
example of Moses liberating the children of Israel
apply to this day in a mental sense and may many
people be delivered from the oppression of false
conceptions which are given to the people in the
name of religion by undeveloped minds, and ig-
norant people who are incapable of leading people
to spiritual attainment.
SYMBOLS OF THE BIBLE
There are many symbols in the Bible, such as
the Wheel of Ezekiel having a deep mystical
meaning. In the case of this whe,el we are taught
11
a lesson about the four elements governing the
universe,-earth, air, fire, and water,-and how
they are lifted up by intelligence; intelligence
being symbolized by the wings on the wheel. ·
The winged wheel is an old Egyptian symbol to
be found in the Hall of Columns in Egypt and in
many cases it has been carved on the tombs of
ancient Pharaohs. It symbolizes that the soul
has taken flight from the physical plane and that
it is free from bondage and is now in a state of
immortal existence in a higher rate of vibration.
The four wheels together symbolize the four ele-
ments which are earth, air, fire, and water, com-
posing the mind, body and soul of man, and the
symbol teaches that by the soul power of spiritual
intelligence and through the laws of transmuta-
tion and development man is lifted up.
BOOK OF REVELATIONS
The symbols in the Book of Revelations should
have a deep mystical meaning. The Seven Spir-
its before the Throne being spirits that guide
the manifestations of creation from the lowest
point of vibration to the highest, and the seven
golden candlesticks being the intelligence put
forth by these seven spirits which manifest in all
branches of nature and human life.
The symbol of Him that sitteth upon the
Throne symbolizes the pinnacle of spiritual
wisdom, which is the All Seeing Mind of the
Universe.
The Viles of Influence symbolize the influ-
ence or guiding power of these seven spirits
12
which cause developments to take place on the
earth many times through the laws of creation
and as well through lessons of sorrow to man-
kind.
The symbol of the Tree which has leaves that
will heal the sick of the nations and overcome
death and the doctrines of hell, symbolizes the
human spine, the life of this tree being the
Kundalini energy at the base of the spine rising
in man to where he wm have an understanding
sufficiently to know that hell is a state of suffer-
ing and sorrow and not a material place and the
discovery of this tree and its powers is now tak-
ing place in many parts of the globe as meta-
physicians are gradually converting people to
use the power in their own bodies and their own
nervous energy to heal themselves and to keep
themselves in a parfect state of health without
resorting to drugs and other numerous harmful
methods of treating the body. These metaphy-
sicians are teaching the people that man has a
stomach capable of digesting only such foods as
fruit and vegetables of the earth and that he
cannot expect his stomach to digest dead flesh
of animals and corrupted foods if he would heal
his body with the power of his cerebro spinal
system or his governing intellect, and this is
gradually bringing a state of universal realiza-
tion that will eventually heal the sick of all
nations and do away with physical death, sor-
row and doctrines of hell that are now being
preached, keping people from discovering that
tree within their own selves.
13
JESUS THE CHRIST AND THE IMMACU-
LATE CONCEPTION
The author of this science in this narrative
gives the story of the birth of Christ as seen by
him on the astral plane while reading the Aqua-
siac Record or the Memories of the Universe.
The higher powers of Creation saw the neces-
sity of teaching the people that they have both
a visible and invisible body and that they would
escape sorrow and suffering by uniting their
minds with the Supreme God of the Universe,
so decided or willed to cause the incarnation of
a personality which would demonstrate what
every one should be or an example of the high-
est developed human state, and there appeared
on the earth in a perfect physical form the
Angel Gabriel who had the power to create a
physical body and to take it back into the ele-
ments at will. This Angel Gabriel desired to
put forth an effort to lift up mankind, and so
created through the laws of fatherhood and
motherhod a perfect son of the Supreme Being.
In seeking a receptive person who could func-
tion as a mother of this Divine Son he found the
most suitable woman to be the Virgin.. Mary,
who was the wife of Joseph. So he willed or
caused the Virgin Mary to remain in her state.
of virginity until such time as he could appear
in a physical form and cause the creation of a
perfect son. Mary was taken into a trance
state by this high invisible master and while in
that state there was performed the necessary
function of motherhood and fatherhood between
14
this Angel Gabriel and the Virgin Mary. Being
unconscious physically she did not perceive
what had taken place until she later discovered
that she was to become a mother. This being
before she had functioned as the wife of Joseph
she was in a state of excitement, so the angel ap-
peared and explained to her that she was to
have a son whose name was to be called Jesus
who was to demonstrate the laws that would
save mankind from themselves. Joseph became
angry at the turn of affairs, and the Angel had
to contact him on the astral plane and explain
what had taken place to him. Joseph undoubt-
edly was an astral adept from birth, the same as
many hundreds of people are at this time. After
having explained to Joseph on the astral plane,
the Angel also cared for the child by contacting
Him on the astral plane and telling Him when
to leave Nazareth and go into Egypt. Egypt
was the seat of the wisdom teaching many cen-
turies before it was manifest in India. It is easy
to understand why the Angel sent Joseph and the
Virgin Mary with the Christ Child unto Egypt.
After going to Egypt this Angel many times, not
recorded in our Bible, came to Joseph instruct-
ing him how to train the Christ Child so he ·
would be able to function as a supreme example
to humanity. He was taught that many things
in life were the fulfillment in physical manifes-
tation of certain symbols that were in the cos-
mic and had been there since the beginning of
time. The Master Jesus was trained in the car-
penter trade, symbolizing he who builds, or a
15·
master builder of the Ancient Masonic Myster-
ies. The result of this training was that he also
was an invisible builder having an intuitive
power and reasoning power not common to ordi-
nary individuals. He was found later in the
temples discussing with doctors the laws of life
and astounding them with His wisdom. These
doctors were mental and magnetic healers of
Egypt and this temple was one of the great mys-
tical temples of Egypt and these doctors having
the power of seership perceived this Child was
highly inspired and they saw the glow of His
aura of light shining around Him and were
greatly interestd in His psychic powers and
spiritual intuitive knowledge and they became
His first disciples. He remained in Egypt until
He was taken from Egypt by a seer, the Angel
instructing Mary and Joseph in·the astral to let
the Child go with the seer. The seer guided
Jesus into the monasteries of ·Tibet and there
Jesus studied and familiarized himself with the
Buddahistic philosophies. He signed His name
to a document which still reposes in the Sacred
Shrine of the Llaman High Priests in the City
of Lahasa. From there Jesus went into India
with the same seer, and there studied the meth-
ods of the Masters of the Himalaya Mountains,
just on the outskirts of the Indian territory.
One of the temples He visited in India was the
Holy Temple of Benares where He corrected
many of the views of the theologists and gave
them a spiritual conception of their own philos-
ophy. From Benares He went to Elorra, India,
16
to the Temple of Indra Sahab. There He went
through the mystical initiations and meditated
in the Silence and instructed the priests of the
temple in many laws governing the Universe
which they still teach and hold to be sacred.
Jesus remained there until He had been through
the highest mastership of body and mind con-
trol, getting all of His instructions from the
Invisible, and very seldom asking or consulting
with any one on the physical plane so far as
teachings were concerned. After going through
Shamadi, which is the highest mental mastery,
He then prepared Himself for His ministry.
To symbolize the triumph of God over material-
istic ideas, He went back to Palestine where He
was later killed by the organized churches of
that time by being crucified. He was a foretel-
ler of the future, a highly developed mystic,
baptized by the spirit and the fire, .but never
baptized any one by water. He never belonged
to any creed or dogma, and never established a
church in the visible, having established. a
Church only in the Invisible, of which He is
still Head. All mystics and seers are able to
contact Him on the astral plane and receive wis-
dom from Him, because He can lower and raise
His vibration as did the Angel Gabriel when he
visited Joseph to give instructions to care for
the Christ Child. This Invisible Church is
known as the White Brotherhood, and is in ex-
istence and always has been known to the mys-
tics of this earth. All students of ancient wis-
dom, who are initiated on the astral plane, coi;ne
17
in contact with this Brotherhood and its power-
ful teachings, which are still being taught to
those who are willing to go into the Upper
Room of the super conscious mind and close
their physical consciousness or the doors of the
chamber to all outward physical manifestations
and commune with them who come through
locked doors to meet the disciples of the Master
Jesus. Locked doors symbolize the physical
consciousness. Thus, we have the true mystical
understanding of Jesus the Christ and this is
the serving knowledge He gave unto mankind.
RELIGIOUS DOGMAS AND CREEDS
Many creeds and dogmas seek to bind people
together by the powers of fear. Using this as a
means of education has always proved to' be a
failure as anyone who is a deep student of lan-
guages and familiar with the original writings
of the Bible knows that much of the horrible
teachings of the Hell punishment for souls of
the departed are not only misinterpretations but
are misused terms as well.
For instance, any Bible dictionary will tell
you that the word Hell was interpreted thirty-
three times as a dark passageway, thirty-three
times as a pit, and three times as a trash incin-
erator used to consume rubbish outside of the
city of Jerusalem, the Holy city: The word Hell
in the Greek language is "She'ole" meaning a
burial place for the dead. Since the Bible was
translated by material minded people, it is only
natural that we get material translations of spir-
18
I
itual wntmgs. The translators conceived the
idea that the word "filthy" applied to the state
of being in the hereafter that man would have
to endure if he did not follow the church's
creeds of fear in the days· when the Bible was
being translated.
The dogmatic churches at the time of the
Biblical Translators controlled the minds of the
translators and saw that nothing that was trans-
lated would interfere with their program of
holding the people in mental bondage and sub-
servient to the powers of the Priestcraft, and to
this day they are still bluffing their followers
with the same misapplied term "Eternal pun-
ishment"; yet they claim to be teaching a God
of love. Love and Torture by the self-same
God - who is he that could use his reason and
yet believe in such a combination in a God? If
God is love then that in itself is the opposite of
torture to helpless souls, no mater what re-
venge God would have to take out against a
soul. Another thing that the creedalistic denom-
inations have overlooked is the fact that if God
would have revenge, it would make Him a ma-
terial being; let they, themselves, say that He
is a Spirit.
HOW TO BE SAVED
To be saved, live an unselfish life like the
Master Jesus, every day in the week and not
only on Sundays.
Learn to know thyself in its real sense. Fast,
meditate, pray, and unfold the powers of Him
19
who sent us, by being about His work, which is,
healing the sick, preaching truth to the poor in
.spirit, and raising the dead consciousness of
every one you meet by speaking wqrds of power
and love. If you do this after a complete de-
velopment, you will soon contact the Kingdom
of Heaven or the Invisible as spoken of by Jesus.
Be truthful and learn to see your own weak-
nesses and overcome them. Relief alone has
never saved anyone and it never will; you must
work, in order to earn the reward of immortality.
THE HOLY GHOST
The Holy Ghost is a phrase that is taken from
the Greek language, the original meaning being
"Spiritual Life" and the real meaning being the
divine principle of lift within all, making us
Sons of God. The Greek term was Pneuma
Matecon. Pneuma means Spiritual, and Matecon
means Life or Germinating Power. There is no
such thing as a being that could be called Holy
Ghost such as is taught by some of the orthodox
sects, because if it was a being then it would be
of omnepresence and could not function as part
of the divine trinity; so we should not sin against
our spiritual life by refusing to recognize God
in our daily affairs.
GOD
God is a Universal Spirit and Intelligence.
Omnepresence and Infinite is in all life in the
form of the principle of divine intellect and
20
can be felt and known by anyone reaching God-
consciousness. God manifests in three princi-
ples: the first is Truth, which is the reality of
all things; the second is Love, the cause of all
creations ; the third is Light, the manifestation
of all things. To teach God as a being of anger,
malice, and envy, is a sacrilege; and all creeds
doing so, sentence their followers to spiritual
darkness through misunderstanding of natural
laws.
THE SECOND DEATH
The second death spoken of by Jesus, the
Christ, is a state of oblivion when the soul leaves
the spiritual body which dies for lack of the
soul's power, the same as the body dies when the
spirit leaves it. This happens only to people
who have reached the state of spiritual respon-
sibility and after doing so willfully live in sin
and darkness. This to the Mystic is worse than
the Hell of the orthodox beliefs.
IMMORTALITY
Immortality is a state of being when one is
conscious after physical death and this can only
be accomplished by those willing to merge their
physical consciousness with their soul by doing
good deeds and by developing. their spiritual
body and powers to withstand death of the
physical body. One's religion and beliefs have
nothing to do with the attainment of this state ;
only the development effects it, so to develop
these powers is to live after this life.
21
THE ASTRAL PLANE
The astral plane is a plane where the manifes-
tations of consciousness are entirely governed
by the conscious will of the individual. It is the
invisible plane between the physical and spiritual
and the place where the mind is subpect to all
kinds of vibrations. If one's intentions are good,
the person can go and come from the astral plane
of consciousness at will providing that they
know how to leave and enter their body. While
away from the body, one can learn anything that
one wills to learn. This plane is also the plane
of trials for the soul after death. If the con-
science is light, the soul goes upward to a high
heavenly vibration; and if it is' heavy, it sinks
into a low miserable vibration and the memory
of sin and identity or flesh consciousness dies.
Thus the astral plane is the plane of trials and
tribulations; but on the other hand, it is the plane
of great wisdom, for if you are master of your
consciousness, you can attain any state you de-
sire on the astral plane and you would never ex-
perience death of consciousness; and the other
change of form, such as physical death, would
only be a relief from duty on the lower planes
of life.
Note: I sincerely hope that I have made the
reader think. If so, I have at least stimulated
the brain cells. This little booklet contains
some of the truths that I have learned from mas-
ter teachers and from personal experiences on
the astral plane.
22
I leave them to your thoughts in the name of,
The Almighty Universal Master.
PROF. WM. ESTEP,
Founder of:
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE
SONS 01" THE SOLITUDES
MASTER TEACHINGS OF INNER MYSTERIES
SUPER-MIND SILENCE LEAGUE
23
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE AND UNITY OF
GOD AND MAN
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE is. a science
founded on the principles of POSITIVE and
NEGATIVE Mind Force and the control of the
body by the PERFECT CONCENTRATION
METHOD now being introduced by its founder.
There are few sciences today that can satis-
factorily explain the process of human "menta~
tion," yet they claim to possess the methods that
will produce a healthy mind and body. SUPER-
MIND SCIENCE stands alone today with a
method of Concentration and Mental Control
which cannot fail, because it is founded on the
principle that the thoughts enter the SOLAR
PLEXUS from the Universal Mind. One-half
of the thought is Negative, the other half Posi-
tive. When each half, carried by its current,
goes to its respective cei:iter, there then is a break
in current, which causes a contact between the
Male Center of Spirituality and the Female
Center.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE has a method of
developing these two centers and training the
Subconscious Mind to use them to bring health,
harmony and happiness into one's life. . It also
has a method of demonstrating the LIFE CUR~
RENT, so that you can feel it within an hour
after using the method. This current recharges
mind and body with ENERGY, making one feel
alert and able to enjoy life to the fullest extent.
By regulating the DESIRE CENTER one can
destroy all harmful habits and ·be MASTER of
25
one's self. Thus this science offers a way of
escape from all kinds of mental and physical
slavery.
The founder of SUPER-MIND SCIENCE,
Prof. Wm. Estep, has made a study of every oc-
cult and metaphysical science known today, un-
der the greatest masters, and has combined all
the world's greatest and most practical methods
into this science, bringing these great teachings
to the American public in a simplified manner,
incorporating only those methods that will bring
practical results. These teachings have all been
verified by Professor Estep through Cosmic Con-
sciousness.
This science embraces a method of develop-
ing the psychic faculties of the mind so perfect-
ly that one can obtain results with two days'
practice. Many of the students of this great
movement have obtained results within so short
a time that it is almost unbelievable. The
author is the first American master to find a way
of demonstrating to an entire class, definite and
powerful results, the very first lesson they take
in SUPER-MIND SCIENCE.
Though the methods of SUPER-MIND
SCIENCE conform to the basic laws, and have
been used for years and found practical, the
movement of SUPER-MIND SCIENCE as a
science apart from any of the other so-called
metaphysical and occult sciences, is still young.
However, it has such a large following, even now,
because of the practical results obtained, that
centers are being established in every large city
26
where the students meet regularly and practice
the teachings. Some of these students were
physical wrecks when they entered the work, but
have now regained their health, and with it peace
and harmony has entered their lives.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE has developed so
many students into DIVINE HEALERS, PUB-
LIC SPEAKERS and INSPIRATIONAL
WRITERS that hundreds of them are going to
devote their lives to its promotion. Others get
demonstrations along other lines, such as MIND-
READING, COSMIC HEARING, COSMIC
SIGHT, INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC, ETC., and
meetings are held at least twice per week in
order to give all of them an opportunity to dem-
onstrate their powers.
The Bible has taken on a new meaning to
those who have studied SUPER-MIND SCI-
ENCE, for many of them have seen the blind
and deaf healed and the Truth preached to the
poor, which means the dawn of Christ Conscious-
ness upon this earth. This science teaches that
Christ had power to heal the sick and that he
left instructions for all of his true disciples to
heal the sick and to perform demonstrations of
power, and that no one can scorn these teachings
unless he also scorns Jesus of Nazareth.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE comes today to do
the work of the Master. Those who are seek-
ing knowledge and power will be with us now,
others will awaken to the fact that students of
SUPER-MINDED SCIENCE have a power
they themselves have not attained, and will re-
27
gret that they did not heed the call of this
science whep it was first offered. The teachings
offer facts only, not mere theory.
Do you want power to heal yourself and oth-
ers? Do you want power that you can feel all
over your body? Do you want a strong mind?
Do you want to speak to GOD and get an
answer? Are you tired of doing what you are
told to do by others? If you desire to create
circumstances instead of having! them maSiter
you, then this is the science that can not only
promise you results, but can guarantee you ab-
solute success in its operation.
If you could hear the testimony of hundreds
who were in pain, living in a hell on this earth
through suffering, thanking GOD that the
teachings of this science have shown them how
to overcome their misery, my friend, you, too,
would be drawn into this great movement.
There should be an end to creeds and dogmas.
The salvation of this world is a remedy for the
ills of humanity. Why waste time with a doc-
trine that is dead and void of power? You were
born a free citizen of the universe and a child of
GOD, therefore you must learn to be a master,
even as Christ was master.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE brings to you the
greatest teachings of India and the world at
large, explained by a master teacher and dem-
onstrator who has hundreds of letters of testi-
mony from students in all walks of life. No one
can disprove its claims, for its very foundation
is REASON. It is the true Christian faith, re-
28
stored to man, for it teaches that unless you at-
tain "Christ Love" for your fellow man, you
cannot develop to receive the great things in
store for you. The kingdom of all power is in
man and is reflected in his being, so let us under-
stand this when we pray, "Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done, on earth as it is in _
heaven."
Ignorance of mental and physical laws is a
sin, and you cannot succeed if you do not know
the law. In this world there is an abundance of
power and plenty for all. If you are not getting
what rightfully belongs to you, then give
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE a trial. This science
holds a record of keping the students who have
taken up its teachings, for here they find food
for the soul and that peace and bliss· that
"passeth all understanding."
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE brings out all the
power to do good there is in man, for its power
is unlimited. It has the greatest healing method
of any science or religion ever discovered by
man. Its founder has demonstrated this without
fail, has made the deaf to hear and the blind to
see. In his free healing meetings he averages
about sixty per cent in cures and constructive
help for the remaining forty per cent, which
means that it surpasses any method yet discov-
ered in the way of divine or mental healing.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE can give a true in-
terpretation of the Bible through its knowledge
of the symbols in the Bible, and through its
understanding of COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
This Christ Consciousness can be gained
29
through SUPER-MIND SCIENCE in a surpris-
ingly short time, by means of a method, the
shortest yet discovered.
This science also teaches that when the POSI-
TIVE and NEGATIVE currents of the body are
stimulated, dormant brain cells are awakened
which results in a wonderful clearness of mind
and spiritual power. The body grows healthy
and becomes receptive for the good things that
are man's rightful inheritance.
At the base of the spine there is a small cen-
ter that exhumes a fluid that causes mortality.
This flows up the spine to the twelve nerve cen-
ters and from there to all parts of the body. By
stopping the flow of this poison, one's life can
be prolonged at least one-third, the body will be
rejuvenated and an appearance of youth main-
tained. This same method awakens the
KHUNDLINI, "the serpent of wisdom," at the
base of the spine, creating great mind-power
and executive ability.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE comes with dem-
onstrations to prove its claims; supported by its
many enthusiastic followers, it has risen as the
sun rises in the morning after a night of dark-
ness. It appears as a beacon light, bringing to
humanity: Healing, the awakening of Physical
Power, Spiritual Knowledge (Cosmic Conscious-
ness), and the true interpretation of Jesus of
Nazareth and the Bible.
This science brings to man a new light on
life, a means of keeping well, a method for
awakening power in the body, and for awaken-
30
ing cells to keep both body' and mind powerful.
Those who grasp this Truth will now find pleas-
ure in living on this planet instead of misery, for
they will discover their real purpose in life,
when through knowledge all former beliefs and
superstitions will have been supplanted.
These teachings do not tell you to imagine
that your body is not in existence or to deny it,
but we say to you, "Master your body and then
GOD will be revealed unto you." We teach you
how to get definite results by combining the
forces of MIND, BODY and SOUL, the insep-
arable trinity. When you have REALIZED
that POWER WITHIN YOU you can say as
the Master did, "It is not I that doeth these
works, but He that sent me."
Cot_ne, be one of us, and let us prove our
claims. Then you will know that the
"ANCIENT WISDOM" has returned, and will
agree with us that SUPER-MIND SCIENCE
IS THE "LIGHT OF THE WORLD"!
31
TWELVE LESSONS IN
SUPER MIND SCIENCE $25·00
Special rates to other members of the family and to
organizations.
A course combining the highest teachings of Psy-
chology, Metaphysics, and Occult Science. The only
course offered the American puiblic today that can
guarantee its' students practical results. Hundreds of
testimonials have been received from students, many of
whom have received heaJing and other demonstrations
after the first lesson.
SUPER-MIND SCIENCE CENTERS are being estab-
lished aM over the United States where the students
meet to practice these teachings and to demonstrate
their powers.
The Path of Light $1.00
The highest development of the mind. A spiritual
revelation of the "ANCIENT WISDOM" teachings
containing an explanation of the "Death Trance."
By PROF. WILLIAM ESTEP
