{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__anonymous___rosicrucian_philosophy_pointers_for_students.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Philosophy Pointers For Students","mylang":"de"}
6F 1bZ3- R.1
oof-a.GSo?)
R.O.C.F. MANUEL No. 2.
ROSICRUCIAN PHILOSOPHY
Pointers for Students
PROGRESS.
The student who pays attention to details, who does
riot forget what he is taught, is the student who will make
progress.
If a student forgets what he was taught during the
early days of his studentship he will not be able to use
such knowledge during his advanced days of studentship.
To let slip the duties taught you during the early days
prevents the rising to responsible position later.
The future of a student is seen in him by the teacher
during early days.
HONESTY.
A great mark of possibility observed in a student is
that of his honesty. He must answer questions promptly,
without hesitation, and admit that he does not know a
thing if he does not. Quibbling is no use. Answers must
be direct. The student must be as honest with himself
as with any other person. “ To thine own self be true.”
ACCURACY.
This is a very important thing to observe. Each
student, in seeking for truth must weigh up every matter
carefully and build his house of learning brick by brick,
thought by thought. His foundation of learning must not
be like the first Tay Bridge, which was jerry-built and so
collapsed, causing the death of many people on a stormy
night in 1878. Avoid careless methods during your
training.
FAIRNESS TO AER.
Ream to judge a matter carefully and well. Try to
see both sides and work as though you give each side the
benefit of the doubt. Be fair at all times to all people.
Favouritism to one at the expense of another is not playing
the game. If your friend is wrong tell him so. Tq be a
good ruler one must be impartial in judgment, merciful in
sentence, fiirm in command.
THE ORATOR.
He who wpuld become an Orator must first of all be
a good listener, he will listen to learn. He must observe.
He will observe the manner in which good orators or public
speakers deliver their orations or speeches. He will listen
attentively to the sound of the words uttered; the formation
of the sentences; the stress upon particular words; the
effect upon the listeners. He who would be an orator
must master some subject so that he may speak .upon it
with authority. No one can become an orator who has not
an easy flow of language. 'Orators have been, and always
shall be, the Kings of men.
TEACHING.
He who would become a Teacher, particularly of
Rosicrucian Philosophy, must study, and study those books
which sharpen the mind and wits. He must be a close
observer of men. He must, through his study,
unfold certain of his higher faculties and generate a
dignified and gracious disposition. He must be able to
state all his facts clearly, for his duty is to impart
knowledge to others. He must be self-controlled.
EVENTS.
There is not an event that happens in this world but
has not had some other event which preceded it. What
was at one moment the past is now the present and the
present will be the future. The past, present and future
in toto make one great event. Traits come from the past
and we must see that our' traits of character are good.
Every trait that we possess is a warning of future
unfoldment, therefore it is essential that we manifest good
traits and replace bad ones with good ones.
CONVERSATION W ITH OUR FEUUOWS.
We must guard ourselves against speaking at the
wrong time, or interrupting another before he has finished
his speech. We must make effort to know the people
to whom we speak. When speaking to any one it is not
necessary to shout, unless the person is hard of hearing.
A quiet, but not an inaudible voice must be cultivated.
We must never waste words but speak with authority and
convincingly. We must not waste time in idle gossip; we
must not defame another’s character nor speak ill of him
behind his back. What we do not know we should not try
to speak upon.
LIFE.
Each person on this earth has an allotted span of life.
This span is determined at the time of conception through
the initial impulse of the male parent. In the highest
Occult Science this initial impulse must be studied and the
span of life of an individual calculated to within a few
days, but it would not be to every person’s advantage to
know this unless he could by Occult Science prolong his
span. Accidents are but accidents and are not determined
by Karmic laws. Every being should live a natural life
to his allotted span. If he is run down by a motor car
and killed, we may be sure it was not natural for him
to be killed in that way. The average life of a person,
according to biblical teachings, is three score years and ten,
and, barring accidents, most people should live to that age,
physically speaking, to be natural.
THE MIGHTY UNIVERSE.
This earth seems a large place, but it is as a speck
compared to other planets in space.
The sun is ninety million miles away from the earth
and it is 1,250,000 times larger than the earth. The sun
could hold a thousand of the earth, and that same sun
supplies light to other bodies besides the earth.
Our solar system consists of the Earth, the Sun, the
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Jupiter and Uranus
and hosts of smaller bodies. This then is but one of the
millions of solar systems or Universes extant in space.
4
THE KOSMOS.
All the millions of Universes in the Great Space
constitute the Kosmos, and this great Kosmos has no
ending. There is no Astronomer or Mathematician living
who can say with certitude that the Kosmos has ending.
This earth has been a planet for 1,000 million years,
perhaps much more, yet it is young compared with many
other planets. The Great Bear (Ursa Major) is a solar
system and, according to antient Occult teaching, it at one
time held a life-wave. The Egos who were concerned
with the evolution of early life on this earth originated
from the Great Bear, and such Egos have been known as
the Divine Incarnates. Somewhere in this Great Space
there is a centre of gravity from which all things move,
but no Astronomer has yet found that centre of gravity.
There has never been a beginning; there can never be an
ending to that which had no beginning. Eife goes on in
an unending chain.
TIME.
This is apparent checked duration and is really an
illusion. If there is neither a beginning nor an end then
there cannot be time. Time is a notion conceived in the
minds of men through events. The movements of the
hands of a clock, for one thing, give man his notions of
time, but a clock can stop, its mechanism can go wrong;
but duration goes on. The only thing which can bear
witness to Duration is space, and as this is not a thinking
thing it cannot express itself. Perchance space is duration
for it holds all things and we cannot think of space as not
existing, it always was and always shall be even though
planets may disappear.
Think of the millions of universes and stars in space
and you will get some idea of its immensity. Time ceases
to be when we try to think out the age of space, for even
before planets were formed space was. Space is inscrutable.
KOSMIC DAY.
A million of our years is like the flickering of an
eyelid to the day of Kosmos. From the time the Sun first
gives heat to our Solar System to the time it ceases to do
so (if such will be possible) is a Universal day. Millions
of such days as these would make a Kosmic year. From
the period when the Great Absolute breathes out into
manifestation to the period when it inbreathes into the
Unmanifest would constitute an age of the Absolute. The
out-breathing and in-breathing of the Absolute causes
Kosmic day and ‘night, and this is repeated in lesser
degrees throughout all space. There are no arithmetical
figures which can explain this.
THE W HOLE AND THE PART. ‘
The difference between the Rosicrucian philosopher
and the ordinary man is that the former tries to view the
whole of the Universe at once and think it out, whilst the
latter sees only the part. To see the Universe at once
means to see the whole of the planetary system with all
its forces, its moving things, its multi-myriad life. To see
the Universe is to know it.
PULSATION.
Man, constituted as he is both mentally and bodily,
is a key to the Universe. He lives and moves in accord
ance with its pulsation. The beating of the human pulse
is in rhythmic harmony with the pounding of the planets
in space. The inspiration or expiration of human and
animal breath, when normal, is harmonic to the Great
Breath in lesser degree. The luminosity of the eye is
equivalent to the light of the sun. The marks on the
human Iris correspond to Sun spots which show greater
or lesser intensity of force. The -marks on the human Iris
show disease, the spots on the Sun exaggeration of forces.
Sun spots affect the earth, and, in consequence, man.
CENTRE OF GRAVITY.
All things are controlled by a central power: the
Absolute controls the Kosmos; a Sun controls a universe;
the Logoi control the Planetary Regents; a Regent controls
the life-wave; a King of Emperor or President with his
council controls a country. The mind of man controls
himself. Everything is responsive to the centre of gravity
from the meanest microbe to the greatest solar system.
ORDER.
Everything is subject to order throughout the whole
6
extent of Kosmos; that which does not work orderly
suffers. Instinct guides all animal, bird or fish life. Man
is the greatest of all life; he can control his destiny if
he chooses, for he can consciously appreciate the order
of things and transcend his physical life. The first basis
of life is order, the unruly suffer. Learn first to obey,
serve well, then the opportunity for command will come.
When it comes, take it. If you have served well, if you
have worked to order and realized just how much you
have done, so you will make a good master.
OBEDIENCE.
One naturally obeys through working in conformity
with Order. As - everything works according to order
there is no such thing as blind obedience. The animal
which follows its instinct does not follow it blindly; the
whole organism of the animal obeys laws and in seeking
to obey-these laws the animal follows the order of things.
The planets follow the order of planetary law; if they
did not there would be chaos.
Man is usually the most obstinate of beings and when
he is obstinate and seeks to work against the laws of his
own being he suffers accordingly. We must be ever
obedient to those things which make for order.
THE ONENESS.
Everything is linked. Nothing is separate in the whole
of Kosmos. All planets, suns, stars, Races of men,
animals, birds, reptiles and fish are one and the same
creation and the mind of man may witness this one-ness.
CONCEPTION.
Within this great orderly solar system of ours stands
man, an in whichever direction man turns he sees the
universe. Whilst standing within this Universe he must
not only observe it, he must think into it and, as a result
of thinldng into it, he will know it. His conception of
the Universe will be in accordance with his observation
and thought.
THE FIVE SENSES.
Man brings knowledge to his mind through his five
senses and he must see that these channels for information
are clear. When man finds that he cannot obtain any
moie information through his five senses then he must
begin to acquire knowledge through his mind direct.
MIND.
Man though dependent upon his five senses for the
acquirement of knowledge in the physical world, is not
so dependent upon them for knowledge in the mental
world. Man, as a mind, is a thinker, and when dealing
with mind-stuff he is independent of his senses. The
information' gleaned through the five senses passes to the
brain and this is a physical process. Information gained
through thought direct is a mental process. In the
Rosicrucian philosophy and .Science the student must gain
as much information as possible through his mind and
senses to conceive the physical world. Rosicrucian
spiritual science'teaches the student how to awaken higher
faculties of the mind so that he may know not only the
physical side of life but also the mental and spiritual.
The problems of life after, so-called death must be mastered
by the student. He must realize how he can live without
a body. He must project himself in his thought outside
of his body. Life physical is so vast that it will be
puzzling to the student at first to even think how it is
possible to live apart from a physical body. But the mind,
master of all things, must be known as far as it is possible
to know it. Mind is the most wonderful thing in the whole
of Kosmos; it is responsible for mighty buildings, large
ships, railways, the wireless, machinery, and thousands of
other things. Mind makes the man, it builds up and
maintains the human universe. Man cannot create a solar
system but he can understand its laws and work in
conformity with those laws. The great secret of
Rosicrucian spiritual science is knowing how to work in
accordance with the Universal laws for the purpose of
unfoldment.
University of Southampton Library Digitisation
