{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__tibbits___veiled_mysteries_of_india.pdf","mytitle":"Veiled Mysteries Of India","mylang":"de"}
VEILED MYSTERIES
OF INDIA
By
MRS. WALTER TIBBITS
Unto you it is given to know the Mysteries.
Write the things which thou hast seen.
LONDON
EVELEIGH NASH & GRAYSON
LIMITED
First Published 1929
THE MYSTEl~ Y OF RE I NCARNATION.
As a m ~rn casting off worn-out ga1·ments t;.t keth new one ~.
so the dweller in the body passeth on to another body.
B HAOAVAD G ITA, Dt:sCOU HSE 11 . 1:-1.
To
MY HusBAND OF Two WoRLDS
Others may find their loves and keep them,
But for us two there still shall be
A kinder heart and a fairer city,
The home and hearth we shall never see,
Lost adventurers, watching ever
Over the toss of the tricksy foam,
Many a joyous port and city,
Never the harbour lights of home;
CONTENTS
VIGNETTES
THE MYSTERY OF THE LINK
MYSTERIES EN ROUTE-
!. OF MARSEILLES
II. OF MALTA •
III. OF THE CANAL
IV. OF ADEN •
PART I
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
THE MYSTERY OF THE SIBYL •
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI AND THE HIDDEN TEMPLE
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
THE MYSTERY OF RAMA AND SITA
THE MYSTERY VIA MISTS AND SNOWS
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE •
THE MYSTERY OF THE REMISSION OF SINS
THE MYSTERY FROM BEYOND THE ZoGI LA
THE MYSTERY OF REINCARNATION
PART II
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI.
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
THE MYSTERY OF THE SACRED HEART
THE RETURN
PAGE
I
9
17
24
32
35
53
61
88
98
IOI
106
120
142
167
195
214
2 33
254
2 55
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
The Mystery of Reincarnation
Mosque of Aden .
The Crow's Nest .
In the Cave of Elephanta
The first to welcome me back to the Motherland
Delhi of the Dream Days
Pyres of Kashi
Widows of Kashi (1)
Widows of Kashi (2)
Vultures circling over Mrs. Shere and her prey
Temple of the Sun, Srinagar .
The Holy Cave of Amarnath
Rippling Marbles .
. Frontispiece
Faci11g page
I 54
H.E. Lord Curzon and Viceregal Party descending the Elephant
Staircase
The Eighth Wonder of the World
The Triumph of the Egg at Night
210
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
VIGNETTES
Ships that come back from the sea,
From the land beyond sight,
Tell us what tales there may be
Of the wave and the win~ and the fight I
ERIC CHILMAN.
AN adventuress by nature, the latter-day product of an
"Adventurer,"* my adventures have been of many sorts.
In a wandering career a large part of my life has been
spent in hotels. But wherever I slept, in hotel, ship, or tent,
I always arranged a little chapel!e ardente in my room where
I could offer flowers to my Pagan Gods. What strange
blooms have been brought me all over the world to lay
before Them ! Maharanis, gleaming in pearls and emeralds,
have brought me magnolias, creamy, dreamy petals diffusing
languorous sweetness on the stifling air. Brahmanas, in
the antelope skins of Shiv, have plucked for me on the
* I am directly descended from Captain George Pepper, "The Adventurer."
Since this was written Ballygarth Castle has passed out of the direct line of the Peppers
after three centuries. A line whose legend was played before Queen Victoria. This
book is, perhaps, the last flicker of the candle. It seems that the last Colonel Pepper
was refused by a Lambart and never loved again. It was Rose Lambart, grand-
daughter of the first Lord Cavan, who, two hundred years ago, brought us their
Tipperary estates of.
Lisaniskea and founded our branch, so that the Lambarts have
brought us both life and death.
I
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
snow-line of Himavat rich purple columbines the size of
cups, and lilies, green, evil, treacherous, whose blood-
stained interiors mocked the whiteness of the snowy wastes.
Italian cavalrymen, impulsive, amorous, have offered me
exotics in the dim streets of Dante, before they went forth
to die. Australian squatters, on the rocks of Malta, have
gilded my corner of the old Knights' auberge with the golden
narcissus and painted it with the vermilion of anemones ere
they passed to death as sure, if slower, mid the febrile
horrors of Mesopotamian swamps. Parisiennes of uncanny
fascination have given me carnations, crimson as their lips,
below the gleaming snake-like eyes. And unhappy decadents
of a new Satyricon have offered me orchids because I had
" the clearer vision " that forgave.
And I have sat upon a sofa beside the most sumptuous of
Europe's queens, the Marguerite des Marguerites, whose royal
lips have voiced her yearnings for the spiritual mysteries of
the East.
And floating on the Bay of Viareggio, I have heard the
bells of Kashi as fishermen heard the bells of the buried
City of Is. With ears closed to clatter of smart crowds
by gurgle of pine-perfumed ripples, I heard the bells indeed
and in truth, as though in the Holy City Herself. Sunsets
turned the waters to Whistlers in creamy grey and molten
gold, while young exquisites in lilac and lemon silk pyjamas
patrolled the beach, but never braved the waves.
And I have been surprised to sense the Shiv influence
2
VIGNETTES
sweet, keen, all-powerful, on the Campagna air. It poured
from a house, high-walled, mysterious, to enter which means,
ipso facto, excommunication for a woman. The door of
Camoldoli, the severest order of monks of silence. Some
rich, a bishop newly joined, all work and pray alike.
And I have prayed in many places. In the mystic temples
of Shiv at Benares, frequented by adepts, black and white,
where the evil sorcerers creep at dead of midnight, lighted
only by the miniature lamps on Gunga's breast. Where
the hurrying footsteps of the white magicians ·resound
through Kashi's mazy aisle at daybreak. Dressed as a Shivite
yogini, I have left the temple courtyard, with the marble
bulls of Mahadev, and descended the flights of eternal stairs
sweeping down to meet the Holy River's waves. There
sits the semicircle of orange-clad sannyasis with their brown,
prickly rosaries, while is read the Shiva Sutra beside the
sacred waters. By the Georgian Catholic Church of Calcutta,
I have begged the prayers of religieuses in a convent once
the sanctuary of Madame Grand. In Italy I have heard
the colour chords struck by the majestic harmonies of the
Renaissance giant masters and watched the candles flicker
from the golden pulpit of St. Mark's at Venice on the mosaics
of a thousand years, as when the Doges listened to the
crimson Cardinal and the great square was filled with the
madness of the whole earth.
And in Malta's forts, covered by the magenta sheets of
crude creepers, I have seen the shrines of plain soldier men,
3
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
devout in piety, who lavished gold and silver and colour
on their more garish ideas of God.
And I have cried:
You that saw men die,
Wind and Stream I Reply I
After all our pain
Does no trace remain,
But flying
Wings, and crying
Fowl, and weeds and waters sighing?*
These pages attempt to pass on the answer. They deal
with mysteries extending through the torrid zone where
tigers abound to the icy snows of Himavat.
* "To the Wadi."
4
THE MYSTERY OF THE LINK
To MEMBERS OF THE I.C.S
"LET the Englishman and the Indian accept a union which
is so mysterious as to have in it something of the divine."-
Address of the Marquess Curzon at Valedictory Dinner,
by United Service Club, Calcutta.
" If I were a parent seeking a profession for my son, I
think the first thing that I should do would be to cast my eye
upon India, and this mainly for two reasons. In the first
place, if my son went to India he would be doing something
definite, practical, and of positive value to large masses of
human beings at a time of life when in any other country or
profession he would only be occupying a secondary and
irresponsible position. In the second place, India opens up
a field of honourable activity in the sphere of government
greater than any in the world. It is open to any young man
of character and ability who goes there, from whatever class
he may be drawn, to rise to a position in that country, before
he attains the age of fifty, in which he may be ruling, almost
single-handed, a territory larger than that of many European
kingdoms and exercising an authority greater than that of
many European kings."-/d. to the Geographical Society.
5
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
"Welook back upon our Indian career, be it long, as it has
been or will be in the case of many who are here to-night,
or relatively short as in mine, and we feel that we can never
have such a life again, so crowded with opportunity, so
instinct with duty, so touched with romance. We forget
the rebuffs and the mortification ; we are indifferent to the
slander and the pain. Perhaps if we forget these, others
will equally forget our shortcomings and mistakes. We
remember only the noble cause for which we have worked
together, the principles of truth and justice and righteousness
for which we have contended, and the good, be it ever so
little, that we have done. India becomes the lodestar of
our memories as she has hitherto been of our duty. For
us she can never again be the 'Land of Regrets.' "-Id.
at Valedictory Dinner by United Service Club, Simla.
In ancient days India was ruled by initiate kings. Would
not this ideal form of government be restored in the person
of an administrator uniting the political gifts of an Antony
MacDonnell to the spiritual insight of an Annie Besant ?
Would the Government dare to withhold the Viceroyalty
from such a personage ? Yet not one Indian civilian has
so far d~clared himself a convert, in company with Akbar,
Schopenhauer, and Hegel, to the Hindu religion.
It is the oldest and least adulterated of the faiths of the
fifth, Aryan race. In quantity its adherents outnumber by
many millions those of its daughter creeds. In quality they
6
THE MYSTERY OF THE LINK
have included the profoundest thinkers of both East and
West.
These ideas are therefore commended especially to the
attention of the "Heaven Born." In general I commend
them to the man in the street in the hope that they may
make his life easier to bear, his death easier to face.
Among the wonderful exhibits of the Great Exhibition
of our time and Empire, there was one quiet corner which
to thoughtful minds presented perhaps most food for reflec-
tion. The gorgeous productions of the East, the inventive
brilliance of the West, paled to us in interest before the grey
greens and beige tints of the South African Kopje.
There are five hundred varieties of the mesembrian-
themum, of which Mr. Frith, their expert, has two hundred.
They came here wrapped in charcoal to evade the damp.
Some were like ducks' eggs among coloured pebbles; others
were like gravel (e.g. lithops, or window-plant) in gravelly
soil, concealed by speckly brown tops to protect the soft
green milky interior from Kaffirs who eat them in droughts.
Mr. Frith has to sit down on the veldt and adapt his eyes,
and then he discovers the plants all round him. " Tiger-
claw" has protecting teeth. "Elephant's-foot," aged some-
times a thousand years, has immense brown nodules to
conserve the delicate tubers from the climate of the creeper.
Geranium plants become brown and horny in the desert.
An ancient padre, touring the Kopje with me, said "I
had no idea plants adapted themselves to their surroundings
l3 7
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
like this." "The one life runs through all these chameleon
changes," I replied.
To show the working of the Good Law, to reveal the
music oft hidden by the roaring voice of the Great Illusion,
is the object of these lines.
PART I
MYSTERIES EN ROUTE
I
OF MARSEILLES
THE POWER HOUSE
The sand-martins were flying,
Flying around and crying ;
Till late in the grey light
I watched their twisted flight;
I heard, and no more heard
Save the late gulls that cried
Down by the wave-lit darkness of ebb-tide.
JULY 16TH. Versailles. Saw, for the first time this season,
the swifts or sand-martins encircling the lawns, evidently,
sensible birds, trying their wings' strength in preparation
for the long flight south and east Like the yellow snap-
dragon on the grey walls of Oriel to its most gracious and
glorious undergraduate, in spring, the swallow dives on the
grass and roses herald the awakening of spiritual force in the
autumnal flight eastward des hirondelles du Trianon.
September 20th. En route to Marseilles, in the Avignon
country, saw the grass starred with pinky-mauve autumn
crocus, the same that adorned the Japanese Dell in Hyde
Park.
October 8th. Marseilles once more ! Is it for us the
9
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
thousand-and-first night of the magical, electrical mysteries
of Marseilles ? We approach through thickets of silver and
gold, quivering and shimmering above blue lakes, pass
Avignon's papal, fortressed grandeur, and find ourselves ·
once again in the Terminus Hotel.
We eat in a glass-house set in a garden of crimson flowers
and golden leaves drifting by in an autumn swirl. There
are salvias and clove and yellow carnations, and butterflies
fut about in the heliotrope. This gracious atmosphere is
only twenty-four hours away from the drizzle and slush
and War Office red-tape of Southampton dock. The first
touch of the South after years of shock and horror.
Has any of the world's hotels the electric, galvanic volts
of this modest little house ? The little crowd eating in the
garden glass-house is the same as ever: the priests, the
French officers, the English boy-and-girl couples who have
just embarked in the boat of life. They land at this first
port of call for eager youth bourid for the new life in the
old East, young and pretty women, men in their prime. All
that we once were. It is also the landing-place for us who
return, illusions fled. Too often to tear open in the self-
same little hotel telegrams of horror. Reader, have you
ever run a race with death ? She who writes has, twice,
and won, and once from this hotel. But one may not do
that thrice. Next time the pale horse will win at a canter.
Marseilles is the most electrical of all French cities after
Paris, a fever of rush and bustle, everyone on the move to
IO
OF MARSEILLES
the utmost parts of the earth. The harbour's mazy meshes
are a replica of Muirhead Bone's pen drawings ofthem. As
I sit up in bed, my black widow's jacket sombre above the
golden quilt, I see the twin gothic, serrated spires of the
cathedral rise above the rich platane* avenues. They
have long slit-like windows showing the light through, like
St. Peter's at Rome.
But high on her pinnacle, in the morning sunlight,
Marie La Garde glints all gold above the mist wreaths
floating up from the sea. On dull days the mist wreaths
swathe the virgin into a grey wraith. But always dominant
on her pinnacle of the church on the high castellated summit
with the oriental dome behind, always watching her mariners
across the seas. High, so high ! Far, far above the garish,
up-and-down town with the red roofs ! Always marking
Marseilles as a town of sea-people who go down in ships.
Oh, Marie ! Vierge et Mere ! You who watch over
the Mysteries of Marseilles! Does your mother's heart ever
bleed for our anguish? For the black-veiled mothers of
Marseilles and for us, who are voyagers here ? Marie
La Garde, sounding across the sweet waves, filling the air
as the Duomo does at Firenze. In all my many travels
round the Wide, Wide World I count this little hotel and
Nedou's at Srinagar most dear. In that, frequented by
taciturn travellers from the mystic Thibetan country, one
feels the beat of Asia's heart, the most mysterious of
* Horse chestnut.
II
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
continents. In this the galvanic pulses of Europe beat the
loudest. I have the greatest horror of Palais de Luxes, full
of " Foules." The bouillabaisse is full of sea flavours and
with tiny crabs for garnishing.
The intricate lozenges and patterns of all sorts of the
giant iron Transbordeur Bridge, the two huge triangles of
the suspension, hang over the old port and Cannebiere.
The bridge and the Virgin are the two dominant features of
Marseilles. In the evening the sun sets like a golden lion
couchant above the bridge, a gigantic red-gold ball sends
wave after wave of golden mist towards the Virgin. High,
so high above the other castellated, fort-like hills, that she
needs a funicular railway to approach her. Grey and wraith-
like against the pale evening sky, but always dominant,
always insistent, always commanding, this woman, regal
representative of matter, at the gate of material France.
After the accouchement of His Majesty the Logos He
leaves a few rosy fleeces in the sky, like the Laughing Hours,
to mark His path, till they also vanish, leaving the night
tints behind them. A Whistler's nocturne in indigo with a
thousand eyes of the night twinkling all over the place
and even in the two little houses hanging in mid-air inside
the two huge chain triangles suspended from wheels above.
Last of all in this remarkable panorama of Marseilles,
brilliant Venus and her satellite appear above the wraith-like
Virgin triumphant, before she vanishes into the night.
Finally the Virgin disappears and Venus with her attendant
12
OF MARSEILLES
satellite remains exalted, Queen of the Night. After the
Whistler's blue landscape, on which the bridge is sharply
limned, dies into blackness the thousand eyes of the night
come out and brazen it up and down the hills.
Now the watching :figure far above them is hidden.
Is it that she shall not see the night's thousand sins? On
:fine nights the black of the sky is slashed with crimson and
pistache. The view from my window over the tawny tops
of trees, where the birds hold concerts morn and eve, is a
cross between a Whistler and a Muirhead Bone. The birds'
chorus in these happy climes rises even when the trees are
bare, except the hollies. The intricate tracery of the great
iron bridge is just visible against masses of black clouds
advancing up the Gulf of Lyons. A myriad lights illumine
the Mysteries ofMarseilles from every shade ofinky blackness.
The night has a thousand eyes.
A song of our spring time. I sang it to one who laughed
and said, " So I mustn't stay with you too late ! " Together
we probed the Mysteries of Marseilles and of the Orient in
our radiant youth. Now he has gone-beyond the sun ?
No, thank God! nous verrons.
October 12th. Rain once more, Southampton in
miniature and a deadlock at Cook's. "No means of getting
farther East," they say. And the sun is shining at Monte
Carlo, and the flowers luscious, and the Embassy has written
to the Consul to ensure a royal welcome. Boundless
13
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
possibilities in a vie de l'Operette. At least a week-end at
Cannes.
The terra-cotta Riviera is ala mode in all things. The
train rushes through natural rock gardens, all along the route,
where
The fig runs up from the beach,
And riots over the land.
We pass through gardens with golden balls of oranges
of the Hesperides. The blue smoke rising from castellated
chateaux coils against the rich green pines, the grey greens
of olives, the sombre greens of the cypress needles surround-
ing belled towers of churches warn us that temp11s fugit.
As the night advances livid flames dart from the pyres lining
the route the British traverse to die.
We visit the Isles of the Lesser Mysteries. One has the
fortress of the Man with the Iron Mask. The other the
mysterious Monastery of primeval times, hidden in a grove
of giant aloes flowering once a century, from which
all women are hermetically barred, also guarded by a
fortress.
We return over a silvery sea, our prow cutting the water
into a silver lace ruff. Here and there are other grey,
wraith-like vessels with silver and gold sails. So might
Ulysses have set sail, save for the silver butterfly aeroplane
hovering above Ulysses never knew.
Landing, the white and silver gulls forgather in fluffy
groups along the shore. The sunset is a wonderful study in
14
OF MARSEILLES
lemon and indigo only. The lemon sunset behind the
indigo mountains slashes the glassy blue sea, so often seen
in these regions, with flots of yellow. The giant palms in
the foreground are all in deepest indigo. The only variant
shade is the ruby point glowing in the Lighthouse on the
Mole where the Peacemaker's yacht was so often moored.
His marble statue in yachting attire dominates the town.
Rose tints first dye the indigo flood, shimmering like spun
glass, then, as they fade, the lemon tints slash the waters,
merging near the shore into an ocean of molten gold.
Wraith-like vessels, with venetian-red sails glide upon it.
A regiment of giant indigo palms sentinels the shore. Each
frond in their fan-like summits is sharply silhouetted in indigo
against the lemon sky. A more lovely combination of lemon
and indigo cannot be imagined.
But there is no real mystery on the Riviera. As we
ascend its heights there is only the curious, musky smell of
many flowers, the murmuring over a breviary of a black-
garbed priest.
Society at Monte Carlo is led by three old women of
seventy who claw yellow coins by day to conceal yellow
skins at night. It is full of wreckage, of elderly couples
diseased and dying from want of something to do. Here is
a man who has married an old woman for her money in
order to produce his life's work, an opera which ran in
Paris for two weeks. The girls drink cocktails all day
long. Three generations are present. Grandmothers are
IS
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
raddled with paint. Death leads the way gibbering with
his ugly skull.
No. Kashi the Mysterious calls. The heart of all life
of the planet. Home. As old Jacolliot said of her long
ago, "No one would believe the mysteries we have seen.
STILL WE HAVE SEEN THEM."
Oh, Kashi ! Mother of the New Race! Mother of us
all ! I come ! I arise from dreams of Thee. I fly round the
town and unearth a berth by Messageries Cook has failed
to sniff out. A French officer is taking his ticket for Mada-
gascar. I shall have agreeable company, the first bit of cheer
since the neuralgic horrors of Southampton Dock. I buy
a bunch of violets beneath the dappled avenue where the
flower-baskets are dreams of colour and perfume from all
the Cote d'Azur.
If these notes appear scrappy, they were made on many
scraps of paper, inspired by a muse insatiable, and tucked into
a Cook's ticket-case.
16
II
OF MALTA
The dropping of the anchor outside new islands-islands and islands and islands
no two ever alike : ever changing languages and ever changing peoples : all in the
little-small as a jewel that it seems as though one were able to take it up in the hollows
of one's two hands, feel the warmth of it, turning it, catching the glow upon it as
upon a jewel. That for me is life.... Heaven only knows how I shall ever again
live or sleep in the close room of a London flat.-THE VENTURE BooK.
DECEMBER 4TH. Embarked with Sir Edwin Lutyens, who
has come from Spain and who has ldndly accepted com-
mission to design our Museum of travel and last rest at
Kashi. We are still in dock amidst the Muirhead Bone
lines and cables. I find myself at table with' three fellow
pilgrims bound for Adyar. It is the fiftieth year of the
Theosophical Society. In 1875 was the meeting of H.P.B.
and H.S.O., in the nick of time, as ever, for the last quarter
of the century's revival, at The Eddy Farm House, arranged
by the Brotherhood. There the materializations included
giants with seven-foot lances measured by the careful colonel.
H.P.B. had been told to try the spiritualists and see if they
would join her. She failed. Hence her bitterness towards
them. Three thousand theosophists, four hundred whites,
men of thirty-eight countries, and twenty-five General
Secretaries are to be present.
Just before we cast off towards the City of Shiv I send
17
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
a farewell wire to a Shivite fog-bound in drear old Town.
She has painted a new conception of Him. Young, lithe
and svelte, haloed by His own golden glory, expelling the
Dark Forces as jagged serpents from His navel. He sits
on a blue island by an ice-bound lake. Clouds of incense
rise around Him from a ring of bloody braziers. In them
are the bleeding hearts of devotees. Behind Him rise eternal
snows and leafless branches. Like a Russian icon, the
picture has become magnetic and breathes Peace, the English
of Shiv, and the essence of His expression.
We land at Malta, that island of flaming sunsets and
Angelus bells. Malta is one of the most densely popu-
lated islands. She is peopled by a race too degenerate for
self-control. Every square yard is overrun by the small,
pale, black-eyed people, a mixture of many races, master of
none. Only is Malta redeemed in sunshine by her pris-
matic, bizarre colouring, Malta with her glorious past, her
depraved present, her squalor, her cathedrals, her teeming
population, her barrenness, her rank, coarse, gangrenous
growth, so that even the food she produces is nauseating to
a sensitive frame.
The hotel proprietor came bustling officiously out of
his office. A typical Maltese, he was small and sallow,
dark-eyed and grey-haired, with the face and figure of
an ape, the voice of an archbishop. He prided himself
on the haut ton of his hotel, the best on the island. He
addressed some subalterns in soft suave accents. " I
r8
OF MALTA
cannot have this row going on here. It's so common ! "
Then catching sight of our party, he jumped nimbly to my
side and bowed obsequiously.
" So sorry, milady, not to have a better room for you.
But another distinguished lady slept in your apartment. I
do like to have nice people here ! "
" Really," I replied coldly. " What was her name ? "
- " Lady Burton ! "
That night, as I lay sleepless on Isabel Burton's pillow,
from the Grand Harbour, beneath my balcony, came voices
as the sound of many waters. It was a troopship going
to the East. The P. and 0. ships anchor in Sliema Harbour,
beneath the orange trees, on their way eastward. How
often in my girlish days have I watched theni depart from
the garden of Sa Maison ! How little I then understood
that strange, subtle tug at my heart-strings, that yearning
not to be left behind ! Sa Maison is set in a ledge aboye the
Harbour. The lovely lights and shadows of this semi-
tropical garden, tucked into a shelf on the wondrous for-
tifications of the Warrior Hermits, brought a sense of lulling
and temporary peace. For it was hallowed with memories.
My mother had come to Malta as a bride. An elder baby
brother had died there. I saw my parents moving in the
old garden when the mossy lichened tablets were new and
crude. The light filters through snowy unfurlings of the
arums around the British lions couchant in stone. White
butterflies flicker above the tender translucency of the leaves.
19
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Violets of enormous size and · crude mauves provide the
perfumes. Scarlet poinsettias flaunt of greater Britain
beyond the seas. I saw my father in mutton-chop whiskers,
my mother in early Victorian flounces, first as a bride, riante,
provocante, insouciante, running about the flowers with bursts
of happy laughter. And then I saw the saddened dis-
appointed mother of an hour, her halting steps supported
by the young husband, the friend of Hedley Vicars, and of
Gordon of Khartoum, who gravely quoted Scripture texts
in consolation. I watched the P. and O.'s glide away to
the East, and had wished to follow them to that dim,
mysterious bourne from which no traveller returns un-
changed. India from earliest years had always called to
me as to those Greeks who obeyed the call like dolphins.
Well, the day came when I went. The East welcomed
me kindly, most kindly, even as one of its own in an exile's
body. They called me a brahmini returned to them in white
flesh. The East opened to me the boundless stores of its
knowledge wider than to most, even of its own. Aladdin's
lamp, the Arabian nights, paled in significance before its
marvels.
We walked up the Strada Reale, past the Grand Opera,
on to the ramparts, and into the Baracca Gardens. Its arches
were clothed with the bougainvillea, which grows with its
intensest purple on the tawny stones of Malta. Its petals
like purple paper, mixed with the tubes of scarlet wax of
the venusta. In any other medium but flowers the com-
20
OF MALTA
bination would scream. But they weld harmoniously to
frame the blue waters of the Grand Harbour guarded by
the Lower Baracca. We looked to see Calypso glide from
'
the Greek Temple set in palms, watching for Ulysses' ship
to steal between the forts to love. But Calypso lived on
the lesser isle of Gozo, they say, and, instead of the Grecian
barque, were British leviathans.
The Baracca stirs the pride of British hearts with the
grandeur of British might displayed beneath the aquamarine
harbours cut deeply into the pale gold of fortressed battle-
ments. There lay leviathans, their guns asleep.
We received the sacrament in the small plain, white-
washed chapel, kneeling on the same spot as the last of the
warrior hermits. A few hours later their headless bodies
had been sent across the harbour to the Grand Master in
Fort Ricasoli with the cross gashed on their breasts. The
heads remained on poles on the outer walls between Turkish
banners bearing the crescent.
The ship could not start for some hours. We resolved
to spend them in the weird caverns of Hal Saflieni. It
is an underground palace meet for the reception ·of Ulysses
by the divine witch Calypso. Here priestesses of the fourth
race took precedence of men before the sombre Aryan came.
Here they worshipped the great Earth Mother, Astarte.
Once more we prayed, this time at dim underground
altars that were old when the Aryan race was young. We
dipped our hands Jn the powdery debris round the shrine
ir
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
formed of skulls that were long, not round. The bones
of men who built the Pyramids and loved and laughed light-
heartedly at the height of Egyptian glory, a million years
ago. Those men who painted the Eye of Osiris, Who
presided over the Forty-two Gods of the Judgment Hall,
on the boats of the dead at Cairo and have left it on the
boats of the living at Gozo, whose oars are reflected by the
dark blue rippling waters as cobras' coils.
The soul left the body to seek for happiness in the Realm
of the West, ruled by Osiris. The journey was made in a
boat along a dark stream. This river of the dead was
beset by demons, but Anubis and Thoth had the soul in
charge and brought it before the jury of Forty-two Gods,
of which the omnipotent Osiris- was President. Then its
actions were weighed in the balance. If well, it rose on
golden wings to purgatory, and, after, to the shade of
sycamore trees cooled by breezes, inhaling perfumes, and
eating at the table of Osiris.
Those men who loved and were led by women and
worshipped a woman Goddess before the Aryans taught
that duty should weave the wedding veil.
Noon. Heavy seas and dull skies. The only brightness
the fan of sunrays spr~ying the horizon from behind a cloud.
There a long~ crinkly silver, raised line is in sharp relief
against the boiling, seething, molten lead. This beautiful
illusion lights up -the Seven gloomy Sisters of the Lipari
Isles. A rainbow trails ombre ribbon on to the line and
iz
OF MALTA
. many little rainbows are made by the spray of the white
crests.
Oh, gorgeous vision! Oh guerdon of days to come I
There is then a fairer world than our dull Outward Bound !
It is that which has lured us to the toll of body and soul,
so that we die in its pursuit. The romance we have never
reached. The sauce in the earthenware. The moonlight patch
at the end ofthe passage on the sea. The Never-Never land.
4 p.m. The silver line has now turned to sea-green.
From it an ethereal light springs up into the lovely Lipari
curve veiling the biggest Sister's twin breasts. We
pass the witches' cauldron of Stromboli, from which smoke
and angry flames dart. But now our sea oflead has become
an ocean of gold. Tlfere is a regular sea menagerie with
us. A giant swordfish and gay dolphins alongside, martins
in the rigging, and of course gulls everywhere. Is there
any whiteness so warm and soft as that of the gull's wings
and breasts with the sun on and through them ? In my
no.ok in the stern, far from the odious crowd below, I see
them following us, and one by one they alight on the pennon-
pole to pick and preen with pointed bills. Then a white
fluff floats out on the air, too light to drop. One follows
it floating and fading in golden glory. Wheeling, circling,
flapping, poising, white, mottled, and grey, like angels
from above, below, how wondrous are thy gulls, oh God!
How gorgeous the lapis sea-garden where the giant yellow
seaweeds grow I
c 23
III
OF THE CANAL
I have heard those songs which are inscribed in the ancient sepulchres, and
what they tell in praise of life on earth and belittling the region of the dead. Yet
wherefore do they this in regard to the land of Eternity, the just and the fair, where
fear is not? Wrangling is its abhorrence, nor does any there gird himself against
his fellow. That land, free of enemies I-all our kinsmen from the earliest day of
time rest within it. The children of millions of millions come thither, every one.
For none may tarry in the land of Egypt ; none there is that passeth not thither. The
span of our earthly deeds is as a dream; but fair is the welcome that awaits him who
has reached the hills of the West.-Neferhotep, a minstrel of Tutankhamen's time.
We reached Suez before the sun rose to-day; I got up very early; the morning
sparkled-the sea shimmering the palest green and blue : and Suez lay, just a low line
of ochre and lilac buildings, along the yellowish shore. All the colour was cool,
clear and light: I walked about the wet washed decks by myself, so happily.
A thick, middle-aged man came and leant on the rail at my side.
' "Come and dance on deck."
" Did you see the lilac jelly-fish," I said, " and the sea snakes diving amongst
them ? "
"No," he answered, laughing, and staring. "You're a queer girl,''
Dreamily I thought again of the morning's amazing sight. As I was looking over
the ship's side into the sun-filled purity of clear blue water I saw it starred with thou-
sands, with countless multitudes of jelly-fish, floating there in the fields of the sea,
all misty lilac, half transparent and half opaque ; swayed this way and that in the
limpid waves, they moved gently, seeming tranced by the slow motion. Tremulous
with filaments of palest mauve spreading round them, and wavering in the warm sea,
they stretched as far as I could see right down to the translucent blue.
And then, as I looked, I suddenly saw, plunging deeply among the soft, nebulous
forms, two glistening sea-snakes, Shining emerald they were : swift and twisting,
they seemed to reel downwards into the depths, I felt that I was looking into a
world of life too remote, too strange, too fantastic, and I looked no longer, half afraid
that some still greater marvel would appear.-FLOWERS AND ELEPHANTS.
December 9th. Peace at last! We have left Europe
and blizzards and taxis behind and are slipping down the
Canal. The Canal has a society of its own, en evidence at
the the dansant at Port Sai:d. The Canal belle arrives with
i4
OF THE ,
-CANAL
her mother, chattering volubly in French. She is met by
her fiance, a typical Frenchman, and after a turn with him,
is jazzed by a tall youth whose straight lank denotes a Gyppy
dash.
How Port Said recalls ghosts _
of yore ! Of Mrs. Royle,
the most beautiful woman of Europe, immortal on the
foundation-stone of the church her husband built. Of the
warm-hearted, noble Irishman, Ross Scott. A griffin I.C.S.,
he made their maiden voyage East with H.P.B., chival-
rously determined she should have fair play. A brilliant
career ended, this just Chief Justice of the United Provinces
passed on just as his retirement was won. Of the soldier,
member of a brilliant military house. He made the East
a playground of Hell.
We are followed by a new crowd. The gulls are soft
grey like huge doves. It is a fine sight to see their dance
on the lapis water near a vermilion buoy. The reflections
turn the white wheeling breasts to green. They utter sharp
cries in scrambling for tit-bits. As though to atone for the
storms, the Canal has never been more lovely. The water
turns the whole gamut of blues and greens from indigo to
opal, the sands of Araby and Egypt from vandyke to prim-
rose. The Garden of Allah is there complete. Emerald
oases, palms, tents, camels, arabs and all. The couchette du
soleil is the Real Thing. No longer the Pretty Fanny's cream
and rose of the Mediterranean, but the barbaric scarlet of
the East.
25
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
In the south, to which we were headed, a high range
of Africa's stark limestone crags stood over a burnished sea.
The sun looked straight at them. And just above them,
parted from their yellow metallic sheen by a narrow band
of sky, was the full globe of the declining moon; and the
moon herself was no more distant and no more spectral
than earth's bright rocks beneath her. . . . Those luminous
bergs shone like copper. Their markings were as clear
and fine as the far landscape of a newly-risen harvest moon.
Suez was not far away, and its lilac shadows were as unearthly
as the desert. But there was substance alongside our ship.
Some villas were immediately below, arboured in tamarisk
and cassia. A few trees in that green mass were in crimson
flower. I could smell the burning ashore of aromatic wood.
A child in a cerise gown stood under a tree, but she was so
still that, like the polished water, like the hills of brass, and
the city built of tinted shades, she might have been the deceit
of an enchantment.
The ship's crowd develops. There is a Catholic party
of thirty bound for Kenya. They comprise :
I Bishop,
I Reverend Mother,
6 young priests, just ordained.
6 nuns.
2 lady doctors.
13 White Fathers.
I cure going to Mauritius.
26
OF THE CANAL
Doctor MacNeil is a new convert. She went to Rome and had
the unusual privilege of receiving Communion in the Holy
Father's private chapel administered with his own hands, who
welcomed her into the church. All Catholic Rome said,
"This means a special mission for you." She then went to
Lourdes to seek it. There she heard that the Reverend
Mother, who had just left, sought a physician for Kenya !
The White Fathers have spread over all Africa except the
Sahara. At eve they tell us tales of lion combats in Rhodesia,
one having killed three. Of the luscious fruits and food,
apricots, grapes, and strawberries of Tanganyka. "Tout
est parfait, excepte l'appetit. I1 me faut la quinine chaque
jour." Dear devoted Daniels! Uncouth, unread, they have
the supreme gift of bhakti ! The cure, aged about forty-five,
travels to Mauritius because no one else wants the job.
However, he reassures me that the old families of his cure
are the cream of aristocracy. He is most empresse that I,
when at Port Sa!d, should make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
He gives me the name of the Fraternity there who would
attend to my spiritual needs. He recurs over and over again
to this. I have not the heart to tell him that the home of
the sages who first saw the Star of the Birth at Jerusalem
is my goal.
There is a Wembley band en route for Calcutta. Blatant,
braying, it is rapturously received. A woman with hooped
orange skirts and an enormous Spanish comb sings a duet
re " Marcheta and Mosquitoes," with a man in topee and
27
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
green "buggist's" veil. British officers in raucous chorus
call for " whisky suhdas " and are " pahnicking about
wahless ! " How are the mighty fallen ! I cannot help
recalling the dreamy subtle waltzes of our youth, such as
Narenta. But an exhausted empire means the simplest
and baldest themes to-day, drumming in music, drink and
harlots in drama.
This is more than ever true since the war. I submit
that the wonderful revival of poetry for the three years of
the war, now shut up like a clam, was like the Italian Re-
naissance of painting, also turned off like a tap after three
centuries. It was due to the refining of the spirit by war
conditions. The ideal of honour, country, and home in-
spired it. This is now obscured by the sordid struggles of
taxes, etc. The revival of spiritualism counteracts this. Hence
the medium serves the cause of the White Brotherhood in
Their ceaseless struggle versus the Brothers of the Shadow.
The winches are like the gargoyles of Notre Dame.
We seem to have been at sea for an age. The exposed
forecastle with its rusty gear, where I feel most at home,
has become friendly and comforting.... The great red
links of the cable, the ochrous stains on the plates, the squat
black winches like crouched and faithful familiars, the rush
and gurgle of fountains in the hawse-pipes when the ship's
head dips, the'glow of the deck and the rails like the grateful
warmth of a living body, and the ancient smell, as if you
could sniff the antiquity of the sea and the sweat of a death-
28
OF THE CANAL
less ship on a voyage beyond the counting of mere days,
give me a deeper conviction of immortality than all the
eager arguments from welcome surmises. I am in eternity.
There is no time. There is no death. The seas of Sappho
have become chunks of sapphire and emerald. Both green
and blue are equally true to those glorious gems at their -
best. In this fairies' part of the world the jelly-fish are
little topaz umbrellas set in a chunk of emerald, carved in
front and behind with surface_tracery, churned into aqua-
marine Marcelle waves by our progress. The banks are
lined with purple rushes of the same meshes in which
Pharaoh's daughter found Moses. The casuarina trees
glide by like a tapestry panorama. Our aftermath washes
down the yellow sand, topazes and all, like a miniature
Niagara. Nothing seems real.
The Canal stations seem to be painted in exaggerated
colours. The mirages of great lakes and winged boats
crumble into quicksands in a quivering line. There is
something mystic in the remoteness of that mirage-line. It
is a wall guarding the last stronghold of romance, a defiant
challenge to the dwindling army of earth's adventurers.
Beyond are stewing jungle and rivers green with fever ;
a wilderness peopled with creatures that no amount of
profound research and" pi jaw" can make me believe were
my brothers ; these and God only knows what other stark
realities ; and yet I thrill at the suggestion of incredible
possibilities.
29
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
The melancholy beauty of this voyage !
Dawn, and the sea dreaming remote dreams, dreams too
chaste for men. Midday : and the world ringed by a clear
horizon separating two hemispheres of blue. Sunset :
and gloom of bronze, rose tissue in the west, saffron : and
purple where the night was smouldering. Dusk : and the
wind frail as a cobweb: stars in the heather darkness.
Pale immaculate gloom washes the promenade, and
silence. The hush seems measured and intensified by the
great throbs that come up from the belly of the ship where,
amid grease and oil and metal entrails, sullen furnaces are
digesting a feast of fire. Woven through this cottony
stillness are the hiss and crush of foam spinning past the
hull. Beyond the rail, in what seems another world, sky
and sea are merged in a pulsing immensity of darkness made
mysterious by millions of eyes.
A heavy calm flattened the water to glassy opaqueness :
directly overhead a vanishing vomit of smoke gave an unreal
quality to the stars, a transient beauty, frail as the memory
of dying light.
There was immense depth to the scene, an imposing
tyranny that seemed to declare the permanence of sea and
the evanescence of men. All the beauty and loneliness of
living, all the splendour and agony of dying were invested
in the tremendous sweeps of distance . . . a night designed
to make dreams a certainty and life without substance.
And I imagined that, borne across the calm from a coast
30
OF THE CANAL
low-lying and unseen, was a faint distillation of tropical
fragrance, t.he savour of enchantment. It was like a re-
discovered perfume of the past. I saw myself as a girl,
the globe in my hands as a magic crystal. Suddenly all of
life seemed contained in it with one sublime moment at its
pole, a moment of supreme fulfilment worth all the dreary
sterility of dead years. Yet were they sterile? Whose
fruits had made me, in one summer season, known to the
intelligentsia of three continents ?
That moment had come, lifting the very fact of existence
into a region exalted and unearthly. I felt myself the
possessor of great secrets, the true antidotes for despair
and anguish. Work and love. I was for an instant Mistress
of Life and Death. Brief this exultation, and when it had
gone I knew I had felt the touch of true Romance.
The Arabian desert lives up to its music, which stung
my ears like particles of glass, it flowed into my soul like
honey and wrapped me in a dream of bubbling impetuosity
that vibrated every muscle in my body, electrified every
nerve I possessed.
The dark jungle river choked with hyacinths; the
diamonds in the whirlpool and the ruby in the rice-pot ;
the blow-pipes, sharks, sandstorms and opium ; the damsel
in Arabia whp danced to gurgling water-pipes.
31
IV
OF ADEN
Let us remember that it is all very well for wise pilots in other and darker seas
to assume they may teach young voyagers the right ways in the deceptive and fog-
bound coasts of philosophy. Philosophy? That is easy. We may make our
charts then according to inspiration or desire.- "THE RED SEA AND GULF OF ADEN
PILOT."
I was thinking of the desert stretching into Africa, miles of colourless sand and sand-
coloured lions moving, fields of blue vetch by the Nile ; and the black tombs of the
Bulls of Apis, dark and stifling under their loads of sand- thick heat in there, and
thick darkness, and the empty, sombre passages going between the great black granite
tombs sunk deep in underground halls. And fields of beans, and fields of lupins,
and loose-growing sugar-cane, and dense corn : and behind, the rosy wall of the
Libyan Mountains in the jocund morning light, honeycombed with tombs- full of
mummies in hard painted cases, and painted halls and creamy passages, and roofs
coloured with the young blue of Egypt-the most adorable colour in the world.
In the cool air lovely bird-like boats, painted green, with pointed white sails,
came sailing near and about us. The huddled figures in them seemed to have been
there all night, so immobile were they ; while one steered the others sat, with blue
cloths shrouding them, silently looking across the water. Some of the boats brought
slippery fish, some dates crushed into blocks, some fruit piled high. When the sun
rose, the houses on shore shone white with deep shadows and more boats came
rowing out towards us ; boats full of boys, brown and black, clothed in a few wisps,
who sang and grinned with white teeth and rowed slowly round the ship, their faces
upturned while they shouted guttural Arabic. In one sat a blue-black Nubian youth
with a bit of pink stuff knotted round his head ; his gleaming body looked polished in
its blackness against the pale waters as he sprawled there idly with a parrot perched
on his shoulder.--FLOWERS AND ELEPHANTS.
The Queen of the South came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the
wisdom of Solomon.-]Esus.
December 13th. Aden. The Adyar party have got1e
to visit the Wells of Solomon and his jade, the Queen of
Sheba. She still haunts the Turkish fort when the moon
is full. I remain to discuss plans with Sir Edwin Lutyens.
The Sheba party expect great things of Adyar, no less than
32
OF ADEN
the reincarnation of the Buddha. Lady Emily Lutyens,
who is the chief Herald of the Star, has gone on ahead with
Mrs. Besant to prepare for the mighty event.
Aden is always rich in colour. Velazquez or Goya
might have painted the boat manned by black and copper
Arabs in sombre turbans of dull reds and greens, lying
beneath in the green water and enriched with clouds of diver-
birds and brown hawks in carrion tints, called in Arabic
"angry proprietors," because they squabble over their
prey. El Greco might have painted the sharp black and
whites of the rocky Isle of Quarantine. In Aden, because·
of the rock refractions, the rust is always lovely. All the
old barges and buoys are painted in different gorgeous
tints of orange lying in jade. A gigantic striated turnip
fixes our prow.
Carved dhows date from Elizabethan days. Consulates
fly flags bf the New World. Warmth and colour and leisure
at last. Dolce far niente in a boat beneath us, where a
man unfurls his loin-cloth to act as a sail. No one wishes
to row. Far to the south is a forest of peaks, misty in the
heat, and a light that never was on sea or land. Any-
thing might happen out there. For it is not the sea. It is
a shimmering radiance as galvanic as the warm bath of an
intense passion, and the areas of coral rock betray in blinding
incandescence what secret energy is at work. On either
side of the channel, barely immersed, were whelks of coral
and crusty scars, reefs waiting to cicatrize some ship and
33
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
send her to the bottom, there to rot amid the marine ulcers
and other wounds left by undersea eruptions. Nearer, the
rocks are of brown velvet with shadows showing dim,
mysterious caves. And still the birds circle, circle, wheeling
and crying to right and left in battalions of white, brown
and grey.
The screaming gulls that wheel and soar
Above the long, enchanted shore
Can never tell if they have seen,
Beneath the sea's translucent green • • .
Oh, Brother Birds ! What do you want ? You want what
we all want, to live our day to its uttermost and die. I
wanted to go somewhere where no white man had ever
been before. I wanted to see a wild country, to hear the
barbaric rhythm of paddles beat against the gunwales of
a dugout, to hear the howling of the orang-outangs in the
jungle and the throbbing of a medicine drum. I wanted
to explore, and set my foot upon land that no white man
had ever conceived of. It would be the darkest jungle.
The highest peak, the signal station of 1,800 feet, is
known as Shum Shum I
34
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
Ever-extending lines of palm-fringed shore,
Sheltered lagoons of calm and tranquil face
Unmoved by ocean's deep and sullen roar,
Dreaming beneath the sun's resplendent rays;
Gay boats that glide by mazy water ways,
An old town where all day long
Worshippers wend their way to shrines in streams;
Inspiring damsels versed in art and song,
And many friendly faces, sweet and kind ;
These are the visions clinging to my mind.
BOMBAY MEMORIES.
There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy.
HAMLET.
BOMBAY, Port of Destiny of the Eastern World. A sea of
peacock green, streaked with mauve in places, in others
blue as turquoise, and, in the distance, a string of jade islands.
Round one the world-end steamers wait.
Ah, Loti ! Whose fascinating interiors have so often
enthralled me in Paris, displayed in the shop vis-a-vis
to the Comedie Frarn,;:aise. Prince of sailors. Prince
of artists ! A mystic without a faith, a pilgrim despairing
of life, yet dreading death, what a sombre road you
must have walked I And yet how splendid I To feel
the winds of exotic seas in your hair ; to hear the soft
music of palms ; to see the blinding white of pagan temples
burning in the sunlight ! These sensations you sought,
35
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
but they gave you no peace. The winds of adventure
became poignant breaths from the lips of dying love, the
music of palms a funereal strain ; the white temples were
the bleached remains of religions in whose creeds and rituals
you found no solace.
Bombay. Christmas Day. First step to rest! Oh,
its peace ! Its calming, soothing magnetism. Its absence
of turmoil and hurry. Above all its mysteries concealed!
Am met by old Judge Khandalavala, brought down by his
son, who nearly thirty years ago gave the first letter of
introduction to a friend in Kashi to the girl bride. Am
not surprised when he hands me a typed communication
from his deceased daughter that my husband says, "Un-
less you leave India immediately you will be killed by a
motor!"
Opposition Forces at work already ! But what matters
that ? In the lapping of the water round the scarlet barge
which later will float out on a tide of molten silver to meet
the incoming rush of gold, in the rustling of the palms
towards Parel and the magic hostel, in the soft, subdued
voices of the Goanese servants, in their silent squatting in
the shade of the pink oleanders in the noontide heat, in the
gorgeous tints of the sunset, which appears fresh painted
to greet the pilgrims, of whom more anon, in the mystery
of Elephanta behind us, even in the sinister cries of the
vultures, said to be the incarnate souls of the damned, that
compelling Force which always, everywhere, draws us
36
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
Home, has now effected its impact. Overpowering, over-
whelming, soothing, comforting, lulling, we are rocked
on the Mighty Mother's bosom.
INDIA TAKES BACK HER OWN
I welcome the residuum of seventy-seven pilgrims just
arrived via Venice for Adyar. The party includes a Viking
from the north and a tiny girl from "down und~r," dressed
in sapphire blue to match her eyes. She is said to hold
meditation classes of sixty spell-bound. The pretty young
lady relates how a furious blizzard, rending Europe, de-
stroying houses, trains, and transporting a dray many yards,
split in time to spare Ommen, Star of the East centre in
Holland, destroying villages on either side. Also that a
communication came that night from Lord Mattreya that,
to prevent a new European war, he would incarnate sooner.
All are therefore tremendously agog that the incarnation
may take place at Adyar.
The Harbour of Fate for so many of the Anglo-Saxon
race excels herself at night. As though to welcome the
strangers' festival, the sunset is the most glorious ever seen.
Sky and sea first all flame, then all deepest rose. Absolutely
unparalleled. All the domes and spires of mosque and
temple are in black velvet relief against the orange sky
towards which one gigantic black bird is flying. Only the
Taj Mahal Hotel is brilliantly lit, suggesting the last outpost
37
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
of Venus in the pilgrims' land. All the barges and ships
have turned deep black, too, on the molten silver tide,
interlined with gold, rushing outwards. Four lighthouses
are flashing lights, one in pistache, towards Malabar Hill,
outlined in fire. A barge rushes past ringed with life-belts
like a cobra. It glides through the water, its ruby and topaz
eyes aflame. Venus is so brilliant one cannot look at her.
The day's din has died down. The Westerns are dancing
in their clubs, the Easterns are praying on their rugs. Only
the ubiquitous cricket whirs, calling out with its insistent
cry:
INDIA TAKES BACK HER OWN !
Boxing Day. In the early, pearly morning a sailing boat
rushed past my window chock-full of forms in delicately
coloured saris for a holiday sail. White gulls whirl past,
their snowy pinions glinting in the sunlight. A band is
playing harmonies too intricate for the Occidental ear.
Welcome is writ large all over Bombay.
INDIA TAKES BACK HER OWN!
Then this arrives:
Malabar Hill.
DEAR MADAME,
I had the pleasure some time back of reading your
perfectly charming book-" pAGES FROM THE LIFE
OF APAGAN "-and since you are in Bombay, we would
38
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
consider it a ~rivilege if you attended our meeting of
the Three Arts Circle to-morrow evening at 5 o'clock.
We hold our meetings at Aiwane-I-Raffat, Ridge Road,
Malabar Hill, the residence of the Begum of Jangira.
Her Highness is the sister-in-law of Mr. Fyzee-Raham,
who has been commissioned to paint the Indian frescoes
at Delhi, and her house is perfectly exquisite-built
of red sandstone in the old Moghul style, with a cypress
terrace garden and waterfalls running into the house.
It is so rare that one gets anyone of real artistic merit
passing through Bombay, so we do hope you'll come.
May I hope that you will ring me up at 40569 if you are
free to attend, and I could do myself the pleasure of
calling for you.
Truly yours,
DARIUS TALAYARKHAN.
N.B.-Please excuse this very unconventional letter.
I 'phoned acceptance of this letter and was answered
in Public School accents, "How awfully jolly of you!
Righto ! " A motor-car duly came, and I was surprised to
see from my verandah that it apparently contained only a
lady in a crimson dress ! The smart chauffeur handed me
in, however, to an extraordinarily handsome youth with
pure Persian features crowned with dark curly hair, and
dressed in a Tyrian robe! The Begum's house was indeed
a miniature Shah Jehan palace, with rose bath, pierced marble
D 39
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
seats, and water-chute at the entrance, on a terrace command-
ing one of the finest views in the world of a palmy city on
a bay. The view from the roof displays Bombay as almost
an island with a small neck from Warli, the scene of the
magical bungalow. At our feet the city lay between the
palms and the sea, the coco-palms which grow on an
area of twenty miles inland but are nourished by the sea,
and all manner of flowering trees, one waxy white blossom
scenting a whole house. There ate dense groves of palms
down to the water's edge. It may be that there the magical
bungalow is hidden. The light, at the sunset, turned from
lemon to ruddy over this loveliest of cities set on a bay.
The bay of Naples is the only bay to compare with this.
On the terrace are two fountains lined with blue, one with
a permanent bubble, another supports an orange. Pigeons
in iridescent purples disport in the fountains. These roam
wild at their own sweet will, " fair, free, and without
reproach," fed by charitable bunnias who scatter seeds of
kindness for them. Emerald parrots utter blood-red cries
intermittently. Big black butterflies, the size and shape of
humming-birds, flit heavily over the ground. There were
saris in palest sea-greens, black and silver, and powder-blue
combined with purple and bordered with old gold. The
windows are not made of glass but of fretted red sandstone,
showing the waving fig branches and sprays of jasmine
outside. Altogether a fairy scene.
The advanced Islamic lady conducting the proceedings
40
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
announced that queens had deigned to honour the Three
Arts ! These were the Queens of Kuch Behar and of
Gwalior. The latter, a purdah nashin, watched the proceed-
ings from behind one of the lovely carved screen windows.
Two slave girls plied fans behind her couch. She was a
tiny creature, though recently widowed wearing gorgeous
jewels, and Regent of the State and Guardian of the infant
Scindia, her son. Her common sense was evinced in her
remark re Mr. Darius : " He funny boy, why dress like that? "
I gathered from an Englishman present that this clever
hybrid of East and West aspired to be a Bombay arbiter
elegantiarii, and would probably succeed. He read us an
article, already accepted by the Century, of his 'own, in
addition to one of the hostess re " The Lotus." Admirable
as all this was and miles above the futilities of the Yacht
Club, to my mind it lacked the soul of India. For the
Lotus is the symbol of the human heart, and Om Mani
Padme hum, plastered all over mystic Thibet, refers to
the meditation of the Yogi that the Master is sitting in his
own heart. All gorgeous India is but the casket containing
our Lords.
Mrs. Naidu, President of the Indian Congress, was
present. She said that Annie Besant, former President,
had completely lost all political influence. Any spiritual
influence she now possessed was due to her championship
ofthe new Avatar.
Mrs. Naidu is handsome, dark, sombre, and unhappy.
4I
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
She is £ghting against Karma, £ghting against fate. She
does not see that the subjection of her country to a foreign
country was necessary, if India was to become the Spiritual
Mother of the Globe. That the re-Indianiz~tion of the land
under the Montagu reforms is proceeding at a rate un-
dreamed of by efrher side. That it is hard for her to kick
against the pricks. If you are wiser, pity her. May she
rest in peace !
Bombay was a confused delirium of Arabian nights of
pleasure, of toiling out in the hot sun in quest of truth,
of driving by ethereal moonlight to dinners presided over
by women like midnight suns, of squalid bazaars and man-
sions like the Taj Mahal, of Turkish baths of perspiration,
and cooling fountains of sherbet and orangeade.
Now the holy places of India are of two sorts. Some,
such as Kashi, are sacred because of mysteries concealed,
e.g. temples made with hands of brick and stone. All
sensitive people can sense them but cannot see them. Others,
such as Amarnath, which we shall visit later, are sacred only
because of the Influence brought by -the prayers of the
devotees. I fly to the Theosophical Headquarters to read
once more the account of the magical bungalow hidden in
or near Bombay. This is what I read :
"A bet of R.100 was made that Moulji Thackersey
could not £nd the magnifig:nt bungalow with rose
garden in a wood, which he and Mme Blavatsky had
42
.J:
u
:.c
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
visited together the previous day. She had guided the
coachman by astral perceptions and had met her Master
" in the house." This time Colonel Olcott accompanied
them both. " Having found the wood of coniferre,
possibly casuarina trees, for an hour we drove now to
this side, now to that of the wood, intersected by roads.
At last a train rattled by and showed poor Moulji that
he had guided us in the very opposite direction to the
one desired. Mme Blavatsky told us that Moulji
would have found the mystical bungalow if a glamour
had not been brought to bear on his sight, and that it,
like all other spots inhabited by adepts, was protected
by a circle of illusion. This particular bungalow
was kept by a reliable agent and used as an occasional
rest-house and meeting-place for Gurus and chelas
when travelling. All the buried ancient libraries,
vast hoards of treasure, hidden until its karma requires
human use, are protected by illusory pictures of solid
rocks, unbroken ground, yawning chasms, etc." This
story coincides with folklore tradition.
Judge Khandalavala told me he had visited the Crow's
Nest a few days after the episode of the magical bungalow
and had heard the inmates chaffing Moulji on his inability
to find it, so this is direct evidence from a living man of its
existence.
Doctor Trilokekar, the oldest member of the Bombay
43
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Lodge, is brought to me. He is a practising physician
whose brother is president of a Bombay college. He also
is fascinated by the mystery of the concealed house. " I
found an old map of Bombay of I872. I showed it to
Bishop Leadbeater and Jinaradasa that they might find the
house by astral perceptions. They were too rushed at the
time."
K. T. ·" Colonel Olcott says it was at Parel ? "
V. S. T. "I am convinced it exists at Wadi. It was
near there that adepts met and saluted H.P.B. when driving.
The village of Wadi is in a wood formed of pine or casuarina
trees with needles. I hope to found a colony near it."
K. T. " You will never be allowed to do that."
V. S. T. "Not even of aspirants, as at Adyar? We
want five thousand converts for the new Avatar."
K. T. "Not even so. The maya is created for the express
purpose of keeping people off."
V. S. T. " I accompanied Colonel Olcott to Elephanta.
He put his hand on the exact spot in the caves where Mme
Blavatsky disappeared."
Their joint visit to Elephanta is described in Old Diary
Leaves, but not her disappearance there, described in the
caves of Karli. The Health Officer of Bombay told me that
an enormous sum had been expended by the Government
on an asphalt road and esplanade, one and a quarter miles
long, in the hope of making Warli a smart suburb. The
whole thing had failed. Only one Parsee had cared to pay
44
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
the price asked for the land and erect a villa, which was
unoccupied. The speculators in land there had forced up
fantastic prices. No one would pay. They were ruined
by the bursting of the boom. The Byculla Club, once worth
five lacs, was now only worth one lac.
Exactly. The guardians of the magical villa know how
to preserve its privacy.
Doctor Trilokekar then told me how he had been given
a profile portrait of Master Morya, known to some of us.
He hesitated to take it home because he feared the opposition
of his parents. But the moment he entered the house his'
father said : " You have the Master's portrait. I saw him
last night ! "
The doctor told me of a precipitated letter from Master
Maurya, long possessed by a friend of his, Professor Unwala.
He obtained it in 1882, from Prince Harisinghji. The
Founders of the Theosophical Society had visited his cousin
the Thakore of Wadhwan, in Kathiawar, in 1882, and then
the letter arrived. He made my mouth water by describing
its beauty. He told me the original was at Adyar, but
promised me a copy. Next morning I drove down into the
heart of Girgaum, and dripping from the heat, ran him to
earth in his dispensary. I begged .him, for the sake of a
sorrowing world, to give me this little bit of comfort for
them from the great Guru, to be whose chela I had earned
the right to have the chance in this life. And I minutely
described His appearance to the doctor who had not seen Him.
45
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
He faithfully promised " to strike off a bromide " from his
negative and to send it to my hotel in twenty-four hours,
with a photo of Moulji Thackersey that he had scoured
Bombay to obtain. Also, he offered to take me to the
Crow's Nest, now rented by a friend of his, from which the
magical hostel had been visited, it being en route to Warli.
That night I wrote a cordial invitation to the doctor to take
tea the next day and to drive with me to the Crow's Nest,
and also to Warli to search for the bungalow, though we
should never have found it. Not only did I receive no
reply, but neither of the photos ever turned up. Presumably
because I am not one of the five thousand ! Thus, the
brotherhood of Doctor Trilokekar !
On another occasion I scoured unsuccessfully the Ghats
of Kashi in search of a worthy pundit, said to meditate
there each evening, and who had a MS. of secret Blavatskian
doctrine from which part of " The Masters and the Path "
had been taken. The pundit refused to give it, though one
of the first precepts of occultism is, that no one is helped
unless they pass it on to others. I have, however, been
able to obtain a copy of the letter from another source. It
is in the red script of Maurya and begins with characteristic
irony.
"To all those whom this may concern-to the
honourable and doubting company (some were brilliant
atheists).
"Foolish are the hearts who doubt of our existence !
46
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
or of the powers our community is in possession of
for ages and ages. Would that you would open your
hearts to the reception of the blessed truth, and obtain
the fruits of the Arhatship, if not in this, then in another
and better rebirth.
" Who is for us-answer I "-M.
Later I saw Judge Khandalavala in his own house. He is
seventy-six years old and the oldest member of the T.S. in
the East. He is a judge and accustomed to weigh evidence.
Also he is a most profound student of occultism and has
been a member of the Eastern School all his life. He has
heard everything, read everything that has been given out
on the subject both in East and West. Therefore he may
be said to give the last word on the outer aspects of that
controversy which has convulsed the outer life of the world.
But it was not his karma in this life to be a direct disciple
himself. The following dialogue took place :
K. T.-" Is the information correct in ' The Masters and
the Path,' that there are Egyptian, Venetian, Hungarian
and Cyprian Mahatmas, as well as Hindus? I have no
direct knowledge of any other than Hindu Masters and
chelas."
]. K.-" Yes, I have hearq Mme Blavatsky speak ofthem.
She stayed in my house at Poona. I knew her intimately.
She told me her innermost secrets. I have a profound
veneration for her. She had such stores of knowledge I "
47
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
K. T.-" What do you think of the author of the ' Masters
and the Path ? ' "
]. K.- " He has brought over from his curate days at
St. Alban's, Holborn, and even then he was ambitious to be
a bishop, certain noxious ideas. But I take the view that
these, being of the personality, do not affect his discipleship
of the Masters."
K. T.- " That is the Roman Catholic doctrine. But do
you think the Masters can use a person with such ideas ? "
]. K.- " He has given out most valuable new science in
'Occult Chemistry.'"
K. T.- " What do you think of the new Avatar ? "
]. K.- " The boy is a student who has given out helpful
teaching and has intuition. I cannot say more."
Judge Khandalavala told me what I had previously heard
from others, that there was a second concealed house at
Thana. Mme Blavatsky with Damodar and others were met
by its agents and conducted there. Never again could
the bungalow be found.
In support of this statement re the hidden occult centres
in India, the following is from Mrs. Besant's " Avataras."
" Of the Kalki, the tenth Avatar, the future one, but little
may be said. He will come when there is born upon earth
the sixth Root Race. A higher race of men when the Kali
Yog has passed away, the dawn of a brighter age. There
will be a great change in the world, a great manifestation of
occult truth. Occultism will show itself to the world, so
48
JN THE CAVE OF ELEPHANTA.
\Vhcre Mme. Blavablfy phenomenally disappcan::d.
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
that none can deny. He will give the rule over the Race
to the two Icings, of the Kallci Purana. The ideal King and
Priest are all through history. Such a mighty pair come for
every race, the ruler, the Manu, the Brahmana, the teacher.
" The Kalki Avatar will call from the sacred village of
Shamballa, the village known to the occultist but not to the profane,
two kings who have remained behind to help the world.
The King in the Purana is called Mauru. In the womb of the
fifth Race, the sixth is being chosen. The King and
Teacher of the sixth are already at their mighty, beneficent
work. They are choosing and testing those who shall form
the sixth Race, subjecting souls to many an ordeal to see if
there be the strength out of which a new race can spring.
" When their work is done will come the Kallci Avatar,
to sweep away the darkness, to send the Kali Yog into the
past, to proclaim the birth of the new Satya Yog, with a
new and more spiritual race that is to live therein. Then
will He call King Mauru and Brahmana Devapi to give into
Their hands the race that they are building, the race to inhabit
a fairer world, to carry onward the evolution of humanity."
It is interesting to note that in the Secret Doctrine we
are told that Master Maurya will lead the new race. So
that even in the Purana, dating from before history, the
very name of our Master was known to prophetic vision.
Also that Devapi is Koot Hoomi.
Mme Blavatsky has written of the Imperishable Sacred
49
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Land as at the Pole. Aviators, flying over it, have given
that the lie. But I believe it was the spiritual axis she wrote
of, passing through Mount Meru, the mystic sacred hill of
the Himalayas, on which Mahadev still sits. And that by
the Imperishable Sacred Land, she meant the hidden and
mystic city, Shamballa, prepared by the adept Icings of the
third Race for the advent of the Lords of Venus, eighteen
million years ago. Born of their mighty force, Shamballa
is still intact in brick and stone, the headquarters of the
spiritual life of the planet. That is why in mystic books
the mystic village is described as over the heart of the earth.
- -
This coincides with private information of my own that
there are " thousands of people who worship these same
Masters outside of the T.S." These people appear to form
a community of their own. Like all concealed places, theirs
has the power to inhibit itself from being seen or intruded
on by the outer world. At the same time I have been in-
formed that there is no rule to prevent them mixing in the
outer life when they have work to do there. I believe it is
they who make use of the Magical Bungalow and other
concealed places, when travelling or performing their spiritual
functions.
They will appear publicly as leaders of the new Root
Race which is to inhabit California seven hundred years from
now.
That is why California is, even now, honeycombed with
occult bodies. There are the Rosicrucians, Universals,
50
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAGICAL BUNGALOW
Sat-Sangans, Metaphysicians and Brotherhoods of Light.
They are already preparing for the Sixth Root Race to be
cradled in California in seven centuries. We workers will
all presumably reincarnate there.
Now the reader will at once ask what first-hand knowledge
I have of this or other concealed houses ? I am only per-
mitted to scry that I KNOW that places concealed by maya from
the profane, where adepts are working, exist in other parts
of India, having personally visited them. Also that the
occult world is a big thing. It is not only a few Gurus and
chelas, but contains many persons who presumably frequently
pass through Bombay, and would need a secluded hostel.
I once asked a high initiate in Kashi re this selfsame house.
He replied, "It is for the storage of magnetism." That
accounts for Mme Blavatsky forbidding Moulji for his
"life not to enter." In one powerful concealed temple of
Shiv, the greatest on the planet, the vibrations are so powerful
that they would kill. Hence no young aspirant is allowed
to enter, even astrally, except in charge of his Guru.
-
I am able to give the following, from one who knows
re Kashi. " You take a passage. You think it leads in a
certain direction. In reality it brings you back (as with
Moulji) to where you started."* This is on the authority of
one or two friends who have both access to the occult temples
in the flesh. This follows after, and as a later stage, to access
in the astral body. As Mme. Blavatsky was visited constantly
* V ide "The Mystery of the Urn, Time, and Space," page 50.
51
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
at the Crow's Nest by adepts, sometimes on horseback, it
is probable they made the villa their headquarters while
their physical work was being done.
As we leave Bombay, the water laps soothingly. A
· copper athlete leaps in. The scarlet semal trees between the
luscious palms make the red roofs pale.
52
TliE FIHST TO WELCO~IE ~ I E 13ACI\ TO THE ~IOTHEHLAND.
THE MYSTERY OF THE SIBYL
There is a lovely vision in my mind,
An August morning on the mighty stream
Of Jumna, hours passing like a dream.
V ANISHED HOURS.
WOKE in the train to see an immense orange globe hanging
above the grey world. Thought it must be the sun, as the
moon had been a pale small ball. But no, it was the moon,
who sank in a minute beneath the grey world. Shortly
after, on the opposite side, " it was the blessed sun " who dyed
the clouds exactly the same orange above a forest of grey
palms.
Landmarks. the same old India. The ryot at the well
as patient, the black hump on his dun bail* as big, the sari of
his wife as scarlet, the smell of his fire as pungent, the clouds
of white pelicans as airy and fairy, the solitary black and white
stork with the black bill as sinister, the blue glints of the jay
as electric, the flag ofthe village temple in the sacred marigold
garden as pathetic in its faith as ever. At Alitpur a troupe of
five monkeys from the jungle have rushed the station and one
climbs up the door ofthe carriage and looks in at the window,
the first Hindu to welcome back to the Motherland. As we
* Bullock.
53
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
approach Agra, we see the Triumph of the Egg, the Egg of
the World, glimmering between the trees. We are passing
from the Bird Country to the Dome Land. The domes are
more frequent. The antelopes bound through the candelabra
of the cactus. Royal blue peacocks in pairs pose against
its misty greens. Ever the pungent smell of the Panjab,
the aromatic burning, becomes more potent, till, arriving
in the compound of Maiden's Hotel, Delhi, it is the sharpest
fragrance in the world.
Of Delhi nothing. It has become an Anglo-Indian
horror. Once Delhi was expressed in
Thro' the old city's silence
Where the Jumna flows,
Oh I listen to the nightingale
Sing lyrics to the rose.
Delhi of our dreams, our youth, our illusions I When
the women vanishing into the narrow slit-like gate of the
Purana Kila were the very incarnation of the mystery of the
East. Now the whole jungly village through which we pass
to the gem mosque of the Tiger King has been cleared out
and tidied into a grass lawn, like a golf course, approached
by a new flight of steps behind the gate. There is no mystery
now. The city of Shah Jehan was a tiny official station where
we prided ourselves in keeping off " box wallahs," who
revenged themselves by annotating the Club copy of " The
Voice of the Orient " as " The product of a plebean [sic]
mind!" Now it is: "Lady - (the Viceroy's wife) sends
54
THE MYSTERY OF THE SIBYL
down lilac to her special friends. I got a large bouquet
this morning," etc., all day long.
I scrambled up a ladder on to the roof of the hotel and
saw the havoc and horror worked on our old city. Our old
bungalow backed on to Nicholson's Ridge, where the jackal
used to scurry through the deserted mosque. Opposite was
ruined Metcalfe House, from which Theophilus Metcalfe
watched, across the Jumna, the massing of the rebels under
Bahadur Shah's brief Indian summer reign in the rose-red
turret walls. For us, the ruin was covered with the dudh
flower and the peacocks' chorus rose at eve. Now, crowning
horror I It has been rebuilt and whitewashed into a Secre-
tariat. For us who knew Delhi in the old days she is ghastly
with the bones of things that have died.
Only the fort is more beautiful than before, from Lord
Curzon's loving care. The hibiscus and poinsettia form
groves, the soft velvet sward a carpet, to connect the relics
saved from British barbarism of the loveliest set ofrooms in
all the world. Nay, he has even furnished one set of the
jewelled marble rooms into some faint resemblance of the
glorious days of yore. As we pass to the vast Jama Musjid,
the companion building of royal grandeur, one thinks of his
Durbar elephant procession, with golden howdahs and
princely profiles against the cerulean sky, which once passed
along this road. No one who saw it can ever forget the
radiant smiles of Mary Curzon, the bronzed gravity of the
potentates, the unending ·defile of the great beasts, whose
E 55
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
magnificence, one after the other, took one's breath away.
All vanished as a dream, the greatest Viceroy, the loveliest
vice-reine, and the biggest elephant. For their elephant,
lent by the Maharajah of Benares, died, as he told me, the
same day as Lady Curzon. Four men were connected with
my life in Delhi, my husband and Three Friends, who, as in
Ba:ber's time, shared our hot-weather excursions into the
City of Tombs. All four have gone, vanished like the
elephant procession, and only I remain to finish off the work
and tell the tale. Delhi is indeed for us the city of ghosts l
To reassure my fellow passionate pilgrims up and down
the world, once we have left Indrasprastha and the horror
of the new road-to Raisina behind, old Delhi of the forty
square miles of tombs seems the same as ever. Our red
road runs between cactus and jungle. It is patrolled by
silent camels. The Jumna winds as serenely as when it caused
our heart-throbs. Humayun's Tomb is as strong in its
desolation as when one of The Three Friends watched it
and loved it at dawn on hunting days from across the Jumna.
He commanded a crack cavalry corps. Now, like Humayun,
he lies in a soldier's grave. The Tomb is in red sandstone
and white marble, the mysterious sign of the interlaced
triangles everywhere in black. The emerald of the mina
birds on it is as rich, their blood-red cry as sharp as ever.
The porcelain dome, loved and painted by Mortimer Menpes,
is behind. It glints as blue as the jay's wing flashing by.
We drove out to the Qtab and fo"Und that our forty square
50
~
0
THE MYSTERY OF THE SIBYL
miles have, after all, been encroached upon by the devouring
monster of the new capital. New walls run up to the old
domes of fierce Moghul warriors. Stacks of bricks are all
along the route. A bungalow has even been built into a
tomb and a stucco Venus of Milo was in the mehrab, thus
breaking the pledge, after '5 7, of Victoria R.I. For, with
the Moslem, a tomb is a mosque, and sacred.
Arrived at the Qtab, we found a new dak bungalow had
been erected. In it vandals, white, tan, and black, were
drinking and smoking. It is now evidently a week-end and
official honeymoon resort. In the outer courts of Prithiraj
and Sunjogta ! Beneath the gorgeous crimson pistil of the
Indian Campanile ! Beside the tender bouquet of rose
tints, surrounded by soft greens, of Alla-o-Din's mosque !
The loveliest polychromatic decorations in the world ! Amir
Khusru sang of it six centuries ago as,
The depository of the grace of God,
The music of its prayer reaches to the moon.
Raisina, like a monstrous octopus, has thrown her tentacles
even here, one of the sweetest spots in the world. This
gigantic horror, of the evil omens, has swallowed up our
old Delhi. We can only cry "Ichabod I" The Delhi of
dreams for us and for the world.
Good-bye Delhi 1 Good-bye 1 Good-bye 1
Now for the real India I Venus is so fine and large
to-night one has to look twice to see if she is a star, or a
57
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
lamp ? The bearer is squatting like a kangaroo in eager
pow-wow with a neighbour's servant. Next day we attend
the midday Friday service at the Jama. It holds thirty
thousand worshippers, of which three thousand were present
in kaleidoscopic hues. Two muezzins on high, above the
multicoloured crowd, gave the call to prayer. Their robes
were of the same sage and violet beloved at St. Roch. Only
the white turban replaced the black biretta. The big tank
served the identical purpose of the holy-water font. The
bara moulvies in the oyster pearly mehrab are as learned
as their Western brethren. And then man dares to quarrel
with his neighbour for worshipping differently from him the
creator of the Milky Way!
What a far cry from the box of honour of the Dames
de Service, from the mellow marbles of St. Roch, to the
screened women's rear of the gorgeous Jama Musjid ! What
strange priests have prayed for me, from the ascetic Cardinal
Archbishop of Paris, the ancient prior of the Carthusian
Monastery among the vines of Florence, to the mighty
Moslem Moulvie of Delhi ! From the crude salvationist to
the subtle brahman !
In how many different tongues, in how many Cathedrals,
Mosques, and Temples over the world have I heard that
earnest prayer ! A prayer of hope, from beings bravely
digging at the Riddle of Life and Death ! As I listen, a
sombre reflection steals over me. I, too, have striven to
know that Secret, many times sincerely seeking knowledge,
58
THE MYSTERY OF THE SIBYL
but sometimes stirred by wretched fears. And as I realize
this, I no longer seem a stranger in the Mosque, but one of
that gathering and a member of a vast faith whose creed is a
pathetic confession of human weakness.
We visited John Nicholson's statue at the Kashmir Gate,
his uniform, beard and whiskers contemporary with Papa.
Also the Ridge. Saw a jackal near the deserted mosque
as of yore. The perfect proportions of the eggs and taller
slender minarets of the Jama rising opposite the Fort across
the Jumna and groves of trees. So must Nicholson have
watched it and wondered in the evening of the old days.
When he heard of the elephant procession in the Chandni
Chowk, and the brief restored glories of the Moghul panta-
loon, he must have wondered, " what those devils were up
to behind the city walls." In the evening, at Sultan Singh's
with a high initiate, heard the muezzins calling out all round
Delhi from the mosques. The house is at Kashmir Gate, in
a secluded garden of palms. " That sound is inspiring,"
he said, " because it is far away, calling to spiritual things
above the sordid ones." Outside my room a boy servant
of an Indian prince next door reads all day long from the
Ramayana, one of the oldest books of the outer world, the
story of a great bhakta, Ravenna, who closed the door of
heaven to someone in mistake. Because separation from
his Lord was agony to him, he chose the severest and quickest
form of expiation, that his vision should be clouded while
he worked for the wicked ones who are also agents of the
59
VEILED -MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Law. Of the deva, Hanuman, who worked in the body of
a monkey for the Good. Of Mina, the parrot, who flew
out and attacked Ravenna when he made off with the goddess
Sita, worshipped throughout the Aryavarta as purer than
purity itself.
Lucknow. The umbrella domes again of the old Kings
of Oudh, and, beneath, the House of the Sibyl, an Indian
Sibyl of the root brahmani branch, and therefore the mother
of the Vestals, the Oracle of Delphi, and the Pythoness,
inspired under reeking fumes from the cavern's mouth. By
miraculous power, she has risen from a death-bed of diabetes
and sits on her divan a young and smiling woman again.
The ancient rule re Sibyl and Tarquin obtains to-day. If
there is a failure, the way is made more difficult. " The
karma of your past life which brought you to me, to Them,
and to Mahadev's Temple, is done," she says. "As you love
your body and Parisian chefs, in your case a brahman cook is
necessary for you to proceed further." Just then a skinny,
half-naked man came in, carrying a brass tray on which was
an unsavoury mess of dahl, etc. "That is what you will
have to eat."
60
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI AND THE HIDDEN
TEMPLE
Hell ! They consider it treason to believe that any other part of the world is just
as good as their own. Christ I they're all off !-Sometimes a nigger's as good as
a white man; yellow and brown and black aren't necessarily heathen; they don't
worship.idols any more than you or I do. . . .
Hell! Everybody worships idols. Maybe it's a woman, maybe it's a cross, or
maybe it's just a piece of wood carved and painted to look like a God. What's the
difference, they're all symbols? Often I think that people are symbols too, sort of
a joke that God played on earth. . . .
THE BEACHCOMBER,
Softly the moonbeams' pale glory illumed
The sacred waters laving her dark shore ;
The boat now glided in the silver splendour,
While legends were retold from Hindu lore.
Passing along with the stream's silent flow,
The peace of the evening sank into our breast ;
The temple bell's note, stealing over the water,
Brought its message of calm to the world's unrest.
Do you recall those solemn hours we spent
Upon the Ganges late one evening,
When slowly gliding down the stream, we went
Along the city's length, and reddening
BENARES.
The heavens there was a wondrous blaze oflight
Which quickly mantled round the limbs of earth?
ON THE GANGES.
The world shall end when I forget.
THE further East, the more curious nature becomes. Regi-
ments of giant cranes, some black, ·some grey, are side by
side with herds of buffaloes, submerged in the marshes,
and droves of p~gs with furry backs. Camel caravans
become more numerous, and the feathery bamboo and banyan
6r
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
groves are all along the route. We are in the land of " the
Perfect!"
Arrived at the station, before the train stops, we see
" Hindu Refreshment Room " for the hundred thousand
pilgrims who form a floating third of the population. De-
scending from the grimy compartment, at once the sweet
keen influence of the Great Lord of Yoga is even there.
In the hotel, a bower of bougainvillea and orange venusta,
voices are hushed by His influence. All rancour, bitterness,
sense of grievance, dies down. Also sense of hurry, unrest.
Time will be given to do our karma. The English padre
of the church opposite, also hung with gorgeous creepers,
says, "No church is so spiritual as this." "Yes," I reply,
" because of the hundred thousand always here expressly
to seek the Holy Spirit. Their prayers bring the Peace."
In the churchyard are evangelical monuments, urns on
fluted pillars, and no crosses, of military heroes dating from
1785. The gold mohur tree opposite my window is not in
flower yet, but its gnarled brown velvet trunks might be
those of an elephant.
Treves wrote of Kashi as the City of Trampled Flowers.
It is only two days before Shivrathri, so the flowers are
heaped high in sweetest masses, white and yellow, on the
brass trays outside the Golden Temple. The Tagore motor-
car calls for me at 5 p.m. Mr. Tagore is a brahman of
princely family. The Maharajah spent twenty thousand
pounds to send his heir to Europe to celebrate King Edward's
62
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
Coronation. Mr. Tagore takes tea with me. His cosmo-
politan library is superb. But he enters the holy temples
with bared head, and is himself erecting one on Dassasamedh
Ghat, the Thrice Holy. This is typical of the classes, as
well as of the masses who throng the streets and ghats. On
Dassasamedh is a white Rolls-Royce. The blinds are down,
but we catch a peep of the purdah nashin inside. She is
the mother of the Maharajah of Mysore, premier Hindu
prince of India. We wind through the narrow alleys,
pushing the cows out of our way. [N.B.-'-Their products,
like Gunga water, have been analysed as highly antiseptic.]
In the city's heart we pass the mansion of the dowager
Maharani of Darbanghah. We gain Bisheshwar, and shiver
as the Shiv Influence radiates around. We see where
----
Aurungzeb destroyed the great courts and stuffed a second
mosque upon them, as well as the high minarets on the ghats.
Poor Aurungzeb ! They cost an Empire! We reach
Dassasamedh again. We descend. Two state barges with
scarlet canopies, couches and servants await mighty Mysore,
the second ruler of Hindustan, who is guest of H.H. of
Benares for the Great Day. Ramnagar, his palace, is in
a rosy glow on the other side. The kaleidoscope is as lovely
and dazzling as ever, the coloured crowds as dense, the
peacocks and pinks, the oranges and yellows. The palas;es
of Darbanghah and the others as imposing as of yore. Oh,
Peace and Rest of the River, reflected in the faces of the
pilgrims and in our own hearts ! Is she not more and more
63
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
lovely flowing down the river of years ? Oh, Home, sweet
Home!
We row up-stream, passing, high on the ghat near
Dassasamedh, a living temple of white occultism, close to
the new Tagore site. At last we reach Kedarnath Ghat,
crowned, up seven flights of steps, with a temple used by
the Dark Side. Its bell clangs ominously. The light is
lurid from the dark interior up above. The ascetics eye us
furtively and disagreeably down below, with sidelong
glances, squatting at their devotions and bathing in the
stream. It is a poor and shabby crowd compared with
those we have passed. The Brothers of the Shadow live
in poverty and squalor.
Far up the stream, commanding the whole river, stands
a large white mansion. For many years a site for that house
could not be found. Once built, a flood engulfed it. Serene
and imposing, it rises anew. Just so. Good is bound to
triumph, bad to fail. Or the worlds would end.
At last we gain Harischandra, the black and white striped
monument of a sati's love. Beyond is one of the Maha-
rajah of Benares' houses. This was used as a prison for the
Delhi Princes. From there the loyal Maharajah, chased by
mutineers, rushed up a trap-door and jumped into a boat,
rowing to Hastings' side.
We drift back down-stream to the Jey Singh Observatory.
It has an elaborate and perfect sundial, besides other star-
gazing apparatus. Jey Singh of Amber and the Lord of
64
~-------c~ --- -
....:
l!..
0
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
Kashi were of the Magi. And now we reach Manikurnika,
the Burning Ghat. "There are only two to-night," re-
marks Tagore. "I have seen six or eight. My father's
body was burnt here, and so will mine be."
The Maharajah of Benares is the Regent of Mahadev,
who is the Lord of Kashi. So when he entered the Benares
Hindu University the students all shouted "Mahadeo !"
whilst His Excellency the Viceroy was received in silence.
We have seen that the Maharajah of Benares has two
palaces, one on either side of the river. Although, as a
rule, he prefers the rosy light of Ramnagar to the stern
porticos opposite, he is careful to resort there when ill,
and his predecessors have died there. This is the ho(y side.
It was so even in the days of the great sage, Vyasa, of the
Mahabharat. Having built an ashram on the wrong side,
Durga, in the form of a blind and deaf beggar-woman, asked
him three times his reason. When he persisted that he
served Shiv on the unblessed side, she changed him into an
ass. Which things are an allegory.
As once more we ascend the stream the two fires where
the two corpses are being burnt are the brightest points of
flame on all the ghats, and showers of sparks fly up. Spectral
figures attend the last rites. It is getting dark. The Holy
Mother on the stream, her palaces, her temples, her minarets,
her flights of stairs, her crowds, her rites, her worship,
become more and more mysterious with an Unseen Influence,
charged with a brooding mystery, deeper and of a different,
65
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
more pregnant, insistent nature than that which broods
o'~r the lagoons of Venice at even, or in the white mists
of Northern seas.
As we leave our barge and ascend Thrice Holy Dassas-
samedh, more mystic than ever in the twilight with the
clanging temples, there are sleepers wrapt in the ascetic's
shrimpy, skimpy rags on the steps. They have spent their
last pice to get here from the uttermost parts ofInd. Drawn
by what?
Kashi is the quickener of Karma. Between the bridal
tour and the widow's rest many lives have been lived. Kashi
is the Healer of hell's wounds. The inferno was necessary
to break the rakshasha's power. Kashi is the Door of
Heaven. Will her portals open this side of the Styx?
Several of the temples in Kashi have been pointed out
to me as living temples by an initiate friend. One in par-
ticular, on the left of Dassasamedh, with a red dome, always
fascinates me as a storehouse of occult power, the mystic
sense is so strong there. It is frequented by black adepts
at midnight as by the white at daybreak. For the two are
ever inseparable, and the devil shelters beneath the cathedral
spire. The marble bulls of Mahadev are in the court-
yard.
In descending from the precincts of this temple one
afternoon I descried far down on the ghats below a large
crowd seated. The ghats are very high and steep, and my
head reels at heights and flights of all sorts, but, cautiously
66
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
descending, I found a learned brahman seated reading on
a buttress of the ghats. Behind him in a semicircle were
rows of ascetics in the ashes and ochres of Shiv. In front
was an attentive crowd of hundreds seated in silence
on the ghats. He was reading from the Bhagavad Purana.
It was a lovely sight. The brahman's spiritual, ra'pt face was
crowned by an orange turban, for all the shades of yellow
are Shivite. Round his neck was a chaplet of marigolds.
The crowd was a rainbow stir-about except where two
widows sat apart in pure white. The brahman's face and
black locks under the orange turban were framed by the
sparkling blue of the Ganges. Close by was one of the
green and white barges which have navigated here for
millions of years. Far away the halls where the Maharajah
of Benares lives shone opposite the mansion which His
Highness has recently redeemed from the Delhi princes
and restored to our ancient faith. The brahman finished
reading the Purana, and instantly from the crowd of Shivites
and Vishnavites respectively were cries, fervent yet reverent,
of "Mahadev, Ram ! Ram ! " Oh, if only Christian mis-
sionaries would grasp the family motto of the Maharajahs
of Benares: "There is no religion higher than truth."
Then the brahman turned to an exposition of Sankara, the
profoundest teacher of Vedeanta. And still the crowd
sat in rapt silence. Next afternoon I donned the ascetics'
dress and joined them. Wandering along the ghats after-
wards, beneath the towering portals of Darbangha, a Hindu
67
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
gentleman staying there offered to show me inside. The
halls were exquisitely carved, the balcony pillars divinely
fluted, but all deserted. Every good Hindu must visit
Kashi at least once in his life. The leading Hindu Princes,
therefore, all have mansions there. Each mansion has a
temple attached, heavily endowed by the princely builder.
My guide told me that betwee.n us and the Dassasamedh
Ghat, only a few yards, the- temple endowments came to
several lacs. " Are you here on a pilgrimage?" I asked
" I am here on a very sad duty," he replied. " My wife is
dying of phthisis. · Her days are numbered. She wished to
die in Kashi, so, though it was against medical advice, her
desire was so intense I thought it right to bring her here.
We arrived two days ago. She has visited the Bisheshwar
temple and already she is very much happier."
Outside the gate of the temple sits a sadhu on a bed of
spikes. When he dies he will not be burnt like common
men. He needs no purification by fire. He will be wrapped
in a piece of sackcloth, a stone will be tied to his legs, and he
will be dropped into the river, but in spite of the dead saint
the people will go on with their bathing and drinking.
A little life of a few hours :flickered out one evening.
Amid the wailing of the poor little mother, the corpse,
wrapped like a parcel in all the swaddling-clothes, even to
the mauve woolly shawl, for otherwise they would have been
destroyed, was handed to the nearest male relative. He
took the parcel outside. I followed.
68
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
" What are you going to do ? "
" I am going to throw it in the Gunga," he replied.
The Rev. E. Graves writes: "There are blind alleys and
dust-heaps indescribable, and yet Benares is a healthy spot.
Let the visitor wander and wonder." The Rev. C. P. Cape
writes : "That people have great faith in the sacred properties
ofthe stream is evident from the fact that they go on drinking
its water, although close by the huge city sewer belches
forth its filth."
Oh, foolish missionaries, who has bewitched you that
having eyes ye see not!
On the way to Benares I had spent a month of farewell
to the outer life amongst the palaces of the old Kings of
Oudh at Lucknow, where the Chutter Mungil gleams pearly
white beneath its gold umbrella. Here a lecture had been
announced on Indian sculpture. Beautiful limelight views
were shown of the new excavations at Sarnath amongst
many others. On inquiry of the Commissioner, who had
taken the chair, as to who had paid the piper, he said he had
not the slightest idea. Not a breath of aught to throw
suspicion that the Y.M.C.A. pulled the wires and that the
three following lectures would be aggressively Christian.
This somewhat Jesuitical proceeding on the part of the
Y.M.C.A. caused me to revisit Sarnath, where the Buddha
first preached after his Enlightenment and subsequent visit
to Holy Kashi before commencing his mission. I found
that since my first visit, many years before, the Archl:tological
69
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
· Department had excavated memorial pillars, with hundreds
of images of the Buddha and his disciples, many life-size
and of much beauty. A brand new museum, built on
the spot, contained these last. Well, there are some who
would prefer the old days of quiet sunny beauty untouched,
the banyans and bamboos and green eastern poppies, the
same which Buddha saw and where the influence of the great
Avatara is instantly sensed by the receptive soul, to all the
restless activities of the Archreological Department, who have
recently tidied Indrapat and planted a smart new park round
the Qtab.
Christmas Day. The hotel full of roses and good cheer,
of the sweet influences streaming from the Georgian Church
opposite. The moment one turns the corner of the dusty
and rowdy bazaar, one comes into its sphere of influence.
Of the velvet of the classical pillar to the mutiny veteran and
of the delicate carpet in the churchyard of tiny blue bird's-
eye, scarlet pimpernel, and miniature pink and yellow flowers
and white, transparent convolvulus starring the sod. As
one walks over them one wonders if "they trouble stars."
Of that other matured garden of "the Company," dating
from pre-mutiny days, all glorious in many colours against
the cypress. The lemons make a brave show in a forest of
old gold balls in a forest of bougainvillea. Went with a
Harvard Professor of psychology to the Theosophical
Convention. The grounds were ablaze with colour, the
lovely kaleidoscope of shawls and saris, gorgeous violet
70
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
cassocks of handsome and courteous young priests, scarlet
acolytes, and crimson and gold of the presiding Bishop, who
had come from Java at Mrs. Besant's express request. The
Convention was, in fact, a confused delirium of bright
colours and gorgeous ceremonies : of an aged Bishop in
magenta, trailing robes bound by a golden scarf and recalling
his past lives. Of another in a white pashmina shawl with
an " arhat " wife, a Hindu Madame Butterfly, flitting about
in a gorgeous sari of scarlet and gold with round black eyes
and luxuriant raven locks. Of a great concourse of the
cream of intellectual India, whose countenances proclaim
them such, of every type, from icy mountains to coral strand :
of a goodly number of whites from many countries whose
faces proclaimed their goodness. Of the communal singing
in which East and West joined: of banners from every land,
including from Queretero. Of gorgeous ceremonies of the
Mass, and incense from " the Benediction of the Most Holy
Sacrament " from an altar heavily massed with roses per-
fuming the tent. And of fakirs in saffron rags who had
strolled in from the temples to participate in this omnium
gatherum. Of the Maharajah of Darbangha, who told me
Udaipur was the only other orthodox ruler left. For ortho-
doxy involved trouble in washing tables and selves before
and after meals. Moderns are not inclined for this. The
approaching visit to Amart?-ath would do wonderful things
if the pilgrimage were undertaken in the proper spirit.
To sleep in the cave was desirable. A British Colonel had
f 7r
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
broken off a piece of the ice lingam inside and swallowed it.
Soon after he committed suicide. The late orthodox Maha-
rajah of Udaipur had told him this.
And over it all brooded the mighty Moghuls in the art
show. Only absent is Akbar. Could he have foreseen
this ? Could Jehangir ? Who pressed on a deprecating
Jesuit priest his largesse of four camels from his transport
train of 70,000 for his household utensils to the Deccan,
in addition to the elephants.
Well, it is not our line ofoccultism, ofthe Hidden Temple,
but who shall say that that is entirely wrong which leavens
the earth with good? A Pope's personality does not affect
his doctrine. Catholics tell us one or two Popes have been
wrong on morals, never wrong on doctrine.
Of the Major's wife from Travancore in the far south.
She called it the India of her dreams, of sailing over lagoons
heavily perfumed with spice-laden air. Of climbing ghats
sentinelled with giant trees, spanned by six men, climbed.
by gorgeous creepers; of purple clouds of giant butterflies,
large as a man's hand, in two shades of violet and mauve,
like giant Beaconsfield pansies, never less than six or seven
together on the spicy zephyr ; of seeing new " huts " on
the horizon of a grassy plain, huts which moved nearer and
became a herd of elephants ; of a survey employe who,
working at a chain and hearing a row, reported his glen full
of the soft greys of elephants and offered to catch a baby
for the mem-sahib ; of the tree-men, lowest of the human
72
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KA.SHI
family on earth, who stored their grain in trees, less differing
from monkeys than from highest man. All these she had
seen in the day's work of the survey and still lived daily
and hourly on the marvel and delight of it.
Kashi is the quickener of our karma. In her womb
lies the future. Confronted by the Mighty Forces of which
she is the fulcrum, the outer life becomes vague and shadowy,
all the world recedes cold and far.
Eve of Shivrathri. Sent for a man to lock a box. He
cannot come to-day. Locksmith and lady join in devotions.
The Kuchnar trees like giant azaleas against the cobalt
inverted bowl. Some in tones of orchids, some snowy
white, all transparent and palpitating like butterflies against
the blue.
A new tree out in the lovely matured " Company "
garden of the old East Indian days, in which walked the
Evangelical heroes whose urns and pyramids are vis-a-vis
to the hotel. This resembles a banyan with spreading
branches and dark glossy foliage, until you go beneath
it and see the gorgeous orange clusters, stellated like lilac,
secreted beneath by their own waxy weight, forming a tent
of flame. One sits inside and watches the humming-
birds, some greeny black, some fawny grey, all with long
bills pecking at the orange bunches. One orange and black
butterfly completes the scheme. The tree's name is jelesia,
or Asoka tree, and symbols jealousy, in contradistinction
to the neam's modesty and sweet scent. Only the pervading
73
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
perfume makes one look up and see the shy green blossoms
hiding midst the feathery foliage.
Went to a little upstairs shop in the heart of the city
where the floor was covered with a sea of silks, and Herod's
kincobs in every colour of the rainbow, and gold, and silver.
We were garlanded with sweet white flowers and scented
with attar of roses. Looking through the balcony, it over-
hangs that ancient heart of Hinduism, the old Bisheshwar
Temple. Descending a flight of stairs and threading the
narrow streets, we crossed the Temple courtyard where
bronzed priests wind orange draperies, His sacred colour.
We pass on to the new golden Bisheshwar. We stand out-
side the front entrance listening to the clanging bell of the
Temple, and shivering at the Shivite vibrations coming from
the unseen shrine within I Though it was in the heat of
the early afternoon, and not the hour for worship, the early
morning, the Holy of Holies, seen through the peep-hole at
the side, was besieged by worshippers with orange garlands
and smoking incense. All we could see were some priests
clothed only in loin-cloths reading aloud from books and
clanging the Temple bell. Concealed by silver pillars were
the worshippers of the Lingam seen through the peep-hole.
But all worldly thoughts dropped dead. All the schemes
for worldly advancement became tawdry, killed by the
vibrations of the most powerful exoteric temple on the
planet of Mahadev, known in the West as the Holy
Ghost.
74
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
Then we passed the Well of Knowledge and regained
the old Temple. We searched carefully for the passage
before mentioned. But all we could see was the Temple
courtyard in the Heart of Hearts of the most fascinating and
mysterious city of our earth.
Shivrathri. The first spring tree, the sagunta, is in
all -its glory to-day. Of the leguminosre, almost leafless,
the delicate white flowers make the boughs like giant ostrich
plumes tossing against the bright blue sky. Above their
bouquets hovered one white butterfly and two in orange
and black, a sight of breathless beauty.
A brahman of knowledge has come to conduct my
devotions on this Day of Days, the greatest Day of the year.
We offer great orange bunches of the venusta or Indian
glorified honeysuckle to my husband, thus fulfilling the
whole Hindu duty of woman.
He says that the other great Day of the year is the Wesek
Festival during the full moon in April, North of Thibet.
It is held by Lord Buddha, not in the physical body, though
he can take that when he wishes. He holds a golden rod,
highly magnetized, and no one else is allowed to touch it.
This festival is held every year for members of the White
~
Lodge, the Gurus and those disciples who deserve it, in the
astral body. The plan of work for the following year is
settled. On these two great occasions my friend allows
what happens to come back to his physical consciousness,
never on other occasions, unless it is to help someone.
75
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
The spiritual history of this high chela is interesting.
Long ago he was the schoolfellow of another boy of still
higher spiritual destiny. The friendship of the two boys
was destined to be lifelong, in which one boy should lead
the other. We will call them A. and B. B. belongs to an old
Benares family which, though not-of the braJ:unan caste, being
a kshattrya, is considered bf the caste as equal to brahmans,
the founder of the·family having been a yogi. They live in
an old-world mansion in the heart of the city, whose portal
is guarded by an armed retainer. The ladies keep strict
purdah, the blind of their carriage, on the rare occasions
when they leave home, being only lowered after dusk. My
friend, having as a young man spiritual aspirations, used to
spend two hours daily at his puja, during which a sage used
to come astrally and teach him. Afterwards, as so many
have done, he recognized his Guru by the two portraits
given by the eastern Seer in the West to a select few of her
pupils, as the Master K. H.
He took, however, the first initiation by the help of his
old schoolfellow A., who was still further advanced in the
higher life. Mr. A. wears a ring which has been magnetized
by the Great Ascetic Himself. It never.leaves his person,
but one day he allowed B. to take hold of hand and ring
together. That evening when B. returned to the old-world
mansion in the heart of Kashi, taken always in eastern
sibylline books as the symbol of the human heart, alone in
the silence of his puja room, B. saw the Lord of Yoga,
76
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
Mahadev Himself, who appeared to him on consecutive
evenings for over a week. This account of the initiation
of B. was first related to me by A., and then, years after, by
B. himself, the details exactly agreeing.
B. recently related to me another account of the help
afforded to him by A. They were sitting together on a
verandah with the late Rai Sahib Peare Lal of Delhi, an
old man now passed, who had seen Delhi drenched with
mlenchcha blood by mutineers, and who was himself a
high initiate, though he knew little of it in waking hours.
When all three were in full waking consciousness, A.
touched the hand of B., when, hey presto! they found
themselves together at Adyar in the presence of the
Mahatma Maurya, the Seer, Bertram Keightley, and others.
B. had time to note exact details before he found himself
in his chair on the verandah again. He then wrote to
Bertram Keightley and received written confirmation of all
he had seen in the astral body.
This devotee has since been made a brahman.
Contrary to the general idea, in esoteric Hinduism all is
open to all men, an all-comers' stake, only the necessary
qualities asked. He made a pilgrimage to the holy shrine
of Jaganath in Orissa. Before s_
tarting his food was cooked
for him by his mother, a widow, and therefore holy person.
On the journey he cooked it for himself. Arrived at
Jaganath, in entire devotion, a vision was granted by the
Great Ones to Their faithful servant. He saw an aspect
77
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
of Vishnu which included the opposing forces, those whom
we know to our cost as the dark people.
Now in connection with these two schoolfellows, I
can supply further interesting information to occult
.students. A., as Colonel Olcott himself told me, was a
brilliant young graduate and barrister of the High Court
of Calcutta. But he wished for a quieter life and was at one
time the master of a school. Among his pupils was one
whom older members of the Indian T.S. will remember
as T. N. He was born a Jivanmukta, or one who has no
more to learn as far as our solar system is concerned. So
that He was much higher even than His schoolmaster A.,
who at that time had not attained anything like his present
position in the occult hierarchy. Out of school hours,
therefore, the positions of teacher and pupil were reversed.
A. had at that time a pupil whom he much loved and
was anxious that his pupil should be initiated further into
esoteric Hinduism and asked T. N. to confer the boon of
the next step. T. N., who saw clearer than A.'s love allowed
him to do, refused to do so many times. At length, pressed
by A., T. N. conferred the boon. It is for those who can
read between these lines to judge, in the light of subsequent
events, whether T. N. or A. was the wiser.
T. N. went over to Burmah to magnetize the temples
there, so that those entering should feel the peace and calm
emanating from the great Jivanmukta's erstwhile presence,
without knowing the cause. He was so mighty in Yog,
78
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
that on one occasion He even injured the chief of the dark
forces, Beelzebub, the Prince of the Power of the Air,
Satanas, Mephistopheles, Ahriman in the old Persian phrase,
the devil himself. For doing this He was rebuked by the
White Lodge, who said that Mahadev and They, His servants,
allowed the dark forces to exist as points ofleverage, fulcrums,
to test the strength of our good qualities. " Why did you
do that ? " they said. " We allow him to exist. Mahadev
made him and myrmidons for His divine plan. Therefore
He allows them in His holiest temple beyond the sun."
The solution of the old, old problem of the existence of
evil. There is its use, since Eve and the Snake. Some have
considered this old problem identical with the problem of
sex. The popular idea is that the Snake tempted Eve on
this point. That before, her relations with Adam were
platonic. Mrs. Besant has given out that sexual excess is
allied to black magic.
It will be seen from the above what rubbish it is for
Fleet Street scribes to say Hindus are born, not made.
A01one, from Akbar to aborigine can, and has been, made
a Hindu, who can pass the tests. These are not too hard
at first, but increase ·in severity with the progress, and there-
fore increased responsibilities, of the candidate.
Eventually the Fury of the Asuras against T. N. was so
great that He allowed them to kill His physical body. To
stay down here would have meant a greater expenditure of
spiritual force than He considered justified.
79
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
I have personally verified the truth of the statement
made to me by another high chela when I first came to
Benares, in this incarnation, many years ago. He told me
the meaning of that passage in the Gita :
From food creatures become ; from rain is the production of food ;
Rain proceedeth from sacrifice ; sacrifice ariseth out of action.
"There is an occultists' temple in Benares where that still
happens. Where the image becomes alive with the presence
of Shiv. But that temple is hidden. It is easy to do this.
It is like looking for a thing. It may be there all the time,
and you don't see it," he added with a smile.
For many years I have been a chiel among advanced
pupils taking notes. Now these same advanced pupils
(some of them called even by those who differ from them
" great occultists ") have recently become extremely
reticent, shut up like clams. " Please tell me what the
Masters ~hink," etc. " I cannot. So much imposture is
being dumped ' from Them.' I can only tell you what
I think." But in many years with them and from a little
personal observation, I have gathered the following.
In addition to the several Masters of the Seer, my
. limited experience has assured me that there is Another,
the Head of the Lodge, the Initiator, who personally gives
the initiations Himself, with only the earth Guru present,
in the astral body of course, to reassure the trembling
candidate at this stupendous event. The neophyte leaves
80
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
neither his room nor his bed, when the door of Heaven
opens only for a moment, only his body. On these
occasions it is a case of deeds not words.
I believe this Initiator to be the same as the Lord of
the World of the Seer, who came from Venus at the time
of the end of the third race. I know He has never been a
man in this cycle ofevolution. He taught the sacred language,
Senzar, of which I have heard occultists speak, to the third
and fourth races. The adept kings had prepared a mystic
town for His work with immense fortifications or founda-
tions of brick. That mystic town still exists, and there the
next root race, of a more glorious age and powers than ours,
is being prepared. Also the work of preparation is led by
the Seer's two Masters, who have literally, therefore,
" thousands of worshippers."
In the" Pedigree of Man," page 81, we read of the tenth
or Kalki Avatar of Vishnu, which will end the materialism
of the Kali Yog, whose depths we are now approaching.
Caste, a divine institution, is being swept away. Hence
the destruction of the great families and the uprising of the
man in the street to make a general levelling until brighter
days dawn. This has taken place even in the twenty-five
years since Mrs. Besant wrote. A new Satya Yog, with a
more spiritual race, will succeed this dreary age, a race now
typified by the few. I also know that the Head of the Lodge,
the Initiator, does not live permanently on this planet,
but in the Real Shiv Temple, but is immediately accessible
8r
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
to His devotees on their thought, " like sending a wireless,"
and also conducts the worship in the concealed physical
occultists' temple on this planet where the Mightiest,
Mahadev, comes. Also I know that Mahadev has two
attendants who immediately serve Him, one being a deva
who plays the flute. The other frequently visits a holy
Shivite family in their bungalow, and even on a quiet road
on drives. It is an evolution different from ours, which,
like the Buddha, can take a physical body on desire.
The Initiator, or Great Master, rings a small bell, as
an ordinary Guru does, to call the pupils. There is an
entire orchestra of Indian instruments, as in the ordinary
worship. The mantra is intoned by adepts. The fire is
kept burning by the Gurus, who bring the physical material
necessary for it. The worship never ceases. " They serve
Him day and night."
The mode of initiation appears to vary with different
pupils, but it always takes place on Shivrathri, which varies
with the new moon in spring. This always means drawing
near in some way to Shiv, who, in the West as the Holy
Ghost, presides over Involution. The Initiator is the
personal Guru of advanced pupils. His intervention is
the only safe way of rousing Kundalini. One of his lessons
appears most apposite to-day.
He appeared to a female chela-and when he comes the
whole house is illuminated-holding a child in his arms.
" What does she say ? " asked the brahmani. " She says,"
82
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
replied the Guru of Gurus, " I am Peace. All the world
seeks for me, just as they do for money. Take me. Be
peaceful."
I am also able to state that the Seer resumed her work in
the " night schools " a few months after reincarnation.
Between the lives she rested in an occult temple in a certain
sinister form imposed upon her by the dark forces. Then
she agreed to reincarnate in order to work off certain
karmic debts. Thus, the Upasika Ultimata, the last word of
the Mysteriarcha of the nineteenth century, whose portrait
hangs from icy mountain to coral strand,.from Seine's side
to Gunga's banks.
As to her pupil, Damodar, in the new book of " Letters
from the Masters," page 7, there is confirmation of what I
heard many years ago from two sources, that he took
the last journey to Thibet under dark influences brought
upon him by "romancing," got among black adepts, and
died there. In the Temple there is intoned a Bhagavad
Gita so powerful it brings all the Gods. The dark powers
have the same. When they recite this, the White Masters
have to checkmate them with their own recitations to
prevent the havoc they would otherwise wreak on the planet.
Noticing the exhaustion of a high initiate one morning, he
replied, "There is generally work to be done at night."
On other days, when he was taciturn, it meant the dark
machinations were active.
Any pupil, of East or West, who is sufficiently pure has
83
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
access to this Temple. Each real brahman or brahmani of
knowledge, not only of the thread, has his or her appointed
place in this Holy of Holies. But the younger chelas go
always in charge of an elder, as the vibrations are so power-
ful that they would kill, though sometimes they are allowed
to go home to bed by their own power. Albeit Mahadev
is not always there, only sometimes, and on these occasions
malas or rosaries may be taken to touch His feet. And so the
Mahadev of this Temple is only a shadow of the real
Mahadev of the Temple beyond the sun, of the universe.
At a very early stage of the Path, the music of the Temple
of this planet may be heard, even during waking hours, by
the Shivite, in any place on the planet, and at all hours.
But it is most intense at the hours of worship, morn and
eve, the same of course as in the outer temples. As a
general rule the -sense of smell is next awakened, to perceive
the presence of a Master. by His peculiar perfume. Then,
after further testing of the moral nature by the ever useful
dark powers, sight is awakened. Still at an early stage on
the Path the candidate can, first occasionally, later at will,
see the interior of the Temples, the worship taking place
there and the Gurus conducting it. The controlled use of
this faculty has just come to a lifelong friend, a brahmani
who, in her last life, worked her decrepit, dropsical old
body to death for the world. It came spontaneously,
without previous effort, in her lovely young body at the
age of twenty-two.
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
In addition to this physical Temple of the Lord of the
Universe, there are others, and some to his female aspect,
Durga, all of ancient design. One of these was like those
old towers which exist, no one knows why, in Ireland,
remnants of fourth-race worship, only higher. Like them,
it had no opening. The astral body pierces stone. It gets
in without. Another had gigantic Hindu images, one
standing, others fallen about the place, apparently a cave
temple. This was only brought to the brain by a lucky
chance. If the Guru thinks the pupil deserves to remember,
he just touches him before and after the nocturnal excursion.
The astral body is electric, and the lucky one will
get, apparently, a knock on the head, before and after,
and something wonderful in between. On this occasion,
the pupil being refractory " down under " at the time,
apparently a happy accident of a touch " up there," brought
back to bed with a jump and a clear view of the above.
All the living temples, where the real occultists worship,
appear to be ancient.
February 14th. Spring is still further advanced. Clouds
of white butterflies above the delicate sagunta to-day, and a
squirrel scrambles up its cinnamon stem. Vertically striped,
for Ram Himself once extended three fingers in blessing
on a squirrel's back and so his people have been striped ever
after. The sagunta's exact antithesis is in all its glory now,
India's most gorgeous tree, which sets the jungle on fire
for miles. The semal tree has only heavy wax flowers
85
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
erecting like scarlet cups against the ethereal blue, no leaves.
The green corollas are full of .honey. A squawking black
crow broke one off and carried it in triumph to a bougain-
villea thicket on the tree. Came a slip between the cup and
the beak. The honey saucer fell with a thud into the dust
below. Fell into a little brown crowd who, seeing me tree-
gazing, also looked for treasure in Heaven. Imagine magenta
imposed on scarlet in aught else but flowers, and realize
that God made the flowers and man the fakes.
To observe the above I had to wade through seas of
dust between the sanctums of the club and the bank, em-
bowered in sweet peas. As I did so I thought of the city
men of Lombard Street, some with equally an eye to beauty,
hurrying to office in wind and rain. And there are some to
poison the sweet Indian air with their sighs and call her the
Land of Regrets! The first breath of the mango's green
tassels is delicate, and the perky birds, the hoopoos, with
pink frilly crests, bill and mate and strut busily beneath.
I cross the bridge to the hotel, a hotel of God's own
country, where
Owls do cry,
Bats do fly,
Jackals scurry by.
I remark a scarlet cup and a few white jessamines in a dusty
crevice on the bridge. They seem to be strewn with in-
tention. The stream is a daughter of the great Ma Gunga.
There are Hindu characters carved in the stone. I turn
86
....:
t.t.
0
Ul
::>
0
0
THE MYSTERY OF HOLY KASHI
and stand on the bridge at midday in the broiling sun and
dust and observe. The peasant behind me folds his hands.
He mutters a prayer. He is transfigured like the troops who
saw the angels at Mons. Mahadev is present even there.
Oh, Lord of the Mysteries of Kashi ! Art Thou not
worshipped in London to-night ? Oh, Thou self-revealing,
by Whom the Seven Worlds were made, the Great Ascetic,
who sits in meditation in the ice grotto, backed by eternal
snows, as in the burning ground, surrounded by the smoking
hearts of devotees, has not a W~stern woman depicted Thee
in a holy icon ? Hast Thou not deigned to accept the
offering, filling her boudoir ashram with the Peace of Shiv ?
Oh, Thou who givest to Thy devotees the Third Eye,
so that never more are they as blind as other men and moles,
give us strength to get Thy greatest boon l
G
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
TIGER IN THE VINDHYAS
Marching on Stiptia,
Marching the parched hill,
Of waving spear grass,
Past the Wardha river.
Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry ?
A BROKEN night at Moghul Serai Station. Four hours of
train through the jungle. Riotous monkeys swinging.
Black pools with regiments of giant black and white cranes
gingerly wading, the big bodies poised on :flesh-coloured
reeds, the transparent bills to match guzzling greedily.
Pink pools covered with lichen and, flitting over them, that
lovely little green bird whose neck rivals the parrot in
delicate pistache, ending in a huge black bill, its bronze head
and wings glinting coppery in the sunlight.
A wayside station. A Hindu station-master pumping
his car in a crowd of derelicts. A little girl carrying a babe,
her eye appearing to be falling out but proving to be only
an enormous stye. A perilous drive, just escaping a post,
a precipice and a pie dog. A bazaar all glass bangles of
many colours. A dak bungalow surrounded by fifteen
88
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
camels uttering satisfied grunts. The glorious Vindhyas
concealing the tigress we are after. These are my first
impressions re Mrs. Shere.
Next a rough motor-drive into the heart of the moun-
tains, up hill and down dale and across rivers, dodging the
timber carts of shy, furtive, apologetic, aboriginal man.
He was most useful in pushing us out of a river when we
got stodged therein. And always approaching the low,
bosky mountain chain ever more and more gorgeous in
vegetation. For this is the real India!
Then a halt in a clearing in the forest of teak. A sniffing
of the resinous air. A hurried muster of shikaris from all
the region round about. A low-toned excited conference,
and news of the rare visitation of a tigress. Her pugs have
been seen. For, even in India, tigers are few and far, and
only when, as now, all are working for love is it possible
to see one.
Then an Indian file through the scrub and across a river
on stepping-stones. Prickles worm their way up above
our knees. Then a silent wait at the base of the hill covered
with the golden candelabra of the cactus, and all other
shades of umber and amber. One white falcon circles
against the blue.
We sit in dead silence below, for the spoor betokens
sambur have pre-seated us just here. At first, only the
cooing of doves soothes our crowd-worn nerves, and dis-
tant imitation of bird whistles. But gradually the cries of
89
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
the beaters approach, and scarlet turbans pierce the Jeui!/e-
morte shades of the hill. The head shikari whispers. My
host rises to attention, rifle cocked. We watch breathlessly.
There is a scurry of the brown forms down the slope to
the right. But, for the moment, the mountain has only
given birth to four wild dogs, or kogis, and three gorgeous
peacocks fly haughtily away in mockery of our disillusion.
Second day.- Our forty or fifty furtive, dun-clothed
little men, full of forest craft, disappear in the forest. But
Mullu and Ramanand remain. They have seen the crocodile,
this morning, on the river bank, beneath the red honeysuckle
tree. It is a wise old thing, as it has been shot at for twenty
years. We creep to the Bardaha, broad, lovely, and unsus-
pected, hidden in the long grass. But the wise old thing has,
even from the far shore, detected boots from bare feet, and
has slipped beneath the stream.
We note a peacock's plume, the pug of a female panther,
the mark left by her pad and five toes, and two holes made
by wild-boar tusks, digging for truffles. We halt by a ford
of the same river. It has sheets of blue light, a silvery
murmur, and crimson flowers. I am wrapped in a khaki
blanket to conceal my black garb. The shikaris whistle
like birds. A bear is heard to bark close by. Half a dozen
peacocks are up, for the birds are leaders in all jungle affairs
and first approach the common pool in time of drought. But
the bear, once shot twice shy, sits tight, and the beaters report
" nahin." Net results, birds, butterflies and blue-bottles.
90
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
We now cross the " fired zone " into the Government
preserve. A broad tract is fired to protect not only the
beasts, but the trees. One fire from cutters' fires will
destroy a whole hill, one village will rob a whole forest.
We pass two large holes dug by bears for ants. They are
their cruets and sauce. They have left a mulch of red
berries, their entremets, in the grass. The scent is getting
hotter. We scramble up the dense scrub of the hill. We
sit in a clearing littered by spoor of sambur. " This is
their sitting-room," says mine host. " The animals take
the same walks, drink at the same fords, and squat in the
same places daily: they are as regular in their habits as men."
In fact there is little difference between them and the Kols.
After a marriage ceremony of the latter, the happy pair go
off into the jungle empty-handed. They build their own
leafy hut, kill and cook their own food. If, after this ordeal,
the love lasts, their union is recognized by the tribe. The
Kol has to sit up all night with little cries to scare the beasts
off his field, if the rains and the birds have allowed it to
grow. If eventually he reaps, he has to give half to the
landlord. Poor Kol !
Mr. Desai says the · Kols are charming people. The
town-bred vakils are his bane, seditious and troublesome.
The Kols are akin to Kipling's Bhils and Chins.
The river gleams blue far below; but, again, it is a blank
draw. We descend the hill, walk along the fired zone,
feed and ascend again a hill covered with white feathery
gr
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
plumes of young bamboo. We are concealed beneath a
huge tree. The spoor of red berries betokens recent bear.
This is the dense scrub they love. I am wrapped in the
khaki blanket and we sit silent in the cool lovely jungle.
Oh, it is merry in the good greenwood
Where bulbul and dahiel* are singing.
The distant bird-whistles become near cries of excite-
ment, betokening a find. I sit motionless, breathless ; my
host rises, rifle cocked.
Suddenly there is a movement among the pale browns
to our right, and a head, large as a horse's, emerges and looks
at us about ten yards away. It is a supreme moment to
see the jungle giving up its quick. My host drops his raised
rifle. "It is a female," he whispers and two fawns follow
her. They pass unharmed and their hoofs scud the fired
zone they cross below. So once more it has been a blank
draw. But, as my Indian host says, "We have made pro-
gress! We have seen a sambur ! "
A day of gorgeous experience, a crowded hour of gforious
life near our Mother's heart. Its crowning moment when
an elephant, with mahout in orange turban, majestically
lumbers along the fired zone to take us home. Our last
excitement is a monkey-fight. A black-faced langoor, a
babe hanging to her breasts, rushes up a tree to be driven
down by the red-faced bandar. No one in India will shoot
a monkey, especially here at Chitakut (or "the beautiful
* Blackbird.
92
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
hill"), because Rama lived for ten years among them. Rama
who is worshipped all over the Aryavarta as the ideal man
and king. Sita as the ideal woman, purer than purity itself.
Even our elephant is named Lakshman.
The monkeys all united under Hanuman, a deva working
in the animal ki~dom, to rescue Sita from Ravana. We
have previously ~een that this bhakta had closed the door
of heaven to one by mistake. Separation from God being
agony, he chose as punishment a brief period of clouded
vision, a short working against the law.
Third day. Mrs. Shere has left these hills in funk of
the wild dogs, who are the terror of the jungle. Govern-
ment has put a price of R.1 5 on their heads. So to-day we
move our camp after her. Half our servants left last night,
the rest follow on the fifteen unts with baggage. It is a
miniature Akbari bandabust.
We leave on Miss Hathi and lumber eight miles through
the good greenwood. We instruct her mahout to make her
speak and she grunts approval. Parrots glance and gleam
like flashing emeralds along our path. At long last we sight
the beehive bungalow in a clearing of big trees. It is a
cheery sight with the fires and tents and the murmuring
stream ; we are cradled in a cup of forest hills concealing je
ne sais quoi I The air is warm and spicy, Kols are singing.
And music fills the balmy air,
And emeralds with bright wings are there,
Oh, so fair l Oh, so fair I
93
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
The collector is the father, philosopher and friend of
his district, in this case one hundred by eighty miles. On his
'
annual visitation they all come and pour out their woes
to him. Now comes the family of the killed by Mrs. Shere.
He promises succour and vengeance on the morrow. He
orders a young buffalo to be tied up near the scene of the
tragedy. This evening we visit the murmuring stream in
search ofcrocodiles, but the clouds have made them disappear.
So we take the quiet jungle lane to scour for the many
panther of the district. We take two sacrificial goats.
We pass pugs of a female panther and her young and,
soon after, reach where a little house has been made of leaves
and boughs. We enter and are built in, our gun and eyes
at a peep-hole. Outside this one goat is tethered. The
other is taken off to make it bleat. Lustily bleats the goat.
Fast fall the shades of night. Then there is a twittering of
birds all round, squall ofpeafowl, and the goat sits in paralysed
silence.
When sunset lights are burning low,
While tents are pitched and camp-fires glow,
Steals o'er us, ere the stars appear,
The furtive sense of Jungle Fear.
" Something is near," whispers my host. But the
panther is the wariest of the jungle, and after waiting in
tense silence for an hour, the shik:aris and other goat appear
saying all is vain. She cometh not. We wend our way
home.
94
,
VULTURE CIRCLING OVER MRS. SHERE ANO HER PREY.
- - ----- - -- r . -
\
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
It is cheering to see the unts round the camp fires and to
hear our stream again.
Fourth day. So far we have only had blank draws,
so I say a special prayer to Mahadev, the Great Lord of the
jungle and the wild things therein, on waking. It .appears
to be heard, for, at breakfast, there is news of Mrs. Shere.
She has taken our buffalo.
After breakfast we mount Miss Hathi, and a royal pro-
cession of a hundred beaters in- pairs precedes. We dis-
mount near the hill. We ascend a nullah of moraines.
Mrs. Shere will be fierce and must be got at from a height.
We cross the jungle grass of her native haunt which has
striped her. Then we have to scale a mountain height of
immense rocks torn by volcanic earthquake and storm.
Thorns tear our feet and arms. The shikaris haul me up,
clinging to gigantic creepers, hanging on to rocks by my
eyelashes. My host tears amias fruits and puts them in
his pocket as thirst quenchers. From the top of a plat-
form, commanding the valley, vultures are seen circling.
This means Mrs. Shere and her prey are there.
So we skirt the side of the mountain with terrific effort
and gain another plateau of feathery grass much higher than
us. By this time I am about done, and two of the little
forest men drag me along to a rocky platform overhanging
the vulturous valley, where my host is already seated, rifle
cocked.
He pulls out the berries from his pocket ; they are bitter,
95~'
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
but a tonic. He says Mrs. Shere must pass up one of the
two paths below, but we are not to stand when she comes.
It is dangerous. The collector of Mirzapur had his scalp
torn off by a blow of her paw last week.
The seven little brown men crouch like big apes round
us as we hang in mid-air over the forest depths. Tree
trunks of brown satin, rocks covered with cream lichen
like Spanish lace.
A gleam of orange and black in the dense green of the
bamboo I Mrs. Shere is creeping -up the immense rocks
towards our natural fortress. She sees us and springs up
the bastion, her cat-like eyes gleaming, whiskers bristling,
claws bared, and scratching. It is the supreme moment
of moments I
But she receives the bullet in her breast. With a snarl,
she gives a backward leap like a Levantine in dance. She
hangs in mid-air, her full length of ten feet extended in a
sublime curve. Then, with a mighty roar and thud, she
drops into the abyss, to be found and skinned by the beaters.
Bathos I
Descending the gorge, we pass a cave with water dripping
from red rock roofs. " So," said my host, " did the first
man live." The primitive art of hunting is thirty centuries
old, as depicted by scenes painted in caves near. We pass
the sambur's sitting-room and swing. He catches his fine
antlers in the acacia and slides his hoofs to and fro on the
ground. Also he has his rubbing-post and licldng-rocks.
96
THE MYSTERY OF THE JUNGLE
My host in this jungle week is a Cambridge graduate,
but East and West have met in that he is clairvoyant and
saw the battle of Rheims a year before the war, smelt the
stench of the blood and corpses, and heard the roar of the
cannon.
97
THE MYSTERY OF RAMA AND SITA
THE HOLY HILL OF KAM'I'ANA'I'H
RAMA came here from Fyzabad in exile. It is covered with
trees and there are three hundred and sixty temples all round,
a school of Sanskrit, and many ascetics in apricot. The
great sage Valmiki came here to meet Rama. He had already
written the Ramayana, having seen it in the astral light.
This was about one million years ago.
Valmiki, having been a hunter and a cannibal in a
previous birth, was now a kshattrya, but learned in Sanskrit.
He was reborn three hundred years ago as Tulsi Das, -a
brahman, to write the Hindi Ramayana, and lived in a hut,
still shown on the stream.
Sita was abducted by Ravana, King of Ceylon, who
had been born with a clouded brain, his karma for the
mistake at the door of heaven. He had seen Sita at her
marriage ceremony. She had thrown the garland of choice
over Rama, who alone had the strength to bend the bow
required by her fatper on account of her great beauty. Her
father, Janaka, was the adept King of Mithila near Kashi.
She was born by Yog from a furrow of a plough. :
Ravana's sister came disguised as a beggar when Rama
went out, having told Sita never to leave the enchanted
98
THE MYSTERY OF RAMA AND SITA
circle. The beggar refused to take the alms inside. Ravana
sent a deer to get her guardian, Lakshman, away, crying:
" Brother Lakshman ! I am being killed by beasts ! "
Eventually Sita satisfied Rama as to her purity by the
ordeal by fire. She passed unscathed through the flames.
But Rama, now restored to the throne, had to put her away,
to satisfy popular clamour, as "an example." She took
refuge with Valmiki. Twin sons were born, who, with
his tutelage, became mighty Nimrods. Rama having per-
formed the Aswamedh, the horse wandered into their terri-
tory and they were compelled to fight their Divine Father.
He recognized His image in their faces and prowess and had
now public proofofthe chastity ofSita, who is still worshipped
throughout the Aryavarta as the ideal Hindu woman, purer
than purity itself, who, fulfilling the one obligation, became
Goddess.
We passed the village of Chitrakot, where there was a
tray of golden sweets like tumblers and a mansion for
pilgrims, free, from a Calcutta Marwari who is giving
R.100,000 simply because Rama, the ideal incarnation of
Vishnu, came here to bathe daily from the Hill. This was
the first year of his twelve years' exile from the Court of
Oudh at Fyzabad, imposed by the stepmother, in fulfilment
ofthe King's vow to give her anything, who wanted the throne
for her own son.
After a year, the stepbrother came with an army to
reinstate him, but Rama replied : " I cannot break my
99
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
father's vow," made long before in a moment of pleasure.
He went into our Vindhya Hills.
As in all sacred ghats in India, the river, even in the
heart of the jungle, is closed by flights of stairs, temples
and palaces, all belonging to the Rani of Bijawar, whose
motor-car is outside her palace. Her Highness has come
from Jhansi for her devotions. Opposite the gates is the
palace of another noble family. Nothing is more amazing
in India than the way, all over the country, the arid plains
suddenly give birth to sacred healing waters, ghats, temples,
palaces, and always the sweet quiet atmosphere blessed by
the aspirations of the pious devotees.
Karwi. The Peishwa, Amrita Rao, after the Mahratta
War, taking jewels, silks, and luxe which had been the Poona
Court, came here, and, true still to the Gods who had de-
throned him, built the beautiful tank and temple in front of
the garden house of his palace. This was the brother of
the infamous Nana Sahib.
During the Mutiny there was a rebellion led by his sons
and a half-brother, son of a Mohammedan girl at Banda,
and massacre ofthe British Deputy Commissioner. Madahot
Rao went to Mr. Mayne, the Collector, in a simple palanquin
and pleaded innocence. He was, however, found guilty,
and moved further into the jungles of Central India. His
thirty-six lacs were confiscated, but the interest is still
paid to his descendants. The jewels were lost ]n the general
hurly-burly ofthe Mutiny.
IOO
THE MYSTERY VIA MISTS AND SNOWS
Reed slashed and torn, but doubly rich-such great heads as yours drift upon temple-
steps, but you are shattered in the wind.-THE LOTUS.
Those whose lives are spent outside the cities know that when the sky is molten
brass, when the red flowers flame in the forest, when the blasting wind makes the long
rank jungle grass rattle, then old Mother Earth in India takes on a strange fierce strength
and beauty, and imparts somewhat of her strength, at least, to those who live close
to her.
THIS chapter is headed thus after a letter received by the
late Ross Scott, Judicial Commissioner for Oudh and the
United Provinces, from the Mahatma Koot Houmi. He
once showed me the envelope so addressed from the far-away
Thibetan ashram, i.e. "Ross Scott via Mists and Snows."
He was sitting in the dak bungalow at Dehra Dun with the
Seer when he saw what he first thought was a beetle jumping
about on the verandah. Picking it up, the letter inside
advised " Escott sahib not to leave by the next train, but to
wait to see something interesting."
Leaving Benares on the same quest myself, while ab-.
sorbed in reading in the train, in a corner of my eye I saw a
blaze of red. I thought it was a jungle fire which had
recently sent panthers running about a train, but it was
only the semal tree blazing sca1;let for miles, and not alarming
even the monkeys !
April 12th. Left Pindi, the Aldershot of India, in the
IOI
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
mail motor. Gained Murree Heights and suddenly, by
daybreak, the snowy range was sprung upon us, breathless
from its beauty. It included Nanga Parbat, fourth highest
mountain in the world. At KQhala we leave British India
and enter in physical nearness the domain of the Great
Ones. Now anything may happen. In the meantime we find
that H.E. the Viceroy has taken possession of Garhi Dak,
with the tribe of A.D.C.'s, friends and camp followers
incumbent on his state. And a loyal Maharajah entertains
him even unto the latest English magazines in his sitting-
room. Having wandered in to H.E.'s own bedroom, a
breathless Indian camp-officer rushes up for my name in
writing ! The result of all this -is that we have to sleep
at Uri. It is a g~in, in the loveliness of this dak, set in a
bower of pear-trees,. only less white than the peaks and
cols untrodden above. Birches, more silvery than ever in
their leafless spring, glimmer wanly beneath the pale moon.
But already the peace of the Great Ones is descending with
the even. God will give clear vision to tortured souls at
Amarnath ! And recall the memory of that first lesson,
given in girlhood's days by Him who is the Manu of the
sixth Race, yet condescended to say : " You must learn
that.things are not what they seem to be." May He destroy
for ever the Rakshasha's power to cast illusion at the Holy
Cave!
We hear that a Divine Man is in the valley. The Master
has taken His "three steps to one."
I02
T E M P L E O f' TH E SUN , SR I NAGAR.
Though )'e h~n·e lien am ong the pots, yet s ha ll ye be as the w ings of a dove
co,·crcd wi th s il ve r , a nd her fea thc1·s w it h yellow gold .
P SAJ.,\l LXV ! ll , 13.
THE MYSTERY VIA MISTS AND SNOWS
April 13th. Srinagar. Had to start in pitch darkness,
breaking all rules of road, on account of H.E. Arrived,
peeved and disgruntled, to be suddenly confronted by literally
the most magnificent view in the world. It presents a
greater combination of beauties than aught other. It makes
it sinful to be unhappy here. That exquisite view, for
diversity and delicacy, is unequalled in the world.
First, at the garden gate, the Jhelum winding in shawl
pattern. On this, my houseboat rocks, Nautilus by name,
suggesting fairy voyages ala Ouida. Maji log bring sheaves
of ' purple iris for my "dead." Across is a bright jade
island, cut also in cones with even brighter yellow of mustard
flowers. These have drifts of pink peach- and white pear-
blossom lace. All is ringed with poplar colonnades in
tenderest spring green, through which flits a big, white,
fluffy cockatoo. And beyond is the royal-blue velvet and
sparkling diamonds of Himavat's mightiest peaks. A sight
to draw Krishna's flute. The delicacy of a Watteau, the
profundity of the Black Rock. Behind this daintiest of
paintings rises the rocky hill of Shiv. All nature bows to
the Mightiest. So, having painted her brightest and daintiest
for Hari, for Mahadev she makes rough rocks dyed in His
sacred ochre, jagged paths like His serpents, climbing to
the austere Temple above.
This in the evening, gilded by the sunrays, turns orange,
and so do the planes at the base. A wonderful ·study in
mystic, misty gold, relieved by the pear blossoms' snowy
H
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
drifts, white as the sari of a widow yogini. And ever the
shikaras gliding, sliding, slipping, dipping into the mystic
Thibetan country.
Drove through a suburb. Purple flowers smouldering
below a blanched wall, trees that scent the air with an aching
sweetness. It is the sunset hour. ·A dying glare photo-
graphs the red clay roofs in vivid tiles upon the greenery,
and white houses, bright with reflected light, glimmer in
compounds overgrown with tropical plants. In the
middle of the road walks a bird-seller, with bamboo cages,
swinging from a bamboo pole, and a white cockatoo
balancing from his shoulder. Was it our cockatoo of the
morning?
About Thibet there is an amusing story. A Californian
recently arrived at Kashi and begged to be shown the
Ramakrishna Mission. We went and found an excellent
operating theatre of all modernity. The swamis go out to
the ghats and streets, find the maimed, halt and dying, and
compel them to come in. The ministering angels are
American millionairesses, persuaded by the eloquence of
missionary monks in the U.S.A. My friend having arrived
from the Far West, "to join his order,'' arrangements were
immediately made to pass him on to Thibet. From the
railway a hundred miles' ride to the monastery. From 'the
Hermitage ninety miles more to the Master. He, dressed
in orange silks, is fed, like St. Benedict, from a basket.
None dare approach him. He has, in fact, all the pomp of
ro4
THE MYSTERY VIA MISTS AND SNOWS
the Pope at Rome ! And the real Master wears a Rajput
cotton jacket and comes to the bedside of his devotees !
Floating on the Jhelum's sweet waters of Asia, I have
offered purple and white iris and mauve pungent thyme
to my "dead." The real tragedy cf life lies in the love we
have not given, the opportunities for achievement we have
missed.
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
At last we drew into our station. Crowds of people thronged it inside and out.
They were sitting everywhere, on the hard ground, in clusters and circles, under the
bright moonlight. Their bundles and brass cooking-p0>ts beside them. A little
apart, Jack and I gazed silently at the scene. The shadows of the roofs fell sharply
on the white fairness of the earth. There was a dense blackness in the shade of the
mud walls, beyond them stretched a cactus hedge. Polished, it shone like blades of
steel in that blue and white brightness. We seemed to be standing in a great silence
-a silence so great that the bubbly chatter of the people scarcely disturbed it. All
sound and all colour were quieted and chastened by the moonlight. While I was
looking I had an experience which I had had once or twice before in my life. That
which seemed at one moment a chaos, a shifting kaleidoscope, with no design, fell
suddenly into perfect order, all its bits slipping into place. A new world opened out.
A vast calm settled on the scene, on us, on life. " It is all one," I said to myself.
"The plan, how clear I and how deep the unity, how full of peace ! "
There was no moon, but the stars were blazing, and by their light the snows were
faintly seen. "That other life I " I thought, " the life of search and prayer."
Brushing against my face was a full and perfect rose. Cream-coloured, it gleamed
like a pearl in the still, enchanted night. All radiance and earthly loveliness seemed
to lie folded in those lustrous petals. The rose at least was at peace within itself.
"Dear, lovely life," I cried out, " can Yogis find anything more precious than this
after all? "-FLOWERS AND ELEPHANTS.
Where the kingfisher fl.aunts
His garb of azure sheen,
And meadow-sweet and nodding buttercups
Do dream and sleep
Hard by a crystal stream
That doth no vigil keep.
As I entered the Dahl Gate, a vaporous green silence
enclosed me. Dew, like crystal rain, shimmered in the
amazing greenness and flung a million diamonds at the sun.
A double row of chenars guarded the approach to that
106
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
empire of vegetation, admitting me into a jungle of every
green. Through interstices in the branches, as intricately
designed as a cathedral window, the sunlight fell in shafts.
The effect was bewildering. My vision quivered, grew
uncertain, and the trees seemed to dissolve into a tremulous
green mist. I moved through wavering tunnels of leaves
and beside a lake that flung an incredible glare at the sky.
Orioles and kingfishers flashed. Seen between hanging
branches, over tiny islands of silver and gold, and
curling lotus leaves, on the hill above was a Thibetan
Gompa.
I seemed lost in ocean-green twilight. Mailed dragon-
flies flashed up from exotic t~ngles and other insects lay
drunk on the leaves of lotus and pink-tipped chalices.
The air was deadly sweet, hot and still as the depths of
the sea. A faint rasp, a buzz, the lisp of leaves were the
only sounds. But for the apparent cultivation of the float-
ing gardens, famous as the Babylonian hanging parterres,
I might have been rowed in some primeval forest, where
giant lizards and other animals were likely to spring up
suddenly and destroy this stupendous silence.
Hidden in reaches of luminous green were alleys of little
streams. There was a satisfying restlessness in the dim
cool water. It immersed the vision in an imaginary moisture
that seemed actual to the throat. Strange patterns of leaves,
tapestries of plants and blooming trees, traced themselves in
the transparent haze, uncertain, deceptive. The water lanes
107
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
breathed fragrances that were voluptuous and unhealthy.
They glided into groves of willow, under arching bridges
of Moghul days, and through palisades of walnut.
One of these lanes led us to a green island of shade. I
sat wrapped in delicious coolness. The exotic quiet was a
womb of fancies. It set me to dreaming. Surely there
was no solitude, no quiet to be obtained on this noisy,
over-peopled earth like that of a Kashmiri houseboat once
it had escaped the civilization of Srinagar and been towed
into a side water-alley, lost in such a green abyss as this,
or let loose on the watery waste of the Wular ! No one
could possibly find nor overtake it. How many couples,
since the pale faces came across the seas, have found each
other's innermost hearts in Kashmiri quietude! , How many
children seeldng an incarnation, hitherto denied, have been
reborn in these ideal conditions !
May 22nd. The Jhelum Lady, with face and arms a real
brown, not done by Marcel, went to Nishat Bagh endimanchee.
Fountains, floral and festal gaiety a replica of Versailles.
The only difference the ring of snows round.
May 25th. Madame Gildemeester,* who works with
entire devotion in the T.S., even hewing her own wood and
drawing her own water, told me that she went to Amarnath.
At the moment of anointing her eyes by the priest, in the
Cave, with the sacred clay, she saw the vision of an ascetic
* She has since died, as she had lived, a Sikh, and was carried by them to her
rest in the iris groves.
ro8
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
sitting in the Cave. I told her it was the Great Lord of
Yoga Himself that she had seen.
· As I drove home, we passed the hill of the Takht. This
fluted fane is like a mirror because a Temple of Shiv, the
Self-Revealing. For some days of a rich ochre only, it had
appeared naught but dull, dun stonework. This evening,
lit and framed by the horse-chestnut's white, waxy candelabra,
the yellow ochre slithers seemed alive with the Great Lord's
vitality.
Next day, after lunch, I found the pundit arrived and
seated in my boat, to arrange the details of our orthodox
pilgrimage to Amarnath. No meat en route and no leather
in the Cave. Must take rubbers as well as riding-hat.
Srinagar. June 7th. Eve of departure for Amarnath.
Lunched with the loveliest woman in the world in her house-
boat. Paris bonbons and perfumed cigarettes on the Jhelum.
She floats in Persian attire, which captivated imperial Boris in
La Ville Lumiere.* Her husband in such faultless Bond
Street togs, it is difficult to think he spends his time in trying
to get us out.
Returning in the gloaming, the Holy River in which
sixteen dips are necessary for a strictly orthodox Amarnath,
is lighted for miles with the rosy glow of the conqueror's
house-boats. Behind glimmer wanly the mighty, mystic
Himalayan peaks.
June 8th. Drive of miles through Srinagar slums. But
*She has since died from drugging, contracted in the West.
109
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
we pass the greaf Mosque with Chinese spires favouring
Bow Church, built by that woman of many parts, the Light
of the World. Also the iris graveyards, all along the route,
strike a cheery note through the squalor. My companion,
also Irish, belongs to the Order of Service, which forbids
private means. Though a brilliant pianiste, she may not earn
for self. We eat only dahl and rice. Armanath seems
ausp1c10us. Gunderbal, the gate of Thibet, the same as
before. The three perfect arches left of the Moghul Bridge,
a little more crumbly against the velvet chenars, the line of
the houseboats a little longer, the grey-green willows,
symbolical of their regrets for fair, far Ferghana, as droopy,
the Sind Valley, hidden beneath the snows, as mysterious
as ever ; all else as ever was and ever shall be. Our tent
pitched on a turfy terrace once trod by royal feet, made by
the most gorgeous dynasty the world has ever seen, and
surrounded by the kingly chenars they planted. My com-
panion, who is psychic, says she can sense the Moghul
Court still there and hear the swish of the shimmering skirts
of queens.
June 9th. Left for Kungal, the first stage of the route.
The vines drop wild grapes from the chenars. Jessamine
mixes with the torrents of Chinese white roses. It is, on
the lower levels, the pink and white season for flowers.
Roses, grading from white to crimson, are on the same
briar. Convolvuli, delicately striated in blush and cream,
- star the earth. Vetch stains crimson the Sind river rushing
IIO
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
roaring from the glaciers above. Port wine " mulgoods "
refresh our parched throats on ambling ponies. We are
overtaken by two Chinese on fastest steeds bound for
Yarkand. Grinning from ear to ear, we long to ask them
re life in their gay capital. Alas, their steeds, laden with
rose and purple " ruffie pushminas " from Srinagar,
don't stay for all the " Chin Chin Chinaman " of our
song.
Arriving at Kangan, we find it full of a Wild West show
of weird Yankees, with the "missionary face, " from Leh.
From our tent, above the roaring river, we see in front the
hoary Himalayas. One nullah leads to a great snowfield.
Across it is a horizontal black bar. The khansamali says
it is a bridge for bakri wallahs* where one thought no human
foot could climb. This was blotted out at night by one of
those mighty Himalayan storms. The great guns rolled
round the mighty peaks. Incessant electric flashes lit up
our frail tent perched above the torrent, now an incandescent
rush. The Great God is riding upon the storm. Mahadev
has met us more than half way.
]une 10th. As through air cleared by the storm, the
Divine Music of the Great God's Temple, on waking, was
more distinct than since our start amidst yelling coolies and
scrambling pice wallahs. Reversing the process of Tann-
hauser, as we approach the Cave through the rarefied air-
we are now at six thousand feet-the music becomes louder,
* Goat tenders.
III
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
earthly sounds die down. Ours is a musical cavalcade, and
to-day we sing "Anitra's Dance on Wings of Song."
We are at the meeting of the Empires, so Kashmir is a
vast nursery garden of the fruits and flowers ofthe world.
Nearly all are indigenous here. We pass wild apples, pears,
cherries, apricots and "mulgoods." And everywhere cas-
cades of roses in the whole gamut of pinks. We slept in a
grove of walnuts. The Real Thibet is met in a group of
Thibetans, in conical furry caps and pigtails, offering tur-
quoise. They are plain but jolly, unlike the fanatical
Mohammedans. We were in despair because no bath-tub
appeared. But our khansamah pulled a skin from his
pocket and stretched it over poles to make a huge saucer,
from which we rise aphrodites on alternate days. We
offered him porridge, which he indignantly refused, saying
he was a pir or padre I
The rushing river is sea-green and foaming white. The
towering precipice on the right is covered with deodars.
The left is almost bare, due to the whirlwinds from the
plateaux of Thibet.
Owing to the rain, we are now in a cotton-wool world.
Shut in by mists. Only one pure snowy peak rising above
the clouds, as a woman's purity pierces the world's calumnies.
June nth. In lovely sunshine we left Gund. Still
avalanches of roses, the brightest cerise ever seen, to cheer
us for the avalanches of snow later. We are overtaken by
the two gentlemen of Yarkand, grinning till their slits
II2
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
disappear and shouting " Shabash ! " Our lunch is on a
camping ground on which are great slabs of rock-tables ;
for pungent perfume, powders of dry flowers falling from
above. There are fields of white lily-spikes with ochre
hearts and vermilion stamens. There are wild horse-
chestnuts, cedars, and the pale little primula, mother of the
gorgeous varieties of the West. Also waxy daphne and red
arbutus. The gigantic cliffs rise one thousand feet straight
out of the river, backed by snows of sixteen thousand feet.
The castellated rocks are as though slabbed by a giant brush,
sometimes spired with deodars like the gargoyles of Notre-
Dame. The avalanches bring down green moraines, sown
with London pride, which make a green foaming river.
The ravine becomes wilder and wilder. The snows are
sometimes softer than swan's-down, promising infinite rest,
sometimes in tiers of terrible ice terraces threatening
destruction.
One thinks of the immense length of the Manvantara, in
which the river, formed from glaciers, has worn its way down
the mighty gorge, and our song of to-day is
"Holy, Holy, Holy I Lord God Almighty I "
Now we pass a green island with waving feathery, pink
flowers. Moment of moments! We are actually on the
great glacier which has come down the mountain from the
other side, and chocked up the valley ! The Sind has cut its
way through the centre, leaving bevelled edges and arches
II3
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
- in the snow. We dismount and are dragged along perilous
paths of snow for two miles, then cross another bridge,
mount a hill, and, disillusioning moment ! there is Sona-
marg ! I had imagined a gay parterre oftents set in gorgeous
natural gardens of blooming flowers. Behold, a few huts
a_
nd three tents, only a sparse scattering of iris, a few forget-
me-nots and white ranunculi.
There was a frowning influence as though the guardians
of Holy Places did not wish us to enter. Here our bhisti
suddenly died.
But there are five separate snow mountains round, each
with its own glacier.
June 12th. A brighter world. On the marg appears
the dwarf purple velvet iris characteristic ofour nine thousand
feet. All altitude plants are dwarfed, with richer colours.
So the pale lanky iris of the valley becomes the dwarfed,
rich bloom of the mountain. Also, the old green lilies of
long-ago Gungabal days reappear here. Synonymous with
evil, they are green as jealousy outside and thickly spotted
with black within, and the green stamens are claw-like and
grasping. Then there are yellow and white candytufts
and real violets (usually yellow on heights) hiding behind
stones. Our objective is the sahibs' camp for information
re Amarnath. Two fishermen meet us, say the season is a
month late, and try to scare us off. All passes into the
Lidar are blocked for the present. Three mission ladies
advise us to try, as June is not a lovely month here. Four
II4
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
friends have just returned thence to Srinagar, and though
one had a crise de nerfs after the dangerous snow bridges,
still they did. It appears that the melting snow may at any
step precipitate one into a chasm of death. My companion
senses the sinister, forbidding influences here, but has been
having reassuring visions from Mahadev all along the route.
First His eagles, then His snakes, have appeared at medita-
tion. She holds that it is our karma. We shall succeed.
In any case it is our duty to try, and for me, for many years,
in many lands, I have felt that Holy Cave would place the
Flower of Forgiveness in my hands, could I reach it. Now,
at the portals I will not fail. Already, from the thunderstorm
night guidance came in the morning. The cuckoo answers
reassuringly from the glacier as I write.
Amarnath is holy because it contains a self-formed
Lingam of Shiv which miraculously waxes and wanes with
the moon. It has been held holy for three thousand years as,
under King Nara, who lived 1048-;rooo B.C., it was visited
by pilgrims. Nay, more, before the dawn of history it was
so. Old Srinagar, like Is, is now buried beneath the waters
of the Wular Lake. Often have the boatmen heard the
groans of the damned there and seen the bubbles of their
sighs. But when Sandimatnagar was a living town the
pilgrims of Amarnath used to pass that way.
We had barely returned to our tent when the rain fell
in torrents. Impossible to move. So we sent for the
friendly postmaster, our neighbour. He comes wrapped in
II5
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
a Thibetan rug, and his cap is a brown fur Thibetan, like
that worn by Master K. H. in the photograph known to all
chelas and aspirants. He is passing rich on R. 55, and
seven people to keep. He regales us with Boccaccian tales
of these.
June 13th. Left in sunshine. Five radiant peaks after
rain. We feel the influence of the spirits of the summits.
The same as that of a certain fully magnetized lingam in a
certain ashram in the plains. These mighty peaks on each
side above us are all magnetized by the presence of the Great
Lord of Yog presiding at Amarnath, pure, sweet, exalted,
brought there by the prayers of millions of pilgrims in three
thousand years.
All earthly cares die down. With this is an assurance
of guidance and the intensified conviction that, as with all
widows, salvation lies in devotion to a ghost.
The way becomes still wilder and more interesting. Now
appears· the edelweiss, world-wide emblem of purity. It is,
however, grey-green, forming a fine contrast, in fields, with
the bright orange candytuft. The primula is now orange
too, and also deep purple. There is columbine foliage, but
the time of flowers is not yet. Notwithstanding the late
season, the ubiquitous cuckoo follows us all along the route.
We enter the glade of Balta!, and are amazed to find it fertile,
flowery, smiling. The scenery is poetic and idyllic. There
are fragile, elegant, pale-green and white copses of birch-
trees in new foliage, mingled with black firs and pines. Some
II6 .
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
of these are charred by lightning, making grotesque Japanese
effects. The camp-ground is a saucer set high above the
river. Shelley wrote:
Would he and I were far away
Keeping flocks in Himalay.
We met here a flock of at least five thousand sheep, an ocean
of moving, bleating dams, rams and lambs.
The sweet, keen influence of the Lord pours down from
the snowy peak of Amarnath. I had seen it twice before,
far away in the dusty plains, by the third eye of Mahadev. I
recognized the trees and white peak above. We hear, too,
that a party of thirteen, including old women, have just
done the trip to the Cave and back in one day. There is
no cause for fear. The Lord is indeed our shepherd. We lie
down to-night in His green pastures.
June 14th. Rain is falling in torrents. The two-roomed
rest-house is occupied partly by three Americans, two pretty
girl doctors and friend. They are doing invaluable work in
a frontier hospital, under an armed guard. One-third of
their patients are for sterility, the bugbear of Eastern women.
The other room is occupied by a handsome forest officer
with a young wife with a wild-rose face. Under the rule of
the road, we may all crowd in together, male and female
respectively, into the two rooms, but we have not the heart
to disturb any of these good people and our tent remains
up. Presently the wild rose calls and says her man will
sleep on the verandah if we like to share her room. Again
n7
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
we refuse on plea of blankets and hot bottles, but oh ! that
night ! The rain descended, the floods fell, no wraps nor
bottles could keep the ten-thousand-feet cold out. Our
bodies were at once warm on the surface, yet chilled to the
marrow, so that we shivered and chattered all night.
June 15th. Thank God for sunshine and the wild rose's
room. On going out, in addition to the flowers already seen
we remark in addition to those already enumerated :
Red clarkias,
A lily like a Christmas rose,
Spiraea,
Polyanthus,
Buttercups (no daisies),
Myosotis,
Eschscholtzia,
Primulas, now crimson and violet.
Most remarkable is a small garden of iris in all shades of blue
and red, purple and white, with fairy spires of white candy-
tuft interspersed. Nature is as artistic as the gardeners of
Hyde ·Park. She arranges fields of orange scabious with
blue myosotis, purple iris with edelweiss ; violets always
behind a stone for warmth, not modesty, and white stars of
strawberries.
These all grow on the edge of the marg opposite to the
clairvoyant's peak. This presumably because there are no
trees just there, and all sun-glints rest on it. The river
rushes between.
It is now the eve of the Great Day, the moon is full. We
n8
THE MYSTERY OF THE CAVE
have bathed in the saucer and changed our linen. Our feet
are girded with chaplies, our passover of vegetables has
been eaten, our alpenstocks are ready, we start at 4 a.m.
The spiritual magnetism has collected round the famous
cave of Amarnath through the August pilgrimage under-
taken by thousands of India's pilgrims for, as historically
known, over three thousand years. It is a cave one hundred
and fifty feet wide and high, at an altitude ofthirteen thousand
feet in the great Himalayan Range.
The presence within it of a stalactite, which has taken the
form of a lingam in pure white ice, forms the magnet which
attracts the followers of the Great God Shiv to this snow-
clad mountain. One of its special peculiarities is that the
lingam waxes and wanes with the moon, consequently full-
moon day is the Day of Be With Us here.
A rainbow forms a sash across a black hillside. Surely
a promise of help for our pilgrimage !
ng
THE MYSTERY OF THE REMISSION OF SINS
OF Amarnath little may be said. It was at once too
terrible and too blessed. I can understand why an American
girl was carried back by her guides in agonies of tears.
We started at 4 a.m. The moon was to the left of the great
snow-peak exactly as I had twice seen it, at short intervals,
clairvoyantly in Kashi, on waking, many months before.
We passed a second and greater lawn of iris. We sank
to the river-bed, and, for a mile, the ponies could hug the
base of the cliffs. Then the gorge became filled with the
river jutting out beneath the glacier, and the only path was
on the great glaciers through which it had cut its way as
with a steely knife. As June is the melting month, our
passage was like that of Eliza on the ice-floes of the Ohio.
We took eight men with us. Two of these were detailed
to cut steps in the snow before us. A false step meant
death. It was the utter concentration required that was
our salvation. One could hardly realize the awful danger.
We turn sharp to the left and ascend straight up, the
bed of the river for five miles, either on the glacier itself
or where the glacier is breaking. When we cannot cross
the crevasses we pass to the left, on the sheer side of the
!20
THE MYSTERY OF .THE REMISSION OF SINS
mountain, where steps have to be cut into the soft clay or
shingle. This part was the most dangerous and frightening
because the clay stepped on by one person threatened all
to slide down when trod by the next. The same with larg~
stones. There was nothing to grasp except the man in
front and behind. There were seven or eight of these
lengthy spurs, always in parts when a drop would have
meant the river-bed, seen at these places because the snow
bridge had broken.
Looking behind, at the end of the glacier rose a very
beautiful mountain, Harbhagawan, on which the sun shone
brilliantly later. It showed its top as a fluted concave
exactly of the shape of a fan shell. A most thrilling sight
in the dawn sunrise. On the right, the mountain wall of
stone rose to piercing thin stone peaks, as if to make holes
in the bright blue sky. It was very impressive and vivid.
The first two miles of glacier were not too difficult, and
at 6.40 a.m. it was still not too cold. The coolies picked
up wood on the way, the glacier being strewn at these points
with stones and branches. The mountain opposite the cave
is very impressive with vertical ribs of limestone. Not a
blade of grass.
This wall of enormous impregnability, with glacier at
foot, was a resting-place for one small red-breast chirping
cheerily. The great and the small! Where the glacier
broke it was thrilling to see the Sind river leaping green
over great boulders, a giant waterfall. After two miles of
I2I
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
the glacier, preparations were made for danger. Ropes
were taken out and axes got ready for the clay side of the
cliff. " The gods play hockey with boulders as balls."
When I looked back at Harbhagawan, I felt prayers being
directed towards me. Despite the danger, I felt a calm
peace ; although the shingles ran down beneath me. At
last, at 8 a.m., after five miles ofthis, we entered the Amarnath
Nullah. The rich purples and yellows of the cliffs give
place to grassy plateau. During the rest, I remarked that
there were bright yellow ranunculi, the sacred colour
appropriate to the Lord's Sacred Hill. Also we picked ui;
a bear's tail and saw marmots who uttered shrill cries round
the hill. Then the last ascent of two miles took place.
We passed up the Nullah to the left of Amarnath Cave;
the last path was very stiff. I was hauled along by three
guides, their shawls forming a loop for one hand. The Pir
led me by the other. At the last terrible pull, I became
suddenly aware that the great peaks of ice round had become
the petals of the World's Chakram Lotus ! and were in
whirling force I
When the " influence " came I felt walking in double
consciousness. Above was the Great White Lotus of the
World, swirling, its outer petals being the snowy peaks.
I felt the Master looking through the Pit's eyes. He comes
from Cabul, and being a Pir, may not marry. What had
been a joke before, because of his facial resemblance, now
became reality as he removed my boots at the cave. I first
!22
THE MYSTERY OF THE REMISSION OF SINS
noticed this change at the dangerous parts of the route, e.g.
that he had the eyes of K. H. and the expression and move-
ments of M.
This whirling, swirling world, guarded by avalanches
and angels, amid snow-drifts and snow-storms, hidden by
mighty mountains, concealed by ice and glacier, purer than
purity itself, sweeter than dreams, chillier than icicles, keener
than electricity, made the life of the valleys vague and unreal.
Just before reaching the cave we had to get through a
hole in the rocks. It was very low and it was a struggle to
get through. I sank to the knees in snow and was pulled
out by the Pir. After the hole the pilgrims' path in the
summer joins ours, with a little bridge over the stream now
frozen.
Here is an account.of it by an eye witness :
" The procession of several thousands of pilgrims to
the far-away Cave of Amarnath, nestled in a glacial gorge
of the Western Himalayas, through some of the most
charming scenery in the world, is fascinating in the extreme.
It strikes one with wonderment to observe the quiet and
orderly way in which a canvas town springs up in some
valley with incredible rapidity at each halting-place, with its
tents of various colours and of all shapes and sizes, with
its bazaars, and broad street running through the middle,
and all vanishing as quickly at the break of dawn, when
the whole army of gay pilgrims are on the march once
more for the day. Then again, the glow of countless
123
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
cooking-fires, the ashen-clad Sadhus under the canopy of
their large geru umbrellas pitched in the ground, sitting
and discussing or meditating before their dhunis, the
Sannyasins of all orders in their various garbs, the men and
women with children from all parts of the country in their
characteristic costumes, and their devout faces, the torches
shimmering at nightfall, the blowing of conch-shells and
horns, the singing of hymns and prayers in chorus-all
these and many other romantic sights and experiences of a
pilgrimage, which can be met with nowhere else outside
of India, are the most impressive, and convey, to some
extent, an idea of the overmastering passion of the race
for religion. Of the psychological aspect and significance
of such pilgrimages, done on foot for days and days, much
could be written. Suffice it to say, that it is one of those
ancient institutions which have, above all, kept the fire of
spirituality burning in the hearts of the people. One sees
here the very soul of the Hindu nation laid bare in all its
innate beauty and sweetness of faith and devotion.
Passing Bawan, noted for its holy springs, and Eish-
muqam, and Ganeshbal, the pilgrims reached Pahalgam,
the village of the shepherds, and encamped at the foot of
an arrow-shaped ravine beside the roaring torrents of the
Lidar. Here they made a halt for a day to observe the
Ekadashi fast. Coming near Chandanwara, the next stage,
they had to do on foot the first glacier, which proved to
be a tremendous climb of several thousand feet. Extremely
124
THE MYSTERY OF THE REMISSION OF SINS
exhausted with making another steep climb, and finally
scrambling up and down along irregular goat-paths at the
edge of precipitous slopes they pitched their tents at a
place amongst the snow-peaks, at an altitude of 18,ooo feet,
much higher than the glacier itself. The whole of the
following morning was a steady climb over the Pish-Bal
hill till at last the source of the Lidar, Shishram Nag, lay
five hundred feet below, hushed in its icy cradle. Next
day, crossing frost-bound peaks and glaciers over the Maha
Gunas mountain, the procession came down to Panchatarani,
the place of the five streams. In each of these the pilgrims
were required to make ablutions, passing from one stream
to another in wet clothes, in spite of the intense cold.
On the 2nd of August, the day of Amarnath itself,
the pilgrims, after making a steep climb over the Rattan
Pantsal and Bhairau Bal mountains and then a precipitous
descent down the deep valley (after passing through the
narrow hole of the Gharba Yatra on the razor-backed ridge),
in which one false step would mean instant death, reached
a flowing stream (Amravati). In this they had to bathe
and smear their bodies with clay-marl from the bed before
entering the sacred precincts of the Cave after another stiff
ascent. They then reached the great Cave, in a very passion
of the Shiv consciousness, the whole frame of many shaldng
with emotion. The Cave itself was ' large enough to hold
a cathedral, and the great Ice-Shiv, in a niche of deepest
shadow, seemed as if throned on its own base.' Then, their
125
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
bodies·purified and whitened with the chalky silt, their faces
aflame with supreme devotion to Shiv, they entered the
shrine itself, nude, except for a loin-cloth ; and kneeling
in adoration, they bowed low before the Lord. The awe-
some majesty of the whole atmosphere, with the song of
praise from a hundred throats resounding in the Cave, and
the shining purity of the great Ice-Lingam, overpowered all.
Here there was all worship. 'I can well imagine,'
Swami Vivekananda has said after visiting the pilgrimage,
' how this cave was first discovered. A party of shepherds,
one summer day, must have lost their flocks and wandered
in here in search of them. What must have been their
feeling as they found themselves unexpectedly before this
unmelting Ice-Lingam, white like camphor, with the vault
itself dripping offerings of water over it for centuries unseen
of mortal eyes. Then when they came home they whispered
to the other shepherds in the valleys how they had
suddenly come upon Mahadev.'"
In approach, the mouth of the cave looked small, but
on actually reaching it, the size impressive. The arch is
one hundred and fifty feet high, the width ditto. Three
white ice-lingams are at the top of the inner end of the cave
against the wall. To the right, a broad small one with
three peaks like a tiara is Parvati, the female aspect of Shiv.
The middle, perfectly formed lingam, has its back to the
wall. There are no droppings from above. The third
126
:i
f-
<
z
Ci:
<
:;;
<
u.
0
UJ
~
u
>
-l
0
'"'
:r;
UJ
:r;
f-
THE MYSTERY OF THE REMISSION OF SINS
half-formed, like a mound, of the same white ice. Each
on its own ice pedestal of about three feet radius.
It was disappointing to find the cave uncared for, full
of goats' droppings. But I saw immediately the divine forms
of devas, white, transparent like icicles, standing all round
it. Then, at the back wall of the cave, the Lingam. It is
only two and a half feet high, of clear white ice, standing
on a platform of the same~ But it drew me with an irresis-
tible force.
I wanted to sleep in trance beside it. Never wake
again. With an effort I recalled the claims of the lower
life and of those I had left behind me there. I placed my
wild flowers on the pillar, on which there were others placed
by the Americans. No others had visited the cave. Even
they had been compelled by its resistless force. Then I
asked two questions for guidance for my two friends ; each
was immediately answered.
All around in tremendous rhythm from the snowy
mountains came
" Holy, Holy, Holy 1 Lord God Almighty 1
God in three Persons, blessed Trinity 1"
I saw Mahadev as the Dancing Shiv, no longer the
austere ascetic, but as inaugurating a new era of art and
beauty, colour, sound, and perspective. With new work
to be done in this direction.
We left the cave sobbing with humility at the peace
and power of the Great God.
127
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
How the return journey was accomplished I shall never
know. My snow-boots were pulled off by the servants
on the verandah. My friend put me bodily into a hot
bath and bed. But in my bed, with undiminished force
and fervour, I heard pealing from my pillow
" Holy, Holy, Holy I Lord God Almighty I "
THE MYSTERY FROM BEYOND THE ZOGI LA
. .
AFTER this preliminary purification, next day came the
reward. I had an intimation to proceed to the Zogi La
Pass, the gateway to the Mysteries of Thibet~ and to go
alone I
I left Baltal on a pony. The lovely glade had never
looked so fair, as we climbed the mountain path. There
were yellow violets and also clusters of scarlet bignonia
leaves colou,.red by the snow. The higher we go the richer
the purple of the primula, the more shining the silvery
birches, the more resonant the cuckoo's note re-echoed
from the hills, the more musical the swishes of the mighty
avalanches to the depths below. And, all along, it was
" Hark ! Hark ! the lark ! " At one point the pony had
to be sent ahead, as the two men leading it were required
to haul me over the terrible avalanches blocking the path.
One false step meant certain death. We hurried over.
It was a case of fire to right and left of us, from the danger
of boulders from above as well as the loosening snow
beneath. The path is so narrow above the precipice, only
one person or pony can pass at a time.
Still, of what overpowering interest this so-called High
Road to Thibet ! What Great Ones have trodden it !
129
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
One sees them. Maurya, the superb horseman, must needs
have dismounted here. Koot Houmi, the gentlest, raised
his fur cap for a breathing space. Hilarion shivered at
the keen winds en route from Cyprus, his balmy home
of the body. The last word in modern thought has
come down this tiny path. And, as we reached the
summit, the torrent of rain we had been wading through
stopped. The two syces called out, " Zogi La hogya,
mem Sahib!"
The upper avalanches from the virgin snow-fields above
were roaring like thunder or lions.
At that very moment, the sun burst through the
clouds, enabling me to take the photographs at the exact
psychological moment, impossible before.
And-and-and ! I had barely finished the photo-
graphs, as I thought, when the dak wallah approached
bearing dispatches from far-off Thibet !
What import these dispatches had for me, and where
I went, and what I did, on the other sideof the Zogi La Pass
honour forbids me to say.
THE RETURN
Left Baltal in sunshine. We met our U.S.A. friend
who had left us for bears while we sought Shiv. He had
failed in his quest of the lower life. His snowy nullah
had brought forth no bruins and he is following us now.
We met many Thibetans and Ladakis. Nearing Sonamag
130
THE MYSTERY FROM BEYOND THE ZOGI LA
the rain descended, the winds blew, and we sensed again
the same sinister influence as before.
Now we are housed in one of the two rooms conserved
for Sahib Log in the Serai. The rest is occupied by
Thibetans, etc., of the roughest sort. We have just had
one into our tiny room. We wished to buy his necklace
of turquoise (feroze), and cat's-eyes, and red stones, but he
refused to sell. This is the last rough stage of our journey.
The rest in comparatively luxurious daks. Never have I
appreciated four walls and burning logs before as after the
horror of the tent. How one should pity the homeless.
Amarnath has done this for us ! Its merits are such
that all sin is left there on those gypsum cliffs. We have
found the Flower of Forgiveness. Therefore we start
afresh, renewed, to commence life again !
The postmaster has one of the saddest, sweetest voices
I have ever heard. He is a past pupil of Tyndale Biscoe,
C.M.S. Nevertheless he vouched for the following, which
only took place two weeks ago. The nice, clean, brahman
boy we saw in the village shop suddenly went mad. He
threw a pot at his friend, assaulted a chokidar, and rushed
up the marg. Two chokidars ran in hot pursuit, threw him
down, and sat upon him. This was opposite the post
office. Four Kashmiri pundits inside, hearing the row,
rushed out and found him unconscious. They carried him
back to the shop. Artificial respiration was no good.
Then the police sergeant, a devout Hindu, said mantras at
131
VEILED MYSTERJES OF INDIA
the possessed boy. Then a voice out ofthe boy said, "I will
not leave him." "Who are you?" they asked. "I am
Ananda Deva. He killed a sheep while I was doing puja
on the hill."
"He never touched the sheep." "No, but he com-
manded others to do it." They knew this was true. They
continued the mantras. " I will leave him," said the
incensed deva, "if he abstains from meat during the eighth
day of each fortnight." The Hindus divide the month
into light and dark fortnights. " Where do you live ? "
they asked. " In the jungle· behind the camping ground,"
he said. Since then the boy has been his calm, usual self,
But after that, all the Hindu community of the village.
including the postmaster, made a pilgrimage to the base of
Ananda Deva's hill, offered him food, and did worship to
him. The boy has kept his promise.
The ice-bevelled edges of the glaciers are just like
giant crocodiles on the stream. The woodpeckers have
red waistcoats. The honeysuckles are trees-not creepers.
The butterflies are black and yellow as we continue the
descent. At a last look at the terrible peaks above, we see
a pillar pointing to two smaller ones against the sky-line.
Our P.O. friend told us to look out for these. A man and
his wife, having climbed to this awful height, prayed never
to return, as one wishes never to leave the Lingam of
Amarnath Cave. By Yog their prayer was answered.
They were turned into pillars of stone in the earth life.
132
THE MYSTERY FROM BEYOND THE ZOGI LA
We have now reached the heart of the rose country
and are encamped at Gund. As we pass up the village
street looking for Ladaki spoons and turquoise, a great
peace descends on the soul through the balmy air, after
those terrible blasts above. We have atoned.
We start anew. Our subconscious selves are singing:
Plenteous grace with Thee is found,
Grace to cover all our sin I
Coming down, we met on a grassy lawn under a walnut
tree two gentlemen returning to Thibet. They were all
packed up ready to resume treks. Said they were late.
Impatient to start. With great difficulty I persuaded one
to pose for the camera. We had only just time to see the
Buddhist Bible in an embroidered cloth strapped on to his
back. That Bible that Kawaguchi came from Japan and
suffered much to get from Thibet. We bought a chased
spoon from their servant. Impossible to get them to part
with their treasures.
Our last march was through a white country of drifts
of ~hite roses and jessamine, and drafts of their scents,
symbolical of the purity, sweetness, and newness of life
we had won at Amarnath.
133
THE MYSTERY OF REINCARNATION
TWO
Two souls met in the windy spaces of the sky.
" Brother, show me the way to heaven,
I died last night with the moon."
" Sister, show me the way to earth,
To-morrow I am to be born."
THE child's photograph of the frontispiece 1s the most
striking external proof of reincarnation extant. ·It was taken
by an amateur who was in the dark as to the previous in-
carnation of its subject. Only three copies exist; of these,
one was given by Mrs. Besant to the late Mrs. Mead.* All
my tact and patience with Mr. G. R. S. Mead failed to get
it. Mrs. Mead told me, shortly before her passing, that
Mrs. Besant told her the Master Maurya had called in the flesh
at the house in the Himalayas where she was staying with
the child's family. This is one of the few appearances of
the Master in the flesh since H. P. B.'s passing. It has never
before been published.
The second copy was in the possession of the child's
mother, the third in that of her grandfather. To get it,
I had to travel, rising at 5.30 a.m. from a comfortable hotel,
·and go to a remote part of Bengal by a train crawling
forty miles in four and a half hours. With infinite tact and
patience I disinterred it from a vast lumber the owner, on
* Nee Laura Cooper, who had loved the original in her previous birth.
134
THE MYSTERY OF REINCARNATION
his return to the deserted bungalow, had rescued from the
white ants who, in twenty years of neglect, had built mounds
as high as a man on the verandah and were overrunning the
place. Their marks were in the photograph album. Thank
God they spared this !
The owner said : " We left two old servants in charge
of the house, which was tenantless for twenty years. The
white ants had built up all the verandah and were streaming
from the roof. They had eaten all the furniture inside. When
my first son was born, of the last of my three wives, my
sister gave me the house, which was hers. She insisted on
my marrying a third time to get my son, to carry on our
house, and to perform the Shraddhas at my death."
He continued : " Colonel Olcott, Annie Besant and
Constance Wachtmeister, Devindranath Tagore (not the
poet) and Swami Vivekananda used to come here and sit in
the further corner of the garden about the time of the photo-
graph in I899. My mother built a house there which has
all been destroyed except the big foundations which you
see, on which they sat. She then planted that peepul tree
to mark the spot where they sat. The photographed baby's
mother came down the river here from Kashi. ' Why do
you come?' I asked. ' Because that corner calls me.' There
was no other reason for her to come. She visits it at mid-
night, called, I believe, by the souls of the dead."
At the back of the house is a large banyan and mango
grove.
J
The Sibyl had arrived in her own house-boat from
135
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Kashi the night before, aft~r five days on the Holy Stream, for
the forty miles, on which she spent the last night too. She
had only arrived at the house that morning, but already an
altar was erected in the heart of the grove. The Lingam,
which had travelled on her neck, was now wrapped in a
magenta silk. The sunlight filters down through the pale
pistache of the mango and banyan leaves and gleams on the
peacock's tail of an old brass puja lamp given her by a holy
swami. On the paler yellow guavas, offered to the Lingam
on the altar, and on the dark mysterious features and un-
fathomable eyes of Mysteriarcha herself. For the mysteries
performed in this grove are the heart of Hinduism, second
to none in India in occult power. Round her are her
following, a man who had been stone-blind for ten years
whom she restored to sight and who spends his days at her
feet. Others who are said to come for baser motives, for
she sells her jewels to give to any who need and takes the
destitute into her own home. " When shall you return to
Kashi ? " I ask.
"When my mission is done," she replies.
" And that will be-- ? "
" Perhaps to-night, perhaps to-morrow night-I cannot
tell."
" You are here to help the souls of the dead ?"
"Yes."
" Which of those who sat in the corner is calling for your
help? The Colonel, the Countess, the Sage, or the Swami ? "
I ;?6
THE MYSTERY OF REINCARNATION
"None of these."
Nothing more can be extracted. A large part of her
work is helping the earthbound disembodied. But about
the time of the birth of the Babe, a whole family in inferno
came crying to her, in torment, for help. There had been a
lawless passion with an awful chain of results, an illegitimate
birth. Shame had brought murder of the mother and babe.
Murder had brought capital punishment. All three came
calling in agony for help. Her great Master instructed her
as to the modus operandi. The foremost woman of the age
was then her disciple and was allowed to help. The latter
explained their ceremonies to me, which consisted mainly
in physical offerings. It is a part of the Law of the Universe
that sacrifice must be made to atone for sin (vide the Dasa-
swamedh Ghat, where the gigantic Horse Sacrifice, in which
royalties took even the menial part of scullions, was per-
formed by a great prince six times over for his mother's
sin). "I was allowed by the Great Ones to help her. The
rites were performed in solitude, after which she returned to
the family, rowing herself in a tiny boat."
The rites were successfully performed. She triumphed
over death and hell. She prevailed over the gates of Hades.
The family passed on to happier spheres.
The Babe's grandfather, who possessed this copy, is a
suave and discreet man of the world. He was put in charge
of his cousin, a young Maharajah, for King Edward's Corona-
tion, exactly as the Babe's Master (in her former life)
137
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
accompanied Indian princes to England in'57. She saw him
then in the flesh, when walking with her father in Hyde
Park, and recognized him as "Le Maftre de mes Reves."
A few notes about Mahatma Rankari Baba, a sage who
lived near her, given by the Babe's uncle, will interest. He
was born in I840 in Jaunpur. At the age of nine he settled
here as a beggar-boy. At first he lived under a peepul.
Later on he lived in a huge bush near it. People built a
house for him near it. He dug a tunnel underneath for
Yog. He could cure sickness and foretell the future. He
gave lofty teaching as though from a previous life. Thou-
sands came to learn, including Vivekananda. Owing to the
crowd, he shut himself in a house with high walls round.
He was never seen for twenty years except on one occasion.
Thieves had come to steal his golden utensils, and had left
them in a bundle without taking them. He sent the things to
them. At first he took milk only, then two chili pods a day,
later only bael leaves, lastly nothing at all. He was known
as the Master who lived on air, for seven years. He lifted
the immense weight of a house of corrugated iron, for which
cranes were built, phenomenally. He tried to save a rat
from a cobra. It put out his eye, but he would not allow
it to be killed. He said: "It is the Will of God. " The
uncle saw him one day outside feeding lepers. He was
immensely tall. His hair fell to his feet, and was like a
lion's mane. He was surrounded by an aureole of light
in his latter days of no food, so that in the dark people could
138
THE MYSTERY OF REINCARNATION
always locate him. By Yog, without combustibles, he
lighted a sacrificial fire and consumed his body. At the
sight of the flames, people rushed in to save him. He
signalled with smiles to let his mortal soil burn.
Next morning the rain fell in torrents for the first time
this season. The one carriage refused to come. At last,
four ekkas agreed to do so, to convey the sannyasini ladies
of the house who had to return to Kashi for their religious
duties, and their servants. They came, not for money, but
because of the reputed sanctity of the Sibyl in the neighbour-
hood. We splashed through lakes of water for miles, the
thunder, lightning and heavy rain crashing down through
the flimsy cover of the country cart. The precious photo-
graph was beneath the dirty rags of the ekka wallah to keep
it from the damp. The station gained, the train was one
hour late. A British sergeant, who shared the one waiting-
room, sent for a fire-pot to dry my dripping stockings. As
I sat, my feet wrapped in my mauve sleeping-jacket, I
wondered whether the elements were raging at sacrilege in
taking the photo, especially as the exposure brought on a
severe illness. But I cannot think it aught but meritorious
to give to a world depressed because of failure the most
striking proof on the planet of another chance.
We arrived at Kashi, at the White House on the Gunga.
Needless to say, it is a highly magnetized rendezvous of
magicians, both white and black ; during our absence the
latter had been so rampant that the eldest son had been obliged
139
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
to fire on them with pistols. It was dangerous to go alone
upon the roof.
On the balcony overlooking the Holy Stream, I was
able to get some information from the subject of the photo-
graphs about her past life. She had, as I had previously
heard from others, agreed to come back to earth to fulfil
certain karmic debts. She was now in the lovely body of a
brahmani ofthirty. I had also heard, from two separate reliable
sources, that in the intermediate life she had occupied the
body of a snake in the precincts of the Hidden Temple.
This was done by the Dark Forces, who ever check the
onward path. Jesus, after his baptism, full of Mahadev,
was led by Him to be tempted of the devil. An Arhat of
our time was told by the Dark Forces that they would not
impede his being a Jivanmukta if he would give up his
work for the world. An offer at once declined. During
the Babe's infancy, a wire arrived that she was ill. Her.
mother gazed into space and burst into tears. The Master
was in the room, saying " X. will have to suffer because
it is her last life." This has been fulfilled. Domestic
troubles, continuous ill-health from chronic malady of the
body have been her lot. But what matters that ? She
said : " I saw my past life as in a cinema. I saw what I
was before."
K. T.-" And that ? "
X.-" A white person."
K. T.-" Were you a man or a woman ? "
140
THE MYSTERY OF REINCARNATION
X.-" A woman."
K. T.-" And her age?"
X.-" She seemed to be about thirty-five."
K. T.-" And what sort of woman ? "
X.-" She seemed to be a literary person."
K. T.-" Can you tell me more about her ? It is so
fascinating."
X.-" In a flash I saw this person, and knew it was
myself in my past life. She was a thinker, she was sitting
at a table covered with MSS. She was not English, some
other European nationality."
K. T.-" Was she fat or thin? "
X.-" She was plump, good-looking, fair. I could
not see her eyes. I could see more, if I wished, by thinking
about it. But what is the use of looking back ? One
should go forward ! "
As swans in bands
Fly back to Gunga's well-remembered sands,
So dawned upon the maiden's waking mind
The far-off mem'ry of her life resigned.
In this particular case, the mem'ries returned at the age
of twenty, e.g. the faculties earned, oh! how strenuously,
developed at that age. Colonel Olcott, in tears, under the
influence of Maurya, present unseen at the T.S. Convention,
faltered, "That poor old woman, she sat at her desk!" He
broke off in sobs.
X.-" When I wish, I can see the hidden temples. It
came at twenty."
PART 11
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
Hedyle had said this, thought this every time she looked at herself, every time
she lifted a polished mirror. " I've been here a long time. Only there is no time.
I mean there isn't really. Plato and the peripatetics (though Socrates was an ill-
informed monster) had some idea of the nonsense of it, of time's irrelevancy. That's
why it doesn't matter." Nevertheless she added an additional grain of fresh kohl
to the paste she had habitually affected. It doesn't do to appear haggard at assemblies.
-HEDYLUS.
Flowers from the small inland pool, those scarce and rarely to be discovered
water-lilies. Lilies (in his thought) were all about him. Purple, martagon twist
of flame embroidery, tongue of citron-yellow, such lilies as Irene told him grew spotted
like moth-wings in Arcadia, lilies of precious form and pattern, scroll-like on Ionic
volute ; white lilies brought from Africa, tended (so priceless) in wet moss though
the ranged rowers dropped, at the last, dead of lingering thirst, such precious mystic
flower, for which men had fallen backward that they, more suave, more delicate, might
be placed stiff with fragrant petal in Hedyle's frail fingers. Freesias. Wrapped in
cold moss though rowers died for it. Blue wood-lily. The wine-coloured single
violet-shaped, acanthus-leaved spear of blossom they had brought from Lydia, the
small valley-lily, growing a white spar against a heavy water-lily like blade of foliage,
a simple yellow lemon-lily, the famous, not wholly beautiful orchid-lily with its lavender,
marked like some pale butterfly, the soul, the very visible embodiment of beauty.
Last and most poignantly the white shaft that was simply the Greek lily of the
islands.-HEDYLUS.
We be the gods of the East,
Older than all,
In the fume of the incense,
The clash of the cymbal,
The blare of the conch and the gong.- THE NAULAHKA.
TILBURY DocK once more, for this is the penultimate of ten
long voyages taken during seven years of supreme anguish,
whose sanguine grapes of pain appear in this book.
September 14th, 1928. Embarked on the Rawal Pindi
for India. The last voyage outward bound till the great
Outward Bound.
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
We pass between Chatham and Shoeburyness, our home
in the dear old days of the dear old world before the Arma-
geddon. "Shoe," where the cinerarias glistened in the
garden by the sea. Where the thunder of the guns in that
last year before the Deluge never ceased. Chatham, where the
hammering in the dockyards never stopped, day or night ;
significant note for those who had ears to hear. Where
we heard, four years before, what the Admiralty knew to a.
year, but the nation's ear was waxed too gross to hear.
Whence he and I took the last outward bound together.
September r7th. Off Portugal, saw a circle of sharp
blades of porpoises glistening steely in the sunlight close to
ship. As they dived, their white breasts gleamed like huge,
pearly, incandescent lights, flashing into the dark electric-
blue depths. Later, the sea turned to pale blue spun glass.
On this, floating towards Finisterre, was a fairy brig all in
white, white hull, and four snowy, pointed pinions unfurled.
.This is an unusual sight, and only met on a Southern Sea,
these white wings that never grow weary. In the cold north,
coal, tar and oil prevail.
But the white wings, though unweary, beat more slowly
than the blast of our oil furnaces. So, the white ship faded
quickly behind, phantom-like, in our wake.
Where lies the land to which the ship would go ?
Far, far ahead, as all her seamen know.
And where the land she travels from? Away,
Far, far behind is all that they can -say.*
* This verse was quoted by Lord Curzon in a speech on education in India.
I43
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
In the evening, the porpoises turn up again, white-
bellied, gleaming through our wash of phosphorescent
ink. An old tar informs me they are not quite the same
as dolphins, the beloved of the Sea Queen rising from the
waves, which are a little smaller. Here and there, small
living sea mushrooms, rings and sickles, fl.oat transparently
in the ink, delicate sea-weeds spray fronds of sea-ferns
and moss.
Gib, lion-like, guar~ing the Great Gate of the Empire
beyond the seas. Algeciras, twenty miles out of the squalor
and meanness of the town, is reached by motor. White-
roofed, bathed in sea-lights, the white hotel has green
garden swathing. With its French cuisine and nectarines,
gleaming pearly on the waters, it promises lethe of the past.
Here, one tired, would remember nothing any more.
The captain's table, the usual symposium. He some-
what overdoes the bluff sailor. On one side of him sits
an aristocrat with a sharp tongue, on the other an exact
replica of Gladys Cooper in The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,
with the same horror of oranges that Lord Roberts had
of cats, and who sinuates up and down the deck, a subtle
perfume trailing behind her. The grey-haired woman runs
the sports.
An old General at the table had a lady to visit him
.with that most ghastly and grisly of grins, the " worn smile
of many seasons." It came at the slightest provocation, and
was fearful in its metallic brightness combined with a carroty
144
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
toupee. The intimate friend of a Maharani not only blazes
with jewels from Paris, but wears the creepy, mocking
expression of a certain sort of clown, like the moon when
she grins.
A wretched Parsi youth, whose beauty allied with
brains, have been his undoing in the West, wears a
wig, fondly hoping it will be undetected and enhance a
romantic appearance. Not so. Nature avenges herself on
those who flout her primary laws by transforming them
into panta~oons.
The moon is dropping her Western plate-like form and
assuming globular contours of the East. To-night she turns
the three-quarter face of a white pierrot towards us, laughing
at the manifold follies on board.
Mr. Watson, Political Secretary to the Viceroy, next
to me at table, speaks glowingly of Lord Irwin. Calls
him the first English gentleman to rule India since Lord
Minto. But Minto was only a gay man of the world.
Irwin was chosen by Mr. Baldwin, in these critical days,
because of his deep religious feeling, united with sagacity,
which appeals to an India whose greatest Incarnation has
said:
They that worship other gods worship Me.
He told me that a rising, brilliant young man had had
his career dwarfed through no fault of his own. He had
only had the honour of serving under Sir Michael O'Dwyer.
No Government would dare to make him Governor of the
145
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Punjab after that. And Sir Michael O'Dwyer would never
heed another.
K. T.-" Why was Sir Michael not assassinated?"
Mr. Watson.-" Because they are afraid of him. The as-
sassin who strikes with no hope of escape is a very rare bird."
K. T.-" Then Dingra was a rare bird ? "
Mr. Watson.-" Very."
K. T.-" How is it that that terrible series of assassina-
tions has quite ceased ? "
Mr. Watson.-" Because we have all the gangs of
assassins in our net."
He said he would not put his son into the I.C.S. Now
there are fifteen per cent. of Indians in it, but we are fast
hurrying to fifty per cent. Nevertheless, he thinks India
can never get on without the white man. The Hindu and
the Mohammedan will never lie down together, so he thinks
India will become a Crown Colony.
We see sea-serpents daily. In the morning, a typical
Mediterranean sun rises red in dove's-breast grey, and throws
a broad, glittering gold serpent on a Nile-green sea. In
the evening a sickle moon throws subtle, slithering, silverf
snakes on an electric-blue.
Passing Pontilario, a convict isle, one hundred t:Q.iles
south of Sicily. Entering the seas where burning Sappho
sang. The sun burns on a bride with a burnished-copper
head and blue smock. Her figure has the grace of a Greek
athlete as she wields deck quoits.
I46
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SP.A.CE
Commissioner Unsworth, of the Salvation Army, is on
board, and narrates his experiences in quelling the White
Slave Traffic.
He says the devils are not quite so black as painted,
as it is necessary to pile on the horrors to get the
League of Nations to act at Geneva. He does not
believe, for instance, as Lucas Netley states, that five
bogus marriages ever take place per day in the big
brothels of Paris to ship deluded brides to the Argentine ;
where would the passports come from? Nor that the
Chief of Police in Paris fraternizes in cafes with the chief
monster of the trade. Au contraire, he states that the
Paris police were true as steel and guarded him from
furious apaches when he attacked the Folies-Bergeres. As
this centre of nude attractions is mainly manned by
British girls, and they send touring companies round the
globe, he concentrated against them and got the law
passed through the Houses of Senate and Deputies to raise
the age to eighteen.
The Banvard Company are on board. Mr. Unsworth
pointed to them as illustrations of artists' life : they are
bare-legged and free with their men on board. They draw
a few pounds a week. When they return to the U.K.
they may have to join the sixty thousand unemployed
artists and drift into the Folies-Bergeres.
Queen Mary was so pleased at the age being raised that
she gave him a special seat for Princess Mary's wedding.
147
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
King George says he is the only traveller that beats the Prince
of Wales.
I could not help glancing back through the years to my
childhood, when this same Unsworth was stoned in the
streets of our c~thedral city. When military were drafted
into Salisbury to quell the rioting against this same Army
now honoured by royalty. When my father's eyes were
closed with mud in the infirmary and my mother pelted with
rotten eggs for supporting an infant cause now famed world-
wide.
Mr. Unsworth said he had never met a greater gentleman
than Lord Irwin in all his long experience in the House and
Lobby. Sic tempus fugit.
Commissioner Unsworth said the fish-market of Cairo
was the foulest place on earth. Many of the women in
it had false certificates. When the Australians found this
out, and that their health had suffered in consequence, they
burned down the market, throwing the pianos out of the
windows. The women presented themselves to Sir John
Maxwell, who asked to see the proprietor of the street. The
man sent his solicitor to represent him, but Sir John insisted
on the real thing.
Lord Kitchener asked Mr. Unsworth in pre-war days to
head the Purity Campaign ; even Mohammedan ladies
joined his committee at the Carlton Hotel, Cairo. They
found women were being smuggled in, dressed as firemen,
in French boats. No girl under fourteen is now allowed
r48
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
on the Continent. Up to sixteen, much rigorous watch is
kept on the passport and two years penal servitude entailed
on malpractice. They are trying to raise the age to eighteen.
_
Mr. Unsworth has the O.B.E. and has been four times
received by the King at Buckingham Palac_
e.
September 24th. Last night our darkness was lighted
by the fairy-lamps of Malta, but we only halted in her hos-
pitable harbour one hour. To-day we are in sweltering
heat and swinging over Sappho's turquoise seas. Rather
should I call them waters of lapis-lazuli, for they are trans-
parent. A darker cobalt shadow moves with us, the turret.
This is followed by a rainbow, not formed by the tiny, dancing
spray, but shining deeply in transparent lapis depths. Query,
the cause of this strange phenomenon? No one seems to
know. How exquisite must have been Sapphic eves, when
the lyres were attuned by violet-crowned singers, when the
zephyrs stirred Grecian draperies beside the classic seas.
It is now the fashion to whitewash Sappho. Have the ages
lied?
The Crown Prince of Patiala is on board with his tutor.
He is a tall, handsome boy, of reserved manners, aged about
twenty, wearing European dress but a tasteful muslin turban
to conceal his unshorn hair. Noticing he also wore the iron
bangle of the tenth Guru, I said : " Your Highness is an
Orthodox Sikh. Not 'reformed,' like Kapurthala" "He
is not a Sikh at all,'' the youth replied scornfully. He
relaxed a little when I told him his father, a child of
149
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
ten on a white pony, leading his Lancers past the
saluting base, had been the piece de resistance of Lord
Curzon's Durbar.
September 29th. Last day of terrific Red Sea heat.
A perfect inundation of land birds, though no land in
sight. Yellow wagtails, presumably after ship flies, hobnob
with resting swallows in the rigging. They come from
lands without hunters, are very tame, and perch on one's
hand while reading. Even a blue jay appears. Sure
and enough, within an hour, land hove in sight, though
only an island, gaunt and stark. Then seven doves
alight and, cooing softly in the rigging, bring the sweet
message that our ark, with its noisome miasma of human
animals on board, is approaching Aden, the Gate of the
Indian Empire.
Nearing Bombay. The monsoon has left its aftermath.
The Indian Ocean is molten lead with flying reliefs of silver
in the glint of the flying fish. These skim the inky billows
fo~ long, exactly like birds, with silver breasts and out-
stretched wings.
Bombay, October roth. Spent the evening m the
Taj Mahal house on Malabar Hill. Fyzee Rahamin is one
of the greatest decorative artists of the world. We sat out
on the terrace overhanging the Bay. Pigeons cooed sooth-
ingly. The fountains sprayed coquettishly. The yellow
champa flowers on a silky green plantain leaf swooned their
sweetness on a blood-red ·cloth. Nevertheless, Attilya
I50
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
Begam, his wife, herself a feminist, seemed depressed about
(I) National Politics. Said political leaders were nothing
but paid agitators ready to betray India to the British for
money. (2) Education. A B.A. had called on them with
his wife. " Here is my she I How is your she ?" The
Begam Sahiba added naively that, though she did not pro-
fess to speak perfect English, she knew enough not to call
a lady a "she," besides having not only a fair acquaintance
with her own literature, but also with the Shastras of the
Hindus ! An article appears in the National Herald of
to-day speaking warmly of her selfless work for Mohammedan
girls and the superiority of her school over that of the Bom-
bay Government. (3) Morale of Indians, especially those
now in Europe. A Maharani "going to the dogs " in night-
clubs. A gilded Parsi youth in the wildest set in Paris.
The Bombay Queen of Beauty drugging herself to death,
also in La Ville Lurniere.
A relief to go out on to the roof and see the two-
pronged fork island of Bombay the Beautiful, all green
from the monsoon, surrounded by its blue waters and surfy
shores.
The Simon Commission is expected to land from the
Maloya at 9 p.m. Then they will be hustled into the special
white train now waiting for them beside the dock. A guard
of constables is drawn up in a battalion close by. Others
guard the dock gate. They will have a pilot engine. All
these precautions are taken for those who have come to see
K 151
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
if India is fit for Home Rule. One bomb, en route to meet
them, exploded in the train, killing its owner. Our train
leaves shortly before their special. The line is guarded .as
for a Tzar of Russia. Nevertheless we shall be lucky if we
reach Kalyan, their junction for Poona, in safety.
We crossed the Nerbudda bridge. In September, '96,
the holy river became so violent, from the monsoon, that
she burst the high and mighty bridgie spanning her banks.
The driver of the train, hearing a tremendous roar, stopped
his train just in time to save an awful catastrophe. This
river is of extreme sanctity, especially at Marble Rocks,
where holy sages sit beside her in perpetual meditation.
October 14th. Kashi once more. This time in se-
clusion, secreted from the gangs the cruise ships disgorge
of one hundred gaping, twanging Yanks per day, and in
solitude alongside the church where his ashes have lain a
year before proceeding to their long rest.
Only the silent pad of the camel daily passing, hooded
to its peering eyes :with bales of straw.
Only the flits of the butterflies, yellow and umber,
speckled with their black and white eyes, going aroaming,
always in pairs.
Only the scents of the mangoes and neams and the sweet,
starry, white shower of the lottarmalti draping the Georgian
front of the church, beneath the flag where the handful of
faithful resort in this stronghold of Hinduism.
Only the white flowered forest of the gardenia hard by,
..152
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
with the green paroquets in it, and the green balls of the
limes, only the scarlet cups of the hibiscus and the pungent
shock of the purple, paperish shower of the bougainvillea
which knocks one down at the hotel gate, noisy and blatant
as the crowds it shelters. Only the band of the snake-
charmers at the gate, their bags and baskets writhing with
their fangless pythons and cobras, less harmful than the
human serpents inside.
Only the blue water-lily spike in my bedroom, dug from
a well, hidden by its verdigris spatula leaves, mystic as a
blue lotus from the Nile.
Only the sapphire and turquoise glints of the blue jay
with the rosy under-breast in the peepul.
Only the chocolate unt-wallahs on the soft fawns and
beiges ofthe unts passing.
Only the sharp, blood-red cries of the flocks of emerald
parrots, whirling around the white spire against the turquoise
sky.
Only the dun cows in the churchyard, each followed
religiously by an attendant chela, in the elegant form of a
white pelican, seeking what it may devour out of her.
Only the church attendant in immaculate white puggree
and the cowkeeper in a raspberry one beside him.
Only the glint of the golden orioles in the mangoes.
Only the white bails, patiently dragging the bucket at
the well, with the redundant curved humps he loved, when
they drew his camp kit.
153
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Only the hot-weather bird hammering all day long his
death-knell with its metallic, maddening clang. Only the
owl's discordant shriek of the shock of his passing. Only
the doves cooing and soothing his rest. Only the pyramidal
traces in the churchyard of the longer rest of those others
brought from Benares City in I 794.
Only the ekka passing carrying two saffron-dressed
ascetics en route from the Ghats, for it is now the Dasserah
Festival to the Female Aspect of Shiv, to whom Kashi is
holy.
Only the sinister howling of the jackals, their eyes green
lamps, around my white shrouded bed on the verandah at
night.
Only my own eyes opening on the sunrise, turning the
white Georgian spire of the church to rose, where the
Mutiny heroes rest. It has burrowings in the stucco like
those in the marbles of the Taj Mahal. Only the velvety
elephant shades of the stains on the Borghese pillar, sur-
rounded by a ring of orange marigolds, India's sacred
colour. A pre-Mutiny general rests beneath it. Where
the greens of God's acre rival the greens of the Garden of
Allah.
October 7th. To-day all this peace in the City of Shiv
(Peace) is rudely broken. To-morrow the Governor arrive~.
Yesterday gay flags bedecked the cantonment. This morn-
ing I was woke ere dawn by rude cries. In the dusk was a
procession of shadowy forms carrying a red flag. They
154
HIPP L I NG ,\I AH 13LES.
(Of t he Fatehpur Sik1·i Sa in t .)
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
proceeded to the cannon guarding the route and there per-
formed a ritual of responsions. This was a Simon boycott.
Later a second yellow-capped procession passed bearing
a yellow flag with mystic symbol. Followed a third with
many. These were Mrs. Besant's boys and other loyalists.
Followed another with blue caps and banners. Still they
come. When the Governor, etc., appeared, in state carriages
and with royal umbrella, he was loyally greeted. But this is
· Holy Kashi, the City of Shiv (Peace), given over to the things
of the Spirit, the Holy Ghost.
Yesterday the papers published the Congress Ultimatum,
absolute independence. There is no doubt the whole
Continent is thoroughly disloyal. Is this the knell of the
Empire?
Armistice Eve. The pink marble Urn, which has been
reposing in the Georgian church for a year, is unpacked.
It brings the Shiv influence rolling in waves through the
room.
Armistice Day. Poppies, and, with muffled drums, the
native cavalry band plays inside the church. There is life
in the Old Lion yet !
Follows the arrival of the Brahman, with knowledge,
from the depths of the mysterious city, to bless the Urn.
Whose own house is difficult to find, even by his friends.
We discourse of the Greater Mysteries, concealed even from
him, hard by. " How can it be," I ask, " when we all
apparently run over everywhere ? Is space an illusion ? "
155
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
"Time and space are both illusions."
" But there is a definite space between this verandah
and the church."
" It appears so to you, but a beetle would see the space
differently. So would those higher than you, as you are
higher than the beetle."
He talked on, of metempsychosis and reincarnation, of
maya and its king Mara, and the Buddha beneath the Bo tree.
The paroquets still played in the tree-tops, their feathers
flashing green as cabochon emeralds. The rasping of the
insects, inseparable from Indian life, and the smell of the
mangoes made me sleepy. Yet I was alert mentally. My
mind seemed to sift his words and allow a trickle, fine as
sand, to fall into my thoughts and mix with the sediment
of orthodox creeds, the ashes left by doctrines, which my
insolent imagination had burned like paper in a flame.
Around me the trees were so green, the earth so warm, the
air so silent, that I felt a satisfying sense of mingling with
it all.
While he talked I saw, as in a cinema, a Man in Saffron
walking in humility with a begging bowl, a white, anguished
Figure on a Cross, a Camel Driver in the desert. Were
They all One Being ?
Overhead the paroquets were still screeching in the
branches, and the s_
ong of the insects filled the hush. The
air was thick with the scent of mangoes. It was approaching
eve and the screech-owls started. The heat came up from
156
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
the warm earth, mingling with the shadows of the trees,
and melting them into a diaphanous green luminance.
It enclosed all, the insects, the birds, the trees, like the
tender breath of a mother. It enclosed the Brahman too;
and me. I was aware of what was, to me, a new mother-
hood in the soil, in the surrounding warmth and greenness ;
for it came to me, suddenly, that we, the Brahman and I
(and all men) were a part of that soil, that warmth, and green-
ness, and not merely a figurative par_
t. I had a stabbing
recollection of a tropical shower the day before, the sudden
_
burst of rain that fell and was sucked in by the earth, only
to ascend, an hour or two later, in the visible rays ofsunlight,
that transported it into the clouds again. That very mois-
ture gave life to the green things about me now, the insects,
the birds and the trees. Gave life even to us, humans,
and we, so magnificent in our time, rotted like fruit left
in the sun and mingled with the soil, to perpetuate a future
growth of humans in an amazing and ironic immortality
of the body.
Shifting dust-hills ! But through them played a wind,
played just as the wind was playing in the palm trees now,
a distillation of some Universal Substance that filtered into
earth and earthmen, and, when the law of action ceased,
passed back into that all-pervading Substance like mist, melt-
ing through a wire screen, only to return in different forms.
It was very old, that simple revelation that unfolded
there beneath the mango tree, on the verandah ; a truth
157
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
that the men of Babylon must have known. That others
surely dreamed in Nineveh and Tyre. And out of all this
wandering, this lingering in ancient cities, in jungle and in
desert, over the burial grounds of dead civilizations, among
the ruins of others ; in mosques, in temples, in cathedrals ;
eut of all these melancholy contradictions, that is the one
thing of value that I have learned, the existence of a Oneness
of Earth and Man over which a Sublime Compassion casts
an illusion of beauty.
That and one other. And only the greatest shock of
my life awoke me to it.
A shock which has sent me staggering and reeling down
to the crematory because it was necessary to that Plan for
me, who had always served the personal self, sometimes in
defiance of the Divine Self,
"for the self is the Self's enemy."
The ·existence of a Plan, a Plan, which if we only conform
to it, working in our small corners in conformity with the
Divine Pattern, brings the maximum of success into our
puny lives. But if we attempt to break the Universal
Design in the thread of our midget movement, promptly
draws down from Eternal Righteousness a ruinous vengeance
and destruction.
It is now and it is here,
The something beyond all things dear,
The miracle that has no name !
When I am not, then I am :
Having nothing, I have all.
. 158
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
It was my hands that built my prison wall,
It was my thought that did my thought confine,
It was my heart refrained my heart from love.
Now I am stilled as in a gaze divine,
Now I flow upward from my secret well,
Now I behold what spirit I am of.
The Body is the Word ; nothing divides
This blood and breath from thought ineffable.
Hold me, Eternal Moment I
The Idols fade: the God abides.
The Brahman left his magnetism as a benediction of
peace.
This morning, on waking in the white mosquito curtains
of my verandah bed, I saw, from the pillow, what appeared
to be a high wall of greenery between us and the other hotel
across the kirkyard. But, on rising, it resolved itself into
only the branches of a tree. The apparent new wall was
only the flaming red branches of the gold mohur tree. The
mosquito net turns greens, reds and blues of the morning
glory all round into Aubusson tapestry. Parable of Maya.
The church hymns synchronize harmoniously with the
cry of the muezzin, the clang of the temple bells.
All religious belief has only one significance, that of
leading to self-realization ; it means the imaginative exposi-
tion of being, the mirror of the centre of being in our con-
sciousness. Undeveloped human beings must believe in
something external, because they have no other means of
focusing their powers, of condensing them to dynamic
unity.
Walked to the Club through the matured Company's
159
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
garden, where languid, early Victorian ladies in fl.ounces
discussed Mutiny news. The evening sun burned above
the Birna. In the foreground tennis players tossed balls.
Soon they will motor home to dress, to return, an hour
later, for cocktails and gramophone dancing before dinner.
·We are in the heart of the Hindu world. Out of all
that gallant company not one takes the trouble to study the
hoary religion of their ancestors. Dealing out justice by
day, yes. But without an iota of interest for what India
can teach, or in her " mysterious civilization.'~
The Brahman called to-day, and with a broad white
tilak of Shiv upon his brow. He told me of an astrologer
of great power. He lives near Dasaswamedh, the Thrice
Holiest, itself a recommendation.
Dasaswamedh is the Ghat of the Ten Horse Sacrifices
performed by a potentate in redemption of his mother's
Sln.
It was the greatest of all sacrifices, its meanest offices
were performed by royalties.
When the horse was liberated, to roam at will, each ruler
of the territory he entered had to defend it by the sword.
Between Dasaswamedh and the Bisheshwar are the
Holiest Places of the Planet.
The astrologer has written making an appointment for
Friday. This is not an inauspicious day for a Hindu.
Afte.r passing the guest-house of H.H., on the outskirts
of Cantonments, we went through miles of drab slums till
I60
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
the bright coloured shawls and ascetics' shrimp heralded
the approach of the Ghats. We turned off a side street
and pulled up at the quiet courtyard of Chintamani Mukerji,
another brahman friend. He led me to the astrologer's
chamber, impossible for the uninitiated to find. We traversed
a school garden, then down a narrow passage leading to
the Ghats, and, beneath a peepul, in a tiny room on the
ground floor, sat J;ie whom great English sahibs delight
to honour when they want to know their future. He is
also a Brahman and marked with Shiv and with Malas.
I put my question.
He asks for dates and makes calculations.
It will be auspicious, he says, next year, and in May.
Will it? God knows.
In this connection I am often asked whether the horrors
of Mother India are true. I can only reply that, having lived
en intime with several Hindu families, I have seen none of
them, with the exception of the too early marriages. This
particular Brahman of the Urn had resolved to set an example
in this respect.with his daughter. But, a good match having
offered, the all-powerful ladies of the family insisted on the
girl's marriage at twelve. Result, she died of fever within
a year.
Three Burmese Buddhist pilgrims, father and two sons,
are passing through the hotel to-day. They go to Sarnath
and Gya. They radiate the peace of the Blessed One, in
silken skirts. They say that few Burmans have the time
I6I
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
and money to do this, their second tour. Now they must
return to the paddy-field season of Rangoon.
The Limbin Mintha's daughter, niece of King Theebaw,
he of the Palace of Golden Flames, has just married an
English bookie. What bathos I
Her father, the dear old exile of Allahabad,* disliked
the match, but the girls were anglicized and he could not
stop it.
The Crown Prince of Germany owed his curtailed Indian
tour to the eldest. Meeting her at a ball, given in his honour
by a regiment, he was so charmed with this victim of the
British he refused to open the State Lancers or to sup with
the colonel's wife. He returned from Lucknow with his
portrait for her, as an enemy of England. On the return,
the motor broke down, and, at the Taluqdars Pete, there was
no Prince. Result, cable from old General Graf zu Dohna
to Papa, and cancelled tour. This is the true version, as I
was present at the ball and also saw the photograph.
The blue jay still comes regularly, every morning, in lovely
shades of sky and a darker blue. He sits on the telegraph
wire opposite my window, balancing himself by swinging
his tail. Sometimes he darts down to my verandah. Is
this an omen? Is the blue bird really flying to me?
Christmas Eve. Visited the Bisheshwar Temple, the
Heart of the Mysteries, in the City of the Holy Ghost.
First, the little upstairs shop containing Herod's shining
* Vide "Cities Seen."
162
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
tissues, overhanging the Temple. The proprietor complains
bitterly he cannot pay the enormous commission for the
hotel custom. It has been raised four times to R.4,000.
Sick ofthis sordidness, we descend to the old Bisheshwar.
The court is surrounded by shops :filled with marble and
brass emblems and implements for worship, etc., exactly
as St. Peter's at Rome.
In the brass bazaar the air was vibrating with metallic
sounds. Tawny men sat cross-legged in the midst of piles
of shining bowls, bells, and burners.
And the pots, and the shovels, and the basons : and all these vessels,
which Hiram made to King Solomon for the house of the Lord, were of
bright brass.
And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because they were ex-
ceeding many : neither was the weight of the brass found out.
The cloth market, adjoining the brass bazaar, was an
immense shed where long aisles, aromatically cool with the
waxy odour of Kabul, wandered among numerous stalls.
Hundreds of pieces of silk, worked into weird mythological
figures, hung in panels in little alcoves like shops. Sienna
and ochre and bistre and gamboge. Most of the silks were
of these sacred hues, hung close together, merging into
vast pieces of tapestry that seemed to tone the intruding
sunlight to twilight.
Aurangzeb drove down a mosque on the top of the
Temple. Poor old boy ! It cost him Hindustan and
availed naught! We searched fruitlessly for that passage
I63
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
which can never be found, except by those who know. Then
we descended further to the winding way overhung by marble
spires, past the delicat~ traceries of Durga's shrine and shops
filled with thousands of lingams of all sizes, to Anapurna's.
It was bathed in a golden light, and hung with scarlet saris.
An ancient fakir, with matted locks and white beard, sat in
a corner. A young woman in crimson prostrated before
the altar. Cows jostled, pigeons flew, crowds passed in
and out. But, in a few steps, came the sharp, keen smell
of marigolds heaped high in orange mountains before the
door of the Lord of the Universe, surmounted by the
golden spire of Ranjit Singh. It is the Holy of Holies of
Hinduism. For us, only a side peep-hole available. A
silver door, an excited crowd, intoning above the Lingam.
It is not the day, not the hour, it is an off time, but they
come, drawn by the Mightiest. Never ceases the sonorous
clanging of the bell.
We slip past to the \Ylell of Knowledge, fringed by women
in purple and mauve. All around are walls, spires, trees,
lanes, alleys, layer upon layer, dense, subtle, mystic, hazy,
<lazy, bewildering. We are "back from where we started."
Yes, so shall we ever be till " the feet have been washed in
the blood of the heart."
The Brahman of the town has just retold to me the oft-told tale of
how a Brahmani of knowledge took Mrs. Besant to this spot. They
turned down a passage appearing to lead f rom the Temple. Then the
Brahmani disappeared. Mrs. Besant, to her surprise, found herself at
the Temple again. Then the Brahmani reappeared.
164
THE MYSTERY OF THE URN, TIME AND SPACE
"Whence come you? "
"From the Holy of Holies."
" But the passage never turned I "
"It happens so sometimes," replied the smiling Brahmani.
Never again could that passage be found.
Benares is the most fascinating problem of the Spiritual
Life. We knoiv there are mysteries concealed there. How
much is physical? How much is astral or etheric? Where
is the space for the former? · "Time and space are illusion."
Yes, but space is a very real thing when one has to walk a
mile. Time when one has to catch a train.
There we will leave it. It beats me.
But always will Kashi be most holy, the Lingam the
centre of all Mystery, all Power.
May the Lords of Karma remember that in the hour of
reckoning. May the Lord of the Bisheshwar Temple and
of the Mysteries of Kashi, whose Western name is the Holy
Ghost, see that there are other satis of more prolonged
torture than those of the flaming fire.
Maurya of the imperial Rajput dynasty, Master of the
White Lodge, who as far back as the Moru of the old Kalki
Purana is writ of as the leader of the new race.
Radiant vision of bridal days, may the widow's devotion
bring her back to you. You live. May we see more of
the glories of Maurya.
This will be my last message when the crimson karupi
flowers entwine our coral alabaster urns in Holy Kashi,
.where, if they only knew it, lies the hope of the whole human
r65
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
race. They will rest side by side on a cactus court train
of asphodel silk for altar cloth, hemmed with the Doge's
Venetian lace, in that museum, filled with gleanings from
all lands of our travels, which I am leaving for our track
marks as the gypsies leave wisps of flowers along their
grassy routes.
Alone beyond the pale
Where square and circle coincide,
And the parallels collide,
And perfect pyramids flower.
It is the City of the Great Ones. There is no other
way. No middle course. Either the Temple of Lubentina
or Amarnath. The heights of Heaven or . the depths of
hell. Kashi or Montmartre. Make your choice! Faites
vos jeux, Messieurs I Messieurs, jaites vos jeux I
166
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
MANDU
If I were given the choice of revisiting one single spot in the whole length and
breadth of India that choice would unhesitatingly fall on Mandu.-YVONNE FITZROY
in "Courts and Camps of India."
No book is published on Mandu.-MEssRs. THACKER SPINK.
Parmi des jardins merveilleux, un palais ou tout est dispose pour la vie libre et
pour l'amour.-LE JARDIN DES SuPPLICES.
A nude girl reclined on a sand-bank at the water's edge, while a rock manakin,
its plumage changing colour with every movement, from the deepest saffron to the
lightest blue, flitted from stone to stone calling cheerily, as it displayed its different
dresses to the naked girl, " Just suits, Madam, just suits, Madam, only two-and-
nine, only two-and-nine."-THE IvoRY CoAST.
Mandu, the ancient capital of Malwa State, possesses a most interesting history.
The centre of war and intrigue, and the loves of Kings, from the early days of the
thirteenth century, it is now in ruins, but romance still clings to these, as the reader
may judge for himself.
DEAR MADAM,
Backwood,
Basingstoke.
December 30, 1912.
I am greatly obliged to you for allowing me to
see a copy of your book,* upon a few passages only of
which will I touch.
You quote Jacob on page 250 as authority for the
rope trick or phenomenon. It would be interesting
to know if any European were present beyond Jacob
and can vouch for the performance. When I was in
* "Cities Seen."
VEILED MYSTERJES OF INDIA
India I caused it to be widely known that I would
handsomely remunerate any performer who could
show me this feat. But from all parts of India came
the reply that no one did it or had ever seen anyone
do it.
The story is over a thousand years old. Yo-q should
read Yule's Marco Polo, I, 309, where you will find all
about it with the names of the medireval authorities.
But an attested case, seen by European witnesses,
I have never been able to discover.
I wonder who are the two ladies whom you allude
to on page I 09 to I 1 o. I think I know the first of
the two. But the second, on page 110, who came to
grief, I cannot identify. Poor creature. Who was she?
I alighted by accident on page I 80, to which you did
not call my attention ! It contains a number ofmistakes.
Sir Louis Dane had nothing to do with the partition
of Bengal for or against it. He was in Afghanistan
and England at the time and was never called upon
to express his opinion.
Sir Denzil Ibbetson was one ofits strongest advocates.
I did not say at Calcutta that " Hinduism incul-
cated lying or that the Hindus were all liars," or
anything even remotely resembling it.
I happen to have a copy of my speeches which
was brought out when I left India, and on page
491 you will see I did not say anything like that,
168
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
When next you go to India I hope you will go to
Mandu, which I am glad to think I saved from the
Jungle, oblivion and ruin, and which is one of the :finest
things in the world.
Further, I wish you all success in your efforts to pierce
the veil.
I will remember your kindly suggestion.
With all good wishes,
Yours very truly,
CuRZON OF KEDLESTON.
New Year's Day. A tremendous day in the bird world
of Benares. As the sun, setting beyond the Birna, gilded
the peepul into a golden aspen, a whole aviary of varied
and gorgeous birds settled there. First came the king of
our birds here, the bluebird, the jay, the harbinger of bliss,
clucking as he tweaked his tail up and down on a twig.
And then the crow-pheasant, an enormous blackbird with
brown wings. And then, another variety of crow, small,
sable, sinister and double-tailed, and then the woodpecker,
like a giant bullfinch, with a long tail. Beneath, in the
dead leaves, grubbed the humble seven sisters. Suddenly
the sinister one swooped down on a sister. She flew away
shrieking, pursued by the crow in and out among the shrubs
and eventually into the mango tree, where they were lost to
sight but not to sound. Much shrieking in the thickets.
The chase was so exciting, like a miniature aviation battle,
169
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
that the woodpecker and even the bluebird flew down
and joined in. The sinister one pursued another sister,
but with what fell intent I know not. But all day long the
bluebird, with soft breast of rose, bright-eyed, jaunty-tailed,
spread its glorious wings of sky striped with darker blue.
As, long ago in the West, that most gracious undergraduate
saw in the yellow snapdragon on the grey walls of Oriel
a symbol of renewed hope, so is the bluebird flying to me
for New Year.
The compartment from Benares is full of Indian ladies
returning on " concession " tickets from their Women's
Convention. A sign of the times. Still more so is their
rudeness and shrill defiance in the compartment. India
slowly but surely is passing from British rule. Moral,
invest no money therein.
After a weary twenty-four hours the train arrives at
Kandwa Junction at midnight. The Indian ladies rush
into the waiting-room and secure the only couch. I have
to sleep on the table.
Next morning a tiny train to Mhow, through the real
central core of Hindustan. Luscious palms above jungle
lakes, and everywhere the red smears on rock and milestone
bespeak the faith ofthe ryot, rude, crude, enduring for millions
of years. The real Indian names of the stations-Attar,
scenting of roses, and Choral, where that famous Hindu-
American marriage took place. We are now in the vast
Indore territory. Having completed her conversion cere-
IJO
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
mony at Nassik, on the Godavery river, the bride pro-
ceeded here for her civil marriage. Yellow thorns like
mimosa. Huge grey apes squat on a tiny stump. Crowds
of vultures, sinister as the souls of the damned. A fantastic
atmosphere prevails, perhaps born of that extraordinary
marriage which recently convulsed East and West. Whose
first-fruits are even now on the way, a child whose destiny
none can foretell. Whose aftermath is a fresh terrible
scandal of mother and daughter imprisoned for years in
a lonely fort at the despot's will. Whose ending to the
poor young American girl, who sought for truth via Eastern
pathways with the enterprise and courage of her race, none
can see.
We have now reached Bawaha where the civil marriage
took place. There is the Red Palace where the long-
suffering first wife, a charming enlightened woman, after
threats of fasts on her part, was prevailed upon to present
the U.S.A. interloper to her Lord. We cross the bridge
over the river down which the bride floated with the Maharaja
on the evening of her marriage, after Ganesh Puja, in a
little boat. The palace, a country house, is the one oasis
in this dreary desert waste. How disillusioned the poor
girl must have been by this time! The last act of the
drama is now being played in Paris.
A native and his wife get in, and he sticks his dirty shoes
on to the seat towards me and reviles me for calling him
" that man " to the guard : more signs of the times. The
r7r
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
toy train wound up the Vindhya hills with wonderful
engineering feats. At last the familiar Niagara on our left
heralded the approach of Mhow, the military station to keep
Holkar quiet. Mhow is noted as the place where Laurence
Hope wrote her hectic verse. We are now on the great
Central Indian plateau. The Dhar State motor drove me
over thirty-three miles of dreary plains to the oasis of the
Maharaja's guest-house, a luxurious Western bungalow.
When the Maharaja's secretary calls, he has reminiscences
of her and how her girlish marriage to an elderly man
exemplified Hindu ideals on the subject, that marriage is
of the spirit, not of the flesh. He said the second scandal
re the Maharaja Holkar was unfounded and that Miss Miller
had a good influence over him and that he was a man
with very charming manners. He said the reigning family
were driven from Rajputana to the Deccan by Hindu feuds.
In the eighteenth century Holkar, Scindia, and this were
A.D.C.s to the Peishwa. Hindu rule over the Deccan and
Central India had been re-established by Shivaji, and thus
these great families reign now. More of Shivaji later. Here
on the verandah of the guest-house, with the cooing of doves
all round, I shall write a resume of one of the world's
greatest love stories, whose location we are here to see. The
story of Rupmati and Baz Bahadur. She was the daughter
of a Rajput. He, when hunting on the hill, heard her sing.
She long denied his suit, for a daughter of the sun may
not mate with a Moslem. First, of course, Mandu belonged
172
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
to the Hindu line of Malwa, whose Prince, even now, is
considered the greatest intellect of India's lords. . They
were of the Fire-Races coming from the Sacred Fire-Pit of
Mount Abu. They came to Malwa about A.D. 800 and
reigned to 13 1o.
Vakpati, " Lord of Eloquence," was the " Sun for the
Eyes of Maidens." Vairasinha, Munji, and Bhoja, the
scholar Kings, collected all the wit and erudition of India, but
ever hastened from disputation and recital to stem the
current from the North. They were book-loving Kings
and builders of delicate fanes. Bhoja stands out, from the
mists of antiquity, as writer and poet, as well as soldier, in
days of turmoil and invasion : " the illustrious Bhoja the
Poet King." At last his line was vanquished by the strong
men of the North, who built on the Hindu ruins their simple
virile buildings. The Pathan, or Afghan, style is distinct
from the Moghul or Turkestan style at Bijapur, described in
" The Voice of the Orient." There are three hundred single-
block ten-foot pillars in the Jama Musjid, but no minarets
anywhere, so there is no Voice from the Minaret. The
buildings were once covered with blue and emerald tiles,
glowing with colour and dazzling in the sun.
Shere Shah, he of the Indrasprastha Mosque at Delhi,
was the last of the Afghans.
In the year 123 5 Altamash seized Ujjain and sacked
Bhilsa, the two principal towns of Malwa, and established a
Musalman domination which continued unbroken till A.D.
173
VEILED MYSTERlES OF INDIA
J401, when Timur swept through India with his hosts of
infidels. In the resulting confusion Dilhwar Khan Ghori,
the Governor of Malwa, proclaimed his independence, thus
starting the dynasty of the Malwa Sultans. He died in
1405, when his son Hoshang Shah ascended the throne
and almost immediately moved the capital from Dhar to
Mandu, twenty-one miles distant. Hoshang Shah spent
most of his life in fighting with the neighbouring Sultans
of Guzerat and died in 1434, being buried in a very fine
mausoleum, which stands behind the Jama Musjid. Mahmud
Khilji succeeded to the throne, and under him Malwa reached
the zenith of power, peace and prosperity. His activity
was unceasing, his tent was his home, and the battle-field
his resting-place, although his reign was marked by the
absence of any enmity between the Hindus and their rulers.
He extended his dominions in all directions, even as far as
Ajmere in Rajputana and Elichpur in the Berars. He
received embassies from Egypt and Bokhara.
Mahmud died in 1469 and was succeeded by his son,
Ghyas-ud-din Khilji, who on his accession announced to
his nobles and the public that he intended to give over the
Government of his realm to his son, Nasir-ud-din, and to
retire to his harem. His conception of ease and comfort
was sensual pleasure, and in pursuit of this ideal money
was extorted from his vanquished neighbours and from
his subjects. At one time there were no less than fifteen
thousand women in the palace. Beautiful women were
174
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
drawn from all over the globe-school-mistresses, dancers,
embroiderers, musicians, and women of other trades and
professions. Five hundred Turkish women stood on his
right hand on ceremonial occasions, dressed in men's
uniform and armed with bows and arrows, and on his
left he had a guard of honour of five hundred Abyssinian
women, also dressed in uniform and provided with
.firearms.
Comparative peace reigned throughout the kingdom
for some time, but soon Nasir-ud-din, the elder son, grew
impatient for the throne and eventually attacked his father
and murdered his brother with the whole of his family.
He then subdued the city and had himself crowned King ;
and a few days after his father was found dead in his palace,
it being alleged that he had been poisoned by the orders of
Nasir-ud-din.
Nasir-ud-din ascended the throne of Malwa in 15oi.
He was notorious for his cruelty, was fond of women and
fonder of wine. An instance of his cruelty is here recorded.
One day while intoxicated he fell into a reservoir, and four
female slaves who witnessed the accident hastened to the
spot. They extricated him after much difficulty and revived
him. He complained of a headache and the women informed
him of the accident. Taking their statement to be untrue,
and thinking they were reproaching him for his drunken
habits, he put all four to the sword with his own hands I
Nasir-ud-din eventually met his death in 1511 by falling
175
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
into a tank at Kaliadeh near Ujjain in one of his drunken
fits. On that occasion no one dared to rescue him. He
was so despised in his time that the Emperor Jehangir,
when he visited Mandu in 1616, had his remains disinterred
and thrown into the Nerbada. Nasir-ud-din's second
son, commonly styled Mahmud II, succeeded him. He
imagined that kingdoms were ruled by the sword alone and
soon came to grief in trying to carry out these principles.
He was eventually taken prisoner by the Rana of Chitor's
ally, Bahadur Shah of Guzerat, who put him to death while
he was trying to escape. With his death in l 53l the throne
of Malwa passed under the Musalman of Guzerat. Three
years later, in l 534, Nemesis overtook the conqueror when
Humayun drove out Bahadur Shah, the latter saving his
life by letting his horse down the walls of the palace by ropes
and fleeing to Guzerat.
A period of confusion followed and the state was split
up into a number of petty chiefships, till in l 545 the Emperor,
Shere Shah, took Malwa and placed a garrison of ten
thousand horse and seven thousand foot in Mandu.
When the Suri dynasty decayed, Baz Bahadur, the son of
Shujaat Khan, who had been Governor of Malwa under
Shere Shah, declared himself independent. He was defeated
by Akbar in 1561, but contrived to regain possession tem-
porarily. He was finally defeated in l 562, and Mandu
then became the headquarters of the Mandu Sarkar in the
Subah of Malwa. Akbar visited the fort in 1564 and 15 98,
176
L
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
and destroyed most of the buildings and the fort walls to
prevent the place becoming the stronghold for rebels.
Then came the great Moghuls, Akbar and Jehangir,
"The Talented Drunkard," and his wife; the cleverest
woman who ever lived ! This is a large order, but none
other than the Light of the World has passed from
broideress to Empress !
With them, to Mandu, came Sir Thomas Roe, Elizabeth's
ambassador, " pregnant of understanding, well spoken,
learned, industrious, and of comelie personage." Yet
stout of heart. Insulted by an official, he brandished his
"pistolls," " my frendes, them would I trust ! " He
evidently knew his India !
What a sight met his gaze, fresh from the mazes of the
forest track and mountain gorge !
The Malwa Plateau rises sheer out of the plain, and on
its edge is the huge fortified city, with its forty miles of
battlemented wall. Mandu is all rise and fall of wooded hill,
thick green shade, and jade green sunlight, lakes and tanks,
and rich things growing richly. Among all these, some-
times lost in the forest, sometimes dominating it in red
sandstone and marble, are the masterpieces of the Pathan
architect. Gateways, palaces, tombs, baths, and mosques,
all the splendour, erudition, and strength of a great
civilization set in a scenery like the Trossachs.
Akbar destroyed many of the buildings, but some were
restored by his son Jehangir, who, on one occasion, spent
177
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
six months at Mandu shooting big game. He himself
writes with pride that the Light of the World shot
four tigers from her purdah howdah. Sir Thomas Roe,
ambassador o.
f the great English Queen and of James I,
accompanied them. To-day the Bhil hunts in the old cities
and jungles with bow and arrow, and he and the leopard
share the lovely old place.
Then there are mosques and lofty tombs hurling back
the sunrays from glistening lapis-lazuli and the blue and
green tiled domes of the north, offering all the luxury and
splendour of the time, and then called " Shadiabad, the
joyous city." The imperial visit lasted six months. Roe
was accompanied by his chaplain, Rev. Mr. Terry. He
mentions that curse of lack of water which caused the
abandonment of Fatehpur Sikri by Akbar. Terry writes
they were two whole days in carriages coming up the hill.
In the woods were lions, tigers, and many wild elephants.
The lions were kept off by fires at night. Roe says no one
but Jehangir was allowed to shoot them. On his birthday
he was weighed against gold and precious stones, as Malwa
recently was. Terry says none of his servants would defile
a mosque by sleeping in it, though pressed by want of room.
The ambassador and chaplain had one on the edge of the
jungle. " By wonderful mercy the furious, ravening and
hunger-bit animals did not make their prey of our bodies."
A lion carried off my Lord ambassador's " little neat white
shock " which ran out barking at him. Jehangir has a
178
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
pet lion. He writes: "Nur Jehan asked my leave to shoot
the four tigers marked down with her gun. I replied,
'Be it so.' In a trice she killed these four tigers with
six bullets. I had never seen such shooting! I ordered
R.4,000 to be scattered over Nur Jehan and gave her
ruby wristlets worth a lac. To shoot from the back of
an elephant, within a closed howdah " (she was evidently
purdah), "four wild beasts with six bullets is wonderful."
For the Shab-i-barat they had illuminations; "the count-
less lights with which the palace and buildings were lit,
shining on the lake, made its whole surface appear on
fire."
The Jahaz Mahal or " Ship Palace " takes its name from
the lakes between which it stands. The water in the early
days must have reached to the walls of the palace, but at
the present day all around it lie endless ruins buried in
creeping plants. The guard-room, not far from the palace,
was the residence of the Amazon guards of Ghyas-ud-din
Khilji.
Leaving the guest-house, we drive past pale pastel
fields of blue linseed and yellow mustard, past a summer
kiosque where the boy Prince and four Princesses play,
and where the late Maharajah fed the buck bounding about.
He died at forty, having kept death at bay for fourteen
years.
After twenty-two miles, we reached the hill country,
the edge of the great scarp of the Malwa plateau on which
179
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Mandu stands. It is heralded by groves of orange lantana
beloved of Laurence Hope. In fact, the whole city is now
buried in this beautiful orange flower. On the left is a
lotus tank, once lighted by Jehangir's lamp, called the
Queen's Tank. Here was once the residence of Sir John
Malcolm, when the British held Malwa. As we wind up
the hill, there are domes everywhere, like Delhi in the
old days, like the Panjab now, mournful, desolate, where
departed warriors lie.
We pass the Delhi Gate and Aurangzeb's Gate, and,
with the strange contradictions of the East, " the Sweeper's
Gate." All about are groves of orange, of feuille-morte,
walls still scrapped with sapphire tiles, and the historic
tamarind trees. In fact, the whole vista is hills, woods,
and domes. We pass the Jama Musjid. The immense
size is impressive.
Having left our basket at the rest-house, where vice-
roys lunch, we motor on, still through orange forests, past
lakes and tanks covered with duck, to "the Nurses' Palace."
This has a lovely echo. Domes, still domes, and black
buffaloes, each with a white pelican on his back. They are
herded by women in gay garments and silver jewels. Still
on for miles, always in the walls, we pass Baz Bahadur's
Palace and then, on foot, up the steep hill to our goal, the
Bride's Palace. First, we passed her swimming bath, the
stairs descended by her dainty feet, and mounting to the
Chattris she had built on her bower. This was to
r8o
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
refresh her after passionate nights of.love with Baz Bahadur.
Channels conducted the rain-water from above. Then
there are two long arched corridors for her servants, and
then up to her private apartments and on to the roof over-
hanging the very scarp of Malwa, one thousand feet sheer
below, and there, in the far distance, shone the waters of her
island home and, beyond, the silver streak of the Nerbada,
which confers sanctity on every stream for thirty miles.
India's most wondrous view, of forty miles.
Far away in the clouds shone another white streak,
still the Nerbada. Being on the edge of the cliff of Malwa,
the city wall passes at our feet for its forty miles surrounding
of domes, trees, and lakes. It passes out to the right again,
still above the scarp, to back the great Jama Musjid and
away to the Delhi Gate again. " Shaped like the Isle of
Wight ! " says my intelligent guide ; a wonderful vista
of yellow trees and mellow domes. " The only mistake
Baz Bahadur made in military tactics was not to guard the
steepest hill, two miles from here. He thought it safe,
but the enemy got in." He opines this palace, with its
suite of only three rooms, including a dainty bower at each
end, was only used in the hot weather. A stair leads down
to the bath from them.
We are indebted to Mr. Lionel Crump, late Resident of
Gwalior, not only for this, one of the world's greatest love
stories, told completely in the West for the first time, but
also for original paintings made of it at the time. Not
:i;81
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
enough can be said for Mr. Crump's indefatigable pursuit
of all this. The MS. is called
"A STRANGE TALE OF FAITHFULNESS."
It begins,
" In the name of God
Who exalted man by the gift of love."
The author of these stories of Rupmati, translated by
Mr. Crump, was at Akbar's Court. He was informed by
the groom of the bedchamber who had been present at
her last singing at the final pleasure-party given by Adham
Khan in the palace of Baz Bahadur when he thought Rupmati
would surrender to his lust.
The translation begins :
Long after thy pavilions crumble down,
When age-forgotten Mandu's dying fame,
When Rewa's Godhead, desecrate, departs,
Still shall thy songs be sung by sage and clown
And green as Malwa's monsoon-hills, thy name
Live on her children's tongues and in their hearts.
This poem is taken from the Kama Shastra, an early
Sanskrit work on women, which classes Rupmati with
Draupadi, Sita, and Savitri, as Ladies of the Lotus, the
flower from which Brahma was born.
Rupmati, Queen of Mandu, lived and died faithful to
husband and ideal.
Baz Bahadur was the last king of the doomed city,
whose omen is in the saying :
18:z
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
" The dawn of Benares, the eve of Oudh, the night of
Malwa ! "
We have seen that the city is forty miles in circuit of
walls. Baz Bahadur, or Falcon, was a great warrior, who
made impregnable Mandu his capital, a musician, a singer.
His court was "a bevy of nightingales in a garden of roses."
He was also a mighty hunter.
Rupmati was a Rathor, a daughter of the moon. The
Udaipur line, "of the sun," alone has never married a
Moghul. So, to-day, an Udaipur princess takes precedence
in Rajastan over all other wives, and her son, whenever
born, inherits the throne.
Rupmati was born on an island in the holy stream of
the Nerbada. She was wedded at fifteen and died at twenty-
one. She was a brahmani, the caste at Sarangpur.
The romantic story of Baz Bahadur and Rupati runs
thus: Baz Bahadur, when hunting on the hill, was capti-
vated by the singing of Rupmati, the daughter of a Rajput.
She long refused to accept his addresses, but finally con-
sented to do so if he would bring the Nerbada, or Rewa,
river up to the summit of the hill.
"Never will I marry thee till the waters of Rewa,
Goddess of my worship, flow through thy royal city there
on high."
Her father said he would poison her with opium rather
than permit it.
With the assistance of the river god, who told him to
M 183
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
seek a spring under the roots of a tamarind, Baz Bahadur
discovered the source and imprisoned the waters in the
Rewa Kund, a picturesque lake which still stands just
below his palace.
The Goddess Rewa appeared to her and told her of
the tamarind spring. The marriage took place.
Fair was life to them on the roof of the Ship Palace,
looking out over mosque and tomb, dome and cupola of
blue, green, and yellow and marble white, and beyond to
lake and wood, to hill and vale, fair as the music in their
ears and the love in their hearts.
"We are thy bees and thou art lotus flower," she
wrote him from this harem.
The palaces of Baz Bahadur and Rupmati are of special
interest. A good road leads to the edge of the mighty cliff
which bounds Malwa on the south. Here, perched on the
very edge, stands the palace of Rupmati, Baz Bahadur's love,
with his own palace just below hers near the Rewa Kund.
He built this new palace by the spring of Rewa. When
the day of disillusion came she sang :
Dead is the day when thou wast one with me.
Then he would leave his wine and women and answer
her with a couplet and revive their passion.
Akbar's own historian, one of his Great Four, wrote
in the Akbarnama of her death.
" From love of Baz Bahadur she bravely drank the cup
of death and carried her honour to annihilation."
184
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
Adham Khan entered Malwa in 1562. Baz Bahadur was
forced to fly, and he took refuge in Sarangpur, Rupmati's
home and birthplace, where he was finally defeated. After
his flight, Rupmati was left to the mercy of his conqueror
and committed suicide as the only means of escape.
First she fled from the capital, disguised as a flower seller.
Fifteen horsemen pursued her twenty miles, and found
her defended by her brothers. They killed them all. She
was brought back to Adham Khan. Even the ladies of her
harem advised her to submit, hoping to retrieve their
former splendours. When she saw no hope of escape,
she wrote begging release. He replied :
" I sacrifice all earthly bliss, all hopes of paradise for one
minute of thy love."
She told him she would receive him in three days.
The last night, he gave a feast in the palace of Baz
Bahadur. The groom of the chambers said that tongue
and imagination failed to describe it. But the songs sung
by Baz Bahadur's bards were of ill omen. The party ended
in shivers of fear. At dawn, the lady attired herself in
her bridal robes for Baz Bahadur. She took her bin and
sang. She appointed an hour to receive Adham Khan. She
sprinkled the richest perfumes upon her gorgeous raiment.
She lay down on her couch with her mantle drawn over
he.t: face. Her attendants thought she had fallen asleep.
When the Khan arrived, they tried to wake her. She had
swallowed powdered diamonds. She was dead.
185
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
" When Adham Khan saw the bird of the soul had fled
from the cage of mortality, he seized a chance damsel and
retired. Rupmati gave her life to be faithful, and this hath
crowned her with immortality. 0 Mandu ! queen of
cities, the day of thy splendour is over. Empty are thy
palaces, and dead they that dwelt therein. On the domes
thereof the owl beats his drum. Baz Bahadur is dead,
Rupmati is no more, but 0 Moghul ! thy destruction is ·
not far off ! "
Akbar was so enraged with Adham Khan that he had
him thrown twice from a tower till he was quite kille~.
His mother died of grief, in forty days, and they are both
buried at Delhi.
" If anyone calls at her tomb, ' Rupmati ! ' the echo
renders ' Baz Bahadur ' ! "
The old Mohammedan historian ends his tale by
praising women, versus men, in matters of love. He quotes
Khusru :
Khusru in love rivals the Hindu wife :
For the dead's sake she burns herself in life.
He refers to the Hindu Sati, as an example. Love is
pre-eminent in women because God intends it should lead
them to his throne. If a woman is faithful to the one man
to whom she has given her word, this is enough in Hindu
occultism; in fact, it is her salvation.
'
The beautiful love-letter, in twenty-nine quatrains of
verse, religiously preserved by the brahmans of her birth-
186
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
place, ranks second to none in the world, and equal to the
earth's greatest love-music, the duet of Tristan and Isolde.
Baz Bahadur outlived her. He seems to have dwindled
to a noble of Akbar's Court. But though he loved many
women, his heart was true to the Lady of the Lotus. His
last wish was to lie by her in her island in the midst of the
lotus-spread waters.
On a clear day, the view from Rupmati's Palace is a
delightful one. Below the steep scarp of the Vindhyas
sheer down at one's feet lies the fertile valley of the Nerbada,
the sacred stream, which confers sanctity on every rivulet
and lake within thirty miles, winding slowly forward amid
fields well stocked with corn. To the south lie the
Satpuras, stretching towards the Tapti valley, the lofty
peak of Bawangaja, sacred to the Jains, standing out
conspicuously.
Having drunk in this view, we then descended the hill
to the famous Tamarind tank. My guide joins with Mr.
Iconoclast Crump in thinking it all fable that the Nerbada
waters could be brought up, without pipes, one thousand
feet from below. I am enough like Ouida to want to kill
them both. Hard by it is the spacious palace of Baz
Bahadur, where he and she passed their bridal hours, after
the Ship Palace, and lived in most of their days.
Here Adham Khan held his pre-nuptial feast and
here the final tragedy took place. It is the usual
Mohammedan palace, with central tank, vast halls, and
187
VEILED MYSTERJES OF INDIA
balcony overhanging the road below, where the King
sat to present himself and hear petitions.
We descended, now in the motor, to the twin " nurse "
domes, called so for no known reason. Here there was a
remarkable echo.
One of the gems of Mandu is Humayun's tomb. Do
not confuse this with its namesake of Delhi. He was the
father of Mahmud I Khilji. It covers several acres with
his tomb, residence, tank, and mosque all complete.
The tomb is a miniature Humayun's of Delhi, strangely
enough, as this one was an Afghan (in red sandstone, with
black and white lines) and the other a Moghul. Except
that it has the beautiful coloured Afghan tiling and writing
in Arabic in white on blue and yellow ground, which the
Emperor Humayun's has not. All now is overgrown by
the forests of the orange lantana.
Closely I wove my fragrant smelling bower,
Hoping to hide my pleasure and my shame
Where the lantana's indecisive flower
Varies from palest rose to orange flame.
We then regained the rest-house of the viceroys, but
pass it along a winding track, en route for the Nilkunth
Temple.
It is low down on the Malwa scarp. En route, we pass,
strangely, the Nilkunth bird, a small, gorgeous heron in
ruby and yellow and with a blue throat. Mahadev is the
blue-throated God, or Nilkunth. This bird is most auspicious
188
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
to Hindus. This temple was once a mosque used by Akbar.
Hinduism regains its own. The Lingam sheds a peaceful
influence from the emerald tank.
After lunch we visited the great Jama Musjid. It is
like the other great Jamas of Delhi and Bijapur, except for
the intense turquoise of the tiles above the Mehrab.
Emerald parrots flashed past them.
In front of the Jama Musjid stand the ruins of what must
once have been a most magnificent tomb, that of Mahmud
Khilji. On the north-east corner are the remains of a
tower of victory erected by Mahmud in 1443 to com-
memorate his victory over the Rana of Chitor. The rooms
below the tomb are said to have been a college. Two
domed buildings opposite the Sagar Tallao (lake) are called
the Dai-ka-Mahal and the Dai-ki-Chotti-Bahin-ka-Mahal,
or the tombs of the nurse and her younger sister. Nothing
is known about them, but if one stands a considerable dis-
tance from and opposite the "young sister's" tomb, a
perfect echo of each word uttered is obtained.
The Jama Musjid is a magnificent example of Pathan
architecture. The inscription on the building shows that
it was commenced in the reign of Hoshang Shah and com-
pleted by Mahmud Khilji in 1454· Behind the Jama Musjid
is the tomb of Hoshang Shah, a great marble domed
mausoleum well suited to be the last resting-place of that
rough warrior. A dharamsala built in Hindu style runs
along the west ofthe enclosure.
189
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
So opposite the Jama is Mahomed Khilji's tomb, with
the magnificent elephant staircase approach to it. And
Husain's tomb is in delicate marbles in perforations, making
a splendid trio of buildings, unsurpassed on earth, and not
far off is the Ship Palace between the two lakes, beloved of
Jehangir and the Light of the World,,and hard by this the
quarters of the female Abyssinian and Ethiopian guard.
But of what haunting sadness this inscription on one
of the old mosques, dated A.D. 1600:
At dawn and eve I watched the owls that come
To perch on pinnacles of Shirwan's tomb,
And in their plaintive hooting this I heard :
Here song and wealth and majesty are dumb.
Truly a royal city Mandu, and worthy of the enthusiasm
of India's greatest Viceroy. The guide says his instructions
are carefully followed in the Archreological Department.
The literal translation of the above inscription at Mandu,
dated r600, runs : -
" At dawn, I saw an owl seated on the pinnacle of
Shirwan Shah's tomb. Plaintively it uttered its complaint:
'Where is all that glory, where all that grandeur gone?'"
His Highness the Maharaja of Dhar still has at his court
musicians who can sing his pedigree one thousand years
back to Paramara times, and whose masterpieces hark back
to A.D. 800 at the Court of Ujjain.
The Secretary called to make arrangements for an
audience of Her Highness. He told me the State was
190
H. E . LORD CURZON AND VICEREGAL PARTY DESCEN DI NG THE ELEPHANT STAIRCASE
OF MAHOMED l\HILJI "S TO~IB AND APPROACHii\ G THE JAMA MUSJID.
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
governed by a Council during the minority of His Highness.
No responsibility to the British for internal affairs, so
long as properly administered, and no taxation to the
Imperial Government. This applies to all native states
which have not been annexed. To show how thoroughly
Oriental all is here, he told me Her Highness was just now
in a state of health which involved her being put away
privily. When it was over she would see me, in a few
days.
Two state officials called in the evening and informed
me Her Highness would see me the day after to-morrow.
Since her widowhood she has not occupied the nuptial couch,
but sleeps on the floor, as a Hindu widow should.
Dhar is" The City of Sword Blades."
Mohammedanism had its ablest representative, m the
West, in the person of Inayat Khan, Pir-o-Murshid of the
Sufi order, just deceased. He first introduced Sufism,
as such, into the Western world in 1910. Though only
a musician of Baroda, he was most successful both in Europe
and America. He had his headquarters at Suresnes, where
his admirers had presented him with a fine, furnished villa
for himself and his American wife and family. All that
was most intellectual and cultivated in Paris met weekly
in the handsome apartment of a rich Parisian baroness,
to hang upon his lips. He spoke in English, interpreted
by his organizing secretary, who sat silent with the carefully
cultivated serenity and abstraction of the Buddha. A
191
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
picture of him before an Eastern mosque, with upraised
arms,
Lord make me a mystic,
hung in the anteroom where the favoured few were per-
mitted private interviews. As to his antecedents, it did
not seem material to inquire.
Enough, that Sufism is derived from the Sophia of
Theosophy. That its doctrines are identical with those
of the Brahmans and therefore older than the Sufi poets,
Hafiz and Co., older, as Inayat himself said, than Abraham,
old as God himself. Enough, that they give help to count-
less people in East and West to-day.
Three centuries ago there were two great Mohammedans
who foresaw this era of an international and united spiritual
world. They planned then to lay a foundation for it in
a new conception of what is Religion. One of the two was
Akbar, the Emperor of India. Akbar was a Moghul and a
follower of the Prophet. The second was Abul Fazl his
prime minister, who had such a great influence over Akbar's
religious beliefs. These two, reared in Mohammedanism,
lived in India. Men of earnest and inquiring minds, sur-
rounded by the ancient culture of the Hindus, finding on all
sides a non-Mohammedan religion full of strength and
lofty philosophy, it was obvious to Akbar and Abul Fazl
that the millions of the Hindus around them who lived
deeply religious lives could not be labelled "infidels." In
what consisted the greatness of Hinduism ?
192
THE MYSTERY OF THE SALVATION OF WOMEN
Akbar expressed it in these lines:
0 God, in every temple I see people that seek Thee, and in every
language I hear spoken, people praise Thee.
Polytheism and Islam feel after Thee.
Each religion says, Thou· art One, without equal.
If it be a mosque, people murmur the holy prayer ; if it be a Christian
church, people ring the bell from love to Thee.
Sometimes I frequent the Christian cloister, and sometimes the mosque.
But it is Thou whom I seek from temple to temple.
Thy elect have no dealings with heresy nor with orthodoxy, since heresy
and orthodoxy stand not behind the Screen of the Truth.
Heresy to the Heretic, Orthodoxy to the Orthodox ; but only the
Dust of the Rose-petal remains for those who sell perfume.
This was Akbar's conception of Truth. Roses are of
many kinds, and they grow in many lands, and many are
the gardeners. But there is only one beauty of the rose-
of the white rose or pink rose or the yellow. That beauty
of the rose comes from God, and when once we have seen
and smelt one beautiful and exquisite rose, all roses remind
us of that one perfect Divine Rose which lies at the feet of
God.
Listen to the Koran :
"There is no distinction between Prophets.... Every
one of the Prophets believed in God, His angels and His
scriptures and His apostles. We make no distinction at
all between His apostles. . . . Say, we believe in God and
that which hath been sent down unto us, and that which was
sent down unto Abraham and Ismail and Isaac and Jacob
and other tribes, and that which was delivered to Moses and
Jesus and the Prophets from their Lord ; we make no
193
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
distinction between any of them. . . . They who believe in
God and His apostles and make no distinction between any
of them, unto those will we give their reward, and God is
gracious and merciful."
In the Koran Jesus is represented as a prophet, and else-
where in Islamic literature He is said to speak from the
cradle, and to rebuke his school.master at the age of nine
months. Some of the sayings of the Mohammedan Jesus
are characteristic of Oriental humour :
Jesus, on whom be peace, has said:
Truly I tell you, be not like a sieve, which lets the good meal outside,
while it leaves inside only husks and chaff.
Jesus said: Be in the midst, but walk on one side.
There are several interesting stories in Islamic literature
about Jesus. A dead dog's carcass polluted the air of
Nazareth on a hot day. Jesus seeing it said: "How lovely
are its teeth, so sharp, and white as pearls." Again, "When
He was a little boy He saw a water-clock in the hazaar,
and wanted to buy it for His uncle. He asked the price,
which was too much, and then said : ' Will you let me have
it for love? ' ' Love, my son, what is that? ' Jesus went
to the trader and nestled His soft cneek and His curls against
the man's face. ' See, I will help you, I will tidy your shop.
I will bring you water,' said Jesus. Jesus did so, and the
trader, amused and touched, said : ' So far, so good, but you
must come and do it-again.' 'Oh, yes, to-morrow, and
to-morrow, and to-morrow--' said Jesus."
194
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
More it is than Ease,
Palace or Pomp, Honour or Luxuries,
To have seen White J.lresences upon the Hills,
To have heard the Voices ofthe Eternal Gods.
THE most wondrous terrace in all the world is at Ellora.
Just about midway between the North and South the
plains of India end abruptly, the earth takes a leap upwards
and the Deccan plateau begins. It suddenly rises some three
hundred feet, forming a hill, crescent-shaped like the God
Shiva's moon-crest, with its two horns facing the setting
sun. During the monsoon season water pours down in
a cascade and leaps into the gorge which it has cut below.
Pious pilgrims, possessing imagination made potent by
a faith which holds that nothing really exists but that all is
illusion (maya), bathe in the waterfall and imagine that they
are being purged of their sins by the sacred waters of Ma
Ganga pouring over the brow of Mahadev.
The side of the hill, for a mile and a quarter, from one
end almost to the other, has been excavated to form rock-
hewn temples and monasteries.
The haunting beauty of the Kailash is the eighth Wonder
of the World. Even in Sivaji's time it was so, Sivaji, who,
195
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
born in the reign of Elizabeth, is still the religious inspiration
of the Deccan. By the ..._;.ay, it is worth noting that the
Renaissance of the West coincided with a similar outpouring
of the East. Akbar, Queen Chand of Bijapur, and Sivaji
were all contemporaries of the great Tudor Queen. The
name of Sivaji is still invoked at every supposed wrong.
" If Sivaji were here ? What would Sivaji do ? " Of him
more anon.
Ellora was so powerful a religious centre in India that,
to this day, the Egyptian branch of the White Lodge is
called the Ellora centre, as we shall see later. It was the
greatest religious centre in Western India, as Benares was,
and is, of the East.
The Nizam's toy railway arrived at Daulatabad at mid-
night. I had a very different reception in this Mohammedan
country from that of the Hindu welcome at Dhar. A hired
motor went round the town to get petrol. Eventually
we got away, as dawn was breaking, showing we were in
the Mahratta country. We passed Assaye Road and frown-
ing natural forts. The rising sun dispelled the mists and
showed the slender pile of the elegant pillar, the Chand
Minar, erected by one ofthe Moslem victors to commemorate
his conquests, mauve and pointing to the dawn. It was a
fit corollary to the usual Moslem mournful forest of domes
and crenellated walls and bastions. The sun gilded the
Maidan into gold and a dove rose from before the i:notor
as we reached Roza.
196
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
The Deccan and Concan, the country of the warlike
nation of the Mahrattas, are remarkable for the natural forts
and battlements formed by the mighty mountains of the
Vindhyas and Ghauts, hiding in their wombs cave-cathedrals
containing the most marvellous treasures of painting and
sculpture in India. The fort of Daulatabad was a marvel
Qf military engineering. It rose on our left as a giant black
sugar-loaf. The cone, one hundred and fifty feet high, is
an artificially smoothed scarp utterly impossible to climb.
It was approached by a winding ascending tunnel. The
opening, leading to the fortress above, used to be covered
with a large iron plate on which a fire was kindled ; to make
it burn fiercely a hole three feet in diameter was pierced in
the rock. Through this rushed a constant current of air
producing the effect of bellows.
Winding round the hill we met a regiment, band playing,
~ brasses glinting in the sun, going to their camping ground
on the plateau. It was a cheering sight, resonant of the still
living British power. More tents, mosques and domes,
and then more crenellated walls and the big gate of
Roza.
The fort at Daulatabad, in front ofwhich the Chand Minar
rises, was positively impregnable from any attack by force
of arms available in the olden days. An ample water supply,
drawn from a natural spring near the crest of the mountain,
existed within the walls. The ingenious defences made
entrance impossible. It was through a trick of unkind
197
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
fate that the Raja, Ram Deo, was compelled to hand it over
to the Moslems, in .the middle of the eleventh century. He
was hunting in the jungle when-news was brought to him
that the enemy was approaching. He issued orders that
provisions should be immediately brought into the fort and
stored there against a siege. The men sent out on this
errand came upon bags of what they took to be wheat,
deserted by a caravan of traders who had been going north
with it, when they received news that the Moslem army was
advancing. These bags were carried within the walls and
stored ; but when they were opened they were found to
contain salt instead o[ wheat. The Raja could not bear to
see his people die of starvation and surrendered.
Tradition has it that there is a secret passage leading
underground from the fort to one of the temples at Ellora,
and that it .had been constructed to en~ble the Hindu Raja
of Deogarh and the members of his family and court to
go there to worship. It is said that Raja Ram Deo's beautiful
daughter escaped through that way, but some Moslem
soldiers later accidentally came upon her in one of the rock-
cut shrines and took her prisoner, and incidentally discovered
the chambers and mutilated the sculptures in them.
Roza means " The Place of Tombs." It well deserves
that name, for it is the abode of the dead, containing nearly
one thousand five hundred sepulchres of saints and sages,
kings and viceroys.
The remains of the most august person among the dead
198
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
lie buried in a grave severely plain, bare of ornamentation
of any kind-a fitting resting-place for Aurangzeb, who,
in his last days, led a life of austere simplicity.
" Tana Shah," the last Hindu King of Golconda, whom
Aurangzeb pursued relentlessly, also lies buried at Roza.
No end of tales are told about that luxury-loving monarch's
fastidious taste in perfumery and resthetics. To see his
last resting-place is to be forcefully reminded of" tout passe,
tout casse, tout lasse."
The remains of the first Nizam-Asaf Jah the Great-
the founder of the dynasty which rules Hyderabad, are
interred there, as are also those of several other members
of that house.
In some ways the most romantic figure buried at Roza
is that of Malik Ambar. A negro, born in slavery, he rose
to be a great general and statesman, and carved a kingdom
for himself.
Within a few minutes' drive from Roza lies Kagazipura,
or the " Paper Town," which is struggling to keep alive
its hand-made paper industry introduced in the time of
Aurangzeb by craftsmen brought by him from Northern
India.
The Nizam's guest bungalow here was all confusion.
Nothing was ready. I found the chupatties and ghee,
hastily improvised by the khansamah, most disgusting.
What a difference between the hospitality of this, the leading
prince of India, and that of the tiny state of Dhar, where
N 199
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
even wine was provided, had I cared to take it. I therefore
resolved a hurried visit to the caves and to depart the same
night. After a bath and hasty breakfast off the chupatties,
I am off in the motor and round the hill for the first view of
the most wondrous terrace in all the world. The motor
makes for the central Kailash, of haunting beauty, guarded
by two giant elephants, with terraces of elephants behind.
I am at once struck by the air of peace and solemnity, also
by the rich carving and high polish of the pillars. The
whole back of the Kailash is formed of subordinate shrines
to this. Is it only the haunt of the emerald parrots, the
thrice-striped squirrels of Ram and hanging cones of bees
which we must be careful not to disturb by cigarettes, whose
smoke would mean being stung to death ?
I do not believe it. But that, as in all the sacred places
of India, there is more hidden than meets the eye. The
whole surrounding courtyard is filled with figures of Mahadev.
The Kailash, guarded by elephants, is a strange mixture
of Buddhism and Hinduism. A gigantic Buddha is super-
imposed on the front door. Hard by, the whole history
of the Ramayana is sculptured in stone.
Upstairs, reached by a precipitous stair, is a vast hall of
carved pillars and polished floors leading to the Holy of
Holies where the giant Lingam stands. Once it was such
a holy shrine that still its influence extends as far as
Egypt.
A ~ritic remarked of the first part of this book that it
~00
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
should contain more travel and less Theosophy. Yet how
could I make "Veiled Mysteries " into an ordinary travel
book? How can I omit references to what I have learned,
in many lives, in that land of mysticism and spirituality which
among the many called, has made me chosen to penetrate
the outer film ? How can I give you the husk without
the kernel ? The song without the words ? A stone
when the world is crying out for bread ? How can I take
you, for instance, to Ellora, to see its stupendous archi-
tecture, with no reference to the Power which gave the
strength to hew out of the cliff the former living, fiery
mysteries which have sustained the Ellora branch as far
afield as Egypt to this day ?
In deference to opinion, I have eliminated two chapters,
the Mystery of Hades and of the Spiritual Armageddon of
our times, which will appear elsewhere, but I must write
of that which, to me, gives life to the hoary stones. If
one would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot
go beyond the commandment of the Lord to write either
good or bad of mine own mind ; but what the Lord says,
that will I write. She, the woman whose eyes are open,
writes : she writes which heard the words of God and
knew the knowledge of the Most High, which saw the vision
of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having her eyes
open and remembering it next morning.
I shall see Him, but not now : I shall behold Him, but
not nigh : there shall come a star out of the East : and a
20I
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
sceptre shall arise out of India and shall smite materialism
and destroy the noisy nudities of the children of to-
day.
It was written by the Seer, of the nineteenth "fin de siec/e":
" I told him the whole truth. I said to him I had known
adepts. That adepts were everywhere silent, secret, re-
tiring, who would never divulge themselves entirely to
anyone, unless one did as I did, pass seven and ten years'
probation and had given proofs of absolute devotion, and
that he or she would keep silent even before a prospect or
threat of death."
When the Seer and her friend were passing through the
Suez Canal, the friend wrote in his diary : " The venerable
Tuitet Bey, passing near the Canal, sends me his greetings."
He, of the Brotherhood of Luxor, is mentioned several
times by the Seer. She travelled with him during her early
wanderings. He worked with the Egyptian Master, Serapis.
Serapis is described as being of Greek birth (as is the Master
Hilarion) and blond. All his work is done in Egypt.
He is of alluring appearance, ascetic, and very distinguished,
resembling Cardinal Newman.
Though her own Master, Maurya, first destined the
Seer as the Founder of the new spiritual movement, it was
the Egyptian Rrotherhood who first guided it. In America
the Seer was under the supervision of the Egyptian brothers,
of whom the chief is the adept, Serapis Bey. With him
were others, Tuitet Bey, etc. ; it was called the Brotherhood
20 2
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
of Luxor. Many very beautiful letters were received
phenomenally, of which the first was signed as follows :
Serapis Bey (Ellora Section)
Polydorus Isuremus (Section of Solomon)
Robert More (Section of Zoroaster)
Tuitet Bey.
OBSERVATORY OF LuxoR,
DAY OF MARS.
Serapis spoke of the Seer as an " Ellorian." Ellora
is still a place of pilgrimage, though it is no longer reputed
as an occult centre. A whole mile of monasteries and
temples still exists there.
The Kailash reigns supreme amongst the great creations
of mankind, because it was inspired by a spirit of devotion.
The names of the excavators are sunk in oblivion, yet their
work remains a vital testimony to the faith from which it
sprang. The stupendous temples of the Pharaohs degenerate
into emblems of self-aggrandizement when compared with
the Kailash at Ellora. That their names should go down
to posterity-this was the ambition of the rulers of Egypt
when they planned their tremendous structures. Very
different were the motives which impelled the sculptors at
Ellora to persevere with their labour of love. To them,
work was a consecration, and in the faithful execution of
their tasks they found all-sufficient reward. Devotion was
the secret of their ~trength.
The Kailash at Ellora is hewn vertically out of the heart
of the rock, and it is almost incredible that mortal hands
203
VEILED MYSTERIES OF .INDIA
could have accomplished so remarkable a feat. Human
determination and ingenuity alone, however, are responsible
for the creation of this glorious monument. Begun probably
in the eighth century A.D., the work of excavation must
have occupied over one hundred years, for it was necessary
to quarry about three million cubic feet of rock. The
master masons excavated a huge pit, two hundred and seventy-
six feet long by one hundred and fifty-four feet wide, with a
scarp one hundred and seven feet high. The temple area
of the Kailash, the world's greatest rock poem, would
accommodate the Taj Mahal, the marble dream of Shah
Jehan at Agra.
In the centre of the Kailash excavation a solid mass of
rock was left standing, which the workmen transformed
into a complete double-storeyed temple. The exterior decora-
tions, consisting of gigantic statues of elephants, lions,
griffins, etc., feeding, tearing each other, or trampling on
their victims, are suggestive of the creatures of Conan Doyle's
"Lost World."
The French traveller, Monsieur Thevenot, who visited
Ellora in 1667, was the first European to attempt a descrip-
tion of the caves. He was amazed at the beauty of what
he called .the "Pagods of Ellora," and mentioned the local
tradition, which he learnt at Aurangabad, that " all these
Pagods great and small with their works and ornaments
were made by giants." Referring to the Kailash, he wrote:
"Everything there is extremely well cut, and it is really a
204
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
wonder to see so great a mass in the air, which seems so
slenderly underpropped that one can hardly forbear to shiver
at :first entering into it."
And the whole thing was done with the simple chisel.
And the Brahmans and the Jains took up the work where
the Buddhists left it.
Here only did the art of fashioning in the living rock a
huge mansion more than one storey high, with doors,
windows and staircases, attain its zenith. The Do Thal
(two-storeyed) and the Tin Thal (three-storeyed) represent
a stupendous expenditure of energy and skill. The work is
thought to have been begun at the top and continued down-
wards. The upper storey is more elaborately carved than
the ground-floor chambers as ifthe enthusiasm had evaporated
before the task could be completed, or something had happened
to interfere with the work. We can picture Kipling's
Lama, with his chela, Kim, at his feet, and the drawing of
the wheel of life stretched on the ground before him. So
cleverly are the caves planned that nearly all the temples
have courtyards and curtain walls in front, which must
have contributed towards the security and privacy of the
monks who lived in retirement, shut off completely from the
outside world, free to concentrate upon their studies and
their devotions. At night they bolted and barred the
doors of their retreats, and thus protected themselves against
attacks from wild beasts, their only neighbours.
When I had got to the Carpenters' cave, I was fortunate
205
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
in being joined by two guides, one being the Curator. They
pointed out the best features of the whole wondrous series.
This cave is .purely Buddhist, with wild, free animals running
to hear the preaching of Buddha. It is so called because
it has the appearance of a wooden building which has become
petrified. It is also suggested that it served at one time as
the guild-hall or meeting-plac€ of the master-workmen
employed in constructing the so-called "caves."
I like to think of the artist-monks in the cool of the
early evening, brushes and palettes laid aside, conversing
with one another about the day's work while they paced the
galleries.
One by one they would show their sketches, and commune
together in low voices of their hopes, their fears, their
technical difficulties, their ambitions for the progress of
the great work. And then amongst the group appears
the Master, a calm, white-robed figure of tranquil brow,
with wistful, rather weary eyes. He looks at the drawings
and speaks a word, here of sober praise, there of exhorta-
tion to further diligence, perhaps now and then a syllable of
gentle reproof.... Lastly, he turns to his brother artists,
and utters only the Ineffable Name.
Cave No. 21 is called the Rameshwara. It is purely
Shivite, containing a giant figure of the Dancing Shiv.
Opposite this is a giant skeleton of the dead Shiv. This
represents the two sides of life, its joy and its sorrow. And
here, Shiv and Parvati play chess at their marriage ceremony.
206
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
At all seasons of the year Cave 29, known as " Sita's
Bath," is deliciously cool. Near it flows a beautiful stream,
and during the monsoon a waterfall may be heard as it
discharges into the gorge below.
Cave No. 31 is a miniature Kailash, made by Jains. It
contains giant elephants, elephant terraces, and rich paint-
ings on the roof and walls.
The whole hill is covered with aloe candelabra as though
in honour of the Great God, who in the West is worshipped
as the Third Person of the Trinity, the Holy Ghost. In
the East he is held as the greatest of the Three, for Bramah
(the First Person) soared up for a day and could not reach
the limits of His flame.
Twelve years ago an ascetic lived on the hill, where
there are three hundred caves. When disturbed he dis-
appeared. God only knows how long he had been there.
The wondrous semicircle of Ellora is a silent witness
to that Force which only a fool ignores. The fool has said
in his heart, there is no God. Salisbury Cathedral, whose
architect is also unknown, is the same, but the builders
of Salisbury had all the resources of Western machinery to
help them ; these Eastern devotees had nothing but their
hands and eyes.
Around Ellora there always hangs a chastened and
appropriate quietness. But the still hour is that when
the caves are plunged in the shadows of approaching twi-
light ; when the hill-crests only are lit with flame. The
207
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
monkeys have long since withdrawn to their rest. A single
vulture stoops for a moment over the abyss, wheels, and
seeks her eyrie in the unsealable crag above. The mists
curdle and become denser in the valley-the night seems
to lift herself visibly from her bed, upon purple pinions.
It is a moment when Nature seems hushed in tremorous
expectancy : and now for a brief second the Past and Present
will surely join hands.
We lean upon the parapet, and the air is filled with
tustlings as remote as the voice of thought itself; delicate
phantasms shape themselves in our consciousness. Oh!
to be one with all this oneness, to catch a syllable of Truth
from the voices that environ. A single star-the emblem
-brightens overhead. Lean low-lower yet, until the
beating of that deathless heart shall quicken our souls. For
this is India's hour, and-Hush ! She speaks.
Seated in a cave as I watched the sun setting, its light
hung like a great ruby and the river gleamed like a dagger
blade of jade. As I looked I heard in my inner consciousness
the words" Majesty and Power."
Old Carlyle has told us that sincerity is more powerful
than originality. This is the secret of Ellora, as it was of
the wondrous outpouring for three centuries at Florence,
which has since shut up like a box. The old Buddhist
Masters had no use for the word " Self," any more than he
who designed Salisbury. Their anonymity is sufficient
evidence of that.
208
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
They painted what they liked, and so we like their
paintings.
They depicted what they thought and so we like their
way of thinking.
They drew what they saw, and so we like their point of
view.
They invented at least one motive in draperies which
I have never seen anywhere else; I mean the long ribbon-
like appendages which whirl and fl.utter.
The colour scheme of the Ellora Valley is pitched in
the primaries-in a rich and splendid pattern of colour laid
on with full brush. We progress from wonder to wonder
as we go deeper into a world where energy seems to become
focused and effective. Every pool we cross is swarming
with little darting fishes, over whom hover dragon-flies of
a full orange-vermilion. Every tree traces a vigorous
indigo shadow ; every crag is forceful in the severe and
unfuddled definition of its blue fissures and amber con-
vexities. The valley is said to teem with serpents, almost
as numerous as those which infested the Vale of Diamonds
discoverc..{ by the redoubtable Sindbad ; the wild boar
leads his sows and their progeny through the brake, defying
with his tusks even the general enemy-the panther ; and
the monkey-people dwell here. The caves are the very
heart of the system, pulsating life, Nature herself.
It is as though the Buddhist Masters had freeJy poured
out upon their warm and rosy creations the very life-blood
209
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
of their veins. In such haste were they to beautify, that
long before a cave was finished the paintings were in progress
in the completed portions, and the architects planned, the
sculptors chiselled, the artists plied their brushes at one and
the same time.
The temples and their inmates, the glen and its denizens,
the cliffs and the stream were all linked in a sympathetic bond.
All life is one, and the old monks did not shrink from the
closest contact with their feathered and furred kinsfolk·of
the jungle.
So we have silhouettes of mighty elephants, next to im-
pressions as delicate as Dakka muslin. We catch more than
a glowing hint of the art that had even at that date wheedled
the secret out of Mother India that all Life is One.
Also, the Orient first discovered Line, as Europe dis-
covered Tones. It is Line that depicts the Buddha in his
sublime reverie, that de£nes the girth of elephants, and the
fierceness of lions, that flickers over flowers and plants, un-
dulates over the bosoms of women, and twists and models
a thousand incomparable items of decoration.
India's Line is the golden clue to India's art.
Let us pause as we.leave Ellora. Look at that buffalo and
her calf, both almost submerged in the water. On the flat
rocks close by, the women are washing their clothes, having
girded up their loins in true Biblical style. Their saris blaze
under the meridian sun with facets of emerald, ruby and
amethyst. Watch this woman passing us with stately
210
ci
..J
a::
0
:::
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
carriage. Astride of her hips sits a bronze cherub. The
little creature wears silver armlets ; its uncovered curls are
sunbeam-strewn as with spangles. The girl carries her child
just as the mother did in the cave fourteen hundred years ago.
She is ankle-deep in the amber current. The rose and
purple and orange of her sari, the silver triangles at the elbow-
joints, the pendants and the braiding of her blue-black tresses,
are veiled by the golden rain of the sun. Now a yoke of
creamy oxen approaches.
When we left the Shrines, a fine rain was falling. The
crag where lives the panther, who startles the village dogs
into chorus at night, looked very bleak and grim. Glancing
backward, the now familiar outlines appeared blurred and
grey. Ellora had donned her veil again. But there dwells
everlasting song in the hearts of those who have been suffered
once to look upon her face.
As we got into the motor to return to the guest-house,
the Curator picked a flower for me. It is a little bright
gamboge flower, with white petals. It is said that this
flower was grown by Satyabhama in her garden, and was
coveted by Rukhmini, Queen of Heaven. Krishna imme-
diately gave Rukhmini a whole garden full of these flowers.
It is called "Har Singour." It sweetens the month of
January at Ellora, where it blooms in profusion. The
Hindus say that the plant is the guardian of the caves, whose
miraculous preservation is due to it. This tiny flower guards
those mighty elephants. They are permanent records of
2II
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
three successive faiths which in their day galvanized their
Motherland into life, Buddhists, Brahmans and Jains. Came
the apostle of a fourth, and this was his method of
propaganda.
Father Roberto de Nobili was a famous Jesuit missionary
who worked in this part of India from A.D. 1607. There
have always been two schools of missionary policy : that
which would have the convert break off contact, to the fullest
possible extent, with his pre-Christian life, customs, family
and people ; the other that would make the change, exter-
nally at least, as small as possible. The latter makes conversion
easier, but is the more subject to backsliding; and though both
can claim Scriptural authority, the other seems the stronger.
Roughly, the former is the policy of Protestant missions ; the
latter is the usual Roman Catholic policy ; the Jesuits have
always specially favoured it ; their methods are flexible, and
their high intellectual standard has made them appreciative
of the many points of resemblance between their own beliefs
and those of Hindus, Buddhists and Aztecs. De Nobili was
thorough in his methods. He described himself as a Roman
brahman ; he held no public intercourse with Europeans or
with Pariahs ; he admitted none but brahmans to his service ;
he ate no food but that cooked by brahmans ; he assumed
the thread of the twice-born, and he dressed as a Sannyasi.
That he forged the fourth Veda, lost till then, is probably a
calumny, but he seems to have relied on it as evidence of his
divine commission. " The method followed by Father de
:4I'.Z
THE MOTHER OF THE GREATER MYSTERIES
Nobili," says Father Heras, "was the only one which ever
met with success among the high castes of India." To this
day Indian Roman Catholics claim to be, and are generally
regarded by Hindus as, the highest of what appear to them to
be the various Christian castes.
The inscriptions of Karli Cave, near Poona, are so in-
spiring* that I searched the dusty volumes of the Bombay
Gazetteer, in the Asiatic Library of Bombay, for more at
Ellora, as I personally believe that Ellora was, and still is,
an even more powerful centre of occultism than Karli ; it
was disappointing to find the names were only those of the
dynasty of Icings and their conquests.
* V ide "The Voice of the Orient."
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
SrVAJI, to whom the Prince of Wales unveiled a monument
at Poona, drew his inspiration from Ellora, where he wor-
shipped and became one of the greatest leaders of men the
world has ever known. His fame is, however, little known
in the West. Therefore it is meet that, having visited Ellora,
his Mother's Heart, I should write a few details of her most
famous son.
Over two and a halfcenturies ago-in the year 1646, to be
precise-a travel-stained band ofmen entered the courtyard of
the Royal Palace of Bijapur, a city with which the fates have
dealt hardly, and which to-day is little more than a ruin.
But at the time of which we are writing Bijapur was the
capital of a large and important kingdom in the southern
portion of the peninsula, and was inhabited by a brave and
warlike people.
The men dismounted from their shaggy mountain ponies
and looked about them curiously. It was evident that they
had come from afar, for their hair was long and matted, and
their speech rough and uncouth ; and the splendidly dressed
officer ofthe guard, who had been eyeing them with suspicion,
214
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
mentally decided that they were Marathas, or tribesmen who
lived in the wild hilly country in the far west.
" Behold, we bear important tidings ! " they cried.
"We must see His Majesty Muhammad Adil Shah."
When they were at length admitted, the monarch, in
the presence of a brilliant court, asked them their business.
"We have come to tell Your Majesty that Sivaji, son of
Shahji, has taken the fort of Torna."
A murmur of surprise and incredulity went the round of
the assembled courtiers, but the King, raising his hand to
command silence, bade the messengers continue their
narrative.
"May it please Your Majesty," they resumed, "our lord
Sivaji has been troubled in his mind since many days. Long
has he considered with sorrow that the fort was not main-
tained in a manner befitting the safety of the country. But
now, zealous of Your Majesty's glory, he has deposed the
Governor and vested himself with the authority of this
miserable one."
"How say you?" interrupted the King. "This is
Shahji's son ? "
"Even so, Your Majesty. We humbly pray you to look
with favour upon our master Sivaji, that by your royal
approval of a patriotic deed you may strike terror into the
hearts of those base ones who seek to stir up the kingdom
into sedition and revolt."
The King plucked uneasily at his beard. " Shahji," he
0 215
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
muttered to himself-" Shahji, the powerful noble and
general in command -of the Bijapur army ! How came his
son thus to take the law into his own hands ? "
"Tell me," he commanded sternly, "how old is this
capturer of forts ? "
"Your Majesty, he is but nineteen years."
The king's brow cleared, and a broad smile passed round
the court. What manner of youth was this who seemed so
anxious for his country's welfare ?· Certainly it was not a
matter to be taken seriously. So the messengers were dis-
missed with the promise that their petition should receive
attention at a later date, while the courtiers smiled to them-
selves over what they considered a very excellent joke.
This is the first glimpse we have of the renowned Sivaji.
A Hindu boy, of martial spirit and keen imagination, fed
from his earliest years on the wonderful exploits achieved
by the legendary heroes of India, burning to follow in their
steps and to do noble deeds for his country and his religion,
we see him, in company with a few boyish friends and a
ragged band of low-caste natives·, capture an important fort.
The tried men of war surrender in astonishment to these
inexperienced youths, while the aged Governor delivers up
his sword in mute dismay. Sivaji has placed his foot on the
first rung ofthe ladder offame.
The youthful hero lived with his guardian at Poona.
The old man was very much shocked by his ward's daring
actions, but his lectures and entreaties made no impression ;
216
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
the spirit of adventure was in Sivaji and he would not be
restrained. The aged tutor took to his bed in despair, and
shortly afterwards died. On his death-bed his dying eyes
seemed to see something of the future in store for the boy,
for he called him and bade him go on as he had begun.
"My son," he murmured with faltering accents, "I pray
that you will continue your campaign for independence.
Protect brahmans, kine and cultivators ; preserve the temples
of the Hindus from violation, and follow the fortune which
lies before you." And so saying, the old man expired.
In 1659, Bijapur sent an expedition against him, "the
boy bandit " of the mountains, who had captured treasure
sent by the Governor of Kalyan to Bijapur. The powerful
army was accompanied by a Brahman, who was sent as
envoy to Sivaji, the Hindu leader. He knelt at the Brahman's
feet, weeping and saying his only aim was to restore
Hinduism. The Brahman blessed him and brought about
an interview between him and the haughty general of
Bijapur. Sivaji treacherously killed him and routed the
whole powerful army.
For some time Sivaji thought wistfully of the riches of
Surat, and when Sivaji gave himself over t0 thought some-
thing usually happened. ·One day the wealthy merchants
in the Moghul seaport found their town surrounded by
four thousand men, all armed to the teeth, and led by the
redoubtable Maratha chieftain. The strangers did their
work leisurely, but well. For four days the city permitted
217
,
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
itself to be plundered, and then the Marathas took their
departure, bearing with them many elephants and camels
richly laden with booty. It was at Surat that Sivaji dis-
covered he was not invincible. He found the English
factory barricaded and placed in readiness for a siege, for
the stubborn Englishmen were disposed to yield their
treasure to no one. Sivaji was mildly surprised by this
show of resistance, and brought his whole strength to bear
upon the tiny fort ; but the garrison stuck grimly to their
task, and for once in his life Sivaji had to acknowledge
himself beaten. He had, however, the satisfaction of
capturing one Englishman, and to him he gave an object-
lesson in Eastern methods. The poor fellow was led
before Sivaji in a great state of mind, for he fully expected
to be chopped into little pieces. He found the famous
outlaw seated in a tent outside the town ordering the heads
and arms of prisoners to be cut off. But it must not
be supposed that Sivaji was naturally cruel or vindictive.
He resorted to such violence only when he suspected his
prisoners were deceiving him and concealing part of their
possessions. While the frightened Englishman watched,
expecting his turn to come every minute, a wretched Jew
was dragged into the tent.
" Come now," said Sivaji, "tell me where you have
buried your hoards and you shall be released." The man
obstinately refused. At a sign from their master two
swarthy Marathas flung themselves upon their captive
218
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
and forced him to his knees, while another held a gleaming
dagger within an inch of his throat. Still the unhappy
creature refused to speak. Three times the question was
repeated ; three times the knife grazed his lean and scraggy
neck. Then Sivaji leaned back and laughed. "Surely,"
he quoth, " only a Jew would set a greater value upon his
goods than upon his life. Let the man go free."
To the mighty Aurangzeb at Delhi tales were brought
of the "Mountain Rat's" audacious exploits. To these
the Emperor would listen grimly, vouchsafing little remark.
But one day came news which probed even his indifference,
and made the ruler of millions feel as angry as the lowest
of his subjects. For the one vulnerable part of Aurangzeb
was his religion, and that no man might wound with
impunity. He learned that Sivaji, with. a powerful :fleet,
was plundering the rich Mohammedan pilgrims as they
journeyed to the sacred city of Mecca, and he swore that
once and for all the infidel should be exterminated. Sivaji,
however, did not accompany his men upon these naval
excursions, except upon one occasion, when he was so
violently seasick that he vowed never more to trust him-
self on the water.
Once again a large army marched southwards.
Sivaji went to Delhi to propitiate Aurangzeb, who
appeared in all his glory of pearls, seated on peacock throne,
to subdue him.
It seemed to be Aurangzeb's purpose to do everything
219
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
possible to humiliate his visitor and to overwhelm him with
the power and grandeur of the 'Moghul Empire. Sivaji
was kept waiting three months at Delhi before the Emperor
would give him audience. When at length a day had
been appointed for the Maratha to be presented at
court, Aurangzeb made great preparations to impress him
with his own magnificence. It was his usual custom to
dress very simply, but now he caused himself to be arrayed
in his most splendid garments. Strings of da~zling jewels
hung round his neck, whilst diamonds and rubies of great
size glistened and shone from his turban. Seated upon
the radiant, gem-encrusted peacock throne, he was a
magnificent sight-calculated (as he thought) to strike
awe into the heart of any man.
What a brilliant spectacle an audience in those splendid
halls must have been I Can one not imagine the great
throne, mounted on a high dais and glittering with a
thousand points of light-the Emperor, sparkling from
head to foot with jewels, haughtily surveying the assembled
courtiers-the golden platform whereon the· great nobles
stood in all their gorgeous attire-the other platforms of
silver and marble thronged by the lesser nobles in order
of their rank ? It is difficult in these prosaic days to conjure
up in our minds such scenes of Oriental splendour.
In the midst of all this magnificence, Sivaji held a
haughty head-and nursed a burning heart. If Aurangzeb
thought to tame his fiery spirit by such parade of pomp
220
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
and circumstance, he was mistaken. Sivaji found himself
admitted to the gold platform, but he also found himself
placed at the very bottom of the long row of attendant
nobles, and at this fresh humiliation his anger overflowed.
He saw his hopes of the Viceroyalty dashed to the ground,
he realized that Aurangzeb was trifling with him, and
his indignation, which had been smouldering for months,
broke forth tempestuously.
Out of the glittering ranks he stepped-a short, spare
figure with flashing eyes and fierce gesture, and in ringing
tones addressed his reproaches to the Emperor. No one
dared to stem the torrent of his wrath as he voiced his
bitter resentment at the manner in which he was being treated.
Aurangzeb listened in stony silence ; once only, when
the furious Maratha chief accused the courtiers around him
of cowardice and servile adulation, did he permit the ghost
of a smile to flicker across his thin lips. The outburst
was soon over, and Sivaji swung angrily out of the chamber.
Aurangzeb gave orders that he should be admitted to
no more audiences. He further commanded that a guard
should be set about his house, which he should not be
allowed to quit without an escort responsible for his safe
custody.
Thus did Sivaji find himself a prisoner. His faithful
soldiers were allowed to return to their own country, and
he and his young son were left alone in his enemy's capital.
Aurangzeb was happy, for he thought he had the Maratha
221
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
completely in his power. They brought him news that
his prisoner was sick-almost at the point of death.
The Emperor was indifferent ; sick or well, the " Mountain
Rat " could do little harm at Delhi. But after a while
the invalid grew better. You will remember that Sivaji
was a pious Hindu, so that it was only natural that he should
send thank-offerings of fruit and flowers and other things
to the Brahmans and nobles of his acquaintance. The most
curious part of these gifts was the baskets in which they
were packed. They were long and slender, and bore a
remarkable resemblance to coffins ; but after some weeks
the guard stationed outside his house became quite accustomed
to the sight of these unwieldy-looking packages.
One evening a strange thing happened. Sivaji, who
was supposed by all to be still weak and ill, jumped out
of bed in surprisingly active fashion, and proceeded to tie
up his son in one of the coffin-shaped baskets. This being
done, he put himself into another one, and was borne by
his servants out of the house, through the cordon of soldiers
outside, along the crowded thoroughfares, to a distant
part of the city. There horses were awaiting them, and
the wily Maratha-whose illness had been nothing more
than a hoax-succeeded in escaping unobserved from the
capital. Once outside the gates, they put spurs to their
horses, and set out in hot haste for the Deccan. Great
was Aurangzeb's wrath the following day when a
trembling officer told him the story of the ruse. But by
222
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
that time pursuit was out of the question, and in December,
1666, after nine months' absence at Delhi, Sivaji, in the
guise of a pilgrim, once more set foot in his own dominions.
The crowning point in Sivaji's career was, figuratively
as well as literally, his coronation. In his extraordinary
life he had never looked back on good fortune ; year by
year his power and prestige had steadily increased, and
now he was no mountain robber, but a ruler holding sway
over a vast territory and governing a mighty people. He
had long struck coins in his own name and styled himself
Rajah and Maharajah. It would be . a fitting climax, he
thought, to declare his independence, and set up a new
dynasty and a new kingdom.
And so, on June 6, 1674, Sivaji was solemnly crowned.
The Maratha ·leader had not forgotten what he ha~ seen at
Delhi, and the function was carried out with an amazing
wealth of pomp and circumstance. When at length the
ceremony was over, the newly crowned " Ornament of
the Kshattrya race, Lord of the Royal Umbrella, and King
of the Marathas," was weighed against gold, as was
customary on such occasions, and the gold distributed
among the Brahmans. These gentlemen were very much
disappointed to find how little Sivaji weighed, for he was a
small, spare man, without a superfluous ounce ofavoirdupois I
On the fifth day of April, 1680, in the fifty-third year of
his age, there passed away one of the greatest leaders of
men the world has ever seen. For despite his faults, which
223
VEILED MYSTERJES OF INDIA
were many, Sivaji must go down to history as a great man
and a great genius.
Himself an enthusiast, he had in addition that rare
faculty-the quality of inspiring enthusiasm in others.
When we consider how he embarked upon his adventurous
career with a mere handful of half-naked Marathas, how
he had to contend with innumerable difficulties, yet never
let himself be dismayed by adversity, and how finally he
founded a power which was destined mightily to affect
the history of India, and which actually became our· own
immediate predecessor in conquest, we cannot withhold
from him our tribute of the deepest admiration. ,
Aurangzeb heard of the death of his most formidable
enemy with great gladness. Yet though he affected to
despise Sivaji during his lifetime, in death he paid him a
generous compliment. " He was," he said, " a great
captain, and the only one who has had the magnanimity to
raise a new kingdom, while I have been endeavouring to
destroy the ancient sovereignties of India ; my armies
have been employed against him for nineteen years, and
nevertheless his state has been always increasing."
Aurangzeb died in a tent at Ahmednagar.
In 1683 he set out to conquer the South. An enormous
army, a tent like a palace, accompanied him. He reigned
from the Himalayas to Cape Comorin. He conquered the
kingdoms of Bijapur and Golconda. The Marathas were
led by Sivaji's son, Sambaji, who loved ease, wine and women.
224
· THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
Aurangzeb received news one day that Sambaji had
taken up his residence at a small village not far from the
Imperial camp. Calling one of his favourite officers to
him, he bade him go and bring the " insolent rebel " back a
prisoner. " By; the beard of the Prophet," cried the
enraged Emperor, " I shall never return to Delhi until I
have seen the head of the Maratha weltering at my feet ! "
Meanwhile, the unsuspecting victim was engaged in
one of his usual orgies. Suddenly a loud tumult was
heard outside. Then a messenger, breathless with running,
rushed frantically into the room and threw himself at his
master's feet.
" The Moghuls," he cried-" the Moghuls are upon
us I Flee, Your Majesty ; flee ere it be too late ! "
Flushed with wine, the Maratha staggered to his feet.
"What do you mean, you dog?" he shouted angrily.
" Away, or you shall be beaten for your presumption.
How dare you bring such a ridiculous story into my
presence !"
Hardly were the words out of his mouth when another
messenger burst into the room.
" They are surrounding the house," he gasped. " Flee,
Your Majesty ! In another minute escape will be cut off! "
" Are they all mad ? " roared the infuriated monarch.
Then a jingle of steel was heard outside, and a party of
Moghuls broke into the apartment. The foremost slashed
£ercely at the Maratha king with his sword. Sambaji's
225
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
favourite courtier rushed in and received the blow. Then
'Sambaji himself was secured, and, mounted on a camel,
was conveyed in triumph back to the Moghul encampment.
There was great excitement throughout the camp when it
was known that the redoubtable Maratha chieftain had
been captured. An immense multitude flocked to see
their dread enemy being brought a helpless prisoner through
the Moghul lines. The banging of drums and clashing
of cymbals heralded the approach of the procession, and
a loud fanfare of trumpets announced the joyful tidings
tluoughout the innumerable tents which dotted the plain
as far as the eye could reach. Seated on his throne, amid
a crowd of glittering nobles, Aurangzeb surveyed his
prisoner with a contemptuous smile.
"Little as you deserve mercy," he said, "yet in our
great magnanimity we will consent to spare your life. But
you must renounce your religion, trample upon your gods,
and cry aloud before the multitude, ' There is no God but
Allah, and Mohammed is his Prophet!'"
Something of the fierce spirit of Sivaji leapt up in the
Maratha's heart as he heard these haughty words. Drawing
himself up to his full height, and gazing proudly around,
he hurled all the curses and abusive epithets at his command
at the name ofthe sacred Prophet.
" Shall I, King of the Marathas, become a Mussulman ? "
he cried. "Not if you were to give me your daughter's
hand in marriage ! "
226
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
Insult could no farther go. For once in his life the
dignified Aurangzeb lost command of his temper. " Drag
the blasphemous dog from our presence I " he roared.
" He shall suffer for this insolence."
The fate of the unhappy Sambaji was a terrible one.
Every torture human ingenuity could devise was heaped
upon him ere death put an end to his sufferings. His eyes
were seared out w:ith red-hot irons, his tongue was torn
from his throat, and then-after enduring agony unspeak-
able-his head was finally struck from his shoulders. Thus
did Aurangzeb wreak his revenge upon the Marathas.
This was like the murder of Edith Cavell, a great
stupidity. The Marathas broke up the army of the Great
Moghul. Aurangzeb died at ninety. He lies in a plain,
simple tomb at Aurangabad. He had destroyed the greatest
Temple Empire the world has known in his efforts against
the greatest spiritual force in the world, the Hindu religion.
Ellora is its greatest centre, even to-day in the West,
as Benares is in the East of India.
Akbar had founded his dynasty. Shah Jehan was the
greatest of the Moghuls. Aurangzeb destroyed their line.
He thought he had conquered Hinduism when he erected
his spindly minarets on the Ganges. Still more, poor blind
mole, when he planted his mosque on the site of the old
Bisheshwar, the heart of Hinduism, which was in the
beginning, is now, and ever shall be, as long as the planet
lasts.
227
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
The Sikh leader Banda, defending his faith to the last
against the fanaticism of Aurangzeb, saw his child butchered
before he was torn to bits by hot pincers.
But Nadir Shah, like Sivaji, risen from a shepherd's hut,
avenged the lot. He swooped from the north, carried away
the peacock throne and all it stood for. He deluged Delhi
in blood. The star of the East was set. But out ofthe West
came the pale faces. Another victim had seen in a vision
a mightier power built on its departed glory, a greater empire,
the envy ofthe nations of the world.
Leaving Daulatabad behind, one soon discerns the
minarets and domes of Aurangabad, some eight miles to the
_
south, peeping out of the green foliage. From a distance it
looks like a garden city. So, indeed, it once was, though
now it is but the ghost of its former self. Its grandeur dis-
appeared with the death ofAurangzeb.
Aurangabad means, of course, Aurangzeb's town.
Despite that name, it had existed for centuries before he set
foot in it. Originally, the small village of Khirki, Malik
Ambar had made it his capital, and his son, Fateh Khan, had
renamed it Fatehnagar. Aurangzeb called it after himself
when he made it his headquarters in the Deccan, during the
years he, as his father's (Shah Jehan's) viceroy, and later as
Emperor, fought to extend the Moghul Empire, his imagina-
tion stirred by dreams of conquest more compelling than any
which had whetted the ambition of his forefathers. Here
he loved with fiery passion in his youth, when his eye could
228
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
see beauty and colour. Here he turned an anchorite in his
old age.
Judging from what remains of Aurangzeb's palace, there
was nothing particularly attractive or imposing about it from
the architectural point of view. Situated on a lone high
terrace, the grounds enclosed by the walls surrounding it
covered nearly the whole area between the Delhi and Mecca
gates of the city.
In the balcony of the mosque attached to the palace
Aurangzeb used to sit, clad in pure white, copying verses
from the Koran, which he sold, living upon the proceeds.
He believed that no man should depend upon the labour of
others, but should live by his own toil ; and he refused to
spend upon himself any money which he had not earned with
his own hands.
Within a short distance of the Imperial palace are the
ruins of the residences in which the courtiers lived. They,
needless to say, did not agree with the Emperor in regard to
leading the simple life.
In a suburb of Aurangabad lies entombed the fair form
of the Begum Rabbia Daurani, who captured and held
Aurangzeb's heart when young blood coursed through it.
It was built by her son, the Prince Azam Shah, and was meant
to be an exact replica of the Taj Mahal at Agra.
The builders of the two mausoleums were grandfather
and grandson, but two generations removed from each other.
Yet how tawdry looks the tomb above Aurangzeb's favourite
229
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
wife when compared with the structure at Agra which Shah
Jehan erected across the bend of the river Jumna from his
palace·in the Fort, where he could gaze upon the last resting-
place of the beautiful Mumtaz Mahal, who had been his
beloved wife and companion. In place of the marble of
the Taj at Agra, iridescent as a pearl under changing atmo-
spheric conditions, the Bibi Ka Maqbara, as the tomb at
Aurangabad is called, was plastered over with chunam Oime
plaster) and ornamented with stucco.
This fake has become bedrabbled from the action of wind
and weather. The imitation, in any case, lacks the fragile
grace and ethereal beauty of the original. It has the form
but not the soul of the Taj Mahal.
When the Moghul garden round the Bibi Ka Maqbara
received constant attention, that mausoleum must have stood
out like a white cameo cut on a jade foundation. But now
drought has seared the garden. Many of the cypresses have
died, leaving unsightly gaps. The grass and shrubbery have
become withered, dun, and dusty. The flowering plants
have languished and died.
Of the gardens for which Aurangabad was famous,
sufficient remains to enable one to visualize what they were in
the height of their glory. Water spouted into the air from
numerous fountains, escaping from apertures cut in irregular
shapes, so that silver showers descended in many curious
forms. Some discharged water in all directions at once.
From others it rose slowly, in graduated columns which
230
/
THE TR I U 1
\lPH OF THE E GG AT NIGHT.
!See f>at:e 54
THE MYSTERY OF SIVAJI
became convex or concave in ascending or formed a
translucent curtain.
In Aurangzeb's time, and even long before that, in the
days of Malik Ambar, the water was supplied from a huge
reservoir, miles away from the city, in the heart of the hills
not far from Daulatabad, which became filled during the
monsoon with water running down from the mountains
surrounding it.' It was carried to the bed of a stream,
dry during the best part of the year. Percolating through
the sand and gravel at the bottom, it became filtered,
and then found its way into a large aqueduct underground,
which carried it to all parts of the city. Here and there in its
course the water rose through high cement columns and
poured out through spouts into cisterns, from which it was
taken in pots as required.
The water which kept the gardens green and supplied the
needs of peer and peasant was controlled from a central
station by a mechanism as simple in construction and easy to
regulate as it was effective. By pulling a wooden plug here
and inserting it there, the flow of water could be shut off in
one part of the city and diverted to another part.
A simple and ingenious method, but like all people who
work on a large scale, the Moghuls were simple and effective.
Waterworks are characteristic of Moghul architecture. On
our bridal trip to Bijapur, fresh from Parsee fire-worshippers
at Bombay, we saw their water tower of seven storeys, in
which the water spouted from peacocks' mouths. Those old
23I
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Mohammedan warriors of the north knew the value of water
in that awful climate; and he who was my companion, since
fallen to that climate and his duty therein, said, " I am also a
water-worshipper."
On the very day of our landing at Bombay, a memorial
is being dedicated to Sivaji and a hymn to him appears in the
local papers.
Aurangzeb destroyed the peacock throne. Sivaji was
weighed against gold. In our bridal days at Poona, Sivaji's
name was the war-cry for the Poona brahmans' war against
the British. When the forest officer, Mr. Fagan, shot a
native by mistake for a bear, the cry was, " What would
Sivaji have said?" When Mr. Rand and Mr. Ayerst, the
plague extinction officers, were murdered in our Government
House procession, we may imagine Sivaji's name was con-
jured by the poor misguided boy who did it. He had been
singing, in the temples, to Sivaji.
When Hindu story-tellers of the present day relate to
enraptured audiences the wonderful exploits of Sivaji, they
will tell how it came to pass that native Indian and white-
faced Englishman first fought together on the shores of
Hindustan. And if the story-teller be anything of a philo-
sopher he may go on to declare that the English, by their
successful resistance of Sivaji's attack-Sivaji who feared no-
body and was feared by all (unless it be by the proud
Aurangzeb, who called him a rat)-foreshadowed themselves
the future masters of India.
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
Great God I I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn ;
So might I, standing on this pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn ;
Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea,
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn.
All that man is or feels or (in what concerns him closely) thin~s ; all that he loves
or fears or delights in, grieves for, desires and aspires to is to be found in it either
expressed or implied. As for beauty, it is "excellent in beauty," and poetry dwells
in it as light dwells upon a mountain and on the moss in the crevices of its rocks.
In what other place are even natural objects made in the imagination so whole and
fair ; its stars, its well-springs, its war-horse, its almond-tree ?
I STRONGLY felt that the account ofEllora's glorious half-moon
of sculptures would be incomplete without an account of the
equally gorgeous crescent of painting at Ajanta.
So after a night's rest at Daulatabad Dak, I once more
sallied forth in the bone-shaking hired motor.
About a hundred miles from Ellora, as the crow flies, is
another wondrous semicircle of caves in the Ghats. That
of Ajanta. But whereas at Ellora the sculptures are
mightiest, at Ajanta the paintings are the speciality.
It is at once the most ancient and the most priceless art
heritage handed down to India of our day.
Some three centuries after Gautama the Buddha (En-
lightened) had, about 525 B.C., discovered the way to escape
233
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
the suffering to which human flesh is heir, monks belonging
to his faith selected this spot for their cloister. For a
thousand years pious hands, driven by religious zeal, chipped
with chisel and mallet and painted the living rock, spreading
horse-shoe fashion round the basin of the mountain torrent,
fashioning lofty, well-lit shrines and monasteries, opening off
verandahs. To support the roof they left masses of rock,
which they carved into pillars, and painted the walls
with supreme skill with different coloured clays found on
the spot.
The paintings are characterized by boldness of outline
and broad sweep of brush. Emotions are portrayed with
faithfulness, as iflife were reflected in a mirror-sadness, pain,
death-throes, love, sensuality, envy, fear, malice, avarice,
mischief, joy, and sorrow, all being shown with a realism
which powerfully moves the spectator. So great is the
variety of subjects treated that it is almost impossible to
conceive of a phase of life which has been overlooked.
The carvings and paintings possess great historical and
sociological value. They portray almost every aspect of
human activity, and, therefore, constitute a record of nearly
every phase of life for a period of about a thousand years.
One knows, after looking at some of them, how men and
women who lived in ancient and medireval India dressed and
adorned themselves and arranged their hair ; what sort of
houses they dwelt in and how they were furnished ; the
vessels in which they cooked, their method of cooking, and
234
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
the dishes from which they ate ; the flowers and fruit placed
before them; the way in which they travelled by land and
sea ; the animals and birds they kept as pets ; the amusements
they enjoyed, the games they played, and the sports in jungle
and field in which they engaged.
It is surprising to note how well the colours, made from
materials locally gathered, have lasted through the centuries.
Where they have become dark, in some places, it is the fault
of modern painters who applied cheap varnish to bring out
details for copying.
Lady Herringham took a party to Ajanta to reproduce
the paintings. These included two Bengalis. The Hon.
Mr. Watson accompanied the Governor of Bombay to see
the caves. The police had strict orders to arrest all Bengalis
in the vicinity. They arrested Lady Herringham's painters.
She protested in anguish for their release. Her zeal outran
discretion, for it was she who varnished the paintings.
A motor-road of sorts now exists from Ellora, so I was
able to visit them and give personal impressions. After the
terrible shaking and jolting of the journey, it was a toilsome
climb up steps in the mountain-side to reach the caves, but
my reward came the moment I saw the more than life-sized
Buddha in Cave I. It has been .compared to those figures
before whose genius Raphael stood aghast, flabbergasted, the
figures of ·Michael Angelo in the Sistine Chapel at Rome.
Even the Italian Professor Ci;:cconi writes :
"In Cave 1, the colossal figure of Buddha, which is nearly
235
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
immune from varnish, evinces a surprising portrayal ofart on
account of its pictorial qualities ; _this painting in its grand
outlines recalls to memory the figures of Michael Angelo in
the Sistine Chapel; while the clearness of the colour of the
flesh, so true to nature, and the transparency of the shadows,
are very like those of Correggio. The design and breadth
of the technique, the interpretation of the shape of the hand
made to realistic perfection, permit of a comparison with the
two great artists ofthe Italian Renaissance."
The main difference is that the Buddha wears an Indian
head-dress like a jewelled mitre, Indian jewels, Indian features,
and an expression ofIndian peace instead of western struggle.
Mr. Axel Jarl, the Danish painter, whom I met in.Benares,
and who spent years painting in Indian temples, sometimes
so huge that they were patrolled by elephants, writes :
" The water paintings in the rock caves at Ajanta exhibit
the classical art of India. That is to say they represent the
climax to which genuine Indian art has attained.
"Their technique, which reaches its climax in a Bodhi-
sattva figure (of more than life-size in Cave No. 1), bears a
striking resemblance to that of Michael Angelo. If one
placed a good photograph of this Buddha head by the side
ofa photograph ofa figure from the Capella Sixtina one might
be inclined to think, if no attention were paid to the different
types of the figures, that they were painted by the same
master."
The situation of Ajanta is the best explanation of its
236
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
wondrous works. The men, who could conceive the idea of
that tremendous scimitar of columned temples, athwart the
face of the precipice, four furlongs from the boss of the hilt
to the point of the blade, were Titans in conception and
energy. But they finished like miniature painters.
The cliff sweeps downward to the valley in a double
cascade of volcanic rock, topped with a soft curling spume
of greenery, and vanishing into verdant brake and coppice
below. This rock wave is punctured with the human eyries
of the monks, fit habitations indeed for those soaring spirits.
From the great half-moon gallery that connects the temples,
one looks across the vale and serpentining river upon
opposing crags. The crescent swings southward in its full
curve, and is closed by a huge buttress ofperpendicular rock,
down a chasm of which the river tumbles in a light cascade.*
The wave-like hills are here and there broken by tall splintered
rocks that tower in stern contrast above the verdure. But
this greenness has clung and crept, climbed and crawled, and
at last conquered almost every cranny and crevice of the land-
scape. The greenness of Ajanta seems fraught with tender-
ness. It is love the beautifier who pressed a vernal kiss even
on the forbidding lip of the precipice.
The temple walls of the monks vibrate with the life of
the valley outside. They had but to leave their threshold in
order to spy their models, and they observed these with the
most tireless care, drew them with the keenest and most
* The cascade is dry in the hot weather.
237
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
loving skill. Their landscape is ever the jungle ; the blunt
rubber-like leaves of the palash tree fascinated them.
They were using them as a constantly recurring decorative
motive in their frescoes a thousand years before the Re-
naissance painters of Italy discovered the pictorial possi-
bilities of bay and laurel. These panels are in the truest
sense creative works because they are inspired by a
passionate study of Creation.
The spirit of an all-pervading sympathy crept also into
the souls of the artists, softening the stern rigours of the
ascetic, wooing the most reason-bound philosopher and
blossoffiing even in the hardest interstices of the human
heart. They became imbued and governed by this law. It
was their calling to be Painters, but it was this greenness in
their hearts that made them Artists. So, though it has not
often been given to man, those Artists were allowed by the
Creator of the World they so admired to add a beautifying
touch or two to His handiwork. They depicted the life of
an age of Simplicity, the magnificent social economy of the
jungle. Battles for existence, the triumph of the strong,
the extinction of the weak-such are the proper combats
witnessed by the basalt cliffs of Ajanta. As the colours are
primary tints, so are the forces at play in this valley primary
and elemental forces-shaming our subtleties and to this day
standing as a strong corrective to our flaccid modernism. No
wonder that the cave-makers and painters put vitality into
their work. No wonder that the mural paintings at Ajanta
238
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
are among the most life-like paintings in the world to-day.
The artists lived among realities-not artificialities.
Not until the visitor has ascended the steps carved in the
mountain-side and begun to examine one chamber after
another, does he realize the magnitude of the toil involved in
creating them. Only hands inspired by a faith which refused
to be daunted by the gigantic nature of the self-imposed task
could have chiselled away hundreds of thousands of tons of
rock in the days before explosives were invented.
It is not only the veneration due to age that we feel when
we pause upon the threshold of the caves. We are held also
by an awed expectancy. Who shall show us the way through
the places we are about to enter ? We can explain them, or
we think we can; examine their form, and estimate their
dimensions. But we are troubled by something unaccount-
able, inexplicable, something which, much as we long to do
so, we shall never be able to grasp unaided, and we seek for
some clue to lead us through the maze. There is no gentle
Ariadne to place in our hands to-day that silken cord which
guided her heroic lover through the Cretan labyrinth and led
him back in triumph to her arms. King's daughters do no
such kind offices for the men of this less deserving age. The
clue, if we would find it, must be sought with patience by each
individual.
The fac,;:ade of some of the chambers is pierced above the
door by a horseshoe arched window, and the ceiling is
vaulted, producing a cathedral-like effect, the stone being
239
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
cbiselled, at regular intervals, to form ribs looking like
wooden rafters. In most cases, however, the ceiling has
been left flat, and either painted with figures and scenes, or
elaborately carved. The walls are covered with a profusion
of statuettes and figures in bas-relief cut in rock, or are
painted with a wealth of design. The carefully smoothed
floors have holes here and there, made by the artists of old
for grinding their colours.
The colour, the colour, and again the colour of Ajanta !
Who can mistake these golden shrines for caves? Are they
not rather nooks where Peris have nested ? And the walls ;
have they not caught their rainbow hues from the brusbing
of ambrosial pinions ? Let us, if the fetters of the world
have left our souls at least free, shake off all fear and timidity
in the face of Ajanta's wonders, and try if we cannot soar a
flight with the artists. One of the best lessons taught us by
those Buddbist artists is the lesson of Enthusiasm. There
is nothing to be ashamed of in enthusiasm. It is a blessed
gift. Enthusiasm can swing souls to overleap all obstacles.
That the Ajanta paintings are the triumphs of enthusiastic
spirits there can be no doubt-the same spirit that actuated
the excavators in their incredible victories over the basalt
cliffs buoyed up the painters.
The pictures of Ajanta take our hearts by storm because
the artists never doubted their ability to captivate.
They had no doubt as to the value of their art, any more
than they were light-headed through pride. They dwelt
240
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
neither -among the excessive blandishments of popular ap-
plause nor the captious comments of interested critics. The
artists of those days were quite undoubting as to the need to
paint, and also as to their capacity.
These happy impulses of optimism are shot through the
fibres of modern men across a gulf of fifteen or twenty
centuries. How great then must once have been that battery
whose surcharged forces are yet unspent and vitalizing !
What must once have been the feast of colour, what the riot
of line ! There are figures seen in dim groups that yet
retain, though hopelessly lost, a certain regality of outline ;
draperies and head-dresses that have their counterparts only
a few miles away to-day.
I mean the long ribbon-like appendages which whirl and
flutter, chase and encircle the beautiful people who wear
them, and which are so fascinating and becoming that they
might well be the rage ofa modern ball-room.
The English artist, Mr. Griffith, writes :
"Great pains are lavished on the correct rendering of the
manifold fashions of hairdressing. Sometimes it is frizzed
in front with luxuriant ringlets, now unknown in feminine
India. Or a chignon is tied at the back with a coronal of
flowers over it, or large lotus blooms are arranged among its
masses. Sometimes knots of hair are looped at the side of
the head and adorned with flowers, while the still prevalent
fashion of confining it with chains of woven wire or jewelled
string, attached to elaborate ornaments of beaten work in
24r
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
gold and silver, is often followed. Jungle women wear rolls
and bands with peacock-feather tips, and no detail is traced
with more care and skill in drawing than the arrangement of
the various head-dresses."
Their method of using colour rather in bars than in
masses is as effective as it is simple, and goes far to avoid the
heaviness which so often distinguishes mural paintings;
while their animals and plants, as faithfully copied as the rest,
take an important but not excessive part in the graduated
scheme.
Such are briefly most of the factors and their leading
characteristics that the Ajanta Masters relied on for their
beautiful results. To them tone values, as we understand
them, were unknown : tone values would no doubt have
tormented them as much as they did William Blake, who
referred to Correggio as a " devil " for having confused the
outline ! If Blake could but have seen Ajanta, he would
have found in it the country of his utmost dreams ! For
with all the simplicity of their materials and methods, the
sincerity-loving Buddhists never failed to get the utmost out
of them of which the mind of man is capable.
If the visitor has gone to Ajanta with the preconceived
notion that he is to see dark and dungeon-like" caves," he will
be surprised to find most ofthe chambers so constructed that a
flood oflight pours into them, more abundantly at some hours
of the day than at others, for, since they are cut in a hill
which is almost three-quarters of a circle in shape, the sun
242
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
shines into some of them in the morning and into others in
the afternoon. Except for examining carvings and paintings
towards the back: of the chambers, it is not necessary to have
artificial light ; and one can even take photographs, if one so
desires, without the aid of flashlight.
After four o'clock the sun visits the first and the second
caves with his glow. Then is the time to see their treasures
As the afternoon wears on, the old walls seem to awaken from
slumber and to rouse and preen themselves with something of
their former pride. Now, one by one, emerge in a kind of
dark glory these forms that are poems, these colours that are
melodies.
In addition to the wonderful Buddha in the Michel-
angelesque style, surrounded by his court, there is a panel in
the first cave of a woman in anguish. I do not know the
story, but she bends low before the King, whose sword is
drawn to slay. The drawing of the figure is superb; the
line of the back worthy of the pencil of Ingres. But more
wonderful is the Art that at such a prodigious moment chose
to conceal the face of Beauty. Only the bent head is seen
above the outstretched hands-little sensitive hands that
hover about, but do not venture to touch the feet of the
inexorable destroyer. The impending doom is just ; but
how marvellously h~s the artist caused us to feel " the pity
of it" ! The guilt of the offender is forgotten in the con-
templation of the awfulness of Beauty about to be destroyed.
And this picture was painted in India nine hundred years
243
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
before Fra Bartolommeo painted his Magdalen embracing the
feet of the dead Christ !
What a lesson on the inter-relation of the Arts we receive
in the fourth cave, with its unfinished columns, its roughly
sketched flooring, its walls only partially in being, yet already
beginning to bloom with pictures. These were no "one
art " men quarrelling for exclusiveness, but a band of
brothers linked in the bonds of a joint mission. Scarcely
did the sculptors of the splendid portals to the first and
second caves lay down their tools when the painters were
embellishing their dainty figures with all the wealth of colour
at their command, gifting the stone with the hues of life. A
beautiful and a fertile union is this marriage of the Arts at
Ajanta, where Painting is no unhappy discarded child, but the
legitimate offspring of fruitful wedlock.
The atmosphere of a supreme eld which seems to invest
the whole of the Ajanta Valley clings most heavily about the
ninth and tenth caves. The former is a low but beautifully
proportioned temple, and were it not for the inevitable
" stupa," its broad aisle and simple rows of unsculptured
columns might suggest to one the interior of some Anglo-
Saxon chapel. The tenth temple rears a mighty arch,
cathedral-wise, to heaven, and as one gazes upwards between
graceful columns at that buoyant vaulting, it is difficult to
believe that we are merely in a pocket of the mountain, that
the weight of Ossa presses overhead. Neither of these two
oldest caves has any sculptured ornament, but they were
244
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
both filled at one time with frescoes. I prefer the design of
these picture galleries of two thousand years ago to our
modern Salons and Academies.
We see enough to know that these earliest walls once
blazed with colour, life, beauty, that must have been, even in
that dim period, the fruition of long years of pupilage and
study.
Even in the ninth cave, ruined though the paintings be,
one can see enough through the remaining fragments to
realize that nearly two thousand years ago there was a very
vigorous school of painting in India. As we make the
circuit of the defaced walls, ghosts of the beautiful originals
show a culture combining Religion, Painting and Sculpture
in a manner never attained in Europe. They arrest us here
and there. The silhouette of a mighty elephant ; the glance
of a dark eye beneath a just stroke of the perfect eyebrow ;
the jetty loop of a ringlet so purely classical that it might have
been snatched from the tresses of the Hesperidean Girls, we
catch more than a glowing hint of the art that had even at
that date wheedled the secret out of Mother India. And we
piece these Immortals of Art together, and we weave their
minute but gleaming petals into the thread that shall conduct
us to fuller knowledge.
In the sixteenth cave is a panel usually called" The Dying
Princess." It shows the drooping form of a woman attended
by other women, and the composition has a rhythmic flow of
line that well conveys the poignant story. The unbound hair
245
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
of the Princess that hangs over her shoulder, contrasting with
the elaborate head-gear of her attendants, was a good.idea of
the artist, for it serves to enhance the lines of lassitude. This
woman is beautiful, like all the women ofthe Ajanta paintings.
The needful expression is conveyed in the pose of the figure.
That calm face the artist would not mar with unwanted
realism, lest we should forget that we were onlookers of the
most cruel of all human tragedies, the death of a beautiful
woman. A very similar scene is treated quite differently in
the seventeenth cave, where a Queen sick unto death reclines
upon the broad and anxious breast of her royal husband.
Here, too, the exquisite face, the lovely form are painted by
the artist in all their rich perfections. To have sacrificed these
essentials for a meretricious delineation of the ravages of
illness or the agonies of approaching dissolution would have
been to have sacrificed everything.
The same technique, a little more accomplished, occurs
in the later pictures, and may be studied easily and at its
best in the detail of the old brahman and his companions in
the seventeenth cave. But long before this perfected bit
of work, the artists had taken the clue in their hands, and
when we pause in front of it, it is only because it is well,
at this stage of progress through this Cnossus of Line.
The Indian Line is flexible, pliant and amazingly expres-
sive. Though not capable ofthe modulations of the Japanese,
or confinable within the disciplinary limits of the " synthetic
art" of China, it is the master of both in forcefulness, in-
246
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
dependence and power of continuity. India's Line is the
golden clue to India's Art. As to the crowded nature of
the paintings, Indian legend is always crowded, and much
had to be shown in most limited space. A survey of the
famous Simhala "Jataka" of the seventeenth cave, shows
how admirably the artist has arranged his pictorial narrative,
keeping his great subject- the battle-with which to make
a strong cen_tre for his composition. These stories from the
Life of Buddha are so-called. The story here referred to
is a wild and fantastic legend of shipwrecked sailors and
encl1:anted isles inhabited by the terribly beautiful Rakshasis,
or vampires. These are symbolical of the brothers of the
shadow, who ever impede the progress of the soul upward ;
the Ajanta frescoes are not more crowded than those of
the Medici processions at Florence, considered by many
to be the most interesting there.
There is nothing incongruous to these Indian artists
in the peopling of palm grove or moonlit beach with the
lovely or gamesome spirits of Hindu or Mohammedan
legend.
Ajanta artists could adopt conventions for their Buddhas,
and had their sacred symbols, and their orthodox attitudes ;
but their women are always unconventional. They did not
pose women; they simply copied their poses. They were
content to learn from their gestures ; to portray their
natures. Woman had for them a decorative value, altogether
too precious to be ignored.
Q
They use women like flowers ;
247
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
garlands of girls surround their Rajas and their Princes,
embellish their palaces, dominate their street scenes, crowd
the windows of their cities, and are often painted, as in the
delicious panel in the first cave of the Queen and her maids
giving alms to a mendicant, for the sheer joy of painting
them, and with no perceptible literary or religious intention.
When they do not weave their women into garlands, these
artists scatter them as single blooms, or by twos and threes
over the walls. As Apsaras or radiant Peris, they float
across the porches ; as Sirens they lure the sailor to his
doom ; but chiefly they shine for us as mortals, and as
mortals these artists depicted them best, and most often ;
they painted them at the toilet, in repose, gossiping,
sitting, standing, always with a sort of wonder akin to
awe. Artists thought rightly in those days ; and just
as our Masters of Fiction are judged by general consent
to prove their greatness according to their power of pre-
senting women, so are they. For normal man, woman
must always represent the most decorative element in the
world. The Ajanta Masters use Woman as their best
decorative asset with brilliant zest and extraordinary know-
ledge. Woman is the £nest achievement of their art, and
obviously its most admired theme. They cannot apparently
have too much of her, and introduce her on every possible
occasion, whether relevant to the story or otherwise, in
every possible way, but under one aspect only-that of beauty.
Their beauty was not diminished by laws. She was outside
248
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
the laws of Art, for she made them. They learned from
her. They struggled to reproduce every turn of her head,
every curve of her form, every glance of her eye. She
enthralled them with her airs and graces, enmeshed them
in the mysteries of her toilet, more strongly than does the
Parisienne the painter of to-day. They produced tire-
lessly and with a discriminating knowledge her bewildering
coiffures ; they decked her in painstaking manner with the
most beautiful trinkets they could devise. When they could
not paint Her, then they painted her pearls and ornaments
all round their columns. I can think of no parallel to this
frank and chivalrous Woman-worship of Ajanta. Nowhere
else, perhaps, has Woman received such a perfect and under-
standing homage. For the seventeenth cave there is a
suggestion of dainty roguery about the scene where two
bright-eyed girls peep through a lattice at the sequestered
lovers, and the whole subject is drawn with a light hand and
lighter heart. By the way, a similar lattice motive was
used by Correggio for his Amoretti on the walls of S. Paolo
at Parma, and was thought original. Most of the portals
of the caves are sculptured with numerous reliefs of couples
intensely interested in one another. They may be Gods
and Goddesses, but they are most certainly lovers-and
they are happy.
Perhaps that is Woman's chief function at Ajanta-to
radiate happiness. We can never forget her; we wish
never to forget her as we see her here. This purely objective
249
VEILED MYSTERlES OF INDIA
view of Woman, seen through the genius of Indian painters,
is somehow consoling to us in an age of cubist art. Woman
is here restored to us according to the Hindu ideal of woman,
not deformed into a Medusa or an octopus, as in the Paris
salons of to-day. Buddhism, of course, was only a revival
of Hinduism, in which the one essential for a woman is
purity. If she is beautiful and accomplished too, tant
mieux !
Nowhere is Woman besmirched in the caves. I would
add that she is nowhere degraded from the proud and
prominent position she holds. I believe that for these Artist-
Monks all Beauty was one, just as for them all life was one.
There was no very great distinction, therefore, between
Physical and Moral Beauty, not enough to make it necessary
to remove their women more than a few inches from Buddha.
In the lovely picture of the mother and child adoring Buddha
in the seventeenth cave, the painter has dwelt with loving
care upon every ringlet of the woman's hair, every exquisite
feature, every curve ofher supple form, as though he glorified
Buddha himself by endowing his worshipper with so much
loveliness. Woman always seems to confer as well as to
deserve happiness. Equally with man she does homage to
her Creator. And if the men seem more specially to present
to Him the gifts of holiness, she offers in His sight His own
incomparable dower of Beauty, and the offering is in no wise
condemned by Him.
It is Woman the Sister that we see in these Religious
250
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
Panels. As the Beloved we see her also and often. Very
beautiful are these Love scenes. In the first cave there is
a fine composition of a Naga Sovereign and his Queen
conversing happily together: the piquant upturn of the
lady's fa~e as she glances slyly at her Lord and Master, and
the latter's look of tenderest affection have a lyrical sweetness.
In the somewhat similar picture outside the seventeenth
cave there is an air of sweetness and purity untarnished.
These Artists of the Orient saw her and painted her as she
shall, all things notwithstanding, ever be seen and painted ;
they clothed her as she shall ever be clothed in "Majesty
and Power."
Criticism of these Cave-Paintings is unnecessary. No
picture has ever been painted that cannot be destroyed by
criticism if you set yourself down to do it. Such criticism
of these paintings as I have read usually tries to prove that
though comparatively good they are not so good as Chinese
Art, and that they are crowded and lacking in balance and
composition. But the indigenous art of India is a warm
and glowing art, that throbs with life, colour and reality.
It is of the heart rather than of the brain. It feels rather
than reasons; it is joyous rather than austere; it deals with
real scenes, real passions, real people, rather than with ab-
stractions and conventions. Those old Buddhists believed
what they painted, hence their frescoes blaze not only with
the brilliance of beautiful but earth-bound spirits, but with
the holier inner light of spiritual conviction. Sincerity
251
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
made the Art of Ajanta, as surely as sincerity made the Art
of medireval Florence. There is not the slightest doubt
that the Buddhist Masters believed what they painted. I
do not mean that they merely believed in the religious dogma
which they illustrated, but that they believed in the canons
of the Art. They were emphatically not experimenters :
I have culled from the study of Buddhist art a renewal of
faith ; and standing before the works of the Buddhist artists
have more than once exclaimed as did that other humble
spectator of a masterpiece by Correggio : " And I, too, am
an artist ! "
Seated on the threshold of the seventeenth cave under
the far-projecting caves of virgin rock, I gaze at the great
cliff opposite, and bid farewell to what lies between and to
these unknown master builders, painters and sculptors who
have left there the world's greatest Eastern treasures to us.
They would group themselves, I think, somewhere near the
seventeenth cave (that with the wonderful view) and exchange
with quiet interest the news of the day's work. This man
would show, perhaps with a trace of pardonable exultation,
his drawing of a rounded arm and shoulder, or a tinted study
of a woman dressing her hair, and that other dark-skinned
Beauty leaning in careless abandon against the pillar, as
she has stood for far more than a thousand years ; as she
stands to-day in many a village of the Mahratta Land.
The glow that reanimates the paintings is but the very
faintest revival of a past glory. It is no more than the
252
THE MYSTERY OF THE INDIAN SISTINE
single tinselled star that remained to Hans Andersen's fir
tree when its dream was past ; yet it shows these surely
sentient walls to be still what once they were, Aristocrats
of Art....
And all this was accomplished with five colours only-
five colours-and a line !
Marvellously beautiful, and powerful, and great is the
message of Ajanta that reaches our hearts straight from the
first century.
In these caves we want no stereotyped art. We are
nearer to something more vital, deeper, more moving :
something that can set the blood racing in our veins. We
want no other art than this. Give us as Art-lovers the
vaulted studios of Ajanta ; the good scent of the earth in
our nostrils, the diapason of the living waters in our ears,
and these pictures, fragments that seem tossed to us from
Heaven, before our eyes !
And give us, too, that emerald of perpetual youth, that
greenness of Ajanta, to lock within our hearts and keep for
ever, knowing that certain is the reawakening.
253
THE MYSTERY OF THE SACRED HEART
So goes a London day,
So fares the life we think.
0 gold behind the grey,
Drab undermined with pink,
What Gods are in our pay ?
You begin to discover England when you get aboard the boat-train at the Gare
du Nord. Those voices, how adorably indescribably odd to the American ear !
It is, seemingly, your own tongue, yet it is said in the most delicious lifting and softness
of intonation. As different from our lingo as English grass from American grass.
Most visitors succumb to the comfortable grace of England and accept it ; but
Capek, with the poet's trouble in his mind, has tried to peer into that grace and see
that she is enchanting because she is really betwiched. Here more than anywhere,
1 suppose, it was really doubtful whether men or fairies should have empire.-THE
ROMANY STAIN.
The evening deepened. In the great empty garden the last rays of the sun fell on
a bed of azaleas, shining through their fragile blossoms of lemon, apricot and pink.
" The vague fragrance is life in this country," I thought. " It can awaken no wild
longing. How different from the languorous perfumes of the East. Is it already
over, the happiness of returning? England seems pale and mild and grey. There
are no ardours here, no tigers, no fanatics, no snows. Then again, as once before
in that hot, moonlit station in India, there opened out a sudden ray of deliverance,
A bubble of eternity had risen through time and held me for an instant in its shining
teeth. I knew there was permanence : I felt reality. 'I shall find them again,' I
said to myself, ' the flowers and jungles and huge beasts, where the pattern of these
things eternally dwells.' " - FLOWERS AND ELEPHANTS.
254
THE RETURN
Goon-BYE, India, for this incarnation. Good-bye! Good-
bye I India with thy passion I Thy penance ! Thine
heights of heaven, thy depths of hell.
When Magic dies,
Sometimes you hear
Under new skies,
Desolate--dear-
The haunting echo
Of an old tune
That set you dancing
Under the moon-
Far-far away.
Ifyou are wise
You will not stay
When magic dies.
Suez. The bright dainty light of the Mid East after
the rich gorgeousness of the Real East. The white gulls
powder the jade patches of the shallows in the aquamarine
gulf. They have jade breasts reflected from the water. Far
below is a lovely arc of a buried rainbow, as a gorgeous sea-
snake in the depths. This is a miracle of refraction from
the ship's pump up above.
Suez Canal Station. How jolly to see a carriage and pair
of white horses again beneath the tamarinds and feel the
gay French influence which permeates the Canal. ·This
255
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
is the last passing of twenty-four times of asking. Yet,
ever new wonders appear in this mysterious water-passage
between East and West.
Messina once more. Italy snow-capped, even Calabrian
lemon groves frowning. Yes, but it's Europe onc_
e more
to her battered children, hailing from hospital and jungle.
~nd how lovely the pale blue line lying, like a valley of
hyacinths, between the deeper blue of mountain and sea.
And the seven Liparis all in differing blues. A world blue
as Krishna. But presently the soft tints fade into a world
of steel. The Seven Sisters become stern and rugged as
women robbed of their sex rights. Stromboli becomes a
scaly, slating monster, belching smoke. As we leave the
Liparis and the smiling Southern seas we nerve ourselves
for the stern world of the North and work.
Yet do we not enjoy their many twinkling smiles more
because of that work, its agony and bloody sweat ? Is
not contrast the spice of life ? Does not that grey island,
so far up it always seems, returning, make their suns warmer
food to fill us below? Does not its grind and travail make
their doIce far niente more soothing ? Do we not revel in
their rest, we who give of our best, and live? Do they not
die in their prime who fritter the hours away ?
These seas are bright with an alien beauty ; we have no
share in them, and they repulse our overtures with the cold
eyes of strangers. We can only enjoy the Mediterranean
256
THE RETURN
as an experience outside ourselves-as a miracle, perhaps,
but miracles are not the foundations of our ordinary lives.
External loveliness is a poor substitute for friendship-
and for friendship we must turn the nose of our boat home-
wards again. We must lounge along the jetties of our own
harbours, we must look at the tumbling sea beyond our own
breakwaters, and we must remember that our romance, our
colour and our conquest have been made part of us by the
ships which have limped into our own ports.
Remembering this, there is no harm in comparisons-
but I, for one, am insularly content with the harbours I
know best, with the men whose speech and ways I under-
stand, and with the ships which represent to me the qualities
and the traditions of my own race.
We are greeted by the cold chalky cliffs of Perfidious
Albion, glimmering sharply in the northern clear-cut twi-
light, and the glamour of King Lear.
The white cliffs of Albion, furred with short turf in the
pale evening light, are types of English temperament.
Clean, cold, undefiled, but hard, uncompromising, un-
romantic, asking no compassion, showing no indulgence,
even to her loyal children.
Yes, in many ways an unkind mother, a mother of matter-
of-factness, unsentimental, stern as karma to our slips,
unbending, of draughts, and of neuralgia, but our Mother
still, a Mother of justice and of impregnable strength. To
whose daughters, we who have passionately loved her
257
VEILED MYSTERIES OF INDIA
Empire, and have denied her nothing of our best, she has
given life's greatest boon, her majestic recognition of our
work in lands aloft t~e setting sun. What a sense of repose,
of leisuted security, even am1d the din of customs! Com-
-
fortably ensconced in our carriage, a real English tea is
brought by clean, fresh _youths with delicious Cockney
accents. Swiftly between the mossy banks of primroses
are we borne to our Fleet Street, and our Bond Street.
All the beauty of London centres in Trafalgar Square,
and in Ludgate Hill. AU the best of life's endeavour is
contained in the printing presses between the vats of the
wine of our lives. We are cuddled to our Mother's heart.
And our Mother is the Mistress of the World.
The bright emerald of the fig leaves over the soft grey
of the Gallery, the classic fountains, the pigeons, the lions
at the feet of Nelson, aloft over the Empire as the Master
Builder, as Weygand says Foch is of the world ! And then
the Strand, with Elizabeth, mother of the Indian Empire,
sooty in her niche, but holding the orb in her hands. And
then Fleet Street, our old lady, ,our Mother, who is the
Mother ofthe World.
The spire of Bow, pointed as a Kashmiri temple, the iris
tints supplied by the pigeons fluttering on the great dome
behind it : these two views equal aught we have seen in a
thou~and-and-one nights in " furrin " parts.
Daughters of the Empire, she calls on us to cross angry
seas, to scale glacier heights, to confront her foes, some-
258
THE RETURN
times in subtle disguise. But she rewards us so long as
we do well, and are not afraid with any amazement.
What guerdon do we seek for all
This work ? If once, some worker, toiling hard
Will find the rapture of a Master's word,
And pausing gratefully my name recall,
Tracing his joy, in part, to what he heard
And learnt from me-it will be rich reward I
The approval of the which one has been wafted world-
wide from aspirants to knowledge on sunny plains and snowy
steppes, from Indian ashrams and Parisian boulevards, and
even from a monastery raised where Nero fished the Anio
with a golden net.
Some have sought for personal help in the physical body.
Fewer have heard the Music of the Hidden Temple of the
Sphere when seated by my side.
Still fewer have known me in the astral form.
Peace To All Beings.
259
INDEX
ABU FAZL, 192
Abu, Mount, 173
Aden, 32, 34
Adham Khan, 182, 185, 186, 187
Adyar, 17, 32, 37, 44, 45, 77
Agra, 204
Ahriman, 79
Ajanta, 233, 235, 236, 237, 238, 240, 242,
244, 247, 248, 249, 252, 253
Ajmere, 174
Akbar, 6, 72, 79, 176, 177, 184, 186, 187,
192, 193. 196, 227
Algeciras, 144
Alla-o-Din, 57
Altamash, 173
Amarnath, 42, 71, 102, 108, 109, r ro,
rr4, rr6, rr7, rr9, 120, 131
Amarnath Cave, 122, 123, 132
Amir Khusru, 57
Amravati, 125
Amrita Rao, 100
Ananda Deva, 123
Anapurna, 164
Aryavarta, 60, 93, 99
Asaf Jah the Great, 199
Asuras, 79
Aswamedh, 99
Attar, 170
Aurangabad, 228, 230
BABER, 56
Bahadur Shah, 55, 176
Baldwin, Mr., 145
Balta!, r 16, 129, 130
Banda, 228
Baracca, 21
-- Gardens, 20
Bawaha, 171
Bawan, 124
Bawangaja, 187
Baz Bahadur, 172, 176, 181, 183, 184,
185, 186, 187
Beelzebub, 79
Benares, 69, 80, 169, 170, 196, 227
--, Maharajah of, 64, 65, 67
Besant, Annie, 6, 33, 41, 48, 71, 79, 81,
134, 135, 164
Bhairan Bal, 125
Bhilsa, 173
Bhoja, 173
Bijapur, 173, 214, 217, 231
Bijawar, Rani of, 100
Birna, 69
Biscoe. See Tyndale Biscoe
Bisheshwar, 63, 72, 160, 227
Blavatsky, Mme, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49, 51
Bombay, 35, 36, r50
Bone, Muirhead. See Muirhead B'one
Bramah, 207
Aurungzeb, 63, 163, 199, 219, 221, 224, Buddha, Lord, 75
225, 227, 228, 229, 231
Aurungzeb's Gate, 180
Avatar, 41, 44, 48
Avignon, 9
Ayerst, Mr., 232
Azam Shah, 229
Burton, Lady, 19
CALIFORNIA, 50
Camoldoli, 3
Cannes, 14
Cape, Rev. C. P., 69
261
Capek, 254
Carlyle, 208
Cavan, Lord, I
Cavel!, Edith, 227
Cecconi, Prof., 235
Chakhram Lotus, I22
Chand, Queen of Bijapur, I96
Chandanwara, 124
Chandni Chowk, 59
Chintamani Mukerja, I6I
Chitakrot, 99
Chitakut, 92
Choral, I70
Chutter Mungil. 69
City of Is, 2
- - of Trampled Flowers, 62
Concan, I97
Correggio, 236, 249, 252
Crump, Lionel, I8I, I82
Curzon, Lady, 55, 56
INDEX
Elichpur, I74
Elizabeth, Queen, I77, 196
Ellora, I95· I96, 198, 201, 203, 204, 207,
208, 209, 210, 2II, 2I3, 2I4, 227, 233,
235
England, 254
FAGAN, 232
Fatch Khan, 228
Fatchnagar, 228
Fatchpur Sikri, I78
Ferghana, l ro
Finisterre, I43
Foch, 258
Fort Ricasoli, 21
Frith,-7
Firzabad, 98
Fyzee-Raham, 39, l 50
- -, Marquess of, 5, 6, 55, I43· I50, I67,
168, 169
GANESHBAL, I24
Gautama, 233
George. See King George
Germany, Crown Prince of, I62
Gharba Yatra, I25
Ghyar-ud-din Khilji, 174, 179
Gibraltar, 144
DAHL GATE, 106
Damodar, 48, 83
Dane, Sir Louis, 168
Darban·gha, Maharajah, 71
--, Maharani, Dowager, 63
Dassasamedh Ghat, 63, 64, 66
Dasaswamedh, I60
Daulatabad, I97· 228, 23 I, 233
Deccan, I97
Desai, Mr., 9I
Devapi, 49
Dhar, Maharajah, I90
Dilhwar Khan 0hori, I74
Dingra, I46
Draupadi, I82
Duomo, II
Durga, 65, 85, I64
EDDY FARM HousE, I7
Eishmuqam, I24
El Greco, 33
Elephanta, 36, 44
"Elephant's Foot," 7
Gildemeester, Mme, ro8
Girgaum, 45
Gita, 80
Gordon of Khartoum, 20
Goya, 33
Gozo, 2I
Grand, Mme, 3
Graves, Rev. E., 69
Grifli~h . Mr., 24I
Gund, I I2, I33
Gunderbal, I IO
Gunga, 3
Gungabal, l 14
Guzerat, I74
Gwalior, Queen of, 4I
Gya, I6I
HAFIZ, 192
Hal, Saflieni, 2I
Hanuman, 60, 93
262
INDEX
Harbhagawan, I21
Harischandra, 64
Harisinghji, Prince, 45
Hashang Shah, 174, I89
Hastings, 64
Hedley Vicars, 20
Hegel, 6
Heras, Father, 213
Herringham, Lady, 235
Himavat, 2, 4, 103
Holkar, 172
Hope, Lawrence, I72, 180
H.P. B., 17, 25, 44
H. S. 0., I7
Humayun, 188
Humayun's Tomb, 56
IBBETSON, Sm DENZIL, 168
Imperishable Sacred Land, 49, 50
Inayat Khan, I91
Irwin, Lord, I45· 148
Is. See City of
Isles of the Lesser Mysteries, I4
JACOB, I67
Jacolliot, I6
Jaganath, 77
Jahaz, Mahal, I79
Jama, Musjid, 55, 58, 173, I74• 186, 189
Janaka, 98
Jangira, Begum of, 39
Jar!, Axel, 236
Jehangir, 72, 176, I77, 178, I90
Jerusalem, 27
Jesus, I93· I94
Jey Singh Laboratory, 64
Jhelum, 103, I05
Jinaradasa, 44
Jivanmukta, 78
Jumna, 55, 56, 59
KAGAZIPURA, I99
Kailash, 195, 200, 203, 204
Kali Yog, 48, 82
Kaliadeh, I76
· Kalki, 48, 49, 82
-- Purana, 49
R
Kalyan, I52
Kandwa, I70
Kangan, II I
Karli, Caves of, 44, 213
Karwi, Ioo
Kashi, 2, I6, I7, 42, 46, 51, 62, 66, 72,
76, 87, 98, 104, 120, I35· I39· I52,
I54. I55· I65
Kashmir Gate, 59
Kathiawar, 45
Kawaguchi, 133
Kedarnath Ghat, 64
Keightley, Bertram, I77
Khandalavala, Judge, 36, 43, 47, 48
Khirki, 228
King George, 147
Kitchener, Lord, I48
Kohala, 102
Kol, 9I
Koot Hoomi, 49, IOI, I30
Kopje, 7
Krishna, 211
Kuch Behar, Queen of, 4I
Kundalini, 82
Kungal, I10
LAKSHMAN, 93, 98
Lambart, Rose, I
Leadbeater, Prof., 44
Leh, I 1 I
Lidar, l 14, 124, 125
Limbin Mintha, 162
Lipari Isles, 22, 23, 256
Lisaniskea, I
Loti, 35
Lourdes, 27
Lucknow, 69
Lutyens, Lady Emily, 33
--, Sir Edwin, I7
Lyons, Gulf of, 13
MACDONNELL, ANTONY, 6
MacNeil, Dr., 27
Madahot Rao, 100
Maha Cunas, 125
Mahadev, 3, 50, 67, 77, 79, 82, 84, 87, 95
Io3, II 5, II7, 126, 127, 195, 200
INDEX
Mahmud II, 176
-- Khilji, 174, 188, 189, 190
Malcolm, Sir John, 180
Malik Ambar, 199, 228, 231
Malta, 2, 3, 17-23, 149
Malwa, 173, 181, 186, 188
Mandu, 172, 186, 188, 190
Manikurinka, 65
Manvantara, 113
Maratha, 220
Maria la Garde, 11
Marseilles, 9-16
Mary. See Queen Mary.
Mattreya, Lord, 37
Mauritius, 27
Mauru, 49
Maurya, Master, 45, 49, 77, 130, 134, 141,
165, 202
Maxwell, Sir John, 148
Mayne, 100
Mead, Mrs., 134
Menpes, Mortimer. See Mortimer Menpes
Mer.u, Mount, 50
Metcalfe, Theophilus, 55
Mhow, 170, 172
Michael Angelo, 235, 236
Minto, Lord, 145
Mithila, King of, 98
Moghul, Serai, 88
Moina, 6o
Monte Carlo, 13, 15
More, Robert, 203
Mortimer Me_
npes, 56
" Mountain Rat," 219, 222
Muhammad Adil Shah, 215
Muirhead Bone, 11, 13
Mullu, 90
Mumtaz Mahal, 230
Munji, 173
Murree Heights, 102
Mysore, Maharajah of, 63
Mysteriarcha, 136
NADIR SHAH, 228
Naidu, Mrs., 41
Nana Sahib, 100
Nanga Parbat, 102
Nara, King, 115
Nasir-ud-din, 174, 175
Nassik, 171
Neferhotep, 24
Nerbada, 187
Nerbudda Bridge, 152
Netley, Lucas, 147
Nicholson, John, 59
Nishat Bagh, 108
Nobili, Fra Roberto de, 212
Nullah, 122
Nur Jehan, 179
O ' DWYER, Sm MICHAEL, 145
Olcott, Colonel, 43, 44, 78, 135, 141
Ommen, 37
Orissa, 77
Oudh, Kings of, 69
PAHALGAM, 124
Panchatarani, 125
Pare!, 36, 44
Parvati, 126
Patiala, Crown Prince, 149
Peare Lal of Delhi, Rai Sahib, 77
Peishwa, 100
Pepper, Captain George, 1
Pishbal Hill, I 2 5
Polydorus Isuremus, 203
Pontilario, 146
Port Said, 27
Prithiraj, 57
Purana, 49
QTAB, 56, 57, 70
Quarantine, Isle of, 33
Queen Mary, 147
Queretero, 71
R ABBIA D URAN!, 229
Raisina, 57
Rajputana, 172
Ram Deo, 198
Rama, 93, 98, 99
Ramanand, 90
264
INDEX
Ramayana, 98
Rameshwara, 206
Ramnagar, 63, 65
Ramtunath, 98
Rand, Mr., 232
Ranjit Singh, 164
Rankari Baba, 138
Raphael, 235
Rattan Pantsal, 125
Ravana, 59, 92, 98
Rewa, 184
Rewakund, 184
Rhodesia, 27
Roe, Sir Thomas, 177, 178
Ross, Scott, 25, IOI
Royle, Mrs., 25
Roza, 198
· Rukhmini, 211
Rupmati, 172, 182, 183, 184, 185, 186
SAGAR TALLAO, 189
Salisbury Cathedral, 207
Sa Maison, 19
Sambaji, 224, 226, 227
Sandimatnajar, 115
Sankara, 67
Sarangpur, 185
Sarnath, 69, 161
Satanas, 79
Satpuras, 187
Satyabhama, 2ll
Satya Yog, 49, 80
Savitri, 182
Schopenhauer, 6
Scindia, 41, 172
Scott. See Ross Scott
Senzar, 81
.Serapis, 202, 203
Shadiabad, 178
Shah Jehan, 204, 227, 230
Shahji, 215
Shambulla, 49, 50
Shere Shah, 173, 176
Shishram Nag, 125
Shiv, 3, 17, 51, 63, 65, 82, 103, 125, 130,
1 55
Shivaji, 172, 195, 196. 214-232
Shiva Sutra, 3
Shivathri, 62, J3, 75, 82
Shujaat Khan, 176
Shum Shum, 34
Sita, 6o, 93, 98, 99, 182
Sliema Harbour, 19
Sonamag, 130
Srinagar, 11, 102, rn8, 1.09, 115
St. Mark's, Venice, 3
St. Roch, 58
Strada Reale, 20
Stromboli, 23, 256
.Suez Canal, 24-31, 255
Sunjogta, 57
Surat, 216
TAJORE, 62, 63, 65
--, Devindranath, 13 5
Taj Mahal, 204, 230
-- Mahal Hotel, 37
Takht, 109
Talayarkhan, Darius, 39, 41
Tana Shah, 199
Tanganyka, 27
Terry, Rev., 178
Thackeisey, Moulji, 42, 43, 46, 51
Thakore of Wadhwan, 45
Thana, 48
" The Lotus," 41
Theebaw, King, 162
Thevenot, 204
Thibet, 104
" Tiger Claw," 7
Timur, 174
Transbordeur Bridge, 12
Treves, 62
Trilokekar, Dr., 43, 45, 46
Tuitet Bey, 202, 203
Tulsi Das, 98
Tyndale Biscoe, I3 c
UDAIPUR, 71
Ujjain, 173
Unsworth, Commissioner, 146, 147, 148,
149
265
Unwala, Prof., 45
Uri, 102
VAIRASlNHA, 173
Vakpati, 173
Valmiki, 98, 99
Velasquez, 33
Versailles, 9
Viareggio, Bay of, 2
Vicars, Hedley. See Hedley Vicars
Vindhyas, 89, 172, 187
Vishnu, 99
Vivekananda, Swami, 126, 135, 138
Vyasa, 65
INDEX
WACHTMEISTUt, CONSTANCE, 135
Warli, 40, 44, 46
Watson, Hon. Mr., 145, 235
Well of Knowledge, 164
Wells of Solomon, 32
Weygand, 258
Wular, 108
YARKAND, III, 112
Yog, 98
ZoGI LA PAss, 129
Zu Dohna, General Graf, 162
Printed at The Chapel River Press, Kingston, Surrey.
