{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__anonymous___rosicrucian_pamphlet_invisible_world.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Pamphlet Invisible World","mylang":"de"}
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
CROTONA FELLOWSHIP.
IrC, 9/S.
ROSICRUCIAN PAMPHLET
THE INVISIBLE WORLD.
Bohemian Press, Somerford, Christchurch, Hants.
THE ROS1CRUC1AN ORDER
CROTONA FELLOWSHIP.
ROSICRUCIAN PAMPHLET
THE INVISIBLE WORLD.
kioinsttiism Frcins.. Sc*aeriord. Chris,tchurcb.
ROSICRtJc i a n p h i l o s o p h y
THE INVISIBLE WORLD.
^T'HINGS that can be seen and handled are permanently real,
and there is always a tendency to think that only such
things are real. But what of that great invisible world, the
world of incorporate beings in which are the souls of the
departed who await contact with living beings in the material
world? To those who do not conceive of an invisible world,
it may be pointed out that a large proportion of our human
life is now invisible and impalpable. It is invisible to the
sense-bound mind, but the sense-bound mind may be made
more hospitable to the thought of invisible and non-spatial
existence in general. We ourselves are invisible. W hat is
the physical organism? It is only an instrument for express
ing and manifesting the inner life; but the living self, the Ego,
is not seen. Each person will know himself in immediate
experience and all others are known through their effects.
They are not revealed in form or shape but in deeds and they
are known only in and through deeds. Therefore, they are, in
this respect, ag formless and invisible as God Himself. We
cannot ask : “ W hat is the shape of the Spirit; what is the
length of the Soul?” Such questions would be absurd. The
most familiar events of everyday life have their key and
meaning only in the invisible, and that invisible world is the
world of Cause. What then is the aim of all RoSicrurianS ?
It is indeed to contact this great invisible world and its
entities. It is to find a world of reality and permanence in
which the 'true self, the eternal ego, may be known and in
which he may abide in unison and concord with all other egos.
Are all those people who believe in an invisible living world
fools? Shall we designate those beings who have the ability
to penetrate their consciousness into a world of spirits, mad ?
If we do, then we deny God and His ministering hosts, for
they are all invisible but real.
When we see a number of forms moving about in this
physical world, do we look upon them as automata. No, these
physical forms that we see are doing something or going
somewhere. There is thought behind all its meaning and it
seems to us entirely familiar. Thus out of the invisible comes
the meaning that transforms the curious set of motions into
terms of personality and gives them aj human significance.
Our estimate of the body itself depends largely upon its
connection with the hidden life of the Spirit, A human form
is an object in space, apart from our experience of it as the
instrument and expression of personal life, would have little
beauty or attraction. The secret of its beauty and value lies
in the invisible realm. For centuries now the Rosicrucians
have contacted, studied and lived in this invisible world and
3
theypass on to all w
howish to know, m
uchof their experi
ences in the invisible realms, But we must learn to distinguish
clearly between the personal life and the life of the Spirit.
The great drama of physical life, with its likes and
dislikes, its loves and hates, its ambitions and strivings,
pleasures and pains, is absolutely foreign to space and never
could be in any way discovered in space. In like manner, the
life of the Spirit is unknown to the hum|an being; the Spirit is
pure, bright, just, permanent, all-wise. But human history has
its seat in the invisible.
TAKE from the human being his mind, and what is left?
An automaton. Imbue him with self-spiritual conscious
ness and he is god-like. How then can a humian being contact
this invisible world? Firstly, by thinking into it. The
majority of persons think only out into a three-dimensional
world, a world of effects, and in such a world there are many
limitations.
The student who would contact the Invisible must learn
thnt the visible is in the invisible, that the invisible may be
known through the visible. Nothing came out of nothing but
always something from something; it is then to ithe great
invisible world that we owe our origin. Thus we see to what
a large extent human life is now in the invisible realm, but
not in the sense of being out of sight, but as something ithat
1
Printed image digitised by the University of Southampton Library Digitisation Unit
does not admit in any wiay of being pictured. It may use
spatial phenomena as a means of expression, but itself it is
strictly unpicturable. For this great world of realiity, if we
must have a whereabouts, we must siaiy that not space but
consciousness is its seat. It is towards this consciousness then
thait we move to understand what lies in the visible and in
visible.
In Evolved consciousness we may find that the Visible
and Invisible are one, that there is no sep'a|rateness betwixt
them; that m atter, space, time, are all enveloped in a vast
realm which at one moment is visible and the next invisible.
When life leaves the physioai body, where does it go ? It
does not go anywhere from where it was. It has ceased to
manifest in a particular form but it remains in its invisibility.
Nothing was ever found, nothing is ever lost, but man’s limited,
or rather, un-unfolded consciousness may not admit this. The
more we dwell upon this view the more mysterious our life
becomes for the imagination. We see that our life now
actually goes on in the invisible and that space has only a
symbolical function with respect to this hidden life.
In its relation to mfa(n, the space world is largely a
potentiality, waiting for realisation by man himself. There
are harvests waiting to grow and flowers waiting to bloom;
but it cannot be until man sets his hand ito work. MLn is an
inhabitant of the invisible world, and projects his thought and
life on the great space and time Screen which we call Nature.
'The world of space-objects which we Call Nature, is no
substantial existence by itself and still less a self-running
System apart from intelligence, but only the flowing expres
sion and means_ of communication of those personal beings
which we conceive of as a world of persons with a Supreme
Person at the head. It is throughout dependent, instrumental
and phenomenal. But a problem remains in the relation of
these finite spirits to the Absolute Spirit.
The Rosicrucian teachings show how man may con
sciously contiapt the world called the Invisible, and realise that
the many came from the One and must return unto that One.
endowed with a consciousness of Self, with all its gained
experiences in the phenomenal and mental worlds. Nothing is
hidden from the evolved Soul.
