{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__anonymous___neighborhood_gossip_and_dream_book.pdf","mytitle":"Neighborhood Gossip And Dream Book","mylang":"de"}
Glorious Youth
SPARKLING eyes, a laughing mouth, vivid color-
ing, that personality which radiates from a
healthy body, all that vivacity and charm which
red blood gives you comes after taking Dr. Pierce's
Golden Medical Discovery. This blood-maker and
stomach tonic gives more vim, vigor and vitality,
brings bloom to the cheeks, and puts life into your
mental and physical activities, a tingle to every
nerve, a grip to your hand, sincerity to your
sympathy. Thus the beauty every woman envies
and every man admires comes to you.
DR. PIERCE'S MEDICAL DISCOVERY
contains no harmful ingredient and can be obtained
from your druggist in liquid or tablets.
Send lOc. to Dr. Pierce's Laboratory
in Bridgeburg, Ont., for trial
package of tablets.
Dr. Pierce,s
Neighborhood Gossip and Dream Book
N presenting to you our new edition of Dr. Pierce's Neighborhood Gossip and Dream Bcok we
have endeavoured to give the most modern interpretation of dreams and other valuable
household information.
In most countries, dreams have been believed by some people as indications of the future.
ancient days, dreams were interpreted by high court officials. The Greeks and Romans very
en consulted the oracles. An inquirer would sleep in the temple at night after performing
-tain rites, when the questions were supposed to be answered in dreams.
In modem times, dreams are seldom heeded except by the superstitious, but as most people
: interested in the cause of dreams and their mystery, we give you some modern interpretations.
INTERPRETATION OF DREAMS
~broad-To dream of being abroad, you will
.:e success in your undertakings. '
~bsence-To dream of absent friends means
1t you will soon hear from them. If they
nd near your bed, the news will be bad.
ccident-To dream that an accident occurs
you means great success. If you see an
:ident to others, beware of false friends.
corns-Denote poverty. Picking them por-
ds an increase in fortune.
ngel-To dream that you see an angel fore-
s the death of a beloved friend.
nimals-To dream of domestic animals
ans a happy return of absent friends. Recon-
ation of quarrels. Wild animals mean secret
!mies.
Anger-To dream that you have been pro-
voked to anger shows that you have many ene-
mies.
Bear-To dream that you have seen a bear
means you have a rich, cruel, and audacious
enemy. If it is running, happiness is in store
for you.
INDEX
Pa11•
Interpretation of Dreams • 1
Cooking Hints Worth Knowing 8
Cooking Recipes . . . . . . l 2
Home Made Candies . . . . 18
Beverages for the Home 20
Kitchen Pointers . . . . . . 26
Fortune Told by Tea Leaves . . . . . 28
Information on Dr. Pierce's Invalids' Hotel 31
Dr. Pierce's Family Medicines InsideBackCovei:
2 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Basket-To a man means decay of business;
to a maid, many lovers; to a widow, she will
marry again. If the baskets are filled the omen
is very good.
B•iggar-lf you see yourself a beggar you
may hope for wealth. To see many means
sickness.
Birds-A good sign, bring friends and flortune.
To kill them, bad fortune; if they sing, happiness.
Blood-If you see blood, it's a good sign.
You will fall heir to riches. To lose blood
signifies sorrow and disappointment. '
Blossoms-If you see flowers or trees in
bloom, it's a sign of success and happiness.
Brother-To dream of a brother means an
early marriage in your family. If•in love, it's
a favorable omen.
Business-Dreaming of much business is a
sign of good fortune, if it seems bad the omen is
doubly sure.
Camp-For a maid to dream she is camping
out, she will marry happily.
Canoe-To paddle in smooth water denotes
prosperity; iI rough, adverses.
Children-To see two or three children means
that you will have good success in business. To
one who has no children, to see many children
running about the house means it will be difficult
for the dreamer to have any.
Clothes-White clothes, success; green,
joumey; black, ill luck; blue, happiness; yello·
usually lucky.
Coins-If gold, great prosperity and mu1
pleasure; if of silver, it is unlucky.
Coffin-To see a coffin is unlucky, means t:
death of some dear and valued friend.
Dancing-To see dancing is a good omen.
Day-A clear one is a happy and lucky omE
To see the daybreak is good fortune in all thinJ
Death-To dream of death means a weddir
To dream of talking with those who are dead i:
good sign.
Danger-To dream of danger is fortunate I
you. In business it means success and profit.
Dog-To dream of a dog means your frien
are faithful. If he runs behind you, someb0c
is slandering you. If he fights with anotl
dog, fear persecutions; if with a cat you 'II
quarrel.
Drowning-To dream of this brings hap1
ness; for a woman, a happy marriage.
Engaged-To dream you arc, be careful
you will quarrel with friends and loved ones.
Eyes-To sec, defeat; to lose, bad luck; bro•
eyes, deceit; blue, weakness; gray, flattery.
(Continued 011 page 4)
DR. PIERCE'S NEICHBQRHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 3
hy You Should Confide in Dr. Pierce and His lnst~tute
There is every reason why women, especially, should not trust
their delicate constitutions in the hands of unskilled persons,
It requires a thorough medical education to appreciate and under-
stand the womanly organism. When a woman has ills and pains
that she cannot bear-when life seems dark, she should coniide
her troubles to a physician of standing in the community or to
one who has a national reputation. There is every reason why she
should consult a specialist.
I invite every sick and ailing man or woman to write to the medical
Staff of the Invalids' Hotel. There is absolutely no charge or fee for
this consultation. F,very letter is carefully considered, fully answered,
and its statements held as strictly private and sacredly confidential.
On receipt of your letter the Faculty will, after careful deliber-
ation, prepare its opinion as to the nature and curability of the case
described and submit it to you; and if the case be one which they are
confident of being able to treat by medicines specially· prepared for
home treatment, they will state the cost of the necessary
remedies. If the case described be one requiring a surgical
operation or one which can, in their opinion, be success-
fully treated at the Institution only, where the patient can
have the benefit of all the advantagils, applfances and
facilities which such a thoroughly equipped establishment
affords, the terms for such treatr.qent (including board) will
be given.
Patients are never advised to incur the extra expense
DR. V. M. PIERCE, President of visiting the Institution when it is believed they can be
n~alids' Hotel, Buffalo, New York treated at home without a personal examination.
DR. PIERCE'S NEICHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Interpretation of Dreama-Continued from page fJ
Face-To see a smiling face is a sign of friend-
ship and happiness; a pale face, a sign of trouble
and poverty. A black face is a sign of long life.
Fall-To dream you fall from a high place
denotes loss of position and goods.
Fire-To dream you are bumt by fire, means
you will have a fever. A sparkling fire denotes
money in plenty.
Fliett-To dream of, someone is jealous of you.
If in great numbers, you have entmies; if you
drive them off, you will conquer them.
Flowers-To see them of bright colors means
a pleasant life. To see them out of season means
no success. To gather flowers, a lasting friend-
ship. To cast them away, despair and quarrels.
Farm-To own one, fortunate undertakings;
to work one, a legacy; if not fenced in, riches and
pleasure.
Feet-Swollen, sickness; to wash, trouble;
sore feet, losses; to bum, shame; to cut one off,
pain.
Funerals-Good fortune. To attend a
funeral, that you will be at a wedding or some
gay party.
Garden-To walk in one means joy. Your
fortune will be increased.
Gate-If open, bad tidings; if closed, good
news; to pass through, you will gain riches.
Hair-If thick and bushy, riches and powE'
if black, misfortune; if brown, melancholy;
white, be prudent; if falling out, illness.
Heart-To dream of, trouble; to see another'
sickness.
Horses-To dream of horses is a good sig
A white one, unexpected good fortune. 1
fall from a horse means misfortune and di
appointment.
House-To dream one is building a hou
means comfort.
Hunting-If the ~ame is killed, means mur
trouble through friends, but you discover the
and overcome them.
Injury-To receive an injury means you ha·
many friends. If you dream of causing inju
Yf>U will receive and give blessings.
Insults-To dream you are abused and i
suited means that you will dispute with sor
person in business.
Kissing-Dreams of kissing go contrariwil
if pleasant, slander; if disagreeable, pleasure ai
harmony.
Letters-To write or receive them mea
good news.
Marriage-To dream of being married sigi
fies death and misfortune. To dream you ~
present at a wedding of another means joyc
news and good lnck.
(Continued on page 6)
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD COSSIP AND DREAM BOOK S
Attention, Mothers!
HAMILTON, 0NT.-
"Dr. Pierce's Favorite
Prescription is the
greatest help to women
of any medicine there
is. It is especially ben-
eficial to the expectant
mother, as it keeps her
physically fit at all
times. My mother
was a great believer in
this medicine as it had
helped her wonder-
fully, and during my
first pregnancy she had
me take it and I got
splendidly- kept well and strong and
able to do my work right up to the
I had practically no suffering and had a
healthy baby. I took a few bottles of the
rite Prescription' afterwards, which helped
ing back my strength. I would not think
·ng without the 'Favorite Prescription'."-
.ROBERT Vvsi;;, 139 West Ave., North.
Are You Nervous?
HotflMhes, fainting spells, dizziness,
backache, headache, are all symptoms
which a woman should heed.
Dr. Pierce's
Favorite
P.rescription
(In Tablet or Liquid Form)
is distinctly a woman's medicine. It
acts directly on her· system. It re-
storr.s former health and strength. For
many years it has demonstrated its
beneficial quality. Try it. All dealers.
Send 10c. to Dr. Pierce's Laboratory
in Bridgeburg, Ont., for trial
package of Tablets.
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Interpretation of Dreama-Co11ii11ued from page 4
Mice-To dream of mice means prosperity
nnd success in love and a ·happy marriage.
Money-To dream of losing money means
losses in business. To find money, if gold, is a
<>ood omen. Also to dre·,.n of receiving money
ls good. To dream you lost money is a proof
you will be deceived in love. To dream you
throw money away means want. To dream of
money in bags means misfortune of some kind.
Shylock, in the Merchant of l'enice, says: "There
is some ill abrewing towards my rest, for I did
dream of money bags to-night."
Mother-If she be dead and you see her living
it is fortunate.
Murder~To dream you commit murder
warns you that you are surrounded by false
friends, it signifies danger.
Music-To dream you hear music means
good news.
Noise-To dream· you hear a great noise is
::i sign of joy. To make a noise, your vanity
will be punished.
Purse-To lose a purse is good. To dream
you £nd a purse or pocket-book full of money
js n sign of good luck.
Quarrels-If one dreams of quarrels and
fighting, be will hear of some unlooked-for news
of women, or embrace some joy.
Rats-Secret enemies, treason; a sig
having many enemies.
Ride-To dream you ride with a com
of men is very lucky and 'profitable; with w
it means misfortune and defeat.
River-To dream you see a river, \•
clear and calm, means good to all persons.
dream of swimming, means future peril
danger.
Roses-Nothing can be better than to d
of beautiful flowers, if they are in season.
Snakes or Serpents-To see one tumin
winding means danger and imprisonment
sickness and hatred.-
Shipwreck-To dream you are ship-wr'
is dangerous to all.
• Shooting-To dream you are out shoot
very favorable if you kill much game.
Snow-Snow is good. To the yow
means they will marry and prosper.
Storms-Mean that a reconciliation wil '
place. <l
Sickness-I.oneliness and imprison ~
tears.
Tears-If you dream of shedding tea
means that you will speedily be much hap
r
Wrestling-To dream you are wre
means a serious accusation will be br
against you.
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Women, Why Suffer?
HAMILTON, 0NT.-
"For over three years
I suffered with severe
nervous headaches, the
pains seemed to start
from the lower part of
my spine and would
extend up to the base
of the brain. When I
would get these spells I
would have to give up
and go to bed. They
would occur about
every two weeks. I
tried everything I
heard of but got no
relief~ until I began
taking Dr. Pierce's
Favorite Prescription
and the 'Pleasant Pel-
' By the time I had taken two bottles I
d a wonderful improvement, and four bottles
came the trouble. "-MRS. J. W. THRUSH,
Iargarett St.
'rite Dr. Pierce's Invalids' llotel, in
Buffalo, N. Y., if you desire
free advice.
BACKACHE!
In the case of women it,is almost
a sure sign of a weakened condition.
Dr. Pierce's
Favorite
Prescription
(In Tablet or Liquid Form)
has been recommended to womankind
for many years. Thousands of women
bear witness to its beneficial qualities.
If you are suffering from a feminine
ailment
It Will Help You !
Buy it now from your nearest dealer.
7
8 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Cooking Hints Worth Knowing
TIMETABLE FOR BAKING
Beans-8 to IO hours.
Beef-Sirloin. rare, per lb., 8 to 10 minutes,
well done, per lb., 12 to 15 minutes; rolled rib or
rump, per lb., 12 to 15 minutes; long or short
fillet, 20 to 30 minutes.
Bread-Medium loaf, 40 to 60 minutes.
Cake-plain, 20 to 40 minutes.
Biscuit-IO to 20 minutes.
Sponge Cake-45 to 60 minutes.
Chickens-3 to 4 lbs. weight, one to one and
a half hours.
Cookies-10 to 15 minutes.
Custards-IS to 20 minutes.
Duck (tame)-40 to 60 minutes.
Fish-6 to 8 lbs., 1 hour. \
Gingerbread-20 to 30 minutes.
Graham Gems-30 minutes.
Lamb-Well done, per lb., 15 minutes.
Mutton-Rare, per lb., 10 minutes; well
done, per lb., 15 minutes.
Pie Crust-30 to 40 minutes.
Pork-Well done, per lb., 30 minutes.
Potatoes-30 to 45 minutes.
Pudding-Bread, rice and tapioca, I h4
plum, 2 to 3 hours.
Rolls-IO to 15 minutes.
Turkey-7 lbs., 3 hours.
Veal-Well done, per lb., 20 mputes.
Roast lamb should be basted coustantl3
give the best flavor to it. l
Tomatoes are good when stufl'ed with
sausage and baked.
A fork is the best implement to use "
making mayonnaise dressing. A beater is Ii
to cause the eggs and oil to separate, while a
will thoroughly mix the ingredients.
Tough meat will be made tender if place
vinegar water fo11 a few minutes.
The jellied salad acts as a welcome substi
for dessert at times. Apples, nuts and celer
chopped raw cabbage can be molded into le:
jelly which is delicious served on crisp let
with mayonnaise dressing.
A dash of salt improves chocolate fudge.
A bit of butter should be added to hot ell
late if cream is not used.
Currant jelly is good served with crab-mE
(Continued on page 10)
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 9
,
Girlhood to Womanh·ood
The modern young woman is often a "bundle of nerves"-"high strung"-
. otional~frequently blue and dissatisfied with life. Such girls should .be he]ped
a tonic and nervine--.that has proved successful for years.
Dr. Pierce's
Favorite Prescription
a keen enemy to the physical weaknesses of woman. A medicine prepared
a regular graduate physician of unusual experience, carefully adapted to
ork in harmony with the most delicate feminine constitution.
It is obtainable at any good drug store. Liquid, extra large size, $1.35;
Tablets, $1.35 and 65 cents.
Write Dr. Pierce, President, Invalids' Hotel, Buffalo, N.Y.,
if you desire' medical advice free.
.
R. PIERCE'S PLEASANT PELLETSregulateand invigorate stomach,liver
d bowels. Sugar-coated, tinygranules, easy to take as can,.. Try them!
I
10 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Cooking Hints Worth Knowing-
Continued from page 8
For a change, sweeten the fruit dessert with
honey.
The first vegetables a child should have are
strained spinach, asparagus, peas and young
carrots.
Your custard cups make nice molds for the
jellied salad.
Two spoonfuls of cream of tartar and one scant
spoonful of saleratus are equal to three teaspoon-
fuls of baking-powder.
Never salt the beef cooked in a fireless cooker
until removed for serving.
Add a cup of grated cheese to the white sauce
for cauliflower and see if you don't find it a very
pleasant addition.
Soft butter or lard should never be used in
making pie-crust. Whatever shortening is used
should be hard and very cold.
Three medium-sized apples weigh about a
pound.
wa~~~ the ham and corned beef on to boil in cold 1
When your cake ruqs all over the pan in bak-
in!; use less baking.powder the next time.
Add the white of an egg to cream that will
not whip.
Ills of Women
There is one remedy which ha!
for many years been instrumenta:
in restoring full health and strengtl
to women who have suffered. Thii
remedy is
Dr. :
I
Pierce's
Favorite
PrescriptioE
It will help you. In justice t<
yourself, join thegreatarmy of users
Procure it from your neighbor·
hood dealer, in either liquid
or tablets.
Or send IOc. for trial package to
Dr. Pierce's Laboratory in
Bridgeburg, Ont. P,
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 11
Is It Your Kidneys?
Mrs. J. Evans
ST. CATHARINES,
ONT.-" I was suffer-
ing with my kidneys
and was completely
down and out. My
back ached and my
feet and ankles would
swell. I had head-
aches, dizzy spells, and
was in a miserable con-
dition until I started
to take Dr. Pierce's
Anuric Tablets and
they have put my kid-
neys in good condi-
tion; they function
naturally, the pains
have left my back, my
feet and ankles do not
give me any more
ouble and I do not suffer from headaches or
zzy spells. To any one who has trouble with
eir kidneys I would say, by all means take Dr.
erce's Anuric Tablets."-MRS. JAMES EVANS,
Pelham Road.
Sold by all dealers. By sending ten cents to
. Pierce's Laboratory in Bridgeburg, Ont.,
can procure a trial package.
ASSIST NATURE
A little now and then, with a search-
ing and cleansing, yet gentle cathartic,
to remove offending matter from the
stomach and bowels, to tone up and
invigorate the liver and quicken its tardy
action, and you thereby avoid a multitude
of diseases. •
If people would pay more attention to
properly regulating the action of· their
bowels, they would have less frequent
occasion to call for their doctor's services
to subdue attacks of disease. Of all
known age11ts to accomplish this purpose
Dr. Pierce's
PLEASANT PELLETS
are unequaled. Their secondary effect is to
keep the bowels open and regular, not to further
constipate. Hence, their great popularity with
sufferers from habitual constipation.
II your druggist does not keep them send
three dimes or thirty cents to
Dr. Pierce's Laboratory in
• Bridgeburg, Ont.
12 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Cooking Recipes
Veal Stock
Veal stock, also called white stock, is made
from a knuckle of veal ((-ormerly sold for ten
cents) and one pound of lean beef taken from the
cheaper cuts of beef, flavored with vegetables
and seasoned with herbs, peppercorns and salt.
This stock
1 when finished, is not as clear as
chicken stock, not even when clarified with the
white of eggs and the crushed shells. It is,
however, the foundation of many delicious
cream soups made with stock, and it is indispen-
sable in a large variety of savory sauces. It is
this stock that gives the finishing touch to
meats, poultry, game, vegetables, entrees, etc.
Celery Soup
Scald a quart of milk in a double boiler and
thicken with half' a cup of flour with two table-
spoons of butter. Boil slowly for an hour, using
the salted leaves, roots and tough stalks of a root
of celery. Take from fire and strain. There
should be about a pint of celery water. Add
the milk. Have ready two eggs, hard boiled
mash the yolk and mix thoroughlywith the soup'.
Cut the whites in rings and put in the soup.
Delmonico Potatoes
Ingredients.-2 cups cold boiled potatoes,
(Yi cup grated cheese, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 cups l
,white sauce, 72 cup buttered crumbs.
Method.-Arrange the potatoes, cheese 1
eggs in two layers in a grea!led baking-4f
Pour the white sauce over them, with the t
tered bread crumbs on top. Bake fifteen ii
utes in a hot oven.
Codfish Hash
Ingredients.-8 medium-sized potatoes,
pound salt codfish, I egg (well-beaten), 2 tal
spoons butter, pepper to taste, 1 slice 1>ork.
Method.-Pare potatoes and boil fifteen n
utes, then put the codfish on top of the potat
and cook until the potatoes are done. Dt
thoroughly and mash the potatoe!I and fish
gether. Add the beaten egg, butter and pep
and beat the mixture together three mint
with a fork. Cut the pork into dice and tr:
out in an iron frying-pan. Pour in the h~
spread evenly, and cook until golden-brc
underneath. Fold like an omelet and serve\'\
tomato catsup. •
Rice Criddle-Cakes
Take one-half cup rice and boil; when c
mix with four cups milk, the yolks of four e
and two cups flour sifted with two teaspo
baking powder and a little salt; beat white!
eggs to a froth and add last. Bake on a grld1
(Contintted on page 14)
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 13
Stomach Distress !
Mr1. P. Sartent
TORONTO, ONT.-
" Dr. Pierce's Golden
Medical Disrovery is
the very best medicine
any one can take for
stomach trouble and to
build up the blood ·
when it becomes thin
and impoverished. I
suffered all the time
from stomach trouble.
My food did not diiest
properly, would set
heavy on my stomach,
causing me to suffer
great distress, and did
no good. My blood was impoverished,
I did not have enough. But after taking
Pierce's Golden Medical Discovery my
;tion was good and my trouble was at
nd so far as my stomach and blood
concerned. The food I ate nourished my
· and soon my blood was in a good healthy
. "-MRS. PE'N>R SARGENT, 39 Cornwall St.
Bad Blood!
Unhealthy blood makes an un-
healthy body. Weakens every organ.
Paves the way for disease. Don't
wait for a complete "breakdown."
Dr. Pierce's Golden
Medical ·Discovery
enables the stomach to manufacture
rich, red, health-giving blood. Pimples
and eruptions are driven away. Elvery
organ of the body is benefited.
BEGIN ITS USE TO-DAY!
All dealers. Tablets or Liquid.
14 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Coolcinir Recipes-C'ontintted from page 12
Hamburg Steak in Potato Nests
To three cups of hot mashed potatoes add one
tablespoon of butter, two table-spoons of hot
cream, the beaten yolks of two eggs and salt,
pepper and onion-juice to taste. Beat until
light and Ii'ne buttered baking-dish, leaving a
hollow in the centre. Fill with hot Hamburg
steak, reheat in the oven: decorate with cooked
or canned green peas, and serve.
Rye Bread
Make a sponge of one quart warm water, one
tea-cup yeast thickened with rye flour; put in a
warm place to rise over night. Scald one pint
corn meal; when cool add it to the sponge. Add
rye flour until thick enough to knead, but knead
it but little; let rise, mould into loaves, place in
deep pie-tins or small square pudding-pans, let
rise, and bake; or thicken the sponge with rye
Bour, and proceed as above.
0
Spanish Ham
Method.-SOak the thin slices of ham in
Juke-warm water for an hour, or over night.
Drain, wipe, and fry in a hot frying-pan until
slightly browned. Remove to a hot serving-
dish.
Sauce
Ingredients.-3 tablespoons vinegar, I 31 tea-
spooi;is mustard, 1 teaspoon sugar, Ys teaspoon
paprika.
Method.-Mix the ingredients and add
fat in the pan. When hot, pour over the
and serve at once.
Hungarian Goulash
Cut two pounds round steak into sq
Brown in two tablespoons of butter, wit
minced onion. Cover with hot water, ad
chopped green pepper and sliced carrots. ~
and cook slowly for one hour. When
thiC'ken with paste made of two tablei
of flour and water.
Filled Cookies
Ingredients.-! cup shortening (31 lar
31 butter), I cup sugar, I egg, 31 cup milk,
spoon vanilla, 331 cups flour, 2 teaspo
cream of tartar, I teaspoon saleratus.
Method.-Cream the shortening, add
and egg and beat well, then add the mil
vanilla. Mix and sift the flour, cream of
and saleratus and add to the first mixture.
the cookies thin and put a small amount
filling between each pair of them.
Filling
Ingredients.-! cup chopped raisins, ,
sugar, 31 cup water, I tablespoonful flour
Method.-1\Iix all together thorough! ·
cook until thick.
(Continued 0;1 page 16)
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 15
Girls! Your Health!
STRATFORD, ONT.-
" Dr. Pierce's Favor-
ite Prescription is the
best tonic and nervine
that can be given to a
young girl while grow-
ing into womanhood.
When I got to the age
where I began to de-
velop, I was very
.} backward. I became
·:,.j so nervous.I could rtot
sit still. I was not
able to sleep, had
severe pains thru my
back and head. I was
tired, weak and miserable. The lady
e I was staying got me a bottle of Dr.
's Favorite Prescription, and by the time I
taken it I was feeling fine, my nerves were
, I got strong, began to gain in weight and
oped into womanhood naturally and never
y more trouble."-MRs.·STANLF;Y ToaR,
ailway Ave.
HAV~ YOU ACOUGH?
Whether from taking cold-or a
chronic weakness-such as Bron-
chitis, nothing is as good as
Dr. Pierce's
Golden Medical
Discovery
The "Medical Discovery" is also
good for the blood-and a building
up tonic as well as an alterative.
Ask your nearest dealer for Dr.
Pierce's Golden Medical p!scovery,
in tablet or liquid form.
Write to Dr. Pierce's Invalids' Hotel
in Buffalo, N.Y., if you wish
free medical advice.
16 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Cooking Recipea-Continued from page 14
Grape-Nut Pudding
Ingredients.-I quart milk, I>i cups grape-
nuts, 6 tablespodns sugar, pinch of ~alt, 2 eggs.
Method.-Scald the milk and <:J,dd the grape-
nuts. Let it soak until cool. Then add sugar
and the yolks of eggs well-beaten. Beat the
whites of eggs and fold in. Bake one hour in a
slow oven. Serve with cream.
Whipped Cream Gelatine
Ingredients.-! teaspoon plain gelatine, I cup
milk, Y2 teaspoon vanilla, 2-3 cup sugar, pinch
of salt, Y2 pint cream. ·
Method.-Put the milk in a double boiler,
stir in the gelatine and scald until the gelatine
is dissolved. Remove from the fire and add the
sugar, salt and flavoring. Whip the cream until
stiff and dry, and fold into the gelatine when it
has started to thicken. Serve ice-cold.
Cottage Pudding
Ingredient<;.-}{ cupful butter, 2-3 cupful
sugar, I egg, I cupful milk, 2.)1 cupfuls flour, 4
teaspoonfuls baking powder, U teaspoonful salt.
Method.-Cream the butter, add sugar grad-
ually, and egg well beaten; mix and sift flour,
baking powder, and salt; add alternately with
milk to first mixture; turn into buttered cake
pan; bake thirty-five mlhutes. Serve with
vanilla or hard sauce.
Chocolate Pie (with Meringue Toppin
Ingredients.-! baked pi!! shell, I cupful r
X' teaspoonful salt, I U squares bitter choco
I teaspoonful vanilla, 2 tablespoonfuls flou1
cupful milk: 2 eggs separated, U cupful sugi;
Method.-Mix flour, sugar, and salt. &
ate eggs. Beat the egg yolks until light
add to above mixture. Scald milk in a de
boiler, add chocolafe melted, then egg mix·
Cook until thick, remove and add vanilla.
into the baked pie shell. Cover with mer!
as above. ·
Cocoanut Cream Pie
Ingredients.-! baked pie shell, ~ ct
sugar, ~ cupful flour, Ys teaspoonful 5a
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cu
scalded milk, I teaspoonful vanilla, U teas~
ful lemon extract, I cupful cocoanut shred<
Method.-Add cocoanut to milk; mix t
sugar and salt. Separate eggs; add beaten~
to dry ingredients. Pour hot milk on
mixture. Return to double boiler; cook fi
minutes, stirring until thickened. Add fl;
ing. Pour into pie shell. Cover with meri
made from beaten egg whites and pow!
sugar. Place in slow oven to brown.
Apple Sauce
Method.--:Pick over and wash dried a1
soak over night in cold water to cover; cook
soft; sweeeten, and flavor with lemon juice
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 17
Middle-Aged Woman !
0 T T A W A (WEST-
BORO) ONT.-" After
the age of forty I lost
my energy. I was al-
ways tired, morbid and
quiet, in fact entirely
different from what I
had formerly been. I
became weak, pale and
listless and would have
. to lie down in the day-
; time. A friend told
' me Dr..Pierce's Favor-
.•.J ite Prescription had
Mrs. M. Kirkley done wonders for her,
so I consented to try it.
was tired of spending useless money. After
king the medicine a few days I no longer
d to lie down. By the time the bottle was
If finished I had lustre in my eyes, and a
althy bloom to my cheeks. Today I can do a
y's work with anyone of my age and accom-1
ish far more than many of my friends. "-l\lRs.
ARGARET 1\1. KIF.KLEY, Strathcona Ave.
Danger Ahead !
Irritability, nervous exhaustion
backaches, fainting spells, depressio~
and other distressing symptoms indi-
cate present weaknesses, which in time
might develop chronic conditions.
Don't run the terrible risk of being
an invalid. Bring to your aid
Dr. Pierce's
FAVORITE \
PRESCRIPTION
(In Tablet or Liquid Form)
It regulates and strengthens. It
restores youthful looks and youthful
feelings, youthful ambitions and
youthful joys. All dealers.
Write for free medical advice to Dr.
Pierce's Invalids' Hotel, Buffalo, N. Y.
18 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Home Made Candies
Candied Pop-Corn
Put into an iron kettle one tablespoon butter,
three tablespoons water, one cup white pulver-
ized sugar. Boil until ready to candy, then
throw in three quarts of popped corn. Stir
briskly till candy is evenly distributed over corn.
Take kettle from fire, stir until cooled a little
and each grain is separate and crystallized with
sugar, taking ·care that corn docs not burn.
Nuts of any kind may be prepared in same way.
Chocolate Walnut Fudge
Ingredients.-3 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3
tablespoons cocoa, or 2 squares chocolate, I
tablespoon butter, I tablespoon marshmallow,
I cup walnut meats, Yz teaspoon vanilla.
Method.-Put the sugar, milk, chocolate and
butter into a sauce-pan and boil until a soft ball
forms when dropped into cold water. After
removing from the fire, add the marshmallow,
and beat it until it begins to stiffen. Then add I
che walnut meats and the vanilla. Put in a .
pan to cool.
Stuffed Dates
Method.-Make a cut the entire length of the
dates and remove the stones. They can be
filled with peanuts, castena nuts, walnuts,
blanched almonds or with fondant. Shape in
original form and roll in granulated sugar.
Butter Scotch
Melt one pound· brown sugar in pan withe
water, and when dissolved add one-quar·
pound butter beaten to a cream and keep cc
stantly stirred. Flavor with ground ginger.
Cream Walnuts
Dissolve one pound powdered sugar in one-h
cup water; boil five minutes and cool slow
keeping constantly stirred; flavor when cold,
not stiff enough to handle, work in a little m•
sugar; roll into small balls, press half an Engl
walnut on each side and drop into granula1
sugar.
Maple Cream
3 cups brown sugar, 3 tablespoons corn syri
two-thirds cup of milk, 2 tablespoons butter,
cup chopped nuts, Yz teaspoon vanilla.
Boil sugar, milk and butter until soft ball <
be formed when tried in cold water. Remc
from fire, cool slightly and add syrup and vani
Beat until creamy. Add nuts. Pour on b
tered dish and allow to cool.
Peanut Brittle
2 cups white sugar; l quart unshelled peam:
Shell peanuts and chop. Put sugar in fryi.J
pan and beat, stirring constantly until melted
a syrup. Add peanuts and mix. Roll to desi1
thickness and cut in squares.
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 19
THE BABY
HAMILTON, ONT.-
" Before the arrival of
my last baby I was all
rundown in health in
every way, was ner-
vous, suffered from
nausea, and grew so
W1eak I could not do
my work. I was feel-
ing miserable when,
thru the advice of a
friend, .I started to
take Dr. Pierce's Fav-
orite Prescription, and
.
..J\
..· after that I got along
very well indeed. It
relieved me of the sick
stomach, strengthened
June Campbell my nerves, I grew
stronger in every way
ld my suffering was much less than at any
evious time. My baby was fine and healthy
. 'Favorite Prescription' helps a woman i~
ery way, even mentally. "-MRS. GEORGE
AMPBELL, 82 Paulette St.
Write Dr. Pierce, Buffalo, N.Y., for free
edical advice.
A Mother's Dread
A baby and its mother are insured against ill
health if the mother takes Doctor Pierce's
Favorite Prescription. This is a vegetable tonic
made of native medicinal roots, which puts the
system into perfect, healthy action. All dealers
have it in liquid or tablet form.
Many mothers of families in the United States
and Canada have reason to be grateful to the
person who recommende"d Dr. Pierce's Favorite
Prescription. One woman says:
ST. CATHARINES, ONT.-"Before my oldest
child came I was beginning to get rundown, ner-
vous and weak. I was advised to take the
'Favorite Prescription' and after I began using
it I got along just splendid-kept so well and
strong that I hardly realized my condition. I
was able to do all my own work and did not
suffer like most women do. I had comparatively
no suffering and my baby was strong and healthy
and. has alwa:i:s been robust. "-MRs. SIDNEY
WOOD, 174 Welland Ave.
20 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Beverages for the Honie
Tea-Put into a tea-steeper a very little boil-
ing water, and into the water one teaspoon tea
for each person. Pour over tea boiling water
until steeper is about half full; cover tightly and
set aside to draw, but do not let boil. After stand-
ing not to exceed ten minutes pour into tea urn,
adding boiling water in the proportion of one
cup water to each teaspoon tea that was put into
steeper, and serve. A pot of boiling water
shOJlld be on the table toweaken the tea, if desired.
Coffee-The quantity of coffee to be used
must be governed by individual taste, but as a
general rule one tablespoon to each cup of coffee
will give satisfactory results. Pour on th~ water
boiling hot, adding the white of one egg and
crushed shell; stir well together; set aside for a
moment and throw in a little cold water to drive
the grounds to the bottom. In five minutes it
will be clear. Coffee should not be a.llowed to
boil else the aroma will be lost.
French Coff~e-Six cups water to one cup
ground coffee. Put coffee into bowl; pour over
it one cup cold water and let stand fifteen
minutes; bring remaining water to a boil. Take
coffee in bowl, strain through fine sieve, then take
French coffee-pot, put coffee grounds in strainer
/at top of French pot, leaving water in bowl.
Then take boiling water and pour over l:offee
very slowly. Then set coffee-pot on stove five
minutes; must not boil. 'I'ake off and pc
in cold water from bowl that coffee was fi:
soaked in to settle. Serve in another pot. T
French, who have the reputation of making t
best coffee, use three parts Java, one part Moel
Chocolate-Dissolve three tablcspoc
scraped chocolate, 01 equal parts of chocol:
and cdC::oa, in two o,ups boiling water and l;
fifteen minutes; add two cups milk; bring t<
b~l and serve hot.
Currant Wine-One quart currant juice
three pounds sugar, with sufficient water ad<
to make a gallon.
Strawber.ry Wine-To juice of three (IWI
of strawberries, mashed and strained, add o
half the quantity of red currant juice. Put
each quart of fruit juice one quart of water I
one pound sugar. Ferment in a clean, sw
cask, leaving the bung out; when fermenta1
has finished, put into bottles and cork for 1
A very pleasant wine for invalids and also
cooking purposes. ·
Blackberry Cordial-SCcure ripe berries l
crush; to each gallon of juice add one quart t
ing water; let stand twenty-four hours, stiri
a'few times; strain and add two pounds suga
each gallon of liquid; put into jugs and c
tightly. It may be used in two months.
(Continued on page 22)
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP ANDt DREAM BOOK 2 1.
THE STORY OF A HOUSEHOLD
Evening always found Mrs. A. nervous and irritable
although there wasn't actually much housework to be
done in her small apartment. But she complained that
every time she bent over her kitchen table the same
old pain in her back seized her, so that it ·was real
agony for her to attend to the simplest household duties.
It didn't seem right to be so completely worn when her
work was done, and she knew something was wrong.
A consultation with a \ihysician solved the problem.
Mrs. A. had been suffering from kidney trouble for a
long time, just as are many people who suspect it no
more than she did. Just a little disorder that could
ha;e been overcome long ago was being allowed io
develop through ignorance and neglect and was ruining
her health.
he treatment was simple and one that the nearest drug store provided. Dr. Pierce's Anuric
ets proved to be the remedy that put Mrs. A. on her feet again and brought her old
. How sorry she was that she hadn't thought of it long ago! She recommends "Anuric ·~
ts to all her friends now. "
r
Send IOc. to D1·. Pierce's LaboratOl'y in Bridftebure, Ont.
for trial package.
22 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Beverages for the Home-Cuntinued from paqe 20 I
Iced Coffee-1\Iake one quart of extra strong
coffee and let it get cold; beat two eggs very
light, stir into them two cups milk and four
tablespoons cream; sweeten to taste, and stand
in the refrigerator five or six hours. Serve with
a lump of ice in the pitcher. If no refrigerator
is at hand the pitcher can be set for one hour
in a pail of ice and salt (two-thirds ice to one-
third salt); take care that \t does not freeze.
Iced tea can be cooled the same way.
Grape Water-Squeeze four pounds grapes
through a coarse cloth, and add one-quarter
cup of white sugar and one p(nt water to the
juice. Serve with crushed ice in the glass.
Cafe Noir-This is a French term meaning
literally "black coffee." It can be made like
other coffee, hr -~ very strong, using twice as much
co!Tee (two tablespoons) for each cup of water.
It is served in small cups with sugar but no milk
or cream is served with it.
Cafe au La~t-This is a French term meaning
"coffee and milk." It is simply very strong
coffee, to which is added a· large proportion of
g.ood hot milk-half and half being the propor-
tions. Sweeten to taste.
Vienna Coffee-This consists simply in add-
ing to each cup of coffee three tablespoons of I
whipped cream. Equal parts of whipped cream
and beaten white of egg are sometimes used.
Iced Cocoa-Make the cocoa in the t
way, and for each two cups beat in one-hall
whipped cream; sweeten to taste, let sta.nc
cold, and serve in glasses containing a
chipped ice.
Chocolate-Put four ounces of chocolate
a farina boiler, stand it over the fire to i
When melted, add one quart of new milk sli;
warmed, and two tablespoons of sugar. (
the farina boiler and boil five minutes, then,
a whip churn or an egg beater, beat the choc
until smooth and creamy. Serve with whi
cream.
Beef Tea-Mince one pound good lean
and put" into jar with one cup cold water;
closely and set in boiler or steamer to cook
will require three or four hours. Strain
season.
Orangeade-(!) In one cup boiling wat
fuse the thin yellow rind of two oranges; the
three-quarters cup of sugar and the juice •
oranges; ice before serving. (2) Take one I 1
and four oranges, slice crosswise, put in1 .
earthen jug, add four cups boiling water .n
let stand one hour, covered; then pour off m
ice before serving. in.
Pineapple Beverage-Take one pine: '
peel, slice and pound to a pulp. Take twc .
water, add three-quarters pound sugar, nt
skim and pour it hot on the pineapple pul{ ·f
the juice of a lemon, and let stand two ho
(Continued on page 24)
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 23
For Nervous Women!
TORONTO, 0NT.-"I
know of nothing better
as a tonic and nervine
than Dr. Pierce's
Favorite Prescription
and I can highly
recommend it as such.
I had become in a run-
down state of ~alth,
my nerves gave way
and I could not sleep.
I grew very weak and
my back ached se-
verely. But after tak-
ing just a few bottles
of Dr. Pierce's Favor-
ite Prescription I was
feeling excelletlt, my
s. Percy Chapman b a c k a c h e s d i s -
appeared, my nerves
in splendid condition and iny general health
improved in every way. There could be
ing better for the ailing woman than Dr.
·e's Favorite Prescription."-MRS. JESSIE
'MAN, 12 Frichot St.
rite Dr. Pierce, President Invalids' Hotel
.uffalo, N.Y., for free medical advice, no
er what your ailment may be. Send lOc.
iu desire a trial package of Favorite Pre-
tion Tablets.
Dr. Pierce's
Purifying and Strengthening
Lotion Tablets
One of these Tablets crushed and dis-
solved in a p:nt of hot water makes
a powerfully antiseptic, deodorizing 'and
cleansing lotion, or wash. This wash is
also astringent and tonic, or strengthen-
ing, in its effects upon the tissues of the
parts to which it 'is applied.
Most dealers in medicine have Dr.
Pierce's Lotion Tablets in stock, but if
you have any trouble in obtaining them,
just send 35 cents to the undersigned
and a box will be promptly mailed to
you, post-paid.
World's Dispensary Medical
Association
Bridgeburg, Ont.
T
24 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Beverages for the Home-Continued from page 22 I1
Beef Essence-Put one pound lean beef,
minced fine, into jar, without any water what-
ever; cover jar tightly and set in a pot or kettle
of cold water, bringing water slowly to a boil
and allowing jar containing meat to so remain
simmering until juice of meat is all extracted
and fibre becomes colorless. Season to taste
and skim when cold.
Apple Water-Take tart apples, quarter and
core; add half their weight of sugar, cover with
water, and simmer till tender; strain through a
jelly bag and cool, add a little lemon juice. Put
pounded ice in the glass when you drink it.
Ginger Punch-Chop one-half pound of Can-
ton Ginger, add one cup of sugar and one quart
of cold water, boil for fifteen minutes; add one-
half cup each of orange and lemon juice, cool,
strain, and cool with crushed ice.
Cider Punch-Mix one quart of cider and
three-quarters of a cup of lemon juice and
sweeten to taste. Strain into bowl over ice.
Before serving, add one quart of soda water.
Card Punch-To two pints of ginger ale add
one pint of grape juice. Fill glasses half full of
crushed ice and fill with mixture.
Hat1e you tried Dr. Pierce's Pleasant Pellets
for the Stomach, Liver and Bowels r They're
easy to carry and very pleasant to take.
Dr. Pierce's 1
Favorite Prescripti4
is a medicine for women, the ingr
ients of which are printed on
bottle wrapper. Every ingredient
the strong.;st endorsement of emir
medical writers, recommt>nding it
the diseases for which "favorite .!
scriptioQ" is advised It is sold thro
druggists, and does not contain a Iii:
drop of alcohol, so harmful in
long run, especially to delicate wor
It has thousands of genuine cure·
its credit having saved many, m
sufferers from the operating table
the surgeon's knife. It has rest.
delicate, weak women to strong
vigorous hralth and vitality, the1
making happy many thousan.df
homes.
OR. PIERCE'S NEICHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 25
Young Mothers !
Mrs. J. Curto
HAMILTON, ONT.-
"Before the arrival
of my little boy my
health was very poor,
my back hurt and my
nerves were so upset I
could not sleep. I
grew very weak and
miserable and suffered
from morning sickness.
Finally I saw Dr.
! Pierce's Favorite Pre-
scription in the drug
store where I trade, so
I decided to try it, and
it did me a world of
:. It relieved me of all distress in my
:, built me up in strength and my
es did not give me any more trouble. I got
g- fin~ Lhe remainder of the time and I had a
str~ng, healthy baby. In addition to keep-
t w ;man healthy and strong it relieves her
Je mental strain. "-MRS. JOSEPH CURTO,
I:ay St., Xorth.
Watch the Kidneys Before
and After Childbirth
During the period of pregnancy the kidneys
have double work to do, which is apt to strain
and weaken them so that they break down and
fail lo keep up their work of filtering the uric
poisons out of the blood-stream. This condi-
tion, unless looked after promptly, may kill the
baby before birth and ruiµ the mother's health,
too.
The expectant mother should have her urine
examined every two weeks. This should be
done by the attending physician, or send sample
to Dr. Pierce's Invalids' Hotel, Buffalo, N.Y.,
for analysis. On receipt of twenty cents we will
send you a mailing case in which to forward
sample to us for analysis.
For toning up weakened kidneys, Dr. Pierce's
Anuric Tablets provide effective treatment, and a
bottle should be kept in the house and should be
used for a time after baby has come t6 keep the
blood free from poisonous matter that might
affect the little one during the nursing period.
"Anuric" can now be had from nearly all
medicine dealers, but if you have any trouble in
procuring it, send sixty-five cents to Dr. Pierce's
Laboratory in Bridgeburg, Ont.
26 OR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Kitchen Pointers
The gills of fresh fish are red and the eyes clear.
Try adding a pinch of salt t~ your cream before
whipping.
In making gravy from meat, thin with the
water that the vegetable has been cooked in.·
This gives the gravy a better flavor.
To cook vegetables quickly, add a pinch of
bicarbonate of soda to the boiling water.
A small spoonful of cornstarch will greatly
improve the texture and flavor of your fudge.
In roasting or boiling meat, use a spoon for
turning as a fork pricks it and allows the juices
to escape.
To keep berries. Dump from the box into a
plate or dish where the air can circulate through
them.
A teaspoon of vinegar added to your cake
icing will prevent it from becoming too sugary.
To keep jar tops from sticking, rub a little
melted wax on the inside screw top cover. When
ready to open, simply pour :!10t water oycr the
top to melt the wax.
~ip an onion for a moment in boiling water,
begin at the root and peel upward. You can
peel and slice in this way without weeping.
To prevent roasting meat from scorching, place
a dish of water in the ovcu.
TCj> remove the odor of fish or onions from
frying-pan, put in vinegar, heat to the boi
point, then wash out.
Try this breakfast food. Take your f
bread and toast it in the oven until thorou.
brown. Grind in food chopper using co
knife. Serve with cream and sugar.
In cleaning greens, add a handful of sal
the second water. This will make all the i
sink. to the bottom of the pan. Another rw
will make them thoroughly dean.
To keep dumplings light, prick open when
taken from the kettle.
To keep raisins from going to the botto1
your cake, roll in butter before stirring intc
batter.
Try this way of •cooking peas. Wash, ti
out the poor ones, don't shell. Throw pods
all into a kettle ·of boiling water. When
peas sink to the bottom and the pods rise t<
surface they arc sufficiently cooked. Skin
tl1e pods and serve the peas as though cook•
the ordinary way.
A few slices of raw potato put into soup
is too salty and boiled for a few mh1utes
freshen the soup and make it palatable.
(Conti11ued on page.28)
' DR. PIERCE'S r,.IEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK 27
PILES (Hemorrhoids)
There are few maladi~ more common than this, an'd few which are more annoying. Piles
isist of tumors formed within the rectum and about the anus, by dilatation of the hemorrhoidal
ns and thickening of their walls. Sometimes, when attended by considerable inflammation, or
en the attacks are very frequent, there is thickening of the adjacent cellular and mucous tissues.
Symptoms. The most common symptoms at first"are slight uneasiness, such as a little sore-
·s or itching at the verge of the anus, and at times lancinating pains. These sensations are more
·ere as a rule if the bowels are constipated. If the piles are external they frequently become
amed, swollen and painful. The affected parts should be frequently bathed with cold water,
1, if prolapsus exists, it is well to inject a little cool water into the rectum, and allow it to remain a
• minutes. As a soothing, astringing and healing application to the affected parts we prepare
ctor Pierce's Anodyne Pile Ointment tliat has acquired great fame for the prompt relief which it
)rds in all ordinary cases. Sold by druggists or mailed direct from Dr. Pierce's Laboratory in
dgeburg, Ont., on receipt of price, 65 cents per large box.
A SUCCESSFUL METHOD
Most cases of Hemorrhoids not amenable to medicine are successfully treated at Doctor
rce's Invalids' Hotel by a method which requires no surgery, and which causes the tumors to
ivel up and disappear within a short time. Occasionally an operation is required, though this is
ly the case. All treatments are carried out in the most painless manner and in a way that meets
h universal success.
It costs you notliing to consult Dr. Pierce by letter-why not write?
,
28 DR. PIERCE'S NEICHBORHOOD COSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Kitchen Pointers-Continued from page 26
To keep bread or cake moist, place a piece of
apple in the box with it.
Take your meat out of the paper before putting
it into the ice-box, as paper tends to absorb the
juices.
For light fruit pies, put the sugar in when the
pie tin is half full. Your pastry will not be so
heavy.
To avoid lumps in your gravy, mix your salt
and flour before wettihg. •
Try the juice of a lemon in a pan of water for
freshening vegetables.
Use left-over sandwiches. Make a batter
exactly like you use for pancakes. Dip each
sandwich into it and fry to a golden brown in fat.
Serve hot.
That Kidney Trouble-Take It in Time I
ST. CATHARINES, ONT.-" Any one in need of
a kidney medicine will find Dr. Pierce's Anuric·
Tablets the very best. I was having quite
some trouble with my kidneys, they would be-
come congested and inactive and my back would
ache just where the kidneys are located. But
after taking the 'Anuric Tablets' for a time m~
kidneys became active and normal and the dis-
tress in tnY back disappeared. "-MRS. A.
McFARLANE, 11 Alexandra Street.
Send ten cents to Dr. Pierce's Laboratory in
Bridgeburg, Ont., for a trial package.
Fortune Told by Tea LeavE
When the grounds are all bunched togethe1
the cup you might expect good fortune. If
are scattered, then the effect will be the reve1
Should the leaves take the shape of sticks, th
stand for people. Ifthe sticksare crossed, look
enemies· ifstraight up.you will make good friet
Sticks with a little gathering of grounds, m·
bad news, al1\'.l. a Jong line of grounds, if unbrol!
foretell a journey which you must make by wa
Three small dots in a row near the top of
cup stand for a wish which will soon be reali:
If a small speck is seen near the top of the c
a letter is coming, or if a large speck, a Je·
which will contain a photograph.
A large ring of grounds, indicates an offe1
marriage to an unmarried woman. If marr
coming good fortune.
A HAPPY MOTHER
MAGNETAWAN, ONT.-"! have taken
Pierce's Favorite Prescription and was gre;
benefited by the use of it. My baby weig
eleven and a half pounds when born. I tl
this Prescription is the best remedy on
market and I hope it will help other poor wo1
the same as it did me. I can't say enough
the good work Dr. Pierce is doing."-:!\'.
EDWARD JONES..
Write Dr. Pierce, President, Invalids' He
Buffalo, N.Y., for free medical advice.
- DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
Why That Aching Back?
"'
'.ave you a lame, aching back which keeps you worried, and wondering
·auses it? Do you suffer stabbing twinges of pain there, headaches,
ess and bladder•irregularities? Are you nervous, dispirited, tired
Uy able to keep going? Don't you know that these ills are often
>faulty kidney action? The kidneys are blood filters. Once
ail to perform their function the blood is apt to become over-
with toxins, or body-poisons, and the whole human machinery
t of kilter." If you have any cause to suspect your kidneys,
ot go to your neighborhood drug store and ask for Dr. Pierce's
~ Tablets, a stimulant diuretic to the kidneys. Thousands
been and are being benefited-why not you? "Anuric"
: the kidneys and assists them to normal elimination. Both
d women endorse this remedy. Mrs. H ..Gough of 52 Page
.. Catharines, Ont., says:-"! always had trouble with my
·sand suffered from backache and I found Dr. Pierce's Anuric
s to give me the greatest relief of any medicine I have ever
They strengthened my kidneys, made them function normally, and rid me of backache.
'c' is the most reliable of anything I have ever taken for the kidneys."
you feel the need cf medical advice, write Dr. Pierce, the maker of this
successful remedy, and President of the Invalids' Hotel in Buffalo, N.Y.
Advice will be given without charge.
SO DR. PI£RC£'S NE'.ICHDORHOOD COSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
The Blood Seen under Microscope in Aaemia
AFTER an attack of the grippe or pneumonia,
even a hard cold, the blood is left thin, wate
and one is said to be anemic. This is also often tJ
of young girls. Instead of the blood cells bei
round, they become irregular, as in "B." Wb
you ·feel weak, nervous, or the skin breaks out
pimples, or eruptions, and you feel "blue" and wi
out snapor energy, have cold, clammy hands, ther•
usually a large decrease in the red or white blc
corpuscles and you should build up with some gc
blood builder and tonic.
You can put iron in your blood and the c1
become round and red, losing the irregular sha
by taking a good iron tonic, called " lrontic," put
by Dr. Pierce and sold by most dealers. If Y'
druggist does not have it, send sixty-five cents
Dr. Pierce's Laboratory in Bridgeburg, Ont. T
"lrontic" (iron-tonic) is compounded of.soluble ii
and herbal extracts. Witl' this you gain in vim, vigor and vitality. Instead of having p
cheeks, being tired and worn-out before the day is half done, after taking " Irontic" Y•
cheeks will have color, you will feel strong and vigorous, ready for work.
Or if you want a good :.>Iterative and herbal tonic, such a one can be obtained at i
drug store favorably known fo.- many years as Dr. Pierce's Colden Medical Discove
Put up in both liquid and tablet form. ,
DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK JI
Buffalo and iseasily reached from all depots
and by boat.
Buffalo is calied the Queen City of the
Lakes. Herc Lake Eric empties into the
historic Niagara River which carries on her
bosom, swiftly flowing onward, the waters of
the Great Lakes, Superior, Huron, Michigan
and Erie, plunging twenty-two miles below
over the greatFallsofNiagara, then through
the lower rapids and whirlpool to emerge
at Lewiston into the deep flowing Niagara
from whence steamboats convey tourists
across Lake Ontario to Toronto, a delightful
ride. '-
Twel~e physicians comprise the Faculty
of the Invalids' Hotel, each a specialist in
his particular field.
lids' Hotel and Surgical Institute
in the heart of Buffalo, N.Y.
Chronic diseases and the diseases of
women were the first classes of disorders of
which the founder of this institution made
a special study. Certain members of the
medicaland'surgicalstaffare today devoting
their entire time to the investigation and
.treatment of the former. These disorders
foresight of Doctor R. V. Pierce led him
t the city of Buffalo as the place for the
ctnre of his Family medicines and the
n of the Invalids' Hotel.
site selected by Doctor Pierce is, at the
day, well within the business heart of
arc Intricate and interesting and a general con-
sultation is often necessary before a diagnosis
can be made upon which to base a successful
treatment.
Nine out of ten women arc troubled more or
less with disorders peculiar to their sex. Careful
32 DR. PIERCE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GOSSIP AND DREAM BOOK
attention and treatment are always considerately
given them. Conscientious advice is a valuable
adjunct to appropriate treatment. Such condi-
tions as may be susceptible to medicines are
soon cured or improved.
The success of our surgeons in operative cases
bas brought to us hun<lreds of testimonials of
which we are very proud. Tumors, especially,
are successfully removed and abdominal explor-
atory operations have been universally sati3-
factory.
Send for our free booklet which describes the
Invalids' Hotel and giyes all particulars of our
work here. Photogravures of the physicians
and surgeons of our medical staff will be found
therein.
Dr. Pierce has established a bureau of corres-
pondence to which any one may write for medical
advice and, if necessary, medicines especially
prepared in Dr. Pierce's Laboratory will be sent
by parcel post or express for use at home, at a
t'easonabl~ cost. Thus, those who have symp-
tom:; of disease need not suffer mental anguish,
fearing that they have some serious ailment
b!-'t can ~ave a diagnosis made free by a physi:
c1an of high professional standing.
Write the Faculty, Dr. Pierce's Invalids'
Hotel, 665 Main. Street, Buffalo, .N.Y., relating
your symptoms 1f you need medical advice for
any chronic disease. All letters are regarded as
confidential.
UROLOGY OR DISEASES OF 1
KIDNEYS
Scarcely any branch of medical work den
more skill and experience than the treatmf
the diseases of the urinary organs. Rccogr
these facts, we have associated with us i:
cians who have devoted years to the consi
tion of every phase of the various diseases 1
urinary organs, and who, by their expertm
diagnosticians and skilfulness as practitic
have been enabled to perfect methods of ·
ment which give results to their patients.
have also established a laboratory upon '
w~ originally spared no expense in furn!
~v1th the. latest and best instruments of pre
m ~hem1cal and microscopical research, at
".''h1ch we now neglect no opportunity to (
every new apparatus that may prove of va
widening its scope. In fact, it is thoro
modern in its equipment and equal to m
any requirements the latest discoveries in ;
tical work of this nature may demand.
A special question blank designed t
kidney sufferers in describing thc
symptoms will be forwarded to
you on request.
DR. PIERCE'S FAMILY MEDICINES
e followinir medicines cannot be obtained from your nearest dealer in medicines, they will be sent
by mail from the Laboratory of the World's Dispensary, Bridgeburg, Ont., on receipt of price.
. PIERCE'S GOLDEN MEDICAL DIS-
RY is an alterative and vegetable tonic.
ins no alcohol. Tablets, small size, 65
; large size, $1.35. Liquid. $1.35.
. PIERCE'S FAVORITE PRESCRIP-
is an herbal tonic for the chronic weak-
s of women. Contains no alcohol, nor any
ul ingredient. Tablets, small size, 65
; large size, $1.35. Liquid, $1.35.
. PIERCE'S ANURIC TABLETS. A
Remedy for Kidney, Bladder and Uric-
Troubles. Price, 65 cents; large size, $1.35.
will receive• at least one-quarter more
ine for $1.35 than you did previous to 1923
e have since enlarged the bottles and con-
of above medicines, both liquid and tablets.
. PIERCE'S IRONTIC (iron-tonic) TAB-
make Redder Blood. Price, 65 cents.
. PIERCE'S PLEASANT PELLETS for
ch, Liver and Bowels. Price, 30 cents.
. PIERCE'S LOTION TABLETS,
d and dissolved in hot water, make a
fully antiseptic, deodorizing and cleansing
or wash. Price, 65 cents.
• PIERCE'S HEALING SUPPOSITOR-
llay Irritation, Congestion and Inflamma-
tion, and tend to produce a tonic and strengthen-
ing effect. Price, 65 cents.
DR. PIERCE'S MEDICATED TAMPONS
as a healing application are bett:!r than the
ordinary caustic applications generally employed
by physicians, and can be easily applied by the
patient herself. Price, $1.35 per box.
DR. PIERCE'S SMART-WEED may be
taken internally for "Cramps," Diarrhea, Colic,
Pain in the Stomach. Price, small bottle, 35
cents; large size, 65 cents.
DR. PIERCE'S COUGH SYRUP for Coughs,
Colds, Hoarseness, Bronchial Coughs-and Non-
diphtheritic Sore Throat. Price, 35 cents.
DR. PIERCE'S HEALING SALVE is a
superior dressing for open, running, or suppurat-
ing sores or ulcers. Price, 65 cents.
DR. PIERCE'S AMMONIO-CAMPHOR-
ATED LINIMENT is for relief of pains asso-
ciated with sprains and muscular stiffness.
Price, 65 cents.
DR. PIERCE'S (MENTHA) SOOTHALINE
is especially recommended for Sunburn, Chil-
blains, tired, burning, aching feet, chapped skin.
Applied after shaving" (Mentha} Soothaline" is
very cooling and healing. Price, 65 cents.
The Women the Men Admire
THOUSANDS of women are daily asking them-
selves, "How can I make myself the envy of
my sisters and the centre of attraction to the 131en ? "
Many women on every hand, and quite probably
your neighbor, will tell you that they regained
youthful vitality and the appearance of youth by
taking Dr. Pierce's Favorite Prescription, which is
sold in both fluid and tablet form by every good
druggist in Canada. Many women after they are
thirty years of age begin to lose their freshness
and charm.
A woman may complain of headaches, pains in
the back and lower limbs, is nervous and irritable
and this is the time she must heed the warning and
advise with some one like the Medical Staff of
Dr. Pierce's Invalids' Hotel at Buffalo, N.Y.
Confidential advice by letter will be given free of
charge and many women have been thankful for
getting early advice as to what to do to keep
attractive. A beautiful skin, sparkling eyes, vigor
and vivacity follow when the woman takes a course
of treatment with
DR. PIERCE'S FAVORITE PRESCRIPTION
