{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__adams___astrology_your_place_among_the_stars.pdf","mytitle":"Astrology Your Place Among The Stars","mylang":"de"}
ASTROLOGY
YOUR PLACE AMONG
THE STARS
By
EVANGEL!NE ADAMS
AUTHOR or
4
*TtiE Bowi, or HKAVKN,*' ANI>
**AHTHOJ.OCJY : YOUR PLAC^K IN TUB S
With One Hundred
ts People
r>O!)l>, MEAD ANI> COMPANY
NEW YORK
193O
EVANGEL.INE AX>AMS
aPRIKTBD IN* TIIK TJNITKE* STATES O r AM3
BT THTK VAIL-BAJ-LOV PRKSS, X H C .
BIMOI1AMTON,
FOREWORD
The aim of this book is to give to the public the benefit of the
practical findings gleaned by the author through a lifetime of astro-
logical study and human experience In the course of her con-
sultations with hundreds of thousands of clients. These daily and
Intimate contacts and this extensive research have made possible the
interpretations set forth In this volume, so cosmic and yet so human
and personal.
No attempt has been made to cover the elementary facts or in-
structions necessary for drawing up a chart of the heavens, as this
has adequately been covered from time to time In many text books
on the science.
The Sun, Moon and Planets have been touched upon rather
briefly, as a more exhaustive description of them and of the twelve
signs in the zodiac can be found In "Astrology Your Place in the
Sun," published by Dodd, Mead & Co. in 1927. In this present
volume, the effects of the Sun, Moon and Planets In their passage
through the twelve signs of the zodiac have been stressed at great
length, and numerous examples of well-known persons in different
periods and walks of life have been given to illustrate their oper-
ation.
The positions of the Planets, Uranus, Saturn and Jupiter, from
about 1850 and through the 20th century, have been tabulated so
that the layman, with little or no knowledge of astrology, will be
able to discover just when he will come under the chaotic and bene-
ficent influences of Uranus, the adverse effects of Saturn, and the
beneficent vibration of Jupiter. With this information in his posses-
sion, he will know when to guard his health, when to take advantage
of opportunities, when to push forward and when to hold back,
in short, how best to make the most of his life.
There are also tabulations which follow the description of each
Planet in the twelve signs, giving the sign position of the Planets
from about 1850 on, thus enabling the reader to ascertain the sign
in which his own planets were placed according to his date of birth.
vi
The time has passed when It is necessary to present a brief foi
Astrology, as the latest findings of science prove conclusively thai
life is vibration and that man is under the influence of the whole
universe. We know that the difference between light, color and sound
is a matter of vibration; in like manner, the difference between
Saturn9 which represents the centripetal vibration,, and Mars, the
centrifugal, is a matter of vibration.
And so with all the Planets.
Not even Einstein
5
s latest contributions to astral science affect
this aspect and Implication of the Theory of Gravitation ; namely,
that we are part of a world of mutual Influence and that every
particle of matter, a star or an atom, and every kind of being, in
influenced by (and, in turn, influences) every other.
Therefore, It Is desirable that each of us should know the "setting"
of our particular world, at our birth and throughout life. To this
knowledge of our status and our relationship with the Cosmos,
Astrology affords a continuously helpful clue.
The Individual meaning YOU should summon to his service
all the Power available. That means, in addition to what has already
been suggested, the use of all possible psychic force. We live not
merely in a physical, but, even more significantly, in a psychic world,
to which we should be Intimately and consciously related.
The conscious being YOU, as a spiritual individuality should
draw upon The Subconscious and the Superconscious. Ponder the
implied significance of the inspiring suggestion contained hi Kmer-
son's lines :
"The passive master lent his hand
To the vast Soul that o'er him planned."
That merely means :
That, if YOU, mastering the technique of
living, make yourself actively passive to all the vast complex of
physical and psychical energy In the universe, you can multiply
infinitely your power and your efficiency,
Enlightened self-interest, then, should move you to Page Your
Fate, and make it serve you most effectively towards a creative
career of power, wisdom, beauty, and joy.
INTRODUCTION
TO
IT has often been a source of bewilderment to the student that,
with such small variations in the heavens, the variations should be
so large on earth. Everybody has just as many signs and planets
as everybody else ; yet one man is a nobody and another is more than
half divine. No study of aspects as such can explain the fact. They
"work," more or less, when they are far from being exact ; and, on
the theory of probabilities, it would seem as if at least a third of the
human race should be of noble calibre. As a fact, hardly one man in
ten thousand leaves even a transient mark upon his generation.
How is this? The problem has always baffled astrologers and en-
couraged their critics. In fact, few astrologers have fairly faced it.
ii
What is the difference between an amoeba and an elephant? The
cells of which an elephant is composed are one and all not very dis-
similar from the amoeba. The difference is that one is varied and
organized, a harmonious republic ; the other remains single.
What is the difference, to go higher in the scale of evolution, be-
tween a monkey and a man? The answer is similar. It is not so much
the size and weight of the brain that differ; some men with small
brains have been the intellectual superiors of men with large brains.
But if we take the brain of an ape and that of a man from their
envelopes, a radical difference becomes immediately patent. The
convolutions in the ape are few and simple; in the man they are
many and complex.
There lies the great secret; the men who mould the destinies of
humanity are the most evolved and therefore the most highly com-
plex types. They are not men who have small interests here, and
small functions there; they have built up every factor in their being
vii
viii ASTROLOGY
into a single composite pattern. Often the manifestations of the com-
plex will be widely divergent, on the surface, but this is only an-
other symptom of the complexity. All this is explained by Astrol-
ogy.
m
A glance at the horoscopes of the greatest men of whom we have
record shows that, generally speaking, the planets form exact or
very close aspects, and also this is the important point that all,
or very nearly all, the planets are interwoven. Sometimes we find
two or three complexes in a nativity, perhaps even four; and those
have BO close relation with one another. Such horoscopes are those
of commonplace people. It is as if they had several strands in their
nature which had not been properly interwoven. As a result, there
are times when one is at work in its own feeble way; then it is for-
gotten, and another comes into operation. The lack of continuity is
fatal to the performance of any constructive work. If such a person
should acquire fame, it is the result of some action suddenly con-
ceived and executed, or because of an apparent accident. A few
examples of great horoscopes will make these points certain.
Shakespeare, to begin with, has all nine planets in a single com-
plex. Five of them are in aspect within three degrees, and only one
is more than ten degrees from the very farthest.
Dante may be said to have two complexes, one of five planets, all
within six degrees ; another of four, all within nine decrees ; and one
complex is only nine degrees from the other.
Michael Angelo has six planets within six decrees, with a seventh
only four degrees, and an eighth only three degrees away.
Petrarch has six planets within six and a half degrees, and the
other three within ten degrees.
Sir Richard Burton has five planets within five degrees and the
other four within seven degrees.
Bismarck has seven planets within ten degrees, the oilier two
within four degrees.
Edison has six within eleven degrees; the others within eight
degrees.
Shelley has five within eight degrees; three within two and a half
INTRODUCTION Ix
s^ and the other only six degrees from a conjunction with
one of the larger complex.
Zola has all nine within eleven degrees ; Copernicus, eight within
the same limit.
Goethe has two distinct complexes? one of six planets, within
thirteen degrees, the other of three within seven degrees.
Napoleon has six within ten degrees., three within three and a half
degrees^ and the one is but eight degrees from the other.
Newton has three within one and a half degrees, three within five
and a half degrees, and three within seven degrees.
Balzac has four within nine degrees, five within ten degrees, and
the two complexes are related within seven degrees.
Wagner has five within five degrees, three within six degrees, and
the last only five degrees away.
Baudelaire has two complexes within ten degrees, one of five
planets and the other of four.
Pasteur has six planets within six and a half degrees, two within
three degrees, and the Moon, which stands aloof, is by far the least
important of the host of heaven.
Swinburne has six planets within five degrees, the rest within one
and a quarter degrees.
If we had chosen to include minor aspects, such as forty-five de-
grees and one hundred and thirty-five degrees, or the quincunx and
sesquiquadrate an even stronger case could have been, made out;
but it Is undesirable to introduce too much subtlety Into an argu-
ment of this sort ; we prefer to base it only upon obvious and patent
facts.
IV
In the Investigation of any nativity, it Is quite useless to content
oneself, as Is too frequently done, with the consideration of planets
In pairs. These will give details of the native. It is true ; but It is
the complex which decides on what scale these details are to be
Interpreted. Zola had Saturn trine to Mercury, which made him
great in construction. But had not this aspect been merely part of
a mighty complex, It would have made him a good merchant, a clever
lawyer, or something comparatively common.
x ASTROLOGY
SheIIey
9
s conjunction of Mars and Jupiter is very differently
effective from that aspect in the horoscope of the late J. P. Morgan.
Why? Because they form parts of complexes of quite opposite na-
tures. The mere fact that one is in Leo and the other in Libra would
not account for the difference. And here it is that we must empha-
size the necessity of looking not only for the complex, but for the
key to It.
Two men might have identical aspects and yet be utterly different
just because in one case the Lord of the Ascendant was Mars and
in the other Venus, It is not always easy to divine the secret pivot
on which a complex swings. The Lord of the Ascendant is usually
the cardinal point, but if there be several planets or even one very
strong planet rising, he may be overwhelmed by them or it and his
place in heaven,, as it were, usurped. And it is of the utmost impor-
tance that this fundamental planet be detected with accuracy ; for
it makes all the difference in the world whether we regard the other
planets as modifying Saturn or Jupiter. If the native be a Satur-
nian at heart, the trine of Jupiter will favor his selfish plans; if a
Jupiterian9 the trine of Saturn will restrict and balance his en-
thusiasms. The conjunction of the Sun and Venus which made
Shelley so glorious an incarnation of Light and Beauty would
hardly have acted in that way had Scorpio, not Sagittarius, been
his ascendant. It is the Lord, Jupiter, culminating in conjunction
with Mars and Neptune, that determines the disposition, and the
superiority of the Sun in Leo to Venus that made effective the man-
ifestation of that disposition in the heart through art; had those
planets been influenced by Pisces, for example, it would have shown
itself In some soft shadowy way.
Enough has been said for a preliminary account of this matter;
in the course of these pages we shall pile Pelion upon OHHH, and
Ossa upon Olympus, in demonstration of tlus secret of the Astrolog-
ical Complex.
CONTENTS
PAGE
INTRODUCTION vii
THE SUN SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
THE SUN 3
THE SUN IN THE SIGNS 5
SUN IN ARIES 6
SUN IN TAURUS 8
SUN IN GEMINI 10
SUN IN CANCER 12
SUN IN LEO 14
SUN IN VIRGO 17
SUN IN LIBRA 19
SUN IN SCORPIO 21
SUN IN SAGITTARIUS 24
SUN IN CAPRICORN 26
SUN IN AQUARIUS 28
SUN IN PISCES 31
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE AFFLICTED BY URANUS .... 33
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 58
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE AFFLICTED BY SATURN . . . .81
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 114
THE MOON SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
THE MOON 152
THE MOON IN THE SIGNS 155
THE MOON IN ARIES 159
THE MOON IN TAURUS 161
THE MOON IN GEMINI 164
THE MOON IN CANCER 166
THE MOON IN LEO . 168
THE MOON IN VIRGO 170
THE MOON IN LIBRA 171
THE MOON IN SCORPIO 173
THE MOON IN SAGITTARIUS 175
THE MOON IN CAPRICORN 177
THE MOON IN AQUARIUS J79
THE MOON IN PISCES 181
MERCURY SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
MERCURY IN THE SIGNS 185
MERCURY IN ARIES 186
xii CONTENTS
PAGE
MERCURY IN TAURUS ...... ........ 190
MERCURY IN GEMINI ........... ... 194
MERCURY IN CANCER ... ...... ..... 198
MERCURY IN LEO ............... 203
MERCURY IN VIRGO .......... .... 207
MERCURY IN LIBRA ............ . 213
MERCURY IN SCORPIO ............. ,217
MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS ......... . . . .2*22
MERCURY IN CAPRICORN .......... ... 230
MERCURY IN AQUARIUS ............ . 237
MER.CURY IN PISCES ........ ...... 243
VENUS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
VENUS IN THE SIGNS ........... ... 250
VENUS IN ARIES ............... 252
VENUS IN TAURUS ...... . ........ 258
VENUS IN GEMINI ............... 263
VENUS IN CANCER ..... ........ , 2C>8
VENUS IN LEO ................ 273
VENUS IN VIRGO ............... 27H
VENUS IN LIBRA ..... . ..... . 283
VENUS IN SCORPIO ............... 28!*
VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS ............. 294*
VENUS IN CAPRICORN ..... .... ..... i>OJ>
VENUS IN AQUARIUS ............ ,
VENUS IN PISCES ........... .
MARS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
MARS IN THE SIGNS ......... . . .318
MARS IN ARIES ..... . ........ , . ,'Uf)
MARS IN TAURUS .......... , 324
MARS IN GEMINI ............... 327
MARS IN CANCER ......... .... . 330
MARS IN LEO ............ . , :i;i3
MARS IN VIRGO ........ ,..,.,* 33H
MARS IN LIBRA .......... ..... 3^0
MARS IN SCOEPIO ..... ....... 3 |,;i
MARS IN SAGITTARIUS ..... .....,.., 3 III
MARS IN CAPRICORN ....... ..*..., 348
MARS IN AQUARIUS ......... 351
MARS IN PISCES *......,,,,. H 54
JUPITER SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
JUPITER IN THE SIGNS ... .........
JUPITER IN ARIES ..... .....
JUPITER IN TAURUS ........ .....
JUPITER. IN GEMINI *.....,.,,,
CONTENTS xiii
PAGE
JUPITER IN CANCER 369
JUPITER IN LEO 371
JUPITER IN VIRGO 374
JUPITER IN LIBRA 376
JUPITER IN SCORPIO 379
JUPITER IN SAGITTARIUS 384
JUPITER IN CAPRICORN 387
JUPITER IN AQUARIUS 389
JUPITER IN PISCES 392
THE EFFECTS OF JUPITER ON VOCATION 394
SATURN SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
SATURN IN ARIES 405
SATURN IN TAURUS 408
SATURN IN GEMINI 411
SATURN IN CANCER 413
SATURN IN LEO 416
SATURN IN VIRGO 419
SATURN IN LIBRA 423
SATURN IN SCORPIO 425
SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS 429
SATURN IN CAPRICORN 431
SATURN IN AQUARIUS 433
SATURN IN PISCES 436
URANUS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
URANUS IN THE SIGNS 444
URANUS IN ARIES 444
URANUS IN TAURUS 447
URANUS IN GEMINI 451
URANUS IN CANCER 454
URANUS IN LEO 457
URANUS IN VIRGO 460
URANUS IN LIBRA 461
URANUS IN SCORPIO 465
URANUS IN SAGITTARIUS 468
URANUS IN CAPRICORN 471
URANUS IN AQUARIUS 472
URANUS IN PISCES 476
NEPTUNE SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
NEPTUNE IN THE SIGNS 481
NEPTUNE IN ARIES . 484
NEPTUNE IN TAURUS 485
NEPTUNE IN GEMINI 486
NEPTUNE IN CANCER 487
xiv CONTENTS
PAGM
NEPTUNE IN LEO 438
NEPTUNE IN VIRGO 489
NEPTUNE IN LIBRA 490
NEPTUNE IN SCORPIO .............. 491
NEPTUNE IN SAGITTARIUS . 492
NEPTUNE IN CAPRICORN 493
NEPTUNE IN AQUARIUS 495
NEPTUNE IN PISCES . . . . . 496
DISEASES OP NEPTUNE 497
THE PROBLEM OF DEATH
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES OF FAMOUS PEOPLE . 502526
ASTROLOGY
YOUR PLACE AMONG THE STARS
SUN SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
HELIOS* Apollo, Sol, or the Sun, is the center and source of all
things in our system. By him are all things, and in him all things
subsist.
All the planets are children of the Sun, and in him all their
qualities are harmonized and made perfect There is nothing in
them that is not in him; they are but specializations of one power,
functions of one body, ministers of one king.
For the Sun is the image of God in the greater Universe, as
Man is His image in the lesser.
It is, then, around the Sun that the true fables of all mythologies
weave their magic dance. And their legend is ever the mystery which
we have learnt in Christian symbol, the threefold mystery of Incar-
nation -Life, Death, Resurrection and Ascension. These five
are one, and this is the history of every God, and every man.
Here is a great secret; if this were understood and valued, it
would realize the dream of the adepts the Brotherhood of Man.
It is by virtue of this that Freemasonry has broken down the fron-
tiers of nations, uniting all men in a simple and sublime sacrament
that recalls the deepest truths of life to those who are apt to forget
them in the frivolities of business, pleasure and ambition.
The Christian Church attempted the same work, and if orthodox
religion is broken, it is because the Church insisted upon a literal
interpretation of her mystery, confining to one time and place a
tragedy as universal as the Cosmos.
For each one of us is the central figure of a drama divine and
human. Each one of us has clothed immortal splendour in a veil of
flesh, has doomed himself to suffer and to die in order to rise again
and mount the heaven with ever-increasing joy and majesty. It
is hard for us to realize why this formula must be fulfilled, why
the nature of things is such that the incorruptible must feed on
corruption, the immortal shroud itself in the cerecloth of mortality.
Only when we consciously attain to the enjoyment of life as a sacra-
ment, only when the universe is understood as being a vast replica
l
8 ASTROLOGY
of our own natures do we accept the cross,, and hail death as the cul-
mination and prize of life.
For the Sun is preeminently Lord of Life and Death* From his
glittering eye radiates the glory of life; then from his quiver he
draws an arrow tipped with gold, and feathered from the engle;
he draws the string of his ivory bow to his shoulder; it twangs, and
the life pours from the veins of the victim. Swift is he and glorious
In his chariot^ and the horses of Eternity gallop through the galax-
ies; to right and left he shoots,, and misses never his mark. He hath
given all, and he will take all back, that it may he made perfect.
Proud is he, and a spendthrift, but his wealth has no limit; hold
and free, a prodigal lover; but his heart is great enough for all, lie
is the heir and viceregent of the Most High and Holy One that, is
hidden behind his Intolerable brilliance* If our eyes could pieree the
fiery gates of heaven., we might behold a vaster and more awesome
form. Nor should the Sun arise without our meditating upon Him
whose representative in matter he is, nor reach the zenith without
our thrill of ecstasy in his triumph. At sunset let us pause, and par-
take of the grand and gloomy mystery of his crucifixion, and even
at midnight let us In our silence call upon him, that being, descended
into the darkness,, who Is the herald of our resurrection awl ascen-
sion.
So also In the course of the Sim In the year, let us study the
strange festivals of Egypt and of ChaMca, of Mexico, Peru,. India,
Persia, Tibet3 Greece, Syria, Scandinavia, and Nineveh and Huby-
Ion of old. Let us trace their survival in the fasts and feasts of our
own day,, and? thereby understanding what we do, practise them with
zeal and with intelligence.
In this way? we shall not only harmonize and perfect our natures,
but thrill them with the rapture of illumination* We shall lose the
petty personal consciousness that m the cause of our seliishxu*stt y nnd
so of all our miseries and fears,, of all our cruelty and our injust ire;
we shall regain the cosmic consciousness; we shall be once more one
with all things, and the Universe will appear In its unsullied glory,
freed from the veil of horror and darkness that our own imperfect
light has seemed to cast upon Its holy and adorable splendour*
Darkness Is an Infinitely rare phenomenon in the* universe. Only
on that side of a planet which is turned from its mm does even par-
SUN 3
tlal obscurity exist and how that is recompensed by the aspect of
the innumerable host of heaven! Only when clouds arise from the
earth is that light hidden. It is not the Sun that is darkened; the
veil is tied over our own eyes. It is for us to rise toward the Sun,
beyond the dbudbank, and to bask in his glory. If we cannot do
that, it is still our own fault; it is the grossness of our bodies, the
attraction of the earth. a Set not your affections upon things of
earth" but "Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall
be added unto you.
93
THE SUN
As the zodiacal signs form the basis of human temperament,, so
do the planets possess the magnetic forces which, playing upon that
temperament, produce those countless modifications of which man-
kind is capable. They are the cosmic generators, as it were the
focus points of distinct types of electronic energy.
The four bodies whose influence and position have most to do
with human character are the two luminaries, that is
thejSun and
the JMoon, and the two minor planets,, Mercury and Venus, whose
orbits lie within that of the earth.
'" " ~*
Experience shows us that these four react more directly upon
the sensitive plate of man's being and have most to do with making
him what he is. They have a modified effect upon events. The planets
of the other orbits, while also affecting character in a measure, seem
to modify it more in an evolutionary than a primary way.
Since prehistoric man stood in the primal jungle his naked arms
upraised in supplication to the morning light man has worshipped
the Sun. Not a plant grows, not a beast of the field nor a bird of
the air, but lives in reference to and from the beneficence of the
central orb. But for its light and power the very earth would cease
to be. But for our continued baths in its warmth, we should become
as sprouted potatoes in a cellar, white and lifeless. Not by any ac-
cident did the fire worshipper adore it, and the Greeks glorify it as
Helios-Sol-Apollo, and with countless other names. He is "Sanso,"
the sun-god of India.
The individuality, indicated by the Sun, is to man's nature as
the SUB to the Universe, its very formative force and center of life.
4 ASTROLOGY
Thus in the correspondence between the Sun?
s position in the
Universe,, his passage through the Zodiac and his aspect to the
planets revolving around him, we have the major measure of human
nature and in each particular instance the primary major of that
individuality. All other planetary aspects, positions and influences
relate to these central and major aspects, positions and Influences
of the Sun in measure as the planets themselves relate to the Sun.
There must be no confusion between what we mean as individuality,
personality,, temperament* mentality and character. Individuality
is the thing we fed behind a handshake, behind our likes and dis-
likes, behind casual manners. Charm of manner is a matter of tem-
perament and color. The swift come and go, the moods and habits
are matters of personality. The ways of reacting, of speaking
frowning and smiling are matters of disposition.
A weak Sun (or individuality) in a horoscope implies a weak
nature, no matter how many other strong factors are found, and
vice versa, a strong Sun will carry a nativity far.
A strong Sun implies nobility of character, sturdiness of courage,
dependability of action and integrity of purpose. It gives firmness
to the nature and a strong sense of right and wrong. The Sun so
endowed implies a sound mind and, unless other planets are un-
usually malefic, a strong and healthy body,
It is a splendid testimony for ultimate success because it HO co-
ordinates, so attunes the centers of the nature, so adjusts the attri-
butes of individuality, that minor disturbances and humiliation tend
to melt away with the years, leaving the simple fibre of a true na-
ture.
An afflicted Sun is a strong testimony of individual limitation,
The limitation may be one of character, of wortli or of men! id bal-
ance, of emotional capacity, of moral integrity, or of bodily health,
in one, or may be in all of their ways, depending upon the type or
the degree of malefic influences.
The Sun in the earthy signs gives excess of energy, increases
pride and haughtiness and gives a headstrong individuality. In
the airy signs it inclines to intellectual energy, to ability, social in-
terest, arts and sciences. In the watery signs, a .strong: Sun given
great emotion, passion and sympathy, endowing great sex inclina-
SUN IN THE SIGNS 5
tion, and capacity. In fiery signs, a strong Sun tends to power5 am-
bition, leaderships gravity and dignity.
SUN IN SIGNS
THE Sun stands for the individuality, just as the Moon expresses
the personality. It also governs the constitution and is the Life
force and backbone of the whole system. Where the Sun is strong
by position of aspects, it gives strength of character, a powerful
will and a vigorous constitution, all of which contribute toward
making the life successful. Where the Sun is weak, there is danger
of short life or one broken by spells of illness or much misfortune.
In this volume, no consideration will be given to the significance
of the decanates of the signs, as for example: Aries is subdivided
into three sections of ten degrees each, ruled respectively by Marss
the Sun and Jupiter. These points, although important in the
minute examination of the nativities of people with regard to whom
it is possible to obtain exact data, are too exhaustive for consider-
ation in a work of this kind.
It cannot be too strongly emphasized again that an analysis of
the meaning of every factor in Astrology is dependent upon its
relation to every other factor. For instance, the Sun in each sign
has a certain definite influence which it invariably exerts, but that
influence, thus exerted, is combined with every other influence of
the Sun in its house position and in its aspects, as well as in refer-
ence to the ascending sign and other planetary positions and as-
pects. Thus, it is from the sum of the forces and not from each one
of them separately judged, that an analysis is made.
The reader should remember, therefore, that to read the analysis
of the Sun in the signs as it follows, as an analysis verbatim of the
solar position in a nativity, to read it except as one of the forces
of a nativity to be united, accentuated or modified by the other
factors involved, is not scientific astrology and will not give a true
interpretation. The statements true in themselves, must be united
intellectually, in each particular nativity, with other particular fac-
tors of that nativity ; and then, and only then, are the peculiarities
of individual instances described.
6 ASTROLOGY
SUN IN ARIES
IN Aries the Sun Is in his exaltation,, very powerful and brilliant,
with that first glow and exultation which is associated with the
Spring. Aries,, however9 is under Mars as ruler, and this tends to
bring out the arrows from the quiver of Apollo. In this sign, the
Sun is sometimes apt to slay. Aries rules the head in man, and being
also the beginning of the Zodiac, he tends to fill the mind of the na-
tive with extreme ambition to accomplish daringly original, yet
practical^ undertakings- Wilhclm I of Germany, and Bismarrk, who
built the German Empire from the ruins of the stru^los of the
Middle Ages and of the Napoleonic Wars, both had the Sun in this
sign. So had Thiers, who restored the French Republic after the
crash of Sedan and the flames of the Commune, and Grxmbetta who
contributed so largely to the same work. It is frequently the case
that the Ideas of the native are considered impractical or impossible
by those to whom he communicates them. It was fortunate for Bis-
marck that his King possessed the same Sun position, for it is char-
acteristic of these people that, unless the vigorous energy which they
manifest on the conception of their ideas shows an immediate re-
sult, their interest may wane and another idea of equal vehemence re-
place the first.
It is most necessary for the native to acquire patience and per-
severance. The mind must be trained to continue in out* channel
and the dissipation of the forces of life must be #\iarded agatnnt
with the utmost care. The native must not be content merely to im-
agine his career; also he must not shrink from the spado work which
is essential to bring ideas to fruition.
The Aries constitution is rather finely balanced ; it is powerful,
yet delicate. There is a decided tendency to overwork the body,
either intellectually or physically. There is, however, no clunker of
nervous over-strain. Aries people are generally lacking in Mw psy-
chic and spiritual qualities. Dangers to the health are indicated
by the planets involved, but fevers and apoplexy are principally to
be feared; and the native may also suffer from headache** and other
afflictions of that extremity of the body. The expression i
UHiwlly
commanding sometimes even violent, and the countenance may at
times be red, while there is a likelihood of some mole or birthmark
SUN IN ARIES 7
on the face. In itself, this position of the Sun does not promise any
great longevity. Diseases are likely to -be aggravated by the disposi-
'
'tion, which is usually careless and even contemptuous of the health;
the appetites are sometimes excessive and the passions need con-
trol. Speaking generally5 this is a better place for the Sun in a
male nativity than in that of a female.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Aries :
Oliver Cromwell
John Burroughs
The late Senator Weeks
Houdini? Magician
General Gordon of England
King Albert of Belgium
King George of England
Hon. Charles E. Hughes
Mrs. Allan Leo
Nicholas Murray Butler
Ray Long
Frederick Collins
John Hays Hammond
Andrew Mellon
George F. Baker
The late Thomas Eugene Mitten
John W. Davis
James Branch Cabell
Prince Pierre Troubetskoy
"Bud" Fisher
Daniel Chester French
Elizabeth Goldsmith
Mary Pickford
Charlie Chaplin
Mary Miles Minter
Gloria Swanson
Margaret Anglin
Mr. McMorris
8 ASTROLOGY
SUN IN TAURUS
THE natural sympathy between the Sun and Venus makes Taurus
a happy habitation for the Sun. The earthy quality of the sign,
moreover, tends to stabilize his influence, and its balanced nature
lends still further dignity to the configuration. Taurus people are
usually broad, sturdy and of iron constitution. Their vitality is
great, but with a tendency to sluggishness ; they are slow to start,
but, once in motion, they gather momentum, and when well under
way nothing will ever stop them. In a word, they are weighty, using
that word in its full mechanical sense. The will is dominant and
even obstinate and the persistence and tenacity of the native are
never in doubt. General Grant is an excellent example of this posi-
tion of the Sun.
Like other qualities, however, this tenacity may have its defects.
The native is sometimes inclined to continue in a course which good
judgment would see to be hopeless. Here we find in particultxr the
devotees of lost causes. The reason for this is that Taurus being
under Venus, the affections are strongly implicated. As a corollary,
one may say that these people, though they can never txs driven,
may easily be led. They respond readily to appeals to their better
feelings ; at the same time to goad them is to rouse them to anger
which may almost approximate madness.
The bull-nature is still further brought out by a certain placidity
and domesticity in all cases where the more active qualities are not
aroused. There is a great wealth of affection in this sign, which is
frequently the aftermath of passion. In their love-affairs Hizch
people may begin with the vehemence of equinoctial gales, storm
following storm. When this passes, the end comes not by breach or
tragedy, but by the development of warm friendships. The disposi-
tion is thus ideal for marriage.
The mental activity of Taurus people is, as a rule, not great.
Their original tendency is to be conservative, but if once convinced
of the necessity of a revolutionary course, they will then pursue it
to the bitter end. Even if on any point they seem radical, it is only
accidental to the nature ; on all fundamentals, they are reactionary.
Consider Huxley, for example, the scientific side of Ms nature com-
mitted him to the advocacy of evolution, which was at that time mis-
SUN IN TAURUS 9
understood In England to imply belief in atheism, anarchy and
free love. Yet his philosophical writings are based upon such com-
paratively early authors as Hume and Berkeley, while his political
writings are the most steadily conservative that can be imagined.
The general inertia of the nature will cause the native to ac-
quiesce in most of the conventionalities customary to his environ-
ment, not because he believes that they are right, (supposing him
to be cross-examined on the subject) but because it would lead to
trouble to ignore them. He would say frankly that he thought it
did not matter very much what happened in so small a matter and
that it was best "to let sleeping dogs lie."
People with the SimjjxJE^^ They
are not liable to be led away by idealism and dreams. One may quote
Shakespeare as the most steady-going, sensible poet that ever lived.
It is his extraordinary common sense which has so endeared him to
the Anglo-Saxon. Spencer, too, has the Sun in this sign, and his
philosophy was based upon objective facts. Hence, the name which
he himself gave it, synthetic philosophy, as opposed to the analytic,
which has held almost undisputed sway since the beginning of the
science.
In the human anatomy, Taurus is said to rule the base of the
brain, the neck and shoulders, and the throat. People with the Sun
in this position are, to some extent, liable to disorders in one of these
places, but, unless the Sun is badly afflicted, there is not the same
danger of ill-health and of sudden death that we found in Aries,
for while the Sun is not so brilliantly strong, he is more harmoni-
ously placed and his rays fall more softly.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun
in the sign Taurus :
Alexander II of Russia
General Boulanger of France
Shakespeare
Bakac
Hon. Stephen A. Douglas
Harold F* McCormick
Cyrus H. McCormick
Cyril Maude
10 ASTROLOGY
Lionel Barrymore
Effie Shannon
Roy Atwell
Jack Henderson
Norma Talmadge
Edwin Markham
SUN IN GEMINI
IN Gemini the stability of the Sun is greatly diminished. The first
principle of all mechanical efficiency is the fulcrum; a rigid base
is necessary for every machine. An enormous proportion of the
power developed for locomotion is wasted in, hammering out a per-
manent way. If, therefore, the Sun? which is the fulcrum of the
bodily machine, is in a movable, airy, mercurial sign* the working
power of the engine is seriously diminished.
If Dante, Wagner, and Queen Victoria seem to be exceptions to
this rule, it is because, in their cases, the Sun was still within a
degree or two of Taurus and partakes very largely of his nature*
In all these cases, too, it was well-aspected*
Speaking generally, people with the Sun in Gemini show a cer-
tain vagueness and irresponsibility, finding it hard to concentrate
upon any subject or even to take any subject seriously. Kven when
their lives appear devoted to the prosecution of a particular ob-
ject, it will seem as if there were no real basis in the nature cor-
responding to the observed effect. Their actions are prescribed by
the mood of the moment, and they do things more Ix&aune they
are personally interested than with the idea of building up any im-
portant result for themselves. There is a great tendency to dttmipatc
the force, and, owing to the dual nature of Gemini, such people arc
always happier when leading a double life. This expression in not
used in any equivocal sense ; it merely means that they arc happiest
when they have more than one dominant interest. They cannot tttay,
according to the expression, with their "noses to the grindstone.**
Permanent work makes them restless and uneasy in a very short
space of time. "Variety is the spice of life" to them, and* especially
when Venus and Mercury are both in the eame sign, they often be-
come "rolling stones,"
a
Jacks-ofall-trades and masters of
SUN IN GEMINI II
unless there Is some extremely stabilizing Influence from a steady-
going planet like Jupiter or Saturn, more especially Saturn.
Thomas Moore is an excellent example of the lighter talents given
by the Sun in this sign, and the versatility of Bulwer-Lytton is
also a manifest confirmation of this position.
Most of the force of the constitution and vitality of the native
goes to nerve and intellect rather than to heart. We do not, as a
rule, find people with warm dispositions having this position of the
Sun. Albrecht Diirer, Bulwer-Lytton, Schumann, Strauss, are all ex-
amples of this. In the cases of Jay Gould and Nero, this coldness of
disposition is even more marked.
Gemini rules not only the nerves but the ratiocinative part of the
brain, as distinguished from the executive, which is under Aries,
the sensory as opposed to the motor function. It also rules the
hands and arms and, in particular, the lungs. The general sensi-
tiveness of the nerves is, however, an excellent token of artistry.
People with this position of the Sun are likely to hear more, to see
more, than the average man. They are open to impressions, even
the most delicate, and, where Mercury assists, are able to record them
with exquisite fidelity. The intellectual qualities are, moreover, fine
and strong. Their apprehension is based on knowledge ; their memo-
ries are excellent, and they build up splendidly on existing founda-
tions. There is, however, not likely to be any tremendous force of
originality in the mind, unless Mercury holds aspects to Uranus
or Neptune. The student will remark that even Dante was greatly
indebted to Virgil on the one hand, and to the Patristic authors on
the other.
Similarly, Wagner went entirely to existing tradition for his
material, and a good third of the originality of his music is due to
his exquisite sensibility in regard to sound, while his whole plan,
particularly the cry of the leitmotif, is rationalistic and literary,
rather than musical.
It is part of the Gemini nature to demand a change of scene
and relaxation; exercise, sleep and fresh air are necessary to the
health, which, however, will never be robust In the same way as we
find It when the Sun Is In such a sign as Taurus and Leo. The na-
tive is really too high-strung and, unless things go his way, he read-
ily becomes depressed. It will be useless for him to endeavor to
18 ASTROLOGY
settle down in any fixed occupation. The best he can do is to try to
take advantage, as far as possible, of the qualities of his defects
and so to arrange his life that the sword does not too quickly wear
out its scabbard.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun
in the sign Gemini :
Elbert Hubbard
Emerson
Robert M. LaFollette
Richard Mansfield
Walt Whitman
May Allison
Margaret de Alvarez
Elizabeth Marbury
John McCormick
Gene Tunney
Robert W. Chambers
William H. Woodin
Frances Alda
James Montgomery Flagg
Gilbert Emory
Queen Mary of England
SUN IN CANCER
IN Cancer, the Sun finds a sign which is too watery and lunar to be
altogether a happy habitation. Jupiter, exalted in this sign, blends
some of his qualities with the solar rays, but, unless the Sun it*
well-dignified, the working is not altogether favorable; for, since
it is Jupiter's luxuriousness that is brought out, the Sun in this
sign tends to laxness of life, giving a disposition too contented and
easy-going, and a disinclination to exercise energy* The disposition
is apt to be idle ; lassitude seems to be the rule of life, yet with this
is associated what passes for tenacity of purpose. Such changes as
take place are superficial and leave the temperament and purpose
SUN IN CANCER 13
undisturbed, but there Is little manifestation of any real vigor or
energy. These remarks apply to undeveloped types. Where the In-
fluence of Jupiter, who is exalted in Cancer, enters strongly into
the development of the native, we may find indomitable will and an
extremely masterful disposition. Such types are fairly well rep-
resented by John Quincy Adams, Joseph Chamberlain, Cecil Rhodes,
Lord Northcliffe and Mrs. Pankhurst.
A love of antiquity and of old, established things often manifests
itself in the native, and he may take a deep interest in old books,
paintings, bric-a-brac or in some such half-forgotten science as
heraldry. The energetic type, on the other hand, occupies itself more
exclusively with the affairs of the moment, and is apt to have a
contempt for anything that is not entirely up-to-date.
Cancer rules the alimentary canal, as far as the bowels, which
are under Virgo, and people with the Sun in this sign are often
sufferers from indigestion, with functional troubles which may man-
ifest in a hundred different forms, all of which can be traced to this
original weakness, as occasionally caused by the implication of the
pneumo-gastric nerve. The disposition of the native tends to con-
firm this threat against the health. The appetite is frequently both
excessive and abnormal. Cancer being a watery sign, there is also
a danger of over-indulgence in strong drink.
Especially when Venus is in the same sign, the sex appetite of
the native is prone to be quite normal, and, being generally com-
bined with strong affection and a placid disposition, this often
makes for happiness in marriage.
This position of the Sun is not favorable to longevity. Children
who come into the world about this time of the year seem not to get
the necessary hardening, and the Moon, lady of the sign, being so
easily influenced and so rapid in motion, evil directions come about,
if not more frequently, yet at least with a much greater chance
of shattering the citadel. This gives a natural explanation of the
fact that in a list of hundreds of famous people, only a few isolated
cases are found to have been born under the Sun's rays in Cancer.
On the other hand, as the native of Cancer grows older, his con-
stitution grows more robust and he stands a good chance of reach-
ing a fairly good old age. This is bound to be so for the reason
that the Sun, in time, progresses into the sign Leo.
14 ASTROLOGY
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Cancer:
Lord Kitchener
H. Rider Haggard
Mary Baker Eddy
Katherine Tingley
John Wanamaker
Dr. J. Frankel
Wallace Eddinger
Calvin Coolidge
Luis Cabrera
Walter Hampden
Cosmo Hamilton
Frank Crowninshield
John D. Rockefeller, Sr.
Frank Damrosch
Otis Skinner
John O'Hara Cosgrave
Dr. William James Mayo
Anne Morrow Lindbergh
Prince of Wales
SUN IN LEO
THE Sun in Leo is his greatest strength, for Leo is his own house
and his influence is not even complicated by the exaltation of any
other planet therein. We find here the most enormous vitality and
strength of constitution. We have examples of this in such grand
old men as Petrarch, who died at seventy, but whose life was full
of vigor; Colonel Olcott who died at over eighty; Tennyson* at
eighty-three; Cardinal Gibbons, at eighty-three, and Franz Josef
of Austria, at eighty-six. Blavatsky died at sixty, but her Sun u
in opposition to Jupiter and Herschel, while Cancer was rising* a
sign not predisposing to longevity. Napoleon, too, died at the age
of fifty-two, but this is hardly a case of natural death, since the in-
digestion indicated by the presence of Saturn in Cancer in opposi-
SUN IN LEO 15
tion to the Moon was aggravated to malignant disease by the
cruel regimen imposed upon him by his captors. Shelley also had
a magnificent constitution and a vitality as superabundant as
that of the great conqueror; his life, too, was cut short by drown-
ing.
People with the Sun in Leo are not only strong themselves, but
shed forth this strength on others. It is emotionally the most mag-
netic of all the signs for the Sun ; perhaps in consequence of this,
the disposition is usually masterful and may possibly in some cases
become almost tyrannical. There is immense generosity and nobility
of feeling, but this again may sometimes degenerate into extrava-
gance. The native is a tremendous worker, but anything in the
nature of menial tasks revolts his soul, and while he is not ashamed
to do anything of this kind when necessity calls or as an example
to others, yet he will not do it as a matter of routine, while there
is anyone else to do it for him. If he finds himself in a situation
where people will not do for him what he thinks they ought to, he
generally prefers to let the work go undone. The nature is exces-
sively proud and incapable of meanness. Such persons must be
trusted or they can do nothing. As long as they feel that they are
in positions of authority and responsibility, they will kill them-
selves if necessary, in order to justify the confidence reposed in them.
If forced into any other situation, they will despise their work and
so neglect it.
The disposition of persons with the Sun in Leo is placable and
not easily perturbed, but this advantage is gained by "prepared-
ness." They give so forcibly the impression that they are ready
for a fight that the peace is seldom in danger of being broken.
When actually forced into combat, Leo people form the most de-
termined opponents. They have taken to heart Shakespeare's ad-
vice:
"Beware of entrance to a quarrel, but, being in,
Bear't that the opposer may beware of thee."
Their only defect as fighters lies in their reckless courage. They ex-
pose themselves unnecessarily and they refuse to fight otherwise
than fairly, however great may be the advantages offered. In victory
they are magnanimous and in defeat unconquered.
16 ASTROLOGY
People with this position of the Sun should always attend, as
far as possible, to their own business, and not rely upon others to
do it for them, or trust to correspondence (unless they happen to be
born writers, because of good Mercury aspects) for their success
depends almost entirely upon the magnetism of their personality.
The ambition of these people is nearly always uncontrollable ; how-
ever much they get, they will want far more, and this discontent
may be the cause of much unhappiness. It is the mainspring of
their success, but may also bring them to disaster, for they refuse
to realize it when they come to a blank wall. They are consequently
likely to waste their strength in attempting impossibilities. The
same pride and masterfulness of which mention has been made makes
it impossible to coerce the native, but he responds with extreme read-
iness to the slightest appeal to his better feelings, and he will often
injure himself seriously rather than give anyone the chance of
thinking that he has acted meanly, although such thought may be
utterly unjust.
Leo rules the heart. The Sun in this position is very strong; it
is because of his great power that the vitality is usually so tremen-
dous, but when at the last, Apollo, lord of life and death, turns from
the one to the other, it is at the heart that he will strike. Death in
likely to come suddenly by some kind of stroke or by syncope. Where
the Sun is over-excited by Mars, especially by squares and conjunc-
tions, the tendency to diseases of the heart is greatly increased and
may occur comparatively early in life. It may also lead to death
in infancy through convulsions.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Leo:
Guy de Maupassant
Allan Leo
Boynton Moody
George B, McCutcheoii
Raymond Poincar^
Herbert Hoover
Henry Ford
Stanley Baldwin
Mussolini
SUN IN VIRGO 17
David Belasco
William Gillette
Julia Marlowe
Mary Anderson
Larz Anderson
George D, Pratt
Guthrie McClintic
Martha Hedrnan
Clare Eames
Ethel Barrymore
Mrs. Dorothy Caruso
Will Foster
Anne Morgan
SUN IN VIRGO
THE sign Virgo is almost as mercurial as that of Gemini, but, being
of an earthy nature, it is rather the fixed than the volatile Mercury
which it manifests. The natural coldness of Mercury is rather ac-
centuated. The vitality is manifested upon the mental plane, but in
a more practical way than was the case with Gemini. The ratiocina-
tive power is strong and the sense of causality extremely so, but
there is not the same tendency toward idealism as we saw with the
sign of the Twins. Virgo is a practical sign; its native does not
doubt the existence of spiritual planes, but the everyday facts of
the world are apt to occupy his attention and prevent him from
explorations into the unseen. The nature is just, but not over-
sympathetic. The native is apt to be retiring and somewhat solitary.
There is a certain shyness in the disposition which prevents the
native from showing himself as he is, and this often makes it difficult
for him to acquire the confidence of others* Even where this reserve
wears off superficially through social intercourse, it still exists be-
neath the surface, and the real native is at heart unapproachable,
as is seen in observing Goethe, Maeterlinck, Tolstoi, and Herbert
Asquith.
People with the Sun in Virgo are discriminative and keenly crit-
18 ASTROLOGY -
ical, but they are tactful and likely to keep their discoveries to
themselves. They are accurate observers of detail, often very method-
ical, but, as a rule5 have not the creative force necessary for suc-
cessful generalization. The memory is excellent and retentive, but
too apt to allow garnered facts to repose unused. The emotions are
not easily aroused, nor easily quieted when aroused, but in no case
do they play a great part in the disposition. There are few extremes
in this sign. Generally even-balanced and cool-headed, the native
makes few pretensions and works quietly and unobserved. But there
is sometimes an inordinate pride in the intellectual ability, which
may not be justified. Queen Elizabeth is a notable example of this
intellectual vanity. The critical quality is a valuable mental at-
tainment, but one is not in the first class unless he can construct
originally.
Virgo rules the bowels and the sympathetic nervous system. The
central nervous system of the human body is well symbolized by
the caduceus of Mercury. The head of the wand is the cerebellum
and the wings are the two halves of the cerebrum* The shaft is the
spinal column and the snakes which surround it arc the nadi* ida*
and pingala, which surround the central swJmittiia in the Hindu
anatomy. Thus, all mental and nervous forces in their most physical
aspects are under Mercury. Many spinal complaints are, therefore,
caused by afflictions of Virgo. Virgo also corresponds in man to
the abdomen, ruling in this attribution the liver ; the gull bladder
and gall ducts ;
the spleen ; pancreas and suprarenal capsules. The
kidneys, acting as a filter, are tinder Libra. The remainder of the
urinary apparatus is under Scorpio, which also rules the reproduc-
tive system. Capricornus is intimately connected with Scorpio and
rules the muscular portion of the reproductive system, Scorpio
being more concerned with the glands and their secretions. But an
affliction of Virgo may lead to disease in any one of these parts
sooner or later, through sympathetic response to any irritation of
the spinal or glandular nerves. The Virgo native is greatly affected
by worry and also by the magnetism of others, and care in diet Is
an extremely important factor in the preservation of his health.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Virgo :
SUN IN LIBRA 19
W. J. Caldwell
Prince Albert (consort of Queen Victoria)
Melville E. Stone
General Pershing
Jane Addams
William H. Taft
Robert Benchley
Lynn Starling
Irene Fenwick
Charles Dana Gibson
Amelie Rives (Princess Troubetskoy)
Charles H. Sabin
Theodore Dreiser
Zona Gale
Rex Beach
Henrietta Crosman
H. L. Mencken
C. K. G. Billings
J. P. Morgan
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland
SUN IN LIBRA
THOUGH the Sun is in his fall in Libra, the fact that this is a
cardinal sign tends to restore his strength and on the whole the
Venusian nature of the sign brings out more pleasing qualities
than does the martial stimulus of Aries.
The disposition given by the Sun in Libra is extremely kind
and sympathetic and the affection extraordinarily strong, but the
sense of justice is extremely deep-rooted; and, if the native should
feel that he is being abused or imposed upon, his indignation may
make him seem cold and resentful. This same sense of justice seems
to underlie every trait of the native. In religion, for example, he
will not confine himself to any one system, but look for the best
points in all and endeavor to strike a balance between them. Some-
times the delicacy of mental adjustment may be interpreted as in-
20 ASTROLOGY
decision and. In undeveloped types, It may really amount to this
weakness. It is certain that the native will not form snap judg-
ments; he may prefer to suffer acutely himself rather than risk
injustice to others. These people are also extremely sensitive in
their feelings, and this makes them appear to some extent more
dependent upon others than is the average person* They have an
extremely powerful critical faculty, which, however, is sympathetic,
and they are therefore generally appreciative. Their sense of har-
mony and proportion is admirable, and the native obtains the most
intense pleasure from the contemplation of duty. Good examples
of these qualities are found in Lord Roberts and Edward VI, both
of whom have the Sun in this sign. Vulgarity revolts him and some-
times his disappointment in finding a suitable environment may
bring out the Saturnian side of Libra and tend to make him try
to live in a world of his own, or in some other way to be a recluse.
Aspects of Uranus and Saturn to the Sun increase this possibility.
Cornelius Agrippa has a sextile of Saturn to the Sun, and with
Savonarola they are in far off conjunction*
In all matters involving accurate judgment, the native is at his
best, but in practical matters he may be over-subtle. He may de-
cline to believe a fact which is perfectly obvious to everybody else,
just because it is thrust upon him.
The constitution is extremely sound, but docs not manifest itself
in strength or robustness. Endurance and the power of recupera-
tion are its characteristics, The native will probably be of little
good where sudden exertion is involved, but in the case of long-
continued strain, he will outlast men apparently much stronger*
Libra is preeminently the feminine sign, far more so than Taurus.
The principal part of the body ruled by Libra is the lumbar re-
gion, which of course includes the kidneys and affects materially
the spine. With good aspects of the Sun, however, troubles with
these parts are apt to be only functional, and it frequently happens
that a delicate adolescence is followed by a life of perfect harmony
and balance of health.
There is one singular trait of the disposition in Libra which
is so remarkable as to deserve special mention* It is brought out
very strongly when Venus or Mercury or both are also present in
the sign. It is this, that the nature of the individual is neither de~
SUN IN SCORPIO 21
cidedly male nor female, but partakes almost equally of both quali-
ties. This will not necessarily manifest itself outwardly, though
sometimes it seems to have a great effect in the moulding of the
physical body.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun
in the sign Libra :
General French of England
Oscar Wilde
Lily Langtry
Frances Willard
Marshall Field
Charles Scribner
Edward D. Bok
Dr. John H. Finley
Ramsay MacDonald
Von Hindenburg
Thomas Fortune Ryan
Thomas W. Lamont
Wilton Lackeye
Arthur Hopkins
Alice Joyce
Eleanor Sears
Antonio Moreno
Ina Claire
Hereward Carrington
SUN IN SCORPIO
THE Sun in Scorpio, the house of death, is very strong, but the
native is very likely to suffer violence. It is quite frequently found
that people with this position suffer from diseases which bring them
to a premature end, as for example Stevenson and Marie Bashkirt-
seff, or, when badly aspected, they may meet a violent death like
Domitian, Marie Antoinette, President Garfield and Stanford
White. This is physically the most magnetic sign in the Zodiac.
There are three main types, classed respectively under eagle, ser-
pent, and scorpion. But in every case, an extremely forceful and
22 ASTROLOGY
dominating personality is to be expected. With even the best types,
the appearance is often somewhat austere. Tremendous will-power
is evident in every line of the countenance,, which is frequently what
conventional people call ugly and occasionally this native bears
scars. This rather formidable appearance is5 however, frequently
combined with a kindly disposition. However dark and forbidding
may be the countenance^ the nature has yet the fascination of the
serpent.
The native is easily aroused to anger, and makes a most danger-
ous enemy, for he cannot be trusted to fight fair, as with Leo, but
will take any means in his power to injure his antagonist; nor is he
held back by any feeling of pity, but will go on to the bitter end.
Occasionally, this is so pronounced as to cause actual defect in the
fighting quality.
But it is doubtful if any sign in the Zodiac illustrates so markedly
the contrast between the spiritually awakened soul and its opposite.
Crafty and cunning, with intense passions and jealousies and with a
vindictiveness which will wreak insatiable revenges, the Scorpio
native becomes, under higher impulses, indefatigable in his desire to
help mankind, and his coldness and insensibility to the sufferings of
others is transmuted into devotion and self-sacrifice. The coolness of
demeanor and stern sense of justice and integrity, together with
uncontrollable desire for freedom, may degenerate into hanshncH***
selfishness and discontent, or blossom into efficiency, sympathy and
true generosity.
Where the Sun is fairly well aspected and Mars Is free from af-
fliction, the constitution is extraordinarily strong; the resisting
power is greater than with any other sign* The native is capable
of infinite hard work and is most dogged, persevering and tenacious
in carrying out his plans* He does not, however, go at them like a
bull at a gate. He is always exercising his intelligence to out-man-
euver his opponent. Where Scorpio assumes the eagle type, the
noblest qualities of Mars and the Sun arc found combined, ami
there is a certain, subtlety and intellectuality about them which
come more from the nature of the sign itself than from either of
the planets. There is no better sign in the Zodiac for commanding
success, but this success nearly always comes through bitter fight-
ing. There is a strong tendency to science and all other branches of
SUN IN SCORPIO 23
life which demand the blending of the two qualities, energy and
subtlety. Provided that the Sun is strengthened by some good as-
pects, it is as favorable a position as could be wished for him. At
the same time, the student must never forget to expect something
secret and sinister in the nature.
Scorpio rules the glands of the pelvis and, from its opposition
to Taurus, often affects the corresponding parts in the neck and
throat, but its most special signification is in connection with the
organs of reproduction. Scorpio is particularly to be feared in the
recurrence of Cancer after operations, for such secondary growths
are usually glandular and such diseases are more dangerous than
ordinary local afflictions of the reproductive organs.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun
in the sign Scorpio:
George Eliot
Theodore Roosevelt
Hetty Greene
Sarah Bernhardt
Eugene V. Debs
Anna Katherine Greene
Dr. E. BL Pratt
Margaret Mayo
Riccardo Martin
Maude Adams
George Gordon Battle
Viola Allen
Owen D. Young
William G. McAdoo
Nicholas Longworth
Ida M. Tarbell
John Philip Sousa
Marie Dressier
Henry Van Dyke
Alexander P. Moore
Samuel Insul
Jackie Coogan
Billy Sunday
24 ASTROLOGY
SUN IN SAGITTARIUS
THE Sun in Sagittarius is noble, refined, and forceful, but his in-
fluence may suffer through being too swift and sudden. The bril-
liancy conferred is sometimes fitful. The promise of youth remains
unfulfilled. Occasionally, it may occur that it is fulfilled in some
different way, it develops in some unexpected channel Thus the
qualities which brought Disraeli to the front were not at all those
which confirmed him when he had arrived. The peculiar quality of
high-strung and high-spirited character which this sign lends to
the Sun is better shown by such people as Charles I, Swinburne,
de Musset and Winston Churchill. William Blake's Sun was very
much stabilized by the conjunction of Mercury and Jupiter.
The native of Sagittarius seems never to be altogether in repose,
but always to be prepared to act. The temperament is exceedingly
proud and the taste exquisitely refined. There is often a kind of
wild shyness in these people, and they are sometimes rather difficult
to deal with, because they seem so ready to spring away, and van-
ish into the forest glades. This impression is, however, to some ex-
tent illusory, for their nature is essentially true and trustworthy,
but the thought of humiliation is maddening to them, and they
suffer the most intense pain over trifles which, to less sensitive peo-
ple, would cause hardly a moment's annoyance. They resent in-
tensely any form of pressure, almost as much so as in Leo, but
they are to be trusted to follow out their own aspirations in their
own way. If they say they will do a thing, they will not go back on
their word. The intuition of these people is extraordinarily good,
and their mistakes often come from not following it. No matter
what reason may say, they will err if they do not rather choose
to act on instinct, for, in them, instinct is so strong that it can never
be banished from the mind, and so acts as an inhibition when con-
tradicted. Similarly, these people are never fortunate in taking the
advice of others* They should trust their OWE initiative* Their
greatest successes are obtained when sudden emergency arises. Op-
portunity is to them the keynote of success in life* They are natu-
rally capable of extreme concentration, and cannot well do two
things at once. They must finish what they are doing before starting
anything else; if they once break off, they find it hard to resume.
SUN IN SAGITTARIUS 25
There is some danger that they may go to extremes and those tasks
which require patience and steady constructive force are distasteful
to them.
The general health is good, although there is some liability to
sudden attacks of nervous disorders, but the recuperative force is
strong. An open-air life appeals naturally to the native and he is
very fond of sports, especially those concerned with horses, dogs
and forms of hunting. He is lithe and active, usually an excellent
runner. The nature is free from any form of coarseness, and such
things disgust even more than we found to be the case with Libra.
This circumstance occasionally determines a rather peculiar atti-
tude in regard to all the natural functions of life, and individuals
with this position of the Sun are rarely normal in the sense in which
ordinary people understand that word. There is a great desire to
obtain the respect of others, and sometimes this may lead to a cer-
tain failure to live up to the best side of the character, for, to ac-
quire or to retain the respect of unworthy persons, one must either
be untrue to one's self or hypocritical. The personality is usually
extremely magnetic, and its bold, free, dashing character and great
brilliance often inspire the profoundest devotion.
Sagittarius rules the hips and thighs in particular, but all the
tendons of the muscular system in general. It has also some con-
nection with the motor impulses of the nervous system ; the diseases
of this sign are therefore sciatica, gout, hip disease, and some other
forms of lameness. However, more octogenarians are born with the
Sun in Sagittarius than in any other sign.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Sagittarius :
Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain)
Edith Cavell
Bishop Fallows
Reginald Vanderbilt
Queen Alexandra of England
Lillian Russell
Minnie Maddern Fiske
Harry Payne Whitney
Harold G. VHlard
26 ASTROLOGY
Newton D. Baker
William Durant
Thomas Coleman DuPont
Dr. Alexander Lambert
Arthur Brisbane
Fay Bainter
Louden Charlton
Marion Davies
Sally Farnham
Doris Keane
Helen Mencken
E. H. Sothern
Lou Tellegen
Lillian Westcott Hale
SUN IN CAPRICORN
THE Sun is in some respects stronger in Capricorn than in any other
sign, except Leo. He enters it at his annual re-birth, his rcKurroction
from the dead, and it is therefore a new beginning to his force. The
earthy, Saturnian, and Martial natures of the sign bring: out the
force of the Sun in the direction of practical energy. The capacity
for hard work is the first characteristic which we observe in the Cnp-
ricornus native. It is to he seen, in such tremendous workers ILH Ed-
ward VII, Pasteur, Gladstone, Wallace, Sir Isaac Pitman, ami Sir
Isaac Newton, The leaping nature of the goat and the cardinal
character of the sign also give the most tremendous power of initia-
tive, a quality illustrated well enough by the people already men-
tioned. The character is extremely noble and self-respect Is one
of its strongest qualities. It is to be remembered that flic natural
mundane position of Capricornus in the Zodiac is the Mid-heaven*
The Saturnian influence of the sign gives caution, prudence and
thrift, as well as great solidity and strength of moral character,
The native is very serious In disposition, with a strong sense of duty*
These qualities may sometimes be exaggerated and, become faults.
Steadiness, foresight, trustworthiness, fidelity, and conscientious-
ness are nearly always present. In estimating the action of the Sun,
SUN IN CAPRICORN 7
due regard must,, of course, be given to any afflictions, especially
those by Mars or Uranus. Alexander VI had few of the qualities
previously mentioned, but his Sun is squared by Uranus-
The constitution is usually of iron, capable of undergoing any
degree of hardship, with great resisting power against disease. It
is, therefore, next to ILeo and Sagittarius, one of the best of all
the signs for longevity. Capricornus governs the j oints, particularly
those of the knees, and has a general association with the bony
system. The chief danger to the native's health is in rheumatism
and in the tendency to over-indulgence in the appetites. He eats
greedily of hot or spicy food, preferring it to any other. The Satur-
nian tendency to melancholia is also a dangerous element in this
position of the Sun. Occasionally the morbidity of appetite leads,
from the creation of an abnormal thirst, to similar indiscretions in
regard to liquor. This, however, must be taken as a secondary and
derived condition. The fact that the worst drunkards are often
found to have the Sun in Capricorn comes largely from the mental
or physical depression caused by Saturn.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun
in the sign Capricorn :
Duke of Clarence of England
Carmen Sylva (Queen of Roumania)
General Joffre of France
Woodrow Wilson
General Carranza of Mexico
Admiral George Dewey
Perry Belmont
Rudolph Spreckels
Frank B, Kellogg
Mrs. Calvin Coolidge
Carter Glass
Christopher Grant LaFarge
Rtidyard Kipling
Josef Hoffman
David Starr Jordan
Sir Johnston Forbes-Robertson
Henry E. Dixey
28 ASTROLOGY
P. R. S. DuPont
Augustus Thomas
Harry Gordon Selfridge
Edward Nlcander
Eva LeGalllenne
Carl Jorn
Madame Lina Cavalierl
Herbert Brennon
SUN IN AQUARIUS
AatJAKius represents humanity progressing by the aid which it
gives to others. The woman is Isis Unveiled ; she pours forth science,
progress, nobility of thought and conduct, the wisdom of the stars,
giving freely to others, while she herself is refreshed and renewed
by that life-giving stream.
Before the discovery of Uranus in the eighteenth century, Sat-
urn was supposed to rule Aquarius, but it is now quite apparent
that Uranus is its lord, a domination which easily explains its signif-
ication of "the future.
9 '
In the consideration of the personal ap-
pearance under the discussion of the rising sign, we have noticed
the peculiar and sometimes rather disconcerting look of the eyes
of the native, as though the knowledge behind them were almost
uncanny to the average person. The constitution is generally Htron#,
though liable to sudden attacks of illness, which usually affect the
nerves, or arise from some obscure cause, thus showing the (Iranian
influence, but his temperate habits of life are generally a good safe*
guard against danger from these tendencies. The disposition Is
kind and generous ; the Aquarian cannot bear to see others uffer,
and he will often make great sacrifices in order to relieve them. His
judgment in practical things is not always sound, in the sense in
which that term is usually employed, as his vision enables him to
see too far ahead into the consequences to make his advice seem
justified at the moment. What he says comes true, but often only
after many vicissitudes. He judges on first principles and bed-rock
facts, and the influence of these, though always finally determinative,
may often be masked for a time by all kinds of accidents. To the
SUN IN AQUARIUS g9
average mind, therefore, the Aquarian often appears a dreamer,
for he lays his plans so far ahead that he himself may never live
to see them executed. Perhaps the most notable figure whose Sun
is in Aquarius is Abraham Lincoln; other examples are found in
Ruskin, Byron, Havelock Ellis, and Adelina Patti. A typical ex-
pression of the gospel of Aquarius is given by Thomas Paine, whose
Sun is in this sign, in his exclamation: "Every man a brother,
every woman a sister, the world my country, to do good my religion."
The Aquarian is inquiring by nature and very susceptible to the
illumination of inspiration, but he has no disinclination caused by
prejudice to accept any theory which has facts to support it. The
"impossible" has been carefully erased from his dictionary. The
mental poise is generally equable, and the sense of justice, as well
as that of causality, is very strong. The Aquarian is superior to
his environment; his surroundings do not limit him as they would
most people. Disappointment does not turn him from any plan,
once his mind is firmly made up to prosecute it. The intuition is
abnormally strong, truth is recognized by the native with great
ease; and in conjunction with this, frequently goes very remarkable
psychic power.
The mental poise of the Aquarian is so remarkable that he makes
an ideal consultant, whether in medicine, in law, or in other science.
People naturally go to him for advice; even the insane may feel
the steadying power of his influence and the self-mastery which
goes with it. In spite of all this, the native is modest and unassum-
ing, and his interest is not so much in himself as in his surround-
ings. It is this which makes him an admirable observer and success-
ful in science.
The Aquarian does not quickly make friends, but once his con-
fidence is given, there is never any doubt about his loyalty. He is
not easily approached on the physical plane. His bonds of attach-
ment are forged in the smithies of the soul and the mind. This, as
in the case of Libra and Sagittarius, may lead to the formation of
many very peculiar attachments. The circle of the native is never
likely to be conventional. He is happiest when he feels that he is
fulfilling his destiny of helping others.
Aquarius rules the calves of the leg, in particular, but it also
refers to the vessels of the body which carry fluid of any kind, par-
30 ASTROLOGY
ticularly the lymphatic system. There is danger of blood pressure
in later years, and arterio-sclerosis is not uncommonly the cause of
the native's death. Because the preponderant influence of its ruler
Uranus is upon the higher planes of mental and spiritual activity,
the greatest danger to the health of the native is apt to come through
neglect of the physical attributes of the body. He is disinclined to
take physical exercise but is overactivc mentally. His deep subjec-
tive knowledge, however, will not allow him to abuse his body, even
though he may be unmindful of it and consequently it is seldom
that his general health is seriously impaired.
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Aquarius :
Abraham Lincoln
Robert Burns
Sir Henry Irving
Mrs. {Catherine Craig
Victor Herbert
Bert Reese
Colonel George Harvey
George Randolph Chester
Jean Adrierme Juvserand
Thomas A. Edison
Olive Fremstad
Charles M. Schwab
Edward Sheldon
John Barrymore
Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh
Antonio Scotti
Pierre Lorillarcl
John D Rockefeller, Jr.
Franklin D. Roosevelt
Elihu P. Root
Louis C. Tiffany
Philip A. S. Franklin
Fritz Kreisler
Rev. Wm. D, Guthrie
George Jean Nathan
SUN IN PISCES SI
James F. Fargo
William Faversham
Frederick R. Coudert
William Allen White
Sinclair Lewis
Gatti-Cassazza
Maxine Elliott
Francis Wilson
SUN IN PISCES
THE influence of Pisces upon the Sun does not make specially for
strength, except in the last decanate, which is ruled by Mars. Other-
wise, there is a certain softness and placidity which diminish the
vitality. The Pisces type is extraordinarily psychic, more so than is
the case with that of any other sign, but this manifests itself in an
entirely passive way. The native depends upon intuition and im-
pressions generally, and the active qualities of the soul which make
the great mystic are rarely present. Rudolph Steiner is fortunate
enough to have aspects of Uranus, Saturn and Mars, which in-
crease his practical power. Picus de Mirandola is a more typical
example of this sign. Unless the dignities of the planets concerned
in this matter are extremely good, the native may suffer from il-
lusions and be led constantly astray. There is in him a notable lack
of correlation in practical details, and he is apt to leave things at
loose ends. His constructive power being psychic does not exactly
translate itself into the objective. In spite of this, however, there is a
great deal of practical good sense in the composition, but some-
times the native will be accused of hypocrisy, owing to the extreme
contrast between the idealism expressed and the course of action
undertaken, and people not similarly constituted may take it into
their heads to "read them a lesson," The native is inclined to self-
indulgence in emotional experience, and this in the undeveloped t$rpe
very often takes the form of the abuse of alcoholic liquors or even
occasionally of noxious drugs. This is partly due to the watery
nature of the sign, and its ruler, Neptune, and partly to the soft
and seductive influence of Venus, who is exalted in the sign* and to
its connection with the Moon.
There is a good deal of discontent in this sign, naturally caused
by such conflict between the aspirations and the expression of the
life. This often manifests itself in restlessness and in inattentive-
ness, and in attaching far too much importance to trifles, the least
of which often appears to them highly significant. Even in external
manner, the native, though seemingly calm upon the surface, is full
of tremor within, like the sea. The native is very fond of others
and may be so solicitous as to their well-being that the result will
often be trying to the recipient of his extreme devotion.
The constitution is, generally speaking, not particularly robust;
the general health is good, but there is a lack of power to resist
disease. The native is more susceptible than in almost any other
sign. Michael Angelo and Sir Richard Burton had magnificent con-
stitutions, but the Sun being in the last decanate of Pisces, the in-
fluence of Mars is able to correct the general weakness.
In the human, body, Pisces rules primarily the feet, but his action
extends throughout the whole body, over the lymph and all watery
secretions of an excretory character, such as mucus. The principal
diseases characteristic of this sign are oedema, ascitis, and dropsies
in general. Another very common disease associated with Pisces is
gout. In the consideration of Pisces as a rising sign, there is also
danger of tuberculosis if the system is allowed to become depleted,
The following well known persons were also born with the Sun in
the sign Pisces :
George Washington
Grover Cleveland
Victor Hugo
Ludwig II of Bavaria
Brander Mathews
William Jennings Bryan
William Dean Howells
Henry W. Savage
Enrico Caruso
Amelia Bingham
Rose Coghlan
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 33
Edward Stotesbury
Adolph S. Ochs
Margaret Deland
Percy A. Rockefeller
Isabel Irving
George H. Swift
Joseph E. Otis
Thomas Hastings
Oswald G. Villard
Van Hoogstraaten
Robert W. Goelet
Geraldine Farrar
Penrhyn Stanlaws
Mary Garden
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN
WILL BE AFFLICTED BY URANUS
THE Sun is the one heavenly body whose position is practically the
same at the same time in the year of any year. Consequently, in
this volume it is the only sphere that we have considered in making
predictions regarding the future. In order that the effects of Ur-
anus on the Sun may be fairly closely computed, the Sun has been
divided into three sections, of ten degrees each. This makes the cal-
culations as given within what is known as "orbs55
and therefore
sufficiently close to an aspect to make its effects distinctly felt. The
periods when Uranus will form an aspect to the Sun are tabulated
find will be found at the end of each sign. All aspects of Uranus
are very important as it takes eighty-four years for the planet to
make a revolution of the zodiac and fte unfriendly aspects tabu-
lated here will not be repeated for another twenty-one years.
Whenever the unconventional, revolutionary Uranus is un-
friendly to the Surt, it always marks an epoch in the life. This planet
is the herald of all movements which are in advance of the times and
causes worn-out customs and obsolete beliefs to be cast aside. In the
individual life, it tends to make one over-express oneself and has a
34 ASTROLOGY
very upsetting effect upon the nervous system, often causing" high
blood pressure* and giving rise to disorders obscure in origin, and
difficult for the ordinary physician to diagnose or cure. A simple
diet, plenty of sleep and fresh air, and congenial souls for com-
panions will do more than medicine toward establishing equilibrium
and overcoming the disorganizing influence of Uranus. It largely
depends upon the intelligence used In handling this dominant force
as to whether it will give Bolshevik tendencies or simply force issues,
to do unpopular things, or to try to accomplish the Impossible.
While under the influence of Uranus, schemers and unscrupulous
promoters will often bring to the attention "get-rich-quick" propo-
sitions. Even If their motives be friendly, they may be self-deceived
and their advice unreliable. This planet causes one to be at cross-
roads, and the decision made while under Its sway will very materially
affect the future. It should be realized that lack of harmony, restless-
ness, discontent and dissatisfaction with existing conditions will be
largely due to a craving for new experience and for greater oppor-
tunities for self-expression- It will be most unwise to set the personal
will against the Universal Will ; one should rather make the most of
the opportunities which Fate presents, and should not be surprised If
one almost attains many things which, at the last moment, escape
one.
This combination often causes sudden deaths, separations, and
broken friendships, either in family or business life. One should
listen to the Inner promptings, make only necessary decisions, and,
when order is again established, a higher plane of consciousness will
be reached and It will be possible to use the added power with in-
creased intelligence. Consequently, one should have no fear of any
change or experience which comes about naturally during an afflic-
tion of Uranus to the Sun.
To unmarried women, It often brings temptation, either from
married men or from those who are utterly unworthy* It is not a
favorable vibration under which to become engaged or to marry.
Married women are usually worried over the husband's affaire or
frequently suffer a separation from the husband, because of mis-
understandings, sudden death or divorce.
The greatest self-control in all matters must be exercised when
under the Influence of this erratic planet.
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 35,
Children passing through this affliction will naturally feel its
effects more through what happens to the parents, particularly the
father, or in the family, although it tends to make them contrary
and to bring to the fore characteristics which have hitherto not been
expressed. It will cause a child to suddenly feel very mature,, and the
greatest sympathy and understanding should be exercised, for if
children who are under this affliction imagine that they are being
forced to do things simply because others arbitrarily desire it, they
will display a rebellious spirit. Children of their own age will not
interest them at such periods, and they may be fascinated by older
people, and temporarily feel very much out of tune with their own
family. Everything should be done to help them to keep their poise
and be happy, as Uranus tends to intensify the whole being. Should
there be an epidemic of any of the children's diseases, particularly
those affecting the nervous system, these children should be pro-
tected most carefully and removed from the neighborhood, if it is
at all possible.
It is well to bear in mind that Uranus is an exhilarating, quick-
ening and original force which, if utilized constructively, can bring
the most soul-stirring and mundane experiences ; but if it is allowed
to be unrestrained, or is not wisely guided, it can then bring the most
devastating results. Its influence is always far-reaching, and it there-
fore behooves all who are under it, temporarily, to realize the im-
portance of its effect and to try to maintain harmony within
themselves, even though everything about them may be chaotic and
difficult to control.
When the Sun is in Aries and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
there will be a tendency towards too great enthusiasm and im-
patience of all prescribed methods. Unless moderation and practi-
cality are exercised, there will be danger of over-taxing the nervous
and psychic powers and this may result in queer or neuralgic pains
in the head and face, and sympathetically the stomach and kidneys.
A change of scene or associates, as well as outdoor exercise, plenty of
sleep, and a simple diet, will do much to keep the health normal and
to restore mental and physical equilibrium.
Those born from March 21st to April 1st will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
36 ASTROLOGY
1929 From January through May, again from October through
December
1930 During first two months
1948 From September through November
1949 From June through December
1950 Entire year
1951 From January through June
1968 October, November and December
1969 Entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
1988 From March through June,, and again in December
1989 Entire year
1990 Entire year
Those born from April 1st to llth will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1929 From June through September
1930 From March through December
1931 Entire year
1932 First four months
1933 January
1951 From July through December
1952 Entire year
1953 From January through July
1954 March, April and May
1970 November and December
1971 From January through May, again from August through
December
1972 From January through October
1973 June and July
1991 Entire year
1992 Entire year
1993 January, again from August through November
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 37
Those born from April llth to 21st will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making* revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1933 From February through December
1934 From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
,1953 From August through December
1954 January, February, and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 From March through May
1972 November and December
1973 From January through May, again August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
1993 From February through July3 again in December
1994 Entire year
1995 From January through March and from July through
December
1996 January
When the Sun is in Taurus and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
every effort should be made to be relaxed and composed physically
and mentally. There may be a tendency to indulge in excessive grati-
fication of the senses, and those who are under this affliction must
try not to allow their determined, stubborn will to drive them too
hard, if they hope to avoid suffering from nervous cough, headache
at the base of the brain, and general nervous debility ; and sympa-
thetically they may suffer from irregular heart action, neuralgic
pains in the generative organs, cramps in the calves, and creepy sen-
sations in the skin. They should strive to be adaptable and take
things as they come day by day, as this will be a great safeguard
against ill-health or the most baneful effects of the affliction of
Uranus.
38 ASTROLOGY
Those born from April 21st to May 1st will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 Entire year
1937 From January through April
1955 From September through December
1956 January, February, and from June, through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1974 December
1975 From January through May, again from September
through December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
1995 From April through June
1996 From February through December
1997 Entire year
1998 January, February, and from September through
December
Those born from May 1st to llth, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 Entire year
1939 -From January through June and again in December
1940 From January through March
1967 From October through December
1958 January, and again from July through December
1959 From January through September
1960 From February through July
1976 December
1977 Prom January through May, again from October through
December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 39
1978 Entire year
1979 From May through October
1998 From March through August
1999 Entire year
2000 From January through March, and from August through
December
2001 January
Those born from May llth to 21st, will be strongly under the
Influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1939 From July through November
1940 From April through December
1941 From January through July, also November and
December
1942 From January through May
1959 From October through December
1960 January, again from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962- From February through July
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 Entire year
1981 January, again from May through November
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Gemini and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
every effort should be made to avoid restlessness, to cultivate con-
tentment and to give the entire attention to one thing at a time.
Otherwise, those people who are under this affliction are likely to
become depleted nervously and, if they disregard Nature's warn-
ings, in time they will suffer from a nervous breakdown. One of the
first signs of such a condition would be insomnia, neuritis or rheu-
matism, which might affect the hands, arms or shoulders, and
sympathetically colic in the intestines, nervous sciatica, lumbago,
nervous gout, and neuralgic pains in the feet or toes. Under this
4<0 ASTROLOGY
affliction, variety of occupation and pleasure is as essential to the
well-being, as plenty of sleep and exercise in the fresh air.
Those born from May 21st to June 1st will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus* during
the following periods :
1941 From August through October
1942 From June through December
1943 Entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1961 November and December
1962 January, again from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1981 February, March, April, and December
1982 Entire year
1983 Entire year
Those born from June 1st to llth will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1944 From July through December
1945 January, again from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1963 December
1964 January, and again from September through December
1965 Entire year
1966 From February through September
1986 From August through October
Those born from June llth to 22nd will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 41
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1966 January, again from October through December
1967 Entire year
1968 From January through September
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 Entire year
1988 January and February, also from July through November
When the Sun is in Cancer and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
the appetite is likely to be very capricious, and in order to stimulate
it, food must be very daintily prepared, if possible, and variety and
frequent changes of diet be taken. If subjected to nervous emotion
or shock, those who are under this affliction are likely to suffer from
nervous dyspepsia. When physically exhausted or mentally agi-
tated, an excess of acid is thrown into the stomach. In extreme cases
of such distress, immediate relief may be experienced by using a
small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, together with a large quan-
tity of lukewarm water and by emptying the stomach by induced
regurgitation. Neglect of acidity could result in ulcers of the
stomach. Sympathetically, these people could suffer from neuralgic
pains in the kidneys, (and ovaries in a woman), nervous headaches,
and pains in the knees. Cancer has much influence on the solar-
plexus ; therefore, when Uranus is afflicting the Sun in this sign, it
makes one very intuitive and susceptible to psychic influences. Re-
peated disregard of the intuitions or giving way to false fears or
apprehensions could result in obsessions.
Those born from June nd to July 1st will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1929 From January through May, also from October through
December
1930 During first two months
1948 From September through November
43 ASTROLOGY
1949 From June through December
1950 Entire year
1951 From January through June
1968 October, November, December
1969 Entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
1988 From March through June, also December
1989 Entire year
1990 Entire year
Those born from July 1st to llth, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1939 From June through September
1930 From March through December
1931 Entire year
1933 First four months
1933 January
1951- From July through December
1953 Entire year
1958 -From January through July
1954 March, April and May
1970 November and December
1971' From January through May, from August through
December
1973 From January through October
1973 June and July
1991 Entire year
1993 Entire year
1993 January, again from August through November
Those born from July llth to 22nd, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1933 From May through December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 48
1933 From February through December
1934 From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
1953 From August through December
1954 January, February, and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 From March through May
1972 November and December
1973 From January through May, and from August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
1993 From February through July, again in December
1994 Entire year
1995 From January through March, and from July through
December
1996 January
When the Sun is in Leo and temporarily afflicted by Uranus, an
effort should be made to avoid being over-ambitious and over-
enthusiastic. If those who are under this affliction allow themselves
to become run down, or in case of nervous shock, they may suffer
from an intermittent or erratic heart. If, however, they do not over-
tax this organ by undue strain of the psychic forces, they need have
no serious trouble. Should they suffer from a pain in the back, this
will usually be a warning that they are becoming exhausted phys-
ically, and they should try and have a change of environment or
associates. Sympathetically, these people may suffer from irritation
of the throat, nervous pains in the generative organs, swollen ankles,
cramps in the calves and supersensitiveness of the skin.
Those bom from July 22nd to August 1st will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 Entire year
44 ASTROLOGY
1937 From January through April
1955 From September through December
1956 January, February, and from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1974 December
1975 From January through May, again September through
December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
1995 From April through June
1996 From February through December
1997 Entire year
1998 January and February, again from September through
December
Those born from August 1st to 12th, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 Entire year
1939 From January through June, again in December
1940 From January through March
1957 From October through December
1958 January, and from July through December
1959 From January through September
1960 From February through July
1976 December
1977 From January through May, and from October through
December
1978 Entire year
1979 From May through October
1998 From March through August
1999 Entire year
aOOO From January through March, and from August through
December
2001 January
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 45
Those born from August 12th to 23rd?
will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus* during
the following periods :
1939 From July through November
1940 From April through December
1941 From January through July, also November and
December
194*2 From January through May
1959 From October through December
1960 January, also from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 Entire year
1981 January, also from May through November
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Virgo and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
every effort should be made to avoid being over-critical and too
fastidious by those who are under this affliction. They should also
avoid being too sarcastic or too analytical. When they are run down
or forced to associate with those who get on their nerves, or, in case
of any great nervous shock, they may suffer from queer sensations
in the abdomen or from colic. They should be careful of the water
they drink, particularly when abroad, and of the vegetables they eat,
if they chance to be in the Orient. Sympathetically, these people
could suffer from insomnia and neuritis in shoulders, arms and
hands, nervous sciatica or lumbago, nervous gout and neuralgic
pains in feet or toes. Ruptures or strains should be guarded against.
Those born from August 23rd to September 3rd will be strongly
under the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet
Uranus, during the following periods :
194*1 From August through October
1942 From June through December
46 ASTROLOGY
1943 Entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1961 November and December
196S January, again from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1981 February, March, April9 and December
1982 Entire year
1983 Entire year
Those born from September 3rd to 18th, will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1944 From July through December
1945 January, and from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1963 December
1964 January, again from September through December
1965 Entire year
1966 Prom February through September
,1984 Entire year
1985 Entire year
1986 From August through October
Those born from September 12th to $8rd, will be strongly under
the Influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August* also December
1949 From January through May
1966 January, again from October through December
1967 Entire year
1968 From January through September
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 4fr
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 Entire year
1988 January and February, also from July through November
When the Sun is in Libra and temporarily afflicted by Uranus, it
will be necessary for those who are under this affliction to avoid
supersensitiveness and being too esthetic or emotional. If obliged to
associate with people whose magnetic aura is not sympathetic with
their own, this would have a harmful effect on their psychic nervous
system. If they happen to have an uncongenial marriage partner,
then the incompatibility would upset their psychic condition in an
alarming manner during this affliction. If run. down, or in case of
nervous shock, these people may suffer from pains difficult to de-
scribe. They may receive the quickest relief from a complete rest and
through associating with congenial people and by being in happy
surroundings. In case of strain, the back, particularly the lower
part, and the kidneys, (as well as the ovaries in a woman), are most
likely to suffer. These people should avoid violent exercises and
guard against falls, for any unusual physical strain is likely to
aggravate a tendency to floating kidney or suppression of urine.
Sympathetically, they may suffer from neuralgic pains in the head,
nervous indigestion, and pains in the knees.
Those born from September 23rd to October 3rd will be strongly
under the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet
Uranus during the following periods :
1929 From January through May, also from October through
December
1930 During first two months
1948 From September through November
1949 From June through December
1950 Entire year
1951 From January through June
19g8 October, November and December
1969 Entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
48 ASTROLOGY
1988 From March through June, also December
1989 Entire year
1990 Entire year
Those bom from October 3rd to 13th, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods:
19S9 From June through September
1930 From March through December
1931 Entire year
193$ During first four months
1933 January
1951 From July through December
195& Entire year
1953 From January through July
1954 March, April and May
1970 November and December
1971 January through May, again from August through
December
197$ From January through October
1973 June and July
1991 Entire year
199^ Entire year
1993 January, and from August through November
Those born from October 13th to @3rd, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus* during
the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1983 Prom February through December
1934 Prom January through May, also November and
December
1935 January through March
1953 From August through December
1954 January, February, and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 From March through May
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 4&
1972 November and December
1973 From January through May, again from August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
1993 From February through July, and again in December
1994 Entire year
1995 From January through March, again from July through
December
1996 January
When the Sun is in Scorpio and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
every effort should be made by those who are under its affliction to
avoid being too bohemian, too self-centered, too passionate, and too
anarchistic. It is most necessary that they have a normal outlet for
their emotions, otherwise their sex lure may cause them to have
temptations which, if indulged in to extremes, will injure their
health and cause criticism that might injure their business interests,
When Uranus is afflicting their Sun, they are likely to suffer from
spasmodic action of the bladder and from neuralgic pains in the
uterus (with a woman). Sympathetically, they could suffer from
nervous coughs, irregular heart action, pains in the calves, and
creepy sensations in the skin.
Those born from October 23rd to November 2nd will be strongly
under the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet
Uranus, during the following periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 Entire year
1937 From January through April
1955 From September through December
1956 January, February, and from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1 974 December
1976 From January through May, again from September
through December
50 ASTROLOGY
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
1995 From April through June
1996 From February through December
1997 Entire year
1998 January and February, again from September through
December
Those born from November 2nd to 13th, will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 Entire year
1939 From January through June again in December
1940 From January through March
1957 From October through December
1958 January, again from July through December
1959 From January through September
I960 From February through July
1976 December
1977 From January through May, again from October through
December
1978 Entire year
1979 From May through October
1998 From March through August
1999 Entire year
2000 -From January through March, again from August
through December
2001 January
Those born from November 12th to 22nd will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,,
during the following periods :
1939 From July through November
1940 From April through December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 51
1941 From January through July? also November and
December
1942 From January through May
1959 From October through December
1960 January, and again from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 Entire year
1981 January, again from May through November
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Sagittarius and temporarily afflicted by
Uranus, it would be well for those who are under this affliction to
avoid being fanatical on religious subjects, or going to extremes in
any direction. Should a balance not be maintained between the
psychic and physical, they may suffer from nervous sciatica, lum-
bago, or some form of rheumatism, and sympathetically from
insomnia, neuritis of shoulders, arms and hands ; also from colic of
the intestines, nervous gout, neuralgic pains in the feet, particularly
the toes. If, however, they keep normal and do not disregard
Nature's warnings, there is no reason why they should feel as many
ill-effects through the affliction of Uranus as is the case with the Sun
in Scorpio. The affliction will have much more bearing on other de-
partments of the life, than on health. It may stimulate the humani-
tarian, intuitive, prophetic, scientific and philosophical qualities and
work out to their advantage, provided they avoid going to extremes.
Those born from November 22nd to December 2nd will be
strongly under the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary
planet Uranus, during the following periods :
1941 From August through October
1942 From June through December
1943 Entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
52 ASTROLOGY
1961 November and December
1962 Januarys again from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1981 February, March, April and December
1982 Entire year
1983 Entire year
Those born from December 2nd to 12th, will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1944 From July through December
1945 January, and again from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1963 December
1964 January, and again from September through December
1965 Entire year
1966 From February through September
1984 Entire year
1985 Entire year
1986 From August through October
Those born from December 12th to 21st, will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1966 -January, and again from October through December
1967 Entire year
1968 From January through September
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 Entire year
1988- January and February, also from July through November
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 53
When the Sun is In Capricorn and temporarily afflicted by
Uranus, it will be necessary for those who are under this affliction
to avoid too great extremes in mental reactions and to select a bal-
anced diet, otherwise they are likely to have a craving for liquor or
condiments and to suffer from digestive disorders, troubles with the
knees, and sympathetically from nervous headaches, spasmodic pains
in the kidneys of both sexes (and the ovaries in the case of women).
Those who are under the affliction of Uranus should realize that
their extremes of mood are largely due to the influence of this erratic
planet, that they will soon pass, and that they must not take them-
selves or life too seriously, or exaggerate the importance of fancied
slights or impositions.
Those born from December 21st to January 1st will be strongly
under the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet
Uranus, during the following periods :
1929 From January through May, and again from October
through December
1930 During first two months
194*8 From September through November
1949 From June through December
1950 Entire year
1951 From January through June
1968 October, November, and December
1969 Entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
1988 From March through June, and again in December
1989 Entire year
1990 Entire year
Those born from January 1st to 10th, will be strongly under the
Influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1929 From June through September
19gO From March through December
1931 Entire year
193g During first four months
54 ASTROLOGY
1933 January
1951 Last half of year
1952 Entire year
1953 From January through July
1954 March, April, May
1970 November and December
1971 From January through May, again from August through
December
1972 From January through October
1973 June and July
1991 Entire year
1992 Entire year
1993 January, and again from August through November
Those born from January 10th to SOth, will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1933 From February through December
1984} From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
1958 From August through December
1954 -January, February, and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 From March through May
197& November and December
1973 From January through May, again from August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 ^June, July and August
1993 *From February through July, and again in December
1994-^Bntire year
1995 -From January through March, and again from July
through December
1996 January
When the Sun is in Aquarius and temporarily afflicted by Uranus,
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 55
there will be less danger of those who are under this affliction feeling
any ill effects from it, because of the extraordinary poise given by
Aquarius. They are likely to so govern their lives as to avoid the
indiscretions which are frequently responsible for much ill-health.
Any physical disorders which overtake them when under the afflic-
tion of Uranus may be largely due to being forced to associate with
those they naturally dislike or to live in an environment which is
distasteful to them. Fortunately, they have the ability to detect at
once whether or not they would be congenial with those who cross
their path. When out of balance physically, they could suffer from
swollen ankles, cramps in the calves, varicose veins and creepy sen-
sations of the skin, and sympathetically from irregular heart action,
nervous irritation in the throat, and neuralgic pains in the organs of
generation.
Those born from January 20th to 30th, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 Entire year
1937 From January through April
1955 From September through December
1956 January, February, and from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1974 December
1975 From January through May, again from September
through December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
1995 From April through June
1996 From February through December
1997 Entire year
1998 January and February, again from September through
December
Those born from January 30th to February 9th, will be strongly
56 ASTROLOGY
under the influence of the epoch-making* revolutionary planet
Uranus, during the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 Entire year
1939 From January through June, and again in December
1940 From January through March
1957 From October through December
1958 January, and again from July through December
1959 From January through September
1960 From February through July
1976 December
1977 From January through May? and again from October
through December
1978 Entire year
1979 From May through October
1998 From March through August
1999 Entire year
2000 From January through March, and again from August
through December
2001 January
Those born from February 9th to 19th, will be strongly under
the influence of the epoch-making-, revolutionary planet Uranus,
during the following periods :
1939 From July through November
1940 From April through December
1941 From January through July, also November and
December
1942 From January through May
1959 From October through December
1960 January, and again from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 Entire year
1981 January, and again from May through November
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY URANUS 57
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Pisces and temporarily afflicted by Uranus
those who are under its affliction should avoid doing anything which
upsets them psychically,, as it takes only a trifle to disturb their
nervous system and to cause them to suffer from imaginary ailments.
When under this planet, they are likely to be thrown out of balance
physically or psychically and to suffer from nervous tumors, gout,
neuralgic pains in the feet, particularly the toes, and from a drop-
sical condition; sympathetically they may suffer from colic in the
intestines, short breath, nervous pains in the hips and thighs, and
lumbago. The tendency for those born with the Sun in Pisces to
waste their nervous force and not to coordinate or concentrate on
some one matter at a time, will be very much exaggerated during an
affliction of Uranus to the Sun, and it will require the greatest will-
power and self-control if the force is to be directed and controlled.
Those born from February 19th to March 1st, will be strongly
under the influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet
Uranus, during the following periods :
194*1 From August through October
194S From June through December
1943 Entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1961 November and December
1963 January, and again from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1981 February, March, April and December
198$ Entire year
1983 Entire year
Those born from March 1st to 10th, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1944 From July through December
58 ASTROLOGY
1945 January, and again from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1963 December
1964 January, and again from September through December
1965 Entire year
I960 From February through September
1984 Entire year
1985 Entire year
1986 From August through October
Those born from March 10th to 21st, will be strongly under the
influence of the epoch-making, revolutionary planet Uranus, during
the following periods :
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1966 January, and again from October through December
1967 Entire year
1968 From January through September
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 Entire year
1988 January and February, also from July through November
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE BENEFICENTLY
ASPECTED BY URANUS
THE Sun is the one heavenly body whose position is practically the
same at the same time in the year of any year. Consequently, In this
volume it is the only sphere that we have considered In making pre-
dictions regarding the future. In order that the effects of the
friendly aspect of Uranus on the Sun may be fairly closely com-
puted, the Sun has been divided into three sections, of ten degrees
each. This makes the calculations as given, within what is known as
"orbs," and therefore sufficiently close to an aspect to make its
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 59
effects distinctly felt. The periods when Uranus will be in friendly
aspect to the Sun are tabulated and will be found at the end of each
sign. All aspects of Uranus are very important, as it takes eighty-
four years for the planet to make a revolution of the zodiac, and it
forms a friendly aspect about once in every fourteen years.
Whenever the unconventional revolutionary Uranus is in
friendly aspect to the Sun, it has a very powerful influence for good
and is very far reaching in its effects. Just as Uranus being un-
friendly to the Sun stirs one's nature to the depths, but with danger
of going to extremes and working much as does a cyclone i. e. tears
down in order to rebuild the friendly or harmonious vibration of
Uranus enables one to build without first destroying- It causes one's
sympathies to be broadened, adds efficiency, and the whole nature is
harmoniously attuned to the highest pitch attainable up to this time.
Those enjoying a friendly aspect of Uranus to the Sun should feel
a sense of power, and awakened energy which will give them a con-
viction of success that will be felt by others and which will help them
to put over whatever they undertake. These will be the most pro-
pitious times for having dealings with people of unusual and highly
original ability, and with those who are in power, especially if in-
volved in public affairs or in important movements connected with
the community. The friendly aspect of Uranus to the Sun often
brings unexpected opportunities of a high order from unusual
sources or from strangers, and frequently out of a clear sky.
When under this aspect, the single woman should set her stage
and do everything within her power to place herself under the most
favorable conditions for meeting the type of man she would desire
to marry. She should not take too lightly any opportunities for
meeting men or for benefitting through them while under this aspect,
for although she will experience other favorable vibrations from
time to time, this particular aspect, as stated above, will not occur
again for another fourteen years. Remember to "choose not alone a
proper mate, but proper time to marry."
The married woman can expect increased success for her hus-
band, as well as for herself, if she has any interests apart from the
home. If she leads a purely domestic life, then she may have the
desire to launch out into an enterprise of her own, because of her
increased urge for self-expression. This may manifest itself simply
60 ASTROLOGY
in the desire to build a new home or to make improvements in her
surroundings. If by any chance her husband is in politics or con-
nected with any philanthropic or communal movements, she should
do everything in her power to encourage him and aid him in this
direction* realizing that efforts made under these vibrations stand a
much better chance of meeting with success than will be the case
again for many years.
Both men and women, will not only be in harmony with their better
selves, but also in more sympathetic relation with all those who
touch their lives at these particular periods. They should cultivate
friends they may chance to meet, as they are likely to prove fortu-
nate through being in a position of influence or power or because
they have a desire to do so. Unless already satisfactorily placed in
life, these would-be very constructive and fortunate periods for em-
barking on any new undertakings and for enlarging one's activities
already under way, as well as for finding one's niche in the Universe.
One should not, however, set one's will against the Universal Will,
but try to realize as never before, the power of an intelligent non-
resistance. One should feel that any changes which come about
naturally are for one's ultimate good, but one should not force issues
against what seems to be the natural order of things.
In the case of children, the benefits experienced when under the
constructive aspect of Uranus arc naturally more likely to be felt
through the family, especially the father, or some other man inti-
mately connected in the destiny. Such a man may meet with rapid
or unexpected advancement or have some unusual honor bestowed
upon him. Children will experience quite remarkable interior de-
velopment and, In spite of the fact of their youth, they will be filled,
as never before, with a desire to express themselves and to work
things out in their own way. They should be encouraged in original-
ity, provided with the opportunity to enjoy their own pleasures in
their own way, and be allowed all possible freedom, m under this
aspect they will just naturally be wise in their decisions* They must
be made to understand, however, that there is no royal road to either
wisdom or success and they should be taught that all Fate can do is
to bring opportunity and it is for them to make wise use of it*
When the Sun is in Aries and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, any original qualities which the person born tinder this
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 61
sign may possess will be stimulated. Those who are feeling its effect
may have a greater urge for doing pioneer work and for breaking
down limitations within themselves (but in a constructive way) than
will be the case again for another fourteen years.
Those born from March 21st to April 1st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1941 From August through October
1942 From June through December
1943 The entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1955 From September through December
1956 January and February and from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1981 February, March, April and December
1982 The entire year
1983 The entire year
1995 April, May and June
1996 From February through December
1997 The entire year
1998 January and February and from September through
December
Those born from April 1st to llth will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods:
1944 From July through December
1945 January and from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1957 October, November and December
1958 January and from July through December
1959 From January through September
1960 From February through July
X984 The entire year
1985 The entire year
62 ASTROLOGY
1986 August, September and October
1998 From March through August
1999 The entire year
2000 January, February and March and August through
December
S001 January
Those born from April llth to the 21st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1959 October, November and December
1:960 January and from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 The entire year
1988 January and February and from July through November
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Taurus and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, the constructive qualities which the sign implies will be
stimulated. Those who are feeling its effects will find it less difficult
to cooperate with others and to bend their dominant will to that of
the Universe. In consequence, tasks which they have hitherto found
it impossible to complete* will seem to be accomplished with greater
ease.
Those born from April 21st to May 1st will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1948 From September through November
1949 Prom June through December
1950 The entire year
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 63
1951 From January through June
1961 November and December
1968 January and from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1988 From March through June, also December
1989 The entire year
1990 The entire year
Those born from May 1st to llth will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1951 From July through December
1952 The entire year
1953 From January through July
1954* March, April and May
1963 December
1964 January and from September through December
1965 The entire year
1966 From February through September
1991 The entire year
1992 The entire year
1993 January and from August through November
Those born from May llth to the 22nd will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1953 From August through December
1954 January and February and from June through December
1955 From January through. August
1956 March, April and May
1966 January and October, November and December
1967 The entire year
1968 From January through September
1993 From February through July, also December
1994 The entire year
1995 From January through March and from July through
December
1996 January
64 ASTROLOGY
When the Sun is In Gemini and temporarily beneticently aspected
by Uranus, any original qualities which the person bora under this
sign may possess will be stimulated. The versatility given by Gemini
will be more readily directed in some one channel when under this
aspect, and there will be less dissatisfaction with existing conditions
and more constructive work likely to be accomplished and with less
effort.
Those born from May 21st to June 1st will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1929 From January through May, also October, November and
December
1930 January and February
1955 From September through December
1956 January and February and from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1968 October, November and December
1969 The entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
1995 From April through June
1996 From February through December
1997 The entire year
1998 January and February and from September through
December
Those born from June 1st to the llth will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods;
1929 From June through September
1980 From March through December
1931 The entire year
1932 From January through April
1933 January
1957 October, November and December
1958 January and from July through December
1959 From January through September
I960 From February through July
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 65
1970 November and December
1971 From January through May and from August through
December
1972 From January through October
1973 June and July
1998 From March through August
1999 The entire year
2000 January, February and March and from August through
December
2001 January
Those born from June llth to the 22nd will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1933 From February through December
1934 From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
1959 October, November and December
1960 January and from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1972 November and December
1973 From January through May and from August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Cancer and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, the subjective qualities of the sign Cancer will be stimu-
lated and in a constructive manner. Those who are feeling its effects
may have a broader outlook on life and because of this become less
conventional and less wedded to old customs and beliefs. They may
become more impersonal and less sensitive, and consequently ac-
complish more in their own field and be a greater comfort to their
friends and associates.
66 ASTROLOGY
Those born from June 22nd to July 1st will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 The entire year
1937 From January through April
1961 November and December
1962 January and from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1974 December
1975 From January through May, and from September
through December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
Those born from July 1st to the llth will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1988 The entire year
1939 From January through June^ also December
1940 From January through March
1963 December
1964 January, and from September through December
1965 The entire year
1966- From February through September
1976 December
1977 From January through May^ also October, November and
December
1978 The entire year
1979 From May through October
Those born from July llth to the 2nd will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1939 From July through November
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 6^
1940 From April through December
1941 From January through July* also November and
December
1942 From January through May
1966 January, October, November and December
1967 The entire year
1968 From January through September
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 The entire year
1981 January and from May through November
When the Sun is in Leo and temporarily beneficently aspected by
Uranus, any executive qualities which the sign Leo implies will be
enhanced. Those who are feeling its effects will find it possible at
these times to carry to a successful conclusion ambitions which they
have long cherished but hitherto found difficult or even impossible
of accomplishment. Even the tendency to be too dictatorial which is
one of the faults of the Leo type will not be resented, as at these
periods the person born under Leo will be more diplomatic and less
offensive in his manner of approach.
Those born from July 22nd to August 1st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1929 From January through May, also October, November and
December
1980 January and February
1941 From August through October
1942 From June through December
1943 The entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1968 October, November and December
1969 The entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
1981 From February through April, also December
1982 The entire year
68 ASTROLOGY
1983 The entire year
Those born from August 1st to the 12th will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1929 From June through September
1930 From March through December
1931 The entire year
193S From January through April
1933 January
1944 From July through December
1945 January and from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1970 November and December
1971 From January through May and from August through
December
1972 From January through October
1973 June and July
1984 The entire year
1985 The entire year
1986 From August through October
Those born from August 12th to the 3rd will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1933 From February through December
1934 -From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
1946 From August through December
1947 -From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1972 November and December
1978 From January through May, also from Augunt through
December
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 69
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 The entire year
1988 January and February and from July through November
When the Sun Is in Virgo and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, the most desirable qualities which the sign Virgo implies
will be stimulated. Those who are inclined to be too analytical and
too critical will, temporarily at least, be more sympathetic, more
tolerant and less offensive to those who look upon them as purists.
If their work is along mental lines, then the influence of Uranus will
make them more original and more romantic. If engaged in manu-
facturing, building or mining, then they may have brought to their
attention schemes for developing large properties, for merging huge
enterprises and for opening up the natural resources of the country.
Those born from August 33rd to September 3rd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 The entire year
1937 From January through April
194$ September, October and November
1949 From June through December
1950 The entire year
1951- From January through June
1 974 -December
1975 From January through May and from September through
December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
1988 From March through June, also December
1989 The entire year
1990 The entire year
70 ASTROLOGY
Those born from September 3rd to the 12th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 The entire year
1939 From January through June, also December
1940 January, February and March
1951 From July through December
1952 The entire year
1953 From January through July
1954 March, April and May
1 976 December
1977 From January through May, also October, November and
December
1978 The entire year
1979 From May through October
1991 The entire year
1992 The entire year
1993 January and from August through November
Those born from September 12th to the 23rd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
1939 From July through November
From April through December
1 From January through July, also November and
December
1942 -From January through May
1953 From August through December
1954 January and February and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 From March through May
,1979 From January through April* also November and
December
1980 The entire year
1981 January, and from May through November
1993 From February through July, also December
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 71
1994 The entire year
1995 January, February and March and from July through
December
1996 January
When the Sun Is in Libra and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, the equitable qualities which the sign Libra implies will
be stimulated. It all depends upon the type of endeavor, whether it
be professional, technical or artistic, as to how the Libra type who
will be under this influence, will be benefitted by it. In any case, the
more nearly universal he can make his interests, the greater will be
his chances for getting the most from these vibrations.
Those born from September 33rd to October 3rd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
1941 From August through October
1942 From June through December
1943 The entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1955 From September through December
1956 January and February also from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
19S1 From February through April, also December
1982 The entire year
1983 The entire year
1995 April, May and June
1996-From February through December
1997 The entire year
iggg January and February and from September through
December
Those born from October 3rd to the 13th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1944 From July through December
1945 January and from April through December
72 ASTROLOGY
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1957 October, November and December
1958 January and from July through December
1959 From January through September
1960 From February through July
1984 The entire year
1985 The entire year
1986 From August through October
1998 From March through August
1999 The entire year
2000 From January through March and from August through
December
2001 January
Those born from October 13th to the 23rd will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1959 October, November and December
1960 January and from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 The entire year
1988 January and February and from July through November
2000 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun is in Scorpio and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, the less desirable qualities of this sign will temporarily
be held in abeyance and the more impersonal and unselfish qualities
will be stimulated. Surgeons, chemists, executives and inventors will
be particularly inspired to do better work when under this influence
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 73
of Uranus. All those born under Scorpio will feel a greater urge for
constructive accomplishment and will meet with more ready success
at these periods.
Those born from October 23rd to November 2nd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
1948 September, October and November
1949 From June through December
1950 The entire year
1951 From January through June
1961 November and December
1962 January and from August through December
1963 From January through November
1964 From February through August
1988 From March through June, also December
1989 The entire year
1990 The entire year
Those born from November 2nd to the 12th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1951 From July through December
1952 The entire year
1953 From January through July
1954 March, April and May
1963 December
1964 January and from September through December
1965 The entire year
1966 From February through September
1991 The entire year
1992 The entire year
1993 January and from August through November
Those born from November 12th to the 22nd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
74 ASTROLOGY
1953 From August through December
1954, January and February and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 March, April and May
1966 January,, also October, November and December
1967 The entire year
1968 From January through September
1993 From February through July,, also December
199* The entire year
1995 From January through March and from July through
December
1 99^ January
When the Sun is In Sagittarius and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Uranus, the more generous and prophetic qualities which
this sign implies will be augmented. While at all times those who are
born strongly under the influence of this sign are generally actuated
by high motives and attracted to large enterprises, when they come
under a friendly Uranus aspect they will be fired with a desire to do
greater things and Fate will seem to assist them to this end* In some
cases this may come about through the influence of powerful people
and at other times because there will seem to be no obstacles, delays
or other annoying: conditions to beset the path.
Those born from November 2nd to December &nd will be
strongly under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the follow-
ing periods :
19&9 From January through May, also October, November and
December
1930 January and February
1955 From September through December
1956 January and February and from June through December
1957 From January through September
1958 From February through June
1968 October, November and December
1969 The entire year
1970 From January through October
1971 June and July
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 75
1995 April, May and June
1996 From February through December
1997 The entire year
1998 January and February and from September through
December
Those born from December 2nd to the 12th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1929 From June through September
1930 From March through December
1931 The entire year
1932 From January through April
1933 January
1957 October, November and December
1958 January and from July through December
1959 From January through September
1960 From February through July
1970 November and December
1971 From January through May and from August through
December
1972 From January through October
1973 June and July
1998 From March through August
1999 The entire year
2000 From January through March and from August through
December
2001 January
Those born from December 12th to the 21st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1933 From February through December
1934 From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
1959 October, November and December
76 ASTROLOGY
1960 January and from August through December
1961 From January through October
1962 From February through July
1972 November and December
1973 From January through May and from August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
2001 From April through July
2001 From February through December
When the Sun Is In Capricorn and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Uranus, the tendency to be too serious and too easily de-
pressed or discouraged will be modified. The greater vision and
broader outlook on life given at these times will assist them in
carrying out their ambitions. The danger of the Capricorn type to
become too greatly immersed In detail and to allow their scope to
become too limited will be lessened, as Uranus will be a liberating
Influence, which will bring unusual opportunities* particularly
through strangers or unexpected sources*
Those born from December 21st to January 1st will be strongly
under the beneficent Influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
1934 From June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 The entire year
1937 From January through April
1961 November and December
1962- January and from August through December
1963 From January through November
H>64i From February through August
1974 December
1975 From January through, May and from September
through December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 77
Those bora from January 1st to the 10th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 The entire year
1939 From January through June, also December
1940 From January through March
1963 December
1964 January and from September through December
1965 The entire year
1966 From February through September
1976 December
1977 From January through May, also October, November and
December
1978 The entire year
1979 From May through October
Those born from January 10th to the 0th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1939 From July through November
1940 From April through December
1941 From January through July, also November and
December
1942 From January through May
1966 January, October, November and December
1967 The entire year
1968 From January through September
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 The entire year
1981 January and from May through November
When the Sun is in Aquarius and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Uranus, the humanitarian and philanthropic qualities
which the sign Aquarius implies will be stimulated. Aquarius being
a very impersonal sign and Uranus an impersonal planet, those
who are enjoying this aspect should be enabled to do some of their
best work. They will just naturally attract projects of an original
78 ASTROLOGY
and unusual character connected with scientific^ religious or in-
ventive research. It is under these influences that they will be
inspired to originate and assist in blazing new trails.
Those born from January 20th to the 80th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1929 From January through May, also October? November and
December
1980 January and February
1941 From August through October
1942 From June through December
1943 The entire year
1944 From January through June
1945 February and March
1968 October, November and December
19g9 The entire year
1970 -From January through October
1971 June and July
1981 From February through April, also December
1982 The entire year
1983 The entire year
Those born from January 30th to February 9th will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
1929 From Juno through September
1930 From March through December
1931 The entire year
1932 From January through April
1933 January
1944 From July through December
1945 January and from April through December
1946 From January through July
1947 From January through April
1970 November and December
1971 From January through May and from August through
December
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY URANUS 79
1972 From January through October
1973 June and July
1984 The entire year
1985 The entire year
1986 From August through October
Those born from February 9th to the 19th will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1932 From May through December
1933 From February through December
1934 From January through May, also November and
December
1935 From January through March
1946 From August through December
1947 From May through December
1948 From January through August, also December
1949 From January through May
1972 November and December
1973 From January through May and from August through
December
1974 From January through November
1975 June, July and August
1986 From January through July, also November and
December
1987 The entire year
1988 January and February and from July through November
When the Sun is in Pisces and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Uranus, the altruistic qualities which the sign Pisces implies will
be stimulated. Because of the tendency of the Pisces type to be
unduly modest, they may be in danger of neglecting to take full
advantage of these periods. They should leave no stone unturned to
try to take advantage of all their opportunities, even though they
may seem to be something beyond their wildest dreams.
Those born from February 19th to March 1st will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following
periods :
80 ASTROLOGY
1934 Prom June through October
1935 From April through December
1936 The entire year
1937 From January through April
194,8 September, October and November
1949 From June through December
1950 The entire year
1951 From January through June
1974 December
1975 From January through May and from September
through December
1976 From January through November
1977 From June through September
1988 From March through June, also December
1989 The entire year
1990 The entire year
Those born from March 1st to the 10th will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
1937 From May through December
1938 The entire year
1939 From January through June, also December
1940 From January through March
1951 From July through December
1952 The entire year
1953 From January through July
1954 March, April and May
197ft December
1977 From January through May, also October, November and
December
1978 The entire year
1979 From May through October
1991 The entire year
1992 The entire year
1993 January and from August through November
Those born from March 10th to the 21st will be utrongly under
the beneficent influence of Uranus during the following periods :
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 81
1939 From July through November
194,0 From April through December
1941 From January through July, also November and
December
1942 From January through May
1953 From August through December
1954 January and February and from June through December
1955 From January through August
1956 March, April and May
1979 From January through April, also November and
December
1980 The entire year
1981 January and from May through November
1993 From February through July, also December
1994 The entire year
1995 From January through March and from July through
December
1 996 January
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE AFFLICTED BY
SATURN
THE Sun is the one heavenly body whose position is practically the
same at the same time in the year of any year. Consequently, in this
volume it is the only sphere that we have considered in making pre-
dictions regarding the future. In order that the effects of Saturn on
the Sun may be fairly closely computed, the Sun has been divided
into three sections of ten degrees each. This makes the calculations
as given within what is known as "orbs" and therefore sufficiently
close to an aspect to make its effects distinctly felt. The periods when
Saturn will form an aspect to the Sun are tabulated and will be
found at the end of each sign. Saturn forms an unfriendly aspect to
the Sun every seven years. This is treated of below.
Whenever the cold, phlegmatic Saturn is unfriendly to the Sun,
the excretory functions become sluggish, it has a very debilitating
effect upon the health and anaemia can be easily induced. Those
temporarily under Saturn will be susceptible to diseases which may
be prevalent or to troubles to which they may be naturally subject.
82 ASTROLOGY
It tends to make them look and feel older and to be less magnetic
and have less influence over others than will be the case again for
about seven years.
Anything which has a tendency to cause mental depression should
be avoided, so far as possible, and it would be well to try to associate
with people who have a cheering influence over the spirits and to
avoid worrying over imaginary troubles^ or implanting
1
fixed ideas in
the mind.
Saturn also has a very depressing influence over business and the
domestic and social life. It may be difficult to maintain harmony and,
while under Saturn, such people should guax*d against being too
skeptical or analytical and should give their friends and associates
as much freedom as possible and not criticise their actions or mis-
judge their motives; otherwise friendships may be broken and many
misunderstandings result. They should be diplomatic and in every
way avoid inviting criticism and being blamed for things for which
they are not responsible. Elderly people connected with them should
give more attention than usual to their health, as Saturn frequently
brings about a death.
Women cannot be too discreet as to the men in whom they place
confidence ; single women are likely to attract men who are married
or those who for some other reason are unworthy of their confidence
or incapable of benefitting them, and who will bring only sorrow or
disappointment. To the married women this aspect often brings
temporary estrangement, through lack of sympathy or magnetism,
or anxiety over the husband's health or business. They should do
everything in their power to avoid having a depressing effect on
their partners, whether in a domestic or business way, and they
should not count too much on any new men who cross* their paths;
they will not prove to be permanent influences and may have a dis-
rupting effect on the life.
Both men and women would do well not to make changes unless
forced to do so ; any urge to expand or change their business activ-
ities or the personnel of their organizations should not be en-
couraged, unless looked into very carefully* They should make sure
of the integrity of those with whom they negotiate and the practi-
cality of the enterprise. In order to accomplish satisfactory results,
more effort than usual is necessary when under the influence of
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 83
Saturn; It Is better at such a time to give attention to routine
matters and the finishing up of undertakings already under way
than to select such periods for initiating new schemes or enterprises.
Conditions which may have been dormant are often brought to the
surface., and events which have happened in the past and presumably
been forgotten frequently come to light and with unpleasant re-
sults.
Whenever under the influence of Saturn, it is well to take things
very much as they come, Ir^LS!^ and g along the line
of intelligent non-resistance. By refusing to force issues one will
come out much better in the long run. On the other hand, if one in-
sists on putting through things at any cost, one is likely to make
bad matters worse and be in danger of making very unwise moves,
pushing aside opportunities and failing to embrace things which
are worth while.
Children passing through this affliction will very naturally feel
its influence most through conditions in the home or from what
happens to the parents, particularly to the father. It will have a
depressing effect on their own health, causing anaemia, and will
make them susceptible to any children's diseases which may be prev-
alent at the time or which come as the result of debility. They may
temporarily take on a rather serious mental attitude or seem very
old for their age. The greatest patience should be exercised by those
who have them in charge and everything should be done to keep them
cheerful and to make them philosophical. Under this aspect a child
is often blamed for circumstances for which he is not responsible.
The father or any man who is playing an important part in the des-
tiny may temporarily suffer in health or business.
Through Saturn's vibration, the balance is thrown out, especially
through the system becoming depleted physically, as well as by
causing the mental attitude to be pessimistic, suspicious or melan-
choly. While Saturn is a severe disciplinarian, great benefit can
come through his influence, provided philosophy, patience and
tolerance are exercised. The experiences which come when Saturn
is in power can either broaden the horizon, break down limitations
and give one a better understanding of life, or they can cause one
to become embittered, suspicious and skeptical of one's friends and
of life. It is up to the individual, therefore, to realize that all we can
8* ASTROLOGY
take out of life is the wisdom gained through experience, and not
fear anything^ as it will all work out for good In the end.
When the Sun is in Aries and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
everything should be done to prevent catarrh^ for should colds in the
head or throat be neglected, deafness may result later in life. Sym-
pathetically,, troubles with the kidneys in both sexes (and ovaries in
a woman), as well as digestive disorders which, if not corrected,
could lead to rheumatism could also be easily aggravated. It will be
necessary to be careful in the selection of the diet, avoiding too many
sweets or rich food, and to eliminate as much as possible through the
skin and intestines, thereby avoiding overtaxing the kidneys. In
case of headache, the trouble may be caused by eyestrain, if it docs
not come because of a disordered stomach.
Those born from March 21st to April 1st will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1929 April, May and December
1930 January and February and from July through November
1937 From May through October
1938 From February through April
1944 From July through September, also December
194*5 From January through May
1950- December
1951 From January through March and from September
through November
1952 From May through July
1959- From February through December
1960 January
1967 April, May and from October through December
1968 January and February
1973 From August through December
1974 May, June and July
1980 October, November and December
1981 From January through August
1988- From March through June, also November and December
1989 January and February and from August through October
1996 From May through December
1997 From January through March
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 85
Those born from April 1st to the llth will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1930 From March through June, also December
1931 January, February and from August through November
1938 From May through December
1939 From January through March
1944 October and November
1945 From June through August
1946 From March through May
1 951 December
1952 From January through April and from August through
October
1960 From February through December
1961 January
1967 From June through September
1968 March, April, May and December
1 969 January
1974 From August through December
1975 From January through June
1981 September, October, November and December
1982 From April through August
1989 From March through July, also November and December
1990 January and February
1997 From April through July, also from September through
December
1998 From January through March
Those born from April llth to the 21st will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1931 From March through July, also December
1932 January, February, September, October and November
1939 April, May, June, October, November and December
1940 January, February and March
1945 September, October, November and December
1946 January, February, June and July
1952 November and December
86 ASTROLOGY
1953 From January through October
1961 February, March and April and from June through
December
1968 From June through November
1969 February, March and April
1975 July, August and September
1976 From February through June
1982 From January through March also September through
November
1988 June, July and August
1990 From March through December
1991 January
1997 August
1998 April, May, June, November and December
1999 January, February and March
When the Sun Is in Taurus and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
the results are likely to be more lasting and more depressing physi-
cally, mentally and mundanely, than when in Aries. As Taurus rules
the neck and throat, and sympathetically the heart, bladder and
organs of generation, diseases affecting these parts may develop
when under the affliction of Saturn, particularly tonsilitis, glandular
swellings upon the neck, and diphtheria. It is necessary that during
an affliction of Saturn to the Sun one should not give way to temper
or be too stubborn; too much self-indulgence in eating or drinking
should be avoided. The greatest discretion nhould be exercised in
selecting associates and pleasures, as venereal diseases can be more
easily contracted when under an affliction of Saturn to the Sun when
it Is In Taurus.
Those born from April 21st to May 1st will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during- the following periods:
1982 From March through August, also December
1933 January and February
1939 July, August and September
1940 April, May, June and December
1941 January and February
1946 -From August through December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 87
1947 From January through July
1953 November and December
1954 From January through October
1961 May
1962 From January through April and from August through
December
1969 From May through December
1970 From January through April
1975 October, November and December
1976 January, July and August
1977 April
1982 December
1983 From January through May, also September, October
and November
1991 From February through December
1992 January
1998 From July through October
1999 April and May
2000 January
Those born from May 1st to the llth will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1933 From March through December
1934 January and February
1940 From July through November
1941 March, April and May
194*7 August, September and October
1948 From February through June
1954 November and December
1955 January and from May through October
196Q May, June and July
1963 From January through March and from September
through December
1970 From May through July, also November and December
1971 January, February and March
1976 -From September through December
88 ASTROLOGY
1977 From January through March and from May through
August
1983 December
1984 From January through November
1992 From February through December
1998 January
1999 From June through December
000 From February through May
Those born from May llth to the 32nd will be afflicted by the
depressing,, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods ;
1934 From March through December
1935 January and February
1941 From June through December
1942 From January through May
1947 November and December
1948 January, July, August and September
1949 May
1955 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1956 January and from Juno through October
1963' From April through August
1964 From January through March, also October through
December
1970 From August through October
1971 April, May and June
1972 January, February and March
1977 From September through November
1978 From January through July
1984 December
1985 From January through November
1993 From February through May and from August through
December
1994 January
2000 From June through August, also November and Decem-
ber
$001 From January through April
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 89
When the Sun Is in Gemini and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
every effort should be made to guard against indulging in vain
fears, giving way to restlessness or indecision, for in this mental sign
Saturn is apt to depress mentally and to distort the imagination, as
well as to render one prone to fixed ideas. Anything which would
bring about tenseness is detrimental to the health. Sleep and fresh
air are very essential. As Gemini rules the arms, hands, shoulders,
lungs, including tracheae and bronchial tubes, thymus gland, upper
ribs, capillaries, and sympathetically the feet, thighs, intestines and
nervous system, diseases affecting these parts will be easily aggra-
vated under an affliction of Saturn. It will be necessary not to
neglect any symptoms which might lead to bronchitis, pulmonary
consumption, nervous afflictions, pneumonia, pleurisy, impure blood
or anaemia. Those born under Gemini should always try to avoid
mental depression when under Saturn, as the state of the health is
largely dependent upon the mental attitude. Associate as little as
possible with people who bring to the surface this worrying, over-
serious side of the nature.
Those born from May lst to June 1st will be afflicted by the de-
pressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1935 March, April and May and from August through De-
cember
1936 January and February
1942 June, July and December
1943 From January through April
1948 October, November and December
1949 From January through April and from June through
September
1956 From February through May, also November and De-
cember
1957 January and from July through September
1964 From April through September
1965 From January through March
1971 From July through December
1972 April and May
1977 December
1978 August, September and October
90 ASTROLOGY
1979 From March through June
1985 December
1986 From January through November
1993 June and July
1994 From February through April and from September
through December
1995 January
$000 September and October
2001 From May through July
Those born from June 1st to the llth will be afflicted by the de-
pressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods:
1935 June and July
1936 March, April and May and from September through De-
cember
1937 January
1943 From August through November
1943 May, June and July
1949 October, November and December
1950 -From January through August
1957 From February through June, also October, November
and December
1958 -August and September
1965 From April through December
1966 January, February and March
1972 June, July, August, November and December
1973 -From January through May
1978 November and December
1979 January, February, July, August and September
1986 December
1987 January, February and from June through November
1994 From May through August
1995 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1996 January
2001 From August through December
Those born from June llth to the Snd will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 91
1929 From January through. March and from June through
November
1936 June, July and August
1937 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1938 January
1943 From August through December
1944 From January through June
1950 From September through November
1951 From April through August
1958 From January through July, also October, November and
December
1959 January
1966 From April through December
1967 January, February and March
197 September and October
1973 June and July
1974 From January through April
1979 October, November and December
1980 From January through September
1987 March, April, May and December
1988 January and February and from July through October
1995 From May through October
1996 February, March and April
When the Sun is in Cancer and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
everything should be done to overcome sensitiveness as well as a
tendency to be distrustful of the motives of others. As Cancer rules
the stomach, breast, lacteals, chest cavities, solar plexus, pancreas,
epigastric region, diaphragm, and upper lobes of liver, and sym-
pathetically the head, kidneys and knees, diseases affecting these
parts will be easily aggravated under an affliction of Saturn. It will
be necessary not to neglect any symptoms which might lead to
digestive ailments, dropsy, loose coughs, cancer, dipsomania, tumors,
ovarian trouble, asthma, kidney trouble, flatulency and nervous ex-
haustion.
Those born from June 22nd to July 1st will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
9 ASTROLOGY
19^9 April, May and December
1930 January, February and from July through November
1937 From May through October
1938 From February through April
1944 July, August, September and December
1945 From January through May
1950 December
1951 January, February and March, also from September
through November
195$ From May through July
1959 From February through December
1 960 January
1967 April, May and from October through December
1968 January and February
1973 From August through December
1974 May, June and July
1980 October, November and December
1981 From January through August
1988 From March through June* also November and December
1989 January and February and from August through Octo-
ber
1996 From May through December
19971
-From January through March
Those born from July 1st to the llth will he afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods ;
1930 From March through June, also December
1931 January, February and from August through November
1938 From May through December
1939 From January through March
1944 October and November
1945 -From June through August
1946 From March through May
1951 December
1952 From January through April and from August through
October
I960 From February through December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 98
1 961 January
1967 From June through September
1968 March, April, May, and December
1 969 January
1974 From August through December
1975 From January through June
1981 September, October, November and December
1982 From April through August
1989 From March through July, also November and December
1990 January and February
1997 From April through July and from September through
December
1998 From January through March
Those born from July llth to the 22nd will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1931 From March through July, also December
1932 January, February, September, October and November
1939 April, May, June, October, November and December
1940 January, February and March
1945 September, October, November and December
1946 January, February, June and July
1952 November and December
1953 From January through October
1961 February, March and April and from June through De-
cember
1968 From June through November
1969 February, March and April
1975 July, August and September
1976 From February through June
1982 From January through March, also September through
November
1983 June, July and August
1990 From March through December
1991 January
1997 August
1998 April, May, June, November and December
1999 January, February and March
94 ASTROLOGY
When the Sun Is in Leo and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
every effort should 'be made to maintain an optimistic outlook on
life and to avoid grieving over disappointments and losses. As Leo
rules the heart and back, and sympathetically the throat and organs
of generation? diseases affecting these parts will be easily aggra-
vated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun. It will be necessary
not to neglect any symptoms which might lead to affections of the
heart, particularly angina pectoris, palpitation, poor circulation,
fevers, spinal meningitis, locomotor ataxia, or fainting: spells.
Worry should be avoided, as it has a very depressing effect on the
action of the heart. Coal-tar preparations should not be taken,
as drugs that depress the heart are much more injurious than those
which have an exhilarating effect. Extreme exposure to the Sun
should be avoided during an affliction of Saturn, as it might cause
sunstroke.
Those born from July 22nd to August 1st will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1932 From March through August, also December
1933 January and February
1939 July, August and September
1940 April, May, June and December
1941 January and February
1946- From August through December
1947 From January through July
1953 November and December
1954- From January through October
1961 May
1962 -Prom January through April and from August through
December
1969 From May through December
1970 From January through April
1975 October* November and December
1976 January, July and August
1977 April
1982 December
1983- Prom January through May, alc> September, October
and November
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 95
1991 From February through December
1 992 January
1998 From July through October
1999 April and May
2000 January
Those born from August 1st to 12th will be afflicted by the de-
pressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1933 From March through December
1934 January and February
1940 From July through November
1941 March, April and May
1947 August, September and October
1948 From February through June
1954 November and December
1955 January and from May through October
1962 May, June and July
1963 January, February and March and from September
through December
1970 From May through July, also November and December
1971 January, February and March
1976 From September through December
1977 From January through March and from May through
August
1983 December
1984 From January through November
1992 From February through December
1993 January
1999 From June through December
2000 From February through May
Those born from August 12th to the 23rd will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1934 From March through December
1935 January and February
From June through December
96 ASTROLOGY
194*2 From January through May
1947 November and December
1948 January5 July, August and September
1949 May
1955 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1956 January and from June through .October
1968 From April through August
1964 From January through March, also October through
December
1970 August, September and October
1971 From April through June
1972 From January through March
1977 From September through November
1978 From January through July
1 984 December
1985 From January through November
1993 -From February through May and from August through
December
1 994 January
$000 -June, July, August, November and December
2001 From January through April
When the Sun as in Virgo and temporarily afflicted 'by Saturn*
everything should be done to avoid being too critical; generosity
and optimivsm should be encouraged. As Virgo rules the liver, the
intestines, alimentary canal, abdominal cavity and its membranes,
and duodenum, and sympathetically the hands and feet* the lungs
and nervous system, diseases affecting these parts will be easily
aggravated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun, It will be
necessary not to neglect any symptoms which might lead to afflic-
tions of the intestines and digestive tract, cholera* peritonitis, mal-
nutrition, typhoid fever, appendicitis, intestinal paralysis and mal-
adies obscure in origin* The germs which have an affinity for and
thrive in the intestines cause mental depression, and this may ac-
count for the fact that all dyspeptics are pessimists. Mental de-
pression, especially when there is no definite cause, usually indi-
cates a sluggish liver or constipation. While under Saturn one
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 97
should get as- much sleep and exercise in the fresh air as possible.
Those born from August 23rd to September 3rd will be afflicted
by the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1935 March, April and May and from August through De-
cember
1936 January and February
1942 June, July and December
1943 From January through April
1948 October, November and December
1949 From January through April, also from June through
September
1956 From February through May, also November and De-
cember
1957 January, July, August and September
1964 From April through September
1965 January, February and March
1971 From July through December
1972 April and May
1977 December
1978 August, September and October
1979 From March through June
1985 December
1986 From January through November
1993 June and July
1994 From February through April and from September
through December
1 995 January
2000 September and October
2001 May, June and July
Those born from September 3rd to the 12th will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1935 June and July
1936 From March through May and from September through
December
98 ASTROLOGY
1937 January
1942 From August through November
194,3 May, June and July
1949 October, November and December
1950 From January through August
1957 From February through June, also October, November
and December
1958 August and September
1965 From April through December
1966 January, February and March
197$ June, July, August, November and December
1978 From January through May
1978 November and December
1979 January, February, July, August and September
1986 December
1987 January, February, and from June through November
1994 From May through August
1995 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1996 January
2001 From August through December
Those born from September 12th to the 23rd will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods ;
1929 From January through March and from June through
November
1936 From June through August
1937 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1938 January
1943 From August through December
1944 From January through June
1950 From September through November
1951 From April through August
1958 From January through July, also October, November and
December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 99
1959 January
1966 From April through December
1967 January9 February and March
1972 September and October
1973 June and July
1974 From January through April
1979 October, November and December
1980 From January through September
1987 March, April, May and December
1988 January and February and from July through October
1995 From May through October
1996 February, March and April
When the Sun is in Libra and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
it is very necessary that elimination should be stimulated through
the skin and intestines in order that the kidneys, which serve as a
filter and refiner for the purification of the blood, are not over-
taxed. As Libra rules the kidneys, ovaries in a woman, adrenals,
loins, lumbar vertebrae, and the skin in general, and sympathetically
the head, stomach and knees, diseases affecting these parts will be
easily aggravated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun. It will
be necessary not to neglect any symptoms which might lead to
Bright's disease, all forms of kidney trouble, spinal trouble, lum-
bago, and diabetes. People born strongly under the influence of
Libra are easily thrown out of balance physically as well as emo-
tionally, but yield very readily to treatment and easily regain their
equilibrium.
Those born from September 23rd to October 3rd will be afflicted
by the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1929 April, May and December
1930 January and February and from July through November
1937 From May through October
1938 From February through April
1944 From July through September and December
1945 From January through May
1950 December
100 ASTROLOGY
1951 From January through March and from September
through November
1952 From May through July
1959 From February through December
1960 January
19g7 April, May and from October through December
1968 January and February
1973 From August through December
1974< May, June and July
1980 October, November and December
1981 From January through August
1988 From March through June, also November and December
1989 January and February and from August through Octo-
ber
1996 From May through December
1997 From January through March
Those born from October 3rd to the 13th will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting" planet Saturn during- the following periods:
1930 From March through June, also December
1931 January and February and August through November
1938 Prom May through December
1939 From January through March
1944* -October and November
1945 From June through August
1946 From March through May
1 951 -December
1952 From January through April and from August through
October
1960 From February through December
1961 January
1967 From June through September
1968 March through May, and December
1969 January
1974 Prom August through December
1975 -Prom January through June
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 101
1981 September, October, November and December
1982 From April through August
1989 From March through July, also November and December
1990 January and February
1997 From April through July and from September through
December
1998 From January through March
Those born from October 13th to the 23rd will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1931 From March through July, also December
1932 January, February, September, October and November
1939 April, May, June, October, November and December
1940 January, February and March
1945 September, October, November and December
1946 January, February, June and July
1952 November and December
1953 From January through October
1961 From February through April and from June through,
December
1968 From June through November
1969 February, March and April
1975 July, August and September
1976 From February through June
1982 January through March and September through Novem-
ber
1983 June, July and August
1990 From March through December
1991 January
1997_August
1998 April, May, June, November and December
1999 January, February and March
When the Sun is in Scorpio and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
every effort should be made to avoid being too tense and too fault
finding. As Scorpio rules the generative organs, the bladder and
rectum, and sympathetically the throat, heart, back, blood and cir-
ASTROLOGY
culation, diseases affecting these parts will be easily aggravated
during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun. It will be necessary not
to neglect any symptoms which might lead to ruptures, hemor-
rhoids, fistulas, scurvy, diseases of the generative system in general^
venereal diseases, ulcers, toxic complaints, nasal catarrh and stric-
tures. With older men trouble with the prostate gland must be
guarded against. Pregnant women with the Sun in Scorpio may
find childbirth more difficult than usual during an affliction of Sat-
urn to the Sun, and may even find it advisable to resort to a
Caesarian operation.
Those born from October 23rd to November 2nd will be afflicted
by the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1932 From March through August, also December
1933 January and February
1939 July, August and September
1940 April, May, June and December
1941 January and February
1946' From August through December
1947 From January through July
1953- November and December
1954 From January through October
1961 May
1962 From January through April and from August through
December
1969 From May through December
1970 From January through April
1975 October, November and December
1976 -January* July and August
1977 April
1982 December
1988 Prom January through May and from September through
November
1991 Prom February through December
1992 January
1998 From July through October
1999 April and May
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 103
2000 January
Those born from November 2nd to the 12th will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting: planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1933 From March through December
1934 January and February
1940 From July through November
1941 March, April and May
1947 August, September and October
1948 From February through June
1954 November and December
1955 January and from May through October
1962 May, June and July
1963 From January through March and from September
through December
1970 From May through July, also November and December
1971 January, February and March
1976 From September through December
1977 From January through March and from May through
August
1983 December
1984 From January through November
1992 From February through December
1993 January
1999 From June through December
2000 From February through May
Those born from November 12th to the 22nd will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1934 From March through December
1936 January and February
1941 -From June through December
1942 From January through May
1947 November and December
1948 January, July, August and September
ASTROLOGY
1949 May
1955 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1956 January and from June through October
1963 From April through August
1964 From January through March, also October through
December
1970 August, September and October
1971 From April through June
1972 From January through March
1977 From September through November
1978 From January through July
1984 December
1985 From January through November
1998 From February through May and from August through
December
1994 January
gOQO From June through August, also November and Decem-
ber
2001 From January through April
When the Sun is in Sagittarius and temporarily afflicted by Sat-
urn, there will be less danger of depressing effects from the affliction
than is the case when the Sun is in any of the other signs* As Sagit-
tarius rules the hips and thighs, and sympathetically the nervous
system5 intestines, hands, and feet, diseases affecting" these parts
will be easily aggravated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun.
It will be necessary not to neglect any symptoms which might lead
to rheumatism, gout, sciatica, locomotor ataxia, some forms of par-
alysis, and dislocation of hip joints. If exposed to cold weather, the
small of the back and hips should be well protected, an these are
susceptible parts and are easily chilled when Saturn is unfriendly
to the Sun in Sagittarius.
Those born from November 22nd to December 2nd will be afflicted
by the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1985 From March through May ancl from August through De-
cember
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 105
1936 January and February
1942 June, July and December
1943 From January through April
1948 October, November and December
1949 From January through April and from June through
September
1956 From February through May, also November and Decem-
ber
1957 January and from July through September
1964 From April through September
1965 January, February and March
1971 From July through December
1972 April and May
1977 December
1978 From August through October
1979 From March through June
1985 December
1986 From January through November
1993 June and July
1994 From February through April and from September
through December
1995 January
2000 September and October
2001 From May through July
Those born from December 2nd to the 12th will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1935 June and July
1936 From March through May and from September through
December
1937 January
1942 From August through November
1943 May, June and July
1949 October, November and December
1950 From January through August
1957 From February through June and from October through
December
106 ASTROLOGY
1958 August and September
1965 From April through December
1966 From January through March
1972 From June through August, also November and Decem-
ber
1973 From January through May
1978 November and December
1979 January and February and from July through Septem-
ber
1986 December
1987 January, February and from June through November
1994- From May through August
1995 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1996 January
2001 From August through December
Those born from December ISth to the 3nd will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1929 From January through March and June through Novem-
ber
1936 From June through August
1937 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1938' -January
1943 From August through December
1944 'From January through June
I960 Prom September through November
1951 From April through August
1958 From January through July and from October through
December
1959 January
1966 From April through December
1967- From January through March
1972 -September and October
1973 June and July
1974 From January through April
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 107
1979 October9 November and December
1980 From January through September
1987 March, April, May and December
1988 January and February and from July through October
1995 From May through October
1996 From February through April
When the Sun is in Capricorn and temporarily afflicted by Sat-
urn, every effort should be made to overcome a tendency to melan-
cholia and dread of the future. As Capricorn rules the skeleton,
particularly the knees, outer epidermis, and sympathetically the
head, kidneys, and stomach, diseases affecting these parts will be
easily aggravated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun. It will
be necessary not to neglect any symptoms which might lead to skin
diseases, articular rheumatism, hysteria, cramps, erysipelas, anky-
losis and synovitis. Dwelling upon troubles, real or imaginary, is
likely to bring on nervous dyspepsia. Very few sweets or too con-
centrated foods should be eaten, and plenty of water should be
taken between meals.
Those born from December SSnd to January 1st will be afflicted
by the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1929 April, May and December
1930 January and February and from July through November
1937 From May through October
1938 From February through April
194<4 From July through September and December
1945 From January through May
1950 December
1951 From January through March and from September
through November
1952 From May through July
1959 From February through December
I960 January
1967 April, May and from October through December
1968 January and February
1973 From August through December
108 ASTROLOGY
1974 May, June and July
1980 October, November and December
1981 From January through August
1988 From March through June, also November and Decem-
ber
1989 January and February and from August through Octo-
ber
1996 From May through December
1997 From January through March
Those born from January 1st to the 10th will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods:
1930 From March through June, also December
1981 January and February and from August through Nov-
ember
1938 From May through December
1939 From January through March
1944 October and November
1945 From June through August
1946 From March through May
1961 -December
1962 From January through April and from August through
October
1960 From February through December
1961 January
1967 From June through September
1968 March through May* and December
1969 January
1974 From August through December
1975 From January through June
1981 September, October, November and December
1982 From April through August
1989 From March through July, also November and December
1990 -January and February
1997 -From April through July and from September through
December
1998 From January through March
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 109
Those born from January 10th to the Wth will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1931 From March through July, also December
1932 January, February, September, October and November
1939 April, May, June, October, November and December
1940 January, February and March
1945 September, October, November and December
1946 January, February, June and July
195 November and December
1953 From January through October
1961 From February through April and from June through
December
1968 From June through November
1969 February, March and April
1975 July, August and September
1976 From February through June
198S January through March and September through Novem-
ber
1983 June, July and August
1990 From March through December
1991 January
1997 August
1998 April, May, June, November and December
1999 January, February and March
When the Sun is in Aquarius and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
strict attention should be given to elimination, and any signs of
blood poisoning not be neglected. As Aquarius rules the calves,
ankles, teeth, blood, and circulation, and sympathetically the throat,
heart, back, and organs of generation, diseases affecting these parts
will be easily aggravated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun.
It will be necessary not to neglect any symptoms which might lead
to anaemia, cramps, heart weaknesses, spasmodic and nervous dis-
eases, varicose veins and infected teeth. The ankles may become
swollen and easily turned.
Those born from January 20th to the 30th will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
110 ASTROLOGY
rom March through August, also December
1933 January and February
1939 July9 August and September
1940 April, May, June and December
1941 January and February
1946 From August through December
1947 From January through July
1953 November and December
1954 From January through October
1961 May
19g$ From January through April and from August through
December
1969 From May through December
1970 From January through April
1975 From October through December
1976 January, July and August
1977 April
1982 December
1983 From January through May and from September through
November
1991 From February through December
1992 January
1998 From July through October
1999 April and May
2000 January
Those born from January 30th to February 9th will be afflicted
by the depressing^ restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1933 From March through December
1934 January and February
1940 From July through November
1941 March, April and May
1947 August, September and October
1948 From February through June
1954 November and December
1956 January-, and from May through October
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 111
1962 May, June and July
1963 From January through March and from September
through December
1970 From May through July, also November and December
1971 From January through March
1976 From September through December
1977 From January through March and from May through
August
1983 December
1984 From January through November
1992 From February through December
1 993 January
1999 From June through December
3000 From February through May
Those born from February 9th to the 19th will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1934 From March through December
1935 January and February
1941 From June through December
1942 From January through May
1947 November and December
1948 January and from July through September
1949 May
1955 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1956 January and from June through October
1963 From April through August
1964 From January through March and from October through
December
1970 From August through October
1971 From April through June
1972 January, February and March
1977 From September through November
1978 From January through July
1984 December
112 ASTROLOGY
1985 From January through November
1993 From February through May and from August through
December
1 994 January
$000 From June through August^ also November and Decem-
ber
001 From January through April
When the Sun Is In Pisces and temporarily afflicted by Saturn,
every precaution should be taken to avoid going to excesses of any
kind, as abuse of Nature could very easily result in a nervous
breakdown. As Pisces rules the feet, especially the bones and muscles
of the toes, the lungs, and sympathetically the Intestines, thighs and
nervous system, diseases affecting these parts will be easily aggra-
vated during an affliction of Saturn to the Sun. It will be necessary
not to neglect any symptoms which might lead to colds, tumors,
tuberculosis, liver troubles and anaemia. Serious colds or bowel
trouble may follow carelessness in getting the feet wet or in the care
of these members, since so much elimination of the body passes
through the pores of the feet in perspiration.
Those born from February 19th to March Lst will be afflicted by
the depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following
periods :
1935 From March through May and from August through De-
cember
1936 January and February
1942 June, July and December
1943 From January through April
1948 October, November and December
1949 -From January through April and from June through
September
1956-- From February through May, also November and Decem-
ber
1957 January and from July through September
1964 From April through September
1965 From January through March
1971 From July through December
THE SUN AFFLICTED BY SATURN 113
1972 April and May
1977 December
1978 August, September and October
1979 From March through June
1985 December
1986 From January through November
1998 June and July
1994 February, March and April and from September through
December
1 995 January
2000 September and October
2001 May, June and July
Those born from March 1st to the 10th will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods :
1935 June and July
1936 From March through May and from September through
December
1 937 January
1942 From August through November
1943 May, June and July
1949 From October through December
1950 From January through August
1957 From February through June and from October through
December
1958 August and September
1965 From April through December
1966 From January through March
1972 From June through August, also November and Decem-
ber
1973 From January through May
1978 November and December
1979 January and February and from July through Septem-
ber
1986 December
1987 January, February, and from June through November
1994 From May through August
114 ASTROLOGY
1995 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1996 January
2001 From August through December
Those born from March 10th to the 21st will be afflicted by the
depressing, restricting planet Saturn during the following periods:
1929 From January through March and June through Nov-
ember
1936 From June through August
1937 From February through April, also November and De-
cember
1938 January
1943 From August through December
1944 From January through June
1950 -From September through November
1951 From April through August
1958 From January through July and from October through
December
1959 January
1966 From April through December
1967 January,, February and March
1972 -September and October
1973 June and July
1974 From January through April
1979 October, November and December
1980 From January through September
1987 March, April, May and December
1988 January and February awl from July through October
1995 From May through October
1996 February, March arid April
PERIODS WHEN THE SUN WILL BE BENEFICENTLY
ASPKCTEI) BY JUPITER
THE Sun is the one heavenly body whose position IB
practically the
same at the same time in the year of any year- Consequently, in
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 115
this volume It is the only sphere that we have considered in making
predictions regarding the future.
In order that the effects of Jupiter on the Sun may be fairly
closely computed, the Sun has 'been divided into three sections of
ten degrees each. This makes the calculations as given within what
is known as "orbs55
and therefore sufficiently close to an aspect to
make Its effects distinctly felt. The periods when Jupiter will form
an aspect to the Sun are tabulated and will be found at the end of
each sign. Jupiter forms a friendly aspect to the Sun every four
years. This is treated of below.
Whenever the beneficent planet Jupiter, known as the "Greater
Fortune/
5
is in friendly aspect to the Sun, it causes one's "per-
sonal stock" to rise, and gives greater personal confidence In one's
ability ; a desire for self-improvement is stirred and one may safely
take advantage of business opportunities which may come about
naturally. It causes one to be more optimistic and more nearly uni-
versal In one's attitude toward life; this will add to one's efficiency
and those who are temporarily under its influence will be more alert
to recognize opportunities. Because of their keener discernment and
better judgment, long-cherished hopes are more likely to be ful-
filled. Unless an advance in position or salary -comes about of itself,
it would be well to do everything within reason to seek promotion at
these periods.
New friends and new interests will be attracted and even routine
work will go more smoothly. If opposition is met with at every turn,
then it may be taken for granted that lack of wisdom has been ex-
ercised in the choice of activity, and instead of doggedly persisting,
one should make the most of what happens naturally. It is most
essential to realize that anything which may happen without any
effort on one's part may prove a connecting link to greater things
in the future, even though what happens may seem unimportant at
the time.
In the case of single women, they should do everything within
their power to place themselves under the most favorable conditions
for having more influence over old friends in whom they may al-
ready be interested, or from whom they may have temporarily been
estranged, as well as for meeting new men who are in a position to
116 ASTROLOGY
benefit them. It would be well also for them to remember what
Shakespeare says :
"Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy?
But not expressed in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
For the apparel oft proclaims the man."
For instance,, a woman spending the summer at Bretton Woodss
recognized as being the resort for the most exclusive and wealthy
set, or spending the winter at The Breakers at Palm Beach, would
certainly stand a better chance of meeting men who would benefit
her than she would by spending these seasons in a small Main
Street town.
Married women can anticipate better health and business condi-
tions for the husband, or for the men who intimately touch their
lives, either in a social or business way. These periods would be favor-
able for wives to encourage their husbands, and to inspire them to
do greater things than hitherto.
Both men and women will be in more harmony with themselves
and the Universe, and their relations with people and their influence
over them should be most pleasant and fortunate. The beneficent
influence of Jupiter causes people to attract the best, not only from
the Universe and those with whom they arc associated, but also
causes them to get more nutriment out of their food ami, in conse-
quence, it is very necessary that they watch their cliet, unless they
desire to put on flesh.
The influence of Jupiter will also assist them in gaining" recog-
nition in their work, or, if they are connected with polities, these
periods would be favorable for allowing their constituents to name
them as candidates for office, as they stand an excellent chance of
winning the election. Just as one should never allow himself to be
a candidate for any important office when Uranus in unfriendly
to his Sun (for defeat inevitably follows ) f just the opposite is
likely to happen when Jupiter is friendly to the Sun. As examples,
our late President Roosevelt had Uranus unfriendly to his Sun
when he was defeated by Woodrow Wilson; his son, Theodore
Roosevelt had this aspect when he ran for Governor of New York
and was defeated, and Al Smith, too, was under the influence of
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 117
Uranus when he was defeated in the Presidential campaign of
1928.
Even though there may be adverse aspects operating in one's
chart during a friendly aspect of Jupiter to the Sun, (but this, of
course, can only be ascertained by having a complete reading of
the horoscope by an efficient astrologer) this will have a very modi-
fying influence and bring directly or indirectly good conditions out
of what may appear to be adversity. For instance, Saturn afflicting
the Sun might indicate a death and the fact that Jupiter was
friendly at the same time might indicate that there would either be
an inheritance, or that death might bring release from responsi-
bility.
When Jupiter is beneficently aspecting the Sun in the horoscopes
of children, this will have a beneficial effect on their health ;
it some-
times indicates the arrival of a new baby brother, and further in-
dicates that the family, particularly the father, may enjoy improved
conditions, both as regards health and general prosperity.
This friendly aspect of Jupiter to the Sun occurs once in every
four years, and the way it operates depends very largely upon
one's age, sphere in life, and one's ability for grasping opportun-
ities, and conditions surrounding one at the time. With the boy or
girl, it frequently brings honors when they are students and, in
any event, they stand remarkably well with their instructors and
classmates.
When the Sun is in Aries and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Aries implies will be
stimulated to greater activity. Those who are feeling its effects
may enjoy more than ever making plans and doing pioneer work.
If they are holding managerial positions or are at the head of any
important undertakings, then these would be propitious periods
for enlarging their enterprises or for trying to merge them with
others of a similar character. There may be a tendency for their
added enthusiasm and confidence to cause them to take an attitude
which may stir the resentment of those less executive or fortunate
than themselves. It is most essential that these people should not
allow themselves to put on too much flesh or to become too full-
blooded, as the danger of apoplexy is especially to be avoided in
the case of people born with the Sun in Aries, when Jupiter is in
118 ASTROLOGY
friendly relation. An excess of anything even though good9 can
prove a detriment.
Those born from March Slst to April 1st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during
the following periods :
1931 August
1935 December
1939 From June through November
1940 January and February
19^3 ju]y ancj August
1947 -November and December
1951- May and June, again from October through December
1 952 January
1954 November and December
1955 July
1959 March, April, and November
1963 April and May
1966 From October through December
1967 January, June and July
1971 From February through June, October and November
1975 April
1978 From October through December
1979 January, February, March, ami May and June
1988 January,, February, again from May through October
1987 March and April
1990 September and October
1991 From February through June
1995 January, July, August and September
1999 March
Those born from April 1st to llth will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods ;
1981 September and October
19S2 From February through June
1936 January and February, again from July through October
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 119
1940 March
1943 September
1944 April and May
1948 January and August
1951 From July through September
1952 February and March
1955 August and September
1959 December
1 960 January
1903 From June through December
1964 January and February
1967 August
1971 December
1975 May, June, November and December
1 976 January
1979 July and August
1983 March, April, November and December
1987 May
1990 November and December
1991 January and again July
1995 From February through June, again October and Nov-
ember
1999 April and May
Those born from April llth to 21st will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1931 November and December
1932 January, July and August
1936 From March through June, and again November
1940 April and May
1943 From October through December
1944 From January through March, and June and July
1948 From February through July, and from September
through November
195 April
1955 October and November
1956 From February through July
120 ASTROLOGY
I960 Februarys and from July through October
1964 March and April
1967 September and October
1968 From April through June
1972 January, February, August and September
1975 From July through October
1976 February and March
1979 September
1984 January
1987 June, July, and from October through December
1988 January, February and March
1991 August and September
1995 December
1999 June, November and December
QOOO January and February
When the Sun is in Taurus and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Taurus implies
will be stimulated to greater activity. Because of the added success
and power which Jupiter may temporarily bring, those born with
the Sun in Taurus may find it necessary to exercise greater self-
control than usual in order to avoid going to excesses in the gratifi-
cation of their generosity and in their inordinate love for eating
and drinking.
People born from April 21st to May 1st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during
the following periods :
1932 September
1936 December
1937 January
1940 June and December
1941 January and February
1944 August and September
1948 December
1952 May and June
1955 December
1956 January and August
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 121
I960 From March, through June, again November and De-
cember
1964 May
1967 November and December
1968 From January through March, again July and August
1972 From March through July, again October and November
1976 April and May
1979 From October through December
1980 From January through July
1984 February and March, again from July through November
1987 August and September
1988 April
1991 October and November
1992 From March through June
1996 January, February, September and October
1999 From July through October
gOOO March
Those born from May 1st to llth will be under the beneficent in-
fluence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1932 October and November
1933 From March through July
1937 From February, September and October
1940 From July through November
1941 March and April
1944 October
1945 May and June
1949 January and February
1952 July, August, November and December
1953 January, February and March
1956 September and October
1961 January
1964 June, July and December
1965 January and February
1968 September
1972 December
122 ASTROLOGY
1973 January
1976 June
1980 August and September
1984 April, May, June and December
1988 May
1991 December
1992 January, February, July and August
1996 From March through August, again November and De-
cember
2000 April and May
Those born from May llth to 22nd will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1932 December
1933 January, February, August and September
1937 From March through August, and November and Decem-
ber
1941 May
1944 November and December
1945 From January through April, again July and August
1949 March and April, and from August through November
1952 September and October
1953 April and May
1956 November and December
1957 From March through August
1961 February, March, September and October
1964 From August through November
1965 March and April
1968 October and November
1969 May, June and July
1973 February
1976 July, August, November and December
1977 From January through March
1980 October
1985 January and February
1988 June and July
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 123
1989 January, February and March.
1992 September and October
1997 January
2000 June
When the Sun Is In Gemini and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Gemini implies will
be stimulated to great activity. New schemes of diversified charac-
ters may just naturally present themselves, but it should be borne
in mind that the one danger to those with the Gemini temperament
is to have too many interests; consequently, they may not make
the most of the periods when Jupiter is friendly to their Sun, be-
cause of scattering their forces.
Those born from May 21st to June 1st will be under the benefi-
cent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the follow-
ing periods:
1929 July
1930 January, February and March
1933 October
1938 January
194*1 June and July
19^5 September and October
1949 From May through July, again in December
1950 January
1953 June
1957 January, February and September
1961 From April through August, again November and De-
cember
1965 May and June
1968 December
1969 From January through April, again August and Sep-
tember
1973 March, April, and from August through December
1976 September and October
1977 April and May
1980 November and December
1981 January, and from March through August
IM ASTROLOGY
1985 March, and from September through November
1988 From August through December
1989 April
1992 November and December
1993 From April through August
1997 February and March
SOOO July, August, again in December
52001 From January through April
Those born from June 1st to llth will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1929 From August through December
1930 April and May
1933 November and December
1934 From April through August
1938 February and March
1941 August, September and December
1942 From January through April
1945 November
1946 June and July
1950 February
1953 July and August
1954 January, February and March
1957 October and November
1962 January and February
1965 July
1969 October
1973 May, June and July
1 974 January
1977 June
1981 February, September and October
1985 From April through August, again in December
1986 January
1989 May and June
1993 January, February, March and September
1997 April, and from August through December
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 125
2000 From September through November
2001 May
Those born from June llth to 22nd will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during
1
the following
periods :
1930 June
1934 January, February, March, September and October
1938 April, May, and from September through December
1941 October and November
1942 May and June
1945 December
1946 From January through May, August and September
1950 March, April, October and November
1953 From September through December
1954 April and May
1957 December
1958 January, and from April through September
1962 March
1965 August, September and December
1966 From January through May
1969 November and December
1970 June, July and August
1974 February and March
1977 July and August
1978 February, March and April
1981 November
1986 February
1989 July
1993 October and November
1997 May, June and July
1998 January and February
2001 June and July
When the Sun is in Cancer and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Cancer implies will be
stimulated to greater activity. Those who are feeling its effects
126 ASTROLOGY
may enjoy even more than usual entertaining their friends, making
constructive plans for the future welfare of their family, engaging
in communal interests for the benefit of the masses, and in salvaging
an enterprise which is on the rocks or in organizing new enterprises.
The expansive influence of Jupiter on the Cancer temperament will
give them a broader outlook on life, and consequently they will be
less -sensitive, more impersona!3 and more liberal in their attitude
toward the conventions.
Those born from June 22nd to July 1st will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the fol-
lowing periods :
1930 July and August
1 934 November
1938 From June through August
1939 January and February
1942 July
1946 October and November
1950 From May through September, again in December
1951 January
1954 June and July
1958 February, March and October
1962 April, May, and from September through December
1963 January
1965 October and November
1966 June
1970 From January through May, again September and Octo-
ber
1974 April, November and December
1977 From September through December
1978 January, May arid June
1981 December
1982 January, February, and from April through September
1986 March and April
1989 August, September, again in December
1990 From January through May
1993 December
1994 January, and from May through August
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 127
1998 March
2001 August
Those born from July 1st to the llth will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1930 September and October
1931 From January through May
1934 December
1935 January9 again from May through September
1939 March
1942 August and September
1943 From February through May
1946 December
1947 July and August
1951 February and March
1954 August
1958 November and December
1962 From June through August
1963 February
1966 July and August
1970 November
1974 From May through October
1 975 January
1978 July
1982 March, October and November
1986 May, again from October through December
1987 January
1989 October and November
1990 June
1994 February, March, April, September and October
1998 April, November and December
2001 From September through December
Those born from July llth to the 22nd will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the fol-
lowing periods :
128 ASTBOLOGY
1930 November and December
1931 June and July
1935 February, March, April, October and November
1939 April, May and December
1942 October, November and December
1943 January and June
1947 From January through June, again September and Octo-
ber
1951 April
1954 September and October
1955 From January through June
1959 January, February, again from May through October
1963 March
1966 September
1967 From February through May
1970 December
1971 January, July, August and September
1975 February and March
1978 August and September
1979 April
1982 December
1986 From June through September
1987 February
1990 July and August
1994 November and December
1998 From May through October
1999 January and February
When the Sun is in Leo and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the constructive qualities which the sign Leo implies
will be stimulated to greater activity. Those who are feeling its
effects may enjoy more than ever exercising" their executive ability
and directing the work of large bodies of people. As Jupiter always
tends to stimulate self-expression, there may be a tendency for
those born under the sign Leo to become too self-expressive, and
they may be looked upon as being too dictatorial Putting on flesh
or allowing the blood to become too rich are the dangers of a friendly
aspect of Jupiter with the Sun in Leo, and this may cause the heart
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 129
to be overworked and sometimes causes sudden heart seizures.
Those born from July 22nd to August 1st will be strongly under
the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune,
35
Jupiter during
the following periods :
1931 August
1935 December
1939 From June through November
1940 January and February
19^3 July and August
1947 November and December
1951 May and June, again from October through December
1 952 January
1954 November and December
1955 july
1959 March, April, and November
1963 April and May
1966 From October through December
1967 January, June and July
1971 From February through June, October and November
1975 April
1978 From October through December
1979 From January through March, and May and June
1983 January and February, again from May through October
1987 March and April
1990 September and October
1991 From February through June
1995 January, July, August and September
1999 March
Those born from August 1st to 12th will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter, during the
following periods :
1931 September and October
193g From February through June
1936 January and February, again from July through October
1940 March
130 ASTROLOGY
1943 September
1944 April and May
1948 January and August
1951 From July through Setember
1952 February and March
1955 August and September
1959 December
1960 January
1963 From June through December
1964 January and February
1967 August
1971 December
1975 May,, June, November and December
1976 January
1979 July and August
1983 March, April, November and December
1987 May
1990 November and December
1991 January and July
1995 From February through June, again October and Nov-
ember
1999 April and May
Those born from August 12th to 23rd will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the
following periods :
1931 November and December
1932 January, July and August
1986 From March through June, and again in November
1940 April and May
1943 From October through December
1944 From January through March, again June and July
1948 From February through July, and September and Nov-
ember
1952 April
1956 October and November
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 181
1956 From February through July
1960 February,, again from July through October
1964 March and April
1967 September and October
1968 From April through June
197S January, February, August and September
1975 From July through October
1976 February and March
1979 September
1 984 January
1987 June, July, and from October through December
1988 January, February and March
1991 August and September
1995 December
1999 June, and November and December
2000 January and February
When the Sun is in Virgo and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the constructive qualities which the sign Virgo implies
will be stimulated to greater activity. Jupiter's influence, even
though only temporary, stimulates sympathy and benevolence, so
those born under the Sun in Virgo will be less critical and less
analytical. If they are of a literary turn of mind, then their work
will be broader in sympathy and less purely intellectual. They will
get more joy in the expenditure of money both for themselves and
others.
Those born from August 23rd to September 3rd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter
during the following periods:
1932 September
1936 December
1937 January
1940 June and December
1941 January and February
1944 August and September
1948 December
132 ASTROLOGY
1952 May and June
1955 December
1956 January and August
1960 From March through June, again November and Decem-
ber
1964 May
1967 November and December
1968 From January through March, again July and August
1972 From March through July, again October and November
1976 April and May
1979 From October through December
1980 From January through July
1984 February and March, again from July through Novem-
ber
1987 August and September
1988 April
1991 October and November
1992 From March through June
1996 January, February, September and October
1999 From July through October
2000 March
Those born from September 3rd to 12th will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter, during the fol-
lowing periods :
1932 October and November
1933 From March through July
1937 February, September and October
1940 From July through November
1941 March and April
1944 October
1945 May and June
1949 January and February
1952 July, August, November and December
1953 January, February and March
1956 September and October
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 138
1961 January
1964 June, July and December
1965 January and February
1968 September
1972 December
1 973 January
1976 June
1980 August and September
1984 April, May, June and December
1988 May
1991 December
1992 January, February, July and August
1996 From March through August, November and December
2000 April and May
Those born from September 12th to 23rd will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter, during the fol-
lowing periods :
1932 December
1933 January, February, August an<l September
1937 From March through August, November and December
1941 May
1944 November and December
194,5 From January through April, July and August
194,9 March, April, and from August through November
1952 September and October
1953 April and May
1956 November and December
1957 From March through August
1961 February, March, September and October
1964 From August through November
1965 March and April
1968 October and November
1969 May, June and July
1973 February
1976 July, August, November and December
184 ASTROLOGY
1977 From January through March
1980 October
1985 January and February
1988 June and July
1989 January, February and March
199^ September and October
1997 January
2000 June
When the Sun Is in Libra and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the constructive qualities which the sign Libra implies
will be stimulated to greater activity. While the sign Libra tends
to make those born under Its influence fair and just under all cir-
cumstances., when Jupiter throws its beneficent ray on It, they are
inclined to be even more desirous of doing the right thing in all
their dealings with those about them. If those born under Libra
have been forced into the commercial world or into doing some type
of work which is not entirely congenial, then, during a friendly as-
pect of Jupiter to their Sun will be a propitious time for trying
to make a change of work, or if this is not practical, for taking up
a congenial hobby or avocation.
Those born from September 23rd to October 3rd will be under
the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during
the following periods :
1929 -July
1930 January, February and March
1983 October
1938 January
1941 -June and July
1945 September and October
1949 -From May through July, again in December
1950 January
1953 June
1957 January, February and September
1961 From April through August, again November and De-
cember
1965 May and June
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 135
1968 December
1969 From January through April, again August and Sep-
tember
1973 March, April, again from August through December
1976 September and October
1977 April and May
1980 November and December
1981 January, and from March through August
1985 March, and from September through November
1988 From August through December
1989 April
1992 November and December
1993 From April through August
1997 February and March
2000 July, August and December
2001 From January through April
Those born from October 3rd to 13th will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1929 From August through December
1930 April and May
1933 November and December
1934 From April through August
1938 February and March
1941 August, September and December
19^2 From January through April
1 945 November
1946 June and July
1950 February
1953 July and August
1954 January, February and March
1957 October and November
1962 January and February
1965 July
1969 October
1973 May, June and July
136 ASTROLOGY
1974 January
1977 June
1981 February, September and October
1985 From April through August, again in December
1986 January
1989 May and June
1993 January, February, March and September
1997 April, and from August through December
gOOO From September through November
2001 May
Those born from October 13th to S3rd will be under the benefi-
cent influence of the "Greater Fortune95
Jupiter during the fol-
lowing periods :
1930 June
1934 From January through March, again September and
October
1938 April, May, and from September through December
1941 October and November
1942 May and June
1945 December
1946 From January through May, August and September
1950 March, April, October and November
1953- From September through December
1954 April and May
1957 December
1958 January, and from April through September
1962 March
1965 August, September and December
1966 From January through May
1969 November and December
1970 From June through August
1974 February and March
1977 July and August
1978 From February through April
1981 November
1986 February
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 137
1989 July
1993 October and November
1997 From May through July
1998 January and February
2001 June and July
When the Sun is in Scorpio and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Scorpio implies will be
stimulated to greater activity. Those who are responding to this
influence may be less selfish, less personal, and more tolerant in
their attitude toward those with whom they are thrown in a domestic,
social, or business way. During the operation of this aspect, the
ambition, whether it be for power in the financial, artistic, or social
world, is enhanced and the chances are greater for meeting with
success with greater ease.
Those born from October 23rd to November 2nd will be under
the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during
the following periods:
1930 July and August
1 934 November
1938 From June through August
1939 January and February
1942 July
1946 October and November
1950 From May through September, again in December
1951 January
1954 June and July
1958 February, March, and October
19g3 April, May, and from September through December
1963 January
1965 October and November
1966 June
1970 From January through May, again September and Octo-
ber
1974 April, November and December
1977 From September through December
1978 January, May and June
138 ASTROLOGY
1981 December
1982 January5 February,, and from April through September
1986 March and April
1989 August, September and December
1990 From January through May
1993 December
1994 January, and from May through August
1998 March
2001 August
Those born from November 2nd to 12th will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the follow-
ing periods:
1930 September and October
1931 From January through May
1934 December
1935 January,, again from May through September
1939 March
1942 August and September
1943 -From February through May
1946 December
1947 -July and August
1951 February and March
1954 August
1958 November and December
1962 From June through August
1963 February
1966 July and August
1 970 November
1974 From May through October
1 975 January
1978 July
1982 March, October and November
1986 May, again from October through December
1987 January
1989 October and November
1990 June
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER
1994 From February through April9 again September and Oc-
tober
1998 April, November and December
2001 From September through December
Those born from November I&th to SSnd will be under the
beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune5 '
Jupiter during the
following periods :
1930 November and December
1931 June and July
1935 From Feburary through April, again October and Nov-
ember
1939 April, May and December
1942 From October through December
1943 January and June
1947 From January through June, again September and Oc-
tober
1951 April
1954 September and October
1955 From January through June
1959 January, February, and from May through October
1963 March
1966 September
1967 From February through May
1970 December
1971 January, and from July through September
1975 February and March
1978 August and September
1979_April
1982 December
1986 From June through September
1987 February
1990 July and August
1994 November and December
1998 From May through October
1999 January and February
140 ASTROLOGY
When the Sun is in Sagittarius and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Sagittarius
implies will be stimulated to greater activity. While Jupiter's in-
fluence is always important, its aspect to the Sun in Sagittarius
is even more pronounced, for the reason that both the sign Sagit-
tarius and the planet Jupiter tend to give qualities savoring of the
"good Samaritan." To those in projects of a philanthropic and
religious character, these periods will be favorable for -making
plans, for trying to get the cooperation of others, and for enlarging
their activities generally. Under this aspect, one frequently benefits
through an inheritance or because people of influence, wealth, and
power extend their friendship and assistance.
Those born from November 22nd to December 2nd will be strongly
under the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter,
during the following periods :
1931 August
1935 December
1939 From June through November
1940 January and February
1943 July and August
1947 November and December
1951 May and June, again from October through December
1 952 January
1954 November and December
1955 July
1959 March, April, and November
1963 April and May
1966 From October through December
1967 January, June and July
1971 From February through June, October and November
1975 April
1978 From October through December
1979 From January through March, May and June
1983 January, February, and from May through October
1987 March and April
1990 September and October
1991 From February through June
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER
1995 January, July, August and September
1999 March
Those born from December 2nd to 12th will be strongly under the
beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the
following periods:
1931 September and October
1932 From February through June
1936 January and February, again from July through October
1940 March
1943 September
1944 April and May
1948 January and August
1951 From July through September
1952 February and March
1955 August and September
1959 December
1960 January
1963 From June through December
1964 January and February
1967 August
1971 December
1975 May, June, November and December
1 976 January
1979 July and August
1983 March, April, November and December
1987 May
1990 November and December
1991 January and July
1995 From February through June, again October and Nov-
ember
1999 April and May
Those born from December 12th to the 21st will be strongly un-
der the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter dur-
ing the following periods ;
ASTROLOGY
1931 November and December
193$ January, July and August
1936 From March through June, and again November
1940 April and May
1943 From October through December
1944 From January through March, again June and July
1948 From February through July, and September through
November
1952 April
1955 October and November
1956 From February through July
1960-t
-February, ancl from July through October
1964 March and April
1967 September and October
1968 From April through June
1972 January, February, August, and September
1975 From July through October
1976 February and March
1979 September
1984 January
1987 June, July, and from October through December
1988 January, February and March
1991 August and September
1 995 December
1999 June, and November and December
$000 -January and February
When the Sun is in Capricorn and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Jupiter, the good qualities which the sign Capricorn
implies will be stimulated to greater activity. The expansiveness
of Jupiter is particularly beneficial to the restricted and overcau-
tious tendencies of this sign. It, therefore, behooves those born
under Capricorn who come under this aspect to make the most of
these periods, They will be more optimistic and hopeful and they
will have greater vision; in fact, because of their broader outlook
on life and confidence in themselves and the Universe, they will be
more magnetic and their efforts will be attended by greater success.
Those born from December 21st to January 1st will be strongly
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 143
under the beneficent Influence of the "Greater Fortune29
Jupiter
during the following periods:
1932 September
1936 December
1937 January
1940 June and December
1941 January and February
1944 August and September
1948 December
1952 May and June
1955 December
1956 January and August
1960 From March through June, again November and De-
cember
1964 May
1967 November and December
19g8 From January through March, again July and August
1972 From March through July, again October and November
1976 April and May
1979 From October through December
1980 From January through July
1984 February and March, again from July through November
1987 August and September
1988 April
1991 October and November
1992 From March through June
iggg January, February, September and October
1999 From July through October
2000 March
Those born from January 1st to 10th will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter, during the fol-
lowing periods :
1932 October and November
1933 From March through July
1937 February, September and October
194,0 From July through November
144 ASTROLOGY
1941 March and April
1944 October
1945 May and June
1949 January and February
1952 July9 August, November and December
1958 January, February and March
1956 September and October
1961 January
1964 June, July, and December
1965 January and February
1968 September
1972 December
1973 January
1976 June
1980 August and September
1984 April, May, June and December
1988 May
1991 December
1 992 January, February, July and August
1996- From March through August, again November and De-
cember
2000 April and May
Those born from January 10th to 20th will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter, during the fol-
lowing periods:
1932 December
1933 January, February, August and September
1937 From March through August, November and December
1941- May
1944 November and December
1945 From January through April, and July and August
1949 -March, April, and from August through November
1952 September and October
1953 April and May
1956 November and December
1957 From March through August
1961 February, March, September and October
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER
1964 From August through November
1965 March and April
1968 October and November
1969 May, June and July
1973 February
1976 July, August, November and December
1977 From January through March
1980 October
1985 January and February
1988 June and July
1989 January, February and March
1992 September and October
1997 January
2000 June
When the Sun is in Aquarius and temporarily beneficently as-
pected by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Aquarius im-
plies will be stimulated to greater activity. Aquarius being the most
humanitarian and impersonal sign in the Zodiac, and Jupiter being
the "Preserver" and the so-called connecting link between the In-
finite and the Finite, those bom under this sign, and who have
Jupiter temporarily aspecting it, are likely to be inspired to work
toward the betterment of their fellow men. At these times the
plans they have visualized stand a better chance of being carried
through to completion with less effort; consequently, they should
take advantage of these periods. This applies not only to their proj-
ects intended to benefit others, but also to their personal affairs
as well. The Aquarian, perhaps more than the average human being,
realizes the truth of the following words :
"Help thy brother's boat
across, and lo ! thine own shall reach the shore."
Those born from January 20th to 30th will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter, during the fol-
lowing periods :
1929 July
1930 January, February and March
1933 October
1 938 January
194,1 June and July
146 ASTROLOGY
1945 September and October
1949 From May through July, again In December
1 950 January
1953 June
1957 January, February and September
1961 From April through August, again November and Decem-
ber
1965 May and June
1968 December
1969 From January through April, again August and Sep-
tember
1973 March, April, again from August through December
1976 September and October
1977 April and May
1980 November and December
1981 January, and from March through August
1985 March, and from September through November
1988 From August through December
1989 April
1992 November and December
1993 From April through August
1997 February and March
gOOO July, August and December
2001 From January through April
Those born from January 30th to February 9th will be under
the beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during
the following periods:
1929 From August through December
1930 April and May
1933 November and December
1934 From April through August
1938 February and March
194*1 August, September and December
1942 From January through April
1945 November
1946 June and July
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 147
1950 February
1958 July and August
1954 January, February and March
1957 October and November
1962 January and February
1965 July
1969 October
1973 May, June and July
1 974 January
1977 June
1981 February, September and October
1985 From April through August, again in December
1986 January
1989 May and June
1993 January, February, March and September
1997 April, and from August through December
2000 From September through November
2001 May
Those born from February 9th to 19th will be under the benef-
icent influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the fol-
lowing periods:
1930 June
1934 From January through March, again September and Oc-
tober
1938 April, May, and from September through December
1941 October and November
1942 May and June
1945 December
1946 From January through May, August and September
1950 March, April, October and November
1953 From September through December
1954 April and May
1957 December
1958 January, and from April through September
1962 March
1965 August, September and December
148 ASTROLOGY
1966 From January through May
1969 November and December
1970 From June through August
1974 February and March
1977 July and August
1978 From February through April
1981 November
1986 February
1989 July
1993 October and November
1997 From May through July
1998 January and February
2001 -June and July
When the Sun is in Pisces and temporarily beneficently aspected
by Jupiter, the best qualities which the sign Pisces implies will be
stimulated to greater activity. Pisces causes one to be so adaptable,
so unselfish and generous, that Jupiter temporarily aspecting it
will augment these qualities to a dangerous degree. Too much even
of good is no longer constructive, so it would be well for those born
under this sign at these times to remember that "self-preservation is
the first law of nature" and to use these advantageous periods to help
themselves as well as others. The new people who happen to cross
the path or the opportunities which come about naturally should
be looked upon more earnestly, realizing that they may have more
significance than appears on the surface.
Those born from February 19th to March 1st will be under the
beneficent influence of the "Greater Fortune55
Jupiter during the
following periods:
1930 July and August
1934 November
1938 From June through August
1939 January and February
1942 July
1946 October and November
1950 From May through September, again in December
1951 January
SUN BENEFICENTLY ASPECTED BY JUPITER 149
1954 June and July
1958 February9 March and October
1962 April, May, and from September through December
1963 January
1965 October and November
1966 June
1970 From January through May, again September and Oc-
tober
1974 April, November and December
1977 From September through December
1978 January, May and June
1981 December
1:982 January, February, and from April through September
1986 March and April
1989 August, September and December
1990 From January through May
1993 December
1994 January, and from May through August
1998 March
2001 August
Those born from March 1st to 10th will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1930 September and October
1931 From January through May
1 934 December
1935 January, and from May through September
1939 March
1942 August and September
1943 From February through May
1946 December
1947 July and August
1951 February and March
1954 August
1958 November and December
1962 From June through August
150 ASTROLOGY
1963 February
1966 July and August
1970 November
1974 From May through October
1975 January
1978 July
1982 March, October and November
1986 May, again from October through December
1987 January
1989 October and November
1990June
1994 From February through April, again September and Oc-
tober
1998 April, November and December
2001 From September through December
Those born from March 10th to 21st will be under the beneficent
influence of the "Greater Fortune" Jupiter during the following
periods :
1930 November and December
1931 June and July
1935 From February through April, again October and Nov-
ember
1939 April, May and December
194$ From October through December
1943 January and June
1947 From January through June, again September and Oc-
tober
1951 April
1954 September and October
1955 From January through June
1959 January, February, and from May through October
1963 March
1966 September
1967 From February through May
1970 December
1971 January, and from July through September
THE MOON SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 151
1975 February and March
1978 August and September
1979 April
1982 December
1986 From June through September
1987 February
1990 July and August
1994 November and December
1998 From May through October
1999 January and February
THE MOON SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
SEI/ENE, or Diana, or Luna, is the twin sister of the Sun. She is
complete woman, in all phases, untouched by male caresses.
The Moon in her increase is the child, innocent and receptive,
smiling above the sunset; nightly we see her grow, nearer and nearer
to her triumph over darkness, queen of heaven ! It is this Moon that
gleams so phantastically yet so candescent, a motive repeated again
and again in the hymns of every poet. Keats was a mere nympholept
to the Moon, like his own Endymion. In the pages of Swinburne,
her lustre lamps fitfully his verse. Baudelaire, one of the greatest
of all poets, seems rather of the moon than of the earth. The Indian
lyrists chant her beauty in unnumbered songs, and the priests of
all nations have done worship to her on hidden altars. She has been
incorporated in all religions as the symbol of woman at her highest.
Yet she is also huntress like her brother Apollo ; she is to be seen
in dim woods with her maidens and her hounds. Woe to him who,
not being utterly chaste, surprises her ! Her arrows are barbed with
silver as his with gold; and if his are dipped in death, so are hers
poisoned with madness. Restlessness, hunger for the unattainable,
seeking after strange pleasures, such are some of the lesser signs
of moon-infatuation.
It is noticeable how small a section of poetic attention is given
to the gracious childhood of the Moon. For at first she is asleep
in the arms of the Sun, and almost before we are aware she springs
to fullness.
152 ASTROLOGY
But glorious is that fullness. She is now Sophia, the Virgin
Wisdom of the Father. It is she that appears in the gloom of the
threshold, and leads us into the Temple. She is our pure aspiration
to things high and holy, the triple cord that binds us to the stainless
unity beyond all. She is the veil upon the sanctuary, the mist of
tears before the eyes of the penitent. She is sorrow, and pure love
that burns up sorrow ! She is the lustral water, and the mystic bearer
of the Holy Grail. It is she who will clothe us about with all purity
and all perfection ; it is she who will give us to drink in the House
of the Father.
Gaze upon her splendour, gaze not only with your eyes but with
your heart; follow her in dreams with such strength that dream
becomes reality. For the Moon is in heaven what the sea is upon
earth ; and what that is, only they know who truly love the sea.
For so do we gain life most, when most absolutely we surrender
it ; the goal of our existence is not on earth. Life is but an ordeal ;
let us manfully pass through it ; but whatever its rewards may be,
it is not on earth but in heaven that we come to the understanding
of ourselves. That is the End of the Quest.
THE MOON
IT is by no accident that the Moon is the only one of the heavenly
bodies which revolves around the earth. In the nativity, the Moon
is not really part of the character in the same way that the planets
are; she is however, of extreme importance, because she represents
the sensorium.
The Moon has, by far, the most powerful influence on destiny, al-
though its influence is not so direct ; it never produces clear, trace-
able events in life, as do the major planets. Its effect, however, is
steady, permanent and active at all times, because the Moon is the
ruler of environment.
Our destiny comes first of all out of our environment, and viewed
from this standpoint, the Moon is most important. As an illustra-
tion, suppose we find the Moon greatly afflicted in the nativity of
a male, and so placed as to affect the first four years of his life
in his mother relations, and later to affect his marriage relations.
THE MOON 133
He will be in danger the first four years of receiving from his
mother what might be called the "OEdipus complex" ; in other words,
he may get such a violent modification of his character because of
an abnormal attachment to his mother that he becomes a timid, re-
pressed character, lacking initiative and personal force. As the
result of this repression of the self, a whole line of unfortunate,
malefic events will inevitably follow in his life. A man having re-
ceived such a restricting complex is seldom happily married, is
rarely, if ever, happy in social relations ; the results upon his destiny
are here clearly marked.
It is from this point of view that we have traced the various
spheres of human interest and activity which follow the force of
the Moon's position as it may affect personal initiative, money
matters, business, success, marriage, friends, and so on. This is be-
cause of Its modifying force upon the most intimate and personal
qualities of the life, and its effect upon the instinctive plane or sub-
conscious mind of the human being.
One has only to look at an ephermeris to see that the Moon is
afflicted by one planet or another almost every day of the week.
Some afflictions will naturally be more serious than others, but the
way to consider the problem is to recognize that, in the majority
of horoscopes, there is affliction at one time or another, and that
it is a rare and happy circumstance when none of them are serious
enough to prevent the full maturing of the good aspects.
We may now proceed to consider in more detail the action of
the Moon. Her aspects will naturally show the particular develop-
ment of sense instruction which will occur in the native. Thus, for
example, the opposition of the Sun usually means romance, but
frustrated by circumstances over which the native has little or no
control ;
the rays of the Sun falling full upon the disc of the Moon
thrill her with all the glow and warmth of creative life. A trine of
Jupiter, on the other hand, will cause the senses of the native to
be impressed strongly by the qualities of Jupiter. As an illustration,
imagine a man born with a very strong combination of Saturn and
Mars, giving him great selfishness and great executive power. Let
him have also a trine of Jupiter and the Moon, and we have at first
sight, a rather contradictory situation. But the harmony is easy
to find. Such a person will be impressed by altruistic subjects like
154 ASTROLOGY
religion, and, therefore, religious channels will be those through
which his selfishness and power can best operate. We may, there-
fore, find him develop into an ambitious and intriguing ecclesiastic.
It is by the consideration of the many different aspects that the
astrologer is able to determine the facts of any given case with
such wonderful accuracy. It is probably fair to say that any serious
affliction of the Moon dulls the acuteness of at least one of the
senses. Philip Bourke-Marston's blindness was evidently caused by
the approaching opposition of Saturn and exact opposition of Ura-
nus. Byron's clubfoot may have been due to the conjunction of
the Moon, rising below Mars, square to Neptune and probably as-
sisted by a conjunction of Saturn and Venus close to the cusp of
Pisces. Probably the conjunction of the Moon and Mars, and
squared by Uranus, had something to do with Edison's deafness,
though the affliction of Jupiter by Saturn, which planets are square,
is a contributory cause. Perhaps, however, it will be more exact
to say that the affliction of the Moon enabled the affliction of Jupi-
ter to manifest itself in this form. As a general rule, a single minor
affliction produces only minor consequences. There is analogy for
this theory in other branches of science. In chemistry, for example,
even such highly exothermic reactions as the combination of hydro-
gen and chlorine, or ammonia and carbonic acid gas cannot take
place without the presence of some third body. If these gases are
prepared in a state of absolute chemical dryness and purity, you
can pass the electric spark through them indefinitely without caus-
ing their combustion.
It seems possible, therefore, that in many nativities where we
see a threat which does not materialize or a promise which is not
fulfilled, the cause is due to the absence of a starting impulse. The
rifle may be loaded, but unless the trigger be pulled, there will be
no explosion. In determining, therefore, whether any given config-
uration of the heavens will or will not produce its result, we must
look to some other point apparently unconnected with it. Imagine,
for example, a case of a man from whose horoscope we should ex-
pect death by drowning. The position which shows us this does not
show us whether he will be forgotten in his tub by his nurse or be
shipwrecked at eighty. It is possible that the fatal direction or tran-
THE MOON IN THE SIGNS 155
sits may not occur for a very long time, while in another case, it
may be in operation within a few hours of -birth.
Many of these remarks have been in the nature of a digression,
yet, if properly considered, they would be seen to have a bearing
upon the limitations and aptitudes imposed by the position and as-
pects of the Moon.
THE MOON IN THE SIGNS
THE Moon has to do largely with personality, just as the Sun has
to do with individuality. The signs in which the Moon is placed de-
scribe the type of the personality. It shows the variety and quality
just as the Sun shows the type and quality of the individuality.
As the personality is the intimate and more immediate expression of
the temperament and measures the quality and power of sense im-
pression, and therefore the scope and precision of the mental forces,
it indirectly determines what we might call the fluid of being. More-
over, as both mental and emotional forces depend first upon sense
impression, and since personality is that singular union of the
mental and the emotional, it follows that the Moon's position is the
focal point wherein sense, mind, and emotion meet in the formation
of character.
The Moon largely determines the kind of life and activity with
which the average human being meets life day by day. Excellent
illustrations of this are found throughout history ; in fact, there is
really no exception or contradiction to this rule. Robespierre, for
instance, with his Moon in Aries, gave his life to political revolu-
tion and to civil war. Shakespeare, on the other hand, with his Moon
in Taurus, although gifted with a marvellously brilliant mind,
never felt willing to write purely original plays, but conservatively
preferred to develop already established dramas, and to instil into
them his practical though dramatic vision of the everyday. Kipling,
with his Moon in Gemini turned early to letters and has had a dis-
tinctly journalistic quality throughout his poetry and prose. A
man like Theodore Roosevelt, though he became President, is known
best of all for his influence toward national conservatism and a de-
156 ASTROLOGY
velopment of home life, which mental tendencies are perfectly illus-
trated by his Moon in Cancer. Asquith, on the other hand, with his
Moon in Leo, was the typical fixed politician, the natural ruler,
while Cleo de Merode9 with her Moon in Virgo made, so far as her-
self was concerned, a commercial success of the loose moral tend-
encies shown in the rest of her nature. Maeterlinck, with his Moon
in Libra, has given his whole life to the furtherance of beauty,
poetry, and the drama, while Ex-Kaiser Wilhelm, with his Moon in
Scorpio was possessed of that type of personal egotism and martial
love of war (the mailed fist) which the Moon in Scorpio so loves.
Huxley, with the Moon in Sagittarius, is a perfect picture of the
clear, scientific mentality and the like interest of this position, while
Bismarck, the subtle, reserved, covetous politician, exactly expresses
the Moon in Capricorn. Henry Ford with his Moon in Aquarius,
where it is so wonderfully placed, shows all the humanitarian in-
stincts of this splendid position, while Lily Langtry, with her Moon
in Pisces, expressed all the idealistic, dramatic and somewhat weakly
emotional tendency of the position.
Indeed, we may say that the average person is largely judged in
life by the sign position of his Moon, and that this position may
even act as a completely qualifying influence, if evil aspects inter-
fere, and thus bring out some of the lower phases of the sign in-
fluence. We have thousands of instances, in astrological record, of
such complete modification of the personality through the Moon
position that the whole life was totally wrecked ; and it is not difficult
to see why this should be so, for, if the Moon primarily governs
the Sensorium, that is, the sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch,
it necessarily is sufficiently strong absolutely to dominate the man.
If we remember that all knowledge, all information, all preference,
all judgment, come into the man first of all through the use of his
senses, that the sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch are the mental
mouth, without which the rational stomach can receive no food, we
can understand why the Moon can completely block a life develop-
ment.
Among famous figures showing such a complete modification of
the life, we have that of Savonarola, whose Moon in Capricorn,
evilly aspected in the tenth, was certainly his ultimate undoing. It
THE MOON IN THE SIGNS 157
gave him that tense, religious egotism and moral repressiveness
which ended his life at the stake. George the HE, on the other hand,
with his Moon in Capricorn, in the sixth house, evilly aspected by
planets in the ninth house, dealing with the mind, had senses which
became so twisted as to produce absolute madness most of his days.
We might go on indefinitely, bringing similar instances where
the mere position of the Moon, reacting in such a way as to congest
the Sensorium, either ruined or made the whole figure. Huxley's
position of the Moon in Sagittarius, on the other hand, was a tre-
mendous factor in his scientific success. He was really made by this
position.
Lastly, we must remember that the Moon, being a luminary, that
is, one of the lights, has a tremendous influence over the eyes, par-
ticularly the left in man and right in woman, and when placed in
signs that react upon vision and evilly aspected, has much to do with
blindness. We should always look to see where the Moon is placed
in estimating any affliction of this kind.
Finally, it would be well to remember that the Moon, which rules
over Cancer, being watery in influence, usually enters into all cases
of drowning, either through a discordant position or through evil
aspects. Few, if any, cases of drowning are on record where the Moon
is exalted and in no way afflicted. The Moon governing the public
also has much to do with those types of death that are of a public
order, and here again its sign position is important. It will be seen,
therefore, that the Moon is more sensitive to its sign than the Sun
or any of the planets.
We now turn to a totally diiferent subject. The astrological
quality of the Moon determines the character of the women who are
thrown into the life of the native. Even in such special cases as the
mother and the wife, where they are signified by particular houses,
the Moon has still some effect. But more especially, it refers to
those women with whom the native becomes acquainted either in a
social or business way. It will immediately be objected that everyone
who lives to a reasonable age meets hundreds of women, no two of
whom are alike; and this is, of course, perfectly true. The objection
is, notwithstanding, untenable. In the first place, the Moon can
hardly be held to refer to mere casual acquaintances, but only to
158 ASTROLOGY
such women as have some marked effect upon the life of the native,
or are naturally attracted to him. Yet it is still frequent for any-
one to be intimately associated with a dozen different types ; never-
theless there will be disuniformity in that diversitys that, in so far
as they touched him, they will resemble one another. For example,
in the case of a man who has the Moon in Pisces,, practically all
the women with whom he is closely associated will be very emotional,
romantic, poetical, affectionate, unselfish and solicitous for his wel-
fare. Now, in the case of a man with Aries rising and Mars very
strong, this condition might be unfortunate for him; he might be
pestered to death by their attentions. It is only where his own na-
ture responds naturally to such people that he will consider himself
lucky. As a rule, however, there is this great safeguard against too
much trouble arising from such a cause, that those women who have
the most influence upon the life of the native have very often their
own Moon in his rising sign or on his Sun, or otherwise sympathetic
with his nativity; the so-called law of natural affinity has, in nine
cases out of ten, an astrological basis of a quite obvious kind. For
example, it may occur in the case of a great and beautiful passion
that the Sun of one may be in the exact place of the Moon with the
other. It is for such reasons that astrological investigation of the
horoscopes of both parties become so enormously important where
marriage is contemplated. One may have two machines, each of
which goes splendidly by itself, but if they are connected and fail
to synchronize, the result is the breakdown of both.
The Moon being so easily influenced by every other force, it is of
prime importance to investigate everything that may, by any pos-
sibility, react upon her. She is more sensitive to the influence of the
signs of the Zodiac than the planets. One might imagine two children
born exactly twenty-four hours apart whose horoscopes would be, to
all intents and purposes identical, except for the Moon, and this one
change might produce the most significant differences in the two
lives, owing to the Moon having moved, say from Taurus into
Gemini.
Not only do the signs themselves affect the Moon tremendously,
but also their subdivisions into the decanates. This refinement, how-
ever, is too subtle to treat of in this volume.
THE MOON IN ARIES 159
*' THE MOON IN ARIES
ABIES is not at all sympathetic to the Moon, he being the most active*
hot, and fiery of the signs, and she, the most passive, cold, and
watery of the planets. It gives great brilliancy, acuteness, and
susceptibility to the senses, but they are always on a terribly fine
edge, so that extreme nervousness is likely to result. This may show
itself in an extraordinarily quick temper, almost amounting to
snappiness. Alexander VI, Henry VIII, Robespierre, Swinburne,
and Lord Northcliffe are all very good examples of this trait, which
arose, not from any fault of temper or bad disposition in the ordi-
nary sense, but from the intense over-strain upon them by the too
great activity of the nerves which communicated impressions. In the
case of women, where the life also is ruled by the Moon, we get an
excellent example in George Sand. The directness and vividness of
the sensations usually lead to great mental independence and
activity; mental reaction takes place very rapidly. It is very diffi-
cult for persons with this position to doubt the evidence of their
senses ; and, unless some other aspects tend to diminish the executive
power or to delay the operation of the judgment, the native will be
so convinced as to the accuracy of whatever is presented to him that
he will act immediately without consideration. For the same reason,
the native is apt to resent authority and to be disinclined to listen to
advice. There is a strong tendency to accept all ideas* which are pre-
sented to one as merely emotional and to leave them thus ; as if the
mind were naturally attracted to Berkeleyan idealism. In conse-
quence of this, and of the swift, almost automatic operation of action
and reaction, the native is sometimes credited with originality, but
this gift is often a defect, since it usually implies contradictions in
thought, arising from a lack of reflection and correlation of the
various trains of thought. Thus, for example, we see Swinburne
reading a paragraph in the newspapers about the wrongs of some-
body in Russia and flashing into print with a violent sonnet against
the Czar or perhaps against kings in general. In the same way,
Henry VIII would dismiss a trusted minister, perhaps send him to
the block, in what was little better than a fit of temper.
Such people, however, are generally fortunate when they are in
the exercise of professions where quick decision is everything to
160 ASTROLOGY
success, and where hesitation, however necessary to calm judgment,
means failure. The position obtained by Lord Northcliff in English
journalism is evidently due, in great measure, to possession of this
quality. His rashness may have led him into follies, but they did not
matter, because everything was forgotten in the excitement of the
next moment. This quickness to respond to impression is obviously
likely to lead to the exhibition of qualities precisely contrary to those
which are described as fidelity and domesticity. Every new fancy
makes its full impression at once, and then passes, leaving little
trace.
When the Moon is in Aries, the women in the life of the native are
brilliant, passionate, headstrong, and impractical. They are very
often intellectual and capable of immense initiative. As a general
rule, in the case of a man, he will find it very difficult to control them9
and, for the most part, his association with them will be short-lived,
terminating more often than not, in quarrel. Where the Moon is
well-aspected, they may be of the greatest use to him in his career.
There is, however, no great promise of anything like enduring con-
stancy on the part of the man.
We find Alexander VI, and others whom we have mentioned above,
flitting from flower to flower like butterflies; Henry VIII even
carried this tendency into matrimony ; but in not one of these cases
do we find any woman in the life who exercised a permanent influence
of a truly domestic character.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Aries must strive to
be practical and avoid being too ambitious for them, allowing them
to use their own judgment in selecting their playmates and amuse-
ments, and later in life, in deciding on their own career.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Aries.
E. H. Sothern
Gifford Pinchot
Victor D. Brenner
Maude Adams
Bishop Greer
Henry George
John Drew
THE MOON IN TAURUS 161
Emile Cone
Booth Tarkington
Oliver Wendell Holmes
Harriet Beecher Stowe
Note I The remarks regarding the mother's attitude toward the child will naturally
suggest the query: "How about the mother who has a large family of children, as their
Moon, in each case, will probably be in a different sign?'* Every mother realizes that
although she loves each child equally well, she inevitably plays a different role or takes
a different attitude toward each individual child; this is largely determined by the
position of the Moon in its sign position, and is also further modified by the aspects of
the Moon. Then, too, the horoscope of one child may be sympathetic to the horoscope
of the mother and little or no friction exists between them; while the horoscope of
another child may be entirely antagonistic towards the mother's planets and, in con-
sequence, everything the child does irritates her and she finds it next to impossible to
be impartial or tolerant in her attitude. It behooves the mother, therefore, to have
the horoscopes of her children and to make a serious study of them, thereby enabling
her to understand their natures and how to develop their most constructive qualities.
Note 2 As the Moon takes only twenty-eight days to pass through the twelve signs
of the zodiac, it moves so rapidly that to note the sign in which it is placed would fill a
volume of itself; consequently, the only way to ascertain the position of the Moon in
each reader's individual chart, if he is unfamiliar with Raphael's Ephemerides, is to
have a map of his chart drawn which will give him the position not only of the Moon,
but also of the Sun and the seven planets.
THE MOON IN TAURUS
THE Moon in Taurus is in her exaltation ;
the sign tends to bring
out the quiet and reflective side of the Moon and at the same time to
steady her changeful nature. It is one of the best signs in which she
can be found.
People with the Moon in this sign hold to their impressions with
extreme obstinacy ; they react slowly, but with great vigor. They are
almost as uncritical as the Moon in Aries type, but for totally dif-
ferent reasons. They remember accurately and tenaciously and they
mould their actions for a long period on the original die. If any fact
is communicated to them of a startling character, they manifest no
excitement or distress. It sinks slowly into the mind, but instead of
being held there for a long period without transmutation into
motion, as we shall find happens when the Moon is in Cancer, a slow
162 ASTROLOGY
but purposeful decision with regard to that fact is undertaken, and,
unless executive power be entirely wanting, owing to some affliction
of Mars, action follows, steady, purposeful, and relentless. It is very
difficult to make such people change their minds. You cannot make a
person with the Moon in Aries change his mind, because, before you
speak to him, he has already acted on his impression and forgotten
about it ; but with Taurus the case is different. His action has been
taken and, however foolish and wrong you may prove it to be, it is
his action and he goes on with it.
When the Moon is in Aries, the best developed of the senses is
usually sight ; in Taurus, taste and touch are probably more impor-
tant to the native. These people strongly resent interference with
their ideas. They are so solidly impressed with what comes to them
that they welcome only ideas which naturally cohere with the general
temperament. This, of .course, tends to make the nature rather con-
servative and conventional.
Shakespeare had this position of the Moon, and, in spite of his
astounding genius, he gave little expression to new ideas; he ex-
pressed the accepted sentiments of his times with extreme power and
beauty, but he seemed incapable of seeing anything wrong with the
social system of his period. The same is true of Rossetti and Chatter-
ton, each of whom, in his different way, gave medievalism a new
dress, without changing its features. The same conventional attitude
is found in Dumas, in Joseph Chamberlain, in Arthur Balfour, and
in President Garfield. Although Joseph Chamberlain was at first a
radical, radicalism was conventional in Birmingham, which he repre-
sented. In the House of Commons, he drifted to conservatism of a
very steady kind. It is not likely that any man with the Moon in this
sign will break away from the fundamental principles in which he
was brought up. As an apparent exception we have the case of
Swedenborg; but here Uranus is within one degree of a conjunction
of the Moon, the most upsetting circumstance that could possibly
occur, Uranus being preeminently the planet of explosion. Yet even
Swedenborg was not much more revolutionary than Virgil or Dante
with regard to his ideas of Heaven and Hell ; it was merely that he
took them rather more seriously, a point of view that would
naturally arise from the trine of Jupiter to that conjunction. There
THE MOON IN TAURUS 163
is no such breaking away from orthodoxy? if one considers the
matter philosophically, as in the case of even such a reformer as
John Wesley. Where the native is a woman, so that the Moon refers
also to the life itself, her presence in this sign still further increases
the obstinacy of the character as is evident in the case of Queen
Elizabeth.
The women who influence the native will be domestic,, faithful, and
of strong, enduring passion. Even an artist like Rossetti had the
love of a truly devoted wife. It does not follow, however, that the
relations will always be fortunate. Rossetti's wife died early. The
curse of Shakespeare's life was Mary Fitton, but here again ob-
stinacy was in itself the cause of the trouble ; she treated him badly,
but she could not leave him alone. In the case of Queen Elizabeth,
we also find this curious clinging tendency; and though Mary,
Queen of Scots, had no Taurus in her disposition 'with regard to her
male acquaintances, she had Taurus rising, and acted in an entirely
Taurus manner toward her rival.
The dominion exercised upon the native by the women with whom
he or she is associated will always be due to this characteristic ; they
will always apply steady pressure, though it may often be only that
their fidelity appeals to the native and makes it impossible for him
to get rid of them.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Taurus must not try
to dominate their lives to such an extent as to rob them of their
individuality, thus forcing them to turn to others for sympathy and
understanding. Even though they may be most practical and de-
voted, they can easily arouse the stubbornness and antagonism of
their children having the Moon in this sign.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Taurus.
Harrison Fisher
Norma Talmadge
Julia Marlowe
Clarence Mackey
Henry Ward Beecher
164 ASTROLOGY
THE MOON IN GEMINI
GEMINI tends to accentuate the restlessness of the Moon, but it also
develops the mental qualities and, where the native is engaged in an
intellectual pursuit, the situation is not unfavorable. We see great
mental activity in Diirer, Pasteur, and Bernard Shaw9 all of whom
had this position. There is certainly a strong tendency to diminish
the enjoyment of. the senses, which are valued chiefly on account of
the information which they give, and are, comparatively speaking,
unconnected with the pleasures of the native. It is evident in the
above three cases that this is so, but the effect is still more easy to
remark in Alfred Tennyson, in whose poetry a certain lack of
robustness indicates that the senses communicated rather with the
reason or intellect than with the personality. This position is
certainly an advantage in that kind of investigation where the
presence of passion may act as an interference, but it is far from
good where knowledge of and sympathy with humanity are required.
Such a type of inhumanity is evident in the case of Ludwig II, of
Bavaria.
The native is extraordinarily quick to receive impressions and to
judge them with great accuracy, but there is not much depth in such
judgment, and we find constantly that people with the Moon
in this sign change their minds more readily than when she is in any
other. The native is quick and eager to learn, but the part of the
brain which attends to these matters seems rather disconnected with
the deeper functions of the soul. There is a great readiness to
communicate information acquired, and sometimes the native is
over-loquacious. The critical faculty is good, though superficial,
and there is not sufficient power to bring any given opinion into due
relation with general experience. The inability to digest his obser-
vations is likely to cause the native to seek variety. If he reads a
book, he partially assimilates it and throws it aside. He is likely to
be unable to ruminate upon it and develop its ideas within himself,
and he is consequently in need immediately of some new mental
stimulus. This may find expression in love of travel, or, especially
when the Moon is in the fifth house, in love of pleasure. In the
absence of constant change, the nervous system may be very dis-
tressed. It seems to be rather a disadvantage for thft Moon in Gemini
THE MOON IN GEMINI 165
to be strengthened by aspects. She is not sufficiently well-placed
here to make it desirable for her to be too strong. Pasteur, for
example, has no close aspect of any kind to his Moon. The relation
of the senses to the soul is thus indicated by the Moon's position in
the sign, but the other phases of the character are not absorbed
into this in such a way as to hurt them.
This position of the Moon is much better in the case of women,
the vitality being indicated by Luna; for the lack of ordinary
feminine qualities often makes for success. Queen Victoria, Frances
Willard, and Patti were saved by this position of the Moon from
having their careers interrupted by too great insistence upon
domestic matters or love-affairs. They were able to concentrate upon
the mental side of their work. It is, of course, not a desirable position
for any woman who looks forward to a normal, domestic Hfe; for
the woman with the Moon in Gemini must have strong intellectual
interests, else the Gemini qualities appear in mere childishness,
frivolity, and inconstancy.
The women with whom the native is intimately associated will
either be mainly intellectual companions or they will be rather
shallow and unreliable. It is, therefore, very important for the native
to choose his or her female friends for brains, rather than for beauty.
If he finds his affections seriously engaged, he may look for dis-
appointment. People with this sign as the lodge of the Moon have
usually a very delicate and accurate sense of smell and an ex-
ceptionally good ear for music; the other senses may not be so
strongly developed. Madame Patti, Ludwig II of Bavaria, and
Bernard Shaw are singularly good examples of this fact. There is
also to be observed in them a very quick and delicate reaction to
minute impression, which may sometimes seem to the observer like
intuition, but is really operated in quite a different manner and
should, by no means, be confounded with it.
Mothers who have children with the Moon in Gemini should strive
to be more maternal in their attitude toward them and not allow their
versatility and many interests to interfere with the personal
attention which such children require. Otherwise, they may become
too indifferent to their mother and the home influence.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Gemini.
166 ASTROLOGY
John Philip Sousa
John D. Rockerfeller, Sr.
William C. de Milk
Henry Carmichael
Bliss Carman
Mussolini
Robert Mantell
George H. Lorimer
James H. Hyslop
Rudyard Kipling
THE MOON IN CANCER
THE Moon in Cancer is in her own house and she is stronger in this
sign than in any other of the Zodiac. Its receptivity, placidity, and
sensuousness are in complete harmony with her nature, and the
Moon being dignified in the sign also tends to make her disposition
less changeable, while the influence of Jupiter, who is exalted in the
sign, takes away something of her coldness.
The senses of the native reflect with extreme accuracy the
impressions presented to them. They sink into the mind and dissolve
completely in it; the mind takes their mould with exquisite
delicacy, but there is one drawback, in that, as a rule, there is little
tendency to act upon the information they received. The mind is
not idle, but rather meditative. Reaction is slow and uncertain. As
a rule, the native lacks the intense energy which we associate with
great creative genius, unless there are other indications in the
horoscope ; and these have to be pretty strong to overcome what may
be called the contentment of the mind to remain passive. In the case
of Sir Isaac Newton, we have a sextile of Mars to supply energy,
and he is decidedly the most creative of the people on our list. But,
even in his case, we observe the extreme thoroughness of reflection
necessary to him before he began to give out again in a new form his
deductions from the facts which he had absorbed. Baudelaire is
another great creative genius, but his Moon is trined by Mercury,
and yet this reflective quality of the mind is apparent, in the ex-
traordinary repose of such writings as the "Little Poems in Prose."
THE MOON IN CANCER 167
It follows, more or less, that the native will not go out of his way
to obtain mental pabulum. This state of contentment with such
impressions as come naturally to it may reveal itself as love of home
and parents. There is usually a great deal of natural affection of
the placid order; even the passion of love is likely to be gentle,
peaceful, and perhaps romantic, when the Moon is in this sign.
While the mind is not restless, it is very sensitive to impressions,
though not at all in the way which we observed in the case of Gemini.
There is no desire to acquire, merely a readiness to do so. One must
be careful not to seek to upset the minds of people with this position,
even for their own good. They will merely dislike you for doing
so. It occasionally happens that the mind is psychic or mediumistic,
but in any case the memory may be considered good. Blake is a first-
rate example of the Moon in this sign at her best.
The position is not really so good for women as for men. It makes
them too passive, too easily influenced by those with whom they come
in contact. Nell Gwyn is a notable example of this disposition.
The women with whom the native will come in close contact will
be extremely warm-hearted and affectionate, sometimes maternal
and sometimes romantic. Their affection will be enduring, and it
may even be somewhat cloying. With bad aspects, the native may be
seriously injured by the character of the women in his or her life.
Byron, for example, with a retrograde Uranus in close con-
junction with his Moon, was almost destroyed by women. It is
probable, at all events, that they will be somewhat conventional
and exacting, demanding more from the native than he will bestow
upon them.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Cancer must avoid
being so devoted and conventional in their attitude toward them as
to make them too selfish or too dependent on the home influences.
Many boys with the Moon so placed suffer from the "CEdipus
complex" and later remain bachelors, or do not marry until after the
mother's death.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Cancer.
Von Hindenburg
Hugo Stinnes
168 ASTROLOGY
Lee Shubert
Theodore Roosevelt
General Ballington Booth
Ethel Barrymore
Samuel Gompers
"End35
Fisher
Geraldine Farrar
John O'Hara Cosgrave
Will Levington Comfort
Edith Cavell
President Lowell of Harvard
THE MOON IN LEO
LEO has an admirable effect on the Moon, the sign of the Sun linking
her with the source of her life. Its influence tends to diminish both
her coldness and her instability, and also redeems her from that
darkness which is one of her drawbacks. While stronger in Cancer,
where she is almost unmodified, the Moon is really better in Leo
because her own nature is so imperfect that modification of some
kind is necessary before we can consider her entirely excellent. With
regard to the senses of people with the Moon in Leo, generally
speaking, the sight is the best developed, but all the other senses
should be thoroughly well balanced and healthy. A certain degree,
however, of interest and even of affection for any subject must
exist before the senses can give true and full communication. Unless
the heart is in some way implicated, impressions do not easily reach
the mind of the native. As a rule, for example, they have little
curiosity, even scientific curiosity9 but where the native is anxious
to learn, he learns quickly and accurately, though his knowledge is
always tinctured, to some extent, by his belief and emotions. It is
extremely hard to convince a person with this position of the Moon,
against his will; but when ready to receive impressions, no one
apprehends them more quickly.
Where the Moon also indicates the personality, as in the case of
women, or when Cancer is on the cusp of the Ascendant, the in-
dication is particularly strong. The native is then very solar in
THE MOON IN LEO 169
character, positive, assertive, self-indulgent, noble, generous, and
self-sacrificing, physically vital and robust, and mentally strong and
decisive. There will also be great confidence born of the conviction
that one is, as it were, a medium of the forces from beyond. This will
naturally bring about initiative, capacity for leadership, and a
hopeful and determined attitude toward life. The native is in-
dependent, and almost fanatically fond of freedom in the best sense
of the word. He will refuse to recognize limitation; in some cases
this will prove a disadvantage, as he may be inclined to dash his head
against a brick wall. A fine example of this temperament is Anna
Kingsford. The position does not seem nearly so favorable for a
man, in whom it tends to produce a certain amount of conceit.
The impressions that come to him will be rather inflated with a sense
of his own vitality. They are not properly criticized and they ex-
pand, in his mind, unduly, sometimes even to a degree of megalo-
mania. We all recognize a certain floridity with an over-valuing of
little things in the characters of Oscar Wilde, James II, Louis XVI,
Disraeli, and Abbas Effendi, which may be put down to this posi-
tion. These remarks apply, to some extent, even to men who have
Cancer rising, but they do not at all refer to women, who are us-
ually as modest as they are excellent in all other ways.
The women in the life of the native will probably be the best of all
influences to him, as they will be solar, and of the character de-
scribed in speaking of women who have the Moon in Leo.
Mothers having children with the Moon in this sign will find it
very difficult to avoid being too dictatorial in their attitude toward
them ; as a general rule, however, their influence on them will be ex-
cellent in a mental and spiritual way, even though they may not
stress their physical and material needs, preferring to have the
latter attended to by some one else.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon in
the sign Leo :
Henry Watterson
Luther Burbank
P. T. Barnum
Eleanor Gates
Gandhi
170 ASTROLOGY
Daniel Chester French
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Gelett Burgess
Jack London
J. J. Hill
THE MOON IN VIRGO
THE general influence of the sign Virgo upon the Moon is to ac-
centuate her coldness and to develop the mental qualities very much
as in the case of Gemini, but the restlessness of that sign is re-
placed by a great steadiness and whole-hearted practicality. There
is usually a good deal of materiality akin to pragmatism in the
general tendency of the mind. The native does not, as a rule, value
knowledge for its own sake, but, immediately on acquiring it, asks
how it may be used. This is even the case in so intensely intellectual
an individual as Immanuel Kant, who, although employed in the
deepest and most abstract problem of metaphysics, never failed to
remember that his conclusions were but the necessary basis for an
ethical and religious system. We have, on the other hand, in this
sign, many examples of the most eminent and practical minds:
Alexander the Great, Edward VII, Paul Kruger, Lord Brougham,
Cromwell, the late J. Pierpont Morgan, Winston Churchill, and
Sainte Beuve being all good examples of the way in which the ac-
quisitions of the mind are immediately put to service. It should be
observed that Kant's Moon was very powerfully dignified by the
trine of an exact conjunction of the Sun and Mercury, and another
trine of Saturn. These aspects obviously tend to increase the ab-
stract power. This point is further exemplified by a consideration
of the Moon of Tolstoi, whose mind was decidedly lacking in prac-
ticality. Mercury and the Moon are only two degrees from con-
junction, Mercury in his own house being evidently stronger than
the Moon. Therefore, the influence of Mercury gives an additional
touch of his nature to the Moon, thus causing her to act more as if
she were in Gemini than in Virgo.
The native is very fastidious with regard to his impressions,
analyzing and criticizing them with extreme care. He is genuinely
THE MOON IN LIBKA 171
anxious to acquire knowledges but entertains strong prejudices. He
has, however, a keen sense of truths and is, generally speaking, ready
to face facts.
Women born with the Moon in this sign are usually coldblooded
and ambitious, as was the case with Cleo de Merode. There is a cer-
tain lack of romantic sentiment, a calculating cleverness in their
attitude toward men, which is repugnant to the average emotional
man. Such women are generally good in the practical affairs of
managing the home, but they are not likely to contribute very
largely to its happiness. The women who influence them are usually
very clever or intellectual and are rarely jealous of them.
The women associated with men who have the Moon in this sign
will, as a rule, be rather of this same type. Generally speaking, their
influence upon the man will not be very strong in a sentimental way9
although they may admire their practicality and common sense.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Virgo should endeavor
to be more affectionate or personal in their attitude toward them;
they may display efficiency and common sense in their dealings with
such children, but are inclined to call attention to faults which may
later in life develop into virtues.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Virgo :
Senator Borah
Stanley Baldwin
Ralph Waldo Trine
The late J. P. Morgan
Robert Lorraine
Charles E. Hughes
William Randolph Hearst
THE MOON IN LIBRA
LIBRA being the house of Venus, her influence upon the Moon is to
increase the aesthetic perceptions. The indications of the senses are
principally valued on account of their reference to beauty, though,
of course, a serious affliction of the Moon can entirely destroy this.
17* ASTROLOGY
Jay Gould, for example, has Saturn In conjunction retrograde, and
Venus square, utterly killing the Venus or beauty sense. The pres-
ence of Saturn in the sign of his exaltation, obviously brings out
the Saturnian qualities of Libra, while the square of Venus destroys
her influence therein ; consequently, all that remains to Libra Is the
faculty of cold judgment, which of course, he possessed In an ex-
tremely high degree.
The quality of balanced judgment is quite universally manifest
in Libra. With the Moon in this position, the senses report to the
mind with unusual accuracy, and facts are criticized with great
acumen. The matter is occasionally likely to rest there, for the airi-
ness of the sign inhibits practicality. In many cases, the native re-
mains in the contemplation of knowledge without turning it to
immediate account. He builds up great ideas, but finds it difficult to
execute them. A fine example of the critical judgment combined with
considerable aesthetic perception i& shown by Gladstone and Burton.
Both acquired most extraordinary stores of knowledge and both put
it forth in a most voluminous manner, but the great creative faculty
was not equally well-developed. Gladstone's writings were far in-
ferior to his power of moving men as a speaker. Burton's writings
are of a high order, but they do not possess that indescribable
quality which we find in the greatest of masters. This defect Is, of
course, not to be wholly ascribed to the position of the Moon. Very
characteristic, too, of the position, is its power to give the native a
sense of what may be called unearthly beauty, as in the cases of
Chopin and Maeterlinck.
Of women with the Moon In Libra, we have three examples, Mme.
Blavatsky, Marie Antoinette and Marie Bashkirtseff. In the first
case, the Moon is particularly strong, being the lady of the Ascend-
ant, and she is further dignified by a close trine of Uranus. The
position in Libra indicates the keenness of her critical perception.
The same power of introspection is shown by Marie Bashkirtseff,
but here Mars is lord of the Ascendant and trining the Moon, in-
stead of Uranus, as in the case of the Russian adept. The quality of
her criticism of life throws an excellent light upon the distinctions
between Mars and Uranus. Marie Antoinette has the Moon ex-
tremely powerful, Cancer being the rising sign, but afflicted by a
close square of Saturn, In this case, one may consider the influence
THE MOON IN SCORPIO 173
of Libra, which is on the cusp of the fifth house, unusually strong.
The women with whom the native is intimately associated are
likely to be distinguished, impersonal, delicate,, refined, and subtly
passionate. There is usually a danger of their exercising too strong
an influence upon the life of the native, whether man or woman.
Cardinal signs have an extraordinary power in determining the
general horoscope, and unless the man's own important planets are
equally strong, it is possible that women may sway his judgment to
an undesirable extent. These women are not nearly as "good" in the
old-fashioned, motherly sense of the word, as Cancer or Leo women.
They are more attractive, more brilliant, but do not have the same
solid qualities. Of course, they may be expected to possess talent,
frequently artistic, and to live their own individual life even after
marriage. This is not altogether a fortunate circumstance for the
average man, who may either be henpecked or find his marriage little
better than a new leaf of bachelorhood.
Mothers having children who have the Moon in Libra should do
everything to %
inspire in them a feeling of pride and admiration;
otherwise, regardless of the mother's devotion, such children can
easily become indifferent and be attracted to other women who
possess more charm or beauty.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Libra.
Gloria Swanson
William O. Stoddard
Richard Watson Gilder
William Faversham
Otto Kahn
THE MOON IN SCORPIO
THE Moon is in her fall in Scorpio, never a good position for her.
Scorpio brings out the watery and sensuous side of the Moon, but
tends to make her extremely positive and impassioned. People with
this position are naturally hedonists, regarding the senses as vehicles
of pleasure rather than of knowledge. These qualities, of course, may
174 ASTROLOGY
be overbalanced by aspects, as in the case of Herbert Spencer, whose
Moon has the opposition of the Sun and a square of Mars. The
interference of these planets eliminates the laxity of the sign,
thereby allowing its scientific qualities freer scope. Thomas Moore,
and Louis XVI, are, however, good examples of the hedonistic
nature of the position. When, however, Scorpio tends to science, its
effect is truly admirable, more so, perhaps, than any other sign. The
senses are preternaturally acute and the powers of observation
almost unlimited. The mind, too, reacts steadily, neither too quickly
nor too slowly, to its impressions, and, unless there is some contrary
indication in the horoscope, great will-power is indicated; for so
strongly do the ideas presented take hold of the mind that it cannot
rest in the mere acquisition of knowledge, but must construct,
organize, and give out to the world what it has received.
One cannot say, however, that Scorpio is an altogether happy
position for the Moon, for the tendency to sensuality is undoubtedly
very great. This is especially dangerous in women born with this
position. This sign influences the Moon in this respect more power-
fully than it does Venus. Not only do we find a danger of sexual
irregularity or excess, but a strong predisposition to indulgence in
liquor.
The women with whom the native is associated are apt to be very
strongly sexed, self-willed, and somewhat unscrupulous in attaining
their ends. They may be deceitful and treacherous; this, of course,
applies to bad cases only. But where the Moon of the native is well*
dignified, he will meet the better type of Scorpio woman, courageous,
ambitious, enterprising, and endowed with executive power. In spite
of these facts, it does not necessarily follow that women will play a
very important part in the life of the native. Scorpio is the weakest
sign as well as the strongest. There is an element of corruption in it,
unless well-dignified, which makes it sometimes practically void of
influence or extremely limited and intermittent in its operation. One
may consequently expect rather extreme cases ; in the case of a man
with this position, one may be utterly ruined by women, another will
pass through life almost entirely uninfluenced by them.
Mothers having children who have the Moon in Scorpio should
guard against allowing their ambition for them to overshadow their
tender emotions. They should avoid influencing such children to
THE MOON IN SAGITTARIUS 175
such an extent as to interfere with any latent talent or natural in-
clination in choosing a career.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in Scorpio.
Alex. Agassiz
Charles H. Sabin
Charles G. Dawes
Henry Van Dyke
William Gillette
THE MOON IN SAGITTARIUS
SAGITTARIUS, by its keeness, seems to have the tendency to reduce
the Moon to the clear, cold sparkle of a star. Almost all the femininity
in her is taken away. There is no passive acquiesence in the infor-
mation conveyed by the senses. The prophetic or inspirational sense
is keen, more so than when the Moon is in any other sign. There is
hardly any plasticity in the attitude of the native to life. The im-
pressions are admirably focussed the picture presented to the mind
is entirely without blurring, perfectly sharp and well-defined. The
mind has consequently to deal with clearer images than when the
Moon is in any other sign, and therefore one most important ele-
ment, in the formation of judgment, is quite perfect, and the judg-
ment is almost preternaturally acute. We find the coldest and
clearest intelligences with this position of the Moon. This fact
almost leads us to think that the main cause of mental obfuscation
may be original defective presentation of the non-ego to the ego
through a fault in what one may call the lens. The student will note
the extraordinary clearness and concentration of the mental vision
of such men of science as Copernicus, Huxley, Alfred Russell Wal-
lace, and Davy, of a philosopher like Sir William Hamilton, and of
novelists like Balzac, Victor Hugo, and one may even add, Dickens.
If the observation of humanity is, to some extent, in this last case
somewhat distorted by his whimsical method of portraiture, so that
his creations appear like caricatures, the reason is that Neptune
176 ASTROLOGY
was in direct conjunction with the Moon. In the political world, we
have an excellent example of singularly clear and simple vision in
the case of John Bright. The minds of people with the Moon in this
sign appear to resent any confusion of issues, and are always afraid
of being cheated by the introduction of facts which are foreign to
the subjects under discussion. The extreme breadth of vision in
Balzac may be set down to the close square of Uranus to the Moon,
which enlarges the outlook and makes it more vital. In the case of the
men of science mentioned above, one must note the limitation of
their work. Much of the success which they obtained was due to their
faculty of attending to one thing at a time. This made them, in some
way, a little narrow and one-sided, as compared with universal
geniuses like Newton. To produce a man like Newton, one would
have to combine a Huxley and a Hamilton. The reaction of the mind
to the senses, when the Moon is in this sign, is extremely quick and
keen, but the reflective qualities are usually not great, unless de-
veloped by favorable aspects of the major planets.
Women born with this position of the Moon will have very much
the same quality as they would have were Sagittarius rising.
The women who come closely into the life of the native will be of a
high type, delicate, refined, yet keenly passionate and, at the same
time, almost too ethereal to satisfy the tastes of the average man.
There will also be difficulty in holding them. Gentle and timid as
deer, the slightest sound alarms them and they may dash off into the
depths of the woodland. They are not domestic, unless from a sense
of duty, but they make admirable companions, particularly in out-
door sports. The native will be able to amuse himself with them, but
may find it difficult to make them practical.
Women having the Moon in this sign will attract high-minded,
religious and admirable women, and seldom suffer, if at all, from
their jealousy or enmity, unless, of course, their Moon is badly
aspected.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Sagittarius may give
too much thought to their spiritual and mental needs at the expense
of their emotional requirements. They should strive to display more
affection and sympathy toward such children.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Sagittarius.
THE MOON IN CAPRICORNUS 177
Dr. John D. Quackenbos
James O'
9
Neil
Gutzon Borglum
Admiral George Dewey
Spencer Trask
Hudson Maxim
Frederick MacMonnies
Ramsey MacDonald
Thomas W. Lament
Charles Hayden
THE MOON IN CAPRICORNUS
CAPRICORNUS is, on the whole, a very bad position for the Moon, for
here she is in her detriment and the whole nature of Capricornus is
unsympathetic. Almost the worst feature of the Moon is her cold-
ness, and this Capricornus accentuates. The senses of people with
the Moon in this sign are not likely to be particularly acute. The
mental response to impression is rather quick, angry, and antag-
onistic, yet there is an extreme keenness to receive information.
Where the Moon is well-dignified, this may be of very happy
augury. Edison's Moon, for example, with the conjunction of Mars
to energize it, the sextile of Saturn and Venus to soften and steady
it, indicates the quick mental reaction, the power to seize oppor-
tunity, and to solve problems in a flash, which has been responsible
for the greater part of his success. In this faculty of unusual quick-
ness of judgment, the power of sudden and correct decision, he has a
rival in Napoleon. Here Saturn and Mercury are again in aspect tc?
the Moon.
Bismarck also has a sextile of Mercury, a semi-sextile of Saturn,
a trine of Venus, a square of the Sun and Jupiter, and a semi-sextile
of Uranus, all of which aspects may be taken as greatly strengthen-
ing and solidifying the mental reaction. We often find, however,
illusions of sense, sometimes so serious as almost to justify ascribing
their cause to what is called obsession. We have no reason to doubt
the good faith of Joseph Smith any more than we have reason to
178 ASTROLOGY
believe that what he said was true. He may, therefore, have been a
deluded, but not a false teacher. On referring to his nativity, we find
the Moon on the cusp of the eleventh house, squared by a conjunc-
tion of Uranus and Saturn. The sextile of Neptune would naturally
give a whimsical turn to the delusion and hence we find extravagant
stories about Scriptures written upon golden plates. It is usually a
case of definite obsession that we find with the Moon in Capricornus,
differing from her nature in Pisces, where we get a different kind of
dream-world, the romantic sphere of the poet and the mystic. In
Capricornus, the Moon often gives a tendency in persons of the
average type to intoxication, always in the nature of obsession. This
tendency to obsession is certainly the most characteristic of all the
qualities of the Moon in Capricornus. Even in the best cases, people
with this position tend to have the idea fixed. Bismarck, Napoleon,
and Savonarola are obvious examples. In their cases, the fixed idea
was very much in tune with the general purpose of the life, and so
was not an affliction, but in a case like that of George III, who had
Uranus in conjunction with his Moon and Mars square, there could
be no result but madness.
Mary, Queen of Scots, and George Eliot, both had somewhat of a
morbid strain, and it is evident that neither of them possessed the
disposition to make any man permanently happy. The position of
their Moon is to be held, for the most part, responsible for this.
There is also in women an evident tendency to brood, and brooding
is often a condition antecedent to obsession.
The women with whom the native will probably be associated may
possess excellent practical qualities, but they will be apt to be exact-
ing and capricious, sometimes exceedingly cold and unsympathetic,
or, if not cold, they may have a callous quality which is almost worse
than coldness. They will, however, in all probability be thoroughly
reliable, and possess a strong sense of moral responsibility. They
will also be patient, and generally speaking, faithful, but the cal-
lousness of their disposition will hardly be conducive to the happi-
ness of the men whose lives they influence. If the reader will run his
eye back over the people mentioned as having the Moon in this sign,
and add the names of Isaac Pitman, Cicero, and Edward VI, he will
notice that in none of these cases have women played a really im-
THE MOON IN AQUARIUS 179
portant part in the life, for sympathy is the true foundation of in-
fluence.
Women having the Moon in this sign attract women who are not
in sympathy with them. They are more likely to benefit their women
friends than to receive benefit from them.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Capricorn will be
naturally efficient and practical regarding their physical and
material needs ; unless they can be proud of such children, however,
they will seldom give them the love and sympathy which the children
will naturally crave.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Capricorn.
George F. Baker
Reginald de Koven
Percival Lowell
THE MOON IN AQUARIUS
AaiTABius has, on the whole, a very favorable effect upon the Moon.
It represents her at her very best. The touch of coldness and in-
humanity is no longer there. The sterility and instability are taken
away. The indications afforded by the senses are admirable ; not only
are they accurate, 'but their effect upon the mind is altogether what
it should be. There is the scientific attitude, but there is also the
human interest. There is no error either toward emotionalism or
sentimentality or rationalism. The reaction is strong and neither too
swift nor too slow. We may take as the best examples of this position
of the Moon, Dante and Wagner. Here we find, almost equally in
both cases, the religious instinct, the humanitarian instinct, the sex
instinct and the scientific instinct all admirably developed and not
one of them over-developed. Both were familiar with the science of
their period, but neither became an extremist. Both followed the re-
ligious average of their period, but without undue fanaticism on the
one hand or skepticism on the other. People with this position are
always likely to be somewhat in advance of their contemporaries,
180 ASTROLOGY
but this advance will be of an all-round character not distorted or
even one-sided. This Is a very rare and perfect circumstance. The
majority of so-called advanced thinkers have merely a disproportion
of over-development on some one line, but people with the Moon in
Aquarius are so well-balanced that it is rare for them to upset their
contemporaries by an extravagance of views. This universality of
interest nearly always tends to make the native a charming com-
panion, whose conversation is always well worth listening to. It is
difficult for the native to be satisfied with any one individual ; his
sympathies move in too many channels. He may, therefore, give
more pleasure to his friends than they to him.
This sign is not altogether so fortunate as the home of the Moon
in the case of a woman. She becomes almost too Aquarian, and even
a good quality can be overdone. There will probably be some lack
of heart, unless there is a corresponding correction, as for example
the Sun in Cancer or Leo.
The women in the native's life will be much above the average,
loyal, broad-minded, intelligent, and while, to some extent, idealistic,
they will indubitably prove of the greatest practical assistance to
the native, whether man or woman, particularly if his career lies in
some such direction as is indicated by the sign itself.
Mothers having children with the Moon in Aquarius are likely to
play the part of a chum and companion with them, but they should
avoid being too indulgent or unselfish in their attitude toward them.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Aquarius:
Elbert Hubbard
Sir Ernest Shackleton
Maude McCarthy
Joseph Pulitzer
Adolph Ochs
General Goethals
Mary Baker Eddy
Frank H. Dodd
Walter Damrosch
Andrew Carnegie
Joe Cannon
THE MOON IN PISCES 181
Louisa M. Alcott
Clarence Darrow
Henry Ford.
THE MOON IN PISCES
THE Moon and Pisces are peculiarly sympathetic. Taken by itself,
there is great danger that the person with this position may receive
totally false impressions through the senses. There is an excessive
tendency to optimism and romanticism ; Don Quixote must have had
the Moon in Pisces. Among real people we find it in the horoscopes
of Shelley, Goethe, Petrarch, and Stevenson. This position accounts
for their extraordinary refusal to accept things as they are. The
outside world came to them through such colored glasses that every-
thing appeared bathed in a luminous mist.
The reader will note, however, that, of these persons, Goethe alone
had also the scientific attitude, the sense of realism; and Goethe's
greatness really consists in his ability to blend these totally opposite
qualities of the mind. The explanation is that, in his case, Saturn
was square to Uranus, the latter planet being in the third house ; a
square of Saturn and Mercury would have done equally well. But
unless there be some such compensation, we do not find any power of
realizing the facts of life with accuracy. The skeptical quality is
absent. Cardinal Gibbons, for example, could not entertain any
objection to his faith. Mabel Collins, similarly accepting the main
theosophic theory, weaves happy dreams. We do not find in her any
philosophical interest in its tenets.
Similarly, people like Sir Henry Wood and Rosa Bonheur take
the masterpieces of great artists in the one case Wagner, in the
other the creator of that horse "whose neck God clothed with
thunder" and interpret them very nicely, very correctly, but with
absolute lack of any analytical or critical faculty. The great artist
is always a great realist, however romantic he may be, and however
idealistic, for beauty is but the garment of truth ; and if there is no
truth behind apparent beauty, be sure that, your eyes have once more
deceived you. Now, the tendency of Pisces is always to present things
in symbolic form. The veil between the gross and the subtle world is
182 ASTROLOGY
but a spider's web, so far as Pisces is concerned. This is what makes
the sign so astoundingly psychic.
A great deal will depend upon the dignity of the Moon. If she has
such gooJ aspects as Mars trine or sextile to make her active, or if
a favorable ray from Uranus or the Sun fall upon her, then she gives
true vision. If she is afflicted, especially by Saturn, Neptune, Uranus,
Mars, or Jupiter, she is likely to bring the most diseased fancies to
birth and to harbor the grossest illusions. In fact Pisces may be
either the best or the worst of all the places of the Moon, but, in
view of what we have said, it appears that the tendency to illusion
is so strong that, taken by itself, the position is not a good one in a
world where capacity to look facts in the face is the principal asset
of the masters of life. People can get into far more trouble through
believing the best about everything than through believing the
worst. A pleasant surprise can do no harm ; an unpleasant one may
upset one completely.
One of the most dangerous features of this position of the Moon
is that the need to see everything through rose-tinted spectacles
often drives the native to indulgence in drink or drugs, which tem-
porarily renews the illusion that everything is beautiful. Any aspect
of Neptune to the Moon will naturally accentuate this tendency. It
must never be forgotten how closely allied are the temperamental
qualities of Neptune and Pisces.
Women with the Moon in this sign fill the above description even
more closely than do men. It makes their romanticism and, to a cer-
tain extent, their other-worldliness, extraordinarily strong. Some-
times, like Lily Langtry, they are able to turn these qualities to
great advantage. In her case, though Neptune was in conjunction
with the Moon, the sextile of Uranus and the square of Saturn gave
her balance. Without these aspects, she might have been so self-
sacrificing, generous, and passive, that she would have been the prey
of every unscrupulous person with whom she came in touch.
The women with whom the native is closely associated will be, as
a rule, highly emotional, extremely unselfish, romantic, voluptuous,
passionate, and sometimes dreamy. They take love to the highest
planes and have the power of making themselves appear of extrava-
gant value in the eyes of the native. In the case of a man they will
thus enable him to gain pleasure and happiness from their affection,
MERCURY SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 183
but as a general rule, they will not be of much help to him in his
career. In a general way, the woman devotes herself to the man so
completely that she has little care for anything in the world but his
devotion. She may be, however, extremely useful to him by roman-
tically inspiring him and making him happy.
Mothers having children who have the Moon in Pisces must avoid
being so unselfish and "soft" in their attitude toward them as to
unconsciously develop their weakest points and to undermine their
character and their will-power.
The following well known persons were also born with the Moon
in the sign Pisces:
Dr. Felix Adler
Oscar Hammerstein
Cardinal Gibbons
Frank Damrosch
Richard Carle
A. G. Trent
Augustus Thomas
John Burroughs
Richard Le Gallienne
MERCURY SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
HERMES, or Mercury, is the winged and vital intelligence of God.
He is the wisdom of the Creator, the Logos or Word by whom all
things came into being.
Hermes is swifter than the lightning, for he is thought itself,
wherein the lightning lives. The divine consciousness is free from
time and space, which are merely the conditions whereby we perceive
the limited, and so Hermes, being the thought of Deity, transcends
all such bonds. All objects of thought are bounded, but not thought
itself. To Hermes the poet has addressed his lyre; and rightly, for
Hermes is the inventor of the lyre and all music, as well as of all
science and art. He is the master also of magic, and the patron of
all those who seek after God by solitude and meditation.
Mercury is the god of playful trickery; he appears "as a boy
184 ASTROLOGY
mischievous and lovely
"
for, not having acquired that sense of re-
sponsibility which comes with the development of the sex-instinct,
his cleverness is without serious purpose. As he grows, it turns to
evil, and he becomes a thief and a liar ; or to good, and he becomes
the man of science, the keen intellectual investigator. But so elusive
is this god that even pure intellect needs to be tempered by holier
forces, or it is cold and evil. And it must be steadied9 or its influence
may be destructive as the lightning.
Mercury delights to strike and pass; the attention must be
riveted, the intellect chained to lofty purpose, before permanent re-
sults can be achieved. Of all the powers that can befriend him, Jupi-
ter is the best, even as a boy is best in the hands of a wise and truly
religious teacher. He must not be entirely abandoned to the gaiety
of Venus or to the changeability of the Moon. Mars may make him
unreliable and irritable. The Sun is too near his own nature to be
wholly a good companion; Saturn must be indeed kindly and wise
if youth is not to acquire the pessimism of age.
So Mercury is the most fascinating of the planets ; he is a riddle
to which new answers constantly are given; he is subtle and am-
biguous, soft of speech and vivid of smile. Even his worst pranks
move the Gods to laughter !
Only when hardened in evil does he be-
come the apache of the planets.
The lesson of Mercury is education. By right schooling and
discipline, intellect, which is by nature non-moral, may be developed
under noble auspices to create new worlds of thought. Intellect can
solve the secrets of the stars, tame lightning, and give it to the chil-
dren for a toy, discover the treasures of the ocean, force even philos-
ophy to disclose her brows, rear the colossus, civilization, in the
harbor of mankind in a word, work every wonder. But this in-
tellect is also capable of things wholly worthless, of dangerous
exploits leading to disaster. It can inspire a skeptic to the ruin of
religion, destroy a social system with false logic, uproot an empire,
and dismay humanity. So seductive is the sophistical appeal to
reason that man's pride in his mind often blinds him to the lessons
of experience. There is no metal but iron that quicksilver will not
corrode ; and only firmness and moral courage can resist the plaus-
ibilities of the demagogue.
The mind is primarily a sword ;
it is easy to destroy the fabric of
MERCURY IN THE SIGNS 185
society, because its foundations are compromise and convention. The
world is
admittedly false and evil; it never corresponds with our
a priori ideas of it.
Destructive criticism is the principal function of the Devil. Satan
is "the accuser of the brethren95
;
and it is fortunate that the great
Judge of all the earth is not only just, but merciful.
But, above all. Mercury is he that standeth upon the threshold of
the House of Heaven ; he is the Messenger of the Gods. For as by
intellect we are raised above the beasts, so it is our link with Deity.
Only, it is not for us to be active, but to be passive. Let us listen to
Nature in all her manifold mysteries, and especially in Art, for that
which is not in the storm of the lightning or the earthquake, but in
the still small voice. Let our intellect be illuminated by the great
Light that is beyond it but let us receive humbly that which may be
given us by the grace of the Omniscient. Let us indeed inquire
ardently, with all the labor of which we are capable, into all things ;
but let us also remember the last words of the greatest philosopher
"All things end in mystery." Let us realize that Absolute Truth
resides beyond the reach of mortal mind, beyond the limitations of
Time and Space, and that, were we wise as Solomon, this would still
be true of us, that "the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God."
So it is the supreme achievement of the mind to recognize its own
incapacity, and bow before the fact. "These things are hidden from
the wise and prudent and revealed unto babes." What is the issue?
To become as little children ; "for of such is the Kingdom of God."
MERCURY IN THE SIGNS
MERCURY is the most truly sensitive of all the planets. Venus and
the Moon are more easily affected, it is true, but for them a better
term is "impressionable." Mercury is the adolescent ; he responds to
every impression like the weather-vane, which is a very different thing
from the reception and reflection of every impression. In slightly
different language, Mercury is not modified by the signs as are the
more passive planets ; rather each excites him to give a special ex-
pression of opinion. Mercury is, as we know, the mind; and while
the contents of the mind are determined by the food of the mind, yet
186 ASTROLOGY
different minds deal quite differently with identical foods. It has
;
been said (by Browning, was it not?) that thousands of people be-
fore Newton saw apples fall from trees, but their only impulse was
to eat them.
The proper and best influence upon Mercury is Saturn, and with-
out his steadying hand to hold him in tutorship to a profounder
wisdom, Mercury may be frivolous and vain. It is only when Mer-
cury is overpowered by Venus that the mental qualities become
subservient and slavish, so that one may say of the native "he has
no mind of his own." There is, however, always the safeguard of the
proximity of the Sun, especially when the conjunction is not too
close.
We must urge upon the student to regard carefully the aspects
to this planet, but not to accept them as operative unless very close.
At the same time whatever aspects may exist will not alter the
essential character of Mercury, as determined by the sign in which
he is placed. It is further to be observed that the close juxtaposition
of the Sun and Mercury makes the quality of the latter, as a rule,
practically that of the Sun himself. This is, of course, only natural
since there is a closer connection between the man and his mind than
there is (for example) between him and his will. The exceptions will
be, of course, when Mercury is at his farthest from the Sun and in a
sign of opposite nature. But the main point to remember is the deli-
cate sensitiveness of the mental ruler, and the fact that such im-
pressions as are made on him are not like seals upon wax, but like
the rise and fall of the column of quicksilver at every change in the
atmosphere.
MERCURY IN ARIES
IK ABIES, Mercury is strong and impetuous. The native is usually a
creature of impulse, taking up ideas with enthusiasm, but unable to
concentrate upon them for any length of time. He is often witty,
inventive, vigorous in execution, a capable administrator or gover-
nor, though apt to be dictatorial and impatient of opposition and
still more so of delay. He is liable to fits of passion, and when Mer-
cury is afflicted, especially by Uranus, he may be subject to per-
MERCURY IN ARIES 187
sistent and acute headache, neuralgia, and. In bad cases5 Intermittent
mania or epilepsy.
But where Mercury is well dignified, this position is altogether
admirable for sheer brilliancy of mind. Shakespeare, Zola, Sir
Richard Burton, J. M. W. Turner, Tschaikowsky, Daudet, and
Swinburne all had their Mercury in Aries. In science we find
Copernicus, in military affairs General Grant, and in the modern
world of finance the late J. Pierpont Morgan. One may also remark
on the fact that Madame Steinheil was similarly favored, and collate
it with what has been said elsewhere with regard to her career.
The following well known persons were also born with Mercury
in the sign Aries :
William Shakespeare
Emile Zola
Sir Richard Burton
The late J. P. Morgan
Joseph Pulitzer
Elihu P. Root
Dr. John Duncan Quackenbos
Palmer Cox
"Bud" Fisher
Senator Weeks (Secretary of War)
Dr. Percy Stickney Grant
Chauncey M. Depew
Charlie Chaplin
John Burroughs
John B. Herreshoff
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Aries are as follows :
From March 9th through May 14th 1840
March 3d " March 20th
April 18th "
May 8th 1
April 14th "
April 30th
April 8th "
April 22d 1843
March 30th "
April 13th 1844
188 ASTROLOGY
MERCURY IN ARIES 189
190 ASTROLOGY
MERCURY IN TAURUS
IN Taurus, Mercury is the very antithesis of himself in Aries. The
mind of the native is slow, patient, solid and constructive, and often
obstinate. He may have a great intellect, but often may learn more
from travel and experience than from books. There is, however, fre-
quently some tendency to mental inertia, and this nearly always
expresses itself as conservatism. Such minds resist new ideas. Con-
sider Queen Victoria, the most successful reactionary of the nine-
teenth century. She came to a throne already tottering beneath the
blows of the French Revolution, and of such thinkers as Shelley, and
MERCURY IN TAURUS 191
she smothered Republicanism by "fighting the fight of sit-down"
until at her Jubilee she was more firmly seated than any Tudor !
Huxley, too, for all his brilliancy and originality was in some
ways as conservative as his Queen. In science he never jumped at
conclusions; he was, perhaps, the most cautious and profound
thinker, both in science and in philosophy, that England had pro-
duced. Similar qualities, not so well-dignified, are visible in General
Boulanger and George V. In them there is some hanging back no-
ticeable; hesitation just where dash was wanted! For constructive
obstinacy in politics we should look rather to Cromwell, who was,
of course, a far more absolute monarch than the weak king whom
he replaced.
And when Mercury in Taurus is constructive, he is very con-
structive indeed, as is exemplified in Kant, Wagner and Balzac.
There is never any doubt about the solidity and worth of the in-
tellect of people with this position ; how it may work out to advan-
tage or disadvantage depends almost entirely upon the aspects.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in the
sign Taurus:
Queen Victoria
Wagner
Joseph G. Cannon
Beauregard
Rudolph Valentino
Oscar Hammerstein
Daniel Chester French
Clarence Darrow
Alan Dale
William Randolph Hearst
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the signs Taurus are as
follows :
From May 15th through June 1st 1840
May 9th
"
May 23d 1841
May 1st
"
May 15th 1842
192 ASTROLOGY
From April 23rd through May 6th 1843
April 14th "
April 29th 184)4
April 6th
" June 12th 1845
April 1st
"
April 17th 1846
May 17th
" June 6th 1846
May 14th "
May 29th 1847
May 6th
"
May 19th 1848
April 28th "
May llth 1849
April 19th
"
May 3d 1850
April llth "
April 30th 1851
May 20th " June 13th 1851
April 3d " June th 1852
May 16th June 2d 1853
May 10th "
May 25th 1854
May 3d "
May 16th 1855
April 24th "
May 7th 1856
April 15th "
April 30th 1857
April 7th " June 13th 1858
April 1st April 24th 1859
May 16th " June 7th 1859
May 14th "
May 29th I860
May 7th "
May 21st 1861
April 29th "
May 12th 1862
April 21st "
May 4th 1863
April llth "
April 28th 1864
May 28th " June llth 1864
April 4th " June llth 1865
May 17th June 4th 1866
May 12th "
May 26th 1867
May 3d "
May 17th 1868
April 25th "
May 8th 1869
April 17th "
May 1st 1870
April 9th " June 13th 1871
April 1st "
May 3d 1872
May 13th June 7th 1872
May 15th "
May 31st 1873
May 8th "
May 22d 1874
May 1st "
May 14th 1875
MERCURY IN TAURUS 193
194 ASTROLOGY
From April 21st through May 5th 1909
April 18th
"
April 30th 1910
June 2d " June llth 1910
April 5th " June 12th 1911
May 17th
" June 4th 1912
May 12th "
May 27th 1913
May 5th "
May 18th 1914
April 27th "
May 10th 1915
April 17th "
May 2d 1916
April 9th
" June 14th 1917
April 3d " June 9th 1918
May 16th
" June 1st 1919
May 9th
"
May 23d 1920
May 1st
"
May 14th 1921
April 23d "
May 6th 1922
April 15th "
April 30th 1923
April 6th " June 12th 1924
April 2d "
April 15th 1925
May 17th " June 6th 1925
May 13th "
May 29th 1926
May 6th
"
May 20th 1927
April 27th "
May 10th 1928
April 19th
"
May 3d 1929
MERCURY IN GEMINI
IN Gemini Mercury is in his own house, but although quite as strong
as one would expect, it is his airy changeful side that is most ac-
centuated. There is danger of over-development of the mind at the
expense of the vital forces, of living too wholly on the mental plane,
of restlessness and anxiety and overwork, which errors may culmi-
nate in nervous breakdown. Ill aspects of Neptune, the Moon, and
Uranus confirm this threat.
The mind of such people is often singularly lucid, but intellectu-
ally, rather than instinctively or intuitively. They rationalize ad-
mirably, but nearly always neglect more important considerations.
Their logical processes are perfect, but they are apt to generalize
MERCURY IN GEMINI 195
from insufficient data, or to omit some cardinal fact in their prem-
ises. They are often, therefore, regarded as silly, though never as
stupid. Their superficial rapidity of mind often makes them good
public speakers or journalists, for rapidity is an essential mental
qualification in these professions, and their facility in logical proc-
ess without rigid insistence upon precedent fact makes them suc-
cessful lawyers.
They possess great versatility ; often too much, sometimes lacking
steadiness and application. They are easily influenced hy their
environment ; a slight matter starts them off on a new trail. Where
the hearing is good, they make fine linguists, but, unless Mercury is
fortified by good aspects of the heavier planets, not especially
adapted for any of the deeper modes of thought. Albert Diirer and
Dante are the greatest names upon our list, and in both cases Mer-
cury is greatly steadied and helped by Saturn and Uranus. In the
second rank we find George Sand, Thomas Hardy, and Bulwer-
Lytton. Richard Strauss, whose Mercury is in the last degree of
Taurus and therefore blends the influences of both signs, may
perhaps be worthy of the first-class. But more characteristic of
Gemini is the coldly intellectual quality of mind shown by George
III, Robespierre, Brigham Young, Jay Gould, and Abbas Effendi.
There is something colorless and bloodless about the manner of
thought of all these people, which puts them in a class apart. Yet
more typical of the purely mental and superficial character of this
position of Mercury is George Bidder, the "Lightning Calculator."
The mind in such a case is as merely a machine as if it were made
of metal ; and this is the essentially mental quality, and the occasion
of St. PauPs remark, "The carnal mind is enmity against God."
The following well known persons were born with Mercury
in the sign Gemini :
Colonel George W. Goethals
P. T. Barnum
Emerson
Charles Hayden
Captain George W. Walrond
James Stillman
Harriet Beecher Stowe
196 ASTROLOGY
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Gemini, are as
follows :
MERCURY IN GEMINI 197
198 ASTROLOGY
July
July
July
June
June
June
May
July
June
July
June
June
June
June
May
July
July
June
June
June
May
May
July
July
June
June
June
June
May
July
10th
.1st
22d
14th
6th
29th
12th
1st
6th
28th
18th
10th
2d
28th
10th
2d
24th
15th
6th
30th
31st
13th
8th
29th
20th
llth
4th
28th
llth
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
MERCURY IN CANCER
So receptive a sign as Cancer is not wholly suitable to Mercury,
who easily "loses himself," one fluid in another, so to speak. The
result is often seen in poor memory, particularly in old age, al-
though, if the planet be well dignified, the mind may be singularly
MERCURY IN CANCER 199
retentive, particularly in the matter of history. In fact, the tendency
is often to assimilate precedent, and rather to refer to antiquity than
to reason upon actualities. It is good for such persons as may be
occupied in what may be called the by ways of life. Dealers in an-
tiquities, bibliophiles, bookworms, and to a less extent, lawyers, may
find some advantage in this position.
There is in all cases a decided lack of the sense of actuality, and,
above all, of originality. Yet the intuition is often exceedingly good ;
such people may know, without being told, and without knowing
how they know. The understanding is usually excellent, and the
sympathy is easily excited. On the other hand, where these people
dislike, the feeling is intense; they cannot endure the company of
those who are not in harmony with them. Yet, although sensitive,
they are more tolerant than the average person. The contrast in this
respect with people who have Mercury in Scorpio is singularly well
marked ; for the latter, although they may deem it politic to conceal
their contempt for inferior minds, keep inwardly the most extra-
ordinary bitterness. Mercury in Cancer is really tolerant ; its natives
have the sense that opinions are, after all, not of supreme im-
portance. They are, too, not always aware of their own defect of
memory and lack of logic. Here one must pause, confronted by the
fact that the most marvelous memory in the world, that of "Datas,"
and the most powerful rationalizing mind of modern times, that of
Bernard Shaw, both came under Mercury in Cancer. But the
Mercury of "Datas" has Venus in exact conjunction, and his
memory is purely detached and self-sufficient, and exclusively his-
torical. He remembers dates, and dates only ; and he remembers them
in a mechanical manner, absolutely, and not because of their relation
to other matters. This is in fact the precise type of memory indi-
cated above as characteristic of this position. The case of Bernard
Shaw is explained by the exact trine of Neptune to Mercury, which
gives him his extraordinary faculty of detecting the falsity of con-
ventional thought.
It may also be mentioned that the effect of Cancer is to make
Mercury sway to the purely passive side. The mind is unusually
impressionable, and though the inscriptions thereupon be "writ in
water," yet for the moment they sway the native. There is little real
stability in the mind, and yet it falls easily into habit, which may be
200 ASTROLOGY
obstinate if subjected for long periods to a single stress. The po-
sition inclines to mental idleness, and any powerful will can easily
obtain dominion over the mind of the native by appealing to the
senses rather than by argument, which arouses obstinate resistance.
All this being peculiarly contrary to the best attributes of mind, we
must regard Cancer as one of the less fortunate positions for
Mercury.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in
the sign Cancer:
Alexander Dumas
Lord Tennyson
George Bernard Shaw
Robert Schumann
Henry Ward Beecher
Mark Benson
John O'Hara Cosgrave
William Gillette
Harrison Grey Fiske
Harrison Fisher
John D. Rockefeller, Sr.
Calvin Coolidge
George M. Cohan
Booth Tarkington
Elbert Hubbard
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in Cancer, are as follows :
From June 15th through June 30th 1840
June 7th "
June 25th 1841
August 6th "
August 8th 1841
May 31st August 7th 1842
May 31st " June 13th 1843
July 14th July 31st 1843
July 8th July gist 1844
June 30th July 13th 1845
MERCURY IN CANCER 201
MERCURY IN LEO 203
From June
June
June
May
July
July
June
June
June
August
May
June
July
July
June
June
June
June
July
May
July
19th
llth
3d
29th
llth
3d
25th
16th
7th
3d
31st
1st
14th
9th
30th
21st
12th
5th
14th
29th
12th
MERCURY IN LEO
THE steady glow of Leo has an altogether admirable effect on the
shy, silvery Mercury. As "the adolescent" among the planets, the
solar influence is just what he needs "to make a man of him." In
other language, it may be said that this position adds heart to brain ;
and brain without heart is the essence of all mischief the intellec-
tuality of Mephistopheles. There are, of course, certain dangers,
notably a tendency to pride and anger, sometimes to bombast and
boastfulness. Ambition, too, is a common quality ; but ambition is a
virtue unless it is ill-regulated. Since the Sun is more frequently
than not in the same sign as Mercury, in this particular case it fol-
lows that, as lord of Leo, he is generally stronger than his satellite,
and this tends still further to steady him.
Taking a comprehensive view, one may affirm that this is one of
204 ASTROLOGY
the best possible positions for Mercury. As we have noticed in deal-
ing with other planets, it is not always well for them to be too
strongly reinforced in their own essential qualities. Mercury in mer-
curial signs may prove too mercurial, just as Mars in martial signs
is often over-martial. Every planet needs balance3
and the lesser
planets need it more than the greater. Accordingly, we discover this
position of Mercury in the nativities of some of the greatest of man-
kind. Who more admirably illustrates greatness of heart and brain
than Cardinal Gibbons, in our own times? Or if we must choose a
rival, in these qualities, what of Cecil Rhodes? Looking backward
we have yet greater names and in each case we shall note this re-
markable balancing of the highest intelligence by the human touch,
this harmonious union of the perceptive and the emotional qualities.
This it is that made Cicero orator as well as essayist, and this that
colored the intellectuality of Petrarch with the ray of love. Here,
too, must we look for the condition that brought the genius of
Goethe and of Napoleon into sympathetic touch with their lesser
fellows; and it is this same tempering of perspicacity with the
"human element" that made Lord Northcliffe the greatest j ournalist
of his period in England.
Virgo may lend Mercury more acuteness, Aquarius more lofty
passion ; but Leo is the fitting place for the mental ruler of the "man
of the people."
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in
the sign Leo :
Lord Northcliffe
Cecil Rhodes
Cardinal Gibbons
Henry Ford
David Belasco
Stanley Baldwin
Ralph Waldo Trine
Mary Baker Eddy
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Leo are as follows :
MERCURY IN LEO 205
MERCURY IN VIRGO 207
MERCURY IN VIRGO
IN this sign Mercury is not only in his own house, but also in the
the house of his exaltation, and it is natural to suppose that he will
208 ASTROLOGY
be stronger and more excellent here than anywhere else in the
Zodiac. To a great extent this is the case. So far as Mercury is
sufficients he is admirable; and it is irrational to blame Mercury
because he is not also Venus ! Yet this is the danger : A native with
Mercury so placed may be overwhelmed by this part of his char-
acter. Virgo, however, is much to be preferred to Gemini as a place
for the mental ruler ; the duplicity of the Twin-sign is avoided, and
Virgo, being an earthy sign, tends to add stability to the planet.
The extreme development of intellect naturally causes a certain
coldness and detachment ; people thus endowed sometimes forget that
this world is not altogether ruled by reason, but very largely by
prejudice, emotion, and self-interest. They are, therefore, better
fitted to deal with abstractions than with practical affairs; Leo is
much better than Virgo for the man of the world. The great men
are the true men, no doubt ; but this is exactly why the great men
are often never discovered until they have been dead for many
years.
People with Mercury in Virgo are quick to learn; indeed they
often learn so easily that they do not concentrate sufficiently to re-
tain their acquired knowledge. They have excellent memories sub-
ject to exactly the same limitations. They are often fertile of fancy,
make excellent linguists, and good orators. Their mind is well
adapted for scientific inquiry and, if Mercury is strengthened by
Saturnian wisdom, their attainment in Science may be really pro-
found. They are clever in handicrafts, and should excel in scientific
agriculture. The mind, too, is essentially honest. As lawyers they
are not so sharp as those with Mercury in Gemini. There is much
plasticity and receptiveness, moreover, in the mind; and they are
easily influenced, especially by argument.
On the other hand, they are sharply critical, sometimes too much
so, though this trait rarely takes so aggressive a form as when
Mercury is in Scorpio. They are intolerant towards stupidity in
others and cannot understand the point of view of "common sense,"
when it conflicts with their reasoned judgment. In a sense they are
idealists as much as those who live in an emotional dream-world,
and are just as fanatical, though in the opposite camp. They take
"the world as it ought to be" (in their opinion) instead of the
world as it is.
MERCURY IN VIRGO 209
From this fault come the practical blunders of such really mag-
nificent intellects as those of Anna Kingsford and Mme. Blavatsky.
Shelley and Tolstoi had this same limitation. Each "proved con-
clusively
95
that a certain course of action was correct ; and each was
amazed that humanity remained unconvinced.
In pure philosophy this does not apply. Sir William Hamilton,
dealing with the abstractions of metaphysics, was content to leave
his work where he found it? on the intellectual plane. In politics,
too, the coldness of perception often sets as an advantage. Witness :
Franz Josef and Louis XIV. Both these monarchs were able to pur-
sue a difficult policy with success because of their detachment from
emotional considerations. Mr. Asquith, Caesar Borgia, and Sadi Car-
not may be cited as further examples. On the other hand, Louis XVI
and Ludwig II of Bavaria failed from this identical course; they
were not identified with politics in the same way as those just men-
tioned, and they lost their thrones and their lives from lack of in-
terest.
It is to be noticed that every single one of these people could see
only his own point of view, and rode roughshod over his opponents.
There is much selfishness in intellectuality, and even where the
heart is humanitarian, this lurks unsuspected by the native. Con-
sider the pain given to the very objects of their devotion by Shelley
and Tolstoi. A little human silliness and weakness would have been
much more productive of human happiness ! Man shall not live by
syllogisms alone, even though each one be an ideal formula for the
production of perfection.
The following well known persons were also born with Mercury
in the sign Virgo :
Leo Tolstoi
Lord Roberts
H. H. Asquith
Maeterlinck
Blavatsky
Jane Addams
Lyman Abbott
Oliver Wendell Holmes
Xate Douglas Wiggin
210 ASTROLOGY
Dr. Felix AcUer
Nathan Haskell Dole
Charles G. Dawes
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years where Mercury is in Virgo are as follows :
From September 8th
September 1st
August 24th
August 16th
August 7th
October 5th
July 31st
July 26th
September llth
September 6th
August 28th
August 20th
August 12th
August 4th
September 21st
July 28th
July 27th
September 9th
September 2d
August 25th
August 16th
August 8th
August 1st
September 4th
July 27th
September 10th
September 6th
August 30th
August 21st
August 13th
through September
September
September
September
August
October
October
August
September
September
September
September
August
August
October
October
August
September
September
September
September
August
August
October
September
September
September
September
September
August
24th
16th
8th
1st
26th
9th
6th
28th
29th
21st
12th
5th
29th
26th
10th
3d
llth
25th
17th
10th
2d
27th
29th
8th
4th
30th
21st
14th
6th
30th
1840
1841
1842
1843
1844
1844
1845
1846
1846
1847
1848
1849
1850
1851
1851
1852
1853
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1858
1859
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
212
From August 29th
August 21st
August llth
August 4th
September 22d
July 29th
July 27th
September 10th
September 3d
August 26th
August 18th
August 10th
August 2d
September 8th
July 27th
September 8th
August 31st
August 22d
August 14th
August 6th
September 29th
July 31st
July 26th
September llth
September 4th
August 27th
August 19th
August 10th
August 3d
September 15th
July 28th
September 9th
September 1st
August 24th
August 15th
August 8th
October 5th
July 31st
ASTROLOGY
MERCURY IN LIBRA 213
From July 26th through August 26th 1925
September llth "
September 29th 1925
September 6th
"
September 21st 1926
August 29th "
September 13th 1927
August 20th "
September 5th 1928
August 12th "
August 29th 1929
MERCURY IN" LIBRA
THE fine and delicate judgment given by Mercury in Libra is at
once its virtue and its vice; for in practical matters rough-and-
ready decision is often of more value than accuracy, and the in-
sistence on the latter which this position gives, if exaggerated, means
hesitation, vacillation, and delay. There is generally a quick in-
tuitive flash of conviction followed by the attempt to weigh the de-
cision logically, which is often dangerous. The better policy would
be to train the mind to follow its intuitions. It is the old story of the
ass who starved between two thistles because he could not decide
which he would eat first. In matters where mind is the sole con-
sideration, however, Libra is as good a sign as can be found for
Mercury. The Venusian nature softens the metallic coldness of the
Mercurial nature, and Saturn being exalted in Libra, there is an
added element of wisdom which pure reason lacks. The real draw-
back is in the airy nature of the sign, which may give a certain
looseness and even frivolity to the disposition of the mind. There
is usually great ambition for intellectual accomplishments, but little
inclination to labor to attain them. The mind easily becomes dis-
tracted ; sometimes we may find the native "Jack of all trades, and
master of none," as the saying goes.
Such people, too, have the defect common to the open mind;
they form an opinion after long and careful study, and yet may
abandon it at a moment's notice on quite inadequate grounds. The
sensitive balance of the mind makes it very difficult to speak posi-
tively about such people without the fullest study of the whole
horoscope. With this position we find the most varied accomplish-
ments. Great mystics and artists like Coleridge, great lexicographers
like Sir Richard Quain, great statesmen like Kruger, great lawyers
like Lord Brougham, great theologians like Savonarola, great
scholars like Erasmus, great philosophers like Cornelius Agrippa,
314 ASTROLOGY
great rulers like Queen Elizabeth, great actresses like Mrs. Langtry5
great courtesans like Cleo de Merode all come under this possibil-
ity. One cannot tell merely from the position itself along what lines
the mind may move, or even how it will work, as Mercury in this
sign is more sensitive and pliable than in any other.
The position may, however, be called good; it is rare to find a
thoroughly incompetent mentality with Mercury in this sign ; such
an event is unlikely to occur unless there be serious affliction. Un-
less, however, there are some good aspects to strengthen Mercury,
the mind is likely to be shallow.
The following well known persons were also born with Mercury
in the sign Libra :
Alfred Dreyfus
Lily Langtry
Whitelaw Reid
Spencer Trask
Christabel Pankhurst
Henry George
Eleanor Gates
Von Hindenburg
William O. Stoddard
David Graham Phillips
Edward W. Bok
MacMonnies
Ramsay MacDonald
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbol contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Libra, are as follows :
From September 25th through October 12th 1840
September 17th "
October 5th 1841
September 9th "
September 29th 1842
September 2d "
September 29th 1843
October 7th "
November 8th 1843
August 27th "
October 4th 1844
October 10th "
October 31st 1844
MERCURY IN LIBRA 215
From October
September
September
September
September
October
August
August
October
October
September
September
September
September
October
August
August
October
October
September
September
September
October
August
August
October
October
September
September
September
September
October
August
August
October
October
September
September
7th
30th
22d
18th
6th
26th
30th
27th
llth
4th
26th
18th
llth
3d
13th
28th
30th
9th
1st
22d
15th
7th
31st
31st
26th
llth
5th
28th
20th
llth
4th
18th
29th
27th
10th
2d
24th
16th
through October
October
October
October
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
September
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
September
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
24th
16th
9th
1st
27th
10th
5th
20th
29th
20th
13th
6th
30th
26th
8th
2d
3d
25th
18th
9th
3d
27th
llth
6th
24th
29th
22d
14th
7th
30th
26th
9th
3d
llth
27th
18th
llth
4th
1845
1846
1847
1848
1849
1849
1850
1851
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1856
1857
1858
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1862
1863
1864
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1869
1870
1871
1871
1872
1873
1874
216
From September 9th
November 6th
September 1st
August 27th
October llth
October 6th
September 29th
September 20th
September 12th
September 5th
October 23d
August 30th
August 26th
October 10th
October 3d
September 25th
September 18th
September 9th
September 2nd
October 9th
August 27th
October 8th
September 30th
September 22d
September 14th
September 6th
October 28th
August 30th
August 26th
October llth
October 5th
September 27th
September 19th
September llth
September 4th
October 16th
August 29th
August 28th
ASTROLOGY
through
66
66
66
6
66
66
66
66
66.
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
October
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
September
September
November
November
October
October
October
October
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
September
September
November
November
September
28th
10th
6th
30th
31st
23d
16th
7th
1st
27th
10th
4th
16th
27th
19th
12th
5th
28th
27th
8th
1st
24th
16th
9th
2d
27th
llth
4th
21st
28th
21st
13th
6th
30th
27th
10th
3d
7th
1875
1875
1876
1877
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1884
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895
1895
1896
1897
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1903
1904
MERCURY IN SCORPIO 217
October
October
October
October
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
October
September
November
November
September
October
October
October
October
September
September
November
October
November
October
October
October
October
September
November
November
26th
18th
llth
4th
28th
llth
7th
28th
31st
23d
15th
8th
1st
27th
llth
4th
14th
27th
20th
12th
4th
29th
30th
8th
4th
1st
24th
16th
9th
3d
27th
10th
5th
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1908
1909
1910
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1915
1916
1917
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1922
1923
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1928
1929
MERCURY IN SCORPIO
IN Scorpio Mercury is "quick and powerful, sharper than a two-
edged sword." No other position so thoroughly accentuates the
1818 ASTROLOGY
fierce acuteness of the mind. People with Mercury in this sign are
far-seeing and clear-sighted; it is almost impossible to deceive
them, but on the contrary they are often over-critical and some-
times incurably suspicious. The thought is bitter and eager, often
vitriolic, and the word follows suit. They have an uncanny faculty
of knowing exactly where to wound. They make admirable vivisec-
tors on every plane, and they are usually quite unscrupulous in their
methods and careless of what pain they may inflict. Furthermore,
they are intensely secretive ; they hate to commit themselves to any
positive statement, but their capacity for insinuation and innuendo
may well be described as infernal. They make the most dangerous
enemies, and in some cases (though, fortunately, this is rare) there
is something of the snake in their temperament, and they may turn
suddenly and treacherously upon their antagonists. They make ex-
cellent secret-service men. They are capable of long continued dis-
simulation and, the imagination being exceedingly vivid, they are
well fitted to deceive others. With all these qualities, goes an intense
skepticism, an intolerance of the opinions of others whom they re-
gard as inferior, and a supreme contempt for those who disagree
with them. On the other hand, the secretive side of the sign may
sometimes develop as mysticism or some profound interest in secret
societies (particularly, of course, when Mercury is in the twelfth
house) or in hidden and obscure matters of one sort or another.
They have tremendous capacity for investigation and are quite
ruthless in their methods. These qualities often cooperate to bring
about success, and some of the most profound seekers into the mys-
teries of life have this position of Mercury.
This is exemplified in its highest and best form by William Blake,
probably the most profound mystic that the English race has pro-
duced. The activity of mind and the love for secret subjects of
thought are shown in the horoscope of Robert Louis Stevenson. The
particular determinants of this matter are discussed more fully in
another place.
Martin Luther exemplifies very clearly the critical, militant,
destructive tone of the mind, conferred by this position. Truth, as
he saw it, was his God, and he could see Europe plunged into every
kind of horror, sooner than abandon a theological thesis which a
mind of broader humanity might have considered trivial.
MERCURY IN SCORPIO 219
An example of the vigorous eloquence and keen critical instincts
of this position manifesting in matters of less universal importance
is given by John Bright, and of these same qualities in more in-
tense form by Theodore Roosevelt and Winston Churchill. W. S.
Gilbert, the greatest of the social satirists of the Victorian Age,
has Mercury in this sign.
Something of the brilliancy and secretiveness, with a most unfor-
tunate turn, not only for repartee, which made him enemies, but
for obscure thoughts, which gave them their weapon against him,
is shown in the nativity of Oscar Wilde.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in
the sign Scorpio:
Winston Churchill
Ex-President James A. Garfield
John Bright
William Blake
Oscar Wilde
Robert Louis Stevenson
Gandhi
Theodore Roosevelt
Eugene Debs
Andrew Carnegie
George H. Lorimer
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Scorpio are as
follows :
From October 13th
October 6th
November 12th
September 30th
September 30th
November 9th
November 1st
October 25th
through November
October
December
December
October
November
November
November
1st 1840
29th 1841
10th 1841
4th 1842
6th 1843
27th 1843
19th 1844
12th 1845
ASTROLOGY
From October
October
November
October
September
November
November
October
October
October
October
November
October
September
November
November
October
October
October
December
October
September
November
November
October
October
October
October
November
October
September
November
November
October
October
October
October
November
MERCURY IN SCORPIO 221
MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS
IN considering Mercury in Sagittarius it should be remembered how
brilliant and sudden is the effect of Sagittarius, but how lightning-
MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS
like and transitory. The older astrologers, indeed9 attributed even
lightning rather to Aries, leaving only the rainbow for Sagittarius,
as if the effect were not merely swift, but, to a certain degree,
illusory. This* however, is only the case with a badly aspected
Mercury. Too much importance should not be given to the fact that
Mercury in this sign has always been considered in his detriment.
For we have seen that this planet very easily becomes unbalanced
and the Jupiterian influence of Sagittarius seems to act rather as
the restraining hand of a father upon an impetuous and wayward
child. Much, however, will always depend upon aspects.
The general qualities of this position are directness of thought
and expression. People with Mercury thus placed usually speak
without reflection they tend to say whatever comes into their heads.
They do not wound deliberately, like people with Mercury in
Scorpio. It simply never occurs to them to think how their remarks
may strike the hearer. The quality of their thoughts is similarly
unripe. Their thoughts are like mushrooms or shooting stars. They
are impatient; speak in haste and repent at leisure. They do not
trouble to formulate a judgment, and what they say consequently
partakes too often of the nature of the shallower form of epigram.
This same absence of the reflective quality makes them extremely
simple, honest and sincere (duplicity by its very nature involves the
balancing of truth and falsehood) , and if these people lie, they only
do so on the spur of the moment. A long continued course of de-
ception is entirely out of their power. It would, too, be repugnant to
their nature.
Another difficulty caused by this position is that the thoughts are
disconnected, and, though the native may promise with sincerity, or
conceive undertakings with earnestness, he often has not the patience
enabling him to make good. What he thinks and says, however, is
sometimes remarkably, one might almost say irrationally, right. He
may speak like an oracle, and his intuition is often so extraordinarily
acute that it more than replaces the general weaknesses of the
faculties of memory and of ratiocination. Another characteristic
trait conferred by this position is a habit of interruption. No sooner
do these people hear anything than a thought strikes them and they
have to say it without a moment's delay.
The discontinuous and flitterbat quality of this type of mind is
224 ASTROLOGY
very well shown by the anarchist Vaillant, every one of whose
thoughts was probably right in its way, but who was totally in-
capable of weighing one thought against another and of striking a
balance. An almost equally bad example is Marie Bashkirtseff, who
totally failed to understand the universe into which she was born,
owing to a similar defect. Her diary is full of brilliant, bitter,
satirical things, all of which are perfectly true in themselves and yet
totally false because they are not balanced against the weight of
general experience.
Another bright, brilliant, but brief and unbalanced mind was that
of Thomas Chatterton, whose genius, had it been accompanied by a
mind capable of patient labor, might have placed him in the small
first circle of English poets. The case of Dr. Zamenhof is a good
illustration. In Esperanto, he invented a language which is
eminently convenient and easy to learn and has all the other ad-
vantages that a language should have. It has only one defect, which
is that it really is not a language at all and nobody seems to wish to
speak it.
To show this quality of incapacity for reflection in its most
complete absurdity, we need only recall the remark of Marie An-
toinette, who had Mercury in this position, and who, being offered
some exquisite pastry by the leading confectioner of Paris, exclaimed,
"The stupid people are always complaining that they can get no
bread, but why do they not eat these delicious little cakes?35
Another
monarch almost equally silly and unfortunate with this position is
Charles I, the inconstancy of whose domestic policy cost him his
throne and his life.
Fortunately, however, this position does not always result in such
sparkling imbecility. We have three quite great people in the world
of art and literature with this position, Sir David Wilkie, Alfred
de Musset, and Rudyard Kipling. The limitation is nevertheless
still visible. Both the French and the English writers excel in short
stories and poems, but neither has written great novels. Similarly,
Sir David Wilkie, admirable painter as he was, never attained to the
sustained execution of a great canvas. Another example is in the
Mercury of Joan of Arc, though the planet's being in the 29th de-
gree may have done something to steady matters. There is, however,
MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS 225
little need for making this reservation, as her career was singularly
fitful and she depended entirely upon inspiration.
The greatest exception to all that has been said is Sir Isaac
Newton, but here Mercury is in the third house, with a sextile of
Venus and a square of Saturn. Jupiter, lord of the third, is within
six degrees of the conjunction of Saturn, and is exactly trined by
Uranus, while the Sun, also in the third house, stands sextile to all
three. The whole configuration is of the most extraordinary power,
with every planet in heaven which tends to stability included in it,
even Mars in Taurus assisting by making a near sextile with the
Moon. With such great dignities the influence of the sign itself is
reduced to a minimum. The fact that the Lord of the sign is in con-
junction with Saturn tends to alter its very nature, and there is
therefore no comparison with ordinary cases, where the action of
Mercury is more or less isolated. In the horoscope of Marie An-
toinette, Mercury is trine to Neptune, but square to Uranus which
takes away all its more serious qualities. There is slight help from a
semi-sextile of Venus and a sextile of Jupiter, but as has been well
said, Mercury without Saturn is like an egg without salt.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in
the sign Sagittarius :
Felix Faure
George Eliot
Rudyard Kipling
Marie Bashkirtseff
Sir Isaac Newton
Edward VII
Hamilton Wright Mabie
Louisa M. Alcott
Henry Van Dyke
Agassiz
Bishop Fallows
President Lowell of Harvard
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols therein, the
years when Mercury is in Sagittarius are as follows :
MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS 227
228
From November
December
January
November
January
October
December
December
November
November
November
January
November
January
October
December
January
December
December
November
November
November
December
January
November
January
October
December
January
December
November
November
November
November
December
January
November
December
MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS 229
230 ASTROLOGY
MERCURY IN CAPRICORNUS
IN Capricornus the admirable influence of Saturn upon Mercury is
emphasized by the influence of Saturn's sign. Capricornus lends to
Mercury the utmost gravity, dignity, steadfastness9 earnestness,
comprehensiveness, and power. The memory is usually splendid and
the power of concentration is no less good than that of attention to
detail. Sometimes these qualities may be over-emphasized. There is
now and again a tendency to the lack of a sense of humor, and some-
times this operates as a serious defect. This is particularly true when
the environment of the mind is unsuited to this disposition. People
with Mercury in Capricornus may sometimes be a little like the
skeleton at the feast. They are apt to be bores they are incapable
of frivolity, even at a picnic, and they are likely to be annoyed with-
out cause at what they may think the shallowness of other people,
though sometimes those people may merely be laughing at their
misplaced seriousness. In youth, this position of Mercury gives
what is called an "old head on young shoulders." There is some
disposition to sullenness or sulking. The child seems to be rapt in
its own thought; very likely it prefers solitude and does not care
for play.
The mind is careful to examine closely any facts which may be
presented to it, and it is inclined to suspicion, especially to the
suspicion that other people are laughing at it. There is a very strong
sense of causality and the reasoning powers generally are admirable.
There is no tendency for the mind to waver, but it sometimes shifts
violently from one idea to another or from one mood to another.
There is very little real joyousness in the mind and the native is
often the subject of quite unreasonable fear and liable to fits of de-
pression which may end by endangering the reason. There being so
much already of Saturn in the character of the sign itself, aspects
of Saturn are sometimes to be feared, as likely to overwhelm
altogether the natural elasticity. The unfriendly influence of
Neptune and Uranus and even of Mars is equally dangerous. Con-
junctions of the Sun may, however, be relied upon largely to coun-
teract any such tendency.
It is very necessary for people with this position of Mercury to
cultivate optimism. Good aspects of Venus are decidedly useful in
MERCURY IN CAPRICORNUS 231
making this possible. If they fail to conceal the general gravity of
their disposition, they may find themselves unpopular with the ma-
jority of people. They should also be careful to avoid the expression
of the often sardonic thought which is one of their characteristics,
and they should not give utterance to the rebuke which is very ready
on their tongue. These people are very censorious, stern and in-
tolerant. Unless Mercury is well-aspected, they do not make suf-
ficient allowance for the idiosyncracies of other people.
This type of mind is to be distinguished carefully from the critical
type, such as we saw in Scorpio. Mercury in Capricornus is not at
all critical its aggressiveness is of a totally different character. The
native always knows that he is right and nothing can persuade him
of the contrary or even make him listen to arguments. Very often
this temperament is associated with extremely narrow views of re-
ligion, and the fixity of the mind may not infrequently seem grossly
tyrannical to those associated with the native. The attitude is very
much that of the schoolmaster. Whenever such people are "dressed
in a little brief authority,'
5
they are likely to become even more
tyrannical than before. The position also develops an extreme de-
gree of diplomacy which in many cases renders the native very
clever in gaining his ends.
In the best cases, those in which the general horoscope indicates
the possibilities of real greatness, the bad side of these qualities does
not develop in such petty manner, and we have plenty of examples
of really admirable characters with this position. In such cases, one
must read only the nobler characteristics hitherto mentioned, and
even these must be emphasized and expanded.
The founders of Christianity and of Mormonism were both born
with this position of Mercury. It seems an admirable position for
statesmen. The great protagonists of Victorian politics, Disraeli,
and Gladstone, both had it. In Science we find this postion in the
nativities of Pasteur, Davy, Alfred Russell Wallace, and Havelock
Ellis ; while literature is represented by Lord Byron, Dickens, Lewis
Carroll, Sainte Beuve, and Ruskin. It will be particularly noticed
how excellently capable of laborious, steady constructiveness were
all these minds. Even in the case of Lewis Carroll, it must not be
forgotten that his real life was that of a mathematician of a very
high order.
ASTROLOGY
These people should all be compared and contrasted with the list
given under Mercury in Sagittarius. Note the entire difference in
the capacity for continuous construction. The more scholarly type
of soldier, the organizing general is also represented in this position
by General Gordon. Special attention should be paid to the in-
tegrity of this man's mind. Wilhelm II may also be mentioned as an
example of a patient, laborious thinker, and in the less exalted, yet
truly noble field, we have Sir Isaac Pitman. The task that he set
himself recalls that of Dr. Zarnenhof previously mentioned under
Sagittarius, and here again the contrast between the effect of the
two signs is salient. Pitman was no visionary. Common sense was his
long suit, and the results have been the practically universal adop-
tion of his system of shorthand. By so far does patience exceed
enthusiasm.
As examples of the depressing and constricting effects of this
sign, we have Henry VI of England and Mary, Queen of Scots.
Here there was evidently much incapacity to modify the mind to
the exigencies of the situation. In comparing these two monarchs
with the statesmen mentioned in previous paragraphs, one must con-
sider the effect of the environment. There are situations in politics
where it is decidedly better to be rigid and aggressive ; in others, the
only policy is to appear to yield.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in
the sign Capricorn :
Benjamin Disraeli
Lord Byron
William Gladstone
General Gordon
Charles Dickens
Lewis Carroll
Alfred Wallace
Sir Isaac Pitman
Louis Pasteur
John Ruskin
Havelock Ellis
Roy Howard
Arthur Brisbane
MERCURY IN CAPRICORNUS
Stanley Hall
Horatio Dresser
Admiral Dewey
Will Levington Comfort
Edith Cavell
Augustus Thomas
Gelett Burgess
Hudson Maxim
Richard Le Gallienne
Woodrow Wilson
For the benefit of those who art not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Capricorn are as
follows :
MERCURY IN CAPRICORNUS
From December 1st through
January
January
December
January
December
January
December
January
February
December
January
December
January
January
January
December
January
December
January
December
January
January
December
January
December
January
January
January
December
January
December
January
December
January
January
December
January
12th
7th
31st
1st
24th
1st
15th
1st
3d
8th
1st
3d
14th
llth
4th
27th
1st
20th
1st
13th
1st
21st
5th
1st
1st
13th
8th
1st
24th
1st
17th
1st
10th
1st
7th
4th
1st
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
MERCURY IN AQUARIUS 237
MERCURY IN AQUARIUS
[N Aquarius we again find the influence of Saturn decidedly bene-
icial to Mewnrv. It is an even better position for the planet than
238 ASTROLOGY
Capricornus, since Aquarius is also air, and does not fix the mind
in such stubborness as the previous sign. We must also reflect upon
the good influence of the sign itself. The mind of the native having
this position of Mercury tends naturally to science and humani-
tarianism. Its interests are not so earth-bound and selfish. There
is not quite the same faculty of steady application for this very
reason. One must not expect any sign to combine all the virtues
and exclude all the vices. But the faculty of concentration is admir-
able, and the mind is ingenious, resourceful, and logical, and that
in a much better sense than we found with Capricornus. The logic
of Capricornus is too rigid for application to practical affairs. It
reigns supreme only in the exact sciences. The native loves truth
for its own sake, but more in truth as a quality than in a mere col-
location of facts. He understands Newman's outburst against Hux-
ley, "As if evidence were the test of truth!"
It may be said here that there are two general types of minds
among men, and this remark of Newman's is a very touchstone by
which to recognize them. To one class, Newman's remark appears
a triumphant refutation of academic precision and scholastic dull-
ness. The other is absolutely bewildered by such a remark. He can-
not conceive of any other test of truth than evidence. To him the
sentence appears meaningless. And yet he may be subconsciously
distressed by the mere existence of any man who can say such a
thing. Now, we should not like to say definitely that Mercury in
Aquarius would be violently partisan on either side. On the con-
trary, it is just these people who understand both positions and
lean strongly to neither. The antithesis on this point would be
Capricornus and Pisces the former understanding nothing that
could not be proved in Barbary, the other contemptuous of all such
conventional sources of knowledge. This rule will be found practi-
cally invaluable.
The native with Mercury in Aquarius is a clever reasoner, but
does not altogether disdain sophistry. He consequently makes a
dangerous opponent in any argument, but he is amenable to reason
and he often pronounces, for the sake of exercising his wits, proposi-
tions in which he does not seriously believe. He is usually a good
judge of human nature, deriving his conclusions both from intui-
MERCURY IN AQUARIUS 239
tion and from experience. Where these conflict he Is sometimes
found at a loss.
The weak point of this sign is the absence of artistic impulse.
Even where the power of visualization is great, its expression tends
to be commonplace. Compare Swedenborg, who had this position,
with Blake, whose Mercury was in Scorpio, the writings of both
dealing with visions of a character decidedly similar.
This sign gives a very pronounced tendency to investigations
into the occult, but on lines much less mystical than we found in
Scorpio. Besides Swedenborg, we have Proclus, Picus de Mirandola,
and Swami Vivekananda. All these possessed immense learning, a
strong power of vision, and were accurate observers and devoted
students, but not one of them possessed the power of imagination in
its highest sense.
As common as the capacity for research into these subtler mat-
ters of the soul is that for practical invention. In this connection
one need only mention the name of Edison.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury
in the sign Aquarius :
Thomas Edison
Sir Henry J. Wood
Swedenborg
Algernon Blackwood
Wilson Barrett
Richard Watson Gilder
Dean Cornwell
Horace Greeley
Henry Watterson
George Washington
Luther Burbank
Harriet Stanton Black
Dr. William S. Bainbridge
Colonel George Harvey
Emile Coue
Jack London
840 ASTROLOGY
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Epheineris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Aquarius are as
follows :
through
From February
February
January
January
January
February
January
January
February
February
February
January
January
January
February
January
February
February
February
January
January
January
February
January
January
February
February
February
January
January
January
February
January
January
February
February
January
January
MERCURY IN AQUARIUS
12th
6th
29th
22d
14th
20th
6th
1st
15th
10th
2d
26th
18th
llth
6th
3d
14th
13th
7th
31st
22d
15th
26th
8th
2d
15th
10th
4th
27th
20th
llth
12th
5th
2d
14th
8th
31st
24th
MERCURY IN PISCES
From February 14th through March
February 7th
January 31st
January 24th
January 17th
February 29th
January 8th
a
a
a
a
February
February
February
February
March
March
4th 1924
25th 1925
17th 1926
9th 1927
2d 1928
17th 1928
15th 1929
MERCURY IN PISCES
Too much emphasis has been laid by astrologers on the fact that
Mercury is in his fall and detriment in Pisces. It is true that there
is very little which can be called scientific about the mind of any
native with this position. The sharp edge of the reason is usually
wanting, and there is a disposition to a curious kind of mental
idleness, which, however, is not really a defect. It merely means
that the mind plunges itself into a bath of reflection, only to emerge
purified and strengthened. However, this type of mental operation
is not at all understandable by the devotees of reason, pure and
simple. Those people who boast that their brains are always clear
and active and who measure their achievements by the amount of
visible work which they put into them cannot understand such in-
dividuals as we are now discussing. One might go further and say
that they do not understand the laws under which the creative in-
stinct works, or even the ordinary laws of generation and growth,
either in the vegetable or animal kingdom.
As a matter of fact, the minds of those born with Mercury in
Pisces possess one very contradictory pair of qualities. They are
intensely practical in matters of thought, and tend to accept the
pragmatic philosophy ; they may even be utilitarians or hedonists.
At the same time, they set a high value upon the conclusions of
theoretical reasoning ; but it does not follow from this that they will
act on these conclusions. There is a fund of strong common sense
in their nature and, when it comes to the test, they will follow
instinct in preference to reason. In its manifestation, the mental
power is far from stable. There may be periods when the mind
seems almost dormant. In reality, what is happening is that the
244 ASTROLOGY
subconsciousness has taken hold and wishes to operate without in-
terference from the more active portions of the mind. The memory
is extremely retentive and the power of reflection enormous. But
there is always this psychic quality in their mental processes. They
make statements, ex cathedra, for which they cannot give chapter
and verse. They know, but they do not know how they know. To
people of different types of mind this often gives the idea that their
knowledge is unreliable, but experience proves that this is not the
case.
Their conversation, as a general rule, is fluent and subtle, but
they are decidedly dependent on their environment, and, if their
society is uncongenial, they keep silent. Sometimes this trait is very
exaggerated ; acute dislike founded upon no tangible reason throws
them into a sullen mood, from which it is almost impossible to ex-
tricate them. Whenever they find themselves in harmonious sur-
roundings, the fault will be in the other direction. They will talk
too much, and, if undeveloped, are rather inclined to be talebearers
and revealers of secrets. This is not because of any malice in the
disposition, but because they are incapable of appreciating the
amount of mischief that an unguarded word may cause.
The psychic character of Pisces causes this sign to react upon
the mind when Mercury is placed therein, not only by making it
sensitive to subtle influences, but also by exposing it to all the
disorders which they are apt to cause unless carefully balanced by
strong common sense. The mind is not robust and vigorous in the
way that we find when Mercury is in a more positive and virile sign.
The forces which stir it have a different kind of strength. It is the
rapier, not the broadsword. The result is that heavy and long-
continued strain upon the mind brings about nervous -break-downs
in a way which could never happen with a person whose Mercury
was in Aries or Virgo.
Pisces being ruled by Neptune, and Venus being exalted therein,
and there being much sympathy both with Neptune and the Moon,
it is natural that the artistic temperament should find a very full
development in the mind. The tendency is to be romantic, perhaps,
but this is not incompatible with extraordinary achievement. Na-
turally, in many cases, perhaps in most, the Sun will also be in
Pisces, accentuating and steadying this disposition. One of the
MERCURY IN PISCES 245
greatest romantic artists that ever lived, Victor Hugo, has this
position of Mercury. Charles Baudelaire -brings out more fully the
intenser, more psychic, and less flamboyant qualities. Where Mer-
cury refers to voice rather than thought, we have Adelina Patti.
Here the quality of Mercury is adapted to the physical organs of
speech. The romantic, subtle, and rather shy and retiring temper-
ament of mind is shown by Dr. Rudolph Steiner, who, engaged as
he was, in a work of world-wide importance, yet managed to re-
main quietly and modestly in retirement, neither seeking fame nor
troubling himself about advertisement.
The following well known persons were born with Mercury in the
sign Pisces :
W. B. Yeats
Victor Hugo
Rosa Bonheur
Ellen Terry
Charles Evans Hughes
Adolph Ochs
Henry W. Longfellow
Lee Shubert
Charles M. Schwab
John Hays Hammond
Bishop Greer
Henry Carmichael
Bliss Carman
Abraham Lincoln
Chester S. Lord
Otto Kahn
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mercury is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
From February 22d through March 8th 1840
February 13th " March 2d 1841
March 21st "
April 17th 1841
February 6th "
April 13th 1842
246
From February 1st
March 18th
March 12th
March 5th
February 26th
February 18th
February 10th
February 2d
March 18th
March 16th
March 10th
March 2d
February 22d
February 14th
March 27th
February 7th
February 1st
March 18th
March 13th
March 7th
February 27th
February 19th
February llth
March 10th
February 4th
March 15th
March 17th
March 10th
March 3d
February 24th
February 16th
April 4th
February 8th
February 1st
March 18th
March 15th
March 8th
February 29th
ASTROLOGY
through
MERCURY IN PISCES 247
From February
February
March
February
February
March
March
March
February
February
February
February
March
March
March
March
February
February
March
February
January
March
March
March
February
February
February
February
March
March
March
March
February
February
March
February
February
March
20th
12th
17th
5th
3d
17th
12th
5th
25th
17th
9th
2nd
18th
16th
8th
1st
21st
14th
23d
6th
31st
18th
13th
6th
26th
18th
10th
3d
17th
16th
10th
2d
23d
15th
30th
7th
2nd
19th
through
VENUS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
APHRODITE, or Venus, daughter of Jove, heavenly and earthly,
Morning Star and Queen of Sunset, is Life, Art, Rapture; she is
VENUS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 249
goddess beyond the human, she is Woman in fullness of human per-
fection.
Man reveals himself in Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and the Sun. Nep-
tune expresses the masculine soul raised to a spiritual completeness
that includes the highest feminine vibration. In Mercury sex is
nascent. Uranus symbolizes the feminine soul so perfected that it
includes the higher masculine vibration. Woman is expressed to us
by Venus and by the Moon.
The Moon symbolizes the child-woman and the woman-form be-
yond its period of fruitfulness. Venus reveals the woman of com-
plete physical function Woman from fourteen to forty-five. Ex-
pressed by Venus she is Woman-fruitful, the fulfillment of Desire,
the Vessel of life, the Mother, the Giver of physical form to spirit.
Venus represents the passive the receptive. She receives and
she gives back in kind what she receives. She reflects and glorifies
and represents that which possesses her. Under the rays of the
Sun she warms to grace and beauty and bears him exquisite
brood of life fruitful earth beneath the widespread glow of his
beams.
The rough caress of Mars may rouse her to passion, violence and
fierce physical return; and to all his constructive powers she may
give form in shapes of art the sculptured marble, the wrought
metal the stately temple.
The noble influence of Jupiter makes the gracious matron of
her, the glory of a household and of her husband.
Should she abandon herself to Saturn, all her beauty may turn
to evil, or her love be sordid drudgery of service, bleak task of
faithfulness and gray patience.
Uranus makes of her a witch a siren a vampire even, or, an-
swering his higher demands, she is white flame of genius inspi-
ration her breath, art her crown of stars.
To Neptune she will masquerade, a flicker of illusion and fan-
tasy, or she will run swift-foot and wide-eyed into the very fast-
nesses of his far kingdom and make his visions real !
Mercury finds her wits as keen as his. With him to challenge,
she turns flirt even she may be mercenary and too cunning, or
turn her gaieties into coin, or sell out her pretty ways and take to
books and intellectualitiesB
250 ASTROLOGY
Under the silver of the Moon, she comes Into an austerity all
her own. Here she is chaste wife calm mother housemaker; or-
dered are her footsteps and her glance is level.
All these phases of the Venus expression are beautiful to each
the heart of the artist responds, each is a string in that harp of life
across which the Hand of the All-Father sweeps the music of his
Eternal Pleasure.
And Venus calls to each of us. It is for us to set words to her
call. Shall she be devil or the voice of our own perfection? She
echoes us !
Kundry is saved in Parsifal's redemption. Tannhauser's
loss is included in the damnation of his Venus.
Woman! Either in the form of that fearful image, Lilith, the
demon queen, "drawing down with her hands little figures of men
into Hell," or Woman the goddess, who blazes in the heavens, clothed
with the Sun, the Moon her footstool, and crowned with the Zodiac
the planets clustered in her hands.
So Venus, ever herself, is always what she reflects gaiety
mirth and happy companionings are of her making. The arts are
her handmaidens ; music is for her dancing feet ;
scents delight her,
and touch is hers the fine touch of light upon her eyes, of sound
at her lips, the light touch of caressing fingers and the hungry
embrace of all-seeking love. Beauty, allurement, passion, gracious-
ness all are hers, and if she be dragged down to the vices of all
these ours be the shame !
Virtue, domesticity, chastity are hers and form and ceremony
too. By whatever name the nations call her, down the ages Isis,
Astarte, Aphrodite, Halbor, Freya, Kali her legends, her attri-
butes, her images are all the same Kwan-nan in China, Nephthys
in Egypt. So it is later religion borrows her, and divine Mother-
hood, clasping her celestial Babe, smiles from Christian altars.
Thus let us gaze upon the face of her, be she called Venus or
Madonna, with reverence and worship, invoking the power of love
by the ritual of Purity.
VENUS IN THE SIGNS
IT may, on first consideration appear somewhat difficult to differ-
entiate between the action of Venus, the "lesser Fortune," and that
VENUS IN THE SIGNS 251
of Jupiter, the "Greater Fortune." Both represent the expansive
and altruistic spirit. But Venus is the handmaiden of the Sun and
she is consequently attached to the vital force, even as Jupiter is
more closely an emanation of Neptune, the other extreme of the
system, the Soul. The altruism of Venus, therefore, means love in
a quite conventional and often selfish or personal sense; her ex-
pansiveness is often mere amiability, possibly assumed in order to
gain some end associated with the instinct of self-preservation ; and,
finally, Venus is altogether more material and, so to speak, fleshly,
than Jupiter. But religion itself is psychically correlated with both
sex and the drama, and the reader will note that Jupiter in certain
signs Scorpio for example becomes intensely sexual in char-
acter. Venus in any sign has so much connotation or reference that
it is very necessary to take into consideration not only the sign in
which it is placed, but also its aspects to other planets before judg-
ing of its effects. But the importance of the impact of the different
signs is very great. In fact, the more material a planet is, the more
easily it is influenced. We see no such violent commotion in the vaster
planets ; Uranus in Aries is not so different from Uranus in Libra,
but Venus in Gemini is utterly different from Venus in Scorpio. This
is all as it should be, and is in consonance with Initiated Theory.
In dealing with Venus on the lines hitherto followed with the
other planets, we are confronted with a difficulty peculiar to the
nature of her own influence. It is easy to observe most of the ef-
fects of other planets in the life, character, and work of great men,
but we know little of the inner details of their domestic and intimate
relations.
Alexander the Great, may have beaten his wife, and Cromwell
may have been a very clever and tactful father, but in the majority
of those examples which have hitherto served us so well, we know
little or nothing of the private life. And it is essentially, and first of
all, the private life that Venus influences. She has, of course, other
significances. In the horoscope of Emperor Franz Josef, the dom-
inance of Venus implies that all his gains had to come through
peaceful channels, that war could never serve his ends; and this
was the case. Similarly, the powerfully placed and well aspected
Venus of Czar Alexander II reacted on his policy, as well as on his
character ; but, as said before, these are exceptions. In many cases,
252 ASTROLOGY
we find stern conquerors with polite manners, and, conversely, weak
statesmen who are autocratic in their homes.
There is also the question of the external and objective Venus.
Most often its effect occurs in the petty matters; it is difficult to
trace it in big affairs, for these come so much under Uranus and
Jupiter that Venus takes but a secondary part in the determina-
tion of such events. The upshot of all these considerations is that
one is compelled to rely on the observations of private research;
and here the proof is not producible, both because the names of
everyday natives could mean nothing to the general reader, and
also because such details would be matters of a confidential nature,
and, in a good many cases, unprintable. Even if specified, such an
account would need verifications; while, in the case of people well
known to every student of history, the facts speak for themselves
and are convincing. The reader must, therefore, (to sum up the
situation) be content to rely, to a certain extent, in this chapter,
upon the authority of the author.
This caveat is uttered emphatically, in order to assure the reader
that there is no confusion in the mind of the author with regard
to what is clear and convincing evidence patent to the world, and
what, though in reality no less reliable, rests upon proofs not thus
obvious.
VENUS IN ARIES
VENUS in this sign is in her fall, and the position is not fortunate,
on the whole. There is evidence of the action of Mars in a certain
rash impulsiveness in emotion, but the effect is rarely lasting or
deep even at the moment. There is a strong tendency to be what the
French call cerebral, and also to what is really coldness, though
it may manifest itself in fiery sparks.
It is only necessary to study the writings of Baudelaire and
Swinburne, to see the attitude taken towards love and art by both
of them, to understand this position of Venus. There is fierceness
and glitter, but it is the fire of the lightning rather than that of
the hearth. Among women we see the same quality modified in
certain ways in Mme. Steinheil and Queen Victoria. The former
example needs no comment; the latter does. Victoria appeared a
VENUS IN ARIES 253
most domesticated person, but she was not; it was merely part of
her ambitious policy to appear so.
In music one sees this fitful brilliancy of Venus represented by
Tchaikovsky, and in literature by Bulwer-Lytton. The domestic
affairs of the latter are well known, too well known5 and show in
life what he also expressed in his novels.
The tendency to lack stability is also manifest in Robespierre.
The trouble seems to be not that there is any lack of activity
in Venus when she is in this sign, but that that activity is ill-directed.
She is not really fickle, but appears to be so because of her ideal-
ism. Reality failing to respond to her mental conception, she be-
comes discontented. At the same time, it must be understood that
no fulfillment of her desires, however nearly perfect, would satisfy
her. It is in the contemplation of her wishes that she finds pleasure
rather than in the enjoyment of them. She is extraordinarily im-
aginative ; the merest hint excites her. She loves by sight, but touch
disappoints her. When a person with this position of Venus dis-
covers that Shelley quarreled with his wife or that Browning smoked
a pipe or that Matthew Arnold wore whiskers, disappointment and
disillusion follow. The poetry is spoiled for them, because it is not
written by a creature who not only does not, and did not, but never
could exist.
A remarkable example of the idealism of this position is afforded
us by Abraham Lincoln, whose Venus trined his rising Neptune.
This is an unsurpassable position for unfaltering devotion to an
ideal. Lincoln was as conscious as any other man, as prescient as
any seer could possibly have been, of what it meant in immediate
agony to humanity to call for volunteers, as he did on that dramatic
day which changed the whole history of these States. But his high
purpose was not overwhelmed by his great sympathy for the tem-
porary sufferings of humanity. To him, right was right, and must
be supported, no matter what the cost. Had Neptune been in Cap-
ricornus, and Venus in Taurus, instead of in Sagittarius and Aries
respectively, he would have thought far more of the material mis-
eries which immediately threatened his country, and secession
might have become an accomplished fact. It was his idealism which
not only prevented the disruption of the Union, but implanted as
a principle, which will never cease to be paramount in this country,
254 ASTROLOGY
to do the right thing no matter what the cost. One can readily un-
derstand how this attitude may be misinterpreted by the other party
as lack of sympathy.
Venus in this sign is extraordinarily brilliant; she is the beauty
of the sparks which are struck from the sword of Mars as he goes
into battle, but she is robbed of all the importance which she has
as tenderness and graciousness. She becomes the Amazon, pano-
plied and splendid, with no trace of the Hausfrau. Baudelaire and
Swinburne both have this position, and she is buttressed by the
most formidable aspects ; yet she fails to flower with that voluptuous
graciousness that we find, for example, in Michael Angelo who has
her in Pisces. She is hard, 'brilliant, subtle, passionate, but not en-
during and not inclined to please. She attacks and she repels, but
all her operations are operations of assault and battery. She stirs
to activity and quits. In women, this position is exceptionally un-
pleasant. She may be extraordinarily attractive but, even if she
gratifies, will never satisfy. She excites and irritates, never calms
and soothes. Even in art, one perceives clearly how unsatisfactory,
from the point of view of Venus herself, so to speak, is this position
for her. When Swinburne wrote "Dolores," he was trying to paint
a picture of Venus in Libra or in Scorpio; he only succeeded in
painting a Venus in Aries type.
We see the same thing in the writing of Baudelaire and the music
of Tchaikovsky. It is always irritation without satisfaction; it is
not Isis veiled, but Isis in armor. As indicated above, this position
is very much better for men than it is for women, but it is good
even for them only where Venus is a subsidiary figure, not only in
the horoscope itself, but in the general character of the native.
Where his general pursuit in life is of the character of Venus, it is
bad, but it is not bad for such men as Lincoln and J. P. Morgan
to have Venus under arms.
It may be of great value in the horoscope of any man of the
more studious and serious sort not to have Venus flower too fully.
We find her in this position in the horoscopes of such men as Em-
erson, Alexander Graham Bell, Dr. Quackenbos and the Hon.
Stephen A. Douglas. Where, however, the native is an artist, the
limitations may be regarded as troublesome. Thus we find Palmer
Cox in art and Frank R. Stockton in literature somewhat lacking
VENUS IN ARIES 255
in the graciousness and floridity that seem appropriate to the ar-
tistic temperament. Occasionally, the effect of Venus in Aries is very
bad indeed, implying heartlessness, and this will particularly apply
when the general temperament is already mercurial. We class the
position as a decided restriction upon Venus. She always fails to
attain her full development, and whether this be good or bad for
the native, in a general way, must depend upon considerations en-
tirely foreign to her. It is evident, for example, that a great soldier
will not be benefited by having Venus of equal importance with
Mars, or a great man of science by having her stronger than
Uranus, Saturn and Mercury. Consideration, such as the foregoing,
must always be taken into account, in estimating the real value
to the native of any particular position of any particular planet.
Each description must be regarded as an isolated statement, merely
one pawn in a complex position of many pieces.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign Aries :
Oscar Hammerstein
Palmer Cox
J. P. Morgan
Percival Lowell
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Emile Coue
Bessie Leo
Reginald de Koven
Bliss Carman
John Burroughs
Abraham Lincoln
Bulwer-Lytton
Queen Victoria
Algernon Swinburne
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Aries are as follows:
10th
3rd
10th
25th
12th
25th
4th
26th
9th
3rd
10th
24th
llth
24th
4th
26th
9th
3rd
9th
24th
llth
24th
4th
25th
8th
3rd
8th
23rd
llth
23rd
3rd
25th
8th
3rd
8th
23rd
10th
23rd
1840
1841
1842
1843
1844
1845
1846
1847
1848
1849
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
VENUS IN ARIES 257
66,
66,
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
ASTROLOGY
through April 6th 1914
May 21st 1915
March 9th 1916
April 21st 1917
June 2nd 1918
March 22nd 1919
May 6th 1920
March 6th 1921
June 1st 1921
April 6th 1922
May 21st 1923
March 8th 1924
April 20th 1925
June 2nd 1926
March 22nd 1927
May 5th 1928
March 7th 1929
June 2nd 1929
VENUS IN TAURUS
VENUS in Taurus is in her own house and is therefore very strong ;
but the earthy quality of the sign has two effects which seem at first
sight curiously incompatible. The action is drawn down to the
physical plane we shall find but rare examples of "ideal love" or
"platonic affection" in people with this position but also it is slow
to start. People with Venus so placed, though they have enormous
capacity for love, do not develop on the sex-plane until long after
the average. Once the blossom flowers, it flowers magnificently. All
the tenacity of the bull comes into play, and every hope may be
entertained of settled happiness.
At all times, however, the magnetism of the sign is manifest, and
people with this position often present baffling mysteries to their
admirers. They give all the physical signs of great passion and are
perfectly aware of how well they are fitted both to inspire and to
reciprocate devotion; yet they will not yield themselves until the
right person arrives. When that happens, the surrender is often
instant and the fidelity eternal.
VENUS IN TAURUS 259
The same characteristics, transmuted to other planes, obtain
there. There is often great amiability, though tact is rarely fine.
Fortune in small matters is steady, but not sudden or capricious;
and the artistic side of the native is likely to be solid, sensible, and
free from erratic and hysterical manifestations. The word "domes-
ticity," if it be extended to cover all the many qualities combined in
Venus, gives a good idea of what is meant.
Taurus is preeminently the sign of material form and tends to
bring everything to operation on the physical plane. The sex in-
stinct, when Venus is in this sign, is consequently very simple and
natural, as direct and intelligible as the marriage service in the
Church of England prayer-book. Selection is determined primarily
by physical fitness ;
other considerations hardly apply. The native
is particularly fond of comfort, and strives actively and persistently
to create this in his environment. While the sex instinct is direct and,
as it were, plainly spoken, it in no way violates delicacy. The absence
of shame is in itself a guarantee of modesty. Gentleness and kind-
liness go naturally with this position and contribute to the increase
of its magnetism. Sense of sex, although somewhat animal, is per-
fectly clean and normal. There is no tendency to its perversion or
degeneration, unless Venus should be afflicted by Saturn, or
Uranus, or Neptune.
Apart from actual sex relations, this position means a great deal
of geniality in the temperament, which very often stands for great
popularity. Other people are naturally sympathetic to this type.
Much of the success of such people as Joseph Pulitzer, W. J. Bryan,
W. T. Stead, Levi P. Morton, Chauncey M. Depew, David Hummel
Green and Marconi may be attributed to this position. In art, we
see Daniel Chester French, whose sculptures show a massive, ma-
jestic and somewhat florid style. Sometimes the sympathy becomes
more nearly universal yet, embracing all nature, as we see in such
people as Walt Whitman and Luther Burbank. The extraordinary
feeling of the unity of nature possessed by both these men caused
them to be looked upon at first with disfavor by their contempo-
raries, and as if there were something eccentric in their outlook;
but a better understanding has shown this to be the very quintessence
of sanity. It is not just, therefore, to speak of such ideas as uncon-
ventional. However, that in them which was original is not to be
860 ASTROLOGY
attributed to the position of Venus. Whitman, for example, has
Neptune and Uranus in conjunction, square to Saturn, an ad-
mirable configuration for epoch-mating force. Unless there is
something of this sort, one must not look to this position for origi-
nality, even of presentation.
One may cite the point of view of Thomas Hardy and Thomas
Moore in literature, or even that of Alphonse Daudet. There is a
certain conventionality in the outlook which prevents extravagances,
even those of genius. The sanity and glow of Turner and Diirer may
be ascribed to this position of Venus. Wagner illustrates it even
better ; and the steady correctness of Bachhaus as a pianist is very
much in keeping. Wagner's Venus is, however, rendered singularly
brilliant by the conjunction of Sol within one degree.
W. B. Yeats is rather a difficult case. His Venus qualities are
decidedly nebulous and airy; the only explanation appears to be
that she is attacked by Mars.
With ordinary people not artists the effect is clear enough.
We have such sincere and sober folk as George V, Bismarck, Crom-
well, Alexander II and Lord Wolseley. The domestic affairs of these
people never gave cause for anxiety !
But what about Nero? Well, his Venus is in the twelfth house
with Mars conjoined and Jupiter in opposition and it appears
likely that if we were to calculate the positions of Uranus and
Neptune for that remote epoch, we should find further trouble.
The following are the names of well known persons who have
Venus in the sign Taurus :
"Bud" Fisher
Norma Talmadge
Luther Burbank
Clarence S. Darrow
Alan Dale
William H. Crane
Norman Hapgood
Chauncey M. Depew
Daniel Chester French
Charlie Chaplin
Artemus Ward
VENUS IN TAURUS 261
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
EphemeriSj or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein^ the years when Venus is in the sign Taurus are as follows :
262
VENUS IN GEMINI 262
VENUS IN GEMINI
GEMINI has the precisely opposite effect to Taurus. In this sign
Venus is easily aroused, but has little or nothing physical or positive
about it. It is inconstant, and always mental or ideal. People having
this position of Venus are constitutionally.
capable of understanding passion as ordinary men and women do.
In the case of Shakespeare, for example,* he is a master of Weptunian
love (Venus and Neptune are conjoined in his horoscope), as shown
in "As You Like it'
5
and "Twelfth Night" and "Midsummer Night's
Dream," rather than of the ordinary passion between man and wife.
In Petrarch we have a somewhat warmer Venus, but the love is
262
VENUS IN GEMINI 263
From April 22nd through May 16th 1909
June 4th " June 29th 1910
March 24th "
April 17th 1911
May 7th May 31st 1912
March 7th May 1st 1913
May 31st "
July 7th 1913
April 7th May 1st 1914
May 22nd " June I5th 1915
March 10th April 5th 1916
April 22nd "
May 15th 1917
June 3rd " June 28th 1918
March 23rd "
April 16th 1919
May 7th "
May 30th 1920
March 7th "
April 25th 1921
June 2nd "
July 7th 1921
April 7th "
April 30th 1922
May 22nd " June 14th 1923
March 9th
"
April 4th 1924
April 21st "
May 15th 1925
June 3rd " June 28th 1926
March 23rd "
April 16th 1927
May 6th "
May 29th 1928
March 8th "
April 19th 1929
June 3rd "
July 7th 1929
VENUS IN GEMINI
GEMINI has the precisely opposite effect to Taurus. In this sign
Venus is easily aroused, but has little or nothing physical or positive
about it. It is inconstant, and always mental or ideal. People having
this position of Venus are constitutionally, and -caBgenitaUy- in-
capable of understanding passion as ordinary men and women do.
In the case of Shakespeare, for example, lie is a master of Neptunian
love (Venus and Neptune are conjoined in his horoscope), as shown
in "As You Like it" and "Twelfth Night" and "Midsummer Night's
Dream,
9 '
rather than of the ordinary passion between man and wife.
In Petrarch we have a somewhat warmer Venus, but the love is
264 ASTROLOGY
still ideal and therefore incomprehensible to the average man. One
must be a poet to read Petrarch with pleasure.
Where science is already elsewhere indicated as the pursuit in life,
this position in Gemini comes naturally to strengthen that dispo-
sition, or at least to avoid weakening it by a counter-pull. Thus Kant,
Huxley, and Herbert Spencer were undisturbed in their life's work
by the claims of love or pleasure, and all their Venus-quality was
manifested on the mental plane.
People with this position are never quite satisfied. "Ah but a man's
reach should exceed his grasp ; or what's a heaven for?" is a Brown-
ing quotation which they import into private life. They are often
frivolous, fickle, and incapable of any but the most superficial af-
fection. Nor is the object of affection ever single; such people are
often terribly puzzled as to which of several admirers to prefer. In
truth, they want none of them ; they like the titillation, and would
be seriously annoyed if one of their pigeons turned out a hawk as
sometimes happens !
The intellectuality of Gemini often enables the native to under-
stand passion, even though he does not feel it. The examples of
Shakespeare and Petrarch given above are to the point. The diffi-
culty comes in the power of expression, for though, as Oscar Wilde
observed, "genuine emotion is the root of all bad art," yet it is also
the root of all good art, and its absence renders the portrayal of
human character to some degree unsatisfying. In America we have
an extremely satisfactory example of the attitude which we are dis-
cussing. It is that of Elbert Hubbard. He regarded the mind, or
rather the mental plane, as the most real and the only important one
of the planes, and his whole doctrine, being based on this assumption,
finds both its strength and weakness therein. Some writer has asserted
that all phenomena are but phantoms of the mind, and much of the
teaching of Elbert Hubbard was very similar in this underlying as-
sumption. This attitude is, of course, very distasteful to the average
man, who regards it as evidence alike of lack of feeling and of in-
stability of brain. The distinction between these points of view touches
the emotions so closely that ill-feeling is bound to exist between people
who happen to be on opposite sides of the fence. Without presuming
to take sides in so embittered a controversy, or to give judgment in so
delicate a dispute, one is bound to say that Gemini may be regarded
VENUS IN GEMINI 265
as by no means sympathetic to Venus. Her presence in that sign is
a limitation, for her nature is earth and water, while Gemini is pure
air, and there is bitter hostility between air and earth. The effect of
air upon Venus makes her dispersed and frivolous, which is a vice of
Venus, whose excellence consists in form, in plasticity, in repose.
The following
1
are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign Gemini :
William Randolph Hearst
William C. de Mille
Frank H. Damrosch
George M. Cohan
Charles Hayden
Margaret Lawrence
Maxfield Parrish
Edwin Markham
William Shakespeare
H. Rider Haggard
Elbert Hubbard
Lord Northcliffe
John W. Weeks
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Gemini are as follows :
From June 4th through June 28th 1840
April 13th "
May 3rd 1841
July 7th
"
August 7th 1841
May 5th "
May 29th 1842
June 20th "
July 14th 1843
April 8th "
May 4th 1844
May 20th " June 13th 1845
July 2nd "
July 27th 1846
April 21st May 15th 1847
June 4th " June 27th 1848
April 19th
"
April 22nd 1849
July 7th
"
August 7th 1849
266 ASTROLOGY
Prom May 5th through May 28th 1850
June 19th
"
July 13th 1851
April 7th
"
May 4th 1852
May 20th " June 12th 1853
July 2nd "
July 27th 1854
April 20th "
May 14th 1855
June 3rd " June 27th 1856
July 7th
"
August 6th 1857
May 4th "
May 28th 1858
June 19th July 12th 1859
April 7th "
May 4th 1860
May 19th " June llth 1861
July 1st "
July 26th 1862
April 20th "
May 14th 1863
June 3rd " June 26th 1864
July 7th "
August 6th 1865
May 4th "
May 27th 1866
June 18th "
July 12th 1867
April 7th "
May 4th 1868
May 19th " June llth 1869
July 1st "
July 26th 1870
April 19th "
May 14th 1871
June 2nd " June 26th 1872
July 8th "
August 6th 1873
May 3rd "
May 27th 1874
June 18th "
July llth 1875
April 6th "
May 4th 1876
May 18th " June 10th 1877
July 1st "
July 25th 1878
April 19th "
May 13th 1879
June 2nd " June 25th 1880
July 8th "
August 5th 1881
May 3rd "
May 26th 1882
June ,17th
"
July llth 1883
April 6th "
May 4th 1884
May 17th " June 10th 1885
June 30th "
July 25th 1886
April 18th "
May 13th 1887
VENUS IN GEMINI 267
268 ASTROLOGY
From June 29th through July 23rd 1926
April 17th May llth 1927
May 30th
" June 23rd 1928
July 8th
"
August 4th 1929
VENUS IN CANCER
ONE might generalize the effect of the elemental attribution of the
signs upon Venus by calling fire passionate, earth affectionate, air
ideal or romantic, and water voluptuous. The passivity of Cancer
certainly makes Venus extremely emotional. It is hard for a person
with this position to resist the advances of another; at the same
time, the lunar force in Cancer makes the nature changeable. There
is little disposition to seek companionship or love, but, when these
are offered, they are gladly accepted. There is often deep sentimen-
tality, and the native is apt to take his affairs too seriously ; in re-
ality, wounds heal quickly. It is very unfortunate for any native
with this position to be deprived of free normal expression of his or
her tendencies ; in such cases the health may suffer.
This sign is in many ways the most suitable of all for Venus;
she seems to dissolve into a swoon therein. However, the tendency
is to sensuality in a very marked degree, though not so much so as
we shall find when we come to Scorpio. It is desirable to find some
aspect with a tendency to correct any exaggeration of this quality.
The desire for comfort in life and general good fortune in minor
matters is to be expected in natives with Venus in Cancer. In art and
music, and in literature also, the effect appears to be very intense ;
the feelings are very quiet and deep-seated, permeating the whole
atmosphere. This quality will be recognized in the work of Dante,
Balzac, and Schumann. The peculiar pathos and melancholy of the
last-mentioned is, of course, due to the conjunction of the Lord of
the Ascendant, Saturn, with Neptune. In all these determinations
it must constantly be remembered that one practically never finds
any single uncomplicated aspect ; and crude, superficial research is
consequently bound to be misleading.
A good example of the quiet sentimentality of the configuration
VENUS IN CANCER 269
is given by Abbas Effendi, who sought to build up a religion on gen-
eralities of purely pacific and amiable type.
Franz Josef II, Nicholas II, and Maximilian of Mexico all had
this position ; the effect is recognizable in the softness and ductility
of their characters. In the last case, this became actual weakness and
contributed largely to his ruin.
We have however three very remarkable cases of a quite opposite
tendency. Sometimes Cancer appears to remember quite suddenly
that it is a cardinal sign with Jupiter exalted, and to act accord-
ingly ! Even in the types of face given when it is rising, we see these
two contrasted, the round, flat, pale moon-like face for one, and the
aquiline, red, dominant, aggressive, hatchet-profile for the other.
Jay Gould certainly possessed none of the characteristics which
we have cited, but his Venus is conjoined with Jupiter, and squared
by the conjunction of Luna and Saturn. This is sufficient to deter-
mine the sign to activity.
Cecil Rhodes had very little of the true Cancer effect on Venus ;
but here again Saturn interferes.
Another example is Napoleon. Here Venus in Cancer, sextile to
Uranus, Neptune, and Mars, accounts for his easy amours, and that
indulgence in the pleasures of the table which led to his death. His
general method, too, was quite in keeping with this position. It is
his actions as a soldier and a statesman which make us think at first
of him as an unlikely person to have this position. But such actions
hardly come under Venus at all ; they are only indirectly influenced
by her in the same way as hip-disease might interfere with oratory
by limiting the use of gestures ; and we may therefore call the very
particular attention of the student to this case as highly and aptly
illustrative of the effect.
There are, however, many manifestations of Venus besides the
obvious one. In Cancer, she frequently gives humorous good-nature
a gentle and ingratiating method which endears the observer to
the native without his quite knowing why it should be so. An ex-
cellent illustration of this quality is Oliver Wendell Holmes, and
on the stage we see it in Harry Lauder. Julia Marlowe has this
same indefinable charm ; but, in her case, it is fortified with a more
definite appeal, because Venus is in aspect to the Moon, Uranus
and Neptune.
270 ASTROLOGY
Cancer always makes for popularity, because it is ruled by the
Moon, and the presence of Venus in the sign should cause the native
to be generally beloved. Napoleon, of course, owed his elevation to
the hold which he had upon the affections of the people, and it was
no doubt the personal popularity of Franz Josef II, more than
anything else, which enabled him to harmonize and build up the
nations which he ruled, into one great empire. Their dissensions
always stopped short of the person of the emperor, and many a
time they were restrained from going to extremes, only by consid-
erations of him. Cecil Rhodes, again, is a figure who struck the
popular imagination. So, to turn once more to our own country,
did Henry Ward Beecher. Here there is no question of the popu-
larity, and it is also possible that certain other facts which made
considerable stir at the time may partially, at least, be attributed
to this position.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign Cancer :
Benito Mussolini
Robert J. Collier
Harrison Fisher
William Winter
Gilford Pinchot
James Stilhnan
Ex-President Coolidge
Percy Stickney Grant
John Jacob Astor
General Ballington Booth
Joseph Cannon
Honore Balzac
Dante
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Cancer are as follows :
VENUS IN CANCER 271
VENUS IN LEO 273
VENUS IN LEO
LEO is by far the noblest of the signs and brings out the best
qualities of Venus. Venus in Leo is not so passionate as in Aries,
but she is loyal and warm-hearted. She becomes capable even of
that highest virtue of self-sacrifice without which all is in vain. She
becomes that Charity of which the apostle Paul waxed eloquent. This,
however, depends as usual upon aspects ; an attack of Saturn (for
example) may undo all the good and transform it into evil ; yet this
is not so easily accomplished as when she is in a more passive and
sensitive sign. However fallen, she always retains some memory of
her ancient dignity.
Thus we find many of the greatest-hearted people born with this
position. Alexander of Greece is a fine instance, and so is Cicero,
if we remember him as the author of De Senectute and De Amicitia.
In more recent times we have Colonel Olcott, one of the kindest-
hearted men that ever lived, Tolstoi, George Sand, and Maurice
ASTROLOGY
Maeterlinck. One will note the flavor of humanitarianism in its best
sense in all these.
It is to be observed, with some care, that three of the most popular
British statesmen of the generation just passed Halfour5 Cham-
berlain, and Asquith, all have this position. They were of very dif-
ferent types, yet all acquired popularity in a way that hardly any
others have done. Their positive qualities are in each case ill-fitted
to inspire affection; it is something deeper in their natures which
has attracted the love of their fellow countrymen.
In the middle ages, who stands more for the ripe, kindly spirit
of generous love than Cornelius Agrippa? It is not openly apparent
in his writing, but it gilds the whole.
The same remark, with necessary modification, applies to Ber-
nard Shaw. Venus in Leo is not self-assertive and blatant ; it lurks
hidden, its abiding glow warming the hands of life, but never scorch-
ing them.
There is no better position for Venus to attract warm feeling on
the part of others; even where respect is not given to the native,
he yet acquires sympathy and kindly consideration, because he is
such a good fellow. Barney Barnato was decidedly the most popu-
lar of the South African millionaires, because it was recognized that,
for all his roughness and his questionable methods of business, he
had a real human heart. The geniality of former President Taft was
very characteristic. His bitterest political opponents never said a
word against him personally. Another very good example is Irvin
Cobb ; Venus in Leo is very well characterized by his kindly, humani-
tarian humor and also by his personal characteristics. In a wider way,
a more serious way, we see the same quality in Jane Addams ; and
the graciousness and good feeling of Dr. Felix Adler are almost
equally well known.
To return to the by-paths of history, we may cite the great-
hearted and magnanimous Garibaldi, as illustrative of this posi-
tion, while its nobility and good-feeling were also very clearly mani-
fest in the character of Cardinal Richelieu. Curiously enough, his
successor, Mazzarin, has the same position, but in Mazzarin, these
qualities were by no means strongly marked. A glance at his na-
tivity explains why Mercury is in conjunction with Venus, masking
her warmth by his rational and calculating acumen, and she is
VENUS IN LEO 275
seriously afflicted by a square of Uranus on the one side, and of
Saturn on the other. The position of Saturn, which dominates the
horoscope from the Mid-heaven, emphasizes the selfishness of the
native, and Uranus, being in bad aspect to Venus, hinders the
emancipation and breadth which a friendly aspect might have re-
stored to her. These aspects might not have been sufficient to de-
stroy her influence, had not Saturn been so extremely powerful in
the horoscope. Not only is he in the Mid-heaven, but Lord of the
Ascendant. Saturn is, therefore, the key of the complex, and is
sufficiently powerful to out-weigh the influence of Leo upon Venus.
Nature presents itself to people with Venus in Leo as primarily
an emotional phenomenon. There is not the materialism which we
found in Taurus or the intellectualism given by her presence in
Gemini. The native may acquiesce in the dictum of Schopenhauer,
that the world is a reflection of will and that both the material and
mental aspects of it are subsidiary.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign Leo :
John Wanamaker
Gen. John Pershing
George H. Lorimer
Booth Tarkington
William Howard Taft
Dr. Felix Adler
James B. Gilder
Hamlin Garland
Harrison Grey Fiske
Charles Dana Gibson
Mary Baker Eddy
Gen. George W. Goethals
Archbishop John Ireland
James J. Hill
Chauncey Olcott
Cornelius Vanderbilt
Mrs. C. Pankhurst
Maurice Maeterlinck
276 ASTROLOGY
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Leo are as follows :
277
278 ASTROLOGY
VENUS IN VIRGO
THE cold and earthy and mercurial nature of Virgo may be de-
scribed as the very opposite to that of Venus. The planet, too, is
in her fall and never develops properly. She may make a woman
a careful housewife and a good hostess for Virgo distributes the
affections, forbids friendships but encourages acquaintanceships
but never a loving wife or a passionate mistress, unless there are
some remarkably warm aspects to intensify her nature. Women
of the town, many of whom are incapable of true feeling of any
kind, often have this position. The native, too, is usually fastidious
about people. Others are inclined to consider him cold, heartless
and repellent. On the other hand, the scmg-froid and aplomb which
VENUS IN VIRGO 279
his indifference gives often make him a favorite on the lecture plat-
form or the stage.
We find it, for example, in the horoscope of Marshall P. Wilder,
the dwarf humorist. A very good example of its peculiar manifes-
tation in art is the painter Millet. The perception is extraordinarily
keen and accurate.
We find little development of the emotional nature in this posi-
tion. Some of the most notoriously cold and even callous people in
history have possessed it. However, it does not always turn to evil,
and, in many cases, the position is a decided advantage in life. For
example, one may attribute much of Anna Kingsford's high men-
tality to this cause. Her tenderer feelings were distributed through
intellectual channels. We find a similar case in Thomas Mott Os-
borne, and these two examples may be considered the very flower of
this position. The same development of emotion on humanitarian
rather than on personal lines is clearly marked in Samuel Taylor
Coleridge, but here it is noticeable how Virgo works upon Venus
in courting the native to be, or at least to seem, cold, and to hold
himself aloof, if not exactly from the society of his fellows, at least
from any close intimacy with them. Similar qualities are observable
in the horoscopes of President Hayes, President Carnot, President
Kruger, Cardinal Gibbons, and Edward VI of England. In none
of these can the position be described as having worked unfavorably.
With Ludwig of Bavaria, however, the theatrical tendency is seen
in an exaggerated form. He may be said rather to have acted his
life than to have lived it. However, there are worse cases. In Caesar
Borgia, this position produced downright callousness. This is, no
doubt, emphasized by the shutting up of Venus in the twelfth house,
her aspect to Saturn in the eleventh, and the fact that Virgo is
actually the rising sign. It may seem at first sight surprising that
Goethe, Dumas, and Guy de Maupassant should have this position,
but further investigation clears up the difficulty. Goethe's Venus
has the sextile of Neptune and the opposition of Jupiter and also
the semi-sextile of Mercury, and Venus is powerfully placed in the
tenth house. Dumas has the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn, the
semi-sextile of Sol and that of Uranus. De Maupassant has Mer-
cury semi-sextile, Mars and Jupiter in conjunction. Such aspects
from such great planets overpower the isolated influence of the
280 ASTROLOGY
sign, to a very large extent. It can still be traced, but only in minor
matters.
The position of Venus does not exactly lack magnetism, but it
is a different kind of magnetism from that which is usually under-
stood by that word. James Coates, the mesmerist,, had this position*
The quality that enables a man to hypnotize successfully is very
different from that which makes him a great lover. The position
is admirable for a lawyer, giving him the power of insinuating his
ideas into the minds of his hearers. Many very attractive speakers
have this same position. People with Venus so situated have the
power to express emotion without really feeling it. They can weep
very convincingly for "Hecuba."
The position is also admirable for a nurse, where the greatest
care and tenderness are required, yet where any trace of true pity
or emotion would diminish the efficiency.
However, while not wishing to say anything derogatory to the
natives who have this position, we must say that, so far as the dev-
elopment of Venus is concerned, it is not her highest development.
It is a decided modification of her qualities and a limitation of her
powers. It is, however, not to be regarded as so thoroughgoing an
affliction as when she is in Aries.
The following -are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign Virgo :
Henry Ford
Robert Treat Paine, Jr.
Edward W. Bok
John D. Rockefeller, Sr.
Leonard Wood
Sydney Rosenfeld
William Osborne Stoddard
William Gillette
Cardinal Gibbons
Melville E. Stone
Anna Kingsford
Alexander Dumas
VENUS IN VIKGO 281
Guy de Maupassant
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Virgo are as follows :
September
October
August
September
November
August
October
August
September
October
August
September
November
August
October
August
October
September
October
August
September
November
August
October
August
November
September
October
August
September
November
9th 1840
24th 1841
12th 1842
25th 1843
5th 1844
25th 1845
9th 1846
7th 1847
8th 1848
23rd 1849
12th 1850
24th 1851
4th 1852
25th 1853
9th 1854
8th 1855
27th 1855
8th 1856
23rd 1857
12th 1858
24th 1859
4th 1860
24th 1861
8th 1862
8th 1863
1st 1863
7th 1864
22nd 1865
llth 1866
23rd 1867
4th 1868
VENUS IN LIBRA
From July 8th
September 6th
August 13th
September 27th
July 16th
August 29th
October 8th
July 29th
September 13th
July 8th
August ISth
September 27th
July 16th
August 29th
October 8th
July 29th
September 12th
July 8th
August 12th
September 26th
July 15th
August 28th
October 8th
July 28th
September 12th
July 8th
August 12th
September 26th
VENUS IN LIBRA
VENUS in Libra is in her own house and, on the whole, stronger even
than she is in Taurus. The only drawback to her excellence comes
from the airy nature of the sign, which, conflicting with her earthy
disposition, tends to diminish her domesticity. It is also important
to note that Saturn is exalted in Libra, and in dealing with the
aspects of Saturn and Venus it is shown how generally sinister
is his effect upon her. In this sign, the Venus quality tends to be
ASTROLOGY
mysterious and bizarre, and suffers dark and Inexplicable perver-
sions. The ordinary bourgeois is usually very afraid of people
having her in this position. She is too fine and subtle for the average
man. The amatory side of Venus is not obvious ; the feeling is refined
into JEsthetieism. People with this position, however, often possess
sincere affection, but it is important to express such affection more
on the mental and spiritual planes than on others. The limitations
of marriage are keenly felt. On the artistic side this is the best sign
for Venus. She gives a magnificent sense of proportion, harmony
and color, which can amount to genius. Vulgarity and blatancy are
very distasteful, and uncongenial surroundings cause extreme un-
happiness, and upset the nervous system. With all this there is a
great love of simplicity in art. The Egyptian, Grecian and Chinese
styles are preferred to the flamboyant and rococo.
Thus we see that, when Venus is in Libra, love is nearly always
more and less than love, as understood by the average man. It is,
to some extent, a religion, possessing its own ritual. Where disap-
pointment occurs, the feeling is not that of a wounded heart, but
rather as if a blasphemy had been uttered, or a crime against God
committed. At times, the religious feeling in connection with this
matter amounts almost to fetichism. This attitude often causes the
native to dread the commonplace exceedingly, and, endeavoring to
avoid that Scylla, he may be devoured by the Charybdis of the
abnormal. Perversity of one sort or another is consequently com-
mon. This may not be actual vice it results from refinement, de-
licacy and imagination.
Venus in this sign is released from earthy bondage. She takes
wings and flies. She dwells in realms of air and the worst torture
which she can suffer is her enchainment by bodily expression or
material condition. Not only is mariage de convena/nce impossible
to her, but even true love may be revolting as soon as it takes phys-
ical form. It is in some ways not altogether fortunate that so im-
portant a branch of life should be thus divorced from what Nature
evidently intended as its limitation. Love was originally intended as
a mere physical appetite. Its exaltation as amorism, romanticism,
mysticism, aestheticism and the rest are superstructed, built upon
that basis by the idealism of the Great Architect and His fellow-
builders on the aspiring human plane.
VENUS IN LIBRA 285
The reader must not forget that Saturn is exalted in Libra, and,
for this reason, there is much melancholy in the sign, which there-
fore transforms Venus from her simplicity, frankness and laughter
into a subtle, secret, and somewhat austere Goddess, to be wor-
shipped in secret shrines, rather than in the meadows. She is not
content with offerings of flowers ; she demands human sacrifice.
Of course, this is only a description of the action of this position
on a single plane. The escape from flesh may be into many different
fallacies. The effect of air, to which element Libra belongs, con-
nects it with intellectuality ; not only is it the ideal which is adored,
even on the material plane, but the ideal frequently roots itself in
devotion to causes of a religious, artistic or humanitarian character.
In this connection we may mention the names of Madame Blavat-
sky, Frances Willard and Christabel Pankhurst.
The attitude of Savonarola towards love has Venus in Libra for
its foundation, but, in his case, the planet is afflicted by the con-
junction of Saturn within three degrees, while the Moon is square
to her. Erasmus, with Jupiter trine, was rendered practically nor-
mal by this aid.
We have more characteristic examples still in Edward VII, and
Queen Elizabeth. Here the influence of Libra as the judicial sign
is very evident. These two monarchs were unquestionably the great-
est diplomatists that ever occupied the throne of England. One
sees a similar subtlety of judgment in Lord Brougham and Annie
Besant. The position has a more obviously physical influence in
the careers of Marie Bashkirtseff, Cleo de Merode and Oscar Wilde.
But the most powerful illustration of all is afforded by Martin
Luther. Here it reached an extraordinarily powerful development,
owing to the conjunction of Mars and Jupiter.
Venus is not sufficiently big to bear the whole weight of destiny.
No amount of support can make her anything but yielding. Even
in the most favorable cases, therefore, there is an element of pos-
sible disaster. Sooner or later, the clay pot bumps against the brass
pot and is smashed. Louis XVI is a particularly striking instance.
All his tact and sympathy failed to meet the situation which con-
fronted him.
Those born with Venus in Libra are extremely careful about
their surroundings. Harmony and beauty are as necesary to them
286 ASTKOLOGY
as the air they breathe. They are much more particular about the
manners of their friends than about their moral standards. They
possess great personal dignity and a certain seriousness of attitude
toward life wHch makes them almost pontifical. They possess charm,
tact, a gravely sympathetic manner and much real kindness of
heart. But they never allow this to degenerate into geniality. They
dislike familiarity and do not allow anyone to take liberties with
them.
There is a certain gaiety in the disposition, but it is kept below
the surface. Frederick MacMoimies had Venus in Libra and his
famous "Bacchante39
might almost do for an astrological picture of
this position at its brightest. There is always the feeling of the
dance in Libra, but it is not the vulgar dance which is a mere ex-
pression of animal spirits. These exist, and exist strongly, but they
are veiled by the religious instinct. The dance is, therefore, a re-
ligious dance, a subtle and esoteric ritual "inscrutable to the pro-
fane.
55
In its highest expression, therefore, this position of Libra
becomes almost divine. The perversities which have already been
described may be considered as the trials of a pilgrim. At the end
of the journey is the palace of that truth and beauty which are one.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign Libra :
Paul Von Hindenburg
Archduke Rudolph of Austria
Arnold Daly
Jonathan O. Armour
Ethel Barrymore
Henry Clay Barnaby
Walter H. Page
Theodore Dreiser
Frederick MacMonnies
Charles F. McKim
Kate Douglas Wiggin
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Libra are as follows:
VENUS IN LIBRA 287
From
288
From September 23rd
November 4th
August 24th
October 8th
August llth
November 5th
September 7th
October 22nd
August llth
September 23rd
November 4th
August 24th
October 8th
August 12th
November 6th
September 7th
October 22nd
August llth
September 22nd
November 3rd
August 23rd
October 7th
August 14th
November 7th
September 6th
October 21st
August llth
September 22nd
November 4th
August 24th
October 7th
August 18th
November 9th
September 7th
October 22nd
August llth
September 22nd
November 3rd
ASTROLOGY
VENUS IN SCORPIO 289
From August
October
November
September
October
August
September
November
August
October
November
September
October
August
September
November
August
October
November
September
October
VENUS IN SCORPIO
IT- is very unfortunate for Venus to find herself in a sign which is
both martial and watery. It completely destroys any altruistic tend-
encies, and it may turn her amiability not only into sensuality but
into something grosser still. Her influence is often extremely violent ;
passion is intense and physical ; unless gratified it is likely to turn
into hatred ; and, even when it is reciprocated, its career is likely to
be stormy, in particular afflictions it may end in treacheries and
tragedies. People with this position run the greatest danger of get-
ting themselves into social trouble. It is particularly important to
guard against misalliance either with or without the assent of the
law. The extreme violence of the feelings may also react ultimately
upon the health; since, great as the capacity is, the desires are still
stronger and may easily lead to dangerous excess.
290 ASTROLOGY
A disappointment also frequently arises from too great straight-
forwardness. Such people are likely to frighten the birds which
they wish to ensnare. They are sometimes unscrupulous in the pur-
suit of their plans. No consideration seems to weigh with them. This
naturally results in what may pass with the world for success, and
unquestionably the physical magnetism is as great of its kind as in
any other sign. In fact Libra alone rivals it. But the magnetism of
Libra is subtle and perverse, whereas that of Scorpio is coarse and
gross.
In dealing with the nativities of people who have lacked the re-
fining influences of education, this position stands for quite animal
dissipation and is nearly always associated with drunkenness. People
of a higher type naturally escape such extremes. But frequently the
cynical temperament develops as a result of satiety. This is marked
in the cases of Sainte Beuve, Benjamin Disraeli, and Marie An-
toinette. In the last case one may regard this position of Venus in
her horoscope as one of the principal causes of the French Revolu-
tion. One has only to examine the innumerable pamphlets which
were written against her to see how this came about.
Venus in Scorpio does not appear compatible with any striking
tendencies towards artistic development, and she is also here very
weak in tact and amiability. It must be remembered that in this
sign she is in her detriment. Of course, the usual modifications
caused by aspects are always to be considered, but the position is
so sensual that it takes a great deal to overcome its natural tend-
encies.
People with this position are extremely self-possessive in the mat-
ter of affection. Jealousy with them is a passion far more consum-
ing than the love which has given birth to it. A trifling disappoint-
ment will turn love into hate, relentless and unscrupulous. The
character of the passion is as physical as when Venus is in Taurus,
but in the earthy sign, she connects with all the natural, genial,
domestic, human qualities. Venus in Scorpio may be called almost
demoniac; weary, but unsatisfied, is her motto. She never rests.
Scorpio in many of its aspects is symbolized by the sea in storm, and
the qualities of that element accurately symbolize this temperament.
The magnetism is
extraordinarily strong, but may be called prim-
itive. There is a kind of fascination which the innocent frequently
VENUS IN SCORPIO 291
fail to recognize, and which consequently makes them fall an easy
prey. This type is
curiously open to flattery. A compliment is al-
ways taken as surrender, as a tribute to the superiority of the na-
tive.
Venus in Scorpio is extremely passionate and irresistible. It will
not be content with anything but exact fulfillment of its desires.
It is consequently necessary for the loved one to comply absolutely,
or at least to seem to comply with sufficient skill to pretend; and
this is, evidently, -by no means a dignified or worthy position for
anyone to maintain.
It is noticeable that few people with this position have attained
great fame, and the reason is clear. However brilliant may be the
other qualities in the nativity, this one influence leads us so fre-
quently to plain dissipation that it is not possible to pursue the
career with that single-mindedness and greatness of heart which are
necessary to consummate success.
It must be borne in mind that, when Venus is in Scorpio, the
Sun and Mercury may, at the same time, be in either Libra or
Sagittarius ; in such case, much that has been said would be largely
modified, or the education and circumstances of the native would
be such that the qualities imparted by the pure Venus in Scorpio
would be latent and never be brought to the surface. They might
be expressed through a feeling of great dissatisfaction and sup-
pression.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign of Scorpio :
A. J. Drexel-Biddle
Henry George
Frederick Remington
George W. Vanderbilt
John Philip Sousa
Duke of York
Mahatma Gandhi
Edith Cavell
Ralph Waldo Trine
Col. William Mitchell
292 ASTROLOGY
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Scorpio are as follows :
January 6th 1840
October 27th 1840
December llth 1841
October 6th 1842
November 12th 1843
December 25th 1844
October 14th 1845
November 26th 1846
January 6th 1848
October 27th 1848
December llth 1849
October 6th 1850
November llth 1851
December 24th 1852
October 13th 1853
November 26th 1854
January 5th 1856
October 26th 1856
December 10th 1857
October 6th 1858
November llth 1859
December 24th 1860
October 13th 1861
November 25th 1862
January 5th 1864
October 26th 1864
December 10th 1865
October 6th 1866
November 10th 1867
December 23d 1868
October 13th 1869
November 25th 1870
January 5th 1872
October 25th 1872
VENUS IN SCORPIO 293
December 9th 1873
October 6th 1874
November 9th 1875
December 23rd 1876
October 12th 1877
November 24th 1878
January 4th 1880
October 25th 1880
December 8th 1881
October 6th 1882
November 9th 1883
December 22nd 1884
October 12th 1885
November 23rd 1886
January 4th 1888
October 24th 1888
December 8th 1889
October 7th 1890
November 8th 1891
December 22nd 1892
October llth 1893
November 23rd 1894
January 3rd 1896
October 24th 1896
December 7th 1897
October 7th 1898
November 8th 1899
December 22nd 1900
October 12th 1901
November 23rd 1902
January 4th 1904
October 24th 1904
December 8th 1905
October 8th 1906
December 25th 1906
November 8th 1907
December 22nd 1908
October llth 1909
November 23rd
January 4th
October 24th
December 7th
October 9th
December 30th
November 8th
December 21st
October llth
November 22nd
January 3rd
October 23rd
December 7th
October 10th
January 1st
November 7th
December 21st
October llth
November 22nd
January 3rd
October 23rd
December 6th
1910
1912
1912
1913
1914
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1920
1920
1921
1922
1923
1923
1924
1925
1926
1928
1928
1929
VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS
VENUS is in some ways at her best in this sign. She has not the pas-
sion which we have noticed in the other two fiery signs. She is more
impulsive and less constant. The slightest rebuff kills the interest.
And in no case is affection likely to be long-lived. These remarks
apply t l ve rather than to friendship, for, in the latter, the fact
that Jupiter rules Sagittarius comes into play.
For this reason we call Venus at her best ; she has an aspiring and
spiritual quality which tends to remove from her any taint of earthy
grossness. This very quality, however, may in some eyes appear as a
defect. Those who imagine that the only kind of love is that which
is expressed in accordance with social conventions may be un-
measured in the hatred of such tendencies as this sign confers, par-
ticularly upon women.
VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS 295
It is very common to find fantastic passions such as have been
celebrated by Baudelaire, Verlaine and Swinburne, as well as by the
one supreme poetess that ever lived, Sappho. Those things which are
gross and unrefined do not appeal. It is necessary to satisfy mental
and spiritual cravings and also to content the imagination. The lack
of earthiness, the absence of physical bonds, causes rapid changes
which may be mistaken for caprice, but which are really not so ; on
the contrary, they are symptoms of fidelity to the ideal. People with
this position are proud and high-spirited, and they demand the same
qualities in those whom they love. Indelicacy shocks. Further it may
be said that any attempt to bind down the affections is intensely
resented. To fish for such people one must employ the finest lines and
the smallest flies ; though the more brightly they are colored, the
more successful is likely to be the sport.
Examples of the peculiar delicacy or spirit conferred by this
position are afforded by George Eliot, Robert Louis Stevenson,
Chatterton, and Lewis Carroll. Perhaps, too, the unfortunate re-
lations of Charles I with his ministers may be attributed to this
position. He never seemed able to trust constantly to them. He
would trust too much, become disappointed for quite insufficient
reasons, and then betray them. One might also look at the political
careers of Gladstone, Bright, John Burns, Winston Churchill and
Theodore Roosevelt. The extraordinary rashness in speech of the
last named is very typical of this position.
With most ordinary people, these qualities manifest as something
not much better than heartlessness and fickleness. Love sparkles and
glitters, but is without warmth. Venus does not expand sufficiently
to glow or to ennoble the life with true affection. There is never any
excess energy to waste. The native has just so much of the Venusian
qualities as suits his own purpose. He has none to give to others. As
the swift spark is very attractive to those who really seek love,
people with Venus in this sign often cause the greatest disappoint-
ment they attract the passion of really warm-hearted people and
then fail to satisfy it. Often they cannot understand how they are
failing. Similarly, they may cause much anxiety to those who love
them because they do not reciprocate the affections of the other
party, who may consequently believe that he is failing in kindness,
when, in reality, it is merely that he is trying to rekindle a shooting
296 ASTROLOGY
star. Very often true passion is altogether lacking or, if it exists, it
is as transient and ephemeral as we learn that certain brightly
colored insects are.
It often happens that the natural instincts are replaced by fan-
tasies, forms of love which are expressed by symbol rather than by
sense. Hence, the natural purpose of Venus, which is, after all,
vitally important to the race, is frequently thwarted. Venus in
Sagittarius often induces the native to act in such ways as to avoid
what is, after all, the one great glorious human attribute, willing
sacrifice. Thus, a woman with Venus in Sagittarius might prefer to
adopt a child rather than to go through the pains of bearing one.
In art, we find a very interesting expression of this position in
Mark Twain. Here we see an art, extraordinarily jeweled, with brief
scintillations, but we rarely find in his writings the large, sustained
humor, elaborated and rendered complex by the interplay of one
idea with another, such as we find in the greatest masters.
One may also recommend to the reader without comment, the
study of three people very different in this position who are yet
united by the presence of Venus in this sign :
Hetty Green, Maude
Adams and Evelyn Thaw.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in the sign of Sagittarius :
Ramsay MacDonald
George Eliot
Will Carlton
Harriet Stanton Blatch
Henry E. Dixey
Maude Adams
Rev. George Clark Houghton
Andrew Carnegie
Nicholas Longsworth
Augustus Thomas
Henry Clay Frick
William E. Gladstone
Havelock Ellis
Rudyard Kipling
Robert Louis Stevenson
VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS 297
Forbes-Robertson
Fritz Kreisler
Theodore Roosevelt
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus was in the sign Sagittarius are as
follows :
VENUS -IN CAPRICORNUS
From October 25th
December 9th 1905
October 9th
December 26th 1906
November 9th
December 23rd 1908
October 12th
November 24th
January 5th
October 25th
December 8th
October 10th
December Slst 1914
November 9th
December 22nd 1916
October 12th
November 23rd
January 4th
October 24th
December 8th
October llth
January 2nd
November 8th
December 22nd 1924
October 12th
November 23rd
January 4th
October 24th
December 7th
VENUS IN CAPRICORNUS
'HIS sign brings out the colder and more earthy side of Venus, and
^ercises a restricting influence, in many cases, upon the tempera-
Lent. While it gives strong and permanent attachments, yet the
ature may be called capricious. The native loves the comic or Panic
de of intrigue ; he is likely to be somewhat gross and even lustful in
300 ASTROLOGY
the expression of attachment ;
he will waste time, health and money
in the search for pleasure; yet at the same time he will be extremely
petty about it. There is little amiability. Indifference is the real in-
terior attitude. And this is only modified by gusts of storm. The
native is usually jealous and exacting. He expects too much of other
people ; but that not through optimism or idealism, but, on the con-
trary, from self-interest.
People with Venus thus situated are usually very slow in develop-
ing the sexual instinct, and the later they marry the better their
chances to make a success of it. Sometimes this tardiness is such that
it never develops at all during the life time. This is often the case
when other instincts happen to be tremendously powerful. We find
many instances of people whose human side has failed to develop
through the occupation of the mind with loftier ideals. We may
notice the cases of William Blake, Swami Vivekenanda, Joseph
Smith and Jeanne d'Arc, all of whom were occupied primarily with
mystic conceptions. In the case of the Indian sage Venus took her
revenge, as she nearly always does when slighted, and that which
might have been after all quite as holy as any amount of meditation
expressed itself in ways which nearly led to open scandal.
We have examples of a somewhat different kind of enthusiasm in
John Ruskin, Dr. Zamenhof and Sir Edward Burning-Lawrence.
In Ruskin's case, as is well known, there was actual physical dis-
ability. Science furnishes us with the names of Pasteur, Davy and
Alfred Wallace, while an example of pure coldness of nature, with
no enthusiasm to replace it, is given by William. III.
It may be a little surprising at first sight to find that Alfred de
Musset had this position of Venus. But the explanation is simple, for
in his nativity Venus is on the cusp of the twelfth house, squared by
Mars, and she is just turning retrograde. The mental attitude dis-
played in Gamiani, in which he was at least an accomplice, and
many other of his writings, and the extraordinary developments of
his. personal character are fully explained by these facts.
Venus in Capricornus is a little inclined to be suspicious. The
native demands that advances shall be made to him unmistakably,
before he commits himself. He dreads rebuff. It is, therefore, neces-
sary in dealing with such a person to give encouragement if it is
really desired to accept him.
VENUS IN CAPRICORNUS 301
There is no danger of perversion in the sign in the ordinary sense
of the word, but the native is very likely omnivorous. This applies to
all the appetites equally. The native cannot bear to be bothered with
refinement of any of the appetites. He wishes possession and de-
mands the response, even more emphasized than his demand. He
desires open demonstration of affection and if he imagines that he
is being neglected, or if his pride be hurt, he is likely to change from
great warmth of affection to the most icy indifference, but once being
on intimate terms with a native of this sign, he may be trusted to
behave admirably, so long as those conditions persist. He is constant,
and a lover of home, preferring the fireside and domestic joys to
social functions and the like.
There is no great aptitude for art connected with this sign and no
great feeling for beauty in itself. The native is attracted by strength
of character and other peculiarities which do not appeal to the
ordinary man. Sometimes the character of the native is undeveloped
on ordinary Venusian lines. Moral beauty appeals to him more than
any other kind. We may mention in this connection the name of the
Preacher Moody and of Arthur Brisbane, but much more character-
istic of the usual development of character given by this position
is the late Stanford White.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in Capricorn :
George Harvey
Otto H. Kahn
Peter A. B. Widener
Frank O. Lowden
Hudson Maxim
Robert E. Peary
Pres. A. L. Lowell of Harvard
E. H. Sothern
Martin W. Littleton
Adelina Patti
Joseph Smith
Alfred de Musset
Cicero
John Ruskin
302 ASTROLOGY
Sir Humphrey Davy
Richard Le Gallienne
Alexander Agassiz
Samuel Gompers
George Jay Gould
John Drew
Gatti-Cassazza
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Capricorn are as follows :
From February
November
January
November
February
December
January
November
December
February
November
January
November
February
December
January
November
December
February
November
January
February
December
January
November
December
2nd
22nd
5th
13th
3rd
7th
19th
9th
21st 1846
1st
21st
5th
16th
4th
6th
19th
9th
20th 1854
1st
21st
4th
4th
5th
18th
8th
20th 1862
VENUS IN CAPRICORNUS 303
304 ASTROLOGY
VENUS IN AQUARIUS
THE general characteristic which we have noticed with the other two
airy signs still applies to Aquarius. There is, however, a very strong
tendency to a development of the affections on humanitarian lines.
It is rare to find domesticity ; nor is there any great tendency to in-
tensity of passion. The plane of the affections is mostly spiritual and
VENUS IN AQUARIUS 305
mental. Such love as exists has always the wings of the eagle and
the head of the man. With this position of Venus, the religious and
humanitarian instincts often take the place of those natural to the
great mass of humanity. The founder of the Christian religion had
Venus placed in this sign, and so had Brigham Young and Dr.
Steiner. The humanitarian impulse is still visible, though in a per-
verted form, in the anarchist Vaillant; and the perversity is readily
explained, since his Venus is squared by a rising Mars.
In science we have the great names of Copernicus, Newton, and
Nostradamus. It is very clear in these cases that the interest of the
heart was cosmic, and could not be fettered by deep personal attach-
ments.
In the domain of the arts we find the names of Lord Byron and of
Chopin. Both these men acquired considerable notoriety in the
matter of their love affairs; but this fact must not mislead the
reader. In both cases the intention was idealistic. And if, in their
search for the rarest thing on earth, they fell from time to time into
the hands of vampires, it is to be taken as confirming, not as refut-
ing, our judgment of their quality. Their misfortune, indeed, is
common. Unless Venus is extraordinarily well dignified, so as to re-
move her operations altogether from the personal plane, the native
is likely to be called unmoral. He or she may try innumerable experi-
ments, all equally disastrous; but no blame should be attached to
such good people. The intention is invariably ideal. One may go fur-
ther and say that they are deserving of every sympathy, for
Aquarius makes them very clear sighted. And, even when most under
the dominion of some temporary illusion, the native is all the while
aware that he has not gotten what he wants.
It might be surprising, at first glance, to find Pope Alexander VI
in this class, but, on reference to the horoscope, one sees immediately
that Mars is in exact conjunction. It is only one further illustration
of the fatal action of this combination.
People with Venus in this sign often arouse quite unreasonable
jealousy in the marriage partner. Attracted intellectually to a
stranger on a first meeting, a person under this influence may treat
him or her as an intimate friend. The husband or wife frequently
fails to realize that this means nothing. It is because love with such
people is so entirely divorced from physical considerations that this
306 ASTROLOGY
occurs. They are extraordinarily constant, unselfish and sincere in
love; their motto is to render unto Caesar the things which are
Csesar's and to God the things which are God's. Having given them-
selves unreservedly on the physical plane to one person, they regard
the matter as closed, but naturally see no reason why that should in-
terfere with a warm intellectual friendship. It is just because they
know there is no danger that they act in such a way as to make peo-
ple think that there is.
Venus in Aquarius gives extraordinary power to divine character.
In the case of a portrait artist, for example, he may be able to paint
the spiritual rather than the physical image of the sitter, showing
in the portrait qualities which perhaps are yet undeveloped.
Similarly, especially when Mercury is in the same sign, one finds an
excellent diagnostician who, with practically no symptoms to guide
him, can yet discover in his patients the root of some deep-seated
malady. Aquarius is so very spiritual a sign that its action is almost
always likely to cause the native to perceive the transcendental
reality beneath the mask of form. We have already insisted that the
position of Venus exhibits the primary shape in which the non-ego
presents itself to the ego, and, when Venus is in Aquarius, one may
say that the native sees things, not so much as they are but as they
will be.
While the native is not domestic, in the same way as when Venus
is in Taurus, the same qualities are manifest, but in a much more
intelligent form. A mother with Venus in Taurus is likely to spoil
her children ; if Venus is in Aquarius she is equally devoted but never
foolish. She will pick out the best nurse, not merely the nicest one.
She will criticize the child in a most impersonal way and thus develop
its real talents, instead of being deluded by imaginary or desired
talents into encouraging the wrong one. One may say that the ties
of blood are not very important to people with this position of
Venus ; yet they act as admirably as if they were important, for they
base their actions upon the real necessity of the situation, instead of
upon mere traditional sentimentality.
The same characteristics apply in such matters as patriotism.
President Wilson is a first-grade example of the action of this
position. He did not allow himself to be swayed by the cries of the
mob. He considered everything with what many people regard as
VENUS IN AQUARIUS 307
undue deliberation,, and took no action until he was absolutely
satisfied as to the wisdom of the course proposed. He never allowed
prejudice or passion to sway him. This is remarkably indicative of
the power exercised by this sign., since Mars is in conjunction with
Venus. His personal prejudices were extraordinarily strong, and his
character dictatorial and overbearing, yet he did not allow this, as
a rule, to hurry him into inconsiderate actions. As an example of the
seriousness and general excellence of this position, we have such
people as the sculptor Gutzon Borglum, the astrologer Ebenezer
Sibley, Ellen Terry, Dr. Weir Mitchell, and George Ade. We have
also Admiral Dewey, Bramwell Booth and Elihu P. Root, in whom
these qualities may be studied to advantage.
We may pay a little more detailed attention to the case of Robert
Burns. Here again, Mars is in conjunction with Venus; but, Venus
being the lady of ascendant, the effect upon the personality is as
great as in the case of President Wilson, just considered; but the
Sun is also in conjunction and lends additional violence to the com-
bination. Hence we find the Scottish poet really very passionate
and very fickle, and the influence of the sign is shown mostly by the
idealism which gave birth to that fickleness. We also find the humani-
tarian impulse extremely strong, expressing itself in the broad-
mindedness and tolerance which was rather rare for his generation.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in Aquarius :
Prank B. Kellogg
Jack London
Gloria Swanson
David Lloyd George
Gelett Burgess
David S. Bispham
John D. Rockefeller, Jr.
George Ade
Arthur Foote
William Dean Howells
Admiral George Dewey
John La Farge
Frederick Fra^ois Chopin
ASTROLOGY
308
Sir Isaac Newton
Lord Byron
Ellen Terry
Josef Hoffman
Franklin D. Roosevelt
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Aquarius are as follows :
From February
December
January
March
December
February
December
January
February
December
January
March
December
February
December
January
February
December
January
March
December
February
December
March
January
February
December
27th
16th 1840
29th
8th
31st 1843
12th
6th 1845
14th
26th
16th 1848
28th
8th
30th 1851
12th
5th 1853
13th
26th
15th 1856
28th
7th
29th 1859
llth
5th 1861
13th
13th
26th
15th 1864
through March
January
February
April
January
March
January
February
March
January
February
April
January-
March
January
February
March
January
February
April
January
March
January
March
February
March
January
22nd
9th
21st
3rd
23rd
7th
3rd
6th
21st
8th
20th
3rd
22nd
7th
3rd
5th
21st
8th
20th
2nd
22nd
6th
4th
24th
5th
20th
8th
1840
1841
1842
1843
1844
1845
1846
1847
1848
1849
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1862
1863
1864
1865
VENUS IN AQUARIUS 309
From January
March
December
February
December
March
January
February
December
January
March
December
February
December
February
January
February
December
January
March
December
February
December
February
January
February
December
January
March
December
February
December
February
January
February
December
January
March
27th
7th
29th
llth
5th
4th
12th
25th
14th
27th
7th
28th
10th
5th
25th
12th
25th
14th
26th
7th
28th
10th
5th
19th
llth
24th
13th
26th
6th
27th
9th
5th
13th
llth
24th
13th
25th
6th
through
1867
1869
1870
1872
1875
1877
1880
1883
1885
1885
1888
1891
1893
1896
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66,
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
6,
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
VENUS IN PISCES
IN this sign Venus is in her exaltation. The watery nature of the
sign does not make her so voluptuous as we saw to be the case with
VENUS IN PISCES 311
Cancer and Scorpio. Pisces is too psychic for that to happen. Soft-
ness and tenderness are brought out strongly, but are expressed as
an unequalled capacity for devotion and self-sacrifice. A very
striking example of this is given in the relations of Sir Richard
Burton with his wife. In all other respects his nature was fiery,
arrogant and domineering ; but he treated her with a chivalry which
did not even succeed in getting itself understood or appreciated. The
same spirit, with a slightly wider field of expression, is found in
"Chinese" Gordon.
As a general rule, indeed, the affections are likely to be widely
distributed. When art is concerned, this position seems to give the
faculty of handling large groups of people with ease. This is evi-
dent in the cases of Michael Angelo, Zola, Dickens, Victor Hugo
and, with slightly less lustre, Rosa Bonheur. The affections, gen-
erally speaking, are simple and natural. There is a calm kindliness
of feeling towards humanity in general, and there is very little
tendency to snobbery, none at all to arrogance.
Possibly as a consequence of this, the native does not easily make
enemies. On the other hand, he is likely in some measure to spoil his
friends. This position does not excite in others that depth of* emotion
which leads to grand passions and great sacrifices. Relations with
others seem to be taken too easily, and their devotion is not likely to
develop, as it does often enough in the case of people far less calcu-
lated at the first sight to inspire the noblest sentiments. People with
this position are usually devoted to their families. They not only love
others, but care for and cherish them. Self-sacrifice is natural to the
native, whenever his tender feelings are in question.
There is a great deal of romance mingled with these feelings. The
native dissolves himself into the beloved, making a true union, and
the greatest sorrow that can be experienced by a person with this
position is when the beloved fails to appreciate his devotion to the
full. Venus in this sign is not particularly fastidious ; she is too ready
for the pleasure the yielding gives to others. In some respects this
is the highest possible development of Venus. The reader will re-
member Browning's poem in which one of the competing lovers says
that she does not care what may be the qualities of the beloved, let
him be an absolute scoundrel, with no good qualities at all ; such a
man gives the greatest opportunity for the exhibition of the noblest
312 ASTROLOGY
qualities of love, and the abbe called in to decide the case ends his
judgment:
"The love which to one, and one only has reference, seems terribly
like what perhaps gains God's preference.'
5
Venus in Pisces is not In the least intellectual ; she is intuitive, and
this intuition is the outcome of her extraordinary nobility. Her
willingness to pay the price, however great, gives her the privilege
of a knowledge almost divine in its immediateness.
One of the most beautiful examples of this position is
Edgar
Allan Poe. In him, as critics have often pointed out, the instinct of
love is almost abnormally pure. There is not a word in his writings
which can be called coarse, gross or even free, yet his conception of
passion is more romantic, more poetic than that of almost any other
writer. In his very rhythm one feels the nature of his love. "Annabel
Lee" and "Lenore" illustrate magnificently the vision which the poet
has of women.
Of course, it is not always to be expected that we shall find this
influence in such purity. George Washington took a much more
practical view of sex.
Sometimes, we discover a romanticism and idealism not necessarily
connected with sex. We may put down the passion for exploration
which characterized H. M. Stanley and the Duke of the Abruzzi to
this position, at least in part. It is the romantic view of things which
is indicated. As we have seen in other signs, Venus represents the
exterior of things. These explorers translated into the actions of
manhood, boyhood's dream of the romance of geography. Flam-
marion is in very much the same position with regard to astrology,
and the attitude of C. W. Leadbetter towards the astral plane may
also be ascribed to this position.
It is a very good position for actors, who, when they possess it,
incline to prefer to undertake the representation of romantic and
heroic parts. Henry Irving and William Terris illustrate this point
There is also the example of Mary Garden; the comprehensive
character of her art and its
extraordinary romance and glow recall
the very similar qualities otherwise expressed in Michael Angelo.
The following are the names of well known persons who have Venus
in Pisces :
VENUS IN PISCES 313
George Washington
Geraldine Farrar
Howard Chandler Christy
Will Levington Comfort
Thomas A. Edison
Dr. William S. Bainbridge
"Buffalo Bill
55
(Wm. S. Cody)
Rev. Leighton S. Parks
Richard Watson Gilder
Walter J. Damrosch
Charles E. Hughes
Charles M. Schwab
William Faversham
Robert Mantell
Algernon Blackwood
Charles A. Lindbergh
Antonio Scotti
Rosa Bonheur
Victor Hugo
Cammille Flammarion
Sir Henry Irving
William Terris
Charles Dickens
Emile Zola
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Venus is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
From March 23rd through April 15th 1840
January 10th "
February 4th 1841
February 22nd " March 17th 1842
April 4th "
April 29th 1843
January 24th "
February 16th 1844
March 8th "
April 1st 1845
January 4th "
May 6th 1846
February 7th
" March 2nd 1847
314 ASTROLOGY
VENUS IN PISCES 315
MARS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
MARS is the God of War. Pestilence and famine are his captains ;
before him goes terror, and after him gallops the phantom of Death.
Mars is a vigorous and fiery god ; he is the soldier "seeking the
bubble reputation even in the cannon's mouth." He is force, but not
fruition. He is still in the heat of the struggle. He has not acquired
that authority, dignity, repose which come with success.
Mars is a male and strenuous power ; but he is the prey of Venus.
He is Samson in the arms of Delilah ; for all men must resist Kun-
dry, or Lilith, or Venus, in whatever form she may appear, in order
to attain mastery of life. Mars was caught by Vulcan in the embraces
of Venus ; the angry god, arising from Etna, threw his net over the
pair, and exposed them to the inextinguishable laughter of the Gods.
Vulcan is volcanic fire; he forges the thunderbolts of Jove, and
therefore Venus is his lawful spouse.
Only with reverence, and by law, sustained by high and holy pur-
pose, dares one enter the most sacred relationship of life. To go with
lightness is to expose oneself to scandal, and to ridicule; more, it is
to lose virtue, the armor of man's soul. Man should not lay aside
his sword and shield. He should remember a hundred other warriors
of history and of legend, betrayed to shame and death by their own
weaknesses. In "Parsifal," Wagner tells once more the story. Beware
MARS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 317
lest the sacred lance that should subdue the heathen be snatched
from you in a moment of dalliance, and thrust into your own side.
The doctrine of the prophets and saints has been more misunder-
stood than any other. It is not the surrender of the body that
destroys ; but the abdication of the soul. It is the divorce of Passion
from Religion that works mischief. Creation is the special function
of Deity; and when we create either by art or by love, we are like
God. Therefore, to prostitute art or love to commerce or even to
pleasure is the unpardonable sin.
Life is a sacrament, and the energy of Mars is the red flame of
the fire upon the altar. Mars is manhood ; he is the knight vowed to
serve his lady ; and that lady must be to him the ideal, adored and
not to be attained. Only at the end of his knight-errantry may he
look for his reward. He is a warrior ; his duty is first to his liege lord.
So, then, let Mars rear his fiery crest upon the heavens. He is the
chosen guardian of the fortress of the soul. All depends upon his
courage and his valor and his vigilance. He must have knocks. He
must expose his breast to the violence of the foe, and he must not
allow himself to be surprised and slain.
Jupiter needs Mars to girdle him with steel, or the kingdom may
be lost forever. Most in the stress of life, in the violence of circum-
stance, do we need character and energy. We must be stern and
tireless. We must spare no drop of blood in the defense of our soul's
welfare. Since life is a contest for the great prize of godhead,
falter, and the sword is at the throat. Avert your glance for the
fraction of a second from the eyes of your antagonist, (whether it be
courage or attention that fails, it matters not) and his rapier slips
past your guard. Let your wrist weaken, whether from insufficient
training or from exhaustion through a breach of will, and the glit-
tering point is in your heart.
This is the interpretation that a wise man puts on Mars, and this
is the spirit in which he seeks to use the vital and dangerous energy
with which he is endowed from on high.
Without Energy, Being itself could not manifest; Motion is
necessary to Matter if a Universe is to exist. But this Energy and
Motion must be directed and controlled. It must not be allowed to
dissipate, or to escape in ways unwilled. The fire of the Sun is the
first weapon of mankind ; but fire let loose is a destroying energy.
318 ASTROLOGY
All force is necessary, -but the forces of Nature are the natural foes
of man ; it is only when he confines them and tames them that they
serve him. Let us see to it that we ride as kings upon the stallion of
our own desires. Thus shall we course upon the heavens ; thus shall
we enter in triumph the gates of the City of God.
MARS IN THE SIGNS
IT is important at the outset to make a distinction, subtle on the
surface, but fundamentally cardinal, between the esoteric qualities
of Mars and Uranus. The latter is happily phrased as "the magical
will," while Mars is understood to mean "will-power." Yet there
should be no confusion here. Uranus is a will, deep-seated, spiritual,
transcendental, and may exist without the activity, energy and
potency to make itself operative. One can conceive of a most
powerful character physically paralyzed ; and, on the other hand, of
a person of enormous flaming energy scattering it abroad to no
purpose. The first of these would be indicated by a strong Uranus
and an afflicted Mars ; the last by a weak Uranus and a powerful
Mars.
Mars represents the muscular system; it is often found that a
weak brain goes with great development of physical strength, and
vice versa. It might even occur that the whole of the higher faculties
might be harmonious and strong, yet fail to make good, owing to the
lack of practical energy, boldness, and capacity for rather brutal
work. The material plane continually presents obstacles to the
higher nature ; Mars is the force which pushes such obstacles aside,
or demolishes them. We shall find similarly that Venus gives the
power of dealing with them tactfully and adroitly, and that
Mercury bestows discrimination with regard to them. Hence we have
as it were, a higher and a lower triad dependent upon the soul
Neptune.
Uranus = the magical will
Saturn = the ego and its divine wisdom
Jupiter = the altruistic qualities ; the spiritual love
Mars = the human will
MARS IN ARIES 319
Mercury = the human reason
Venus = the affections and physical love.
The Sun and Moon complete the triad of Neptune ; the Sun being
the essence of life itself, the Moon the psychic envelope, the aura, or
animal soul, and Neptune, the spiritual soul.
It is thus at last that we are able to obtain in some detail the full
idea of Astrology, to understand how each horoscope presents a com-
plete picture of the native, and thereby enables us to describe him
in every detail.
To return to Mars, his external influence upon the man as distin-
guished from his internal influence within the character, is that of
excitement, inflammation, violence, and accident. Thus a square of
Mars to the Sun might give a rugged constitution and dauntless
energy, and at the same time subject the native to fevers and acci-
dents from fire or steel.
The power of Mars will, of course, as before, be modified by his
position in the Zodiac, and, owing to his material and therefore
easily-moulded nature, the variations will be, on the whole, more
extreme than we have found to be the case with planets of greater
spirituality.
Yet so great is his importance, that a badly afflicted Mars prac-
tically inhibits the native from making wise use of his enormous
energy. It is a curious and somewhat paradoxical situation, and the
student cannot pay too much attention to its study.
MARS IN ARIES
IN Aries, Mars is in his own house, tremendously strong. The fiery
and precipitate nature of Aries blends admirably with his, and
the essential passion of the character, as indicated by Uranus, leaps
forward unchecked, to its fullest development. We have, therefore,
a long list of famous persons with this position ; it will be apparent
that even those with inherent weakness of disposition accomplish
their ends; the petty, crazy, or ignoble purpose is executed as
surely as the lofty configuration and the wise desire.
We have a very characteristic and salient illustration of the ac-
tion of Mars in the nativity of Jesus of Nazareth, where he is con-
320 ASTROLOGY
joined with Neptune, opposed to Jupiter, square to the Sun and
Mercury, and sextile to Saturn. In this extraordinary complex,
Mars on the cusp of the seventh house is very strong to deal with
public affairs, and Saturn adds wisdom to that force. But the op-
position of Jupiter interferes with material power, and the square
of Mars and the Sun acting externally predicts the danger of vio-
lent death.
We find the Mars of Emmanuel Swedenborg in the third house,
giving great excitability to the mind, but the opposition of Saturn
is not very favorable, as this should tend to deny the higher wisdom
to that mind. It is interesting to observe Mars thus usurping the
position of the mental ruler, Mercury, who is rising. The subjective
mind is, therefore, much stronger than the objective or rational
mind; so that the intuitions of the native were more nearly correct
than his arguments.
Swami Vivekananda, with Mars in opposition to Jupiter, exactly
squared by a rising Venus, and Jupiter in square to the Sun, was
hindered as a practical propagandist. The gentleness of his nature
was too great to enable him to use a battering-ram against the in-
ertia of other minds. Mars, however, is again in the third house,
and we see in him the same forceful intellect, the same iron will to
solve the problems of existence. Per se, Mars was adequate ; it was
only in connection with the non-ego that the weakness appeared.
To turn to political types, one of the most successful in the world's
history was Queen Victoria. Astute to the point of hiding her polit-
ical aims from even many of the wise, she aggrandized her throne
and held back the republican movement in England with matchless
skill. The sextile of Jupiter to her Mars must have been of un-
qualified assistance in this matter, and accounts for the good for-
tune which attended her indomitable purpose.
Franz Josef, again, who achieved an even more difficult task in
Austria-Hungary, has a Mars sextile to Uranus, square to Jupiter,
and placed on the cusp of the seventh house. Jupiter being in the
fourth house, the affliction by Mars accounts to some extent for his
domestic tragedies. But the Aries power of Mars himself is to be
thanked for the courage and energy displayed in his policy.
Nicholas II, on the other hand, has no strength of Mars beyond
this position in Aries ; and, as he is in the twenty-eighth degree, some
MARS IN ARIES 321
of this influence is more Taurian than Arian, and Mars is, there-
fore, not a strong or favorable planet. Venus on the cusp of the
eleventh in conjunction with Uranus seems to imply that the Tsar
trusted to alliances, and was deceived therein. Saturn in the fourth
indicates his tragic end.
Contrast this weak character with the fiery Cromwell. Here Mars,
Lord of the Ascendant, is just above the eastern horizon, with the
Sun, Venus, and Mercury rising just below Mm. Saturn opposed,
denies far-sighted political wisdom ; perhaps this made it impossible
for him to found the dynasty he so dearly hoped for ; but the pri-
mary position of the planet of battles rendered it impossible for him
to fail in courage or energy, as soldier or as ruler.
In Gfeorge III Mars appears as obstinacy. The Moon and Uranus
square him, making the king deluded and stupid; hence his loss
of the American colonies through sheer mismanagement. But Mars
is on the cusp of the tenth house, very powerful; so that the ultimate
issue of England's war with Napoleon, who had Saturn in the mid-
heaven, could never have been in doubt to any enlightened astrolo-
ger.
Gambetta, who "stamped his foot amid the ashes of the glory of
France, and sparks of manhood sprang armed to life at his sum-
mons," has the Sun and Mercury very near conjunction to Mars,
with Venus and Uranus semi-sextile, and Neptune sextile.
In literary men, artists, and musicians, this position of Mars
seems to imply great mastery of technique, great power of execu-
tion. It further seems to mean much brilliancy and energy; even
originality is enhanced where Uranus is well placed and favorably
aspected.
Among novelists, for example, Zola and Dickens may be fairly
classed together. Their pugnacity and propagandised is all de-
cidedly characteristic of Mars in Aries. Zola's Mars is exceedingly
strong, with Mercury conjoined, the Sun and Moon not far off,
Uranus semi-sextile, Neptune sexttte, and Saturn trine. Dickens
had not nearly so powerful a Mars as this, and it is in the fifth
house, confining his pugnacity to his art. It would never have oc-
curred to Dickens to placard London with a violent political squib,
as Zola did in Paris. He had to work indirectly through hi*
novels.
322 ASTROLOGY
Compare now the virile* forceful Baudelaire with the dreamy and
gentle Maeterlinck. The latter only has Uranus sextile to Mars
which is in the fifth house; it is good enough to win out, but the
force is hardly strong enough to be called revolutionary. Baudelaire
has Mars in a tremendous complex. Neptune and Uranus conjoined,
are square to him hence, his eventual paralytic insanity ; the Moon
stands apart; but all the other five planets are in conjunction with
him. Here is overwhelming force indeed; and we understand how
his passion for the Infinite yet bums in those words of his that seem
to corrode the soul like acid !
Albrecht Diirer has Mars culminating in the ninth house. There is
no particular support, so the effect is limited to craftmanship, es-
pecially in working upon metals or with them. Mars, incidentally,
is a very angry, passionate, impatient planet when excited to the
full ; the student will do well to contrast carefully the extremes as
presented by Dtirer and Baudelaire.
In music we have two more great originators of superb technique ;
Chopin and Richard Strauss. The former has Neptune trine and
the Sun semi-sextile ; Saturn, too, is close to Neptune ; and all this
tends in a way to modify the fire of Mars, and lead him into subtle
channels. Yet in his "Polonaises" the essential force of the spirit is
well represented, as well as the general firmness and conciseness
of his technique.
Strauss has Venus sextile, Saturn in opposition, Neptune in con-
junction; this is a somewhat great excitation of Mars, who, more-
over, is in the tenth house, dominating the horoscope. Hence, we
may judge, come the wrath and fury of his "Electra" and his "Sa-
lome," and the violent perfections of his technique; the conjunction
of Neptune obviously accounts for their eccentricity.
Havelock Ellis, to conclude, another militant person, has this
same position of Mars. Venus is square, Saturn trine, Uranus sex-
tile on one side and the Moon on the other. It is a strong but not a
violent complex, and fairly descriptive of his method.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols con-
tained therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Aries are as
follows :
MARS IN ARIES 323
ASTROLOGY
MARS IN TAURUS
IN Taurus, Mars is in his detriment, and his fiery energy is largely
transformed into obstinacy. The heaviness of Taurus weighs him
down, and, though he fights with desperate courage, there is not
that elan which we found him to possess in Aries. Nor is the Ve-
nusian character of the sign favorable to his full development ; since,
Taurus being earthy, it sometimes occurs that he is degraded to be
cruel and callous. Yet, at his best, he is steady and earnest ; not so
original, brilliant, nor lucky as when in Aries, nor so confident of
the issue ; but dogged, and as the saying goes :
"Dogged does it."
We have examples of this in two of the most patient and persever-
ing of those noble men who have given their lives to extend the em-
pire of knowledge ; Sir Isaac Newton and Huxley. The latter, with
the Sun in conjunction and Mercury very close, an exact trine of
Uranus and a near one of Neptune, has an almost ideal Mars. He
is in the eleventh house, showing the influence of the native working
through friends and colleagues. Newton's Mars has sextiles of Jupi-
ter and the Moon and a trine of the Sun within seven degrees ; and
Uranus is very near the opposition. He was by no means a great
fighter, like Huxley, as Mars is not so important in his nativity.
Here we see only the patience and labor involved in his work, and
the indomitable courage with which he attacked problems.
The Mars of Annie Besant is formidable enough, with Jupiter
and the Moon sextile and Uranus semi-sextile. Mars is rising just
MARS IN TAURUS 325
below Uranus, and Aries is on the Ascendant. This makes the whole
personality militant and ambitious, but, in the absence of help from
the Sun or Saturn or even Venus one cannot but regard the
complex as unfortunate. Colonel Okott, on the contrary, has the
Sun and Venus square on one side, Uranus square on the other, and
Saturn trine. Mars is not the center of activity, but Venus, as Lady
of the Ascendant ; it is excellent, on the whole, making him an ad-
mirable and trustworthy subordinate.
The horoscope of Houdini gives an excellent example of the ex-
treme power of Mars on the material plane, even enabling him to
overcome the strongest oppositions of such material objects as fet-
ters, etc. Saturn and Uranus in opposition to each other are both
squaring Mars, a most unusual development of occult powers.
In the world of literature and art, we find a group deserving
careful contrast with those who have Mars in Aries. Compare Rey-
nolds with Diirer, the easy voluptuous style of the one with the aus-
tere sincerity of the other. Set Tchaikovsky against Strauss and
Chopin; George Sand and Alphonse Daudet against Zola. It at
once appears how the brilliancy of the Aries-Mars is weighed down
and subdued in Taurus. Against Dickens we may put Dumas, and,
though it would be possible to maintain that Dumas is a much more
brilliant writer than Dickens, this is a matter of the higher planets ;
the technique of Dickens sparkles and fumes with brilliancies often
ill-harmonized ; that of Dumas is infinitely smoother and more volup-
tuous.
Among soldiers, compare Cromwell with Charles George Gordon.
The latter, daring and courageous as he was, was yet "a Christian
gentleman." His Mars is toned down by Taurus ; and, indeed, one
may attribute his failure in the Soudan to a lack of grip in dealing
with the fierce Mohammedan spirits that surrounded him.
Worthy of our most careful consideration are two very strong
examples of Mars corrupted, the one to the earth of Taurus, the
other to its Venus; Jay Gould and Nero.
The financier has Saturn in direct opposition, and Uranus sex-
tile. The former aspect is here -abominably bad. Mars is in the house
of friends and we can well understand how he sold out his colleagues.
Nero has Jupiter in opposition, a presage of weakness, and Venus
in conjunction makes Mars excitable and passionate without giving
ASTKOLOGY
him strength. There is a trine of Saturn, which renders him effective,
however; in this case with most unfortunate results.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael s
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Taurus are as follows :
MARS IN GEMINI
through
MARS IN GEMINI
THE sign Gemini exercises upon Mars its usual influence; it trans-
forms its potency to the mental plane, but it tends to disperse the
force and to make it excitable and irritable rather than powerful.
Compare Thomas Hardy, whose Mars is in this position, with
Dickens on the one hand and Daudet on the other, with Mars re-
spectively in Aries and Taurus. Hardy's technique lacks alike bril-
liancy and softness ; it is not simple or direct, and yet it is far more
intellectually developed than in either of the others. Mercury and
the Sun in conjunction naturally tend to emphasize this point, and
they are certainly of great assistance ; without them the style would
have been abrupt and obscure.
In the world of music, Schumann offers us just the illustration
we need, of a very refined and intellectual, but rather thin, technique.
Here, again, the conjunction of the Sun saves the situation. Mars
is, however, not the important factor in this nativity and it must
be remembered that, in speaking of style in these sections, we do
328 ASTROLOGY
not mean the matter or even the manner of an artist, but the actual
technical method by which he executes his ideas.
Sir David Wilkie is another case in point ; he may be contrasted
with Reynolds. His method may be called almost perky in compari-
son with the smooth voluptuousness of the other. The sextile of
Jupiter prevents this from too great effect ; without it, he would per-
haps have been as agitated,, violent, and distracted as a futurist.
The trine of the Sun to Mars doubtless helped to make Lord
Roberts a successful soldier, but even here the Gemini influence is
apparent. His efforts were bound to be intermittent, and his influ-
ence on the army, while it uplifted, did not bind. Devoted to him
as his soldiers were, he never succeeded in forming a phalanx like
Cromwell's.
The same failure in method is seen in Joseph Chamberlain and
Cecil Rhodes. Mars in Gemini represents a fault which is best ex-
pressed in the language of sport, where it is the very commonest of
all errors. In golf and billiards it is called "failing to follow
through," in rowing "being short with the finish." You cannot get
full results from a stroke unless you give it power enough to carry
to the end. So Chamberlain, with Neptune trining his Mars, and
Uranus squaring it, giving it idealism, but lack of continuity,
seemed unable to persist in any policy.
Rhodes had a little more assistance than this from the Sun, Moon,
Mercury, Saturn, and Uranus. The conjunction of Saturn in par-
ticular gave more power of persistency. It is an exceptionally strong,
if not very well-balanced complex; but the influence of Jupiter,
lord of the Ascendant, in opposition to Mars, is really the key to
the nativity.
Queen Elizabeth showed extraordinary caprice in method, none
at all in main lines of policy ; Uranus was very strong ; Mars has
Jupiter in apposition, and a trine of Mercury lends her cleverness.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Gemini are as follows :
From May 27th through July 8th 1840
May 7th " June 19th 1842
April 16th "
May 30th 1844
MARS IN GEMINI 329
through May
April
October
March
August
August
July
June
June
May
April
March
September
August
July
July
June
May
May
April
September
February
August
July
July
June
June
May
April
March
September
August
July
June
June
May
May
November
10th
17th
7th
14th
29th
5th
16th
26th
7th
18th
27th
30th
9th
13th
24th
3rd
15th
25th
5th
Ilth
23rd
25th
23rd
31st
Ilth
22nd
3rd
13th
21st
21st
2nd
9th
20th
30th
Ilth
22nd
1st
29th
1846
1848
1849
1850
1851
1853
1855
1857
1859
1861
1863
1865
1866
1868
1870
1872
1874
1876
1878
1880
1881
1882
1883
1885
1887
1889
1891
1893
1895
1897
1898
1900
1902
1904
1906
1908
1910
1911
330 ASTROLOGY
From January 31st through April b 1912
T i QQth September 15th 191<i
T^ filh
"
August 18th 1915
^ , July 27th 1917
JT 26th J^y 8th1919
^ fith J^e 18th 1921
^y
i iS "
May 30th 1923
tr
P
i, 24th
" May 9th 1925
March 24th ^
February 22nd
"
April 16th 1927
A ,
QI.U
" October 2nd liuo
Member 20th 1928
" March 10th 1929
MARS IN CANCER
IN Cancer, Mars is in his fall ;
but Cancer is so receptive a sign that
influent is not antagonistic. In fact, it makes the martial energy
subtle and profound, dissolving it, as it were, and thus makmg;
it
more activefjust as a solution of phenol is more corrosive than the
m y greatest artists that have ever lived have tMs
position of Mars ;
it seems as if the specialized energy which he rep-
resents were somehow made universal. There is not that same con-
centration upon a single line that is shown for example, by Mars
in Aries; there have been found very few instances of politicians
or conquerors or even great generals with this position Every one
of our illustrations has worked for the general good, not the partic-
ular good of any person or even any country, unless we consider
Alexander II as having done so. But even his action with regard to
the serfs should be regarded as the limited expression of a wide
humanitarian intention. And in this case Mars has the opposition
of Jupiter, though it is directed wisely by Saturn's trine, and made
gentle by the sextile of Venus.
MM,*
There is, of course, one very unfortunate career to consider ;
that
of Marie Antoinette. Here Mars is very strong, rising trine to Ura-
nus, with no affliction but a square of the Moon. The Moon ruling
the female life, and in this case being Lady of the Ascendant, we
must regard her rather than Mars as the key to the complex. We
must say then that her Moon is afflicted by the presence m the As-
MARS IN CANCER 381
cendant of Mars in his fall. All the good she gets from the complex
is a towering practical ambition, which was indeed successful, so
far as it went, Uranus trined by Mars being in her tenth house. But
Saturn, lord of the seventh, being in his own house in the eighth,
afflicting and afflicted by the square of the Moon, even the marriage
which gratified her ambition resulted in her death.
To return to artists, we have the most amazing galaxy ; Shake-
speare, Petrarch, Michael Angelo, Byron, Balzac, Dante, and, in
their wake, Coleridge. It is to be noted how, in each case, the uni-
versality of sympathy is evident. Each has an enormous field of
expression. There is not the intensity of Baudelaire or the single-
minded passion of Blake; it is, rather, breadth and objectivity of
outlook, and completeness of comprehension of humanity that stand
revealed. And to this heavenly court of artists we may add a philoso-
pher, one of the greatest, in every way, that ever lived: Immanuel
Kant; while, should they need an astronomer to observe more ac-
curately their heaven, they may include in their ranks the shining
name of Copernicus.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Cancer are as follows :
MARS IN LEO 333
MARS IN LEO
WHERE the fire of Mars burns brightly, he obliterates minor dis-
tinctions. The Sun is, himself, fire ; in fact, Mars is but the fiery part
of the Sun, so that Leo is as favorable to the development of Mars
as even Aries ; indeed, more so. For the solar influence tends to bal-
ance, breadth, and fullest development in the fiery impulses ; Aries
is, as it were, too martial to be the highest good for Mars.
We shall find as a rule, therefore, people with less passionate
intensity of action, but with wider sympathies, than we found in
Aries. Of course, in some cases Saturn's influence may override this ;
one cannot expect a person intensely narrow and selfish to act in ac-
cordance with sentiments better illustrated by Jupiter. Yet, all
things considered, his method will be broader than had Mars been
in Aries.
In the horoscope of General Boulanger, Mars is very strong ; but
the square of Saturn in Scorpio produces a certain restraint which
proved fatal. This square should not have worked so badly had
Mars been in Aries and Saturn in Capricornus.
George Eliot has a most noble and beautiful Mars, trine to the
Sun and Venus ; it lent force and fire to a rather cramped and dis-
appointed ego. (Her Saturn is sextile to the Moon and square to
Uranus and Neptune, implying melancholy.) Hence the brilliance
and color of her work is objective; the expression is more genial
than that which it expresses.
Lily Langtry has Mars in the tenth house very powerful, but
squared by Uranus. It is not the important complex. A certain
amount of scandal is implied ; but the dominant position and gen-
erous Zodiacal situation of Mars tend to make this innocuous. The
scandal is so big that it becomes a negligible factor.
Lord Brougham, again, a man of a most acrid and vitriolic spirit,
had Mars in Leo to thank for his breadth of action. He could not
(luckily for him) express himself in mean ways.
William Blake is an example of the other side of the picture.
Here we find the most tremendous development of the higher facul-
ties, but no adequate and equal disposition of Mars, which, besides
being in this exuberant and generous sign, is squared by Mercury.
Hence his failure to realize practically his immense conceptions.
ASTROLOGY
Herbert Spencer, on the other hand, has a grand Mars with
Saturn trine and the Sun square. Here is great wisdom combined
with great activity, steadily forcing the idea upon a reluctant world,
by open and honest methods, and indomitable courage, pluck, and
perseverance. The square of the Sun implies opposition, and gives
some threat to the health.
Another great-hearted and successful man was General Grant,
whose generous action at Appomattox is altogether characteristic
of this Mars in Leo position. Lord Lytton is a similar case of great
success won by geniality of action.
The warmth and persuasiveness of the eloquence of Cicero may
also be put down to the Leonine position of Mars which is approach-
ing conjunction with Mercury. The square of Jupiter and Saturn
accounts for the polemical character of much of his writings and
speeches ; but this has nothing to do with the method, which remains
as a model of grace and vigor.
Caesar Borgia, by contrast, has Mars in conjunction with Saturn,
in opposition to Jupiter, and square to Uranus, with no help but the
sextile of the Sun and the semi-sextile of Venus. This tends to mask
the Leo influence ; however, we still see it to some extent in the range
of his action ; in the pride and splendour with which he worked.
Edward VI of England, on the other hand, has Mars approach-
ing an opposition to the Moon, square to Jupiter, and in conjunc-
tion with TJranus, with only the trine of Neptune to counter bal-
ance these misfortunes ; and yet we see the Leo influence on Mars
still peeping through in the shape of those qualities which make
kings lovable. And as he was the best-loved king, save Coeur-de-Lion
and Henry the Fifth, that ever ruled England, so was James II the
most hated. Here Mars was rising, alone in the horoscope without
any important aspects. There is no complex of importance in the
whole heaven ; Mars was therefore free to rule the life ; and here we
must argue that Leo only brought obstinacy and haughtiness into
the method. The Sun, lord of Leo, is in Scorpio, badly aspected
by a conjunction of Neptune and a square of the Moon; and, as
Leo is rising, the influence is all the more evil.
The vivid warmth and generosity of Turner's method of painting
is also very characteristic, though, happily, of this position. Here
Mars is square to the conjunction of Jupiter and Venus, and this
MARS IN LEO 335
appears to have given the force and directness which is the wonder
of his technique.
Benjamin Disraeli is a great example of this Leo effect on Mars.
His eccentricities were all of a gorgeous order ; and he made them
part of his career, of his method of influencing his contemporaries.
Mars being also lord of the Ascendant, of course made this tendency
inevitable.
Lord Wolseley is a case of the exuberance of this position of
Mars. He was too good-natured and too popular to become a Napo-
leon. Neptune, too, is in opposition, which would tend to thwart
the material benefits of Mars.
The strength of the Mars of Madame Steinheil is enormous. It
is not only semi-sextile to Uranus and sextile to the Moon, but also
trine to the Sun, Neptune, Mercury and Venus on the one hand,
and to Saturn on the other. Here is a tremendous complex of eight
planets, which stamps her with the very hall-mark of success. But
the Leo influence still shines in her method ; whatever she might do,
she would give a sunny smile, and "get away with it."
One is at first heartily surprised to find Robespierre in this long
list. But a little investigation soon clears away the difficutly. Mars
is in the sixth house, conjoined with Neptune, and square to the
Sun. The trine of Jupiter seems here merely to make him effective.
Now, Saturn rising and lord of the Ascendant is, with his aspects,
the key to the horoscope, and there is no relation between him and
Mars. So we see that, after all, the method of the man was totally
distinct from his purpose. And what was that method ? Leo all over !
Big, frank, open talk, generous sentiments, noble aspirations, the
phraseology of a Mazzini or a Lincoln ! It is an admirable illustra-
tion of the "mask55
in astrology. Had Saturn and Uranus aspected
Mars, all these sentiments would have been genuine.
Rosa Bonheur is excellent for our purpose. Mars rising, trine with
Saturn, is a great influence upon her for masculinity and force.
But see how Leo operates to make this generous and frank and
noble. In Aries, we should have had a person of far more push and
with no qualities so lovable. For one does not class her as a "mannish
woman," but as a great-hearted, loyal comrade and friend.
Much geniality is evident in the method of the late J. Pierpont
Morgan. He was indeed the Napoleon of finance ; there was nothing
336 ASTROLOGY
underhanded, sly or treacherous about his ways; and he was inter-
ested in many things beyond Ms business. The conjunction of Jupi-
ter accentuates this tendency.
Similarly genial, but not so effective, is the Mars of W. B. Yeats.
Here Neptune is trine, and Venus square, neither of great help to
the practical side of Mars. It is an admirable picture of the easy
openness of his method, both in art and in life. With Saturn trine,
instead of Neptune, he might have been as austere as Blake, and
as successful as Maeterlinck.
The glow and riot of Swinburne's early verse is also to be attri-
buted to this position of Mars. Once again we must insist that we
refer to the actual technique, not to the matter or the manner. With
Jupiter conjoined, Mercury and Venus trine, and Neptune in oppo-
sition, we can well explain the rhythms with which he enriched the
English language. .
For the benefit of those who are not m possession of Raphael s
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Leo are as follows :
From August 24th
August 5th
July 16th
June 28th
June 7th
May 15th
October 24th 1851
April 6th
September 23rd
March 23rd
September 1st
August 12th
July 24th
July 5th
June 16th
May 24th
November 26th
through October
"
September
"
August
"
August
"
July
"
July
"
February
" June
" November
"
April
" October
"
September
"
September
"
August
"
August
July
" December
10th 1840
20th 1842
31st 1844
13th 1846
25th 1848
5th 1850
3rd 1852
llth 1852
16th 1853
27th 1854
19th 1855
27th 1857
8th 1859
20th 1861
2nd 1863
13th 1865
7th 1866
338 ASTROLOGY
MARS IN VIRGO
MARS and Mercury are not altogether unfriendly, and certainly
Virgo has no such detrimental effect on Mars as we found exerted by
Gemini, but the combination is a little cold-blooded. There is a cer-
tain passionate chastity about it ; real warmth of heart in the conven-
tional sense appears to be denied. It will be seen that, of all upon
our list, though many are great men and women, not one can be
called a great lover. This remark applies as much to method as in
the preceding sections; it refers to a certain coldness and detach-
ment o action, as if the enthusiasms were not awakened. Yet the
will may be extremely strong. The women on our list are almost
ostentatiously passionless, and the men hardly less so. In the devo-
tion to a cause, we find two of the greatest women enthusiasts that
ever lived, Jeanne d'Arc and Madame Blavatsky.
Before adding the name of Anna Kingsford to these, we must an-
ticipate the objection that she boasted of an intensely sensual dis-
position, but here Virgo is warmed by the Sun, Venus, and Mercury,
the first of these being in very close conjunction with Mars. How-
ever, there is no trace of eroticism in her work, and it is the actual
method of expressing the personality which is denoted by Mars,
not the nature of that personality itself.
Among men we have Balfour, whose cold intellectualism is at once
his charm and his weakness; Kruger, notably the most dexterous
and cool politician of his period ; Dreyfus, whose detachment made
him so unpopular with his men, and thus led to his being accused
by his brother officers ; Archbishop Laud, whose lack of warmth lost
him his friends; William III, most unpopular as a king, owing
to his "Dutch coldness"; and Louis XVI, whose lack of sympa-
thy with the needs of his people caused his downfall.
Finally, we have two of the greatest conquerors that the world
has known: Alexander the Great, and Napoleon Bonaparte. Both
of these owed their greatness very largely to this power of detach-
ment in their method ; both, however keenly interested in a matter,
were able to view it and treat it as if it hardly concerned them;
and this is the chief virtue of Mars in Virgo.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
MARS IN VIRGO 339
Epheraeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Virgo are as' follows :
340 ASTROLOGY
MARS IN LIBRA
IN Libra, Mars is in his detriment ; but he is not so weak as might
appear from this first consideration. Libra rather tempers his ac-
tivity with judgment; and, if he be well dignified, he may be as
strong here as anywhere. He becomes more effective through being
more controlled. But, in every case we examine, we shall find an
excellent quality of direction given to him; just as the explosive
force of gunpowder gains in effectiveness by virtue of the very lim-
itation of the barrel of the rifle.
Sadi Carnot, for instance, was by no means so ambitious -as Crom-
well, who had Mars in Aries ; but he did not need to use the same
violence. His method was admirably adjusted to circumstances, and
he attained his ends without recourse to undue force. He measured
his actions carefully, and there was no lack of power, but at the
same time no excess. Felix Faure, with the same position of Mars,
gives exactly similar evidence of its action.
Shelley had the same quality ; it appears in his work continually.
MARS IN LIBRA 841
It Is indeed admirable, this harmony of motion which one perceives
in his rhythm. If it be contrasted with that of Swinburne, the differ-
ence between Leo and Libra will appear quite obvious.
Another admirable illustration of the judicial temperament is
the method of Sir William Hamilton, dignified, well-considered, con-
vincing. One can hardly say the same of Luther, but in this case
Venus and Jupiter are both in conjunction with Mars, tending to
over-excitement. Still, Libra's influence is visible even here; im-
passioned and intense as Luther was, he never went beyond the
bounds of prudence.
There are two well-known British statesmen with this position
for Mars, Mr. Asquith and Winston Churchill. The same tempered
and adroit energy is characteristic of both.
Sir Humphrey Davy, too, has this admirably moderated fire.
Without violence or controversy, he managed to have his way, owing
to the proper control of his energy by his judgment. In the case
of Alfred de Musset, one may say, this is not so obvious. There was
a good deal of overproduction of energy in his machine, which made
for vehemence of expression. But his Mars is powerfully excited
by the square of Venus, the seini-sextile of Uranus ; and the sextiles
of a conjunction of Sol, Mercury and Saturn make up a formidable
complex, to which, however, Mars is not the key, but Saturn. It is
a very powerful combination, and the calming influence of Libra
is to be thanked for the restraint of his method. This should be con-
trasted with that of Baudelaire, whose complex key is equally power-
ful, but who has Mars in Aries.
Occasionally it may occur that Libra is too powerful. Much of
Bernard Shaw's apparent inconsistency is due to the fact that he
has unrivaled capacity for seeing both sides of every argument
with equal clarity, and often sets both together on the same page,
or even in the same sentence. And here Mars is very weak, having
no particularly close or strong aspects. Libra, therefore modifies
his action much more than in the other cases which we have had
occasion to consider.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Libra are as follows :
ASTROLOGY
MARS IN SCORPIO 343
MARS IN SCORPIO
AI/THOITGH Mars is in his own house, he cannot be called strong for
good. We have noticed that Aries did not bring out the highest
qualities of Mars; Scorpio brings out his worst. Mars is the most
unbalanced of the planets; the one most in need of restriction or
direction. Almost any influence but his own touches his fire to ra-
tionality, generosity, or grace. But Scorpio, while in some ways the
most powerful of the signs, may be described as snake-tempered;
and in it he easily becomes bloodthirsty. It is even amusing to note
how one of the gentlest spirits that ever dwelt within the human
form, Robert Louis Stevenson, is often in method outrageous al-
most beyond the "penny dreadful." In "Treasure Island," cold-
blooded murderers tumble over each other's heels, in circumstances
of unparalleled atrocity. Who, without the help of Mars in Scorpio,
could have invented Long John Silver, hopping after his comrade
and braining him with his crutch, or the attempt, in "The Ebb-
Tide," of Hurst to throw vitriol over Atwater, and the breaking of
the bottle in his hand by the ready rifle of the pearler ?
344 ASTROLOGY
There is a complete lack of adaptability in this position of Mars ;
it is sometimes replaced by treacherous cunning; but, as a general
rule, the method of the native tends to be blind and brutal. The
anarchist Vaillant may be cited as an illustration. Such extreme
cases are fortunately rare and imply bad aspects. In this particular
instance. Mars has the sextiles of Jupiter and Saturn, which make
him effective, but his quality is deteriorated by the square of Venus.
The violence of Mrs. Pankhurst, again, is undoubtedly due to this
position, for Mars is not otherwise afflicted. On the contrary, he is
helped by a sextile of the Moon and trines of Neptune and the Sun.
Her undoubted nobility of character and the altruism of her violent
action indicate the vision conferred by the trines of Neptune and
the Sun which the sextile of the Moon directs toward the masses of
women. Miss Frances E. Willard may be advantageously compared
with Mrs. Pankhurst. Mercury is sextile to Mars, Jupiter semi-sex-
tile ; and the complex is important, Sagittarius being the rising sign
and Mars only six degrees above the Eastern Horizon. Hers is a
far more rational and effective method than that of the later suf-
fragist. Mme. Patti has Mars trined by Uranus, and squared by the
Sun and Neptune in conjunction, which appears an extremely ad-
vantageous disposition. Sir Richard Quain has the Sun, Lord of the
Ascendant, in conjunction with Mars, and Venus and are semi-
sextile. These aspects go far to minimize the effect of Scorpio.
Henry VI of England is another example of the unfortunate in-
fluence which this sign exerts on Mars. He has the softening trine of
Neptune exact, and only the slight help of a semi-sextile of the Sun.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Scorpio are as follows :
From February
July
December
December
November
October
October
September
5th through April llth 1841
15th "
September 6th 1841
28th 1842 "
February 21st 1843
5th 1844 January 19th 1845
15th "
December 28th 1846
26th "
December 8th 1848
8th November 19th 1850
18th October 30th 1852
84*6
From August
February
July
December
December
November
October
October
ASTROLOGY
17th
1st
llth
26th 1921
4th 1923
14th
26th
6th
through September
April
September
February
January
December
December
November
30th
23rd
4th
18th
19th
27th
7th
18th
1918
1920
1920
1922
1924
1925
1927
1929
MARS IN SAGITTARIUS
WE have already had occasion to note the transitory nature of the
sudden action of Sagittarius. The symbol of the arrow was chosen
to express that curious quality. In the case of a heavy and slow-
moving planet, the action will be, perhaps, to quicken it to some
extent; but with Mars, which is already fast and fiery, there is no
such compensating influence. Mars tends to become meteoric when
in this sign. Unless the energy be carried on for a reasonably long
period, it does not begin to have a fair chance to work. What can
be done in a moment may be done exceedingly well ; but works in-
volving the element of time are likely to be failures. Our examples,
therefore, will give us people scintillating rather than solid, dashing
rather than enduring.
The swift brilliance of Oscar Wilde is to the point. He was in-
capable of large construction; his ideas were like shooting stars.
Lewis Carroll has an identical limitation, and so had Rudyard Kip-
ling, whose forte is short stories of extreme brilliance and who has
written but two novels of any length, both of which are little more
than a series of brilliant episodes.
Exceedingly curious and highly illustrative is the case of "Datas."
His marvelous memory never forgets a date, but he remembers only
disconnected items. It is not at all the same memory as that of Glad-
stone, who knew Homer by heart. Extremely typical this of the
syncopating action of Sagittarius.
Charles I showed the same in his kingship. He would start a
strong man's policy one evening, and weaken on it before lunch next
day, only to conceive something else equally violent at supper time.
MARS IN SAGITTARIUS 347
This was an effect in method of action, not at all in the will to
govern, which was perfectly consistent.
Louis XIV is a surprising conclusion to the list, especially as
Mars is squared by Mercury, and has nothing better than a sextile
of Uranus and a semi-sextile of Neptune to offset this affliction.
Mars, however, is very strong by position, rising ; and he is the lord
of the Ascendant.
It is not wonderful that so few persons of note are born with this
position of Mars ; for, however great they may be within themselves,
this fatal defect of discontinuity usually prevents them from trans-
lating themselves to the external and objective world.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Sagittarius are as
follows :
From September
February
January
December
December
November
October
October
September
March
August
January
January
December
November
November
October
September
August
February
June
January
7th
22nd
20th
29th 1846
9th 1848
20th
31st
llth
17th
22nd
13th
31st
6th
17th 1863
27th 1865
8th
18th
27th
30th
12th
16th
15th
through October
September
March
February
January
December
December
November
October
April
October
March
February
January
January
December
November
November
October
April
August
March
19th 1841
16th 1843
8th 1845
10th 1847
18th 1849
30th 1850
9th 1852
19th 1854
28th 1856
28th 1858
1st 1858
22nd 1860
19th 1862
27th 1864
6th 1866
18th 1867
27th 1869
6th 1871
13th 1873
19th 1875
31st 1875
1st 1877
MARS IN CAPRICORN
MARS in Capricorn is in his exaltation. His fierce energy is tem-
pered to obstinacy by the earthy and Saturnian nature of the sign,
but, on the other hand, the leaping Goat lends additional power and
elan to his activity. He becomes tremendously magnetic and com-
manding, but also dour and tenacious. A striking instance of his
MARS IN CAPRICORN 349
quality expressed in the world of action is Theodore Roosevelt. One
has only to contemplate his method to understand the full effect of
Mars in Capricorn.
In the world of science, we have two men of incomparable vigor
and persistence, Pasteur and Edison ; while, to return once again to
political life, we find Edward VII with this position of Mars. This
is a very astonishing case ; there is little of high ability to be found
in this monarch, but Mars, rising in this sign, gave him the execu-
tive force to carry through the Triple Entente, one of the greatest
diplomatic achievements in the world's history.
Goethe also has this position; in this connection we notice the
brusquerie of much of his verse, its leaping, forceful, direct quality.
That any man could win such signal triumph is amazing; the art
of poetry seems to demand smoothness rather than this abrupt
sledge-hammer method. Rossetti, for example, with the same posi-
tion, scores only partial success. The rough scansion of much of
his verse must be called a flaw, whereas with Goethe it was a virtue.
Eut Rossetti's Mars is in conjunction, with Neptune and in opposi-
tion to Saturn, with no buttress to such aspects but a distant trine
of the Sun, while Goethe's Mars is trine to Mercury and the Sun.
Ruskin and Tolstoi have also this position, but Ruskin's Mars
is the storm-centre of a great complex, which considerably modifies
the effect, while Tolstoi's is in conjunction with Neptune, increasing
its eccentricity and violence by harnessing materialism with mysti-
cism. A better illustration of the effect of this position is Savonarola.
Here we see clearly the sudden fierce resolution and the tenacity of
purpose. Afflictions by Saturn and the Moon tended to increase the
asperity of the method, and doubtless they contributed to its fail-
ure ; but the method is indicated clearly enough by the position.
Among women we have Cleo de Merode with the Moon trine and
the Sun and Venus in square to Mars. From this comes her incom-
parable power to have her own way in everything. Incidentally, the
planet is on the cusp of her eleventh house, and its main effect is
therefore to enable her to influence friends. The trine of the Moon
includes the public among such friends, and modifies the fierceness
of her method by masking it with a show of yielding grace. In re-
ality, she was just as full of will and determination as Cromwell.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
350 ASTROLOGY
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Capricorn are as
follows :
MARS IN AQUARIUS
From November
November
October
April
February
February
January
December
December
November
October
September
March
February
January
December
24th 1901
3rd
8th
2nd
24th
1st
Ilth
22nd 1914
2nd 1916
nth
19th
14th
7th
9th
19th
29th
through
MARS IN AQUARIUS
THE Uranian and airy influence of Aquarius tends to cause Mars
to spend his energy more in the direction of intellectual force and
we may add, moral force. The method will be expansive, free, open,
and yet full of wisdom. There are, of course, unfortunate excep-
tions. If over-excited by some dangerous aspect, the airy formula
may be as distracting as that given by Gemini.
Mary, Queen of Scots, suffered from this airy temperament in
her mode of action, for, though the Sun was sextile, Saturn was
square, and Uranus in opposition.
Another instance is Marie Bashkirtseff. No doubt, as in the pre-
vious case, Mars is- active enough. That is not the point ; the point
is that Mars is too active. Here Jupiter is in opposition and Nep-
tune semi-sextile, and the Sun is square, a most unfortunate com-
bination. Her peculiar temper and her method of attempting to
achieve her ends, as described in her diary, are admirably pictured
by these planets.
Aquarius, on the whole, gives far more freedom of action to
Mars than does Capricorn; hence occasionally we find looseness
352 ASTROLOGY
in its method, and, in all cases, the native is more a man of thought
than of action. Even such tremendous driving forces, practical as
ever lived, as Gladstone, Bismarck, Alexander VI, and John Bright,
all shared in this expansive one may almost dare to say imagina-
tive type of action. With all but the very greatest, there is likely
to be some hindrance implied. Alfred Russell Wallace was not the
fighting force that his intellectual capacity would have stood for.
The Earl of Strafford, in particular, was afflicted sorely in this
matter. In his situation he needed an extraordinarily close-knit,
terrible Mars. The opposition of Neptune on one side and the
squares of the Sun and Mercury on the other were certainly de-
trimental, and the Aquarius tendency asserted itself unchecked.
A last example of weakness is Ludwig II of Bavaria, whose Mars
is made fatally eccentric in its action by the conjunction of Neptune
with no counter-balance. Here the royal power itself was actually
frittered away in whimsical intellectualities.
Richard Wagner has the same position of Mars, but the aspects
are so different that Aquarius brings out the best instead of the
worst. Jupiter is in square to Mercury and opposition to Mars, it
is true; but Venus and the Sun in conjunction are trine, and Mars
is culminating in the tenth house. It is, therefore, a great and im-
portant complex, and it is never to be forgotten that, in such cir-
cumstances, it is less important whether planets have "good" or
"bad" aspects ; the fact of their existence in the complex is itself an
element of strength; half a loaf is better than no bread!
Another figure of amazing stature with this position is Victor
Hugo. Mars has only a trine of Uranus and approaching a sextile
of Mercury; there is therefore something lacking in his method.
Gigantic as his soul was quite equal to that of Wagner he yet
failed to influence Europe to the same extent. The fact is expli-
cable by the inferior disposition of his Mars, and in no other manner.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Aquarius are as follows :
From January 1st through January 28th 1840
November 29th 1841 "
January 5th 1842
November 2nd " December 12th 1843
MARS IN AQUARIUS 353
10th 1845
27th 1845
4th 1847
8th 1849
17th 1851
24th 1853
4th 1855
14th 1857
22nd 1858
22nd 1860
20th I860
17th 1862
I7th 1864
25th 1866
4th 1868
12th 1870
23rd 1872
31st 1873
5th 1875
6th 1877
28th 1879
2nd 1881
12th 1883
19th 1885
30th 1887
9th 1889
16th 1890
8th 1892
9th 1894
llth 1896
20th 1898
28th 1900
8th 1902
19th 1904
27th 1905
28th 1907
25th 1909
22nd 1911
354 ASTROLOGY
From February 19th through March 29th 1913
January 30th
" March 9th 1915
January 10th
"
February 16th 1917
December 20th 1918 "
January 26th 1919
November 28th 1920
"
January 4th 1921
October 31st
" December llth 1922
April 25th
" June 24th 1924
August 25th " October 19th 1924
March 23rd "
May 3rd 1926
February 28th
"
April 7th 1928
MARS IN PISCES
IN Pisces Mars reaches the very depths of misfortune. The sign is
watery, receptive, sensitive, psychic, the very antithesis of the fiery,
dominant, brutal, material planet. Very few people with this de-
trimental position, unless strongly aspected, reach any remarkable
goal;*,even the greatest men are so hampered in their external ex-
pression that their greatness passes unremarked in a world that can
only be conquered by battle-axes and sledge-hammers. A great
tragedy of the Victorian period stands witness to this fact.
We have already called attention to the horoscope of Sir Richard
Burton. Uranus is conjoined with Neptune, and four other planets
fortify the complex. Mars himself in conjunction with Venus and
semi-sextile to Saturn, is lord of the Ascendant, while, without much
straining, these two complexes may be unified through the Moon
and Mercury. Here, then, are the nine planets all more or less re-
lated, as in the case of Shakespeare ; and truly the mind of Burton
was no less than his. Yet the effect of Pisces on Mars is so deadly
that the whole of his externalization was nullified. He should have
been Viceroy of India and Governor-General of Egypt; but, as he
himself said, he "possessed every talent but that of making use of
the others I"
Erasmus was another individual of rare distinction the greatest
scholar of the Middle Ages. But here again there was no capacity
for externalizing his powers ; even poor old Cornelius Agrippa had
a far greater influence in Europe ; while Paracelsus outshone both.
MARS IN PISCES 355
Nell Gwyn has this position, too, but Mars is a very curious
planet in the case o women. It is difficult to assert anything posi-
tively with so little evidence as is forthcoming-, but one may suspect
that Mars and Venus are counterchanged for feminine horoscopes
rather as are the Sun and the Moon, though not so effectively. In
any case. Mars has the trine of Jupiter on one side and that of the
Moon on the other, which would amply redeem any radical weak-
ness of the planet, especially as he is rising.
Mars in Pisces, the house of Neptune, is badly placed ; in fact the
worst position of the twelve.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Mars is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
358 ASTROLOGY
mystical, and glorious. When you have touched success, aspire to
that which is above ; and, as to the blessings of this earthly life, let
it be your pleasure to shower them on those that have need of them.
So shall you fulfill the divine economy; so shall you attain the
holy mountains whose snow-pearls glitter beyond the peaceful river
of the fullness of life.
JUPITER IN THE SIGNS
JUPITER, in a general classification, may be said to be the precise
contrary of Saturn. The latter constricts and conserves ; the former
expands and spends. The one is egoism; the other altruism. In re-
ligious symbolism Saturn is Jehovah "I am that I am" which is
only a theocratic way of saying "everything for myself.
35
Jupiter
is the divine Son, Jesus the benevolently spendthrift heir who
gives his very life for others. Jupiter is the instinct of creation, of
generosity and hospitality, and of the religious emotions generally ;
and, of course, in so far as the man is passive to Jupiter, he repre-
sents these qualities in the cosmos bestowed upon the man, and
hence "Good fortune." Naturally, his action depends, with regard
to its scope, upon Neptune and Uranus. Unless these planets, signi-
fying respectively the soul and the divine will, indicate bigness in
the career, a good Jupiter will be no more than a luck-bringer in
business or profession, and make the character noble, generous, and
easy-going; and a weak Jupiter will only defeat advancement in
life, and tend to enfeeble the character by making it spendthrift,
luxurious, and unable to resist the influence of others.
The power of Jupiter, therefore, will not always be easy to rec-
ognize in many of the horoscopes with which we have hitherto been
able to illustrate our propositions ; for only when the private lives
of the natives are fairly well known, or where "luck" has played a
great part in their careers, shall we be able to trace his action to
our satisfaction. There will, however, be no great difficulty in de-
tecting the modifying influence of the signs, for Jupiter is far
more impressionable than Saturn, for the reason that he is so ex-
pansive and warm-hearted.
We have intimated above through what channels Jupiter comes
JUPITER IN ARIES 359
to express his creative and generous tendencies in material pros-
perity; but another point which should be emphasized in this re-
gard is that Jupiter represents to a very great extent the ambition
of the native. The force, quality, and degree of success of this am-
bition will be indicated by the strength and position of the planet,
and the direction or channel through which this ambition may work
out its best prosperity will be shown by the sign which Jupiter
occupies, modified of course by other contributory conditions.
JUPITER IN ARIES
ABIES increases the energy of Jupiter, and makes him decidedly
militant. If Jupiter is not afflicted seriously, the combination prom-
ises a generous, ardent, and high-minded disposition, with a strong
inclination to the study of science, literature, or religion. The more
purely benevolent qualities of Jupiter, however, are somewhat re-
pressed, and, at times this position may even mean the complete
transmogrification of the religious instinct into something very like
ambition. It will, in any case, make the native, to a considerable
extent, a pioneer or an innovator, with a very positive and material
outlook on those subjects which are accepted by the majority of
men with passive reverence ; and, while actual atheism is not neces-
sarily implied, there is very likely to be a tendency to that unspoken
skepticism which is characteristic of those who regard religious
organizations as a branch of politics.
The most typical example of this is, perhaps, Pope Alexander
VI whose Jupiter, conjoined with the Moon, is in the third house
squared by a rising Saturn. Jupiter is weakened by the latter as-
pect, and here the power of Saturn quite overwhelms him; such
religious instinct as may remain is due to the conjunction of the
Moon with Jupiter. But the complete obliteration of any noble or
generous quality in the character is clearly marked. Sir Richard
Burton, on the contrary, has a very strong Jupiter, both Mercury
and Saturn being in conjunction with him. The conjunction of
Uranus and Neptune gives deep mysticism, but the Aries position
keeps him in the middle path. Hence his strong leaning toward the
religion of Mohammed, and the sentiments so splendidly expressed
360 ASTROLOGY
in his "Kasidah,
39
one of the greatest religious and philosophical
poems ever written. Very different is Alfred Tennyson, whose Jupi-
ter is softened by the sextile of Venus (but what amazing good
fortune it brought him!) and is somewhat irritated by the square
of Mercury. Both weaken and conventionalize Jupiter; hence we
find the religion of Tennyson quite orthodox and ritualistic, pictur-
ing rather its sentimental spirit. Contrast this with Baudelaire,
where the Sun, Venus, Mars, and Saturn are all in conjunction with
Jupiter. The man is all religion, his whole life one strenuous pro-
test against the limitations of earthly life. That he failed to find
a solution of his problems is due to the fact that, like Burton, he
had Uranus and Neptune square to this immense combination.
Bernard Shaw is a good type of the sceptic. Saturn squares Jupi-
ter, as with Alexander VI, but fortunately Venus is trine and the
Moon sextile. Here, then, we get a soft hearted and kindly man, but
with his religious instincts quite inhibited from ordinary channels
by the fact that the inspired vision is denied to him. Even the trine
of the Sun does not make up for this defect ; it acts here more on
the material plane, and gives him great success, but does not illum-
inate. Had Jupiter been in a more religious sign, belief would have
been easier for Shaw.
Consider, in this connection, Chopin. Here Jupiter has Venus
sextile, the same softening influence as with Tennyson; but Mer-
cury is in conjunction with Venus, and his religious feeling is of a
deeper intelligence than that of England's laureate. In the case
of Madame Steinheil, we see much greater strength of Jupiter, who
is in conjunction with the Sun and Venus and not far from con-
junction with Mercury and Neptune. But Jupiter is- not by any
means the strongest of these planets, and so does not control the
complex ; Saturn in the tenth house, trining all these planets, dom-
inates the horoscope, so that all these varied impulses of her nature
tended to subserve her selfishness. Had Jupiter and Saturn been
in each other's places, we should have had in her horoscope the
figure of a great religious leader.
These cases should be sufficient to indicate not only the nature
of the limitations which Aries imposes upon Jupiter but also the
favorable indications of natural success and prosperity which the
combination furnishes when Jupiter is not badly aspected. It gives
JUPITER IN ABIES 361
ability in managing large enterprises or organizations, self-confi-
dence, and a desire to be at the head of the undertakings.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter in
the sign Aries :
Alan Leo
Elihu P. Root
Melville E. Stone
Spencer Trask
Warren Leland
Christabel Pankhurst
William H. Woodin
Charles H. Sabin
Woodrow Wilson
Mary Baker Eddy
Clarence Darrow
Emile Coue
George C. Lorimer
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Aries are as follows :
From June 3rd through September 13th 1844
January 20th " June 1st 1845
May 9th
" November 3rd 1856
December 15th 1856 "
May 14th 1857
April 30th 1868
"
April 28th 1869
April 3rd 1880 "
April llth 1881
March 17th 1892
" March 24th 1893
March 1st
"
August 8th 1904
September 1st 1904 " March 7th 1905
February 12th " June 25th 1916
October 27th 1916
"
February 12th 1917
June 6th
"
September 10th 1927
January 23rd "
June 3rd 1928
362 ASTROLOGY
JUPITER IN TAURUS
THERE is much harmony between Jupiter and Taurus, for their
power and constructiveness are alike. The native is fixed in his
religious beliefs, and in his opinions generally, is of devout and
warm-hearted nature and clothed with much pride. But, unless the
planet is well posited and dignified, there is danger of crassness
and of extravagance. For example, Ludwig II of Bavaria, whose
Jupiter is squared by Saturn, lacked wisdom; his extravagant
enthusiasms cost him his throne and his life. One sees, too, in his
religious ideas, the obstinacy of the earthy Taurus; the decorum
of religion was all in all to him. Contrast his nativity with that of
Dante, the central religious figure of the most religious age of
mankind we speak here of the outward forms of religion, for an-
cient Egypt and even pagan Greece were really far more deeply
spiritual. In Dante's horoscope, Jupiter is powerfully placed just
above the eastern horizon, with the Sun and Mercury in conjunction ;
semi-sextile to Saturn and Venus, and sextile to Mars.
The figure of Alfred de Musset may well be contrasted with that
of Baudelaire whose Jupiter was in Aries. Here Jupiter in Taurus
and in the third house has a semi-sextile of the Moon, no other
planet affecting these influences. This indicates a mind incapable
of real religious thought, Jupiter here meaning only preoccupation
with self-indulgence, a situation leading naturally to boredom and
despair. A stronger Jupiter in a more spiritual sign could have
saved him from this sad end. The Jupiter of Louis Pasteur is in
the eighth house, the natural position of Scorpio, whose influence
thus blends with the Taurus qualities to give an instinct for labori-
ous inquiry into scientific matters, and additional energy is given
by the trine of Mars to Jupiter. The religion of such a man must
be material and practical ; expressed in no emotional or sentimental
manner, but none the less deep and sincere. He may also be as-
sured of good fortune with such a disposition of Mars, that for-
tune depending on his own energy and will.
Turner is another fine example of a good Jupiter in Taurus.
Here Neptune is trine, Venus in conjunction, and Mars square.
There is a mystical element in his work from the first planet, soft-
JUPITER IN TAURUS 363
ness ana richness and beauty of form from the second, and intense
realistic power from the third. Jupiter on the cusp of the fourth
house, the natural place of Cancer, may explain his great suc-
cess in painting
1
the sea, and indeed for his choice of canvas as the
medium through which to express his religious emotion.
Schumann, for example, has Mars semi-sextile to Jupiter in
conjunction with the Sun. This is not nearly so strong a combina-
tion as Turner's, though Jupiter is again in the fourth house, in-
dicating the reflective method of expression. But the expansive part
of his nature is not strong, and the conjunction of Saturn and
Neptune in the Orient turns the strain into a minor key.
Rosa Bonheur is a far more jovial figure. Mercury and Venus
are sextile, the Sun semi-sextile ; and Uranus trine to her Jupiter,
who is on the cusp of the house of her profession, and her predilec-
tion for painting bulls or stallions is indicated by Taurus. The
whole figure is massive, strong, expansive, and genial.
We might have contrasted with Pasteur another man of science,
Alfred Russell Wallace. Here the Sun, Venus, and Mercury are
fairly near the trine of Jupiter, though not very close ; the religi-
ous side of the nature is stimulated thereby, indeed, but the com-
bination is not nearly so strong a motive as is the trine of Saturn
to Uranus and Neptune. Hence the intellect ruled for a time, but,
when old age came, the religious nature was more prominent, and
this proved rather conventional a surprise to his friends and col-
leagues and disciples, for there was little harmony between the
former and latter views. General Grant has a robust Jupiter, ris-
ing in Taurus, with the Sun and Saturn in conjunction, and with
Neptune and Uranus close to the trine. The effect of Saturn in
conjunction with the Sun appears to be contrary to any deep spirit-
uality; this seems to bring all forces to work on the plane of
normal life; and, though Grant had a hearty sort of faith, one is
more impressed by the extreme good fortune which attended him,
no doubt largely due to the position of Jupiter. Edward VI of
England has a fine Jupiter, trined by Saturn. This may explain
why, despite his early death, the causes of which are explained else-
where in this volume, he remains famous as a monument of early
piety, learning, and good disposition.
The native with Jupiter in Taurus is fond of home and un-
364 ASTROLOGY
likely to travel much unless under the compulsion of business, or
because of other planetary combinations. The position, unless Jupi-
ter is badly afflicted, is fortunate for gain through agriculture,
building and mining.
Though generous, he may, in some cases, be over-fond of money
for its own sake.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter
in the sign Taurus :
Bessie Leo (Mrs. Alan)
Chauncey M. Depew
Jules Sardou
William H. Taft
Ray Long
Horace Greeley
Hugo Stinnes
Adolph Ochs
P. T. Barnum
Oscar Hammerstein
Nat Goodwin
Geraldine Farrar
Booth Tarkington
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Taurus are as follows :
From June 2nd 1845 through June 10th 1846
May 15th 1857 "
May 25th 1858
April 29th 1869 "
May 9th 1870
April 12th 1881 April 21st 1882
March 25th "
August 20th 1893
October 20th 1893 April 1st 1894
August 9th August 31st 1904
March 8th "
July 20th 1905
December 5th 1906 " March 9th 1906
June 26th October 26th 1916
February 13th June 29th 1917
June 4th 1928 " June llth 1929
JUPITER IN GEMINI 365
JUPITER IN GEMINI
ALTHOUGH Mercury, the Lord of Gemini, is the herald of Jupiter,
Jupiter himself is in detriment in this sign, because the dispersive
effect of Gemini upon the mentality cools the generous and mag-
nanimous influences of the altruistic planet. Fiery and watery signs,
especially the latter, are far more suitable for the development
of these sides of Jupiter's nature. In Gemini, while Jupiter's posi-
tion is favorable for culture and the intellectual side of religion,
the native is mentally restless or changeable, and there is often
a tendency to mysticism or to the eclectic in religious expression.
As, however, there is no antagonism between Jupiter and the Lord
of the sign, much, as usual, will depend upon the elevation and
aspects.
One of the greatest religious geniuses of modern times very
Jupiterian both in devotionalism and humamtarianism was Anna
Kingsford. Here Jupiter, though in Gemini, has the sextile of
Uranus, which prevents any conventionality in the religious nature ;
and the square of Mars and the Sun makes it necessary for her to
realize her convictions rather than blindly to believe. Jupiter being
in the tenth house is easily the most important planet in the figure,
so that he moulds the native's whole life to his liking.
It must always be remembered that the most important point in
judging a figure is to diagnose from the start the key to the
horoscope. In every fortunate nativity, there is one planet, and
one only, cardinal to it; the others group themselves naturally
around this significator. Where, as in the case of Dr. Wallace, re-
cently mentioned, we find two independent and contradictory
groups, there is usually a clash sooner or later, with disastrous
results. Another religious genius, now somewhat obscured in the
mists of antiquity, was Proclus. Here Saturn is in close conjunc-
tion with Jupiter in the second house, but with no planet ascend-
ing above them. It is a very strong combination; but, with no
help from Uranus, revolutionary tendencies could hardly be ex-
pected. Saturn kept Proclus to a scholarly and wise type of ortho-
doxy; Gemini emphasizes the intellectual side of the religious
impulse.
366 ASTROLOGY
A very great scholar was Erasmus,, with a trine of Mercury
and a square of Mars to Jupiter. Jupiter is in the ninth house,
giving much force to the aspiration toward religion and science;
but, once again, Uranus has no part in the complex, and the re-
ligious impulse is bounded by the limitations of the period in which
he lived, and the schools in which he studied. He clarified and
organized ; he could not overturn.
Compare with this figure Archbishop Laud9
s Jupiter, also in
the ninth house. Here there is a close square of the Moon and an-
other of Mars from the other side. There is a semi-sextile of Nep-
tune, but this appears as additional weakness, and, perhaps, gives
a strain of hypocrisy. Neptune is close to the cusp of the Mid-
heaven, which may account for the extraordinary fame of Laud;
there are not half a dozen archbishops in English history whose
names are as well known. But Jupiter being decidedly weak, the
religious qualities are shallow, perhaps merely assumed as a cloak
for the ambition. The Sun rising, and Saturn on the cusp of the
third house, are far more significant factors in this nativity.
Dickens has a much stronger Jupiter, hence his strong sense
of humanitarianism. There are no aspects, however, to influence his
quality one way or the other except the trine of the Sun, and ac-
cordingly there is some diffuseness some, perhaps, may say even
shallowness in the expression of the religious instinct in his art.
His is a very good example of a strong Jupiter in Gemini with-
out the admixture of other influences. Two other and greater stars
of literature have this position of Jupiter, Balzac and Byron.
With Balzac, Jupiter is in the tenth house. Mars and Venus
are semi-sextile; so, on the other side, is Mercury; and the Sun
is only seven degrees from exact conjunction. The humanitarian
aspect is stronger than in Dickens, and the whole configuration is
more compact and better directed. Mars and Mercury, friendly,
add truth; Venus, tenderness and beauty of form; while the Sun
adds to the fire and art. The vast superiority of the close-knit
intensity of La Comedie Humaine to the more diffuse novels of
the English author is in exact accordance with the prediction of
their horoscopes.
Byron's Jupiter is helped by the semi-sextile of Mars and a
trine of Neptune, but the Neptunian influence makes the action
JUPITER IN GEMINI 367
of Jupiter rather sporadic and Intermittent, and he is further con-
stricted by being in the twelfth house. A rising Mars with Uranus
just below him seem more important significators in the nativity;
and the Moon, as Lady of the Ascendant in close conjunction with
Uranus, is easily discernible as the key of the complex. Hence we
do not find any great humanitarianism, but that strong love of
freedom which is given to the Moon by Uranus.
Of the truly religious type, Cardinal Gibbons furnishes a fine
example. Jupiter being in the house of friends, preferment was
sure ; but a trine of Saturn makes the religious nature strong and
sincere; a square of Venus is in this respect favorable, since her
affliction makes asceticism the rule of his life.
In Edison, the square of Venus to Jupiter indicates the life of
self-denial ; Saturn, however, also square, forbids any religious bias ;
while Uranus being sextile to Jupiter turns the development all to
the side of science.
A study of the Jupiter of Wilhelm II is of unusual interest,
since its analysis should indicate whether he is the ambitious, self-
seeking tyrant and despot his enemies contend, or whether he really
did his best to keep the peace in Europe. Astrology gives no uncer-
tain answer. Jupiter has the sextile of Saturn, and the trine of the
Sun and, though Jupiter is near the cusp of the twelfth house,
and Saturn is rising in the second, the opposition of the Sun to
the latter seems to make it unreasonable to call Saturn stronger
than Jupiter. The matter is, however, complicated by the con-
junction of Mars and Neptune in the tenth house, which domi-
nates the horoscope. On the whole, it appears that the European
catastrophe was a fatality beyond the power of any man to cause
or avert, or even to hasten or retard to any great extent. In any
case the Kaiser's Jupiter in Gemini is a very evident cause of
the airy way in which he ventilates his religious convictions, and
his "I and my God" goes one better than Cardinal Wolsey's "I
and my King."
The occupations and material affairs, over which Jupiter rules,
will develop prominently in the native's life, with a natural tendency
to professional or diplomatic pursuits; but, if Jupiter is afflicted,,
this position often tends to produce differences with, or separa-
tions from, the near relatives. There is much sympathy, benevolence,
368 ASTROLOGY
and charity in the disposition, and the diplomacy of the native
usually amounts to a positive gift, enabling him to get his own
way without arousing opposition.
The following well known persons were born with Jupiter in the
sign Gemini :
C. W. Leadbetter
Harry Thaw
Joseph Pulitzer
Thomas W. Larnont
Col. George Goethals
Cardinal Gibbons
Roy Howard
George Westinghouse
Theodore Roosevelt
Augustus Thomas
Julia Marlowe
Charles Hayden
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Gemini are as follows :
From June llth 1846 through June 25th 1847
May 26th 1858 " June 9th 1859
May 10th 1870 "
May 23rd 1871
April 22nd "
September 19th 1882
November 18th 1882 "
May 4th 1883
August 21st
"
October 19th 1893
April 2nd "
August 18th 1894
January 2nd "
April 10th 1895
July 21st "
December 4th 1905
March 10th "
July 30th 1906
June 30th 1917 "
July 12th 1918
June 12th "
December 31st 1929
JUPITER IN CANCER 369
JUPITER IN CANCER
IN Cancer, Jupiter is in the house
j)f
his
exaltation^;
and that sign
being above all a symbol of pleasure,~we ^j naturally expect that
it will bring out the truly "jovial" qualities of the planet. This
is undoubtedly the case; the native is good-humored, benevolent,
and humane ; the emotional nature and the imagination are strong ;
but the pleasantest qualities are more evident in the nativities of
private persons than in those of the great.
In these there will nearly always be a counterbalance, or life
would be dissipated into mere pleasure. These tendencies are well
illustrated in William Shakespeare, whose Jupiter in the eleventh
house is decidedly stronger than the Saturn with whom he is con-
joined. There is a fairly close square, too, of the gun and the Moon ;
and the result is the regrettable weakness of character which we
still deplore. It is really Venus and Neptune in the tenth house
that dominate the horoscope, and these have a semi-sextile aspect
of Mars, and a sextile aspect of Jupiter and Saturn, and the Sun
and the Moon semi-sextile on the other side from Mars. Uranus
is in opposition toJSTeptune. Here, then, is a marvellous complex;
even Mercury is near enough to the trine of Uranus to allow us
to say that in this nativity, all nine planets are in aspect. To dis-
sociate Jupiter and isolate his influence, is therefore no easy task.
One sees the poet yielding to jollity and boon companionship; he
has no strong religious feeling in the ordinary sense of the word,
and little humanitarianism. But with Uranus square to Neptune
culminating, all personal characteristics fall into the background.
The problem of Shakespeare is the problem of genius.
Let us look at the Jupiter of three strong, self-centered men,
Cromwell, Jay Gould, and Joseph Chamberlain, and of one weak,
selfish man, James II. Cromwell has the Sun and Mercury sextile
to Jupiter, the one bringing out the material qualities, the other
assisting these by strengthening the intelligence. The Moon, too,
is sextile to Jupiter on the other side, and Saturn is square. The
last of these aspects removes the last trace of religious or philan-
thropic development from Jupiter; moreover, Uranus rising and
trined by Neptune, is the most powerful planet of the horoscope,
especially as Mars is above him. Jay Gould has Jupiter in conJune-
370 ASTROLOGY
tion with Venus, which turns the self-indulgence shown by Cancer Into
love of money, and of course implies great luck in getting hold
of it. There are no good aspects. Chamberlain has Saturn square,
with the usual effects, as noted above with Cromwell. James II
has Uranus square to Jupiter., and the Moon semi-sextile. This
is weakness. Jupiter is lord of the ninth house; so we find, as we
should expect, religious bigotry, the affliction by Uranus denying
illumination. Still more unhappy was Dreyfus. Here Jupiter is
strong with Neptune and the Moon trine, and Saturn semi-sextile,
while Mars is close to a sextile on the other side. But the Sun,
Venus, and Mercury are square; the material aspects threaten. It
is a cramped position.
Dr. Zamenhof, with his benevolent idea5 should have a strong
Jupiter ; and, indeed, the planet has a semi-sextile of the Moon and
Saturn and a trine of Neptune. But these are not strong enough
to carry the idea to a successful accomplishment; for this, Uranus
and Mercury should have cooperated; had they done so, we might
indeed have had a "universal language" that would have com-
mended itself to the world. John Bright, one of the really fine
religious and humanitarian types of the Victorian era, has Jupiter
just above the Ascendant; and, as he is the only planet in the east,
this gives a singular importance.
In everyday life, the native who has Jupiter in Cancer is imagi-
native and intuitional, sometimes with inclinations for psychism
or other mysteries. The position gives excellent aptitude for money-
making and the ability to hold money after it has been acquired.
He is likely to travel much by water, but is fond of home and is
apt to find himself very closely bound by affection to his mother.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter
in the sign Cancer :
"Bud" Fisher
William J. Bryan
Samuel Insull
Joseph B. Cannon
Dr. John Duncan Quackenbos
Harry Payne Whitney
Harold McCormick
JUPITER IN LEO S71
Rudolph Spreckels
Nathan Strauss
David Belasco
Agassis
Rudolph Valentino
Andrew Carnegie
Mussolini
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Cancer are as follows :
From June 26th 1847 through July 15th 1848
June 10th 1859 " June 29th I860
May 24th 1871 " June llth 1872
September 20th 1882 November 17th 1882
May 5th 1883 "
September 26th 1883
January 17th 1884 "
May 21st 1884
August 19th 1894 "
January 1st 1895
April llth 1895 "
September 4th 1895
March 1st 1896 "
April 17th 1896
July 31st 1906 "
August 18th 1907
July 13th 1918 "
August 1st 1919
JUPITER IN LEO
LEO brings out to the full the frank, expansive, exuberant nature
of Jupiter, but the materializing influence of the Sun, as Lord
of Leo, is felt markedly, and therefore the religious qualities of
Jupiter are not very strong. In the case of Rudolph Steiner, the
only definitely religious type on our list, Jupiter is very strong,
being in the ninth house near the cusp of the Mid-heaven. The
Leonine materiality of Jupiter's religious nature is shown very
clearly in Brigham Young, who was more of a theocratic state-
builder than a truly spiritual descendant of Joseph Smith. His
Jupiter has the Sun, Venus, and Mercury sextile, all accentuat-
ing this influence of Leo ; Uranus, too, is sextile on the other side,
S72 ASTROLOGY
giving that touch of originality which has made Mormonism &
living force.
The floridity of Jupiter in Leo is well illustrated by Wagner and
Swinburne. The Jupiter of Wagner has Mars in opposition, Venus
and the Sun in sextile and Mercury square ; an ideal combination
for the production of theatrical effect, Swinburne's Jupiter has
Mars in conjunction, lending an extreme passion to the higher
emotions, and a trine of Venus and Mercury rendering their ex-
pression harmonious, sensuous, and lucid. There is also, however,
a direct opposition of Neptune to Jupiter which gives a strain of
instability and lack of balance. It must not be forgotten that the
great poet was also a bitter pamphleteer and a polemical critic.
Similar considerations apply to the Jupiter of Huxley. We are
to look here not far the science of the man, but for his religious
feeling and his general outlook on life ; we are to consider the man
by his fireside and not in his laboratory. Saturn and Venus are
sextile, giving a sort of conscientious bonhomie, and the Moon
is trine ; he must have been a singularly indulgent father, and tender
to human weakness. A similar case is found in Arthur Balfour.
As a statesman, he was callous and caustic ; but he was universally
beloved in private life, even by his bitterest opponents. The Sun
and Venus in conjunction with Jupiter, and the Moon sextile, fully
account for this radiant warmth of his private feelings; but
Jupiter's position on the cusp of the house of friends makes the
effect even stronger.
As a contrast, consider Marie Bashkirtseff, with Jupiter on the
cusp of the tenth house, but with no help beyond a sextile of the
Moon. Fame she has had, and to spare; but her hopes were all
thwarted, and her nature repressed and blighted. She was con-
stantly trying to expand, and was invariably balked. The opposi-
tion of Mars to Jupiter was sufficient to account for the thwarting
of her impulses. So, too, with Louis XVI, whose hurnanitarianism
was so ill-suited to his period Jupiter is conjoined with the Sun
and Mercury, and their forces tend to overwhelm him. Some distant
support, such as a trine, (or even the counter action of a square)
seems always desirable to moderate the vehemence of a major con-
junction. Henry VI was the Louis XVI of England. He, too,
JUPITER IN LEO 373
tender hearted at the wrong time and place. His Jupiter has a
rather distant trine of the Sun; but this may have developed his
religious instincts and his gentleness. Some sterner element is valu-
able in the emotional apparatus of a king. The late J. Pierpont
Morgan had Jupiter with Mars conjoined, Neptune in opposition,
and Saturn nearly square on the other side. This restricts any great
outpouring of the higher emotion ; Jupiter is tied down very firmly
to the material plane, but on that plane he is made very strong.
He is externalized, as it were, to signify good fortune within the
limits of the ambition.
The native with Jupiter in Leo is sincere, generous and mag-
nanimous, ambitious, fond of power, often with much of the dra-
matic in his make-up, and usually well-fitted for success in public life.
The position increases the intuition and strengthens the vitality, and
it is most favorable for the development of such genius as may be
indicated by the horoscope.
The following well known persons were born with Jupiter in the
sign Leo :
Ex-President Coolidge
Marshall P. Wilder
Jane Addams
George Bernard Shaw
John Wanamaker
General Pershing
Charles A. Peabody
Harrison Grey Otis
Luther Burbank
Bliss Carman
John Burroughs
The late J. P. Morgan
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of RaphaePs
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Leo are as follows :
374s ASTROLOGY
JUPITER IN VIRGO
IN Virgo, Jupiter is again in detriment, as this sign tends to bring
out his duller and more earthly qualities. We, therefore, shall not
expect to find here much expansion or altruism or even strong re-
ligious feeling. Petrarch and Victor Hugo may immediately strike
the casual observer as apparent exceptions to this rule, but the
former has Jupiter wonderfully developed by sextiles of Neptune
and Venus, and a semi-sextile of the Sun and Mercury on one side
and Saturn on the other. The latter has Jupiter in the tenth house
conjoined with Saturn, semi-sextile to Uranus, and in opposition
to the Sun and Venus. In general, the native is very practical in his
religious views, which are intellectual, even materialistic, rather
than devotional or spiritual. A more typical example, therefore,
is Paul Kruger whose Jupiter has Mars in conjunction, Neptune
in trine, and Uranus not far off it, Venus only five degrees from
exact conjunction, and Mercury semi-sextile. In this powerful com-
plex, however, Mars, lord of the Ascendant, is the key, and Jupiter
merely adds good fortune to Mars. Thus, while the religious and
humanitarian nature was extremely strong, it remained strictly
subservient to more important material forces.
The anarchist Vaillant had Saturn in conjunction with Jupiter,
chilling him, and Neptune in opposition, rendering his movements
eccentic; Mars is sextile, denoting activity; hence the strong-
lieadedness and strong-handedness of his essentially humanitarian
impulses. Lord Brougham, cold-blooded lawyer, also has Jupiter in
JUPITER IN VIRGO 375
Virgo. The square of Uranus weakens the benignancy of Jupiter,
while the sextile of Saturn constricts it into prudence ; there is noth-
ing to expand or fortify its benevolent impulses. The Jupiter of
Bulwer-Lytton, on the other hand, has a sextile of Neptune, lend-
ing a mystical tendency, though not a very powerful or precise one,
to the religious element, which is also made rather superficial by a
square of Mercury. But Jupiter is strengthened by Saturn apply-
ing to a conjunction within twelve degrees; and, as Saturn is in
the third house, his influences tinge the whole mind.
Albrecht Diirer, saturnine though the austerity of his mind de-
clares him, has yet a deep reverence. Venus is trine to Jupiter, and
Uranus semi-sextile, giving what might be called a good average
development. The Virgo influence, however, leaves some coldness.
Sir Humphrey Davy, with Neptune exactly in conjunction with
Jupiter, Venus trine and Saturn sextile, is genuinely religious.
Having taken laughing gas as an experiment, he came back from
unconsciousness exclaiming "The universe consists of nothing but
ideas." The greatest saint in his highest trance could hardly have
known much more. It is a striking example of a truly religious sub-
consciousness, in one whose conscious mind was preoccupied with
the affairs of exact science.
Alexander Dumas has Jupiter conjoined with Venus and Saturn,
the Sun semi-sextile on one side, and Uranus on the other. From
these influences comes the jovial raciness of his famous stories. In
Guy de Maupassant, Jupiter rising, in conjunction with Venus and
Mars and with no help from without, is completely obsessed by this
pair of passionate planets ; and so we regretfully observe this bril-
liant author the slave of passions which ultimately slew him.
The materialistic qualities of Jupiter in Virgo tend to permeate
the higher side of the mind in all directions, and the native is prac-
tical, analytical, and skeptical to the point of requiring proofs.
Naturally, this position gives, marked ability for scientific research,
and generally for teaching and for service to others. It also, as in
Taurus, gives great constructive power which may manifest itself
in success in manufacturing, building, agriculture, or even in liter-
ature, according to the bent of the mentality.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter in
the sign Virgo :
376 ASTROLOGY
Sir Henry Irving
Whitelaw Reid
J. J. Hill
Nicholas Murray Butler
Charles Evans Hughes
Daniel Chester French
John R. Delafield
Charles M. Schwab
George W. Perkins
Admiral George Dewey
Clarence Mackay
Houdini
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Virgo are as follows :
From August 12th 1849 through September 10th 1850
July 26th 1861 "
August 24th 1862
November 16th 1872 "
January 16th 1873
July 8th " December 12th 1873
February 19th
"
August 6th 1874
October 18th 1884 "
February 25th 1885
June 15th " November 15th 1885
March 30th "
July 15th 1886
September 28th 1896 " October 27th 1897
September 12th 1908 " October llth 1909
August 27th 1920 "
September 25th 1921
JUPITER IN LIBRA
IN Libra, Jupiter encounters two apparently contradictory strains
of influence, since Venus, Lady of the sign, softens or sentimentalizes
the religious impulses, while Saturn, exalted in Libra, is able to give
at least a tinge of asceticism. These influences blend, however, in
developing sincerity in the religious instincts, which are expressed
with an imaginative mysticism. The influence of Libra in itself con-
JUPITER IN LIBRA 377
tributes a sense of justice and impartiality. Therefore, the student
of religions will not be surprised to learn that this sign held Jupiter
at the nativities of Jesus of Nazareth, of Percy Bysshe Shelley, of
Robert Louis Stevenson, of Swami Vivekananda, and of Maurice
Maeterlinck. All these have the deepest religious instinct, combined
with a .sort of shrinking from the superficial facts of life, seeing
humanity, as it were, through rose-colored glasses. It is the gentle
spirit in these people which made them great. "Blessed are the pure
in heart, for they shall see God." Jupiter in every case above cited
is prominent in the nativity, but, at the same time, the tendencies
of the sign account for what must at least be reckoned partial
material failure.
In the nativity of Jesus, Jupiter, rising, is trined by Saturn;
he suffers from the opposition of Mars, and the square of the Sun
and Mercury. Without the fiery energy of Paul, the gentle teach-
ing of Jesus would hardly have spread widely, and Christianity
might have remained largely a matter of pious local sentiment. The
humanitarianism of Shelley was very strong. Mars is in conjunc-
tion with Jupiter, making the poet active in protest ; but Neptune,
also in conjunction, seriously weakens the effect by making his re-
volt fantastic and intermittent. Stevenson's Jupiter has not even
so much strength. Saturn is in opposition, and there is nothing to
help but a semi-sextile of Mercury. The gentle spirit is there, but
it shows in a glow of kindliness, very lovable, but not to be feared
by the unkindly-minded. The Jupiter of Swami Vivekananda is in
all respects the best of the group. It is finely balanced by reason,
and brought into action by will. A square of Venus prevents the
mere sentimentality which her conjunction with the Sun might
have allowed. Unfortunately, Mars is in opposition, or he might
have made as successful a religious leader as Mohammed. Maeter-
linck's Jupiter has the opposition of Neptune, which gives his re-
ligious nature its wonderful mysticism.
Consider, now, a very ungentle spirit, but a great religious
genius, Luther. Here Jupiter has Mars and Venus conjoined, with
the Moon and Uranus sextile with powerful aspects of other
planets. There is a lever to move the world ; there could be no ques-
tion of resistance to a bolt of this calibre! Another great builder,
genial enough in private life, but adamant in affairs of state, was
378 ASTROLOGY
Bismarck. Here Jupiter Is opposed to the Sun and square to the
Moon; Uranus., however, is sextile, and Mars and Saturn are in
trine to Jupiter. The chief influence of Libra here is5 doubtless, the
sense of Justice and the balance which we have already noted as
characteristic. Contrast with this the horoscope of Winston
Churchill. Here Mars is in conjunction, making Jupiter powerful
and energetic; but Neptune's opposition in this complex gives ec-
centricity. Jupiter acts vigorously, but by fits and starts ; set-backs
are certain to injure the career from time to time.
There is one religious genius whom we omitted in our first con-
sideration, because her religion was orthodox, though mystical, and
was expressed not in propaganda, but in patriotism. We refer to
Jeanne d'Arc. Her Jupiter has Venus square, the Moon in conjunc-
tion, Mars semi-sextile, and Uranus trine. It is a magnificent
combination for the peculiar gift indicated. Uranus gives the
illumination, and Mars the practical power. Libra, too, assures
good judgment; she was as simple and sensible as she was inspired.
This is not a common quality of alleged inspiration !
Jupiter in Libra favors comradeship and association in domestic
affairs, especially where dispassionate judgment is a factor, and
promises popularity. It gives especially good judgment in handling
the money of others and in impartiality in decision ; hence, judges
and bankers are numerous among the natives of this position. It also
promises success in occupations involving efficiency in the higher
mathematics.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter in
the sign Libra:
Henry Ford
Franz Hartmann
Francis Bret Harte
John D. Rockefeller, Jr.
Harrison Fisher
George Washington
John D. Rockefeller, Sr.
Dr. Felix Adler
Frederick MacMonnies
JUPITER IN SCORPIO 379
For the benefit of those who are not In possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Libra are as follows :
From September llth 1850
August 25th 1862
December 18th 1878
August 7th 1874
March gist
November 16th 1885
July 16th
April 29th
October 28th 1897
October 12th 1909
September 26th 1921
through October llth 1851
September 24th 1863
"
February 18th 1874
January 12th 1875
September 6th 1875
" March 29th 1886
December 16th 1886
"
August 15th 1887
" November 26th 1898
"
November llth 1910
October 26th 1922
JUPITER IN SCORPIO
So powerful and so aggressive is Scorpio, that its influence in mod-
ifying any planet which comes into its "war zone" can hardly be
estimated too highly. Mars and Jupiter make the most forceful
combination of any two planets, and the Martial energy which Jup-
iter receives from the Lord of Scorpio is even more effective than
that in Aries. For Jupiter is the Father of the Gods and has a
strong creative instinct, while Scorpio is the sign of Sex. Hence,
people with Jupiter in this sign have the religious idea developed
to an overwhelming extent and indissolubly linked with that of
generation. Whatever views may be generally held today as to re-
ligion, there is no doubt that the deepest reverence for the natural
forces of creation makes for enormous strength, and especially for
sincerity of religious conviction; since, in such a case, to deny
one's own physical power is to fail in faith.
If Jupiter is strong in this sign, we find people with a positively
fanatical faith in themselves. God is omnipotent, and He abides
within them; how, then, can they ever falter on the path? The effect
of ill-dignity say an evil aspect to Jupiter from Saturn or Mer-
cury would be to upset the mental balance in this respect and to
give evidence of deep-seated perversion.
380 ASTROLOGY
To take such weak and perverse configurations before the others,
we have two remarkable cases of what evidently amounts to sex-
mania of a religious type. The case of Edith Allonby, who committed
suicide in order to call attention to a book she had written, shows
Saturn and Uranus square to Jupiter, one on either side, and Mer-
cury is near a conjunction. On the grand scale, this type of reli-
gious hysteria is exhibited by Tolstoi. Venus and Saturn are square
to Jupiter, but the sextile of Neptune adds a touch of mysticism
intensified by the conjunction of Mars and Neptune. Here is a case
of a bad affliction transformed into exaltation and issuing in com-
paratively harmless channels; but it explains the spirit of the
"Kreutzer Sonata."
We find two instances in women of normal sex instincts raised
to a high power and made useful in securing material advance-
ment. The Jupiter of Nell Gwyn is trined by Mars, giving ex-
ceptional potency; while the Moon, also trine on the other side,
adds a softness, which, in view of the strength given by Mars, is
decidedly an advantage, especially as the square of Venus tends to
prevent too great sentimentality. Cleo de Merode has the Sun and
Venus semi-sextile to Jupiter and Neptune square; the Moon is
sextile on one side, and Mars on the other. Each of these combina-
tions is very strong and subtle.
Among writers with Jupiter in Scorpio, we see great preoccupa-
tion with, and insistence upon the importance of, the sex-nature.
One need only quote Rossetti, Zola, Thomas Hardy, Alphonse
Daudet, and Sainte Beuve; and one might also include Cicero on
the strength of the hidden implications of "Scipio's Dream."
Rossetti's Jupiter, softened by the trine of Venus, and afflicted by
the square of Mercury, becomes decidedly sensuous, while the will
power is weakened by a square of Uranus. The sex-feeling is strong,
but very feminine in quality ; and the religious instinct is. somewhat
unsettled by this combination.
Very different is the -case of Zola, whose Jupiter, although trined
by Venus, is redeemed by the trine of Uranus which is in conjunc-
tion with Venus ; and, though the square of Neptune contributes
mysticism, yet Jupiter remains extremely strong on the plane in-
dicated; and creation, virility and constructiveness mark his feel-
ing and his work. Venus, especially through her conjunction with
JUPITER IN SCORPIO 381
Uranus, accounts for much of the animalism which has been criti-
cized in his writing, but the Uranus-Jupiter trine elevates all this in
the grand result. Indeed this case should be very instructive to the
student, illustrating how each planet and aspect has its particular
effect, persisting in spite of contrary aspects, and becoming recon-
ciled in a higher complex. This principle is immensely important ; it
explains the infinite variety of mankind, and shows the folly of
attempting the solution of astrological problems by mere consid-
eration of the superficial elements of a horoscope.
Thomas Hardy's sex-religion complex very closely resembles
Zola's. Here however, the Moon, instead of Venus, is trine to Jupi-
ter ; and, though Uranus is also trine, it is from the other side and
not in a conjunction. It is a magnificent figure; but, unfortunately,
as the Moon is in the mid-heaven in Cancer, the centre of gravity
tends toward her rather than to the greater planets, thus diminish-
ing the intensity of both Jupiter and Uranus. Had Jupiter been in
the ascendant, Hardy would have been much greater than Zola.
The Jupiter of Alphonse Daudet has also the trine of Uranus ; it
is evidently a most important aspect for constructiveness. Mars,
Venus, and the Sun all come near to squaring Jupiter, but hardly
succeed. There is, therefore, not the same vivid direction to the
force which we have seen in the previous cases. The Scorpio influ-
ence, however, is evident as dominating the Jupiter motive, while a
semi-sextile of Saturn may be responsible for the touch of melan-
choly which one perceives in his mood. In the case of Nero, who has
Jupiter in this position, the Scorpio influence upon Jupiter took a
decidedly troublesome form; the insane perversity of his action
toward Sporus is conclusive on this point. The conjunction of
Mars and Venus in opposition to Jupiter doubtless determined this
sex-madness.
In a much more heroic shape was moulded the grand nativity of
Napoleon. Jupiter is just within the second house, but rising; he
has Uranus in opposition, but Mars is sextile. It is not to be won-
dered at, that he had faith in his star. And here a word of explana-
tion may be in place. This sublime self-confidence appearing to be
a kind of insane egoism, it may be asked, "Why not rather judge
this quality from the point of Napoleon's Saturn?" But it really
is not fundamentally egotistic at all. Napoleon's belief was a true
382 ASTROLOGY
religious feeling ; in him self-aggrandizement was a secondary mat-
ter ; lie quite seriously believed himself to be the divine instrument to
right Europe, and that such a belief should take an apparently
egoistic form involves no real change in its Jupiterian character.
Benjamin Disraeli is another instance of a man who rose
through an extreme belief in himself. Indeed, in his earlier days, he
was much of a coxcomb. Here Neptune and Venus are both in con-
junction with Jupiter, which gives just the fantastic affectation
which distinguished him. The semi-sextile of Uranus prevented him
from going too far on this line, especially as the Sun is also semi-
sextile on the other side. The Moon, too, is square, and the result
of this was a skeptical feeling in religion. Asked what his religion
was, "The religion of every sensible man.'9
"And what is that?"
"No sensible man ever tells." Such an attitude is very characteristic
of this aspect.
From Scorpio's tendency to scientific investigation, Jupiter in
this sign may sometimes have a very technical application to emi-
nence in medicine and surgery, as in the case of Richard Quain.
Jupiter is in the fourth house, trine to the Moon and semi-sextile to
Neptune, not very notable dignities. Saturn, too, is square. The
Sun, excited by the conjunction of Mars and the trine of the Moon,
is Lord of the Ascendant, and is applying to Jupiter within eleven
degrees. It is only in this indirect way that Jupiter becomes at all
important, and such secondary and obscure indications rarely lead
to the highest pinnacles. Exact aspects, with elaborate complexes,
and simplicity and directness in the references, are characteristic
of the greatest sons of the earth.
As an exception to the general implication of the sex-element in
the religious idea, we have Sir William Hamilton. But this is
through no fault of Scorpio; it is the conjunction of Neptune that
turns the religious instinct to metaphysics, and the square of Venus
that neutralizes the sensual quality of the sign. The skeptical side
remains, and is indeed accentuated by a near square of Mercury,
who is Lord of the Ascendant. This is a very interesting and in-
structive complex.
In music, we have two composers of the first rank in whom the
sex-idea may be considered paramount, Strauss and Tchaikovsky.
The latter has Neptune square to Jupiter, and Mars and the Sun
JUPITEK IN SCORPIO 383
in opposition, indicating the inversion of sex-impulse ; but Uranus
is trine, giving constructive ability, which the bad aspects also tend
to transpose into a minor key. Strauss has a Jupiter of much
greater power ; he is not interfered with by any other planet, and is
culminating. It is a grand example of "splendid isolation.
55
From all the cases cited, it will appear that Jupiter in Scorpio
indicates an active, self-confident mind, well centered upon its ob-
ject, with much perseverance and generous enthusiasm. The po-
sition is favorable for success in engineering and chemistry and also
for matters of transportation, especially marine. Many surgeons,
dentists, machinists and railroad officials are found among those
born under this combination.
While the imagination and the emotional nature are strength-
ened, the native will be extremely fond of pleasure and have not a
little of showiness in his personality.
The following well known persons were born with Jupiter in
the sign Scorpio :
Barney Barnato
John Jacob Astor
Palmer Cox
The late Thomas E. Mitten
Thomas F. Ryan
Thomas Coleman DuPont
Perry Belmont
Lee Shubert
Napoleon
Edward W. Bok
George F. Baker
Edward Markham
Col. George Harvey
Robert J. Collier
William McAdoo
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of RaphaePs
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Scorpio are as follows :
ASTROLOGY
From January
October
September
January
September
April
December
August
June
November
November
October
1st through
12th 1851 "
25th 1863 "
13th
7th 1875
24th
17th 1886 "
16th 1887 "
3rd
27th 1898 "
12th 1910 "
37th 1922 "
November 23rd 1840
November 7th 1852
October 22nd 1864
March 20th 1875
February 9th 1876
October 3rd 1876
April 28th 1887
January 14th 1888
September 10th 1888
December 25th 1899
December 9th 1911
November 24th 1923
JUPITER IN SAGITTARIUS
As Jupiter is Lord of Sagittarius, he cannot but be strong therein ;
yet the abruptness of the fiery sign gives some acerbity to his easy
disposition, and there is a certain sharpness of temper associated
with this position unless the planet be very well dignified. Even so,
we need not expect to find a very genial Jupiter, for Sagittarius
is dry as well as swift.
The most expansive persons illustrative of this position are Ed-
ward VII and President Faure of France. The former has Jupiter
very well placed, only seven degrees above the eastern horizon, and
with a sextile of Venus. The square of Uranus accounts for the
fact that a good deal of his joviality led to scandal. Felix Faure
has this same square of Uranus; in this case, the affliction led di-
rectly to his death. There is no help but a sextile of the Sun, and
Jupiter, being in the third house, is not so powerful as in the case
of the founder of the Triple Entente.
Lily Langtry's Jupiter is also in the third house, but it has no
bad aspects except a rather distant square of Neptune. The Sun is
sextile, exactly; and, as he is Lord of the eleventh house, one can
see how much the friendship of exalted persons must have meant
in her career. The Jupiter of Queen Elizabeth is very strong by
position, being just above the Orient. But he is afflicted by a square
of Neptune and another of the Sun, while Mars is in opposition.
JUPITER IN SAGITTARIUS 385
Mercury is sextile, but this only signified the exploitation of Jupi-
ter by shrewdness. From a moral point of view, the afflictions are
about as bad as it is possible to imagine.
In the giant figure of Cecil Rhodes, the square of Neptune may
perhaps have aided Jupiter by making him spiritual and large-
ideaed, while the trine of Mercury made those ideas not only broad
and benevolent, but widely conceived and well calculated. Sagitta-
rius without doubt lent a fierce impetuosity to their development. A
similarly ambitious, though selfish, example is Robespierre. The
great ability is shown plainly by the trine of Mars to Jupiter. Nep-
tune is close to Mars, and contributes wildness. Uranus, again, is
nearly square. We cannot call this Jupiter exactly weak; indeed,
he is rather finely placed in the eleventh house, and doubtless the
"sea-green incorruptible" was- extremly adroit in making use of his
friends, but there is nothing to bring out the naturally noble qual-
ities of Jupiter.
Since Sagittarius is a peculiarly mysterious influence, the mysti-
cal side of the religious instinct may sometimes be strongly devel-
oped. From a psychic standpoint, its influence is even better and
far less liable to corruption than that of Pisces. Joseph Smith
was without doubt a truly religious man, however little one may
feel inclinded to subscribe to, or even to examine seriously, his
strange belief. Here Saturn and Uranus are conjoined sextile to
Jupiter on the one side, and Venus is sextile to the other. There is
a semi-sextile of Mercury, and another of Neptune. Here then is
a most powerful development of the religious impulse; it is clear
that the most sincere conviction went with his belief, and that this
intense and honest passion was the real lever that moved so many
of his contemporaries to endure the most sinister persecutions for
their faith.
W. B. Yeats is a visionary of lesser calibre, though of more intel-
lectual power. Saturn is sextile to his Jupiter, but Uranus and the
Sun are in opposition. The complex is not so important, since the
rising Moon conjoined with Neptune dominates his nativity.
Melanchthon, who, from the purely religious^ side, was a greater
element in the development of Protestantism than Luther himself,
has his Jupiter strengthened by the conjunction of Mars. The Sun
is square, Uranus sextile and Neptune semi-sextile. It is a big and
386 ASTROLOGY
genuine complex; and, as In the case of Joseph Smith, the moral
earnestness of the man was a tremendous asset. Few would have
trusted the volcanic Luther alone, but nobody could have doubted
Melanchthon. Such men, in themselves often without initiative, are
the backbone, or perhaps the heart, of every great religious move-
ment. Woe to the man of brains who cannot find a man of heart to
back him !
And such again was William Blake, one of the truest and noblest
seers that England had produced up to that time. The conjunction
of the Sun and Mercury with Jupiter assures the intensity and fer-
vor of true faith, though the square of Mars inhibits a practical
propaganda. Neptune rising is, however, the dominant force in the
element of vision; the Jupiter complex affects the definitely reli-
gious connection with the vision. Saturn being in opposition to Nep-
tune gives greater importance still to Jupiter, because the selfish in-
stinct is repressed and spiritualized, thus leaving the expansive
qualities to develop at will.
It is doubtful if any of the signs promise more favorably for
Jupiter's influence upon financial prosperity than does Sagittarius.
Its natives seldom hold subordinate positions, being natural finan-
ciers ; they are fortunate as directors or managers of large enter-
prises. It gives a generous disposition and brings honor and esteem
not only from friends but even from enemies.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter in
the sign Sagittarius :
Arthur Brisbane
Stanford White
James Montgomery Flagg
John D. Spreckels
Gifford Pinchot
Senator Borah
August Belmont
Senator Aldrich
E. H. Fallows
John Drew
Charles G. Dawes
JUPITER IN CAPRICORN 387
Hudson Maxim
Charles E. Mitchell
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of RaphaePs
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Sagittarius are as
follows :
JUPITER IN CAPRICORN
JTTPITEB being in his fall in Capricorn, the earthy qualities of
the sign detract from the buoyancy and good humor of the planet
and tend to "freeze the genial currents of the soul." The mind is
more serious and less hopeful than is usual with Jupiter ; and, while
the position may incline the nature to philosophy and contemp-
plative learning, the religious instincts, though serious, are not al-
ways orthodox. Jupiter badly aspected may become the demon of
debauch. This is evidently the case with Michael Angelo and Oscar
Wilde, in both of which cases the legend of Ganymede may be re-
membered.
Wilde's Jupiter is squared by the Sun, which is apt to make its
influence loose and gross, and the trine of Uranus and sextile of
Neptune can give no counterbalance to such impulses, for these
rather tend to accentuate so-called perversions. Jupiter, too, is in
388 ASTROLOGY
the house of pleasures, allowing the full development of the sensual
side of his nature; and we have seen that Venus in Libra tends to
strange refinements of the sex life. It is, taking it altogether, a most
unfortunate position. Michael Angelo, though "immoral" in just
the same way as Wilde, has Mercury and Venus sextile to Jupiter on
one side and the Moon and Uranus on the other. But the opposition
of Saturn steadies this combination and Jupiter is in the eleventh
house which does not allow such loose rein to these impulses as the
fifth house.
We have one great visionary, Swedenborg, with this position of
Jupiter, and the material character of his visions is no doubt due
to this. No man ever went so far in bringing angels to earth; his
heaven is as objective as that of the orthodox Christian; indeed,
more so, because it is more detailed. No man was ever less mystic in
the true sense of the word, or held together more firmly the bonds
of spirit and matter. Uranus, in conjunction with the Moon, is trine
to Jupiter ; and here the Moon stands for materiality, while Uranus
gives the illumination and the originality. A touch of the fleshly
may be conferred by Venus rising twelve degrees above Jupiter,
who, as the Lord of the Ascendant, is certainly the key of the com-
plex.
It is extremely interesting to observe through such cases, how, in
every complex, the key dominates the entire configuration on the
large scale, and yet how every single aspect insists upon achieving
its own special signification. The position gives a curiously para-
doxical combination of economy and extravagance; the native be-
ing apt to be parsimonious in small matters and to spend liberally
in large amounts. Many successful merchants and manufacturers
are found with this position; and, of course Capricorn endows
Jupiter with fortunate influences in any occupation connected with
the earth.
The following well known persons were also born with Jupiter
in the sign of Capricorn :
Andrew Mellon
Ramsay MacDonald
Charlie Chaplin
Camille M. Flammarion
JUPITER IN AQUARIUS 389
Prof. J. H. Hyslop
DeLancey Nicoll
Francis Wilson
Rudyard Kipling
Bolton Hall
Will Levington Comfort
Edith Cavell
Gelett Burgess
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Capricorn are as
follows :
From December 18th 1841 through January 4th, 1843
December 2nd 1853 " December 18th 1854
November 15th 1865 "
April llth 1866
June 29th 1866 " November 29th 1866
March 1st " June 9th 1877
October 26th 1877 " March 14th 1878
August 12th " November 3rd 1878
February 6th "
July 23rd 1889
September 26th 1889 "
February 22nd 1890
January 19th 1901 "
February 6th 1902
January 3rd 1913 "
January 21st 1914
December 18th 1924 "
January 5th 1926
JUPITER IN AQUARIUS
THE Uranian qualities of Aquarius are rather helpful in steadying
Jupiter against the tendency to laxity, which we have seen is his
chief danger. His religious side is, however, not strongly developed,
though there may be a tendency to uncommon religious beliefs of
a mystical or occult nature. In general, however, political astute-
ness is far more to the front in Jupiter's activity, as is witnessed by
Queen Victoria and Caesar Borgia, whose careers, despite the dif-
ference of their eras, are not altogether unlike. The sextile of Mars
390 ASTROLOGY
from Aries assures the efficiency of Victorians Jupiter ; he culminates
in the tenth house, and there is no trace of any aspect from a planet
to disturb his political bent. The real character of Caesar Borgia is
not altogether unlovable. The Sun is trine to Jupiter,, making him
open and scornful of meanness, but Mars and Saturn in conjunc-
tion oppose Jupiter, and these aspects doubtless brought his ulti-
mate ruin.
Another interesting comparison is in George Eliot and John
Ruskin. The same coldness is apparent in both. In the former, a
sextile of Venus to Jupiter tends to loosen the conventional ties, and
the opposition of Mars must have been a great handicap. But in this
complex, Mars, as Lord of the Ascendant, is the important factor,
especially as he is near the cusp of the Mid-heaven, and Jupiter is
in a subordinate position. John Ruskin's Jupiter is seriously afflicted
by a conjunction of Mars and by the opposition of the Moon to
both these planets ; and, the Moon being in the sixth house, an actual
physical defect was apparently the cause of his physical incapacity.
But had Jupiter not been in zero of Aquarius, taking on some of
the coldness of Capricorn, the calamity of the aspects might not
have been so serious.
Coleridge's Jupiter was squared by Uranus and opposed by the
Moon; fortunately, however, the Sun is nearly trine. Observe how
each of these has its own peculiar effect. Jupiter, Lord of the As-
cendant, is the key to the complex; and, as he is rising (though
rather low in the second house), the personality is altogether suf-
fused with expansive, generous, and noble religious instincts. But
Uranus makes his character rather original (to our profit, indeed,
though to the poet's own material detriment) and turns it into un-
usual channels. The weird horror of the one great poem and the
two fragments by which he lives in literature are admirably sug-
gested by this aspect plus the Lunar opposition. The trine of the
Sun is yet deeper and more personal; it is the undertow of his
thought to love all. Hence all the fantastic and gruesome imagery
of the Ancient Mariner only decorates the simple truth :
"He prayeth best, who loveth best,
All things both great and small."
It is a noble, unfortunate complex, highly instructive to the student,
JUPITER IN AQUARIUS 391
and it operates on every plane. Jupiter afflicted by Uranus in the
house of pleasure squared by the Moon could only mean, on the
physical side, addiction to drugs.
Immanuel Kant, on the contrary, has a powerful Jupiter in the
tenth house ; the Sun and Mercury are square, and Saturn is semi-
sextile. This is all very well balanced. The trine of the Sun and
Mercury to Saturn is, however, more important in itself than any
Jupiter aspect, and it is only the strong position of the latter planet
that gives him enough influence to make the religious side of the
nature of real importance.
Jupiter in Aquarius gives to the native sincere friends who bring
both benefit and pleasures. It strengthens the intuition, inclines to
originality in ideas, and favors the acquirement and development
of almost any of the higher mental qualities. It gives little love for
money as such, and great sensitiveness to the material needs of
others. Its natives develop as physicians, lecturers, teachers and pro-
moters of large schemes, especially when they are of a philanthropic
kind.
The following well-known persons were also born with Jupiter
in the sign Aquarius :
Eugene V. Debs
Dr. Richard Hodgson
Joseph W. Harriman
Otto Kahn
Joseph E. Otis
Dean Cornwell
Gutzon Borglum
George Eliot
Jackie Coogan
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Aquarius are as
follows :
From January 5th 1843 through January 16th
December 19th 1854 "
May llth 1855
August 3rd " December 27th 1855
From April 12th
November 30th
September 16th
March 15th
November 4th
February 23rd
February 7th
January 22nd
January 6th
ASTROLOGY
through June
1866
1878
1890
1902
1914
1926
April
November
August
March
March
February
February
January
28th 1866
14th 1867
30th 1867
llth 1878
25th 1879
7th 1891
19th 1903
3rd 1915
17th 1927
JUPITER IN PISCES
IN Pisces, Jupiter is strong, and the passive, receptive, somewhat
psychic character of the sign enables the religious element in Jupi-
ter to develop to its fullest extent, though in a quite unconventional
and mystical manner. For example, in the case of Colonel Olcott, a
sextile of Neptune is Jupiter's only important aspect ; this, perhaps,
led him to Theosophy rather than to Presbyterianism. Savonarola,
with the trine of Uranus to Jupiter, is very dominant and construc-
tive. Neptune is in opposition within four degrees, giving intense
mysticism to the religious spirit. This is, however, far from the
strongest complex of his figure.
Tom Mann, the socialist agitator, has this position of Jupiter.
Apart from near conjunctions of Venus and Neptune, there is no
aid, and Saturn is square. It is a bad and selfish as well as a weak
and untrustworthy complex.
We have, however, three really great men with this position. Each
has the true religious feeling; yet, in each case, it is somewhat
masked by the scientific spirit. Herbert Spencer, for example, has
no aspects to Jupiter but the sextile of the Sun, the semi-sextile of
Mercury and square of Venus. It is by far the weakest of his three
great complexes. Goethe has Neptune trine to Jupiter; hence the
mystical tinge in his religious thought, and Venus is in opposition.
Saturn rising is within ten degrees of making a triple trine with
the two former planets, and adds a much-to-be desired severity to
the mind. The Venus aspect here only insists on beauty of form, and
no doubt determined him as primarily a poet. Sir Isaac Newton
JUPITER IN PISCES 393
has Saturn conjoined to Jupiter, lending wisdom and austerity to
his religious conceptions, while the Sun is sextile, illuminating the
vision and balancing by his warmth the coldness of Saturn. Uranus,
moreover, is trine, giving originality and freedom to the idea. It is
an altogether admirable combination, one of the finest that we have
had to consider.
Jupiter in Pisces indicates travel, principally by water, and
brings good fortune through occupations ruled by Neptune. It in-
clines the disposition to be kind, quiet and unassuming. It develops
the social instincts, but is apt to leave the native rather easy going
and unambitious, unless the planet is well-dignified.
The following well-known persons were also born with Jupiter
in the sign Pisces :
Stanley Baldwin
J. P. Morgan
H. Rider Haggard
Bishop Greer
Elbert Hubbard
Ellen Terry
Robert Goelet
Abraham Lincoln
Ethel Barrymore
Stanley Baldwin
William Faversham
President Lowell of Harvard.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Jupiter is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
From January 17th through June 2nd 1844
September 14th 1844 "
January 19th 1845
May 12th
"
August 2nd 1855
December 28th 1855 May 8th 1856
November 4th
" December 14th 1856
April 15th "
September 15th 1867
December 1st 1867
"
April 19th 1868
THE EFFECTS OF JUPITER ON VOCATION
IN the days when a man was either a lord or a serf, a knight or an
innkeeper, it was comparatively easy to determine with exactness a
man's vocation. In modern days, however, there are thousands of
different and characteristic types of employment. While Jupiter is
the key to the type of work which may bring a man money or profit,
it does not necessarily follow that it is the kind of vocation for
which he has the greatest inclination. Too often, indeed, his inclina-
tion is not that for which he is best adapted, or it is incompatible
with his environment and education. On the other hand, an accurate
observer may often see a person with distinct abilities for a certain
type of work, and yet he recognizes that, for some other reason, he
had an inability to make a success of that work.
For example, those born with Jupiter in Aries are seldom con-
tented and happy unless they can be in a type of work where leader-
ship, personal self-assertiveness, and pioneering are necessary to
success. Those with Jupiter in Aries are never contented with a
routine job, or one in which their personalities are constantly sub-
jected to others.
These people have ability in managing large enterprises or or-
ganizations, and have a desire to be at the head of any undertaking
in which they may be engaged. They find it necessary, however, to
guard against giving the impression that they are over-confident
and that their ideas are not practical. Men active in politics, club
or organization work, and those who meet with success in military
life, or in any business connected with fire, railroads, or machinery,
are born with Jupiter in Aries. Even if not personally interested
in these undertakings, investments in them should yield good re-
turns. People born between March 21st and April 21st, July 21st
THE EFFECTS OF JUPITER ON VOCATION 395
and August 21st, and November 21st and December 21st prove for-
tunate to those having Jupiter in this sign in a business way, and
undertakings which lead up to them at these times in any year will
stand a good chance of succeeding, or may prove to be connecting
links to more important things later on.
Those born with Jupiter in Taurus require a kind of work where
constructiveness, systematic building, and a certain amount of rou-
tine bring success. Even though the mind may be radical in interest
aoid advanced in thought., the method of procedure will be one of
careful and conservative action.
These people are natural builders ; but it largely depends upon
circumstances whether they use their constructive force in erecting
a skyscraper, in running a ranch, in opening a new mine, in build-
ing a factory, or establishing a rundown business on a paying basis.
As Taurus rules the throat, Jupiter in this sign often gives one a
sympathetic speaking or singing voice. It is interesting to note that
Jupiter was in this sign in the horoscopes of Sarah Bernhardt and
Geraldine Farrar. Women having Jupiter in Taurus make natural
home builders, devoted mothers, and are successful as interior dec-
orators or in activities with or for children.
People born between December 21st and January 21st, April 21st
and May 21st, and August 21st and September 21st, prove for-
tunate in a business way to those having Jupiter in this sign ; and
undertakings, which lead up to them at these times in any year, will
stand a good chance of succeeding or prove to be connecting links
to greater things later on. Landed property will prove to be one
of their safest forms of investment.
Those born with Jupiter in Gemini will have a natural desire
to make money through some professional, diplomatic or mental
pursuit. Seldom will any form of manual labor be agreeable. Bril-
liance takes the place of routine, and any routine task will be ob-
noxious. Patience and persistence are not characteristic virtues of
this type.
Many bankers, brokers, promoters, lawyers, diplomats, public
speakers, actors, artistic and professional men have been born with
Jupiter in Gemini. These people should guard against allowing
their interests to be too much divided, although their Jupiter being
in Gemini often makes them successful in two different enterprises
S96 ASTROLOGY
at the same time. They should guard against going into new ven-
tures before looking into them most carefully, as they naturally
attract schemers. These people have an ability to get their own way,
without arousing opposition, which amounts almost to a gift.
The cut-and-dried business man, unless he is very polished, does
not appeal to the average woman having Jupiter in this sign.
People born between January 21st and February 21st, May
21st and June 21st, and September 21st and October 21st will prove
fortunate in a business way to those having Jupiter in this sign ;
and undertakings which lead up to them at these times in any year
will stand a good chance of succeeding or will prove to be con-
necting links to more important things later on.
People born with Jupiter in Cancer have a splendid sense of the
practical and natural values of life. The disposition allows for a
wider range of vocation, but not for any wider attitude toward the
work at hand. Some of our most successful politicians, manufac-
turers, wholesale merchants, chemists or men interested in shipping
or other enterprises connected with liquids, have Jupiter placed in
Cancer. It often causes them to deal with something that is used
in the home or on the persons and gives excellent aptitude for mak-
ing money, as well as the ability to accumulate it, although they
are often too conservative in business, frequently missing oppor-
tunities through too great caution. It makes one a gracious host and
a liberal provider for the home.
Women having Jupiter in this sign frequently marry men in
public life. They make excellent nurses, meet with success in do-
mestic science or in the care of children and the home, also in work
connected with food.
People born between February 21st and March 21st, June 21st
and July 21st, and October 21st and November 21st, will prove
fortunate in a business way to those having Jupiter in this sign,
and undertakings which lead up to them at these times in any year
will stand a good chance of succeeding or will prove to be connect-
ing links to more important things later on.
Those born with Jupiter in Leo find any phase of work which
requires subjection irksome and difficult. Such a nature could not
possibly be happy in being a personal servant or a clerk behind the
counter. He would be in perpetual revolt, and only those phases
THE EFFECTS OF JUPITER ON VOCATION 397
of work where some opportunity for command is possible, interest
these personalities. Many officers of banks, directors and superin-
tendents of important enterprises, captains of industry, and heads
of departments are born with Jupiter in Leo. If circumstances over
which these people have no control force them to fill inferior posi-
tions, they will not only find it almost impossible to adapt them-
selves to conditions, but they will be in danger of stirring the jeal-
ousy or enmity of their superiors. Furthermore, if they are in a
subordinate position they may never know their latent possibil-
ities; for until there is something great at stake, they will not be
stirred to do their best and the powers lying dormant will not come
to the surface.
People with Jupiter in Leo should look into any opportunities
which lead up to them between March 21st and April 21st, July
21st and August 21st, and November 21st and December 21st of
any year; even though they may not seem important, they may
prove to be, directly or indirectly, stepping stones to greater things
later on. These would also be propitious times to inaugurate new
ventures, or for extending their business activities. People born at
these periods in any year may be in a position to benefit them, or,
because of their disposition or temperament, may bring to the sur-
face their most desirable side.
Those born with Jupiter in this sign have many generous im-
pulses and inspire confidence in people of wealth or power; they
naturally attract and enjoy much good fortune, provided they
make use of their opportunities. They must, however, guard against
going to extremes in the expenditure of money, particularly on
friends or those they love.
Those born with Jupiter in Virgo are exceedingly systematic;
and, when they have this position, can carry on, with great force
and precision, any phase of routine task which requires detail and
persistence. They have pronounced technical command. They have
two fields of activity open to them. Some of our most successful
literary men, accountants, secretaries and teachers, as well as suc-
cessful manufacturers, builders, miners, foresters, biologists and
agriculturists were born with Jupiter in this sign.
Women having Jupiter in Virgo are successful in business life,
or as librarians, private secretaries, teachers or in any position where
398 ASTROLOGY
practical, analytical, critical or constructive faculties are required.
The natural tendency to be constructive makes both men and women
judicious in the expenditure of money, regardless of the income,
and gives them a dislike for undue extravagance or waste. They
make wise buyers.
People with Jupiter in Virgo should look into any opportunities
which may lead up to them between December 20th and January
20th, April 20th and May 20th, August 20th and September 20th;
for, even though these opportunities may not appear vital at the
time, they may prove connecting links to greater things later on.
People born at these times will usually prove fortunate to them in
a worldly way. They would do well to consider, as investments, real
estate, mining property, manufacturing enterprises, or mortgages.
Those born with Jupiter in Libra show a type of vocational in-
terest where breadth of concept or even balance of judgment is of
supreme worth. It is a position of such sensitiveness that rough,
manual tasks or the stress of war would be most irksome. There is
that type of personal balance and discrimination which might make
the native a jeweler, a painter or a judge, but he could not be a
butcher or a general. It gives a keen sense of justice and the ability
to come to fair and just conclusions, even though adverse to their
own personal interests. In fact, these people often show better judg-
ment in the management of money belonging to others than in the
management of their own, particularly if connected with specula-
tion. For this reason, unless circumstances seem very favorable, it
would be well for them to be a part of a large organization or have
a partner who has qualities which complement their own, rather
than to be in business for themselves. Some of our most successful
lawyers, judges, bankers, brokers, engineers, architects, electri-
cians, as well as artists, are born with Jupiter in Libra. Therefore,
any of the above professions or lines of business would prove more
agreeable as a calling than anything purely commercial. If forced
into the commercial world, they will feel dissatisfied, even though
they meet with financial success. If they choose a hobby or an avo-
cation, this will help to make their life seem more nearly complete.
It would be well for those having Jupiter in Libra to look into
opportunities which lead up to them from January 20th to
February 20th, May 20th to June 20th, and September 20th to
THE EFFECTS OF JUPITER ON VOCATION 309
October 20th ; for, although they may not appear to be of vital Im-
portance at the time, they may prove to be connecting links to more
important things later on. These would also be propitious times for
making greater effort to advance their interests, to increase their
business, or for adjusting misunderstandings. Even though adverse
aspects are operating in any particular year, these periods will
usually bring some favorable conditions or assist them in taking an
attitude which will help to mitigate whatever may be threatened.
People born during the above mentioned dates may, in some way5
contribute toward their financial interests.
Those born with Jupiter in Scorpio would be well qualified for a
general or for anyone like, let us say, a detective ; they are interested
in all subtle, secret and exact forms of activity. They would not
delight in an open, jolly, offhand type of work, such as travelling
salesmanship. These people are very tenacious in the attainment of
their desires and ambitions, whether they be for power in the finan-
cial, artistic, or social world. They have a great sense of self-protec-
tion, but must guard against being too self-absorbed. Scorpio is the
sign of great extremes, and can either make one very spiritual and
unselfish or very material. It is, therefore, necessary that those who
have Jupiter so placed live up to their best, as well as to the letter
of the law. Many successful critics, musicians, chemists, and those
engaged in mechanical pursuits, as well as officials in large organi-
zations, have Jupiter in Scorpio.
Women with Jupiter in this sign often make magnetic healers,
nurses, masseuses and dentists, or attendants in physicians
5
offices.
It would be well for these people to look into opportunities which
lead up to them, from February 20th to March 20th, June 20th to
July 20th, and October 20th to November 20th; people born be-
tween these times are likely to benefit them in a business way.
Those born with Jupiter in Sagittarius would find sympathetic
any sphere of work where clear, penetrating, intellectual precision
would produce essential success. A mere social task or emotional
occupation, or a material routine kind of work would prove dis-
tasteful. These people are natural financiers, and if in a subordinate
position, or if forced to deal in small figures, will never get the full
benefit of their "luck." It is so much a part of their destiny to have
money and to do everything in a princely way, that, if they force
400 ASTROLOGY
themselves to economize and to save the pennies, they will so change
their nature that they will cut themselves off from what would
otherwise come to them. Jupiter in this position frequently brings
money, through inheritance, and because people of influence, wealth
and power have confidence in the judgment of those who have it so
placed. These people just naturally attract much good fortune, and,
unless they neglect opportunities, they will meet with unusual
success and be a power in their world.
They should look into any opportunities which lead up to them
between March 21st and April 21st, July 21st and August 21st,
November 21st and December 21st; even though they may not seem
important, they may prove to be, directly or indirectly, stepping
stones to greater things later on. These would also be propitious
times for adjusting any difficulties, or for asking favors. People
born at these periods will be in a position to benefit them, or, because
of their disposition or temperament, may bring to the surface their
most desirable side and have a cheering influence over them.
Women with Jupiter in this sign are rarely forced to be self-sup-
porting, but, if desirous of earning money, they can be successful in
some enterprise of their own, or as advisors, directors, and financial
managers.
Those born with Jupiter in Capricorn have an enormous capacity
for detail and routine and are conscientious plodders. They make
successful manufacturers, wholesale clothiers, builders, real estate
dealers, miners, agriculturists and foresters.
They should look into any opportunities which lead up to them
between April 20th and May 20th, from August 20th to September
20th, and from December 20th to January 20th. These would be
propitious times to adjust any business difficulties or for asking
favors. People born at these periods of any year are likely to be in a
position to benefit them ; or, because of their disposition or tempera-
ment, they may cooperate sympathetically and have an altogether
cheering influence over them.
Those born with Jupiter in Aquarius enjoy all phases of work
relating to human beings. It is a splendid position for diplomats,
labor leaders, psychologists, sociologists, and for those types of
business men or women who handle many employees. In a business
way, these people often prove more fortunate to others than to them-
THE EFFECTS OF JUPITER ON VOCATION 401
selves, and for this reason they should hesitate before assuming the
responsibility of conducting a business of their own ; they would do
better by being the part of a large organization or in an advisory
capacity. If they are following a profession, they would do well to
have a competent secretary who will look after the financial end in a
businesslike manner ; otherwise, because of their leniency, they are
likely to suffer from delinquent accounts or from attracting too
many clients who take advantage of their humanitarianism. Many
competent physicians, architects, inventors, bankers, brokers, am-
bassadors, statesmen, lecturers and teachers, as well as promoters of
big schemes, particularly of a philanthropic kind, or where the ob-
ject is to improve the general condition of the masses, have Jupiter
thus placed. They are often bored by ordinary commercial business ;
and, if forced into this channel, they should also have a hobby or
other interest, in order that their life may be complete.
They should look into any opportunities which lead up to them
between January 20th and February 20th, May 20th and June
20th, and September 20th and October 20th of any year. These
would also be propitious times to adjust any difficulties or for ask-
ing favors. People born at these periods may be in a position to
benefit them, or because of their encouraging disposition, may bring
to the surface their most desirable side and have a very beneficial
influence over them.
Those born with Jupiter in Pisces would be bored if obliged to
confine their efforts to any mere intellectual type of work ; emotion,
human association, drama and responsiveness must enter into the
vocational interests. Because of their ability to cooperate with their
associates, they succeed when connected with large manufacturing
concerns; they are also successful in a business connected with
steamship companies, waterways or those concerned with liquids.
Those engaged in research work for the benefit of humanity, secre-
tarial workers, teachers, orators, dramatists, actors and dancers are
frequently born with Jupiter in this sign.
They should look into any opportunities which lead up to them
between February 20th and March 20th, June 20th and July 20th,
and October 20th and November 20th. These would also be favorable
periods for them to adjust any business difficulties or for approach-
ing those who can advance their interests. People born at these times
402 ASTROLOGY
should play a constructive part in their lives in a business way.
It must be borne in mind, naturally, that there are many modify-
ing factors which should be taken into consideration when determin-
ing the type of vocation which is most favorable to the native. But
the position of Jupiter is to be looked for as the prime influence in
the native's capacity for making money.
As an example, the Sun favors positions of authority, responsi-
bility and dignity, and those born strongly under Leo, which is ruled
by the Sun, or where the Sun is the dominating influence in the hor-
oscope, would naturally be enabled to hold such positions.
The Moon, which governs the masses and the public and brings
about journeys and much travelling, is fortunate for politicians,
the heads of clubs, travelling salesmen, sailors, fishermen, dealers in
liquids, nurses, employment in connection with children, dressmakers
and general tradesmen. Those born strongly under the sign Cancer,
which is ruled by the Moon, or where the Moon is the dominating
influence in the horoscope, could fill any of the above positions
admirably.
Mercury is fortunate for journalists, orators, lawyers, account-
ants, school teachers, secretaries, messengers, letter carriers, book
dealers. Those born strongly under either Gemini or Virgo, or where
Mercury is the dominating influence in the horoscope, could be suc-
cessful in any of the above employments.
Venus is favorable for musicians, painters, singers, dancers, poets,
actors, toymakers, florists, beauty specialists, stylists and apparel
designers, and domestic servants. Those born strongly under the
signs Taurus and Libra, or who have Venus as the dominating in-
fluence in the horoscope, could show aptitude for any of the above
mentioned vocations.
Mars favors military men, surgeons, dentists, chemists, workers
with metals, especially iron and steel, engineers, railroad men, trades
which use sharp tools, including barbers ; people born strongly under
Aries and Scorpio, or who have Mars as the dominating influence in
the horoscope, could fill any of the above professions or employments
successfully.
Jupiter is propitious for senators, judges, ministers, deaconesses,
bankers, philanthropists, financiers, and the financial heads of any
business. Those born strongly under Sagittarius, or who
SATURN SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 403
Jupiter as the dominating influence in the horoscope, could be suc-
cessful in any of the above.
Saturn favors earthy occupations, builders, real estate dealers,
farmers, landscape gardeners, geologists, miners, foresters ; it is also
propitious for jailors, undertakers and night watchmen. Those born
strongly under Capricorn, or who have Saturn as the dominating
influence in the horoscope, could easily attain success in any of the
above mentioned employments.
Uranus is favorable for government officials, astrologers, psycho-
analysts, psychologists, mesmerists, metaphysicians, scientists, in-
ventors, lecturers, explorers, aviators, radio operators, and elec-
tricians. People born strongly under Aquarius, or where Uranus is
the dominating planet in the horoscope, would be attracted by, or
could be successful in, any of the above vocations.
Neptune favors philosophers, occultists, magicians, inspiration-
alists, artistic and literary geniuses, and occupations in connection
with water and ether. Those born strongly under Pisces, or where
Neptune is the dominating influence in the horoscope, would be at-
tracted by, or could attain success in, any of the above mentioned
callings.
SATURN SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
CHBONOS, or Saturn, is called the eldest of the gods, that is, of those
who are known upon earth. When Saturn ruled the earth, it was the
age of gold. In Parsifal, Saturn is Titurel, the holy primaeval king,
in whose day all went well. But age has withered him. Jupiter, the
only child of his that he did not devour, has tricked him of his
throne. Now, this golden age is the age of agriculture unfettered,
the patriarchal age of Abraham. There was no pressure from with-
out or from within. Mankind lived freely and easily. Love had no
after taste of bitterness, and death itself was, indeed, the twin,
brother of sleep.
But Time, devouring his children, has also eaten into his own
bones. Jupiter being crowned, Saturn becomes a "back number."
He is no longer thought of as the clement king, but as the old man,
envious of his juniors. It is chiefly this aspect which we see in the
404 ASTROLOGY
planet called after him. Saturn represents agriculture, indeed, but
from the point of view of the townsman; the work seems coarse,
heavy, laborious, and dull. And he has all the vices of age, as well
as its disabilities.
Man may be master of life and of death if he will. To the worker
in the fields of the intelligence, the farmer of mind, the harvest
grows continually. Saturn is once again the golden god. The brain
of the brain worker improves constantly until the age of sixty, and
even then retains its vigor until the end. Such old men we often see.
Instead of the vices and infirmities of age, they have consolidated
virtues, conserved strength. Dignity and austerity crown and cloak
them. They are simple, strenuous and lofty-minded. Even if they are
of solitary habit, they are kind. The purpose of their lives has
crystallized ; and, because they have desired only the infinite, satiety
does not touch them. Life is to them a religion of which they are the
priests, an eternal sacrament of which perhaps the ecstasy is dulled,
but which they consume with ever-increasing reverence. Joy and
sorrow have been balanced, and the tale thereof is holy calm. They
know that peace of God which passeth all understanding.
The commoner aspect of Saturn, however, is this: the malicious
oldster, envious of youth, hating life because he has failed to live it
according to the law of righteousness. His will-power is merely
obstinacy, opposition to reform, failure to accomodate himself to
changed conditions, the conservatism of the hardened brain. He
feels his waning powers and tries to receive to receive, when all his
sensibility is gone! Feeling himself impotent, he vents his toothless
rage upon the young. Unhappy himself, he seeks to make others
wretched. Sordid and heartless, he sneers at enthusiasm and gener-
osity. Weary of life, he thinks life holds no joy.
And so, unless Saturn be dignified nobly the best of all his
dignities is illumination by the Sun he represents malefic force.
Cold, hostile, merciless, bitterly calculating life in terms of his own
disaster, he blights all that he gazes on. He is the curse of disap-
pointment, not of anger. He freezes the water-springs; he is the
dry-rot and the death of the ungodly. He looks upon the Sun,
despairs ; in cynic bitterness his draught is brewed, and he drinks it,
wishing it were poison. His breath withers up love; his word is
malediction.
SATURN IN ARIES 405
Happy are we, if we escape his fatal influence ! But in each one
of us this principle exists ; it is the most unescapable of all our fates.
On us, on our wisdom and our vitality, the burden lies, how we will
live so that our old age may be beautiful. There is no token of the
triumph of life like a noble close to it; no proof of our salvation
like the love borne us by the young when we have hailed the bark of
Charon from afar. Let us see to it that our age
"Is as lusty winter,
Frosty but kindly."
"Be humble, if thou wouldst obtain wisdom
Be humbler still, when wisdom thou hast gained."
SATURN IN ARIES
HERE we find the planet in his fall; it is in many ways the most
unfavorable position for him. It is not that the martial disposition
of the sign is so unfavorable ; but Aries is the sign par excellence of
initiative, and to find delay in that which is essentially of prompt
decision is fatal. The Sun, too, being exalted in Aries, can hardly
rejoice to find his brilliance usurped by the dull planet, his joy re-
placed by that leaden melancholy. However, Saturn is obstinate
enough, and when in this sign, he appears to mean that the will is
working under great disadvantages ; it represents persistent
struggle against overwhelming obstacles. It means usually patience;
but if success comes to the native, it can only be at the end of the
journey, and that with pain and sorrow. There seems no right
adaptation possible of the means available to his end the native is
indeed a round peg in a square hole. He must take courage that all
experience is for the good of the soul, and so miss no spiritual profit.
Circumstances prove usually too much for the sturdiness of the
personality. Even those who achieve greatness are likely to miss
full measure, because Fate seems to say "thus far and no further."
An example of such restriction to effort is Philip Bourke Mars-
ton's blindness. His Moon, one of the "lights," is in Scorpio, in
opposition to Uranus, which is only 9 degrees from Saturn. The
406 ASTROLOGY
Rising Sun is in trine to Saturn, and Marston seems to have made
splendid use of the Sun's reinforcement and found strength to make
headway against his misfortune. His case seems especially one
caused by the soul's election of special discipline for the unfavor-
able aspect of Luna indicates calamity beyond prevention,
The world will not soon forget Robert Louis Stevenson's heroic
cheer and industry under the lash and inescapable grind of physical
suffering. What might his pen have wrought unhampered ! Yet the
discipline and "trying out" of his fine soul counts on the side of
eternal profit and, though the physical man could not surmount the
affliction of ill-health, and an early death cut short his effort, yet
his courage and cheer were never dimmed, and "pity" must hesitate
to judge. Saturn rising, afflicted by the opposition of Jupiter, and
the Sun in conjunction with Mars, and Neptune rising in con-
junction with Luna indicate his test. Who shall compute or deny his
eternal profit?
The limiting power of Saturn in Aries worked out similarly
through the ill health that handicapped Herbert Spencer. Here,
however, is a formidable personality and a will capable of over-
coming anything and everything ; although a persistent invalid, he
not only accomplished his gigantic task, but lived to great age.
Uranus and Neptune are rising in conjunction ; the Moon and Sun
in opposition and squared by Mars is unfortunate, but Saturn,
semi-sextile to Sol and trine to Mars, influences baleful but
strengthening balance. The Will of the man tips the scales, and the
Will of Spencer pulled with Neptune and Uranus, and set patience,
courage and concentrated industry in the balance. Materially, he
"beat" fate with success. But who shall compute his greater riches,
won under the discipline of his Saturn in Aries?
Sir Richard Burton's obstacle is external. His ill-health was
caught in the jungles. His Moon is directly opposed by his Saturn
in Aries, which is conjoined with Mercury, lord of the house of his
friends. Jupiter too is with Saturn. Burton displays indomitable
courage, yet cannot counteract the limitation of his Moon. His
walls of success fall as fast as he lays the stones.
The Saturn of Erasmus spoke limitation from Aries, though
enlightened by Uranus, opposite in fair Libra. We find Erasmus
foremost scholar of his time, and his limitation represented by that
SATURN IN ARIES 407
time. Patient, persevering, indomitable, lie seems to have laid hold
upon the steadfastness of Saturn and accomplished the utmost pos-
sible but the bar could not be lifted.
Inescapable limitation is manifested curiously in the career of
Rosa Bonheur, whose sex shacldes her. Sturdily she laid hold of all
that Saturn trined by Mars could give. She never faltered in pur-
pose and we know the splendid measure of her success.
Guy de Maupassant succumbs to the forces of his own emotional
nature. His Venus is rising in conjunction with Mars and Jupiter.
This is the test that seems dictated by Saturn in Aries and de
Maupassant seemed unable to lay hold on any reinforcement to his
will. Lamentable indeed was the climax of that most brilliant and
most unfortunate life !
We end the series with Charles Baudelaire. Saturn is in con-
junction with the Sun; Mercury, Venus, Mars and Jupiter are all
approaching them. Obstacle and limitation and powers of oppo-
sition ! And also an array of strengthening influences to equip him
in the fight to which the soul is called. All these planets, however,
are in the eighth house the house of death. His preoccupation was
ever with death and the appurtenances and ornaments of death. His
Uranus and Neptune are conjoined exactly in the fourth house,
inviting an inner solemnity to the soul.
The poet walks in his garden of cypress, and tends his monkshood,
his nightshade, and his vervain darkness and sorrow his limitation !
Not for him the blossoms of the May, nor the rose-bowers of happier
though not holier bards! The edict of Saturn in Aries is ful-
filled.
From all the cases cited it appears that Saturn in Aries tends to
bring the native prominently forward in his own sphere of activity ;
he has ambition, is diplomatic, though somewhat distrustful, and has
self-confidence, though he may be austere and a lover of retirement.
With many acquaintances, he has few intimates, and there may be
traces of selfishness and sometimes great irritability. One of the
greatest limitations imposed by Saturn in Aries is upon the physical
health. Such material success as may be obtained is likely to be
through the relations with the public.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in the
sign Aries :
408 ASTROLOGY
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland
Lord Kitchener
General Joffre
Guy de Maupassant
George Washington
Mary Baker Eddy
King Ludwig II of Bavaria
Ethel Barrymore
Perry Belmont
George M. Cohan
Cecil de Mille
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Aries are as follows :
From April
November
May
February
March
December
May
February
October
V
4th 1849 through June 3rd 1851
5th 1851 "
February 22nd 1852
15th 1878 "
September 15th 1878
6th 1879 "
April 5th 1881
19th 1908 "
May 16th 1910
15th 1910
"
January 19th 1911
October 1937
1938 " June 1939
1939 " March 1940
SATURN IN TAURUS \
IN Taurus the heaviness of Saturn is accentuated by that of the
sign, and so his obstinacy, pertinacity and dullness are accentuated.
But as all this makes for steadiness, the moral character is firm and
capable of overcoming obstacles by sheer determination; while, on
the other hand, those obstacles themselves are not apt to be par-
ticularly violent. So we shall expect to find natives with the capacity
to push steadfastly forward, and to conquer.
One of the weakest examples of this position is given by Shelley,
whose Saturn, being in only two degrees of Taurus, retains perhaps
SATURN IN TAURUS 409
some portion of the Aries qualities. It is just at the Nadir, and has
no support of any kind from any other planet, and is indeed in
opposition to Neptune. Hence we see in Shelley, a moral instability,
which is contrary to the general nature of Saturn in Taurus ; fine
aspirations given by the Sun, Venus and Uranus in conjunction
without the power to fully coordinate them or cause them to cohere ;
impatience and frivolity indicated by Mars and Neptune in con-
junction with Jupiter from the effects of which an iron and in-
domitable resistance would have saved him.
The nativities of three great conquerors present an utterly dif-
ferent picture. It was the military genius of Grant that turned the
fortunes of the Civil War, and Grant had Saturn rising on the cusp
of Taurus in conjunction with the Sun and Jupiter and trined by a
conjunction of Neptune and Uranus. An astrologer looking at this
horoscope might easily have predicted the famous words, "I propose
to fight it out on this line, if it takes all summer."
Similar doggedness is shown by Cecil Rhodes whose Saturn has
the sextile of Venus and is only ten degrees from the conjunction of
Mars. The figure is not so strong as Grant's, and one cannot be
surprised that he died saying "So much to do ; so little done." But
the patience and moral force of the man are not in doubt ; it was the
inertia of the Sun and Moon in Cancer that hindered him from more
complete success.
The third example is Alexander the Great. Here Saturn is sextile
to the Sun and trine to the Moon and Mars, an ideal disposition for
a great conqueror. Only the most concentrated patience and steadi-
ness of push could have carried him through into India; an expe-
dition, by the way, which would appear hopeless for a modern army
of any size, with all the advantages of railways. His name is still
known and honored throughout Persia and North India; his is an
example of Saturn in Taurus at his best.
Nor must we forget the extraordinary case of Jeanne d'Arc,
with her Saturn trined by Venus and Mars. Here we see a simple,
ignorant peasant girl, in days when even a born queen was seldom
more than a puppet, with the moral strength to shoulder the
burdens of a great kingdom in the very hour of its collapse, and
drive out the invader. And in her trial, how patiently and courte-
ously she withstood the infamous Bishop of Meaux, battling long
410 ASTROLOGY
months with no armor but her virtue against every engine that the
law of those tyrannous times could set in motion. This is a finer
Saturn than even that of Alexander.
Two of the most patient observers that science can claim are
Alfred Russell Wallace and Louis Pasteur. The Saturn of the
former is trined by Uranus and Neptune; but squared by Mars;
without that detriment he might have been as great as Huxley or
Darwin. Pasteur has no such trouble ; with the Sun, Uranus, Nep-
tune, Mercury and Venus, all in conjunction, trine to Saturn, it is
no wonder that he became the foremost of the men of science of
France. There could be no doubt or wavering in a Saturn so
brilliantly aspected.
In mundane affairs Saturn in Taurus is not very good for finan-
cial matters ; unless extremely well aspected, money comes slowly or
wastes away. The native, however, may somewhat counteract this
danger, since the same influence that begrudges his financial success
makes him careful and saving, sometimes indeed quite frugal. In
all cases there is apt to be some selfishness.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Taurus :
General French
Shelley
U. S. Grant
Edwin Markham
Dr. Felix Adler
August Belmont
Ray Long
Roy Howard
Frederick Collins
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Taurus are as follows :
From June 4th through November 4th 1851
February 23rd 1852 "
July 29th 1853
October 30th 1853 "
April 14th 1854
SATURN IN GEMINI 411
From April 6th 1881 through May 23rd 1883
May 17th 1910 " December 14th 1910
January 20th 1911 "
July 6th 1912
December 1st 1912 March 25th 1913
July 1939 "
September 1939
April 1940 May 1942
SATURN IN GEMINI
THE sign Gemini is altogether too airy to harmonize entirely with
Saturn ;
the only quality in common is the intellectuality. But the
intellectuality of Gemini is inspirational, rather like a child's ; while
that of Saturn is the wisdom of age and experience. When both
sign and planet are dignified, the combination is superb. In any case,
however, the native is out of the region of patient effort and
struggle ; with Saturn in Gemini the character of the action is re-
moved to the mental plane. A great example is that of Jesus of
Nazareth, who had Saturn in the ninth house, that of religion, with
a trine from Jupiter rising. Saturn, thus culminating, is by far the
most powerful planet in the figure, and accordingly rules the horo-
scope, especially as Venus, Lady of the Ascendant, makes very nearly
a trine to both Saturn and Jupiter. This triple trine describes very
accurately the teachings recorded as having been actually given out
by Jesus Himself.
With this chart may be compared that of Dante, with only a trine
of the Moon to assist Saturn, which is in the Ascendant. No aspect
from Jupiter or Venus mitigates the temperament of the mind, with
its trend toward melancholy ; he found solace only in dreams. How-
ever, this trine is sufficient to strengthen the character and make it
patient in its afflictions ; the scholarship and labor involved in his
"Divine Comedy," begun and completed while he ate the bitter bread
of exile, are hardly to be conceived, still less appreciated, in an age
like the present.
Another very great man with this position, equally sombre, is
Albrecht Diirer, whose "Melancholia" inspired James Thomson to
one of the greatest masterpieces of literature, "The City of Dreadful
Night." Diirer is one of the most austere and pure draughtsmen
412 ASTROLOGY
that ever took pencil in hand ; but the Sun and Mercury being in
conjunction with Saturn in the tenth house, the point of view is
broader and there is in him less pure melancholy than in Dante.
Sometimes Saturn may quite overpower Gemini, and give merely
a stubborn mind. Such is the case with "Oom Paul55
Krager, whose
Saturn, being squared by the Moon, has no trace of idealism. The
trine of the Sun adds great moral strength and pertinacity, and it
may be that the 150 degrees of Uranus helps to confer great
shrewdness. In any case there is no great strength in Mercury, tied
up in the twelfth, so that Gemini is only evidenced by the childlike
innocence with which he was wont to mask his astuteness, and by the
fact that the action of his Saturn took effect in the fields of diplo-
macy.
Stubborn, too, was George III, and lost America by his mulish-
ness. Here Venus and Neptune are both conjoined with the leaden
planet, a very unfortunate combination, making his temperament
eccentric and unaccountable, and turning persistence into obstinacy,
and moral force into pig-headedness. Mercury, too, is conjoined, or
the result should have been even more disastrous ; he might have lost
his throne ; as it was, he lost his reason.
The case of Oscar Wilde is very unfortunate. Here Saturn in the
Mid-heaven is squared by Neptune ; the moral character is ruined by
eccentricity. With all his splendid qualities given by the trine of the
Sun, he was doomed to catastrophe.
Nell Gwyn and Lily Langtry had very similar careers in that each
enjoyed the friendship and confidence of a king. In both cases
Saturn is strong; Nell Gwyn has the trine of the Sun and the op-
position of Uranus and Neptune, and Lily Langtry's Saturn is
elevated, opposed by Venus in Scorpio and squared by Neptune and
the Moon from the fifth house. The cases are interesting as showing
purpose and resolute ambition working with Neptunian cleverness to
attain their ambition,
Saturn in Gemini in many cases indicates trouble or hardships in
the early life, such being often connected with the education or
literary work. It naturally follows from the nature of the planet
and sign that such success as is gained should come through intel-
lectual matters. Unless well aspected the intellect is likely to be
SATURN IN CANCER 413
rather hard, with some bitterness or cynicism, and at times a lack
of candor.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Gemini:
Oscar Wilde
Lily Langtry
Harriet Stanton Blatch
Bolton Hall
Eugene Debs
"Bud" Fisher
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Gemini are as follows :
From July 30th through October 29th 1853
April 15th 1854 " October 4th 1855
October 21st 1855 "
May 27th 1856
May 24th 1883 "
July 5th 1885
July 7th
" November 30th 1912
March 26th 1913 "
August 24th 1914
December 7th 1914 "
May llth 1915
June 1942 " June 1944
SATURN IN CANCER
CANCER is the sign particularly significant of domesticity and of
repose. It is indolent to a degree, and saps the morality of Saturn.
His persistence degenerates into laziness, and his austere concen-
tration into mere inertia. Notwithstanding the galaxy of great
names whose nativities show Saturn in this sign, which might lead
the careless student to assume the position a fortunate one, the ex-
ceptions to this rule will be found few, and a careful study of the
cases cited will prove that the successes were not because of, but in
spite of Saturn's detriment in Cancer.
414 ASTROLOGY
We have as examples of this position a trio of amazing geniuses in
literature and art Shakespeare, Balzac, and., in a lesser degree,
Rossetti. But Saturn5
s influence, so far from contributing anything
to the greatness of these men, was not by all their good aspects pre-
vented from achieving on each an effect that may not unfairly be
described as debauching. Their conscience was manifest only in the
sphere of their work; the famous epigram of Catullus may be re-
versed for them. la their lives they were extravagant and idle;
pleasure made them slaves. No sooner was the work of the moment
over than they plunged into dissipation.
The Saturn of Shakespeare was in conjunction with Jupiter,
squared by the conjunction of the Sun and Moon. Neptune, too, Is
within six degrees of the sextile of the former pair, and he is in
conjunction with Venus and in opposition to Uranus. The astrologer
will be in little doubt as to the significance of the much-debated son-
nets, or disposed to whitewash the carousals at the "Mermaid." He
will not be surprised at the accurate drawing of the Falstaff scenes,
or be bewildered by the exquisite ambiguity of Rosalind and Viola.
The Saturn of Balzac afflicted by the conjunction of Venus and
Mars, has no assistance but the sextile of Mercury. While free of
perversions, it is evident how these positions led him into excess and
careless extravagances.
Rossetti's Saturn has the opposition of Mars and Neptune con-
joined. From this we see how, in spite of his great genius, anger and
whimsy interfered with his proper concentration, how idleness and
folly ate up his soul, demoralizing the good of a trine of the Sun to
both Mars and Neptune, and found their culmination in madness.
For yet another example we may take Queen Elizabeth, whose
policy was much marred by her pursuit of pleasure. Here Saturn,
in conjunction with Uranus, is squared by Mercury, making her
temper eccentric and unreliable, in spite of a sextile from the Sun,
which could only save her from going to too great extremes. It was
not strong enough to counteract the danger of sensuality of Saturn
in Cancer, and the title of "England's Virgin Queen" requires
quotation marks.
In the case of Napoleon, Saturn is far stronger, not only because
he is culminating, but also because Libra, the Ascendant, is the sign
of his exaltation. The opposition of the Moon is not therefore so
SATURN IN CANCER 415
powerfully unfavorable. His moral character was developed well
enough for self-restraint against his propensities, although of course
he was in some ways as sensual as those already considered. But he
never allowed pleasure to interfere with his ambition. Note well,
however, that Saturn took his revenge upon the body, since his loss
of the battles of Leipzig and of Waterloo came largely through his
illness, by reason of indigestion, and he died from a cancer of the
stomach, an organ that Is ruled by this sign.
The case of William III is interesting. Saturn has no help but the
sextile of Mars. His wisdom was practical but not deep. Saturn,
being in the twelfth house, is peculiarly inert in his map. The causes
of his good fortune are elsewhere indicated.
In the case of Nostradamus, we have Saturn dominating the
nativity in the fullest sense. He is in the third house in conjunction
with Jupiter and trined by the Moon, which dignities easily over-
come all the lax tendencies of the Cancer position. We have here a
fine picture of the famous astrologer, sinister, severe, pious, noble,
commanding austerity dominant in his manner, and vision in his
eyes. Neptune elevated in the tenth house, opposing Saturn and
Jupiter, completes the sketch, adding a certain aloofness to the
character, and causing incredible stories to gather around his name
like demons about the circle of an enchanter. Of very similar char-
acter was the great Copernicus. Saturn is trined by Uranus and
by the Sun and hence comes the illumination of his wisdom. There
is an opposition of Jupiter and the Moon, and a square of Mercury.
The latter prevents any tinge of unreality from contaminating the
intelligence, while the oppositions prevent that indulgence in
pleasure which Saturn in Cancer, alone, might have predicted.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Cancer :
Balzac
H. Rider Haggard
Shakespeare
William H. Taft
Woodrow Wilson
Michael Angelo
David Bispham
416 ASTROLOGY
Charlie Chaplin
Jackie Coogan
Emile Coue
Clarence Darrow
Napoleon
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Cancer are as follows :
Prom October 5th through October 0th 1855
May 28th 1856
"
July 9th 1858
July 6th 1885 "
August 18th 1887
March 10th
"
April <20th 1888
August 25th " December 6th 1914
May 12th 1915
" October 16th 1916
December 8th 1916 " June 23rd 1917
SATURN IN LEO
LEO cannot be considered a favorable position for Saturn for there
can be no real sympathy between the slow, restricting, heavy, dull
rays of the planet and the frank, free, swift, generous glory of the
sign. The effect of this antipathy will vary according to the dignity
as usual. It may mean sorrow to the heart of the native, where he is
passive to its influence, or a constriction in his own emotion. When
under adverse aspects, he receives it actively. The currents of the
blood are then frozen ; there is apt to be a critical and cold outlook
on life, and the sentiment it gives is tinged with diplomacy. The
native is skeptical of compliments or attentions bestowed on him by
others.
The greatest name we find in this position is that of Tolstoi,
whose Saturn on the cusp of the sign still holds some trace of Cancer,
and is also excited by the conjunction of Venus. The opposition of
Uranus gives mystic sight, but the emotional nature is warped and
distorted and turned to morbidity by the Saturn influence further
corrupted by Venus; hence his "Kreutzer Sonata," as well as his
attitude toward his wife and family.
SATURN IN LEO 417
An example of Saturn in Leo at his worst is given by Franz
Josef of Austria, where the planet is afflicting a conjunction of the
Sun and the Moon. The Emperor's nature was doubtless itself
somewhat callous, but the Saturnian influence is most seen in the
repeated mattock-blows of fate that struck him. King Lear is .a very
petty figure of tragedy beside Franz Josef. In this nativity
Saturn's conjunction with the Sun and the Moon is in the eleventh,
the house of hopes and of friends. That the two luminaries become
the slayers seems to indicate that the conjunction of Saturn is
peculiarly fatal to the New Moon, and a further deadliness may be
conferred by the influence of the fixed star Regulus, martial and
strident, close to whom the conjunction occurs. Saturn's only aid is
a semi-sextile of Venus, quite powerless against such afflictions. We
are the more inclined to attribute the catastrophes of the Emperor's
life to the Regulus influence, when we remember that the outbreak
of the great war occurred when Mars was rising at the solstice in
conjunction with Regulus, and the eclipse following had the Sun
and Moon exactly on that spot.
Wilhelm II, with a Saturn in opposition to the Sun and sextile to
Jupiter, who therefore also trines the Sun, has enjoyed far better
fortune, in spite of the loss of his kingdom and the downfall of all his
hopes.
A great example of the influence of Saturn in Leo, making its
native cold and calculating in matters of the heart is found in
Brigham Young, who grafted polygamy on to Mormonism for eco-
nomic and political reasons and not at all from the lustful motive
usually credited to him. In his case an opposition of the Moon in-
creases the coldness of the outlook.
Caesar Borgia is a case of a violent yet cold disposition, at once
cynical and of ungovernable passion. Here Saturn opposed by
Jupiter, is in conjunction with Mars, which is warmed by a semi-
sextile of Venus and a sextile of the Sun. This is a most extraordi-
nary complex, and well worth tracing out in every detail, for it
shows a marvelous medley of passions. Restricting ourselves to the
immediate subject, we must observe that while Saturn is strength-
ened by these aspects and the character is thus made more domi-
nant, this fact only accentuates the callousness of Saturn in Leo ;
it
in no wise mitigates it.
418 ASTROLOGY
The case of Havelock Ellis, the calm dissector of the sex prob-
lems of his fellow-creatures, next occupies our attention. Saturn,
opposed by the Sun and Moon, is trine to Mars and sextile to Jupi-
ter. It is a fortunate combination for character so far as its effective
control is concerned ; he is indeed one of the few men that have been
able to immerse themselves in the study of such subjects without
the least suspicion of taint therefrom; but it is not suggestive of
any great degree of warmth from the more human points of view.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Leo.
Kaiser Wilhelm II
Emperor Franz Josef
Raymond Poincare
Theodore Roosevelt
General Carranza
Tolstoi
David Belasco
General Ballington Booth
John Brown
William Jennings Bryan
Augustus Thomas
Frank Damrosch
Henry E. Dixey
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Leo are as follows:
From July 10th 1858 through August 25th 1860
August 19th 1887 " March 9th 1888
April 21st 1888 " October 6th 1889
February 25th " June 27th 1890
October 17th " December 7th 1916
June 24th 1917 "
August llth 1919
SATURN IN VIRGO
SATURN IN VIRGO
THERE is no doubt that Saturn and Mercury are great friends
just as in life one often sees attraction between an old philosopher
and a clever child. So Virgo is found even more sympathetic to Sat-
urn than Gemini. The heights may not be so high as the best dig-
nities in Gemini9 but there is never danger of any real trouble.
Virgo being an earthy sign is more of the nature of Saturn, and
the agricultural implication is also present to link them. This kin-
ship tends greatly to stability of moral character, and to the con-
firmation of practical wisdom. It gives an orderly, critical and an-
alytical mind, usually of a serious cast if Saturn is well dignified.
The intellect should be capable and original.
The affliction of the Lord of Virgo would, of course, detract from
these elements, and perhaps wring reason dry. So, too, would any
serious damage wrought on Saturn himself. In fact, we shall find
not only some of the wisest but some of the most foolish of mankind
with this position; and it will be our duty to make it clear why it
should act rather as Caliban supposed Setebos to act. One may
add, before proceeding to examples, that, Virgo being the Hermit in
the Tarot, the solitariness of Saturn is brought out and emphasized
by this sign. Every one of our examples will be found a person of
solitary habit and disposition. This must be taken as modifying
and illustrating everything that may be said of them in other ways.
Three great theosophists, H. P. Blavatsky, Rudolf Steiner and
Colonel Olcott have all this position of Saturn, H. P. Blavatsky is
enormously strong, being in exact conjunction with Mars, and very
close conjunction with Mercury. These indicate the extraordinary
strength of will and persistence which she possessed, so far as the
mental plane was concerned.
Mr. Steiner's Saturn is not so unique or so dominant. He has
the opposition of Sol, but luckily the square of Uranus lends illu-
mination, and the trine of Mars practical power. However, the main
point is abundantly confirmed. The forces which concentrate and
resist disintegration are supreme; the opposition of Sol only in-
dicates that this is accomplished somewhat at the expense of the
vitality.
Colonel Olcott's Saturn received no assistance from any quarter
4SO ASTROLOGY
beyond a trine of Mars and semi-sextile of the Sun and Venus.
Here, then, is a case of a moral character strong enough, but not
more than enough. He made consequently an admirable Chief of
Staff, but lacked great originality. He was a modern St. Paul to
theosophy.
Rather like him in character are three British Generals, best
known of any in their day; Roberts, Wolseley and Gordon. The
first of these has Jupiter rising, in exact opposition, and Mercury
in exact conjunction, and trine to Neptune. The latter gave him
the insight to foresee the Great War. The former shows that his
warning would fall upon deaf ears. The whole configuration caused
him to become a prominent figure in that war.
Gordon, on the other hand, a much less fortunate soldier, was
of tremendous moral force, influencing the whole trend of English
thought, even from the distance of China. His Saturn, too, is op-
posed by Jupiter, but the trine of Mars, Mercury and Neptune
more than atones for this.
Lord Wolseley, least of the three, has a very flabby Saturn. Venus
is trine, and Neptune and Mercury nearly trine, and this is all the
help that he gets. We have, therefore, an able soldier, whose moral
force is weak, and in the end he was shelved, as might be expected
with the Sun squared by Saturn.
Another soldier is seen in Garfield, and again there is only the
aid of a trine of the Moon, a sextile of Mars and a semi-sextile of
Venus. There is, however, no affliction and we may take it that Sat-
urn in a sympathetic sign like this is strong enough for all the or-
dinary purposes of life. It is only in serious crises that additional
help is required ; and doubtless Saturn's position in the twelfth (the
house of treachery) was responsible for his assassination.
Maximilian of Mexico was also unfortunate. Here Saturn has
only the sextile of Mercury, the Sun and Venus. He stands at the
Nadir, isolated and unprotected.
A king of a very different sort was Nero, although his early
promise was so bright. But though Saturn was sextile to Jupiter,
it was square to the Sun, and the effect seems to have been to loosen
the moral sinews. This is further accentuated by Mars being in
Taurus, in opposition to Jupiter and conjunction with Venus, which
explains the terrible part he played as dictator of Rome.
SATURN IN VIRGO 421
We may now consider the case of the anarchist Vaillant, who has
the conjunction of Jupiter and the opposition of Neptune, as well
as the square of Uranus and Mercury. Jupiter counteracts the
firmness of Saturn and Neptune attacks the weakened planet with
the full force of his eccentricity. The result we know. Note, however,
in particular how the disturbance takes place in the mind on its
practical side: Saturn in Taurus (for instance) with similar as-
pects, would have furnished a totally different picture.
Another example is Marie Bashkirtseff. Here Saturn, in the Mid-
heaven, is square to Uranus and Mercury. Her Venus in Libra,
trine to Uranus, was incapable of diverting her abnormal mentality
into normal channels.
It will be instructive to contrast the dreamy melancholy mind and
temper of Coleridge with the bright, positive, firm yet whimsical
mind and temper of Lewis Carroll. The poet has Saturn in conjunc-
tion with Venus and Neptune. The will to resist is altogether eaten
up, and opium naturally had no trouble in enslaving him.
The author of "Alice in Wonderland" on the contrary had the
trine of Mercury, and Saturn rides gaily in the ninth house, like
that of Coleridge, but uninterfered with by any weakening forces.
Yet the brighter planets helped Coleridge far more; in all that
really counts he was the greater man. It is only on the plane of
life, in the bonds of time and space, that he failed. "His giant wings
interfered with his walking."
Half way between these two stands Bulwer-Lytton. Saturn is in
the third house, and neither very strong nor very weak. But there
is nothing to interfere with his free action, and so the native was
able to manage his affairs remarkably well, and with prudence and
cunning. He never obtruded his moral strength, but it never re-
laxed ;
and this is one of the principal keys to a successful career.
In the case of George Sand there is a trine of Mars, and a sextile
of Neptune, making the character vivacious, kaleidoscopic, and full
of genius. There is no hindrance, but great help to the self-control
and in addition there is the inestimable quality of variety.
The character of Maurice Maeterlinck now claims our attention.
Here Saturn has the square of Herschel, good for mystic insight but
rather tending to disturb the concentration. But Mercury is not far
from conjunction, so we see the self-interested qualities reinforced by
422 ASTROLOGY
shrewdness and cleverness. Saturn, incidentally, is in the tenth house ;
from this it appears that the ego occupies itself intensely with the
fruits of fame.
Victor Hugo has the conjunction of Jupiter? the semi-sextile of
Herschel, and the opposition of Sol and Venus. This complex is
difficult to disentangle ; one need, however, only remark that the ab-
sence of help from Mars diminished the possibilities of his becom-
ing the hammer ; he had to take the part of the anvil. Saturn, how-
ever., is strong enough, and on the mental plane he was able to do
great work, culminating from his exile with very great effect against
the tyrant who had put him there.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Virgo :
Lord Roberts
Bulwer-Lytton
Emerson
Victor Hugo
James A. Garfield
Charles E. Hughes
Jane Addams
Bliss Carman
Coleridge
Alan Dale
Walter Damrosch
Josephus Daniels
Reginald de Koven
Alexander Dumas
Dean Cornwell
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Virgo are as follows :
From August 26th 1860 through October 22nd 1862
April 23rd "
July 9th 1862
October 7th 1889 "
February 24th 1890
SATURN IN LIBRA 423
From June 28th 1890 through December 26th 1891
January 28rd August 29th 1892
August 12th 1919 October 7th 1921
SATURN IN LIBRA
IN Libra Saturn is in his exaltation, and is therefore very strong
1
and beneficent. The Venusian character of the house tempers his
asperity, even though there is always some sinister implication in the
association of Venus with Saturn, and the judicial function of Libra
assures good balance to the conservative and concentrative force of
the dark planet. We shall therefore expect to find that the natives
are well able to take care of themselves, and exercise both tact and
judgment in the management of their personal affairs. The excep-
tions will, as before, be due to some unusual affliction either of the
planet or the ruler of the house.
Both the philosophical and religious temperament are well dev-
eloped in this position. In orthodoxy we have Cardinal Gibbons
with Saturn trined by Jupiter on one side and by Neptune on the
other. There is no impediment to the ego, and, with all else favor-
able, his ambition was certain of gratification. Savonarola, though
a reformer, was only so in his denunciation of corruptions in Church
and State. Mars and the Moon square his Saturn, so that dreams of
violence haunt his dark spirit, and place obstacles continually in his
path. His is a good example of a strong Saturn thwarted.
Two great heresiarchs now attract our notice: Swedenborg and
Joseph Smith. The former has Mars in opposition to Saturn but
the Sun is trine, and this latter aspect always means great stability
of moral character. The affliction of Mars prevents the Saturnian
wisdom from operating on the material plane ; therefore with vision
probably superior to that of Mohammed, he accomplished no more
than the foundation of a new sect.
Joseph Smith's Saturn has Uranus in conjunction, and the Moon
square, while Neptune stands semi-sextile. To him, therefore, we
might look for the doctrinal founding of a sect ; but it was the en-
ergy and practical genius of Brigham Young that made Mormonism
a living force.
424 ASTROLOGY
Another religious genius and one of high order was Swami Vive-
kananda. Here Saturn has a conjunction of the Moon5 an op-
position of Neptune, and Venus is nearly trine. Although the
position of Saturn in Libra gave him the philosophical religious
bent, the afflictions give clear explanation of the sources of his
collapse, to which the softening aspect from Venus materially con-
tributed.
Disraeli and Lord Northcliffe form a pair suitable for compari-
son, both showing immense ambition. The Saturn of Disraeli is in
the Mid-heaven, conjoined with Uranus and squared by Mercury;
thus both enlightenment and a sense of reality modify the ambition
and there is also a sextile of Mars, adding efficiency.
Lord Northcliffe also has Saturn in the tenth house, but the Moon
is in opposition, and the Sun square. The offhand prediction would
be an inevitable failure, but the student must not forget that the
evil effects of an opposition may be greatly mitigated by the inter-
position of another planet in trine to one and sextile to the other
of the opposing forces. And here Jupiter, in his own sign, Sagitta-
rius, is sextile to Saturn and therefore trine to the Moon, which also
accounts for Northcliffe's great wealth. The square of the Sun and
opposition of the Moon, operating generally as a threat against
the constitution, indicate his comparatively early death.
A great artist will illustrate the good tendencies of a well-
aspected Saturn in Libra. Petrarch's Saturn has the sextile of the
Sun and Mercury and semi-sextiles of Neptune and of Jupiter. Here
we see a very harmonious, beautiful attitude towards self, a mellow-
ness in strength which made him so lovable a character.
The Saturn of Turner has the trine of the Moon, Uranus and
Venus, which similarly soften the asperity of the ego-feeling and
ripen it to artist-altruism. The opposition of Mercury, however,
gave a practical tinge to Saturn's natural selfishness which showed
in the frugality of the artist's life, even though it afterward ap-
peared that his stinginess was really inspired by altruism, in order
that he might bequeath to the nation the greater part of his im-
perishable work.
In a material way the position of Saturn in Libra is favorable for
partnerships, especially with persons older or of better position
than the native. It diminishes somewhat the austerity and selfishness
SATURN IN SCORPIO 425
of Saturn, moves the sympathies, and slightly favors the mystical
side in religion.
The following well known persons were also born with Saturn in
the sign Libra:
Prince of Wales
Don Carlos of Portugal
Billy Sunday
King George V
Duke of Clarence
John Jacob Astor
Edward Bok
Senator Borah
Arthur Brisbane
Charles G. Dawes
Chauncey M. Depew
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Libra are as follows:
From October 23rd 1862 through April 22nd 1863
July 10th 1863 "
January 20th 1865
February 28th "
September 29th 1865
December 27th 1891 "
January 22nd 1892
August 30th 1892 " November 6th 1894
October 8th 1921 " December 19th 1923
April 6th "
September 13th 1924
SATURN IN SCORPIO
THE quality of secretiveness in Scorpio, and its order in the Zodiac
as the natural sign for the house of death, make it a sympathetic
menstruum for Saturn's rays. There is naturally, however, some-
thing deep, obscure and sinister in this position of the planet, and
where it has a fair chance it will give such a tone to the Akankara,
the name given by the philosophers of India to the "ego-making
426 ASTROLOGY
faculty,
55
or the Saturn force in the human character. While this
position of Saturn tends to produce a character both masterful and
subtle, the evidence of this peculiar effect is not easy to find on
account of its very habit of concealing itself. In the case of Tenny-
son it was so covered by external graces, (in particular, the influ-
ence of Venus) that it is only from private sources that we know
that traces of this Scorpio selfishness ever existed.
Similar remarks apply to Lord Brougham. Here Saturn in Scor-
pio gives a harsh, unscrupulous purpose, which is developed in
material affairs by the sextile of Jupiter ; but Mercury and Venus
just above the Ascendant conceal Saturn effectively, though he is
the real director of the inner thought. The self-seeking of the great
lawyer wore a mask of tact, wit and amiability, beneath which the
corrosive acid of his purpose ate away his enemies.
Compare with this the nativity of Archbishop Laud. Here Saturn
has the conjunction of Venus, a square of the Moon and an opposi-
tion of Jupiter, who in the ninth house signifies religion, with no
help beyond a semi-sextile of the Sun. Here is the typical selfish and
intriguing prelate ; Saturn on the cusp of the third house constantly
occupying the mind with ambition and the lust of power. But Sat-
urn's strength is not aided by fortune ; the afflictions were bound to
bring the native's ultimate downfall.
Cicero is a great example of this position; Saturn is in conjunc-
tion with Jupiter and squared by Mars, Venus and Mercury. The
operation of the sign is intensified by these dispositions. He pur-
sued cruelly and relentlessly his secret schemes of self-aggrandize-
ment. But there is also to be considered and ranked in the same
category, though on the surface so different, his more lasting achieve-
ment, the "Somnium Scipionis" almost the only mystical treatise
which the Latins have left to us.
That unfortunate monarch, Charles I of England, had this posi-
tion. Here Saturn, in opposition to Uranus, is close to the cusp of
the fourth house, for an ill end to the matter, and he receives no
notable help. But we can gauge the desperate quality of the native's
struggle to hold his inheritance, the secret and mendacious and
fatal paths trodden by him in that attempt.
An example of over-development of the self is seen in Thomas
Moore. Mars and the Moon are in conjunction with Saturn to give
SATURN IN SCORPIO 427
recklessness and dissipation; Mercury in opposition to make it
blind ; only the sextile of Jupiter adds a touch of geniality, which
made him welcome only as the companion of an hour in a tavern
or a parlor.
Compare particularly in this matter the case of the late J. Pier-
pont Morgan. Saturn is squaring Mars, Jupiter and Neptune, sex-
tile to the Moon, while trine to Uranus. While there is plenty of
self-preservation, the Moon and Uranus both bring vision. The
dispositions are consequently not altogether bad, but the great wis-
dom was undoubtedly used for material ends.
Sir Humphrey Davy has Saturn in Scorpio, but Jupiter and
Neptune are conjoined in sextile, Venus is sextile, and the Sun and
Mars semi-sextile. Here is much favorable modification of Saturn,
who is rising. Thus the self-force, rendered bright and tender by
such aspects, is in complete harmony with the personality. Here
strength is wedded with gentleness, and we can understand readily
how he was able to give his life to its purpose without upsetting his
contemporaries by bitterness of controversy.
We may now turn to the grand yet sinister figure of Martin
Luther. Here the conjunction of the Sun with Saturn gives violent
pride to the sense of self, though Mercury, four degrees off, makes
this sense intelligent. That his mind, his life force and his self-pride
are all brought together in Scorpio by this conjunction, may explain
this secret, though perhaps unconscious, real source of his break
with Rome ; though of course the conjunction of Mars with Venus is
a further stimulus to this inherent dissatisfaction with clerical celi-
bacy.
In Goethe we find less violence, and more adroitness in the em-
phasis of his ego. Saturn just above the horizon is trined by the
Moon, and has the illuminating square of Uranus, all of which har-
monizes the personality with the instinct of self-preservation. This
instinct is strong but clever, and we comprehend, if we do not al-
together applaud, his sword and his diamond buckles.
In many ways, as has been seen, Saturn in Scorpio has critical
tendencies ; it imperils the reputation, may bring scandal or un-
popularity and, badly aspected, may cause reverses or downfall. Its
influence upon the health is rather perilous in early life, though,
that period safely passed, it promises a long life. It is, however, a
428 ASTROLOGY
position very favorable for association with mystical or secret so-
cieties.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Scorpio:
General Boulanger
Lord Tennyson
Goethe
Mark Twain
Grover Cleveland
Sir Henry Irving
John Wanamaker
Edith Cavell
Rudolph Valentino
Agassiz
Ralph Waldo Trine
Stanley Baldwin
Gutzon Borglum
Andrew Carnegie
Gelett Burgess
John Burroughs
Norma Talmadge
Joseph Cannon
John O'Hara Cosgrave
Sir Humphrey Davy
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Scorpio are as follows :
From January 21st through February 27th 1865
September 30th 1865 " December 16th 1867
June 29th
"
September 5th 1868
November 7th 1894 "
February 6th 1897
April 10th " October 26th 1897
December 20th 1923 "
April 6th 1924
September 14th 1924 " December 2d, 1926
SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS 429
SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS
THERE is in nature perhaps little harmony between Saturn and
Sagittarius. Saturn is slow and heavy, Sagittarius swift and tran-
sient; the sign is one of many-colored light; the planet as dull as
lead. But Jupiter is Lord of Sagittarius, and, just as in the Roman
mythology the heir of the elder god overthrew his father, the im-
pulses of the active and spendthrift planet accelerate the slowness
and loosen the selfishness of the greater orb when he enters his house,
so that Saturn's normal quality in this position is a thrifty disposi-
tion not at all incompatible with real altruism.
An excellent example of a strongly spiritualized Saturn is given
by Abraham Lincoln. Although in the twelfth house, he has only
passed one degree above the Ascendant, in which Neptune is rising
in conjunction with him; Venus is trine and Mercury square to
both. It is easy to see the effect of these aspects upon the wisdom
of the martyr-president. Sagittarius prepares Saturn to open more
responsively to the illumination of Neptune and the warmth of
Venus. The altruism is therefore very spontaneous and yet well re-
strained by great practicality. Mercury shows excellently the influ-
ences of both Saturn and Neptune, in the restricting delays and
obstacles to early education and the sensitiveness of the mind,
touched upon under another chapter, which explains her influences
toward unfaltering devotion to an ideal. Altogether the figure is one
of great faith fortified by far-seeing wisdom.
In the case of Emile Zola, Saturn is trined by Mars and Mercury
and squared by Uranus. The deep insight into human nature, which
wrought itself into a philosophy of life expressed in the forty or
more volumes of novels, short stories and essays, is amply accounted
for by the Saturnian aspects of these three planets. That Saturn
occupied the fifth, the house of pleasure, is significant in view of
the fiction form chosen to convey his philosophy. That altruism of
the most courageous and uncompromising kind was an essential part
of his character was proved by his action in the Dreyfus case ; that
it manifested itself to the world at so late a period in his life may
have been due to the fact that his Saturn was retrograding.
An example of great and shining activity of the preservation-
energy of Saturn is shown in the horoscope of Gladstone. Neptune
480 ASTROLOGY
and Venus excite the former by conjunction, and Jupiter supports
the combination by a trine. Here, then, we have a complete harmony
of Jupiter and Saturn, which also steadies and strengthens against
the weakening indicated by the conjunction the softness of which
merely adds grace and originality to the character.
Thomas Hardy's insight into human nature, which is not dis-
similar to that of Zola, apparently comes from the same aspect of
Saturn squared by Uranus. But Saturn is in opposition to the Sun
and has no help beyond a sextile of Neptune, which is rather a dis-
advantage in this regard. The nature is retiring and modest; the
ambition is not aggressive ; a novelist with a tenth of his talent, and
more push, might have gained a far greater popular reputation.
James II has Saturn in the fourth house, trined by the Moon,
squared by Venus; his character, as is well known, was cold and
selfish to a degree, and also weak and irresponsible. Saturn is de-
veloped, but not enough to save the native from his downfall.
Tchaikovsky has an excellent Saturn. Uranus is square, Mercury
and Venus trine, and Neptune sextile. The wonderful comprehen-
sion with which he has expressed the mingled fire and melancholy
of the Slavonic race is described by these aspects, especially the
square of Uranus and the sextile of Neptune. The relief from the
domestic difficulties of his early life and the subsequent freedom
which enabled him to devote himself to his work come through the
strength of his Saturn; and his success, creating masterpieces in
every branch of Music, is due to the same cause. The versatility is
of course indicated by the aspect with Mercury in Aries.
Madame Steinheil furnished perhaps the most convincing ex-
ample of all these characters. Her Saturn in the Mid-heaven,
opposing the Moon, is trined by Mercury, Neptune, Venus, the
Sun and Jupiter, and Mars is in exact trine on the other side. Here
then is a case where the whole cohort of heaven (one may say) con-
centrate upon Saturn to make him swift, subtle, active, even vehe-
ment. It is a marvelous example for successful self-seeking. Even the
opposition of the Moon, which pulled her down from high eminence
and placed her life in jeopardy, could not compass her entire defeat
against such fortified power.
In its more material significance, Sagittarius being the natural
sign to ocupy the ninth house, Saturn's influence in that sign tends
SATURN IN CAPRICORN 431
to give prominence and power through activity in the religious or
legal world ; under good aspects this activity should bring prosper-
ity. Philosophy,, science, voyaging or shipping may afford scope for
the influence, according to the native's station in life, with corres-
ponding results depending upon the nature of Saturn's aspects.
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Sagittarius:
Abraham Lincoln
Senator Aldrich
Dr. William S. Bainbridge
George F. Baker
P. T. Barnum
Booth Tarkington
William Faversham
Horace Greeley
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Sagittarius are as
follows :
From December 17th 1867 through June 28th 1868
September 6th 1868 " December 14th 1870
February 7th "
April 9th 1897
October 27th 1897 "
January 20th 1900
July 19th
" October 16th 1900
December 3rd 1926 " March 14th 1929
May 5th 1929 " November 29th 1929
SATURN IN CAPRICORN
SATURN being in his own sign in Capricorn, he is naturally strong,
even without help from outside sources. His quality here, however,
is rather rough and crude, and this does not tend to produce the
best results, in so far as the effect upon the external world is con-
cerned. There will be no altruistic thought to soften the egotism,
ASTROLOGY
and opposition will be likely to infuriate. In a word, Saturn in this
sign makes the native harsh and overbearing, unless there be some
very strong counteracting influence to soften its asperity.
The most dense form of the arrogant selfishness which Saturn in
Capricorn may give is well illustrated by Louis XVI and Marie
Antoinette. In both charts, Saturn is badly afflicted and is situated
in the fourth and eighth houses respectively. Not only was this
evil Saturn the moral cause of their downfall, but his house position
also predicted their tragic end.
Edward VII had Saturn rising in Capricorn, but with little
affliction; even the semi-sextile of Mercury could save him from
the stupidity of allowing such tendencies to manifest themselves,
while his other planets gave him many lovable qualities which en-
sured his popularity. The Saturn of Sir Isaac Pitman has a con-
junction of the Sun, a semi-sextile of Neptune and Venus, and a
sextile of Mars, We get in this a very good astrological map of the
kind of force required for proper development of the ego, a steady
and vigorous push, but executed on proper lines with tact and with
intelligence.
In the nativity of Richard Wagner, we find no specially strong
support to Saturn. In fact it is a good illustration of what the planet
can do by himself. There is a great deal of brusquerie and instabil-
ity, which was a serious limitation to the greatness of the man. He
wasted incalculable energy in sterile and fruitless controversy, an-
tagonizing some whose support might have been most valuable.
Immanuel Kant has a much more harmonious Saturn. The Sun
and Mercury are trine and Jupiter is semi-sextile ; the Moon, too,
is trine on the other side. There is nothing aggressive in this con-
figuration ; it is splendidly smooth and harmonious, and at the same
time perfectly strong. Consequently, without the need of strenuous
effort or self-assertion, it carried him onward and upward in calm
self-confidence.
The general influence of Saturn in Capricorn is to give ambition,
independence, power, authority or rulership to the native, accord-
ing to his station in life. This may be accompanied by great selfish-
ness and loneliness, or isolation may be characteristic of the life.
It is frequently the case that this position of Saturn gives an un-
usual degree of melancholy to the mind.
SATURN IN AQUARIUS 433
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Capricorn :
Carmen Sylva
Sir Isaac Pitman
Stephen A. Douglas
Edward VII
Maude Adams
Marie Antoinette
Victor David Brenner
Richard Carle
Howard Chandler Christy
Calvin Coolidge
Joseph P. Day
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's*
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Capricorn are as
follows :
From February 8th
November 7th 1841
December 15th 1870
July 14th
January 21st
October 17th 1900
March 15th
November 30th 1929
September
SATURN IN AQUARIUS
AQ.UARIUS is by far the best house which Saturn can occupy. The
airiness of the sign lightens the heaviness of the planet, and there-
fore there is no such harshness as is given by the sign of the Goat.
Aquarius, too, is par excellence the sign of Science ; and it gives free
scope to the wisdom-quality of Saturn in a way that no other sign
434 ASTROLOGY
can do, while the humanitarian impulses of the sign tend to lessen
the selfishness of the planet. Even when unoccupied by Saturn, his
influence tends to make its natives comprehend the true significance
of the ego, tempering the crude consciousness of the self with some
understanding of its cosmic importance. Of course, evil aspects are
able to upset even so favorable a position. We have, for example,
Ludwig II of Bavaria, whose Saturn, in conjunction with Mars and
Neptune, is squared by Jupiter; this entirely unbalances the ego,
loosening all the natural restraints and slackening even the cords
of reason. Saturn being on the cusp of the ninth house, the attack
was peculiarly severe, and we cannot be surprised that madness
should have terminated the concourse of these forces.
Consider however, such scholars as Sir Richard Quain, the medical
lexicographer, and Picus de Mirandola. The former has Jupiter
square to Saturn as in the case of the Bavarian King, but Neptune
and Uranus are sextile, and Saturn is in the sixth house, where there
is no menace to the mind. Moreover, the Jupiter aspect is from
Scorpio, and Scorpio and Aquarius make a good, scientific combina-
tion, especially for a doctor. The Saturn of Picus de Mirandola, is
in conjunction with Mercury, trine to Neptune, and square to the
Moon. Such a combination gives deep penetrating insight to the
mind, and an isolation which, coupled with the normal persistency
of Saturn, promises a great philosophic scholar.
In the starry career of Cleo de Merode, we have Saturn just
above the Ascendant, trined by Mercury and opposed by Uranus ;
the ego is therefore selfish enough, but clear-sighted and clever;
hence a resourceful and shrewd pushfulness, adroit and subtle,
landed her quite early in life at the top of the ladder of success in
her ancient profession.
Let us now turn to Louis XIV9 one of the cleverest and most re-
sourceful rulers that ever lived ; a man as sucessful in aggrandizing
his ego as was Queen Victoria. Here Saturn has a square of Jupiter
from Scorpio, and an opposition of the Moon and Venus. It is a
purely selfish combination, but extremely strong ; for Venus and the
Moon are so overpowered by Saturn that all the gracious and fem-
inine qualities of the man are constrained to serve his selfishness
as its handmaidens.
A very successful type, too, was Byron, whose Saturn is trine to
SATURN IN AQUARIUS 435
Jupiter and also to Neptune. Venus Is in conjunction this is al-
ways a corruption to Venus, but where Saturn is so radically strong,
she cannot hinder his success, although her influence is shown in the
arrogance and vanity of the poet.
Sir David Wilkie in a quieter manner gained a good deal of repu-
tation. The sextile of Jupiter exercises its beneficent influence on
Saturn and the trine of Mars adds driving force, while Mercury is
also sextile and gives intelligence to the assertion of the self. Small
wonder, then, that of so little talent he made so considerable a fame.
Bismarck, for contrast, has Saturn conjoined with Mars, sextile
to the Sun and Uranus, and trine to Jupiter. The square of Venus
confirms, rather than detracts from, this general broad, deep and
persistent vigor of the ego, which was marred by no petty personal
selfishness.
There are two great mystics, Anna Kingsford and William Blake,
whose Saturn is in Aquarius. The former, who was by far the more
practical of the two, wrote two definitely propagandist books, and
did really make, in the desert of Victorianism, a small oasis of a
spiritual movement. Here Saturn is in conjunction with Neptune
and Jupiter is approaching a trine. The Neptune aspect gives illu-
mination to her wisdom, although it probably lessens her material
success, by depriving her to some extent of the plain common sense
which is necessary to genius, if that genius is to bear fruit in its own
time.
Blake's Saturn is in opposition to Neptune, and this not only con-
tributed to his illumination, but probably inhibited him from caring
to achieve the material success that his Sun in conjunction with
Jupiter should have made easy for him. Wisdom without strength
crieth in the streets, and no man regardeth her ; but with a proper
appreciation of the value of publicity even folly can obtain a hear-
ing!
In the material affairs, Saturn in Aquarius, if free from serious
affliction, gives power and good fortune, especially in connection
with associations or with public affairs. Its influence is much more
democratic than that in Capricorn, though the native may still
be conservative and autocratic. There is an instinct for mysticism
and occultism, and the native is usually widely known in his own
station in life.
436 ASTROLOGY
The following well known persons were born with Saturn in
the sign Aquarius :
King
1
Albert of Belgium
Queen Alexandra
A. J. Drexel Biddle
Bjerregaard
Lord Byron
Spencer Trask
Henry Carmichael
William H. Crane
"Buffalo Bill" (William Cody)
Frank Howard Dodd
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Aquarius are as
follows :
From February 3rd 1844 through May
July 14th 18*6
March 14th
December llth 1873
January 20th 1903
August 17th 1905
March
December 1932
66
66
66
66
66
66
66
January
July
February
April
January
August
February
9th 1846
24th 1847
13th 1873
29th 1876
12th 1905
7th 1906
1932
1935
SATURN IN PISCES
SATURN and Jupiter represent opposite magical formulas, the in-
tending and the extending, or the centripetal and centrifugal forces,
but we have already seen from Saturn's action in Sagittarius that
the blending of the qualities of these two planets produces good re-
sults. Indeed, although the centripetal and centrifugal forces are
exactly opposite, it is their balance that holds the universe together.
Pisces is a mutable and receptive sign, and in these respects it is,
SATURN IN PISCES 437
in the element of water, very similar to what Saturn is in that of
the earth. The expectation therefore is that Saturn will be somewhat
softened of his asperity by the pleasing solvent in the waters of
Pisces, even as we saw to be the case with regard to his position in
Cancer. But there is no detriment to the force of Saturn here, as
there is in Cancer, and its peculiarly psychic nature gives a modi-
fication of the worldly wisdom of Saturn by some touch of faerie
and other-world gnosis. It adds imagination, if well dignified, es-
pecially by Neptune or Uranus, and we have only to mention such
names as those of Newton, Ruskin and Edison to perceive the prac-
tical application.
The first of these has Jupiter in conjunction with Saturn, har-
monizing planet and sign; Uranus is trine, giving philosophical
comprehension, and Mercury square, emphasizing the scientific
spirit, while the sextile of the Sun assures success. The trine of Sat-
urn and Uranus gives the essential harmony between the magical
will and the personal force of bringing it into action ; here then are
all the elements of extraordinary greatness.
The Saturn of Edison has Venus in conjunction with Jupiter
square, and Mars and the Moon in sextile. In itself this is not really
a very favorable combination for exceptional greatness; there is
plenty of energetic application and success, but, were it not for Mer-
cury's conjunction with Neptune and sextile to Uranus, we would
see but little of the quality of the scientific philosopher. And after all
the imagination turns not so much to fundamental problems as to
the adaptation to practical ends of truths already known.
Ruskin's Saturn has the square of Uranus, conjoined with Nep-
tune, and the semi-sextile of the Sun. The constructive ability of
Saturn, helped only by this very weak Sun, is not highly developed.
Hence he failed as a painter ; failed to a great extent even as a critic
by the eccentricity and acerbity of some of his judgments, although
the illumination and insight of his wisdom enabled him to write that
fascinating prose which has been so highly esteemed by many of
his contemporaries.
A good illustration of the softening of the ego under this position
is afforded by Czar Alexander II. There is a sextile of Jupiter to
Saturn, a square of Uranus, and a trine of Mars. From these as-
pects we can analyze the emancipation of the serfs. Jupiter gave
488 ASTROLOGY
the benevolent thought, Uranus the Imagination required to per-
ceive a method of effecting it, and Mars the executive force needed
to carry out the will, against the opposition of all the bureaucracy
and aristocracy that surrounded him.
Contrast with this horoscope that of Robespierre ! Here we find
Saturn with only the hardening square of Mercury,, rising just
under the horizon, and thus enormously strong by position. We see
utter selfishness unredeemed by any other quality; the Mercury
aspect itself, ordinarily good, here means nothing more than the
cold perspicacity which, harnessed to the plough of his egotism,
and stimulated by a conjunction of Mars and Neptune square to
the Sun, drove ruthlessly through the furrows of France, where,
sowing only murder, he reaped terror and desolation.
Two British politicians may close our study of this position of
Saturn. Balfour has Saturn in trine to Mercury, approaching a
trine of Venus, Jupiter and the Sun, and we get an instant picture
of the amazing cleverness and success of the man, as well as the
depth of his philsopohic wisdom. The semi-sextile of Uranus is
enough to aid his ego by a glimpse of vision in statesmanship, but
only by a glimpse.
Rosebery's Saturn has no strong aspects, except a sextile of the
Sun, though Mars and Neptune are in conjunction ten degrees
away from Saturn. The latter is a source of trouble, making his
career episodical and confused, yet the sextile of the Sun always
kept his head above water. Without that, any single one of his
moods might have ruined him.
Notwithstanding the softening influence of Pisces in the psychic
development of the ego and its wisdom, the position is not generally
a fortunate one for the material affairs. Unless Saturn is very well
aspected, it is unfavorable to the occupation, public position, repu-
tation and popularity of the native. If he occupies a high position
in life, he may suffer severely from attacks of his inferiors and be
subjected to much criticism from friends and enemies alike. In an
inferior position he is apt to find hostility on the part of his
superiors. But here it may once again be emphasized that the ma-
terial trials of the world are the distillment of the wisdom of the
soul, and it is particularly to that wisdom that all the benefits of
Pisces for Saturn apply.
URANUS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 439
The following well known persons were bom with Saturn in
the sign Pisces :
Alexander II of Russia
John Ruskin
George Eliot
Robert 'Burns
Queen Victoria
Prince Albert (Consort of Queen Victoria)
Alexander Graham Bell
Luther Burbank
Louis Tiffany
Robert J. Collier
Will Levington Comfort
For the benefit of those who <are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Saturn is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
From May 10th through
January 25th 1847
March 1st 1876
September 16th 1878
April 13th
January 8th 1906
March 1935
November 1937
66
66
66
66
66
66.
66,
URANUS SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
OTTRANOS, Uranus, or heaven, is said to have been the father of
Saturn, who, jealous lest another son should appear, mutilated him
with his scythe. This legend is but an apologue of the nature of this
planet, often called Herschel after the man who rediscovered it.
This planet swims lonely in the vast abyss that separates Saturn
from Neptune. If we have compared Neptune to the outpost, we may
continue by saying that Uranus is the moat of the fortress, and its
440 ASTROLOGY
secret passages. And if we have called Neptune the soul of the sea,
then Uranus is the essence of volcanic fire. There is no planet so
strange, so revolutionary, so occult and mysterious, or so contra-
dictory.
For this is in the shocking story of Uranus, the principle of heaven
bereft of fatherhood by the jealousy of time.
This planet is the planet of genius, the planet of the secret magi-
cal power in man that lies (according to the Indian mythology)
coiled at the base of the spine like a snake, ready to strike up and
illuminate the whole, or downward to damnation. Genius may break ;
it will not bend.
Gil de Rais, de Sade, Borgia, were men of genius, just as truly
as Michael Angelo and Isaac Newton. All genius desires the infinite,
and the infinite is one, not many. Only the mediate steps are diverse.
Darwin regretted his limitations as bitterly as did Alexander; and
the love of Christ equally with the malice of Satan would destroy the
world were each not thwarted by that world's inertia.
The essence of genius is this occult but overmastering lust of
achievement in practical and material shape. If Neptune makes the
saint or hermit, Uranus makes the magician, the man who calls
forth from the Unseen not only its peace but its power. The dream of
the Uranian is universal dominion by and for his Idea. This Idea
may obsess him, blind him to all else, ruin him by narrowness. He
rarely understands that Being must take Form before It can be
perceived, and he often misses his opportunities. He does not know
how many veils must be thrown over the splendour of his Virgin be-
fore men can bear to gaze upon her without going mad.
All genius is equally "good," but unless it be accompanied with
utmost breadth of sanity, with moral strength as of a god, and
above all with humor, it thickens, it ferments, it turns to deadly
poison.
It is characteristic of the infatuation with an idea that all sense
of proportion is lost. Even so, a diplomatist plunges his country
into war at the cost of millions, both of men and money, in order to
gain an advantage of negligible worth. So also Uranus is the par-
ticular planet of all secret vices that tend to usurp the whole nature
of a man. From religious fanaticism to indulgence in dangerous
drugs the gamut runs ; and, because of the obsession of the one idea,
URANUS IN THE SIGNS 441
the defiance or neglect of circumstance attending it, we find what
we call fame or infamy as our own bias determines. There is no good
or evil absolute ; to one man Caesar is a hero, to another a fiend ; the
Puritans destroyed cathedrals ; others, even today, hate pictures and
statues. One critic thought Shelley a devil specially incarnated to
plague mankind ; another calls him a beautiful but ineffectual angel.
So, let us clear our minds ;
let us realize that de Bruierlliers might
have been Madame Curie, and Dean Swift, John Cleland!
Any genius, thwarted in the beneficent purpose of his life, turns
either to self-indulgence or to revenge. The anarchist throws his
bomb, in the spirit of philanthrophy ! Unless all the "good" and
"bad" of Uranus is fully understood, it is useless to try to judge
mankind. For every man has this Uranus in him, strong or weak,
subtle or gross, fortunate or unfortunate, and this is the Royal
Snake of Egypt, the giver of Life and Death. If you will not allow
him to -create, he will devour.
The most important thing in the life of any man is to discover the
secret purpose of his incarnation, and to follow it with wariness as
well as passion; with wisdom, if possible. Astrology has no more
useful function than this, to discover the inmost nature of a man,
and to bring it out into his consciousness, that he may fulfill it ac-
cording to the law of light.
The Uranus in us is the Sacred Dance of the legend ; in the hands
of the Holy King it .built the Temple of the Grail; in those of
Klingsor, the Garden of Evil Enchantments. Genius may be fertile
or sterile, radiant or self-consuming ; the one is White Magic, and
the other Black. But the force is the same ; and, being thus double,
it is of the utmost importance to direct it aright. The purity of a
strong and noble Jupiter is the greatest safeguard to this force;
and the Sign of the Cross, in its fullest, holiest, most Pagan and
most Christian sense, is its warrant. For not only is it the Re-
deemer, but must be itself redeemed.
URANUS IN THE SIGNS
As the race evolves, it seems that man must learn to adapt himself
more and more to the vibrations of Uranus and its powerful influx,
44& ASTROLOGY
which appear to be growing more and more potent in the unfolding
of genius, or the transcending of intellect. Through the harmonious
vibrations of Uranus, it is found that people become prophetic, keen,
perceptive, executive, inventive, original, given to roaming, untram-
melled by tradition, impatient of creeds, opinionated, argumenta-
tive, stubborn, and eccentric. They speak to the point; asserting,
with startling confidence, opinions far in advance of their fellows.
They come into possession of wealth in unexpected and strange
ways, yet often appear to pass under the yoke of discipline as
though cast down for a purpose from opulence to poverty, only to
rise again by the unfolding of unexpected resources. Always ahead
of their time, the natives of Uranus are often dreamers in philan-
thropy; poetic, though their writings need interpretation and are
often unintelligible even to the imaginative, because of their mys-
tical origin and transcendental coloring.
In the few years during which Uranus has been under observa-
tion, it has been found that, if afflicted, it is the source of incurable
organic diseases, collapse of fortune, and individual as well as na-
tional destruction. It is demonstrable that, in inharmonious nativi-
ties, evil Uranian influences, both through transits and directions,
have brought about headlong destruction from bad habits, mis-
directed affection, illicit connections before or after legal marriage ;
according to the signification of the place of radical affliction in the
horoscope.
Every psychic thus far studied by the writer has been found, by
careful consideration of the authentic birth data, to be under power-
ful Uranian influence; and to this vibration may be attributed
clairvoyance, warning dreams, second-sight, clairaudience and sim-
ilar phenomena.
The occupations or avocations which seem in sympathy with this
strange planet are progressive, inventive, exploring, and of a hu-
manitarian nature. The influence of Uranus is the least personal,
and the most universal in the Zodiac ; consequently, any endeavor
for the betterment of humanity is favored by those who are strongly
responsive to its vibration.
"Uranus produces lecturers, public figures, travellers, inventors,
aviators, radio operators, astrologers, electricians, scientists, physi-
ologists, mesmerists, metaphysicians.
URANUS IN THE SIGNS 448
"Uranus makes one impulsive and extremely eccentric; the na-
tive does not know his own mind, but is continually moved by provi-
dential agencies ; he often becomes a fatalist, feeling that his destiny
is beyond his own control.
"Uranus emphasizes the will, causing the native to move spon-
taneously from an inner urge ; the native is active, original, inven-
tive, and is notable for his love of liberty and an idealistic sense of
justice- The planet bestows leadership and causes the native to be-
come a pioneer and to establish new orders of things.
"Uranus makes the mind independent, original, and not amen-
able to control* The native is unconventional, altruistic and subject
to sudden changes of attitude. There is an uncanny ability to sense
motives.
"Circumstances induced by Uranus are sudden changes, es-
trangements, exiles, blind impulses, catastrophes, suicides, romantic
tragedies, inexplicable changes of fortune, accidents, secret enemies,
and plottings, sudden elevations."
From what we have said in regard to the character of Uranus,
it will be seen that his force is peculiarly sympathetic to Taurus,
Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius. We shall see, in the course of this chap-
ter how his action is modified in each of these signs, the Aquarian
menstruum bringing out his emancipating and scientific qualities;
the Taurian exhibiting him as the fearful personification of earth-
quake and upheaval, since Taurus is the bull; the Leonine empha-
sizing his revolutionary and fighting quality; and, finally, the
solvent of Scorpio, manifesting him as the Death-star, or as the
treacherous and subtle power of poison, or as the Eagle, which, al-
though it cries "The House of Death," makes whole the spirit. For
Scorpio, always best and worst of the signs, brings out the quintes-
sence of Uranus more strongly than even Leo or Aquarius, being
indeed, in a way, the flux of these.
Every living soul is presumed to have a purpose, and that pur-
pose single. Not one in a million, perhaps, is conscious of that pur-
pose; we seem for the most part to be a mass of vacillations. Even
the main objective career of an individual cannot be considered as
necessarily an expression of the interior will.
But Uranus indicates divine will; and the reason why he is so
explosive and violent and upsetting to human affairs is that he
444 ASTROLOGY
represents the real intention, which, lying deeper than the conscious
purpose, often contradicts it. The outer and the inner are then in
conflict; and whenever battle is joined, the inner must win. To the
outer consciousness, this naturally appears as disaster; for the na-
tive does not recognize the force as part of himself, or, if so, he
regards it as a disturbing entity, and resents its dominion. Uranus
is, in Egyptian symbolism, the Royal TJrseus Serpent ; slowTyet sud-
den, Lord of life and death. It takes a great deal to move him ; but,
when once in motion, he is irresistible. This is why, to the normal
mind, he appears so terrible.
As has been seen, the deep-lying interior purpose of any being is
nearly always obscure and undecipherable to the mortal eye; but
there is an indication or hieroglyph of it which is usually very sig-
nificant. One can hardly call it more than the artistic expression of
the purpose, and this appears a very good way to describe it. We
call it the Temperament. It does not define the Will itself, but it
sets limits to the sphere wherein the Will may work.
We have already found that the personality is imaged in the sign
on the Ascendant ; and from this we now turn to a consideration of
the sign in which Uranus may be situated. Where these two factors
are harmonious, we get a character with unity of moral purpose;
where otherwise, a self-tortured waverer. It might be cited as an
objection that those who have Uranus in the Ascendant are usually
eccentric characters; but the argument is on the other side. Such
eccentricity is temperament in its highest development ; it shows the
entire over-ruling of the superficial qualities by this deep-seated,
turbulent, magical will. It is only to others that the person with
Uranus rising appears so eccentric.
URANUS IN ARIES
UBANUS in Aries gives a character intrepid, dauntless, fiery and
indomitable, whether for good or evil.
Flaming, headstrong, hot-tempered, impetuous, self-willed, and
obstinate is the type ; but sometimes the native will make a sudden
and complete turn-about-face, and pursue a new and contradictory
course with the same energy as he did the former. Nor, as a rule.
URANUS IN ARIES 445
will he be capable of seeing that he has changed in any respect.
There is nothing particularly constructive in this type of energy.
A strong example of this temperament is found in Mrs. Annie
Besant, Aries being the rising sign. In Pope Alexander VI, the same
qualities are apparent; but here Capricorn is rising; and, al-
though Mars is exalted in Capricorn, and so not inharmonious
with the Aries temperament, yet a Saturnian element is super-added
with the most unfortunate results.
People with Uranus in Aries are always so firmly convinced they
are right that opposition to their wishes appears to them as some-
thing positively unjustifiable, and they are therefore entirely un-
scrupulous in crushing such opposition. Sometimes this masterful
quality is confined to legitimate lines, as in the case of Edison.
Scorpio is rising, and its Lord, Mars, is softened by the conjunction
of the Moon in the third house; thus the powerful will implied
works mostly on the mental plane, where the enemy is only stubborn
Nature ; and, in bending her to his will by the force of his genius,
he has earned the thanks of humanity.
Contrast with Edison's Uranus the case of the Earl of Strafford,
and Cromwell, who both had Uranus in Aries. It will also be in-
structive to compare them with each other. Each had an iron will,
an unscrupulous determination to have his own way at any cost ;
but
Strafford has Virgo rising. He prepared a plan for dealing with
Ireland called "thorough," which was effectively to legalize mas-
sacre ; but there is no passion in Virgo to cooperate with such vio-
lence, and Strafford was not strong enough to carry the plan out ;
he hung fire. Cromwell, with Aries rising, went through Ireland like
a new Attila.
Lord Rosebery, on the other hand, has Aries rising, (the Ascend-
ant being the twenty-eighth degree of Pisces) ; Uranus therefore
occupies the Ascendant, and so we find a fair uniformity of disposi-
tion. But his career was interrupted by his sudden laying-down of
things, and his equally sudden reassumption of them.
Anna Kingsford has Uranus in Aries, but it occupies the eighth
house. Here, as in the case of Strafford, Virgo is rising, but its lord,
Mercury, is in his own house and in conjunction with Venus, and
the Ascendant is further dignified by the presence of the Sun and
Mars in conjunction. Here we find, then, a great example of the
446 ASTROLOGY
driving force of these configurations ; for Anna Kingsford, despite
all disqualifications, disposed of an initiating force sufficient to
arouse the thought of half the world. It is her work which
made the growth of Theosophy and its analagous cults at all pos-
sible. She was, doubtless, the head of the battering-rain that
broke in the gates of the materialistic philosophy of the Victorian
Age.
Robert Louis Stevenson has the last degrees of Aquarius rising,
but Pisces is intercepted in the Ascendant, and Uranus in the first
degrees of Aries is just within it. There is no great natural harmony
between Aries and Aquarius, but their presence together in the first
house creates harmony. So we find Stevenson, despite the most dis-
tressing ill-health, producing masterpieces. Astrologic students of
literature may attribute to Aquarius his curiously gentle, profound,
psychology, and to Uranus in Aries the passion for bloodthirsty in-
cident, which may also be credited to the position of his Mars in
Scorpio. Saturn is also in the Ascendant, just above Uranus, and
this adds the tinge of melancholy which so increases his incompa-
rable charm.
Another example is Ludwig II of Bavaria. Here Uranus is in the
tenth house. Cancer is rising, weak, feminine, and receptive, and as-
sorting illy with the violence of Uranus in Aries. So we see a dreamy,
easy, pleasure-loving temperament, which bursts out at times into
maniacal enthusiasms and extravagances. The lack of harmony be-
tween these two configurations is the essential blot in the personal-
ity which ultimately manifested itself as madness.
A final example is Abbas Effendi. Aquarius is rising, and Uranus
in Aries is just within the second house. Here is the same gentle
profundity as Stevenson's. But Neptune is rising opposed to the
Moon ; and, instead of the tremendous will which enabled Stevenson
to rank with the greatest masters, there is but a soft and somewhat
undefined personality, its Will remaining interior, not externalized,
since the forces that oppress it are too strong to overcome, and also
since Neptune, opposing the Moon, exercises an inhibitory influence
on all continuous activity.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus irk
the sign Aries :
URANUS IN TAUKUS 447
Daniel Chester French
Charles N. Flagg
Bishop Greer
Samuel Gompers
Von Hindenburg
Rev. George C. Houghton
Oscar Hammersteln
Stanley Hall
Lord Kitchener
Thomas Edison
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Aries are as follows :
From April 19th through October 1st 1843
February 10th 1844 "
July 5th 1850
September BiLJAB^^^L^^^^JsL^, ^ .l$kJ8J1_^,
**T^^ " November 4th 1927
January 13th 1928,
"
--May S^y^" 1934
.November .
1934 "
MarclT'y y' 1935
''
,
_>|i/;i 4 ) f ;j/ ,\
'I '
URANUS IN TAURUS
THIS position is highly favorable for Uranus, for his great energy
is set to honest constructive work. One can immediately instance such
empire-builders as Napoleon, Cecil Rhodes, and Wilhelm II ; and,
on the higher planes, we find two persons who actually invented new
theogonies, which philosophy declares to be the highest creative
work possible to the human intelligence. We refer to Dante and
Swedenborg, whose conceptions of Hell still hold sway over the
minds of great masses of men. Such empires endure long after
earthly thrones have crumbled.
Swedenborg has Sagittarius rising, and his Uranus is on the cusp
of the fourth house; Dante has Gemini rising, and Uranus well
above the horizon in the twelfth. Both these signs are far from
material Sagittarius more mystical, Gemini more intellectual.
448 ASTROLOGY
These differentiations are, of course, at once apparent in the work
which each accomplished. Wilhelm II has Cancer rising, and ac-
cordingly he has been criticized,, by his own subjects, for that ob-
stinate devotion to peace which delayed (and thus made more un-
controllable, ultimately), the outbreak of the Great War. Rhodes
had Sagittarius rising, with Jupiter, its lord, just above the horizon.
Swedenborg's Jupiter was exactly trine to Uranus, emphasizing
the religious bent; that of Rhodes is squared by Neptune, which
would tend to remove such bias from Jupiter, leaving his force to
manifest itself on those more terrestrial lines which Sagittarius
implies for Jupiter. Napoleon had Libra rising, and his Uranus is
in the seventh house; but Libra and Taurus are sympathetic,
through the fact that Venus rules both; and Venus is sextile to
Uranus, and culminating. There lies the explanation of his extra-
ordinary sense of justice ; the Code Napoleon ranks with the achieve-
ments of the greatest law givers and is the basis of the laws of
several European nations.
Tom Mann has this planet in the Ascendant, but Aries is on the
cusp. The two signs are contrary in nature, so there is a lack of
harmony. His Will-force is occupied entirely with Taurus in its
lowest form, that of labor ; the sextile of Neptune to Uranus lends
eccentricity to the ideas involved, and Aries rising makes the tem-
perament violent and abrupt. Uranus thus assumes its most ex-
plosive form, and the result is an extreme agitator. A superficially
most dissimilar case is that of Charles I. Here Leo is rising, and
Uranus is on the cusp of the tenth house, always a dangerous posi-
tion for a malefic. Leo gives the good-heartedness characteristic of
that unfortunate monarch, but Neptune rising made his tempera-
ment unstable; this, combined with the obstinacy of will shown by
Uranus in Taurus, gave a disposition which could bring only dis-
aster. There is a very cognate example in Mr. Asquith, whose ob-
stinate patience kept him long at the head of a most unruly majority
in the House of Commons. Here Cancer is rising, making him tactful
and pliable on the surface; Uranus in Taurus, in the house of
friends enables him to conceal beneath that apparent amiability a
determination of steel.
A case of very similar persistence in a woman is furnished by
Lily Langtry. In a woman's horoscope, one naturally expects to
URANUS IN TAURUS 449
find the Venus Influence of Taurus brought out fully, especially as
Libra is rising ; so the career is marked as singularly successful. The
constructive force is able to develop itself without too great hin-
drance, especially as the Sun is rising, sextile to Jupiter. No doubt,,
this aspect determines the character of the object of her will; for
example, had Saturn and the Moon been in the Ascendant, she
might have become an indefatigable worker among the poor.
Finally, we have a large group of writers. We may pair, for con-
venience, Bernard Shaw and Havelock Ellis. The Uranus of the
latter being in the third house caused his mind to occupy itself with
very unusual subjects; Aquarius rising gave a scientific turn to
the personality; and the result is his monumental study of the
Psychology of Sex.
Shaw, with Gemini rising, has Uranus just above the eastern
horizon ; the unusual character of the man is thus emphasized ; but
the Moon, on the very cusp of the Ascendant, makes him vacillating
and even self-contradictory. Gemini rising adds to the airy light-
ness of the personality, and conceals the tremendous driving force
of Uranus. For, beneath the mask of easy wit and paradox, Shaw
has undoubtedly done more to upset conventional ideas than any
other man in England since Swinburne.
Among novelists, is Guy de Maupassant. It is hardly too much
to say that he created the short story in France. Here is Virgo
rising, with Venus on the horizon in conjunction with Mars. This
violence of passion, with Uranus in the eighth house, presaged his
melancholy and appalling death; but, before this effect could take
place on the physical plane, it must first produce that miraculous
labor whose fruit is still so sweet in our mouths.
With this we may compare the horoscope of Oscar Wilde. Here
Uranus is again too near the tenth to make for permanence. Virgo
rising has its lord, Mercury, near the opposition of Uranus ; a care-
ful consideration of the difference in these dispositions will make
most significant the variation of his career from that of the great
French writer. But we must once more point out that Uranus in
Taurus has great constructive power; Wilde's work produced a
tremendous effect upon the younger generation, and its permanence
in literature seems now assured.
Then there is Mabel Collins, who also did much to make the sue-
450 ASTROLOGY
cess of the Theosophical movement by her interesting writings. As
in the case of Lily Langtry, Libra is rising ; but, Saturn being in
exact conjunction with Uranus, Venus trine to them, and Neptune
sextile? with Jupiter in the Ascendant, the career is less material;
the direction of the will is more to power of a subtler and more per-
manent sort.
Lastly, we have two similar poets, Coleridge and Philip Bourke
Marston. The former has Sagittarius rising, which adds its element
of shy suddenness to the personality ; it is refined and beautiful, like
a deer. Uranus in the fifth house gives that mystic tinge which is the
essence of the beauty of his poetry ; but, alas ! when it worked down
to the material plane, it made him the slave of his pleasures. The
pre-Raphaelite poet, on the other hand, has Leo rising, and was
generous, frank and free. Uranus in the ninth house gave him an-
other kind of mysticism. Both men were, however, strongly deter-
mined by Uranus in Taurus. Their work is patient, steady, and
constructive. Coleridge's Uranus is hampered by the exact square
of Jupiter, and Marston's blindness no doubt prevented his will
from coming to full flower; but the determination, in both cases, is
most evidently there.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Taurus:
Andrew Mellon
Emile Coue
Samuel T. Coleridge
Clarence Darrow
John Drew
William Gillette
Elbert Hubbard
John Hays Hammond
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign of Taurus are as
follows :
URANUS IN GEMINI 451
From July 6th through September 4th 1850
April 15th 1851 May 31st 1858
January 4th March llth 1859
June " October 1934
April 1935 "
July 1941
November 1941 "
May 1942
URANUS IN GEMINI
THE sign Gemini is by nature singularly unsympathetic with Ura-
nus; for its force is dispersive and gentle, easily moved, but not
persistent in motion, and the influence is accordingly weak. We shall
find in this position few persons preeminent for driving force of
will. Their power will be mainly that of idea ; and, unless the rising
sign be thoroughly harmonious, and both its lord and Uranus him-
self well-dignified, we may expect examples rather of failure than
of success. We have, however, three great religious teachers, all dis-
tinguished for the gentleness of their doctrines and the suavity of
their methods. These are Jesus of Nazareth, Swami Vivekananda,
and Dr. Rudolph Steiner.
In the case of Jesus, Libra is rising, a sign peculiarly harmonious
with Gemini. Jupiter is ascending, squared by the Sun (which is in
exact conjunction with Mercury) and in direct opposition to Mars
and Neptune. Uranus himself is on the cusp of the tenth house. This
makes Uranus by far the strongest planet in the figure, so much so
that we may regard his influence as paramount and unchecked, thus
summing the career, in so far as the will is concerned, in the one
word emancipation.
The Hindu adept has Capricorn rising, with the Sun and Venus
in the Ascendant, and these are square to Mars. Uranus is in the
fifth house ; this made him efficient as a teacher of occult philosophy.
But there is no great harmony between Gemini and Capricorn,
so that the complete temperament is not nearly so efficient as in the
case just considered.
The German mystic, with Scorpio rising and Jupiter in the ninth,
adds great scientific accomplishment to the Uranian force. Mars?
too, its lord, is exactly semi-sextile to Uranus; but the latter is
452 ASTROLOGY
squared by the Sun, gravely diminishing; the mundane potency of
the planet, which is, moreover, in the seventh house, by no means a
powerful position in such a case.
Another type is Maurice Maeterlinck ; but here Scorpio is
rising
with its lord, Mars, in sextile to Uranus. Consequently, the driving
force of the one compensates the weakness of the other.
An even better example is Lord Brougham, with Libra rising, and
Venus in her own house just above the horizon. The influence is still
mental; Gemini can never act on the material plane directly; but
Uranus is in the eighth house, and so the great lawyer became what
he was through dealing with the minds of the dead by his study of
precedent. Libra, again, in material matters implies the judicial
faculty, and Mercury, the mental ruler, is just below Venus.
An even more strenuous politician is John Burns. Once more the
forceful Scorpio is rising, implying iron determination. Uranus in
Gemini here gives the limit and the means. His strength is in his
eloquence, and Uranus, being trined by Mars, makes him a great
fighting orator. Both he and Brougham display the same dogged
will, but the difference between them is most clearly characterized
by the difference between Libra and Scorpio; the one "hacking
through" ; the other, adroit, subtle, weighing every word.
Not dissimilar to either, indeed a sort of mean proportional be-
tween them, is Theodore Roosevelt. Here Sagittarius is rising, and
Uranus is in the fifth house. There is a sort of boyish pleasure in the
will, a spontaneity in the eloquence, which appealed strongly to
even his enemies. The breeziness, the spirit of the vast deserts wrung
from the bison and the Indian, was in his words. Mars rising in
Capricorn makes the temperament somewhat rash and tactless; if
unable to sweep people off their feet by the first gust, he has no
reserve of tact to influence their second thought. Here, then, we read
the whole secret of his success and of his failure.
Not so far removed, either, from this category is Billy Sunday.
Scorpio is rising, with Mars and Jupiter in close conjunction just
above the cusp of the Ascendant, and once again we see the brutal
thrust of the personality, breaking through all obstacles to attain
its ends. And here again the effect is upon the minds of men. But
there is nothing subtly persuasive ;
the only weapon is the bludgeon.
URANUS IN GEMINI
He literally tries to bully men into belief or what, for the moment,
passes for belief.
Another vigorous personality was Mrs. Pankhurst, with Aquarius
rising. Aquarius and Gemini are friendly enough, and thus we ob-
serve that, within the narrow limitations, (Mercury is afflicted by
the conjunction of Saturn in the sixth, a most unfortunate house for
the mental ruler), her will has produced very remarkable results.
Richard Strauss has Cancer rising, and Uranus not far above the
Orient. The Moon, lady of Cancer, is in the third house, in Virgo ;
thus the mind and the temperament are in tune; and Cancer is a
sign most delicate and pleasing, receptive of harmonious impulses
from without. The Sun, too, lord of Music, is with Uranus, and
Venus stands the morning star above them. How beautiful a picture
of the temperament of the composer of "Electra" and "Salome"!
J. M. W. Turner is another excellent example of this position.
One may ask where lies the peculiar force of Gemini ; but a further
investigation of the horoscope will justify wisdom of her children.
Capricorn is rising with Saturn in close trine to Uranus, thus
harmonizing the personality, while Uranus himself is modified by the
conjunction of Venus, the planet of gracious form and brilliant
color. A certain ruggedness and power is added to these by the
square of Mars.
Far less amicable dispositions are found in the nativity of Thomas
Moore. Scorpio is rising, and there is the successful man, no doubt,
especially as Mars is in his own house, just above the eastern sky-
line. But he is sorely weakened by the conjunction of the Moon and
Saturn, while Uranus is squared by Jupiter. Hence, the extremely
narrow limit of his art, and the monotony of his melody. Uranus,
too, is in the seventh house, and it is never well for the will to con-
flict with the personality. Moore's ambition was never equalled by
his achievement ; and his best-known work is not vital or elemental.
One of the greatest chemists that ever lived was Sir Humphrey
Davy. He, too, had Scorpio rising, but its lord Mars in Libra is in
exact trine to Uranus, giving him that noble devotion to justice, in
Nature, which made him so perfect an observer. Here, then, is a
temperament of ideal balance, and the will worked freely at its
gigantic and most honorable ambition. It may be objected that
454 ASTROLOGY
Mars Is in his detriment, but the trine of Uranus fully compensates
for this weakness. Scorpio gives the inquiring mind, and the position
of Uranus in the Zodiac could not but operate freely with such
assistance. With Neptune and Jupiter in exact conjunction in the
House of Fame, the native was assured not only of success, but of
recognition.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Gemini :
Bliss Carman
Alan Dale
Frank Damrosch
Reginald de Koven
Henry Ford
Harrison Grey Fiske
Lloyd George
Percy Stickney Grant
George Harvey
William Randolph Hearst
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Gemini are as follows :
From June 1st 1858 through January Srd 1859
March 12th 1859 " June 25th 1865
February 22nd " March 22nd 1866
August
" October 1941
URANUS IN CANCER
So passive, so placid, so receptive, so conservative a sign as Cancer
cannot be expected to accentuate the active, violent, creative, de-
termined, revolutionary rays of Uranus. It will tend to soften his
violence but may, under favorable conditions, be found to modify
and expand the force, just as some pungent perfume needs to be
spread out more thinly before the olfactory nerves can perceive it.
We shall, then, expect to find the power of Uranus neutralised by
URANUS IN CANCER 455
Cancer ; and, whether this leaves a residuum potent and yet pleasant
will depend far more than in other signs upon the Ascendant, and
upon the dignities and aspects of the lord thereof, and upon those of
Uranus himself.
We shall certainly not expect to discover many people who have
revolutionized their age, who have dominated their contemporaries
in any radical manner. We shall not find any great strength of will,
any true masterfulness of temperament, unless the Sun is in a fixed
sign. Nevertheless, Cancer is ruled by the Moon and therefore the
position implies an unusual degree of psychic power, and renders
the native capable of becoming truly submissive to the deep, sub-
conscious will.
The facts bear out this prognosis. Savonarola, to take our best
available example first, has Uranus in twenty-nine degrees, and its
influence extends, therefore, to the cusp of Leo. In his case, more-
over, Aries is rising, with Mars exalted in Capricorn; and his
Uranus is trined by Jupiter. Mars is weakened by the conjunction
of the Moon, but the square of Saturn adds determination, and
somewhat embitters the configuration, while Mars being in the tenth
house, dominates the figure. There is, therefore, much force in the
personality; the temperament is directed to religion and confined
within those limits, by the aforesaid trine of Jupiter.
In twenty-eight degrees of Cancer is the Uranus of Byron, and
here, too, Leo has doubtless some influence. But Cancer is rising-,
and its lady, the Moon, is in close conjunction with Uranus. The
temperament is therefore harmonious within itself, but easy-going,
pleasure-loving, artistic, sensuous, eccentric, and mutable. The
power of the character comes rather from Mars (in his fall) on the
cusp of the Ascendant. This configuration seems admirably to de-
scribe the best and the worst of the poet. Strong-willed and self-
willed he was, yet unable to persist in will ; he was at once weak and
violent, stormy and querulous; with all his advantages and his
talents, his rank and his reputation, he died a disappointed man,
having sought in vice that victory which comes only from virtue.
Another hot-tempered individual was Queen Elizabeth, whose
Uranus is in conjunction with Saturn, in the house of marriage and
of public enemies, the seventh ; thus being practically in opposition
to her Ascendant. Here is a fatal opposition of personality and
456 ASTROLOGY
temperament. The whole substance of her will was bound up In the
seventh house, and, arrogant and masterful as her personality was,
she could never secure her dynasty. In spite of all the glories of her
reign, Its tragedy was her failure to save her house.
There are two other persons of Importance who have this position
of Uranus Alfred Harmsworth and Rudyard Kipling, both jour-
nalists one in the wholesale and the other in the retail business!
Kipling has Uranus on the very cusp of his Ascendant, and un-
questionably there was never a more self-supporting personality.
He strikes a very definite note, and rises at times to extraordinary
heights. He is perhaps the only author who has really succeeded in
understanding and portraying the ruling class of England. The
conjunction of the Sun and Jupiter, and that of Mercury, Mars,
and Venus, contribute greatly to his success. But this is a digression ;
the point here to be emphasized is the unique personal note struck
by Uranus on the Ascendant, and its resolution in artistic form by
the fact of that Ascendant being Cancer. With Harmsworth the
case is different. Jupiter is rising in Sagittarius, and the Uranus
In Cancer becomes of secondary importance. It merely ties him down
to a method, that of working upon the people, by publicity. The
suddenness and boldness of his schemes are determined by the
rising sign.
Sir David Wilkie is a good example of this position. Gemini is
rising, and its lord, Mercury, is weakened by the opposition of
Mars, so that the influence of Uranus in Cancer comes out strongly.
Uranus is trine to the Sun, confirming the artistic predisposition
conferred by Cancer. Therefore, he was a successful painter with a
keen sense of beauty, but with nothing in him to set the world on
fire.
Our last example is Madame Steinheil. In this nativity Aquarius
is rising, but there are no less than five planets in Aries, all just
under the Ascendant, and Saturn, the lord of the Ascendant, Is
trine from the tenth house, to all of them in general, and to Neptune
in particular. Here, then, is the insatiable ambition, limitless and
indomitable, which devoured her. Uranus in Cancer is not important,
except that, being in the fifth house, it gave her the temperament of
pleasure, and laid down the lines along which she worked to ag-
grandize her vaulting personality. Saturn In the tenth house laid
URANUS IN LEO 4*57
his scythe to the root of her tree in the very season of its blossom-
ing.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Cancer:
Edith Cavell
Richard Carle
Charles G. Dawes
William Faversham
Richard le Gallienne
Charles Hayden
Rudyard Kipling
Ramsay MacDonald
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Cancer are as follows :
From June 26th 1865 through February 21st 1866
March 23rd 1866 "
September 12th 1871
January 2nd " June 27th 1872
URANUS IN LEO
THERE is a peculiar sympathy between Uranus and Leo, because it
is in a solar sign, and Uranus is the secret generative force by which
we call the Sun, "Father." Fierceness and subtlety alternate in his
mode of action ; he is weighty in his onset, but dangerously sudden ;
and he is the giver of life and death.
There is, however, one serious drawback to this position of
Uranus, a danger that its very sympathy with the secret part of the
Solar force creates. Apollo is called "creator and destroyer"; the
Lingam is addressed by the Greeks as "all-begetter, all devourer,"
and this force is now seen to be concentrated in Uranus. Unless the
Sun in a man's horoscope is reasonably well-dignified, there is
danger to the life of the native. The presence of Uranus in the house
of the Sun is itself an affliction of the Sun on the material plane;
458 ASTROLOGY
and so the Sun must be well-dignified in other ways, or the native
is likely to die before the occult power of the planet has time to
manifest itself.
There is, accordingly, a notable paucity of examples of the
proposition which we have put forward as to its natural action when
isolated ; since, from the nature of the case, such isolation is rather
rare. Shelley is our one great example ; and his case is, fortunately,
very perfect. We see the revolutionary influence at work in Great-
heart ; the rebel against the fetters that bind humanity, overflowing
with solar force and love which blazes on high, melting the cold
passions of age and experience with his flaming jets of white-hot
vapor of gold. Such works as "Prometheus Unbound" and "The
World's Tragedy" are pure Uranus in Leo. Shelley was saved from
premature death through illness by the conjunction of the Sun and
Venus, six degrees from Uranus ; Sagittarius is rising, and its lord,
Jupiter, is in conjunction with Mars and Neptune. But, Uranus
being in the eighth house, an accidental death was indicated. Early
as this came, he had done his work ; he had sown a new seed in the
fields of humanity, one of the most fruitful ever planted.
Another case of the most promising talent cut short is King
Edward VI, admittedly the most accomplished scholar of his period.
At an age when most boys are still struggling with the elements of
Latin, he spoke fluently not only that comparatively easy language,
but also Greek and Hebrew. Here again, however, the Sun is only
seven degrees from the square of Uranus, and is himself squared
within one degree by the Moon. Mercury, lord of the Ascendant,
Virgo, is squared by Mars, again within one degree; with such
aspects it was impossible for the promise of youth to be fulfilled in
the achievement of age.
Another striking example of the seductive, fascinating tempera-
ment given by Uranus in Leo is Mary Queen of Scots. She stands
out from all other queens, for beauty and tragedy, not because these
elements were so much greater than in the others, but on account of
the temperament itself, which has the faculty of inspiring the most
amazing extremes of attraction and repulsion. There is never any-
thing half-hearted about the feeling with which such people are
regarded. With Shelley, half the world made him Apollo incarnate ;
the rest thought, and even wrote, that he was, in sober truth, not a
URANUS IN LEO 459
man at all, but a devil sent specially from hell to plague humanity.
So with Mary Queen of Scots. She had Taurus rising, and Venus In
semi-sextile to the Moon. The Sun is trine to Uranus ; but,, being in
the eighth house,, a violent death was presaged as soon as the
directions permitted ; which duly came to pass. Rather similar is the
personality of Cleo de Merode, whose fascination may be held to
match that of the unhappy Stuart queen, having the same serpentine
quality. Here Pisces is rising ;
the life is made secure by the trine of
Mars to the Moon; and there are no afflictions to injure the native.
Another example of fascination is Winston Churchill, perhaps
the most attractive personality in English politics. At an age when
most men, even if they started with his advantages of birth and
wealth, are just taking their seats for the first time in Parliament,
he was a Cabinet Minister, holding the most responsible portfolios.
Scorpio is rising, a most harmonious circumstance, and the Sun is
in the Ascendant, sextile to Saturn, so that the life is well-protected.
However, Uranus is rather near the cusp of the tenth house, and a
sudden fall from power, such as took place in 1915, was naturally
to be expected.
Sometimes the temperament of Uranus in Leo confers unique
powers in some obscure direction. One may instance "Datas,
35
with
Cancer rising, and the Moon in opposition to Uranus, limiting the
mental powers to his peculiar faculty of remembering dates. Some-
what like him, is Houdini, with unequalled dexterity in one trivial,
but most unusual accomplishment, that of being able to extricate
himself from bars or fetters. The squares of Mars and Saturn to
Uranus indicate the special line in which the temperament is dis-
played.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Leo :
Alfred W. Smith
Will Levington Comfort
Robert J. Collier
George M. Cohan
Howard Chandler Christy
Winston Churchill
Harrison Fisher
460 ASTROLOGY
Charles E. Mitchell
Jack London
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris-, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Leo are as follows :
From September 13th 1871 through January 1st 1872
June 28th 1872 "
August 24th 1878
URANUS IN VIRGO
So earthy, mercurial, passive a sign as Virgo can have little in
common with the fire and activity of Uranus. Sometimes, the in-
fluence, as in the case of Cancer, becomes harmonized and fixed;
but this -will only be in special cases. For the most part, one is likely
to find eccentricity and mental instability, and it is not often that
any great driving force is developed.
Nevertheless, we are at once confronted with the case of Balzac,
presumably one of the greatest novelists that ever lived. But here
Leo is rising, and Uranus, though just within the second house, has
no planet between him and the horizon. The Sun, lord of the As-
cendant, is in conjunction with Jupiter in the tenth house. There
is no lack of harmony between the personality and the temperament,
except for the mercurial touch given by Virgo, which made the
master personally very eccentric in manner, and somewhat unin-
telligible in his actions, at least to the majority of his contem-
poraries.
Brigham Young has Uranus rising in Virgo, just within the
second house, in exact sextile to Mars which is within four degrees
of the conjunction of Jupiter. Mercury, the lord of Virgo, is in
close conjunction with the Sun. This combination gives that tre-
mendous energy and ability which he had, and which the mere
position of Uranus would have denied him.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Virgo :
URANUS IN LIBRA 461
Mussolini
Geraldine Farrar
"Bud55
Fisher
Roy Howard
Ray Long
Balzac
Ethel Barrymore
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Virgo are as follows :
From August 25th 1878 through October 13th 1884
April 12th "
July 28th 1885
URANUS IN LIBRA
OWING to the exaltation of Saturn in the house of Venus, there is a
subtle suggestion of danger in the sign of Libra. Its own nature,
too, is the balance ; and when that balance is upset by casting such a
flaming sword as Uranus into the scale, we may expect very astonish-
ing results. Where Venus is afflicted, and Saturn strong, we shall
find that the influence is often exceedingly dangerous; but good
dispositions and dignities of Venus, and a harmonious rising sign
and happy aspects to Uranus, himself, may bring about the develop-
ment of the most useful forces. The freedom of Libra, an airy sign,
will give play to the impulses of Uranus ; in fact, one might almost
say that he is never more himself than when he is in this sign.
Taking first some rather unfortunate examples, let us consider
the nativity of Joseph Smith. Note, however, that it only appears
unfortunate to us in so far as we may happen not to be Mormons ;
we must be tolerant with those expressions of genius with which we
are not in sympathy. It is, however, quite permissible for the
astrologer to give planetary reasons for thinking this prophet a
mistaken one. At his birth Cancer was rising, a very suitable sign
for the reception of inspired knowledge ; unhappily, the Moon, close
ASTROLOGY
to Mercury, is in exact opposition to the cusp of the Ascendant;
moreover, she is in her detriment,, and square to Uranus, which is
conjoined with Saturn. Libra itself is not very harmonious with
Cancer, and though there is much power developed, such power is
bound to work in a disordered manner.
There is much tragedy in the horoscope of James II of England.
Here Uranus is in the third house, with a sextile of the Moon, and a
semi-sextile of the Sun, but squared by Jupiter. The Sun is lord of
the Ascendant, Leo, but he is in Scorpio ; and Mars is rising in his
own decanate of Leo, the third, which represents unsuccessful
struggle. Uranus, too, is in the third house, so that the mentality is
eccentric. The whole outlook is gloomy in the extreme, leading one
to expect an increasing tension, due to tactlessness and ill-temper,
qualities which indeed cost him his throne. Contrast these positions
with those of Louis XIV, "le grand monarque." Here Scorpio is
rising, its lord, Mars, sextile to Uranus. Instantly we see a harmony
of temperament of the ambitious type; not very amiable, perhaps,
but singularly strong and without inhibitions.
The severe quality of the vision of Dtirer is determined by the
conjunction made by Saturn with his Sun, lord of Leo, the As-
cendant. Uranus is in the third house, making possible such pictures
as the "Astrologer" and the "Four Witches." But there is a strong
friendship between Leo and Libra, and the temperament is a sym-
phony of these signs and planets.
A more Venusian type of artist is Sir Joshua Reynolds. Here
Virgo is rising, but in twenty-nine degrees, so that Libra occupies
almost the whole of the Ascendant. Uranus is just within the second
house, but there is nothing rising above him. It is, therefore, evident
that his influence is quite free from admixture. A sextile of Jupiter
and Saturn to Uranus lends him exceptional force, and it is to be
noted that the Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon are all in the
tenth house, and thus rule the entire figure. It may be remarked here
that when there is any dispute, so to say, among the other planets,
the tenth house assumes primary importance.
In literature we have, in Bulwer-Lytton, a figure analogous to
that of Reynolds in painting. Here Cancer is rising, causing him to
prefer antiquity to modern times, to write historical novels rather
than modern, and? even when he wrote of modern times, as in "A
URANUS IN LIBRA 463
Strange Story/
9
to introduce the Ideas of the past and make them
more prominent than those of the present. The Moon is on the cusp
of the Ascendent, or he might have gone even farther than he did in
this direction ; as it was, his personality was diffuse ; his tendency was
to play first at magic, next at politics, then at literature. Were
Cancer more appropriate to Libra, the result would have been
happier ; but the truth is that nothing goes well without a dash of
fire somewhere in its composition. In any case this dispersion of
interests is quite characteristic of Libra.
The influence of Uranus in this sign, at its best9 emphasizing its
most judicial quality, is seen in Sir William Hamilton, one of the
greatest metaphysicians that Britain has produced. Here Gemini
is rising, and Mercury is in his own house, Virgo, in conjunction
with Venus. This gives the mental development full play ; otherwise,
Uranus in the fifth house might have caused trouble. The perfect
harmony of the two airy signs, and the good dignity of Mercury,
allow full play to the better side of Uranus. Hence we find the
metaphysician probing deeply into the most recondite mysteries of
existence, and displaying the most even judgment as well as the
subtlest power of analysis.
In the case of Petrarch we find the emphasis is to be laid upon the
fact that Venus rules Libra. Leo is rising, giving him a large and
warm heart ; especially as the Sun, its ruler, is close under the cusp
of the Ascendant, while Mercury, exactly on it, adds keen intellect
to the personality. Venus is trine to Uranus, and lends tenderness
and beauty to his fierce and passionate rays. Is further explanation
needed of the circumstances that he challenges even Dante as the
Poet of Love? In the horoscope of Erasmus, Uranus is in nine
degrees of Libra, just above the cusp of the Ascendant, while Venus
is rising just below it. But Uranus is opposed by Saturn, making the
temperament cold. Mercury, too, is ascending, and the Sun is in
conjunction with the Moon and Neptune in Scorpio, which dimmish
his glow. Here, then, is the great scholar as opposed to the great
lover.
A very incarnation of passion is to be found in George Sand, with
27 degrees of Aquarius rising, and Saturn sextile to Neptune. The
temperament is harmonious enough, and the intellectual side of the
woman is clearly indicated by the points given above, but Uranus
ASTROLOGY
in the seventh house, squared by the Sun from the fifth house,
describes her varied affairs with men.
George Borrow has Uranus exactly OH the Ascendant? squared by
the Sun and Mercury, while Venus, the lady of the Ascendant, is
squared by Saturn. This fully accounts for his queer, sardonic,
temperament, its flashes of genius, and its strange outbursts of
passion. In the nativity of Victor Hugo, Scorpio was rising with
Mars in Aquarius not specially strong, high, or well-aspected.
Aquarius is friendly to Libra, however, and, as Mars is within five
degrees of the trine of Uranus, the personality and temperament go
well enough together. One may easily understand that this combi-
nation gave the extraordinary power for work which the great poet
and novelist possessed.
That cynical voluptuary, Sainte Beuve, had Pisces rising and
Jupiter in conjunction with Venus and Neptune, a very apt de-
scription of the personality. Uranus has the conjunction of Saturn,
squared by Mercury ; and here is the temperament and the tone of
his life's work criticism. Dumas has Leo rising, with the Sun just
above the horizon, sextile to Uranus. Here again is a splendid
harmony, and its dominant note is the rich youthful glow always
conferred by Leo, unless the Sun is most sorely afflicted, or Saturn
present in the sign.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Libra :
Charlie Chaplin
Victor Hugo
Bulwer-Lytton
Sir Joshua Reynolds
Sir William Hamilton
Petrarch
Albrecht Diirer
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Libra are as follows :
URANUS IN SCORPIO 465
From October 14th 1884 through April llth 1885
July 29th 1885 December 9th 1890
April 5th "
September 25th 1891
URANUS IN SCORPIO
THE nature of Scorpio in its more spiritual aspects is so singularly
like that of Uranus at his best, we may anticipate that his presence
in this sign will be so strong as to dominate the personality, even
where that is of an opposite character. The excellence of this
position will depend upon the aspects to Uranus in a greater degree
than is the case in other signs.
There is naturally a strong affinity between Uranus and Scorpio.
With some respects, the spirit of scientific investigation, which is an
important element of Scorpio, will be brought out very strongly;
with others, the treacherous, subtle-witted quality of that mysterious
sign ; and, in a third group, we may find its sensuality and passion
most deeply marked.
To begin with men of science and philosophy, we have three
emancipating intelligences of the highest order ; Copernicus, New-
ton, and Immanuel Kant. The first of these great men has Virgo
rising, with Mercury in the eighth house trined by the Moon, and
only eight degrees from the trine of Mars. Uranus is in the third
house near the conjunction of Neptune, and is trined by Saturn. It
is impossible to imagine a more perfectly harmonious disposition of
the planets for intellectual and scientific eminence.
Sir Isaac Newton had Libra rising, giving the balanced judgment
so requisite in scientific investigation. Uranus himself is within the
Ascendant, and is trined by Jupiter, who is only six degrees from
conjunction with Saturn. Here the differences from the previous
example well describe the larger aspects taken by Newton's investi-
gation. In the horoscope of Immanuel Kant we find Taurus rising,
but in 29 degrees, so that most of the Ascendant is occupied by
Gemini, whose lord, Mercury, is in exact conjunction with the Sun
in Taurus ; and these planets are trined by the Moon in Virgo and
by Saturn in his own sign Capricorn. This gives an admirable
466 ASTROLOGY
picture of his wonderful intelligence, introspective, philosophical,
metaphysical.
More of the revolutionary phase of Uranus is found in the
nativities of Gladstone and John Bright. The former has Capri-
corn rising, and Saturn is conjoined with Neptune, within two
degrees, and with Venus within nine degrees. It is easy to see that
the interest must be mainly human and political, for Jupiter trines
this conjunction, and is in Aries, near the cusp of the third house.
The temperament is not very harmonious with the personality in
Gladstone's case, though both are powerful; and in this diversity
we see the possibility of trouble. In fact, his career was tumultuous,
and he sometimes suddenly reversed his policy In an arbitrary, and,
as some thought, an unwarrantable manner.
The career of John Bright, not so astoundingly successful, nor so
tempestuous, was simpler and clearer in its astrologic particu-
lars. Here Cancer is rising; the Moon is conjoined with Venus,
close to Neptune, and Uranus is in conjunction with the Sun.
Cancer and Scorpio being friendly signs, the man was always him-
self, and attained the highest reputation for suavity and for in-
tegrity.
We might also pair Charles Dickens and Alfred Tennyson. The
former has Uranus rising in Scorpio, sextile to Mercury. Mars is
squared by Saturn, making the temperament stronger than the
personality. Hence, the man's work was more important than he
himself.
Tennyson, with Gemini rising, and its lord, Mercury, suffering
severely from the square of Jupiter, was of a coldly intellectual,
almost priggish type. Uranus, too, is in conjunction with Mars.
But Venus is rising, sextile to Jupiter, which is in the eleventh house,
and so it is easy to understand that these influences counted more
than the significators of either the personality or the temperament.
The high honors paid Tennyson were due more to his adroitness in.
pleasing his sovereign than to any other quality inherent in himself
or even the excellence of his poetry.
Another Victorian example is Sir Isaac Pitman, with Libra rising ;
Venus is not especially strong in any way, but is on the cusp of the
third house, within which is Mercury. The inventive genius, there-
fore, turns naturally to seeking ease in, matters connected with
URANUS IN SCORPIO 467
writing ; in other words, to the construction of the system of short-
hand which is associated with his name.
Before we proceed to the domain of art, let us look for a moment
at the nativity of Caesar Borgia. Virgo is rising, with Mercury on
the cusp of the Ascendant, giving a cold, shrewd personality.
Uranus, on the cusp of the third house, is opposed by the Moon,
both of these being squared by Mars and Saturn in conjunction in
Leo. From such a configuration we can picture to ourselves the oily,
violent, sensual, and perfidious qualities of the man, while the Sun
rising, trine to Jupiter and sextile to Mars and Saturn, assures
ambition, and success in attaining its ends.
Wagner has Gemini rising, which accounts for the literary quality
in his work; Mercury is square to an opposition of Mars and
Jupiter; which explains the violent and brilliant qualities of his
nature and his music ; Uranus is opposed by Venus, and the whole
figure represents strife and turmoil. Venus close above the eastern
horizon, in her own house, in conjunction with the Sun and sextile to
Jupiter is, on the whole, the most important planet in the horoscope.
Her aspects give the intense humanity, the marked dramatic and
artistic feeling, especially for pictorial effect (for Wagner's music
has always a visual value) ; and these assure success. Like Wagner,
in his own art, is Michael Angelo. Here Pisces is rising, Mercury
and Venus are conjoined on the cusp, with the Sun not far below
them. They are trine to Uranus and the Moon. Pisces and Scorpio
are friendly ;
it is the ideal harmony which permitted the man to
turn out apparently unlimited quantities of the finest work.
For a final example, Alfred de Musset offers himself as a contrast.
Here Aquarius is rising, Saturn is in conjunction with the Sun and
Mercury in the tenth house, with Neptune only nine degrees away.
The personality goes well with the temperament though, Venus
being in Capricorn, her hated house, and Jupiter close to the
opposition of Uranus, the whole make-up is bound to be one of
cynicism and disappointment, to which the square of Mars and
Venus adds some violence of ill-regulated passion. In spite of
brilliancy of talent, even genius, in spite of great achievement, one
can only rank him sadly among those who are not quite immortals.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Scorpio :
468 ASTROLOGY
Dean Cornwall
Horace Greeley
P. T. Barnum
Michael Angelo
Sir Isaac Pitman
Chopin
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Scorpio are as follows :
From December 10th 1890 through April 4th 1891
September 26th 1891
" December 1st 1897
July 4th
"
September 10th 1898
URANUS IN SAGITTARIUS
IN the sign of Sagittarius lies much of the nature of the horse and
of the deer ; timid, delicate, proud, courageous, and swift. Only the
suddenness of its action in any way resembles the typical Uranus
force; but the sign itself, if Its lord, Jupiter, be happily aspected,
may have much power to overcome that which seems hard and cold
in the planet. Cold, for the cruelty of Uranus is calculated and de-
liberate, for the achievement of spiritual good to the native, while
that of Mars is the hot cruelty of far more human passion. But
Sagittarius never fails to give liveliness to the temperament ; it is as
Celtic on the Ascendant as Leo or Pisces ; more so, in fact, than the
latter ; therefore, we here find in the planet what one might whimsi-
cally call a "reformed" Uranus ; etherealized and sublimized. But, of
course, bad aspects and an inharmonious Ascendant will weaken and
corrupt these qualities.
For example, the horoscope of Queen Victoria shows arrogance
and petulance; impatience of contradiction. Gemini is rising, the
opposition sign of Sagittarius, and Neptune in the eighth house,
within five degrees of Uranus in the seventh house. Saturn squares
both; but, fortunately, Venus is trine, otherwise her temperament
would have been impossible. Mercury is in the twelfth house, and not
URANUS IN SAGITTARIUS 469
particularly strong; it is very evident that the temperament plays
a much larger part than the personality.
George Eliot has Scorpio in the Ascendant, and the Sun, Venus,,
Mercury, Uranus, and Neptune all in the east, not far helow the
horizon. Uranus in conjunction with Neptune is squared by Saturn.
Mars is in Leo, trine to Venus, but opposed by Jupiter and the
Moon. The result is naturally a highly confused problem, from
which it is difficult to resolve one separate, true resultant. A stormy
life, and a mixed career of joy, sorrow, failure, and triumph are the
visible effects of this complicated chain of causes.
Now, let us consider the horoscope of Shakespeare, with Virgo
rising. Mercury, lord of the Ascendant, is in Aries, trine to Uranus
and sextile to Neptune. There is no planet ascending ; Uranus is in
the fourth house in opposition to Neptune and Venus, a tremendous
aspect; and Venus is also sextile to a conjunction of Saturn and
Jupiter. Here, then, we see a wonderful temperament, and a negli-
gible personality.
Another master-mind is that of Herbert Spencer. Uranus is on the
exact cusp of the Ascendant, twenty-eight degrees of Sagittarius,
with Neptune in close conjunction, again a tremendous aspect.
Hence the epoch-mating character of his philosophy. The man
himself was retiring (Jupiter, the lord of the Ascendant being in
Pisces softened by the square of Venus), but there is no conflict of
any kind indicated between the temperament and the personality.
He was, therefore, free to work out the splendid promise of his re-
markable horoscope.
Bismarck has the Sun, lord of his Ascendant Leo, squared by the
Moon and in trine to Uranus, who is himself trine to the Ascendant.
Here is, again, an excellent harmony, save that the Moon in Capri-
corn gives some brusquerie. On the whole, it is a disposition certain
to afford the best results, from the standpoint of a career.
Still more earth-shaking is the colossal Luther. Leo is rising once
more, this sign, of course, being in trine to Sagittarius and therefore
sympathetic with it. The Sun, Saturn and Mercury are in con-
junction, sextile to the Moon and semi-sextile to Neptune; Uranus
is sextile to a conjunction of Venus, Mars and Jupiter. Thus both
personality and temperament are exceedingly strong, and harmonize
one with the other. The result we know.
470 -
ASTROLOGY
A far calmer figure Is that of Cornelius Agrlppa. Virgo Is rising,
and Mercury, its lord, is not especially strong in the second house.
Uranus is near the square of the Sun, and within nine degrees of
the opposition of Mars. Here we find indicated scholarship and
deep thought, without any greater manifestation than some books,
more curious than revolutionary, and the acquisition of a great, If
not very well-deserved, reputation as a magician.
An interesting example of temperament stronger than personality
is seen in Nell Gwyn, with Capricorn rising and its lord Saturn
afflicted. But Uranus is exactly conjoined with Neptune on the cusp
of the eleventh house, giving the temperament an extraordinary
force to work through favoritism. As the Lord of the Ascendant,
Saturn, is trine to the Sun, she had also the force of character to
make use of her power mainly for good. Courtesan though she was,
she was probably the best influence in the life of Charles II and a
consistent friend to the common people.
William III of England has the Moon rising in Leo, trine to
Mercury, with the Sun In conjunction with Jupiter. Uranus and
Neptune are exactly conjoined this, by the way, often stands for
great and unexpected opportunities, as is seen, indeed, in the pre-
ceding case, and the whole figure Is very favorable, so that, from a
petty princeling of another country, he became King of England*
through the apparent accident of the abdication of his wife's father.
Mars is square to the Neptune-Uranus position, a testimony that
it was through no charm of temperament that he came to win such
a position.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Sagittarius :
John Ruskin
Shakespeare
Gloria Swanson
Lord Tennyson
Queen Victoria
George Washington
Martin Luther
Cornelius Agrippk
URANUS IN CAPRICORN 471
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of RapfaaePs
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Sagittarius are as
follows :
From December 2nd 1897 through July 3rd 1898
September llth 1898 " December 19th 1904
URANUS IN CAPRICORN
IN Capricorn, Saturn's constricting restraint directs the explosive
force of Uranus, just as the binding walls of the cannon intensify
the effect of the discharge. With Uranus in this sign we get "an
he-goat also, against whom there is no rising up." The native of this
position is, in Kipling's phrase, "a first-class fighting man." The
examples of this quality are so convincing that they need only to be
mentioned. The power evoked is so great that no afflictions to the
personality appear to daunt it, unless they are extraordinarily evil.
The Magical Will of the Man, his Mission in the World, is every-
thing to him.
We have, to begin with, Charles Baudelaire, who despite all
persecutions, revolutionized French thought, and, by inspiring
Swinburne as his spiritual first-born son, revolutionized English
thought as well. We have Louis Pasteur, who revolutionized surgery
in the teeth of the deadliest opposition; Huxley, who battled for
science against orthodox religion, the most Homeric and spectacular
combat of the Victorian period ; Alfred Russell Wallace, one of his
principal colleagues in the fight; Kruger, who broke the power of
the British Empire, and "staggered humanity'
9
by the dour fight
that his handful of burghers put up against overwhelming hosts;
Grant, who crushed Lee ; Burton, the most desperate antagonist in
private and in public life that England ever bore ; and Tolstoi, who
went out into the snow of a Russian winter to die in a wayside rail-
way station so bitter, even in extreme old age, with the hand of death
upon his shoulder, was his hatred of "home" and "comfort" and the
normal life of man.
Then we have Rosa Bonheur, whose life was one long battle
472 ASTROLOGY
against her own femininity ; and, finally, George III (whom we must
regard merely as a symbol of the race which he ruled), who broke,
with dogged courage and endurance, the power of Napoleon. Even
in the mad King himself we can see the fighting quality ; it was his
obstinate, bull-dog stupidity that lost to his crown these United
States of America.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Capricorn :
U. S. Grant
Tolstoi
Archbishop Laud
Mary Baker Eddy
Dion Boucicault
Louis Pasteur
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Capricorn are as
follows :
From December 20th 1904 through January 30th 1912
September 5th " November llth 1912
URANUS IN AQUARIUS
IN this sign, Uranus appears most clearly as the emancipator. It
has been generally claimed that Uranus has a very special affinity
with the sign Aquarius, and the sign is so harmonious with the planet
that the native who possesses an easy-going personality will probably
be little more than commonplace. Some special excitement of ad-
versity, which tries the soul, is necessary to make the possibilities
of the sign operative to the full extent ; and to produce a really great
emancipator.
Thus, in the cases of the Emperor Maximilian, and of Lords
Roberts and Wolseley, we find no marked revolutionary impulse.
Roberts has Pisces rising, with Jupiter just under the cusp, in
URANUS IN AQUARIUS 473
opposition ID Saturn and Mercury. Uranus is
ain prison/
5
just
within the twelfth house, with little help anywhere. There is, there-
fore, nothing sufficient to arouse those deeper and stronger spiritual
forces to which we have learned to look for the revolutionary ideas
which sway mankind.
Wolseley has Aquarius rising, with Saturn in Virgo not particu-
larly strong. Uranus is near the cusp of the Ascendant, giving him
the peculiar personality which, harmonizing so well with the tem-
perament, brought him so much honor ; for Uranus was close to the
sextile of Jupiter. Once again, however, there is no deeper force at
work ; the career was conventional.
The unhappy Emperor Maximilian is an example of feebleness
and lack of unity. The Sun and Mercury are rising in Cancer, and
Jupiter is in the Mid-heaven ;
but the Moon is in the fifth house, in
opposition to Mars. Uranus, too, receives no help. This is a fine
illustration of how mere good fortune, unaided by personal strength,
may fail to keep a man out of difficulties.
There are two humorists with this position, Du Maurier and Lewis
Carroll. The former has Uranus on the cusp of the Ascendant, with
nothing better than a semi-sextile of the Moon to assist him ; Saturn
is in opposition to Mercury. The latter, on the other hand, has
Sagittarius rising, and Jupiter is close to Uranus near the cusp of
the third house. He has the benefit of a semi-sextile of Neptune
here is the subtle yet sacred character of the humor while Venus
and Mars rising in conjunction lend passion and power to the per-
sonality. The Sun, too, is only eight degrees from Uranus. It is a
most fortunate figure, on the whole ; but, at the same time, nothing
revolutionary is to be found in it.
President Garfield has Virgo rising, with Mercury not very
strong but in the third house. Jupiter is in conjunction with
Uranus ; Saturn has just risen. There is evidence here of a clever,
even nature, likely to move harmoniously enough; but without that
quality which overturns faiths and empires.
General Gordon is a stronger type. Aries is rising, with Mars
sextile to Jupiter. Uranus is only ten degrees from the Sun, well
above the eastern horizon. One can understand the impetuous,
romantic, adventurous disposition; there are also indications of
great emancipatory ideas. But there is hardly sufficient force to
474 ASTROLOGY
carry them out, as Uranus is hampered by his position in the twelfth
house.
Compare with these the nativity of Joan of Arc. Scorpio is rising*
and Mars, its lord, is semi-sextile to Jupiter, trine to Saturn, and
trine to Venus. Uranus, trined by Jupiter and the Moon, is square
to the Ascendant. Here is an all-conquering personality ; Uranus
giving the revolutionary idea, which is fired with religious zeal for
the freeing of the people of her country.
Consider a true empire builder, Franz Josef of Austria, who9 from
an ill-assorted conglomeration of races who detested each other,
developed a nation which surprised the world by its unexpected in-
ternal strength in the shock of the greatest war in history. Libra is
rising, giving the even judgment and sound balance necessary for
such work, and Venus, in her beloved sign, Cancer, and in the tenth
house, has the semi-sextile of a conjunction of the Sun, the Moon
and Saturn, ensuring the affectionate devotion of all his subjects of
whatever race. She is opposed by Neptune in the fourth house, which
led to the domestic tragedies in his life, but failed to injure his
popularity. Uranus trine to the Ascendant has the sextile of Mars.
To this planet, so strong in Aquarius, we must look for the revo-
lutionary awakening of his mind which led him from a beginning of
repressive absolutism to become the most sincere constitutional
monarch of Europe, devoted to the best interests of all his people.
A very different type of emancipator is Goethe, with Scorpio
rising and Mars exalted in Capricorn, trine to Mercury and the
Sun. Uranus has the square of Saturn, which is on the cusp of the
Ascendant. It is a most harmonious picture, and a great one ; for
with such a sign rising, and such large planets involved, there must
always be big things on the carpet. With this, compare Rossetti, a
similar mind, but less original and far less cosmic. Gemini is rising,
Mercury is with the Moon in the twelfth house, sextile to Venus and
square to Uranus, and Venus is trine to Jupiter. All this is quite as
harmonious as Goethe's figure, but not nearly so big. The forces
involved are more conventional and so commonplace.
Another great mind was that of Mme. Blavatsky, with Cancer
rising and the Moon trine to the conjunction of Jupiter and Uranus,
the latter being opposed by the Sun. The Sun is rising (near the
URANUS IN AQUARIUS
cusp of the second house) promising success; but the other combi-
nation gives the real force of the character,, the receptiveness, the
religious enthusiasm, and the occult impulse all working together.
Her chief of staff. Colonel Olcott, has a similar temperament.
Libra is rising, and Venus is conjoined with the Sun ; and the square
of Mars to both contributes magnetism. Uranus Is In opposition to
the Sun. Naturally, such a figure promises the sympathetic service
which his work manifested. The trine of Mars to Saturn gives
further efficiency, and he did his work right well.
The great sage and mystic of antiquity, Proclus, the neo-
Platonist, has Uranus in conjunction with the Sun and Venus;
Saturn and Jupiter are square to them. Aries is rising, Mars, its
lord, being In Capricorn in his exaltation. Here, once more, is the
double gift of the Gods, the preoccupation with great things and
the power to execute them.
The following well known persons were born with Uranus in
the sign Aquarius :
Andrew Carnegie
Frank H. Dodd
Bishop Fallows
Cardinal Gibbons
Mark Twain
Alexander Agassiz
Dr. S. Weir Mitchell
Lord Roberts
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to Interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Aquarius are as
follows :
From January 31st through September 4th 1912
November 12th 1912
" March 81st 1919
August 17th 1919
*
January 21st 1920
476 ASTROLOGY
URANUS IN PISCES
PISCES is an exceptionally receptive sign, altogether passive ; there
Is no driving force in it. It is the precise antithesis of the aggressive-
ness of Uranus. There is, of course, a great deal of subtlety in Pisces,
but this is of a different quality from that of Uranus. We shall, con-
sequently, not expect to find very many men of the first class with
this position.
Occasionally, however, the positions of the other planets may be
such that Uranus is so completely blended with the sign that his
occult influence finds its best expression through the fine menstruum
of Pisces. There is, fortunately, one example of this in its perfection
William Blake. Here Cancer is rising with the Moon, its lady, just
above the Ascendant, semi-sextile to Neptune and trine to Uranus,
but in opposition to Venus, which is sextile to Uranus. It should be
remembered that the effect of the opposition of two planets is very
much mitigated by the presence of a third, trine to one and sextile to
the other. The personality is here, therefore, extremely well-suited
to the temperament. The general influence, is, of course, watery, and,
Uranus being in the ninth house, it is only natural that religion
and particularly that extremely personal and true religion which
takes the form of direct vision should be the key-note of the poet's
career. It is interesting to note that Swinburne, who discovered
Blake and introduced him to his own blind countrymen, has the same
position of Uranus. Cancer is again rising, and Uranus is in the
ninth house.
We may now consider two writers, singularly sympathetic to each
other, Alphonse Daudet and Thomas Hardy. Daudet has Scorpio
rising with its lord, Mars, in his detriment in Taurus in the seventh
house, in conjunction with the Sun. Uranus, on the other hand, has a
square of Saturn, which is one of the better aspects of these planets,
and he is near the cusp of the fifth house. The temperament is conse-
quently very powerful and expresses itself naturally in an artistic
form. Thomas Hardy has Libra rising with Venus in Taurus, near
the conjunction of Mercury and Mars, but otherwise not particu-
larly strong ; nor is the ninth house altogether a desirable place for
her. As with Daudet, Uranus has the square of Saturn ; this aspect
URANUS IN PISCES 477
will here be taken to indicate the deep philosophical insight which
permeates the realism in the works of both authors.
We shall now proceed to a consideration of the nativities of a pair
of very clever and successful politicians, one born to ascend a throne
and the other to own a screw factory; Edward VII and Joseph
Chamberlain.
The late king of England has 28 degrees of Sagittarius rising,
with Jupiter just touching the cusp of the Ascendant. Uranus is
squared by the Ascendant, but has a trine of the Sun, while Jupiter
has a sextile of Venus, all of which make for success. The subtlety
and astuteness with which Edward engineered the Triple Entente
and isolated Germany will long be remembered in history.
In the horoscope of Joseph Chamberlain, on the other hand, while
we find indications of statesmanship we note that he changed his
politics frequently, doubtless due to Uranus in the tenth, but did it
so successfully, that, in spite of the distrust with which he was re-
garded by the more intellectual classes of his countrymen, he always
managed to be on the side of the majority. Cancer is rising, with
the Sun on the cusp of the second house, approaching a conjunction
of Jupiter ; Mercury is trine to Uranus and is exactly on the cusp
of the Ascendant. From the whole figure, we see an extraordinary
degree of concentration and political skill.
Our next pair, Jay Gould and the late J. Pierpont Morgan,
should prove exceedingly instructive. Here the influence flows
through a purely financial channel. Gould has Gemini rising with
Mercury just below the cusp of the Ascendant, very strong in his
own house, and with a trine of the Moon and Saturn. This is a very
cold combination. There is no warmth from any source; the Sun
himself is imprisoned in the twelfth house, and forms a square with
Uranus. It is the very picture of a greedy, calculating, cold-blooded
financier. Venus and Jupiter being in the second house turn the
affections toward money, and assure its gain. The affliction of
Uranus by the Sun in the tenth, house shows that the financier could
not escape the reprobation of his fellow men.
Morgan has Leo rising and its lord, the Sun, in close conjunction
with Mercury, is exalted in Aries and is culminating, all of which
renders him extremely powerful. Uranus is in trine to Saturn and
opposed by the Moon. The personality is far finer and nobler than.
4s78 ASTROLOGY
that of our last example,, not nearly so concentrated upon pure gain
and in no way inhibited from undertaking constructive work.
General Boulanger has Cancer rising with its lady, the Moon in
Aquarius, within nine degrees of the conjunction of Uranus, which
is on the cusp of the tenth house. Beyond a sextile of the Sun and
Venus to the Ascendant (Cancer), and approaching semi-sextile of
Neptune to the Moon and Uranus, but applying more to Uranus,
there is no particular assistance to the Ascendant qualities. We find
in fact, that it was the personality of the man which failed him,
since at the critical moment he wavered and broke down. Contrast
with him, the great Gambetta who has Scorpio rising and Mars in
his own house, Aries, quite close to the conjunction of the Sun and
Mercury. Saturn is rising within seven degrees of the trine to Mars.
Uranus is in conjunction with Venus in her exaltation, but is op-
posed by Jupiter. The personality appears extraordinarily forceful,
the temperament not markedly so. In fact his work was mainly that
of rallying the French in the hour of their defeat, and idea which
might have occurred to any patriot. The amazing energy and suc-
cess with which he carried out his task are due to the great power
of the Ascendant and the good aspects of its lord. It will be noted, of
course, that the affliction of Uranus in the fourth house led to its
logical manifestation upon the material plane, in his tragic death.
The last of our group is Robespierre. Here Aquarius is rising,
Saturn just under the cusp of the Ascendant and Uranus a little
below him. Saturn has the semi-sextile of Venus and the square of
Mercury, which indicates a successful and plausible lawyer with a
sense of reality, but no load of scruple sufficient to hinder his march
toward power. Uranus squared by Jupiter receives only the doubtful
assistance of a semi-sextile of the Moon ; and, though Jupiter Is in
the tenth, in his own house, Sagittarius, trined by Mars, this cannot
offset so powerful an affliction as that of Uranus, although it added
executive force to the ambition. Here is a clinical picture of a cold,
harsh, overbearing, ambitious, unscrupulous man, the only relief to
which appears in the rising Venus, which is approaching a con-
junction with Uranus ; and this curiously reflects the contradictory
strain of gentleness in his private home life. So, again, as in all the
cases that we have been considering, we find the clearest possible
witness of history through the truth of Astrology.
NEPTUNE SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED 479
The following well known persons were bom with Uranus In
the sign Pisces :
Admiral Dewey
J. J. Hill
John B. Herreshoff
Joseph G. Cannon
Grover Cleveland
Sir Henry Irving
George F. Baker
John Burroughs
The late J. P. Morgan
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Uranus is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
From February llth 1836 through April 18th 1843
October 2nd 1843 "
February 9th 1844
April 1st August 16th 1919
January 22nd 1920 "
March 30th 1927
November 5th 1927 "
January 12th 1928
NEPTUNE SYMBOLICALLY CONSIDERED
THE Mind of the Father said "Into Three!" and immediately all
things were so divided.
This Oracle, attributed to Zoroaster, refers secondarily to the
division of Nature into the three active elements of fire, air, and
water. Earth is but a mixture of these three in divers proportions.
In this division according to mythology, the kingdom of fire fell to
Hades or Pluto, that of air to Zeus or Jupiter, and that of water to
Poseidon or Neptune.
Neptune is therefore the lord of Ocean, and especially of that
Oceanus the great river that girdles the whole earth. One is not wise
to laugh, as the shallow laugh, at the supposed absurdities of old
geography. The earth is not a flat plate, but the solar system is ;
480 ASTROLOGY
and on the rim of this plate is that lovely sphere, Neptune, the out-
post of the fortress of the Sun. So that it was a most happy acci-
dent that this planet was called by the name of the Lord of Oceanus.
Such is the far-off base, in the wise and true dreamland of the
philosophers, of the palace of our knowledge. Let us see how their
strange symbols have been hints of truth, how from the root of
poetry has grown the tree of prose.
First, consider Neptune as a lonely sentinel patrolling the coiv
fines of our camp. Think of the solitude and darkness of that
mysterious and eternal journey, what thoughts must bloom. Mystic,,
austere, romantic, will they not be? What messenger cornet may
approach from utmost space? The spirit of adventure thrills the
blood, frosted as it is by that contact with a space of icy nothing-
ness, save (it may be) meteors and dark stars. Neptune is always
starlit; at its distance from the Sun, our Father is hardly bigger
than any other star. So Neptune gallops through a night always
starlit, with his source of heat and motion too remote to cheer him,
but with hope, faith, and love.
How spiritual, how star-pure, must then be the secret thoughts
of such a one! The hermit of the solar system! How indomitable^
how lonely, how refined must be his moods !
Yet there is something in solitude that sets men dreaming. Not
always is that dream the starry aspiration of the Knight vowed to
some inaccessible lady ; often there steals through the faerie window
a glint of some fantastic mirth. In lighter moments there is some-
thing of the Troubadour, and even of the Pierrot, in his melancholy,
craving for the inaccessible. For it is not in the Neptunian nature
to reach harbor. He longs for love and friendship; did he gain
them, he would retire. For nothing can satisfy that thirst for things
infinite; there is no goal attainable. Neptune is man's boundless
spirit ; heaven itself is too narrow for his desires. So, into his nature
comes the fay coquettishness ; he becomes conscious of his own an-
guish; and this is externalized as a love of masquerade. He knows
that love is unattainable ; and so he plays at love. He knows that
happiness is beyond his reach ; and so he seeks it by a violation of
the limits of existence. His true nature, thrilled through by the
wisdom of the stars, with whom he holds such raptured coramumngs
in the centuries of that tireless vigil, leads him to mystic trances,
NEPTUNE IN THE SIGNS 481
to visions of deity, to mysterious marriages with, elements beyond
our system. For he, the Ishmael of planets, never turns his face
toward the Sun.
But if he is not steeled to endure exile, to attain the snowy sum-
mits of omniscience and bliss by the means of the wise eremite, then
the false nature mocks the true. In revels fantastic and fond, in
comedies bitter at the core, in the use of strange drugs or of per-
verse delights, in soulless and neurotic waking dreams, he seeks to
satisfy his soul.
Ah, Neptune is the soul! And does not this fit the sea? Is not
the sea at once infinitely calm and infinitely air-hungered? Does
not the sea take strange shapes, break up the light into a myriad
fantastically-colored flaws ? Illusion, and art, chameleon and dragon,
that is the sea ! Is not the sea now tender and adorable, sun-kissed ;
now terrible in its torment, a whirl of insatiable desires? Did not
Sappho fling herself into the sea, and did not Undine draw thence the
bitter joy of her veins? Are not the seas
5
depths unstirred, un-
plumbed, and do they not harbor monsters more terrible than the
fancy of antiquity ever invented? Ay! take the ocean of Ulysses and
of Jason, of de Mandeville and of Swinburne; let the romance and
the terror, the mystery and the unearthly joy of all the artists of the
world direct your glance; look upon the sea through their eyes,
and draw into your soul the wonder and the wantonness of it. Then
understand how proper is the Ocean as an image of the soul, how
proper is Neptune to be the ruler of the ocean. The soul !
Yes, there is the word! Neptune is the soul, with all its naked
nerves played upon by rays of alien systems, malicious, capricious,
faerie, or else like harp-strings swept by some Player from beyond,
too subtle and too divine for His melodies to reach the ears of mor-
tals.
Only that sympathy, that yearning, that other-worldliness, in
ourselves, that influence of Neptune in our own horoscopes, enables
us to catch a far-away echo of that lyre faint, silvery music of the
Psyche of our inmost beings.
NEPTUNE IN THE SIGNS
NOT by accident are the planets named for the gods of Greek and
Roman mythology. In early times the sea was not navigable in our
ASTROLOGY
modern sense. The voyage of Ulysses,, from one end of the Medi-
terranean to the other9
was considered worthy of celebration in the
greatest poem transmitted to us from antiquity. To the Ancients,
the sea, unknown and terrible, swarming with fabulous and appall-
ing monsters,, personified the Unknown ; and the great river Oceanus
which girdled the earth was to them bounded on the other side by the
gloomy shores of Hades. The dwellers upon the coasts of Greece and
Italy, however many of them living in islands knew the sea in its
playful moods, as many gracious legends of Neptune attest.
They knew, too, its masquerade of still waters over cruel rock,
the treachery of its whirlpool sucking- into a vortex of destruction
whatever ventured too near its outer sweep ; they knew how currents
are denied by surface tide ; they had heard the "measureless laugh-
ter of the loud sounding sea
55
and had been deafened by its storm,
insatiable, murderous, pitiless.
And so the Ancients named that far, strange planet, which girdles
the firmament as the salt sea girdles the earth, Neptune. Not by
accident but mindful of the ways of the sea and of the symbol-
ism of the god that rules the sea,
To arrive at the true valuation of Neptune's influence in the
signs of the Zodiac and upon the native as he comes under the do-
minion of the signs, the reader must constantly bear in mind the pe-
culiar nature of the planet as distinguished from other planets.
Whereas Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and Saturn exert their
influences chiefly upon man in his mundane capacities, his evolu-
tionary life, Neptune exerts a spiritual influence upon man in the
midst of the latter's mundane existence, for Neptune is the planet
of spiritual forces, of the revolutionary spirit itself.
Neptune's influence upon a life dominated wholly or chiefly by
physical or materialistic interests is likely to be wholly bad or ma-
lefic, while this same influence, stressed upon a life already under a
spiritual leading, will be wholly good or benefic.
It is the Neptune influence that gives the wings of vision to hu-
manity in its long -struggle out of darkness into the light of eternity.
Materialistic persons can think only in relative values of a day,
a month, a year at most; intellectually developed persons think in
values of a lifetime ; but those of our sphere who are spiritually con-
scious think and work in terms of the eternal ; to these a century is
NEPTUNE IN THE SIGNS 488
as a year., a cycle as a life; they are the true Neptunlans. The ma-
terialistic astrologer classes Neptune "malefic, sinister, obscure,"
but the enlightened astrologian thoroughly understands that Nep-
tune causes upon this earth and upon its natives the influx of a
spiritual element unrelated to strictly earthly affairs. While the
other planets are commensurable and deal with the relative, Neptune
is incommensurable; he intrudes the absolute. In other words, for
those developed spiritually Neptune is wholly "good,
5 '
for others
he seems wholly
abad.'9
Neptune stirs the soul to aspiration toward
the infinite; the result is that a humanitarian influence is projected
by the native for the benefit of humanity's advance as a whole. On
the other hand, for those whose desires cause them to plunge and
wallow in the troughs of mere material delights and satisfactions,
the Neptune influence is as a lightning bolt that shatters their
temples of materialism to the very foundations.
Neptune's orbit, being the outer circle of our known universe, is
so vast, the effect of his movement upon the earth is so slow, that
we may best consider his influence as negative upon our physical
life, and as positive upon our spiritual impulses. He is as an indica-
tion of the tendency of the period, the planet of the new era, a
barometer of the latter-day Universe.
Neptune requires approximately fourteen years to move through
a single sign. To give an account of his effects upon humanity would
be to write the history of the world.
One can gauge him, to some extent, by considering certain events
of comparatively recent times. Matters requiring wisdom are usu-
ally directed by men of between forty-five and fifty-five years, and
the consensus of their influence may be divined from the place of
Neptune at their birth.
Thus the Revolution of 1848 was brought about by men influ-
enced by Neptune in Libra ; they struggled for freedom and justice,
but their policy lacked virility, while their methods failed because
of indirectness. Similarly, the French Revolution was begun by peo-
ple influenced by Neptune in Leo, but the generations of prepara-
tion toward that event involved people with that planet in Cancer
or Gemini. Cromwell's Neptune was also in Leo.
The recent Great War was doubtless due to the influence of
people bom with Neptune in Aries; while the rebuilding of civil-
484 ASTROLOGY
ization has fallen upon those laborious and Initiative men and women
for whom Neptune works through Taurus and Gemini.
The scientific advance of the Nineteenth Century was due to
pioneers stimulated by Neptune in Capricorn; and the fruits of
their labors were gathered by men born with Neptune in Aquarius.
Neptune was in Pisces, influencing the artistic, psychic decadent
generation of the Nineties.
Times when skeptical thought attacks tradition by purely in-
tellectual methods and makes constructive work possible are those
influenced by Neptune in Gemini. Immanuel Kant, who destroyed
the old philosophy, Voltaire, who destroyed the old religion, and
their contemporaries were of such a generation.
Neptune, being the planet of spiritual forces, is always revolu-
tionary. Forever he quickens the old life and increases the new life ;
the principle is the same ; only the material varies according; to the
signs through which he moves.
Because of the character of Neptune and the long period of time
it requires to pass through a single sign, its influence upon the in-
dividual is very dependent upon its position and aspect to other
planets. It is, therefore, obviously unnecessary to go into a lengthy
account of its effect upon the indivdual in the twelve signs.
NEPTUNE IN ARIES
PEOPLE having Neptune in Aries are Inclined to favor new religious
and philosophical teachings ; they have a great desire to teach hu-
manity to aspire to higher ideals.
Aries Is too militant, too martial, too efficient, temporal, and
material for so purely spiritual a force as Neptune to express his
vibrations sympathetically. His power lies more in revolution than
in evolution, in the destruction of the wrong and the upheaval of
the conservative. The position Is spiritually radical and Inclines the
spiritual energies to be more dominantly mental and energetic than
deep, emotional and cosmic. This is well Illustrated by the religious
diversity, as well as the theological skepticism, among the men and
women of the Neptune in Aries generation. No two of them seem
to hold the same Ideas on any higher matters or on political or
NEPTUNE IN TAURUS 485
social matters. It has produced an age of diversity and unrest, not
an age of cohesion and peace an age in which more old dogmas
are destroyed than new truths advanced.
When this planet is afflicted in Aries, it lends energy and inde-
pendence to all its turbid forces for evil, while its mental quality
adds initiative and a certain intelligence. It then tends to make
one fanatical, Bolshevistic and revolutionary.
John Wesley, King George V, Mary, Queen of Scots, Benjamin
Franklin, Cervantes, Samuel Johnson, Thomas Moore, Maeterlinck9
Kipling, Yeats, Richard Strauss, Lord Northcliffe, Don Carlos of
Portugal, Houdini, Charles H. Sabin, Alfred W. Smith, Ex-Presi-
dent Coolidge, are notable examples of people born with Neptune in
Aries.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Aries are as follows :
From April 16th through October 3rd 1861
February 16th 1862 June 6th 1874
October 1st 1874s
"
April 6th 1875
NEPTUNE IN TAURUS
THOSE having Neptune in Taurus are emotional, responsive, and
romantic. They are not dogmatic; and, while not irreligious, they
are certainly not conspicuously ecclesiastical. They are well de-
scribed by the generation born between 1876 and 1890. It has been a
generation of builders, whose practical impulses have stood for solid-
ity and endurance. Under it has come our great material develop-
ment, our great buildings, our vast mechanical progress, our ad-
vance in industry and commerce.
On the other hand, the passage of Neptune through the signs of
Venus, Taurus and Libra, seems to have attended most of the ar-
tistic and creative waves of time. The great Elizabethan period
came during its passage through Taurus, though it did not reach
its fulfillment until it entered Gemini, and a mental and linguistic
urge had been added to the artistic and creative impulse.
486 ASTROLOGY
When this planet is afflicted in Taurus, it inclines to sex per-
version, chaotic emotions, illicit amours and lurid obsessions. Its
malefic reactions are almost always o a sex nature when in a Venus
sign.
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland, Christabel Pankhurst, Henry III,
Samuel Adams, Francis Bacon, David Hume., Maria Theresa, Ex-
Crown Prince of Germany,, Sir Joshua Reynolds, Mussolini, Will
Levington Comfort, are outstanding examples of persons born with
Neptune in Taurus.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Taurus are as follows :
From June 7th through September 30th 1874
April 7th 1875 "
August 15th 1887
September 2nd 1887 "
May 27th 1888
December 28th 1888 w March 21st 1889
NEPTUNE IN GEMINI
PEOPLE who have Neptune in the sign Gemini have great capacity
for intellectual brilliance, but also a tendency to mental chaos and
diffusion. It adds inspiration, quickness of perception, breadth of
vision, great versatility, and a tendency to study spiritualism. An
afflicted Neptune in Gemini tends to cause absent-mindedness, rest-
lessness and craftiness. It is necessary that those having Neptune
in this sign, badly aspected, should concentrate on some construc-
tive and definite line of thought and not indulge in morbid fears
or obsessions.
Since Shakespeare had his Neptune in Gemini, it is quite possible
that, in the figure of Hamlet, he painted a picture of his own inner
nature and melancholic reactions. Hamlet, in his swiftness of mind,
in his psychic, ghost-seeing power, in his broad observation and
intellectual command, is a living picture of the finer inspirations
and higher impulses of this Neptune position. Again, in his morbid
brooding, in his chaotic imagination and neurotic emotion (if no*;
NEPTUNE IN CANCER 487
actual madness) , he Is
voicing Neptune in Gemini in its turbid, con-
tradictory expression.
Proclus, John Adams, Catherine II of Russia, Voltaire, Kant,
Shakespeare, George III, Mesmer, Moses, Mendelssohn, James
Watt, Kepler, Galileo, Dean Cornwell, are some o the people of
note who have Neptune in Gemini,
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Gemini are as follows :
From August 16th through September 21st 1887
May 28th December 27th 1888
March 22nd 1889 "
July 19th 1901
December 26th 1901 "
May 20th 1902
NEPTUNE IN CANCER
THOSE having Neptune in Cancer have a tendency to be too pas-
sive, too negative, too sympathetic and too affectionate. The posi-
tion is not one conducive to greatness of action. There are fax-
fewer great men all through history born with Neptune in Cancer
than at any other period. It does not seem to empower the spiritual
will in an expressive, positive manner. Rather it creates a suscep-
tibility to impression and often psychic and mystical capacities.
Thus, Joan of Arc was born with this position, and it may ex-
plain, in part, the "voices" she heard ; whereas the great astronomer
Kepler, who, unlike so many merely mathematical and narrowly
focused astronomers of recent years, knew and practised astrology
as well.
A malefic Neptune in this position is necessarily particularly evil,
causing those having it to be melancholy, conceited and self-in-
dulgent. They must avoid being too romantic or giving way to self-
pity.
Cardinal Richelieu, Wallenstein, Joan of Arc, Hannah Moore,
Du Barry, Robert Peel, Goethe, are notable examples of people
having Neptune in the sign Cancer.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
488 ASTROLOGY
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is In the sign Cancer are as follows :
From July SOth through December 25tih 1901
May 21st 190
"
September 2&nd 1914
December 15th 1914 July 18th 1915
March 20th "
May 1st 1916
NEPTUNE IN LEO
PERSONS who were born with Neptune in the sign Leo are inclined
to be moral, spiritually-minded, sociable and kind-hearted. Such
persons will have power through their emotions and sympathies
rather than through the intellect. Thus we find that most of the
"Fathers of our Country," some signers of the Declaration of In-
dependence, and many of the soldiers of the American Revolution
were men with Neptune in this position. Indeed, we might almost
maintain that we of America owe our very existence to this prac-
tical force and sound rationality, for Christopher Columbus also had
this position, and it had much to do with his sane and sure deter-
mination to make good Galileo's theories.
: The general influence of Neptune in Leo is to give a firm and
commanding edge to the inner forces of the will, to make it less
psychic, less typically spiritual, more concrete and materially
practical.
The majority of the Neptune and Leo people turn their spiritual
impulses to tangible things ; thus Hahnemann founded homeo-
pathy, McAdam constructed roads, Cromwell fought revolutionary
battles, built and commanded a Protectorate, Robespierre cut off
heads until his own followed suit. Indeed, the rank and file of the
leaders of the French Revolution were men with Neptune in Leo
even as were the soldiers of our own Revolution, while the formation
of the English Revolution was also due to men with Neptune in
Leo. The same was true of those who fought in Italy in the days of
Dante's banishment. It is a distinctly aggressive, commanding, rad-
ical and revolutionary position.
An afflicted Neptune in Leo makes for sensuality, cowardliness,
tyranny and egotism.
NEPTUNE IN VIRGO 489
Robespierre, Dante, Charles I, Marie Antoinette, William Blake,
Thomas Chatterton, Aaron Burr, Nathan Hale, Cromwell, Colum-
bus, Mozart, McAdam, Louis XVI, Hahnemann, Pope Alexander
VI, are some of the people of note having Neptune in this sign.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Leo are as follows :
From September 23rd through December 14th 1914
July 19th 1915 " March 19th 1916
May 2nd 1916 "
September 20th 1928
February 20th July 23rd 1929
NEPTUNE IN VIRGO
THOSE having Neptune in Virgo have a tense, almost occult, critical
power and ability to visualize and measure accurately events, sub-
stances and forces not then before the physical eye. This clairvoy-
ant materialism is a tremendously active force in strong nativities ;
it gives the man almost uncanny knowledge of material events.
This was the major power of Napoleon's mind; he had this posi-
tion of Neptune. It endowed him with marvelous physical foresight
and an almost psychic knowledge of men and events. It gave him, as
well, a practical, sound, law-giving wisdom, out of which grew some
of the most potent forces of France. Yet, because of this very power
of occult materialism and lack of spiritual vision, he doubtless met
his downfall. He lost that higher guidance which alone gives endur-
ing success and enduring wisdom.
Neptune in Virgo is a good position for the artist and scientist,
since it gives such wonderful penetration into matter. Thus Hum-
bolt and Humphrey Davy, owe much of their keen, rational per-
ception to this position, while J. M. W. Turner, Coleridge and Bee-
thoven are exemplifications of its power in the arts.
An afflicted Neptune in Virgo gives a cunning will, and lack of
conscience and makes one destructively critical.
Alexander I of Russia, Humboldt, John Quincy Adams, Bolivar,
Jane Austen, Beethoven, Humphrey Davy, Lord Brougham, Na-
490 ASTROLOGY
poleon, Turner, Coleridge and Wordsworth, are all examples of
persons of note who had Neptune in this position.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Virgo are as follows :
From September 21st 1928 through February 19th 1929
July 24th 1929 " November 1941
February
"
September 1942
June "
July 1943
NEPTUNE IN LIBRA
w,tfee, s^gn, ^ibra, are idealistic^ humani-
tarian and with strong convictions of the rights and the welfare^of
manEmd. It is a position of liigh purposes and fine spiritual ideals.
This position of Neptune gives an impulse to- creative idealism in
art, music, literature, philosophy and social reform, rather than in
tlie accomplishment of physical, political and mechanical advance-
ment. The whole impetus of the great Italian Renaissance came
during the passage of Neptune in Libra, while at a later period
the wave of English art and poetry followed its passage through
this same tabernacle of Venus.
In general, this position inclines to a genuine, but often uncertain
and at times impractical idealism. The poet Shelley is an excellent
illustration of this urge of altruism. So, too, is Byron in greater
degree, and with them the whole of their school. Out of the obser-
vations and teachings of the men in Libra grew the Revolution of
1848, but their example lacks the passionate certainty of Neptune
in Leo or the critical sagacity of Neptune in Virgo.
An afflicted Neptune in Libra lacks will power and practicality,
and it inclines to sex perversions.
Rossini, Byron, Shelley, De Quincey, Cooper, Picus de Miran-
dola, David Wilkie, Haydn, Tom Moore, Maria Louisa, Buchanan,
Daniel Webster, are outstanding examples of those having Neptune
in Libra.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
NEPTUNE IN SCORPIO 491
Ephemeris, or who are not able to Interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Libra are as follows :
From December
October
August
March
May
1941 through January 1942
1942 May 1943
1943 " December 1955
October 1956
August 1957
NEPTUNE IN SCORPIO
PEOPLE who have Neptune in Scorpio are in danger of being too
critical, skeptical and sarcastic. It is a distinctly malefic, reactive
and materialistic position for this planet. It tends to exert a destruc-
tive influence in the lives of those having it so placed. A power so
spiritual as Neptune finds scant opportunity for expression in so
militant, physical and harsh a sign as Scorpio.
Thus, although we find major minds with Neptune in this posi-
tion, we find few that are free from a strong hint of perversity.
Even Michael Angelo, majestic figure that he was, was no angel ; he
possessed strong material passions, a proud, almost arrogant will,
and a fierce temper. Yet were his energy, determination and courage
those of a Hercules endowments in which this position of Nep-
tune played no small part.
In general, we must remember that those born with Neptune in
Scorpio have never been born save in a time of war, pestilence and
unrest. Peace seems not to attend the passage of Neptune through
the scorpion. Thus, while the mature generals who assisted Napo-
leon and Wellington were men with Neptune in Leo or Virgo, the
young soldiers who composed the bulk of their armies were men with
Neptune in Scorpio.
When Neptune in Scorpio is afflicted, it arouses the vilest im-
pulses, obsessions and neurotic perversions that man is heir to.
During the last passage of Neptune through Scorpio, so many
criminals of a brutal fierceness were at large that England main-
tained a regular series of criminal ships to Australia, while France
built up the African provinces in the same way.
ASTROLOGY
Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Disraeli, George Sand, Michael
Angelo, Victor Hugo, Diirer, Dumas, Sir William Hamilton, Co-
pernicus, Caesar Borgia, Thiers, Keats, Macaulay, Balzac, Lord
Lytton, Emerson, Carlyle, John Brown, are notable examples of
those having Neptune in Scorpio.
Obviously from the list of famous figures, the position of this
planet in Scorpio is one of power.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Scorpio are as
follows :
From January through February 1956
November 1956
"
April 1957
September 1957 " December 1970
July
" October 1971
NEPTUNE IN SAGITTARIUS
THOSE having Neptune in Sagittarius enjoy all the finer inspira-
tional forces of Neptune, and are humanitarian and altruistic. All
of these forces of Neptune are brought out by this position. Abra-
ham Lincoln is a perfect picture of the high, spiritual and humane
nature produced by Neptune in Sagittarius. His deep sincerity, his
high purposes and broad spiritual vision, his wealth of brotherly
love, together with a consuming desire for liberty and truth, may
be in part attributed to Neptune in this sign.
The position is thus primarily one of spiritual and altruistic
force, yet it endows with such power of conception and originality
of vision that intellectual command is the result. The intellect, how-
ever, is not the critical intellect of Virgo, neither is it the acid in-
tellect of Scorpio. It is rather that mental sweep which must in-
evitably follow consuming idealism and broad vision. Lincoln's
speech at Gettysburg is not the painstaking product of a close,
analytical or exact, scholastic mind. It is the result of compassion-
ate feeling and dynamic inspiration from his overflowing hear*
and high spiritual impulse.
NEPTUNE IN CAPRICORN 493
Thus, Neptune In Sagittarius, while its emphasis is upon the
ideal and the humane, has also produced major minds of great philo-
sophic and scientific penetration, creative geniuses and religious
leaders whose force has changed civilization.
Even when Neptune in Sagittarius is afflicted, it is yet capable
of little evil influence.
Abraham Lincoln, Walt Whitman, Tennyson, Bryant, Oliver
Wendell Holmes, Whittier, Longfellow, Browning, Lowell,
Poe, Dickens, Ruskin, George Eliot, De Musset, Wagner, Louis
Agassiz, Chopin, Schumann, Isaac Newton, Pitman, Bismarck,
Gladstone, Queen Victoria, Levi Morton, Stephen Douglas, Cor-
nelius Agrippa, William Penn, Martin Luther, Sir Richard
Quain, Nell Gwyn, Mendelssohn, are noteworthy examples of those
having Neptune in this sign.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Sagittarius are as
follows :
From January through June 1971
November 1971 "
February 1984
June a December 1984*
September
" October 1985
NEPTUNE IN CAPRICORN
PEOPLE having Neptune in the sign Capricorn have painstaking
exactness and comprehensive thoroughness, but they lack idealism
or inspiration. The cold, practical, conservative qualities of Capri-
corn do not lend themselves well to the spiritual and impressionable
planet Neptune. Neptune, when in Capricorn, gives an almost clair-
voyant materialism, a penetrating perception into matter that, in
strong nativities or when well aspected, is nothing short of brilliance.
There is no position more capable of producing great scientific
minds in the realms of chemistry, physics, medicine, surgery, mech-
anics and the other material sciences. The comprehensive thorough-
ness, the painstaking exactness, the patient depth to the will is al-
most Herculean in its power. Such minds cannot see, beyond the
494 ASTROLOGY
matter, the realm of substance which. In itself, they see so thor-
oughly. They can picture nothing which the physical eye has not
beheld and the material hand has not touched. Their souls usually
lack the mystic sense. Intuition is, to most of them, impossible, and
inspiration is a thing beyond their comprehension. God is more
commonly in this vernacular an "essence" of utterly impersonal
power, and man the mere evolution of a tadpole. Such is the basic
impulse of this type of man, which, unless modified by some domi-
nant aspects of Jupiter and the Sun, comes out in a vision of as-
tounding limitations. When benefically aspected, this position may
be considerably improved, particularly by aspects from Jupiter.
When malefically aspected in Capricorn, however, no power in
a nativity will successfully save it from some degree of reaction and
evil. Indeed, unless there are really tremendous forces to balance
this weight of evil, criminal tendencies, blatant materialism, sullen
will obsessions, perversions, will result. There is no more degrading
force in a nativity than a truly malefic Neptune in Capricorn.
Huxley, Herbert Spencer, Lord Roberts, Pasteur, Cardinal Wol-
sey, Max Muller, Tolstoi, Garfield, Lewis Carroll, Earl of Straf-
ford, Maximilian of Mexico, Franz Josef, Paul Kruger, Rossetti,
Rosa Bonheur, Richard Burton, are notable examples of people
having Neptune in this sign. It is worthy of note that many of the
famous people having this position of Neptune have transcended it.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Capricorn are as
follows :
From March through May 1984
January
"
August 1985
November 1985 March 1998
August 1998 "
January 1999
NEPTUNE IN AQUARIUS
THOSE who are born with Neptune in Aquarius have spiritual cour-
age, idealism and vision. It was this force which, more than any
other, endowed the boys of the Civil War with their flame of high
NEPTUNE IN AQUARIUS 4*95
bravery and transcendent spirits. It gives that power which Em-
erson voices perfectly :
"So nigh is grandeur to our dust,
So near is God to man.
When duty whispers, *Lo, thou must/
The youth replies
6
I can.'
9?
This majestic force, so readily replying "I can/* is the flame of
conscience from Neptune in Aquarius.
This impulse of Neptune in Aquarius has had much to do with
the practical fulfillment of the research of modern science. Indeed,
we owe to this position our major advances of the last century the
practical development of steam, of electricity, of invention, and of
mechanics in general.
This fine force had also much to do with endowing the leaders
of the last French Revolution and the man who followed it. Gam-
betta had this position of Neptune. So, too, had Felix Faure and
Sadi Carnot, and, curiously enough, that grand old figure who not
only took part in the revolution which made France a republic, but
lived to save her later in the Great War Clemenceau, had this same
position of Neptune. Indeed, since Neptune left Aquarius, it has
no position endowing an equal force to the spiritual will giving an
equal idealism. Thus France owes much, not only to CMmenceau,
but to his Aquarian inspiration and higher vision.
When malefically aspected in this position, the effect is more des-
tinal than psychological, for the effects on character are not marked.
Thomas Hardy, Camille Flammarion, Ex-President Faure, Henry
Irving, Wilson Barrett, Gambetta, Du Maurier, (the elder), Edi-
son, Cleveland, Edward VII, J. J. Hill, Frances Willard, Bliss
Carman, Carmen Sylva, Watteau, Catherine I of Russia, Jay
Gould, J. P. Morgan, (the elder), Zola, Swinburne, Bret Harte,
Carnot, Madame Patti, Cardinal Gibbons, John D. Rockefeller,
Sr., Andrew Carnegie, Wm. H. Crane, Carl Henry Andrew Bjer-
regaard are examples of those having Neptune in Aquarius.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
496 ASTROLOGY
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Aquarius are as
follows :
From January 1st 1840 through April 7th 1847
July 7th 1847 "
February 15th 1848
November 7th
" November 18th 1848
NEPTUNE IN PISCES
PEOPLE who have Neptune in Pisces are psychic in the extreme,
over-modest and reserved. As Neptune is the ruler of Pisces, it is
the most propitious position which this planet can hold. Pisces is a
distinctly passive sign, and this is a completely passive position for
Neptune. Pisces is also not a sign of great active strength and as-
sertive power; its forces are more negative, receptive, reflectively
benefic.
Thus, while in its own sign, Neptune does not possess nearly so
much power to affect the material plane as in either more active
or more material signs. In fact, the very spirituality of the planet
and the very psychic passivity of the sign inevitably do not make
for strength of manifestation on a physical earth. Thus, as the
materialistic Scorpio is the most powerful position of Neptune and
the spiritual Sagittarius its next in force, so, the material Capricorn
being the weakest position, the psychic Pisces is its next in weak-
ness, viewed from a material standpoint. Otherwise, Pisces might be
considered the most powerful position of Neptune.
In the individual nativity, this position of Neptune in Pisces does
not, as a rule, make for singularly dynamic impulses of high, al-
truistic quality. Most people are too materially active for this pas-
sive, psychic force to exert its influence. Unlike the position in Sagit-
tarius, so strongly active, this position has little effect upon the
average man, while it may lend force to the extraordinary man.
A malefic Neptune in Pisces gives a craving for narcotics and
strong liquor.
Professor Hyslop, W. T. Stead, Hodgson, Sterner, Lodge, Lily
Langtry, Ellen Terry, General Booth, Marie Bashkirtneff, Mrs.
Pankhurst, Havelock Ellis, George Bernard Shaw, Woodrow Wil-
son, Dr. Quackenbos, Robert Louis Stevenson, Dreyfus, John
DISEASES OF NEPTUNE 497
Burns, Marshall P. Wilder, Oscar Wilde, de Maupassant, Ex-Pres-
ident Taft, Jane Addams, Lord Leverhulme, Queen Elizabeth, Han-
del, Charles Frohman, Woolworth, Emperor Wilhelm II, Theodore
Roosevelt, Nordica, Asquith, Cecil Rhodes, Swedenborg, Balfour,
Bryan, Seth Low, Elbert Hubbard, Andrew Mellon, Emile Coue,
Clarence Darrow, John Drew, are noteworthy examples of those
who have Neptune in Pisces.
For the benefit of those who are not in possession of Raphael's
Ephemeris, or who are not able to interpret the symbols contained
therein, the years when Neptune is in the sign Pisces are as follows :
From April 28th through July 6th 1847
February 16th "
November 6th 1848
November 19th 1848 "
April 15th 1861
October 4th 1861 "
February 15th 1862
DISEASES OF NEPTUNE
NEPTUNE causes diseases which come as the result of worry, and all
illnesses of an insidious and wasting character. A general weakness
and irritability of disposition may manifest itself in hysteria. Pain-
ful and intractable, though not dangerous, disorders may be the
source of much discomfort. Those born strongly under Neptune
should abstain from reading books on materia medica, as they are
so susceptible to suggestion as to imagine that they evidence symp-
toms of every disease they read about. They should avoid dwelling
on their ills, real or imaginary, and not form the habit of dosing
themselves or taking patent medicines.
Neptune rules "the pineal glands, spinal cord, nerve fibre, tele-
pathic and psychometric functions, those parts of the body which
respond directly to superphysical impulses, as the chakras . . . oc-
cult action, Kundalml function, motion of chakras, flow of auric
emanations."
Neptune causes "obscure diseases, such as comas, catalepsy, ob-
session, aesthetic ecstasy, somnambulism, hypochondriacism, trances,
poison, drug habits*
"The misuse of mental and physical energies lays the native open
to obsessions and diseases due to dabbling with occult forces."
498 ASTROLOGY
Neptune is so Intangible in its effects on the health that it is
difficult to state with any degree of definiteness just what the effect
will be in the twelve signs. The disorders caused by Neptune are
mainly due to depleted nerves or psychic disturbances; the latter
may be induced by inharmonious surroundings or uncongenial com-
panions. It manifests itself in hysteria, nervous tumors and mental
obsessions.
Obviously, when Neptune is in Aries, myopia, neuralgic head-
aches and exaggerated fears and false conceptions may result.
When in Taurus, irritation in the throat and nervous swellings
of that organ may be suffered, as well as threat of goitre.
In Gemini, nervous coughs which may be an indication of a run-
down nervous condition, could, if neglected, sometimes lead to tuber-
culosis.
When in Caner, psychic indigestion is possible and a craving
for narcotics and stimulants will be a danger to be avoided.
In Leo, nervous action of the heart, frequently incorrectly diag-
nosed as valvular, may be manifest.
In Virgo, psychic disturbances affecting the intestines, such as
"colicky
3 '
pains and sensations which might suggest adhesions or
even appendicitis, might be aggravated. These could be induced
through the imagination or because they were suggested by the
mind of another.
When in Libra there may be danger of hysteria, affecting the
ovaries in a woman and the kidneys in both men and women, which
may be caused by suppression or over-indulgence of sex, as well as
sex perversions.
In Scorpio, nervous tumors, false conception and all irregular-
ities of the sex organs may be caused by allowing the mind to dwell
on sex pleasures.
When Neptune is in Sagittarius disturbances of the nervous
system, resulting from religious mania and the abuse of the pro-
phetic faculty, may be manifest.
When in Capricorn, there may be danger of melancholia, suicidal
tendencies frequently caused by imaginary persecution or fear of
being kidnapped, murdered etc.
In Aquarius, nervous toothache may result from fear of having
THE PROBLEM OF DEATH 499
teeth extracted, also there may be irritation of the skin and creepy
sensations of the flesh.
When this planet is in Pisces, there may be itching or twitching
of the feet, and general nervous debility which may be caused by
lack of self-control and too great indulgence in the sensual emotions.
The eminent London surgeon. Dr. Schofield, in describing the
various illnesses of a nervous or imaginary character,, which baffle
the most clever diagnosticians, states that a woman will frequently
have all the symptoms of a tumor, with its attendant enlargement
of the body, and still maintain the illusion, after an operation has
been performed, unless the physician can substitute something which
he has procured at a butcher shop to show her after she comes out
of the anesthesia. These are the types of ailments which are of a
strongly Neptunian nature and obviously the products of the im-
agination. He concludes by saying: "When a person is so ill as to
be ill when he is not ill, he is very ill indeed."
THE PROBLEM OF DEATH
ASTROLOGERS have often been reproached with their comparatively
frequent failures to predict the time of death. The reason has never
been made clear ; for the problem has never been properly under-
stood.
Let us first consider how it has been treated. For example, the
astrologer has looked at the Sun, or the Moon in the case of a
woman, and at the eighth house, and the Lord of that house. From
the radical afflictions of these, and from their afflictions by direction
or transit, he has formulated his- judgment.
Now the reason of his error is a fundamental one. Except in the
case of violent death, by accident, suicide or assassination, death is
not a single isolated phenomenon but the culmination and climax of
a long series of phenomena. When St. Paul said "I die daily," he
was speaking literal truth. All life involves metabolism, and the
asymptote of the metabolic curve is called death. Death is the phys-
iological goal ; and pathology is only the history of short cuts upon
the path.
Now when a child is born into the world, its hold on life is of the
500 ASTROLOGY
weakest. Very small accidents can cut short that life; and so fre-
quently does this occur that until recently infant mortality was the
standing shame of our race. But as a child grows, if it is
healthy,
this grip of life increases daily. It is well known what extremities of
exposure, hunger and other trials may be endured by a strong man
without the slightest permanent injury. Even self-inflicted wounds
isuch as the drink and drug habits are borne by many for years be-
fore any visible damage to the physical constitution becomes appar-
ent. In old age this hold again weakens, and is ultimately so tenuous
that the cord snaps at an almost imperceptible strain.
The astrologers of the past have unaccountably neglected to make
these considerations, obvious as they are. It is not the fault of the
science. So slight a matter as the opposition of Mercury to the Moon
may kill a girl baby outright ; so serious an affair as the transit of
Uranus over the Sun may leave the native apparently untouched. It
is obvious that Mars either passes over the radical Sun, or squares
him, or opposes him several times in every year. And what with the
other rnalefics, and directions, and so on, one might well exclaim:
"In the midst of life we are in death." Some of these attacks will
be weak through being far out of parallel aspect; others will be
mitigated by counterbalancing good aspects; but on the whole one
may say that such caveats can only be entered against about one-
half of the threats of life. It is moderate to say that, on the old
astrological theories, it is a very good year when the native might
not die at least three times. There is certainly never any difficulty in
discovering why he did die after he is comfortably buried.
Then why are these aspects inoperative? How is it that a man
can survive a series of bad afflictions to succumb later to a trifle?
The answer is, first, that it depends on his general vitality, and,
second, we deny the fact. Death itself does not occur visibly; but
something in the nature of death may occur invisibly and insensibly
in the organism. Who can say what is the true birth-hour of a cancer
or diabetes ? At what moment does that first degenerative change in
the supra-renal capsules take place which is recognized much later,
and always too late, as Addison's disease?
Such diseases, and there are very many such, have no symptoms
discoverable (in the present state of medical knowledge) until the
mischief is done. Here, then, astrology may render priceless service
THE PROBLEM OF DEATH 501
to the native. It can- warn him of the time of the threat and its na-
ture, so that at that particular time he may take some special pre-
caution. The weak part of the body is indicated by the sign involved,
and the type of disease threatened by the planet which menaces the
mischief. The native can therefore take measures to obviate the
peculiar risk to which nis attention is thus drawn.
Forewarned is forearmed nowhere more than in astrology. The
proper degree and quality of mental and moral action can take a
most evil aspect and transmute its action, transform its character,
and deflect its issue to a plane where all things visibly and unmis-
takably "work together for good to them that love God? and are
called according to His purpose."
502 ONE HUNDBED HOROSCOPES
CARDINAL GIBBONS JOAN OF ARC
SIR ISAAC PITMAN DATA8 THE HUMAN ENCYCLOPAEDIA
ONE HUNDRED HOEOSCOPES 503
SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS ALBRECHT DURER
ROSA BONHEUR J. M. W, TURNER
504 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
THE LATE J. P. MORGAN JAY GOULD
CECIL RHODES PAUL KI1UGER
ONE -HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 505
WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE BENJAMIN DISRAELI (LORD BEACONSFIELD)
QUEEN VICTORIA EDWARD VII OF ENGLAND
506 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
HENRY VIII OF ENGLAND KING LUDWIG OF BAYARIA
QUEEN ELIZABETH OLIVER CROMWKLL
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 507
GEORGE WASHINGTON ABRAHAM LINCOLN
U. 8. GRANT JAMES A, GARFIELD
508 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
GROVER CLEVELAND THEODORE R008EVELT
WOODROW WILSON WIXXXAM JENNINGS BRYAN
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 509
MARTIN LUTHER SAVONAROLA
JOSEPH SMITH BKIGHAM YOUNG
510 ONE HUNDKED HOROSCOPES
LOUIS PASTEUR ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE
THOMAS EDISDK LUTH&K B0BBANK
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 511
IMMANUEL KANT THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY
SIR HUMPHRY 0AVY SIR ISAAC NEWTON
512 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
CHOPIN RICHARD WAGNER
ROSSETTI ALFRED OT MUSSET
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 513
ADELINA PATTI MARIE ANTOINETTE
NELL GWYN CLEO DE MERODE
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
NAPOLEON KX-KAI8BR WILLIAM II OF GERMANY
COPERNICUS SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 515
CESAR BORGIA ROBESPIERRE
VAILLANT STANFORD WHITE
S16 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
SWAMI VIVEKANANDA COlONEt OLCOTT
RUDOLPH STEINEH WILLIAM T. STBAB
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 517
ANNA KINGSFORD MARY BAKER EDDY
ANNIE BBSANT MARIE BASHKIRTSEFF
518 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
SWEDKNBORCf HAVELOCK ELLIS
GEORGE BERNARD 8 HAW D0 MAtJRIBE
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 519
GUY DK MAUPASSANT HERBERT SPENCER
VICTOR HUGO RALPH WALDO EMERSON
520 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
LORD BYRON SWINBURNE
PETRARCH CHARLEB BAUDELAIHJB
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 521
LORD ALFRED TENNYSON EDGAR ALLAN POE
OSCAR "WILDE JOHN RUSKIN
522 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
EMILE ZOLA RUDYARD KIPLING
MARK TWAIN" SIR RICHARD BURTON
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
TOLSTOI CHARLES DICKENS
THOMAS HARDY ELBERT HUBBARD
524 ONE HUNCHED HOROSCOPES
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON" W. B. YEATS
LEWIS CARROLL MAUftXCK MAKTEEWNCK
ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES 525
SIR THOMAS MOORE LORD LYTTON
GEORGE SAND GEORGE ELIOT
526 ONE HUNDRED HOROSCOPES
SHAKESPEARE DANTE
SHELLEY OOKTHU
