{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__anonymous___miracles_past_and_present.pdf","mytitle":"Miracles Past And Present","mylang":"de"}
t
'ttbe ©r~er
of
ttbe }Preparation
for
ttbe <tommunton Of Souls.
"All things are yours in Christ"
MIRACLES:
Past and Present.
This Pamphlet can be obtained from the Hon. Secretary,
Rev. G. Maurice Elliott, St. Peter's Vicarage, Cricklewood,
London, N.W.2, price 3d . (post free).
Officers of the Order :
President:
Rev. Arthur F . Sharp
Vice-President :
Committee:
Rev. R. A. de V. Hart-Davies
Capt. M. J. Hunter, M.P.
Rev. A. H. E . Lee Mrs. Hunter
Hon. Secretary &Treasurer: Mr. & Mrs. Stanley Barber
Rev. G. Maurice Elliott Mrs. Arthur Sharp
The Objects of the Order are :
(A) To re-affirm the belief in the " Signs and
Wonders" which were an integral part of
Christ's teaching, an inherent part of the
life of the early Church, essential to the
existence of Christ's Kingdom on earth, and
promised to his followers in perpetuity.
(B) To show that after centuries of almost total
abeyance, these miracles are again being
worked in our midst.
(C) To foster that living faith, without which
the works of the Spirit are rendered
ineffective.
Those eligible for admission to the Order
must be willing to express their belief in the
eternal Sonship of Our Lord Jesus Christ, and
members will do their best to further the objects
of the Order by their devotion to Him.
•·
MIRACLES PAST AND
PRESENT.
We do not think that anyone will deny that a
Christianity without '' signs and wonders '' is known
only outside the New Testament and the Early Church.
By the middle of the second century " signs and
wonders " had begun to disappear. That was because,
as Dr. Glover says, " the ministry of the spirit, the
ministry of gifts was succeeded by the ministry of Office
with its lower ideals of the pra:ctical and expedient.' '
Had this not happened, '' signs and wonders '' would
have continued. Our Lord said, " These signs shall
follow them that believe." If, therefore, " these
signs " have ceased it is difficult to resist the conclusion
that '' belief '' has ceased, for the '' signs '' were to
be the natural accompaniment of belief.
What were '' these signs '' ? They were nothing less
than a repetition of our Lord's miracles-" He that
believeth in Me the works that I do shall he do also and
greater work than these." It was clearly the intention
of Jesus that His Church should be, as it were, an ex-
tension and expansion of His Incarnate life. He would
do through His Body- the Church-what He did when
in His physical body on earth. The branches in the
Vine were to bear the fruit of the Vine and those that
did not were to be cast away.
Happily there is proof to-day that the Vine is begin-
ning once again to bear fruit, that '' signs and won-
ders '' are making themselves manifest, that faith is
becoming active, and causing the Divine Sap to seep
through the bra:nches.
2 THE COMMUNION OF SOULS.
We have seen that " signs " were to be the natural
accompaniment of belief. It may perhaps be well to
ask-Why should " signs " follow belief? Do we need
them? Is not faith enough? In attempting to answer
that question let us face a very obvious fact. The fact
is this: Nowhere in the New Testament is it suggested
that we are to live " by faith alone." On the con-
trary it is stated that objective evidence or proof is to
be expected and will be given. To make this point trans-
parently clea:r we have only to ask, " Did the men and
women of Holy Scripture live by ' faith alone ' '' ? The
only way to find out is to review the facts and allow
the facts to speak for themselves. If we do so, we shall
find that faith apart from " signs and wonders " is
unknown. Indeed, it is the objective evidence that
stimulates faith, and faith being thus stimulated works
miracles.
We will now watch this dual interaction both in tl1e
New and the Old Testaments. Our object will be to
show that faith is based on knowledge and a particular
and vital kind of knowledge; it is based on objective
evidence of spiritua:l reality and power.
The author of the Epistle to the Hebrews writes:-
" By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed ... "
Heb., n; 8. His obedience was due to his faith in the
" call." What was the nature of the " call? " Was
it the call of his '' better self,'' or was it something ob-
jective and in no way connected with his subjective
states of consciousness.
What are the facts? In Genesis rz; r, we read:-
" Now the Lord said unto Abram, ' Get thee out of thy
country ... unto a land that I will give thee.' "
"The Lord appeared unto Abram." Gen. rz; 7.
'' The words of the Lord came unto Abraham in a
vision." Gen. 15; r.
It is clear, then, that the " call " was objective, that
he both heard and saw the Lord, and that his faith was
shown in his obedience to what he had seen and heard.
••
MIRACLES: PAST AND PRESENT. 3
Later on, he entertained three angels to whom he gave
a hearty meal. Gen. 18. His faith was thus supported
by " signs following."
We now take a New Testament character- Saul who
was called Paul. Did Paul live by " faith alone? "
What are the facts? In Act 9; 3 we read:-" And as he
journeyed, he came near Damascus; and suddenly there
shined round about him a light from heaven; and he
fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him,
' Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? ' And he said,
' Who are thou, Lord? ' And the Lord said, ' I am
Jesus, whom thou persecutest.' ''
It is evident, then, that Paul, did not live by " faith
alone." He too saw and heard. His faith was the out-
come of his witnessing overwhelming objective pheno-
mena, i.e., "signs and wonders," and he "was not
disobedient unto the heavenly vision."
If we ta:ke any leading character in the Old and New
Testament we shall find that none lived " by faith
alone." There are always objective phenomena present
to stimulate faith. Perhaps it would be more correct to
say, that such phenomena stimulate a: mere belief into
an active faith.
Let us see whether the facts prove that this is so.
Did Lot, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Aaron, Miriam,
Balaam, Joshua, Gideon, Manoah, Samson, Samuel,
Saul, David, Solomon, Elijah, Elisha and the Prophets
live by faith alone? Did Joseph and Mary, Our Lord,
John the Baptist, Zacharias, Simeon, the Twelve
Apostles, the Seventy Disciples, Philip, Ananias, Corne-
lius and the rest live by faith alone? What are the
facts?
Angels visited Lot: the Lord appeared to Isaac: Angels
met Ja:cob: Joseph received messages from God, and
spoke as His mouthpiece: Moses saw an angel, artd was
constantly spoken to by the Lord: Aaron and Miriam
saw the pillar of the cloud, and were spoken to by the
Lord: all Israel witnessed signs and wonders. The
Bible is simply full of such evidence. God spoke to
Balaam, and an angel stood in his way: a Captain of
4 THE COMMUNION OF SOULS.
the Host of the Lord came to Joshua and an angel
instructed him: the Spirit of the Lord " put on "
Gideon (i.e., wore him as a garment, possessed him) and
an angel instructed him: an angel visited Manoah and his
wife: the Spirit of the Lord " put on " Samson as he did
Gideon: the Lord spoke to Samuel: the Spirit of God
came upon Saul: an angel was seen by David, and
the Lord appeared to Solomon on several occasions:
an angel touched Elijah, and gave him a message:
Elisha saw a· mountain full of horses and chariots of
fire: the Prophets heard voices from heaven and were
guided.
Our Lord promised that ' ' signs and wonders '' should
follow belief, because they were not only necessary for
the well-being of His Church, but were also the natural
a~companiments of belief, just as fruit grows on the
vme.
Now, many have held the opinion that miracles ceased
after the Holy Spirit had been given at Pentecost. But
a moment's reflection will refute this view. For it was
after Pentecost that the Lame Beggar was healeJ, that
many signs a:nd wonders were wrought by the hands of
the Apostles, that the sick folk ' ' from the cities round
about J erusalem '' were healed, that an angel opened
the p1ison doors and brought out the Apostles, that
Stephen saw Jesus, that Philip worked miracles, that
Saul heard J esus, that Ananias was spoken to by the
Lord, that St. Peter healed Aeneas and raised the dead
body of Dorcas to life, that Cornelius saw and heard
an angel, that St. Peter " fell into a: trance " and was
shown that " God is no respecter of persons," and was
subsequently delivered from prison by an angel, that
an angel smote Herod, that St. Paul blinded E_
lymas.
healed a cripple a:nd exorcised a '' spirit of divination,''
that " God wrought special miracles by the hand of
Paul, insomuch that unto the sick were carried away
from his body handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases
departed from them," that St. Paul raised Eutychus
from the dead, was visited by an angel, escaped ill-effects
from the bite of a viper, healed the father of Publius
and all who were diseased on the Island of Melita.
MIRACLES: PAST AND PRESENT. .5
All these wonders happened after Pentecost.
It is sometimes urged tha:t we to-day are living in an
age of faith and have, as it were, outgrown the need
for " signs and wonders." The theory is that these
objective evidences of the Spirit's power were not part
· of Christianity, but merely a proof of its truth. They
were bells ringing the people to church, and they
ceased when the people had arrived. But there is not
one word in the New Testament which supports such a
view. . On the contrary, it is clearly seen and shown
that " signs and wonders " will always follow belief,
because they are the natural accompaniments of it. They
are not bells; rather are they part of the Divine Service.
We would here refer our readers to a rema:rkable book
which has been enthusiastically recommended by the
Bishop of London. ' ' It was reserved for an Aberdonian
Professor," the Bishop writes, " to point out that so far
from being an excrescence on the Gospel story, the
miracles form the heart and hope of the message. In a
book called ' The Faith That Rebels,' which I have
given the candidates for ordination to read, Dr. Cairns
brings home this truth with astonishing force ."
It may be asked, " How can anyone believe in
miracles, and at the same time believe in the reign of
law, i.e., the uniformity of nature? " In reply, we
would suggest tha:t all serious students of spiritual-
science have long abandoned belief in any rigid, or
closed, system of nature. Yesterday's miracle is to-
day's natural law or, shall we say spiritual law? Who
knows where " natura:l " ends and " spiritual " begins?
Why should not all natural laws be spiritual laws, and
all spiritual laws natural laws?
Were our Lord's Incarnation, Resurrection and
Ascension due to natural or to spiritual laws? Was
.Tesus the product of evolution? Did mankind evolve
J esus? If so, there are many amongst us to-day who
are nobler than ] esus. And if all is rigid law and uni-
formity, what becomes of human freedom? It is lost, and
men are become automata. And what are the meaning
and value of prayer? If there be such a: thing as the
6 THE COMMUNION OF SOULS.
uniformity of nature (i.e., a closed system of nature) ,
prayer has neither meaning nor value. " The fl.utter of
a trembling prayer" cannot hope to " move the Mind
that is the Whole."
But serious students of spiritual-science have long
a·bandoned belief in the reign of law-as that word is
commonly used. They have seen matter melt into
apparent nothingness; they have seen spiritual laws
break and shatter what are called natural laws. They
a-re no longer unprepared for the discovery that both
nature and human-nature are out-of-gear, and that what
appears to be natural may be entirely unnatural.
Physical evil (i.e., disease, tempests, etc.), and moral
evil (sin), may be unnatural, and only permitted to
exist in order that they may be destroyed by man's
use of spiritual law. There is nothing to disprove this;
there is much to suggest its probability.
The Christian is certain of this, because he has faith
in One who, being Lord of nature a:nd human-nature,
brought back both into gear again by healing diseases
and calming raging seas.
But no argument will convince an unbeliever; only the
Spirit of God can do that. It may however be em-
phatically asserted that to-day there is no known reason
why anyone should disbelieve in what is called a
miracle.
Dr. Cairns regards Our Lord's miracles as " frag-
ments of heaven, parts of the new divine order appearing
in this present world, emergent islets of a new con-
tinent that is appearing above the waters."
That " new continent " continued to emerge until the
middle of the second century, when it became submerged
because, '' by compromise with the world the Church
got out of touch with the pure Grace of God."* And as
these " signs," these proofs of the Spirit and of power,
subsided, the extraordinary moral tension also became
relaxed, paving the way gradua:lly for a morality which
* " The Faith That R ebels."
IJ
MIRACLES; PAST AND PRESENT. 7
was adapted to a worldy life. The Church now has
'' its priests, its altars, its sacraments, its Holy Book
and rule of Faith. But it no longer possesses the spirit
and power.''t
We have said that miracles are an integral part of the
Gospel, and Dr. Cairns in his book has shown that
Christ '' gloried in the great deeds of blessing that God
wrought through Him a:nd His disciples."
The opinion that Our Lord attached but small im-
portance to '' signs '' and '' wonders '' is not to be
found in the New Testament. The mere fact of His
saying that " these signs " and " the works that I do "
and " greater works " shall follow belief, is clear evi-
dence that He regarded them as being as inherent in His
Message as a wa:ter-mark is in paper. They were more
than hall-marks which might be removed, or filled in,
or obliterated by time. They were actually part of the
very substance of His message and the Church's life .
He of course refused to leap from a pinnacle of the
Temple, or in any way to perform "signs and
wonders " to satisfy mere curiosity. But He delighted
in working signs, when and where they would aid and
not hinder faith.
Faith is the essentia:l thing, and it needs '' signs
to arouse it into active life. The gospel of " signs
was, and still is, the sign of the Gospel.
It may however be asked, " Hpw is it possible to
reconcile this with Our Lord's words to St. Thomas-
" Blessed are they who have not seen and yet have
believed." There is no real difficulty, if only the
reader will study the context. What did Our Lord
mean by" not seen " ? He could not have meant " not
seen miracles, " because St. Thomas had witnessed
miracle after miracle. And what vvas meant by
" believed " ? Believed-what? Our Lord could not
have meant " believed in miracles, " because St.
Thomas did believe in them, had seen them, and per-
formed them.
t Harnack's " Expansion of Christianity."
8 THE COMJVIUNION OF SOULS.
Now it should be remembered that all the Apostles
had doubted the Resurrection story. They thought
Mary and the other women were mad; the Greek word
used means " the wild talk of delirium." St. Thomas
was not the only doubter; there were ten others! Yet
these men had never lived " by faith alone," for they
were constantly witnessing '' signs and wonders.''
Bearing that in mind, it is surely impossible to believe
that Our Lord, who worked these miracles, and gave
St. Thomas and the other Apostles power to do the same,
would even have suggested that it would have been
better for them had they not seen. The words " and
yet ha:ve believed," obviously refer to the fact that St.
Thomas doubted the words of his best friends, just as
they had all doubted the report given by the three
women.
What Our Lord meant was this: "You would have
been a happier man, Thomas, if you had believed your
friends, and not insisted on seeing my wound-prints.
Why did not you believe? You had seen me work
miracles; you knew I ha:d raised the dead: you had
heard me say that I would ' rise again on the third day,'
and yet when your colleagues told you that I had risen,
you refused to believe them. Blessed are they who,
knowing what you knew, and seeing what you have
seen, can believe the word of their friends, let alone my
own words, before they receive proof."
To sum up. ..
A Christianity without " signs and wonders " is only
known outside the New Testament and the early Church.
The " gifts of the Spirit " ceased when the Church
became unworthy to receive them, i.e., when the
Church lost faith.
Faith is re-appearing, and "signs " are following, and
"SIGNS SHALL FOLLOW."
G.M.E.
I
•
~)
J
.
,,
_)
"
,,
I
~
r
•I
'I
I
•
..
.
•
..I
!
l
'•
..
~
•
"
'
ti
•
I
I
I
•
I
•
..
..... ,, ..... ,. ........ ~ ............... .,. ,_ ..... ., .... .... ., ,... ,.. .. -,--- ....... -1 ... ... - ..... , ..... ,.- . w ... ~.-· ""' .. .,. ,~ ~"" ' " .... .. ,,. '"'~ .•• ,,. ,. , • - · ·
Ube ©rl'ler of tbe }Preparation for tbe <rommunton of souls
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP.
GLAdstone
2528
3 (Mr. Mrs. Miss)..................................................................................................................................................
wish to apply for Membership of the above Order.
I sincerely hold the belief expressed in the Rule of Faith, and I will
do my best to further the objects of the Order.
Signature..............................................................................................................
Address...............................................................................................................
This form when co eted should be addressed to:-
The Rev. G. MAURICE,$.LLIOTT. (Hon. Sec.), St. Peter's Vicarage, Cricklewood, N.W.2
