{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__besant_leadbeater___talks_on_the_path_of_occultism_v1.pdf","mytitle":"Talks On The Path Of Occultism V1","mylang":"de"}
(i
.../
TALKS ON THE
PATH OF OCCULTISM
A COMMENTARY ON "AT THE FEET OF THE MASTER",
" THE VoicE oF THE SILENCE " AND
"LIGHT ON THE PATH"
BY
ANNIE BESANT, D.L.
AND
THE RT. REV. C. W. LEADBEATER
VOL. I
AT THE FEET OF THE MASTER
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
ADYAR, MADRAS, INDIA
1930
First Edition, 1926
Second Edition, 1~80
PUBLISHERS' NOTE
With a view to facilitate convenience in hand-
ling, we have split the book- Talks on the P ath ·of
Occultism- into three parts and these are issued
separately. The pages of the three volumes are,
however, numbered consecutively and the Index of
the whole book will be found printed in the Third
Volume.
WORKS JOINTLY BY
ANNIE BESANT AND C. W. LEADBEATER
Tbe Lives of Alcyooe. Comprising about 50 Past
Lives from 70,000 B.c., based on clairvoyant
investigations. Two Volumes.
Rs. A.
Boards 8 0
Cloth and Gold 10 0
Mao: Whence, How and Whither. (Thi,rd Edition.)
Boards
Occult Chemistry
A series of clairvoyant observations on the
chemical elements. New and revised edition
of the original work. Inc] udes all the
original plates and diagrams.
Thought,.Forms
With 53 full-plate coloured illustrations
and 5 line drawings. A scientific enquiry
concerning the objective forms built by
thought and emotion, based on clairvoyant
researches.
7 8
3 0
9 6
FOREWORD
THIS book is merely a record of talks by Mr. C. W.
Leadbeater-now Bishop Leadbeater- and my-
self on three famous books-books small in size
but great in contents. We both hope that they
will prove useful to aspirants, and even to those
above that stage, since the talkers were older than
the listeners, and had more experience in the life
of discipleship.
The talks were not given at one place only;
we chatted to our friends at different times and
places, chiefly at Adyar, London and Sydney. A
vast quantity of notes were taken by the listeners.
All that we1·e available of these were collected
and arranged. They were then condensed, and
repetitions were eliminated.
Unhappily there were found to be very few
notes on The Voice of the Silence, Fragment I, so
we have utilized notes made at a class held by our
good colleague, Mr. Ernest Wood, in Sydney, and
incorporated these into Bishop Leadbeater's talks
in that section. No note~ of my own talks on this
.
IV
book were available; though I have spoken much
upon it, those talks are not recoverable.
None of these talks have been published before,
except some of Bishop Leadbeater's addresses to
selected students on At the Feet of the Master. A
book entitled Talks on " At the Feet of the Master "
was published a few years ago, containing imper-
fect reports of some of these talks of his. · That
book will not be reprinted; the essential material
in it finds its place here, carefully condensed and
edited. ·
May this book help some of our younger
brothers to understand more of these priceless
teachings. The more they are studied and lived,
the more will be found in them.
ANNIE BESANT
CONTENTS
SECTION r
r\T THE FEET UF THE MASTER
PAI:{T I: INTRODUCTOkY
CHAP. PAGE
I. The Occult Path and the Interests of the
\Vor]d . 5
II. Initiation and the Approach Thereto 12
III. How the Book Came to be Written 21
IV. The Preliminary Prayer . 23
v. The Spirit of the Pupil 28
VI. The Four Introductory Paths 34
VII. The Four Qualifications 37
PART II: DISCRIMINATION
VIII. True and False Aims 43
IX. The Life of the Bodies 57
X. Right and Wrong 79
XI. Be True All Through 9o
XII. Unselfishness and the Divine Life 109
PART III: DESIRELESSNESS
XIII. The Removal of Desire II9
XIV. The One Good Desirc . 125
CHAP.
XV. Psychic Powers
XV I. Small Desires .
VI
XVII. Mind Your Own Business
PART IV: Goon CoNDUCT
XVIII. Control of Mind
XIX. Self-Control in Action
XX. Tolerance .
XXI. Cheerfulness
XXII. One-Pointedness
XXI I I. Confidence
PART v: LOVE
XXIV. Liberation, Nirvana and Moksha
XXV. Love in Daily Life
XXVI. Gossip
XXV II. Cruelty .
XXVII I. Superstition
XXIX. Service
PAGE
135
147
154
. 165
195
206
. 226
•. 238
243
257
274
282
287
3o3
. 319
SECTION I
AT THE FEET OF THE MASTER
•
..
•
..,
I 1 • • ~
-·
PART I
INTRODUCTORY
CHAPTER I
THE OCCULT PATH AND THE INTERESTS
OF THE WORLD
C.W.L.-At the Feet of the 1\faster is one of three books-
the other two being The Voice of the Silence and Light on the
Path-especiaJly intended to help people to set their feet upon
the Path. It is most valuable for us, at the moment, because
of its extreme simplicity, and because it bears especiaJly the
stamp and approval of the World-Teacher. who iss<;> soon to
come. It consists of teaching given by his Master to the young
disciple J. Krishnamur.ti (called Alcyone in the series of his past
Jives recently pub1ished)1
in the year 19o9, when he was a boy of
thirteen. His knowledge of English was not then perfect, and
since the instruction was given in that tongue, both the teaching
and the language had to be made especially dear. The Master
Ki:ithumi, with His marvellous power of adaptability, therefore
put all that was necessary for the attainment of the First Initia-
tion into that wonderfully ·simple style which is one of the great:
recommendations of this little book.
Light Ml the Path appeared in 188S, and The Voice of the·
Silence in 1889. Each of these books of ethics has its own·
characteristics. Both the olde! ones are more poetical than.
At the Feet of the Master, although in it also there are some
very beautiful expressions; it could not be otherwise, since it
c~mes from the Master Kuthumi. Light on the Path, we were.
told by Swami T. Subba Rao, has several depths of meaning, one
behind another, the most profound relating to the Initiation at
the Mahachohan level, a stage beyond where even our Masters
now stand. The Voice of the Silence carries us as far as the
1 The Li'Ues of Alcy one, T.P. H., Adyar, I9l4•
5
6 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Arhat Initiation. At the Feet of the J.tfaster applies especially
to the First Initiation, so we will comment upon it first.
We have all heard often about the qualifications for the
Path, but we shall continue to hear of them until we have suc-
ceeded in putting into practice everything that is written in such
books as this. There is no difficulty in knowing exactly what
ought to be done, and there is no obstade in our path which is
not of our own making, yet comparatively few people succeed
in following these directions, because they have personalities
which often get in the way. What is written in these books
must be definitely applied by each person to himself. The
teacher can explain and illustrate what ought to be done in
various ways, but every one must tread the Path for himself.
It is Ii~e training for a race or taking up. physical culture:
there may be a trainer who can give careful directions, but the
candidate must exercise his own muscles ; nobody else can by
any possibility do that for him.
Millions of people around us are supposed to be living
according to the precepts of their respective religions, but very
few actually do so. Even those who live good and holy lives
do not usually strictly follow all the precepts laid down for them.
In some cases the teachings of exoteric religions are unessential
or inappropriate, but in occultism no unnecessary precept is
given;. an exact adherence to all of them is required. This
does not mean that we must have all of these qualifications in
absolute perfection before we can be received by a Master-that
would be the attainment of Adeptsbip; but they must be
possessed to a reasonable extent, and they must be real, not
merely polite fictions. When a professor of chemistry tells us
that if ~e compound certain chemicals in a specified way we
shall obtain certain results, we know that those results will
follow, and that if the proportions are altered we shall not get
what we expect, but something else. In religious matters
people seem to think that a sort of vague approximation to the
instructions given is quite sufficient, but in occultism that will
not do at all; it must be taken as a science ; and although we
have heard so often about these qualifications, it is to be hoped
that by going through them carefully and endeavouring to
understand and follow with scienti(ic precision exactly what is
required, many who ~ave not yet succeeded may be able to set
their feet upon the Patb.
THE OCCULT PATH AND THE INTERESTS OF THE WORLD 7
These inner things are not far away and uncertain. Up
to a few years ago they seemed more remote, because so few
whom we knew had come into direct touch with the Masters,
and a student might have thought to himself: " Yes, two or
three ~en specially gifted, or in some way specially fortunate,
have succeeded, but it does not seem to be for ordinary people."
But now that a number have come into direct touch with Them,
one may reasonably say to himself : " If these others have
r~ached this, why not I ? " The cause for non-succes~ must be
in ourselves, not in anything outside. It is certainly not the
fault of the Mas.ters, who are always there ~hen the pupil is
ready. In some there is one defect that bars; in others it may.
be qnly a general lack of development ; but if there were not
some pefici~ncy we should all have succeeded. It is worth
whjl,e to ·make a definite effort to find out what is the matter_._
what is lacking-and to remedy the defect.
There is a real inner world which surpasses in importance
all this outer .world, which is so incessant in its pressure upon
us. Everywhere there are people who think themselves so busy
and so·wise in following their respective Jines, and yet the truth
is- that all of them are working in the unreal and the outer, and
few have realized that there is an inner and spiritual world
which is of enormously more importance in every way than.that
which is external.
On the Path we have to play our parts in the world, but we
do so only because of the true life inside. An actor plays on a
stage because he has another life to live-a life which is conse-
cutive and coherent. He may take various parts at different
times, just as we come back in other incarnations and wear other
kinds of bodies; but all the time the actor has his real life as a
man and as an artist as well, and because there is that real life
he.wants to play his part well in the temporary life of the stage.
Similarly, we wish to do well in our temporary physical life here,
because of the great reality behind, of which it is but a very
small part. If that is clear we shall see what is the relative
importance of this outer life; that its only value to us is that we
shall play our part well, whatever that part may be; what kind
·of part it is, and what happens to us in this mimic existence-
·
.these things matter little. . It may be an actor's business to go
through all sorts of pretended sorrows and difficulties ; but these
do .not trouble him in the.least. He may have, for·example, to
g TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
be kiJled every night in a duel; what does the feigned death
matter to him? The only thing that concerns him is that be
should acquit himself well.
It should not be hard to realize that the world about us is a
mimic world, and that it really does not matter what experiences
may come to us. All the things that happen to people from the
-outside are the result of their karma. The causes were set
going long ago in other lives, and cannot now be altered.
Therefore it is useless to worry about tb~e things that happen.
They come as the result of the past, and should be borne
philosophically. Many people bear them fooJishly and allow them
· to cause a vast amount of pain, suffering and worry. The right
attitude is always to try to learn the lesson that they bring, and
then to put them out of the mind as far as possible-like the
bee and the flower, as our Indian brothers say. 'The way in
which these things are borne moulds our character for the
future, which is the only important thing. One should use
karma to develop courage, endurance and .various other good
qualities, and then dismiss it from the mindl.
This outlook is hard to reach becau:se we are surrounded
by thousands of people who are all taking the play as serious-
as the only real life. What they say and do to us hinders to
'SOme extent, but a far greater obstacle in our way (though we
never think of it) is the immense and incessant pressure of
public opinion. That is simply stupendous, for there are many
thousands who are ignorant to each one who knows the truth.
They are thinking: " We must make haste ta gain possessions
and riches; what other people think of us is everything in life."
A great deal of thought is also poured out by those who
want to gain positions and honours, to obtain invitations to
certain dinners and balls, to get a duke or :an ear.l on their visit-
ing list, and so on. In religious matters too, there is a vast sea of
delusion beating around us, for there ar~e few who are liberal
and millions who are not. Social delusions also abound, as for
instance the prudery of England, where it is considered im-
proper ever to speak of the sex side of thiings, so that for want
-of some small fragments of simple knowlledge the young grow
up in peril and sometimes fall into unexpected disaster, for there
is a river of vice always running, into which it is easy for the
ignorant to fall. People look upon the manners of the classical
times of Greece and Rome as in many ways indecent, but from
THE OCCULT.· PATH AND fHE INTERESTS OF THE WORLD 9
memory of those times I am bound to ·say:i.that th~y were far
less impure in thought than Europe is to-day. .·..
We who understand more of the inner side· of· things have
to stand against these really tremendous odds~. and say to our-
selves: " No,.this ·is not so, all this is unreat, and we 'pray to be
led from the ;Unreal to the real." The real ·is the underlying
life, the life- which persists, the life which, as the Scripture puts
it, is ''hid.with Christ in God ·". To live in that realization all
the time and to regard the outer as· not of essential importance
is not easy, but that is exactly what has to be done. One of
our Maste·rs has said: "He \\iho wishes to follow us must come·
out of your world into ours." This does· not mean that one
must give·up one's daily life and live as :a.hermit-it implies
that. even more-..than before we perform hea·rtiJy all the duties·
that are ours.in this strange play of life-but it does mean that
the aspiraril: ,must abandon his ordinary attitude and adopt that
of the Masters. ; . ,,
. '
Those who succeed in these·efforts will some day find them-
selves accepted pupils of one or other of the Masters. When the
man's though~, ~ecomes part of ~?t;t.t of his Teacher the ptlpil can
test his ownthought by that of the Master, which is never affected ·
by the crowd, and can see exactly what,He thinks on any subject.
Then he will soon get into the way of that and will understand
His point of view; though al·first he will be constantly meeting
with unexpecte.d shocks. Things that'seemed of vast importance
before do not now matter at all, and other•things which he had
passed by as comparatively unimportant, stand out as of great
significance, because in some way, great or small, they affect our·
usefulness, and whatever affects .:our usefulness is important,
because there we touch upon the real thing. ,; ·: , ,..
The pressure.tthat comes upon the mind from all-·around in
the mental and ·astral planes is not from on high at all. ·The
ears must be closed to that, and open only to the sound
from above, to the :voice and .thought of the Master. It is little
wonde·r,tha:rin oldet dceys in llndia and other ~ountries, whenever
men set·themselves·to·live the spiritual life; the first thing they
did was to get out of ordinary life and go away and camp ·in a
cave or jungle by themselves. · The~' gained the advantage of
escape from this pressure of ignorant opinion, and were freer
then to follow their own way. M·any of the Christian Saints
also retired from ·the active world .and became hermits and
2
10 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
monks or associated themselves with people whO' were thinking
on the same lines. .
This advantage of retirement is still further increased for
those who have the privilege of being in the aura of the Master
or of one of His more advanced pupils. The vibrations of that
aura are constantly acting upon the bodies of the pupil, tuning
them up, shaking out unsuitable grades of matter and feeding
them with what is required.· The pupil should be always
trying to develop some virtue-let us say love, for example. If
left to himself he does so intermittently, for he constantly for-
gets about it; but the aura of his superior holds him to the
higher ·standard of thought and feeling that he wants to
establish permanently in himself. The effect is not unlike
that aimed at in the treatment of the malformed limb of
a child, when it is put into splints.until it grows into proper
shape. While in the aura of the Master the pupil feels that
be could not think a wrong thought, even if.he wanted to,
whi~h then seems to him impossible. In that position, we look
smilingly down at our thoughts of yesterday, ;and say:'' I
never can have that feeling. again; it has vanished like.a .
dream." But to-morrow, when we are away from the Master,
we may find ourselves struggling bard to maintaio the higher
a:ttitude, which we thought so easy when in His presence.
At the present time those who are reaching towards the
Path must try to achieve the same condition while they remain
in active life, because it is intended that they shall help the
world, not by meditation and thought alone-as no doubt the
hermit and the monk did-but by mingling ·in its various
activities. It is a very beautiful idea and a great privilege, but
it is hard, very hard, to do.
The result of that difficulty has been that few have really
achieved. Most have been content to take the Theosophical
teaching much as the average Christian takes his religion :
regarding it as very nice to talk about on Sunday, but not at all
the thing to carry out every day and all day long. The earnest
student of the inner life cannot be thus unreal ; he must be
consistent and practical, and must apply his ideals constantly
to everyday life. To attain this constancy is difficult. It is
not that people are unwilling to make some great effort for
the Theosophical idea. If they could help a Master, could do
some piece of work directly for Him;.they would do it though
THE OCCULT PATH AND THE INTERESTS OF THE WORLD II
it cost them life itself. Remember what S. Augustine said:
" Many there are who will die for Christ, but few there are who
wi11 live for Him." To become a martyr sounds magnificent,
heroic; it is a great deed. But the martyr who does it has the
feeling that he is making a mighty effort, and the consciousness
of that bears him up and supports him through pain and
suffering. He is keyed up for the moment to this great act of
heroism. What has to be done now is much harder than that.
It is not possible to keep oneself always strung; to .that pitc;h of
heroism, amid the· little daily troubles that are perpetually
coming -up. It is very d·iflicult to keep the same equanimity
of mind when dealing day after day with the- same wearisome
people, who will not do the things one,thinks they should d9.
Living for Christ in all the small things-that is hard to do;
and it is just because these things seem comparatively small
that there is so much difficulty in foUowing the Path•
. ..
Let us take these three books, let us follow their instruc-
tions, and see how far it is possible ·to apply the~. Others
have done it, and have· succeeded in reaching the Path; why
should not we? Success means the conquest of the self; it
means that we take ourselves in hand and faiCe the facts and,
where there are weeds, pull them' up. It does not matter how
deeply they are rooted, or how much sufferiing it entails ; up
with them ! Hard work, indeed ; but those who have already
entered on some of the higher stages tell us that it is very wen
worth w.hile, i~finitely worth while, to make any effort, great or-
sm'all, whethe'r.it 'be once for all or many times.. .
. . ''- . ' . .
..
'·'
j
. '
, .
.:
!
..
; • l l.
l.· i .
J .
,. , I
CHAPTER II
INITIATION AND THE APPROACH THERETO
. ·i )
C.W.L.-The 'name of this · book was choSten by our
President, , out of t.hirty or· forty which were su~ested, and
she is also r~sponsible for the g~dication ·
. L4
· ,. To Those Who Knock- ·
the symbolism :6( .whi~b ·:is: ob~ious: " ~nock and if,shaH be
opene~.. unto you /",P,er-~:: and ye shall find." In h~r.:preface
Dr.. Besant says: : . . !
The privilege is given to me, as an elder, to pen a word
of introduction to this little.book. the first written by a
younger Bro.the~ : young in body verily, but not in Soul.
Here is a· point of great importance. In ordinary life,
thinking only of this world and this one incarnation, we judge
a person's age by the physical body; but in occult progress
we consider the age of the ego, of the soul within. One must
beware of judging by externals only, though almost everyone
in the world does it. The soul grows steadily, and when it is
highly developed it often begins to exhibit signs of its advance-
ment in intelligence, emotion and occult power, even while the
physical body is still young. Alcyone certainly showed this to
be so in his case by the extreme rapidity of his progress. He
responded to the teaching so fully that he was able to attain in
a few months what would usually take many years, because for
most it would mean a fundamental change in character.
Cases of this kind will be increasingly numerous in these
days, because of the near approach of the World-Teacher. His
12
INITIATION ANI> THE APPROACH THERETO 13
principal .disciples' must be people in the prime· of life and
strength, most of them probably not much older than Himself
in the physical body, and since He is to come soon those who
are to be in that position then must · be young now. It is
exc~edingly probable .that some of those who are children now
among us may in the future be prominent in the work, for it is
likely that many of th.ose who are destined for such good
fortune will be born ,where they can have the teaching that
will fit them for it, thaf
t is, in Theosophical families.
. · :..
We should, the0;fore, watch for such possibilities, and see
that any children that come in our way are told. ~ijout the
advent of the World.-Teacher, so that. they may know the
possibility which is qpen to them. . It ~ust be left to Jhetl'! ·to
gra:s.p,~~e opportunity, but'at least it sho\lld.be given. It wouJd
be very sad if any parent shou.ld he~! f_ro.m .his son or <;iaughte~;
the reproach: " If you had told me .about these things when I
wa~ !young, I might .have, taken the .~pportuNi'ty, but you let me
grow up without kn.owirig 1
anything about .them .; you let me
grow ·into the worldlf.Iffe, and therefore, when the,opportunity
offered, I , d.id not t~Ke' it" We mu.st give the opportunity, but
when lwe ·have done·that~ our duty is over, because it is not for
US tO I ~ry '~0 fofce·anyone.intO any line, <?r t!Ven tO map OUt ~
future and ···expect these other and possibly greater souls to
adhere to it.· .
The·teachings contained in it were given to him by his
Master in .P~~paring him for lnitia~ion.
...
The word Initiatio.r,l. has often been used in a very general
way ; but he.re :rt has a.-de'finite technical significanee. Madame
Blavatsky·herself in the earlier days employed iit somewhat loose-
ly, but as our terminology has become more settled, the meaning
of the word pught to be confined to the great Initiations, the
five steps on the Path Proper, to use the old term. In the
older writings we spoke of the Probationary Path, the Path
Proper, and the Official Period as·three stages in the advanced
development of man. The Probationary Path means the period
of probation for Initiation, the Path Proper is th~ Path of
Holiness which'begins w.ith the first of the ·greaLt Initiations (that
in which a .man " enters upon .the str~am '') and ends with
the attainment of Adeptship. Forty years ago we used to talk
I4 •~ T:ALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM ·:
about "initiation into the Theosophical Society," a:ild the·word
is used in conhection with Masonic and other ceremonies·;- we
must take care not to confuse those ideas with :the great
Initiations of tbe.occult Path. . ~ .
The .period of probation for Initiation was in the eariy
days spoken of as being divided into stages, which corresg<}nd
to the four qualifications which are given in this book: discri-
mination, desirelessness, good conduct and love. . '
It is not correct to call these stages, or to speak of
initiations between them. These q.ualifications are not at all
necessarily taken up in the order given. They are written down
in that order in the old Oriental books; qut we are probably
engaged in acquiring all of them sim.ulta'neously. We do what
we can with all of them, and to some of us one qualification
may be much easier than the others.
Discrimination has its position as the first qualification,
because .it enables a man to decide to enter upon the Path at
all. The Buddhist name for it is manodvaravajjana, "the
opening of the doors of the mind," which means that the man's
mind is open for the first time to see that the spiritual things are
the only real things, and that the ordinary worldly life is a waste
of time. The Hindus name it viveka, which means discrimina-
tion. The Christian caBs this realization ' conversion,' which
is also a very expressive word, because conversion means turning
and coming together with; it is derived from the supine of
verto, to turn, and con, together with.
It means that the man having previously gone his own way~
having thought nothiqg about the Divine Will, has now realized
the direction in which that Divine Wi11 wishes the evolutionary
current to flow, and has turned himself into line with it. Witl}
many Christian, sects it has degenerated to mean a sort of
spasmodic, hysterical condition. but even that contains the idea
of turning about and going along with the Divine Will. It is
v.ery much. what was expressed by the apostle when he said,
''Set your affection· on things above, and not on things of
the earth.''
As there are steps on the Path, so there are qther definite
steps which mark the degrees of the pupil'~ personal relation'-
s.hip to the Master who prepares him for the Initiations. Initia;.
tions are given by the Great White Brotherhood, in the name
INITIATION .AND THIE .APPROACH · T·HERETO iS
of .the One··:lriitiatarXv.bo is its Head'~and by :His ·order alone.
But the .pupil's .rel~tiooshlp · with his Master· is his own affair.
One may be, first;•a probationer,'or, secondly(an accepted pupil;
or, thirdly, what is c·alled a son of the Master; these·are private
relationships and must not be ... confused with the Initiations
which are giv~n by the Great H~erarchy itself.
' ·.
The First Initiation is that step which m~;kes a man a
member of the Great White Brotherhood. Before that he is
not really on,the Path at all, but is training him.self in prepara-
tion for it. It is not conferre.d arbitrarily, but in recogni.tion of
his attainment of a certain stage of evolution-wha~ used to .be
called the union of the higher and lower self, the joining of the.
ego and the personality. A ~a~l w4o wishes to put himself
forward as a candidate for the First Great Initiation must
acquire the qualifications·described in this book, arid make his
perso~ality an expression~ of the ego; there must be no lower
personality left to thrust itself forward, and to have desires of
its own in opposition to those of thE? reincarnating self.
. .
The change that then takes pla~e is shown in the illustra-
tions gi\'en in iWan Visible atzd..Invisible. The astral body of
the sav-age is full o.f colours wbi~h indicate all sQrts of lower
passions, and is irr~gHl~r .in qutJine, bec~use the man .has QO
control over it ; and .tbt ·causal and mental bodies .show po
relation to one another. The causal is apparently blank;
.the mental has a little development, ·.but it h;as not mucfi
connection with th~ ,ast:ral body. In the astral body of th~
savage ther~ are, all s<;>rts .of emotions.and passions that have.
nothing to do with the mind. He does not think ~bout thenr.;
he does .not know how to think; they are simply th~re, and
they run away with him.
In the advanced man, however, all those vehicles 'are
clos'ely linked. The causal body is full instead of being'empty_';
all the different colours expressive of the higher virtues·are
developed· in it, and it · is ' already beginning to pour itse1f out
in various directions for the helping of others. The mental
body contains the same colours, somewhat denser, but still the
finest of their kind, a-nd they represent the causal body on the
lower level. The astral body is in turn a'mirror of thementab
there are the same colours, only just a little darker and dense~:'j
heoause·a plane lower.· . r. l : r..·:·..._....,
16 TALKS ON THE PATH OF 0CCULTISM
The self in the savage expresses itself in all kinds of differ-
ent emotions and passions of which the.ego =
could not possibly
approve, but in the developed ·man there are no emotions but
such as he chooses to- have. Instead of being swayed by his
emotions and carried off his feet, he simply selects-them. He
says: " Love is a good thing., I will allow myself to feel love;
devotion is a good thing, I will allow myself to feel devotion ;
sympathy-that .·is beautiful, I will allow myself to feel
sympathy." And he does this with his ey~s open, intentionally.
The emotions· are thus under the dominion of the mind, and
tb~t mind is an ·expression of the causal body, so we are coming
very near· to the condition of complete unity of the higher and
lower self.
It should not be imagined tbat ~t.h~re are twq entities in·
man. There never is any lower self :a·s a separat~ being, but
the ego puts down a tiny fragn1~nt of himself into the persona-
lity. in order to experieQae the :vibrations of the lower.p_~anes.
The personality then becomes much more vividly alive
than the ego, because it is at a stage where it can respond
to those vibrations; consequently' it f<;>rgets that it belongs to
the ego, and sets up in the ~usiness of life on its own account,
and tries to go as it would_rather than as t~e ~go would. In
the course of many incarnations, however, the ego grows strong~
and then the man can recognize· 'f~at the personality·is nothing
but an expression of himself,· the _
reincarnating ~go, and that
whenever ·it tries to be master _in~tead of servant it is going
wrong and needs to be controlled. It is our business so to order ·
the persriri'ality that ·it shall express·the ego, and nothing else.
That is what Mr. Sinnett called _
giving allegiance to the higher
self. ·In The Voice of the Silence we ·are told that the disciple
should slay the lunar form. This refers to the astra:J·body.
It does not mean that you should cpmmit an astral murder; it
means that your astral body should ·have no existence but as_
an
expression of the higher, that instead·of having its own passio~s
and emotions it shall reflect only ~hat tlje' ego choo~es. :··
This condition must be attained before one can be present·
ed for the First Initiation. The man must have control of
his physical~ astral and mental bodies. All these must be
servants ·of the ego. To gain that mastery would mean a veryr
great deal of work for the ordinary person, and many people
would say: '' I cannot do that; it is no use talking about it."
INI~IATION AND 'THE APPROACH THERETO t7
It· i:s altogether too high ah ideal to set before thetn dll at•arlee;
bht it ought not to be so setidus a demand to make upori those
who have been meditating and thinking on these matters for
many years. Truly it is not easy to tread down one by one all
sorts of passions and desires, to curb the astral and mental
bodies ; these· things are hard, but they Are splendidly well
worth doitlg, and the result attained thereby is quite otit.of all
proportion to even the great efforts required. The thought of
making ourselves capable of greater usefulness to the World·
Teacher is an additional iqcentive a,nd encouragement ip this
arduous undertaking. Those who tak,e· these Initiations do not
do it for themselves, in. order to escape from the sortow and
the suffering of the world, but that they may be of use in the
mighty plan. ·
• I
There ~re certain definite changes which outweigh all
others in a man's existence. The first of these is when he
individualizes and enters the human kingdom-when he comes
forth from the animal stage and begins ,his career .as an ego.
His attainment of Adeptship at the Fifth Initiation is another;
it marks his departur~ from tpe human kingdom, because then
he enters a super-human state. That is the goal which is set
before all humanity;· it is the point which we are to endeavour
to attain in this chain of worlds'. At the end of this period the
man who has done what God has willed for mankind; who has
carried out to the .utmost the divine design for himself., wi'll
thus pass out of the human kingdom; ·and many of us may do it
long before the end. · ' ·
In between these two comes another point of quite as great
importance, the definite ''entry on the stream " at the .first
great Initiation. The words used in admitting the cai?didate
to the Brotherhood include this statement: "You are·now safe
for ever; you have entered upon the stream.; may yo~ ·soon
reach the further shore." The Christial) calls h~rri· the man
who is 'saved.' or' safe.' That means that he is quite sure to
go on in this present stream of evolution, that h,e is certain nqt .to
drop out at the day of judgment in the next round. like a chfld
in school who is too backward to go on with the ,~ust ·of his
-class. .. it Lr:-1:<r.. .
The· Initiate has to pass the Second, Tn'iirtl ahd:Fourth
Inrti;Hions before he reaches Adeptship, which is tee Fifth, but
~heh he gains tlhat stage he unites the monad and the ego just
3
18 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTI-SM
•
as before he had united the ego and the personality. When the
man has achieved the union of the higher and the lower self;.
his personality no longer exists ·except as an expression of the
ego ; he has now to begin that process o\'er again, as it were,.
and make that ego an expression of the monad. Whether
beyond that there lies another stage of the same kind we do not
know, but it is at least certain that when we attairr Adeptship
we shaH find opening before us a still more glorious vista of
progress.
People often ask what will be the end of this evolution
which we· see outstretched before us. I personally do not
know whether there is any end or not. A great philosopher
once said, '' It is equally inconceivable that there should be an
end or that there should be no end; yet one of those two must
be true." Some speak of absorption into the Supreme; but of
that we know nothing. We know that our consciousness
continues to widen; that before it lies grade after grade above
and beyond our own. We know that it is possible to touch the
buddhic level, and thus attain an enormous expansion of con-
sciousness, so that besides being oneself .one is also other and
greater ·people.
In this we do not feel that we have lost individualitv at
all, but that we have so widened it that we are able to "'f-eel
through others as well as through ourselves. All who can.do
this in meditation should continue the practice, and expand
until more and more is included in the consciousness-not only
those far above, but those below as well, although those above
come first because they are so much stronger, so much more
tremendous in their power. Such expansion takes place
gradualTy and one wins one's way through subplane after
subplane of buddic consciousness, until presently he learns to
develop a buddhic vehicle-a body which he can use at that
stupendous height where aJJ the spheres seem as one, and he can
tra,verse space without actua1Jy passing through it in our sense
of the word at all.
Now, since that is in the experience of a number of us, we
are justified in assuming that the further extensions of that con-
sciousness will be somewhat of the same kind. We have
attained that unity without losing our sense of individuality in
the very least, without feeling ourselves merged in a shining
INITIATION AND THE APPROACH THERETO 19
sea, as the poet puts it, but feeling instead that the shining sea
bas been poured into the drop.
Paradoxical as it may sound, that is the sensation; the
-consciousness of the drop widens into the consciousness of the
sea. That being so, so far as we know it, we are surely justified
in assuming that there will not be any sudden change in the
method. We cannot conceive of being merged into something
-else and losing that consciousness which we have taken so long
to develop. I believe it will widen so that we may become on~
with God, ,but only in the sense in which Christ put it when
He said : " Ye · are gods; ye are all the children of the
Most High."
We can look far back in evolution and can also see far
forward. We can be sure of a future extending over millions
-of years of useful activity, on splendid levels whose glory and
power and love and development are inconceivable down here;
hut what lies beyond that we do not know. If we consider th~
rnatter from a common-sense point of view, we can hardly expect
to know. If the final end of it were something that we could
'!low understand, it would be a very poor kind of ending,,
altogether out of proportion to all the stages which lead
up to it.
Our intellect is a narrow thing-how limited no man
realizes until he comes into touch with its higher developments,
when he begins to see that the intellect about which we have
boasted so much is in reality a poor affair, a !beginning only, a
seed of a future·tree. In comparison to that of the future, men
have now only a child intellect, though it is that'of a hopeful
-child, for it has done much already, and shows promise of more.
But compared with the intellect of the Great Ones it is still
that of a very little child. Therefore it canno1
t yet reach great
heights and depths, and we cannot expect to understand either
the beginning o.r the end. I, at least, am mo1re than willing to
admit quite frankly that I do not know what goal the Supreme
bas in His 'mind ; I do not know anything about the Supreme,
-except that He is.
The metaphysician and the philosopher speculate on these
things, and gain from the effort considerable development of
the mind and the causal body. Those who love such
imaginations do no harm in indulging in them, but I think they
20 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
should clearly understand that they are imaginations. The
philosopher should not develop his theories into a system and
expect us to accept it, for he is quite likely to be leaving out of
account some of the most important factors. For myself, I do
not spet.:ulate. I feel that the splendour and glory that
unquestionably lie ahead of us are far more than sufficient to
satisfy all our aspirations. "Eye bath not seen, nor ear heard,
neither hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive. the
things which God hath prepared for them that love Him.'~
That is true now, as it was two thousand years ago.
CHAPTER III
HOW THE BOOK CAME TO BE WRITTEN
C.W.L.-Dr. Besant's Preface (which is dated December,.
I9Io) then goes on to explain how Alcyone wrote the book.
And were written down by him from memory-
slowly and laboriously, for his English last year was far
less fluent than it is now. The greater part is a re-
production of the Master's own words: that which is not
such a verbal reproduction is the Master's thought clothed
in His pupil's words. Two omitted sentences were
supplied by the Master. In two other cases an omitted
word has been added. Beyond this, it is entirely
Alcyone's own, his first gift to the world.
The following is my own account of what happened, as.
given in The 1
\fasters and the Path :
The story of how this little book came to be written is compara-
tively simple. Every night I had to take this boy in his astral body to the
house of the Master, that instruction might be given him. The Master
devoted perhaps fifteen minutes each night to talking to him, but at the
end of each talk He always gathered up the main points of what He had
said into a single sentence, or a few sentences, thus making an easy
little summary which was repeated to the boy, so that he learnt it by
heart. He remembered that summary in the morning and wrote it
down. The book consists of these sentences, of the epitome of the
Master's teaching, made by Himself, and in His words. The boy
wrote them down somewhat ~aboriously, because his English was not
21
22 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
then very good. He knew all these things by heart and did not trouble
particularly about the notes that he had made. A little later he went up
to Benares with our President. While there he wrote to me, I being
down at Adyar, and asked me to collect and send to him all the notes
that he had made of what the Master had said. I arranged his notes as
well as I could, and typed them all out.
Then it seemed to me that as these were mainly the Master's
words I had better make sure that there was no mistake in recording
them. Therefore I took the type-written copy which I had made to
the Master Ktithtimi and asked Him to be so kind as to read it over.
He read it, altered a word or two here and there, added some connect-
ing and explanatory notes and a few other sentences which I remember-
ed having heard Him speak .to Mr. Krishnamurti. Then He said
"Yes, that seems cor!"ect ; that will do ; " but He added, "Let us show
it to the Lord Maitreya.'' And so we went together, He taking the
manuscript_
, and it was shown to the World-Teacher Himself, who read
it and approved. It was He who said : " You should make a nice
little book of this to introduce Alcyone to the world." We had not
meant to introduce him to the world ; we had not considered it desirable
that a mass of thought should be concentrated on a boy of thirteen,
who still had his education before him. But in the occult world we' do
what we are told, and so this book was put into the printer's hands as .
soon as possible. ·
All the inconveniences which we expected from premature
publicity came about ; but still the Lord Maitreya was right and we were
wrong ; for the good that has been done by that book far outweighs the
trouble it brought to us. Numbers of people, literally thousands, have
written to say how their whole lives have been changed by it, how every-
thing has become different to them because they have read it. It has
been translated into twenty-seven languages. There have been some
forty editions of it, or more, and over a hundred thousand copies have
been printed. Even now an edition of a million copies is being pre-
pared in America. A wonderful work has been done by it. Above all,
it bears that special imprimatur of the coming World-Teacher, and that
is the thing that makes it most valuable- the fact that it shows us, to a
certain extent, what His teaching is to be.1
' Op. cit., pp. 76-78. Second Edition, 1,27.
CHAPTER IV
THE PRELIMINARY PRAYER
C.'W.L.-Dr. Besant concludes with a good wish for all
of us:
May it help others as the spoken teaching helped
~m-such is the-hope with which he gives it. But the
teaching can only be fruitful if it is lived, as he has livea
it _
since it fell from his Master's lips. If the example be
followed as weB as the precept, then for the reader, as
for the writer, shall the great Portal swing open, and his
feet be set on the Path.
'
In reviewing this book, Dr. Besant said: "Very rarely
are such words as these given to men; teaching so direct, so
philosophicaL and so beautifully put." Therefore assuredly
every word of it is worth our most careful consideration.
At the beginning of the book, before we enter even upon
the . Foreword of Alcyone, is set the old prayer, translated from
the Sanskrit :
F rotn the unreal lead me to the Real.
From darkness lead me to Light.
From death lead me to Immortality.
The use of the word ' real ' in this case may sometimes
prove a little misleading. When we say ' real' and ' unreal,'
23
:24 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the idea conveyed to our minds is that one thing has a definite
existence and the other has not. The unreal is to us purely
imaginary. But that is not quite what the Hindu understands
by this sentence. Perhaps we should come a little nearer to
his meaning if we said, " From the impermanent lead me to the
permanent."
The statement that the lower planes, physical, astral and
mental, are unreal, often leads to serious misunderstanding.
They are not unreal at their own level, and while they last.
Physical objects see,m p~rfecty real while we are on the physical
plane, but when the body falls asleep and we use our astral
consciousness instead of the physical, those objects are no
longer visible to us because we have passed into a higher ·plane.
Therefore people sometimes say they are unreal. But there is
just as much reason to say that the astral plane is unreal
because we do not see its objects when on the physical plane.
Both physical and astral objects are there all the time ; they
£emain visible to those whose consciousness is on the respective
planes.
So far as we know all manifestation is impermanent; only
the Unmanifested is absolutely and always the same. All
manifestation, even that of the highest planes, will one day pass
again into the changeless, so the difference betweeri what we
-commonly call the impermanent and those higher planes is only
a matter of time; which in comparison to eternity can be as
nothing. The physical plane, then, is just as real as the nirva-
nic, and just as truly a.n expression of the Deity, and so we must
not form the idea that one of these things is real and the other
mere dream or phantasmagoria.
Another very commonly held theory is that matter is evil;
but that is not so at all. Matter is an expression of the Divine
just as much as spirit; both are one in Him-two sides of Him.
Matter often operates to hinder us in our Pt:ogress, but only
when it is so used as to delay us on our way ; as well might a
man who happens to cut himself with a knife say that knives ·
are evil things. Considering the flexibility of the Sanskrit
words we might equally translate the first line as "From the
false lead me to the true ". ' True,' ' permanent ' ' real '-
these words seem all of them to be incJuded in the meaning; so
what we are asking is rather that from the outer, where the
THE PRELIMINARY PRAYER
illusion ·is greater, we may be led to the inner, which is nearer
to the absolute truth.
The second petition is, " From darkness lead me to Light,"
-that is, of course, from the darkness of ignorance to the light
of knowledge. This prayer is addressed to the Master; we ask
Him to enlighten us by His wisdom. There is also a secondary
me.aning attached to that in India, for in these words one is also
supposed to be asking Him to lead one to the knowledge of the
higher planes, and there comes in a rather beautiful thought
which wilJ be found in some of those old books, that the light
of the lower plane is the darkness of the plane above it. That
is wonderfully true. What is thought of here as light is dim
and murky, compared to the light of t'be astral world, and that
in turn is poor in comparison with that of the mental. It is
very difficult to put these distinctions into words, because each
time you rise one plane in your consciousness you get the imo~
pression of something quite stupendously greater than you have
·ever known before-greater power, greater light, greater bliss.
When a man makes a definite advance in consciousness,
be thinks: ''Now for the first time I know what life really
means, what bliss is, and how splendid all these things are."
So each plane is quite out of all proportion superior to the one
below it, so that, for instance, to return even from the astral,
the very next plane, into the physical is like coming out of the
sunlight into a dark dungeon. When a man· can function
consciously on the mental he finds an expansion in many
directions absolutely beyond that which he knows on the astral.
When be can touch the buddhic consciousness, for the first time
he feels a very little of how God sees things. One is then
coming into touch with Divinity, and beginning to know how
He who is in all, feels through all. It is said that " In Him
we live and move and have our being," and that " Of Him and
through Him and to Him are all things; "1 and all that is not
merely a beautiful and poetic expression, but represents an
actual fact. There is a glorious unity-not brotherhood alone,
but actual unity-and when the lowest fringe of that can be
touched one begins for the first time very dimly to understand
how God feels when He looks on His universe and says: ''It is
good." And so from the darkness of the lower planes we ask
' 'Rom., XI, 36.
4
TALKS ON THE PATH OP OCCULTISM
to be led to the light of the higher consciousness-and it is light
as compared with darkness. No phraseology could be more
apt; no expression could give more exactly what one feels.
Then we say "From death lead me to Immortality."
That does not mean what at first sight the ordinary religious
person would take it to mean, because the Theosophist's attitude
towards death should be very different from that of the man
who has not studied these things-quite the reverse, in fact.
Death is not a horror, not a king of terrors, but rather an angel
bearing a golden key to open the door into a higher and fuller
life. Of course we always regret those who pass away; but the
regret is for " the touch of the vanished hand and the sound
of the voice that is still ". And when we ask to be led
from death to immortality we do not at all mean what a
Christian would have in mind: that he should Jive for all eternity
in his present personality in some form or other. We have, how-
ever, a very definite wish to escape from death, and its inseparable
companion, birth. What lies before men is the round which the
Buddhist calls the sansiira, th.e wheel of life. The prayer here
is: from this cycle of birth and death, lead us to immortality-
to the life which lies above birth and death, which no longer
needs to dip into the lower planes, because its human evolution
is finished and .it has gained all that matter had to teach it.
Although people never ·Seem to see it. that idea is prominent
in the Christian scriptures also. Modern Christianity suffers
from certain obsessions-! do not think we can call them by any
other name-and one of them is the terrible idea of an eternal
hell. That belief has cast a cloud of misunderstanding over a
number of other doctrines, too. The whole theory of salvation
has come to mean salvation from this non-existent, eternal hell,
whereas it does not mean that at all, and all the passages which
are supposed to refer to that, which seem so incomprehensible,
become clear and luminous when it is understood that it really
is the birth of the Christ in the heart that saves the man.
The Christ often spoke to the people of the broad road
which led to death or destruction, and the many who followed
it. His disciples came to Him once and asked: '' Lord, are
there few that be saved ? " Then He said: "Strait is the gate
and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be
that find it." Men have actually taken those very beautiful
THE PRELIMINARY PRAYER 27
and perfectly true words, and interpreted them to mean that
the majority of mankind will be cast into eternal hell, that very
few indeed will succeed in attaining heaven; but it is absolutely
ridiculous to attribute that idea to the Christ. What He meant
was perfectly clear. The disciples were asking how many
people enter the path of Initiation, and He said, " Few," which
is as true in our day as it was then. When He said: " Broad
is the road that leadeth to death, and many there be that follow
it," He referred to the road that leads to the cycle of death and
birth. Of course, it is true that that road is broad and easy;
there is no trouble at all about following that line of
development, and those who so do will attain the goal easily
enough, somewhere about the end of the seventh round.
But strait is the gate and narrow is the way that leads to
Initiation, to the kingdom of heaven. When Christ speaks of
the kingdom of heaven He never means the heaven-world, the
state after death, devachan, but always the body of the saved,
the company of the elect, that is to say, the Great Brotherhood.
When He refers to the conditions of life between death and
rebirth, we find a very different set of words. Remember the
passage written by S. John: ''And lo, a great multitude,
which no man could number, of all nations and kindreds ·and
peoples and tongues, stood before the Throne and before the
Lamb, dothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.u
When they spoke of that condition they told of a vast multitude
which no man could number, not of a few who found their way
with difficulty.
•
CHAPTER V
THE SPIRIT OF THE PUPIL
C.W .L .- We come now to the Foreword of Alcyone
himself:
These are not my words ; they are the words of the
Master Who taught me. Without Him I could have
done nothing; but through His help I have set my feet
upon the Path.
He plainly attributes all his progress to the infiuence and
the help of his Master. We have much of the help that he then
received, because we have the \vords of this book, which are
the Master's words ; but the enormous help of His presence
and personal guidance is also ready and waiting for every one
of us, too. That must sink into our minds as a rea1ity; we
may be confident of it as an absolutely certain fact. As Alcyone
was helped, so will all be aided who choose to make themselves
ready for it.
You also desire to enter the same Path, so the
words which He spoke to me will help you also, if you
will obey them. It is not enough to say that they are
•
true and beautiful ; a man who wishes to succeed must do
exactly what is said. To look at food and say that it is
good will not satisfy a starving man ; he must put forth
his hand and eat. So to hear the Master's words is not
28
THE SPIRIT OF THE PUPIL
enough; you must do what He says, attending to every
word, taking every hint.
It is not enough to say: " I will do all that is written in the
book ; " its teaching must be made to permeate every part of
one's life. One must be on the watch for opportunities. There
is a little bit of poetry at the end of the book which expresses
this very we11 :
Waiting the word of the Master,
Watching the Hidden Light;
Listening to catch His orders
I~ the very ~idst of the fight ;
Seeing His slightest signal
Across the heads of the throng ;
Hearing His faintest whisper
Above earth's loudest song.
In the midst of all the noise, the whirl and excitement of the
fight of life, one must listen aU the while if one aspires to
become a pupil of the Master. One must be eagerly looking
out for opportunities to put into practice any of the teachings.
This is not, after all, really difficult, because it is largely a
matter of habit. Ce n'est que le p1'emier pas qui coute.1 When
one has taken that, and has set up the habit, it is just as easy
to be watching keenly all the time for this, as it is for· the
business man who is looking for opportunities to make money.
It is right that the man should keep up. such constant
watchfulness, for while he is doing business it is his duty to do
it well. But if he can be eager about the temporary things,
surely we might well be equally earnest about these things of
the higher life.
It is very important that those who wish to reach the feet
of the Master should understand His attitude. It is the same
as that whic~ is induced by Theosophical study. But the
attitude is rea.J\y what the study aims at, for Theosophy i~ a life
1 It is only the first step that costs.
3o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
to be lived, not merely a system to be learned. We must try,.
therefore, to bring our views into harmony with His, yet without
forcing them at all. It would not be the wisest thing for any of
us to adopt a point of view merely because it is the Master's,
without understanding how He arrived at it. We should be
quite safe in adopting it because He knows so much more than
.we do, but He would not wish it. Our intellect must be
convinced, not merely our feelings influenced, by His thought.
The great requirement is to have it certain in one's mind that
these things are the more real and permanent and important.
The average Christian certainly says that the unseen things are
more important, that that which is seen is temporary; but he
does not act at all as though he believed it. Why? Because
he is not certain of it. He is quite sure on the physical plane
that money would be a good thing, and that the more he can
get of it the better it will be for him ; but he is not equally
convinced that the spiritual things are real. They belong to
the group of subjects which he labels ' religion,' and there is not,.
somehow, the certainty and the practicality and the rnatter-of-
factness about those things to .him that there is in the affairs
of ordinary life. We who are trying to make progress along
these Jines must introduce just precisely that matter-of-factness,
that absolute and definite certainty, into these realms of the
unseen. Mr. Sinnett said in his first Theosophical book :.
"These things must be as real to you as Charing Cross; " that
is true ; they must be as familiar as the things we see every
day.
They rnay become so for us through reasoning about them,
or through intuition, or best of all through direct experience.
When we have completely convinced ourselves intellectually
that a thing must be so, it grows into a fact for us. That is
probably one of the advantages which the older students have
over the newer ones. However enthusiastic the new ones may
be, .the older ones have had time to live into this thing and to
make it, bit by bit, grain by grain, so to speak, part of them-
selves. Knowledge grows from more to more, as the poet puts
it. There are some who as soon as they hear of the higher
facts, spring at once into the state of absblute certainty about
them, by a happy intuition, which is really their good karma
from past Jives. But for most of us, whose karma has not been
quite so good as that, the steady growth tells very much. Of
THE SPIRIT OF THE PUPIL 3r
course, a person may be a member of the Society for thirty
years and know no more at the end of the time than at the begin-
ning. That is sad, because it is a waste of opportunity. But for
those who hav~ constantly thought about Theosophy and lived
it, there is a feeling of certainty which has gradually grown. The
experiences of life and thought on these things have accumu-
lated for us proof after proof, until we see that they must be so.
In many cases the Theosophical ideas have appeared
intricate and difficult at first, but later on simple and easy.
They have become part of yourself. A child copies out a page
of writing, and is very proud of it if there are no mistakes, but
later on he will do the same thing without thinking of it-it has
become a power. So long as we are making efforts to under-
stand we have not yet realized the value of Theosophical truths ;
later on they will be a power in our lives.
Easier and more rapid is the path of the man who gets
some personal experience. Few of us are entirely without that,
and even one little bit of direct knowledge of that sort shows us
-not, perhaps, that all the rest is true, but-that the rest is
eminently probable. We have seen for ourselves that a part of
what we have learnt is so; we recognise that the rest is
· probably so, since the entire philosophy is coherent ; and
this probability is so strong that it becomes for us practically a
.certainty. ·
If a hint is not taken, if a word is missed, it is lost
for ever : for He does not speak twice.
A.B.-Many peo!Jle fail to understand that those who hear
these things again and again are worse off, not better off, than
the people in the outer world who have not heard this message,
.if they do not try to carry them out. I do not say, it will be
noticed, if they do not carry them out, but if they do not try to
·Carry them out. It is the strenuous endeavour that is necessary,
.and it is this that is too often forgotten amongst us. It is true
that the Master does not speak twice ; He makes a suggestion ;
if it is not used, He lets it go; He does not repeat what He has
-said. Only His disciples, meeting the conditions of the world,
;repeat again· and again the things that they have to say, until
they produce an impression. If you were accepted disciples,
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
your Master would not tell you to do a thing if it were not
possible. If you did not take a piece of advice which He
offered, He would not give it you any more. This is not because
He is unkind, but because He cannot afford to waste any time;
He has far too much to do. All this teaching was given to
Alcyone, because he worked hard all the time. It is only those
who are strenuously in earnest who can thus come into touch
with the Master. I know that it is just this strenuous, un-
remitting effort which many of you find so difficult, but it is
that which is needed, and without it you cannot enter upon
the Path.
C.W .L.-We who follow the Master, and try to do some
of His work in the outer world, have to speak twice constantly;
we have to say over and over again the various things which
are committed to us, because people are heedless and inatten-
tive; but when one comes into touch with the Master Himself,
he is not expected to be heedless any more ; then a single hint
should be sufficient, and certainly if it is not taken it will not be
repeated, not because the Master is a proud Teacher, but
because the pupil is not ready.
The method used by the Masters in training Their pupils
should be understood. It is very rarely indeed that They issue
any direct order. When I myself was taken on probation many
years ago, almost my first question was, " What can I do ? ''
The Master said in reply: "That is for you to discover." Then
He explained: " I know quite well that if I tell you to do any-
thing, of course you wi11 do it at once. But in that case you
will have only the karma of prompt and instant obedience; I
shall have the karma of the deed. I want you to have it; I
want you, for yourself, to do good things and to make good
karma. It must be you who originate the idea, not 1." The
Great Ones very rarely give direct commands; but often from
something that a Master says, or even from the glance of His
eye, one forms the opinion as to whether He approves or dis-
approves of a certain thing; and those who stand round Him,
more especially in the case of the Master Kiithiimi, learn very
readily to note these things; they are always on the watch
for any sort of hint.
The Master Morya was a King in the earlier part of his
present incarnation, and He speaks with the command of a
THE SPIRIT OF 'I'H£ PUPIL 33
King. He more often gives direc~ orders, and if He disapproves of
something, He generally says so clearly. The Master Kuthumi
has hardly ever expressed disappro\'al. His pupils have learnt to
interpret His look, for He rarelv says any word of blame. So it
comes that they watch very carefully for anything whatever in
the nature of a hint. When it is given they endeavour to take
it, because they know that if it is missed that particular hint
will not be given again. Nothing could possibly foJlow in the
nature of blame or loss from not taking it, except to the pupil,
who would be Jess likely to receive a hint on another occasion.
In The Masters and the Path it has been explained tha~
the different Masters train their pupils in different ways,
according to the rays to which they belong and the lines of
work ·which they are destined to pursue. On the line of the
Manu and Master Morya are people of the kshattriya kind-
men of the governing type, judges, lawyers, soldiers, statesmen.
On the line of the Bodhisattva and the Master Kiithumi ar~
those of the Brahmana type-teachers, preachers, reformer:s~
In addition to these there are five other great rays, with their
special characteristics. A Chohan, who has passed at least the
Sixth Initiation, stands at the head of each type, while under
Him there are several Masters. Thus, on the second ray, for
example, a pupil need not necessarily belong to the Master
Kiithiimi; he might be attached to the Master Djwal Kiil.
5
· CHAPTER VI
THE FOUR INTRODUCTORY PATHS
. C.W.L.-They tell us in the Eastern books that there are
four main roads by which men may be brought to the beginning
of the Probationary Path. They say that the most frequent
method of such turning is through the companionship of those
already on the Path. That makes them see its glory and
beauty, and the necessity for fol1owing it. The influence of an
advanced disciple is . not limited to the words he speaks ; it is
the vibration of the life radiating from such a person that is so
powerful. This fact is fully recognized in India, where there
afe many teacher~ of different sorts standing at different levels,
of varying degrees ql power, who are there calJed gurus. Each
bas his own set of followers, and teaches them his own ideas
upon philosophy, and sometimes gives them mantras to recite,
forms of meditation, and yoga practices to do. But it is not by
any means mainly through these things that he helps them.
The more important thing is that they shall be with him. If he
is a peripatetic, wandering from place to place, they go about
with him, just as the disciples of Jesus travelled with Him
through Palestine. If he lives in one place, these disciples
gather round him, sit at his feet and listen to any words of
wisdom which he may drop, but the benefit they gain is not
so much from what he teaches as from the influence of his
presence.
This process is entirely scientific. The higher vehicles of
the guru are keyed up to a higher rate of vibration than those
of his pupils, who have come more recently than he out of the
worldly life, where the vibrations are at a lower level. They
are not entirely withdrawn from the selfish side of things, as he
ts. They must take themselves in hand, realize their faults and
34
THE FOUR JN'J,'~ODUCT0RY PATHS · 35
resolve to get rid of them and clevelo'p certain virtue·s, in brief,
change their own characters, and that is usually a slow and tedious
business. They can be quite imme.nsely assisted in that process
by being in constant contact with the guru, who has developed
these virtues and extinguished those vices in himself. The
pressure of the higher vibration is constant, whether they wake
or sleep, and they are absorbing it and bei'~g attuned to it all
the time. The principJe of tl~is .is wdl known in physics: if you
put close· to each other two. tirriepie~·e,s' which are not moving
regularly together iri harruony, the.:stroriger one will gradually
bring the weaker into agreement with itself,'or stop it altogethe,:-.
The second way of entering the Probationary Path is the
hearing or reading of teaching 'upon the subject. · A man who
is interested in the matter gets hold of some teaching along
these higher lines; it commends itself to his intuition, and
immediately he seeks to satisfy his desire to find out more about
it: This was my own experience. I came across The Occult
World, and · at once made up ·my mind: " If that be so-and
it is so evidently-if there be .these Greater People, and if They
are 'willing to ·accept service from ~s, and to giv~ us in return
something of Their priceless knowled~e-then I am going to be
one of those who serve Them. I am going to pick up whatever
crumbs I can, and the only thing worth doing from now on i& to
~et to work to get into that position somehow.'' Of course
there are many thousands who 'hear and read the teaching, a_
nd
yet do not receive any impulse from it. That is a question of
the man's experience in other lives. Only if he has already
come into contact with the truth, and has convinced himself of
its beauty and reality in a previous life, does he instantly feel it
to be true when it comes before him in this life.
It seems to many of us amazing that everyone who gets
bold of a Theosophical book is not converted. Theosophy is a
wonderful teaching, and it solves a great many problems, and
yet you kn~w quite well when you try to lend Theosophical
books to fnends, half of them return them, and say" Yes·
, no
doubt it is very interesting,'' but they have not really understood
it at all. One's present understanding is the good karma oi
having studied it before; the more one has known of a thing
before, the more he will see in it now. That is out experience
with any good book that we may have read, say, twenty years
ago. Read it again now, and see how very much more you
36 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
will find in it than you did then. You are able to see in it that
which you bring the power to see.
The third mode by which men are sometimes brought to
the beginning of the Probationary Path is by what is called in
the Indian books, ' enlightened reflection '. That means that by
sheer hard thinking a man may come to see that there must be
a plan of evolution, that there must be Those who know all
about it-the evolved and perfected Men-and that there must
be a Path by which They may be reached. The man who by
such thinking comes to that decision then sets out to look for
the Path ; but those who travel by this road.are probably few.
In some ways the most remarkable is the fourth way-the
practice of virtue. That is an idea which would quite commend
itself to the average Christian, because he often believes that
all that is necessary is to be .good. But the Theosophist
recollects that in the early days of Christianity the purification,
or saintship, which they now set before themselves as t.heir goal,
was considered to be only the first step. S. Clement says of it
quite boldly that purity is merely a negative virtue, valuable
chiefly as a condition of insight. Having achieved that, you
are then fit to learn, to prepare for illumination, which was the
second stage, and after that to pass into the third stage, called
perfection. You will remember how S. Paul speaks of that.
He says: c: We speak wisdom among them that are perfect,"
but not to others.
This virtue leads to the beginning of the Path because,
though the man who leads a good life through many
incarnations may not thereby develop inteJiect, he wilJ presently
acquire sufficient intuition to carry him into the presence of the
people who do know, to bring him in fact to the feet of some one
who is a servant of the Master. It is admitted, however, that
that method takes thousands of years and many lives. The
man who practises virtue and does not develop his mind will
reach the Path eventually, but it is a slow process. It would
save him much time if he followed S. Peter's advice, and aimed
at knowledge as well.
''
CHAPTER VII
THE FOUR QUALIFICATIONS
.Fou.;: Qualifications there are for this pathway :
Discrimination.
DesireJessness.
Good Conduct.
Love.
C.W .L.-These qualifications have been stated over and
over again in the various religions, but this translation differs
slightly from any that have been given previously. In the case
of the first, discrimination, there has been little variation. I
have a) ready explained the words used for this by the Hindus
and Buddhists, how they mean the same thing as conversion
among the Christians, and how the pupil must unite the ego
and the personality. On the Path proper the process has to be
repeated between the Monad and the ego. The ego is a
fragment of the Monad put down as far as the higher part of
the mental plane ; it also comes down for the collection of
experience, to learn to receive and respond to vibrations ·such
as cannot be sensed by the Monad at his own level. So the
ego in turn has to learn that be is a part of the Monad, that he
exists only for that Monad, ·and when that in turn is fully
realized, the man is ready to take the Fifth Initiation and so
become an Adept.
· Those are the actual definitions of readiness for the two
Initiations; for the First, that the higher and the lower self
shall have been unified, that there shall be nothing but the ego
37
38 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
working in this personality; and for the Fifth Initiation that
there shalJ be nothing in the ego that is not approved or inspired
by the Monad. Whenever the Monad touches our lives down
here he comes in as a god from above. In all cases of Initiation
he flashes down, and for a moment becomes one with the ego,
just as they wilJ be permanently one when adeptship is gained.
At certain other times also the Monad comes down, as in the
case mentioned in The Lives of Alcyone, when Alcyone took a
pledge to the Lord Buddha.
By one or other of the foregoing means the man' is led to
discrimination-this knowledge of what is worth following and
what is not worth following. Therr he finds be has to develop
the second qualification, to which the Master here gives the
name of desirelessness. Dr. Besant previously translated it
dispassion or indifference. This is the Hindu vairagya, which
means indifference to the result of one's actions. The Lord
Bud~ba's statement of that is just a little different. For this
second stage He uses the Pali word parikamma. Karma or
kamma always means doing or acting, and parikamma means
preparation for action; so He calls that second stage prepara-
tion for action, the grade in which the emphasis is laid on
learning to do right for right's sake, not for the sake of anything
the man may gain from it in any way for himself. This must
not be misunderstood. Many people say that indifference to
the fruit of action means that one must perform duty without
t~king into account the effect on anyone else. As this book tells
u~ later on,· "that which is right you must do, that which is
;wrong you -must not do," whatever the consequences may be;
hut it does not mean that people should go on doing just what
they like without thinking how their action will affect others.
In fact, it is that very effect which determines whether the action
is right or wrong. The pupil of the Master does not think of
the effect upon himself, but he does most emphatically think of
that on others.
The third qualification, which is called Good Conduct;
includes the six rules which the Hindus name shatsampatti. In
the Pali form, as given by the Lord Buddha, that qualification
is caJJed upacharo, which means 'attention ' rather than
'conduct '-one is to pay attention to conduct in the ways
pre£cribed by those six jewels, as tl)~y are called. We shaH
~orne to the Master .KJ)thumi's re.ndering of them pte~ently,
THE FOUR QUALIFICATIONS 39
as we go through this book. By the Buddha they were given
as samo, 'quietude,' that is, control of mind; then damo,
'subjugation,' that is, control of the body; then uparati, titikha,
samadhana, and saddha, literally 'cessation, endurance, intent-
ness, and faith'. I took the trouble to have all these words
looked up in the principal dictionaries, and got these transla- ·
tions from the High Priest Hikkaduwe Sumangala Thero, who
was then Head of the Southern Buddhist Church. The words
also represent the current belief of that Church.
These are a little different from the translations which are
given in this book. What is here called' cessation' is translated
"tolerance,' because the cessation meant is from bigotry and
superstition, the putting aside altogether of any idea that
your way is better than anybody else's way, and the idea
that any rite or ceremony is necessary. Endurance is
simply cheerfulness in another form. Intentness is one-
pointedness and balance, bringing all one's life to the
focus of one's aim, and therefore also steadiness; and faith
is confidence in one's Master and oneself. The qualifications
are the same exactly in both cases, but the Lord Buddha
spoke of them specially from the point of view of the necessity
for wisdom, and the Lord Maitreya and the Master Kuthumi
are emphasizing more the necessity for love. In teaching
Alcyone the Master also aimed more at giving the practical
meaning than literally translating the old words.
The last qualification _is called Love. It .is in Sanskrit
mumukshatva, which means "the intense desire for liberation
from the round of births and deaths and for union with .the
Supreme". The Lord Buddha in His scheme called that
anuloma, which means 'direct order' or succession. His
meaning is that when the man has developed the other qualifica-
tions, he must desire to escape from the lower limitations and to
become one with the Supreme in order that he may help.
Alcyone then goes on to say :
What the Master has said to me on each of these I
shall try to tell you.
And then begins the book proper.
•
PART II
DISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER VII£
TRtJE AND FALSE AIMS
C.W.L.-We now come to Section I of the book itself.
The first of these Qualifications is Discrimination :
and this is usually taken as the discrimination between the
real and the unreal which leads men to enter the Path.
lt is this, but it is also much more : and it is to be
practised. not only at the beginning of the Path, but at
every step of it every day until the end.
Those last few words show precisely the difficulties which
stand in the way of most of those who see the glory and the
beauty of the Path, and intend to enter upon it and come
to the feet of the Master. They are all good, earnest,
painstaking people, but the personality is wayward, and they
have to face the great pressure of public opinion, as I have
already explained. In addition there is also the fact that
humanity is now but a little past the middle of the fourth round,
and they are trying to do in it that which will be very easy to do
at the end of the seventh round. Those who go on to that
time will have, in their physical, astral and mental vehicles,
matter far more fully developed than we have now, with all its
spirillre in activity instead of only about half, and all the forces
surrounding them will be helpful and not hindering as they
are now.
The Masters are on our side and Their forces help us. The
force of evolution, slow as it is, also is on our side, and the
future is with us ; but the present is a very hard time to do
43
44 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
anything of this sort. In the middle of the fifth round all the
people whose influence is now bearing hard against us in a:n
opposite direction will have been shunted out, and there will be·
none left but those who are going our way. In the seventh
round things will therefore be wonderfully easy. One may then
live in the outer world with all the advantages that can now be
found only in a monastery under the direction of a spiritually
developed man. Some might think: " Why then should we
not wait for the seventh round ? " Many among us have been
drifting along comfortably and happily enough during the last
twenty or thirty thousand years, and those who have not a keen-
desire from within to progress or to help the world may go on
for another million years in just the same old line, and no doubt
it will be very much easier in the end; but those who go-
through the difficulties now will have .the enormous privilege
of helping forward evolution, and they will wear the crown of
the helper. Remember the old Christian hymn which tells how
a man went to heaven and, looking round, found himseJf some-
how different from all the rest, and wondered what was the
matter. At last he met the Christ, and asked Him why this.
was so, and the Christ said in reply:
I know thou hast believed in Me
And life through Me is thine,
But where are all those glorious stars
Which in thy crown should shine ?
Thou seest yonder joyous throng
With gems on every brow;
For every soul they led to Me
They wear a jewel now.
In the Christian Scripture it is said that they that are wise
shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, as the light of the
clear sky; but they that turn many to righteousness shall be as the
stars for ever and ever-great glowing suns, sendjng out light
and warmth and strength to thousands of other lives. That is
the difference between doing the work now, and waiting to drift
in with the current in the seventh round.
You enter the Path because you have learnt that on
it alone can be found those things which are worth gaining.
Men who do not know work to gain wealth and power.
TRUE AND ' FALSE AIMS
.but these ·are at most for one life only, and·therefore
unreal. There are greater things than these-things
which are real and lasting ; when you have once seen
these, you desire those others no more.
45
A.B.-The question of the real and the unreal is a deeply
metaphysical one, but we are not really concerned with that
here, because the Master was teaching Alcyone as quite a young
boy, and, further, the teaching was given on the astral plane.
~n such cases the Master is speaking to the lower mind as well
as to the ego, and on this occasion he gave His teaching in a
form suitable for the lower rpind of a boy which had by no
means reached its full development. However old the ego may
be, the three bodies were young, so the teaching was expressed
very · simply, that on returning to his body the pupil might
understand it in his waking mind.
The unreal is here tak~n to be everything which is not
di:vine, everything that is passing in the phenomenal world,.
everything belonging to the personal self, including even the
higher things for which men work for the sake of a materiat
goal. FolJowing the Master's thought, we m.ay say that every-
thing is unreal except that which is part of the will of God.
Those who discriminate know the real things, so they work as
agents of God, doing His will, He being the real doer. There
is no suggestion that they should neglect material activity.
Men ,should do their work better, not worse, because they are
the agents of God, executing His actions in the outer world.
"Yoga is skiJI in action," says the G?-tii, and yoga is union with
the' Divine. Action must be skilful in the case of the man who
has this union, for it is not he who does the work, but God in
him. When Arjuna was asking Shri Krishna about fighting,
the Lord replied that He Himself had already killed the enemy,
and He added : " Therefore fight, 0 Arjuna."
When the higher things have been seen, said the Master~
the others are desired no more. That idea is familiar to
st.udents of the Gitii, in which it is said: "The objects of sense,
but not the taste for them, turn away from the abstemious dweller
in the body; and even taste turneth away from him after the
Supreme is seen." When a man has seen the One, the very
desire for the things of the senses dies out in him.
46 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
C.W.L.-It is a fact that when the greater things have
once been seen one no longer has a taste for the )ower things,
but it must be absolutely that fact that induces one to refrain
from following the latter. Very often people confound cause
and effect, and think that to pretend not to care for the lower
things-which, though quite good in their way, are yet so called
in contradistinction to higher and spiritual things-at once puts
a man on a high level. Of course it does not. It is
another form of the very common delusion with regard to
asceticism. A great many people follow what they call
asceticism as an end in itself, and wrongly think that to
avoid all the ordinary pleasures of life, to make oneself
uncomfortable . in various ways, is highly meritorious: That
is a relic of the puritan idea which at one time dominated
England and a good deal of Europe. It was distinctly of the
essence of that puritanism that to be good you must be as
uncomfortable as possible. Whenever a man was in any_
sort of
way happy, he was surely infringing some of the divine laws, as
he was not in the least meant to be happy down here; his body
was a vile thing which had to be repressed in all sorts of ways,
and if at any time it delighted in anything he was doing, he
might be certain that that thing was wrong. That is all
nonsense, but it does come from a perversion of the truth, and
the truth is that those things which most people in the world
enjoy and regard as great pleasures cease to be thought of as
such by the man who, rising to a higher level, has altogether
higher pleasures in view, which far more than take their place.
People in the world take great pleasure in all sorts of
things which do not interest those who aspire higher-in horse-
racing, for example, and drinking and gambling, and also in
various forms of amusements such as dancing and card-playing,
which are not necessarily harmful, but are rather like children's
toys. As a little child grows up be abandons his toys. At the
age of three or four he likes to· play with bricks and dolls;
when he gets a little older he takes to toy soldiers, kites, tops and
marbles ; when be gets again a little bit older he no longer cares
for any of these things, but piays cricket or football, or some
game of that sort which requires a great d~al of out-door
exertion. All these are stages through which the child passes,
and each is quite proper in its turn. As he grows still older he
abandons those things he bad previously enjoyed, not because
TRUE AND FALSE AIMS 47
he thinks he ought to do so, but simply because they have
ceased to interest him ; he has found something which is more
appropriate to his stage of development. But you can see at
once that a little child of three would not become a big boy
by choosing to ignore all the things of early childhood, and
wanting to play cricket or football.
The highly advanced man does not care for a great many
things which ordinary people think necessary, and the man of
the world would probably find the life of the disciple intolerably
wearisome, if he tried to . live as many of us do, with no real
interest outside Theosophy and· the deeper problems of life.
The average worldlisg would say that such people are always
doing the one thing, and that they. do not seem to know or care
fo~ anything else-which is quite true, because that includes all
the rest. But he would not become an advanced man by
pretending not to care for his own things, while all the time in
his heart he really desired them.
I '
In all: the world there are only two kinds of people-
those who know, and those who do not know; and this
. .
knowledge is the thing which matters. What religion
a man holds, to what race he belongs-these things are
.not important.
A.B.-The Master draws here a very luminous distinction.
He divides men into two classes-those who know and those
who do not know. That is the great division from the occult
standpoint, and each should ask himself to which class he belongs.
Both classes include many varieties of people, for outer distinc-
tions and differences are things that do not matter. Those who
do not know work for what exists for one life only; but he who
has once clearly seen the real things is filled with the sole desire
to work for the Logos, to fall in with His mighty plan and help
in however small a way to carry it out. We can test our own
knowledge to see whether it bears on that work or not. The mere
· brain knowledge which enables one to talk very intelligently,
perhaps, and to teach others, is all unreal ; the real knowledge
is only that which is worked into one's life. There are very
many people who·make it their custom to sit quietly for a little
time every night before going to bed, and review their day's
48 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
work. That is a very useful thing, but if you do it, ask yourself
not merely what you have·done, what you have felt, and what
you have thought, but what has been your attitude. If you
have been submerged in the things you have done, the time has
been largely lost ; but if you had done the same things as part
of the divine work-as acts of sacrifice-they would have
helped and not hindered you.
The really important thing is this knowledge-the
knowledge of God's plan for men. For God has a plan,
and that plan is evolution. When once a man has seen
that and really knows it. he cannot help working for it
and making himself one with it, 'because it is so glorious, _.:
so beautiful. ·· - .
C.W.L.-The spirit which makes men join political and
temperance associations of various sorts which" they think will
help the world, is called forth in its. very highest )lSpect ~he
moment a man sees the real plan of the Logos for His sy~tem.
He sees that it will be carried out one day, and that the time
when that desirable consummation will be reached depends upon
the number of people who are ready to work for it. If the
whole world could be induced, in a few weeks or years, to
1
'see
and to co-operate with it, everything·that the Logos desires for
His people would be very rapidly achieved. It is just beGa~~
men are not yet sufficiently developed to s~e it, that we f~U
short so sadly, and so many sorrows and wrongs and wic.k~d-
nesses remain in the face of the sun. · '
. I!•':
. Many students of Theosophy know something of the Plan.
I do not say they have seen it yet, but they have been in contact
with those who have, and know, therefore, what it is, and in
what direction one must move if he would associate himself with
it. But when the time of absolutely seeing it comes, it will be
found that all that is said here of the enthusiasm is true. 'In
the world, people often take up good causes and reforms with ·
-enthusiasm and vigour, but unless they know something of the
larger plan of evolution, and see where their own work fits into
it, mistakes may easily be made. They attach themselves·to
certain causes because they are impressed with their urgenty
TRUE AND FALSE AlMS 49
and utility. Such is, for example, the cause of temperance,
which they espouse because they h::lve seen the tremendous evil
caused by th_
e drinking habit, and have realized in how very
many ways the world would be quite infinitely better if that evil
could be removed. They try to remove it, not by inducing men
to give .up the foolishness and wickedness of drink, but by
prohibiting its· sale, and so forcing the people into sobriety-a
plan which by no means weeds out the desire, but only renders
it impossible to gratify it. I am not for a moment speaking
against the prohibition scheme; there is very much to be said
in its favour. If we think it wise to place a restriction on the
sale of arsenic or prussic acid, why should not the same be
done in the case of a poison which is responsible for far more
harm than both of them together ? I am qnly pointing out that
this remedy does not strike at the root of the evil ; it tries to
reform people by compulsion, not by persuasion.
Just in the same way people who have realized the awful
suffering of the submerged tenth seek in ail directions for a
remedy for this great and crying shame ; but unfortunately
s~me think thev have found it in extreme radicalism or even in
anarchism. On~ cannot blame people for prosecuting unselfish-
ly a line which they think will bring relief to their fellows. It
is their heads which are at fault in such cases as this, not their
hearts, which drive them to great personal loss and sacrifice in
order, as they hope, to relieve the trouble of their fellow-men.
They have to realize_that there is a plan for human evolution,
and to give themselves to its study, that their actions may
become wise as well as unselfish. It is discrimination that is
lacking; they see only one side of the difficulty, and so they
plunge themselves into something which will lead to worse
trouble than that which they are trying to assuage.
So, because he knows, he is on God's ~ide, standing
for good and resisting evil, working for evolution and not
for selfishness.
C.W.L.-That is the touchstone by which we may
recognize the people who know-it is not 'in the least by their
religion or their race, but by the one and only fact that they
stand for good and against evil. Wherever we find a man who
is loyal to the highest that he knows, is standing for what seems
7
Sa TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
to him to be good and resisting what seems to him to be evil,.
we must see in him a brother working on God's side, even
though some of the work he does is hardly such as we could
approve, or think of as being pleasing· to God. There are
numbers of people who are utterly good and loyal to their
convictions and yet have most crushing limitations. These
earnest, devoted persons actually sacrifice their energy, their
whole time, and everything they have, to bring other souls to-
Christ, as they would put it; yet they have the most limited
and bigoted conceptions. They show in some cases a feeling
of bitter opposition, practically amounting to hatred, for those
whose belief is a little different in certain ways from their own.
One of the most striking features of the work of the great
Hierarchy is that in every such case its members extract the
good and put aside the evil. They take up the force which
that devotion and earnestness generates, and use every ounce
of it, putting aside all the evil which, on this plane at any rate,.
so largely .prevents the good from showing itself. There are
many Christian communities where the bigotry so overshadows
the loving-kindness that all the outward impression one gels
is of its bitterness. The Brothers of the Hierarchy deplore
the .bigotry and see the evil done by it even more than others
'Can, but nevertheless They draw out from it all the force of
loving-kindness and devotion and good intention, utilize it,
and give credit to those who pour it out; and every one of
those people will get all the benefit that follows from his
goodness, although at the same time for his anger and his
bigotry there will also be exactly the due results according to
karmic law.
Wherefore it behoves us to be charitable in dealing with
these other people and to try in all cases to fix our thoughts on
the good things, to '' pounce upon the pearls," as the Master
said, instead of everlastingly flying at the flaws, as so many
people do.
If he is on God's side he is one of us, and it -does
not matter in the least whether he calls himself a Hindu,
or a Buddhist, a Christian or a Muhammadan, whether
he is an Indian or an Englishman, a Chinaman or a
Russian.
TRUE AND FALSE AIMS SI
A.B.- This is a thing that aspirants to the Path should
rnever forget, for unless it is lived. you are still very far from
the Portal. There no one will ask what your race is, or your
.creed, but only what you have added to your character in the
way of qualities. All of us pass through different races in turn.
We find ourselves now in a particular sub-race of a particular
;root race because we need to acquire the good qualities in which
it specializes, and which it can therefore give to us, whatever
they may be; yet at the same time many people are busy
·developing the wea~nesses of that particular sub-race·as well.
It would probably be quite right to say: '' No other race would
be so suitable for me just now, to remove my defects and fill in
my character," but it is not intended that we should take up,
·say, English methods and glorify them to the exclusion of aU
others, and feel that none can be as good as those. Each race
has its part to play in the harmony; each contributes its share
to the mighty whole. In whatever race you happen to be, the
part of the harmony which is played by that race offers for the
·moment the easiest and most natural work for you. But you
will pass through that and learn to play some other part later.
If people understood this, they would be less prone to foolish
pride of race, and criticism of other races.
When I hear some one complaining of some one else with
the implication that the fault of the other exists because he is
an Englishman or an Indian, it shows me at once that the
speaker is still deluded by the unreal. The same thing occurs
when a person excuses his own shortcomings by saying that they
are those of his sub-race. You must try to acquire the best
·qualities of your race and sub-race, not its deficiencies. The
Indian, for example, should try to acquire spirituality, harmless-
mess, tolerance, and capacity for action with non-attachment-
·for these are the qualities that the first family of the Aryan
race was meant to show out.
Yet sometimes we find that non-attachment is accompanied
by carelessness and slipshod work, rising from the wrong idea
that because one should be indifferent to the fruits of action the
action is unimportant. But what is really wanted is perfection
of action with indifference to the fruits of action. With the
Englishman, it is often quite the reverse. He is generally
·Competent and careful in action; but is apt to get excited about
the fruits of it, because he often lacks the quality of indifference.
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
It is the business· of each to try to acquire what he lacks; the
Indian should try to practise action, the Englishman indifference,
without. loss of the qualities which are already theirs. If
this were done differences of race would work for the enrich-
ment of all races, for each could learn from the other what he
himself lacked.
C.W.L.-To be patriotic, to admire your own race, to feel
that you owe something to it, and to be ready to serve it, are
all good things. But take great care lest you show your
admiration by depreciating the others. Our permanent relation
is to humanity as a whole. We are citizens of the world, not of
any one race. Yet patriotism is good, just as family love is
good. In both cases, however, we must not let ourselves carry
our virtue to such extremes as to put evil in the place of good.
Truly family affection is a splendid thing, bu't that of the robberr
barons of the Middle Ages, which led them to murder other
people for the sake of enriching their own families, was certain-
ly a virtue carried to an excess, and become a vice. In exactly
the same way patriotism is good, but if it leads to aggression
against other races, it becomes bad. But if you can do some-
thing for your race, without injuring others; if you can show
yourself to be a worthy member of it, so that it shall be the
better for your passing through it, you may then have some
cause for satisfaction. It is precisely the same with religion·.
We have all been through many of the great religions. Each
one emphasizes certain virtues, but all are necessary for the
progress of mankind.
Those who are on His side know why they are here
and what they should do, and they are trying to do it: all
the others do not yet know what they should do, and so
they often act foolishly.
C.W.L.-Here is a touch of the teaching of the Lord
Gautama Buddha that all evil comes from ignorance. The
fact -that those who do not know often act foolishly makes it true
that the wicked man is always to be pitied, not to be disliked or
bated. What impresses itself most upon people generally is
that he is acting in selfishness-for his own interests, as he
thinks-and they are a little apt to forget his ignorance of the
TRUE AND FALSE AIMS 53
facts. ·To take an instance-there have been certain great
millionaires who won their way to temporary prosperity by
throwing out of business a number of smaller people and beggar-
ing them. They are regarded with execrati_on by those people
whose livelihood they have taken away, and everyone says how
utterly selfish and brutal these people are.
Yes, but when they are so it is because they are ignorant.
Such a man is doing exactly what he set out to do: to crush
out those other people because he thinks he can do all that
business better. Perhaps he- can turn out better results, and
make a fortune for himself at the same time, but he would never
have set out to do it had .he known that he was doing far more
harm to himself than to any of the other people, that he was
making for his own future a karma that would be quite infinitely
worse than that of those men whom he crashed. Instead of
execrating that man for his selfishness the wiser part would be
to pity him for his ignorance.
And try to invent ways for themselves which they
think will be pleasant for themselves, not understanding
that all are one, and that therefore only what the One
wills can ever be really pleasant for any one.
C.W.L.-It is a great motto of utilitarianism to pursue
the greatest good of the greatest number. It is a great
improvement upon the previous idea that the good of only a few
should be considered, and that the others were a negligible
quantity. But the minority cannot be ignored ; indeed every
one must be taken into account, because all are one. This
cannot be understood until the consciousness of the buddhic
plane has been developed to some extent, and even then only
by slow degrees can one learn how utterly all are one. We
think of it as a sort of religious duty to believe it to be so, or as
a sort of pious aspiration that some day all will become one.
We say:" We have all"come forth from the same great Father,
and therefore we are all brothers, and we are all one." We do
not, however, understand the reality and the depth of that until
we experience it in buddhic consciousness.
Some suggestion of it may be given, nevertheless, if we say
that all consciousnesses are one, that all the world is one, that
54 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
all the love in it is the one Divine Love, that all the beauty in
it is the one Divine Beauty, and all the holiness of the world is
the one Holiness of God. Christ expressed that when a man
came to Him a.nd called Him "good Master'', He said :
" Why calle~t thou Me good ? There is none good but One and
that is God." The goodness of each man is the goodness of
God showing itself forth in him, and all the beauty and glory
of the world, as we see it, in the earth and sea and sky, is
nothing but part of the one Divine Beauty; and as we rise to
different subplanes, from level to level, more and more we see
that beauty opening itself out before us, until we learn to see
all beauty through each beautiful thing. It is all ooe.
When that is learned, the glory of the Div.ine will be seen
in and through everything, and all its other glories through
each of those, so that when a beautiful landscape opens before
us, it will not be merely the scene which we shall admire, but
all that it suggests-the infinite whole of which it is only a tiny
part. Then life will become wonderfully happy for us, and full
of love. Through that happiness we shall experience something
of the Eternal Bliss, and through that love we shaH realize the
Eternal Love. It is only in that way that great advancement
can come, only when we realize that we ourselves are nothing
but a point in the whole ; then our consciousness is in a
condition to merge into His, so that through us He may see all
this beauty, arid we, as in Him, may see it and realize it too.
They are folJowing the unreal instead of the real.
Until they learn to distinguish between these two, they
have not ranged themselves on God's side, and so this
discrimination is the first step.
But even when the choice is made, you must still
remember that of the real and the unreal there are many
vanebes ; and discrimination must still be made between
the right and the wrong, the important and the un-
important, the useful and the useless, the true and the false,
the selfish and the unselfish.
J
TRUE AND FALSE AIMS 55
C.W .L.-Those are aJI subdivisions of the great distinction
between the real and the unreal, and their enumeration shows
us how discrimination must ramify down into the smallest
affairs of life, if we are to tread this Path. Little points are
constantly arising which we have to decide this way or that way,
so always we have to bear the idea of discrimination in mind,
and keep constantly watchful. To stop and think all the time is
wearisome. Many good people get tired when they try it; the
perpetual strain of it is too great for them. That is very natural,
but those who give in fail to achieve; therefore however weari-
some it may be, we must continue the life of recollectedness.
Between right and wrong it should not be difficult
to choose, for those who wish to follow the Master have
already decided to take the right at all costs.
. '
A.B.-I£ anyone hesitates between right and wrong he
does not really w1sh to follow the Master. Those who decide
to do so must make up their minds to take the right at all
costs on all occasions, small and great, no matter what the
consequences may be. In the Yoga Sutras it is said of the five
great qualities calJed yama, which include harmlessness, truth,
honesty, and other virtues, which are prescribed at the very
beginning of the Path, that "these are called the great vows,
being universal," which means that they are to be kept under
all circumstances, that no gain for himself or others could
justify the disciple in breaking one of them. The man who
has attained this position will never tell, or act, an untruth,
however great may be the apparent advantage of so doing.
This will be so not only in money matters but in everything ;
he will never take any more credit than belongs to him, for
example. You must ask yourself whether you always choose
the truth instinctively, for until this is so you are far from the
first Portal. On this subject the Master does not think it
worth while to say any more; it is so clear, so palpable.
C.W.L.-This idea refers not only to the question of
conduct, but also to the fact that there are right and wrong
ways to go about any piece of work that has to be done. He
who is not strict in foJiowing this rule does not really desire
success deep down inside. People sometimes say : " How I wish
I were clairvoyant; how I wish I could see astrally, how must
56 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCC ULTISM
I begin? What is the first step?" The first step is to purify
all the vehicles; you must be careful that the physical body
takes no food but the most suitable. Many would like astral
sight, but when it comes to the point they prefer what they
call a good dinner. They feel that they must have that, because
they are used to it, and for the time they forget all about
their desire for astral sight. The feeling, however, is simply due
to habit, and when we know about this peculiarity of the ·body
we can proceed with confidence in the wearisome task of wearing
down the old bad or unsuitable habits, and setting up new ones.
It is encouraging that the principle of habit can be made a
powerful ally in our work, although it is a hindrance in the
beginning; for when once we have established good habits,
they will go on automatically, and we can forget them, and
give our attention to other things.
In conduct there is no question as to choosing between right
and wrong. Anyone who is likely to be interested in this book,
or who wants to reach the Master's feet, will not hesitate in
choosing the right, when he sees it. Let us hope that none of
us would try to cheat a fellow-creature-! hope we have got
past that-or be guilty of the slightest untruthfulness, even to
do apparent good. \Ve should probably not be obtaining a living
in any objectionable way, such as by the slaughter of animals,
nor be of the number of those who wear articles of dress or
adornment which can only be obtained by the killing of animals
-sometimes by the slaughter of, say, the mother-bird under
peculiarly revolting circumstances. All people who continue to
wear such things do not reaJly desire to follow the Master;
they prefer to follow the fashion.
Cl-IAPTER IX
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES
But the body and the man are two, and the man'·s
will is not always w~at the body wishes. When yout
body wishes something. stop and think whether 'ou really
wish it.
A.B.-Here the Master gives His pupil the decided order
that when his body wishes something, he must stop and considet
whether he himself realJy wishes it. Mahy pepole wm find that
stopping and thinking every day and all day long very difficult
and irksome; but the fact must be faced that it is an important
part of the preparation. It is very difficult, I know, and
therefore many aspirants get tired of making the effort.
Those who give up because they are tired do not achieve·,
that is alJ. The effort to do this must be great and prolonged-
it all means such a regulated life, in which there shall be no
hasty action, no hasty speech, not even hasty thinking, but all
the pupil's activities, physical, emotional and mental, must be
entirely under control.
C.W.L.-1£ ·one wants really to do his best in this matter
of progress it is worth his while to make a careful study of his
different vehicles and see ·exactly what they are. Here it is said
quite clearly that the physical body wishes for things that the
man does not wish for, and that is equally true of the astral and
mental bodies. If the ·constitution of these vehicles is
understood, one can see that what they are likely to want would
be undesirable for the man. W·e are speaking of them almost
as though they were separate persons, and in a way they are.
57
8
58 TALKS ON TilE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Each of these bodiea is built of living matter, and the life in
them joins. itself together, and acquires a kind of corporate
consciOusness.
In the astral body that forms what we sometimes call the
desire-elemental, who is practically an entity composed of the
joint life of all the astral celis that make up that body. Each
cell by itself is a small, only partly-conscious life, struggling on
its upward way-or, rather, its downward way, because
evolution for it is to pass down into the mineral kingdom.
When these lives find themselves all joined together in an astra]
body,. they do to a certain extent practicaiJy club together and
act as though they were a unit, and you get the effect of an
astral body that has strong instincts of its own, so strong, in
fac;t, that you could almost say that it has a will of its own.
The way for it to evolve is to get stronger and coarser
vibrations, connected with all those feelings and emotions which
we do not want to develop, such as envy, jealousy and
selfishness; that is why its interests are so often opposed to ours.
·The far more delicate, more rapid and really more powerful
·vibrations of love, symp~thy and devotion~ all belong to a
higher part of the astral body, consequently they are of the type
that the body itself does not want, though we do.
People of unregulated life, who want to be free, as they
often call it, to say and do what they wish, are- really slaves
to their astral bodies. We must not blame the astral body for
this, ·nor regard it, as the medireval Christians did, as a tempt-
ing demon. It does not know anything about us or our existence ;
and it is not tempting us at all, but is simply trying to filld
expression for itself, to evolve, in its own way, just as all other
creatures are doing.
People have sometimes asked the question, " Ought not we
t0 give this elemental a chance for its evolution ; ought we not
to let it have its coarse vibrations?" No, that is mist~ken
philanthropy, and could not ?e done thoroughly, anyho~. :r~e
kindest thmg one can do wath the ~oarser matter-which 1s 1n
our astral bodies because in some previous lives we have
allowed the lower emotions to play st!rongly through us-is to
shake it out, and let it fasten itself upon some savage, or a
dog or a cow, where its vibrations can act with no harm to
anybody.
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES
The desire-elemental is in its way quite cunning. We
cannot quite put ourselves in its place and realize ·consciousness
at so very low a stage, but evidently it feels that it is surround-
ed by something finer than itself-the mental matter-and
appears to find out by experiment that if it can get that to
vibrate along with its matter, it obtains a much more intense
vibration, and more of it, than it otherwise could. If it can
make the man think that he wants what it wants, it is much
more likely to get it, so it tries to stir up that finer matter. If
it can thus induce an impure thought, for example, it will
presently get the impure emotions that it likes, or if it can
arouse a jealous thought there will presently be a feeling of
jealousy rankling, which is what it wants; not, however, because
it is evil, for to it it is nothing but a very strong coarse vibra-
tion such as it enjoys. In this way the elemental often proves
more than a match for the human being, though it is very low
in the scale of evolution. It is rather humiliating, when you
think of it, to realize that you are being overcome and used as
a tool by something that is not yet even a mineral. We have
to face it and purify the astral body again~t its will, by chang-
ing any bad habits that may be ours from the past, and putting
in their places good emotions for the future.
There is a mental elemental and a physical elemental as
well. The latter is engaged in the building up of tissue and
looking after the body generalJy. If one gets a scratch, a cut
or a wound, it is the physical elemental that at once hurries the
white corpuscles to the spot, to try·to build together new cells.
There is a great deal that is very interesting about the work of
this elemental in the physical body; some of its activities are
eminently useful to us, but at the same time it is liable to have
impulses which are not for our godd.
For you are God, and you will only what God wills;
but you must dig deep down into yourself to find the God
within you, and listen to His voice, which is your voice.
C.W.L.-The idea of our unity with the One SeH is
diffi c~lt to realize. I will t~ll you how it was first brought
defi mtely home to me, though 1t was not by a method that I can
recommend to others. I was at the time trying to concentrate
the whole of my power in the atomic part of the mental plane,
6o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
in order to discover how far one could utilize what we call the
short cuts which run between the atomic subplanes of the
different planes. In rising. through the planes one can travel
up the physical plane from subplane to subplane to the atomic,
from that to the lowest astral, and on by degrees to the astral
ato.mic, and then to the lowest mental, and so on. Or one can
take a short cut from the atomic physical to the atomic astral,
and from that to the atomic mental.
"I had heard, among higher pupils, of another kind of short
cut, at right angles, as it were, to that. They said that if one's
consciousness were focused in one of our atomic subplanes one
could get a line of c.ommunication open to the corresponding
cosmjc plane. Therefore, by focusing oneself entirely in the
atomic mental, there would be a possibility of coming into touch
with the mental division of an entirely new set of planes, (that
is to say, the cosmic mental plane) altogether above all the
planes that we know.
I had not, of course, any hope of reaching such a plane as
that, but there was a possibility of communication. I tried, and
found that I was able to see-I cannot describe it, I am afraid-
the corresponding subplane in the cosmic mental, two whole sets
of planes above where we are. I could not actually reach it
in any sort of way-I do not think even an Adept could do
that-but I could see it. It was as though I were at the bottom
of a well and were looking up at a star-but I could see that
l)igber consciousness. The one thing that was then borne in
upon me, with an intensity which I cannot describe, was the
fa.ct that if before I had supposed that I had a will, that I bad
a,I). iotellect, that I had emotions, they were not mine, they were
His; it was His will, His feeling, not mine at all. I have never
forgotten the experience, as it impressed that fact upon me with
a certainty that I cannot describe.
That certainty that the Divine is within us can be gained
also through the buddhic consciousness, as I have already
explained. As soon as we achieve that, we find the sea of
cpnsciousness opening round us, and we know that we are part
of it, and yet at the same time many others are in it and share
it along with us; and presently, in addition to that feeling,, we
come to realize that this is all one consciousness, penetrating us
and all others-that we are God. That realization gives one a
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES 61
sense of the utmost safety and confidence, the most tremendous
impulse and stimulus of which one could possibly think. Yet I
can quite imagine that at first it might alarm some people,
because·they might feel that they were losing themselves. They
are not, of course; but remember what Christ said, " He that
loseth his life for My sake shall find it." Christ represents the
buddhic principle, and is saying: ''He who for My sake--for
the Christ development within him-will put aside the causal
body in which he has been living for so long, will find himself,
will find the far grander and higher Jife." It needs some
courage to do it, and it is a startling experience the first time
that one is wholly in the buddhic vehicle and finds that his
causal body, upon which he has been depending for thousands
of years, has vanished. When anyone has one or other of the
experiences I have described, he will know with absolute
certainty that the Self is one. The idea cannot be conveyed,
but it will be known when the thing is experienced, and nothing
will ever again shake that certainty. ·
Do not mistake your bodies for yourself-neither
the physical body, nor the astral. nor the mental. Each
one of them wilt pretend to be the Self, in order to gain
what it wants. But you must know them all, and know
yours.elf as their master.
C.W.L.-The Master speaks of these bodies quite definitely
as though they were separate persons, referring, of course, to the
elemeq:tals which we have already cons~dered. Their empire is
absolutely unchecked for most people in the world, who not only
make no effort to throw off their dominion, but do not even
know that there is any yoke to throw off. They do not separate
themselv~s from their bodies. The disastrous teaching about
man having a soul is responsible for much harm in this direction.
If people could only realize that man i-s a soul and has bodies,
at once they would begin to disentangle things a little. So long
as a man has the idea that the sou] is something vague floating
above him, there is very little hope of doing good. When we
find the eJementals rising in us, we should say: "This emotion
is a vibration in my astral body, and I will vibrate as I choose.
I am the centre for the time being of this set of bodies, and I
will use them as I want."
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OOCULTJSM
When there is work that must be done, the physical
body wants to rest, to go out walking, to eat and drink ~
and the man who does not know says to himself : " l
want to do these things, and I must do them.'' But the
man who knows says: "This that wants is not I. and it
must wait awhile."
C.W.L.-You will notice that very strongly in the case ·of
children. If a child wants to do a thing~ it is heaven and earth
to him; he must do it then and there in a moment, and if he
cannot he thinks the universe is falling round him. Savages
also are like that-creatures of impulse, which is so strong that
just to do some trifling thing they will sometimes kill a man.
The civilized man would say : H I will wait and consider what
will happen." The child dashes off and plays, and far too often
we who are older blame and scold him, not understanding the
child nature. He says, '' I did not remember." That is
ab~lutely true, but we doubt it because we know that we should
remember. We have forgotten our own childhood and that of
the,race. We ought to say,'' I know you have an impulse, but
really you must not do that just now. It will upset the arrange-
ments of a great many other people. You shall do it some
other time." That is the way education progresses. It is the
same with the savage, who in course of time learns that certain
impulses must not be followed. It takes him:several births to
do so, and he generally gets killed in the process, but gradually
he becomes a little less savage and more civilized. But the
advanced man is dealing with the body as a separate entity, as
a thing he can manage~
Often when there is an opportunity to help some
one, the body feels: "How much trouble it will be for
me ; let some one else do it.'' But the man replies to
his body : " You shall not hinder me in doing good
work.''
C.W.L.-Dr. Besant remarked with regard to this that
there are very many cases where there is obviously a good piece
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES
of work to- be done, but most people look at it and say: "Yes,
that is' a thing that must be done. Some one will do it some
day~ why should I bother' about it?'' but the person who is
really in earnest says: "There is a piece of work that ought to
be done ; why should not I do it ? " and he will plunge in and
do it at once.
The body is "your animal-the horse upon which yo~
ride. Therefore you must treat it well, and take good
-
care of it; you must not overwork it, you must feed it
properly on pure food and drink only, and keep it strictly
dean always, even from the minutest speck of dirt.
C.W.L.-The idea that the body is an animal is really very
useful ; it sounds so obvious, and yet the more closely the
simil_
e is followed, the nearer we shall be to doing what is
,required. Suppose you keep a horse-! am taking it for
gr;,tnted that you are a reasonable and kindly person, and that
while you want your work done, at the same time you want
your horse to be as happy and comfortable as ppssible, and _
in
good health. First of all, then, you want to make friends with
him, to get to know .the creature, and get him to know you and
tQ. feel that you are kindly disposed towards him. Then you
fi.nd out what kind of food suits him best. and how much of it
he .needs, and give it to him. You take c~re that he shall hav,e
enough, but you do not give him the things that will be bad for
him. At the same time you work him, because that is the
obj~ct of having a horse; yet you do not overwork him in any
way. You find out what he can do, and set him to do it. You
have taught him to trust you so that he will obey you, and when
you suggest anything he will follow what you want, kno,wing
that all will be well with him, and then he will trust you even
when he is frightened. So you get the most work out of him
with the least possible trouble. A bad trainer will sometimes
terrorise a horse; but never after that will he get really good
work out of him. You do not want that ; you want to have a
friendly arrangement with the creature.
The body is exactly like that horse. We ought to find out
~he best way .to deal with it. It is a great mistake to ':\Pply
severe Hatha Yoga methods. We must be kind to it, a1_1d .g_
et
64 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
out of it as much as we comfortably can, but never overwork
it, for one may do harm in an hour that it will take years to
repair. There is great strain and stress in modern life. Men
constantly say in business: " I really must do a little more " ;
but very often that little overstrains the mechanism, and that
which is overstrained does not return to its normal condition.
It is very easy to do this harm, because the body is such a very
delicate piece of machinery-a living piece of machinery. It is
wonderfully recuperative, and in many cases what we know as
" a good body" will stand a great deal of ill-usage. But the
fact that it survives the ill-usage, and that the man lives
through it, does not by any means prove that no harm has been
done. On the contrary, very often a slight overstrain leaves
a permanent mark. Therefore I would caution any who are
attempting anything in the way of occult development to be
very careful, and to realize fully that, as our President has
said, what we have not time to do is not our work.
Then comes the question of nourishment. The theory
that anybody can live on anything is not one that commends
itself to the practical man. People differ enormously in their
dispositions and capacities. It is an old proverb that what is
one man's meat is another man's poison, and that is true in
this matter of food values. I know there is a tendency to think
that people who pay much attention to food are worrying
themselves unnecessarily about purely physical things.
Certainly I would say do not overdo it, but take the middle
path and be wise. Each one owes it to his body to find out
what it can take and what amount of that suits it best. Within
reason we should give the body what it wants and likes, but
never things which are bad for it, like aJcohol or meat. Never
try to force anything, but always aim at what is wanted with
understanding of what you are dealing with, and thus gain the
co-operation of such intelligence as the creature may have.
People very often have trouble in changing to vegetarianism
from a meat diet. In England when people begin to be
vegetarians they often misunderstand the whole matter; they
have been Jiving principalJy on meat, with cabbage and potato.
Their idea of being vegetarians is to give up the meat and try
to live on cabbage and potato. Now potato is practically aJl
starch, and cabbage is mostly water. A man cannot live on
starch and water : other elements are needed-foods that will form
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES
flesh, bone and blood-and there are many different kinds of
them, so- assuredly one can with a little trouble find what kinds
suit his body best, and then live principally on those. If.any
one has trouble with digestion he is probably taking the wrong
things; he should try others, for there is always a way out,
unless he is hopelessly diseased. When little children keep
.caterpillars in order to see them turn into butterflies they take a
good deal of trouble to find what kind of a leaf the caterpillar
will eat-they know that only one kind of leaf will suit it.
Surely we might take as much trouble over the animal which is
to serve us for so many years, and feed it properly on pure food
.and drink only.
Very great care must be taken about cleanliness. There
are various .reasons for it-not only for health, nor simply
because it is the refined thing to do, but also because the Master
particularly uses those who are in close relation with Him as
-channels for the outpouring of His force. That is generally
confined to His pupils, who are in close touch with Him, but
· any person who is seriously trying to live by the principles laid
down in such books as this, is under His eye, and therefore it is
not impossible that such an one might be needed, and might be
used as a channel for force. It might well happen that in any
.given place there was no pupil quite suitable for some kind of
<>utpouring ; but there might be some other person who, though
not so far advanced, was suitable for that particular purpose.
In such a case the Master would want to use him.
Many varieties of force are poured out by the Master for
different purposes ; sometimes one person is suitable as a
channel and sometimes another. Watching the case of two pupils
side by side, one sees that one is used always for one type of force
and the other for another type. This outpouring is physical as
well as astral, mental, and buddhic, and on the physical plane it
issues mainly through the hands and feet. If, then, the physical
body of the person selected failed him for a moment in this most
important matter of cleanliness, the Master could not utilize it,
because the man would not be a suitable channel. It would be
like pouring pure water through a dirty pipe-it would be fouled
on the way. Therefore those who are in close relation with the
Master are exceedingly careful about perfect bodily cleanliness.
Let us take care, then, that we shall be fit in this respect if we
should be needed.
9
66 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Anothet point about which we need to be.careful if we wish
to be of use is to avoid distortion, especially of the feet. Not
long ago I stayed for a few weeks in a community where it is
the custom to walk barefooted, and I was horrified to see
the twisted and crippled appearance of the feet of many
of the students, and to observe how seriously this·deformity
interfered with their usefulness as channels for the Master's
force. The natural course for that force under ordinary
conditions is to fiJI the whole body of the pupil and rush out
·through the extremities; but in cases where unhygienic foot-gear
bad produced permanent malformation the Adept could utilize
only the upper half of the body; and as that imposed upon
Him the additional trouble of constructing each time a sort of
temporary dam or barrier in the neighbourhood of the
diaphragm of the pupil, it inevitably followed that others who
were free from this disfigurement were employed far more
frequently.
For without a perfectly clean and healthy body you
cannot do the arduous work of preparation, you cannot
bear its ceaseless .strain.
C.\V.L.-Under present circumstances preparation for the
Path is truly arduous, and if it is hurried it is a ceaseless strain,
which we cannot bear unless all our bodies, including the
physical, are in good order. Therefore perfect health is a
necessity for rapid progress, and wherever it fails there is a
delay at once. Those who are in charge of the progress of any
.pupil always watch most carefuJJy to see that there is no over-
strain, and they will not put the least extra work upon one under
their care until they see that be is perfectly able to bear it with
a suitable margin.
But it must always be you who control that body.
not it that controls you. The astral body has its desires-
dozens of them; it wants you to be angry, to say sharp
words, to feel jealous, to be greedy for money. to envy
other people their possessions, to yield yourself to
depression. All these things it wants, and many more,
not because it wishes to harm you, but because it likes
THE LIFE QF THE BOD~ES
violent vibrations, and likes to change them constantly.
But you want none of these things, and therefore you'must
discriminate between your wants and your body's.
67
A.B.-I suppose that most thinking people clearly realize
t-hat they are not t~ir physical bodies, but the examples that
the Master gives here show how continually they identify
themselves with their astral bodies. You mav sometimes find
yourself saying, '' I am angry, or irritable." Even those who do
not like to think of themselves as the lower emotions often
stiJI confuse them with the higher. Probably they will not
say, " I am jealous," when they become conscious of the feeling
of jealousy within them; for though men may identify them-
selves with their feelings they try to veil the lower ones,
and in this case they deceive themselves into believing
that their feeling is not jealousy, but love; " I am hurt
because so-and-so, whom I love, loves some one else better
than me." ·
Love is such a far-reaching, all-embracing virtue, that men
like to shelter under it, and they manage to attribute to it all
sorts of things with which it has nothing whatever to do. It is
far better for us to examine our feelings honestly, and not to
play with these serious matters and deceive ourselves with
pretty words. In the case under consideration, you are not
burt because you love your friend, but because you desire to
appropriate that friend to yourself. Whenever there is this
feeling of being hurt it springs from selfishness, which is the
opposite pole to love. You-the real Self-cannot feel jealous,
but your astral body can; nor can you be angry or irritable;
these are all moods of the astral body.
The Master also mentions further examples-greed, envy
and depression. Aspirants for the Path are not so likely to
yield to the first two of these as to the third. Often people are
less careful about depression than about their other feelings
because they are under the delusion that it affects only them-
selves. They think : '' If I feel sad or low, after all it is only
my business, and it concerns no one else." But that is not
true; it does injure other people. The mechanism of this pro-
cess is well known to all students of occultism. The vibrations
of depression spread around, and affect the astral bodies and
68 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
even the mental bodies of other people. This is a far more eviP
thing than is generally realized, because many of the people
whom your thought may touch may be of a les!'.developed·
type, and may also be in circumstances in which they are-
exposed ~o conditions that tend to crime.
Those who are familiar with the history and statistics of
crime know that a large number of crimes, especially such as
murder and suicide, are committed after a period of deep
depression. .The prisoner in the dock often says: '' An over-
whelming feeling of despair came over me; I felt I could not help
myself." There are many people in the lower stages of evolu-
tion who may be affected in this way; and some may suffer
imprisonment and death, who yet were not really responsible,
or only partly so, for the crime committed by their hands. We
are living in a world where few people understand these inner
laws: and very imperfect justice is rendered in our courts for
want of simple knowledge of the rudiments of psychology.
Perhaps I feel this all the more keenly because I used to·
be subject myself to moods of great elation, and then of equally.
great depression when the pendulum swung back. Many people
have the same temperament; one day the world seems full of
happiness, the sunshine is bright, nature is beautiful, all things.
are joyful and fair. Then ·follows the inevitable reaction; a
feeling of great sadness comes over you, and the whole world
seems darkened. If you look at the matter quietly, you will
realize that the outer causes to which you may attribute your
changes of mood are not sufficient to account for such large
results. Still, this temperament has some advantages. I
certainly could not speak so effectively if I had not brought it
into the world with me; it is part of the orator's temperament
to know these extremes of feeling. But, like every other
temperament, it has its drawbacks as well as its uses. One must
not yield to these violent alternations of feeling.
I doubt whether one can get rid of this defect by merely
saying to oneself : " I ought not to feel depressed " ; but even.
the worst cases can be overcome if one remembers that one·
ought not to yield to it because of its deplorably bad effect
oti other people. Do not therefore simply try to drive it
away, but replace it with a strong thought of courage and
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES 69
cheerfulness, to which should be added the warmth of your
unselfish feeling.
The astral body does not wish to do any harm, as the·
Master points out. It acts as it does simply because it is made
up of elemental essence which is on the downward arc, and is
evolving by violent and constantly changing vibrations. This
constant desire of the astral body for violent changes is a thing
that should help the student to realize that it is not himself,.
but something that brings about moods for no apparent cause,.
and not approved by the reason, because they are independent
activities of the astral body. One must realize this, and not
allow oneself to be the playground of all these changing moods.
Study your own astral nature, and find out what are the
undesirable things that it particularly desires. Then quietly
determine that you will not allow it to have them. That done,
do not think any more about them ; do no·t brood over them.
Pick out the opposite moods, and practise them all day long.
If your ~stral body wants to be impatient, set your mind on
patience; think patience in your morning meditation, and
practise it throughout the whole of the day. If your astral
body wants you to feel jealous, simply observe the fact, and
then do not think any more about jealousy, but think of
unselfishness and practise it hard, and then there will be no
room for jealousy. Your mind cannot be filled with two
opposing things at the same time.
Remember that all difficulties constitute opportunities for
the would-be occultist. It is no credit for the disciple to show
out love when all around are kind, or gentleness when .all are
considerate. The most ordinary person does that. Those who
wish to be disciples must show out right emotion when the·
wrong is being shown to them ; otherwise they are just like aU
the rest. This should be remembered in difficulty and tempta-
tion; the aspirant should spring forward to meet them as
opportunities for the payment of debts. To a disciple, every
trying person and circumstance he meets is not a temptation.
but an opportunity. It is when he is returning good emotions
for evil ones that the disciple resembles his Master ; it is then
that he is showing forth the Master's qualities.
Think, then, in your morning meditations, of the qualities
that you want; if you are irritable, for example, think of
7o. TALKS QN THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
patience. Then, ~hen you meet an irritable or tiresome person
during the day, you will at first respond to him with irritability
through force of habit, but a moment after you have made the
mistake you will think of patience. The next time you will
think of patience while you are rnaking the mistake ; a little
more practice, and you will think of it the moment before, and
then you will feel the irritability, but will not show it; at last
you will not even feel irritable. The first of those stages shows
that your meditation is beginning to bear fruit.
I know many people w.ho have set themselves to do this
and have kept it up for a few days or weeks and then said: " I
will not meditate along these lines any more: I am getting no
results. My meditation is doing me no good. I am not making
progress." It is exactly the same as if a person started on a
three days' journey to some place, and after an hour or two
sat down, saying: '' It is no use my walking; I do not seem to
be getting there." E;verybody can see how silly such conduct
w·ould be down here in the physical world ; the other is not a
bit less foolish. Meditation must produce results, just as walk-
ing must carry you over the ground. It is as certain as that.
Scientific rules act at all times, and every force you Eet going
must produce results. If you do not at once gain what you
are aiming at, it is because there is still more to be overcome,
and the force is going into that, to neutralize it and then to
conquer it completely. Do not think of the question of results.
Just direct the thought to the quality of patience, or whatever
it is that you are going to develop, and the results will take
care of themselves.
O.W.L.-It is not, after all, very difficult with a little
practice to realize that we are not this physical body, that it is
only an overcoat, but the astral body-our emotions and desires
-presents more difficulty, because it seems often to 9e a very
intimate part of ourselves. One finds people in every-day
life everywhere who feel themselves to be their emotions and
desires; some are so full of them that if you could imagine
these taken away there would seem to be nothing left-the
whole person is desire and emotion. It would be very difficult
for such an one to separate himself from his astral body, and
yet that is what has to be done. The fact that the astral body
is constantly changing its moods ought to help people to realize
that it is not the Self, the ' I'. As a soul one is not changing;
THE LIFE OF THE BODIES 71
one wishes aiw·ays the same thing-advancement to be able to
help others to walk along the Path intended by our Masters.
Surely, therefore, it is clear that this emotional body is
not the SeJf.
The astral elemental gains a certain continuity because the
permanent atoms attract round them just the kind of matter we
possessed in our · previous Jife. It is therefore difficult to turn
round suddenly and check this creature. It can be done,
however, and the best way is to discover by careful examination
along what lines of undesirable activity one's astral body wants
to run. Each person has his own difficulties. One perhaps is
nervous and irritable or prone to jealousy, or is greedy for
money. \Vhen he finds out, he must quietly set himself to check
that particular thing. Suppose it is irritability, which is very
common under the horrible conditions and the noise of modern
life. The person should make up his mind that he will not be
irritable. It is a good thing to take it as a subject for medita-
tion; yet iq that one should not set to work to combat the vice,
but rather to meditate upon the opposite quaJity of patience.
Never think of the evil thing and of fighting against it, because
that stirs it up the more.
' The same method must be applied also when you are trying
to help others by your thought. If you are helping some one
who has this fault, instead of dwelling upon his irritability and
what a pity it is, and thereby intensifying it, .you should think:
" I should like him to be calm and patient." Then all the
strength of your thought goes in the direction of making
him so.
At first, when we meet an irritating person we shaH probably
be irritable, because we are in the habit of it ; and afterwards we
shall remember, " I did not mean to do that." It is something
even to remember afterwards like that. Perhaps the next time,
or the twentieth time, we shan remember at the moment, instead
of just afterwards. In the third stage, we shaJJ remember just
before we say the irritable thing ; the feeling of irritability is
there, but we shan not show it. The next step is that we
shall not feel the irritability at an, and then it is conquered
·and ·we shall have no more trouble with it in this life or other
lives to come.
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
It is also necessary for the mastery of the astral nature
that we should have no personal feelings at all that can be hurt
or offended. The better feelings, such as sympathy and love,
we may and must have to the uttermost. But it must be im-
possible for us to have our feelings hurt, to be offended. He
whose feelings can be hurt is thinking about himself, and
that we have no right to do if we have given ourselves to the
Master. It may be that there are some people so thick-headed
that they cannot see an insult-that is not desirable; but when
you do see it, be wise enough to take no notice of it, which is
always the better way. If people say nasty things about you,
never mind; people have been saying nasty things abot.Jt other
people ever since the world began, and until we are all well on
the way to Adeptship they will continue to do so. And after
all it does not matter what another person says. It is a passing
vibration of the air, and it is no more than that unless we allow
it to be so. If a person says something about you which is
unpleasant, if you do not hear it, it dqes not hurt you in the
least. If you do happen to hear it and get into a fume of anger
and horror and despair and all the rest of it, that is not the doing
of the original sinner; you are hurting yourself. Take it quite
philosophically. Say, " Poor creature, that is all she knows
about it!" Be quite gentle and kindly about it. What other people
say is of very little importance, because they never know.
Remember ''the heart knoweth its own bitterness .
". In each
case a man has his own reasons for what he says and does and
thinks; from the outside you never know the whole of his reasons
because you are looking at them superficially, and usually quite
wrongly. Until you reach the buddhic plane therefore, give
him the benefit of the doubt, or more wisely still do not attempt
to attribute motives to anyone. If you feel that a person's
action is wrong the kindest thing is to say : '' I should QOt do
that; to me it seems to be wrong; but I assume that that
person has his reasons, though I do not know what they
may be."
When a person is rude, it is often because something has
gone wrong, and the result is that he feels all out of tune-and
you happen to be the next person who speaks to him. He is
not really angry with you. Something else has upset him;
perhaps he had not a good dinner. We have to learn to make
allowances for other people and say: " Poor fellow, I suppose
TlUt t.IP~ OF' 'fHE BODIES
he cannot ·always feel· as perfectly amiable and agreeable as I
always ·am ! " Probably that person will be rather ~orry after~
wards that he spoke a little rudely, or else he wtll.not even
realize that anything out of the common h~s been satd. Any
feeling of being offended or hurt must sprmg from a thought
of self. If we were not thinking of ourselves we could not feel
hurt or offended. This thought of self is precisely what we must
weed out and cast away. Wherever there is a case of jealousy,
there is also this thought of self. If the person were thinking-
only how ·much he loved the other, it could not matter to b,~m
how much that other laved some one else. The delusion of the:
separate self is at the back of nearly 'all .our troubles.
·'; The selfish man i$ .n~w an anachronism-stiJJ carryi~g 6n
what ~as useful and necessary for him twenty thousand yeqrs
ago;. ·but it is not useful and necessary for him now, and he is
simply behind the times. Our business is to be up·to·date.
We are living for and' thinking of the future that the great
World·Teacher will make for us ; and because of that we must
brush away alJ these ant-iquated ideas.
11 ; .
· When you examine yourself to find the faults that yo~
intend to overcome, 'beware of being upset by delusions about
remorse and repentance: ·'.Remember the story · of Lot's ·wife,
and do not l~ok back-
· that is a very profitless occupation. Yo~
may say qmte calmly when you have made some bad·mistake:
"Th~t was a foolish thing to do; I will never do it again.,
Talleyrand is reported to . have said:" Any man may make a
mistake-
·we all rnake mistakes- but the man who makes the
same mistake twice is a fool." A·Master once remarked:" The
only repentance which is worth ~nything is the resoh·e not to do
it ,again." Remember: "The man who never made a mistake
never made anything at all." You do not worry about what
you did in past Jives ; why then worry about yesterday ? Both
are equally past. Remorse is a waste of time and energy-
worse than that, for it is a form of selfishness.
It is easy to be loving and kindly to those who are so to us
but if we have made any real progress we shall pour out ]ov~
even when we meet with the lack of it. The Christ said : "If
ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even
the publicans the same? "t His command was to Jove your
' S. Matthew, v, 46.
lO
TALKSi ON · THB PATH OF OCCU-LTISM
enemies and pray for them.which despitefully use you.• That is
the time when a disciple of the Master can show his .true value ;
when he can do what the Master would do; when, although
people speak ill of him and ill-treat him, he still thinks of them
kindly and lovingly, and makes excuses and allowances for their
foolishness. That is what we have to do. It is not enough to
return love and kindliness; we must be able to pour it out upon
people who as yet scarcely know what it means. It was said of
the Christ that when He was reviled, He reviled not ·again ;
when He suffered, He threatened not ; but committed Himself
to Him that judgeth righteously.2 We ·are all wronged and
misjudged .and· misunde.rstQOd sometimes. No one need worry
about. it, for kar~a wHI.see th(lt all is put right. "Vengeance
is ~ine; . I wi~l : rep~·.Y;. : saith 'the Lord:'' n Leav~ it to ~i~.
Justice .will alwar,s oe d.one, and. all t~~t IS wrong w!ll so~e. ~ay
'come rtght, an~ ~hose w~o now misunderstand will some day
realize their errpr, arid be sorry that they misunderstood.
No injustice will · be done; the total will come out as it should.
,. .
The Logos Himself is setting the example of Love.aJJ.the
time. Many people speak ill of Him; many misunderstand
and flout Him. .He)!makes no answ~f, bu·t the ste~dy out-
pou~ing of the (divine love goes .on for ever, and in .S9 fat
as we wish to be .an expression of the divine that must
characterize us also. ·' ·
I "
··. · Your mental body wishes ·to think itself proudly
: .sepa'ra~e. to t,~ink ·~u,~h of it~eltand littl~ of others.
# ~ ( i • • . ' •
. ·, C.W.L.-Here again.:we must differentiate between what
the mental body 'desires •and what we ourselves desire, and
realize that we are not the mind:- We ate in the habit of say:
ing, ·" I think so-and-so/ ' but 'about nine times out o~ ten the
fact i~ not " I think," but the' mind thinks. Many ·of us•have
been trying to control and.train 'ou_
r thoughts, yet if we review
them we shall see how few are worthy to be attributed to us--
to the Self-and how many .belong merely tq the lowP.r mind.
. .
The lower mind flies from one thing to another, flits over
the surface of a variety of subjects, but usually deals futly ~ith
· · - 1 S. Luke, VI , ~7-29.
' L,; ,·t.(Feter, ll, ~3. : · . 1. .1; ..
3 Romans, XII, 19.
THE LlFE OF TH'E· ·BOl>lES·-• • · ·
none. ·It is not its desire as a ·rule to deal ex:ha:usthrely with
anything, but simply to pass from subject to subject in erda :to
get constant change of vibrations. We shall probably fim;
lli if
we look back, that we have, during even a short space of time~
thought a great number of quite insigni'fica:nt' things.·· \Vhen
you are walking along the street, for instance, you wiJl ;~nd _
that
though you are not specialJy thinking,'there is something that is
doing· so all the time; that i.s the mental body. lf you_
do,nqt
hold it in control, it will pass in review a: v,ast number of things~
'useless to you, though not necessarily bad, u~less they are ~elf­
centred or selfish. It has the habit of association of ideas; also~
by which it will sometimes twist one's most beautiful thought
and carry it away to something quite different and trivial. We
qlUS~ control and change all that. I k~ow it is bard every
mqment to keep check .upon what .the mi'nd is doing, bpt
it ~>nght to be done, because ·the mind is a mighty po~er, .~:¥
far the strongest thing 'we bave_about us. If the_
will can,be
directed through the mental body there are few things ·one
ca.iino.t ..do by - its means~ .. This enormous' .power can . be
ours, .be we rich or poor,:young or old-a1~aluable in~tru(Ile~t
in 0.ur !Service of the Master, if we will practise cop$ta~t
vigilance until new habits of mind are formed. Many thilfflS.
can be done with thought, which cannot otherwise be
accomplished. Affectionate thought that is sent out tp.'some
one whom we know to be in need of ~sistan.ce may be o~ far
·greater help than the gift of a ~urri of money.
-it may pr.qdue~
a life-long effect. The results· of ·this may ·;not even show on
the physical plane, but it is none the . less .real work ·for ·the
Master. I • ,
I o
The background of the mind shoul'd be a thought ·of the
Master, to which it will turn whenever the Self is not reaUy
thinking about something that requires attention. This thought
should be as precise as possible. There are many people whose
thought of the Master is a kind of vague beatitude, a sort of
semi-ecstasy, a species of religious coma iQ which they are not
really actively thinking of anything. Instead of vaguely
bathing ourselves in a thought which has no precision about it,
we should let our devotion to the Master take a definite form
such as ''What can I do to serve Him, 'in what direction ca~
I employ my thought-power?" ·
~6 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
You will find again and again in this book the strongest
insistence·upon the fact that there is .re~lly only one thought,
only one .will. only one work for us. ·The one thought is the
thought of service to the Master, the one will is to do that
work, the one work is tne devotion to Him, and for His sake to
the . world. Though there is the most complex variety in the
work that will come in our way to do, it is all' for Him and for
the world. There is only one thought in the Master's mind-
that of service; . and if we wish to be one with Him that must
be our only thought, too. It implies that we shall make our-
s~lves fit for service, and in that way it includes some progress
for us, not because we want to be great, but because we desire
to be good instruments. ·
Many people are developing their mental bodies. Great
scientific m·en ~o it for tlle pure.pursuit of knowledge. Some-
times there may be a side thought in the man's brain that if he
'makes a great discover.y he ·will become famous, but I'do not
think that is true of most scientific men. There is usually a
wish in the background to make the knowledge useful, but first
of all there is in the scientific mind an intense desire to know.
"It is a noble line, and in it there are many noble souls, doing
great service to mankind.
. We too must endeavour to cultivate our mental bodies, to
make them keen, active, useful. Why ? Why does a carpenter
sharpen his plane? Not in order that he may have a sharper
:plane than some other.carpenter, but in order that it may cut
the wood well, and . that his work may be well done. It is
precisely for that reason that our mental bodies must be trained.
But we must all the time hav·e in view the thought : " I am
making an instrument for the Master's work." One who keeps
this ideal will be free· from spiritual pride, and so will avoid
many of the pitfalls into which mere intellectual development
does undoubtedly lead people.
Even when you have turned it away from worldly
things, it still tries to calculate for self, to make you think
of your own progress, instead of thinking of the Master's
work and of helping others.
THE LIFE OF ·.THE BODIES 77
A.B.-The thing which has perhaps struck me most in this
teaching. of "
the Master is that it invariably centres round and
returns to the idea of one thought, one wiJJ, one work. It seems
to radiate that unity so strongly, that you feel that the Master
can have only the one thought, that he has blended Himself so
perfectly with the One that He could not think of anything
else, that He could not forget it, whatever might be occupying
His attention. That is the ideal for the disciple. He must
think always of the Master's work and of helping others; that
one idea must dominate all else. If it is otherwise, then it is
your mind which is thinking, not you. But if you have that
idea, you have everything else. Suppose you think of a virtue
in medi.tation ; why do you want it-to be admired, or to bring
yours~If. n~arer to initiation? Or do you want it in order to be a
better instrument for the Master's work? That is the test by
which you may know whether it is your mind or you which is
thinking.
It is a good plan to put the test to yourself in a definite
way~ . Suppose the case-and I do not think it an inconceivable
one, though as a general rule the more developed a man is the
mQre. useful be is also-of a piece of the Master's work which
called , for qualities far inferior to others which you had
developed. Would you be willing to take it and to work away
at that, instead of going on using your higher talents and
improving yourself on those lines? Would you be willing to
be less, in order to be more useful ? You would if you always
kept ' ili ··mind the one motive of being useful for the Master's
\vork. ·In that work there will be plenty of opportunity for the
cultiv:atio~ of our menta] bodies, that they may be keen, active,
useful. If we improve ourselves for this purpose we shaii be in
no Qariger of falling into the heresy of separateness. In the lower
world' we must continually keep our eyes open to turn to
accburtt' the opportunities which other people have left aside
because they thought .them unimportant. A disciple always
looks (or the things IE!ft undone by others, that he may supply
what" is lacking. Such an attitude means that the mind is
coming under control.
C.W.L.-The Master's work must dominate all else in our
minds. If we find any other thought than that, any other
reason coming forward for doing anything, then that which is
putting forward a reason is the mind, not the ego-an important
TALKS ON THE P"ATB OF OCCtJLTISM
distinction to make. The· mind is indeed preud and separate,
and when it has quite given up all the earthly kinds of pride,
its next stage will be to try to make us proud of our progress,
of our position in relation to the great Masters, or something of
that kind. When we have trodden that·down, and are rid of
~ny pride in these things, it will try to make us proud of
not being proud. Do not blame the subtle mental elemental ;
it has no idea of you, but it is simply trying to get the
varieties and kinds of vibrations which it needs for ·its own
evolution.
.,.
When you meditate, it will try to make you .think
of the many different things which it wants. instead of the.
one thing which you want. You are not this mind, but
it is yours to use : so here again discrimination is necessa.ry.
• I' "
You must watch unceasingly, or you will fail. ·
C.W.L.-They say in India that the mind is the ra.ja or
king of senses, and that of all parts of our nature it is the most
difficult to control. In that respect we in the West are perhaps
even worse off than the Indian, because we have been esp~ia1ly
developing this lower mind, and have prided onrselves
0n the rapidity with which it can change from one subject
to another.
1. However, by patient effort you may bring to bear .upqn this
elemental the mighty power of the force of habit ; yol} may get
it into a groove, and induce it to understand that you, the,. .~go,
intend to preserve your dominant idea all the time, but tba;t.in
connection with that idea there are infinite ramificati~~s,; fpr
there is nothing that cannot be brought into the service of:~he
Master. Then presently this curious unmanageable elemental
will come to understand that, on the whole, it gets more by
working with you, whom it does not understand, than by work-
~ng against you; and afterwards it will work pleasantly and
harmoniously along with you.
'+ ' ,'/ ; • I I ) I
,,;
CHAPTER X
t I
RIGHT AND WRONG
I
' ,,
..:.·' . Between right and wrong Occultism knows no
,: :cGmpro.mise. At whatever apparent cost, that which is
right you must do, that which is wrong you must not .do, ·:
no matter what the ignorant may think or say. You
0\ust study deeply the hidden laws of Nature, and when
' ~ . I
~ou know them arrange your life 'according to them,
using always reason and common sense.
A.B.-I£ you look honestly at it you will find that ordinary
life is a series of compromises. Men are constantly doing a
little less than what they know to be right in order to meet that
deadliest of questions: "What will people say ? " Knowing -
quite well in a given case what is best to do, they shift it a little,
tamper with it, fall short of it, in order to make the way
smoother for themselves. This fe'ar of the opinions of others is
partly dtie to a weakness which is amiable at its root-the desire
to:please. This desire is very common in India, but if you want
to tread the occult path properly, you must never let yourselves
be led by it into compromises, where principles or matters ot
importance are concerned, such as in the big religious and
social questions. Take, for example, the case of child marriage.
There are many cases in which these marriages are consummat-
ed too early. I have spoken again and again on the public
platform about the cruelty of making a girl a mother before she
is·full-.grown, and of the injury that such a practice does to the
~it~lity . of the race. Many a man knows that it is wrong, ancJ
openly says so;. he asks why other people marry their childreQ
79
8o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
too young, and yet he still does it himself, because of what
people would say if he did not. Out of such material as this
you cannot make the occultist.
Putting aside for a moment the great questions on which
the future of a nation largely depends, let us turn to the smalJ
matters of every-day life. Here also there must be no com-
promise. You must make up your mind as to what is right,
and then keep firmly to it. I know that you cannot carry out
your highest ideals immediately, any more than you can get
from the bottom of· a mountain to the top by taking one step.
But if you mean to scale your mountain, every step must be
taken with a view to reaching the summit, .every step must
bring you nearer to it. Never lower your ideal; that is fatal.
As the Upanishad says: " One thing is the right, the pleasant
another; right unto pleasant the wise man preferreth."
Try in little things to do what your conscience thinks
right. You are not responsible for what another person's Ron-
science thinks, nor for whether he follows 'his own conscience ;
but you are responsible for following your own, at whatever
apparent cost. It is only apparettt cost, mind you ; you cannot
lose. by doing what you believe to be right. Of course, care
must be taken· not to identify your· whims, prejudiCes and
fancies with the right; as to that the Master gives a·warning
here, when he says·:· <
'Study deeply the hidden .laws of nature."
First find out what is right, and then live according to your
knowledge. · · .
·The Master adds. the important suggestion in the last
few words of this passage: "Using always reason and common
sense." Always consider the feelings of other people, but
never let them interfere between you and what you know to be
right. If you have to choose between hurting people's feelings
and compromising with your own conscience, then choose the
former. An occultist wilJ always discriminate, in dealing with
people, between the real person and the prejudices of his
various bodies. He will never hurt a person, but he will hurt
his prejudices rather than do wrong. Still, he will not hurt
even his prejudices unnecessarily; but if be must do so, he will
at the same time know that really the person is being helped,
not hurt, and that.be himself is being used as an instrument for
RIGHT AND WRONG 81
breaking down a limitation which is cramping the mari inside.
Even in that case, his action will be gently and considerat~ly
carried out. Many people find this difficult. It is much harder
to do a thing with quiet reason; a rush of emotion makes it
easier. The emotion, be it good or bad, supplies an impulse
which carries a man through without further effort on his part.
If you would be an occultist you must not act through impulse,
as ordinary men do; you must develop reason, power of discri-
mination, and in this ~ effort you will begin unconsciously to
unfold the buddhi.
C.W .L..:_People · usually have their prejudices-plerity of
them ; and they idet:1tify these with the right. Having been
brought up along some particular line, it has never ocGurred to
them to question it, so they are liable to think that the man who
does not fall in with their particular method is wrong, especially
when it is followed by the majority. Popular prejudices are
usuaJly very' unreasonable, and therefore we cannot allow them
to influence us in matters of right and wrong. I do not say that
there are not often some grounds of reason to be found behind .
a popular prejudice, if we dig down deep to it-not probably
the reason that people are alleging at all, but some other reason.
But usually that fragment of truth is distorted and misapplied
on account of the mass of error in which it is swathed.
The occultist never a1lows himself to be forced to do a
wrong thing for fear of hurting other people's prejudices, but
he wiJl never offend those prejudices unnecessarily. Reason
and common sense must rule .in all things. There is something,
let us say, that you want to do because you know it is a good
thing, and important. Very well, but do not charge at it like
a bull at a gate. He possibly gets through: but at the cost of
considerable damage to himself and the gate. One should
1
always show sweet reasonableness in all that is done. If we let
ourse)ves become stirred up and angry about a thing there is a
wave of emotion that carries us through; but to do the thing
gently and quietly, without any feeling against those who oppose,
is much more difficult ; yet that is quite obviously the right way
to do it.
One must not act on impulse, as most pe:>ple do. They
cannot bear this and that; they do not understand, and do not
want to take the trouble to understand ; they just drive ahead
1)
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
and take it for granted that they are in the right; but we have
to consider others-to take into account their feelings, and to
think, too, of the possibility that they may be in the right. and
we in the wrong, in a particular case.
You must discriminate between the important and
the unimportant. Firm as a rock where right and wrong
are concerned, yield always to others in things which do
not matter. For you must be always gentle and kindly.
reasonable and accommodating, leaving to others the same
full liberty which you need for yourself.
A.B.-Tbis is a very tender and beautiful passage, and it
balances the previous one, which, taken by itself, might sound
rather bard. Now, as the things for which people generally
care most are those which do not matter, the occultist can afford
to let them have their own way in many cases. What is
. important to him is a certain thing th~t has to be done; he
points his will to the one thing in the middle that reaJly matters,
and with regard to the rest he lets people do exactly as they
like. As he yields to them in those things, they realize what a
delightful person he is to work with ; and they gradually
follow him quite happily on the important point, hardly con-
scious that they are following at all. In the world this quality
is called tact. In occultism it is called discrimination.
It is this quality that the fanatic overlooks, and therefore
be does not succeed, while the occultist always succeeds. The
fanatic never knows the difference between the important and
the unimportant, so he will not yield even in things which do.
not matter; therefore he rubs people's fur up all the wrong
way, and then they will not folJow him, however much he may
be in the right, and however important his main object may be.
If, instead of that, you smooth their fur down, they purr and
come along after you. This is based upon a univer~a] fact in
nature. In both men and animals it is an instinct to pull in
opposition to anyone who is trying to pulJ them. I saw a
little instance of this fact the other day. A man was trying to
pull a calf along, and, of course, the calf bad pianted its four
feet firmly into the ground, stuck its tail out, and was
R1GHT AND WRONG 83
pulling against the man for all it was worth. If that man had
been sensible be would have stopped pul1ing, and then the
animal would have stopped pulling against him, and with a little
patting and coaxing he could have got it to follow him willingly.
There was a valuable lesson in that. If people will not do
what you want, look for the fault in yourself; you will generally
find that it is something in your way of acting that sets them
against you. I follow this plan myself. When there is friction
-and trouble connected with my work in any place, I sit down
and think it over, and try to find out what I am doing that
produces these difficulties, and to discover some other way of
doing the work. This is far better than trying to make people
follow your way. You can force them to a certain extent, no
doubt, but that is wrong in principle, and also in practice it
only creates opposition and trouble. It shows a great lack of
the qualities of leadership-a faculty which the Masters will
want in us in the future. The Masters will want you to know
how to lead, so that you may help people on, instead of
hammering them along.
C.W.L.-Some seven hundred years from now many of us
will have the opportunity of working in the development
of the Sixth Root-Race, and in the meantime we shaH have
much to do with preparing the world for the coming of the
World Teacher. Some of us will be alive when He comes, and
we shall work under Him ; therefore we shall have to develop
the qualities of leadership. The first necessity of a leader
is tact.
Because the occultist never gives up in any work of
importance, he always succeeds in the end, though he may meet
with a check, and be thrown back for the time. The French
Revolution was an instance of this sort. Those who stood at
the back of the movement towards libertv in France were unable
to control the mad passions of the people, so that terrible
carnage and ccime ensued, and the Star set in blood for the
time. Never think for a moment that They approved of the
madness, of the devilish lust for slaughter, of the unspeakable
filth and cruelty, of the treachery and terrorism, of all the
indescribable loathsomeness of that awful time. The power
passed into the bands· of a rabble, maddened by abeminable
tyranny and oppression, wha showed themselves far lower than
84 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the beasts of the field. Never imagine that their incredible
atrocities were countenanced by Those who were working
towards civilization. But later on They managed to gain Their-
end in some other way, and at the present day that country and
many others have all the freedom for which those people were
struggling. That is so with all other great reforms that They
introduce, and all the other work that They take up-They
succeed in the long run, though not always just at first.
We shall have to do just precisely that-never accept
defeat, always go on with the work-but to do it well we mus~
acquire the art of helping skilfully. A great many good peopJe
want to drive everybody. But that" is not the way-we must
show others the delight and joy and glory.of man's future and
the Masters' work, and then they will come along with us of
their own accord. If you cannot get on with certain people,.
look for the defect in yourself. Do not bother about their faults,.
although no doubt they have plenty, but see what it is in you
that prevents you from getting on with them. You wilf
probably find something if you look closely enough.
Try to see what is worth doing : and remember that
you must not judge by the size of the thing. A small
thing which is directly useful in th~ ·Master·s work is far
better worth doing than a large thing which the world
would call good. You must distinguish not only the
useful from the useless. but the more useful from the less
useful.
A.B.-As I have already said, the things which are worth
doing from the standpoint of the real are those about which
people usually care nothing at all. They are interested in un-
important things. The disciple is required therefore to practise
this kind of discrimination, and must not waste his time in all'
the useless occupations which fiH the days of worldly people.
Then comes a subtler point; you must not judge the value
of a thing by its size. The acts of a statesman which ant
looming large in the eyes of the world may possibly be quite
· unimportant from the Master's standpoint-mere dust on the
wheel. Some small thing done by , an .unoo~i!Jed person may
RIGHT -t\~D WRONG
be infinitely more important if it is exactly in line with the·
Master's work.
Then comes a still more subtle distinction-that between
the more and the less useful. You cannot do everything, so you
must do what in your own judgment will serve the Master best.
Everything which helps the world is useful for the Master's
work, but as your ~ time and energy are limited you must take
the more useful, whenever the choice is open to you. The
Master gi.ves a typical illustration of this in the next two
sentences, when He speaks of feeding the souls of men in pre-
ference to their bodies. By helping the soul you are striking at
the root of a11 the evils in the world, for without exception they-
grow out of ignorance and selfishness.
To feed the poor is a good and noble and useful
work ; yet to feed their souls is nobler and more
useful than to feed their bodies. Any rich man can feed
the body, but only those who know can feed the soul.
, ~.W.L.- It has sometimes been brought as a reproach
against the Theosophical Society that it does not engage itself
in active philanthropic work such as the distribution of food and
clothing to the poor. Some of our Lodges have done a good
deal in that way, but it is not their principal work. Any man
who is rich and kindly disposed could do that, but there is much
work which only those who know can do. It may perhaps seem
to some that we are rather conceited to arrogate to ourselves
the title of '' those who know ". But we are not reaJly praising
ourselves in doing that. We can quite clearly see that there are
plenty of good people who have nothing whatever to do with
Theosophy who are intellectually far in advance of many of us;
but it has been our karma to study these subjects, and because
of that we know more about them than all those excellent people
who have not studied them. There are many among those
people of greater intellect, spirituality or devotion, who will go
rapidly ahead when they acquire this knowledge that we have of
th~ way in which our forces ought·to be directed. They will
pass us on the way, perhaps, but we on our part shall welcome
them and rejoice to see it, for there is no jealousy on this.path
and ever-y one on it hail~ the advance of a brother.
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Meantime this Theosophical knowledge is the great talent
which is put into our hands for use. If we did nothing for
others with it, but simply hugged it to ourselves and enjoyed
ali that it brings us in the way of freedom from worry and
trouble, comprehension of difficult problems, and so on, we
should be exactly like the man in the Bible who buried his
talent. But if we do our best to spread the light that comes to
us and to help in every possible way, then at least we are
putting our talent out to interest. ' One who knows' can feed
the souls of the poor and the rich alike with his knowledge.
This is in no way less practical than the other work, even from
a material point of view. What is the cause of all the poverty
and suffering in the world ? Ignorance and selfishness. If we
attack the ignorance and the selfishness by trying to put before
men knowledge of the laws of life, and to show them why they
must necessarily be unselfish, we are doing more eyen from the
most material point of view to bring about the welfare and
happiness of people on the physical plane than we should do by
merely distributing food. Not for a moment would one say that
that is not good and necessary, that it should not be done. The
need of the moment must be met; but it is a greater service to
remove the cause of all the trouble. We are doing what the
purely physical plane helper could not do.
Wherever there has been any wisdom, any knowledge at
all on these lines, those who know have been set free from the
other work in order that they may teach. You may read, for
example, in the Acts of the Apostles, how, in the early Christian
Church, they had community of goods, and when there was
some trouble about the distribution of the food supply, the
Apostles were requested to settle the dispute-to deal with it
themselves, in fact. They said: " It is not reasonable that we
should leave the word of God to serve tables," and told the
other people to elect from among themselves those who would
do that work, and abide by their decision, but not to expect
them, whose business it was to expound the word, to devote
themselves to the purely physical side of things. It was not
that those things were to be neglected, but that the_ proper
people to attend to them were those who could do that but
could not do the other work. ).
A.B.-We in the Society have knowledge which those
outside have not, and therefore the spreading of Theosophy is
RIGHT AND WRONG 87
the· one thing we ought to do. Those in the Society who are
not yet ready for that work-for lecturing or writing or teaching
in some other way-should do other kinds of work while they are
preparing themselves. I established the Order of Service for
those who cannot teach, so that everyone who joins the Society
may fin4 something to do. :The one thing that a person in the
SoCiety should not do is to be idle. All members should be
active in the Master's work.
C.W.L.-It is hard to realize how many people are
reasonably near the position where they might make rapid
progress if only they could bj awakened to it. I have myself,
I suppose, seen it most among the young, because my work
generally lies there. I see boys and girls by the score in ahriost
any country who could make good progress along Theosophical
lines, if the rnatter could only be put before them. But it is
not, and they'plunge off into the work-a-day world, and become
very good people of the ordinary type. They will go on in
that way for twenty or thirty in.carnations, or more, though
they are capable of taking up Theosophy and would be
interested in it, if it were properly put before them. Surely that
state of affairs throws a serious responsibility upon those who
possess this knowledge. It is therefore our business to .be
capable and ready to put Theosophy forward whenever there is
a suitable opportunity. There are plenty of people who might
just as well enter upon Theosophical development now, as in
twenty lives' time. It is, of course, a question of their karma,
but it is our karma to give them the opportunity, to put the
matter before them-whether they take it or not is their affair.
Until we have done our best we do not know whether it is
their karma to be helped or not.
If you know, it is your duty to help others to know.
However wise you may be already, on this Path you have
much to learn : so much that here also there must be
discrimination, and you must think carefully what is
worth learning. All knowledge is useful, and one day
you will have all knowledge : but while you have only
part, take care that it is the most useful part. God is
Wisdom as weJI as Love : and the more wisdom you have,
88 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the more you can manifest of Him. Study then, but
study first that which will most help you to help others.
C.W.L.-The Master here advises study, but He tells his pupil
to choose so far as he can what wi11 help him to help others.
I take it that that means that one should try to understand
Theosophy thoroughly and first of a11, but should in addition
acquire the knowledge and education of the time that make a
cultured man. I know that there are many in the Theosophical
Society who find themselves, for various reasons, uneducated,
but yet are very earnest and d~oted, who say: "Why should
we bother ourselves about the aetails of education? We want
to get at the reality of the thing, and to present the truths.
somehow.'' Yes, but the uneducated man is likely to present
them in a form that will probably at once estrange and repel
the educated and cultured. I have heard people say that an
intuitional man who hears the thing badly put will rise above
the form to the truth that lies behind; but unfortunately most
men are not intuitional and we have no right, on account of
our own laziness, to put an additional obstacle in·the way of
anyone who might otherwise be induced to take an interest in.
the subject. It is distinctly and emphatically our duty to make
our presentation as nearly perfect as we can.
Work patiently at your studies, not that men may
.think you wise, not even that you may have the happiness
of being wise, but because only the wise man can be
wisely helpful. However much you wish to help, if you
are ignorant you may do more harm than good.
A.B.-Here is advice especially important for our younger
members. I often come across young men at college who are
touched by the new spirit ; they are very eager to help, and
often want to put aside their studies. "What is the use of
these studies to us ? '' they ask. The advice I always give in
such a case is: "Continue your studies and become an educated
man. Although there may be many things among those you
learn which have not much importance, the training of the
intelligence is all-important. That is where the use of your
studies lies ; they render your mind logical and accurate. If
I
I
I
J
RlGHT AND WRONG 89
you do not go through this mental discipline, afterwards you
will be badly hampered in your work."
It is not enough to be able to recognize Theosophic truths~
if you want to help others to know, you must have that intellect-·
ual training which enables you to present them properly. If a.
person is uneducated, one sees it at once in the way he presents·
a subject. There is no part of ,my own training which I am
more glad to have gone through than the scientific pa~t. First
of aH it has helped me to put things in a. rational, logical way;
which gains a hearing from intellectual and cultured people ; and
secondly, it supplies me with many illustrations, which appeal
to the mind because they are drawn ftom subjects which can be
dennttely pr()ved.
Those among us who are older can be of much use to the.
yo!Jnger with whom they have opportunities of dealing if they
wi11, without damping their enthusiasm, explain in a kind and
sensible way the importance of their making themselves what
the world calls·educated. When one has the higher things, one
is apt to be a little imp8.tient with these lower studies. There-
fore the Master says to His young disciple, who had still much
of his intellectual training to go through: "Work patiently at
yo_
ur studies.''
C.W.L .-History emphatically supports this counsel.
Many good people, with the best intentions, have blundered in
the most terrible manner, and have injured their cause, what-
ever jt may have been, far more than any outside attack could
have done. Theosophical work has frequently suffered from
faulty or negligent presentation. We do not wish that
Theosophy should be spoken ill of because of our personal
defeats or disabilities. If you are set to do work for the Society
and do not do it satisfactorily, then go to work and learn to do
it satisfactorily. If you are asked to read something and cannot
do it; learn how to do it properly. If you cannot lecture-
presently, when you know enough and take the trouble to prepare,
you will learn to do that. But, at any rate, be doing something
and try to do it well. It is our duty as Theosophists to master
the correct grammar and the correct expression which will enable
us to put these things acceptably before the people that we wish
to reach. Any truth, however glorious, may be eclipsed, if clum-
sil¥ and wrongly put. It is our duty to do our best in this matter.
We must be educated if we are to present these truths prope~ly
12
CHAPTER XI
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH
You must distinguish between truth and falsehood ;
you must leam to be true all through, in thought and word
and deed.
A.B.-One might wonder, if one were not following the
Master's thought as well as His words, why this point comes
where it does. Discrimination between truth and falsehood-
surely this should have come first ! The Master places it later
because it is a very difficult thing. You must be true all
through, He says, and it .is not easy to make oneself so in
thought and word and deed. You will notice that thought
comes first; this is the regular occult order, which puts thought
first, then speech and action. The Lord Buddha also gave
them in this order, as right thought, right speech and right
action.
In thought first; and that is not easy, for there are
in the world many untrue thoughts, many foolish Sl!per-
stitions, and no one who is enslaved by them can make
progress.
C.W.L.-We think in Theosophy that we are absolutely
free from superstition ; I am not quite sure that that is always
true. There is a possibility;it seems to me, of a Theosophical
superstition. The man who believes a thing because "it is
written in the Bible " is no doubt superstitious to that extent,
because he has no good basis for that belief. Still, it is only one
step forward from that superstition to say," Thus saith Madame
Blavatsky" or'' It is written in The Secret Doctrine". It is a
step, because there is a great deal more evidence that Madame
90
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH 9t
Blavatsky knew what she was talking about, than that, let us
say, S. Paul did, or any of the older writers; but the thing is no
more our own because Madame Blavatsky said it, than because
it is attributed to S. James or S. Peter. We must understand
a thing and make it part of ourselves, grow into it and let it
grow into us. So long as we are only reading things parrot-
wise those things are superstitions. The very belief in the truth
may be a superstition, if it has no better basis for us than that
it is written here or there. When it becomes part of our mental
system, we can say, " It is part of me and it is mine; I know
why I -believe it, and therefore my belief is an intelligent
belief and not merely superstition." I am afraid there is a
great deal of unintelligent belief even in the truth, in many
cases. ·
A.B.-lt is so difficult for a person to free himself from
superstition, from taking the unessential for the essential (for
this is the essence of superstition) that he is not expected
wholly to do so until after the First Initiation. This shows
that it is a deep and subtle thing, which works into the very
nature of the man. No one who is enslaved by it, says the
Master , can make progress. That is a sweeping statement, but
we must observe the word enslaved. He does not say that pQ
one who is in any degree superstitious can make progress, but
that no one who is a slave to superstition can do so. Superstitioq
is a great thing for holding people back. How many religious
people one knows who are good, pious, philanthropic, who lead
beautiful and earnest lives, but are superstitious! They thin~
that their ceremonies, their formulre, their ways of doing things,
matter. But they do not matter a bit.
Let us take as an example the performance of a particular
function, that intended to help the dead. The Roman Catholic
celebrates the Mass for the dead; the Hindu performs the
Shraddha ceremonies for the same purpose. Both ceremonies
are inspired by the same wish to help those who have passed
over, and both effect their purpose, though they are widely
different in form. Yet a Hindu or a Catholic in clinging to these
forms would be superstitious. The goodwi11 and the earnest-
ness that they put into it, the love that they pour out towards
the departed-these are the real things, and they produce the
result. The good wish matters very much, but the specific
character of the outer form does not, for the garment of their
9z TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
wish is local and unimportant. ·That outward form :<Jepends
on where you :happert to be boi.n, for !¥ OU are : born.int~ a
religion as into ;a race and country. Of all the supersti.tlious
belief in rites and ceremonies, in the efficacy of mere outward
forms, you must rid yourselves. For a long time this belief
was very important, a good thing, because it is the only thing
which can get p€ople out of sloth, carelessness and indiflereBce.
These outward. things are crutches; they are necessary for
th<:>se who cannot yet walk alone, but when once you carY walk"
without them you must cast them aside. .II'
I
Therefore . you must not hold a thought just because
many other people hold it, nor because . it has been
believed for centuries, nor because it is written in soine
book which .~en .think sacred ; y~m must think -~f th~
matter for yourself, and . judge for yourself whether it
is reasonable.
C.W.L.-Those are the words of the Master Kuthiimi.
They were also, twenty-five hundred years ago, the words of
the Lord Gautama Buddha, when men came to · ·Him
asking : ' ~ Ther-e are so many teachers and so many doctrines
put before us, and they all seem go<:>d ; how are we to·know
which is the best : how can we decide among them ? '' His
reply to that question is given as follows in the Kalama Sutta of
the Anguttara Nikaya : ·
" fJ . .. •
Our Lord Buddha has sai~ that we must not believe in a ,H1jpg
said merely because it is said ; n?r in traditions because thex, have
been handed down from antiquity; nor rumours, as such ; nor -w;itings
by sages, because sages wrote them ; nor fancies that we may
suspect to have been inspired in us by a deva [that is, in presumed
sprritual inspiration] ; nor from inferences drawn from some haphazard
assumption we 1nay have made ; nor because of what seem~ an ana-
logiGal necessity ; nor on the mere authority of our· teachers or masters.
But .we are to believe when the writing, doctrine, or saying i!\ cqr-
roborated by our own reason and consciousness. " f@r this,". ~ys
He in concluding, " I taught you- not to believe merely beca11~e ·you ·
have heard, but when you believed of your own consciousness, t~en to
act accordingly and abundantly." ' · '
~ See A Buddhist Cat.
echism, by H. S. Olcott, question 131.
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH
· One of the e~ercises set ·by the Masters for Th@ir pupils is
to find. out how much•they really know and how much they only
heli(!ve. . It is a good praCtice to observe how much of our
menta.} .furniture we can definitely claim as belonging to our-·
selves, how much is ours because we have thoroughly understood
ancl.assented to it, and how much we have accepted from others
alm(!)st without·hav.iqg thought about it. In every case people ara
bot:n into religions as they are into countries. It is the same
w:itb a great number of·customs. For example, when you go out
to dinner you must wear a certain dress. It is the custom, and
one does not want to go against custom in a matter which is of
nq_importance, in which there is no question of right or wrong.
' ·A.B.-It is a very useful exercise to examine the
e~btents of the mind from time to time, and observe, first,
how·
.many things you believe simply because many other people
bel·ieve them; second, how many things you believe only because
they 3:re old beliefs; third, how maQy things you believe because
they are written in some sacred book. ·And when you have
swept out these three classes of belief, notice how much
remains, and these will show you what real basis you have for
your beliefs. That is one advantage of going through the
Freethought experience, as I did. No one who has not been
th'rough it can ·quite unqer:stand, I think, what it means to have
to give up one's .religious beliefs if they have been really
sincerely held ; what the final crash is like, when the fo~·n·~a·
tions that you have been standing upon give way. It'very
nearly killed me ; I was physically prostrate for weeks. But
when once you have done it thoroughly like that, you need not
do it .over again. So, when I came into touch with Theosophy,
although I felt sure of it with a perfect inward conviction, I
tested it all with my mind as I received it.
Remember that though a thousand men agree upon ~
·s~bject, if they· .kr:
10w nothing about that subject their
, :
'<?Pi~ion is of no v~lue.
C.W.L.-That is a matter which is very hard for the modetn
world to realize. People seem to think nowadays that,·if you
only pile up enough ignorance you wiJI somehow get knowledge
out ·of it. But you do not. The ignorant must have those wh6
know to direct them. • l ,
/
94 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
A.B.-In one way, the multitude of books that we have at
the present day is a disadvantage. It induces reading without
thinking, which produces superficiality and fickleness of thought.
That is why I always advise people to read a little and then
reproduce what they have read, not by memory, but out of the
clear grasp of the subject that they have obtained. Only what
you have thought out is really yours, and only by thinking over
and understanding what you read and hear, can you make it
your own. Otherwise, the more you read.the more superstitious
you become. You go on adding more beliefs to those that you
already have, none of which has any sure foundation.
• I
I once employed a man who kept accounts very padly.
Whenever he got his accounts into a muddle, he began a.n~w
account book, and hoped in that way to get them straight agCJ,in.
In the same way, people nowadays always want something.new
because they have not gained any real.satisf~ction out of their
superficial acquaintance with what they alrea.dy have. Those
among our members who quote Bishop ~eadbeater's books and
mine all over the place are also superstitious. However true
the statements they quote may be,_
they are not true to them;
for if they had grasped them they would not need to fall back
upon us as authotities. If they quote what we say at all, tQey
should only quote our words as opinions, and not try to force
them on anyone. There is only one authority in the world,
and that is wisdom.
He who would walk upon the Path must learn to
think for himself. for superstition is one of the gr~atest
evils in the world, one of the fetters from which you must
' utterly free yourself.
C.W.L.-That superstition is a very big and subtle thing
is evident from the fact that it is the third of the fetters which
men must· cast off on the Path after the Fitst Initiation. The
Pali name for it is silabbataparamasa, " belief jn the efficacy of
rites or ceremonies of any kind ".
Your thought about others must be trn:e ; you must
not think of them what you do not know.
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH 95
C.W.L.-1£ we think of other people what we only suppose
about them, the thought is probably the merest speculation.
We -really know remarkably little even about those who are
very near to us, still less about casual acquaintances; and yet
there is constantly much .profitless babble about the doings and
sayings and supposed thoughts of other people, and most of it,
fortunately, is hopelessly untrue.
A.B.-Opinions about other people are mostly untrue. We
can only think truly of another when we really know him, when
we can see his thought and understand it. That knowledge
is impracticable to most people. yet they have very definite
opinions about others; they constantly judge them and think
unkindly of them.
A little futther on the Master says: "Never attribute
motives to another." That is an enormously important piece of
adv·i'ce which, if carded out in the world, would do away with
at least half the troqble that exists. If a person does a t.hing
which you do not understand, leave it at that; do not invent
possible motives. A person does something, for what reason
.
you cannot know; but you hunt round for a possible mo.tive,
:generally an unworthy one, and fasten it on to the act ; then
yo'u·.blame him · for what you have thought and done yourself.
By thus attributing motives men add to any evil force that may
ipossil>ly exist in the .mind. of the person criticized, or they
-supply: it if it· is not already there~ Chtist said: " Resist not
-evil , ; this is a case where that applies; it is not our business
to Sear.ch in people's minds for evil to battle against; leave the
.thing·alone and it wil~ die.
Do not suppose that they are always thinking of you.
. C.W.L.-This happens perpetually: whatever some other
.person says or does is taken as referring to ourselves. Because
we are always thinking of ourselves we imagine that other
people must be thinking of us also; but if we are always think-
ing of o·urselves, it seems more sensible to assume that other
ipeopJe are probably thinking about themselves, not that they
.a·re thinking about us. They make themselves the centre of
.their own circle, round which all their thoughts and emotions
-revolve, and they •
think of everything as it affects them. They
~rerunning round themseh·es in a circle all the time, and beca11se
96 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
they are running round themselves they think everyone else
must be running round them, too. But they are not. Each
man is in his own circle-an equally vicious one, no doubt.
Probably nine-tenths of the cases in which people take offence
at what others do and say, are rooted in this idea.
If a man does something which you think will harm.
you, or says something which you think applies to you. do
not think at once: " He meant to injure me." Most
probably he never thought of you at all, for each soul has
its own troubles and its thoughts tum chiefly around
itself. If a man speak angrily to you, do no~ think ; 1
' He
hates me, he wishes to wound me." Probably some one or
something else has made him angry, and because he-
happen.s to meet you he turns his anger upon you. He ·
is acting foolishly, for all anger is foolish. but you must
not therefore think untruly of him.
C.W.L.-That is plain commonsense, but how very few
people ever practise it ! When I was a priest in the Church of
England I once preached a sermon about some ordinary trial
or temptation which I thought might come in the way of the
farmers and labourers who were my congregation. I explained
how a man might get into trouble along a certain line. After
the service a farmer came into the vestry in a towering rage.
and asked me what I meant by preaching a sermon directed at
him. Of course, poor man, he gave himself hopeles~ly away.
I had never before supposed that he was guilty of this particular
thing, but evidently it was a sore point, and my remarks had
gone home to him. I have no doubt that to this day that man
really thinks I singled him out, and preached about him.
In this crowded life which we are aJlliving, it is inevitable
that there should be a certain amount of friction, which need
not be taken seriously, or regarded as of great importance. As
we walk along the streets of any great city thousands of people,
each full of his own business, are pushing ahead and not think"
ing in· the least of others. Inevitably it happens that people
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH .
jostle each other, but it never occurs to anyone to take it
seriously· as an insult; that would be ridiculous. The same
thing is bound to happen mentally and emotionally. Where
there are great crowds there is inevitably a certain amount of
mental and emotional jostling. We ought to take that in exactl:Y
the same spirit, realizing that the man who happens to tread on
our mental corns did not mean to do so in the very least but that
he was following his own line of business and not thinking of us.
We must not take all such little frictions as serious things, any
more than we do the daily jostling in the street.
At the same time, while we hold that attitude with regard
to the absorption of other·people in their business, it is our duty
to see that we in turn are not so absorbed in ours as to forget
the little courtesies that make life go so much more smoothly.
The Theosophist ought to be distinguished from the
rest of the world by his courtesy, and by his calm and un·
changing cheerfulness. Be w:~ntle, be patient ; there is always
time to be friendly and gentle, however much one may be hurried.
One should decline to be swept off one's feet by the waves of
irritability which come from overstrained nerves, which are so
common in these crowded times.
A.B.-The suggestion that the Master makes here is
very wise. Do not suppose that everybody is thinking about
you, because you are thinking about yourself. The other people
are· also thinking about themselves and not of you;-they are
concerned with their own affairs just as you are with yours.
It would add grea~ly to the happiness of nations if people
would only take· up· this idea and put it into practice. When
some one jolts up against you in the bustle and hurry
of life do not think that he means to injure you, or that
he has any personal intention at alL Unless you are srire
that a person meant to harm you, it is much better to think the
reverse.
Suppose a man speaks angrily to you. If you would
remember then not to attribute wrong motives to him, and not
to get angry also, you would make very rapid progress in self-
control. Generally people remember this afterwards. If a
man is self-controlled he will not show irritation, but if he is
perfectly self-controlled he will not even fee] it. Even if the
other man is at fault, it is, after alJ, but a weakness of his, and
13
98 TALKS ON TH1l PA'l'lt OF OCCULTISM
he who would be an occultist must remember to be charitable
to the weaknesses of others. One must also remember· that the
angry speech, or the hasty and irritable answer, very often
m~a.qs that the person who makes it is under a great tension
ansmg from some trouble or anxiety, and is not quite
strong enough to bear the strain and show no signs of it; his
nerves are highly strung ; that is why he acts as he does.
· It is true, of course, that he acts foolishly, as the Master says.
But we must make allowances. Most of the little difficulties
that people have arise in this way. A heavy strain on a person
will cause him to take offence at almost anything. Think how
many troubles there are in the world-troubles of aU kinds
cons.tantly pressing on people and worrying at them. We do
not know the troubles of all those around us, of course, because
no sensible person goes about proclaiming his difficulties.
Ordinary dignity forbids that. But if we would rememher that
they exist, and make allowance for them, we sholl1d obtain that
perfect peace which the Master is aiming at in this teaching.
When you become a pupil of the Master. you may
always try the truth of your thought by laying it beside
His. For the pupil is one with his Master. and he
needs .only to put back his thought into the Master·s
thought to see at once whether it agrees. If it does
not, it is wrong, and he changes it instantly. lor the
Master's thought is perfect, because He knows all.
A.B.-An accepted pupil can always test his thought
by laying it beside that of the Master. If he feels a jar he
knows that the thought is wrong. To use a physical analogy,
it is like a false note in music. The pupil does not need to
call the Master's attention ; he simply puts his thought beside
the Master's, and if it does not ring true, he casts it out at
once, and sets to work immediately to bring his thought into
harmony with that of the Master. He does not argue about
it, nor try to make out that his thought may be right after all,
because if it is faulty, its error at once becomes apparent.
Those who are not accepted pupils cannot quite do this, and that
presents a diffu:ulty to many aspirants. As the consciousness
•
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH
of the pupil" is one with that of the Master, the latter win not
accept anyone against whose thought He would afterwards
find it necessary to build a wall. ·
C.W.L.-It is said that the pupil is one with his Master.
That is true in a sense which only the Master knows perfectly.
The pupil knows it too, but less perfectly. Those who have
not yet entered into that relation cannot understand the
intensity of that unity. The pupil becomes an outlying section
of his Master's thought, belonging to Him in a way not at
all unlike that in which the personality belongs to the e&o.
The ego puts down a small piece of itself-that is not qmte
correct, but it is more accurate than the idea of reflection would
b~-into the conditions of the lower planes, where even the
best of physical, astral and mental bodies can give only a very
imperfect expression of him. That ought to be a comfort to
us when we feel depressed at our own various weaknesses
down here. One may say to oneself: "At any rate the ego
knows better than that; therefore I need not despair. It
is only needful for me to bring more of myself down into this
lower manifestation to make it a purer expression of what I
really am up above, and then my defects wil1 become less."
In the same sort of way· the pupil not merely represents the
Master; he is the Master in a very real sense, but the
Master under tremendous limitations-the limitations not only of
the lower planes, but also of the personality of the pupil, which
is by no means perfectly transcended. If the disciple's ego had
gained perfect control of its lower vehicles, so that they were
nothing but reflections or expressions of the higher, he would
be able to express the Master far more perfectly than he does
now, but even then there would be a limitation of what must be
called the size of him, because the pupil is a smaller ego than
the Master whom he follows, and therefore can be only an
incomplete representative of Him. Still, whatever thoughts the
pupil has, those are in the Master's mental and astral bodies
also. · Partly for that reason all pupils have to pass through a
period of probation, during which the living image of the
probationary pupil is constantly before the eye of the Master.
The Master wants to know exactly what are the thoughts and
feelings of His prospective pupil, because otherwise He might
find constantly obtruded into His own astral and mental
bodies thoughts and emotions which were out of harmony with
•
'100 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the work He is doing·all the time. It is only after He has seen
for some .-considerable time that such thoughts and emotions as
wouJd not harmonize are very rare in the pupil, that He accepts
him, and makes him a part of Himself.
Even then the Master still retains the power to interpose
a veil between His consciousness and that of His pupil. It is
the latter's earnest desire not to be shut off, but sti11 we are
fallible people down here on the physical plane, and it may
often happen that some thought or feeling comes to us which
should not. The Master does not want that, so He shuts it
quietly away from Him. There is, it is true, a later period at
which the Master renounces even the power to do that-when
He accepts the pupil as His 'son,' but that comes only when
He is quite sure that there will be nothing that needs to be
excluded. ·
On account of this intimate association with his
teacher's consciousness the pupil is able to lay His thought by
the side of the Master's thought. It ·is not necessary to call
the Master's attention at all; he is not seeking His opinion
on the question in hand. He is simply going back along the
line of that oneness to discover what is the idea in the Master's
mind with regard to this particular question. " How," you
may ask," would the pupil do it ? " There are various ways,
according to the extent to which he has realized the unity.
He would make a vivid image of His Master; he would raise
himself into it with all his force, and then would think his
thought and see whether there was the slightest jar or
disharmony, and if there were he wou;ld, of course, alter his
own thought at once.
There is here a great difference between the occult and
the worldly point of view. In the world if there is a difference
of opinion between yourself and another man, you at once
proceed to argue in favour of your opinion, or try to justify it.
In occultism we never argue; we know that the man who
stands on the higher level knows better, and we simply accept
his view. It would never occur to us for one moment to set up
our own opinion against that of the Master, because we know
(it is not a matter of opinion, but of actual knowledge) that He
has access to all kinds and sources of information that we have
not; therefore He knows what He is talking about. His opinion
is based on far greater knowledge than our own. Afterwards we
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH 101
may try to find the reasons which gave rise to it-that is quite
another matter-but in the meantime we do not oppose it, and
we· should never think of doing so. When the pupil lays his
thought beside the Master's he does not argue. When you
have an instrument out of tune you do not argue that perhaps
that is a better pitch ; you tune it up.
In the occult world we never criticize, we take it for
granted that every man who is working for the Hierarchy is
doing his utmost; and if he is doing his best, then to his own
Master he stands or falls-not to us. Of course it may
sometimes be possible, if we see failure in some direction, to
make ·a little suggestion in the most delicate way we can:
" If so-and-so were done, do you not think that things might
perhaps be a little better?" The way in which people recklessly
criticize others of whose troubles and difficulties they know
nothing whatever is entirely foreign to occultists or those who
aspire to become such. We simply do not go that -way at all;
we should consider it wrong.
Those who are really in earnest about getting on the Path
would do well to follow the custom of the Masters' pupils in
this matter. We should not plunge into criticism of people who
are doing their work; most people are doing the best they can
from their point of view. We may possibly have a much higher
point of view, but at any rate they can work only according to
'their own light, not according to ours. When an official is
appointed, for example, to do something in our Society1 we should
give him his chance; if he does not do the work satisfactorily,
then we may in due course give the work to some one else, but in
the meantime we should not hamper the man. He should be
given a chance to show what he is made of, to try the ideas
which are in his mind. It is a bad thing to be always inter-
fering.
It would be a very much worse thing to be always in a
critical frame of mind-constantly looking for holes, always
trying to find weak spots. That is not the way in occultism. We
often hear people say, "I cannot help criticizing; that is my
nature." If that is your nature it is a very bad nature, and
you had better try to transcend it. When you say a thing is
natural, human, you mean it is what the average man wou]d do;
but if a man has really taken himself in hand he is trying to be a
102 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
little more than the average. We are here to change our
natures. There need be mo pride in this ; the aspirant is seek-
ing to raise himself above the average in order that he may be
able to advance that average-which he could not do if he were
on the same level or below. Anyone who wills to do so can
give up the bad habit of criticism.
Sometimes one would like to say to people, '' Do get out of
the way of your higher self and give him a chance to do what
be can. You are letting the lower personality stand in the way
of what the higher would and could do quite easily." No one
should ever say, '' I cannot." If you take that line, you bave
already prejudged the case, and foredoomed yourself to failure.
Set up rather the thought-form, '' I can do this thing, and I
will do it "-then it is already half done. People often fail in
their efforts ; that is very natural. While they continually try,
however, force is being accumulated, and this will presently
bring sucress. We must not think when a failure comes that
everything is lost; for the force which has been gained, though it
may not be enough to bring immediate success, is all the same
a substantial gain, and if we go on putting more and more
to it the time will come when success will crown our efforts-
There is a vast gulf between these two attitudes : to sit
down and despair, and to get up and do something. It bas.
been said that the world is divided into two parts : the people
who go and do something, and the people who sit still and say~
H Why was it not done some other way ? " We ought to be
among the former, and not mind in the least what is said by
the other kind of people who never move a hand to do it
themselves.
Those who are not yet accepted by Him cannot do.
quite this; but they may greatly help themselves by stopping
often to think : " What would the Master think about
this? What would the Master say or do under these
circumstances ? '' For you must never do ·or say or thinlr
what you cannot imagine the Master as doing or saying-
or thinking. You must be true in speech too-accurate
and without exaggeration.
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH 103
C.W.L-
.-If we could keep that always in mind, never .to
think or say or do anything that the Master would not think
or say or do, there would not be much need of correction in our
lives. We might make some errors, perhaps, as to what we
thought He might think or say or do, but on the whole ours
would be a life wonderfully pure and near to Him. No doubt
many people may feel: " If I had to stop and think that, I
:Should never say anything." The world would probably not be
:greatly the poorer if they did not, for most of what is said is
;not particularly useful. If a man each time before he speaks
:a-eally seriously sets himself to think: "Would the Master say
·what I am going to say ? " he will speak a great deal less.
'The process of referring to the thought of the Master may
.be slow at first ; but presently it becomes a habit, and then it
takes place like a flash.
Thought moves with the rapidity of light, probably even
faster, and if, as the physicists tell us, light travels about 186,ooo
miles per second, your thought of England, for example, which
is r2,Soo miles away, would be there like a flash of light. The
speed of thought is one of the questions of occult physics amidst
which we are only stumbling as yet. We are trying all the time
to learn new facts about occult science, and an:! making experi-
ments blunderingly, much as did the old altchemists, out of
whose efforts emerged the beginnings of chemistry, which has
slowly evolved mto a great science comprising many thousands
of facts. I believe that out of the stumbling experiments which
at:e now being made by only a few people there will arise, as
the years roll on, a development of occult science: generally which
will be of great·importance to the world.
Usually our thoughts do not move as fast as they might,
because we have not practised using them aJ5art from speech
and action to any great extent. It is one of the fruits of
meditation that it trains us to use thought apart from these
-other things. From success in that one obtains really wonderful
results. Dr. Besant has made a study of this. I have heard
her say that when she is giving a lecture in public, while she is
.speaking one sentence, the next comes before her thought in
three or four different forms, and she deliberately selects that
-one which she thinks wi11 be most effective, wbille she is speaking
the previous sentence. Very few people could do that. It is a
matter of using thought altogether apart from action, an:d
Io4 TALKS 0N THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
with a rapidity which would be hard to calculate-but it
shows what may be done. It is quite worth while to try to
practise using thought as thought. The pupil, following out
the excellent practice of thinking before he speaks or acts,
will find it not only fruitful in bringing his life into harmony
with that of his Master, but also a useful training in swift
thought.
Never attribute motives to another: only his Master
knows his thoughts, and he may be acting from reasons
which have never entered your mind.
C.W.L.-Every man is an enigma even to those who are
nearest and dearest to him, and if sometimes, long afterwards,.
you do get at his reasons for having done something, they
are usually surprising-something which would never have
occurred to you has been the controlling influence in his mind.
1 have seen that many times more, perhaps, in India than any-
where else, because the Indian mind differs greatly from ours in
many ways, and most of our Hindu. brothers are moved to.
action by ideas that never would have occurred to an English-
man. Their mind is infinitely more subtle, and its activities are
based upon a set of traditions foreign to our ways of thought.
If1
therefore, even in our own race it is never advisable to
supply a motive to anyone for what he or she says or does, it is
far less safe in a foreign country, where you are dealing w.itb
another civilization altogether. Hopeless misunderstandings
occur because we supply motives, and we must not do it. It is
not our business to know why a certain thing was done. We
need not trouble about it.
If you 'hear a story against any one, do not repeat
it : it may not be true, and even if it is, it is kinder to
•
say nothing.
A.B.-I£, having heard this, you go and teJI a story against
some one, you are disobeying the Master's direct command,
because it has been passed on to you, and so is directed to you
personally. It is easy enough to hold your tongue; it may be
difficult to control your thought, but surely you can control
your body ! The story that you tell may not matter much, but
BE. TRUE ~LL THROUGH IoS
1f it is untrue and yo_
u repeat it, you are teUirtg a' lie, and that
matter~ very much for those who are striving to prepare them-
selves for Initiation. It sounds hard to calJ it lying, perhaps,
hut it is a fact, and we have to face facts. .
It is obvious that we cannot spend our lives in enquiring
into the truth of such stories, so the only safe course is never
to repeat them at all. Quite apart from the question of in-
juring ourselves and our own prospects, and even supposing you
know such a story to be true, it is kinder to say nothing. Why
should you wish to harm any person ? Why should you wish to
II'epeat anything which shows another in an unfavourable light?
Of course, if we happen to find out that a man is a rogue
·Or a swindler and is bent upon doing injury to unsuspecting
persons, it is our duty to expose him, or at least to warn those
who are in danger from him; ·but that is a matter altogether
·different from those which form the pabulum of common gossip.
This is, however, a duty which should be exercised only with
the greatest care and forethought, and certainly without the
slightest ill-feeling or indignation.
Think well before speaking, lest you should fall into
maccuracy.
C.W.L.-This has been pre~ched for many ye~rs and yet
.even our own people go on making inaccurate: statement~.
-
People sometimes talk in a most exaggerated way. If a thing
is a hundred yards away they say it is." miles off".. If a day
comes that is hotter than usual,.they .say it is f' boiling". Ou~
-command of English is poor if. we are not able to find words
to express different gradations of th<;>ught without plunging
into these wild, meaningless superfluities. It is a lack of
education as well as of accuracy, and I do not think we ought
to be careless about this matter. Not without significance the
Christ is reputed to have said that for every idle word that
men~ shall speak they shall give accqunt in the day of judgment.
Be true in action ; never pretend to be other than
you are, for all ,pretence is a hindrance 'to the pure light
of truth, which should shine through you as sunlight
. , I
shines through clear glass. ·
• # • • •
14
100 TALKS ON THE PATH OF: OCCULTISM
A.B.-Truth in action is a very difficult thing to carry
out. It means never to do a thing before people in order t&
impress them with a high opinion of you, and never to do when-
you are alone anything of which you would be ashamed in the-
company of others; but to be per.fectly honest always. Let-
people see you -.. just as you are, and do not pretend to be any-
thing else. Most of us have a kind of ideal of what we should
like other people to think us to be ; consequently there are aU
sorts of small things which we do when we are al9ne, but
would not do if others were present, because they are not quite-
the things that we feel they would expect of us.
Whenever you are inclined not to do a thing because
somebody is there, check the feeling ; if it is right, never mind
other people's opinion about i~; if it is not, never do it at all..
I know the feeling well, for -I used to have it. I used to feel
that I must behave before people as they would expect an
author and lecturer and all the rest of it to behave. In the
past, I sometimes found that this feeling carne up about some
quite harmless thing. To give an example; on board ship,
where I never feel well, I was at one time in the habit of
playing patience-a most harmless recreation, I consider. It
came into my mind one day to wonder what t~e passengers.
would think when seeing me play it on a Sunday, knowing I
was a teacher of occultism-whether it would shock them.
·Then I thought: " It does not matter whether people see me
or not. If wrong it ought to be dropped; if right, their
opinions do not alter the fact." Madame Blavatsky was
remarkable in this way. She always did what she wanted,
and cared not in the least what people thought about it. If
people thought her behaviour was not what they considered
that of an occultist should be, what on earth did it matter ?
They knew nothing whatever about it, anyway.
An occultist does not go about with a grave and solemn
face, taking care to do things in a very dignified mapner,
though that is the notion which many people have of him. The
popular views are entirely false on the subject. An occultist
is supremely natural. I think one reason why it is important,.
at the present time, to lead a pefectly true and frank life, is
that it may serve in a small degree to prepare the way for the
great Teacher who is coming; it may make His path a little
bit smoother. For the Great Ones are not always what the
BE TRUE ALL THROUGH 107
people expect them to be. They do not run in moulds pre-
pared for them, but They come to reform ,the world, generally
1o alter radically the popular outlook; and while They
are very considerate of people's feelings, They are not
always so of their prejudices. We, by living frankly and
openly, may help to prepare the people's minds, so that when
·the Lord Maitreya comes they will already have loosened
-some of their prejudices, and there will be a chance of their
being less offended than might otherwise have been the case.
-Let us, then-, . lead a perfectly open life, always provided
that we do not fall below our ideal. We must not make the
·mistake of thinking that it does not matter how we act before
people; but we must be equally careful and honest in private
and in public.
C.W.L.-It is quite true that we- should- never pretend,
that there is a falsity about any kind of pretension, but take
·Care that in the effort to avoid it you do not run into the
·opposite extreme. Sometimes people say, " I want to show
myself ju~t as I am naturally," and then they proceed to show
the worst and coarsest and most vulgar part of themselves.
'They are not showing themselves naturally, but a very low
and poor and degraded copy of what they should be. That
in man which is highest and best and noblest is nearest to the
real self; therefore, to be natural we should be at our best.
Sanctimoniousness is a form of untruth. If vou find a
person giving himself out as an occultist, and at the "same time
talking very largely about his own loftiness and tolerance,
hinting at his great powers, and trying to win the admiration of
·credulous people, like the hypocrites of old who " love to pray
·standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that
·they may be seen of men. !I and the scribes and Pharisees who
"for a pretence make long prayer," 1 you may know that he is not
.a real occultist. The genuine occultist is never sanctimonious,
though he is determined to live far above the standard of what
is usually called the " natural " man.
People often fail to recognize a Master because they
ibave a rigid idea of what a Master must be, and the real,
diving Master may not be like that at all. He does not adapt
Rimself to our prejudices and ideas; He is that which He is on
1 S . Ma.tthew, vi, 5, and xxiii, 14
108 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
His own plane, and if we are hidebound by our own prejudices
we may not' know Him when He appears. Some have already
made up their minds as to what the World-Teacher will do
and say, and how He will carry Himself. Do not risk
shutting yourself off from Him by preconceptions. We know
that He will teach the doctrine of love, but the manner and
detail of it will be settled entirely by Him. Let us recogniz~
Him to the full, and be ready to follow wheresoever He
will lead.
' '
CHAPTER XII
l '
UNSELFISHNESS AND THE DIVINt- LIFE
·,
You must discriminate between the selfish c. -I the
' '
uns~lfish: For selfishness has many forms, and ~her. 1TOU.
think you have finaJiy killed it in one of them, it 'arises ·n•
another as strongly as ever. But by degrees you wih:
become so full of thought for the helping of others that
there wilJ be no room, no time, for any thought about
yourself.
A.B.-The Master here describes what is I believe the only
way to become perfectly unselfish. It is possible to get rid of
one particular form of selfishness, certainly, if we turn·our·
efforts to its eradication, but, as the Master says, it comes up iO'
another form. Working in this way, you may spend a long
time in killing one form of selfishness, and then find yourself
like Herc.
ules when he was killing the hydra- as soon as he had1
cut off one head, another grew. But the way that is recom-·
mended here goes strai~ht to the root of the matter. ·
One Qf the valuable results of devotion lies here-I am
inclined to think, the greatest of all': the thought of another
. person, who is the object of devotion, occupies the whole mind,
and the man becomes unselfish without any special effort. Tha.t
is the proper way of growth, to "grow as the flower grows, un-
consciously, opening its heart to the sun ". Efforts are all signs
of weakness; if you can find clever ways of getting round
yourself, as it were, it is a great advantage. You circumvent
your thoughts -and turn your force into a ·good channel, and the
109
110 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
undesirable quality gets starved out. This is the best way of
getting over one's faults; for thinking of them, even regretfully,
strengthens them.
Be fuJI of thought for others, and then~ as the Master says,
there will be no room, no time, for thinking about yourself.
Then, too, you will be happy. I have found that this is true in
my own case. If ever I found myself inclined to grieve, to feel
the least regret about anything which affected me personally (I
do not think that I am ever inclined to do so now, but at one
time I was) I filled my mind at once with the thought of
helping and of working for others. Grieving over thiqgs which
affect oneself is selfish, and it only servfos to make one unhappy.
Yet it is what many people do. They sit down and say:
" Oh, how sad it is. How hard it is. This thing is very hard
-on me. That person does not care for me. does not look
after me, does not love me "-and so on indefinitely.
All that is selfishness. The remedy, both for your ·own
grief and the selfishness, is to go at once and do something
for someone else. Go and work. Your mind cannot be filled
with two things at once, and the moment you cease to think of
yourself you begin to be happy. When you can s_ay: " I do
not want anything from anybody around; I love them and
oeed nothing in return ''-then you will be happy. What
people generally call love is a little love underneath with a
great coating of selfishness over it. The moment that there is
pain through love, it means that selfishness is also there.
That is a hard lesson for the warm-hearted and the
affectionate to learn, I know, but it has to be learned ; and
when learned it brings happiness and peace. I speak to you
from my own experience. Learn to love all, without asking
anything in return, and when you do that you will find plenty
-of people to Jove you ; but so long as you keep on grabbing,
their natural instinct is to draw back. A hard lesson it is,
but once learned it brings a peace that nothing can shake, not
~en when a person you love dearly is for the time being
-disagreeable. What does it matter ? You know he will come
round again some day, and in the meantime you go on pouring
<>nt your love on him just the same. If you suffer, just tttake
up your mind not to trouble about it. Say to yourself: "I
do not mind how much my lower nature suffers." What are
UNSELFISHNESS AND THE DIVINE LIFE III
we---our lower selves at any rate-that we should care if we
suffer, or that we should daim to be loved? By taking urp
this attitude towards your suffering you will overcome it.
C.W.L.-To think about a fault is to strengthen it. That
is the mistake often made in the Christian system, where men
are urged to repent of their fa.ults and to feel remorse for
them. The more sorry one feel:; and the more he turns his
fault over in his mind the stronger it grows. But .if one
goes ahead and does some work for someone else, the thought-
form is not intensified; it dies a natural death, drops away,
and is forgotten. Morbid introspection often magnifies small
failings into great sins. It reminds one of little children who
constantly pull up their plants by the roots, to see how they
are growing. Thus, a person eagerly takes up some good
and noble work, then begins to· doubt himself, and says: '' I
am not sure that my motive was pure; I must have done it
because I was inwardly proud," or, if he relieves suffering, he
thinks: " It was not really unselfish; I could not bear to see
the suffering, and so I relieved it." In the Church of England
they say: "Lord, have mercy upon us miserable sinners."
We may be sinners, but we need not aggravate the offence by
being miserable about it, and so making others miserable too.
Never brood over the past, but set to work to do better in the
future. It is useless to wish that you had not done so-and-so;
much better to say : " I did that ; it is a pity ; never mind,
this is the present condition of affairs, and I must see what
I can do to make the best of it." I do not say that it may
not be possible at some exalted level to alter the past,
but it certainly is not practical for us to take that into
conside·ration.
In the Lord Buddha's Noble Eightfold Path, the last
step but one was Right Remembrance. He said to His
people: '' You must bfl very careful what you allow your..
selves to remember. If you say you cannot help remembering
everything, . then you have no control over your memory,
over the mind which is a part of yourself. It is as
though you went along the street gathering up all the rubbish
which came in your way; you are sweeping into your memory
all kinds of useless and undesirable things. You should re-
member the right things and be particularly careful to forget
the others." Then He enumerates elaborately and definitely
"XI2 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the things that people should forget, and among these He
!mentions all unkind words spoken to them, all fancied slights
and injuries. Those are among the things which one should
permanently and absolutely forget, whereas, among the things
·one should remember are all the kind words that ever have been
spoken to one, all the kindly deeds, and all the good qualities one
.has ever seen in one's neighbours.
We must learn to love all whom we contact. I do not say
·all alike; that is not expected. The Lord Buddha Himself had
His favourite disciple, Ananda, whom He loved more than the
others, and the Christ had His beloved disciple S. John, who
·leaned upon His breast at the Last Supper. We are not expected
to love people all alike, to feel towards everyone the same love
that is felt for father or mother, wife or child, but to hold the
attitude of active goodwill or love towards aJI, and of hate to
none. We are to hold this attitude also without asking any
return for it ; the moment one begins to make demands he sets
up a claim ; he is introducing the factor of desire again, and
once more thinking of himself, not of those he loves. To pour
out love and not expect any return is the only thing that deserves
to be called love. Without that unselfishness people get
entangled with jealousies, envyings and many other desires, and
their love, instead of showing the pure glorious rose-colour, is
seen as a sort of brownish-crimson, a poor-looking thing, ·and
unpleasant also in form, because instead of outraying like sun-
light, it is hooked and grasping, and makes a closed curve, often
affecting no one but the sender.
The worlds are moved by the divine unselfish love that
pours out in great open curves, and never returns and does 1;10t
mean to return. It is poured out in other dimensions and other
planes, to do the work of God in God's own way. This is the
Jesson to be learned-it is hard because it means the destruction
.of the lower nature, but it is the path to peace.
You must discriminate in yet another way. Learn
to distinguish the God in everyone and everything, no
matter how evil he or it may appear on the surface. You
can help your brother through that which you have in·
.common with him, and that is the Divine Life; learn how
UNSELFISHNESS A•
ND THE DIVIN!E LIFE 113
to arouse that in him, learn how to 'appeal to that in him;
~o shall you save your brother from wrong.
A.~.-This is the final lesson in discr'iminating between
1he real and the unreal. However evil a thing is from the out-
·side, God is there, for it could not exist at all if God were not
.at its heart. This truth is told again and again in the Hindu
scriptures. " I am the gambling of the cheat," says the Lord
-
in the Bhagavad-Gita. That statement sometimes shocks
people dreadfully; but it is true, because the cheat has some-
-thing to learn in that way which he is refusing to learn in a
·better way. If a person cannot learn qui~tly by precept, he must
'learn from experience of natural laws. What we call the Iaws
·of nature are the most material expression of the Divine Mind.
The laws of nature stand there like r:ocks ; if a man goes
and bruises himself against them the pain' that results teaches
lhim to avoid a similar mistake in the future. When a person
·will not learn by precept or example (and there are plenty of
·!both of these in the world) he must do so through the pain that
-comes from breaking the law. He must be carried on at all
"hazards towards unity. for the divine will is for evolution, and
his own innermost will is one with the divine. I think that is
·the meaning ·which underlies also the ~ords of the Hebrew
.singer: " If I ascend up into heaven, Thou art there.'' So far
-
it is plain; we all know God is in beaven, but then: '' If I mak~·
:my bed in hell, behold, Thou art there al~."· l
See therefore the divine in everything around you ; the
rest does not concern you. In that way, and in that way only,
_you can help your brother, for the one thing you have in com-
mon is the divine life ; all the rest is different, but in that you
.are at one, and you can use that as a lever for helping.him in
aU ways. When you want to help a mFJ.n to overcome a fault,
remember that he is just as anxious as you can be to get rid of
1he wrong thing in him; it injures him, and if you can only
reach the real man inside, you will find that he wants to be rid
of it. This is the right way to help; the inside way never hurts
or offends anybody. ·
C.W.L.-All that exists an this plane, as mu.ch as on any
<>ther, is a manifestation of the divjne Life; and therefore all
1 Psillm, cxxxix, 8.
15
114 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISW
of it-the good and the evil alike-must be an expression of
God. Nothing can exist of which God Himself is not the heart
and root. That fact is emphasized in all the scriptures. We
have it in the Christian Scriptures: " I form the light: and
create darkness; I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord do
all these things.'' 1
People cannot understand how all that
men commonly call evil can somehow be also divine. yet we
must face the fact. There are black magicians and evil people·
of all sorts and kind~, but the life in those people is the Divine
Life, because there is no other life.
If a man introduces evil into his life by his own stupidity,
by his wrong·headedness, out of it good will nevertheless come ;
it is the only way to evolve that particular man. The cheat
will cheat; he has it in his mind to do that. He is under the
.Divine Law still, and although he is doing wrong, outof it
good for him will come, because he will learn by doing
that, and by failure, to step into the right path. It is, as it
were, the last resort, but it is a resort. and therefore we must
acknowledge it to be within the Divine Plan.
There is a sense in which everything absolutely is God.
Still it is not exactly in that sense that these words are written;
it is the divine spirit in every one which rnakes him man. If
you can see through the personality which is so warped, which
has gone so far wrong, and get at the divine life in the man,
you can appeal to that. We must remember that the" evil,,.
man, as a soul, wishes to make progress just as much as we do-..
He wishes to get rid of the evil which is haunting and obsessing
and troubling his personality, and therefore if we can get back.
to that soul through all this outer crust of hardness and evil, he
will rush forward to help us in our endeavour to assist the
personality.
I have been a priest and lay-helper most of my life, and
have worked in some of the very worst parts of England. I have
seen many men whom one would think hopeless criminals; but
I have never seen one who had not some spark of good in him
somewhere. It might be his love for a child, or his love for a
dog, that seemed to be the only human touch in what was
otherwise a brute, and a dangerous brute ; but there is the One
Life stirring in him somewhere, and if one can get into touch
• Isaiah, 45, 7·
UNSELFISHNESS AND THE DIVINE LIFE II5
with him at that point there is just a chance that he may be
helped upward through an appeal to that one thing.
A.B.-The Master's .last words on the subject are : " So
shall you save your brother from wrong." Here He makes the
strongest appeal ; it is to that which is the very object and end
of life to the disciple, for his one aim is to become a saviour
of the world. Far stronger is it than any appeal to the disciple
for his own personal advantage could possibly he. The Master
Jives only to help the world ; and the more we can bring service
~nto our lives the more we shall reflect in them the beauty of
His.
•
PART III
DESIRELESSNESS
CHAPTER XIII
THE REMOVAL OF DESIRE
A.B.-We come now to the second qualification, which
in the Sanskrit is vairagya, for which, speaking in English,.
the Master uses the word desirelessness. That is a very
accurate translation. In the past I have used the word
dispassion, but henceforth I shall translate the term as the
Master does.
There are many for whom the Qualification of
Desirelessness is a difficult one, for they feel that they
are their desires-that if their distinctive desires, their
likings. and dislikings, are taken away from them, there
will be no self left.
A.B.-Practically all those who sincerely desire to tread
the Path feel the truth of the first sentence. in which the
Master says that the qualification of desirelessn.ess is a ai-fficult
one. The difficulty arises because people identify themselves
with their desires. So long as a desire which is not gratified
makes you unhappy, so long are you identifying yourself
with your desires. It is well to recognize this, admit it to
yourseJf; for it is quite easy to think that you have separated
yourself from your desires, when in reality you have not done
so. Very many people like to think that they have conquered
the desire-nature, when their whole life, their every act, shows
that it is not so. It is far better to recognize the fact, if you
have not yet done so, and then you are prepared to adopt
the remedv.
.,
I20 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
The first step that should be taken is to dwell on the
idea: '' I am not my desires." Here you can call to your
aid what I have already explained with regard to moods; your
·desires, like your moods, are changing, and anything that
-
changes ·is not the Self, who is not subject to fluctuations.
For instance, I have known people who think one day: '' How
delightful it is to be at Adyar ; how beautiful to think of
all the great things that are going to happen"; and the next
-day they feel depressed, discouraged. Now, neither of these
changing moods, neither the enthusiasm nor the depression, is
yourself; both ar:e merely passing vibrations of the astral
body, roused by some contact from the outside.
It is for this rea~on that people are advised to meditate
-every day; for you cannot meditate properly until your
·desir:es are quiescent. If you meditate regularly and faithfully,
you will little by little realize a Self ~~hind your desires,
and as you go on meditating, and also during the day practise
the attitude required, you begin to realiz;e that Self all the
time. Then you will no longer identify yourself with your
-desires, and constantly feel : '' I want ; I wish ; I desire " ; but
will think: '' It is not I ; it is the lower self.n
.
This is the first great lesson which the Master gives
about the second qualification. You are not required to have
-desirelessne5s perfectly before Initiation. but what the Master
does expect is that you should have it to a great extent, and
what He expects is law. All the swinging between the two
pples of depression and elation must go before you can reach
Initiation.
C.W.L.-Large numbers of people make no e.iJort to
-distinguish between their desires and themselves, but say : " I
am as God has made me. If I have a bad temper, or a weak
will; He gave it to me. If I am not strong enough to resist
temptation, that is bow I was made." They do not understand
that they have made themselves by their past lives, but they
are in the habit of taking their character as a sort of inalien-
able something which is given to them, as one may be born
blind or with a lame leg. They do not realize that it is their
business to change a nature which is undesirable in its
character. They do not know that they can, and furthermore,
often they do not particularly see why they should.
THE REMOVAL OF DESIRE 121
There is usually no adequate rP.,ason held up to the average
man why he should take all the very great trouble necessary
to change his character. Some may, say that unless he does
so he will not go to heaven, but many reply that the conve~~
tional heaven would bore them inexpressibly, and they are
hoping for something different. It is obvious, in fact, that
though teaching conGerning the heaven-life has been widely
spread. it has had little practical influence on most people's
character, probably because .jt is so lacking in verisimilitude.
The only theory that I have ever heard that seems to me ade~
quate as an inducement to effort is that of Theosophy. It shows
what is worth doing, and shows us that there is every opportunity
and ·sufficient time for complete success. If a man understands
God's plan, and seeks to co-operate with Him, he has the
stron·gest possible motive to throw himself into the work of
evolution, and to fit himself for it. He sees then that it is
possible to make the most fundam~ntal changes in his character
and disposition, and that success is absolutely assured.
The never-changing desire of the ego is for progress, for
the unfoldment of the higher self, and the bringing of the lower
vehicles into tune as its instruments. Whenever we find other
desires. which are not part of that, and do not agree with it,
we kQow that those are not from the soul, and so we do not
s~y, , " I desire this", but, " My desire-elemental is moving
again ; he wants so-and-so; but I, the .ego, wish to progress;
I wis~ to co-operate in the divine pl~n. These changing moods
and desires are not mine." As long a~ an ungratified des.ire
.can cau~e unhappiness a man may know that he is still identify-
ing himself with the desires of the elemental.
· But these are only they who have not seen the
Master; in the light of His holy Presence all desire
dies, but ·
the desire to b.e like Him. Yet before you
have the happiness of meeting Him face to face, you may
attain desirelessness if you will.
A.B.-This recalls once more the verse in the Bhagavad-
"'G,ita: "The objects of sense, but not the relish for them, turn
away from an abstemious dweller in the body ; and even reli~h
16
TALKS ON 'THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
turnefh· away ·from him after the Supreme-
1
is seen." All desire
dies when a glimpse of the one desirable object has been
obtained. Hence to realize the presence of the Mastef will rid you
not of desires only, but of desire itself. Desire is a r<~ot that
sends forth many shoots; you may ~op off the shoot-s, but while
the root remains it will send forth new ones. 'But union
with. the Master will finally rid you of the root of_
all ~esires.
Even before that, however, the Ma&ter says you -
may
attain desirelessness if you will. Tho~e three words'' if you
wiH "' are specially important. They show us where the diffi-
culty lies. It is pot the ability, it is nearly always the wiH to do
a thing, which is lacking. If you could put into your work on
the path the same amount of will that you put into your worldly
work, yoqr progress would be rapid 'indeed.
'
C.W.L.-We have here one of the specially beflutiful
sentences in this very beautiful book. It is true that when you
see the Master and realize what He is, all lower desires are
simply not there any more; your whole being is filled with
something higher. ·
Many people speak of their wish to attain desirelessness,
and are yet all the time hugging the objects of desire and woutd
be unhappy without them. They do not in reality wish for this
desirelessness; they only think they do ; -on the surface tbey do,
but deeper down in the personality they do not. It is welf toques-
tion ourselves on this matter, to search deeply and see whether
we have really got rid of all these lower desires. A ifheosophist
often thinks that he has, and thinks that jt is merely an elementary
matter; but a great many of these elementary things go very
deep. Superficially one gets rid of them, but they crop up
again in different forms, and it is hard.to be sure that one has
really diposed of them. Fortunately, it is not expected of us
that we shall be utterly free from them at this stage. Initiation
may be attained with the roots of some of these things still
within us, but after that one must weed them out el)tix:ely.
Still, it is better to root them out utterly even now, so that our
progress may be smoother and more rapid. It is practicable,
for the Master never suggests to us anytl1ing that we ca~~ot do,
though He does. set before us many things which witt tax our
endurance or moral strength, peq:tuse that h~s to be do'ne·
n we
want to get on rapidly.
THE R~MOV.AL OF DESI RF;
Discrimination has · already ..shown you that .the ,
things which most men desire, such as wealth and P-ower~ '
are oot worth h~ving ; when this is reatly felt, not merely
said: all desire for th~m ceases. .
A.B.-Desires for wealth and power clothe themselves in a
variety of· ways, not only in connection with money and sodai
or p~litica1 influence. Wealth is the thing which most people
want ahove all others ; but it is not in itself a good thing to
ha,;e, for it only fosters desires, and does not give happiness, as
may .be seen by looking at rich people, who are by no means a
·happy class of beings. It is the same with power, social or
political ; it is all dross and tinsel, not gold. The Gzta says
that the wise man is content with whatsoever cometh-which
means that he will cheerfully make use of what is available,
and not waste his time and energy in eraving for something
different.
Few people attain high social or political positions, but
the temptation of power is often preseflt without that. Power
includes all wish to control other people, to interfere with them
and tell them what to do, instead of minding one's own business.
Though there may not be much desire for social or political
power, there still is frequently an unhealthy desire to make
others do what we think they ought to do. That mu~t go if we
mean to make progress. Those who mean business will soon
find out, as many of us have done, that we have quite enough
to do to manage our -own lower selves, without trying to
interfere with anybody else. The Self in others is the same
as· the Self in us, and the way in which it chooses.to manifest
in them is their business, not ours. Therefore all tendencies to
interference must be weeded out.
You have no right to interfere except when it is your
duty, and that is only when you have a certain limited
control over a person who is placed 11nder you by nature, as in
the case of your own children, or by karma, as in the case of
servants or workmen. Your control of a child should be
protective control, exercised when and as long as there is
w~akness which needs. P!Otection; and it must gradually
d1sappear as the ego msJde becomes able to ta.ke possession
124 TALKs ~ oN THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
of 'his o~h vehicles.' rWith ·your equals-! use the word in a
wide sense-you clearly ha:ve.no rigQt of interference~
C.W.L.-People often want to interfere with others only
because they think they can manage affairs better than those
others can; but after all they do not know that. The divine
power is working through each, man; we had better let it
do so in its own way. Remember how the Christ remind~d the
Jews that their Scriptures told them. "Ye are Gods", and
that they were all children of the Most ·H1gh. It may be
that the other man is not doing his work in the very be~
way, or possibly that he is making some mistakes, but so
long as he is honestly and earnestly doing his best it is wen.
Let him have his innings, even if he is not so good a batsman·
as you are. Someti~es one may very tactfully, very respect-
fully a~d d~licately, 'offer advice, but there are many cases
where even .that would be an impertinence; one should n~ver
under any circ·umstances attempt to force an opinion on any
one. Our first care should be that our own affairs are well
managed, for each man is responsible to him5elf. ·,
: ., . .._
. . . . ' fl· : I I
' .. ' I \
I ' ·
( r:. •! (
. I
'.
1 S. 1ohn, 10, 34, and Psalm , 82, 6.
CHAPTER XI"\'"
THE ONE GOOD DESIRE
Thus far all IS simple; it n~e'ds ,only. that you
should understand. But th~re are spme jW~O forsake the
pursuit of earthly aims only in order,. to gain heaven, or
to attain personal· liberation from.rebirth; into-this e~ror
you must not fall.
' C.W .L.-The!desire ·for personal liberation from rebirth
is: found chiefly in ·India, because most of the· people there
believe in reincarnation. To the average Christian, heaven is
also a· release frorri earth. These instnocfions were given to
an Indian boy; therefore first of aU and,.most of all.they .
refer to Indian conditions, though the ideas :can be appli'ed to
our' Western .world as well. We Theosophists! are not parti-
cularly likely to make violent efforts in ordec to gain tlte
happiness of the heaven-world, in which men spend hundreds
and even thousands of•-years between ·incarnations. Manytof
us would. prefer to avoid it altogether ~nd . return quidtty
to work upon earth, and that is possible to those who re~dly
desire it. That does need a certain amount of strength, how-
ever, as•· we must then carry the same mental and astral bodies
ov~~__into the new phy?ical body.
- · It is not that the astral body and th.e, mental body .are
capable of fati~ue, like the physical bra~n. There is, however,
another consideration ~ 'the astral and 'ment'al bodies thafwe
ha\'e in this life are the expression of ourselves as we wer~ at
the end of the last incarnation. As we go on through life.· we
modify them considerably, but that tan·not be done b~yond
125
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
a certain point. There is a limit to which, for example, a
motor-car is susceptible to repair or improvement, and very
often it is better to buy a new car than to try to bring the old
one up to date. It is somewhat the same with the astral and
mental bodies. A radical change in them would take·a great
deal of time, and might perhaps be only partially accomplished
after all. If a man's capacities in this life have greatly increasedy
it might be better for his progress that be should get a new astral
and mental body in which to express himself, instead of trying
to patch up and alter the old one. · Therefore quick reincarna-
tion is not always quite a practicable thing. Yet we may take
it, as things are now-with the special need of workers.on
account of the coming of the World Teacher-that any person
who has worked well in this life and is earnestly desirous of
taking an immediate incarnation in order to continue in service,.
may be able to achieve his desires.
There is an ordinary course of life after death for all men,.
and for those who pass through it there is no need to make any
special arrangement ; but if a rnan wishes to depart from that
he has to make what amounts to an application, or it bas to be
made for him. It has to be submitted to a higher ~utbority,
who can give permission if He thinks it desirable; but He
would quite certainly refuse it if He did not think it tc be in
the best interests of the person. I think those who have··an~iety
on this subject may set their minds at·rest, however:, for thase
who have worked well now will cerfai,nly-have further opportun-
ities of continuing that work. A man who wishes rapid J;ein-
carriation must make himself indispensable, so that be Will be
known as one who would be useful if he did come back at once.
That also, inciden_
tally, is the best way to bring the mental and
astral bodies into the required c0ndition.
If you have forgotten self altogether, you cannot be
thinking when that self should be set free, or what kind
of heaven it shall have. Remember that all selfish desire
binds, however high may be its object, and until you h~ve
got rid of it you are not wholly free to devote yourself to
the work of the Master.
THE ONE GOOD DESIRE 127
' A.B.-We .must: remember that the astral and mental
p'lanes: are material, though they·are made up of subtler matter
tha-n the physical. They also are objective, and full of objects
<>f ·desire. The desire for heaven, which is in the lower mental
plane, i:; therefore just as much a desire of the lower self.as is
the d:es'ire for earth-only it is furtlier off and more imp'alpable,
The aqvaiitage of ·the former desire over the latter is that it
g~ves , ~ check to the desire-nature1 because it cannot be
gratified at on<;e; so it helps the man to get rid of desire in
general, and at the same time . it causes him to select more
refin'ed pleasures, and to dwell upon those in his thought rather
than the coarser ones. There are many men to whom it wouJd
obviously be useless to say, "Kill out desire". If you want
to help a man who is addicted to the pleasures of eatmg and
drinking and sex, you may put before him the desire for
heaven, in order to help him to starve out the lower desires.
Therefore it is that all religions make so much of·the teaching
-of' heaven and hell: Even the Lord Buddha spoke pf these
when he was addres~ing the ordinary p~ople.
Those who wish to tread the Path must give up not only
desire for heaven, but also that for personal liberation from the
round of births and deaths, that is, for moksha. The reason is
quite simple, and the Master gives it here. If you have for-
g6'tten yourself altogether, you can~ot be thinking of those
things which affect yourself. You must be free from desire for
those things, if you mean to devote yourself to the work of
the Master.
.
There are many people who wish to serve, in one way
or in another, but the disciple must wish to serve the Master
in the way He wills, and where He requires the service. Such
unconditional service is not possible while the heart is bound
ap ill a-nything. As one of the Upanishads says: " Until the
bonds of the heart are broken, man cannot attain immor-
tality." That sounds a hard thing to say, if we think of the
bonds Gf the heart as including the qualities of love, to which
we attach the greatest value. It do~s not say, however, that
the heart must be broken, but that the bonds must be broken,
so that the heart's love may be boundless. Do not mis-
uritlerstand me, and think that I have said that to love is not
desirabte. It is-not the love which binds, but the elements 0f
selfishness which are too often mixed with it. The love of the
128 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Self in one man for the Self in another is in its very nature
everlasting ; we could not change that even if we would, but
when· Jove for the Self is mixed with love for the form, it
begins to bind, and thus even love itself may become a bonqage_
There is no way to reach the condition that makes you
free for the Master's work but by constant effort to break
every bond that restricts you. If you find in you.r love any-
thing which can cause you pain, there is.selfishness in it, which
must be eliminated. Get rid of it, and your love will remain~
· S[ronger, nobler, purer; and such love can never interfere
with the Master's :work. Suppose you have a wish . to go
to a certain place because there is a particular person
there with whom you like to be ; well, give up the idea of
going. That is just one instance of the way in which you
may deliberately break the bonds that tie you by selfishness to
special persons and things. Break off such ties.
I say this only for those who are in dead·earnest-not for
those who wish to go gently and quietly along the road of
progress. There is no blame attached ·to this latter course.
mind ; each is free to go forward ~lowly or swiftly as he chooses.
But I am speaking now for those who mean business, for those
who are wholly in earne~t. The Master is always looking out
for this earnestness, and does not find too much of it. Once
more I am speaking from my own experience, for I have had
difficulty in th~s way. Then I began to train myself, and when
I found t~at I had a great wish to be with some one, I would
try to keep away from that person. If you have taCt and
strength, you can often untie yourself inside, so to say.·without
showing others,..·.that you are doing it. You remain·just as
loving as before, and your outward manner shows no ahera-
tion, but you are loosening 'the personal bond inside your own
heart. It is by thus clearly seeing what ought to be done and
then deliberately doing it that some of us have made more
progress than most people. You will find such an effort easier
if you keep in mind the fact that you cannot devote yourself
entirely to the work of the Master until nothing remains that
can bind you.
C.W.L.-This passage shows us that desire for heaven
belongs to the personality. It is not, however, by any means a
bad thing at an earlier sta.ge of development than that of
THE ONE GOOD DESIRE
the disciple. lt has its place in the evolutionary scheme.
ihe primitive man is full of thoughts about eating and dr·inking,
.and similar pleasures. It would be quite useless to tal~
to him about desirelessness, as he must first pass through
a stage of higher and more refined desire. The utmost
we can say to him is: "Try to refine your desires; there are
l()ther and grander things than these of which you are thinking,
.and you cannot rise to those in the future unless you are
prepared to check the outrush of your feeling." Men can
rise only step by step, and omly the strongest can climb the
_great heights of the Path rapidly. Yet those who read the
words of this book, and wish to do· as Alcyone has done,
must resolve at once to get rid of all selfish desire, because
-
it binds. As I have said, even love itself is a bond of the
heart if there is in it a grain of selfishness, but when it is
utterly free from any thought of selfishness it is a power of
the heart. Until the bonds are broken. until the selfishness is
·weeded out, even love itself may be a hindrance as well as a help.
There has been much misunderstanding in India and
·elsewhere on this subject, on account of the confusion of love
.(which is unselfish) with desire (which is selfish), Some
philosophers try to harden themselves so as to be indifferent
to what happens, to escape suffering by avoiding love. But
that is the wrong way; it produces men half-developed,
intellectual but unemotional. We must have the power to
-express even great surges of feeling, but they must be reflections
of the higher emotions of the Self, strictly under control, not
astral waves sweeping us along at the will of the desire-
·elemental. To control emotion by kilJing it is something
like that other idea of. trying to avoid bad k~rma by doing
.not,hing at all. The Master's way for 'QS is that we should
'become increasingly useful to humanity through our actions,
-emotions and thoughts, and the more we can do in all three
ways the better it will be for all concerned.
When all desires for self are gone, there may still
be a desire to see the result of your work. If you help
anybody you want to see how much you have helped
him; perhaps even you want him to see it too, and to be
:grateful. But this is still desire, and also want pf trust. ·
17
I3o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
A.B.-This is what the Bhagavad-Gita calls not working
for fruit. The result is the fruit. If you are really working
you have no time to notice results, no time to stop and look
at a piece of work which is finished. As soon as one thing
is done there is something else at hand to.be done. You are
wasting time if you are looking at the results; if you are
thinking of what you have already done, how are you to
carry on the next ·piece of work ? And when it comes to-
personal help, which is the pleasaotest of all to give, because
there is personal love at the back of it, do not look to see
if the person whom you have helped appreciates what you
have done~ That is like running after one to whom you have
made a present, in order to see if he is grateful, and to claim
thanks. One who acts like that has not given ; he has sold.
It is barter; so much help for so much gratitude. You must
not barter here! Remember how the Christ drove from the
temple those who were selling, although they were selling
things for sacrifice, saying to them: "Make not my Father's
bouse an house of merchandise." 1
I
C.W.L.-No one is busier than the occultist. The
moment he finishes one thing he goes on with another, and he
does not stand gazing to see what has resulted from what be
did before. Suppose you were acting as a nurse or a helper
on the battle-field; you would have to do the best you could
for one case, and instantly turn to another ; you could not
stop to watch for half-an-hour to see exactly what was going
to be the final effect; you could not even stop to see whether
the man was likely to recover or not. It is just the same with
the Master's work; we have not time to stop and think about
the ultimate results, and above ·all we ha,·e no time to think
about ourselves in connection with those results. It is but
human to desire that our efforts should meet with success, and
to be elated when it comes, but we must rise above such human
frailties, because the goal at which we aim is superhuman. If
a thing is well done, we may rejoice in the fact, but we must
feel just as glad if the success is another's as if it were our own.
It speaks here of sometimes wanting the man you have
helped to see it too, and be grateful. If one has any feeling
of that sort he is not giving at all, but selling. The only giving
1 S. John, 2, 16.
THE ONE GOOD DESIRE I3I
·which is recognized in occultism is giving as God gives, pouring
·out love as the sun pours out life.
When you pour out your strength to help. there
must be a result, whether you can see it or not ; if you
know the Law you know this must be so.
A. B.-In the book Of the Imitation of Ch1'£st it is asked:
·" Who will serve God for naught ? " The disciple must work
rfor the sake of the work, not for seeing the result, and even
·without the happiness and satisfaction of thinking, " I am
serving". He must give himself to the world because he loves
it. There must be a result, of course, because we live in a world
of law; that is why we need not make it our concern. Very
often the nature of our work is such as not to bring about
:immediate results on the physical plane, but to bring something
nearer to accomplishment; some one else will put the finishing
Ltouches to the work, but without those who have toiled and seen
no results the thing could not possibly have been done.
You cannot do important work without trusting the law,
'because all great work is slow work. Consider, for example, the
work of a Manu: thousands upon thousands of years go by
before anything you would call a result is seen. Even in
building a big house the same rule ho1ds good, for deep
fom~dations are necessary. Our work is largely the laying
of foundations, which are not seen; later some one will come
.along and put a row of bricks above the surface ; those will at
once be seen. Are the foundations useless, then?
Results are inevitable. Therefore work in a quiet,
·scientific way, and you will never be disappointed. All
disappointment is due to a desire for fruit. You may go on
working strenuously for a long time without seeing any
consequences, and one day the result will flash into sight. A
-<:hemist making a saturated solution goes on dropping a salt
into the water, and for some time the liquid remains to all
.:appearance unaffected ; then the last grain is added, and the
whole suddenly turns solid. So it is with our work; suddenly
it will be manifest ·complete. We are preparing for the coming
·of the Great Teacher. We must put alJ our force into this work,
.quietly, confidently, patiently; sacrificing ourselves wholly to
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the work. When the Lord Maitreya comes, He will take up-
all that we have done, and the result of it will then be manifest
to the world.
C.W.L.-It often takes the work of a number of people,.
following one another, to achieve some great result. When there
is a great reform to be introduced in the world, it usuaJly happens
that one man, or one group of men, will see the need and
begin to talk and write about it. He or they will be ridiculed,
and it wi11 seem that their work is without result, but they will
convert a few people to their cause, and these will carry it on,
until at last society accepts the reform. What was done by the·
later men would have been impossible without the apparently
resultless work of the pioneers.
Very often it may be the nature of our work to bring some-
thing near to its accomplishment. Somebody else will step in
!ind put the final touch to the work ; his efforts will then be·
recognized, and he will be considered as having done the whole·
thing. Never mind ; we must care nothing whatever about
getting the credit, but be happy to be allowed to do the work.
One must not think : '' That is rather hard on me." Our karma
wiU take care of what we have done, and it does not matter·
what the world does or says about it at the present time. One
who works scientifica1ly, understandingly, without a thought of
the result, except that somehow, somewhere, all good work must
do good, wiii never know disappointment.
When the Lord comes He will take up all our work, carry
it on and complete it; and so it will appear that it is all His
work. In a sense it all is His, as we have been inspired by
Him ; yet a great deal of it wi11 have been made possible by
the unseen, or apparently profitless work done by a number of
humble people beforehand. That we should .have a chance of
being among those people is assuredly the very greatest privilege
we could desire.
In all cases, when one knows the laws of nature one can
use them. This is as true of all the work that we are constantly
doing in the inner planes, as of tbat in which we are engaged
on the physical plane. Every thought of ours makes a form on
the astral or mental plane, and this goes to the person or thing
of which we are thinking, and hovers around or discharges.
itself, for good or ill accMding te its ~ature and quality. It is.
. THE ONE GOOD DESIRE I33
'DO more trouble to make a helpful thought-form than a harmful
one. It all depends upon the attitude of the mind. One may
.think: "My attitude of mind matters only to me, and only just
now." But it matters to others as well, and also it will rnatte·r
to you the next day, the next month, or even the next year,.
because it generates thoughts which react upon you. Every
thought intensifies itself, by calling up repetitions of itself. It
rests with us to make forms which will be beneficial in every
way ; for though they be invisible to ordinary sight, they
infallibly do their work.
So you must do right for the sake of the right, not
in the hope of reward ; you must work for the sake of the
work, not in the hope of seeing the result; you must give·
yourself to the service of the world because you love it..
and ca~not help giving yourself to it.
C.W.L.-Love is indeed the greatest of all motives. AU
through the teaching of this book, and of some later ones which
have been moulded to a large extent upon it,it will be observed how
strong and constantly repeated is this need of love as the motive
in life, as the explanation of everything, and as the remedy
for all il1s. It is because that will be the key-note of the teaching
of the World Teacher Himself when He comes, that it is already
so strongly foreshadowed in that of those who are trying in their
small way to prepare for Him.
Another thing the student will note is that all through this
book the Master takes it for granted that we are all utterly in
earnest, and that the work is the one thing for us. That is
certainly the very best way of bringing us into that frame of·
mind, if there are still some lingering fragments of other ideas.
hanging about us. The fact that in His mind there is clearly
no thought of anything but service, is the greatest incentive for
us to make ourselves what He desires.
We often get in our own way; we have to stand aside and
give the Self in us a chance to work, for as long as we have
some reservations, as long as there is something which we are
not prepared to give up for the sake of the Master's service, we
are standing in our own way. It is a rare thing to.. find one who
134 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
has no reservations whatever, who will give himself utterly to
the service of the Master, who will stop at nothing, but give alL
It is rare, but the man who has that quality will go.far and
very fast.
CHAPTER XV
PSYCHIC POWERS
Have no desire for psychic powers ; they will come
when the Master knows that it is best for you to have
them.
A.B.-The term" psychic powers "properly includes all the
manifestations of the powers of consciousness through organized
matter, in the physical body, or the astral, or the mentaL AU
powers of the intellect are therefore psychic powers. The dis-
tinction which has grown up between the ordinary powers of
the mind shown through the brain, and the various kinds of
clairvoyance and similar powers, is an unfortunate one. One
hears many people speaking against the acquisition of psychic
powers, while they themselves are using them all the time
through the physical body. They denounce astral vision while
they are using physical sight. It is illogical to denounce astral
sight, unless you are prepared to take up the logical position of
some of the Indian yogis, who regard the use of both physical
and superphysical senses equally as a hindrance. These men
are quite rational ; they do not value any of the senses, because
they consider that these only bring them into closer touch
with the worlds of illusion from which they wish to escape. I
do not agree with those people. I think that it is better to be
healthy and to have the use of one's faculties on all planes;
but unless their thorough-going attitude is adopted a good deal
of the talk against psychic powers is foolish.
What is true is that in the early exercise of one's astral
senses there is always a possibility of being misled. But one's
135
1:36 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
physical senses also may deceive one. Certain sight-illusions,
for example, are due to bad digestion and liver disorders,
though I would not include in this category many things which
the average doctor does, which are in reality instances of
etheric or astral sight. The commonest illustration of the
way in which our senses deceive us is that of the rising of the
sun ; you know that the sun does not rise, but you see it
.doing so.
The senses have always to b~_ corrected by the reason,
which is higher than all sense perceptions. Your astral vision
-constantly deceives you, when you begin to exercise it. That
·is why anyone who is being trained by a Master is put through
.a definite and thorough course of practice. He is asked what
be sees, and his replies at first are mostly wrong; then his
mistakes are pointed out to him, and explanations are given.
Suppose that a person who is not being trained by a
Master awakens that sight. This frequently happens, for
in the normal ci>urse of evolution the astral senses are un-
folding, so that many people are beginning to possess them.
Such a person is in the same position on the astral plane
that a baby is in here. You know how a baby will stretch
<>ut its hand to grasp a lighted candle which is at the other
end of a room. The baby's mistakes get corrected naturally
by his elders ; he will find out that certain objects that attract
him are at a distance, by being carried to them. So our
astral baby-as we may call the person newly functioning with
his astral senses-makes many mistakes, which would not
matter in the least if he were in the midst of his elders.
Neither would they matter so much if only people would
bave common sense. But unfortunately the person who
receives an astral communication, or sees an astral vision,
too often thinks himself distinguished from all the rest of
the world by being vouchsafed a special revelation. They are
thus not in a position to learn from their elders in this sort of
knowledge, as a baby is willing to be taught by grown-up
people, and so a good deal of trouble arises.
C.W.L.-Tbose ,.vho become pupils of the Masters are put
through a long course of training with regard to this matter of
higher sight and higher impressions generally. I suppose that
to many that training would be very wearisome. An elder
PSYCHIC POWERS I37
pupil will take the younger and pass before him a numbe: C?f
different objects and ask him what he sees. The young puptlis
generally quite wrong at first, because he has got the thmg out
of focus. He does not know the difference between the c;1stral
body of a dead man and of a living man, nor tha~ between the
man himself and a thought-form made by some fnend. In these
and many other ways the ~ntrained o?server is lia?le to dec_eption.
Patiently the teacher wtll show h1m. these thmg_s ~gam and
again, and show him how to recogmze them, pomtmg out the
minute differences.
. No one should think that because this training is necessary
the astral senses are especially unreliable. All senses are un-
reliable until they are trained, and even then when they are.
not used along with the rational intelligence. Every morning
in fine weather, if·we are up in time, we may see the sun rise;
we know perfectly well that it does not rise and yet we see it.
doing so. Sometimes illogical people say with regard to things
a little outside the range of most people's experience that they
will not believe in what they cannot see, but if they see they
will believe. Some go further and say that they will be
convinceq if they can touch the thing. A simple test wi11 show
the fallacy of this. Take three bowls and put into them water
at different temperatures; very hot, icy cold, and of temperate
degree. Put one hand into the hot and the other into the cold
water; let them remain there for a few ll)inutes, then move
them both into the temperate water. The hand that has been
in the hot water will tell you that this bowl of water is very
cold, and the other hand wi11 tell you that it is very hot. This
demonstrates that the senses are not always to be implicitly
relied upon. Their testimony must be checked by the use of
reason, and this has to be done just as much with the astral and
mental senses as with the physical.
If a man wishes for psychic powers he must work at their
development and it is often a matter of years before the man is
perfectly certain of his accuracy in all cases. It is difficult to
realize the extent of the area over which this clairvoyant vision
extends. Take one example only : in the astral plane there are
two thousand four hundred and one different varieties of what
is called elemental essence, and if one wishes to be reliable
and to do his work well and quickly, he must learn to distinguish
one from another, and know when they are to be used. The
18
I38 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
work ~an be done without any of this knowledge, but wastefully
-on the principle of emptying a bucket of water over a man to
wash his little finger.
We are told, however, that waste of energy is precisely one
of the things we must avoid. Energy is capital, and we are
bound to make the most of it. We are responsible for any
waste of it, just as we should be if we let it lie idle and did
nothing with it.
It would be of no use for a pupil of the Master to say: " I
know already." That is not the spirit in which we approach
these things. We are always eager and anxious to acquire
further information, but always that we may serve the better, in
order that we may be more useful. That is the idea, and most
assuredly there is no knowledge which comes amiss in the work
we have to do. Everything he knows enables the occultist to
illustrate points, and often to understand points which otherwise
might not be clear to him. They say at the end of this evolu-
tion we shall attain all knowledge ; we shall get rid of ignorance.
All our work is tending in that direction, and we shall certainly
need to be most wonderfully well informed to do the higher
work well when our turn comes. Meantime, it is wisdom to use
to the full the powers one has, and to have no desire for psychic
powers until the Master sees fit that we should develop them.
To force . them too soon often brings in its train
much trouble; often their possessor is misled by deceitful
nature·spirits, or becomes conceited and thinks he cannot
make a mistake ; and in any case the time and strength
that it takes to gain them might be spent in work for
others.
C.W.L.-The deceitful nature-spirits, of which there are
many different kinds, are a very real feature in the case. Most of
them are rather small creatures, and they think it is very amusing
if they can make a grea,t big man do what they say, when they
order him about. They do that very often merely by pretend-
ing to be Julius Cresar, Napoleon Bonaparte or any great and
well-known personage whose name happens to occur to them,
and it is great fun for them to see big people who belong to a
PSYCHIC POWERS
higher stage of evolution than their own doing what they
suggest. It is perhaps a little hard on the people, but they
should have brought their reason and common sense to beat on
their visions.
If you hear an astral voice sometimes, do not im-
mediately jump to the conclusion th~t it is that of the
Master or of a great Archangel. Dead people often
manage to communicate and offer advice, and nature-spirits
play their little tricks frequently, so it is more likely in most
cases to be one of these. So, take the voice quite calmly; it is
an interesting phenomenon, not necessarily because of what you
may get out of it, but because anything a little out of the ordinary
is in itself interesting, and there is generally something to be
learned in connection with it. But do not start by denying that
there is a communication-that again is an unwise thing to do.
One may think of a thing as improbable, but it is not safe to
say it is impossible. Listen respectfuJly to the revelation, but,
unless you have good reason to do so, do not let it affect your
conduct in any way. Action should be the consequence of one's
decision, following upon one's own reasoned thought, not of
something said by somebody else, one does not know who.
A great number of people have revelations which they
think are going to remodel the world. Though they are usually
quite good, there is generally nothing very striking about them,
and they are apt to be somewhat indefinite in outline, and vague
in their teaching. As far as they go they are generally an
improvement upon the very limited and cramped orthodox
theories. They are nearly always along Theosophical or New
Thought lines-Theosophy and water, the water pr~dominating.
They are usually given out with perfectly good intentions, by
some dead man, who has now realized certain broad facts of life
which he wishes to impress upon those whom he has left behind.
He thinks that if these higher ideas were accepted the world
would be a much better place, and he tries to impress them upon
the people on the general theory of Dives in the parable; that if
some one came to the people from the dead they would repent,
forgetting, of course, the sage answer of Abraham : " If they
hear not Moses and the Prophets, neither wi11 they be persuaded
though one rose from the dead." 1
' S. Luke, 16, 31,
.J4o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Such a man forgets that he himself paid no attention
whatever to spirit messages when alive. If such come our
way-they are sure to, more or les~, if we are what is called
psychic--we should receive them quite respectfully, but at the
same time without undue excitement. Many of those who
receive the message think that they are going to revolutionize
the planet, but that is not easily done. When they are
brought to our notice, we apply to them, if necessary, certain
means of testing the truth and validity of such communications.
Most people have not those means immediately at their
disposal, but if they will just apply plain common sense to
their super-physical experiences they will get along very well
in regard to most of them. There are two attitudes which
are adopted by most people; either they receive them blindly
or else they scoff and say it is ridiculous. Both these extremes
are silly. Everyone who has studied these things knows
that they do come, but for the most part only from people
who can tell us nothing new and accurate. A dead !llan,
if he is wise enough to do it, may learn certain things which
as a living man he could not get to know, but nearly all the
dead neglect this opportunity, and go on contentedly with the
limitations and prejudices they had on earth.
Experiences of the super-physical are now on the increase,
because the time of the coming of the World-Teacher is
drawing near, and that fact is widely known on all the planes.
In the physical world there is a strong expectation of His
coming, quit.e outside the Theosophical ranks. There are
many people who feel the nearness of His approach, and
consequently are more likely than before to be the recipients
of such communications. They invite them by their attitude
of expectancy. Therefore it is quite certain that there will
be a great deal of information and misinformation spread
abroad with regard to the coming of the Lord. He Himself
said a long time ago that there would be many false Christs
who would come. The average Christian probably thinks of
the false Christs as anti-Cbrists, deliberately deceiving the
people. But most of them will be entirely well-meaning
people, who have really persuaded themselves that they are
overshadowed by the Christ, and the very fact that they
are well-meaning will render them more dangerous, because
people will feel their earnestness, and be carried away by that.
PSYCHIC POWERS 141
The Theosophical. attitude about false Christs may be
expressed somewhat thus: it is a pity that people should be
misled into thinking that some one who is very ordinary is the
World-Teacher. Nevertheless, if the teachings are good and
the people follow them heartily and nobly, -their lives will be
improved. The fact that they have wrong impressions on
certain points will not prevent them from receiving the karma
of their good lives. It would be better that they should see the
truth clearly, but we must not make the mistake of thinking
that people ·who are in error with regard to a certain important
truth ·are necessarily wrong in every other respect-because
they are not.
I hope, however, that we who are students of Theosophy
shall be free from this particular error, because we are
expecting the coming with a clearness and a definiteness which
most of the sects have not. As the time draws nearer more
than ever shaii we have to use our own common sense, never
denying the possibility of anything, but exercising judgment and
reason always. We may adopt the attitude of Gamaliel:'' If
this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought: But
if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found
even to fight against God.m Let us take whatever comes of
good, from any source whatever.
The Masters influence many people, and care nothing
about whether the instruments that They use know Them or
not; therefore we must be prepared to find that quite outside
Theosophical organizations other forces are working towards
the same ~reat goal. And while we follow our line and
serve our own Society firmly, strongly, faithfully, loyally,
keeping to that because it is obviously the way for us,
yet we should be careful not to condemn or to speak
against any other forms of manifestation outside· it, which
may be tending in the same general direction, and we must not
expect such manifestations to be all pure or perfect. In all
sorts of ways spiritual power will be outpoured from now on to
the time of the coming. The Hierarchy itself is pouring
upon the world floods of influence which may perhaps touch
but little the man who is entirely wrapt up in worldly matters,
but which mean a great deal to those who are sensitive; t~
1 Acts·, 5, ss.av
142 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
those who are ready to profit by it, it will mean the making of
a new heaven and a new earth.
That there will be unusual happenings is certain. The
Light of Asia, which is a very faithful transcript of the Buddhist
books, referring to the life of the Lord Buddha, relates again
and again bow various non-human entities knew of His coming
and rejoiced in it, and how devas and nature-spirits everywhere
felt His wonderful magnetic influence and gathered round when
anything specially great was going to happen-at the time of
His birth, when He was about to attain Buddhahood, and
at the time of His first sermon. There is much truth in that
idea. Whenever any great manifestation of the higher power
is taking place, the other and more sensitive evolutions feel it
much more than humanity does. Because men have given
themselves largely t.
o the development of the lower mind, and
for a long time have neglected the hidden side of things and
been so entirely wrapped up in themselves, they are generaJiy
at present less sensitive than some of the lower creatures. I
have known cats and dogs that were more sensitive to higher
influences than human beings-not that they could get so much
from them, but they were aware of them when human beings
were not.
When the Lord comes He will no doubt take up the experi-
ments made by those who have prepared for Him and carry
them through to a successful conclusion, so probably He will
leave the world in all sorts of ways different from the condition
in which He will have found it. He will not only preach His
religion, but it may well be that all sorts of oth~ reforms as
welJ may be introduced as a consequence of His teaching. One
cahnot say definitely, of course, because there will probably be
opposition this time, as there was before.
I do not think we can assume that He will carry the world
before Him. Probably many teachers will have to come before
His pure doctrine wins the allegiance of the world in general.
When He came two thousand years ago men barely heard of
Him. We must expect the life of the Teacher and those around
Him to be anything but easy. The world at large is always
ready to take up and circulate evil reports, so we may as weU
be prepared for a vast amount of petty annoyance and discom-
fort, if nothing worse. All sorts of vested interests will obviously
PSYCHIC POWERS ;r43
find the changes which He may propose unpalatable to them.
The .vested interests murdered Him last time after only three
years of .teaching. How it will be this time we cannot know, but
we hope that at least a nucleus of people will exist in every
country, who may be able to make it profitable for Him to stay
and work with us longer than three years. The Order of the Star
in the East has definitely set itself the work of preparing for
Him, with a full knowledge of what it means and what lines His
teaching is likely to follow. There may well be also other
individuals and organizations inspired to work in the same way_
.
-often without any means of obtaining such knowledge as we
.are privileged to have. We hope that our service will make
possible what was not possible before. We hope, but we cannot
say. We can only do our best.
Those who are destined by karma to work with the great
Lord of Love are now of necessity coming into incarnation.
We often hear, therefore, of the birth of extraordinary children.
They must come now, in order to be in the prime of life when the
Lord arrives. It is likely that they will differ in certain ways
(rom other children, so do not be surprised when you hear of
young people who remember previous births, or have other super-
physical experiences of their own; all these things are quite
natural and to be expected, because of the special time in which
we live. Dr. Besant once gave directions as to how people ·
should treat such cases as came within their ken. She said:" Do.
not be excited with regard to any such things, and do not
recount alJeged identifications of such children too readily, for
very few people know who they were in previous births.
Remember that all such children are unusually sensitive, there~.
fore you must be very kind and very gentle in your dealings
with them. There must never be a harsh word or gesture ~f
any sort; you must never startle or alarm them, for they feel
much more acutely than other children. You must guard them
from crowds or from the neighbourhood of undesirable people.
You should let them know but few people, and should surround
them with harmonious magnetism, which should not be changed
too often. You should not send them to school, but you should
-surround them with a specialJy loving home atmosphere."
A.B.-Here the Master adds a further reason why one
should not desire to obtain psychic powers: the time and strength
that it takes to gain them might be spent in work for others.
144 TALKs ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Notice how constantly the advice that the Master gives has for:
its aim service and the getting rid of selfishness in every form.
Instead of using time and strength to acquire psychic powers
for yourself, give them to the service of those around you. If
the Master sees that you are thus using every power you already
have in the service of others, so that more can be entrusted to
you because it is certain that you will also use those unselfishly,
then He will step in. If you can honestly say that you are
using every faculty you have, be sure you are on the threshold
of having fresh powers entrusted to you. But there are very
few who can say it, and if you are not one of those you had
better set to work to attain this condition.
. .
This is the meaning of the parable of the talents-the name
is equally applicable whether you take the word talent in its
modern meaning or in its original one of a certain measure or
weight of money. A man went away on a journey, entrustin_
g
some money to his servants; one had five talents given to him,
another two, another one. On the employer's return, he asked
how the talents had been used. Those who had five and two
talents respectively had traded with them, and were able to
return them with interest. But the servant with one talent
only had hidden it away, and now he brought it and handed it
back. Then the lord took it away from him; while the other
servants who had been faithful in small things he made rulers
over many things.. And he said: "Unto everyone that hath
shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him
that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." I
It seems paradoxical, but the occult meaning of the words is
clear. He who uses his powers to the full shall be entrusted
with more ; he who doe? not use his powers, and who therefore
from the occult standpoint does not possess them, shall lose
even the possibility of using them; they wiJI atrophy.
No one should complain that he is not receiving from the
Masters all the help to which he thinks himself entitled.
There is only one way in which to satisfy your wish to come
into touch with the great Teachers, and that is to be useful
to your fellow-men. That is the only ciaim which the Masters
recognize ; they look not at the capacity of a person, but
at his !.lsefulness. I came into touch with the Master in this
1
S. Matthew, 25, 29.
PSYCHI'C POWERS ;_ f / .,
life .when I did not know of His existence, and·so was obviously
not thinking of reaching Him: It is true that I had been
His disciple for many lives, but it was not that which caused
Him . to reveal Himself to me; He did so because l was
:Straining every nerve to he'ip' the people about me-the poor,
the miserable, the down-trodden-because it was worth while
"for Him to pour His strength into me, when it was passed on
.to thousands. · · · ·'
· So, instead of crying o:u(~o the Ma~ter in y'our :m~di.tation,
·asking Him to reveal Hi~self to . you; see what good work
there is that ought to be done .in your· ~own or village,
and go and do it. It does ' not matter to the Master whether
or not His instrument knows that' He.is using it. There are
many great helpers sca,ttered th.roughout the ~orld who are
assisted and inspired by the Master. . Many outside the Theo-
sophical Society are so inspired:
They will come· in the course of developmen.t-
·
.they must come ; and if the Master sees that it would be
·useful for you to have .them sooner, He will tell 'you
how to unfold the.
m safely. ·Vntil the~. you are b~tter
without them.
C.\V.L.-People often say: ''·I hear of these wonderful
powers which make· th~ir possessors so much more usefuL
I want to be useful. I should Hke to have them too." ·There
is nothing wrong in that,. only one had better foJlow the advice
which is given here, and ·wait lin~il they com.e naturally, or
until the Master Himself tells one how to open them. Is He
likely to do that? Yes; when you are ready. My own
.experience tells me that. I had none of these powers, and
was not thinking about them, because we thought in the
·early days of our movement that they could be developed
·only by those who were born with a certain amount of psychic
faculty to begin with, and I had none. One day, however,
the Master Himself, when visiting Adyar, gave me a hint
in that direction. He advised me to try a certain sort of
meditation, and said: " I think you will get good results from
it." I tried it and got the results. The same thing wiii be
said to everyone who works for the Master, when the right
19
\
I
t46 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
time comes. We may take that as quite certain. In what
form He will signify His wish -Cannot be foretold, but He
will do it in some way.
The best way to make oneself fit for such an effort is.
unquestionably to use for service to the fullest possible extent
all the powers one has. Any person who is doing that without
thought of self is likely to receive some new powers.
It is the old parable of the talents again. You remember
those who made good use of their talents were able to go on,
and were given charge of far greater work. It was said to·
them, ''Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make
thee ruler over many things : enter thou into the joy of thy
lord." 1 Very few people stop to think what that means-
the joy of the Logos, the joy of the Masters. It is not vague
pleasure or bliss, or entry into heaven. The making of the
worlds is joy to Him; it is the play of Bacchus in the Greek
Mysteries, and of Shri Krishna amon~ the Hindus. The Logos.
has chosen to throw Himself into this mighty work of
evolution; that is the joy of our Lord, the joy of carrying
out this splendid plan of pouring out His love through the
universe ; and if we are to enter into the joy of the Lord we
must take part in that work and the bliss which it brings. If
we are not using all the powers that we have, the Master wilt
not help us to obtain others. He will wait until He sees that we
are making full use of wha:t we already have. People do not
always understand that. They want to become invisible helpers;.
we tell them always, "You must be visible helpers first. If your
whole life is full of helpfulness on the physical plane where you
are fully conscious, then quite certainly you will be useful also
in the other planes."
1
S. Matthew, 25, 21, 23.
CHAPTER XVI
SMALL DESIRES
You must guard, too, against certain small desires
which are common in .daily life. Never wish to shine, or ·
to appear clever.
C.W.L.-Most people rather like to appear clever, to
:appear to the best advantage. But no man who has met the
.Master face to face could ever think about shining himself.
When he has seen that glory he realizes in a moment that any
light he can show is as a farthing rushlight compared to the
sun. Therefore the idea does not occur to him, or if it was
there before it is now dissolved. The man who thinks that his
•tiny light is going to make a vast impression in the world is the
-one who has not yet seen the higher lights, and therefore has
-not the means to compare.
Yet in every possible way we must make the best of every
quality that we have, in the Master's service. What light we
·bave is not to be hidden under a bushel. It is not only the
-mighty beacon of the World-Teacher that is needed ; let the
ilower lights be borne along the shore. The great light shines
out so brightly that it dazzles some; others never lift their eyes,
and hardly know of its existence. The lesser lights, which are
mearer to their own comprehension, may appeal to these. There
may be many whom we can help who as yet are not at all ready
to be helped by greater people. So each has his own place;
.but never desire to shine for ·the sake of shining, that would
oe foolish.
147
148 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Have no desire to speak. It is well to speak little ;
better stil1 to say nothing, unless you are quite sure that
what you wish to say is true, kind and helpful. Before
speaking think carefully whether what you are going to·
say has those three qualities ; if it has not, do not say it.
A.B.-People who want constantly to talk have not enougb
to say to be able always to talk sensibly, and so they say things.
which are not worth hearing, and thus add to the tremendous.
stream of gossip which there is in the world. Thus they do
incalculable harm, if they allow the tongue to be their masterr
instead of themselves mastering the tongue. Then comes a
teaching which I have often heard from the Master : think
before you speak whether what you are going to say is true,.
kind and helpful, and if it has not those three qualities do not
say it. This wili make you slow in conversation, so that
gradually you wiii find that you talk less, and that will be a
good thing.
Talkative people fritter away their energies, whi~h ought
to be employed in useful action. The person who talks a great
deal is generaJJy a poor wbrker. You may think, perhaps, that
the~e remarks about speaking might very well be applied to
~yself, as I ·am constantly lecturing. 'But I do not speak much
outside my w.
otk. I have lost the capacity for small talk, s6
that people often find fault with me for my silence. In the
West I have often to forte n1y5elf to talk, because silence is
frequently mistaken for moroseness or pride, or a disinclination
to make . oneself agreeable. NaturalJy, then, my facility of
speech is not great unless I have something definite and useful
to say. Speak, by all means, when you have good cause to speak,
when y~:m have something to say that is worth saying, when it
is done out of kindness to others. ·lt is not such speech, but
useless talking, that must .be ·stopped. Every useless word is
another brick built into the wall which separates you from the-
Master, and that is a serious consideration for those who want
to reach Him.
He who speaks much cannot be truthful. I do not mean
that he is consciously and wilfully untruthful; but he cannot
always be accurate, and inaccuracy is untruth. There is sca-
rcely
.-.·
SMALL DESIRES I49
anything· worse than to have around you an atmosphere of
untruthfulness, such as is always created by inaccurate speech..
I often receive letters, for example, which are a mass of
verbiage, with perhaps a little kernel of fact in the middle of it
all. In all the ordinary affairs of life we learn to discount
exaggeration ; so also, when I receive a letter containing a.
complaint against somebody else-and there are many such-
· I
judge how much ground there is for it largely by my knowledge-
of the writer's character and also by sensing the mood in which
he was when he wrote it.
The Manu said that he who had mastered the tongue had
mastered all; and a Christian teacher said : "The tongue is a
~ittle member, and boasteth great things. Behold how great
a matter a little fire kindleth I And the tongue is a fire, a world'
of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members, that it defileth
the whole body." 1
To master the tongue is to master the lower
nature. The small troubles which people have are mostly the
r~stilt of their idle words ; the reaction from them. Little
headaches, indispositions, depressions and so forth arise in
this way. If people who have these wbuld learn silence, they
would ' soon improve their physical health, partly because
they would no longer lose all the nerve-energy which now
trickles away in talk, and partly because they would not have-
constantly to pay the little karmic debts which result from·
their idle words. It will be remembered that PythagoraS-
imposed two·years' silence on his pupils; that fact should weigh
with ·us, because he was the Master whom we now know gs.
Kuthumi, the teacher -of Alcyone and also of Bishop
Le·adbeater.
·' In India there are many yogis who are called munis ; they
hav.e taken a vow of silence: as their name implies. The value·
of that has always been recognized in this country. I know one
man who has carried out this vow for ten years, and it has given
hiin . great peace and dignity; because of it he is leading a far
more· spiritual life than he could have done without it. Of
couts'e, most of us cannot take such a vow when we are living
in ·the world and have all kinds of work to do in It; but we can
and should follow the spirit of it, keeping silent whenever it is
~,~~s~pl·e: to do so without giving offence. , . ,
I ,: ',tl j ,
. ames, 3, S-6.
t5o ' TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
The need of constantly watching and judging is also valu-
able as a training in greater self-recollectedness. You must say
something, but you have to determine not to say more than
will fulfil the occult rule as to kindness and usefulness. It is a·
good practice to make a resolution on this point for one day at
a time; determine in the morning that you will speak no idle
word during the day-that will be one day to the good, at leastw
Our Jain brethren make use of similar exercises in order to learn .
watchfulness and self-recoUectedness; they determine in the
morning that during that day they will not do a certain thing-
which may be quite unimportant in itself-and they do not
do it, and the habit of watchfulness thus engendered does away
with carelessness. - The Lord Buddha also spoke very strongly
on the subject of carelessness, the lack of thoughtfulness
which leads men into so many blunders.
C.W.L.-People who are alJ the time chattering cannot
always be speaking sensibly or profitably ; furthermore, they
cannot be truthful. If people are always talking loosely, quite
certainly some of the things they say will not be true, though
not intentionally false. They make all sorts of inaccurate
statements, and afterwards say: "I did not mean to be in-
accurate, so it does not matter., It is not what you mean, but
what you do that produces results. If you do a foolish thing,
the fact that your intention was good does not alter its character,
nor relieve you from the karma of it. The good intention, if
definite, will be beneficial to you, but the foolish thing wiJl bring
you bad physical karma. A man will say something, and later
correct himself: " I see I was wrong; it is not quite like that."
He has told a falsehood; he did not mean it, but he has made
an assertion which is not true. To say that he did not mean it
is like the plea of a man who happens to shoot some one by
accident : " I did not know the gun was loaded." He ought
to have presumed that it was loaded until he knew it was not.
It would be a good thing if we set ourselves just for one
<lay to make quite sure that we spoke nothing that was not true,
kind, and helpful. It would be rather a silent day, but perhaps
the world would not lose much, and it would be very good for
us. Of course, it would be impossible to carry on a rapid and
animated conversation, because we should have to stop and
think. These rules are based upon the laws of the higher life.
If a man wants to make more rapid progress, he must try to
SMALL DESIRES I5I
keep these higher rules. He must change himself to suit them,
even when they seem to bring him into conflict with ordinary
life and its methods. That may appear hard, perhaps; but if.
after carefully thinking it over, he feels that the demands of
the higher life are too hard for him, let him wait a life or two
before trying to make real progress. We cannot do the two
things: have an easy life without any effort and exertion, and
have the rapid progress; but we can do either one, and there is
no blame attached to the man who feels that as yet he is not
equal to the strain.
It is well to get used even now to thinking carefully
before speaking; for when you reach Initiation you must
watch every word, lest you should tell what must not
be told.
C.W.L.-That might possibly be misleading if one did not
understand the facts with regard to Initiation. If anyone
thought of divulging the real secrets of Initiation, before he
uttered the words he would have forgotten that there was any-
thing to betray. Therefore the real secrets are perfectly safe;
they bave never leaked out, and they can never do so. Sti11,
there is great danger for the Initiate 'Y~o may become careless.
He may put himself in a very awkward position indeed. I myself
am possessed of certain information of yarious kinds, as to
which I cannot see that any particular harm would be done if
it were published in the daily newspapers ; but I was told not
to ·repeat it so I do not ; I do not know why. A promise is a ·
promise, and must be kept as a sacred thing. If there are any
who do not feel that way about it, they had better give up at
once aU thought of occult progress.
Much common talk is unnecessary and foolish; when
it is gossip, it is wicked.
C.W.L.-Often what we must call unnecessary talk is
nevertheless spoken with intent to help to pass the time pleasantly
for some one. It is, perhaps, the unfortunate custom of our
period to spend a great deal of time in talking which really
.might be employed much more profitably in thinking. There
must be times when we say things which are not absolutely
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
necessary, just in order to please other people who would
misunderstand us if we were persistently silent. Yet outside
that there is a great deal of unnecessary talking which doeS
not fall under that head at all, done apparently just for
the sake of saying something. That is a mistake. Real
friends can be silent and yet enjoy one another~s compahyy
and realize a close community of thought ; but if people are
in a condition where they are afraid of gaps in the conversation
and must keep on talking, then unfortunately there will be a great
-deal said which would be much better not said. GarruiQns
people are not the wisest, and are not, as a rule, notable
for thought.
So be accustomed to listen rather than to talk ; do
not offer opinions unless directly asked for t~em.
C.W.L.-Some people cannot hear a statement made
which they think to be wrong or incomplete without instantly
·contradicting it and creating disharmony and argument. . We
must realize that it is not our business to correct opinions, or
to try to put right everybody who is wrong. It is our busif_less
to go about helping people as much as we can in a quiet
sort of way, and if our opinion is asked on the subject to
·state it very calmly and temperately, and not in a spirit of
opposition. We need not assume that our opinion is of great
interest to anybody else; sometimes it is not, and then i~ is
wrong to thrust it upon people. A man may be quite sure
that the fact is so-and-so, and we may know very well that
· it is not so, but it is better to Jet him talk; it probably pleases
him and does not do us any harm. He may choose to believe
that the earth is flat or that the sun goes round it-.it is his
-own affair. If one were in the position of a schoolmaster and
were appointed to teach certain boys, then one would gently
and quietly correct them, because that would be one's duty ;
but no one ts appointed as a schoolmaster to the general
public.
Of course, if we heard some one's character being taken
away it would be our duty to say, "Excuse me, you are not
-quite right; that is not true" and as far as possible put the
thing right before people. That would be a case of a helpless
person being attacked-then it is one's duty to defend htm.
SMALL DESIRES I53
One statement of the Qualifications gives them
thus: To know, to dare. to will. and to be silent; and
the last of the four is the hardest of them all.
C.W.L.-The Rosicrucians held that he who would make
occult progress must resolve to know, dare, will and be silent.
We must know the truths of nature, and dare to use them.
To use the great powers that become ours on this Path we
must have a strong will that can control them, and control
ourselves too. Then, when these things are done, we must
know enough to be silent about them.
20
CHAPTE R X\'II
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS
Another common desire which you must sternly
repress is the wish to meddle in other men's business.
What another man does or says or believes is no affair
oF yours, and you must learn to let him absolutely alone.
He has full right to free thought and speech and action,
so long as he does not interfere with any one else. You
yourself claim the freedom to do what you think proper ;
you must allow the same freedom to him, and when he
exerci~es it you have no right to talk about him.
C.W.L.-One should not interfere with other people's
beliefs and actions, as long as their actions are not obviously
to the common harm in any way. If a man comports bimseif
so as to be a nuisance to his neighbours, it may sometimes be our
duty to suggest something; but even in such cases it is often
best to go away and let things quietly right themselves.
We of the Anglo-Saxon race boast much of freedom, but
we are not in the least free really, for we are hidebound by
custom to an almost inconceivable extent. We cannot dress as
we like, or go about as we choose. A man might prefer the
ancient Greek-it is probably one of the most beautiful
costumes in the world- but if he put it on and walked down the
street he would probably have a crowd of people round him, and
might be arrested for blocking the traffic. In any land of
154
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS
liberty he ,would be quite free to dress and act as he liked, so
long as he did not make himself a nuisance to others. But
there is no real freedom at all; we cannot depart from the line
which other people take,_ or at lea~t only very slightly, other-
wise a great deal of trouble and disturbance is caused. It is fl:
pity, because real freedom would be so very mqch better for all
concerned, especially for those who 'want to interfere with,
others.
A.B.-I suppose that most of us who are earnest and
enthusiastic are so sure of the ,value of what we have learned,
so .convinced, and rightly so, of its supreme.importance, that we
want other people to feel the same ; and sometimes we should
almost like to force them to see as we .do. That is a fault of
almost every enthusiastic nature. But a man can only receive
gladly what he already knows inside, though he does not yet
know it in the brain and therefore cannot yet articulate it to
himself. Until that preliminary stage has been reached ·he is
not in a position to accept a truth presented to him from the
outside, and to try and force it upon him does far more harm
than good.
In the. same way conscience cannot be created from the
outside; it is only the fruit of past experiences. Therefore the
acceptance of all teaching and advice implies that the outer
presentation has stirred ·knowledge already possessed by the
man inside, and it has then flashed down into the brain. AIJ
that the teacher can do along these lines, therefore, is to bring
to a man's physical-plane knowledge that which he already
knows on other planes. One of the great Teachers has pointed
out that many people are taught much Theosophical knowledge
while out of their bodies during sleep. The real man then
learns, and the knowledge that is thus acquired can then·be
regiven to him by a physical-plane teacher, whose words help
the man ·to bring it down into his brain. That is all that the
physical-plane teacher can do.
We have aJI to learn by repeated disappointments that we
cannot help a man along the way which he is pot yet ready to
tread. .Thus we become much quieter-ready to help when
help can be useful, also ready to stand aside and wait when our
help would be no help at all, that is, when the person could not
profit by what we could tell him. This attitude often gives the
r56 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
ignorant the idea that we are indifferent, whereas the truth ffi
that the person who is more advanced knows exactly where he
can help and where he cannot.
For those who cannot see exactly where help can be given
the policy ought to be tentative. Suggest a thought; if it is
met with indifference or is repelled, you see that you cannot
help the person whom you are addressing along that particular
line. Then you must wait or try some other way, as the case
may be. That is much better than forcing upon him all that
you know ; do not drown or choke the person mentally by
pouring all your knowledge out upon him or trying to ram it
into him. People are often very willing to claim freedom for
themselves but extraordinarily reluctant to give it to others.
That is a serious fault, for other people have fully as much
right to their views and to the expression of them as we have.
Sometimes the fault is the other way. Do not run into the
other extreme of thinking that you must accept other people's
9pinions. You have the fullest right to disagree. You may
say quite frankly, " No, I do not agree with that," or you may
keep silent; but what you must not do is not attack another for
holding his own opinion. When you hear a person making
some statement, use your own common sense first of all; always
exercise your reason on every statement you hear. Leave other
people free, but do not enslave yourself.
If you think he is doing wrong, and you can contrive
an opportunity of privately and very politely telling him
why you think so, it is possible that you may convince
him ; but there are many cases in which even that would
be an improper interference. On no account must you
go and gossip to some third person about the matter, for
that is an extremely wicked action.
A.B.-You may sometimes be able to help a person whom
you know to be morally doing wrong, but here great circum-
spection is required, since it is so easy to do more harm than
good in such cases. Help so given must certainly be offered
only in the private and utterly friendly way which the Master
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS x57
indicates. If the person is self-opinionated we can but leave
him to learn by experience, which fortunately is a great
teacher.
If a person has got hold of some mistaken idea, and he
comes and expresses it to you, it is not necessary to say that it
is wrong, unless you are sure that he has more confidence in
your judgment than in his own, or at least is willing to consider
seriously what you say ; in many cases, he is bound to find out
the error for himself, and then it is better to let him do so.
People often come .to me and make some great am;~ouncement
of what is going to happen, according to their belief; generally
I listen quietly and politely and do not express an opinion.
When the prophecy fails of its fulfilment, the person who made
it sees that he made a mistake, but one leaves him to draw the
conclusion for himself. It is inevitable that such things should
happen when many people are coming into touch with occultism.
Sometimes they become confused, because many of their former
standards of .judgment are swept away, and they wonder how
many of their criteria are going to fall to pieces among all the
eacthquakes that are taking place. The only thing to do under
these circumstances is not to hurry, but to keep calm and
cool and steady; gradually things will become clear, that
whic~ is false and mistaken will pass, and the real things will
remam.
If you see a case of cruelty to a child or an animal,
it is your duty to interfere.
A.B.-In the case of cruelty to a child or an animal
interference is a duty, because strength is taking advantage of
weakness, which it ought always to protect, because weakness
cannot protect itself. Whenever', therefore, a child or an animal
is being ill-treated, the duty of one who is stronger is to step in
between and not allow an infringement of its rights, nor permit
the liberty of another to be taken away. So whenever you see
a case of cruelty to a child you should interfere, and try to make
your interference effective.
If you see any one breaking the law of the country,
you should inform the authorities.
I5& TALKS OM Tll~ ·PATH OF· .O«.OULTISM
C.\V.L.-A great deal b~s been said about that passage,.
~nd various people have taken e~ception to it. This is ~~urious
because, as a rnatter of fact, if you conceal a crime you heoo.me
an accessory to that crime, before the fact or after the fact as
the case may be, and you are so regarded .by the law. Feople
say, ''But are we to spy upon others to see whether they are
breaking the law? " Certainly not; you are not constituted a
Qetective to go and find people breaking the law.
Law gives cohesion to a country; it establishes orper for
the good of all ; therefore it is the duty of every citizen t9 uphold'
it. StiJI, one must use common sense. No one is expected to obey
obsplete laws, though they remain on the statute book. Nor need'
anyone go out of his way to report minor delinquencies. Let u~
take, for example, the question of treSpfissing on another man's.
property ; if you see a man taking a short cut across another
~an's park, I do not think you are thereby bound to go and
report the matter. If you are asked about it, then, of courset-
you must say so. Or take the law against smuggling things
through the customs. I should say a good citizen would obey
that law, and not think of endeavouring to smuggle in goods of
""ny sort. At the same time it seems to me that if some fellow-
traveller is trying to smuggle some cigars or something like thflt
throqgh, it is not exactly my business to ipform the authoriti~
because that is not a matter of the breaking of a law whic~
injures anyone else.
I would not myself break it, because I think that when a Iaw
is made it should be obeyed, and if it is a hac\ law we should
endeavour to use constitutional means to change it. We have in
~9me cases laws which it would 'be difficult to obey. Itt some
places there is a law of.compulsory vaccination. Personally I
should object to being vaccinated, and should refuse to submit
~o it except by major force. I should l:>e prepared if necessary
to go to prison rather than have that done, because it is ap evil
thing. These are all matters on which each person must pass
his own judgment.
In India it is especially laid down what crimes must be report-
ed if seen-they are, of course, all the serious crimes. If one
were to see a murder or a robbery it would be one's duty to report
it, but with regard to a host of minor things, one does not
legally, in India, make oneself an accessory by not reporting them.
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS
· A.B.-It is the duty of every citizen, whenever he sees the
law being broken to put a stop to the wrong. This is one of
the cllementary duties of citizenship. Yet the other day an
objection was raised to this teaching. A student came to me
and s~id that here was a thing in the book which he could not
accept : it seemed to him to suggest a general prying about,
a spying into other people's affairs. Of course, it intends
nothing bf the kind; but when you see the law broken you rrlust
interfere, because the law is what gives cohesion to a country',
establishing and preserving order, and binding its people to!
gether. It is 'the duty of every citizen therefore to uphold it;
no one has the right to conceal a crime which he knows is going
to be committed, and if he does so he becomes a 'partaker in it.
This is so generally recognized that a person who knows of the
crime and fails to report it is held legally to be an accessory to
it. and is punishable by law. I could only suppose tha t my
'obj~ctor had not considered what he was saying, for a country
who.se citizens do not recognize this simple duty and act
accordingly goes down, because of the lack of public spirit.
If you are placed in charge of another person in
order to teach him, it may become your duty gently to
tell him of his faults.
C.W.L.-'That is ob.
vious. A child, a pupil, or a servant
is pl~ced in our charge because we are older and wiser. If we
do not tell him of any faults which he commits he is losing the
a.dvantage of our wisdom and experience; therefore we
should be so far failing in our duty towards him, neglecting
to do that which we are placed there to do.
Exeept in sueh cases, mind your own business, and
learn the virtue of silence.
A.B.-Think how different society would be if this were
practised! Instead of being constantly on guard against his
neighbours, a man could live his own life freely and openly,
for people would leave one another alone to act as each
might think best, and mutual tolerance and goodwill would
replace interference and criticism. Our fifth race, which
dorninates th~ world to-day, is. aggressive, combative and
'160 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
. critical, but we have to try to live the life of the future,
that of the sixth root-race, which is to be reached bv tolerance
and active goodwill. This will lead on to the g~neral idea
of brotherhood, on which the sixth race will be established.
C.W.L.-It does not seem difficult to mind one's own
business, but very few people do it. What is meant here
is that a general attitude of tolerance and goodwill should
replace what is so painfully common at present-the spirit
of interference and criticism. If a person does something
.quite unusual I am afraid many people fly to the conclusion
that he has some nefarious reason for so doing. It does not
at all follow ; he may have his own private reason! and any-
how, unless he is doing something clearly wrong or interfering
with others, we should let him go his way and do what he will.
Like some of the other common present-day faults, this
springs largely from an excess of our fifth-race and fifth
sub-race qualities. Our race is developing the critical faculties
of the lower mind, and that carried to excess makes us liable
to be aggressive, combative and argumentative. Those who
aim at occult progress are supposed, however, to develop the
next .quality-buddhi, the unifying quality, that which gives
synthesis rather than analysis, and tries to see the points
of contact rather than those of difference. The development
of that will be the business of the sixth root-race, and also,
in a subsidiary way, of the sixth sub-race, which is now dawn-
ing in America, Australia and some other places.
In the Theosophical Society we upho1d the idea of brother-
hood, and this is a way of practising it-find something not to
blame but to praise. Something to praise as well as something
to blame can be found in everybody and in everything, if
you look for it; and there is every reason why we should
concentrate our attention on the good qualities, not on the
blameworthy things. We might try thus to bring down the side
of the balance a little. We can afford to leave the fault-finding
to the rest of the world, who are certain to continue to attend
to the business of blaming, and will do it with more gusto than
we possibly could. It is a valuable exercise to pick out the
good things, because until we begin to look for them we do not
really understand how many good things there are in everybody.
When we do this, we shall begin to find all kinds of beautiful
MI'ND YOUR OWN BUSINESS : , ·-,·,·
<f~Ualities -in people whom w·
e have been· rega-
rding very ·unfairly~
It is easy to form an opinion of people whom we do not know
well, based on only one or two things: we saw the,m looking
angry, and therefore think of them as irritable people; or we
saw them one day looking discontented, and so ppt them down
as usually that sort of people. Probably we have simply
stumbled upon them just at an awkward moment, and their·Iife
in general may not be at a.ri coloured a~ we conceive it to be:
If we must err now and then, let it be on the good side;
give .a pe~son ·credit for a l-ittle bit more than his due-that will
not burt him or us. A Master once said, " In everyone there
·is good, and in everyone there·is evil." Beware of thinking of
.a person as bad; for you may expect him to act badly, and
then, when he does not do so, you may be disappointed~
·because it shows that you were wrong in your judgment. It is
much better to think too well of hundreds of people tpan.t<>;
think too badly of even one. Let us live the buddhic life at
least to the extent that we look for the things which are good
and not for the things which are evil, not only in the interests
-of truth and justice, but because we know that our thoughts
.are powerful, that to think of another as bad tends to make
him so, but to see the good in him diminishes the evil and helps
that good to grow.
One of the chief things we have to learn is not to let the
lower mind run away with us and make us attribute unworthy
motives to other people. Our experience of human nature has
·shown us that it is a fallible thing, that people are not always
-swayed by unselfish considerations; therefore the natural
tendency is to look for something selfish in the way of a motive,
rather than for something high. But we must not allow
-ourselves to be dragged down to that level of suspicion and
unkindness; not only for our own sakes, but for the welfare of
-others it is necessary that we should look first for the highest
motive, and, even when we do not see it, should give the
person credit for meaning well. When we think of a bad
motive we are intensifying it by our thought, for the mind
is very receptive. If a man has slipped back a little, and we
_
give him the credit of meaning well, he will soon become
.ashamed of the lower motive and will replace it by the higher.
Besides, in attributing the best possible motives to all our
friends we are sure to be right in nine cases out of ten. Of
21
162 TALKS ON THE PATH OF .OCCULTISM
course, the outer world in its cynical way will say.to the maD
who does this: <
" You are a simple feJJow." It is better to be
the simple feJJow who does gaod in this way than the devec
one who cannot think well of anybody.
P'ractically no one is intentionally wicked. One should
therefore avoid the common mistake of thinking that those
who do what we should call wrong, do so through wicked
motives. We must guard against doing injustice by supposing,
'for instance, that those who eat meat think anything about it,
and are doing what they know to ·be ·wrong. They are not
usuaJJy acting against their better feelings; they.are following
the custom without thinking about it. Such people are quite
good ; indeed, good peopJe burnt :one another in the middle
ages, with no more thought. But one of the Masters said:
" Our object is. not .to· make good people, but to make mighty
spiritual powers for good."
PART IV
GOOD CONDUCT
. ,'I
I I .. .
I .
'I .
, . I
-CHAPTE R XVIII
CONTROL OF MIND
The six p{;ints of Conduct which ar:e .speciaily re:-
quired are given by the Master as : · : ·
. .
1. Self-control as to the Mind.
2. Self-control in Action.
3. : Tolerance.
4. Cheerfulness.
5. One-pointedness.
6. Confidence.
_ 1. [I know some of these ·are often translated differ-·
ently, as are the names of the Qualifications; but in al'
ca~es I am using the names which the Master Himself
·.i~~ployed ~hen. ·tfxplC;lining them to me.]
•
I '
.. A.B.-As .AI~yqne says, the Master's translation of some·
of. these qualifica.tions is a little different from that to which
we have been accustomed. The first three are not unlike the
·~~anslations tha.
t 'I have ~ee~· using for a great many years, bu.t
the last three· are somewhat dissimilar, though of course th~
essential meanings are unaltered. The third of these points of
good conduct I have. always translated "tolerance", as the
. Master does here, but that rendering is not acceptabJe, I know,
to a good many people. · The Sanskrit word is uparati, which
means literalJy " cessation "·
.1 We take the cessation as referring
165
166 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
to qualities like criticism and discontent, and the positive side
-of this virtue is therefore tolerance.
The fourth, titikshii, I have always called endurance; of
-course, the idea of cheerfulness is the same, for a person who
has endurance will necessarily be cheerful. Here the Master,
who is-if I may venture to use the word- particularly sunny,
gives the translation that emphasizes this aspect of the quality,
and it is well that ·an should meditate upon it. Then comes
one-pointedness; that is the Sanskrit samr
idhiina which I have
given as balance-and again the idea is the same, for the one-
pointed person is balanced, and vice versa. Lastly comes
shraddhii, which I have always called faith. Here it is con-
fidence; but once more the meaning is unchanged because I
have always defined faith as utter belief in the God within and
in the Master. It is well to note the differences as well as the
likenesses, because these help us to grasp the meaning better.
1. Self-control as to the Mind.- The Qualifi-
• cation of Desirelessness shows that the astral body must
be controlled ; this shows the same thing as to the mental
body. It means control of temper, so that you may feel
no anger or impatience; of the mind itself. so that the
thought may always be ca_
lm and unruffled: and (through
the mind) of the nerves, so that they may be as little
irritable as possible.
C.W.L.-Control of temper is precisely one of the things
which are difficult for us, because we are trying the new
experiment of raising ourselves in evolution (which means much
refining all our vehicles and making them more and more
sensitive) while remaining in the midst of the life of the world.
Our victory is so much the greater because of these difficulti~,
the overcoming of which shows that we have progressed
further in strength of will than bas the monk or the hermit.
Sometimes people succeed in weeding out the 1 angry
feeling, and yet find it difficult to control the outer vehicles
eritirely; · there· may ·still be a movement of impatience when
ceaHy the feeling whicn·used to be behind it has absolutely gone~
CONTROL OF MIND 16~
It is not so bad as having the feeling and not showing it, but.
we must get rid even of that, because it misleads other people.
If you look clairvoyantly' at the astral body of the aver.age
man in the street, you will see that the whole thing is a
swirling mass, and instead of having definite striations,
and colours clearly marked and circulating as they should
be, it has on the surface fifty or sixty little vortices or whirl-. .
pools in violent agitation, each of which, because of the rapidity
of its motion, makes a hard knot resembling a wart. If you
examine these vortices you will find that they all arose in little
outbursts of . temper, or small worries, or feelings of offence,
jealousy, envy and perhaps even hatred, which the man ha~ had
some time within the last forty-eight hour.;. Larger vortices,
lasting much longer, are made when the man renews a number
of times the same kind of thought about the same person. ·
While a man is·in that state it is quite impossible for him
to think with the clearness and definiteness that might otherwise
be his; if he wants to think or write on any subject, his views
are bound to be coloured and distorted by these vortices, even
though he has forgotten the feeli~gs which caused them, ·.Men;
forget their feelings of annoyance, and do not realize that the.
effect is still there; most of them keep up their stock of vo~tices
ilt m~ch the same level.
Prejudice shows itself in this way very clearly to astral and
mental clairvoyance. The matter of the mental body ought to
be in rapid circulation; not all ·over it, but in certain zones or
areas. Broadly speaking, it tends to arrange itself according td
its density, ·so that the coarser matter, while circulating to...some
extent. all over the body,·tends to gravitate towards the Jow.er
part ofthe ovoid, so that people who have a .preponderance.of
selfish tho_
ught and feeling look like eggs standing on.their.larger
ends, while those who are notably unselfish or occultly developed
resemble eggs standing on their smaJler ends. . There are.four
zones or slices in the mental body, just as there are departments
i.n the brain which deal with particular types of thought.
Imagine a man who is very illiberal in his religious thought.
The mental matter, instead of flowing freely in that particular
department, piles up until it actualJy projects and becomes a
heap,. and begins to fester and decay. As his thought on religious
subjects must pass through this division of the mental-body, it
:f68 TALKS ON THE ' PATH OF .·OlG:CULTISM
·-can never be true, because its vibrations are overcome by what
·is literally the mental disease that has fastened upon it. :His-
view is hound to be prejudiced, until·he sets to work and cures
himself by deliberate control and purification of the mind. Only
then may he learn to think truly- that is, to see things as does
the Deity, who knows absolutely the whole of His. system
-exactly as it is.
Prejudices are not necessarily against persons or things;
quite often they are in favour. Even so, they are a forrp of
untruth, and they show the same corruption in the aura. bqe
·Of the commonest cases is that of the mother who cannot believe
j.
that there ever before was such a baby as hers since the world
began. Another example is that of the artist who is incapable
.of seeing good in any other school of art than his own.
All those things, from the point of view of psychic force,
are 1\ke open sores, through which the will-power of the man is
leaking away all the time. That being the condition of the
average·111an, when you get a person who is by nature a worrier,
you have naturally a still worse case-a person who is all one
sore, and has no force left; for all .is spent. If we want·fo
conserve our energies and do good work' with them, as must ·be
the case if we are to be occultists, the·first thing to do is to
-check all these sources of waste. Suppose we want fo put ·out
a fire; we must have a jet of water. . It must be pumped at
high pressure, and there must be absolll-tely no leak in the water
cylinders and pipes. That means for .us c~lmness and control
of mind.
The average man seems to have.little or no will-power;
when trouble comes he simply lies down under it and groans
and complains, instead of directing his will to deal definitely
with it. There are two reasons for this weakness. The degree
of power that comes down into any man varies according to his
realization of the true Self-the extent to which the One Self,
the Deity, is unfolded witbin him. In essential nature we are
all of equal strength, but men differ in the extent to which they
have unfolded the divine strength in themselves. The ordinary
man has not developed much of that, and even what he has he
is wasting. ·
Many among us would like to realize more fully the
presence of the Master, and tp. ~ring . various other ~
CONTROL · OF MIND I69
influences from the higher planes down into the physical
brain: Such influences must come down through these different
vehicles-must be reflected from one to another. Look at
the ·reflection of a group of trees on the surface of a Ia ke or
river. If it is quite calm we get a perfect picture, in which
every leaf is clearly seen; but the least ripple distorts the
picture altogether. If there is a storm, it is completely
destroyed. That is exactly true with regard to tne 'astral
and mental bodies. They must be kept calm and held stUI
if through them any true or valuable influences are to come
from above. People constantly ask, " Why don't we remember
all that we do in our sleep? " That is one of the reasons-
.
because their vehicJes are not quiet enough. Now and ag·ain
they may become calm enough to bring something through\
but even then the impression is usualJy somewhat distorted,
because the medium is not perfectly clear. It is like looi(\Qg:
at something through cheap bottle-glass instead of good plate-..
glass ; it altogether alters the proportions of things. ·
When we have become calm we can work in the midst
of disturbance and trouble, but of course it is always a strain
to hold the bodies calm under these COJ1ditions. It is so gre<tt
a strain that some· people cannot do it at all ; but they must
gradually acquire strength.
The occultist learns through self-control to work on tw~
planes at once, that is, to be partly out of his body at the
same time that he is working on the physical plane; so that
while he is writing or speaking he rnay be doing other things
with his astral body. I have heard it said, for example, that
when I have been lecturing various people in the audience have
seen astral entities standing on the platform and coming up and
speaking to me. That is correctly seen so far; it is often
the case that they come up in that way, desiring answers to
questions or wanting something done, while the lecture still
goes on. That is only a small and passing example, but
often there are much more serious pieces of work to be done,
in which the occultist uses his consciousness in that complicated
way. •
This double concentration is performed to some extent
quite ·frequenlly in ordinary life also. Many ladies can knit
and go on talking, because the knitting is a mechanical action
22 •
~7o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULT1SM
to ·them. I had much to do once with one of the great banks
ijn London, and I have seen there men, who were used to it,
rapidly and steadily adding up long columns of figures, and at
the same time singing a song for the entertainment of their
fellows. I must admit that would be impossible to me, but I
have seen it done over and over a gain.
'
A.B.-In the section on desirelessness the Master has dealt
with the control of the astral body and its numerous forms of
desire, and in the section on discrimination He spoke much
about truth, which involves the purification of the mental body.
Now He deals further with control of the mind, and also of the
emotions; an emotion is a combination of thought and desire.
Emotions are desires which are penetrated by the thougbt-
·element. In other words. emotion is desire mingled with
thought. When the Master speaks here of control of temper,
Re is speaking of emotion, because impatience and similar
feelings proceed partly from the desire-body and partly from
the mental body. The would-be occultist must certainly not
let himself' be carried away by temper, for until the control of
that is gained, so that his emotions cannot be upset, he will not
be able to see definitely or clearly. The vibrations of emotion
wilt arouse corresponding excitement in purely mental matter,
and all the man's thoughts will be disturbed and distorted, so
that be will not be able to see things correctly.
The Master then says that the thought itself must be calm
·and unruffied ; this is necessary because only in such conditions
.can influences be thrown down into the lower mind fr0m the
higher. I think it is in The Occult World that Mr. Sinnett
quoted a letter from the same Teacher in which He told him
that if be wanted to write usefully he must keep the mind
calm, and then thoughts from the higher mind would reflect
·themselves in it, as mountains in a calm lake.
It is a good plan, if you want to write a letter on a serious
subject-about ·Theosophy, for instance-or to produce an
article, to sit quiet for some minutes, steadying yourself before
you begin to work. This is not a waste of time, for when you
begin writing you will then find that y~ur thought will flow
quietly and without effort, and you will not have to pause in
the middle and consider how you are to go on. This will be so
;because the higher mind is being reflected in the mirror of the
•
CONTROL OF ·MIND.
lower. This practice is especially important for those who
cannot yet shut off the outer things at wilL
One may make use of outer disturbances to practise con-
centration. As a child I was made to learn my lesson~ in a
room where other children were being taught different things~
so gradually I acquired the power to work at a task of triy own
while all sorts of other activities were going on around me. In
· consequence I have now the power to work undisturbed by,
what may ~e happening near by, though I must admit that I
find it difficult to perform calculations under those circum-
stances. l have always felt grateful to my teacher, Miss Marryat,
for this. The power comes with practice, and is then useful in
a variety of ways. I found, for example, that I could also use
it when partly out of. my body, as when I w.as writing one o~
the Jives of Alcyone.
In the Indian household this faculty is developed as a m~tter
of course, because there it is customary for people to do differ-;
ent things in the same room, and there are generally children
running about and numerous other small happenings. In the
village school, and in the home too, a number of children'·are
taught a variety of things at the same time, all reading aloud,.
each his own special subject, while their teacher follows it an~
and corrects their mistakes as they are made. I do not think
it is C\n ideal method of teaching any particular subject, but the;
children are learning how to concentrate, and that will be very
useful to them afterwards.
If you can get that power of concentration so much the
better; hence, if you have to live amid noise, do not complain of
it ·.bu:t profit by it. That is the way in which the student of
occultism works. I mention this especially, because it is by
such means that occ·uJtists are made. To learn to work under
difficult conditions means progress. That is one of the reasons
why some of us have made progress, and others not so much.
I personally have always tried to take everything as it came,
instead of complaining. By this means one seizes every.
opportunity.
This last is difficult, because when you try to
prepare yourself for the Path, you cannot help making
your body more sensitive, so that its nerves are easily
TALKS ON THE ··PATH OR OCCULTISM
'disturbed by a sound or a· shock. and feel any pres~ure
acutely ; but you must do your best.
A.B.-The Master says that it is difficult to control the
nerves. That is so because the physical body is that ·over
which thought has the least power. You can affect your astral
and mental bodies comparatively easily, because they are made
of finer matter, more affected by thought; but the heavier
physical rnatter is much less responsive and therefore harder to
control. Yet it must be mastered in time.
· The pupil must be sensitive, and yet have the body and
nerves completely under control. The greater the sensitiveness
becomes, the more difficult is the task; there are many noises
which pass unheeded by an ordinary person which are torture
to one who is sensitive. There are certain diseases which
p~oduce excessive sensibility of the nerves; in such a case the
bark of a dog may throw a person into convulsions. That
example is sufficient to show how acutely sensitive the nerves
may become. ·
The nerves of an occult student are not diseased-if they
were, he would not be under training-but he is like a tense
string, vibrating to the le-ast touch. His nerves thus become so
sensitive that he has to use great force of will in order to prevent
irritability. The strain on the body under these circumstances
may become so great that in some cases, like Madame Blavatsky's,
it may sometimes be wiser to let go, to allow the body to go on
as it likes at times, lest it should go to pieces altogether. It
was necessary that she should keep her body for the work that
she had to do, so she could not allow the strain on it to reach
the breaking point. This, however, was an exceptional case;
the aspirant who wants to follow the Master's teaching must do
as He says here, and try as hard as he can to gain control over
his nerves. He may fail again and again-that does not matter.
The Master's last words on the subject are: ''You must do
your best." That is all that He asks, so do not let failures
discourage you, but go on doing your best.
Sometimes a similar disturbed condition is set up from
within, because of an exaggeration of scrupulousness and
conscientiousness, into which the most ea·rnest students are
CONTROL OF 1\HND i:73
liable· to. fall. There are two tendencies among aspirants;
dne .is to be careless, the other to torment oneself. In the
Se€ond case conscience may reach a point when its condition
is like that of the overstrained nerve. Thus it often happens
to the best class of students to make too much fuss over little
failures. Do not sit down and brood over such things till
they have grown to the dimensions of a serious crime. Make
your path between these two extremes. You cannot be too
scrupulous before the event, but you may easily make yourself
too unhappy afterwards. Do not brood over your faults and
failures. Only look at them to see the reason why you failed,
and then try again. So doing, you will starve out the tendencies
which led you into them ; whereas thinking about them only
gives them new strength.
· 'C.W.L.-The physical body is that over which the will
has the least power. People say, " Oh yes, you can learn to
do ;;~. thing with your; physical body, you rnay even control your
feelings but it is a much harder thing to control your thoughts."
I know it is a popular idea that of all things that is the
most difficult. In one way it is; because the mental matter
is finer and more active, there is much more to control in the
way of motion and of initiative. On the other hand, the
mental body is much nearer to the ego within, and therefore
more under his control: he has greater forces with which to
grasp the mental matter and deal with it, than he has down
here in the physical plane; and also the physical matter is
less responsive. People think it easier, because they are in
the habit of controlling the physical body, but not the mental
body.
It is often said that you can control pain on the physical
plane, but cannot ignore mental suffering. Really, exactly the
contrary is true. The mental or emotional suffering ceases
to exist if one grasps it and just puts it away from oneself,
but actual severe physical pain is most difficult to ignore,
though it can be very largely diminished by removing from it
the mental element. The Christian Scientist does that by
decJaring that there is no pain; he leaves only the physical
side of it, and that is comparatively small.
We should learn to control the mind so that the mental part
of physical suffering is eliminated, because as pupils of the
I74 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Masters we have to make ourselves exceedingly sensitive. 11ien
it becomes painful to sit near a man who drinks alcohol,
smokes tobacco and eats meat. It is positive torture to go
about in a city, along a business street, with its tremendous
roar of all sorts of hideous noises. It goes all through the
physical body and makes it shiver, but if one thinks about
it, that makes it much worse; whereas if no notice is taken
at least one feels it less. The pupil who is trying to reach
the higher planes, has to learn to eliminate the mental part
of it, and not import into it any thought that makes it
stronger.
Those who are practising meditation will find that they
are more sensitive than the people who do not meditate, and
because of that the strain on the physical body is sometimes
enormous. One frequently hears it said that Madame Blavatsky
used sometimes to have outbursts of temper. There was a
very good reason for that, certainly, as she had a very
unfortunate physical body; there was probably never an
hour when she had not some acute physical suffering. The
body was old, broken down and worn out, but it was the
only body available for the particular work she had to do~
and she had to keep it; she could not throw it away, as many
of us might do. The opportunity was once offered to her to do
that, but she said: "No, I will hold it till I have finished The
Secret Doct1·ine "-the work in which she was engaged. That
meant that the physical body was in a condition of terrible strain.
and sometimes for relief she Jet it do what it liked. Of
course, many people did not understand, but we around her
came to know that these things did not mean much. We had
many curious instances of that. For example, she would be in a
wild tirade, apparently quite angry about some trifling thing,.
but while the newer people who did not know shrank away
from her in fear, we discovered that if in the middle of that
excitement some one suddenly asked her a philosophicaJ
question, the whole thing dropped away, was cut off as you
might cut a thread with a pair of scissors ; immediately the rage
disappeared and she proceeded to answer the question. A
person in an ordinary rage could not haYe done that. Many
people misunderstood her and turned away, but I know quite
well that she had sometimes to let go or her body would have
gone to pieces.
CONTROL OF MIND I75
The calm mind means also courage, so that you may
face without fear the trials and difficulties of the Path.
. A.B.-Courage is a quality upon which immense stress
is laid in the Hindu Scriptures. It has its root in a recognition
;of the unity of the Self. "What fear, what delusion is there
tfor one who has seen the Self ? " it is asked ; and the phrase is
~used: "the fearless Brahman." In In the Outer Court I
t£ecommended students to meditate upon the ideal character,
using the list of qualities given by Shri Krishna at the beginning
of the sixteenth chapter of the Gitii. The first quality that He
mentions there is abhayam, fear:lessness or courage.
Courage grows out of the realization that you are the
.divine Self within, and not your outer vehicles, which are the
only part of you that can be hurt. All differences of power
between people arise from the degrees of strength which the
Self within has unfolded. Essentially we are all equally strong,
but there are stages of evolution. When you realize that yo.1,1
are yourself divine, you know that your weakness or power
depends upon the amount of unfolded strength of the Self
within you ; so your refuge, when you feel fear, is to call out
the power from within.
This realizat!on of yourself as the Self is one of the things
that ought to come to you through your meditation. Those
·who do morning meditation should include in it an effort to
realize the Self; some of the strength they gain through that
effort should then remain with them throughout the day. That
will help to give them the courage that is needed for progre&s
upon the Path. On it there are many difficulties which call
for fortitude and endurance, if they are to be met and overcome,
and these qua.lities are forms of courage. There is a novelty
in things on the Path which also calls for courage. I know of
no w~y of, acquiring this quality except by realizing the Self. .
C.W.L.-Much stress is laid upon the necessity of courage
in all systems of occult training. If a man enters upon the
Path he will have to face misrepresentation, calumny and
misunderstanding. That has always been the lot of those who
·try to raise themselves above their fellows. Moral strength
is necessary to meet that, and to enable a man to maintain his
.position and _do what he thinks right, whatever those around
I76 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
him may think or say or do. Such strength is required to
carry out the teaching as given in this book-and plenty of
fortitude and determination as well.
Actual physical courage is needed, too. There are many
dangers and difficulties on the Path not by any means
·symbolical, or on higher planes only; tests of bravery and
endurance do come to us in the course of our progress, and
we must be prepared for them. A man who is faint-hearted
will not make progress on this Path, where is required, not
merely goodness, but strength of character that cannot be
shaken by the unaccustomed or the alarming.
I knew an occult society in England which tried for many
weeks with various invocations to raise certain kinds of spooks,
and at last they did raise something; but nobody stayed long
enough to see what it was. Similarly, people try to obtail)
results on higher planes, but as soon as they get them they are
afraid. The first time a man goes out of his body in waking
consciousness, he may feel a little alarmed and may have a
passing wonder whether he will get back again or not. He
must realize that it does not much matter whether he does or
not. He is used to certain limitations, and when those suddenly
drop away, he is quite likely to feel that there is no certain
base left to stand upon. We shall find as we go further on that
courage-plain~ straightforward bravery-is a thing which ·is
very much needed. All sorts of forces have to be encountered .;
it is not child's play. ·
When we realize and remember that we are one with the
Divine, we fear nothing ; but sometimes when sudden dange'r
arises, men forget that and shrink back. The Self within is
utterly unaffected, utterly uninjured, by any of the passing
things, so if we can realize that we are that Self and not the
outer vehicles, we shall have no fear. If ever fear of any sort
is felt, the thing to do is to call up more power from within, not
to appeal for help from some one from without. The common
Christian teaching on that subject has been very unfortunate.
They tell people always to take refuge in prayer, which literally
means asking, and should not be applied to the highest form of
aspiration, as it so often is. The word prayer comes from the
Latin precari, which means to ask-nothing but that. If we
hold that God is ali-good, we should follow the advice of the
<;;ONTROL OF .MIND I77
Lord Buddha: '' Do not complain and cry and pray, but open
·your eyes and see. The light is all about you, if you will only
take the bandages from your eyes and look. And it is so
·wonderful, so beautiful, so far beyond anything man could think
of or pray for, and it is for ever and ever."
I know that many people have the habit of calling upon
·the Master for help when they find themselves in difficulties.
We may be sure that the Master's thought is always near, and
assuredly He can be reached; but why should we trouble Him
for something that we ought to be able to do ourselves? It is
true that we may. ca11 upon Him if we wish; but surely if we
·can cal1 upon the God within, and bring out more of that, we
shall thus draw nearer to the Master than we could by calling
feebly on Him for help. One does not question a man's right
·to do that ; but knowing how the Master is always occupied in
work for the world, surely we should not wish to call upon Him
·while there was any possible resource left to us whereby we
could, by any means, do the thing for ourselves. To fail in
-doing it is to fail in faith ; it is a want of confidence not in '
-ourselves only, but in the divine power.
The practice of meditation also ought to prepare one to
·meet emergencies, so as not to be upset by them. Those who
have grasped the inner laws should remain calm and composed
·whatever may come, realizing that to do so is a necessary
condition of real progress, and that the shock and upsetting
which result from an hysterical outburst will leave their
scars on the sensitive vehicJes of a pupil for a long time
.afterwards.
It means also steadiness. so that you may make light
of the troubles which come into every one's life, and avoid
the incessant worry over little things in which many
people spend most of their time.
A.B.-Steadiness is the next requirement mentioned by the·
Master; it is the quality that is necessary so that the pupil may
·not be blown about by every wind that comes. Such a
dependence upon outside things gives rise to endless worry
because the man is then not in control of his own affairs, and so
-cannot decide upon a definite line of work. It is worry that
23
I78 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
wears people out, not work. Worry is the going over and over
again of a certain painful sequence of thought. It is difficult
for a timorous person to. prevent himself from falling into this.
habit in one or other of its different forms.
In some cases there is a tendency of the mind to dramatize,
and then to live in its self-created drama. It is a thing I
used to do to some extent myseJf. I am mentioning this and'
similar personal experiences because I think they will make
what I have to tell you more Jiving and useful than merely
abstract thought would be. Most aspirants have probably done
some such mental dramatization, for we . are all made up in
much the same way. I used to imagine that some friend of
mine must have been hurt by some word or action of mine ; 1!
then imagined my next meeting with that person-the first
words, the whole ensuing conversation. When we actually did
meet the whole thing failed to work out as I had anticipated~
because the first remark of my friend· was always something-
~ quite different from what I had imagined. Sometimes people-
conjure up in this way an unpleasant scene, and imagine how
they will act in the trying conditions they have invented ; and at
last they arrive at a painful condition of mind upon which they
expend much feeling and emotion. Nothing of all this bas as
yet taken place, and probably none of it ever will; it has all
been a pure waste of force.
All this sort of thing is merely unnecessary trouble, and it
weakens the mental and emotional nature. The only way to-
get rid of this habit is to make yourself stand outside the scene~
and observe whether the first thought in the series is a thing
over which you have any control or not. · If you have, then
control it; if you have not, it is of no use to think about it tiU
it comes, and this, after all, it may never do. It is useless to-
let your mind brood over possible happenings in the future. It
is equally useless to let it run over and over the things which
have happened; you cannot alter past events, so it is palpably
useless to worry about them.
Many good people make their lives a burden by brooding
ever the past, thinking; " Perhaps if I bad, or bad not, done
so and so, this trouble would never have happened." Suppose
that is true, the thing is done, and no thinking will change the
past. People lie awake at night and worry all day over unalterable
CONTROL OF MIND r79
past -things or possible future eventualities. This action of
'the mind is like the racing of an engine or of the heart when
normal resistance is lacking, which injures both heart and
-engine much more than work does. Recognize the futility and
the positive harmfulness of such mental racing, and you will stop
it, and learn to put out your strength effectively instead. It is
pure silliness; it comes down to that. It is a thing which
nearly everybody does, but ought not to do, and the would-be
disciple simply must not do it.
C.W.L.-Of all mental difficulties, worry is the worst to
{}eal with. It is an absolute bar to anything like proper
progress. It is impossible in that condition to bring oneself
into the state of mind for meditation. Some people worry
about the past, others about the future, and by the time they
bave dropped one worry they have picked up another to take
its place, and so they are never in a state of calm, and cannot
hope to meditate with any prospect of success.
The best cure for it is to replace the trouble by a thought
·<>f the Master, but it takes unusual strength to do that.
Suddenly to try to impose calmness on an astral body or a
mental body in that condition is like trying to press down with
a board the waves of the sea during a storm. Often the best
·thing to do is to get up and do something physical-weed the
..garden or go for a bicycJe ride. There can be no permanent
calm until the vehicles move rhythmically together ; then all
these other practices may be undertaken with some reasonable
·-chance of success.
Often people worry over their own defects. Everyone
finds himself falling into faults and failings now and then; it
would be better not to do so, but that is hardly to be expected
·yet, for if we had no faults and failings we should all be Adepts.
It is, of course, wrong to be careless about these things and
think they do not matter, but it is also equally wrong to worry
unnecessarily about them. In worry the mind races madly
·round and round, to no purpose. If you have been on board
a steamer in rough weather you may remember that now and
·then the screw rises out of the water and races madly in the air.
It is just a matter of mechanics that that does far more harm to
the machinery than a great amount of regular work. That is
~xactly like worry.
180 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Periodically troubles arise in our Society. I have see~
a good many of them in my time. I remember very well the·
excitement over the Coulomb affair in I884, and how many
Theosophists were greatly disturbed a'nd worried over that, and
their faith in Theosophy was in some cases quite destroyed,
because they supposed that Madame Blavatsky had been
playing tricks upon them. That, really, had nothing to do with
the case. Our faith in Theosophy does not rest upon the
statements of Madame Blavatsky or anyone else, but upon
the fact that it is a perfect and satisfactory system which has
been given to us, and that remains true even if it had been the
case that Madame Blavatsky had deceived them-which was
not so, of course. If people rest their belief on personal grounds,
it can easi~y be shaken, but if our belief is based upon principles-
which we understand, it would remain unshaken even if a
trusted leader did suddenly fail us.
The Master teaches that it does not matter in the
least what happens to a man from the outside : sorrows,
troubles, sicknesses, losses-al1 these must be as nothing
to him, and must not be allowed to affect the calmness of
his mind. They are the result of past actions, and when
they come you must bear them cheerfully. remembering
that all evil is transitory, and that your duty is to remain
always joyous and serene. They belong to your previous
lives, not to this; you cannot alter them, so it is useless
to trouble about them.
A.B.-Here the Master gives a reason for not w0rrying
which, I fear, many people will not appreciate. He says
that it does not in the least matter what happens to a man
from the outside. The things which come to us in this way
are quite beyond our control, because we ourselves made them
in the past; they are our karma.
This does not mean, however, that there is nothing tha t
we can now do in the matter. On the contrary, we can do
much; we can meet them in the right way, and thus enormous..
ly modify their effect upon us. To do this is like changing:-
CONTROL OF MIND 18r
a direct blow, which has force enough to knock one down,.
into a glancing blow, which is comparatively unimportant..
It all depends upon changing the angle at which you meet
the blow. If you meet every affiiction that comes to you,
with the feeling: "This is only the payment of a debt ; it is..
well to clear it off," then the sorrow will weigh upon you but
lightly. A man who knows how to meet life will be calm
and happy in the midst of difficulties) while one who does not
know may be crushed by troubles that are half imagination.
How much of the trouble and pain that you feel is really-
caused by the mind, you can test for yourself when you are
suffering physically; if you will then stand outside it all, as.
it were, you will find that the suffering will diminish very
much. This fact can be realized in another way, by consider-
ing the state of the animals. An animal that has broken its.
leg will eat quite comfortably, dragging its wounded leg behind
it. Now, that is a thing which a man could not do, yet a
horse will do it, and the horse, so physiologists tell us, has.
an even more delicate nervous system than man has, so that
its nerves are more sensitive to pain than his. Do not
misunderstand me, and think that I say that animals do not
suffer, or that their sufferings do not matter. Quite the
reverse. But man intensifies his own suffering and prolongs.
it: because of the way in which he dwells upon it in his mind.
If you learn to check the effects of pain on your astral'
body, you wi11 know how to diminish the pain itself very
greatly. Those who call themselves Christian Scientists thus
reduce pain very much, because they take away the mental
element that usually mingles with it and increases it. I have·
had also some experience of the same thing, when I have
had to lecture while suffering acutely physically ; the result
has been that during the time of lecturing I did not feel
the pain. Why? Simply because my mind was entirely
engrossed by my lecture. If you could completely withdraw
your mind from paying attention to the physical body, as you:
would do perforce were you lecturing, any physical hurt
which you might have been feeling would disappear to a
large extent. If you have complete control over your mind
you can do that, and so leave the outside things to affect
.only the outside body. People often do it under sufficient
stimulus. Sometimes the soldier on the battlefield does
182 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
not feel his wound until the excitement of fighting is over ;
and certainly some of the religious martyrs did not feel
the flames around them, on account of the ecstasy that
they felt in suffering for their Lord. Similarly, if a child
meets with an accident, its mother will forget all about any
pain that she herself may be suffering, as she rushes forward
to rescue and help her child. ·
It is possible to learn this sort of control without the
stimulus, and then you can largely neutralize the effect of any
pain upon your astral and mental bodies. I do not say that it
is easy to do this, but that it can be done. Personally, I do not
think it is worth while to use a great deal of force, or make a
very special effort, to obtain so little result as the stopping of a
mere physical pain. Instead of turning·your mind to the service
<>f the body, as most people do, it is better to turn it away and
·occupy it with something profitable. Pf yon take up the right
attitude to life you will see that these outside things do not
matter, and you will leave them alone to have their effect only
on the outside of yourself. They have to be gone through, and
their only value lies in the strength which you gain through them.
By looking at them in this way you will gain great peace of
mind.
All evil is transitory. You will realize that this is so if you
look at the larger cycle of your life, and realize your past, not
in detail, for details do not matter, but in its general sweep and
trend. If one realizes how often before one has been through
these things that grieve and trouble one-friends taken away
by death, sicknesses, losses, troubles of all sorts-they sink into
something approaching their true relative insignificance. It is
important to make this effort, because the present is so insistent
that it blocks out with its petty anxieties the deeper knowledge.
'The realization of your own long past will make you stronger,
and then when some misfortune occurs you will think, " Why
trouble? It will pass! "
· I feel sure that I could not lead my present life at all if I
-did not refuse to bother. and to react to circumstances: Troubles
<>f all sorts come pouring in daily, and if I reacted to them I
should be dead in a week. In the past I have come through
many movements of the kind with which I am now connected,
and have found that they are always accompanied by turmoil.
CONTROL OF MIND I83
It is better not to anticipate trouble, but to attend to it when it
comes, and afterwards to put it aside and forget all_about it.
Your duty, says the Master, is to remain always joyous and
serene. A warning was once given against casting dross into
the crucible of discipleship. The evil and danger of doing so is
carried to an extreme point at a place such as Adyar, where
any dross--any form of trouble, suspicion, anxiety, doubt, and
the like-acquires much more force than that of the person
who sent it out. If sometimes you cannot at once rid yourself
of -depression, vexation, or any other undesirable feeling that
you may have, then at least keep it to yourself. Do not let it
pour out and infect the atmosphere, and make things harder for
others. After training yourself in this way you wi1llook back
with surprise at your former condition, anq wonder how such
trifles could ever have troubled you as they did.
C.W.L.-The man who knows remains calm and happy
even in the midst~£ what would be very.serious trouble to other
people. The· man who does not know IS very often crushed by
the trouble, because of his own attitude with regard to it.
There is a vast deal of imagination at the back of our sufferings.
The real amount of payment exacted by karma is often small;
but by taking it wrongly people frequently double their
necessary suffering or even multiply it by ten; it is not fair to
charge that to ancient karma, for it is the karma of the present
foolish action-what Mr. Si~nett called "ready-money karma.''
The amount of the debt to be paid cannot be altered-the
karma which comes calls for a certain amount of suffering on
our part; but as it can be increased, so it can be decreased.
By an effort of our own we can apply new force, and change
what would be the effect of a direct blow into one that glances
off, as our President has expressed it, so that it will be much
less felt. Every such putting forth of strength is the introduc-
tion of a new force into the case ; therefore there is in it no
sort of injustice, or interference with karma. That force which
otherwise would have been spent in some other way is now
spent in modifying the blow.
All evil is necessarily transitory. There was a Persian
king who took as his motto: " Even this wiiJ pass away..' It
is a good motto, because it applies equally to pleasure or to
suffering, and to good or evil fortune, whichever may be dominant
~84 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
at the time. The only things that do not pass are the real pro-
.gress and t_be bliss which come from within-those remain for
ever. Whatever is. our suffering now, it will pass; we have
had suffering before in other lives and have passed through it.
If this can be realized it will help very much. Things that
troubled us early in life seem quite unimportant now. We say:
" Dear me, those things were not of any importance; I wonder
why I worried so much about them ? " The wise man learns
from looking back. He says: " Here are these other things
which are worrying me now, surely they are just as unimpor-
tant." Of course they are, but it takes a wise man to make
that deduction.
Think rather of what you are doing now, which will
make the event's of your next life, for that you can alter.
C.W.L.-Your next life will depend very largely upon the
karma you make in this. More than that-the World-Teacher
wiU come soon; things are moving fast now; the force which
·is being. outpoured is tremendous, and because all that plays
round us to some extent, we who are trying to prepare for His
-coming may modify not only our next life but the remaining
.part of this.
The karma of the pupil engaged in this work is more
·intense than that of most other people. There are probably
·many things which the man of tbe world does constantly and
may do without much harm resulting in any way; but if these
things were done by those who are nearing the Path, they would
be very decidedly harmful. In the case of a disciple, whatever
happens to him happens to the Master, because He has made
him part of Himself. '' No man liveth to himself, and no man
·dieth to himself"; this is true of everyone, but those who are
·drawn to the feet of the great Masters must be doubly careful.
Especially anything whatever which puts difficulties in the way
.of a fellow-student in occult matters is a thing which makes
.serious karma. ·
Never allow yourself to feel sad or depressed.
pepression is wrong, because it infects others and makes
their lives harder, which you have no right to do.
Therefore if ever it comes to you, throw it off at once.
CONTROL OF MIND r85
C.W.L.-Anybody who suffers from seriou~ depression
will probably shake his head and say: " That Is_ very good
advice, if one could only take it." But, as I said before, a
thought of its effect upon others will give a man strength to
throw it off when nothing else would. Depression is wrong,
because it affects one's fellow-students and other people, and
makes their way harder. Nothing can affect us that does not
come from ourselves-from our own past lives,_through our
own karma. One may learn from that to be very careful that
no one else sha11 be hurt by us. If some one has said or done
something ·not quite creditable, we should think: " I will not
pass this on; I will not do or say anything myself which will
make the day harder for some one else.'' We can also deter-
mine not to be the instrument whereby the bad karma of othetS
works itself out. If one hurts or offends some one, it is true.
that one is only the instrument of that other's karma; but it is,
a very ungenerous role to play. We should be the instruments
of the good karma, in helping people and bringing them blessing
and comfort ; the evil karma must work itself out through
other channels, not through us. -
In yet another way you must control your thought :
you must not let it wander. Whatever you are doing,
fix your thought upon it, that it may be perfectly done.
C.W.L.-It ought to be a simple matter to fix our thought
upon whatever we are doing, so that it may be perfectly done.
If we are writing a letter, for example, we can concentrate on
that and see that it is what the letter of an occultist should be.
An ordinary man writes his letters in a rather careless or
slipshod way; he says what he has to say without making any
special effort to see that it is well done. It appears to be quite
a new idea to some people that ordinary little matters like that
ought to be well done. I receive a number of letters, and I
must say that many of them are not such as I should think of
sending out myself. Frequently they are faulty in expression,
and often so badly written that they waste a good deal of
my time.
This sort of carelessness matters very much for those who
are occultists or endeavouring to become such. The letter of
an occultist should be carefully expressed, and well written or
24
186 TALKS ON THE PA'rH Olt OCCULTISM
typed, as the case may be. It should be a nice thing to look at ;
a pleasure to the person who receives it. Whatever we do, it
is emphatically our duty to do it decently well. I do not mean
to sav that one can always spare the time to write everything
like copper-plate, or to make of every letter a finished work of
art; that cannot be done in these days. But even outside of
occultism, as a matter of common politeness to a correspondent,
one should write clearly and legibly. If you write hurriedly
and badly to save a few moments of your own time, remember
tha:t it is done at the sacrifice of perhaps, four times the amount
of the other person's time. We have no right to do that sort
pf thing.
Every letter that we send out should be a messenger; we
should make it a message of the Master. It may be about
bm~iness or any ordinary subject, but it should be charged with
good feeling. This can be done in a moment: as we are
writing the letter we should have in mind strong kindly feeling ;
that will affect the letter without any further action on our part,
but when we are signing it we should take a moment to send
into it a current of good feeling of some sort. If one is writing
to a friend, one should pour affection into the letter, so that
when he opens it there shall rush out at him the feeling of
brotherly affection. If the letter be to a brother Theosophist,
put into it a thought of higher things and of the Master, so that
it will recall to him the higher thought which Theosophists
always desire to cherish. If we are writing to some person
whom we know to be in want of a particular quality, we should
pour that quality into the Jetter, taking the opportunity to giv.e
what is needed. So let us see that each letter is well written,
and also that it has a soul.
The same service may be rendered when we meet others
directly. Some of us come into contact with many people
during the day; we have to speak to them, and sometimes to
shake hands with them. We can take advantage of that direct
physical contact to pour in a rush of vitality or nerve fo~ce or
affection or higher thought, or whatever may seem most
suitable. One should never shake hands with anybody wi'tbout
leaving something of that nature behind-it is an opportunity.
Our business, if we aspire to become pupils of the Master, is to
watch for such opportunities to serve. A man who is not in
some way or other·being useful to his fellow-men is not on the
CONTROL OF MIND. z.87
road to being accepted. I suppose it is doing no injustice to the
average man to say that his idea in making a new acquaintance
is very largely : " What shall I get out of this man in some
way or other?" It may not be in money; it may be in
amusement, or social benefits; but at any rate he thinks
about getting something. Our attitude must be exactly
the reverse: " Here is a new opportunity for me, what can I
give ? " If I am introduced to a stranger I look him over and
throw out something or other in the shape of a good thought ;
it will stick there and penetrate when its time comes. The
pupils of the Master do that as they are walking about the
streets or riding on the trams and ferries. They watch for cases
where they see a good thought is needed, and they give it-
· a
hundred times perhaps in the course of a single morning's or
afternoon's journey.
When a greeting is given to anyone it should be a reality,
not merely a form of words. The greetings into which the
name of God comes, and which invoke His blessing, such as are
customary among the Muhammadans, for example, are some-
times only formal, but sometimes they are hearty good wishes,
and the thought of God is really there. We say, " Good-bye."
Few people know that this is a contraction of'' God be with
you," but we should know it and mean it. These seem smal1
things, but it is the small things in everyday life that make the
difference. They show character and they shape character;
and if we do all these small everyday things carefully and w~l1,
we ·shall soon develop in ourselves a character which wilJ be
careful and self-controlled and accurate' about all sorts ~ of
th~ngs, great as well as small. One cannot have a character
that is careful in great things and careless in small things. It
is inevitable in that case that we shall sometimes forget and be
careless at the wrong time, but we must learn to be careful
altogether. Again, many smaii things taken together mount up
to a big thing, and with a little practice one may learn to give
not a small, but a very large amount of help to a person by the
touch of a hand or the writing of a letter,
The Master says: ''Whatever you are doing, fix your mind
upon it." This applies even to the things we do in order to rest
our minds, such as the reading of novels or magazines. The best
kind of rest, apart from deliberate relaxation and sleep, is
generaliy some other form of exercise, so even when people are
r88 TALKS ON THE PATH -OF OCCULTISM
reading something for the sake of amusement or rest, the mind
should be their servant, not they its slave. If you are reading
a story, fix your mind upon it and try to understand it, to see
what the author meant by it. Often people read so vaguely
that by the time they reach the end of the story they have
forgotten the beginning; they are so utterly vague that they
could·not give you a sketch of the plot, nor say what it is meant
to · teach. But if we want to train our minds when we are
reading for pleasure or recreation we ought to do it well.
Similarly, when we are resting. There are actualJy millions of
people in the world who do not know how to lie down and rest
themselves properly. They have not learned that ten minutes
af relaxation is worth two hours of lying down in a tense and
strained condition. Quiet control of the mind is necessary even
for success in resting. Such control forms a habit like every-
thi~ else, and those who practise it presently find that they
caririot do things in the old slipshod way; if they rest, they
must rest properly.
Do not let your mind be idle, but keep good thoughts
~lways · in the background of it. ready to come for~ard
the moment it is free.
! · A.B.-That ought to be a very easy thing for the ordinary
Hindu to do, because he has been taught from chidhood to
repeat good sentences in unoccupied moments. Even the quite
uneducated people in India do so. You may often hear some
man who has finished his work suddenly begin to repeat,
'' Ram, Ram, Ram, Sitaram, Sitaram, Sitaram," over and
over again-just the sacred name and nothing else. Sorne
people may think that that is a senseless thing to do; but it is
not,. for it has a very rea] effect upon the person who is reciting;
it steadies his unoccupied mind on a soothing and elevating
thought. That is infinitely better than allowing the mind to
roam as it will, occupying itself most likely with the affairs of
its owner's neighbours, and so leading to gossip and all the
t,Jntold harm that that does. Of course, if you can control your
mind without any outward repetition, it is all the better; but
ma~y people do neither the one nor the other.
It is a good plan, which you will find recommended in
many religions, to choose in the morning some phrase which
CONTROL OF MIND t89
you then learn by heart. It will come up of itself in the mind!
during the day, and will drive away other less worthy thoughts:
at times when the mind is unoccupied. You can select a phrase
or sentence from any good book, and the repetition of it a few
times in the morning (perhaps while you are dressing) with your·
thoughts fixed upon it, will make it come up of its own accord
during the day. One can see how easy such automatic repeti-
tion becomes to the mind when one remembers how a chance
piece of music, a catching tune, will impress itself upon the•
mind, wilJ take possession of it and be repeated by it over and
over again. For many years I have kept the thought of the
Masters in the background of my mind, and now it is always.
there, so that the moment my mind is released from a piece of
work it reverts naturally to Them.
C.W.L.-Thoughts of the Master should be always present
in the background of our mind, so that they come forwa(d.·
when it is not occupied by other work. If one is reading QJ.",
writing a letter or doing some physical work, one is not neces-
sarily thinking actively about the Master; but the resolution is
made at the beginning : " I wilJ do this well for the sake of the;
Master.'! Having done that, one is thinking of the work, not
of Him, but as soon as the work is finished, the thought of the
Master returns into the foreground of the mind. Such a thought.
not only ensures that the mind shalJ be well occupied, but it;
also causes our thinking on other subjects to be clearer anq·
stronger than it otherwise would be.
Sometimes people practise the repetition of the names of
God, in order to form such a background for the mind. In
India you often find people muttering to themselves as they
stand waiting for a train or walk along the road, and sometimes
you hear them saying a sacred name over and over again.
One of the special criticisms which missionaries have always
made against the "heathen'' is that they are "given to vain'
repetitions". The Muhammadan goes about reciting texts;
he always has the name of Allah upon his lips. It may be·
that sometimes he does not think much of Him, but oft'en it
does mean something to him. It is true that a man may say
things of that sort merely as a matter of habit, and give no.
thought to it: a Christian may repeat his prayers, and his
thoughts may be wandering somewhere else all the time.
Even a priest may go through his hours of prayer without
I9o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
necessarily concentrating much thought on them, because he
knows the whole thing by heart; he may utter his "Ave
Marias " and '' Paternosters " without ever thinking of Our
Lady or our Father in heaven. In any religion it is possible to
be a formalist, to retain the outer shelJ, having lost most of its
inner spirit; but that is not done more in Hinduism and in
Buddhism than it is in Christianity-! should be inclined to
say not nearly so much. It is a fact that the repetition of
names like " Rama, Rama, Rama," does help to keep the
thought of the Deity in the minds of people, and ~hen it does
that assuredly it is good. If we can think equally readily
and fruitfully of the Master without needing the repetition of
His name, that is a still better thing; but it is infinitely better
to do the physical repetition than not to have the thought.
There is a certain rate of vibration in the mental body
which is appropriate to these devotional feelings ; in time
that rate becomes a habit, so that devotion easily arises and
is built into the charatter. This habit also serves to keep
out evil thoughts. If the mind is vacant, any passing thought
can enter and influence it, and such a thought is more likely
to be bad, or at any rate useless, than useful. It comes from
the vast quantities of thought floating round us, representing
the average level of the country, but we are aiming at something
higher. We want to be in a position to lift our average
brother, and we cannot do that until we first attain a higher
level ourselves.
Use your thought-power every day for good purposes;
be a force in the direction of evolution.
C.W.L.-Vve have been educated on a namby-pamby
sort of theory that the one thing necessary is to be good;
but it is not enough to be pious and to· abstain from doing
evil things; we must go ahead and do something with our
goodness and piety. Why are we on earth at all ? Why
should we encumber the ground, unless we can do something ?
To sit down and be good (though it is better than sitting
down and being bad, of course!) is simply a negative state.
We are here to be channels for the divine Force. We, the
Monad, came forth from God long ago as a glowing spark of
the divine Fire. Truly, as The Secret Doctrine says: "The
CONTROL OF MINO i9r
spark burns low"-very low, in many cases-but'we must rekindle
it with the fervour of our enthusiasm and faith and love, and
make that spark into a living flame that will warm other people.
Think each day of some one whom you know to be
in sorrow, or suffering, or in need of help, and pour out
loving thought upon him.
C. W. L.-Thought-force is just as real and definite a
thing as money, or as the water we pour out of a jug into
a glass. If we send a definite stream of it to anybody, we
may be absolutely certain that it will get there, though we
may not see it. Most of us know somebody in sorrow and
suffering, who could be greatly helped by the stream of thought
that we may send. Even if it should happen at any time
that we know of no one in particular who is in such need,
we can send out our thought in a more general way, and it
will find some one among the many who are in trouble.
If one knows of a person who is in touch (as is Dr. Besant~
for example) with a great many people who are in need and
sorrow, one may send thoughts of devotion and strength to
her, so that she will have a little more to pour out. It is the
same.with the Mast~rs. When anyone pou~s ~ut a thought of
devotion to Th~m, 1t calls down upon htm the answering
thought of the Master, which is in the nature of a blessing.
But besides that, a little more is added to the Master's store
<Jf force, and He uses that for the good of others.
A.B.-I must say that until I read this it had not occurred
to me to make such a definite and regular practice of this
mental helping of others. It is certainly a very good thing.
Decide in the morning upon some person whom you will help
during the day in your odd moments- there are always plenty
·Of people needing help, unfortunately. Then, whenever during
the course of the day your mind is free, instead of letting it be
used as a kind of hotel for the most casual visitors, engage it
in sending the person thoughts of strength, comfort, happiness,
or whatever it is that he most needs. This practice is a stage
beyond that of the repetition of a good sentence.
' .
In one way or another you should close your mind against .
•undesirable thoughts, until it is so strong that these helps are
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
not needed. The thought of the Master should always be
.in mind ; it is one that always goes out in help, and it does
not. prevent any of the higher activities of the mind. It does
not exclude other ways of helping, but throws greater force
into them. After a time it will fill the whole of your mental
horizon, and then all that you do will be better and more
strongly done because of it.
Hold back your m~nd from pride, for pride comes
only from ignorance.
C.W.L.-There is a great deal of subtle pride amongst
students of occultism. They cannot help realizing that they know
a little more of the real facts of life than do people who have not
studied these things. It would be foolish not to recognize the
fact, but they must take care Jest they have a feeling of
despising the ordinary man who does not know these things as
yet. In this particular respect students of occultism are ahead
of the ordinary man, but there rnay well be other matters
in which the ordinary man is far ahead of them. The man
who knows, literature, science, or art thoroughly, for example, has
?pent very much more time and trouble in learning that than
Jllany of us have in studying Theosophy, and surely he deserv~
credit for the work he has done, and the amount of selfless
labour that he has put into it. It is not the mark of a wise
man to desp~se the work of another, but to realize that all alike
~re progressmg.
Many people have what is called a good conceit of
themselves; they like to think of themselves as always right,
as very good persons, and so on. But the points on which
they admire themselves are generally not at all what the ego
would acknowledge. . In the ego, so far as any quality is
developed, it is pure. If, for example, affection is there, it
is utterly untainted with jealousy, envy, or selfishness. It is
a mirror of the divine love in so far as he can reproduce it at
his level. Sometimes we pride ourselves on progressing fairly
well. That is very like a little child of four years priding
himself on the fact that he is getting on very well. So he may
be-for that age-but it will be different with the man of
twenty-one. Our powers of intellect, devotion, affection,
.sympathy-exist in us but in a small degree, as compared with
what they will be. Instead, therefore, of stopping to pat
· •· CONTROL OF MIND :193
..ourselv~s on the back1 we must press on and try to gain mere
..of such qualities. . ·
In this work, meditation is a great help. If a man
:real1y sets himself to develop affection, meditates upon it and
works to try to feel it, he will be surprised at the strength
-of the qua1ity evoked in himself in-a short time.
Pride, the Master says, comes always from ignorance.
The more a man knows the less likely he is to be proud, becquse
the more he is able to see that he does not know. Most
·especialJy is this true if it be his good fortune to come into
touch with one of our great Masters. Such a man will never
feel proud again, not even proud of that fact, because when-
.ever he thinks he can do anything, or that he possesses any
quality, it cannot but come into his mind: "But I have seen
that quality in the Master, and what is mine beside His? "
The virtues in Them are so magnificently developed
that to know one of Them is an absolute and instantaneous
cure for anything like pride. Yet discouragemen~ never comes
1
from the· Master. In ordinary life you think you can do a
Jittle bit of something, but when you come into the presence
.of an expert . in that line, you see at once how little you can
do compared with the great man, and you feel rather crushed
and hopeless. But that is not the feeling one gets in the
·presence of the Master. You realize your own incompetence
and insignificance acutely, but at the same time in His.presence
you realize your own potentiality. Instead of feeling that
there is an abysmal gulf which can never be passed, one
feels, '' I can do this ; I am going to set myself to imitat.e
that " ; that ·is the stimulus which any touch with the Master
.always gives. In His presence one feels very much what the
Apostle says: " I can do all things through Christ which
.strengtheneth me." 1
Because of this strength of the Master,
a person thinks at the time : " I shaH never again be depressed;
I can never again feel sorry; I can never again fall into the
.silly mistake of irritability which I committed yesterday.
I look back and see that some things worried me. How
ridiculous ; why should . anything ever worry me ? " It may
be that, later on, having passed out of the direct rays of that
-divine influence, we do fall back, forgetting that it can
1 Philippian·s, 4; 13.
26
TALKS 0~ T!JE PA.TH· OF OCCULTISM
.r~~~h us just ~~ well when the nws are not visible and
direct, that we may live always in the Master's aura if we
choose to do so.
The man who does not · know thinks that he is
great, that ~e has done tqis pr t~at great thing; the
wise man knows that only ~od is great, that all good
work is done by God alone.
A.B.-Here we have a great lesson of the Gita. It is the one
will that works through us all. All work is done by the whole,
not by the parts; and the most that any of u~ can do is to make
ourselves good organs for the one divine activity to work
thrcmgh. It is a~ foolish for us to boast as it would be
for one of the fingers of our hands to do so. Make yourselves
he~lthy organs of the divine will; then you ~ill find that
the one Actor is using you, ~ecause y~u are convenient.for use.
We have come back to the point where we began: We saw
.that realization of the Self destroys all fear ; we now ·see that it
·destroys all pride. That is the one great basic tFuth. It is
.gaed to see how these multifarious things all lead us back
:
ta·'the·one truth-the one Life seated equally in all beipg.s.
C~W.L.-Goq is in e~e~y9ne, ~qd ~hatev~r goodness
:or greatness ther~ is in any m·an is t~e God in him ~hiping
·throug~. All that we do ·He does th~ough us. This may
appear strange. You may say that it ·seems to destroy the
feeling of individuality, but tha~ is o~ly because our physical
:brains cannot grasp the real relationship. Not without reason
.t\Je medireval Christians used to say : :' l'o God be th.e glory._,.
for one of us to be proud of anythmg that he has done 1s
just as though, when one is playing a piece on the piano, one
of his fingers should say ; " How well I struck that note ! It
was I who made that tune so beautiful!" After all, all the other
fingers did their part, and they all acted, not with separate
volition, but as instruments of 'the brain behind. We are all
fingers of His Hand, manifestations of His power. I know
q~ite well that it is practically impossible for us fully to realize
that ; but the more we develop t~e higher consciousness the
more acutely we feel it, and sometimes in meditation, in moments
of high exaltation, we get a momentary grasp of that unity.
o , I • ~ I • ! ( -
. ~
.. :. I ,. I' . .' . ~
. i I
·'
..·
t •• , ~ .' .
. CHAPTER XIX
SELF-CO'NTRGt IN ACTION
2. Self-control 'in A ction.--lf your thought ~-. 1: '
, ~ ' .
what it should be, 'you will have little trouble with your''..
action. . ; - }
A.B.-This sentence ·emphasizes ~he fact,'with which every
-occult student is familiar, that thought is more important thari
.action. ·This 'is ·exactly the 'reverse of the ordinary point tif
·view; but it is true, because thought always precedes acti'on~
There can be what is called sp·ontaneous action ; but that only
means that to find the preceding thought you must go further
·back, perhaps even to a former life. ·
When sufficient thought-force has been accumulated in the
·mind in any given direction, and then an occasion present~
·itself for the expression of that particular kind of thought, it
·inevitably overflows into action. Every thought along a given
'line acts as a little added impulse, until at last the stored-up
·force ·of the impulses carries you over into action along that
'line. The Hindu qufte rightly looks up·on action, or karma, as
·made up of the three paris-thought, desire and act. It is
t'rue ·; so you may have in any life an act which is unpremeditat~
ed so far as 'the immediate past is concerned, an act committed
6n the spur of the moment. Those are cases in which the
·thinkihg having been completed, the act-that is the last part
:of the whole action-must follow, as being the net impulse
along that line. Thus it may happen that on any line of thiak;.
ing you may exhaust your power of selection, ·and then, even
when you have exerted to the full your power of·control, on the
;first occasion that presents itself your thought wiH manifest in
195
196 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
action. It may lie latent for a long time, if opportunity for
expression be lacking, but as soon as ever the circumstances.
permit the action will be done.
Hence the great importance of understanding the working·
of thought. Guard your thought and lead it along good lines,
for you cannot telJ when the moment will be reached and your
next thought will be embodied in action. This is one reason for
the stress laid on the importance ·of thought by all the great
Teachers of the world, and here in this book the student is-
reminded of it again. . It may be we1l to remember at this.
point that manas, the mind, is itself activity. You have in the
Monad the three aspects of wi11, wisdom and activity, and these-
embody themselves in atma, buddhi and manas. Here you have-
the recognition tpat thought emQ<>dies_itself in action
C.W.L.-It is a truism to say that thought precedes action•.
There are occasions on which we act, as we say, without think-
ing, but ·even so it is the result of previous thought-we.have a
habit of thought on certain subjects or along a certain line, and
we act instinctively in agreement with that. A man does a,
thing, and then explains: c• I could not help doing it; I did not
think." But the fact is that be is carrying out thought belong-
ing, perhaps, to previous incarnations. Although a man has
not usually the same mental body now as in his last incarnation,
he h~s- the. same mental unit, whjch is th~ nucleus of that body·
and is to a great extent a kind of epitome of it, and that carries
from life to life the impressions Qf the type of thought to which
the man has been accustomed.
It has often been pointed out that a man can take over
from life to life, in his causal body, only his good qualities~
That is quite true. The causal body is constructed from the
matter of the higher subplanes of the mental plane-the first,
second and third-and rnatter of those levels cannot vibrate in
response to any of the lower or less desirable qualities. There-
fore a man can actually build into himself only good, which is
very fortunate for us, because otherwise we should all have
built in a great deal that is not good, which would retard our.
evolution instead of helping it. But he carries over with him
the permanent atoms belonging to the different planes-mental,..
astral and physical-and so the vibrations which belong·to thelDi
come up as inherent qualities in·bis new vehicles.
SELF-CONTROl; iN ACT·ION· • ·
.In this· way one brings over the possibilities·of qualities·,;
rather than -actual qualities: Madame ·Blavatsky used to call
these, among other things, " privations of rnatter, " that: · is,
fort:;es which would operate when the matter was there for them
to work in, but were suspended until it gathered round the ego
again. So when a man acts ''without thinking" he does so
according to the momentum of those old thoughts. · That is
one. of the reasons why we should so carefully . guarq our
thopghts; we never know when they will overflow into action.
TQe map whq yields himself to some evil thought, thinking that
he· wUl never allow himself to act upon it, may some time fin,d
it tra'nslated into·action almost before he is aware of it. . '
... .
Great use can be made of this knowledge f.or the helping
of. children. When the ego takes up his new vehicles, parents
and friends can· do very much to help him by encouraging the
good qualities as they show themselves, and giving the bad·ones
no opportunities to manifest. . We give the greatest help to the
child · when we get the good quaJities into action, and make·
them into a habit before those which are bad can assert them-
selves. The latter will sooner or later manifest, probaply because
the outer world will stir them up, but if there is already a strong
momentum in favour of the goodqualities, those which are evil
will find it very difficult. to make any impression. The whole
wiJI of 'the ego is then ac·~ing through his vehicles against their
impacts, and in such a case they will probably be entirely
weeded out in the course of that life-period, so that in the
folJowing i~carnation the ·ego will come in without any trace ol
them at all. ·
Yet remember that, to be useful to mankind, thought
. must result in action. There must be no laziness, but con-
stant activity.in good work.
A.B.-Here is a very important reminder-thought to be
useful must result·in action. That is a point on which many of
us are defective ; we have in our minds thoughts which do
not result in action, and al1 such are sources of weakness. The
Master Morya once said ·that a good thought not acted•upon
acts like a cancer in the mind. That is a graphic simile, which
should help us to realize that such a thought is not merely
negative, but positively harmful. We should nat enfeeble our
~ TALKs·:oN-'tHR:.PAtrH -0~:, b&ULTISM
n1otal fibr·e by 'gnod resolutions not tarried but, which act as an
o~tacl_e and -"make it tri~re 'difficuit ..~d 1
Carry but fhe siltb~
thought_into .actit>rl when it arises ag~in: Dd ·not del_
ay; tb&~
fure. Do not put things off; do hdt'leav~ thein undot?e·" Mali:V
of us stultify our growth by good resolutions ntn put inttj
.p~aetic~. An English prov~tb says that ~he way to .hell is
pated ·-wit-h good intehtions. .:. · : · · ·, ·.
~~~~~ A.-: go_~d inte~tion not carr~~d. put .be~me·s.~ force.to.~- in, as
tt acts,like ·~ drug which dull~ t~e, .brain...· .Be careful to ~egulate
Y?u_
r.thinking, and when f~om the high.ffF ,Self comes an impulse
<>f service ·go and carry it out; .do not leav~ it fpr to-~orrow;
T~is. putting off is .a reasqn why. so many good people _
in the
Wo'rlcl a're m_
arking time. It is quite a commop .tJ1ing to qieet a
teally good 'person .aft~r a.la.pse of about ten y~a:rs., ~~d firid him
just t_li~ sarrie· ~s he 'was·~ wHeri ·you ltnew'·him befote: Thus
~eple remain for years, having tHe sarrle dffficrllties·and.temp-
tiltio~, the same weaknesses aQd strength'. That ought neyer
to be true of a member of the Theosophical Society, for all o£ ~s
ought to know something of the way in which tn'ese laws wotk.
That it is sometime-s true is very mueh due, I think, to tpe
failure to understaQd that g9od impulses not carried out make
barriers. If.you put into effect those which you receive, more
and more will come. No favourable outer circumstances or
additions of outer ·knowledge can mak~ up for the want of ipner
effort and resolution, and for failure to carry out into action
what you -already know. Your thought ought .always to result
in action. Make that a rule. I do not mean that you will
always be able to carry out your thought at once, because
.circumstances may not permit it; but presently opportunities
will come. In such cases put your thought by, not losing it.
It will then be like fruit that is ripening. If you do that, the
unembodied thought will not harm you, and as so<>n as the.time
is ripe you will carry it out.
But it must be your own Huty that you do-itot
· .another man's, unless with his permission and by way of
'helping him. Leave every man··to .do his own work in
his own way; be always ready to offer help where it is
needed, but never interfere. For mahy people the most -
.!c!lifficult , thing ·in the world to l~arn is to mind their own
,.:~--~usiness ; b~t th~~ 1~· ~¥~·c~1X wh~t you m~st do.
, . 1 A.B.-
. A warnin.g is n~w given which is needed by those
·who have a:: very active-a rajasic-nature. We have· )to
=
cqnsider now''the other side of the razor-path; J.~ziness must"~
shunned on the one hand, but interference must be avoided on
the other. Very active peqple are prone to wapt, as the sayii;JP
is, a finger in every pie. But other people's ·pies are their own
'pies, and you ought not to put your.fingers ~nto them. You
may remember how often i'n the Bhagavad-Gita, which is a
go~pel of activity-for its constant burden is, '' act ! act! "-the
warning is given ~gainst wrong activity. The duty of another,
it says, is full ofdanger.
. The ~eason )s c.1.e<;tr. ~f you, with your own line <?f thought-
;~ctiyi~y · bt1fllpq ylo?, mix yoprself in the action of :anot~er
p~rApn, who-- simJlar1y has hi~ own line of thought-activity
pe~iijd ·him-
· which i~ Cl: qifferept:pne fr<?rn yo~rs-you ~r.~ ~~r~
to SHQi.l what he is doing. . f:li~ ,actioq,is the logical outcome of
h\s t~_01l;Jght-activity ; it ·l? not, ~nd cou)d not ~e the right ~~~
Pr<?per qutcome qf yours. Th~ ener.getic type 9f per§qn ~y~t
~~an:) ,th~~ he only ~reates ~onfusion. py mixing himse.lf. Jp
,ay,o.fper p.~r~on's actiop: l t;tsed t~ ~ant to set other p.eopl_,e
qgpt, according. to ~q~t was. ~y view of w_hat was rig~t f:or
the~.,..wqich ~a~ ·my pwn .right~ 9~ cour~e ;· but I learneq ip t~f!
course of discipleship that that was not the ~<l:Y tq work.
Ev.en if another person's way is not' the best way fr.om the
absttac~ standpoint, it may yet be the best for him. It has the
fo.rce of both his faults and his virtues behind'it, and it mar-js
the line of evolution proper for him. Suppose that a man ho-
lds
his p·en in some partiGular way that is not the best orie, when
he is writing; if you interfere and induce him to hold it in
a different way, you will make him write worse, not better.
He will lose all the advantage of his long practice in the old
method, and it wilJ cost him a great deal of time and trpuble
·to make tnat good. Of course, if he himself wants to change
~is way of writing because he is conv.inced that another way
is better, and he asks your help in this, the·CqSe is different;
h~ has a right to do. as lle please~, and he win t~en h~ve the
fQfC~ of h.is C?Wn will pehi~d pis a~t!on. . . · ;.
200 TALKS ON THE PATH OF · OCCULTISM
It is clear that a strong person can easily dominate another
for a time. History affords many examples of g~eat men
who dominated all around them while they lived, but whose
work fell to pieces when they died. They forgot that they
were mortal and should therefore have provided for the gap
.that their death would leave; the unfortunate karma of their
.error, their self-centredne~s, lay in that result of things tumbling
to piece_s as soon as they were gone. That shows at once that
those men did not understand the conditions of successful
activity. They did not realize that a worker and leader
sh9uld gather fit people together and trust them, and leave
them independent in their own part of the work, independent
along their own lines-that one should not try to look after
every detail oneself; moreover, it cannot be done.
The world is made up of a great variety with an underly-
ing unity. The lower types in the world obey law, because,
unknowing of the fact themselves, they are compelled to do
so. But man is left comparatively free-:free w-ithin a great
·circle of laws outside which he cannot get, ·but inside which
he may do as he pleases. In doing his work in his own way
"lies his development. The divine plan is such that more and
more liberty is bestowed on man as he progresses and can be
trusted to use it wisely ; so that bit by bit, step by step, we come
to perfect freedom. The animal, at the lower end of the scale,
obeys perfectly, unconsciously; the Master at the upper end
-of it obeys perfectly, consciously; and we all stand somewhere
between those two.
We must remember too, that interference extends to the
mind, and non-interference has also to do with the previous
-qualification, that of self-control as to the mind. Interference
by ..thought is very potent. Take for example such a case as
the foJiowing. One of us has a particular difficulty which he
is trying to overcome; perhaps it arises from some .weakn·ess
in his character, perhaps it is an undesirable way of thinking
-or acting, along which from force of old habit he is inclined
to go. Whatever it is, he is doing his best to overcome it.
Then some one comes along and suspects him of that particular
line of weakness or difficulty-suspects, and goes on his way,
never thinking that he bas done any particular harm.
That second person does not realize that ·he bas given
a little push to his brother, -which may just determine the
SELF·CONTROl. IN Ac'l'toN:·1
• •
Jattees action and' send it ·along the wrong 'line. · The•·two
forces of habit and effort were perhaps trembling · ih 'the
balance, and the suspicious thought turned the scale. Thdt ;i~
why suspicion is so wrong. It is always wrong. If unfortunately
it is true, it only gives the man suspected an additional push iD
the wrong direction ; if it be untrue, it may make it a little easier
for him to go wrong in that particular way atsome other time~ In
any case it is sending out an evil thought against him; 5o it is
wrong either way. We ought always to think well of people,
even if our thought of them is better than their practice; thus ~e
throw out to them a thought which will work only for their good.
. ' " • '
It is also important to x:emember th.ese fa.cts, because a
mass of evil thought is sooner or later directed by the dark
forces against every person who is advancing rapidly on the
Path. Because you are having a mass of evil thrown against
yourself, tending to push you into wrong actions, you should
realize the harmful way in which suspicion works, ·and should
pe extra careful of your own thoughts and actions. You
should think of what is happening to yourself mereiY, with a .
&ry recognition of the facts, without any feeling of a.Qger or:
resentment, and whenever you come across a great outburst of
hatred, remember that you ought, to use the Biblical phrase,
to gird up the loins of your mind, and simply bring to bear
upon ·the situation an added force of a contrary· nature to
neutralize the evil one. Do that, and the mass of evil thqught
dir~cted against you will not harm you; on the contrary, you
will draw advantage from it, as it will help you to see what are
your weak points; it will bring them into the light when
otherwise they might have remained hidden from you. Also
your very resolution in the face of attack will strengthen you,
and lead you onwards to the time when all these things will beat
against you with small effect.
Therefore you should do your own work perfectly, and
leave the work of other people alone unless they ask you for
help. Do your own work t<? the utmost of your abiJity, and
leave other people's work alone to the extent of your a,bility.
C.W.L.-A good deal of interference with others is due to
religious m1sconceptions. Orthodox Christianity makes it ·its
business to interfere with everybody. It starts out to save other
peoples' · souls, instead of recognizing that each man's business
26
tOsi TALKS Ol'f 'Tiiit ISATH. OF OCCULTISM
I
is ,to .Jet his soul save him·. .Most assuredly no one bas Clfight
t0 $interfere ··between: the lower and the higher seH of. another
tindef:' any·· ·circumstanees ~ i whatever. The torturers of· the
lhquisitioii thought:..it·.' right '·
to d<b any f1"ightful thing witH s.
mah',g b0dy i·n ·orcler ·to save his -soul, by rna.king the hody =
say
tbis ·t>r that. · It was never even suggested, so far as I oao
ubdea;stand~ that you could make him believe it, bat .if you
oould make his ~dy say that it ·believed a certain thing, that
statem.
etrt, even if false, somehow or other saved the sou~. If
tbose.'p>e0ple reaUy 'h>elieved that (I wonder whether ·anybody
ever :d~d really. eelieve so monstrolls a lie!) they could actually
justify all ~he· horrible things they did; for whatever the
borrbrs to which you subjectea the unfortunate body for a few
hotlts or:: days, they would be as nothing compared with the
frightful pain lasting for all e~ernity from which you '!Ve're
:s:;tv'i'ng his souL The torture. of' your neighbour under those
~circumstances be'com~s ·quite.'.a.laudable action. It is difficult
/f(y( us to ·believe that anyone could take up this position, yet
=
it: dppe.ats 'to ~a,_.e oeeh held by g~ett numbers of people-even
·after al1owing for those who wete using the power of _
the
Chtiktth for political purp6ses. ·.' · · ; ~
. ) ~ i . • '/
1 ' ' · 1 } f
• . • I Becatise you try'
1
• u,;'ta~~ :4r higher work. you ~u~t
not -forget your ordinary. dutie~· for until they are done
ytiti are not ftee .for .ot~et. :se~yice. You 'should ~H~r- -
• I : • · t .. ; \. , • I
I tc,.ke ,.no new worldly tlt~ti~s~ but tlrose wh;ch .you have
: ,~ttea~y taken upoi\ ·~ou, ~6~ rriust perfectly fulfil-
- all
: : f( F~;·attd rea~~ahle Jutles whi9.h.you yourself reCGglifse..
:I ·th~ 0
is-not im~~~~ary dnties whi,ch 9thets t'ry to j~~
.up9n y.ou. If you are to be His, you·must d~ ordinary
I'
1
,Wotk better. I thap 'hfllers, no'~' 'worse; •becaUSe you mUS~
...~do. that also for,J-l'is sake. .,
A.B.-We sometimes find. that when a person co~es into
occultism he begins to .do· his otdiinary work worse, nofbetter
than before. That is ~together wrong. · His great outburst
-ot:enthusiasm for ·his fiew studi·cs and his ·effort to reaeh the
higher :things have t~lleir : danger .as ' well ·as their aelv'ant~'
SELF·CON'I'ROL.. ·IN i ACTI·ON . . '
and ·.the danger is pr~cisely that the 1
WOrldly duty appea·t~u·n­
imf>ortant. There is truth in the •.idea, . and it is in tbeltruth
that the danger lies ; all error-s are·dangerous only ori accd.unt
of the .truth that lies at the ba-
se .of them. It is the·litHe·bit
of tru~h in an error that· give~. it its' strength,; net t_h~ great
wrapp1-ng cf falsehood that overhes tlle sorap of truth.•1 I 1::
' :. The ·-perfect carrying .out;·:r>£ ' th(\1hti~sd that 'baV~-:;~o ~~
'dope in the world is what shows tpat the force corn\ng' dQ\\1,~
from the higher planes I is, being tu·~ned in the right di(ectiori.
''Yoga is skill in action."l . If a ·ma.n. is disciplined on '.t~e
higher planes his Jow~r pl',lf1e activiti~s will be good; but if ne
is undisciplined they w~ll pot be good. Even tbis last, howeve'r,
is very much better thap not to carE:; about the higher things
at all. The unwise activities of a man in this pltght may work
much temporary harm, but not permanent harm, becaQ~e· tpe
motive power behind them is good. .
. ,\
The ~isciple must try to carry out physical plan~ outie5
better than other people. Very often, when he acts u·n~isely,
a Master ~ay have to step· in in order to balance up hi& unwise
activities. That is one ·reason ·why a Master puts a chela on
probation, and the l6'ng tjme that' the· probation ofteiJ lasts is
sometimes due to thi~. 1
Generally people need a 'fairly long
time to balance · up their' l enthusia~t:n and activity with' wis~
moderation and forethought. ·' : ·. ··, f · :II·~·
Th~ first test of disciple;;hip is U$efulness to other$. \Tpe
a~pirant should never think · that hi;; ~soteric war~ js .mor~
import'lnt than h.is exoteric work. Jf, beipg a Theosophist,
h~ neglects his Lo.dge and his wor~ for the Society f~t th~
:5f\,'~e pf his own progress in esoteric matters, he is blupderin,g.
If ·i he neglects outside work fo' the sake of study, . to . take
anpth~r examplea he is doing qui~t: wn;mg, Study is .go9d,
b\t.t · it ~~auld subserve usef.uln~ss ; yoq should study in .Ofder
to be rn9.re useful, not ceas~ to be pl;)eful for the sake .of
studying. And whenever ~ .conflict ari$eS between o~t~r il,pties
and such studies, the outer o.ught t'9 t~k~ preceqenc~, .. . ,1., • •
In all such rna·tters as these,. we :must never forget that
the path of occultism is 11~rrow as the edge of a ra.¥lr. It
wo~!d ?e. quite possible t_o. give almost ev~r.y .momept of on~'p
wa~.mg time to small._servtces for others, Qut m su~p- cas.(;'!1
~~ny
1
Bhr1ga-vad-Git6, J1, 50. I o l, ; - •, ; ; I ' •
~ TALKS.·O.N lm& .PAT.H ·OF ·OCCULTISM
of. tbp could not: be,:well. chosen, and most of them .would
n~t ' l ~~ iwen dQne.. Just as..one. must spend time in .sleeping
JlJJd, eating, ·in order to have strength to work the . rest of
the time, •so must one spend time in meditation and study,
and in. considering what work should be done and bow it
should be done. This aspect of the matb~r was dealt with by
tqe Master in the section on discrimination. Every portion
of His teaching directs the pupil back into the middle path;
if he follows any piece of advice to excess, he will only fall
over again. It has been said that the track of the best
ship·· is not a straight line,· but is made up of thousands of
tracks, ' now to one side, now to the other. The life of the
·disdple is similar to that; the captain on: the bridge is the
Master, who points out the stars by which he can guide himself,
and assists him to keep as close as possible to the direct line.
One meets so many people who fasten on to one good idea, and
then Jet it ride them to death.
·The Master tells his pupil that he should undertake no
new worl~ily duties. The man who has pledged himself to the
Master'~ work should know t·he importance of being ·always
ready to serve I;Iim in any way and anywhere that He needs
11~11}· ~ . can give you a striking example of this out of my own
experi~nce. When I was young my children were taken away
from me against my will. I fought against the separation by
every means that the law allowed, but lost my case; the law
broke the tie, took away from me the duty of protection which
a mother has to her children. My daughter came back to me
as soon as she was free to do so ; for ten years I had not seen
or written to her, but my influence held and she came straight
back to me. I was then living with Madame Blavatsky, and
she warned me: ''Take ca~ that you do not re-knit the ties
which karma broke for you." If I had taken up my oJd life
again then, after I had taken my pledge to the Master, I should
have done wrong. It did not mean, of course, that I was to
neglect the girl-she came and lived with us, and stayed with us
till she married, but she had to come second, not first.
.
You are responsible for the duties which you have to fulfil,
not anybody else; you are responsible to your Master and not
to anybody else. If people try to force upon you what they
imagine to be your duty, and you see that it is not so, you must
simply disagree with them-good-temperedly, but firmly. You
•
SELF-CONTROL IN ACTION 205
must decide. You may do so rightly or wrongly, and if wrongly
you will suffer, but the decision must be yours. That
responsibility of an individual to himself and to his Master must
not be interfered with by anyone. To your own Master you
are responsible, and you must do your ordinary work better than
other people do, for His sake.
C.W.L.-This principle that the occultist should do
ordinary work well was understood in the old religions. In the
story of the youth of Prince Siddartha, who afterwards became
the Lord Buddha, for example, it is related that he devoted
himself very much to study and meditation, but when it became
necessary that he should win his bride by skill in vario·us manly
sports, he showed that when he wished he could excel in those
as well as the higher .things. In the Bhagavad-G·eta it is said
that yoga is skilJ in action; it is doing the right thing car«;!tu\ly,
tactfully and courteously. Disciples of the Masters have there-
fore to Jearn balance in their Jives, to know when the ]ower may
safely be put aside and when it should not be put aside.
A man who ·has pledged himself and his time and strength
to . the Master's service ought not to undertake anything ne~
which is not actually His work. He must not let people fo.rce:
upon him duties which he does not recognize as his. l can
quite imagine, for example, that people might so~etimes
expect members of the Theosophical Society to attend various
social functions. A member might say,'' I am willing to giv~
up a reasonable amount of time for the sake of friendliness,"'
but he is quite justified in reserving most of his time for any
work that he has taken up for the Society.
This instruction concerning duties had special reference to.
AJcyone's life at Adyar, while the Master was teaching him:.
In 'one ·special case, for example, he was being pressed to
devote ' a whole day to some ceremony in connection with a:
distant relation. The matter was submitted to his Master, and
He said: " Yes, for the sake of the rest of the family who,
might be shocked or troubled, you may go down for an hour
at such and such a time, but be very careful that, during that
time, you repeat nothing whatever which you do not understand,
that .you in no case repeat things blindly after the priest, and
that· yoa do not allow anything to be done for you that you can
do for your.self-that is, in the way of ceremonies and blessings.",
\ I '
I'
. .
t ~ I w
• t :
,,l. ..
·"'· ..
• ,..: ; .
:· ; ·.
I : I ;
; I I !
. :: . .: ,.l
'
,· :
CHAPTER XX ' I
·' I
TOL:gRANCE
' !: · ·' · 3'. 'To)erance.-
. Yo~ must fe~l perfect . toleranC,e
• ' ' 0 '
1>}or: :··~u.. and. .a hearty interest in ;the beliefs of those of
··
.:lftto.ther religion, ju~t as much ·a's in your own. For 1he.ir
\•; r~ligio~ is ~ .p~~h to ~he' highest, jusfa:; yours i~
0
( A.tJI;to
.. help all, you·must understand all. · ··
1 . 0 •
1
'' : ·A.B.-I suppose tolerance is one of the virtues most talked
about ~t the present day, but one of the least practbed. It is
o'ne of the most difficult virtues ·to acquire, for where a belief is
strongly held and highly valued people not unnatura1ly tend to
try to pll;sh it on others. Out of that aggressiveness all religious
persecutions. a:nd wa~s, both public and private, have grown ;
b,ut even that aggressiveness is better than indifference, which
is· so ·often confused with tolerance. Indifference is not toler-
ance, and should never be mistaken for it. · ·
Nowadays. there is very little State persecution, but ,there
is still !lluch social and family persecution. Some State per-
secution of religion does still exist in certain countries, where
the free-thought party has the upper hand. Free-thinkers were
so much persecuted that the temptation to retaliate has been
too strong, though of course they are acHng in direct violation
of ·their own ·principles. I hope it is only the reaction of the
pers~cution that the religious party meted out to them, and that
it'will soon cease. · ·
There st11l exists in the world much of the spirit out of
which , all persecution grows, and sometimes the State finds :it
nec.~ssary to impose forbearance, as . in I,ndia, {or fear of
206
. : ,·.! : .. . I . ·TOLERAlNOE .
disturbanaes and tr0\i~les a~dsing. The sufferance that We fidl
existing between members·of different cteeds in 'countries wllern
vatious religions are more 0r less evenly balanced is Iargety
due w:·mutual tear. Thus what · tolerance there is spring$
genera:Ily from some motive that is more or less unworthy. ·· ·I
'" : The occult.student must. aim at the kindly feeling whtph
:grows out of tbe·..reco~nition that the Self in each finds his oW.ti
toffd. TlHs is the only right attitude, and nothing less thar\
·n!toghition of it will make tolerance a widespread virtue. We
must ..recognize.that each man bas his own way of searching for
the,:highest, .and ~ust be left absolutely free to follow it. This
implies not only that you wiJJ not try to draw a person intQ
y.0ur own religion, but that you wiii not try'to force arguments
and.opinions upon.him, will not try to sha:ke his beliefs which h~
finds .helpf~l. Such perfect forbearance is the.object at wqicb
you have to aim. It is far as the poles are apart from what
meo of. the world qften ~hink to be tolerance-semi-contemp·
t~aus feeling that religious things do not very much matter,
bu~ ;1re useful merely as a kind of police force to keep people
·in order. But a man's religion must be sacred to you, because
i:t is'sacr~d to llirrt. · 'l'he White Lodge will not allow anyone to
come into its Brotherhood who has not developed this attitude
to.a considerable extent.
• • . ( !
111C:W..L._iThete is 'perhap~ in the preseht day more tolei'~
;3-nce thah th~re' ha~ been since the time of the great Romtti\
Errlpite, and it i's very rhucJ'i like t·hat which then existed. ·, We
~ar <;:ur·ious things of.·
.the W~y in which the Ronta·ns ·ate
;$\l'ppbs«:fd'to have ~r~ated th:e early ·cbristiatls. Carefull:'eSeafcb
s~pw~ th~t the g.rea~est of the ·persecutions..ab~:mt which so mu~h
lias··be·en said never happened at all ; but it is true that ttt~
Christians frequently got themselves into trouble. I do nt)t
~~~n to say th~t ~.co.nditions were not ·in·some ways barbarous;
\)qt .the early Chnstians seer;n t0 have been an anarchical set pf
p~Qple, and ·when ~h~y c~me iqto coi.J.ision with the authorities
it was not on account o,l their religion, but because of the things
~hey said and did. ·rhe:Romans did not welcome the kif.lq ~!
brotJwrho<pd that the early Christians preached. It was fa,~
t:oo ~,uch like:'' Sois mon j1'ere Q1f fe te tue1'ai." 1
In some cases
t\ley.would not,perform small ceremonies which were considered
~~a.t.ters of loy.41lty; :th~y wou,l<;l not throw a,pinch.of incens~ on
;d ·...'!' ~''Be;~Y brbtbet(or:I,_
will kiliyou;'' · ·'
2o8 TALKS ON THE PATU OF OCCULTISM
tke altar or pour out a drop of wine tb the Emperor-actionS
more·or less equivalent to taking off one's•hat in London when
the King passes. The Roman Empire was the most' tolerant ·in
the. world about other religions. They did not care in the very
least what god a'nybody worshipped, because they did not
believe there were any. gods. They had a huge pantheon,
)Vhere they set up temples to aJI the gods, and when they realized
that the Christ was being worshipped they promptly set up a
statue to Him. Their tolerance really amounted to indifference.
Many of those ancient Romans are incarnated in tbe
English race. There are many people now who are tolerant to
all forms of belief, just because they themselves do not believe in
anything. They look on religion as a pleasant fable to amuse the
ladies, but of course for a man it is not a serious matter. That
is not the kind oftolerance at which we are aiming. Ours must
come from a recognition that the beliefs of others are also ways
to the highest. When one goes into a tet)lple or church of some
forin of religion which is not one'sown, one who is really tolerant
conforms to the customs of the place, not simply because it is
the custom, but because .he · respects those people who are
.different from himsel.f, and that religion which is different from
his own. There are·people who go into a church and ~ben refuse
to bow to the aItar and even make a point of turning their
backs upon it. I have known people who tried to go into a
mosque without taking off their shoes. One has no business in
the church or t-he temple of another faith if one is not prepared
to behave so as not to burt the feelings of the worshippers. If
you think it is wrong to genuflect before the altar of a Catholic
church you can always stay outside,·and if you feel it would
be wicked to take your shoes off you need not go inside
the mosque. ·
All men are manifestations of the One Self, so the form
another's aspiration takes is to be respected. Often childish
manifestations appear, but no good man .would make fun of
them, or try to turn people against them, for the less .developed
intellect cannot be expected to take the view that appeals to one
much more advanced. Tolerance will always direct us to say,
with the old Romans, "Since I am a man, nothing human is
foreign to me," and try to understand the other man's point of
view ; even as an exercise for oneself that method would soon
show us at how many different angles the rays of truth may be
TOLERANCE ao9
reflected by the human mind. The world would be mtmot~n~up
if all things were done in one way only. It w~mld " be.li~.e .~
prison, where everything ·is· done at the same hme eac)l~ ~a:y,
and'in the same way. ·....·
d .
.There are certain . broad divisionsJ such as you hnd. for
example, in the minds of the CathoHc and the protestant. Each
of them approaches Christianity from his own point of view,
and many on both sides are quite incapable of understanding
the other. The Catholic takes the view that a great de.a] of
ceremony should appear- in his ritual, that it should be made' in
every way as beautiful as it can be, in order that it may glorify
the God whom he worships, and that it may appeal to the
people. He feels keenly that the ritual and the ceremony and
all' these beautiful surroundings are of the greatest help to him
in his devotions. The protestant, on the other hand, thinks -
all
that to be very wicked and dreadful, because it distracts the
mind from the inner meaning. The protestant's mind is,
perhaps, such that if he had to attend to all these ceremoni.
es
be would not at the same time be able to keep before him the
inner things. What appeals so strongly to the Catho.Hc type
of man would be to him rather a nuisance, a distl}rbance-
something which interferes with his inner devotion.
There are many people who feel their devotion and aspira-
tion to be vague and uncertain when only subjective methods of
worship are employed. To them the outer form gives gr~at
comfort and help ; why should they not have it ? Those who
find the ceremony, the statue, the picture, the physical-plane
manifestation, an intense satisfaction and inspiration, belong
4~~.nitely to one of the seven great rays of life, one of the se.
ven
great lines of human endeavour that lead to the throne of God.
Those who wish for none of these things, who find them
rather troublesome and distracting, are also following their ow~
different line; let them enjoy it ; why shouJ_
d we trouble them?
As each one of us has his own language, in which he was
born, so he has what might be called his religious language--a
way in which his thoughts and feelings and aspirations most
readily express themselves. It would be in the highest degree
foolish to despise a Frenchman because his Janguage is di;fferent
from our own, and equally so to despise anyone because his
religion is different from ours. A Frenchman says m•iso~
27
TALKS ON THE l'A'tH OF OCCULTISM
instead of '' house " ; it means exactly the same thing ·
; it would
be absurd to argue that one is a better word than the other. One
recalls the celebrated Mr. Lillyvick, a character in Nicolas
Nickelby, who, after hearing. that l'eau meant "water" in
French, decided that it was a poor language. There is also a
story about an old woman in the time of the Napoleonic wars
who prayed to God that the English might be successful, and
when some one reminded her that probably people on the·other
side were praying for the success of the French, she replied,
''What does that matter; how can God understand them when
they speak such nonsense? " ·
There can be no possible reason why each man should not
follow the way which he finds to be best for himself, in the path
to God which seems to him the most direct. All that is needed
for peace and harmony is that both should recognize that fact.
Each should say, " I prefer my path, but I am perfectly willing
that every other man should have the same privilege, th;.tt he
also should take the path which seems best to him." That does
not seem much to ask, yet few will concede it. Each feels
that what is best for him must be best for others. The larger
mind sees that there are many paths, that they all lead equally
to the summit of the mountain, and that each man should be
left to take that which can most inspire him.
I confess that there is one disposition I personally find it
hard to understand-the·very gushing type of religious devotion,
which applies to the Deity all sorts of endearing terms collected
out of love-poetry and novels. It gives me a shock, and an
impression of irreverence, though I know perfectly well that it
is sincere and well-meant. Probably those who like it think me
cold and expressionless, because my disposition is to take a
common-sense view of everything and try to reason about it
and understand it.
The devotional books written for the higher type of people
in every religion are remarkably similar. If one compares, for
example, those familiar to the Roman Catholic with tho~e used
by .the foiJowers of Shri Ramanujacharya, one finds the closest
resemblance. The life, too, of a good Christian is the same as
that of a good Hindu, or Buddhist, or Muhummadan, or indeed
a good man of any religion. The same virtues are practised by
aU;·the same objects are striven for; the same-evils are shunned.
TOLERAN-CE 211
But in order to gain this perfect tolerance you must
yourself first be free from bigotry and superstition.
A.B.-The bigot is the man who considers only his own
opinions, and not those of anyone else. I was once told
by a very good lady-but also a very bigoted one, of the
straitest sect of the evangelicals-that I ought never to read
a book which was not written exactly from my own religious
standpoint. That is the position of the bigot-never read
another view lest it may shake your own. It is the very
opposite of that of the seeker after truth, the man who wants
to lead the higher life. He tries to read aiJ round a subject,
in order to see at how many different angles the rays of truth
have struck the human ~ind and been refracted by it. If you
would reach the truth you must study all these different views
and opinions, and then assimilate what little, or great, truth
they may contain.
It is well also to study people's superstitions; for, as the
great phrase in the Upanishad says: "Truth alone conquers,
not falsehood." Superstitions derive their strength from t.~e
little bit of truth which they contain. You should find ~hat
fragment of truth. The bigot, of course, will see only the
falsehood in them, but you ought to know something of.all
religions; not studying them in the spirit of the missionary~
but sympathetically. And the same plan should also b~ followed
in political and social questions. ·
You must also destroy superstition, which is characterized
Jater in this book as one of the three great sins which do most
harm in the world, because it is a sin against love. -Religion
and superstition have been so muddled together in the world
that it is necessary to separate them in our minds by careful
definition. My favourite definition of superstition-though it
does not cover the whole ground-is the taking of the
unessential for the essential, the mistaking of a side issue for
one of importance. In religious controversies people fight over
some unessential matter, and each side as a rule represents a
different misunderstanding of the truth.
Another definition of superstition-which also does not
cover the whole ground-is that it is a belief which has no
rational foundation. Thus, many truths are superstitio~s to
212 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the people who hold them, because they have no good and sound
reason for doing so. The Lord Buddha said that the only
right ground for believing a thing is that it commends itself to
your reason and common sense, so that you may be said to·know
it yourself. If we apply that test, the greater part of most
people's religion comes under the heading of superstition. For
them that does not really matter, but for those who are trying
to reach the Path all that cannot justify itself to the intuition
and reason s'hould be put aside for a time. As that higher sense
in you which knows truth at sight gradually unfolcls, you will
be able to take in more and more of the truth. Then there
will grow up in you a deep inner conviction, and when a truth
is presented to you, you will know it is true. This sense
corresponds to eyesight on the physical plane. It is the faculty
of buddhi, pure reason. We should all try our beliefs by this
test, for we inherit a great many of them which are only
superstitions to us. As we do so, and to the degree that thts
attitude of mind becomes habitual to us, shall we get rid of
superstition and develop tolerance.
C.W.L.-Superstition has often a very strong hold indeed
on the minds of men, so th~t sometimes it has been said that it
is im.possible to have religion without it. It is true that there is
much confusion in religious thought, and much of it is unreason-
able, but whenever there is a belief that has a very wide hold,
there is probably a fragment of truth somewhere behind it.
Generally speaking, superstitions are not mere inventions, but
distortions or exaggerations of facts. Our President once
cited a celebrated Indian instance of superstition. There was
once a holy man who had a pet cat which was so fond of him
that when he wanted to perform his religious ceremonies be
found it necessary to keep it quiet by tethering it to the leg of
his bed. People seeing this thought that the tying up of the
cat was a necessary part of the ceremony, and in course of
time the rest of the ceremony fell away, and the only part
that remained of the devotion was the tradition that a cat
should be tethered to the leg of a bed.
The scribes and Pharisees, whom Christ denounced as
hypocrites, and likened unto whitened sepulchres, showed a
similar form of superstition. They paid tithes, He said, of
mint and anise and cummin; because they were ordered to pay
a tithe of all they had, they took into account most punctiliously
TOLERANCE 2t3
the little things corresponding to our pepper and salt; but they
entirely forgot the weighter matters of the law-justice, mercy
and faith.
The superstition of Sunday is a serious trouble in some
parts of Great Britain, especially in Scotland, where the day is
made unutterably tedious. The idea was to minimize the
amount of ordinary work that must be done on that day, and
make it a day that could be devoted to spiritual things. How-
ever, the divine service aspect has dropped very much into the
background, and there is more drunkenness and general loose~
ness in other ways on Sunday than on other days-certainly an
instance of taking the non-essential for the essential. Because
there is one day at least on which people are supposed to be
religious, men often seem to have the feeling that on other days
it does not matter seriously if one fails to observe religious
precepts and ideals. I have noticed that the people who do not
keep Sunday-Hindus, Buddhists and others-have religion
permeating their lives in a way that is not found among
Christians. I do not say that they are aU good people, any
more than the Christians are, but religion means more to them
than it does to the average Christian, who often thinks that if
he attends service one day a week he has discharged all bh;
religious obligations.
Superstition has also been defined by our President as the
holding of any belief without a reasonable foundation. lt is
quite rational to believe in the rotation of the earth, in the
existence of foreign countries which we have not seen, in the
reality of atoms and electrons which are beyond physical sight
altogether, because we have good reason to believe all these
things. But many popular beliefs are not in this class. The
ordinary belief of the Christian in eternal fire and everlasting
punishment is nothing but a peculiarly pernicious superstition.
There is no rational basis whatever for it, yet if you told'
that to the average Christian he would say that you were an
atheist and that you were making a mock of his religion. The
first man who taught it may or may not have believed it, but
millions of people have done so since, thereby most assuredly
yielding themselves to superstition.
The only thing which from the Christian point of view
ought to be of importance in connection with it is what ·the
..
214 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Christ Himself said on the subject. There are, I think, eight
passages in which He is supposed to mention this eternal
punishment ; and every one of those can be quite plainly shown
to have nothing to do with the popular idea which is attributed
to them. There is a very valuable book on this subject caJled
Salvator Mundi, written by a Christian clergyman, the Rev.
Samuel Cox; he very carefully goes into the original Greek
of what the Christ is alleged to have said, and shows at once
and conclusively that there is no scriptural basis for the belief
in everlasting punishment. There certainly is no rational
basis, for if God is a loving Father it is absolutely impossible.
One would have expected modern Christians to have
outgrown that horrible superstition, which works enormous
evil in this world, but millions of them have not done so, and
it is still being taught. I saw not long ago a Roman Catholic
catechism for children, and in that the old ideas of hell as
a place of everlasting torment were set forth in the same old
foolish way. We might be sti111iving in the most brutal part
of the Middle Ages as far as the teaching given to little children
is concerned. It is a very sad thing. There are many Christian
sects which have risen above that, but the oldest and largest
of them still clings to its medireval teachings. There are
individual priests who explain the whole thing away very much
as we might do, but the printed word which they teach to little
children is an utterly horrible and blasphemous thing, because
it starts them in life with an altogether wrong idPa of God,
fi11ing their lives and minds with fear and cruelty, to the serious
detriment of their character and evolution. ·
The teaching of the Lord Buddha about belief and reason,
which I have already quoted, was very fine. At the council
called after His death to determine which of the many reports
current should be accepted as His sayings, the very first {tJ]e
they laid down was : "That which is contrary to reason avd
common sense is not the teaching of the Buddha." They ruled
out everything that did not satisfy them from that point of
view, saying: '' This is obviously not common sense; He
could nut have said it." They may perhaps have cast aside
one or two good things which they did not understand, but
they saved their religion from a vast amount of superstition.
The Founders of the great religions, with the exception of
Muhammad, did not give Their teachings to the. world ·in
TOLERANCE
w-ritten form. It is said, however, that the Lord Buddha
wrote a book, which is kept by the Adepts, not published to
the world. Usually, three or four generations have elapsed
before the teachings have taken written form, and then those
writings have been compounded from many sources. For
example, in the Book of Isaiah, scholars have found eight
different layers of tradition-three Isaiahs, one after another,
then a committee, and so on. There is deterioration in the
religion when people write down not what they know .but that
they have been told, and then quarrel about minutire.
There is also another source of confusion in the fact that
when a new religion is launched it spreads like a wave of
conquest over the existing ones, but does not obliterate them.
A wise general, conquering a new country, tries to adapt his
rules to the people, so as to minimize trouble; so have the
celigions become adapted to the various communities who
adopted them. Thus the Chinese and Japanese still reverence
their ancestors, and follow the ancient way, the Shinto, but
they have added thereto the Buddhist ethics; while in Ceylon,
they hold a materialistic form of the religion. and will teJl you
that nothing of a man passes on from life to life but his karma,
yet they speak of their previous Jives and their hope to reach
nirvana in a future life. The Christians also adopted the
festivals of the nations among which the religion spread, but
conveniently found names of Christian saints by which to call
those days.
Traces of the old traditions are thus found everywher-e
-devil-dancing in Ceylon, the Kali cult in India, and so on-
and these are sometimes taken for the real thing, and thus form
a prolific source of superstition.
One may sometimes know a thing to be true without being
able to reason it out-that is the other side of the question.
The ego knows, and has good reason for his knowledge; but
sometimes he cannot impress his reasons on the physical brainJ
though the fact comes through that he knows. So, when a new
truth is presented to us, we know at once whether we can
accept it or not. That is not superstition, but an intense inner
conviction. I do not think anybody wiiJ ever be found with that
intense inner conviction about hell. They believe that ·they
will be burnt for ever because they have been so taught. · ·This
%16 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
sounds·, perhaps, a little like abandoning reason in favour of
intoition, but then it must be remembered that that very
buddhi which we translate '' intuition" is known in India as
'' pure reason ". It is the reason of the ego, which is of a higher
type than that which we have in lower planes.
· The Master goes on to give instances with regard to ibis
q'p~~tion of superstition : · _
' '
· '' · You must. learn that no ceremonies are necessary ;
~l~e you will think yourself somehow better than those who
· :do' not perform them. Yet you must not ~ondemn others
.:,·who still cling to ceremonies. Let them do as they will;
.:..·only they must not interfere with you who know the truth
, ·.-they must not try to force upon you that which you have
.· ·outgrown. Make allowance for everything : be kindly
I
towards everything.
. C.W.L.-The Master spoke so strongly about ceremonies
perhaps because the life of the youth of the high Brahmana
caste to which Alcyone belonged begins to be very full of them
a,t about the age which he had then reached. There is a
tendency at that time for a boy to consider himself very
important on account of them, for he is quite the centre of a
great deal of attention which surrounds the upanayana or
initiation of a boy into his full caste privileges. The life of an
orthodox Brahmana is full of ceremonial; there are gestures
to be made and texts to be recited at the time of rising, bathing,
eating and almost every other action. Some people round
Alcyone were probably trying to make him do these very fully,
beGause they feared that modern education and the European
fri~nds he had made might possibly divert him from the old cult
of his people; so the Master guarded His pupil by saying that
they were not absolutely necessary and that when doing them or
when giving them up he must take care not to fall into the
enor and folly of thinking himself superior on that account.
Christian ceremonials differ from those of the Hindus and
Buddhists in being generally done by a number of people
~Qgether. Worship is nearly always individual among the
...
latter, but in CbFjstend,om it j~ mainly collective. Though all
these eer~monia:ls ilr~ pot I).~~ssary (eJCcep~ for the peopl~
whos~ temperam~nt is so strongly iq favour: of therp that th~y
cannot really pe happy wi~hQQt them), tpey are nev~rthel~s'
form of science, qealiQg with patural forces of the inner plan,~
in perfectly d~fioite ways.
There ar~ rpany w~ys in which ~piritual fore~ .c~A b~
popred out upor) the worJq.. That which we ijnd in t~e ~ere~ony
of th~ Mass, the Holy Communion or the Holy Euch~rjst, i~
one in~tjtqt~d by the founder of Christianity 1-fimse.lf, for the
distribptjpn tl)rou_gh His Church of what is commonly called the
divine grace-certain spiritual force? of the higher plaf,)es1
which ar~. of coprse, pot supernatt}ral, but superphysical. fje
arranged it so thC~:t the priest, whatever his nature might be,
doing the ceremony would be a channel for the distribution of
this force. It would be all the better that the priest should qe a
really good man, full of thoughts of devotion and service, but
it has been arranged that the ceremonial shall be effective in
any case, for the benefit of the people. The general Christian
scheme is that there sha11 be Churches dotted over the land, so
that the outpouring may radiate out and reach everybody.
This ceremony does enormous good to millions of people, but
to say that it is necessary for salvation would he superstition.
Various forces are tapped by different ceremonies. They
all, no rpatter how .spi,rit<Qal, work under the laws of nature, and
.if, tber~fpre, th~ be,t;1~fit of them is to be felt iQ the physicaJ
world then~ m~st b.~ a physic.a,l mechanism through which tb~y
can work. I~ i,s the ~am.e in th~ .case of electr~cit;y ; the force
exists all about us all the time and is always in activity, but if
you want it to perform a particular wm:k in a particular way in
a pfirticqlar plac.e you mqst provide certain physical machinery
through which it can oper~te.
A.B.-The Master S3.o/S that no .ceremonies are necessary,
and all the relig.ions recogniz.e this tn.1th. Il) India, the m;;til
who is highest and most res~ect~ of all is the sannyasi, wl;lo
performs no cer.emom,ies at all. He .breaks and throws aw.ay
-the sacred thread, whioh was his most importa,nt possess.ion,
put upcm him when as a boy he .was initiated into his caste, aQd
-
w0rn thro_
ughout life as his most saored symhol, until he
became a sannyasi.
28
218 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
11_ • Cerem.onies · are only necessary so long as a man has not
reached realization and true knowledge, so long as they help to-
give him right emotions, quiet thoughts and noble aspirations..
The great majority of people are still undeveloped and need all
the help that ·cart be given them ·-in any way. Therefore no
wise man will condemn ceremonies, though they are not neces·
sary for him.· The Bhagav_ad-Gitii is the gosp~l of the sannyasi,
yet it is there written : '' Let no wise man unsettle the minds of
the ignorant, attached to action, but acting in harmo~y with
Me, let him render all action attractive.'' 1
Th~ child who is
learning to walk c~tches hold of any thing that is firm e!lough
to help him to sustain himself on his feet-chairs, table-legs
and walls. So ceremonies are supports, intended for the man
who is not strong enough to support himself. As ~ man
develops, his ceremonies become more refined, more beautifut
and symbolical, and at last he arrives at a stage when they are
no longer of any use to him and he lets them go. There are two
kinds of people who do .not perform ceremonies-those who
are above them, and those who are beneath them.
The responsibility of choosing the point when he shall
abandon ceremonies rests entirely with the man concerned;
each must decide for himself. None can take t~e responsibility
of saying when a man should become a yogi. So also with
ceremonies ; none must criticize when a man decides to give
them up, or chooses to retain them. Sometimes a man may
still feel bound to attend them after he feels that he no longer
needs them himself, on account of his position in the community.
He alone is responsible for his choice, so we must not condemn
those who perform ceremonies, nor those who do not perform
them.
Ceremonies may be dangerous as well as helpful. In
ancient Hinduism there was a strict rule forbidding the utter-
ance of certain formulre in a crowd; it was not made·in order to
withhold any benefit from the people, as nowadays is sometimes
ignorantly supposed, but to avoid the harm that certain vibra-
tions might do to some people. It was on this account that
Manu laid down the law that only Brahmanas who were learned
and of good life should be invited to the shraadha ceremonies.
A person who has some power but does not understand when
he should use it and when he should withhold it might possibly,
• Op, cit., III, 26.
TOLERANCE 2I9
if he assisted at certain· ceremonies, put strength into the
formulre which might injure the people present; for that reason
one who has begun to gain such power might do well to keep
away. I found, for example, when I attended some sh1·addha
ceremonies at Gaya, that had I added my force to them, I
might have injured the priests, for some of the mantras which
they were reciting were exceedingly powerful. They, however,
did not bring out the power, since they were ignorant and not
very clean-living men. Madame Blavatsky advised students of
occultism not to go into a crowd unless they were in perfect
sympathy with it, not merely because of any effect it might have
on their own auras, but because their force might do more harm
than good. In such cases, a man with knowledge might find it
better sometimes not to take part in certain ceremonies, while
another who did not understand how to say the formula in such
a way as to bring out the power which is really in it might
attend with perfect safety to the people around him, no matter
what kind of people they might be.
Now that your eyes are opened, some of your old
beliefs. your old ceremonies, may seem to you absurd;
perhaps, indeed, they really ar.e so. Yet though you can
no longer take part in them, respect them for the sake of
those good souls to whom they are still important. They
have their place, they have their use; they are like those
~ouble lines which guided you as a child to write straight
and evenly, until you learnt to write far better and more
freely without them. There was a time when you needed
them ; but now that time is past.
A.B.-Inevitably, as we grow older and wiser, some things
in which we used to believe take on an aspect of non-reality and
even absurdity; yet we can look at them kindly and sym-
pathetically, as we can look on a child nursing a b!.lndle of rags
which she makes believe to be a doll. From one point of \'iew
the child's action is somewhat grotesque, but it is doing her a
real service, for it develops the mother instinct in the little
girl-she does not see the rags ; she sees a child ; and as she
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
fondles and comforts her imaginary child she practises maternal
tenderness and protection, and care of the weak and helpless.
So, when we smile at that little chiJd, out smile is a vety tender
and gentle ohe. It is the same with our old beliefs and
ceremonies ; they had their place ; they had their use.
If one finds a savage tribe performing ceremonies which to
us seem quite absurd, or when we see, as we frequently do in
India, a rag tied to a village tree as an offering, we should not
4espise the poor outer expression of the savage's or villager's
devotion-we ought to look at the feeling underlying it. Their
humble offerings may mean as much to them as the costliest one
could mean to us ; the same spirit is underneath.
AU outer offerings are unnecessary; the only acceptabl~
ohe is the offe·ring of t_
be heart; and where that accompanies the
gift the poorest gift becom~s a:cceptable. Therefore it says in
the Gita that even a leaf, a flower, a fruit or a little watet, if
offered with devotion, is acceptable to the Supreme.l It would
be a hard and unbrotherly act to discourage these things-to
tear away the rag from the tree, for instance, as has sometimes
been done-it would show a complete lack of the feeling
of unity.
C.W.L.-Always be gentle and kindly towards childhood-
that of the children, and the general childhood of the human
race at its present stage as well. Our President has spoken of
a little child nursing a bundle of rags and pretending tnat it is a
doll. That is a superstition, of coutse; but at the same time it
does not occur to anyone indignantly to scold the child for it.
On the physical plane it is a bundle of rags, but in the child's-
imagination it is perhaps almost a living thing, with all sorts of
qualities. One cannot disturb the idea in the child's mind
without injuring the development of good feelings that are
being aroused.
She has also mentioned the practice of the common people
of India, who sometimes tie a piece of rag oh a tree as an offering
to the deity. The average Christian missionary would come
along and be very angry about it, thereby showing his own
ignorance, because the offering is tnade in all good faith. The
comparatively primitive and childlike soul meant it well, and
the thing should be taken like the child's rag doll, for what it
f Op. cit., IX, 26.
TOil.ER-ANCE 22!
m:eans.- They pour out a·little water as a libation, or they o1fer
a: flower--a very small offering truly, \mt why should it be·
despiS~d? The €hrist Himself said that those who gave even'
a crtp of cold waMr in His Name and for His sake should
by no means lose their reward. H must be remembered, too,
tllat proba-
bly no p-eopie, not even the most primitive, think
o'f the statue or the· f.orm as a reality, but an have some sense:
of ~he Deity behind rt.
A greed Teacher once wrote : '' When I was a
child, I .spake as a child,. I understood as a child, I thought
as a child ; but when I became a man I put away childisft,
things." Yet he whO' has forgotten his childhood and lost
sympa:thy witil the children is not the marr who can teaclr
them or help them.. So look kindly, gentfy. toferantly
upon all ; but upon all alike, Buddhist or Hindu, Jaint or
}ew, Christf.an or Muhammadan.
A.B.-You bave there an exact deseription of the occultist ;
he is the ma:n who has ndt forgotten his childhood. He ha'£.
grown to m'anhood, but he re~embers what he has passes
tbfotigh, and so he can help all. In order to train ourselves.
in this power of ~ympathy for all and help towards aJI,. it is.
a good practi-ce to translate yoar religious thou'ghts into the
language of some particular exoteric religion, to put y~~r
thought into its formulre. We all have one particular lan-
guage of our owr1, it1 which we express things to ourselves,
un'fU we reach th~ stage when we have a tommon language
in which we can speak to anybody. The student will do.we'll
to study some language or fotm othet than his own. Those
who bave been brought up as Christians might practise speakirrg
and thinking in tettns of Hinduism ; then they would learn to
see things from the Hindu standpoint, and would be ql1ite
astonished to see how cliff~rent they looked from: what they had
imagined them to be. Hindus might similarly learn to speak
a:nd think in terms used in Christianity.
Sht'i Ramaktisfma: Paramahamsa, the guru .of Swami
Vivekaminda:, tramed himself in that way. He took several
222 TALKS ON THR PATH OF OCCULTISM
religions in turn, and for the time being followed their
methods and practices. He took up Christianity; prayed
in the Christian way, thought in Christian terms, and even
dressed jn Christian dress ; and thus he went through one
religion after another, learning to identify himself with each.
He used every outside help that be could contrive in order to
help himself in this effort. When be was trying to realize the
mother side of nature, that which is represented by the Virgin
Mary in the West, by the Shaktis in Hinduism, he dressed
himself as a woman and thought of himself as a woman.
Certainly the result of these practices in his case was very
beautiful, for all outer religious differences ceased entirely to
affect him.
How different is this line from that which most people
pursue! Yet it is only by learning to identify oneself with all
around that one can fit oneself for discipleship. Shri Rama-
krishna was fundamentally a bhakta, a devotee, and he learned
through emotion iri this way.
The aspirant should try for a time, then, to think of himself
as a Hindu, or a Buddhist, or a woman-something which he is
not. How few men ever try to think or feel as a woman does,
to see things as she sees them ! I suppose, too, that not many
women really try to see things from a man's standpoint; but it
is more marked in men-a man always wants to feel himself
" he ". Even among Theosophi.sts it seems to me that the fact of
our brotherhood being without distinction of sex is sometimes
overlooked.
Learn also to understand how things would appear to you
if coming to you through some particular atmosphere to which
you are not accustomed. You have to cure yourself of the
habit of looking at things exclusively from your own standpoint
-that is contrary to occultism. Do this, and in the world you
wiJI be blamed; your impartiality and sympathy will be called
indifference. That does not in the least matter. I have been
aeeused of being ''too Hindu" in the West, and of being" too
Christian " in the East ; because in the \Vest I speak in
Western terms and the people in India do not like it, and in the
East I speak in Eastern terms and the people in the West do
not like it. My answer to such complaints always is that I
speak to the people in the language which they understand.
TOLERANCE 223
Such complaints and such blame rise from looking at things
from the lower pole instead of from the higher. To learn to
speak many religious languages is one of the lessons necessary
for the man who is to carry the message to many lands. This
is no new truth, and the blame which follows such action is
also not new. The great reproach made against S. Paul was
that he was all things to all men. He wrote: " For though I
be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all,
that I might gain the more. An'd unto the Jews I became as
a Jew, that I might gain the Jews; to them that are under the
law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under
the law; to them that are without law, as without law, (being
not without law to God, but under the law to Christ,) that I
might gain them that are without law. To the weak I became
as weak, that I might gain the weak; I am made all things to
all men, that I might by all means save some." r From being
one of the straitest, he became one of the most liberal of men ;
he belonged to one of the strictest sects of the Jews, yet became
the apostle of the Gentiles-a remarkable transformation.
The occultist belongs to no religion or to all religions,
according to the way you like to put it-to none exclusively, to
all inclusively. Nothing less than that is tolerance. The reason
why it is good to keep out of controversies is that for the time
one may become intolerant; it is difficult to be quite impartial,
if one is to be effective, when controverting a one-sided present-
ment. Always put the truth from the standpoint of unity, not
from that of difference; then only will you be able to help aJI,
and all a1ike. Then only will you be able to see the good in each
and all, overlooking and looking through that which is defective.
C.W.L.-The Theosophist aims at brotherhood witho~t
distinction of race, creed, caste, sex or colour. That brother-
hood . can best be Jived when we are able to enter into the
feelings and thoughts of those of other races and creeds, and of
the other sex. A man forgets the fact that he has had many
births in feminine form__; a woman also forgets that she has ha~
many incarnations in masculine bodies. Though not easy to do,
it is an exceedingly good exercise for the man to try to put himself
in. thought in the woman's place and to understand her way of
looking on life ; and so also for a woman to try to see how a
man envisages things. The two points of view are surprisingly,
1 I Corinthians, 9, 19·22. J
224 TALKS ON THE PA';VH OF OCCULTISM
~erent in var.i0us ways. One .wb@ .ca.n identify his 0011$C,ious-
oess with that .0£ the opposite sex bas ..alceady takes a ·step
towards a brotherhood wbieh transcends the ride.a of sex. Having
tried to understand the poi.nt of v-iew of his sis·t.ers or mother 10r
wife, a man may then extend this pract~~e tQ people of other
religions and races than his ow.n. It .is .a most helpful ~xercis~,
ilecause when anyone can really undf!r.S:ttarfll.Q and tboreugbl.y
sympathize with another peJison's poiot .of vif!w, he has widened
IUs own outloo·k by just that mnch.
Concerning tolerance there is a good ?tor;y in the Taimud,
~b.out Abr~ham; when once a traveller came to ·him, and ·he was
~bout tp g·ive pim food and drink, as is the custom of the desert.
abraham call~d .upon his yisitor ~0 praise ~od before eating,
but when ·he refused and said he did not know anyt,
hing about
God, Abraham rose in anger and turned him out .of his tent,
and would not give hjm anythipg at all. Then the Lord came
along, as apparently He used to do i~ those days, and said:
~'Why .did you send him away?" Abraham replied. wit.h great
indignation, ' ' Lord, He refused to recognize Thy Narne; he is
an infidel of the worst type.'' " Yes," ·God said, ''but I have
bor-ne with Him fo~ sixty years; surely you might .bear with
him for one hour." '
Some of us who are Theosophists .still have an ~)Utward
·religion to which we cling, yet I think w.e ought to be able to
say that we belong to no reljgion exclusiv.e1y~ but to all of them
~n~usivel:Y. I myself,. tor e~an:tp.le, am .a Christia.n Bishop, bu~
l arp also a Buddpjst, becaQse l.tooJ< the vows and obligations
~y which I acc.epted the Lord Buddha as my guide. In 'tha.t, I
was not asked to r~nounce any other religion. Buddhism is
perhaps the widest of all -religions in that -respect-they do not
as~ you what you pelieve, but whethe~ ye_u w.ill follow t "
he
teaching of the Lord Buddha and live so .far as y.ou can the Jite
He commends. A Christian, Muhammadan ot follower Qf any
other religion might say, '1 The teaching is go0d teaching, I wiU
ui)dertake to follow it ", and thereby 'become a Buddhist,
without leaving his previous religion. Theosophy is the truth
which lies behind all these religions. We study comparatiV-e
religion, not merely to see that the Theosophical truths do
appear in all religions, bl,lt also that we may understand the
di·
fferent presentations of truth and be able to help along ail
these lines.
TOLERANCE
Our President shows us the value of this. She speaks as a
Hindu to the Hindus; she quotes from their Scriptures in
support of what she says, using some of their own Sanskrit
terms-and that appeals to them just as the sonorous Latin
appeals to a Roman Catholic. When she speaks to the Buddhists
she says exactly the same things, but quotes the sayings of the
Lord Buddha, and uses the terminology of Buddhism. In the
Western world you will hear her speak to Christians in their
own terms, not in the least changing her own belief or religion,
but simply speaking their language. She is, of course, learned
in al1 those religions. When we know the truth behind all
ll'eligions, even though we cannot begin to compare with her in
knowledge and skill of utterance, many .of us can by a little
study of a primer of any particular religion, understand it well
and become able to present the truth in its terms, and to
explain the meaning of much that is obscure to others. I have
heard Colonel OJcott do it again and again. He was not a
man of the student or scholar type, but he was an exceedingly
.good practical lecturer. He would speak effectively to
audiences of Hindus, Parsis and Buddhists, and learned men of
all those faiths.. agreed in saying that he had given them new
light on their respective religions. That shows how Theosophy
is the master key to all the religions. At the great conventions
of our Society at Adyar the same fact appears in another way,
for people of many different religions and races gather together,
and no one who attends can fail to be deeply impressed with
not merely the tolerance, but the active affectionate brotherhood
that is shown there.
2U
CHAPTER XXI
CHEERFULNESS
4. Cheerfulness.-You must bear your karma
cheerfully, whatever it may be, taking it as an honour
that suffering comes to you, because it shows that the
Lords of Karma think you worth helping.
A.B.-This is the qualification which, as I have already
explained, was formerly frequently translated endurance.
Endurance may be a somewhat negative virtue; but what you
have to do is not so much to endure things which you cannot
help as to take them cheerfully and brightly, facing all trouble
with a smile. The word cheerfulness gives you the whole idea
of what is required by the great Teachers with regard to this
particular endowment. Many people can endure, but they do
so sadly ; you must take all your trials and troubles brightly.
On that point a great deal of stress is laid in some of the Hindu
books; things are to be taken gladly.
That karma is very much quickened for people who come
forward and offer themselves as candidates for the Path is a fact
that has been much emphasized ; this is done first in order to
warn people beforehand of what they have to expect, and
secondly, in order to cheer them up and when the experience
comes to them practically, instead of only theoretically-for
that makes a great difference.
Karma, being a law of nature, can be avoided for a while or
else can be brought immediately into effect, that is to say, you
can put yourself into conditions where it wiJI affect you or into
others where you will be sheltered from it for the time being.
226
CHEERFULNESS 227
It is necessary to repeat very often that the laws of nature are
not enactments; they do not command us to do anything. To
take a common illustration: electrical forces are always in
activity about us, but if we want them to produce certain
effects at a given place and time, we require a special apparatus
1n order to bring them into manifestation. Similarly, karma is
a law of nature, and the apparatus which may start its forces
working in the life of an individual may be his appearance on
the stage of physical ljfe through the process we call birth.
.Some changes in an individual's life may very much intensify
and quicken the working of the law of karma upon him. vVhen,
for example, you offer yourself as a candidate for rapid
progress, Those who administer the laws of karma may, by
your consent, which you have given, modify the apparatus, so
to speak, and let the force which is there show itself more
strongly, exhaust itself upon you in a shorter time. Your will
1s the real cause of the alteration in the apparatus.
If the expressed desire to grow more rapidly, and therefore
to get rid quickly of his evil karma, is a real wish on the man's
part, so that his soul is set in that direction, then his wish
!feaches the Lords of Karma, and They put in motion the karma
he has made in the past and let it descend upon him. The
karma was there; it is not that the man is creating anything
new, but he begins to clear off what he has stored up.
If you realize what is taking place, you will not be
surprised at anything that may happen to you. Consider the
lives of Alcyone, and see how many terrible things occurred in
them. In one life his child was murdered; in another he was
executed for a crime he had not committed, and so on. You
scarcely realize these things when you read them like a story;
but you would think them very dreadful if any of them were to
•
happen to you in this life. All those misfortunes and sorrows
were so much clearing off of bad karma.
When troubles fall quickly on you it shows that the
Lords of Karma have taken notice of your prayer, and that is
a very good sign. If things were to go on very smoothly
it would mean that They had not yet taken notice. So in
this matter again the occult view reverses the judgment of
the world: the things which the world calls evil are, from
the occult standpoint good.
228 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
\Vhen to the pain and loss which fall upon you there
is added the censure and ungenerous criticism of those around
you, then you have the best karma of all. Some misfortunes
at once awaken sympathy in others, and all the sympathy·
poured out on the man who is suffering helps him a great
deal. But other misfortunes may excite blame ; you may
have done your best but acute suffering has fallen upon you,
and in addition the world turns against you and blames you.
When this happens one is clearing off a great amount·of past
karma; that additional disagreeable factor enables one to work
it off quickly and thoroughly.
It is easy to see that these things are true theoretically, as
you hear or read them ; but what you have to do is to
remember them at the right moment. What people generally
do is to admit them till the time comes for their practicat
realization, and then promptly to forget them. Try to get
these facts so thoroughly into your mind that you cannot
forget them, so that the thought of them shall strengthen you
when suffering and enable you to help others when they are
suffering. It may help a little towards the clear understanding
that is needed if you look around you and see how constantly
troubles come to very good people, who have done, as so often
one hears it said, nothing to deserve them-that is, nothing in
their present lives, which are noble and useful ones. Our
tendency is to compare ourselves with those who are more
fortunate than we are; it is well sometimes to do so with those
who are less fortunate, that we may feel gratitude for all the
good that we have received. We are liable to forget how much-
there is for which we should feel grateful, because we think
always of whatever pain and loss fall to our share; but we
ought not to do this.
C.W.L.-No one who really understands and E>elieves in
the law of karma can fail to be cheerful. It should be made
quite clear that karma is a law, like gravitation, and it is alwa)s
acting. People sometimes think of it and speak of it as though
it came into operation occasionalJy when they do something.
This is not true ; we are under its operation every moment.
A man provides conditions in which the law of karma can act
upon him when he does or thinks or speaks some definite thing.
The law of karma for each of us at this moment bas.
an account with us, the sum total of our good and our badl
·CHEERFULNESS 229
deeds. Because we have all come up through savage states
when we did all sorts of uncontrolled things, there is likely
to be a certain amount of evil karma waiting for all ofus,
unless we have spent many lives working it out. When we
find suffering coming upon us, we should assume that we are
working out, perhaps, the last part of that karma. If we read
the stories of some of the greatest of the saints we shall find
that they passed through an immense amount of suffering: AU
the people who have tried to help the world have suffered
terribly. It is part of the training for Initiation, but it is.
absolute justice always, for not even for the purposes of
training can any injustice take place.
The Lords of Karma are simply the Administrators of that
Law. In some ways perhaps the word Lords is a littl.e
indefinite, because it rather: suggests that They direct and rule
karma. You cannot direct or rule gravitation ; but you can
make arrangements to use it at certain points and in certai~
ways. So with the law of karma; those who are working in
connection with it are it~ administrators. One function of the
Lords of Karma is to select a certain part of a man's store of
karma and give it to him to work out in his forthcoming
incarnation. They cannot take more of good or more of evil
tha,n there is in the man's karma, but They do select from that
what They think he can work through. Still, the man's will is.
free, and if the selected karma is worked through sooner than
They had expected, if one may put it that way, They may give·
some more. ''Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth "-that
is the meaning of that extraordinary statement. People also
make much trouble from themselve~ which is not within their
karma from the past, by taking things hardly instead of
philosophically, and also by downright folly-but the Lords of
Karma are not responsible for this.
However hard it is, be thankful that it is no worse.
C.W .L.-The tendency of almost everyone who suffers is:
to say how hard it is and to think of other times when things
were better. We may take it the other way and say,'' Things
might have been much worse than this," and also, " I am
very glad to be working off all this karma ; I might have
had much more to work out; at least Jet me make the
best of it."
230 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Remember that you are of but little use to the
Master until your evil karma is worked out, and you
are free.
A.B.-From the Master's standpoint it is a very good thing
for a man to get rid of a piece of bad karma which is hanging
over him in the background, for we have to remember that the
Master is hampered by the bad karma of those who wish to
serve Him; it prevents His using them as freely as He
otherwise could do. Madame Blavatsky, who always spoke very
openly about herself, being truthful through and through, said
of the Coulomb trouble: ''I have not deserved it now, but for
my past." It was a vital thing for her to get rid of this karma,
a·nd so the scandalous and shameful way she was treated
throughout that affair was the greatest blessing for her; she
recognized this when she looked at the matter philosophically,
but at times she was disturbed by it on the surface.
All aspirants ought to be helped by that thought, helped to
look away from themselves to Him and to think: '1
These
troubles that I am going through make me more useful
to Him."
If you have asked that ybur karma shall be quickened it is
unreasonable to complain when your request is granted. Keep
the inspiring idea always in your thoughts: " I shall be of
more use to the Master the freer I become." A gift, once
given, must not be taken back. This idea is very common in
some of the old Indian books, recurring over and over again in
the stories told in them ; a gift once given, or a word once
spoken, cannot be taken back. If a gift that you have once
given should be put back into your bands by circumstances you
must give it again; it is not yours, and to keep it would be
theft. So, when the_re is this gift of yourself-the highest and
noblest gift of all-you must never take it back. People con-
tinually give themselves verbally to the Master, but keep a
finger on the gift in order to be able to pull- it back if the Master
goes too far-that is really what it comes to. They draw back,
if the Master takes them at their word, as sometimes He might
do, in order to let them see that they had been deceiving them-
selves, and had promised more than they were prepared to
fulfil.
CH E ERFULNESS
C.W.L.-If all one's bad karma were exhausted one would
have the whole of one's time and strength free for the Master's
work. It has been explained that the Master is hampered by
our bad karma, and therefore in getting rid of it quickly we are
making our5elves more fit to serve Him. Madame Blavatsky
took that view very strongly with regard to the attacks made
upon her by Madame Coulomb and others in Madras about the
year I884. While she was indignant that the attacks should
be made, and sad at the ingratitude which they showed, and
also disturbed lest they should reflect upon her Society and
injure it~ yet she said: " At least there is this to remember, that
all these troubles make me more fit to serve Him."
We can apply that idea to the Society's troubles as well as
to our own. Think always of the service of the Master when
the Society is getting rid of what is evil; it goes forward the
moment it has passed through some particular trouble, for it
has got rid of some bad karma and so become more useful, a
better instrument for its true owners.
Having disposed of that portion of its karma the Society
could move onward to greater things. Such karma shakes out
the dead material, the people who have reached their "satura-
tion-point for truth " , as Madame Blavatsky used to express it,
and cannot go further. They may previously have been a great
help, but they have become a hindrance to future progress.
Yet the rest of us are often very sorry to lose those friends. In
the last trouble, it seemed to me that I was somewhat of a
storm~centre, and that there was very good excuse for many of
the people who misunderstood, so I ventured to represent to the
Mahachohan that the test was very hard for them, and to ask
for an act of grace for them. Naturally, He smiled kindly at
my presumption, and said: "Will you be satisfied if the same
people throw aside Mrs. Besant ? '' " Oh, yes," I said, "of
course." I felt they would not do that, but a few months later
they did turn against her, and the Mahachohan said, with the
same gentle smile : " You see ; for this life their sun has set.
But there are other lives, and the sun will rise again
to-morrow."
No one is indispensable, though it does sometimes happen
in India that a Lodge grows up round some influential member,
and fades away again when be removes to some other town.
~d2 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCGLTISM
When Madame BJavatsky went, many of ·us, accustomed to
daily inspiration from her, felt that all would be dark. Another
great individuality a rose in the. person of our present President.
Yet I am sure that she would be the first to.say that we need
not be anxious for the Society when her turn comes to leave us.
The instruments change their bodies-'' in the sight of the
unwise they seem to die." But the Masters.who stand behind
do not die, and while They are there some·one \viii always be
found to continue Their work.
By offering yourself to Him. you have asked that
your karma may be hurried. and ~o now in one or two
lives you work through what other~ise might have been
spread over a hundred. But in order to make the best
out of it you must bear it cheerfully. gladly.
A.B.--According to the way in which an old debt is paid,
a new cause is started. That should never be forgotten. If
you make the best of what looks like bad karma you s~t in
motion new forces for good, whereas if you take bad karma
unwiiiingly and pay your debts grudgingly, the reverse hap'pens.
Remember how the Christ said in the sermon on the Mount:
~' Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the
way with him." 1
That is good counsel to follow in the adverse
circumstances that come to you. Your troubles and losses
appear to you to come as adversaries; meet them bravely,
agree with them quickly, and then they will be done with. We
should rid ourselves of our bad karma very much more rapidly
if we did not sow new while reaping the old.
C.W .L .-People sometimes talk of giving themselves to
the Master, and are then afraid that the Master will ask too
much. That is the spirit of Ananias and Sapphira. That
unfortunate couple had assuredly the most perfect right to
retain part of their goods for themselves if they wished to do
s.o, but they made a mistake when they pretended that they
were giving everything. To say, " I can give this; I can do
this much for Him, but I cannot give myself unreservedly ",
marks a stage through which we pass. But when one offers
' S. Matthew, 5, 25.
CHEERFULNESS ~33
himself to the Master it ought to be in the same whole-hearted
spirit that he would give any othe~; gift. It should be offered
without reservation as to how it should be used, and one should
not want to take any of it back. No one need fear that He
will want too much. If we offer ourselves to the Master we
must not be surprised and hu.rt if suffering comes suddenly upon
us. That shows that the offering has been partially accepted.
Many things that the world calls evil and suffering may there-
fore be taken as signs of swift progress. Instead of sympathiz-
ing with us people often blame us, but generally that is the best
karma of ail. To be misunderstood, so that our good shaii be
evil spoken of, as Ruysbroek put it, seems to come always when
people are drawing near to their final goal. It has happeDed
to every great occult or mystical teacher aJJ through history.
To bear it all cheerfully in itself rna kes good karma and _
develops in us various valuable qualities-patience, perseveran~~
endurance, long-suffering, determination. So, out of evil t~K
past, we may bring good.
Yet another point. You must give up all feeling of
possession. Karma may take from you the things which
you like best-even the people whom you love most.
Even then you must be cheerful-ready to part with
anything and everything:
. ~; B_.-We come no~ to a thiqg t.hat is enormously more
dtfficult than the precedmg. The bearmg of past karma is far
easier than th~s. Yo_u must eliminate of ail feeling of ownership
-first of all for thmgs, and then for persons. The latter is a
more subtle task; have you given up a1l sense of possession
with regard to the people you love best ? Even when people
think they have done so, circumstances arise to test them, and
often show th~ t t.hey have not. Can you let a life go out of
your o_wn, whtch ts more to.you than your own life? You may
call thts the last and most dtfficult test of your real devotion to
the Master. It is a point on which a]] aspirants should try to
t.est themselves, before the test comes upon them by circum-;
stances, because they can lessen the blow by practising before-
hand. Do not try to kill out the Jove you feel towards anyone
-:-that is the way of the dark powers. You might practise by
30
234 TALKS ON TfiE P'ATH OF OCCULTISM
l?ving a person all the time, but withdrawing yourself lor a
ttme from that person's society, by doing some work which bas
to b.e done away from the person who makes life happy for you,
or m some such way as that. If you can do that cheerfully
and gladly, you are well on the way to answer the call when it
comes- the ca11 to leave all and follow the Master.
Remember how much stress is laid upon that in the
ac-counts that have come down to us of what took plCK:e
when the Lord Maitreya was in Palestine. Not everyone
who was called rose to the height of his opportunity, but some
did so. Those who forsook all and followed Him became teach-
ers after He went away; the others never heard of Him again.
Remember the case of the rich young man who went away
sorrowing, although it was only riches he was asked to abandon.
People think that they would have obeyed the caiJ at once, had
they been in that young man's place, yet I am not sure that
there are many people who would leave great possessions to
follow a vagrant preacher-for that was how the Christ appeared,
as a wandering teacher surrounded by some half-educated
people. Yet this is the test of discipleship, to forsake every-
thing-the things you most like and the people yon love best-
and follow the Master.
C.W.L.-We must realize that nothing is ours in the
personal sense, that whatever we have is given to us in trust for
the work of evolution. If one has money or is in a position of
influence, that is because it gives the opportunity of doing more
for the work. Nothing is our own, in the sense that we may
make a separate nse of it ; one is always in the position of the
trusted manager or employee who is using the firm~s money, but
is in every respect just as careful with every penny of it as he
would be if it were his own. That ought to be the attitude of
every rich man, and every man in a position of power.
The attitude of living as a representative of humanity is
verv wonderfully and beautifully ·expressed by the Masters.
They regard Themselves merely as stewards of all the mighty
powers which They possess. That is why the Master makes no
karma, either good or ill, to bind him to the human condition.
Those who are the greatest actors and performers make no
karma that binds Them, because They do all impersonally,
utterly without personal desire. They do it all as a soldier
CHEERFULNESS 235
fights in battle, with no thought of the particular enemy whom
he happens to kill, but with the feeling that he is working for a
cause, as part of a mighty machine. So They work as part of
the Great Brotherhood, as part of the Hierarchy, part of
humanity, and all the good they do comes back to humanity and
helps to uplift it.
First we must have no feeling of possession about things,
and then about people, which is harder still ; they may be taken
from us by death, as it is called, and also perhaps for service to
humanity. Of many thousands that was true during the Great
War; the wife gave her husband, the mother her son, to go
forth and fight for the right. Surely it is not for us ever to
hesitate to do as well in the Master's service as so many
thousands of others have done in the service of their nations.
It is difficult to let a life go out of ours which is more to us than
our own life, and yet many have had to do that-some under
very sad circumstances, others in conditions which made the
sacrifice holy and beautiful.
It is the way of those who follow the darker magic to kill
out love and so escape all this suffering. But those who would
be of the Great \Vhite Brotherhood must make their love ever
stronger, yet kiJI out the selfishness that so often mars it.
Remember bow a sword pierced the heart of our Lady Herself,
the Blessed Virgin Mary. She might have escaped that sword
if she had chosen to tear out from her heart all remembrance of
her son and forget Him altogether. In many cases it is as
Christ said of Himself, '' Think not that I am come to send
peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword." 1
He meant that His new teaching would be taken up here and
there by one in a family, and that the others would object and
so cause division, or that one might have to leave his old home
and friends for the sake of some special work that he could do.
Similarly there have been cases where one member of a family
has seen the Theosophical truth and the rest have not, and that
has led to suffering and division. Often, in modern days, one
will leave the family to go to the other side of the earth in order
to make money, and no one objects to that; but if one should
propose to do it for the good of humanity there is immediate
protest-so unevolved is the spirit of our time.
1 St. Matthew, 10, 34,
236 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Remember the difficulties that King Suddhodana created
when Prince Siddartha wished to devote himself to the religious
life. He spent vast sums of money and a great part of his
life in endeavouring to keep his son back from the high
destiny that opened before him-
· endeavouring to make him,
instead of the greatest religious teacher the world had ever
known, the greatest king in India-an alternative future that
the astrologers had foretold for him. The king knew that to
become a religious teacher would mean poverty and self-
abnegation for his son, and he did not realize that it would be
in reality a higher position than that of any king. It is not
the great king whose name goes dov.-n longest and furthest in
history, but the great religious teacher. King Suddhodana
wished enormous power and faine without parallel for his son,
and it came, but not in the V:·a'" for which he had hoped and
planned. The power ·o.(. Lord 'Buddha is. gr.eater than that
of any earthly monarc.h1
' and his renown has spread all over
the world. · · · ··
The Christ said to the people: '.' Forsake all and ~oJlow
Me." When our Christi<i'ci' friends read this in the Gospel
they feel that the\· would na·ve done it at once. . That .is not
so certain. Let u.s try to· put ourselves into the place of
the . people of that time. Remember the young man with
great possessions and great riches who came to Him; those
possessions probably brought their duties which he felt he
had to fulfil, and therefore he could 'not forsake them. All the
public opinion of the time, al.l the respectability, and all the
orthodox powers ,...·ere arrayed against the Christ; He was
only a poor wandering Teacher who had nowhere to lay His
head. Would we have follo\\·ed Him in the face of all that?
Is it so certain that we would have forsaken everything to
follow Him whom all the elders and the high priests and the
orthodox people stigmatized as a fanatic? Would we not have
felt a doubt as to whether, after all, we might not be throwing
away the substance and grasping at the shadow ? It is not so
certain. In the present day, perhaps, it looks like that still, and
yet those of us who have thrown away other things for the sake
of following Them have never for one moment regretted it.
Often the Master needs to pour out His strength
upon others through His servant; He cannot do that if
CHEERFULNESS
the servant yields to depression. So cheerfulness must be
the rule.
C.W.L.-Constantly all through this book the same reason
is brought forward for everything that is to be done, that it is
for the sake of the service of the Master. We might expect
many other reasons to be given against depression-that it is
bad for the person and it has an unpleasant effect upon others;
but the one point which is emphasized here is that the Master
cannot use as a channel for His force if we yield to it.
A.B.-Here the reason why cheerfulness must be the rule
is given, for again that inspiring idea is presented, that the
Master needs your help, that you can be of use to Him! His
force is all joyous because it is part of the force of the Logos;
it cannot therefore pour out through a pipe that is choked with
depression.
It may sound strange to say that the Master is unable to do
this or that, yet the fact is so. Now and again one will hear
the Master say of something : " I could not succeed in doing
it." Their power is limited when They work down here, by the
conditions that exist· on the physical plane. Often They
cannot reach a person on the physical plane except through an
intermediary; therefore They need the help which perhaps you
can give Them. Without that help, things have to remain
undone, and later on, in consequence, obstades have to be
removed which need never have been there.
•
•
CHAPTER XXII
ONE-POINTEDNESS
5. One-pointedness.-The one thing that you must
set before you is to do the Master's work. Whatever
else may come in your way to do, that at least you must
never forget.
C.W.L.-ln ordinary life one-pointedness is necessary for
real success. The one-pointed man always wins in the end,
because all his powers are working together, while other people
have a variety of aims, and are constantly changing them. The
man who sets himself to make money, for example, and uses all
his thought and will for that purpose, and watches and plans
for it all the time, is almost sure to gain his object. If one
determines all the time to serve the Master with constantly
increasing power, and is willing to put aside all other things
for that, his progress will be swift indeed.
Yet nothing else can come in your way, for all help-
ful, unselfish work is the Master"s work, and you must do
it for His sake. And you must give all your attention to
each piece as you do it, so that it may be your very best.
C.W.L.- A good deal of a pupil's work consists in prepar-
ing himself for more responsible work for the Master in the
future. Some of it is not directly useful in the Master's present
plans, but may be compared to much of the work of a boy at
school, who in learning, for example, Latin, is not doing any
particular good, but is or ought to be developing powers of
238
ONE-POINTEDNESS 239
mind and qualities. of character which will be useful in later
life. The duties of common life often combine something
of both these things, for they proYide a splendid training and
education for those who do them well, and also offer many
occasions for helping other people to progress in character
and ideals, which is most emphatically the Master's work.
All the varied activities of daily life will come within our one-
pointed endeavour to serv.e the Master, when we learn to do
them all in His name and for Him. The Master's work for us is
not something peculiar and apart from our fellows. To raise a
good family who will serve Him in turn, to make money to use
in His service, to win power in order to help Him with it, are
all part of it ; yet in doing these things we must be ever on guard
against self-deception, that we . are not cloaking with the holi-
ness of the Master's name what is, underneath, a selfish desire
to wield power or handle money.
That same Teacher also wrote : " Whatsoever ye
do, do it lzeartily, as to the Lord, and not unto
men.'' Think how you would do a piece of work if
you knew that the Master was coming at once to look at
it ; just in that way you must do all your work. Those
who know most will most know all that that verse means.
And there is another like it, much older: "Whatsoever
thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might."
C.W.L.-The whole world exists within the consciousness
of the Lord of the World, the One Initiator, and therefore
everything that we do is being done in His Presence. From
that is derived the old Christian idea of the omniscience and
omnipresence of God, of whom it is said, " In Him we live and
move and have our being." It is not a poetic fancy, but a
scientific fact, that we live within the aura of the great Spiritual
King of the world. Of course, a consciousness that can grasp
all the world simultaneously is to us inconceivably incompre-
hensible, yet one day we shall reach His stupendous level.
The old conception of God used to make His omnipresence
.a terrible thought ; God was supposed to be one who was
240 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
always· watching to find fault, looking eagerly for any breach
of ·His rules that He might come down in wrath upon the hap-
less offender. Many a child has suffered terribly because of that
thought that God sees everything that he does ; he feels it in a
way unfair that there can be no privacy. This is especially so
because a frightened child cannot tell how his mentor will take
anything that he does. But if instead one realizes the mighty
divine Love, then one begins to see that His omnipresence is our
safety and our greatest blessing.
A.B.-The test that the Master gives here should be applied
t~ all our work. Suppose you are writing a letter; if you knew
that the Master wo~ld come and read it over, it would be very
carefully written, both as to its contents and its form. What-
ever your work is it is His work, if it is the best you can do;
whether it is something that the Master wants done for some
immediate purpose, or something that prepares you for future
work. Everything is for Him, if we are His; it cannot be
for anybody else. Make this your normal and continual
attitude of mind, and you make the atmosphere in which one-
pointedness can grow.
If we had that real one-pointedness, how splendidly every-
thing would go. That thought of doing all because of His
service is one which I keep in my own mind, just as younger
disciples can do, though I have more force of habit to help me
than they have as yet. "Why should I answer this letter ? n
I sometimes ask myself; and the answer to my own question at
once comes up in my mind : '' It has come in my way to do,
and so it is Master's work."
You will continue to hold this thought foremost in your
minds all through the time that you are disciples; all have to
make the habit, and when it is made they must go on strength-
ening it. That will help us to do with all our might whatever
work we have. \Ve must do it with our might because so
it becomes part of the divine work, and because of the training
of character that it gives. Make your work quite true, allowing
nothing second-rate .to pass.
One-pointedness mean~, too, that nothing shall ever
turn you, even for a moment, from the Path upon which
ON E....P(i)J N'I'E~N£SS ·
')160 have entered. No temptations, no ,world.ly pleasures,
no .worldly affections even, must .:ever draw you aside.
For . f0\1 · -yourself must become .one with the Path; it
must 'be so much part <?f your nature t~at you follow it
without needing to think of it, and cannot turn aside~
You, ·the Monad, have decided it ; to break away from
it would be tp break away from yourself·
C.W.L.-The statement 'that the individuai must become.
one with the Path is made in other Scriptures besides this. The:
Chr.ist said to His disciples, " I am the Way " ; 1
Shri Kr-ishnat
made .a very similar observation: " I am the way along whioh'
the travelley must walk." The same idea is put forwa:,.-<dJ .int
The .
Voic.
e of tiJe Silence, where it said: "Thou canst.no4t
travel on the Path before thou hast .become that Path
itself." What is happening really is that one is becoming one's.
own true self. Patanjali, defining yoga, says that when a man
has gained control of his mind he " resides in .his own true·
state". The Monad is our tr·ue Self, the God in man, but he
has put down a shadow of himself to form the ego, and that
again has incarnated in a personality. Not until a man is
considerably 'evolved can the ego manage .the ,personality;
before that, he lo'oks down upon it without trying to do much
in such a hopeless cause. Tht::n comes the First Initiation, the
point when the personality has ceased to ~ave a will of its own,.
and lives ·(except when it forgets) only to serve the higher.
The ego ·is now active through it in the lower ,planes, and is.
beginning to realize the existence of lhe' Monad, and to live
according to its will. The Mon.ad has.determined the path for
the ego's evolution ; and he can choose no 'other, because he 'is:
becoming himself, gaining release from the bondage even
of the spiritual planes. Constantly, while on the Path, the
pupil · will be sv..·ayed from side to side, but when he b as
achieved one-pointedness he " ·ill always swing back to the one
right way.
A.B.-People often forget that they aie the expression of
the Monad. The real you is the Monad, and therefore whatever
1
B. John , 14, 6.
31
tAtks 6N TH~ PA1'1t OP OCCULTISM
you do down here is done of your own true will, not through
oute~ compulsioQ of another will. The Monad's will is your
will; your desires
1
are not your will at all, but you are drawn to
'<>uter things because one or other of your bodies wants to take
a particular pleasure. It is not you who like the pleasure; it is
the elemental material that wants to taste and experience it.
Against this state of affairs you must oppose your true" I",
which points undeviatingly to the highest. You ·must be like a
strongly magnetized compass whose needle may indeed be drawn
aside, but returns ever· 'back. Until you are so strong that
noth.ing c~n. _draw you aside, you_
must constantly practise bring-
ing yourself back to the one will.
You are not matter; you must make matter your instru-
ment. It is absurd that you should give way to the piece of
material that you have picked up to fashion to your use. It is
as though the hammer in the band of the carpenter struck where
it chose instead of where be chose, and crushed his finger
~nstead of driving in the nail. It' happens sometimes that a
ma.-n crushes his own fingers with his tool, but that is because
be 1.6 a clumsy workman. Learn fidelity to your purpose, to
your true will, and the time will come when you cannot turn
aside from it.
.one-pointedness can also be developed by concentration.
Fix your attention on a small area at any given time; con-
centrate upon one thing at a time, so as to do it well. A
quantity of water which is sufficient to make a strong current
when penned into a channel, becomes a mere film when it is
allowed to spread over a large surface. So is it with your
energies. Take up one piece of work after another, and do each
thing definitely and forcefully, instead of vaguely trying to do
everything. If you follow this advice steadily you will soon
begin to see some definite result, very small each week perhapsp
but as the weeks pass the results accumulate and soon become
very considerable in quantity of work done as well as in
increase of power.
CHAPTER XXIII
CONFIDENCE
6. Confidence.-You must trust your master ;
you must trust yourself. If you have seen the Master,
you will trust Him to the uttermost, through many lives
and deaths. If you have not yet seen Him, you must
still try to realize Him and trust Him, because if you do
·not, even He cannot help you.
C.W.L.-These are partly the words of Alcyone, who is.
~peaking here of His Master; but the Master Himself spo~e:
similarly of others greater than He, because just as we speak
and think of the Masters so do They in turn speak and think of
the Lord Buddha, of the Lord Maitreya, and others greater
than Them.selves. ...
It is practically impossible for us to realize a Master. ·We
may try to do so; we may think of th:e highest ideals we know ;
but the Master embodies so many kinds of greatness that we
cannot even imagine, that the highest ideal we can form of
Him ·is still far too low. Such being the case, uttermost trust
in His wisdom is but simple common sense.
Utter trust in the Master is largely a question of one's past.
If we look at the lives of Alcyone we can see bow that has.been
so in his case. He has been in close association with his
Master through many past Jives. From the same set of lives,
I see, for example, that I myself have been in similar association
with my Master, and so have others. I suppose I must take
that' as accounting for the fact that the moment I read of the
Master I instantly felt the strongest possible attraction towards
243
244 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Him. When I had the privilege of seeing Him, it never for a
moment occurred to me to distrust Him. In such cases it may
be said that the ego knows, either by being aware of the
Master's presence on the higher 'mental plane, or by memory of
past Jives in which the Master has been known. Sometimes the
ego knows but cannot send that knowledge down into the
personality, and sometimes it is transmitted imperfectly or
incorrectly, or again, in other cases the ego simply does not
know. The ego is never likely to be wrong; he is, apparently,
not deceived about anything, but that be is ignorant of certain
matters is quite clear, and· indeed the very purpose of his
incarnation is to remove that ignorance.
Those who have no proof of the existence of the Masters
may well consider the reasonableness of the idea, the certainty
that -sin~e. man· is evolving and many stages Jie behind him,
there mu_
st be ather stages of evolution in front of him. We
cannot regard ourselves as the crown of the ages. There is
also. muc}l ·testimony to Their existence coming from those who
bave met and spoken with sue~ ~en.I
,There are some who have actually seen the Ma~ter~ and
)':~t, Incomprehensible though it may appear, have afterwards
falfen away from full trust in Them. I remember very well, for
exampfe, a certain Mr. Brown of. London; he has written a
pamphlet describing his life, so there is no harm.in referring_
to
him. Many years ago he went to India, and there had tbe most
unusual privilege of meeting in the physical body one of the two
M·a:sters who star:ted the Theo~ophical Society. They come
down very rarely from•Their Tibetan home, but both of Th_
em
have been in India sinae I have been a member of the Seciety,
in -the earlier years. of the movement. In The Occult World
there is an account of the visit of the Master Kiithumi to
Amritsar, where the.great Golden Temple of the Sikhs is. He
said: '' I saw our Sikhs drunk on the floor of their own temple,
... I turn my face homeward to-morrow." More and·more, I
suppose, They find They can use Their energies to best advant-
age upon higher· planes, '·and )~ave the work on the lower to
those who are now gradually gathering rourid Them in the
wCJrld. Young Mr. Brown had first seen the astral appearance
of the Master Kutbumi~ and then he happened to be travelling
J. Tbjs subject is dealt with at length in 'Phe Mast"s a1ed the Pa/tlz
CONFI-DENCE' 2'45
in tm-e far north of India as secretary.to Colonel Olcott, when
the Master came in His physical body to see the Colonel.
Mr. Brown was sleeping in the same tent as the Colonel, but in
a: separate division of it. The Master spoke for some time with
CoJonel Olcott, and then came round into the other division of
the tent. I do not understand why, but Mr. Brown wrapped his
head up in the bed-sheet and was afraid to face the Master.
Naturally, one would be highly conscious of one's faults, but to
adopt the ostrich-like plan of putting one's head under the bed-
clothes does not seem to me to help much, because the bed-
clothes, of course, were also transparent to the higher sight.
The .Master, however, spoke to him patiently. "Take your
head out of the bed-clothes," He said. "I want you to see if I
am the same person you saw in your astral body." Eventually
the Master gave up and left a little note for him, and only then
Mr. Brown recovered his senses. He had there an opportunity
for which many would give a very great deal. He had
deserved it, ·of course, but he d'id not make the best use·of it.
And afterwards he doubted the existence of the Masters. 't'here
have .been others also who have had the privilege of seeing
Them, and yet have somehow fallen away.
Some people, owing to the experience of their past lives,
have built up a ·sceptical nature; others are over-credulous.
Neither of these extremes is good for a man's progress; both
alike are unsc"ientific. Each man has a general scheme of thing~
in his mind. If new facts which are told him at once fit in with
that, he is ready to accept them as probable without demanding
exa·ct proof. We say, ''Yes, that seems very likely; that fits
in very well; probably it is so." But if, on the other hand~ the
average person is told of something which does not in any way
g·ear in with what he knew before, he altogether refuses to
accept it. When one has had expe.
rience in the study of the
inner side of things, one soon abandons the attitude which
refuses to accept a statement because it does not gear in with
what one already knows. One learns to suspend judgment,
neither accepting nor dedining to accept, but simply saying;
'' From what I have seen so far that does not seem to me verv
li}Qely; but I do not deny it, I shall put it aside and wait fo"r
further light." It is futile to say that because a thing' is not in
one's experience ther-efore it cannot be. That is the.tendency
@{<ignorance.
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Generally speaking, the less people know the more certain
they are, down here on the physical plane. In ordinary science,
those who dogmatize are the students. The great scientific
men will usually say: " I have had experience of such-and-such
things. but of course I cannot pretend to lay down the law."
The Lord Chancellor once said: '' I am as certain of that as
the youngest barrister present.'' He is certain because he has
not learnt that there are many possibilities, that you cannot lay
down the law too definitely. Those who have been studying
for years are much more thoughtful of the ..yay in which they
express themselves. There are vast numbers of realities before
us all the time, which as yet we do not know. A generation
ago many of what are· commonplaces of our daily life now
wol,Sld have been derided by most people as utterly impossible.
It is well to recognize that fact from the beginning and to be
pr~pared for new discoveries, which may constantly be expected,.
as man evolves.
It is distinctly useful for us as students of these higher
matters to try to get out of the attitude of being bound by our:
preconceptions. We must be sufficiently plastic to accept even
revolutionary truths when they have good reason on their sjde-
Failing that, we must simply put them aside and say we do not
yet see, without condemning them or the people who hold
them. Truth is many-sided, and to see it from all sides at once
is not commonly given to any one man or set of men; COQSe-
quently there may always be a modicum of truth in that which
at present seem to us unreasonable.
One great trouble is that many people who.know nothing
whatever about a subject are persuaded that they know aU
about it; especially in matters of religion people who know
little are nevertheless clamorously insistent that others should
believe the particular delusion that happens to occupy their
minds. Sometimes they say their conscience is thus directing
them. Even if that be so in some cases, we cannot always
d~pend upon the conscience, since the ego whose voice it is
does not know everything. History records that people have
burned and tortured others for conscience' sake. An ego who
recommends such ideas is distinctly ignorant on very important
points. One must, of course, give heed to one's consciencep
when one is sure the voice is that, but always remember Bishop
South's celebrated reply to a dissenter: '' By all means·fo.llow
CONFIDENCE 247
thy ·conscience, but take heed that thy conscrence is not the
conscience of a fool."
While it is well to have confidence, one cannot make one':.
self believe, any more than one can make oneself Jove. But
just as we can dwell upon a person's goo'd points and so.
gradually acquire reason for loving him, so we can think over
the reasons for belief, and perhaps gradually attain it thereby..
Strictly, of course, one should not desire to believe anything in
particular, but only whatever may be true; yet that truth may
·come to us only after considerable study of the matter, if we
.have no conviction arising from the past.
It is not the method of great spiritual teachers to make
,everything easy for us. I first came into touch with occultism
:through Madame Blavatsky. She gave occasional crumbs of
r}{nowledge to her peo'ple, but she constantly applied rigorous
·tests to them. It was a drastic method, but those who really
meant business remained with her, while others very soon
.abandoned her. She cured us of conventionality, but there was
much searching of hearts among her followers in the process.
Many people saicl she did things which a great spiritual
teacher ought not to do. My own feeling was always this:
"Madame Blavatsky has this occult knowledge, and I am going
to get that knowledge from her, if she will ghe it to me. What-
ever else she does is her affair. I am not here to criticize her;
ito her own Master she stands or falls, and not to me. She may
1
have her own reasons for what she does; I do not know any-
:thing about that. She has this knowledge, she speaks of these
Masters. I intend to get this knowledge ; I intend, if it is
1
humanly possible, to reach the feet of those Masters." I gave
up everything else to follow her lead, and I have never regretted
"lhe confidence I placed in Madame Blavatsky. If one is
critical by nature it is his karma; he wi.Jl learn much more
slowly than the man who is prepared to accept things
.reasonably.
\Ve have to remember that we cannot play with occultism.
·If we do, no benefit results from it and we are doing no good;
;f it is not the first interest in life it is of no value. We cannot
give to it the second or the third or the seventeenth place in
life as so many good people try to do. It must actualJy be the
:first thing in life and everything else must be subsidiary to it.
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Confidence in the Master does mean that we believe tba;t He
knows exactly what we ought to do, and that He says what
He means; and so when, as in this book, He lays down certain
clefinite rules we must do our very best to follow them. I know
it seems difficult, and it is very hard to m,
ake people believe
just that thing. They say: "Well, He means an approximation
to that. He means something Hke it." But He means exacdy
what He says, and if we do not believe Him, and therefore we
fail, we must blame ourselves. In occultism we have to pass
£100m the insincerity of the world into the light of truth, out of
our world into Theirs.
Unless there is perfect trust, there cannot be the
perfect flow of love and power.
C.W.L.-lf one is in a condition of doubt as to the
existence of the Master, or doubt as to one's owfl power ever to
reach Him or to make progress, then that very doubt sets all
the vibrations going the wrong way, and the person having it
will not be a channel which can be used. Therefore the
pupil must have confidence in the Master and love for Him,
and yet at the same time love for mankind which is quite
impersonal. It is all the time the Master's one idea to do wha.t
has to be done with as little expenditure of spiritual force as
possible, so that He may have the more to use in other work.
If anyone is in any such condition as I have described he is not
a good channel and so is uselt:ss to the Master. It would be
indeed sad to fail Him just when He wanted our service-to have
vibrations in our various vehicles that would repel His influence
instead of transmitting it.
I remember a case of one who aspired very strongly to
'become a pupil of a certain Master. He had already served Him
well in various ways, and his greatest desire was to see the Master.
I was myself staying in that person's house when the Master came
in His physical body to visit the city where he lived; but He
did not come to the house. I met Him outside and spoke to Him
for a long time, but He could not come to see the one who wished
to be His pupil, because just at that time that person's astral
body was very violently affected- it was all torn with ignoble
passion along certain lines. Thus the opportunity of a lifetime
was lost-perhaps the opportunity of many lifetimes. If that
CONFIDENCE
person cou-ld have known how near the Master was, I am sure
that all his passion would have faJJen away in a moment. Yet
for the Master to use His power to drive that away in order
to show Himself ,-..·ould have been a waste of His force.
It must not be thought that the Master resents want'of
trust or any attttude of that ·nature, or that He is hard when
He does not spend his time in removing this or that state of
passion· from an aspirant. He will do only what will best serve
the work, and He will not be swayed by.sentimental reasons of
any description. When there is real business to be done you
must take the best man that offers, whether he be a friend or not,
and to put him aside and take a less efficient one, because he>
was a friend, would be to fail in your duty. In the case of a·
great war, for example, you must take the best available man to
lead your forces, to be at the head of this Ministry or that, or
to carry on a particular department of the work. It is not a
time for nepotism, to consider whether somebody's nephew could
be found a certain post; you must have the man who can best
do the work, because it is above all else important to everyone
that the work should be well done.
· The work of occultism is of that nature: it has to be done,
and Those who direct it will employ the best man. Years of
service to Them do not constitute any claim to office or to
attention from the Master. It is the Master's duty to take the
man who can do the work, whether he be one who has just come
to Him or one who has been serving Him for many years.
Anyone who puts the work first cannot but rejoice at seeing
another do it better than he himself could. Long ago Ruskin
said of a certain piece of work : '' Be it mine or yours or whose
else it may, this also is well; it is well done." You should not
hesitate to say that it is well done even though you did it your-
self; you should not fail to recognize the better work of another,
because it does not matter who did it. There are wonderful
passages in Ruskin; he knew, so far as I am aware, nothing of
occultism, nor did I when I knew him, yet there is very much in
his writing which bears the true stamp of occultism.
You must trust yourself. You say you know your-
self too well ? If you feel so, you do not know yourself;
you only know the weak outer husk. which has fallen
32
~~0 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
often into the mire. But you-the real you-you are a
spark of God's own fire, and God, who is Almighty, is
in you, and b~cause .of that there is nothing that you
cannot do if;you will. Say t<,> yourself: "What m"n has
done, man can do. I am a man, yet also God in man ; I
c;an do this thing, and I will." For your will must be
like tempered steel. if you would tread the Path.
A.B.-When the various instructions that we have been
eonsidering are placed before some people, and they are advised
to cease their old foolishness or wrongdoing, they sometimes
say: "I cannot help it; it is my nature." Many people try to
shelter under that excuse. But you are not really in earnest if
you say that, and you must be earnest; you cannot afford to
play with things that are so serious. You can do anything
you set yourseJf to do, though perhaps not at once.
Of course, if you say, '' I cannot help it ", you cannot; for
you paralyze yourself by the thought. It is a fatal fault; it
prevents a11 progress, and leaves you where you are for months
and years. It is as though a man tied his legs with a rope, and
then said, '' I cannot walk." Certainly he cannot, as he has
been at pains to tie himself up ; Jet him undo the rope if
he does not wish h.J sit where he is, and then he wi11 be able
to walk weJl enough. You can do things! Get rid of the
false idea that you allow to incapacitate you. Make up your
mind that you can, and that you will ; then you will be
astonished at the rapidity of your progress. If you will not do
this, you are not in earnest, or at ]east you are not in earnest in
the way in which the Master wants you to be; you are merely
playing at being in earnest. I do not say that you are not
trying, but it is trying in a way that does not count for mu,ch.
See what I mean by applying it to worldly things, to the
business by means of which you feed wife and children. You
know quite well that if a thing stood in your way there, you
would at once make up your mind to remove it, and would
exert yourself to the utmost to do so. You would not sit down
and say, " I cannot help it." Use some of that seriousness
here. You have much of it for all the things which are not
CONFIDENCE
serious. It seems as if the one thing which matters is that in
which earnestness is the most lacking.
It is of no use applying to the Master for help, if you make
·no effort to help yourselves. It is as though you held a cup
which you carefully covered over with your hand, and prayed
for water; when the water is poured down to you it flows over
the covering hand and round the cup, and you are none the
better for it. So long as a man is trying to do a thing with all
bis available strength, he is doing it in the occult mann~r. The
results of his efforts may not show themselves in the outer world
.at once, but he is all the time gathering up his force which at
1ast will pour out in successful action.
The things that you have to do have been done and can
be done, but as long as you think that you cannot do them, you
·Cannot. But if you say to yourself: "These things have to be
done, and I will do them", then you can do them. Do that,
and your thought will be a guardian angel, ever near you,
enabling you to accomplish. Otherwise you have near you-as
the Christian would put it-a devil. created by yourself with
your own thought. You need not create such devils; make
·instead an angel, a g,reat thought-form-" I ca11, and I will."
C.W.L .-It is quite true that there is nothing a man
-cannot do, but it is not said that he can do it at once. That is
where people sometimes make a mistake. I know this very
well, because I receive scores of letters from people who are in
·some serious difficulty, fallen perhaps under the influence of
-
drink or drugs or of some kind of obsession, and they often say,
" \\Te have no will left, it is all gone; we cannot overcome our
·difficulty; what can we do?" Those who have not met with
any such cases have no .idea how terrible the hold of such a
thing is on the man, how entirely his will is sapped away and
how he feels that he can do nothing at all.
Such people sometimes contemplate suicide. That would
be fatal. Even if a man is maimed for life, he should take what
·Opportunity he has to repair the harm, should gird up his loins
and valiantly continue the struggle. Suicide would mean a
return to conditions similar to those from which escape is
·sought, with the added bad karma of the act. Let the sufferer
l£ealize that the will is there, however much it may be hidden.
If he had to create the will for himself, he might very well
TALKS ON THE PATH Of OCCULTISM
despair, but let him remember that the will is there; it is the-
will of God which shows forth in every man. It has yet to be-
unfolded and developed, but that can be done gradually.
Sometimes the devotion of a relative or friend, endowed with·
great love and patience, proves a veritable godsend in such a.
case as this.
What has that man done to be in such a condition ?
Probably for the whole of this incarnation, perhaps for one or
two previous lives, he has been deliberately yielding himself to-
the desire-elemental, to the temptations of the lower nature-
deliberately letting it seize upon h~m. At first he could have·
struggled against it, but, since he did not check it, pe bas an
accumulated momentum of the evil force-so much of it that he
cannot all at once stem it. But he can begin to do so.- We
may use the example of a m~n pushing a railway truck or·
carriage. At a country sfation where they have plenty of time·
}·ou will sometimes sec a railway porter shunting a carriage·
from one line to another. See how be goes to work; there is a
huge object weighing tons; he pushes against it steadily, and at
flrst he makes no impression. Presently the thing begins-
slowly to move. He continues pushing, and it moves faster and
faster. Then he goes to work to stop it. Now he cannot stop _
it
all at qnce; if he stood in the way and refused to move, it
would run over him and crush him; so he sets himself to
oppose it steadily, giving way yet pressing all the time, untif
gradually he brings it to a standstill. He had put into it a
~ertain amount of force; he cannot take it out again, but can>
.n_
eutralise it by a similar amount of energy.
The man who has yielded himself to the desire-elemental is.
in a similar position. He has put great force into the thing,.
and he must meet and face it. One may sav: " But there is so-
much of it." Yes, but it is a limited amount. If only he could
look at the matter not sentimentally, but abstractly, as a
problem in mathematics, he would not say," I am a degraded
~orm, and the force is too great for me", but would go to·
work and oppose it. He can be absolutely certain that he-
put into it only a limited amount of force. But now he bas.
unlimited force at his disposal. Just because we are sparks-
of the Divine Fire we have all the power of God behind us.
Only a very little can come through us.·at a given time, but
it js coming all the while.
: I . CONfiDENCE
. All this mu?t qe looked a~ from the ppint of view o~ tfl!3
ego ;'.h~ ~an qq these. things aqd he will. One can never do
instantly ~ny~hing that is wQrth doing in the work of ~cult
deveJopmen~; just as it is not ~nough to have music in one's so-qJ,
but the ear and han~s ll}USt pe trained so that one can becoq1~ a
suit~ble channel for the power of the music. . The ego has
to train his vehicles patiently in a similar way.
People sometimes say : " If I cannot overcome this bad
~abit now, Jet me wait . till .I get another body." Such' a
person forgets that his next body wi11 have the character an~
qualities of the present one, if he does nothing to change them;
and the hopeless conditions will continue in the next lif~. But
if he makes a determined fight against them now, even though
they dominate him to the very end of his life, he will beg'in
with a very much better body next time. It is the same way
at higher levels. A man may so injure his mental body by
debauchery that in this life it never can come back to its
pristine condition. Nevertheless, if he makes a determined
attempt against the evil he will get a good menta) body next
time, instead of having , one whiCh reproduces his present
defects. In this, as in other cases, the chief struggle is at the
beginning; confidence grows and becomes strong~ little later on.
Just as many people want to introduce senti!Jlent into their
relations with the Master, so some people also want to obtain
exemption from the working of the laws.of nature; they want
to be suddenly taken out of all their sin and sorrow. The
emotional type of Christian says: "You will be saved by the
~looq of Jesus here and now. You will be taken right out .o~
your trouble and be as though it never had been." That is in
some ways attractive, but it is not true. What is true is that
when you turn ro~nd and go the right way along with th~
divine Will, you at on.
ce become free from all the troubles
and difficulties within you which have arisen from fighting
against that; but it does not folJow that the outer consequences
of what you have already done will be wiped out. You have
made the change ; you are a converted man and you are going
in the right way now, but you have still to deal with the
results of having gone the wrong way.
You may change your attitude in one moment; and of
course you are forgiven-there is nothing standing against you
254 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
spirituaUy; you are absolved. But even an orthodox priest
win telJ you at once: " I do nbt profess to put right all the
results of the wrong you have done. If you have lived a life
of debauchery, if you have undermined your constitution, I
cannot put that right-th~se results will remain and it will be
part of your penance to try to undo them. What I can put
right is the guilt-to use the ecclesiastical term. You have
set yourself at odds with God; I ca~ put you straight again.
There my absolution will do something for you; it is the power
of the higher will and not the lower. It will take you when
once you want to be taken; it will help to keep y6u in the
right line ; but the physical results cannot be undone." You
yourself can change your attitude; the priest can put you
rig'ht on the higher planes where you lack the po,ver. I do
not say that a person could not do this for himself, but he
would do it with great effort, clumsily, unscientifically. That
is the power that lies behind the absolution; but it cannot
ta1<e from a man the results of his sin-the laws of nature do
not work that way.
There is another consideration to be added to what has
been said: Until a per50n has developed his will and taken hold
of himself he cannot really offer himself to the Master. People
say, '' I give myself entirely to the Ma~ter," but is it not
obvious tllat one has not the entire self to give when part of
it is in possession of evil qualities of various sorts ? For this
reason also we must develop the will. The Master said that
that wilJ must be like tempered steel. I remember the occasion
very well because Alcyone did not understand what was meant
by tempered steel, and a little materialization was neces~ary, to
show him. It must be not simply a will of iron, but of
tempered steel, a will that cannot be turned aside. The will is
there; the divine power is in us; we have bot to unfold it and
so become masters of ourselves, and then we may make the
glorious offering of that will at the feet of the Master.
PART V
LOVE
CHAPTER XXIV
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA
Of all the Qualifications, Love is the most important,
for if it is strong enough in a man, it forces him to acquire ,
all the rest, and all the rest without it would never be
·sufficient. Often it is translated as an intense desire for
liberation from the round of births and deaths, and for .
union with God. But to put it in that way sounds
selfish, and gives only part of the meaning.
C.W.L.-We have said that in this book there are several
departures from the ordinary translation of these qualifications.
Of a1l those departures this one is the most daring-the
presentation of mumukshatva as Love. The word is composed
from the root much," to release or set free ". In the desiderative
stem the root is reduplicated, and other changes occur, to form
mumuksh, " to desire release ". Mumuksha is the noun form,
meaning "desire for release", and mumukshutwa means "the
state of desire for release". The termination twa has somewhat
the meaning of our ness, as in '.'eagerness". From the,same
root comes also the word moksha, '' deliverance ", ''release ", or
" liberation ".
The q.uestion has often been asked whether moksha is the
same as mrvana. The words mean different things, but they
may be taken as attributes of the same state of being-or rather
state beyond what we know as being. Nirvaha comes from the
root va with the prefix nis, "to blow'' or "to blow out", so it is
translated "the blowing out ". Moksha is rele~se from the cycle
257
33
258 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
of births and deaths, and nirvana is the blowing out of that part
of man which binds him to that cycle-which means all-that
men can usually think of as man. Some Hindus think of
moksha as a negative condition, and work to destroy all personal
desires and human interests, so that neither things nor persons.
can attract them back to rebirth, and so they win freedom from
the wheel of births and deaths for long periods of time, but the
conception of most of them is of an indescribable state of
happiness, beyond the illusion of separateness, called kai\·alya,.
independence, absolute oneness. Some Buddhists think" of
nirvana .as a complete blotting qut of man, 9vt-others .think of
it as the attainment of wisdom and bliss that blots out all
previous conceptions of self and experience, because it is super-
inenarrable. So we see that even in the same religion men hold
different views.
We Theosophists sometimes apply the term nirvana to the·
state of consciousness on the atmic or spiritual plane, but we
also speak of nirvana as the condition of those supermen, or
Adepts, who have taken the Fifth Initiation, who choose among
the seven pa.ths open to them that which resembles the true
Buddhist nirvana-not the " blowing-out " of the Southern-
Church of Buddhism, but the indescribable rest and bliss of the
Northern Church.
It ·is ·the Arhat, he who has passed the Fourth Initiationt-
who-can·niise his:consciousness to the nirvanic plane, and there
experience the flood of life that I have tried to describe in
The lntier Life and The Masters and the Path. That consci·-.
ousness is so mQch wider than anything that we know down
here ~ that cone hes-itates to call it his consciousness at all He
·has become one with a very much greater consciousness; he
has lost the sense of being separate. All efforts fail to
put these ideas i'nto words because we · have not ·words to
~xJ!)ress them; ·
It is very difficult to get the right shades of meaning in
"translating Sanskrit books, but he who has had a touch of the
nirvanic consciousness will best know what the old writers, who
had themselves experienced it, meant by nirvana; th~ mere
l~xicographer ca~not be . expected to give exact meanings to
words of that kind. Suppose that a man who knew nothing
about the Christian religion tried to understand such a word as
., .
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA
~' grace ". If he looked it up in the dictionary he· would become
-entangled with words like" graceful " and " gracious" and get
quite another meaning. · That is so also with "dispensation ",
in ecclesiastical language; ·it is quite a different thing from
what it is in ordinary life. Every. religion has a number of
terms which in process of time. come to have their special
religious meaning, and unless one has been brought up in that
faith, approaching it from the inside, it is not easy to realize
the exact shade of thought. In the beginning of the Theosoph..
ical movement none of us knew Sanskrit. Madame Blavatsky
understood something of the religions of India, but she did not
know Pali or Sanskrit. Her method was to describe as well
.as she could · what she herself saw, and then say to any
Indian friend who might be present, '' What do you call that in
your system ? " He often did not fully understand her meaning,
but he gave her the nearest term he.could. The next time
she wanted a word she would ask another man, but she never
paid any attention to the fact that the first man might be ·a
Hindu and the second a Buddhist-or that the various Hindus
·might belong to different schools of philosophy-
.
Ia, addition'Jo ~ this, Mada.me Blavatsky was not in the
position of a teacher of science, who is expounding a theory
which he is illustrating with suitable experiments', brought for-
ward as proofs as he goes along. She was not working with
a plan or skeleton, into which one would try to fit every new
piece of knowledge. She would make several statements
which did not agree as far as words were concerned, and if
asked for explanations would say," Never mind the contradic"'
·tions. Go and think over the statements." Her ideas were
wonderfully clear, and her knowledge definite.
Hers was the opposite method of working to that of our
day, when words are first defined very carefully and given
fixed meanings. Often, it is to be feared, the result of that is
that science and philosophy become a kind of game, like
chess, where the moves that a piece can make are strictly
prescribed. With her, words were living·things-thought-forms
on the physical plane, as it were-used as a means to awaken
,in the'b~ar~r's mind the knowledge already_
existing in her own.
.If we wish to understand all the complicated relationship
'bet~·een the ego and the per.s~pality, we must'fh:st of all have
26o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
a clear idea in our mind of what these things respectivety a:re.
This matter has been dea1t with at great length in Theosophical
literature both in the earlier days of the Society'"s teaching and
also quite recently. I have said something about it in The
Masters and the Path. Putting it very briefly and crudely, let
it be understood that we can think of man as existing in the
three divisions which S\ Paul used long ago-bodJ', soul and
spirit. The corresponding Theosophical terms would be the
personality, the individuality and the Monad. The Monad is
definitely divine-a spark of the eternal flame-to all intents
and purposes a part of God Himself. It is of course true
in the highest sense that ev·erything is a part of God-
that there is nothing which is not He: and that is true of
matter as well as of spirit. Nevertheless there is a· very
special sense in which the Monad may be thought of as a
fragment ·of the Deity coming down into manifestation. I
know quite well that is unphilosophical, unscientific, inaccurate
to speak of a fragment of that which is indivisible; but there
are no words to express the conditions of higher planes, so that
whatever we say must be utterly inadequate and therefore to-
some extent misleading. Some writers who have tried to
.express these relations have spoken of the Monad as 'a reflection
of the Logos, the ego in turn as a reflection of the Monad, and
the personality as representing the ego in a similar way. There
is a sense in which that expression has its advantages, and yet
it seems to me to give somewhat less of the true relation than
this other suggestion-that the Monad may be considered as a
fragment of the Deity, the ego a fragment of the Monad, and
.the personality in its turn a fragment of the ego.
As part of the eternal unfoldment it has pleased the
Logos of our system to project from Himself a vast host of
these Monads. If we may use the simiJe with all reverence, they
are thrown forth from Him as sparks in order that after their
passage through various material planes they may return to
Him as great and glorious suns, each capable of giving life and
light to a magnificent system, through which and by means of
which mil1ions of othet Monads may in turn develop.
The stupendous height from which this divine manifesta-
tion which we cal1 a Monad origina11y comes cannot be measured
in terms of any planes of which we know anything ; but the
lowest point which the Monad appears able to reach in his outrush
LJ.BERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA
1s that which for that very reason we call the Monadic plane.
It will be remembered that according to our great President's
nomencJ·ature the highest of the seven planes about which
we are taught is caJled the divine, the second (coming down-
wards) being the monadic, the third the spiritual, and the
fourth the intuitional. A still further descent into matter is
necessary that the purpose5 of the Logos may be achieved. The
Monad as a whole appears to be incapable of further descent,
but it can and does put forth what we must call a part or
fragment of himself which is capable of descending to the upper
part of the mental plane. On the way down this fragment so
put f€>rfh manifests itself on the spiritual or nirvanic plane as the
triple atma. Of that triple spirit the first manifestation remains
on that plane, while the second 9escends to the intuitional
plane and clothes itself in buddhic matter. The third aspect or
manifestation descends one plane more and resides in the
higher part of the mental plane, where we call it the higher
manas. Thus the ego (which is the name given to this fragment
put down by the Monad) consists of atma, buddhi and manas,
\vhich we represent somewhat inadequately in English by the
terms spiritual will, intuitional wisdom and active intelligence.
The ego in his turn puts down a minute fragment of himself
through the lower mental and the astra] planes and eventually
manifests himself in a physical body. Each of these successive
descents is a quite indescribable limitation, so that the man
whom we meet down here on the physical plane is at the best a
fragment of a fragment, and as an expression of the real man is
so inadequate as to furnish us with nothing even remotely
resembling a conception of what that man will be at the end of
his evolution.
The egos with whom we have to do in daily life are at
different stages of this incredibly prolonged evolution. In aH
cases the ego exists primarily on his own plane, which as we
have said is the higher part of our mental plane. At that level
quite apart from his .manifestation as a personality, he may be
already wide awake, conscious of his surroundings and living an
active Jife; or on the other hand he may be somnolent, almost
entirely unconscious of his surroundings and therefore capable
of experiencing anything like an active life only through his
personality on much lower levels. As man raises his conscious-
ness through the various planes he finds the vibrations on each
26~ TA[;KS ON 'THE PATH··op 'OCCULTISM
one far more rapid than on that next below it. When we speak
of the ego as developed on his own plane we mean that he is
able fully to respond to·all the vibrations of that plane; if be is
not so conscious then these ve-
ry rapid vibrations pass over him
without affecting him, and in order to attain consciousness be
must put himself down lower and draw round himself a vehicle
of the matter of a grosser plane to whose vibrations he can
already respond. By much practice in that lower plane he will
gradually grow to be able to respond to its higher vibrations and
then very slowly and by degrees to the vibrations of the plane
next above it; so that the consciousness has to work its way
up level by level.
His consciousness therefore in the personality should be
reaching upwards all the while towards the ego; and when the
consciousness of the ego is by this mearis fully developed, he
in his turn will begin to reach upwards towards the Monad.
The whole course of the movement downwards into matter is
called in India the pravritti marga or the path of outgoing.
When,- the lowest point necessary -has been reached the man
enters·.. upon the nivritti marga or the path- of return. He
returns from his day's work of harvesting, bearing his sheaves
with him in the shape of the fully awakened consciousness which
enables him to be far more useful on those higher levels .than
he could have been before his descent into matter. On this
path there is always the temptation for that lower part of the
ego to forget its connection with the higher, and to identify
itself entirely with the lower manifestation which is so much
more vivid to it, and in that way to cut itself off from the higher
and ·as it were to set up in business in the lower world on its
own account. Presumably the ego himself as part of the Monad
is liable to a similar temptation on his very much higher plane;
but we are for the moment dealing with the relations between
the ego and his personality; and furthermore we are viewing
it from the point .of view of the personality looking up
towards the ego and try~~g to become one with him.
The ego has associated him·self with the personality because
be has a hunger, or thirst, for vivid experience. He is
undeveloped on his own plane, unable to respond to the high
vibrations of that region; the slower vibrations of the lo,wer
planes mean more to him, so he comes back again and again
for them. As he develops, the hunge_
r abates little ·by lit.tle, and
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA ~63
sometimes when he is advanced and has become sensitive to the
delights and activities of. his own plane, he goes to the ·other
extreme of neglecting his personality-caught as it is in the grip
of karma, sunk in conditions which are now full of sorrow or
of boredom for him because he feels he has outgrown them.
This diminution of his thirst for the lower planes has taken
place as he develope~ his personality. When he gained ful1
con~ciousness on the astral plane the physical life began to
appear dull by comparison; reaching the lower mental world
he found the astra] dark and dismal; and all three of the lower
levels lost their attraction when he began to be able tQ enjoy
the still more vivid and luminous life of the causal body.
:Many people have reached the point of evolution at which they
can travel about and do useful work on the astral plane during
sleep. All students of occultism have their astral bodies well
developed and ready .for use, thotigh many of them have not yet
acquired the habit of using them. The lowest part of the
mental vehicle is also in order, and is· r.eady to come into
activity; regular meditation develops this and brings it under
control. At this stage the man may be taught to use that
body, and he can then leave his astral with the physical vehicle
during sleep. When this has been accomplished, the process is
repeated at· the causal level, and the ego is then awake and
active on his own plane.
All the lower vehicles are temporary vestures which we put
on in order to learn how to use the forces of their planes,
and when we have done that completely, and the ego is
working perfectly in his causal body, which happens at the
Fourth Initiation, there is no need to incarnate again at those
levels. Having triumphed over them, a man can at any
moment materialize a temporary astral and mental body, show
himself on those planes and do what he wants to do. One who
has reached this stage need no longer go through the wearisome
round of birth and death, which is so unpleasant. Perhaps
we do not always think of it as so unpleasant, because we do
get a little enjoyment out of life; true, but if we could look
at it from the standpoint of the ego we should realize what an
unspeakable bore it is to the eternal spirit to be down here
'' cribb'd, cabin'd and confin'd" in a body that cannot do this
and will not do that. While we are in it we make the best of
it, but it is only a temporary vehicle put on for the purpose of
:z64 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
learning, and when we have learned the lesson we are very
glad to get rid of the whole thing.
The man who has had some experience of the causal levels
sometimes feels very deeply the oppressive limitations of the
three lower worlds. He misses all the glorious freedom and
love and truth of the ego's own regions. He realizes the cause
of his descent into this state of darkness, and may then say to
himself: " I will rid myself of this desire, which is the primary
cause bringing me down into incarnation, and I will balance my
karma by acting without attachment." The man who can say
this is already a developed man, who has thought a good deal
about these things; he is a metaphysician and a philosopher.
He says deliberately: "I will shut off this desire; I will balance
the karma accurately, and then there will be nothing to bring
me back." That can be done. When he succeeds-and there
have been many in India, ctll through its history, who have
succeeded in doing it-the man escapes from this round of
births and deaths. .He lives in the heaven-world, or perhaps he
may reach the causal level; but he does not~ as a rule, rise any
higher than that. He has attained what he would call moksha.
The man who can do that must be a man who has raised
himself ahove afl lower passions and desires, otherwise the
thing would be impossible, but all the same he has forgotten
one side of evolution. He has understood the action of the
1aw of karma perfectly, and therefore he has been able to release
himself from it. But he has not learned perfectlv the law of
evolution, and he has not freed himself from that. ~He is like a
clever boy at school, who might get far ahead of his companions
and take several examinations in advance, and tpen do nothing
for three or four years while the others were coming up to his
level. That is precisely what happens to the man who attains
moksha ; he has not attained the goal which is set for humanity,
because the evolution of humanity ends in Adeptship.
Now, an Adept is not only a man, free from birth and
death, but he is also a living power; he has become one with
the Monad, who is, in turn, a spark of the Deity. But the
method of the Deity is to put Himself down, to pour Himself
out in utter self-sacrifice into this whole plan. Therefore the
man who becomes one with the Deity must be also filled with
.this spirit of self-sacrifice. The Adept does more good works
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA
than the greatest philanthrophist could possibly do, and is
doing them all the time on higher planes, but He does them on
behalf of the humanity of which He is a part. Therefore the
karma resulting from them comes to humanity and not to Him,.
so there is nothing to bind Him to rebirth ; but the whole oi
humanity gets a little uplift. It is not a great uplift; thatr
amount of karma spread all over the world is not a very large
amount for anyone, but it does mean a steady uplift for all.
Therefore, in a sense, everyone gets just a little more than he
may appear exactly to deserve. There is no injustice in this,
however, because like the rain that falls on the just and th~
unjust, it is the same for everyone.
Therefore, after the lapse of thousands or even millioas;Ci>tf
years the man who has attained moksha finds that the tid~· of
evolution has risen to his level and Iaps round him once more,
and he has to come back and be reborn, and proceed with his
development. He who seeks moksha generaJly knows that his
liberation is not for ever, but he thinks that he will be called
back in a remote future, and the world will probably be better
by the time he has to return. He says: " I can afford to risk
that; I shall gain thousands of years of freedom and be all that
time in the heaven-world enjoying myself."
Our ideal is perfect consciousness on the highest level we
can reach. We do not propose to rest satisfied at any level
whatever. But on the other hand, we decline to give up our
consciousness and go into trance, as some people do for the
purpose of reaching a level beyond the scope of their waking
consciousness. People talk sometimes about "passing into
samadhi ", and some, who are fond of the rolling Sanskrit, talk
of going into samadhi when they meditate. We were in much
confusion as to the meaning of this word, until we realized that
it was a relative term. Samadhi for anyone is the point which
is just beyond that at which it is possible for him to retain his
clear consciousness. If one is conscious on the astral and not
on the mental, then for him samadhi would be the next level-
the mental. It is to get just beyond the point where one can be
conscious, to pass into a sort of trance from which one emerges
with all sorts of glorified and beautiful feeling, but not generally
with clear consciousness. People should not go into samadhi
when they meditate ; they should retain their consciousness, so
that when they come back they can remember what they have
34.
266 TALKS ON 'tag PATH OF OCCULTISM
seen. I know that many have passed into samadhi and have
experienced a great feeling of happiness and beatitude. That,
however, does not mean progress, because they lose hold and
do not know clearly what they have been doing. There is
always a certain danger in that-one does not know that he wiU
be able to return.
Dr. Besant and I were once watching some tremendous
outpourings of life from the higher planes, great waves that
came pulsating forth from the Solar Deity. She said : " Let
us throw ourselves into that wave, and see where it takes us."
We should have plunged in had her Master not intervened, and
told us not to do it. Afterwards Dr. Besant asked Him, '' If
we had thrown ourselves into that wave, where should we have
found ourselves?" He said, " You might have washed up in a
million years or so somewhere on Sirius or some other solar
system." Manifestly it is not wi.se to throw ourselves into out-
pourings of that sort, when we do not know exactly what is
happening. It is not a good plan to lose consciousness; it is
much better to try to keep control of our vehicles and see a little
bit where we are going-otherwise we may lose the physical
body and end our temporary usefulness. Our method is to keep
full consciousness on any plane that we can reach, and try to be
of use on that plane. Our Masters never speak of mere passive
contemplation. Our aim is not to sit down and enjoy ourselves·
anywhere, but to be active in the Master's work at all times.
This paraphrase that the Master has given of the fourth
qualification, Love, is eminently characteristic of Him. He
goes behind the word itself to the reason for it. He says:
" What is your reason for wanting liberation ? In order that
you may be free to hdp better, you are trying to make yourself
one with God. What is this God ? God is Love. You must
develop Love if you want to be one with Him. Therefore this
qualification is in reality Love." Readers of lY/an: Whence,
How and T17
hither will remember how it explains that differ-
ent bodies of people came over from the other chains to
this, and how certain of those groups of people were spoken
of as boat-loads of servers. Practically all members of the
Theosophical Society belong to one of those groups ; so this idea
of service is a very strong factor in our dispositions. \Ve know
how hard it is to get away from anything with which we are
born. Our nationality, for example, carries with it many little
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA z67
points of view, very difficult to avoid. That is the nationality
of the personality; but this idea of service we may call the
nationality of the ego, or perhaps of the Monad. He was born
with that streak in him, and it has been cultivated ever since.
It is difficult for us to understand that there are other
types which are just as good as this one under consideration.
The solar Deity manifests Himself tnrough three aspects : wiJI,
wisdom and love. That is the way they are given in this book.
Men approach Him along all these three lines. Each man's
own way is the best for him, but he should remember that the
other man's path is better for him and that, in the long run,
they all merge. We must acquire the ability to look out
simultaneously through all the aspects and know that in truth
they are all one. We are told, in the Athanasian Creed, that
we must hold this doctrine of the Trinity neither confounding
the Persons nor dividing the Substance; we must learn that
through all eternity there is only one God, although His
manifestations are through Three Persons.
It was said in the beginning that if love is strong enough in
a man it forces him to acquire all the other qualities. It makes
people act, according to their power. Take one of the very
best and most beautiful examples: mother love. Let us see
how that operates among a savage race. The mother savage
does not know much, but at least she is prepared to defend her
child, and even if necessary to sacrifice her own life for him.
The civilized mother among ourselves would do just the same
thing in the same circumstances. Now and again you hear of a
mother losing her life in saving her baby from a burning house,
or more often as a result of attending to it when it has some
infectious disease. In ordinary life among us that strong love
makes the mother think. Her love for the child induces her
to study hygiene, all about food and things of that sort. So
love leads to both mental and physical "activity.
A man must have this love, which is an intense desire for
service, if he would reach the Master. S. John said: "We
know that we have passed from death unto life because we
love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in
death'', 1
and: '.'He that Ioveth not knoweth not God." 2
1
I John, 3, 14.
!I Hid., 4, 8.
268 TALKS ON THE PATH 'OF OCCULTISM
All .that is perfectly true. It is a very good thing to know
the technical terms of Theosophy, and to understand its
philosophy and science, and to be able to distinguish and
employ the two thousand four hundred and one types of
elemental essence is very useful for practical purposes-but love
rnakes the true Theosophist.
I remember well, long ago, when Babu Mohini Mohun
Chatterji, who was a disciple, came to London to instruct us,
he told us for the first time about these qualifications, which
were not expounded in Mr. Sinnett's books, or in Isis Unveiled,
which were almost the only books we had. He told us quite
plainly that without this fourth qualification, this intense desire
for liberation (that is the way he put it), for union with God,
the six points of good conduct "watered but the desert ";they
would be really arid and all but valueless to us unless we bad
this intense desire to be one with God and to do as He does.
·We did not then realize that it meant service so fully as we do
now, though the Masters had emphasized from the beginning
Their Jove for " the teeming millions of humanity, the lowly and
the despised". We were mainly occupied in trying to learn
Theosophy. All was so new, so interesting, so exciting, that
our time was mainly given to that-much more, perhaps, than it
ought to have been, were it not that one must learn something
before one can be of real service to others.
It is not so much desire as will, resolve, determina-
tion.
C.W.L.-Will is pre-eminently the quality of the first ray,
on which the Master Morya stands. The Master Kiithiimi is on
the second ray, that of wisdom and Jove ; but here he spoke as a
first ray man would do. I remember one occasion on which
Alcyone mentioned his desire to attain a certain quality. The
Master said : " Do not desire a thing ; desire is feeble. Will,
because you are God. If you want to acquire a quality, will to
do so, and go and do it." That emphatically is the standpoint
of the Hierarchy. It is very important indeed for us to under-
stand the Master's attitude and way of looking at things,
which have brought Him where He is now, and can do the
same for us.
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA 26.9
To produce its result, ~his resolve must fill your
whole nature, so as to leave no room for any other feeling.
It is indeed the will to be one with God, not in order
that you may escape from weariness and suffering, but in
order that because of your deep love for Him you may
act with Him and as He does. Because He is Love,
you, if you would become one with Him, must be filled
with perfect unselfishness and love also.
C.W.L.-The pupil of the Master has only one desire and
that is to serve. For this, he is willing to give up all personal
.pleasure and ambition, and remain but a small wheel in the great
machine. The ordinary ·man has not yet begun to think very
.seriously of anything higher. He takes life very much as he
finds it, and his desire is not to get out of this kind of life into
something higher and nobler, but rather to succeed in it. If
you suggested that he .should give up all that we call the lower
self, he would ask: " But what wiJI be left of me if I do that ? "
1t is true that there would in such a case not be very much left,
as far as he could see, although the whole of the reality would,
in truth, remain.
It is difficult to explain to such a man what we mean by
"' becoming merged into the Divine Life ". I knew a very good
and clever man, who was making a considerable study of
Northern Buddhism. He came to me one day and said:" I
can't make anything out of this; it does not seem to me worth
following up. It is quite interesting as a study in archreology,
but the only object they put before you seems to be to become
one with the Buddha. I can't see that that would be of any
value to Buddha, and it would certainly be the end of me."
That is the point of view the average man takes of these things.
Yet there is a real, glowing, burning meaning to it a1l; if one
can get hold of that it will revolutionize his whole conception.
This widening of the consciousness does not take away
any freedom, nor destroy individuality in the least degree.
It is not that I am absorbed in the universe, but the universe
becomes I. People say," That Self am I." That is a delusion
as applied to the lower self, but when one realizes " I am God",
then the sense that God is God is not an iJlusion at all, .and the
270 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
sense that what I thought was I is in reality an expression of
Him is not an illusion. It is the idea that anything can exist
outside That or can be separated from the one self that is illusion.
In every-day life there are some things that will serve as
an example of this inclusion of the smaller in the greater. You
have a great mercantile house, and some young man joins it as
a junior clerk. At first he regards the house as a task-master,
and it is a great trouble to him to have to come at regular
hours and do all his work. But after he has been there for
some years and has been raised to a more responsible position,
he begins to say, ''We do this,'' and'' We do that/' and then
he is beginning to identify his interest with that of the house.
So he goes on, until he becomes a manager, and at last a
partner. Then he speaks always for the house ; and when he
considers any of the business. it is" the firm" he has always in
his mind. He is just as free and as capable of taking the
initiative along any line as ever, yet he is now certain to use his
will along the right lines. The firm has not coerced him into
that attitude, but he has grown into it. That is only a small
illustration, but it gives an idea of the way in which a man may
identify himself with a greater power, yet his will may be as
much his own as ever.
There will come a time when we shall have become the Path
itself, when we shall never fail in any of the qualifications
because they will have grown into us and become part of our
very nature. We are close to the living God all the time,
because He is in us and about us and with us always, yet it is
for us to learn to realize that, to raise our consciousness step by
step, employing all the means that come in our way, until we
can really grasp that idea. We are to become one with God in
His highest manifestations, in the internal manifestations, not
in the merely material form. The very matter in our bodies,
and around us also, is His outer garment-but it is not
the garment, it is He with whom we wish to become one.
When we become one with Him, He on His side recognizes
that and uses us as living channels through which His force can
be outpoured. We are channels for the divine force on these
lower planes, but we are effective channels only when we have
reached the point where we have no separate personality in
opposition to Him. He works through such means always, and
His ministers, the great occult Hierarchy, do likewise. No
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA
doubt They could work miracles by direct action on people, but
it would unnecessarily use up a great amount of Their force, so
They work through the means which They have arranged.
There is a large class of people who never try to under-
-stand the principles of life. They think that nature must bow
to them, and they will not accept things in the way that is
·ordained. They are, in their way, like those investigators at
spiritualistic seances, who want to prescribe the conditions
under which manifestations should take place. It is a very
.absurd attitude of mind, because there is no line of investiga-
tion in the world in which you can prescribe what the laws of
.nature shall do. One has heard of savages to whom electrical
phenomena were shown, who declared that they were due to
trickery. The savage chief would say,'' I see all this is connect·
.ed by wires; you are doing it with those wires. Cut them
away and then I shall believe you." The electrician smiles
.and says in reply: "You do not understand the law. The
wires conduct the electricity ; without them the force could not
·COme through." Then the man says: " I have exposed your
trickery." People do the same thing at spiritualistic seances.
They will not take the way ordained, but want to strike out
another way. There is a certain amount of individuality about
the idea of compelling God to do things in one's own way which,
I suppose, recommends itself to some types of minds, but it does
not appeal to mine any more than the idea of telling God in
prayer what to do. I always feel profoundly that He knows
infinitely better than I do, and if by any utterly inexplicable
chance He should change His intention on account of my
asking Him, I know I should be infinitely worse off under that
scheme than I should have been under His.
The idea that one should will to be one with God may not
have occurred to many of us, but it is very familiar to
our brothers in India. The Master uses that sort of phrase
several times in this book when He speaks of God. In an
.earlier life He was a prominent Buddhist teacher named
Nagarjuna, and in that incarnation He made many great
speeches and wrote much. In His books which have been
preserved, He is very strongly opposed to any idea of person-
ality in the Deity. He objects even to the use of that word or
that name, and goes deeply into metaphysical qulistions connect-
·ed with it. Indians, knowing all that philosophy of Nagarjuna,
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
have often said, "How curious it is that, in this little book,
our Master, who has spoken so strongly against personality in
the Deity, should now use that word God. The Lord Buddha
also spoke very strongly against anything like personality in the
Deity." The answer to that objection is this: In this book the
Master is not going into the question of the Absolute; He is not
~peaking of That-the Supreme, the Eternal; He is speaking
primarily to an Indian boy, about Ishwa1'a-that is, the solar
Logos, the solar Deity-and it is in that sense undoubtedly
that our Master uses the word God here. As Nagarjuna he was
speaking to students many of whom knew the systems of Indian
philosophy, and so he spoke strongly against any endeavour
to degrade the conception of the Deity by making it personal in
the way in which many of our Christian brothers now do.
Then He says that you must make yourself like Him.
This brings up the question: what do we know of Him? We
know that he manifests Himself through three Aspects.
Some approach Him through one of these Aspects and
some through another. Our way is the way of active
love, because that is the way of our Masters. There are
seven great rays of the divine life, and therefore seven types of
inen. One is the line of devotion, another that of will, another
that of wisdom. Men seek God in various ways, but as our
Masters are on the line of active love, all who wish to follow
Them must use the powers of his own special type in active
service for love of God and man. Take, for example, the case
of devotion, of which there may be three types or kinds. One
person casts himself down before the object of his adoration
and just longs to become one with it. I suppose this type is
found in our Western races only among some few monks
and nuns, whose desire is simply to spend themselves in
perpetual adoration of the Deity. That is a splendid
thing, but for the moment, at any rate, the man is not
thinking of others, but only of becoming one with the Deity. If
you ask him about others he will say: "Let them do what I
am doing." I knew a man in India whose one idea was just
precisely that-to sit in adoration before the image of his Deity,
a_
nd try to become one with Him. That is the goal be set
before himself, and it is the future he will gain. He will spend
the whole of his heaven-life, probably a very long one-thousands
0f years-in a sort of swoon of adoration. Such pure
LIBERATION, NIRVANA AND MOKSHA 273
-devotion means the development of his various vehicles, and
·certain advance for himself.
A second kind of devotion scarcely deserves th~ name-
that lower devotion which demands a quid P1'o quo of the
Deity, and says: '' If you repay me so much in the way of
'ifiches and promotion and general.assistance, I wiJl give you so
much devotion."
A third devotee will say:" I Jove that Great One, or that
Teacher so much that because of that I must be doing some-
thing to help others to know Him and understand Him as I do.
I must do good works in His name." This is a very noble and
practical kind o"f devotion. Those of us who are on the
·devotional ray will not be purely devotional, but will have this
variant of activity which will make us want to do something on
.account of our devotion. So also if any of us be on the line
"that wishes ahove all things to know, we shall also have the
same characteristic in our nature. There are those who desire
to become wise merely in order to know and understand. That
is a very wonderful quality in a man, and there are many who
make great progress in that way. But those among ~bern who
.are servers will find in themselves the complex resultant: " I
want knowledge, but I want it only that I can be really useful
to others." Such a person would see very clearly the mistakes
made by other people who, though they desire with all their
hearts to serve, yet, because of foolishness, do more harm than
~ood. " Let me have perfect knowledge, then I shall be able
to serve really well," such a man would say.
We wish to become one with God, not merely. that we may
be one with Him, and may bask in all that glory and joy, but
:that we may act as He does, and as His great .action was to
pour Himself out in utmost self-sacrifice into matter, in order
that we might come into being, therefore he who will~ be one
with God must himsei£ show forth the same spirit of
utter forgetfulness of hims~lf for the sake of the work which is
to be done for the God who is al1 Love. That one sentence:
·" You, if you would become one with Him, must be filled with
perfect unselfishness and love also," really epitomizes the whole
Path. Will, wisdom, love-each one of these carried to per-
fection and employed in service brings in all the others, so it is
\l'eally true that" love is the fulfilling of the law." 1
1 Romans, 13, 10.
35
CHAPTER XXV
LOVE IN DAILY LIFE
In daily life this means two things ; first, that you
shall be careful to do no hurt to any living thing ; second,
that you shall always be watching for an opportunity
to help.
C.W.L.-Those are two sides of the same thing-the pa5sive
that you shall do no hurt, and the active that you shall do good.
People sometimes say that the Oriental religions are negative,
that the idea of service which we import into them is in reality
a Christian idea. That is not so. Though the modern
Christian bas relegated it to a back .seat, it is true that in
original Christianity service was expressed and emphasized'
very strongly. ''But he that is greatest among you shall be
your servant." l The same idea appears in the _
old religions
also.
In Buddhism-which bas always been spoken of as the
most negative of religions-it certainly does give you directions
as to the things you must a void. But its five precepts are not
more negative than the Jewish ten commandments. The
Buddhist religion does not say " Thou shalt not " , though it
asks its people to promise to avoid certain things. The wording
is: " I observe the precept to refrain from taking life, to
refrain from taking that which does not belong to me, to
refrain from saying that which is not true, to refrain from
taking intoxicating drinks or stupefying drugs, to refrain from
1 S. Matthew, 23, 11.
274
LOVE IN DAILY LIFE 275
-unlawful sexual intercourse." That is the form; it · is·not a
-command but a promise.
In the summary of the religion in one sutta or verse, given
'by the Buddha Himself, we see its positive aspect:
" Cease to do evil ;
Learn to do well ;
· Cleanse vour own heart:
That is t-he religion of the Buddha." ·
The same thing comes out clearly in the Noble Eightfold
Path, in which you have: " Right views, right aims, right
words, right behaviour, right mode of livelihood, right exer-
tion, r-
ight mindfulness and right meditation." Most of this is
very positive -indeed. ·
In the Bhagavad-Gitli, with is practically the gospel for
·millions of Hindus, you find taught the most positive activity.
.·There God is described as the great Actor, and it is said that
be who will not follow His example, and work for the welfare
·<>f the world, lives in vain. Inaction, it says, may be really an
action in a deadly sin. It warns people, as Madame Blavatsky
used frequently to do, that sins of omission are as much to be
feared as sins of commission. And as to the sannyasi, the man
who has renounced the material life, it says that he must con-
stantly perform acts of charity, sacrifice and austerity. The
great historical Scriptures of the Hindus are full of accounts of
men who devoted themselves to the public weal, and teachers.,
many of them considered to be divine incarnations, who taught
·the service of our fellow-man.
Nowhere could public service be more emphasized than it
has been in those religions, yet they have always had their
-contemplative sides~ as had Christianity all through the middle
ages. It is only in recent years that, in the intensity of our
activity in the fifth sub-race of the fifth root race, we have
become secretly inclined to despise the monk and the nun and to
magnify the man of action, the great commander in war, the
_
.great ruler or statesman in peace. The whole idea of the con-
·templative orders is, however, a very beautiful o_
ne. The plan
-was that the active orders of the monk and the friar would preach
-.to the people and perform acts of charity, while the contem-
;plative orders would shut themselves up and devote themselves
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
wholly. to :meditation and supplication. Translating it into-
other terms, that would mean the formulation of good and· high
thought, and the sending of it out with a definite view to the-
helping of people. It was their business to make a speciality
of prayer and meditation and to do it for their brethren who~
for various reasons, were unable to do it so well and SO·
thoroughly for themselves. The theory in every religion
was that they were a part of humanity supplying a need of
humanity; they were not merely Jazy monks retiring from
active work. They were doing very much harder work, which
the others could not do, in connection with higher planes,
and doing it generally under circumstances of self-abnegation
and asceticism whi9h would appal the ordinary man.
That the life of the monk, however, when it was not so-
definitely ascetic, attracted many .who wanted a comfortable,
lazy existence, is also true. Such people escaped physical work,
but did not substitute for it the work of the higher plane!;.
Among the Buddhist monks there are some of this kind, who
are looked down upon and called " rice monks "-men who are·
monks for the sake of the assured living, which, though it is-
not a very luxurious one, will never fail while anyone in the
country has any food at all. The same was true, perhaps to a,
·somewhat greater degree, of the monastic orders of the middle-
ages in Europe. There were people who joined them for
the sake of power and influence and did not mind, in many
cases, the Jack of possessions. Thqugh the individual monk
had no possessions, the monastery as a· body did acqui.re a very
great deal, which was at the disposal of the individual to a
large extent. ·
First, te do no hurt. Three sins there are which
work more harm than all else in the world-gossip,
cruelty, and superstition-because th~y are sins against
love.
C.W.L.-When one hears of sins which work more harm
than ali others one is apt to think of murder and robbery and
such crimes, and perhaps is surprised to find such comparatively
ordinary things as gossip, cruelty and superstition at the head
of the Jist. The Master is taking into account the quantity of
LOVE IN DAILY LIFE 277
these sins, and their far-reaching effect. Murder and robbery
are universally recognized as serious sins, and consequently
respectable people avoid them, unless you dignify them by
the name of war. But gossip is universal; and if one thinks
of the harm it does in any individual case, of the great
amount of mental suffering which it may cause, of the
depreciation of ideals which it often brings about, then
multiplies that by the millions of cases which are going
on all the time, one will very soon see that it does vastly
more harm than the other. It is a terrible thing to destroy a
persoQ's .ideal, to cheapen it and lower it, and make him feet
that after all it is not so good or high or noble as he had'
thought. Sometimes there is talk of the destruction of idols as.
a good thing. The destruction of a person's idol may be the·
most serious injury one can do him. If he idealizes something
which to us is low and mean, we may, perhaps, be able to lead'
him to some higher ideal, but it is a most evil and wicked thing·
to take away his ideal without leaving him something higher
and better to take its place. It is not for us to point out the·
flaws or to try to belittle anyone under any circumstances.
Many of us know, probably by persona] experience, what
a wonderful amount of good Dr. Besant has done. Tens of
thousands have seen the light through her lectures and writings,
but still the gossip that has been circulated about her has
prevented thousands·of others.from listening to her and reading
her books. They say: " I have heard so-and-so about Mrs~
Besant. Why should I read a book by a person of that
sort ? " There have been many in that way turned aside from·
what would have meant their salvation in this particular
incarnation. Thousands of people also write to her and ask
her advice about all sorts of difficulties in which they findl
themselves involved. Many people have been prevented from
applying for such advice by the evil and utterly false reports.
that have been circulated about her.
I think I know no one who has been more frequently and
more fou11y attacked than our great President. Long before
she became a Theosophist she was before the public as a teacher
of free-thought. She was assailed and vilified first of all
because she republished what is called the Knowlton pamphlet,
dealing with sex problems which ought to be faced and studied,
and not ·prudishly .hidden. This pamphlet had been written
~18 TALKS ON THE PATH ·oF OCCULTISM
tong before she was born, but its publication had been dis-
-continued on account of a threat of prosecution. Our President
took the matter up partly because she believed that the question
should be ventilated and that the poor should be put in possession
of the information which the pamphlet gave, but still more, I
think, as a matter of protest against the sup~ression o{ facts
and in vindication of free speech and free publication in regard
-to everything that concerned the public health and public good
generally. · Her reissue of the pamphlet was fully intended as a
challenge to what she considered a bad law; she announced
beforehand to the police her intention of selling this work and
invited them to ·come at a certain hour and officially buy a copy.
They accepted the invitation, came and formally purchased the
incriminating document and then proceeded to prosecute her,
but· the case ended in a nolle p1'osequi. Then she wrote a more
carefully worded pamphlet on the subject. Her reward for
that-at any rate on the physical plane-was to have her
personal character attacked in the most abominable manner.
Later she·withdrew the pamphlet, having come to the conclusion
that it did not present the best way of dealing with this social
difficulty; but I am sure she has never regretted that she did
her best to deal with the facts as she then understood them.
Such unselfishness and courage are rare in this world.
A great deal of gossip was also started by jealous people
against Madame Blavatsky. Wild and mad accusations were
brought against her; these appeared ·instantly and obviously
cidiculous to all of us who knew her personally, yet many
people have been deterred by them from a careful examination
of Theosophical truths. She died in r89I, yet to this day it
is quite a common experience, if you mention the Theosophi-
cal Society, to be met by the remark: "Oh: yes, that was
founded by Madame Blavatsky, who was exposed as a charlatan.
We do n'ot want to spend our time and energy considering the
teaching of a fraud. It is.not likely to contain the truth." In
this way many have missed the Theosophical knowledge that
might have changed their lives.
From these instances alone we see that immeasurable harm
may be done by spiteful and foolish gossip. This form of selfish-
ness also very much hurts the feelings of the person at whom
it is aimed. That the person can be hurt shows a weakness in
his character, but that does not excuse the gossip, or reliev·e him
LOVE IN DAILY LIFE ·
from the evil karma which he bas made. ou·r President is quite
impervious to gossip about her, though if she is abused for morer
than the usual time along one partic.ul~r .line she does sometimes
say:· "This is getting very monotonous;·I wish they would find
something else to discuss." I also have been rimch abused, but
it has pever cost me a night's sleep. Thus ka~ma falls back
from us. But the harm done to others by. the gossip ·brings its
karma to those who started it and passed it on. It is more
difficult not to care what is said about somebody else, and I
confess I still find it bard not to be angry when some one speaks
ill of O'Qr President, for example, or when unworthy thoughts,
which to us who know Them are nothing less than blasphemous,
are directed to the Masters.
Gossip is not real criticism. Unfortunately the very word
criticism has come to mean picking holes. It is derived from
the Greek krinein, to judge, and should mean a judicial attitude,
but now it does not. Justice is one of the manifestations of
God ; therefore to judge a man's words or actions without their
context is wrong and leads to evil. I suppose there is not a
scripture in the world, no matter how holy and beautiful, which
could not be made ridiculous by taking soine words away from
their context and putting them by themselves. We are always
doing that with the thoughts of other people. We find a man
to be irritable: he speaks sharply, perhaps roughly, and we at
once assume that this indicates his character. But we do not
know the reason for his irritability. Possibly he has been
sitting up all night with a sick child ; somebody else may
have jarred him or annoyed him intensely in some way and
we get the reflex action of that, although he is not really
annoyed with us. If he were a great Adept he would not
be annoyed, but we are not all great Adepts yet, ·and so
these things happen.
I first learnt this as a small child, from an old coachman.
I was near him one day when a man approached and spoke to
him very roughly. The old coachman answered without seem-
ing to pay any attention to the gruff tone of the other. After
the man had ·gone,I said, ''Why, John, what have you done to
make that man so angry with you?" " Oh, nothing, sir; he's
not angry with me," the old servant replied. ".I haven't
annoyed him ; but probably his wife or somebody else
has.-" And 'be explained to me that when once a .man got
:z8o TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
thoroughly upset ·he was likely to vent his feelings on aeyone
who came in his way.
The grip of unki~d judgment on a man's mind and. the
ten~city and virulence of its poison would be unbelievable, did
we not have thrust upon us constant .evidence of it. A man
gets a wrong idea, and his whole outlook is coloured by it. We
have seen that even in regard to this boo_
k. When I first heard
this teaching about gossip given to Alcyone, long before the
book was published, I was much impressed by its importance,
so I repeated it on several occasions. When the book was
issued some people immediately pounced upon the fact that
these statements had been made months before it was published,
and said that therefore part of it must have been my work.
I have mentioned that there were two periods in the
-development of Alcyone's memory of astral plane experiences ;
one during which he could not remember perfectly, when I
would repeat to him the special precept given to him Qy the
Master as applying to the next day; the other, in which he
could bring through the memory. I found that in Bombay
the story was being circulated that the whole book had been
repeated to him . by me in that way. But, as a matter of fact,
the book was written in the second period, when he was able to
remember .what the Maste~; bad said to him, .and he wrote it
down by himself. ,.Nhen people get a little twist like that they
distort everything. I have suffered from all sorts of injustice
and misconception in consequence of such distortion of facts.
I do not mind in the least, but it shows me very clearly how
easy it is for people to misunderstand when they start ·with a
wrong idea. I have seen the most ludicrous mistakes made, in
which every event. that occurred was made to bolster up some
idea for which there was no foundation in fact, but which was
simply imagination from beginning to end.
One of the experiments we have to make in the course of
our occult training is to identify ourselves with the consciousness
of certain animals. It is merely a question of practice; a pupil
is set to do that in order that he may be able to learn later
bow .to do the same thing with other and higher forms of
consciousness. We consider ourselves far superior to any
kind of animal, and rightly, since we belong to a higher
kingdom. It should therefore be perfectly simple for us
LOVE IN DAILY LIFE
to understand the mind of that animal, yet from the
experience I have had I imagine almost everybody who pays any
attention to animals must be misrepresenting their ideas and
motives all the time. When you really find out what an animal
is thinking, you discover that it has reasons for what it does
which never occurred to you. Since we are unable to under-
stand the animal, whose lines of thought are few and simple,
we are even less likely to understand our fellow-men. We are
nearer to the human being, of course, but I doubt whether any
human being ever understands another human being at all.
Strange as it may sound, we are all isolated; each stands by
himself. There is another way in which it is true that we are a
mighty brotherhood, yet as far as our minds are concerne~,
each lives in a tower of his own. The circumference of h1s
mind touches that of another man's only at a point, and even
there only doubtfully and uncertainly.
Against these three the man who would fill his heart .
with the love of God must watch ceaselessly.
C.W.L.-One would thipk it fairli easy to avoid Ure three
evils mentioned. It is not, because they are so 'painfully common
and so much a matter of habit that few people realize their
existence. They are our special difficulties because of the
place where ~e stan? in evolution. We haye been developing:
the lower mmd which looks first for pomts of difference·
.
Because of that people notice first the points which they do not
like in anything which comes before them ; then comment and
critic~sm almo.st ~nvariably follow. ~he f!1an who is.devoting his
energies to pickmg holes and findmg differences 1s behind the
times-~ hopeless.anachronism. ':\'~ought now t? be studying
synthesis and trymg to fi~d t.he divme and good m everything,
because we should be begmnmg to develop buddhi. We are
trying to live for to-morrow, not for yesterday; therefore we
must not let ourselves be swept away by this tide of ignorant
obscurantism; but we have constantly to remind ourselves no.t
to give way, otherwise the stream will so surround and press
upon us that we shall occasionally slip back.
36
CHAPTER XXVI
GOSSIP
.
See what gossip does. It begins with evil thought.
and that in itself is a crime. For in everyone and in
everything there is good ; in everyone and in everything
there is evil. Either of these w.e can strengthen
by thinking of it, and in this way we can help or
hinder evolution ; we can do the will of the Logos or
we can resist Him. If you think of the evil in another.
you are doing at the same time three wicked things.
C.W.L.-The Master speaks of evil ·thought as a crime.
When we remember how exceedingly careful and balanced ·is
the speech of the Master always, we realize that that against
which He speaks so strongly must be evil indeed.
An attempt to understand the motives of an0ther man, to
follow his line of reasoning, is·very ·likely to be incarrect ; there..
fore the least we can do is to give hjm the benefit of the..doubt.
Most people are on the whole quite respectable and well-meaning,
therefore we should give them the credit oi good intentions.
If we are wrong, our slightly higher thought about the person
will act upon him and actually do him good. When you hear
something to the disadvantage of another, ask yourself whether
you would repeat that piece of gossip and send it on to be
magnified if it were about your own son or brother ? No,
emphatically you would not. You would combat it in the first
place, and in any case you would not circulate it. Why should
282
GOSSIP 2·
83
you act different1y with . regard to somebody e1se's son or
brother?
(1) You are filling your neighbourhood with evil
thought instead of with good thought, and so you are
adding to the sorrow of the world.
C.W.L.-The world is very much to us what we make it
and as we take it. If a man is pessimistic, bent upon finding
evil and darkness, ]ooking for a chan{;e to be offended or hurt,
he can find it. There is evi1 in the world and much sorrow
in these lower p1anes, as the Lord Buddha pointed out. We
can magnify these things into serious difficulties, or we can
approach the world optimistically, i~ a cheery spirit ~f deter-
mination to make the best of everything. In the latter case
we shall find. that ~here is a great dea.l that is btight, and
shall also be making· the world more ·cheerful for others by
our outer life and our thought-power. ,·
' .) ' ~ '
Tpere are many people who hav~· been practising regular
medit~tion· for many y~ars. They must.inevitably have learnt
to th~nk, a litt]e more definitely than those wh<;> bave made nG>
such ·attempt ; their thoughts are therefore more powerful.
If these people should think ev.il of othe.ts; it is ver;y much
.wor:~~ in a grea.~ number of way? than·if the ordinary person
did it. First, because they know better, they are, as it is
expressed in the Church, "sinning against li~ht, ". Secondly,
the·ir thought produces definite arrd.'relafiV.el'y permanent forms,
which often have co'nsiderable influence in the astral and mental
atmosphere. Use Y<?Ur po~er, iher.efore·, to make the wo~ld
brighter and happier. You have no idea how much that can
be done, simply by putting away a:n sorrowful and selfish
thought, and filling yourself with 1ove that will radiate all
around you. ·
(2) If there is in that man the evil which you think
you are strengthening it and feeding it: and so you are
mak.ing your brother worse ·instead of better. But
generally the evil is not there, and you ·have only
fancied, it ; and then your wicked thought tempts your
284 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
brother to do wrong, for if he is not yet perfect you may
make him that which you have thought him.
C.W.L.-The clairvoyant can see the thoughts of one
person going to another and buzzing round him like a crowd of
mosquitos. They cannot get in while the man is busy with some
other matter, but when -his thoughts for the moment slacken,
when he is meditative or tired, or absent-minded for a moment,
they take their opportunity. The thought-form then fastens on
his aura like a burr, and by its vibrations gradually colours the
part on which it has impinged, and from there its influence
spreads. Thus it suggests the bad or good idea, and if there
be something in him that is akin to it, as is usually the case,
it sets that in motion.
A little impetus given to another might not matter so
much sometimes, but in some cases it makes all the difference
in the world. School boys running about often push one
another; cases have been known in which a boy has quite
unintentionally pushed another over the edge of a precipice. You
never know when a man's thought may be on the verge of some
wrong course of action, and one evil thought about him may just
push him over. On the other hand, when a man is in that way
-balanced between the good and the evil, one strong, helpful good
thought may push him definitely on the good side and set him
going on a career which may mean for him rapid development.
I have seen cases in which an evil thought about a man
1ed to a course of evil action on his part the result of which
would last for many 'Jives; it was near the surface, but it had not
materialized itself in action; there came an evil thought from
some one else, which gave just the push which sent him o.ver
from thought into actton, and committed him to a course of
crime. Till you see that clairvoyantly you will scarcely be
able to realize it; but see it o'nce, and you will be careful
forever, with a care born of horror. It gives you a new sense
of responsibility, sometimes rather overwhelming. Remember
how the poet Schiller wrote about clairvoyance, how he desired
the welcome blindness of the senses again ; " Take ·back your
cruel gift; take back t~is dreadful gift," was what he said.
(3) You fill your own mind with evil thoughts
instead of good ; and so you hinder your own growth, and
GOSSIP
make yourself. for those who can see, an ugly and painful
object instead of a beautiful and lovable one.
C.W.L.-Many people take much trouble about their physi-
cal personal appearance, and the grace and gentleness of their
manners, not merely because they are anxious to appear at
their best an.d to be thought well of, but also because it is
recognized to be a duty to society in general. In ancient days
it was understood to be every man's duty to make himself as
perfect and as beautiful as possible in every way; in attire,
appearance, speech and action, he was to learn the right, the
graceful, the proper way to do everything. Not only one's
personality but one's surroundings also were to be not merely
useful but also beautiful. If a man built a house it was his
duty to his neighbours to .put up something that would be
graceful and beautiful, though not necessarily costly; and. his
pottery, as well as his statues and pictures, was to be good.
In these days many think only of building as cheaply as they
can, regardless of the hideous effect produced. A man builds a
great ugly house or factory, and everybody who is sensitive
shrinks back from it at once, and all who look at it are the
worse for doing so. The man who is responsible for the building
actua1ly makes bad karma. Some think such things do not
matter, but they do. Our surroundings are of very great
importance. True, the strong soul can conquer, but why should
we not have things which would help IJS instead of those which
hinder us? Everybody who builds a beautiful house deserves
well of his fellow-citizens, because he has put up something the
sight of which will benefit everyone who sees it. The touch of
pleasure that you get when you see something beautiful is no
light thing. I always feel that our gratitude is due to anybody
who wears a beautiful colour, because of the effect that colour
produces in this terribly grey civilization of ours.
All that is true of beauty physically is even more evident
on other planes. The man who makes for hi,nself a radiant and
beautiful astral body, full of love and devotion, which he pours
out on all around him, deserves the gratitude of his fellows. The
audience on the astral plane is generally larger than that on the
physical. If we allow ourselves to appear badly in the astral
world, a far greater number of people are scandalized by our
appearance or annoyed by it, than could possibly be the case
286 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
on the physical plane. Not only do the inhabitants of the
astral world see the beauty of it, but everyone, even those who
do not see, feels it. These vibrations act upon them, and the
people are helped thereby. The man who yields himself to
ugly, selfish, evil thoughts is spreading unpleasantness about
him, besides being a horribly disagreeable and unpleasant sight.
In the physical plane people hide their loathsome diseases, but
the astral leper carries his sores in full view.
Not content with having done a11 this harm to
himself and to his victim, the gossip tries with all his
might to make other men partners in his crime. Eagerly
he tells his wicked tale to them, hoping that they will
believe it; and then they joi_
n with him in pouring evil
thought upon the poor sufferer. And this goes on .day
after day. and is done not by one man but·by thousa.nds.
Do you begin to see how base, how terrible a sin this is?
Y~u must avoid it altogether. Never speak ill of any one;
refuse to listen when any ~ne else speaks ill of another,
but gently say: "Perhaps this is not true, and even if it
is, it is kind~r not to speak of it."
C.W.L.-It requires a certain amount of courage to say
this, but it should be done, in kindness to the gossip, as well as
to the person who is being criticized. One may do it gently by
using the first person plural : " Perhaps we had better not say
any more about ·it.'' ·Then yotl have not appeared to assume
superiority, which is both unoccu)t and irritating, and probably
the man will agree with you, and let the mattet drop.
CHAPTER XXVII
CRUELTY
Then as to cruelty. This is of two kinds, intentional
and unintentional. Intentional cruelty is purposely to give
pain to another living being ; and that is the greatest of
all sins-the work of a devil rather than a man. You
wpuld say t_
hat. no man could do such a thing ; but men
have done it often, and are daily doing it now. The
inquisitors did it : many religious people did it in the name
of their relig-
ion.
C.W.L.-Cruelty is the work of a devil rather than a man;
that is how it lo0ks to a Master. Very often ,
in daily Iif.e a man
does or says som.ething in or.der to cause pain to somebody el~e.
He co.mes aoder that .cond~mnation ; he is doing a thing
which is worthy of a d~vil rather than a man. It seems
incredible, but people can be found who do it.
Horrible things have been done in the name of religion.
Read the oldest literature we know, the Vedas, and we find
evidence of them cropping out very strongly there. We find
the Aryans pouring down into the plains of India and
proceeding to put to the sword the people who were there.
Nothing is too dreadful to be done to these people ; they must
he wiped off the face of the earth! Why ? For one all-sufficient
reason: because ·their rites are different! The Muhammadans
swept over a large part of the world offering their Koran or the
sword to the people they conquered. Christians have been nG
287
288 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
better. The same spirit Jed to the persecutions by the Inquisitors,
the atrocious treatment of the South American Indians, and all the
rest of such things. We think we are becoming more civilized
now, yet even to-day religious feeling is very strong and bitter in
some quarters. It is the fashion to say that even if the law
permitted such pers~~utions as used to take place, our higher
civilization would prevent us from ever resorting to the horrors of
the past. I am not so sure of it. I know places in England where
a person of unorthodox religious views is regarded as to be
excluded from social functions, and to be suspected of all sorts
of bad things. We do not put people on the rack, and wrench
out their teeth, as our forefathers did. Autres temps, autres
moeurs ! I do not think I should like to see absolute power 4
given into the hands of any of the dogmatic sects.
Vivisectors do it.
C.W.L.-There is no excuse for practising deliberate cruelty
to animals. They are our younger brothers, and though not yet
men, they will become so after a greater or lesser number of
incarnations. The practice of animal experimentation involving
cruelty is abhorrent, and can never really benefit mankind,
because the law of karma cannot be changed, and as man sows
so shall he also reap. I have heard Dr. Besant say that no
lives ought to be saved by such methods as that. We know
that the instinct of self-preservation is strongly implanted in
every man and every animal, so that the body which has been
acquired at the cost of considerable effort and trouble may give
service to the life within as long as possible, and that therefore
human life must be saved when it can rightly be done. But
that end cannot justify all possible means. We rightly admire
the men who face death rather than dishonour; surely it is
great dishonour to human beings to have their lives saved by
anything obtained in such a diabolical manner as this. Our
President said she would rather die than be saved in this way.
There is very varied opinion on this subject among members
of the Theosophical Society, in which everyone is free to have
his own beliefs, but the Master's opinion, as quoted above, is
definite. Whatever may be our abhorrence of the cruelty of
vivisection, however, we must make allowances for the fact that
many doctors and others who support and practise it do so
regretfully-not for the pleasure of cruelty (though the existence
CRUELTY. :z89
·of such things in our midst does give an opportunity for that
to some ghouls in human form), but because they think it
the only way to save human bodies from suffering and death,
and they sincerely believe that the end justifies the means in
this case. However much, therefore, we may disagree with
them, let us condemn the sin but not the sinner. There can be
no question but that karma will bring great suffering to those who
practise vivisection. Many who view them with indignation
approaching hatred would change their feeling to pity did they
rrealize this fact.
All vivisectionists are not cruel to the same degree. I
know, for example, a member of our own Society, who is one of
·the leading surgeons, who has performed vivisections of a
·certain kind. There are certain tubes in the human body
which sometimes become severed·
.· They are so fine that
when one tries to join the severed ends again the inevitable
·scar always blocks the tube. It was for a time impossible
to save people in this condition until it occurred to this
-doctor that if one made a larger incision it might be possible
·for the wound to heal and yet at the same time to keep
the tube open. He did this by making an incision in the tube
1
near the end of one piece and on the side of the other, and let
·them overlap and heal in that way. In order to see whether this
would work, he tried it upon a number of dogs. He told tne
that he tried this experiment on about half a dozen stray dogs.
'They were thoroughly well fed and brought into perfect health
before the operation, some anasthetic was then administered,
.and the dogs were nursed very carefully until they had recovered,
and it was found that the operation had been successful. The
·result was that this which before had been thought impossible
becam~ a recognized possibility. The operation is now a
·common one all over the world, and is known by the name of
rthe doctor who invented it. The principle was wrong, but there
was practically no cruelty to the animals concerned.
. and they
were much better off, instead of worse, for the time being.
This experiment was thus quite different from what usually
-occurs, and I think it would be entirely inappropriate to attack
this doctor in the way in which anti-vivisectionists constantly
·attack the mass of the vivisectors.
Some of the experiments that one reads about are atroci-
ously .cruel, such as that of seeing to what degree of temperature
37
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
an animal can be baked before certain functions disappear, and
dozens of other ghastly and obviously useless horrors. And
there are thousands of others performed needlessly for the generat
instruction of students, and to try all kinds of effects, many of
which are quite useless, because the human constitution differs
from those of different animals in a variety of ways. For
example, a goat, among its other miscellaneous food, will eat
freely of henbane, with no apparent injury; but if a humaD
being takes it he will pass on to the astral plane. Again, when.
an animal is in frightful pain and terror, that must change the
fluids of its body and render any observations with regard
to them of very uncertain value.
The proper substitute for all this cruelty is, of course~
clairvoyance. It is very far better for the doctor if he can see
into the interior economy of the living man while the body is
whole, than it is to deduce certain things about it by cutting
into the living body of an animal which differs from the man.
Those who feel that they must do vivisection had better form a
society in which they will agree to practise on one another ; in
that way they will have human subjects giving reactions likely
to be useful when thos·e of an animal are not, and they wiU
avoid horrible cruelty to defenceless creatures, which in God's
world they have no right to inflict. This is unnecessary, how-
eyer, for a tenth part of the trouble and study and research that
is p~t into these experiments would produce an army of reliable
clairvoyants; indeed, the .attention that is given by the average
student to his long traiDing·would generally be quite enough t<>
develop his clairvoyance. ; ·
There is serious danger of another form of cruelty rising
out of the great authority claimed by the orthodox medical
fraternity. We do not · want to become slaves to them, as
our forefathers were slaves to the Church. Though they
have done good in various ways, that gives no authority for
the establishment of scientific "inquisitions" with power
to penalize the heretic who does not wish to submit to their
creed of the moment. True, it would be only the civil
law that would punish, but that was also the case with the
Church-those who would not believe and submit it handed
over to the civil authorities, with the hypocritical prayer that
.there should be no shedding of blood, which prevented those in
power from cutting off their heads and made them burn their
CRUELTY 291.
victims instead. There ·has been trouble with the enforcement
of vaccination, and it is still compulsory in some countries;
though it is an arguable question as to whether the remedy is not
worse than the disease which it is professed to prevent. There
are very frequent changes in medical opinion, yet each fad is
frantically supported while it lasts. The interests of a com-
munity in power have often in history given rise to terrible
oppression and widespread misery. Let us have no scientific
'' inquisitions".
There are some people who try to excuse any cruelty·to
animals on the old Jewish theory that they exist only for the
sake of man. We know ·better than that. They exist for the
Logos; they are stages of evolution permeated by His life. It
is, however, justifiable for us to make use of animals, so long as
we promote their evolution. They benefit by being in contact
with man. It is true that we interfere with the wild horse
when we capture him, but in other ways, especially mentally,
ile gains much development.
Some even extend the old Jewish idea to children. There
.are parents who think that children exist for them-to be used
.as servants, to be a source of pride, to provide for their old age,
and so on. And that leads on to the inhuman notion that a.
·child should be forced to become what we think he ought to be,
regardless of the special intere,sts and aptitudes that are his
!because of his past lives. This leads to superfine cruelty.
Many schoolmasters do it habitually. All these
people try to excuse their brutality by saying that it is the
custom : but a crime does not cease to be a crime because
many commit it.
C.W.L.-The beating of children is a widely S(Xead custom,
but that is no excuse for it. It is. not, however, a universal
·custom ; I am happy to say that there are a few countries which
in that respect have attained civilization. I believe that Japan
·is one of them. I know from my own experience that Italy is
another. I lived for some considerable time in one of the Italian
-cities, in a house which overlooked the grounds of a large school,
and I watched with very great interest the relations between
rt:he masters and the boys. Because of their more excitable and
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
freer natures tbey did 'riot treat discipline as we do. The boySJ
would all be drawn up in line and at any moment one of them.
would suddenly leave the ranks and rush up to the masterJ ·
seize upon his arm and say something to him in quite an
impassioned way. The master would smile and pat his bead,
evidently granting his request or saying something about it.
They were all on the most friendly terms. I noticed, too, that
whenever those boys met their master in the street, they
immediately sprang upon him and pulled him about, and were
the very greatest of friends out of school hours also. That
was a very good sign, because the man whom children love is
always a good man at bottom-their instinct is infallible. In·
Italy anything like the cruelty that exists in most English
schools could not happen, because the customs are different.
To lay a hand upon a person is the one unforgivable sin in that
country~ ~t involves knives and duels and things of that sort..
So the children are perfectly safe.
Punishment has long been a custom, but that does not
prevent it from being. both cruel and futile. First of all, it is-
Qot .9Ut business to administer chastisement. The law of karma
will atteqd to all that, and it canpot make mistakes, as we often do.
Frigbtf.ul . legal injustice has been committed ag~in and again ;
the ,severest penalties have been imposed upon quite innocent
p~ople. The criminal has done more wrong to himself than to
anybady else, and vengeance may be left to the course of nature.
Apart from that, punishment is appli~d to inspire fear-in
the·offender for the future, and in the possible offender at large.
The idea of beating a child is the same as that of punishing a
criminal by law ; these things have in them the elements of revenge.
They seem to say: ''You do such-and-such a thing, and I will
make it very uncomfortable for you.'' Often a teacher gets.
angry, and his feelings are the cause of the punishments be
applies-not· any reasoned judgment as to what is best for the
cbild. I knbw it is said that punishment by law is intended to
.prevent people from committing crimes. But it does not act in
t'hat way. A hundred years ago the punishments of the English
law were very severe. For example, a person would be hanged
fbr stealing anything to the value of one shilling and sixpence.
I remember ~aving seen it recorded at the entrance to Newgate
prison-and in other places there is the same sort of thing-
that such-and-such a person was hanged for stealing a pair
CRUELTY . . :·
of gloves, valued at two or three shillings. When such severe
punishment was meted out, the proportion of crime was
mu~h greater than it is now. The amount of crime has little
to do with the punishments meted out; it is chiefly a questioa
of general education and civilization.
. Punishment by the law or by the school generaJly has no
relation to the crime committed. A man steals something; then
he i~ shut up in a prison for a certain time. What is the relation
between the two things? He might reasonably be made to do·
some work which should return the value of the article stolen,.
to the person from whom it was taken. The punishment should:
~t .t~e . crime in some way. Merely to shut a man up because he·
has stolen something is a kind of nightmare. So also among us
a chil~ does not learn a certain lesson and they beat him. What
is the connecti<;m between the two things? There would be some
reason in saying: " You have not learnt the lesson ; you will be
behind the others in your class, therefore you must stay and
learn it when otherwise you would be playing." There is no
sense in this kind of thing, and it is radically wrong. The idea.
of gitVing intentional pain is always wrong, and no amount of
c-
ustom can make it right. All sorts of eminently undesirable
and foolish fhings have been the custom-foot-binding in China,
for example, and some of our own fashions at different times.
We must not get the idea that because a thing is the custom,
even if it has been so fo·r hundreds of years, it must be a good
or: necessary thing, because very often it is not.
.A. community ·might reasonably say to some habitual
criminals, as they did to such people in ancient Peru : " We
are a civilized race. With great trouble .we have arranged
our State upon a certain scheme, and . it is intended for
p~ople who ~ill keep its laws. If you do not intend to
ke~p these laws, go out and live with some one else." There,
exile was the only punishment; and to be cast out among
the barbarian tribes was the greatest disgrace, as well as a
discomfort. Society has the right to restrain a dangerous
person. When you get a Malay running amuk you must stop
that man, even though it should be at the cost of having to take
his life. But except in emergencies, when it is unavoidable, we
have no right to kill; and no one ever has the right to torture
-T-that is absolutely certain. Capital punishment, if it is
revenge, means that we become as brutal as the criminal who
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
has aroused what we euphemistically call our righteous indig-
nation. If it has the purpose of saving us further trouble with
that man it is wrong in principle, since the State has a.duty to
every citizen, not only to those who are normal, and also it should
think of the real man, not merely of the body. To seek the
easiest way out of our difficulty by killing the man is thus
positively criminal ; and it does no good because much evil
passion is aroused, and the man will reincarnate in unpleasant
karmic relations with us in the future. The real criminal-
who is rare, because most offenders are products of unfortunate
environment-is really a pathological case. What he requires
is not torment and brutalization, which accentuate his anti-social
tendencies, but the right treatment and training tpat will bring
him physically and emotionally within the ranks of normal
citizenship. The State cares for the physically and mentally
defective; it must deal in the same way with the ~imina I, w ho
is generally either mentally or emotionally defective. T.his
wo·uJd be the attitude of love, the st~ndpoint of the Master.
These ideals are real, and quite clear and practical. Both
the criminal and the child must be helped by education, not
driven by fear. The system of terrifying children produces
exceedingly evil results. It introduces into their lives fear and
pain..and deceit, and is generally disastrous to character and
good citizenship. It is another form of the old Church idea of
hell; but the hell is to be here, and it can be escaped by one
with sufficient cunning. People thought they could make others
good by frightening them. It is odd how that idea still holds.
One of our principal living novelists wrote to me some time ago
and said that once at the seaside he met a young man and
gave him some Theosophical ideas, in the course of which he
explained to him that the hell theory was all nonsense. Later
on this youth's mother: full of anger, paid the novelist a visit.
She said : "That is the only way I have been able to keep
this boy in order-by the fear of hell, by threatening him with
it every day and all day long. Now that you have persuaded
him that there is no hell, what am I going to do ?" Perhaps if
she had known a little better, and had explained things to him
from the first there would have been no need to adopt this
very unpleasant form of terrorism.
Liberty and love are great factors in the development of
the human soul. There are many people who are quite willing
CRUELTY 295
to give liberty to others, if they will do exactly what they
prescribe J But true liberty means the freedom to try in one's
own ·way. In general there is far too much interference; too
much direction from the outside diminishes the very life-activity
that it seeks to protect or assist. This is seen in school life,
where quantities of unnecessary rules are made, when individual
freedom would give more opportunity for growth. That is one
of the great differences between the English scheme of govern-
ment and that of some of the other nations. England tries on
the whole to leave its people as free as possible. Some
countries try to a void trouble and danger and to assist the
people by all kinds of restraints. I remember an official of a
foreign state saying to me once: ''Well, sir, in a reaJly well-
rnanaged country everything would be forbidden ! " In traveiling
about the world I have been much struck by the different forms
in which the regulations are expressed. In one country you
will fine) a stern prohibition ; in ·another, a request. Some
obviously adopt the military plan, which is good only for very
young souls ; but others appeal to the good sense and goodwill
in a man. I remember, for example, reading one sign, forbid-
ding certain unpleasant practices, which ran: " Gentlemen wilJ
not, and others must not " do so-and-so. That was in America,
which is one of the newer countries. I thought it was rather
well put.
There are cases where you must assert compulsion in
the interests of the community; but it is always better when
possible to have the wills of the people with you than to
drive them along. I am afraid that is only very slightly
understood with regard to education. Everything is prescribed;
all the time . it is: " Do this; do not do that." Even in
teaching the child his interest is not usually engaged, but he is
told : "This is a Jesson and it must be learned."
. .
. In the newer methods, such as that of .Mme. Montessori,
the lesson is made interesting, so that the child mind opens
like a flower. There is only one way in which you can really
and usefully teach a child anything, and that is by making
him love you to begin with. You exercise a certain amount
of moral suasion aft~rwards, because you look injured and
pained if he does wrong. That is quite legitimate, because
you really do feel the pain. If you start ruling by love you
call out the love of the pupil, and get something done. To
TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
teach children one must have a clever mind, a heart full of
tove, and patience as wide as the sea; one must understand the
mistakes that children make, and be able to show them how
to do things properly, but in their own way. If you start
with force and brutality you call out nothing but hostility, and
then you do not get anything worth while done.
It is the same in ordinary life. If one business man
wants to deal profitably with another, he speaks pleasantly to
him, and tries to convince him that the business he proposes
will be to their mutual advantage. It would not occur to him
to start out by trying to drive the other man; it would only
antagonize him and make anything like friendly relations
between them . impossible. Boys and girls are human beings,
too, and you can get more out of them if you have them on
your side than if you set them against you to start with. These
are matters of experience to those who try to teach. No
teacher, however skilful, however learned, is worthy of that
highly honourable name unless he can interest the children and
get them to love him. It is an absolute prerequisite. That
is the way in which the Masters teach: never by force, never
by issuing commands, but by showing the right way and
·encouraging us to try to imitate Them.
Karma takes no account of custom ; and the karma
of cruelty is the most terrible of aU. In India at least
there can be no excuse for such customs, for the duty of
harmlessness is well-known to.all.
C.W.L.-The man who takes up the .profes~ion of a school-
master does so in order to earn his living, just as he migQt enter
any other profession. The Lords of Karma do not, however,
regard the matter from that point of view. They put a man
into such a position with the idea of giving him a magnificent
opportunity. If he should take it, and carry his work through
carefully, tactfully, lovingly, it will lead him to another life in
which he will probably be a religious teacher. From that the
way is open to become a great saint, a great benefactor of man-
kind. The teaching profession lies straight in the road to some
of the hig~est prizes of life, from the point of view of the Lords
of karma.
CRUELTY 297
The teacher should realize that each child is an ego ; and
should give all the help possible to the development of its
character. He naturally has a vast opportunity, because tbe
children are in his care to learn, and he can make of them very
much what he will. As to the strength of this influence, a well-
known Jesuit once said: "Let me have a child up to the age
of eleven and after that he can go where he pleases." The
teacher's 'influence upon the young operates quite ~s m'!ch by
what he is and the way in which he acts, as by anyt~mg drrect!y
said to them. He who is what he ought to be radrates love rn
a strong and powerful influence. His posit.ion is also one of
great responsibility, for if instead of rousmg love a!ld goo.d
qualities in his charges he awakens fear and de~ert, ~e rs
hampering the progress of those egos, and thus domg senou~
positive harm.
Misuse of such an opportunity involves a terrible fall for tile·
man. Cruelty in such cases produces very horrible results ; on
certain occasions we have found it to bring a sort of repayment
in kind, but quite often it brings insanity as its result, and short
of that, a great many conditions such as hysteria and neuras-
thenia. In many cases also it has resulted in a remarkable and
cataclysmic descent in the social scale. A person who has
been cruel in a reasonably good position finds himself thrown
down among the dregs of the populace because of that cruelty.
For example, I have seen cases of Brahmanas reborn as
pariahs, in consequence of cruelty to children. So it is evident
that the Lords of Karma, demonstrating the great laws of the
universe, take the same view of these things as the Ma:;ter does.
An opportunity somewhat similar to that of the school-
master is given to a man who is the manager of a factory or
the head of a large business of any kind. A man thinks of such
a place as one to be desired because it gives him an opportunity
of getting a good salary or of making a good deal of money and
obtaining a certain amount of power. But the Lords of Karma
would regard that, again, as an opportunity to help all those
other men who came under his control. An employer often
regards his men with a. sort of scarcely veiled hostility; he thinks
they want to get as much out of him as they can and to take
advantage of him in various ways. On their part, the men
usually think he wishes to grind them down, to get all he can
out of them, paying them as little as possible in return. It is
38
298 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
true, unfortunately, that in some cases both sides are right in
thinking as they do. There are employers who have that
attitude; and there are very many workmen who take that line
towards their employers: but the man who understands will
look at it not in the least from that point of view. That the
position gives the man an opportunity of being a helpful in-
fluence in the life of a number of people is the only aspect of the
matter which concerns the Lords of Karma. The Lords of
Karma do not usually look at things from our point of view.
Mankind generally, for example, regards death as a terrible
thing and a heavy punishment ; but it is often given as a
kind of reward-as a release leading to better and more
promising conditions.
The fate of the cruel must fall also upon all who go
out . intentionally to kill God's creatures, and call it
• •
sport .
C.W.L.-As regards conditions in the country in England
Punch's satire,'' It is a fine day; let us go out and kill something"
was not very far wrong. As a clergyman in a country parish
in England I was in close relation with a typical set of the
people who shoot and hunt and fish. They did a11 these things
as their regular daily occupation, and that formed also the
principal subject of their conversation. Yet, however hard one
may find it to believe, these people were perfectly gentle and
kindly towards their fellow-men ; the men were good fatqers
and husbands, lenient judges and kind friends, but they did not
see the wrong in this particular thing. One of those very men,
who would kill deer and shoot as many pheasants as he could
in the most reckless way, would nevertheless sit up all night
with a dog that was sick, showing that he had a kind heart, and
that even towards the animals he felt a certain brotherhood.
The cruelty is all due to a kind of mental blindness. They 4o
not lack intellect, but on this matter they have never thought,
but have taken it for granted that all these creatures were
created for their use, and for the enjoyment which they could
derive from their skill in killing them. People eat meat with
the same thoughtlessness. As a young· man I did so, and it
never dawned upon me that it was wrong until I found a book
on the subject-that was long before the Theosophical Society
was founded.
CRUELTY 299
When we have once seen that such" sport" is a horrible
thing, and that in following it we are taking part in the
slaughter of God's creatures, we wonder why we·never noticed
it before. Thousands of people have not yet seen the evil.
The glamour of custom is upon them, and they have never
thought of the frightful harm that is being done. The same
thing is true in connection with some articles of attire. There
are certain kinds of feathers, for example, that can only be
procured at terrible cost in animal life-not only the pain and
death of the ereature concerned, but generalJy of other
young creatures depending upon it. People who wear these
things are certainly criminally careless. They are not desper-
ately cruel-not in the least; they are simply following the
custom. Still, karma will operate. A man may be in a
brown study and walk over a precipice; the fact that he did
not know where he was going does not alter the result.
Such things as these you would not do, I know ;
and for the sake of the love of God, when opportunity
offers, you will speak dearly against them,
C.W.L.-Here we must note the words" when opportunity
offers". We do not want to thrust our ideas upon other people, so
one speaks on such matters usually only when an opinion is asked;
or when the subject comes forward in a natural way. Td
thrust forward one's own ideas, however excellent they may bej
'generally does more harm than good. The aggressive people
who do this always arouse resentment. A man who accosts
you in the street and wants to know whether you have found
Jesus, or whether your soul is saved, does not impress you
favourably, and most people are inclined to feel that since he is-
so tactless his religion cannot be of great practical value..
If a suitable opportunity occurs one may lend a book or at
pamphlet, or converse gently and quietly on the subject. But
H you find yourself among a number of sportsmen, I should not
advise you to start out by saying: '' This is a very wicked
thing "-although it is. If I were asked, I should say
quietly: ''I hold that all life is sacred, that these animals are
really younger brothers of ours, and you have no more right to
go out and kill them for pleasure than you would have to kill a
man for your pleasure." They would be surprised, no doubt ;
3oo TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
perhaps they would sneer covertly at me; but they would not
be so strongly set against the idea as they would if they were
attacked.
We who are vegetarians often feel great disgust if we have
to sit at the same table with people who are eating meat, yet
it is frequently unavoidable when travelling. Still, it is not
well to show our feelings; that is certainly not the way to
convert other people, but if they ask about our views we can
express our opinions temperately, forcefu1ly but quietly. If we
do this it is quite probable, if the man begins to think about it,
that he will come over to our point of view.
But there is a cruelty in speech as well as in act ;
and a man who says a word with the intention to wound
another is guilty of this crime. That, too, you would not
do; but sometimes a careless word does as much harm as
a malicious one. So you must be on your guard against
unintentional cruelty.
C.W.L.-Some people pride themselves on speaking out just
\Yhat they think, even if it hurts others, and they seem to regard
this as a virtue. The Master, who never uses words carelessly,
says it may be a crime, if the words are cruel. In debate or
discussion we need not refrain from putting our side of the case,
but we can put it carefully and courteously. The Apostle
said: ''Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind."
That does not mean that he is to try to persuade other people,
but that he himself should understand why he holds certain
beliefs. When that is the case he will be able to state his views,
when necessary, gently and temperately.
It is a curious fact that many people cannot differ in
opinion from others without getting more or less angry,
although they know that there are thousands upon thousands of
questions in the world upon which there is so much to be said
on several sides that one point of view is almost as defensible
as another. A discussion between a Catholic and an Orange-
man is exceedingly Jike!y to end in blows, which, after all,
1 Romans, 14, 5.
CRUELTY 3or
do not constitute a form of argument which carries conviction·
with it. If a person differs from another's opinion it appears to
be taken as a kind of slight; such a person .is so sure that his
own idea is right that any other man who disagrees is wilfuiiy
of malice prepense declining to accept it! We ha-;e therefore
to be careful how we put our views before others.
There is a special temptation in regard to Theosophy,
because we definitely base our belief on reason, and we only
try to show people this; yet often the other man cannot see it.
Reason, however perfect, however logical, does not necessarily
impress the ordinary man at all; he does not live in his reason,
but in his feelings, and if these are roused by what is said no
amount of reason will convince him, and the more we talk the
angrier he will become.
It comes usually from thoughtlessness. A man is so
filled with greed and avarice that he never even thinks of
the suffering which he causes to others by paying too
little, or by half-starving his wife and children. Another
thinks only of his own lust, and cares little how many
souls and bodies he ruins in satisfying it. just to save
himself a few minutes' trouble, a man does not pay his
workmen on the proper day, thinking nothing of the
difficulties he brings upon them. So much suffering is
caused just by carelessness-by forgetting to think how
an action will affect others.. But Karma never forgets,
and it takes no account of the fact that men forget.
If you wish to enter the Path, you must think of the
consequences of what you do, lest you should be guilty of
thoughtless cruelty.
C.W.L.-By paying a little less than what a thing is worth
one may be causing much suffering to the workman, and his wife
and children. The reduction of a few pence from a day's wages
may mean that the family has insufficient food. Business is
3o2 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
business, I know, but it is better if necessary, to make less
rather than fall into the sin of grinding down the poor.
Employers are finding that it pays to give" good wages", as
has been the experience of Mr. Henry Ford, who is said to be now
the richest· man in the world. As a priest, I used to go among
the poor and see things from their standpoint, and often found
people taking advantage of their helplessness. This was so
also in India, where sometimes in the Pariah Schools children
actually fainted from hunger, until we were in a position to
give them food.
) .
CHAPTER XXVIII
SUPERSTITION
Superstition is another mighty evil, and has caused
much terrible cruelty. The man who is a slave to it
~espises others who are wiser, tries to force them to do
as he does.
C.W.L.--:Superstition never .takes into account the differ-
ences of temperament between people. It has some form of belief
which it wishes to impress upon all alike, not realizing that you
never can impress any belief, except, perhaps, some dry scientific
fact, upon all people alike, because there are as many attitudes
towards life as there are people. Even if you know a great
number of people, you will rarely find two who are alike in the
way in which circumstances affect them. You can predict
~ertain general possibilities with regard to the great majority of
men, but until you know them very well you cannot judge
accurately how they will react to certain things. So superstition
implies among other things a very great want of sympathy.
The man who is subject to it does not understand that there are
other ways than his own of looking at things.
Superstition is not only bad for the person himself, but
when prominent it always leads to attempts to coerce other
people. All through history, superstition in religion has led to
frightful trouble. On its account the followers of Muhammad
have at different times spread bloodshed and slaughter over
vast tracts of Asia, Europe and Africa, offering "the Koran or
the sword.,, The superstition which produced the Inquisition
has been previously discussed. The massacres of St. Bartha-.
Jomew and the Sicilian Vespers, when the protestants and the
303
3o4 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Catholics respectively massacred each other were other terrible
results of superstition. The last were partly political, but the
former was a matter of "religion". The i11-feeling between the
different sects of Christians was very largely responsible for the
massacre, though no doubt political considerations also bad
their share in it, as they had also with Constantine when be
became a Christian, thinking it a good card to play in the then
state of affairs in the Byza"tine Empire.
The Crusades were another mighty superstition. Because
of a story which had little foundation in fact, as to the life and
death of the teacher Jesus, twenty million men lost their lives
in those Crusades, trying to get into Christian hands the
country where His life story occurred. If they could have been
brought to understand that it was the life story of every Initiate~
and that that has heen led in all countries of the world at one
time or another, all that loss of life might have been avoided.
Perhaps it was not all loss, however, because by going out to
fight with the more enlightened Saracens the-Christians brought
back some useful information into Europe, and that they were
willing to die for an ideal counted to them for righteousness.
There was something chivalrous and beautiful, no doubt, in the
idea that the sacred places of a religion ought to belong to the
people of that religion. Time has proved, however, that in this
case it was fortunate that the Christians did not succeed. In
that holy land the Muhammadan soldiers have had to keep peace
between the rival Christian sects-the Latin and the Greek-
because they always fight for precedence about the holy fire
and at the sepulchre.
At the present day we have in India a similar problem, but
no one dreams of trying to settle it by the method of the
Crusades. The holy places of the Buddhists-the place where
the Lord Buddha was born, the place where He attained His
Buddhahood, the place where He died-are all in the hands of
people of the Hindu faith, a religion which is as different from
Buddhism as Christianity is different from Muhammadanism.
The Buddhists earnestly desire to possess their holy places, but
it has not occurred to the Buddhist nations to start upon a
war of conquest. We may be very thankful for that, for the
Buddhists number about five hundred million people. Their
religion forbids them to do anything so irrational. Some
Buddhists have tried to buy back the site, and they nearly
· SUPERST·.IT·lON· ·' ' .\ ..
:~ucce.eded in doing so. The Theosophical Society.assisJed t~em..,
but unfortunately a great part of the mon~y was .lost iit a:1~~
.-suit, and the plan fell through~ ·
There is no great religion excep·t Buddhism which has nive~
persec~Jted. It could not do so because of its inherent principles:
it is bound to toleration by the very words of its Founder,
Who is a Buddhist ? He is a man who follows the teachings of
the Lord Buddha; not a man who believes this'or that, but a
maFl who lives as the Lord Buddha said men should live. Ask
.a missionary what will become of the really good Buddhist, and
he will usually answer, "If he .does not believe in Christ,
there is no hope for him", or at best he will leave him to the
uncovenanted mercies of God, if he is a very good man. If
-you ask a Buddhist the s~me question about a good Christian,
he will say, '' He is quite a good Buddhist; he calls himself a
·Christian, but he is follow'jng the teachings of the Lord Buddha;
.all will be well with him." Such is the tolerance of Buddhism,
as I have explained before. Of course, every religion really
.forbids intolerance and violence, but the level of ign0rance and
fanaticism in some of them has blinded -their people to ,this
·simple fact. ;:
The form of superstition ca1led race hatred, in which one
·race instinctively dislikes another en bloc, is also foolish, because
there is good and bad in every race. I remember that in
remote villages in Engl~nd the attitude of the peasantry towards
a foreigner was always one of suspicion and ridicule. The fact
that a man spoke a different language was something to laugh
at, among those ignorant people. There are other peasantries
who, in that particular respect, are Jess uncourteous than our
..common folk. I always feel that if a foreigner visits 6ur
,country we are in the relation of host towards him, and it is
our duty to make his path easy, and to give him as good an
impression of our people and our country as we can. ·
In the Napo]eonic era there was a superstition in England
that alJ Frenchmen were practically devils, fighting against us
with the full knowledge that they were on the wrong side and
.against the light. To-day you may get cases where a vast
number of people are obsessed by one dominant idea, resulting
in a kind of national monomania. Under the influence of such
.a temporary monomama dreadful atrocities occur, which the
39
3o6 TALKS ON THE · PATH OF OCCULTISM
same people would never dream of committing at other times.
In this case the individuals are responsible only to the extent
to which they allow themselves to be swept·off their feet in that
way; the things that they do are done by the monomania more
than by the individuals themselves. It is in much the same way
that a man wiiJ sometimes lose his temper and say unpleasant
things; it is the temper that speaks and not the man. He is to
blame in that he allows the temper to get control of him, but
we must take into consideration that in all probability he will
afterwards very much regret what he has said.
Think of the awful slaughter produced by the
superstition that animals should be sacrificed.
C.W.L.-Mention of animal and other sacrifices in connec-
tion with religion raises the whole question of the relation of
God to man. There are only three fundamental views that we
can take upon this subject : the first is that God started this
scheme of things and left it to take care of itself afterwards,.
being quite indifferent as to what happened to it; the second
is that He retains what must be called a malevolent interest in
it, desiring to enjoy blood or other sacrifices ; the third.is that
He remains always the aU-loving Father of His creation.
The first theory is practically modern materialism plus the
idea of an original creator. The second represents God as a
monster full of blood-lust. Many of the old scriptures mis-
represent Him in this way. In one case in the Old Testament
the Jews boast of sacrificing a hundred and twenty-two
thousand bullocks at one time. Probably they were exaggera-
ting, as was their habit in those early days. Jehovah demanded
sacrifices, and did not in the least care how much suffering
he caused so long as he could get what he wanted. He
was always clamouring for sacrifices, which must be made
to him, and to no other deity. The Jews of the present
day would recoil in horror from such a thing, but evident-
ly they did not do so in the days of David and Solomon.
It follows that the Jehovah whom they then worshipped was
not what we call God, to which conception they could not then
rise, but one of the great elemental deities coming over from
Atlantean days. The Jews bad before then contacted the civiliza-
tion of Egypt, but its great ideas had made little impression
SUPERS'rl'I'ION 3o7
upon them; but later, during the Babylonian captivity, they
learned of a supreme God. They at once identified Him,
-characteristically, with their own Jehovah, and their later
prophets wrote magnificently of Him, but still with frequent
<>utcroppings of the old ideas.
Blood-sacrifices belong only to early stages of human
-evolution. They involve the primitive magic of elemental
worship, and are- always connected with elementals which live
·on the fumes of blood. The elemental wants the sacrifices
because he absorbs the aroma of the blood and obtains from
it the power -to materiaJize himself. Among some hill tribes
1:he people say that if they do not perform such sacrifices troubles
-come upon them-their crops are spoiled and their houses
-catch fire; the hill gods of India are therefore also probably
great elemental deities of Atlantis.
\Ve may be sure that the Great Ones have never counten-
anced such sacrifices. In India, for example, the original
Tevelation of the Vedas certainly did not contain them, but
they came from the aboriginal traditions, which stiJI exist to
some extent. The Lord Buddha spoke against animal sacri-
.fices, and induced King Bimbisara to issue an edict abolishing
.them in his realm.
Clearly no Deity whom we could wish to worship would
want offerings of blood, though there are elementals and
111ature-spirits who do. We must, therefore, regard those por-
tions of Scripture which deal with such offerings as belonging to
a period in human evolution long outgrown. Some people do
not like to say this openly, because they reverence the Scrip-
tures, but it is nothing but superstition to regard one particular
set of words as sacred and sacrosanct for all time. We ought
to be eclectic about the Scriptures, as about everything else.
We take up a book, and value and remember those passages
in it which we find especially beautiful and helpful. In the
same way, we should take from any scripture what is noble
and beautiful and grand for ail time, and we may with advant-
.age drop all those parts which do not come up to our standards.
Although blood-sacrifices are mentioned in the Psalms and
other parts of the Bible, we must face the fact that God could
never have wanted them ; they invariably belong to the type of
("eligion that considers the Deity as an evil being, who must be
bought off.
Jd8 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
. It has been the great tragedy of Christianity that this idea
became mingled with the pure teaching of the Christ about God·
the loving Father. True, animal sacrifices to the Deity hav·e-
not disgraced Christianity, but the idea of God as a being who
will do harm unless bought off is still taught by the great
~.hristian organizations. They invented the amazing theory
that God sacrificed his own Son instead of all the other people
who would otherwise have been sent to hell. I suppose most
people never stop to think what kind of a god it could be who
would require or permit such a sacrifice. You can imagine
what would be said of any earthly king who condemned quite
casually a number of people to horrible tortures and then
released them because his own son came forward and said, " If
you must kiJI somebody, kill me.. I have not done anything
wrong; but nevertheless, kill me, and let these people go free."
That theory is not Christianity.
Colonel Ingersoll was right when he said that an honest
Goo is the noblest work of man. It is true that only a nation
which was already highly developed co·uld rise to the conception
of a really grand and glorious Deity. It is true that our remote
Jorefathers, who ran about in the woods and painted themselves.
blue, and the ancient war-like Jews, and others, had crude
ton.ceptions of the Deity: but there is absolutely no -reason why
we should carry them on at the present day.
· The thi'rd theory, which we hold in Theosophy, is that
God is beneficent, that He has brought the whole scheme into·
existence for a purpose which He is steadily pursuing all the
time, and that therefore everything that happens is part of His
work. He allows a certain amount of free-will to His creatures
and they do things which are dearly not in harmony with His
great plan; yet as their will is part of His plan, all is ultimately
His work.
When we say that God allows man some independence or
freedom, we must make it clear that we understand it to be
limited, and growing. If a man uses well the freedom and
power that he has, more will be given to him. The method
seems to be like that by which a little chi.ld is taught to walk.
The teacher allows him to try, and tumble, and try again; if he-
were always carried in some one else's arms, so as to avoid all'
possible tumbles, he would end as a cripple. Bnt what the-
SUPERSTITION .
teacher does not do is to let the child learn to take his first stepS:
alone on a marble floor, at tbe head of a staircase or in other
dangerous places. Later, when he has grown up, he may walk
on the edge of a precipice to admire the view,. if he so chooses.
In some such manner the Logos guards us while He trains us,
so that we cannot wreck our liv·es or hurt ourselves beyond
repair.
This third .theory is steadily gaining ground. For a long.
time now, Christianity has been much better than its creeds,.
and very many Christians have held wider views than their
Chnt:ches have officially authorized. The Church of England;
for instance, formulates what it supposes to be its theory of
things in a certain predication called" The Articles of Religion~'..
The clergy have to assent to them, but if one of them should
ask, '' How am I to accept these Articles; they are evidently
contradictory? " he is told that at the time they were written
there were two irreconcilable parties, and something had to be
said to please them both. They say: ''The Bishop and the
rest of us have all signed them, we have aU hiken them in this
philosophic way, and since .we have done so, I think you may
do so, too." The young man will probably say. "Well, . I
suppose if you assure me that it does not mean anything, I may
as well accept it." But the position is not quite dignified. •
I have no objection to the Christian Creeds; there is a far
deeper meaning underlying them than the Christian usually
suspects.1
But I do object to the Thirty-nine Articles and the
1 Confession of Faith, because with some most beautiful ideas
they contrive to intermingle others which are absolutely
impossible. If in the Catechism they had only stopped at the
end of the first question and answer: "\Vhat is the chief end
of man? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever", that would
have been magnificent.
Christianity has gone very much ahead of its authorized
pronouncements and beliefs. I came across a passage the other
day which shows that rather clearly. There is a book by the
Dean of Ripon, in which he says: " The development of Christ
in man is the object of Christianity." Then he goes on to
explain what the Christ in man is: " It is the wisdom of the
man of science; it is the eloquence of the lawyer; it is the
'See The Christian Creed, by C. W. Leadbeater. ·
3Io TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
fairness of the judge ; it is the love of beauty in the artist; it is
the love of man in the philanthropist," and so on. That kind of
Christianity we will all accept. There is very much the same
idea in the Gita. ''Of rulers," says Shri Krishna, " I am the
sceptre; of those who seek victory I am statesmanship; and
of secrets I am also silence; the knowledge of knowers am I. n
"Whatsoever is glorious, good, beautiful, and mighty, under-
stand thou that to go forth from a fragment of My splendour," 1
The Christian Dean is very nearly in agreement with the writer
of the Bhagavad Gita, a scripture of immense antiquity, very
much older than the Mahabhiirata, of which it became a part.
Much of the glorious teaching incorporated in the Gitii existed
among the Atlanteans residing on the plains of India long before
the Aryan invaders entered the country. I know that that is
not the generally accepted idea, but it represents certain facts
which we have seen.
Assuredly we may trust God utterly, because He knows and
we do not know. We know, in a general way, what is expected
of us in the helping forward of His scheme of evolution, but we
do not know the details. Yet we know that those details are in
competent hands. What our karma will be we do not know,
but the great Powers who are managing the matter know it all,
and will decide wisely how much of it can usefully be brought
down upon us now, and how much should be reserved for t~e
future. If it were possible for the Great Ones to listen to us, and
to change our destiny in accordance with what we think we
should like at any time, it would assuredly be the worse for us.
I do not say that our own aspirations in the matter are useless-
very much the reverse, for if we have good aspirations, those
are new factors introduced into the case, and they may well
enable the Great Lords to modify the working out of our karma,
perhaps to bring down more so that we may the sooner be rid
of it, perhaps to alter its incidence and bring it down in some
other way. But whatever is done, is done for the·best for every
one and not for a few only, and so we surely should not try to
alter God's will; we should thankfully accept whatever comes
to us, and should always make the best of it, not the worst.
We should take our difficulties as something to be dominated,
yet be always glad because we know that God is behind it all,
and He is utterly beneficent.
J Bhagavad Gita, x, 38, 41,
SUPERSTITION 311
And by the still more cruel superstition that man
needs flesh for food.
C.W.L.-That is a superstition, because, there are many
millions of people who exist in perfect health without it. There
are probably some few people who, owing to bad heredity and
their own karma, are really unable to make their bodies digest the
purer form of food, but they are very, very few. I have myself
known of a few instances, among many hundredsof Theosophists,
of people who after really trying for a long time to adopt
a.vegetarian diet, found that they were unable to do it; but all
the rest, after a certain amount of difficulty just at first, were
able to maintain and often improve their health on vegetarian
food.
It has been proved unquestionably that most people can
be perfectly strong without saddling themselves with the crime
of taking part in the slaughter of animals. It is but a small
percentage of physical bodies that cannot be adapted to
vegetarian food. It is an unfortunate condition for these persons,
but if one has really tried intelligently to reform one's diet in
this way, and finds it impossible, one must accept it as karma.
In such a case it is not always wise or right to say, "I will force
my body to do what I wiJl, or let it go. I will live on pure food
or not at all." It may be that one has duties towards others,
which cannot be fulfilled if the body is weak, duties which
demand rude health. I know, of course, that advice of this
kind may very easily be used as an excuse by those who do not
like the higher form of food or who shrink from the trouble of
adapting the body to a new diet, but it must be given because
there are some few unfortunates who must needs continue in
their old ways.
Flesh food is undesirable because it is cruel to kill animals,
and also because it brings undesirable particles into our bodies,
which coarsen them, and excite animal desires in the elementals
of those bodies. There are many other reasons also, which I
marshalled together once in a lecture which may be found in
my book Some Glimpses of Occultism. This is one of the few
subjects in which practically all the arguments are on one side,
for there is nothing to be said for meat-eating, except that
people follow the practice because they like it. I think we can
make it abundantly clear to any enquirer that it is entirely in
3I2 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
his interests to abstain from flesh food. It is not only a question
.of principle, although surely that is enough for us, but a vege-
tarian diet means better health, and the avoidance of certain
fearful diseases ; and definite facts show that the vegetarian has
relatively greater endurance.
People sometimes object to this . idea and say that in any
.case we must destroy life in order to live, that those who are
vegetarians also destroy life. That is true, to a very limited
extent. I suppose we may be said to be destroying the vege-
table life, but that is much more primitive, and has not the
acute sentiency of the animal.
The fundamental objection to killing is that it interferes
with the course of evolution. If you kill a man, you really do
no harm to that individual, so far as his pleasure and happiness
are concerned; be goes usually to a plane where he will be far
happier than he ~ver was on the physical plane; and the mere
destruction of the body is not necessarily cruel, because a man
killed suddenly does not feel it. The w~ong you have done is
to cut him off from the opportunity of evolution which he would
otherwise have had in that body. He will have a further
opportunity in another body later on, but you are delaying him,
and giving the Lords of Karma the trouble of finding another
place for that man's evolution, and of carrying him on again
through babyhood and childhood before·he has the opportunity
lor development that the conditions of mature manhood provide.
TQat is also why it is so much more serious to kill a man than
ap animal; the man has to develop an entirely new personality,
but the animal goes back in~o his group-soul, from which
incarnation is a comparatively easy matter. Still, in the case
<>f the more evolved animal, which is a more complicated
manifestation, it causes, if we may reverently put it so, a great
deal of trouble to the evolutionary Powers. The killing, say, of
a mosquito is an infinitely smaller matter, because it flows back
into its group-soul and comes out again in a very short time.
The trouble caused by the destruction ·even of hundreds of
thousands of those insects is as nothing compared to the killing
of one horse, or cow, or cat, or dog.
There is no conceivable case in which it could be
the right thing to kill a man for any purpose of one's
owri, except in emergencies in self-defence or the defence of
SUPERSTtTlON 3x3
·another. The yogi does not even defend himself; he leaves
the whole matter in the hands of karma. Still, I believe that
we are justified in defending our lives when they are attacked,
and I am quite certain we are justified in defending a friend
or a child, ·,'even at the cost of killing the aggressor. The
same thing ' holds good with regard to all ·kinds of animals.
If an animal attacks you, endangering your life or your safety,
you have, I think, the right to kill it if necessary. The whole
question is: which will cause 'the greater harm ? If, for
example,.. you are troubled by mosquitos, which I:}aye left their
own natural food to attack you and pqison your blood, and
perhaps ~poil som~ important work, it might very well be the.
lesser evil to kill the mosquitos.·.. If you can take refuge bebindJ
a mosquito .net, or drive them aw.ay, so much the better. . The
mosquito is · vegetarian by nature and by instinct. There are
million~ ~ upon millions of them which have never tasted blood.
Bring them into contact with human beings and give them
that vi_
tiated taste and you know how it turns out. It is
exactly· the same with a variety of other small pests. They
are good in their proper place, but that is not in close
contact ~ith human beings. Not only do ·we ourselves suffer
if we..permit them to overrun u~, but we also.subject other
hum~n b~ings to infection. from which they would have been
free if it had not been for us.
Though. with our imperfect knowledge, it gives us no
special justification to kill or exterminate ~ny creature offensive
to us, it is a fact that some forms are now intended to die
away, either because they have run their course, or because
they are experiments that have been improved upon and are
therefore no longer needed. It is not irreverent to think of
the great evolutionary Powers as experimenting to some extent.
The Lord Maitreya. when He succeeded the Lord Buddha
as World#Teacher, tried some new methods in religion, which
might conceivably have failed. Madame Blavatsky used
sometimes to speak guardedly of certain plants and animals
as failures, whose life-form was being permitted to flow on
and die out gradually, being used sometimes for the indwelling
of creatures lower than those original1y intended to occupy
them and sometimes even for those undergoing involution.
She spoke of certain loathsome forms of insect and reptile
life as "by-products", and considered that the killing of these
40
3r4 TALKS ON THE PA'I'H OF OCCULTISM
was by no means the same thing as the destruction of .evolving
forms of life. ·
The theory of the non-destruction of life is carried to
extremes in certain places, as for example, where people
decline to kill vermin, and allow themselves to be eaten by
them. That does not commend itself to any civilized person.
Again, a person who has a library of useful books will
sometimes find them attacked by little silverfish. It would
be preferable to drive them away, but it is better, certainly,
to destroy those insects than to allow good books, which
might be of use to others besides oneself, to be rendered
useless. There are many small forms of life which if we
permit them, would render our lives practically impossible.
For the yogi, who never destroys life, food is always provided:
but the agriculturist who provides it has to protect his
crops from grubs and worms. In Australia he has parti-
cularly to deal with rabbits, which having been imported into
the country, have increased in such millions that if left free to
do so they would destroy every Yestige of cultivation.
It is not only for the sake of food for man that one must
destroy some of the pests, but also as a rnatter of protection,
for if one cultivates plants, or trees or vegetable~, one has a
certain responsibility to the life that takes up its dwelling
in those forms. I think we should use common sense in all
these matters all the way through. In any case, to kill any
animal in self-defence is surely a different thing from kiJling
highly evolved creatures, such as cows and sheep, to gratify a
)ow form of taste, when it is absolutely unnecessary.
Think of the treatment which superstition has meted
out to the depressed classes in our beloved India, and see
in that how this evil quality can breed heartless cruelty
even among those who know the duty of brotherhood.
C.W.L.- The depressed classes in India, sometimes called
the panchama, or fifth caste, really the outcaste, the pariah-
are the descendants of the original inhabitants of India, whom
the Aryans found there when they came over the Himalayas.
The caste rules ordained by the Manu, which were good eugenic
SUPERSTITION 3I5
and magnetic rules at the time, forbade the s_
ettlers to intermarry
or mix or eat with them. Beyond that, however, they have
been treated with great cruelty. For instance, the pariah is not
alJowed to approach the caste well to draw water, because he
will contaminate it for the caste people; consequently he has
to depend upon such inferior wells as he can make or find, and
this often causes serious hardships, especial1y as in some parts
of the country the outcaste villages have been driven to un-
favourable plots of land, and often forced to move. Until
quite recently a pariah could hardly attain a good position in
life, except by the undesirable expedient of becoming a
Christian or a Muhamrnadan, a course which removes some of
their most serious social disabilities.
This, and even worse than this: has been the treatment
which superstition has meted out to these depressed classes,
even among people who make a speciality of brotherhood. In
this case they have forgotten what brotherhood means, because
of their superstition. One hopes that in time they will come to
form a respectable and clean community. Modern conditions,
such as the mingling that takes place on trains and tramcars,
tend to facilitate this process. ·
It is the duty of the better classes of the Indian people, and
also a karmic obligation upon them, to uplift these outcastes
whom their ancestors conquered. Their very nobility, theirinnate
Aryan quality should urge them to this necessary task. If a
child is not clean we do not recoil from him, but we take him to
be washed; so must we not shrink from the pariah, but provide
him with conditions in which he can acquire health, cleanliness
and knowledge. It is not necessarily a question of eating
together, but it is assuredly our duty to be kindly ~nd ~ompas..
sionate to our younger brothers.
It is true th~ t birth in a given caste or community alwayg
offers a man certam definite opp::>rtunities, but it does not fo1Iow
that he is making the best of them. To be born into the family
of a good man of lower caste would offer better opportunities in
some ways than to belong to the family of an unworthy Bnih-
mana. . Often men strive for some goal, and when they attain it
they fatl to make good use of opportunities which it brings;
?ence a. bad Brahmana may be one who is taking his first
mcarnatJOn as such, or who has neglected or misused his
3r6 TALKS ON THH PATH OF · OCCULTISM
opportunities in a former birth~ It is true only in rare
cases that:
Who toiled a slave may come anew a Prince
For gentle worthiness and merit won;
Who ruled a King may wander earth in rags
For things done and undone.1
As a general rule those who are in the great mass of the
working classes will only gradually raise themselves into the
bourgeoisie, and then higher. Most of a man's karma is
made with the class of people among whom he is, and he needs
similar conditions for working it out in a future life. The way
of evolution is also by gradual advance in culture and refine-
ment, so a sudden transition into a distinctly higher or lower
class is somewhat in the nature of a surgical operation, necessit-
ated by very exceptional karma. Still, mankind is one family,
and the duty of brotherhood applies to all without exception.
Many crimes have been committed in the n~me of
the God of Love, moved by this nightmare of superstition.
C.W.L.-One other point about superstition is that the man
who does the most harm because of it is the one who has the
best intentions, who is standing loyally to the letter of his law.
A realJy selfish bad man-there are such people, though perhaps
not very many-is concerned mostly with gratifying his own
desires. He does not want to interfere with others unless they
obstruct his way; so, after all, he does not do so much harm
in the world. The stupid person with good intentions is really
a far more serious danger, because he always wants to interfere
with others. ~issionaries, for example, are often a case in point.
I do not doubt that the missionaries sent out from Europe and
America have done much good. among Central African savages
and people of that 'type,· but in India, where any common
JaboHrer in the street usuaHy knows more than the missionary
about the philosop~y of religion, about all the. · greater
and higher ideas, the missionary is 'ridiculously out of place.
His intentions are good enough, but he does a great deal of
harm. Many wars have been caused by the irrational methods
of missionaries; their State has to step in and save them when they
I 'l'he l.igltt of Asia, Book vm.
SUPERS'TITION 317
are in danger gf what they call martyrdom. It has come to be
a regular thing: first .
the missionaries, then those seUing brandy
and gin, and after·them a conquering army. Poor old ladies
in England and America even go without the necessities of life:
in order to help these missions, and think they are doing it for
Christ's sake ! They have absolutely no conception that
thousands of years before Christ India had a profound religio'tl
and philosophy, and that their money could be better employed
in converti'ng the heathen in England itself.
Be very careful, therefore, that no slightest trace of
it remains in you.
C.W.L.-The emphasis which is laid upon it clearly shows
that there is .a danger that we may be superstitious without
knowing it, so it is well that we should carefully watch. There
are always at least two sides to any question. No one sees the
whole thiqg-not even the Theosophist. When we become
consciously one with the Logos on His own high plane, then we
shall see all round everything, and be able to say: " My view is
right", but when that occurs our view will probably include
all the others, because there is generally some germ of truth
in all.
These three great crimes you must avoid, for they
are fatal to all progress, because they sin against love.
C.W.L.-That love should govern our lives and vivify all
our other powers is the special teaching of the line to which the
Master Kfithumi belongs. It is difficult for many to understand
exactly how the Masters, who contain within Themselves all
the highest and the noblest qualities which we can imagine, can
yet somehow have one quality more than another. The Master
Morya, who represents to us the First Ray, has for His greatest
characteristic will and power, yet it would be a mistake to
suppose that He has any less of love or of wisdom than any of
the other Masters. So also should we be quite wrong in suppos-
ing the Master KGthumi to have any less power than Masters
of the First Ray. These are differences beyond mere human
knowledge.
In the same way there .are distinctions of level among the
Great Ones; the Bodhisattva stands far higher than our
318 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
Masters. To us They all appear so great that we cannot
venture to make any distinction between them. They are all
~uns of blinding light, and to us there seems no difference
between a great Angel and a Devaraja ; yet one is a whole
kingdom, a whole evolution above the other. It must be that
the Solar Logos has greater power than aU these that are parts
of Him ; although it seems as though no being could have more
than They. The knowledge and the power of the Master are so
much greater than ours that for us the whole thing is one
blinding glory; but the distinction exists.
CHAPTER XXIX
SERVICE
•
But not only must you thus refrain from evil : you
must be active in doing good. You must be so filled
with the intense desire of service that you are ever
on the watch to render it to all around you-not to man
alone, but even to animals and plants. You must render
it in small things every day, that the habit may be formed,
so that you may not miss the rare opportunity when the
great thing offers itself to be done.
C.W.L.-We may very often miss a chance of helping some
one if we have not formed the habit of watchfulness; but if we
have that habit we are not likely to pass many opportunities,
because it wiii assert itself, even in the most unusual surround-
ings or in the greatest emergencies. That is the whole reason
<>f the long, rather painful driii through which soldiers are put;
not only that they may know exactly what to do when certain
orders are given, but that they may have certain habits instinc-
tively part of them. In battle in the old days, if not to-day,
the soldier found himself in absolutely novel surroundings, that
might well try his courage, however brave he might be, conditions
such that a man might well be excused if he lost his head. But
·even in such an emergency habit would assert itself, and the
man would obey orders and do what was required.
This remark about being active in doing good is not directed
~n any way against those whose activity is on other planes.
Such a remark as that might easily be wrongly used against
319
320 TALKS ON THE PATH OF OCCULTISM
the contemplative orders of monks and nuns, or the Brahmana
caste in India. The theory in the old days was that the
Brahmana was the spiritual leaderof the nation, and he was sup-
posed to devote all his time to the performance of ceremonies and
rites, and to study and teaching and giving advice, which would
benefit all the community. The other people, whose lives were
taken up in ordinary work, and in making money, supported
him because he was doing this spiritual work for them. A
similar idea in Catholic countries is behind those orders of
monks and nuns whose time is taken up in praying for the dead..
In the days when those arrangements were made it was re-
cognized that the dead and the li•ing were one community, and
that this was a far higher service to the community than the
growing of corn.; therefore those people received their living in
charity and were in nowise ashamed of it, and those who gave
to th~m felt themselves highly honoured. The whole conception
was entirely different from the modern one; there was no
shame whatever attached to begging for a living; in fact, those
who did it were the most spiritual of the,people, bound by the
vows of poverty, chastity and obedienc'e. To condemn the
people who lived ·in that way · is to· make exactly the same
mistake as was made in the French Revolution, when they said
that a philosopher or a writer was a man living an idle and
useless life, and that he ought to be breaking stones upon the
road.
For if you yearn to be one with God, it is nol for
your own sake ; it is that you may be a channel through
which His love may flow to reach your fel.low-men. He
who is on the Path exists not for himself. but for others ;
he _
has forgotten himself, in order that he may serve them.
C.vV.L.-The whole idea of this book is to get people into a
certain attitude. What is aimed at is not nearly so much to know
as to be; that is, to live the Theosophical life, to be filled with love
for all and with an intense desire to help forward evolution, so that
we forget ourselves in the service of others. If you ever saw a
surgeon perform a big operation, you know how a man in the
most· intense activity and with the keenest use of brain and
hand, can yet be absolutely absorbed in the work he is doing,
~~
1 • S~_RVJCE 3ZI
'with .'his· whole. life, 'as' it w.ere, in the ends of his nngers. lQ
war, foo, a man sometimes forgets.himself utterly in the·effor:t
t0 save a wounded comrade or to perform some necessary but
dangerous deed.
The Logos is omnipotent in His system ; He po~~s ~ut
force at all levels in that system. \Ve cannot but suppose that
He: could flood the. whole system with that force at any level
and to :any extent that· He chose. As a matter of fact He
does not' do that ; the force poured out at each level seems
to ·be :a :de:finite amount, and of a definite kind only, and
so it rerriains · that we, who are sparks of ,'His fire;can do
certain things· which the Great Flame of which we are a part
does . not do, except through us, who are parts of Him. ·\V,e
cannot s·ay· that He could not do it, but that Hedoes·not,
apparently. It is within our power, with our intense devotion,
setting our wills to work along with His will, to draw down more
force from higher planes, to transmute it and send it out. That
is work which would not be done, as far as we can see, unless we
did it. .· It would seem ·that He counts on our co-operation.
Yet that 'is also His, because there is no force that is not His.
I have several times used the simile of a channel or pipe to
help in describing the fact that the force of the Master is
.distributed on lower .planes by a pupil. One may use also the
simile of the transformer ,<;>f electricity; you have great quan-
tities of electricity sent at high pressure, perhaps hundreds of
miles from the generating station, to the transforming station
in a city; there are there transformers which receive it at that
high pressure, and convert it into huge volumes of current at
lower pressure, suitable for lighting and other purposes. So a
pupil in Sydney, for example, may r.eceive the Master's force
coming on higher planes from the Himalayas, and transform it
into force of the lower planes, so. that it may be distributed
around him or directed·to those for·whom it is intended.
Every Initiate is thus a transformer of spiritual force;
through him it can flow at a certain level, according to his
.stage · or degree. . The. d·ivine .force is all round us, just as the
sun is shining.all the time: When the·sunshine does not·reach
the earth it ·is the earth~s· doing, except during a solar eclipse,
because it .raises .do.uds~which come between it and the sun; so
·also. do ·men;:raise donas of selfishness and ignorance between
41
TALKS ON THE· PATH OF OCCULTISM
themselves and the·Logos, who is raying out a great variety of
His forces on every plane. The Initiate takes a definite step
which enables him to be a better channel for these forces. It
is not that the forces are themselves in the least affected-they
are there all the time, but they pass us by when we are not
ready to receive them.
Let us take the analogy of prana on the physical plane.
Everybody draws in prana, but sometimes when a man falls iJJ
he is unable to specialize it for himself, and soon begins to feel
a great lack of vitality. Although he is then unable to special-
ize prana for himself, he can still use that which bas been
prepared by another; another man, abounding in vitality, may
p0ur it upon him and give him the strength that he requires
to enable him to recover his normal condition. Similarly, the
Initiate takes up many of the higher forces and transforms
them into a condition in which they become readily assimilable
by others. As more and more of our mankind reach the stage
at which they can do this work the evolution of men in general
will increase in rapidity. Though it is true that there is a limit
to the amount of sunlight that plants can bear, it is also true
that it is impossible to pour upon any man too much of the
spiritual light.
Do not, however, think of these channels as merely passive.
They are living channels. The pupil is not sitting still and
simply acting as a pipe. There are forces that do come through
like that, and the pupil of the Master is often conscious of the
nature of the force pouring through him and knows to whom it
is going. But there is also a great amount of it which he can
at any time employ as he will, which he can turn this way or
that, as he sees it to be needed. His own adaptability and tact
are thus called into play, and his life is very full indeed of
positive activity of this kind. His is not, therefore, a life of
blind obedience-on the contrary, he is busy when others are
idly thinking about themselves.
Ordinary men cannot commonly be used in this way,
because they are not sufficiently developed on the higher planes,
and because even .when the ego is somewhat advanced the
thread of connection with the personality is v·ery narrow. The
Master can use the pupil because the channel is open ; so also
can the One Initiator use the Initiates fer. the force of the
SERVICE
Hierarchy. In these cases the man is the higher self, and even
when he is engaged in the duties of the physical plane there is
the feeling always in the background of the mind : " I am I ; a
spark of the Divine ; I can do nothing unworthy of That;
noblesse oblige."
Because of the importance of the work, the relation
behyeen Master and pupil is never based on sentiment, though
it is full of the deepest affection that the world can know. The
Master does not accept a man as a pupil because some other
member of his family is a pupil or because he has knO\vn him
in previous lives. Both Master and pupil think only of what
was called in Egypt" the hidden work", the building up again
of the riven body of Osiris, the reuniting of the scattered
fragments. They know of "the hidden light" in every man,
''the jewel in the lotus", through which he can always be helped
when the appeal is rightly made. This was the work of the
Initiates in ancient Egypt, as it is of those of to-day. They
use the power that made the worlds, the love of God, which is
not personal. No one is bound~.to come forward into occultism,
but if he does so he must adopt the motto and attitude of the
Brotherhood, which is to Jive not for himself, but for others,
not for personal advancement or satisfaction, but for the work.
He is as a pen in the hand of God, -through which
His thought may flow, and find for itself an expression
down here, which without a pen it could not have.
C.W.L.-It would seem that He must have calculated that
at a certain stage of evolution He would have many such pens
through which He could write, that God Himself, as a poet
puts it, "needs you and me." Our help is part of the plan.
That is a grand idea and very logical; we see at once that if
we have been able to reach a level of knowledge, of love, of
power which· is a little higher than the standard about us, we
have done it in order that we rnay be of use in distributing it
to others.
Yet at the same time he is also a living plume of
fire, raying out upon the world the Divine Love which
fiiJs his heart,
3~4 TALKS ON THE ~A'TJf OF OCCULTISM
· C.W.L,-Thet::e: is. a · stor~ of:two .Alexandrian monks who
wanted·. to k~ep themselves perfectly pures bne ·Q~d .it .by.makiog
round ·hirnself-:a shelf of protective th0ugbt, ~but ·the othef was
so full of the love of . God ·that·it rayed out;from•him all the
time and kept him pure. There are always the two' W,ays of the
ocGul~ist, who progresses by work in the world, and the mystic,
who retires into himseH. ' In t'rlariv ~ases the aim of t,he mystic
is simply to become utterl)~ one..with· God ; )iet it is·not righ(to
call him selfish, becau'se even· in the act1
of so bec(jrrtirrg he inust
and does shed a tremendous;influence bn'all around pim. ·our
aim, th'at of the occultist, ·:should be to raise ourselves step by
step through aU the different stages until at certain high levels
of · Initiation we can merge .our consciousness in the Third
Aspect of 'the Deity, then with the Second A.spect, and finally
with the First. The my'stic throws himself into the Divine
Life here as he 'stands, but it is a lower manifestation of the
Divine ·Life ; then he has to work upwards in order to feel
him~elf one at higher.Jevels also. · ·
• • • 4
I. ',
.. The : wisdom which enables you to help, the will
wh~~h di-~ects.·.the ·wisdp!
m, ·.·the love which i~spi~e~ t,he
. will-
·these ·are your qualifications. Will, wisdom·and
Love are the Three Aspects of th~ Logos ; and you. who
wish to enrol .yourselves to serv~. Him, must shew forth
these aspects in the world.
C.W.L.-That i.s ~ - b~autiful. ending, ,my br9tht;rs. As
Alcyone achieved, may you att~in.
...
". :
~l r J ·~ • • ~ )
..
.. -
- ~ t 4 .... -
' • I
.· .
.
# .... ' .. ; • 4 - -
Printed by A. K. Sitara.ma. Sba~tri, at the Va.sa.nta. Press. Adyar, Madraa
