{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__thompson___mystery_and_romance_of_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"Mystery And Romance Of Astrology","mylang":"de"}
THE MYSTERY
AND ROMANCE OF
ASTROLOGY
By
C. J. S. THOMPSON
BRENTANO’S LTD.
NEW YORK LONDON PARIS
First publishedy 1929
I
WELLCOME
' COLLECTION
/ZI6
Printed in Great Britain
'] III-: ZODIAC,
F rin)i
iiii: pi,\xi:rs and tiii: i:ci:mi:n rs, fire. air. w a i i-r
ini ilhiDiiniilcd ivitiittl uri’ “ O.vAt'rrvM/c);/ i/c \ st roloi^iii'
AM) I'-ARTH
Froitl isiiircc
FOREWORD
Astrology, the oldest of the sciences, has exercised
a fascination over mankind from the earliest period of
which we have record, and the romance associated with
the stars has inspired poets in all ages. Modern research
tends to show, that it had its origin in stellar worship,
for in ancient times the stars were believed to be the
abode of the gods.
From the remote age when the Akkadians and Sumer¬
ians began to observe the heavenly bodies and attempted
to trace their courses, till the time when the Babylonians
and Egyptians began to attribute to them certain powers
over human beings and their destinies, astrology wielded
an important influence over kings and empires. In the
following historical survey, which is intended for the
general reader, an endeavour has been made to trace
the origin and development of the science from the period
of these early civilisations to the Middle Ages, and thence
to the time of its decadence in the eighteenth century.
As will be seen, astrology and astronomy developed
side by side but, as in the case of other ancient arts which
possessed the germ of truth, the latter has gradually
freed itself from the mass of superstition which clustered
round it, and has emerged as the true science of the
heavens.
\
CONTENTS
PAGE
CHAPTER I
THE MYSTERY OF ASTROLOGY-THE ROMANCE OF
THE STARS - - - - - - 1/
CHAPTER II
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC ----- 27
CHAPTER HI
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA OR WISE MEN OF
THE EAST-STAR-WORSHIP-BABYLONIAN AND
ASSYRIAN ASTROLOGY - ----- 38
CHAPTER IV
THE ASTROLOGERS OF NINEVEH AND BABYLON AND
THEIR PREDICTIONS 5000 YEARS AGO - - 5 I
CHAPTER V
ASTROLOGY IN ANCIENT EGYPT AND GREECE - 57
CHAPTER VI
THE ASTROLOGERS OF ANCIENT ROME - - 65
CHAPTER VH
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE-POWERS
AND PROPERTIES ATTRIBUTED TO THEM-SYM¬
BOLS OF THE PLANETS “ “ " 73
• •
vu
vm CONTENTS
CHAPTER VIII
THE TWELVE HOUSES OF THE HEAVENS-HOW THE
HOROSCOPE WAS CAST ----- 86
CHAPTER IX
PORTENTS IN THE HEAVENS—FIERY CROSSES-
FLAMING SWORDS—BLAZING DRAGONS-BLOODY
CROSSES-HAIRY COMETS “ - “ - 95
CHAPTER X
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE-THE INFLUENCE OF
THE STARS ON THE BODY OF MAN, PLANTS AND
HERBS 103
CHAPTER XI
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES-ARAB ASTRO¬
LOGERS-ASTROLOGY IN INDIA AND CHINA - 122
CHAPTER XH
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES - 132
CHAPTER XHI
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY-SIGNI¬
FICATION OF THE PLANETARY HOUR-THE TEM¬
PERAMENTS-THE FAMOUS DR. ARCANDUM - 142
CHAPTER XIV
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS OF THE SIXTEENTH
CENTURY — COPERNICUS - TYCHO BRAHE-
PARACELSUS 152
CONTENTS IX
CHAPTER XV
ASTROLOGY IN THE WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER
AND SPENSER i68
CHAPTER XVI
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS AND THEIR PREDICTIONS - l8o
CHAPTER XVH
ASTROLOGY IN SHAKESPEARe’s PLAYS - - I93
CHAPTER XVHI
A YORKSHIRE PROPHETESS AND A CHESHIRE SEER-
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON - - 203
CHAPTER XIX
ASTROLOGY IN MILTON’s POEMS _ _ _ 216
CHAPTER XX
TWO NOTABLE ASTROLOGERS-JOHN DEE AND
WILLIAM LILLY ------ 223
CHAPTER XXI
SOME ASTROLOGERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH
CENTURY 236
CHAPTER XXH
ASTROLOGY IN THE TIME OF QUEEN ANNE - 244
CHAPTER XXHI
A FAMOUS ASTROLOGER OF THE GEORGIAN ERA-
CHATTERTON AND ASTROLOGY _ _ _ 253
X CONTENTS
ASTROLOGICAL
CHAPTER XXIV
ALMANACKS-EPHEMERIDES- - 260
CHAPTER XXV
ASTROLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY - 27O
CHAPTER XXVI
CONCLUSIONS ON ASTROLOGY - - - - 279
INDEX _______ 289
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Thanks are due to Dr. R. Campbell Thompson,
for his valued assistance, to Miss Caireen Fawcett,
and also to Messrs. Maggs Brothers for kind permission
to reproduce the illuminated miniature which forms
the frontispiece.
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
THE ZODIAC, THE PLANETS AND THE ELEMENTS,
FIRE, AIR, WATER AND EARTH - - Frontispiece
Page
A BABYLONIAN BOUNDARY STONE - -facing 28
CONSTELLATIONS OF THE ZODIAC - - - 31
THE ZODIAC, PLANETS AND SEASONS -facing 34
SYMBOLIC FIGURE OF THE SUN - - „ 60
SYMBOLIC FIGURE OF THE MOON - - „ 62
FRAGMENT OF THE GREEK HOROSCOPE OF PITENIUS
facing 64
ASTROLOGERS MAKING OBSERVATIONS - „ 74
VENUS, MERCURY AND THE MOON - - - 83
AN ASTROLOGER CALCULATING THE NATIVITY AT
THE BIRTH OF A CHILD - - - - 89
AN ASTROLOGER TELLING ’’ THE STARS facing 92
ASTROLOGERS OBSERVING THE HEAVENS - „ 92
FIGURE OF A FEARFUL COMET- - - - 99
ASTROLOGICAL FIGURE XIV CENTURY facing IO4
ASTROLOGICAL FIGURE XVII CENTURY - „ I06
ASTROLOGICAL FIGURE, SHOWING THE SIGNS OF THE
ZODIAC AND THE PARTS OF THE BODY THEY
GOVERN ------- 108
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS SHOWING THE TWELVE
HOUSES - - - ” - - - 114
xiii
XIV LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
ASTROLOGICAL FIGURE SHOWING THE SIGNS OF THE
ZODIAC AND THE PARTS AND ORGANS OF THE
HUMAN BODY THEY GOVERN - facing
FIGURE SHOWING THE VEINS AND PARTS OF THE
BODY FROM WHICH A MAN SHOULD BE BLED -
A VOLVELLE ----- -facing
THE ZODIAC AND CONSTELLATIONS-PTOLEMY’s
ALMAGEST _ _ - _ facing
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS - - - -
AN ASTROLOGER - _ _ - _
ILLUMINATED MINIATURE REPRESENTING MARS IN
THE SIGNS OF ARIES AND SCORPIO facing
ILLUMINATED MINIATURE REPRESENTING MERCURY
IN THE SIGN OF GEMINI, WITH OCCUPATIONS -
facing
facing
TYCHO BRAHE _ _ - _
HOROSCOPE OF TYCHO BRAHE - - - -
TYCHO BRAHE AND HIS GREAT MURAL QUADRANT
AT URANIBORG _ - - facing
MINIATURE IN GOLD AND COLOURS REPRESENTING
THE SUN AND THE MOON BY LUCAS VAN LEIDEN
facing
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS, WITH NATIVITY AND
HOROSCOPE OF MARY, QUEEN OF SCOTS
facing
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS, OR HOROSCOPE OF THE
NATIVITY OF KING HENRY VIII - -
MOTHER SHIPTON ------
MOTHER SHIPTON, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF
INCIDENTS IN HER LIFE - ~ facing
WILLIAM LILLY WITH CARDAN AND GUIDO facing
ii6
ii8
120
122
132
144
148
ISO
154
IS7
160
168
186
190
205
208
228
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xv
Lilly’s hieroglyphic, supposed to foretell
THE VISITATION OF THE PLAGUE - facing 2^0
Lilly’s hieroglyphic, supposed to foretell
THE GREAT FIRE OF LONDON - facing 232
LEAF FROM AN ASTROLOGEr’s NOTE BOOK - „ 242
A MARRIAGE HOROSCOPE - - - ,, 256
HOROSCOPE AND SYMBOLIC REPRESENTATION OF
THE INDEPENDENCE OF AMERICA facing 258
THE SHEPHERDE AND THE STARS _ - - 261
AN ASTROLOGER - - - _ facing 264
■' •
■'5
1^- ■
■>:
.?
;.v- . -
1
CHAPTER I
THE MYSTERY OF ASTROLOGY-THE ROMANCE OF THE
STARS
Astrology, which has been called the foster-
sister of astronomy, is regarded as the earliest of
the occult sciences. Its great antiquity is beyond doubt,
for its shadows merge into those of mythological
lore and the origin of both is lost to us in the mists of
time.
It may be said to bear the same relation to astronomy
that alchemy does to chemistry, and was the connecting
link between magic and the latter science.
There is an ancient legend, that Adam received the
doctrines and mysteries of astrology direct from his
Maker and thus by foreknowing, that the earth was to
be destroyed first by fire and afterwards by water, had
this information engraved upon two pillars, the one of
brick and the other of stone. The brick pillar was
destroyed by the flood ; the pillar of stone, according to
Josephus, was still existing in his day in Syria.
Seth is said to have learnt the science from Adam and
he, as well as Abel, Cain and Noah, were all expert
astrologers. Abraham imparted the knowledge to the
Chaldeans who brought it to Egypt, and thus it spread
17 2
18 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
to ancient Greece and afterwards to Rome and the
West.
Although there may be no truth in this ancient lore,
there can be no doubt that astrology played an important
part in the history of the development of civilisation in
early times and its influence was felt throughout the
world.
Its origin, even in these days, is still a mystery, but as
believers still exist, it will be interesting to try and trace
its source in the pursuit of truth.
How did this doctrine, which was in reality a creed,
arise, develop and captivate the intellects of great men
and philosophers from century to century throughout
the ages ?
The meaning of the word, which is derived from aarip
a star and 'koyoq discourse or doctrine, gives us
some clue to its origin. It probably began in star-
worship, for wherever that cult prevailed, there existed
the germ of astrology and faith in stellar divinities,
which were believed to exert a mysterious influence on
the world and its inhabitants. This, together with the
inherent desire of mankind to pierce the veil which hid
the future, had part in its birth.
Marmonides, the great Jewish philosopher, observes,
for as much as God hath created these stars and spheres
to govern the world, and hath set them on high and hath
imparted honour unto them, and they are ministers
that minister before him, it is meet that men should
laud and glorify and give them honour.”
We know from recent research that the Akkadians
and Sumerians, the earliest dwellers on the Euphrates of
THE ROMANCE OF THE STARS 19
which we have record, were believers in stellar influ¬
ence which was closely allied with the worship of the
stars.
The nature of this influence was largely due to obser¬
vation, and the belief that the heavens were animated by
regular movements and certain invariable laws. Man,
who has ever been ceaseless in his endeavour to penetrate
the mysteries of the future, began to conceive himself
able to foretell what was to happen with the same cer¬
tainty as the coming revolutions and conjunctions of the
stars.
The constantly changing appearance of the heavens
indicated to him the ceaseless activity of the gods, and
since whatever happened on earth was due to divine
powers, this activity represented the preparation for
terrestial phenomena and more particularly those affect¬
ing the fortunes of mankind.
Proclus in his commentary on the Timaeus of Plato,
thus refers to the intelligences or gods in the luminous
essence of the planets: ‘‘ The most celebrated of the
Babylonians very properly call the starry spheres herds ;
whether because these alone, among corporeal magni¬
tudes, are perfectly carried about a centre, or in con¬
formity to the oracles, because they are considered by
them as in a certain respect the bonds and collectors of
physical reasons, which they likewise call in their sacred
discourses herds and by the insertion of a gamma
ANGELS. Where the stars which preside over each
of these herds are considered demons, similar to the
angels, and are called archangels and they are seven in
number.”
20 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
To understand the philosophical principle with which
the ancients linked astrology, one must consider the
great importance they attached to the four so-called
elements viz. Fire, Air, Earth and Water, together with
the properties inherent in each of them and the qualities
they manifest.
Fire was believed to be the greatest active and elastic
element, and the cause of all motion, consequently of all
mutation or change in nature. It was the principle of
all generation and the fountain or primal source of all
forms. Its universal centre was the heavens and its
local in the earth.
Air or the pure ether, was supposed to hold in itself
the substantial principles of all natural things and was
regarded as the universal bond of nature.
Water was the symbol of life and the menstruum of
all things, while earth was the passive element, the womb
in which the other elements operate, and was the final
receptivity of all the heavenly bodies. It was the com¬
mon mother from whence all things sprang, whose fruit¬
fulness was produced by the threefold operation of fire,
air, and water.
It is to these principles Zoroaster refers in the words :
He makes the whole world of fire, and water, and earth,
and all nourishing ether,” and again, ‘‘ we learn that
matter pervades the whole world as the gods also assert.”
The agreements thus indicated between material and
intellectual forms, he calls divine allurements,” and
they are of the same nature on the grand scale of
the universe as the correspondences between the soul
and the body of man.
THE ROMANCE OF THE STARS 21
It is interesting to compare these statements with
those of Cornelius Agrippa, a philosopher of undoubted
intelligence, in the sixteenth century. He writes: ‘‘ The
stars consist equally of the elements of the earthly
bodies and therefore the ideas (powers and nature)
attract each other. Influences only go forth through the
help of the spirit but this spirit is diffused through the
whole universe and is in full accord with the human spirit.
Through the sympathy of similar and the antipathy of
dissimilar things, all creation hangs together ; the things
of a particular world within itself, as well as the con¬
genial things of another world.”
When we gaze up at the starry heavens, which sur¬
pass the loftiest conceptions of the human mind, it is
easy to conceive why the ancients regarded the heavenly
bodies with veneration, erected temples in their honour
and worshipped them as deities.
Poets in all ages have sung of the romance of the stars
that scintillate in the celestial vault, which like a circling
canopy of sapphire hue, stretches overhead from horizon
to horizon. Who can look up at the deep azure of the
sky at night, with its myriads of planets and stars of
varied brilliancy, without wonder and awe ? There we
have poetry written in letters of gold on the purple
vestment of heaven, music in the gliding motion of the
spheres and harmony in the sweep of sun, planet and
satellite or as Milton wrote :
“ With thousand lesser lights dividual holds,
With thousand, thousand stars, that then appeared
Spangling the hemisphere.”
22 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Byron also sang of :
‘‘Ye stars ! which are the poetry of heaven,
If in your bright leaves we could read the fate
Of men and empires—’tis to be forgiven
That, in our aspirations to be great.
Our destinies o’erleap their mortal state
And claim a kindred with you ; for ye are
A beauty and a mystery, and create
In us such love and reverence from afar.
That fortune, fame, power, life, have named
Themselves a star.”
Tennyson in the “ Palace of Art ” thus alludes
to the stars that “ garlanded the heavens ” and
“ Clusters and beds of worlds and bee-like swarms of
Suns and starry streams ;
She saw the snowy poles of moonless Mars
That marvellous round of milky light
Below Orion, and those double stars
Whereof the one more bright
Is circled by the other.”
Like many precious gems of varied hue the con¬
stellations differ in brightness. The beautiful cluster of
the Pleiades or Seven Sisters, were believed to shed their
happy influences on earth and were closely associated
with human destinies in ancient times.
In every region of the globe benign influences were
ascribed to these stars. They were known in Greek
THE ROMANCE OF THE STARS 23
mythology as the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione.
According to tradition, they were supposed to have
died from grief in consequence of the death of their
sisters the Hyades, or on account of the fate of their
father, who for treason, was condemned by Zeus to
bear on his head and hands the vault of heaven, on
the mountains of north-west Africa which perpetuate
his name.
All ancient writers agree, that after their death or
translation, the seven daughters were transformed into
the stars named Alcyone, Electra, Maia, Merope, Sterope,
Taygeta and Celaeno.
They are referred to in the book of Job,^' when God
speaks out of the whirlwind and asks the patriarch:
‘‘ Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades or
loose the bands of Orion ? Canst thou bring forth
Mazzaroth in his season ? or canst thou guide Arcturus
with his sons ? ”
The Greeks were attracted by this cluster of stars at
a very early period. Their heliacal rising was considered
a favourable time for setting out on a voyage and their
midnight culmination, which occurred shortly after the
middle of November, was celebrated in some countries
with festivals.
Mazzaroth alluded to in the book of Job is believed by
some astronomers to refer to Sirius, a star which out¬
shines every other in the firmament.
Its surpassing brilliancy as compared with other
stars has ever rendered it a matter of fascinating
interest.
*Job, chap. XXXVIII verses 31, 33.
24 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
The ancient Egyptians worshipped it as Sothis and
believed it to be the abode of the soul of Isis. •
The races who inhabited the region of the Nile
began their year with the rising of Sirius, and its
appearance was regarded as a forerunner of the rising
of the river with its fertilising flood, which was
attributed to the influence of this brilliant and lustrous
star.
Probably for local reasons it was regarded by the
Romans as a star of evil omen. Its appearance above
the horizon after the summer solstice, was believed
by them to be associated with pestilence and fevers
consequent upon the oppressive heat of the sea¬
son.
The dog-days were reckoned to begin twenty days
before and to continue twenty days after the heliacal
rising of Sirius, the ‘ dog-stark During that period a
peculiar influence was believed to be diffused which
caused diseases in men and madness among dogs. Cer¬
tain drugs and medicines were supposed to have dele¬
terious effects if administered during this period, a
belief which persisted down to the end of the seventeenth
century.
Homer thus alludes to the star :
“ Whose burning breath
Taints the red air with fevers, plagues and death.”
Sirius is said to emit seventy times the quantity of
light and to be three times more massive than the Sun,
THE ROMANCE OF THE STARS 25
and at the distance of this star, fifty billions of miles,
the Sun would shrink to the dimensions of a star of the
third magnitude.
Another of the remarkable and variable stars is
Mira, ^ the wonderful,’ in the constellation of Cetus, which
was first observed by David Fabricius in the sixteenth
century.
When at its maximum brilliancy it shines for two or
three weeks as a star of the second magnitude. It then
begins gradually to wane and at the end of three months
becomes invisible. It thus remains for five months, then
reappears and during the three months ensuing, regains
by degrees its former brilliancy.
Algol, the demon in the constellation of Perseus which
adorned the head of Medusa, is one of the variable stars
with a sinister reputation and astrologers ascribed to it
m.any evil influences. For about two days and thirteen
hours it is visible as a star of the second magnitude but
then begins to decline, and in about four hours sinks to
the dimensions of a fourth magnitude star, and remains
in this condition for twenty minutes. It then increases
gradually, until the expiration of four hours it regains its
former brilliancy which it retains for two days and
thirteen hours, then again goes through the same cycle
of changes.
The colours emitted by various stars, the significance
of which will be referred to later, may be compared to
those of precious stones. Some, like Sirius, have been
compared to the sparkle and flash of the diamond of
yellow, blue and red, others such as Antares have a ruddy
hue similar to the ruby, while the topaz, emerald, aqua-
26 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
marine and sapphire may all be said to be represented
in the galaxy of the heavens.
The romance of the stars was interwoven with mytho¬
logy and so became associated with the art of fore¬
telling the future and other branches of astrology.
CHAPTER II
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC
Both mystery and romance have ever been
associated with the Zodiac, that imaginary girdle
encircling the earth through which the sun, the moon
and the planets pass during the year. The word is
derived from the Greek, meaning a little animal. Its
division into signs or parts is attributed to the Sumerian
and Akkadian races that peopled the hills and valleys
on the banks of the Euphrates at a very early period.
Originally the Zodiacal signs consisted of Taurus the
bull. Cancer the tortoise or crab, Virgo probably the
moon goddess, Scorpio the scorpion, Capricorn the goat-
man goat-fish, and Pisces the fisherman. Later came
Aries the ram, Gemini the twins, Leo the lion, Libra the
balance or scales and Sagittarius the bowman or archer.
To these Aquarius the water-carrier was added which
completed the twelve signs.
Many and various reasons have been suggested for the
choice of these symbols from time to time, and although
some appear to form a probable solution of the mystery,
none of the conjectures are entirely satisfactory.
Pluche and Dupuis endeavoured to establish the
principles of an astro-mythology by tracing the progress
of the Moon through the twelve signs in a series of ad-
27
28 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
ventures which may be compared to the wanderings of
Isis.
It should be remembered that the first observers were
men who depended for their subsistence on a familiarity
with the changes of the seasons. They watched the stars
singly and in groups and thus probably began to associate
them with familiar objects, animate and inanimate.
There seems to be little doubt, that the flocks and
herds first suggested such names as the bull and the
ram. The figures and shapes of men, horses, birds and
fishes would be naturally recognised, also the implements
of husbandry like the plough and the weapons of the
huntsman. Their enemies the lion, and the bear, and
their friend the dog, suggested names for some of the
constellations and finally the altar, on which the first
fruits of harvest and vintage were presented or the
flesh of lambs or goats consumed by sacrificial fire,
would be figured by the fanciful eye among the orbs of
heaven.
Others attribute the origin of some of the signs to the
Egyptians and the Greeks. The latter peopled the sky
with their fabulous heroes and poetical myths. Thus
among the constellations, Sagittarius the archer was
attributed to the centaur, and Aries the ram, on account
of its association with the golden fleece. Then we have
Perseus and Andromeda and Orion the gigantic hunter,
all derived from Greek mythology.
On the other hand there is evidence that certain of the
signs are of greater antiquity as instanced in the Scorpion,
which is carved on some of the Babylonian boundary
stones which date back to the Kassite Period. There is a
A BAH^'LOXIAN BOUNDARY STONE SHOWING
ZODIACAL AND PLANETARY SKiNS. B.C. iioo
(Briiish Museum)
Facing page 2S
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC 29
legend recorded in the Assyrian tablets, in which a scor¬
pion man who guarded the gate leading to the Masu
mountain played an important part. He and his wife
watched the sun at rising and setting.
On some of the ancient Babylonian boundary stones,
there are representations in miniature, of the aspect
which the heavens presented to the people of that period.
The disks of the Sun and Moon together with Venus—
Ishtar are represented, as also the symbols of the Scor¬
pion, the Bird, the Dog, the thunder-bolt of Adad, the
Mace, the Dragon who embraces in his folds half the
entire firmament, the Tortoise and the Archer.
Long before the time of Assur-bani-pal the eighth
month was known to the Babylonians as ‘‘ the month
of the star of scorpio,” the tenth month belonged to the
‘‘ star of the goat,” and the twelfth to the ‘‘ star of the
Fish of Ea.”
There is an allusion to Gemini in a Babylonian tablet
recording an observation about 273 B.C. The trans¬
lation is given as follows :
‘‘ On the 18th—cloudy and dark—on the night of the
19th in the morning the moon was distant about 6
ammat from the westerly Twin.”
As the Babylonian doctrines spread to other countries
they became grafted into native beliefs and this is shown
in the Zodiac adopted by the Egyptians who substituted
the hippopotamus, the jackal and the thigh, for draco,
the little bear and the great bear. In some inscriptions
also the crocodile is represented in place of the hippo¬
potamus, as it was regarded as sacred by some local
tribes.
30 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
In India and China, local animals and divinities were
introduced in place of some of the Babylonian signs, and
although the Chinese possessed a number of independent
symbols representing various constellations, the Baby¬
lonian astrology shows its impress on their Zodiac.
The Persians, Arabs and the Romans, however,
adopted the symbols employed by the Greeks, and these
came down to the period of the Christian era.
The remarkable manner in which the principles
of astrology spread throughout the world and even
reached the primitive centre of American civilisation,
is evidenced in the Zodiac of the early races of
Mexico.
It is a curious circumstance and a problem that has
not yet been solved, that seven of the twenty days con¬
stituting the Aztec month, bore names apparently
borrowed from the Chinese horary signs. The Hare,
Monkey, Dog and Serpent re-appeared without a change,
but for the Tiger, Crocodile and Hen, which were un¬
known in America, the Ocelot, Lizard and Eagle were
substituted. The Aztec calendar dated from the seventh
century but the Zodiacal tradition is thought to be
much earlier.
Of the various theories advanced as to the origin of
the symbolic meanings of the signs, some writers call
attention to the fact, that in a few, there is a striking
natural resemblance between the form portrayed and the
actual arrangement of the stars.
Thus,” states one, the stars being regarded as a
‘ heavenly flock,’ the star which opens the year is
naturally the leader, the stars which compose it have no
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC 31
actual resemblance to the animal, but the stars of the
constellation were ultimately grouped in accordance with
the animal shape.
The Bull which was originally the first of the Zodiacal
signs is a lunar re-duplication and like the Ram probably
first consisted of a single star.
Mrico dancer
u *
^ 4L
^ %
%co ^irgo ^cozpto
^ ^
%
Sagitaii^iCapiicomueBquamis
^
CONSTELLATIONS OF THE ZODIAC
From a woodcut, 1515
‘‘ The two great stars, Castor and Pollux, side by side,
naturally represent the Twins.
“ The Crab was the emblem of darkness, which
seizes, swallows or guards the light and the light
powers.
32 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
“ The Lion was connected with the hottest part of
the year which was a re-duplication of the leonine
Sun.
“ Virgo was the Moon goddess, while the stars lend
themselves to an appropriate figure to represent the
Scorpion.
‘‘ With respect to Sagittarius, the configuration
suggests a bow, hence the archer. The form of Capri¬
corn, the goat-fish, a watery sign, represents the sun
of winter climbing out of the abyss of night, the
‘‘ Aquarius the water-pourer with his urn was appro¬
priated to the rainy season, while Pisces, the fishes, which
are a dark nocturnal sign of the watery region, are a re¬
duplication of the solar fish as hidden in the depths of
ocean and underworld.”
But ingenious and interesting as some of these con¬
jectures are, on examination they prove to be by no
means convincing. Thus while Virgo as represented by
the Babylonians in the form of an ear of corn, being one
of the signs of the harvest season, is appropriate to the
Moon goddess, Capricorn, the sign out of which the sun
emerged at the end of the year, is also more likely to be
a re-duplication of the fish-god Ea who was supposed by
the Babylonians, to have arisen from the deep, than a
symbol of the sun of winter climbing out of the abyss of
night.
Libra, the balance, is figured in both the Egyptian and
the Roman Zodiacs and Sagittarius is represented in
the early Zodiacs of India and Egypt.
In Greek mythology the latter is said to be represented
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC 33
by Cheiron the centaur who, according to the legend re¬
lated by Ovid, was slain by Hercules with a poisoned
arrow. Cheiron, realising that the wound was mortal,
begged Jupiter to deprive him of immortality and he was
therefore placed among the constellations.
The Arabs called Sagittarius the bow and in the Hindu
Zodiac the name signifies an arrow.
Scorpio, one of the earliest signs represented on the
Babylonian boundary stones, was called by the Arabs,
the scorpion’s heart.” The Greeks associated it with
the scorpion which sprang out of the earth at the
command of Juno and stung Orion the mighty hunter,
of which wound he died.”
Taurus, the prince and leader of the celestial hosts ”
is thus alluded to by Tayler :
I mark stern Taurus through the twilight grey.
The glinting of thy horn.
And sullen front, uprising large and dim
Bent to the starry Hunter’s sword at bay.”
In all the ancient Zodiacs Taurus apparently began
the year. The Apis bull of Egypt was looked upon by
some as a living representation of the Zodiacal bull.
According to Greek mythology he was the bull that
carried Europa over the seas to the country which
derived from her its name. The Greeks represented
Virgo as Ceres holding in her hands the emblems of the
harvest, the Egyptians associated her with Isis who is
also represented as carrying ears of corn and in the
Zodiacs of Denderah and Thebes she is without wings.
3
34 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
The Egyptians adopted from the Greeks the twelve-fold
division of the Zodiac substituting, however, many of
their own symbols. Thus Aries became the fleece,
Gemini two plants, Cancer a scarab, Leo a knife, Libra
was sometimes the mountain of the sun, Sagittarius an
arrow, Scorpio a serpent, Capricorn, Life or a Mirror
as an image of life, and Aquarius water.
It appears probable, that the Greek Zodiac was intro¬
duced into India together with some of the doctrines of
astrology at an early period, and from thence, according
to some authorities, it was transmitted to China and
Tibet by Buddhist missionaries.
The characters or symbols used by astrologers to
denote the twelve signs are probably of Greek origin,
but although the meaning of some of them is obvious on
account of their resemblance to the sign they represent,
with others the connexion is obscure. The symbol for
Aries represents the head and horns of a ram T ; that
of Taurus the head and horns of a bull B ; Gemini is
that of two persons standing side by side II ; Leo the
head and mane of a lion Q ; Libra the beam of a
balance — ; Sagittarius an arrow f ; while Aquarius
is represented by two wavy lines similar to the Egyptian
hieroglyph for water
Every sign was supposed to possess a virtue peculiar
to itself and the whole Zodiac was of fundamental im¬
portance to the astrologer.
At a later period, each sign was believed to preside
over some nation, kingdom or city. Over individuals
they exercised an influence on their personal appearance,
temperament, character, health, fortune and destiny,
THE ZODIAC, PLANETS AND SEASONS
From a xvoodcut, 75/5
Facin:i paye
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC 35
while in the Middle Ages, plants, herbs, animals and
mineral objects were believed to be also affected and
ruled by the various signs of the Zodiac.
Judicial astrology depended for its predictions upon
the position of the planets in the twelve houses ” at
the moment of an infant’s birth, but the position of the
sun in the Zodiac had also to be taken into consideration,
as the signs had a special astrological significance in
connexion with the destiny of the child, for good or
for evil.
Astrologers divided the twelve signs into three
groups according to the belief of early philosophy, which
they called the Four Triplicities. The first, denoted as
the ‘‘ Fiery ” and considered masculine, included Aries,
Leo, and Sagittarius. The second termed ‘‘ Airy,” were
Gemini, Libra and Aquarius and were also masculine.
The third or Earthy,” which included Taurus, Virgo,
and Capricorn were regarded as feminine, as also the
fourth group called “ Watery,” which consisted of Can¬
cer, Scorpio and Pisces.
Certain qualities or powers attributed to the signs were
believed to affect the human body. Thus Aries was
regarded as hot and dry and produced a lean, spare and
strong person. Taurus was cold and dry and induced a
rather brutal and melancholy temperament, slow to
anger. Gemini was hot and moist and produced a fair,
tall and straight body and sanguine temperament.
Cancer was cold and moist, and persons born under it
became pale, short of stature and were phlegmatic.
Leo was fiery, hot and dry and imparted a large body, a
strong voice and a bold and resolute character. Virgo
36 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
was cold and dry and produced a slender body, of brown
complexion, but the person would be witty and studious.
Libra was sanguine, hot and moist and produced a tall,
well-built and handsome body of a friendly and kind
disposition. Scorpio was cold and phlegmatic and pro¬
duced a robust but corpulent body with short neck and
thick legs, and a thoughtful and reserved disposition.
Sagittarius was fiery and dry and produced a well-
formed body, with a ruddy complexion and active habits.
Capricorn was cold, dry and melancholy, and produced a
thin, narrow-chested body but a witty and talented
disposition, upright in character. Aquarius was hot and
moist, and imparted a robust, strong body of sanguine
character but of pale countenance. Pisces was cold,
moist and phlegmatic, and produced persons of short
stature with fleshy and ill-shaped bodies and of a weak
and vacillating disposition.
If parts of two signs occupied the ascendant to¬
gether, in casting the nativity, a portion of the body
would belong to one sign and the remainder to
another.
Each sign of the Zodiac was associated with certain
colours. Thus Aries was white and red; Taurus, red
mixed with citron; Gemini, red and white mixed; Cancer,
green or russet; Leo, red or green; Virgo, black spotted
with blue; Libra, black or dark brown; Scorpio, dark
brown; Sagittarius, light green or olive; Capricorn, black
or very dark brown; Aquarius, sky blue; and Pisces,
pure white or glistening light.
The most important powers attributed to the signs,
were the influence they were believed to effect on the
THE MYSTERY OF THE ZODIAC 37
various parts and internal organs of the human body.
This doctrine was a later development and will be des¬
cribed in detail when we come to deal with the associa¬
tion of astrology and medicine.
CHAPTER III
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA OR WISE MEN OF THE
EAST-STAR-WORSHIP-BABYLONIAN AND ASSYRIAN
ASTROLOGY
IT is generally admitted that the first correct astrono¬
mical observations were made by the Babylonians.
From them also we have the early records of astrology,
the foundation of which they attributed to the god Mar-
duk or Bel, who according to Berossus, created the Sun,
Moon, Stars and the five planets.
They recorded eclipses, and made observations of the
rising and setting of the heavenly bodies over two
thousand years before the Christian era.
Considering the stars above them as the vice-regents
of the Great Supreme, they watched them pathing the
heavens,” and began to identify the fate of nations and
individuals with the power and will of the mighty spirits
who inhabited them.
The Chaldeans of the Old Testament became known
as the wise men, who devoted themselves to the study
of the heavens and to acquiring the wisdom of the gods.
There seems little doubt that astrology had its birth
in Chaldea, and each race that conquered it adopted
some of the doctrines.
38
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA 39
Strabo who died in A.D. 24, records, that the people who
inhabited a country near the borders of the Persian Gulf,
were skilled in astronomy and the casting of horoscopes,
and their reputation for possessing magical powers be¬
came so widespread, that the very name Chaldean, from
a very early period, became synonymous with astrologer
and magician. Even as late as the time of Alexander, the
Chaldean astrologers were held in high esteem and
regarded as men of importance. His court is said to
have ‘‘ swarmed with astrologers, sooth-sayers and
prognosticators.”
They are said to have been the inventors of the
gnomon, and to have been the first to divide the day into
twenty-four hours.
Their priest-hood consisted of the learned men of
religious knowledge who were also practitioners of magic
and they believed that the stars ruled the destinies of
Kings and Empires and the rulers consulted them as to
the most favourable moment for the execution of their
projects.
‘‘ Astrology was the mistress of the world. It was
taught secretly in the temples and its adepts became
almost a distinct class or society,” says Maspero.
‘‘The occupation was a lucrative one and the astrolo¬
gers went about the country drawing up horoscopes and
arranging schemes of birthday prognostications.”
They had mapped out the fixed stars in constellations ;
Northern, Zodiacal and Southern ; the ecliptic into a
lunar Zodiac and a solar Zodiac of twelve asterisms.
They had calculated that the true length of the solar
year was 365 days and a quarter (nearly), and had
40 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
divided the period of 24 hours into twelve beru (double
hours) in accordance with the divisions of the equator,
each of which was divided into sixty minutes and each
minute into sixty seconds.
Thus it is recorded that: ‘‘ The day and the night were
balanced, there were six beru of day and six beru of
night.”
Finally, they believed that the Kosmos was sustained
by Divine providence, and that the movements of the
stars did not occur by chance but by the determinate
will of the gods.
All this we know from the tablets that once formed
part of the library of the Babylonian King Assur-bani-
pal who flourished 668 years before the birth of Christ.
The astrologers continually watched the courses
of the stars ; they saw them appear and disappear, hide
themselves under the earth to return at the other
extremity of the horizon, then rising again to a new life,
always victorious over the darkness but afterwards
losing themselves in the brilliance of the sun.
They followed the windings of the planets and won¬
dered at the eclipses of the moon, which they thought
was due to the attacks of seven evil spirits who dimmed
her light.
To them the influence of the stars upon the world
seemed undeniable. Did not the rising and setting of
the sun every day bring heat and cold as well as light
and darkness ? Did not the change of the seasons
correspond to a certain state of the sky ? they probably
argued. It was not, therefore, to be wondered that they
should also conclude that the stars had certain con-
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA 41
nexion with the phenomena of nature and the events of
human life.
Plutarch alludes to the attributes which the Chaldeans
gave to the planets regarding their influence on mankind.
He states: Respecting the planets which they call
' ‘birth-ruling divinities’, the Chaldeans laydown that
two (Venus and Jupiter) are propitious and two (Mars
; and Saturn) are malign, and three (Sun, Moon and
I Mercury) are of a middle nature and one common.”
Their predictions were partly founded upon frequent
; coincidences which they had been able to observe, hence
! their belief that the planets exercised sometimes good
• and sometimes evil influences.
The passage in St. Matthew where the wise men say :
‘ “ We have seen his star,” points to a belief in a particular
! star indicating a birth. “ In Bethlehem,” said the
I prophet, “ should be born a Saviour and we have seen
1 his star in the east.” It is evident that the star travelling
■ west would lead them across the star-lit plains of Judea.
I The astrologers or wise men probably arrived six hours
j after the birth, when the star had reached the meridian
j of Bethlehem. How they drew their deductions from
j which they made their prediction is a mystery, but that
j they were able to fore-tell certain events in a remarkable
way is proved by early records.
It will be interesting here to mention the names which
j the Sumer-Akkadians, those primitive pastoral people
of early times, who inhabited the valleys and hills near
the Euphrates, gave to the planets and stars. Some
I difference of opinion, however, still exists as to the correct
appropriation of the names.
42 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
It is evident how they reflect the calling of
these races, who as shepherds of flocks and tenders
of herds, were constant observers of the heavenly
bodies.
They are thus recorded :
Ilu Sin u ilu Samas
The god the Moon and the god the Sun
Ilu
The god
Kakkab
The star
Kakkab
The star
Lu Bad Sag Us
(Saturn)
Umun-pa-(
(Jupiter)
Dilbat
(Venus)
Lu-bad
ilu
the god
Kakkab
The star.
Lu Bad Gu Ud
(Mercury)
Kakkab Zal Bat-a-nu (Mars) Sibu kakkabani Lu-bad
The star
Nature-worship was the natural religion of these early
tenders of flocks and herds. As the Sun tinted the
dawn and cast its beneficent rays over the valleys and
then sank to rest in crimson glory behind the hills, it
impressed them by its beauty and power. At night the
planets of varied brilliancy attracted their attention, and
they probably began to draw conclusions from those
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA 43
I which were in the ascendant at the time of birth and so
I to associate them with human beings.
Saturn seemed to indicate to them sadness of tempera-
I ment, Venus vivacity and brightness, Jupiter geniality
: and good nature, while Mars was associated with bravery
i and warlike proclivities.
The following beautiful ‘‘ Hymn to the setting Sun ”
i sung by the priests in ancient Babylon, was translated
I by T. G. Pinches.
“ Sun-god in the midst of heaven
At thy setting,
May the latch of the glorious heavens
Speak thee peace.
May heaven’s door to thee be gracious,
May the Director thy beloved messenger direct thee.
j
Lord of E-bara, may the road of thy path be pros¬
perous.
Sun-god cause thy highway to prosper
Going the everlasting road to thy rest.
Sun-god, thou art he who is judge of the land
Causing her decisions to be prosperous.”
The Babylonians were the first to erect the edifice of a
cosmic religion based upon science, which brought human
activity and human relations with the astral divinities
into the general harmony of organised nature. A scheme
of correspondence between the phenomena in the heavens
and occurrences on earth was worked out. Babylon
became the mother of astrology where it reigned supreme,
44 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
from whence it afterwards spread over the world, sub¬
duing the cults of Egypt and transforming the ancient
paganism of Greece and Rome.
Their astrologers observed the conjunctions of the
Moon with the planets, and of the planets with each
other and their situation in the signs of the Zodiac.
They attributed a particularly powerful influence to
the stars they observed moving unceasingly over the
vault of heaven, which they conceived to be a solid dome
quite close to the earth. These brilliant objects inspired
them with superstitious fear and in their mysterious
and complicated groupings, they saw fantastic shapes
of polymorphous monsters, the forms of sacred animals,
imaginary personages and strange objects, some of which
survive in the figures of our celestial sphere to-day.
They noted the most important social or political
events which had accompanied or followed certain
aspects of the heavens, and these as we shall see later,
they carefully recorded on their tablets of clay, together
with all the astronomical phenomena from which they
derived their prognostications.
Divination by means of the stars was thus elevated
above all other methods, and the art of the observation
of the heavens, which had been gradually perfected by
the priests, became in their hands a body of astral
doctrine which permeated the entire Babylonian region.
Thus,” says Jastrow, the star-worship which devel¬
oped in connexion with the science of the observa¬
tion of the heavens was at the bottom a new
religion.” With the belief which attributed to the Sun
and Moon a powerful effect on the earth, a preponder-
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA 45
ating influence over the determination of destiny had
also been assigned to the five planets which traversed
the constellations of the Zodiac. These became identified
with the principal figures of the Babylonian and Assy¬
rian pantheon.”
The fixed stars, singly or grouped in constella¬
tions, were assigned less important lords, heroes or
! genii.
To the Sun, Moon and five planets they gave the name
I of Interpreters ”, as they were believed to make mani-
I fest to man the purposes of the gods.
The twelve signs of the Zodiac and the thirty-six
I decans they called the ‘‘Counsellor gods”, and outside
I the Zodiac, twenty-four stars, twelve in the Northern
; and twelve in the Southern hemisphere, were termed the
i “ Judges ” of the living and the dead,
i From the movements of the heavenly bodies which
j had been observed from remote times, they professed
• to foretell hurricanes, rains, droughts, and the good or
evil fortune that was to come to countries, nations, kings
and individuals.
They admitted that the principle of life, which warms
and animates the human body, was the same essence as
the fires of heaven. From these the soul was said to
I receive its qualities at birth, and at that moment, the
stars determined its fate here below. In this belief, we
j have the key note of astrology.
From the Assyrian tablets which date from about
! 722 B.C. we know by that time they had traced the
ecliptic, that is the line which the Sun seems to follow
in the sky during its annual course, and they had divided
46 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
it into four parts corresponding to the four seasons.
They drew up a list of constellations corresponding to
the various months and from the fixed, stars distinguished
the planets to the number of five, and to these were
added the Sun and the Moon.
Diodorus Siculus states that, the Babylonian priests
observed the position of certain stars in order to cast
horoscopes, and that they interpreted dreams and
derived omens from the movements of birds and from
eclipses and earthquakes.”
The Assyrians assimilated the doctrines of the earlier
Babylonians and their theology was a branch of astro-
logy.
With them the Zodiac formed the twelve houses
through which the day star passed successively during
the year. The twelve signs were ruled by as many gods
as they had of the corresponding months under their
influence. It is stated that each month was divided into
three parts making in the whole thirty-six sub-divisions
to which preceded as many stars. Of these thirty-six
gods, one half ruled over the things which happened
above the earth and the others presided over things under
the earth.
The Sun, the Moon and the five planets occupied the
highest rank, and among the latter, Saturn was regarded
as the most elevated aster as it was the most distant of
all.
The Assyrians attributed to each planet a particular
deity and name. To them Jupiter was Marduk, Mars
was Nergal, and Mercury was Nebo. These were termed
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA 47
masculine, while the Moon, which they named Sin, and
Venus, Dilbat, were the feminine asters.
The fame of the astrologers of Assyria was great
throughout the land,” says an early writer.
A story is told of Alexander how when walking one
day along the shore towards Babylon, he felt impelled
to consult the wise men and consult them about the
future.
Do not enter that town,” replied the astrologer he
questioned. It is evilly fatal to thee. Be warned in
time for the stars are ever true. As their light scintillates
and makes our nights a marvel of truth and glory, so the
truth of their language shall eternally shine to him who
knows how to read them.
‘‘ Flee from this town where thy fatal star reigns.”
Alexander was deeply impressed by this warning and
for a time turned aside from Babylon. But later he
entered the city where he came by his death.
The night before he died, according to a chronicler,
some of his leading generals kept vigil in the fane of
Serapis waiting for a favourable sign from the god, but
in the first half of June, 323 B.C. the great conqueror
passed away and a deep silence fell on Babylon for four
days and four nights.”
From Mesopotamia the astral-mythological cult of
Babylon penetrated the Orient and to Egypt, Greece
and Rome from whence it spread among the nations
of the west.
Among the Hebrews the Chaldeans were the chief
astrologers mentioned in the Old and the New Testa-
48 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
merits and what knowledge the Jews had of_ the subject
doubtless came from that source.
The planets and constellations are first alluded to in
the history of Joseph, where in the second dream, he
beheld the Sun and the Moon and the eleven stars which
made obeisance to him.” There are also Jewish
traditions assigning a constellation to each of the tribes
of Israel.
According to Josephus, each of the twelve precious
stones that formed the High Priest’s breast-plate bore
the name of a tribe, connecting them with the signs of
the Zodiac.
And for the twelve stones,” he states, ‘‘ whether we
understand by them, the months, or whether we under¬
stand the like number of the signs of that circle which
the Greeks call the Zodiac, we shall not be mistaken in
their meaning.”
The character of the devices are said to have been
borne on the standards carried by the four divisions of
the host in the march through the wilderness.
Each division consisted of three tribes, and were
known by the name of the principal tribe which formed
it. The camp of Judah was on the east, and the division
of Judah led on the march. The camp of Reuben was
on the south, that of Ephraim on the west and that of
Dan on the north, which brought up the rear.
The traditional devices, like totems, shown on the four
standards, are said to have been a lion for Judah, a man
and a river for Reuben, a bull for Ephraim and an
eagle and a serpent for Dan. It is asserted by some, that
in these four standards, the lion, man, ox and eagle.
THE ASTROLOGERS OF CHALDEA 49
:li
and in two cases an additional symbol recall certain
symbols of the constellations. Thus, the man and a
river, the device of Reuben represented Aquarius the
water-pourer, the lion of Judah, Leo ; the bull of
Ephraim, Taurus ; and the eagle and serpent, two of the
constellations.
Solomon was credited with a knowledge of astrology
as well as of magic. This is based on the passage
in the Book of the wisdom of Solomon ” in the Apocry¬
pha ; ‘‘For (God) Himself gave me unerring knowledge
of the things that are—the circuits of years and the
positions of stars ;—the thoughts of men, the diver¬
sities of plants and the virtues of roots.”
Apparently in Solomon’s time, astrology and magic
had merged into one. The Jewish prayers to the planets
are said to date from the third or second century before
the Christian era. In them, both special angels and
demons are assigned to the different bodies. The
association of angels with the planets was a connecting
link with magic. The angel Masleh was said to be the
medium by means of which the power and influence of
Jah descended into the Zodiac. Sabbathi was associated
in a similar way with Saturn.
The angel Zadkiel transmitted power to Jupiter, and
Gamaliel or Geburah, descended through the sphere of
Mars and imparted fortitude in time of war and affliction.
Raphael was associated with the Sun, giving heat and
brightness to it, and Michael with Mercury, giving be¬
nignity and intelligence. Adonai who governed the
angel Aniel was associated with Venus, and Gabriel with
the Moon. These planetary demons and angels were
50 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
supposed to regulate the destinies of men for evil or
good, and the magicians claimed to control them.
The Sabeans believed, that every planet was inhabited
by a spirit as a star-soul, and that the decyphering of the
figures of the conjunction and opposition of the planets,
made the prediction of man’s future destiny possible.
CHAPTER IV
THE ASTROLOGERS OF NINEVEH AND BABYLON AND THEIR
PREDICTIONS 5000 YEARS AGO
Many of the official records of the early astrologers
of Nineveh and Babylon are still extant among
the clay tablets inscribed in cuneiform characters now
preserved in the British Museum.
Some of these interesting ancient documents which
throw a light on the methods employed by the early
astrologers have been translated by Dr. R. Campbell
Thompson, to whom we owe much of our knowledge of
Babylonian science.
He tells us, that when Assur-bani-pal, King of Assyria,
who flourished 668 to 626 B.C., added to the Royal
library at Nineveh, his contribution of tablets included
many series of documents which related exclusively to
the astrology of the ancient Babylonians, who in turn
had borrowed it from the Sumerian invaders of the
country and that some of these probably date back to
the time of Sargon I about 2800 B.C.
The important part that astrology played in the
religious system of the Babylonians is evidenced from
the passage in Isaiah: ^^Let now the astrologers, the star¬
gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up and save
thee from these things that shall come upon thee.’’*
* Isaiah, chap, xlvii, ver. 12
51
52 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
The astrologer who could fore-tell prosperity and good¬
will for the nation, and prognosticate disasters or calami¬
ties for their enemies, was a man whose words were
regarded with reverence and awe. They were inscribed
as treasures to be preserved for all time. Nothing was
too great or too small to become the subject of an
astrological forecast and every event, from a national
calamity, such as famine or disaster to the army, down
to the appearance of the humblest peasant’s last-born
child, was seriously considered and proved to be the
result of causes which had already been duly recognised.
The heads of the astrologers were men of high rank
and position and their office was hereditary. Under the
chief astrologer were other minor officials. The twelve
signs of the Zodiac are thus alluded to in a text from the
fifth tablet of the Creation legend :
“ He (Marduk ?) prepared the mansions of the great
gods.
He fixed the stars, even the Lumasi to correspond to
them.
He ordained the year, appointing the signs of the
Zodiac
For each of the twelve months he fixed three stars.”
Marduk is here represented as setting in order the
heavenly .bodies. He allots the stations to the great
gods, dividing them into the constellations of the Zodiac
and the months of the year, so that every month had its
tutelary deity.
Then he divides the constellations of the Zodiac
appropriating to each its special sign.
THE ASTROLOGERS OF NINEVEH AND BABYLON 53
Although the Babylonian astrologers deduced omens
from all the celestial bodies known to them, it is evident
that the Moon was the chief source from which they
were derived.
The shape of the Moon’s horns was examined with
great care and it was noted whether they were pointed,
“equal” or “unequal”. Thus it is recorded, “if the
I horns are pointed, the King will overcome whatever he
I ‘ goreth ’, or ‘ when the Moon rideth in a chariot the yoke
: of the King of Akkad will prosper.’ ”
I The agricultural character of the words used here are
i significant of the people of Akkad.
Halos, both of the Sun and the Moon also formed
'i sources from which omens were derived. Two halos
t were known, one called tarbasu and the other supuru,
: Both these words mean “ sheep-fold,” because the
j Moon was regarded as the shepherd of the stars or the
celestial sheep within the halo.
The influence of the Moon on sheep and cattle upon
; earth is thus described : “ Thy word 0 Moon-god maketh
I sheep-fold and cattle-pen to flourish.”
A number of omens were derived from the entrances
l| of planets into the signs of the Zodiac, and the influence
of the stars in the various parts of it was thought to be
very important.
’ The signs where the gods stood in the Zodiac were
: called manzalti or “ stations.”
Dark clouds were said to herald wind, earthquakes
; to portend destruction and the invasion of enemies, while
b eclipses typified disturbance.
; As portents of births it is interesting to find that
54 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
monsters were regarded as omens. Thus, in one, increase
of power is augured to the King because a sow brought
forth a pig which had eight legs and two tails.
It was believed, that when the horns of the Moon faced
equally, there would be secure dwelling for the land.”
When at the Moon’s appearance its horns pointed away
from one another, there would be an overthrowing of
fortresses and a downfall of garrisons.” Another text
states : “ There will be obedience and goodwill in the
land when the Moon at its appearance is very bright.
The crops of the land will prosper.”
Another event which is fore-told from the position of
a planet :
“ Mercury at sunset has stood (?) within kumal. It is
lucky for the King my lord.”—“ The King of Aharru
will be slain with the sword.”
Prognostications from halos are numerous, thus when
a halo surrounds the Moon and Jupiter stands within
it, the King of Akkad will be besieged.”
Dark halos round the Moon were regarded by the
Assyrians as indications of rain and bad weather.
‘‘ When a halo surrounds the Moon and Regulus
stands within, women will bear male children.”
When a halo surrounds the Moon and Mars stands
within it, there will be destruction of cattle in all lands,
the planting of dates will not prosper.”
The weather was frequently fore-cast from the planets,
thus it is recorded: ‘‘When Mercury disappears at sun¬
set it will rain as it disappears.”
“ When a halo surrounds the Sun and its opening
points to the south, a south wind will blow.”
1 THE ASTROLOGERS OF NINEVEH AND BABYLON 55
“ Mars has assumed a brilliance, Lubad-dir is for
I prosperity of people.”
“ When Jupiter goes forth with Venus the prayer of
) the land will reach the heart of the gods.”
The significance attached to the position of the planets
i in the signs of the Zodiac is noticeable in the following
1 texts :
When Mars approaches Gemini, a King will die and
1 there will be hostility.”
“ When Mars approaches Scorpio, the prince will die
: by a scorpion’s sting and his son after him will take the
! throne.”
The influence of the stars on the fate of the ruling
I monarch is evidenced in the following :
‘‘ When Leo makes its stars to shine, let the King
! wherever he goes, guard himself.
‘‘ When Leo is dark, lions and jackals will rage and
the traffic of Aharru will be hindered.”
The weather and other prognostications are indicated
in the following :
‘‘ When Jupiter stands fast in the morning, hostile
Kings will be fortunate. There will be copious rains,
plentiful floods in Akkad, corn ‘and seasame will be
plentiful.”
‘‘ When the Moon occults Jupiter, that year a king
will die. When Jupiter enters the midst of the Moon,
the market of the land will be low.”
A further allusion to prognostication from monsters
is made in the text : When a hermaphrodite is born,
the son of the palace will rule the land (or) the King
will capture,”
56 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
In another it is recorded that, ‘‘ When a foetus has
eight legs and two tails, the prince of the kingdom will
seize power.”
It is noticeable throughout the astrological tablets of
the Babylonians and Assyrians that no mention is made
of the influence of the signs of the Zodiac in connexion
with disease and the parts of the body of man they were
supposed to govern, an attribute which played such a
prominent part in astrology at a later period.
CHAPTER V
ASTROLOGY IN ANCIENT EGYPT AND GREECE
The principles on which Egyptian astrology rest
are almost identical with the Babylonian and show
that the doctrines of the wise men of the East pene¬
trated into Egypt at a very early period.
The priests of the Pharaohs are said to have been in¬
structed in astrology by the Chaldeans and practised
magic in connexion with it by similar methods.
There is an ancient Egyptian tradition that Thoth
was the earliest teacher of astrology, and that its origin
goes back to the Sacred Books which he is said to have
inscribed for instruction in science, but there is no
foundation for the legend.
The Egyptian priests held the secrets and powers to
perform prodigies which worked on the imagination of
the people and they made predictions from the stars.
A knowledge of the heavenly bodies was an integral
part of their theology and the worship of the Sun, Ra,
extended throughout the country.
They established the undivided sovereignty and
primacy of Ra, hence ‘‘ the Sun became the conductor
of the cosmic harmony, the master of the four elements
which produces, nourishes and destroys animals and
plants, and the supreme regulator of the movements of
57
58 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the stars. To it was attributed the formation of souls.
Its glowing disk, darting its rays upon the earth con¬
stantly sent particals of fire into the bodies which it
called to life and after death caused them to re-ascend
to it.”
They noted most carefully the movements and the
positions of the planets as they passed through the
Zodiac, and the supposed influence by each, for good or
evil upon the body of men.
Herodotus alludes to the astronomical knowledge of
the Egyptians and remarks, that they were close ob¬
servers of the solstices, the knowledge of the exact
motion of which was necessary to them, for this enabled
them to find the date when the beginning of the rise of
the Nile would take place.
They believed that the Sun changed in form according
to the seasons and the signs of the Zodiac he occupied,
and thought that the firmament was so close to the earth
that it almost might be reached with a ladder.
According to Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, the Egyptians
were the first to erect horoscopes and owing to the clear
heavens, calm nights and dry atmosphere, they were
enabled to note phenomena with the naked eye which in
Western Europe can only be done by the aid of instru¬
ments. The earliest instance of the practise of casting a
nativity and erecting a horoscope is connected with
Nectanebus the last native King of Egypt, who reigned
about 358 B.C. He is said to have been “ profoundly
learned in astrology, the interpretation of omens and
the casting of horoscopes.”
In Egypt, as is well-known, monuments still exist show-
ASTROLOGY IN ANCIENT EGYPT AND GREECE 59
ing a knowledge of astronomical principles for the pur¬
pose of worship, which were called the ‘‘ Mystery teachers
of the Heavens.”
Their Zodiac is represented in the temples of Thebes
and Denderah, the latter dating from the time of the
XVIIIth dynasty, about 1700 B.C.
The ancient Greeks called astrology the ‘‘ Glory of the
! Chaldeans”, but whether they received their knowledge
I direct from them or whether it filtered through from Egypt,
I it is not yet known. According to a Greek tradition,
I it was Berossus, the Chaldean priest of Belus, who first
I introduced it into the country, but there is evidence that
the Greeks were observers of the heavenly bodies at a
: period long anterior to this date, as practically every
: constellation figure of the Greeks, with the exception of
■ Orion, is represented on their coins from 700 B.C.
I There was a primitive belief in ancient Greece, that
I the Sun, Moon and stars were inhabited by the spirits
C of the dead. Heraclitus taught that the soul is of the
I same nature as the ether. After death, the body fell to
I dust and was reunited to the earth, but the glowing
\ breath which had animated it ascended to the luminous
, fluid that extended above the clouds, and coalesced with
! the subtle air which was the source of all life.
I Some of the early mystic cults, like the Pythagorean,
j held the belief that the spirits of the dead, departed to
j dwell in the Moon or shine among the constellations.
’ This is testified by several inscriptions on memorial
stones of the first century.
i
i
60 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Thales, (640 B.C.) is regarded as the founder of
astronomy in Greece. After studying in Egypt, he
founded the Ionian school and taught the “ sphericity
of the earth, the obliquity of the ecleptic and the true
causes of eclipses of the Sun and Moon.” He believed the
earth to be the centre of the universe and that the stars
were composed of fire.
Pythagoras, who was born at Samos (590 B.C.) was
the next great Greek astronomer, and, like Thales,
journeyed to Egypt and also to India, to learn something
of the science as known in those countries. On his return
he founded his school, where he taught his theories and
propounded the idea that the Sun was the centre of the
planetary system and that the earth revolved round it.
After the overthrow of the Assyro-Babylonian empire
the priests of those regions found refuge in Greece and
began to disseminate their doctrines of astrology.
Astronomy and astrology became closely allied and the
latter soon permeated the entire philosophical concep¬
tion of nature, attained a commanding position in
religious worship, and also began to influence the art
of healing. Medical astrology assumed a definite position
and we find even Hippocrates considering its value in
prognostication.
The Greeks knew and recognised the five planets known
to the Babylonians. They called Venus, on account
of its brightness, the ‘‘ Herald of the dawn,” or ‘‘ Herald
of light ” ; Mercury, the ‘‘ Twinkling star ” ; Mars on
account of its colour, the Fiery star ” ; Jupiter the
“ Luminous star ” and Saturn the Brilliant star.” At
a later period, these names were superseded by those of
SYMBOLIC FIGURE OF THE SUN
From a woodcut, i.[Scj
FacAng page 60
ASTROLOGY IN ANCIENT EGYPT AND GREECE 61
five of their divinities, Kronos, Zeus, Ares, Aphrodite,
and Hermes, which were the analogues of the Baby¬
lonian Ninib, Marduk, Nergal, Ishtar and Nebo.
Homer and Hesiod both mention Venus as a morning
star, “ the brightest of all stars which comes to herald
the light of dawn.” The first appearance of the new
moon was watched by the Greeks from the hill-tops and
: celebrated by sacrifices. This fixed the first day of
I their month.
The earliest complete description of the Greek con-
' stellations is given by Aratus of Soli in his poem “ Diose-
I meia,” written about 270 B.C., in which he interprets
: the rules of Judicial and Natural astrology that refer
I to the changes of the stars.
This work the Greeks considered to come next in
( beauty to the poems of Homer.
The constellations enumerated by Aratus correspond
» to those mentioned later by Ptolemy and are as follows :
Ursa Minor, the Little Bear ; Ursa Major, the Great
[Bear ; Draco, the Dragon ; Cepheus, the King ; Bootes,
the Herdsman ; Corona Borealis, the Northern Crown ;
Hercules, the Kneeler ; Lyra, the Lyre or Swooping
Eagle; Cygnus, the Bird; Cassiopeia, the Throned
Queen ; Perseus ; Auriga, the Holder of the Reins ;
Ophiuchus, the Serpent-holder ; Serpens, the Serpent ;
Sagitta, the Arrow ; Aquila, the Soaring eagle ; Del-
phinus, the Dolphin; Equuleus, the Horse’s head;
■ Pegasus, the Winged horse ; Andromeda, the Chained
I' woman and Triangulum, the Triangle.
The Zodiacal constellations are Aries, the Ram;
I Taurus, the Bull; Gemini, the Twins ; Cancer the Crab ;
62 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Leo the Lion ; Virgo the Virgin; Libra the Scales ;
Scorpio the Scorpion ; Sagittarius the Archer ; Capri-
cornus the Sea-goat ; Aquarius the Water-pourer ; and
Pisces the Fishes.
The Southern constellations are : Cetus, the Sea mon¬
ster ; Orion, the Giant ; Eridanus the River ; Lepus,
the Hare ; Canis major, the Great dog ; Canis minor,
the Little dog ; Argo the Ship ; Hydra the Water-snake;
Crater the Cup ; Corvus the Raven ; Centaurus the
Centaur ; Lupus the Beast ; Ara the Altar ; Corona
Australis the Southern Crown; Piscis Australis the
Southern fish.
Among other famous Greek astronomers were Meton,
Eudoxus and Nicetas, who were followed in the second
century before the Christian era, by Hipparchus of
Bythnia (140 B.C.) who catalogued 1081 stars. He
determined the motions of the Sun and Moon and the
length of the year with greater precision than his
predecessors.
A remarkable personage who may be said to be inter¬
mediary between the Hellenes and the Romans, was
Posidonius of Apamea, a Syrian, who was born about
135 B.C. After travelling in Spain, he settled in Rhodes,
where he founded a school which attracted both the
Greeks and the Romans.
He was learned in both astrology and magic, and
became so famous that Pompey visited him and Cicero
attended his lectures.
He is said to have inspired the ‘‘ Astronomica ” of
Marcus Manilius who was probably a Chaldean by birth.
He wrote his great poem about 45 B.C. which fell into
SYMBOLIC FIGURE OF THE MOON
Front a woodcut, i-^Sg
'acing page 6"2
Hun.-
ASTROLOGY IN ANCIENT EGYPT AND GREECE 63
the hands of Julius Firmicus Maternus, who gave it to
the world.
This work in verse, embodies a mystic faith in astro¬
logy and the revelation of the future. It is in five books,
the first dealing with astronomers and astrologers, the
regular motion of the heavenly bodies, the appearance
of comets, and the disasters which followed them. The
second book is on the astrological properties of the
Zodiacal signs. The third is devoted to rules, the fourth
to the influence of the signs on human fortune, and the
fifth, to the Zodiacal constellations. The following is a
translation of a portion of his observations on comets :
‘‘ And sometimes fires flash through the liquid air.
From thinnest ether sprung ; sudden to rise.
And kindle in the sky, and swift to fail—
Comets, by ages far apart, are seen.
Such woes portended oft the Comet’s blaze ;
Death with their lustre comes—they threat the earth
With endless pyres. The world and nature’s self.
Sick at the sight, seem but a ready tomb.”
Manilius defined man as the beholder and expounder
of Heaven ” and states, that the invariability of the
revolutions of the heavenly bodies led to the conclusion
they were eternal and that the stars would unceasingly
pursue their never-ending course.
Thrones have perished, peoples passed from domin¬
ion to slavery, from captivity to Empire, but the same
months of the year have always brought up on the hori¬
zon the same stars. Thus it appeared to the eyes of our
64 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
forefathers, thus will our descendants behold it. It is
God, for it is unchangeable throughout the ages.”
It can be proved beyond doubt, that the Greeks cast
horoscopes, which they drew up by certain rules accord¬
ing to the astronomical state of the heavens at the
moment of a child’s birth and from them judged the
fate and fortune of its future.
A Greek horoscope written on papyrus concerning one
Pitenius in the first century, probably the earliest known,
is preserved in the British Museum.
FRAGMENT OF 'FHE GREEK HOROSCOPE OF PI'I'ENIUS
WRITTEN ON PAPYRUS IN THE EIRS'F CENTURY
(British Museum)
Facing page 64
4
■
' "a,-?'
-M-- '■ -^^~ ■ " "' ' ’”
i -a'^V -■ ■~K,.5>r*;r '-'X -• -.-_f , ' ■■'■ •;■<>• j%ar^.V
:/■.,• ? C*. T ~ ^IllffllMI I I '^ ■ -
.;.. ■,., ^; *J.-; -V v;<-a-";-:,
- -■ ■ • .•/■- ■': '^-r'/- !r ^' '■- - '-i:-; -■■'^"a■■-'J'^ ■- ^j.-S-v
■ ■%
t
Pf
.>■ ---I,- -
■:/^ ■, -,', -O;
f?'- k. ‘\ ■‘It ^iw'f ■ ‘ '
\
■ *■ ■ Lt' * “ -
- • ^ V ' -
V-
<Sj’ V
'■^V.
*.'• ’ > ■
: .V it!' - yJ: /•
^ r' i>v-i -’15
: ■■... iV!^' '.A
s
, J.
- '^e —
■ t -■ ‘» l'* ^
. .,5^ ■» .*. V, /. ;
*” >
^ '
.. • ,
-<-"■ 't .
^ Vjr,--N
A>.
CHAPTER VI
THE ASTROLOGERS OF ANCIENT ROME
AS with Other cults, the Romans adopted astrology
from the Greeks. Acting on the same principle,
they called the Zodiacal signsj the planets and con¬
stellations after their own deities, the names by which
we know them to-day.
The symbolical figures representing the Zodiac came
into common use under the Empire, and from the early
Christian era to the Middle Ages, we find them repre¬
sented in sculpture, mosaics and carvings on cathedrals,
abbeys, monasteries and churches in many of the coun¬
tries of Europe. Probably the earliest representation of
the signs of the Zodiac in England is that decorating the
ancient leaden font (appropriately enough) in Brookland
church in the Romney Marshes, which is believed to date
from the thirteenth century.
They are to be seen on the Cathedral of Notre Dame
in Paris, and on the Cathedrals of Amiens, Rheims, and
Sens. In Italy, the Zodiac is to be found on the Cathe¬
drals of Cremona and St. Mark’s in Venice. In England,
it is used in the decoration of St. Margaret’s at York and
there is a Zodiac of the fifteenth century at Merton
College, Oxford.
The Zodiacal signs were likewise venerated in pagan
65 5
66 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
worship, and in the mysteries of Mithra, not only the
stars but also the ether, that ‘‘ subtle substance that lit
their fires which filled the lofty spaces of the heavens,
were objects of worship.” Sacrifices were offered to it
and it was celebrated in hymns as the source of all
brightness.
Certain numerals, for astrological reasons, were en¬
dowed with special powers, because they corresponded
to the Signs of the Zodiac or the planets ; thus 7 and
9, the fourth and third part of the month and 7 and 12
were regarded as favourable numbers.
Everything was subject to the changes brought about
by the revolutions of the heavenly bodies, and the
transformation of nature like the dispositions and
actions of men, were said by believers in astrology to be
due to the fatal energies which reside in the sky. The
attributes of the planets were deduced from observation
of their apparent movements. Thus Saturn, because
being farthest from the earth and appeared to move
more slowly, was believed to cause apathy and melan¬
choly ; Mercury promoted sprightliness and success,
while Venus naturally favoured lovers. The worship
of the Sun, on which the Emperor Aurelian conferred
official recognition, was founded on the Egyptian con¬
ception of its supremacy.
According to Roman astrological doctrines, each day
was sacred to a planet, and it is probable that the wor¬
shipper prayed to the presiding star of each day in turn.
Thus, as is well known, the names of the days of our
week are chiefly of astrological origin.
The great prayer to Jupiter used by the Romans is
THE ASTROLOGERS OF ANCIENT ROME 67
too long to be quoted here, but there are some curious
records of the prayers to the planets, such as one to
Saturn, said to have been used at Harran near Edessa.
The petitioner at a favourable moment, was to put on
black robes and approach the sacred place humbly, to
burn an offering of perfume composed of incense and
opium, mixed with fat and the urine of a goat, then
raise the eyes to the star and say, “ Lord whose name is
August, whose power is widespread, whose spirit sublime,
O Lord Saturn, the cold, the dry, the harmful . . . .
Crafty Sire who knowest all wiles, who art deceitfully
sage, understanding, who causeth prosperity or ruin,
happy or unhappy is he whom thou makest such. I
adjure thee, O primeval Father, by thy great mercies
and thy noble qualities, to do for me,”—then follows
the desire of the petitioner.
The astrologers who professed to reveal the mysteries
of fate led austere and ascetic lives, as they held, that
man must be purified from all defilement in order to
render himself worthy of communication with the gods
and of the knowledge of heavenly things. The lower the
Romans sank in religion, the stronger the belief in
astrology grew, and during Imperial Rome, it assumed
the foremost place among other forms of culture.
“ If the pagan Romans were about to marry,” says a
writer of the fourth century, If they intended to make
a purchase or aspired to some dignity, they hastened to
ask the soothsayer for prognostications, while at the same
time praying the fates to grant them years of pros¬
perity.”
Thrasyllus the elder, who was astrologer to Tiberius
68 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
when the latter lived in exile at Rhodes, predicted that
he would succeed to the Empire, in spite of the fact that
Caius and Lucius stood in his way, and Tiberius deter¬
mined to put him to the test.
The house where the astrologer lived was close to the
sea, over which projected a tower, and from this building
he proposed to throw him into the sea. He arranged
to meet Thrasyllus in the tower and after they had met,
charged him by all he held most dear, to say if his pre¬
diction was true.
‘‘ What I have predicted,” replied the astrologer, “ has
been ordained by the stars and will soon be accom¬
plished.”
“ If you say the stars reveal my destiny, what of your
own ? ” sternly asked Tiberius.
Thrasyllus immediately consulted his own horoscope
and facing Tiberius with alarm exclaimed, ‘‘ My position
is hazardous. I am this moment in imminent danger.”
Tiberius was so convinced of his honesty that he cried,
“ I had till this moment regarded thy predictions as an
imposition and intended thou shouldst die here.”
From this time Tiberius is said to have become a
student of the art which he learnt from Thrasyllus and
foretold the destiny of Galba, who was then consul
in these words : ‘‘ Thou, too, Galba shall some day
taste the sweets of empire,” thus alluding to his late and
brief possession of sovereignty.
A story is told of Septimus Severus, who after he had
lost his wife consulted an astrologer as to the choice of
another spouse. Meanwhile, he heard of a maiden in
Syria who the Chaldeans had predicted would some day
THE ASTROLOGERS OF ANCIENT ROME 69
reign as a Queen. He thereupon set out for that country
to search for the maiden and after he had found her,
and made her his bride, he returned to his own land.
The news came to the ears of the Emperor, who at
first resolved to take his life, but was dissuaded from
such a fatal step. Eventually Severus came to the
throne and the prediction as to his wife was thus ful¬
filled.
It is recorded by an early historian, that when Claudius
was dying from the effects of Locusta’s poison, Agrippina
cautiously dissembled his progressive illness, nor would
she announce his death until the very moment arrived
which the astrologers had pronounced fortunate for the
accession of Nero. She had been previously warned
that her own death would be the consequence of her
son’s enthronement.
If he reigns,” said the Chaldean astrologers, he
shall kill his mother.”
‘‘ Let him kill me, so that he but reigns,” was Agrip¬
pina’s reply.
Nero had several astrologers including Thrasyllus the
younger, but apparently his favourite was Babilus whom
he often consulted. He is said to have put to death all
those whose horoscopes Babilus predicted would become
powerful, or those he had reason to believe would
become rivals and aspire to the throne.
Characteristically, he afterwards killed all the astrolo¬
gers within his reach, so that none should be able to
foretell the future Emperor. The practitioners of the
art apparently passed through a trying time about this
period, for if their patrons found their horoscopes in-
70 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
auspicious, they were often put to the torture or even
to death.
Theogenius, another Roman astrologer, was once con¬
sulted by Agrippa who was accompanied on his visit
by Octavius.
The astrologer cast the horoscope of Agrippa, which
foretold him great prosperity and success, but Octavius
on hearing it, jealous of so happy a destiny and fearing
that his might not be so favourable, refused at first to
give the astrologer the time of his birth. His curiosity
however overcame him ; the horoscope was cast and
on reading the result, Theogenius threw himself at the
feet of the future Emperor.
Although a believer in astrology, when he became
Emperor, he banished from Rome all those found prac¬
tising it, but later on they were allowed to return and
were secretly encouraged. Domitian, although he
revived the edict of Augustus against the astrologers, is
said to have been in constant fear of the fulfilment of
their predictions.
They foretold the year, the hour and manner of his
death, and agreed with his father in predicting that he
should perish by the dagger and not by poison. It is
recorded, that on the night of his assassination, he spoke
of the entrance of the moon into Aquarius on the
morrow.
‘‘ Aquarius,” he said, shall no longer be a watery
but a bloody sign, for a deed shall there be done which
shall be the talk of all mankind.”
The dreaded hour of eleven approached. His atten¬
dants told him it was passed, and he admitted the con-
THE ASTROLOGERS OF ANCIENT ROME 71
spirators and fell a victim to their blows. Spurinna was
the astrologer who warned Caesar to beware of the Ides
of March, for on that day he would be in danger, but if
he took care all would be well. On March 15th, Caesar
decided that he would not leave the house, but on the
persuasion of Brutus he was induced to go to the Senate,
on his way to which he met the astrologer.
Well,” said Caesar to him, the Ides of March are
here and nothing has happened to me. You see your
prediction is false.”
True,” replied Spurinna, the day has arrived but
it is not yet over.”
Within a few hours C^sar had received his mortal
blow from the hand of his trusted friend.
Arellius Fuscus who flourished in the Augustan age
pertinently asks, If the pretensions of astrology are
genuine, why do not men of every age devote themselves
to this study ? Why from our infancy do we not fix our
eyes on nature and on the gods, seeing that the stars un¬
veil themselves for us ? Why exhaust ourselves in
efforts to acquire eloquence or devote ourselves to the
profession of arms ? Rather let us lift up our minds by
means of the science which reveals to us the future, and
before the appointed hour of death, let us taste the
pleasures of the blest.”
Cato uttered warnings against the mischief wrought
by the astrologers in his time, and Hadrian, although a
believer in the art, often punished those who practised
it. He is said to have kept an astrological diary and to
have correctly prognosticated his own death.
But a new era was at hand heralded by the discoveries
72 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
of Ptolemy, who gave to the world his great treatise
called ‘‘Almagest” about the year 130, which revolu¬
tionised the existing ideas of astronomy.
With the over-throw of the old Roman Empire and the
victory of Christianity, astrology began to lose its
importance, and its influence for a time commenced to
wane.
These old stories serve to remind us, how deeply
superstition was planted in the minds of all classes of a
people, who once formed the most powerful nation of
the world, and how, through the medium of astrol^y,
ft influenced the lives and destinies of Emperors, kings
and rulers.
CHAPTER VII
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE-POWERS AND
PROPERTIES ATTRIBUTED TO THEM-SYMBOLS OF THE
PLANETS
Astrology passed through many stages in its
development and before proceeding to follow these
through the centuries, it will be well first to give a brief
description of the methods employed by those who
practised it, and the rules by which they worked.
As time rolled on, the powerful influences attributed
both to the Zodiacal signs and the seven planetary
bodies by the ancients, were augmented and increased
by various astrologers.
Their influence was not only confined to the appear¬
ance, temperament and character of the individual, but
was extended to animals, plants, minerals, colours,
countries, and cities.
The practise of astrology was divided into the follow¬
ing three branches :
First, Judicial Astrology, which assigned the rules for
determining the fortunes and destiny of the individual,
by drawing up the scheme of nativity and casting his
horoscope. To do this it was necessary to find the
positions of the various planets and stars, and the sign
that they were in at the time of birth.
73
74 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Second, Horary Astrology, which consisted in finding
from observations of the stars, replies to particular ques¬
tions.
Third, Natural and Mundane Astrology, which included
the fore-casting of events, the weather, drought, famine,
pestilence, etc., and prognostications relating to the
destinies of kingdoms, empires, nations and their rulers.
In each of these branches the planets were important
factors, as it was believed, that by observing their con¬
figuration and the positions of the constellations at the
moment of birth of a child, his horoscope or destiny
could be foretold, and by making observations of a some¬
what similar nature, the occurrence of events of public
importance and variations in the weather could be pre¬
dicted.
The following powers attributed to the planets have
been gathered from the writings of various astrologers
from the early Christian era to the seventeenth century.
Saturn was considered by nature to be cold and dry,
melancholy, masculine, also malevolent, and when ‘‘ill-
governed ” produced the most malignant qualities, and
was regarded as the “ greater in fortune.” “ When he is
lord of the ascendant, the individual or native, will be
of middle stature, dark complexion, swarthy or pale
with small black eyes, broad shoulders, black hair and
ill-shaped about the lower extremities. When well dig¬
nified, the native will be grave and wise, studious and
serene, of active and penetrating mind, reserved and
patient, constant in attachment, but implacable in
resentment, upright and inflexible.” But if the planet
be “ ill-dignified ” at the time of birth, then “ the native
ASTROLOGERS MAKING OBSERVATIONS
From a manuscript of the XVI Century
icing page 7h
p .1'
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE 75
will be sluggish, covetous and distrustful, false, stub¬
born, malicious and ever discontented. The diseases he
signifies are quartan agues, and all that proceed from
cold and melancholy, impediments in the sight, ear and
mouth, rheumatism, consumption, disorders of the
memory, the spleen and the bones.” The occupation or
profession of the native was also influenced by the
planets, and Saturn in general, for reasons unknown,
was believed to signify husbandmen, day labourers,
monks, Jesuits, sectarians, sextons and such as have to
do with the dead ; gardeners, dyers of black ” and many
other callings. Saturn also governed cats, asses, hares,
moles, mice, wolves, bears, crocodiles and all serpents
and venomous creatures.
Among fishes the eel, and all shell-fish, also birds,
bats and owls. The minerals affected were lead, the
dross of all metals and all stones that were not polish-
able or of a leaden colour, such as the toadstone.” The
precious stones included the sapphire and lapis lazuli.
As regards the weather, Saturn causeth the air to be
dark and cloudy, cold and hurtful, with thick or dense
vapours. He delighteth in the eastern quarter, causing
eastern winds and in gathering any plant belonging to
him. The ancients did observe to turn their faces to the
east in his hour.
Those under him do rarely live beyond fifty-seven
years, and if he is well-placed seldom less than thirty.
‘‘ Black is his colour, which he ruleth. Of countries
under his influence are Bavaria, Saxony and Styria, and
among the cities are Ravenna, Constance and Ingold-
stadt. Saturday is his day, for then he begins to rule at
76 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
sunrise and rules the first hour and the tenth of that
day. Cassel is his angel.”
Jupiter which astrologers called the greater fortune ”
was considered masculine, moist, airy and sanguine and
“ lord of the airy triplicity.” He signified modesty,
temperance, sobriety and justice.
The native, if the planet be ^ well-dignified,’ will be
of erect carriage and tall of stature with a handsome
ruddy complexion, high forehead and soft, thick, brown
hair. He will have a handsome shape and commanding
aspect, his voice will be strong, clear and manly, and
his speech grave and sober. If the planet be ^ ill-digni¬
fied,’ he will still be what is called good-looking though of
smaller stature and less noble aspect. In the former case,
the understanding and character will be of the highest
description, and in the latter, though careless and im¬
provident, immoral and irreligious, he will never entirely
lose the good opinion of his friends, yet he will be as
Sancho Panza expresses it, ‘ Haughty to the humble and
humble to the haughty.’
He governs the lungs and blood, and the last month
is gestation.
‘‘ The diseases ruled by Jupiter are apoplexy, in¬
flammation of the lungs, disorders of the left ear, cramps,
and palpitations of the heart.” He was believed to
affect the oak and apple trees and 172 herbs and plants.
Of the precious stones, he ruled the topaz, amethyst
and hyacinth, and among animals the horse, ox, ele¬
phant, stag and all domestic animals.
Of the fishes he rules the whale, and the dolphin, and
of birds the eagle, peacock and pheasant.”
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE 77
Among the professions he affected were the clergy, the
higher order of law students and those who dealt in
woollen goods. When weak, he influenced their depend¬
ants with quacks, common cheats and drunkards.
He rules Spain, Hungary, and Babylon, as well as
such places as palaces, courts, and buildings of pomp and
solemnity.”
He is identified with pleasant weather, healthful and
serene, with north-west and north-east winds.
Jupiter is represented of a golden colour riding on a
lion. His colours are sea-green, blue and purple and his
angel is Zadkiel.
We next come to Mars who is described as the ‘‘ lesser
fortune ” ‘‘ a masculine, hot, dry planet of the ^ fiery
triplicity.’ He is the cause of strife, dissensions, quar¬
rels, war and battles.
The native born under him is short but strongly
I made, having large bones, ruddy complexion, red or
I sandy hair and eyebrows, quick sharp eyes, with a round,
bold face and fearless aspect.
‘‘ If ‘ well-dignified ’ the native will be courageous and
invincible, insusceptible of fear, careless of life, resolute
and insubmissive. If ^ ill-dignified ’ he will be a
trumpeter of his own fame, without decency or honesty ;
fond of quarrelling, prone to fightings, and given up to
every kind of fraud, violence and oppression.” Nero
is mentioned as an example of the ruling of Mars, and
“ the gallows to be the end of the career of those born
in low life who come under him.”
He was the cause of all fevers, and of plague. All com-
; plaints arising from excessive heat, all wounds caused
78 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
by iron or steel, death by poison and all evil effects from
violent anger. He governed all hot plants and herbs,
such as the radish, and also all thorny plants. Of
minerals, he rules iron, arsenic, antimony, sulphur and
vermilion, and among animals, the tiger, wolf, mastiff
and all savage beasts.
The birds under him are the hawk, kite, raven,
vulture and other birds of prey. Of precious stones, the
ruby, garnet, bloodstone and jasper are affected by him.
‘^He ruled Lombardy, and Bavaria, and the cities of
Jerusalem and Rome. Among the professions he is sig¬
nificant of soldiers, surgeons, barbers and butchers, and
among the places he affected are Slaughter-houses,
fields of battle, smith’s shops and brick-kilns.” Cer¬
tainly a most significant group.
He brings thundery weather, vivid lightning, fiery
meteors, comets, and all strange phenomena. He is
depicted riding on a peacock and wearing a crown. His
colour is red and his angel is Samael.
The Sun was naturally regarded as the most impor¬
tant of all the luminaries and in some respects his in¬
fluence resembles that of Jupiter, but magnanimity ”
is we learn his predominant characteristic.
If ‘ well-dignified,’ he is always equal to one of the
fortunes and his effects, though hot and dry, were
favourable. In appearance the native has lighter hair
and a more florid complexion, with a stouter body and
larger eyes, than one born under Jupiter.”
The solar man was one of few words but when he
speaks ‘‘ it is with confidence and to the purpose. He is
usually thoughtful and reserved and not given to sordid,
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE 79
base or dishonourable practises. He is affable, courteous,
a lover of magnificence, but proud, liberal, humane and
ambitious, and has a stately and majestic deportment.
‘‘ When the planet is ‘ ill-dignified,’ the native is
arrogant, mean, loquacious and sycophantic.”
The diseases he ruled were those affecting the heart,
mouth, the brain and throat, epilepsy and scrofula.
The chief plants and herbs under him were laurel, ver¬
vain, St. John’s wort, and also the orange tree. His
precious stones were the diamond, ruby, and carbuncle,
and his mineral was gold.
Among the animals he affected were the lion, boar,
and the horse ; of the birds, the lark, swan, nightingale
and all singing birds. Naturally, from its shape, he was
said to govern the star-fish. The countries he ruled were
Italy, Bohemia, Chaldea, and Sicily, while the chief city
i he affected was Rome.
Although he was supposed to signify “ Emperors,
1 Kings and Lords,” he was also believed to affect, ‘‘ gold-
\ smiths, braziers and persons employed in mints ; while
: palaces, theatres, halls and buildings of State ” came
1 under his governance.
His colour is gold or yellow, and his angel is Michael.”
i The Moon was considered a very important body in
j astrology, and was neither fortunate nor unfortunate in
t
i| herself, but according to the aspects of other planets she
' was benevolent or otherwise. She was regarded as
: feminine, cold, moist and phlegmatic.
‘‘ The native born under her is short and stout, with
I fair, pale complexion, round face, grey eyes, short arms,
: thick hands and feet and very hairy.
80 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
‘‘ If the Moon be affected by the Sun at the time of
birth, the native will have a blemish on or near the eye.
When the Moon is ^well-dignified,’ she produces soft en¬
gaging manners, an imaginative mind and a love for the
arts, but the native is wandering, and fond of travelling,
careless, timorous and unstable, loving peace, and averse
to activity. When ‘ ill-dignified,’ she causes an ill-shape
and an indolent and worthless disposition.”
Of diseases she affects palsy, epilepsy, scrofula and
lunacy, together with all diseases of the eyes. Among
the herbs she rules are lilies, poppies, mushrooms and
the willow tree. Her mineral is silver and her gems
are pearls and soft stones.
She signifieth the dog, cat, otter, mouse, and all
amphibious creatures, while the goose, duck and water-
birds in general are ruled by her, as also shell-fish such
as the crab and lobster.”
The countries she governs are Denmark, Holland,
Flanders and North America, also the cities of Amster¬
dam, Venice, Bergen-op-Zoom and Lubeck. Fountains,
baths, the sea and all watery places come under her rule.
She affects Queens, and dignified women, mid-wives,
nurses and all who have to do with the water.”
As regards weather, she chiefly increases the effects
of other planets. Her colours are white, pale green and
pale yellow, and her angel is Gabriel.
Venus, the Queen of pleasure ” and the Mistress
of refinement,” as she is called by an old writer, was
temperate, cold and moist. She ruled mirth and con¬
viviality.
The native born under her is handsome and well
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE 81
informed, with a clear complexion, bright hazel or black
eyes, dark brown or chestnut hair, thick, soft and shining,
medium height, with a voice soft and sweet, and in
aspect, prepossessing. If the planet be ^ well-dignified,’
the native will be cheerful, friendly, musical and fond
of elegant accomplishments, prone to love but frequently
jealous. If ‘ ill-dignified,’ the native is less handsome in
person and in mind ; he is altogether vicious and given
up to every kind of profligacy and dishonesty.”
The animals ruled by Venus are the goat, panther and
hart ; of the birds, the dove, sparrow, thrush and wren.
Her precious stones are the emerald, chrysolite, beryl and
chrysoprasus. She governs Spain, India, and Persia and
the cities she rules are Paris, Vienna and Florence.
The occupations she affects are those which minister
to pomp and pleasure. She was believed to influence
over 200 trees and plants, the chief of which are the fig
tree, myrtle, pomegranate and the tree which produces
gum myrrh.
Venus is associated with warm weather accompanied
with showers of rain ; her mineral is copper and her
colours white or light blue. Her angel is Hanael.
Mercury, the seventh planet, is considered masculine
or feminine according to his conjunction with other
planets. He is cold, dry and melancholy, and is asso¬
ciated with wit, liveliness, ingenuity, and invention.
The native born under him is tall, straight and thin,
with a narrow face and high forehead ; long straight
nose, black or grey eyes, thin lips and chin, and brown
hair. The arms, hands and fingers are long and slender,
the latter being said to be a peculiar mark of a nativity
6
82 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
under Mercury. Should the planet be neutral at the
time of birth, the native is likely to have a stronger con¬
stitution especially if the hair be sandy. If occidental,
he is sallow, lank and slender. If ‘ well-dignified,’ he will
be of an acute and penetrating mind, with a powerful
imagination and a retentive memory, eloquent in speech,
fond of learning and successful in inventions. If engaged
in mercantile pursuits, he will be enterprising and skilful.
If the planet be ‘ ill-dignified,’ then the native is mean,
unprincipled in character, boasting and pretending to
knowledge, or an impostor and charlatan, malicious and
given to thieving.”
The diseases affected by Mercury are those connected
with the brain and the head. He governs over a hundred
plants, trees and herbs, including the walnut, valerian
and trefoil. The animals he rules, are the dog, ape,
weasel and fox, and the occupations he influences are all
the literate and learned professions, but when ill-
dignifled,” quacks, mountebanks and pretenders.
He rules schools, colleges, markets, exchanges, ware¬
houses and all places of learning and commerce.”
He influences carnelions and opals, also the onyx, sar¬
donyx and chalcedony. He is associated with rainy
weather, sometimes with hailstones, thunder and light¬
ning, particularly in the north. His metal is quicksilver,
his colour purple, black or blue, and his angel is Raphael.
The placing of certain countries, cities and towns
under various planets was introduced early in the
Christian era.
Like the Zodiacal signs, each planet had a symbol or
character to represent it for astrological purposes.
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE 83
Thus the symbol for Saturn is h Jupiter V- Mars ^
Moon (L Venus ¥ Mercury ^ Sun Q
The aspects of the planets also had their ancient
symbols and their meanings are as follows :
VENUS, MERCURY AND THE MOON
From a woodcut,
Conjunction 6 , is signified when two planets are in
the same degree and minute of a sign, which may be of
84 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
good or evil import, according to the nature of the
planets and their relation to each other as friendly or not.
Sextile >l<, when two planets are 6o° distant from each
other. It signified the aspect of ^ imperfect love ’ or
‘ friendship ’ and is generally a favourable omen.
Quartile, □ when two planets are 90° distant from
each other, making the aspect of imperfect hatred and
inclining to enmity and misfortune.
Trine, A when the distance is 120° promising the
most perfect unanimity and peace.
Opposition, <? when two planets are 180° apart or
exactly opposite each other, which was considered an
aspect of perfect hatred and implied every kind of mis¬
fortune.
Other symbols are the Dragon’s Head, ^ the
Dragon’s Tail, Q the Part of Fortune, ©
The planets friendly to Saturn are Jupiter, Mars and
Mercury, while his enemies are the Sun and Venus.
Jupiter is friendly with all the planets except Mars.
Mars is friendly with all the planets except Jupiter and
the Moon. The Sun is friendly to all planets except
Saturn. The Moon is friendly or otherwise, according to
the aspects of other planets towards her, and under these
circumstances she becomes more powerful than any of
them. Mercury is friendly with Jupiter, Venus and
Saturn, and his enemies are the Sun, Mars and the Moon.
The ^ dignities ’ of the planets which have been alluded
to previously, mean the situations in which they act
with greatest force, which situations are their respective
houses. Thus, a planet may be ‘ well-’ or ‘ ill-dignihed.’
Each of the planets, except the Sun and Moon, have two
THE PLANETS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE 85
houses called their own, the one being diurnal and the
other nocturnal.
The planets are said to be in their ‘ Joys ’ when
situated in the houses or signs where they are most
strong and powerful, as Saturn when in Aquarius ;
Jupiter in Sagittarius ; Mars in Scorpio ; the Sun in
Leo ; Venus in Taurus ; Mercury in Virgo ; and the
Moon in Cancer.
The Dragon’s Head and Dragon’s Tail are the points
called nodes, in which the ecliptic is intersected by the
orbits of the planets particularly that of the Moon.
The Dragon’s Head is the point where the Moon or other
planet commences its northward latitude. It is con¬
sidered masculine and benevolent in its influence.
The Dragon’s Tail is the point where the planet’s
southward progress begins, and is deemed feminine and
malevolent, while the “^Part of Fortune’ is the distance
of the Moon’s place from the Sun added to the degrees
of the ascendant.
CHAPTER VIII
THE TWELVE HOUSES OF HEAVEN-HOW THE HOROSCOPE
WAS CAST
TWO operations of great importance in astrology
should next be explained. The first, is the erec¬
tion of the Twelve Houses of Heaven ” and the second,
the casting of the horoscope.
The former is based on the idea that the whole
celestial globe is divided into four equal parts by the
horizon and meridional line. Each quadrant is then
divided into three equal parts, by lines drawn from
points of sections in different parts of the horizon and
meridian, at equal distances from each other. We
shall then have the whole globe divided into twelve
equal parts,which are called the “Twelve Houses of the
Heaven.”
The figure having been drawn, the space in the centre
is supposed to represent the situation of the earth, and
is generally used to write down the exact time when the
figure was erected, and for whose nativity or for what
question.
The twelve divisions called ‘ Houses ’ are either angular
or succedent, and the four angular are called ascendant,
mid-heaven, the seventh house, and the fourth house,
which is at the bottom.
86
THE TWELVE HOUSES OF THE HEAVENS 87
Each house rules certain events, reckoned from the
east, but the four mentioned were believed by astrologers
to be the most powerful and fortunate.
The succedent houses came next in force and in¬
fluence, by virtue of their angles, while the cadent houses
were regarded as the weakest.
The ‘ first house ’ ruled the personal appearance, dis¬
position, life, mind and character of the individual.
The ‘ second house ’ relates to riches, property or ad-
versity, loss or gain.
The ‘ third house ’ refers to relatives, brothers and
sisters and also to short journeys.
The ‘ fourth house ’ relates to the father of the native,
inheritance of property, position and condition at the
end of life.
The ‘ fifth house ’ affects children, speculation and
gaming, and was regarded as the house of pleasure.
The ‘ sixth house ’ was associated with servants, cattle,
sickness and disease.
The ‘ seventh house ’ signifies marriage, description of
wife or husband, partnerships, lawsuits, public offices
and opponents therein. The ‘ eighth house ’ was associat¬
ed with the nature of death, wills, and legacies.
The ‘ nineth house ’ referred to safety in long jour¬
neys by sea or land, religion and dreams.
The ‘ tenth house ’ concerned questions about persons
in power and authority, the native s mother, honour,
preferment and success in calling or occupation.
The ‘ eleventh house ’ referred to friends, hopes and
wishes.
The ^ twelfth house^’ the ancients called the House
88 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
of Tribulation ’ and signified affliction, anxiety, trouble,
distress and misfortunes of all kinds.
The astrologer drew his prognostication from the
configuration of the planets in one or more of these
houses and recorded the result.
The connection of the houses with the rest of the
system is of course obvious. Thus, Saturn, if in the
fifth house, foretold misfortune to children ; Mercury
in the sixth house, sickness and disease ; while Mars in
the eighth house, betokened a violent death.
The casting of the horoscope, which denoted the con¬
figuration of the planets in the ‘‘ Twelve Houses” was
the next important consideration.
It was necessary to record the observations at the
true moment of birth, that is when the child first
cries.
According to a writer of the sixteenth century, the
point of the heavens of the greatest importance for the
fate of man, was that of the ecliptic wfflich was arising at
the precise moment of birth. The astrologer was then to
make careful observation of how the planets and the
signs of the Zodiac, as well as a few of the most important
of the fixed stars, were at the same moment situated in
the ‘‘ Twelve Houses ” into which the heavens were
divided.
The ‘ first house,’ called ascendens or horoscopus, was
considered the foundation of fate, and if Mercury or a
favourable star was found in this house, it forecast a
happy and prosperous life, while on the other hand, if
unfavourable planets, such as Saturn or Mars be ob¬
served, it would indicate a short and unhappy one.
THE TWELVE HOUSES OF THE HEAVENS 89
The ‘ second house,’ north of the first one, which gave
information about riches and possessions, was an unlucky
house, because it was not in favourable aspect to the
AN ASTROLOGER CALCULATING THE NATIVITY AT THE
BIRTH OF A CHILD
From a Woodcut, 150^
first one, and while a favourable star such as Jupiter or
Venus, would here point to great riches, a questionable
90 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
one like Mercury, might make a thief or vagabond of
the new-born infant.
Similarly, the other houses had each a separate sig¬
nification.
The ‘ sixth house ’ was considered a bad one, because
it had no aspect to the first, and the eighth was also
malignant as it referred to death, and here the Moon
only was favourable.
The ‘nineth house’ was intimately connected with the
first and the Sun v/as here of particular value.
The ^eleventh house’ in aspectus sextilis with the
first was generally considered a favourable house ; but
at a birth in the night, Saturn would here cause coward¬
ice and poverty, and for an infant born in the daytime,
Mars would induce loss of property.
The ‘ twelfth house,’ like the second, was considered
a bad one and signified enemies and sickness.
Now having drawn the diagram previously described,
and inserted in the ^ houses ’ the planets observed, the
astrologer had next to examine the aspects of the latter,
viz., conjunction, opposition, quadrature, etc. Of these,
conjunction (aspectus trigonus and sextilis) were favour¬
able, while the opposition and quadrature were un¬
favourable.
He then had to make out the ‘ prognosticum ’ by
means of rules. There were however several important
matters for him to remember, such as the ‘ directions.’
So-called circles of position were drawn through the
north and south points of the horizon and any two
points of the Zodiac, called the ‘ Significator.’ The
‘ Promissor ’ (the Sun, Moon or Planets according as they
THE TWELVE HOUSES OF THE HEAVENS 91
had to be considered) and the arc of the equator included
between these circles was their ‘ directin’.
There were also various methods of ‘ directing,’ or
referring the effects of the planets as they might be
placed at any subsequent time, to their positions at the
moment of birth.
Kepler states, that '' if the Sun at this moment be in
a certain place in the Zodiac and a planet afterwards
comes to an important place, it should be computed how
many days after the birth the Sun took to reach that
place. The number of days corresponds to the number
of years which will elapse from the birth, before the
power of that configuration will be felt.”
The action of each planet was very different accord¬
ing to the house and sign of the Zodiac which it occu¬
pied.
The Sun and the Moon had each a sign or house,
specially belonging to them and the planets had each
two. A planet exercised the greatest power when it
was in its own house but the Sun and the Moon
were regarded as the most powerful, while the others
had the greater effect the nearer they were to those
bodies.
If a planet was not in its own sign but in that of
another planet, the two bodies acted together, either
with increased effect, if they are of the same nature
(both favourable) or neutralising each other, more or
less, if of an opposite nature.
To judge of the probable duration of life, the astrologer
had to consider that there were two planets viz.. Mars
and Saturn which had a malevolent influence, and two,
92 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
viz., Jupiter and Venus whose influence was benevolent.
Mercury and the Moon were convertible and of good
influence when with the benefic, and of evil influence
when with the malefic planets. The Sun was of benefic
influence but when in evil configuration with the malefics
its good effects were counteracted.
According to the early astrologers, the influence of
Saturn was especially fatal to children, which may have
had its origin in the ancient tradition, that the god
devoured his sons as soon as they were born. They
sometimes represented him as an old man grasping in
his hand a child which he is raising up as if about to
devour it. The liability to diseases and accidents,
according to a more recent astrologer, is judged from
the planets rising or setting and those configurated with
the Hyleg (vital) places. If the Hyleg be free from
affliction and supported by the benefics and no evil
planet be rising or setting, the physical constitution is
said to be sound, healthy and robust. If the Hyleg is
unsupported by benefics, then early death is likely to
take place. When the Sun, Moon and ascendant
are afflicted by more than one of the malefics, a
liability to accidents and a violent or sudden death
is incurred.”
‘‘ It is useless,” says Ptolemy, ‘‘ to consider what
events might happen to the native in later years, if his
life does not extend for instance beyond one year. So
that the inquiry into the duration of life takes prece¬
dence of all others.”
In order to deal with this question it was first neces¬
sary to determine what planet should be regarded as
AX ASTROLOGER
“ 'I'ELLING ”
I'HE STARS
Frotii a Diannscript of the
A E/ Century
rc
n€ iwt'' fd i
-m wn ^
nf
Facing page 0^
astrolo(;ers observing ihe heavens
From a manuscript of the XVI Century
THE TWELVE HOUSES OF THE HEAVENS 93
the Hyleg or ‘Lord of Life’ for the native. Next the
Anareta or ‘ Destroyer of Life ’ had to be ascertained.
“The Anaretic planets are by nature Saturn and Mars
though the Sun, Moon and Mercury may be endowed
with the same fatal influence if suitably afflicted. The
various ways in which the Hyleg may be afflicted corres¬
ponds to the various modes of death.”
It may be interesting to compare the method thus
given by an astrologer of the sixteenth century for cast¬
ing a horoscope, with that described by a modern prac¬
titioner of the art. The latter states :
“ I. The Nautical Almanac or an Ephemeris for the
year of birth must be consulted, which will show the
amount of sidereal time at the mean moon preceding the
time of birth. This must be recorded, then the number
of hours and minutes that have elapsed since the pre¬
ceding noon added. In addition to this the correction
for the difference between mean and sidereal time at the
rate of 9.86 s per hour. If the sum exceed 24 hours, re¬
ject this amount, then the sum is the Right Ascension of
the Meridian at the moment of birth.
2. Draw your diagram of the Houses and with a
‘ Table of Houses ’ for the nearest latitude, find the
nearest right-ascension to that which you have ob¬
tained, and mark the values therein given on the cusps
of the several houses, entering on the opposite houses
the same degrees of the opposite signs.
3. Reduce the longitudes of the Sun, Moon and
planets by proportion from the Ephemeris to the moment
of birth and place their symbols in the proper houses.
94 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
which may be readily done by noting that the degrees
pass over the cusps of the houses from left to right.
4. Reduce the declinations of the Sun, Moon and
planets by proportion from the Ephemeris or form a
table of declinations to the moment of birth.”
CHAPTER IX
PORTENTS IN THE HEAVENS-FIERY CROSSES-FLAMING
SWORDS-BLOODY CROSSES-BLAZING DRAGONS-HAIRY
COMETS
From the earliest times the sudden appearance of
strange visitants in the sky have excited awe and
dread in the heart of man. He could not conceive why
these terrifying and apparently uncontrolled bodies
should suddenly flash across the heavens and as quickly
depart, and at first not unnaturally, he connected them
with disaster or as indications of the wrath of the gods.
At a time when there were no instruments to assist
observation, the excitement produced on their appear¬
ance led to all hinds of imaginary and fantastic dis¬
tortions as to their form and shape, which always seem
to have impressed the observers.
Thus we have accounts of flaming swords and spears
appearing in the sky, which were believed to portend
wars and destruction ; terrible forms like blazing dragons
ready to swallow up the earth ; bloody crosses that were
believed to foreshadow death and destruction, and other
fearsome shapes of ill-omen.
As late as the sixteenth century these beliefs survived,
and during the latter period, Bodin, a French writer de¬
clared that, Comets indicate approaching misfortune,
95
96 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
because they are the spirits or souls of illustrious men,
who for many years have acted the part of guardian
angels and being at last ready to die, celebrate their
last triumph by voyaging to the firmament as fiaming
stars.”
There are quite a number of early records of the ap¬
pearance of comets before the Christian era, and one,
which appeared about 371 B.C. in the time of Aristotle
is thus described by Diodorus Siculus ; In the first
year of the 102nd Olympiad, several prodigies announced
the approaching humiliation of the Lacedaemonians. A
blazing torch of extraordinary size, which was compared
to a flaming beam, was seen during several nights.”
But apparently these strange visitants of the night
were not always regarded as indications of evil, for we
find that a comet that appeared about 344 B.C., was
believed by Timoleon of Corinth, to foretell the success
of his expedition against that city.
On some occasions they were also regarded as pre¬
saging the birth or an event in the life of some important
personage, such as the comets of 134 B.C. and 118 B.C.,
which coincided with the birth and accession of the great
King Mithridates.
The comet of 43 B.C., which was visible in Rome, was
believed by some to be the soul of Julius Caesar on its
way to the abode of the gods. Divination from comets
and meteors was practiced by the Romans, who are said
to have learnt the art from the Etruscans, and the rise
of a new star or the appearance of a comet, was thought to
portend the birth of a great person.
Burder observes, that the gods sent stars to point
PORTENTS IN THE HEAVENS 97
out the way to their favourites, as Virgil shows, and as
Suetonius and Pliny actually relate, in the case of Julius
C^sar.”
‘‘ A fearful star is the comet,” says Pliny, and not
easily appeased, as appeared in the late civil troubles,
when Octavius was consul, and in our time when Claudius
C^sar having been poisoned, the Empire was left to
Domitian, in whose reign there appeared a blazing
comet.”
Seneca took an unfavourable view with respect to
comets and states that, ‘‘ Some are very cruel and portend
the worst misfortunes, they bring with them and leave
behind them the seeds of blood and slaughter.”
A comet that is said to have appeared in 79 A.D. was
believed to portend the death of Vespasian. One day
noticing some of his courtiers whispering about it, he
remarked. That hairy star does not portend evil to me.
It menaces rather the King of the Parthians. He is a
hairy man but I am bald.”
Other comets are said to have presaged the deaths of
Attila in the year 45 Valentinian, of Chilperic and
Mahomet, while the demise of the Emperor Louis II in
^7S> likewise said to have been preceded by a comet.
At various periods in history, the end of the world
has been predicted by astrologers, and the first date
assigned for this event is said to have been the year 1000.
According to a chronicler, in that year a comet ap¬
peared, which was followed by a wonderful meteor which
flashed across the heavens. The sky was seen to open
and men saw with horror, the figure of a dragon, whose
feet were blue and whose head seemed to grow larger,”
98 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
but in spite of these terrible apparitions, the world still
revolved and no one was any the worse.
Halley’s comet, which we now know appears about
every seventy“seven years, occasioned much consterna
tion in earlier times when its appearance was regarded
as a portent from heaven.
Astronomers tell us, that in 1066 it was observed by
the Saxons, who believed it to announce the approach¬
ing conquest of England by William of Normandy.
A contemporary chronicler observes, that the comet
had been more favourable to William than nature had
been to Cxsar, as the latter had no hair but William
received some from the comet.
About the end of February I5S^? ^ great comet ap¬
peared, which was believed to presage the abdication of
the Emperor Charles V from the Imperial throne, and
he himself seems to have thought it to be significant
of the end of his power.
It caused great consternation among the people and
according to a chronicler, it presented a truly terrible
appearance.”
Another great comet that created terror in France was
that of 1528, which is described by Pare at the time. He
states, “ it was so horrible and dreadful, and engendered
such terror in the minds of men, that they died, some
from fear alone, others from illness engendered by fear.
‘‘ It was of immense length and of a blood-red colour ;
at its head was seen the figure of a curved arm holding
a large sword in the hand, as if preparing to strike. At
the point of this were three stars, and on either side a
number of axes, knives, and swords covered with blood,
PORTENTS IN THE HEAVENS 99
amongst which were many hideous human faces with
bristling beards and hair.”
According to astrologers of the Middle Ages, much
FIGURE OF A FEARFUL COMET
From a woodcut, i^8g
might be prognosticated from the shape of a comet.
Thus, if it appeared to be in the form of a harp or a flute,
musicians were menaced, or should the head be square-
100 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
shaped with fixed stars, mathematicians would be
affected.
When long and extending across the sky it portended
deaths from poison.
Should a comet enter any of the signs of the Zodiac,
it was believed that malefic results would be sure to
follow. Thus if a comet afflicted the sign of Virgo, it
would cause many grievous ills to women ; when in the
sign of Aries, it indicated the coming of great wars and
terrible mortality. Should it extend into Scorpio, it
brought plagues of reptiles and particularly locusts ;
while if it entered Pisces, it portended religious quarrels
as well as pestilence and war.
Popes, bishops and priests in the Middle Ages warned
the people ‘‘ to pray to be delivered from the evil in¬
fluences of comets and other celestial portents.”
Defoe tells us of the consternation caused by the
comets of 1664 and 1666, which were believed to portend
the calamities of the plague and the great fire of London.
The two comets,” he states, passed directly over
the city. The comet before the pestilence was of a
faint, dull, languid colour and its motion heavy and
slow, but the comet before the great fire was bright and
sparkling, swift and furious.”
Alluding to the terror caused at the time of the plague,
he says, people were more addicted to prophecies and
astrological conjurations and old wives’ tales, than ever
they were before or since.”
Even in the eighteenth century the fears connected
with comets had not died out, and many thought they
presaged terrible calamities on the earth.
PORTENTS IN THE HEAVENS 101
There was a great scare in this country in 1712, when
Whiston predicted that a comet, which was due on the
14th October of that year, would consume the world by
fire three days afterwards.
This prediction which came from a man with some
scientific reputation caused considerable consternation.
Many people in London believed that the end of the
world was at hand and acted accordingly.
There was a great run on the banks and Sir Gilbert
Heathcote who was then head director, issued instruc¬
tions to all the fire offices in London to keep a good look
out, especially on the Bank of England.
Many people embarked in boats and barges on the river
in the hope they might thus escape the flames, and the
captain of a Dutch ship in the Thames threw all his gun
powder overboard so his ship might not be endangered.
The rumour spread to the Stock Exchange and South Sea
and Indian securities fell sharply.
At noon, after the comet appeared, it is said that
over a hundred clergymen were ferried over to Lambeth
Palace to request the Archbishop to have proper prayers
ready, as there were none in the church service suitable
for such an emergency.
But the 14th of October passed and as nothing hap¬
pened Londoners again breathed freely.
Another instance of a panic which spread throughout
France in 1773, was caused by a story that had got
abroad, that Lalande had predicted that a comet
was about to come into collision with the earth. The
curious thing about it was, there was in reality no
foundation for the rumour, which Lalande himself
102 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
declared in a communication he published in the Gazette
de France, on May 7th 1773, to calm the public mind.
But in spite of this, the Archbishop of Paris was be¬
sought to appoint forty hours prayer to avert the terrible
danger that was anticipated.
Voltaire, in a letter he wrote On the Pretended
Comet ” on May 7th 1773, declared that, “ the Parisians
will not desert their city on the 20th inst. They will
sing songs, and the plays of ‘ The Comet ’ and ‘ The
World’s End ’ will be performed at the Opera Comique.”
According to a later writer, some of the Parisians with a
keen eye to business, were not slow to take advantage of
the fears of the panic-stricken, and offered to book them
a sure entrance to Paradise. Places in that future
abode, he states, were actually sold at a very high rate
to terrorised people.
An astrologer of the last century observes that, the
appearance of Donati’s comet in 1858 was quickly
followed by the Italian war of 1859. The appearance of
the great comet of 1861, coincided with a great fire in
London and the outbreak of civil war in America. The
three comets that appeared in 1881, presaged the assassin¬
ation of General Garfield, then President of the United
States, and great forest fires which followed afterwards
in that country.
CHAPTER X
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE-THE INFLUENCE OF THE
STARS ON HERBS AND PLANTS
Astrology had a considerable influence on the
art of healing in early times and until the close of
the sixteenth century its study was considered highly
necessary to the physician.
It formed the chief method of diagnosing disease, and
to the influence of the stars was attributed the potency
of the herbs and plants used as remedies.
The association of the signs of the Zodiac with various
parts of the human body, and the power they were
believed to exercise over them, probably dates from
about 400 B.C.
How special portions and organs of the body of man
came to be allotted and placed under the governance of
certain Zodiacal signs is a mystery which is yet un¬
explained.
From the Babylonian and Assyrian records there
appears no evidence of the existence of the belief among
those nations, and its origin is most probably due to the
Greeks or the Egyptians. Hippocrates, the father of
medicine, alludes to the power of the heavenly bodies
over the human body, and according to Pettigrew, the
ancient Egyptians apportioned certain parts of the body
103
104 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
to the signs, and treated disease by invoking the Zodiacal
regent of the part affected.
In the time of Ptolemy (A.D. 130) the doctrine was
weU-known, for remarking on the theories on which it is
based he says : ‘‘ Such parts of the signs as contain the
afflicted part of the horizon, will show in what part of
the body the misfortune will exist, whether it be a hurt
or disease or both.” Manetho, an Egyptian priest and
traveller who wrote on astrology states, that each degree
of the heavens in late Egyptian astrology, was assigned
to some special activity and to some disease.
In the Alexandrian school of medicine, astrological
prognosis and diagnosis were recognised and practised.
Diseases of the more important bodily organs were
diagnosed according to the influence of the signs of the
Zodiac at the time, and remedies were administered,
which either acted by suggestion or were wholly in¬
operative.
As time went on, we find herbs, plants and mineral
substances were also appropriated to the planets, and so
assigned for the cure of various diseases. Such medicines
were only to be given at certain times, and the operation
of bleeding was only to be carried out when the stars
were in favourable aspects.
Talismans of various metals, engraved with the
symbols of the signs and the planets, were in common use
in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries for the treat¬
ment of the sick and were regarded as powerful aids to
medicine.
In alluding to these, Roger Bacon, who recognised
the power of the mind over certain ailments, observes:
A cc>4f
-pinA Imp'-
'CiiPi* ii<? Ti T
’’VAh .|l V^v
r %nA
C^iite m Ta^v^ T
«4l iiMhi? iV»*i
tiCf 43 Ifct'iditl €AmJ
M('(imu pi4n^
m^) Tnhmfi^hhm
5#
ApcmaC’ttC
n« '
{00$ / >4
^ C4tt^ at TniU^nc
n€l ttt f/iac.4 nt
idAA tt^n;ltsi r:t|^ftHU<
C-HiC 4b
n<*imit-, |^t»
||lt.s<. n«*r wa34<3 V-?
m ijtiM Wrii^'
pip^miiti CAtH' i
pftctiHK w
net
W fhiC iti4n»b?
W4r4 W
ti4in m bMj?
i%na
^4tti aU
tuafij
n< Ific-:
i0x0 vcl x
itf\Otic frotirt^/
ci^t A :^ulti1<Hll4
p0c t«aM4 4aN:;i's
4i4 iPCiiAttt »|itc ’'\,
|#-r3iii’ 4b mafio.;
4" *ijtfi anc.
4
?v
il4t4 k dtl^ali ^.r-¥ rir;,'.!'
^ CAili’tt<. i€t
1st \ntlii7T twbtitct' itb
'%'^tV:):i pi'itv^ piH'iiK
n |yw4^tin ''wwIAhu
CApC 41 Tn
Itfinc -rcttid#-
Vtt?rif<! »-4.llflC'4C ■
inCiViifb’. h tnfi..
h$$ ‘W'?Otii^T;
nti imtlt
' C4ttC
'nfciliOiiC ^
tAit^rtntttl
' mctPM
tnA;
<P\--i 1 i\ '^'xl
• * '<■
i4
AS I'RC)LO(iICA[. FIC.URE
From a inaniiscript of the XI]’ Century
(Fritisli Museum)
Facimj vage 10k
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 105
It is to be allowed, that a skilful physician and indeed
any one else who finds it necessary to cause mental
excitement, may with good effect make use both of
charms and fictitious characters, in order that his
medicine may be the more confidently and eagerly taken.
For the mind when so excited, has over its own body a
great power of restoration.
“ They who know in fit constellations to make their
works (talismans) according to the configurations of the
heavens, may not only dispose their characters but also
their operations, both of nature and art, according to the
celestial operations.”
The parts of the body originally allotted to and said
to be governed by the signs of the Zodiac were as follows:
Aries the ram, the head and face. Taurus, the bull, the
neck and throat. Gemini, the Twins, the arms and
shoulders. Cancer, the crab, the breast and stomach.
Leo, the lion, the back and the heart. Virgo the virgin,
the viscera. Libra, the scales, the veins and the bladder.
Scorpio, the scorpion, the generative organs. Sagit¬
tarius the archer, the hips and thighs. Capricorn the
goat-fish, the knees. Aquarius the Water-pourer, the
legs and ankles. Pisces the fish, the feet and toes.
It is easy to understand from this, how certain diseases
also came to be associated with the signs. Thus Aries
ruling the head and face was believed to produce small¬
pox, epilepsy, headaches, baldness, ringworm and
apoplexy. Taurus ; all diseases of the throat, scrofula,
quinsy and wens. Gemini; diseases of the arms and
shoulders, frenzy, fevers, disorders of the brain and in¬
sanity. Cancer ; dropsy, cancer, consumption, asthma.
106 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
and disorders affecting the stomach. Leo ; diseases
of the heart, plague, convulsions, jaundice, pleurisy
and fevers. Virgo ; ruled all diseases affecting the
viscera. Libra, diseases of the blood and the bladder.
Scorpio, diseases of the generative organs and scurvy.
Sagittarius, gout, rheumatism, sciatica, muscular pains
and disorders caused by intemperance. Capricorn,
hysteria, leprosy, melancholia, and cutaneous diseases.
Aquarius ; diseases affecting the legs and ankles, dis¬
locations, lameness, cramp and swellings in those parts.
Pisces ; lameness, pains in the feet, also pimples and
ulcers.
Curious figures, sometimes very crudely drawn, repre¬
senting a man with the various signs of the Zodiac
placed over the parts of his body they were supposed to
govern, are to be found in manuscripts on astrology as
early as the fourteenth century.
They were evidently drawn for instruction at a period
when few could read, and at a later period, in the six¬
teenth century, they were often reproduced in the ‘ Books
of Hours’ sometimes very beautifully executed by
masters in the art of miniature painting.
There are many examples of these quaint astrological
figures, representing both male and female, to be found
in manuscripts of the fourteenth and fifteenth cen¬
turies.
It was after looking at one of these figures Southey
wrote :
“ There Homo stands naked but not ashamed, upon
the two Pisces one foot upon each ; the fish being neither
in air or water, nor upon earth, but self suspended, as it
ASTROLOGICAL FIGURE
From a French manuscript on Astrology, XVII Century
Facing page 106
■A ■■ f *
■?
->r* ‘,. • ..fcS©A. -"^ ■ ■ V '*‘- '•■^58*^. ' c. . ■ ‘ V ' I
‘ *!# '.* ’‘t>' , 7 * y '*j *-» . »*
■' •'■••■ .■■■=,**--''<.- •r?j^''f.^'>^ ‘ ■ ■
_j •,* ^,’ -J, - tn'v ^ i * -'; l/■•r^- "!• “^ '
f- ■.«2,.i'!‘.-^> - ■/.' ■ \ V .5|8IU^»7/Vr- •
r - ♦•JtV- ’ - 4 • • • h. r ^^ ' I*" ‘ ^
>■*
•' • "« i
/. (•-*
Iv- ' *
^ i
‘ f *
•■.• V . 4
<v .
• ♦
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 107
appears in the void, Aries has alighted with two feet
on Homo’s head and has sent a shaft through the fore¬
head into his brain. Taurus has quietly seated himself
across his neck. The Gemini are astride a little below
his right shoulder. The whole trunk is laid open as if
part of the old accursed punishment for high treason
has been performed upon him.
The Lion occupies the thorax as his proper domain,
and the Crab is in possession of the abdomen. Sagit¬
tarius, volant in the void, has just let fly an arrow which
is on its way to his right arm. 'Capricornus breathes out
a visible influence that penetrates both knees. Aquarius
inflicts similar punctures upon both legs. Virgo fishes
as it were at his intestines. Libra at the part affected
by schoolmasters in their anger and Scorpio takes the
wickedest aim of all.”
The belief in the powers of the signs over disease even
extended to veterinary medicine, and in manuscripts on
the subject, figures of the horse are sometimes to be
found, with the various Zodiacal signs placed over the
parts of the animal’s body they were believed to
govern.
When the era of printing dawned in the fifteenth
century, these astrological figures were often reproduced
as wood-cuts in books on medicine and astrology, and
are to be found in many works on these subjects down
to the close of the seventeenth century. The planets
also were believed to influence disease and each had
certain complaints allotted to it over which it was sup¬
posed to exert special powers.
Saturn was said to influence agues, rheumatism.
108 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
ASTROLOGICAL FIGURE
SHOWING THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC AND THE PARTS OF THE BODY THEY
GOVERN
From Epilogo en Medicina Y Cirurgia " 1495
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 109
affections of the right ear, the spleen, the bladder, con¬
sumption, jaundice and gout. Jupiter affected pleurisy,
liver troubles, diseases of the lungs, the hands, arteries,
the blood and quinsy.
Mars, all fevers, plague, flux, smallpox, St. Anthony’s
fire, carbuncles, fistulas, ringworm, jaundice, stone in
the bladder and injuries by fire or the sword, also the
left ear and the kidneys. Venus, all diseases of the organs
of generation and matrix ; diabetes, hysteria, sore-throat
and lacteal flow, also the liver and the nostrils. Mercury,
all diseases incident to the brain, insanity, loss of
memory, asthma, dumbness, and affections of the tongue
and nerves. The Moon, lunacy, apoplexy, colic, worms,
intestinal diseases, dropsy, coughs, epilepsy. King’s
evil and measles. Also the palate, throat, stomach,
abdomen, the uterus and all the left side. The Sun, all
diseases of the heart, the eyes, mouth, the right eye
in men and the left in women, and eruptions on the
face.
This belief in the mysterious influence of the planets,
is said to be referred to in the blessing given by Moses
to the tribe of Joseph, viz., ‘‘ Blessed of the Lord be his
land for the precious things of heaven, for the dew and
for the deep that coucheth beneath, and for the precious
things put forth by the Sun, and for the precious things
put forth by the Moon.”
It has been stated, that it had its origin in the idea,
that ‘‘ the supposed spirits of the planets radiated their
influence, and that according as those radiations were
of a similar or dissimilar character to that of the human
frame, so they were beneficial or harmful. Thus, a cold
110 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
planet might, though its influence was generally evil,
be advantageous in fever, and the plants and minerals
which partook of its nature might then be administered
with effect.”
According to astrological rules, plants and herbs for
medicinal use had to be gathered during the hours of
the planets to which they were appropriated, as they
were then supposed to have increased power, whereas
in the hour of supremacy of a contrary planet, they
lost their virtues and became ineffectual.
The hours of gathering had to be calculated from an
almanac and tables were compiled showing the planetary
hours of rising and setting. All coming under the dom¬
inion of the Sun had to be gathered on Sunday, while
those ruled by the Moon were to be gathered on Monday,
and so on through the week, according to the planet
governing the day.
The trees, plants and herbs and the planets which rule
them are recorded in the Herbals, and from them we
learn that Saturn influenced the pine, cypress, yew,
black alder, hemlock, nightshade and poppy.
Jupiter, the oak, elm, birch, hazel, agrimony, betony,
columbine, cresses, foxglove, hyssop, larkspur, mallow,
periwinkle, parsnip and thyme.
Mars ruled the box tree, hawthorn, broom, buckthorn,
dock, garlic, horehound, hemp, hops, mustard and
wormwood. The mineral substances influenced by the
same planet were iron, antimony, arsenic, and sul¬
phur.
The Sun governed the cedar, laurel, anise, almond,
chamomile, daffodil, dill, fennel, St. John’s wort, juniper.
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 111
lavender, marigold, mistletoe, pennyroyal, rosemary,
rue, saffron and sage. His mineral was gold.
Venus ruled apple and cherry trees and their fruits,
also coltsfoot, dandelion, elder-flowers, miyrtle, white
poppy and the leaves of the violet. Her mineral was
copper.
Mercury influenced the m.edlar, quince, willow, bar¬
berry, succory, tansy, vervain, also the elder and nut
tree.
The Moon governed all trees full of sap, the palm,
cucumber, mushrooms, melon, moonwort and herbs
that turned towards the Moon. Her mineral was
silver.
The Arabs believed, that it was the Moon that brought
down the virtue of all the planets to influence the
herbs on earth.
Thus, Abraham Avenezra the Arab astrologer says:
‘‘ The Moon is assimilated to the body of man. She
brings down the virtue of the other planets to the crea¬
tures and to man on earth.
‘‘ The Sun when he arrives in the house of his honour,
Aries : then the trees spring, birds sing, living creatures
are comforted and the whole creation rejoices.”
In ‘‘ The Sickman’s Glass,” written by an astrologer
in the sixteenth century, there is a list of Herbs which
cure the usual infirmities and diseases incident to man,
being discovered by the Sun and Moon afflicted in any
of the twelve signs or a figure of twelve houses.” This
takes the form of an index of diseases and was evidently
designed as a guide to the physician in the choice of
remedies.
112 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
It is as follows :
Agues^ to cure all kinds, you must take notice under
what Planet the patient is most afflicted, whether under
Saturn or under Mars or both, and so make choice of
herbs accordingly. Use Rosemary, chamomile, rue,
centaury, sage, vervain, feverfew, savin, burdock,
rhubarb, calamint, bryony, black hellebore.
“ Apoplexies^ mistletoe, lavender, lily, marjoram, sage,
fennel.
Carbuncles^ to cure ; use spurge, walnut, vetch, cole-
wort.
Coughs or colds^ use angelica, coltsfoot, horehound,
comfrey, elecampane, liquorice, rue, thyme, valerian.
Consumptions^ balsam, melons, burdock, snails, bor¬
age, bugloss, dandelion.
‘‘ Convulsions^ St. John’s wort, mistletoe, cowslips,
lavender, bryony, mellitot, wormwood, hyssop, sea-holly.
‘‘ Digestion, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, spearmint,
radish, camphire, carraway, eglantine, cinnamon, cloves,
coriander.
Dropsie, barley, broom, burdock, dittany, elder, gar-
lick, laurel, wormwood, rosemary, bay, tamarisk, saffron,
aniseed.
Fevers, marigold, roses, hyssop, dandelion, purslain.
‘‘ Headache, aloes, betony, bryony, butcher’s broom,
dodder, frankincense, hellebore, houseleek, mugwort,
nightshade, spikenard, sycamore.
Heart, (fainting) angelica, rosemary, cinnamon,
cloves, nutmeg, galingal, hart’s tongue, also the hearts of
all creatures which are good to eat.
Jaundice, aloes, agrimony, yellow bark of black
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 113
elder, calamint, flower de luce, mustard, hops, liverwort,
rhubarb, rue, saffron, tamarisk, broom blossom, fumitory.
Liver, agrimony, liverwort, dandelion, celandine,
centaury, elderbuds, plantain, broom, saffron, furze blos¬
som, tormentilla, juniper, foxglove, germander.
Quinsey, cudweed, mulberries, rhubarb.
'' Rheums, dog’s mercury, catmint, plantain, red roses,
sage, bay, bugloss, coriander.
Sciatica, burdock, henbane, St. John’s wort, nettles,
tansey, madder, thyme.
Sleep, to procure. Lettuce, white poppy? purslain,
henbane, hemlock, nightshade, onions, mandrake.
Throat, (sore.) Ground ivy, pellitory, vine, elder-
flowers, barley, woodbine, golden-rod.
Stomach complaints, apples, endive, elecampane,
hawkweed, hound’s tongue, peach flowers, sorrel, quinces,
capers, succory, mint, mustard, tansey, chamomile,
gooseberries, lemons and spinach.”
We can form a good idea of the manner in which a
physician of the sixteenth century would proceed to
diagnose the case of a patient from an account left to us
in a manuscript of that period, which we quote from the
original text.
The end of the physitian’s imployment is ye cure of
ye patient, that he may accomplish this desirable end
with more certainty and facility, astrology is very
necessary as the handmaid to attend his other physicall
sciences.
“ First, for ye knowledge of what part the disease is
in and which cause it comes, you are to remember what
parts of man s body are signified by ye twelve houses and
8
114 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
signs of heaven, by ye planetts, by ye position of ye
planetts which are the significators in any of the houses
and signs.
Haw tb Prami thb imhe Honfes^ and what every
Hwfe concerm^ in a DtmmbitHre xFigure]
Ugicn Lon
^nrctai^ct ane\^
lis^^oi^cs^Th^cK,\l
Triuaic\. \ y Death
Enemies
(Jiveat
meins.ho^
rfhn
his
Edleate
or^vhfta^
Tlis^icKmansCj]
the fUtev/in^ Wliat /V
Fue^Hoiile Sia=:
nifitts mCafe of
iSicKii/s oir Others
l^ise
JsitoulcsjLcmd
e^acKS
nee
Wlf^
hm
ctanarA
TubJicK.
Enemies
'\IS
iT/irlGte/?
Delighis
The next thingconfiderable is, to have knowledge how
to infert the twelve Signs upon (he cufp ofevery Houfe,
^ndlikewife to(et tbefeven Planets in thofe Signs;
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS SHOWING THE TWELVE HOUSES
AND WHAT EVERY HOUSE SIGNIFIES
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 115
The parts signified by ye twelve houses and
signes are therefor the first house and the first
sign which present ye head, face, ears, eyes and
mouth.
“ The second, ye neck, and throat. The third, ye
arms, shoulders and their bones, hands and fingers.
The fourth, ye breast, stomach, lungs, the fifth, ye heart,
ribs, sides, backbone, midriffe and lower parts of ye
breast. Sixth, ye belly, liver, spleen and guttes. Seventh,
ye reins, kidneys, loynes, upper parts of ye buttocks
and haunches. Eighth, ye fundament, groyne, and
bladder.
‘‘ Nineth, ye thighs, hippes, and hucklebone. Tenth
ye knees and hammes. Eleventh, ye legges, shinbones
and ankles. Twelfth, ye feet and tooes. When giving
medicine observe ye Moon’s motion. Earthy signs usually
make dull purgings. Bleeding is not good if ye Moon is
in fiery signs. Sweating is hard in earthy and watery
signs.
‘‘ Lastly knowe ye planetts and their parts as well as
living creatures and minerals as are assigned to the
planetts.”
The next step was to discover the disease from which
the patient was suffering. To do this the physician had
to take note what sign the Moon was in when he first
took to his bed, and by what planets the Moon was
affiicted, then according to the set rules under the
planets, he was able to name the disease. If the Moon
was in Capricorn and afflicted by Saturn, the chest and
stomach would be affected, the lungs might be oppressed
and he would have shortness of breath and cough. An-
116 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
other method was to observe the sign of the twelve
houses, and then to give judgment by the Moon
being in any of the twelve signs and by the infirmities
afflicted.
By rules, also, he claimed to be able to discover
whether the patient would recover or die; if he was
likely to live, and how long before he would recover.
The signs of recovery were fore-told by a benevolent
planet being stronger in the ascendant than the
afflicting one.
It was next necessary for the physician to select his
remedies. In order to do this, he had first to note one of
the elemental qualities of each planet, viz. whether hot
and dry or hot and moist, cold and dry or cold and moist,
then from his Herbal find the elemental quality of the
plant. If he found that both the plant and the planet
were in accord in elemental qualities, then the plant
would be under that planet.
Thus for example Saturn is a planet which is cold and
dry in the third and fourth degree, and hemlock, hen¬
bane and nightshade being also dry in the third and
fourth degree, they may therefore be properly attributed
to Saturn.
Having selected his remedies and prepared his medi¬
cine, he had then to find the most suitable hour for
its administration.
The usual time was when the Moon was in a watery
sign or when a watery sign was in the ascendant. The
rule states : ‘‘ Let the Moon be aspected by any planet
which is direct and if swift in motion and under the
earth it is better. But by no means let the Moon be
AS'I'ROOGICAL FI (iURE
SPIOWIN(; THE ZODIACAL SKiXS AND 'I'HE PARIS AND
OR(.ANS OE THE HUMAN BODY THEY GOYERN
From an engraving of the A'I’/ Century
Facing page 116
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 117
aspected by any retrograde planet, for then the patient
will be apt to vomit.
“ When you intend to give a vomet, let either the
Moon or the Lord of the ascendant be an earthy sign,
aspected by a planet retrograde.”
Thus the physician when first called in to attend a sick
person had no easy task, and his procedure was not
nearly so simple as that followed by his descendants
to-day.
Bleeding was a very frequent operation in the Middle
Ages, and people were often bled at regular intervals
whether it was actually necessary or not. Here again
astrology played an important part, for to avoid harmful
results, the operation had to be carried out when the
planets were favourable. Figures were drawn, and are
often to be found in early works on medicine, indicating
the proper veins to open and the right times for open¬
ing them.
The following rules are culled from a manuscript of
the fifteenth century for Lettinge of ye bloode.”
Let not the Moon be in Gemini nor in that signe
when you let bloode in the feete. Let not the Moon be
in Capricorn if in ye legges. Let not the Moon be in
Aquarius if in ye feete. And the best tyme to lett bloode
is when the Moon is aplyeth to Aries. Let not bloode
in the hour of Jupiter or Venus. Let not bloode from the
middle of Julie until the middle of September, nor when
there is frost or snow.”
An astrologer writing in the fourteenth century states:
‘‘ What place the veyne of any man or woman, when
the moon is in the signe of that tyme and no medicyne
118 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
FIGURE SHOWING THE VEINS AND PARTS OF THE BODY
FROM WHICH A MAN SHOULD BE BLED
From a woodcut, 1552
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 119
in that tyme, for it will rather hynder than further and
keep the whole from blood-lettyng. It is further not
goode to lett bloode in ye houre of Jupiter.”
Ptolemy issued a warning to surgeons, not to operate
when the Moon was in the sign governing a certain part
of the body, a precaution we are afraid which has long
been disregarded :
‘‘ Pierce not with iron,” he writes, ‘‘ that part of the
body which may be governed by the sign actually
occupied by the Moon.”
Another matter of great importance to the physician
in which the Moon had to be taken into account when
treating certain diseases was the determination of crises.
‘‘ Wise men have experiences of many vertues of the
starres,” writes an astrologer of the fifteenth century,
and physicians in old time have found out the changes
and terminations of diseases by the course of the Moon.
Wherefore the seventh, fourteenth, twentyth, twenty-
first, twenty-eighth or twenty-nineth dayes of sicknesses
are called criticall dayes.
‘‘ Know then that the crisis viz. upon a critical day,
the Moon being well aspected by good planets, it goes
well with the sick ; if to ill-planets, it goes ill.”
The ancient tradition associating the Moon with lunacy
and the belief that its influence affected the insane, can
be traced back to the time of the early Greeks.
Cambrensis states, that the sick are called lunatics
not because their insanity comes from the Moon, but
because the devil who causes insanity avails himself of
lunaria tempora, in order that he may disgrace the
creature into blaspheming the Creator.”
120 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Referring to the belief in the Moon’s influence Esquirol
says, the Germans and Italians believed in lunar in¬
fluence as a cause of mental disorder, but I have not
been able to satisfy myself that this influence is real.”
At the Salpetriere and the Bicetre, the great asylums
in Paris, the supposed influence of the Moon on the
insane is not entertained. On the other hand Daquin,
physician to the Lunatic Hospital at Chambery, Savoy,
was of the opinion that the Moon exercised a real in¬
fluence on the inmates.
Dr. T. Laycock who made a careful investigation of
the subject some years ago, found the evidence so con¬
flicting that he could not obtain any proof of the asser¬
tion, and Arnold, another observer, says, ‘^he could never
clearly perceive any such lunar influence.” The senior
medical oflicer to one of the largest mental institutions
in this country, after thirty-five years experience has
stated, that he never observed any evidence of the
Moon’s influence on the patients under his charge, so
the tradition may be regarded as a myth.
The old belief that the periodical change in the sex
is under lunar influence stiU has its advocates, but again
there is no evidence to prove it.
With reference to the supposed lunar influence on
vegetation which was one of the doctrines of astrology,
Robertson tells us that in the West Indies, all kinds of
vegetables are fuller of sap at the new and the full Moon ;
while in Cuba and Peru, many agricultural operations
are guided by the Moon and the farmers always gather
the harvest when it is on the wane.
In connexion with the Moon’s influence on the tides,
A VOLVELLE
From a manuscript of the XIV Century
The Volvelle was an ancient device consisting of one or more movable circles
surrounding other graduated or figured circles, serving to ascertain the rising
and setting of the Sun and Moon and the state of the tides. It is first men¬
tioned in the XIV Century and this example is the earliest known.—(British
Museum).
Facing page 120
ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE 121
there was a curious belief once common in Holland, that
fat people died at the flood and thin folks at the ebb of
the tide, but this like many other old traditions has been
found to be without foundation.
CHAPTER XI
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES—ARAB ASTROLOGERS—
ASTROLOGY IN INDIA AND CHINA
PTOLEMY has been fitly called the greatest figure
in ancient astronomy, and his discoveries and the
doctrines he laid down in his great work Almagest,”
held sway over the minds of men for at least fourteen
centuries.
He was a native of Egypt and the time at which he
lived is judged from the fact, that his first recorded ob¬
servation was made in A.D. 127, and his last in the year
He began by emphasising the fact that the earth was
undoubtedly globular and succeeded in devising a scheme
by which the apparent changes that take place in the
heavens could, so far as he knew, then be explained by
certain combinations of circular movement. He records
that travellers who journeyed south observed that as
they did so, the appearance of the heavens at night
underwent a gradual change. Stars that they had
previously noticed in the northern skies, gradually sank
lower in the heavens.
The constellation of the Great Bear, which in our
skies never sets during its revolution round the pole, did
set and rise again when a southern latitude had been
122
THE ZODIAC AND CONSTELLATIONS—PTOLEMY’S ALMAGEST
After Albert Diirer, 1532
Facing page 122
M -rfWk .
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES 123
reached. On the other hand, constellations new to the
inhabitants of northern climes were seen to rise above
the horizon. He reasoned, that if the earth had been
flat, sunset must necessarily take place at the same time,
no matter in what country the observer might happen to
be.
That Ptolemy was a believer in the doctrines of
astrology is shown in his Tetrabiblos,” from some parts
of which it would appear that he pursued his astrono¬
mical researches for astrological purposes. He held, that
the planet in the ascendant at the time of birth, was the
chief ruler of the character and fortunes of the ‘ native,’
as the newdy born infant was technically called.
The irregularity of the movements of these bodies
were therefore selected as those most fitted to represent
the varying turns of Fortune’s wheel, and to preside
over the changing lots of men, of nations and of the
entire human race.
About the seventh century, the Arabs took up the
study of astrology and under the patronage of Almaiman,
the Mirammolin, the treatise of Ptolemy were translated
by Ali Hazen Ben Yusseph in the year 827. Albumasar
added to the work, and his example was followed by
Alfraganus and Eben Nozophim, although as early as
A.D. 680, Ibn Yunis and Abul Wefu had recorded many
observations with accuracy.
In the year 777, Jacob ben Tarik founded at Bagdad,
a school for the study of astronomy and astrology, and
among the students who received instruction there was
Alkendi the teacher of Albumasar, who afterwards
became one of the greatest of the Arab astrologers. The
124 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
gradually increasing influence of Arab learning and the
spread of astrology by Jewish teachers in the near East,
caused the art to occupy a powerful position up to the
time of the Crusades.
The Moors, when they occupied Spain, carried their
knowledge of astrology into western Europe, and after
their expulsion, its study was propagated by the Jews
and the Christians. Among the latter, Alphonso of
Castille became an influential and enthusiastic student.
The Jewish and Christian savants who arranged the
astronomical tables which pass under his name, were
convened from all available parts of Europe. Their
investigations and discussions occupied five years, and
the sum of 400,000 ducats is said to have been dis-
boursed in the towers of the Alcazar of Galiana, in the
adjustment and corrections of Ptolemy’s calculations.
Two great volumes written in cypher with astrological
figures, are said to be still preserved in the library of the
Escurial, which according to tradition, were written by
Alfonso himself. In one part of his code he enrolled
astrology among the seven liberal sciences, and he also
gave his sanction to such astrologers who truly prac¬
tised the art of divination by the stars.”
In the East, long before this period, astrology had
spread to Persia and India, where it had been practised
from a very early period. In Persia, where it was pro¬
pagated by the Medes, astrology exercised an important
influence on national life. Its practitioners were con¬
sulted on all important occasions and among them were
some famous astrologers.
Most of the ancient races of India were believers in
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES 125
astrology, and nearly all the native rulers had their
astrologers who were considered of the same rank as a
prime minister and were held in the highest esteem. The
division of their Zodiac into twenty-eight houses of the
Moon, with six northern and six southern parts, is
noticeable, and the worship of some of their gods shows
evidence of early star-worship. The influence of the
twelve houses bears evidence of the same source of origin
as that of the astrology of western nations.
According to Hindu astrology, planetary influence
meant the ‘‘ flowing forth ” from the planets of an
ethereal substance to the earth. To identify the birth-
sign, the astrologer had first to find out the sign in which
the Sun happened to be at the time of the birth, and
afterwards, to calculate what degrees and how many
minutes it had spent in that sign with reference to the
time of birth. To these he had to add the degrees and
minutes comprised in ^ Ayanamsakalas ’ to make the
identification complete.
One of the most famous of the early Hindu astrologers
was Gautama Sakya Muni and after him, among the
Jains came Yavanar, Savanar and Sainya Muni. Varaha
Mihira Chariar, the royal astrologer of Vikra Marka, was
also celebrated as a fore-caster of events and nativities.
Anything like a complete description of so vast a sub¬
ject as astrology in India is impossible in these pages.
It influenced nearly every aspect of life and its doctrines
are still practised by many races of that great Empire.
According to a native practitioner, Hindu astrology
is divided into three parts viz. “ Astronomy, Astrology
(horoscopy) and Astrology (horary). The second deals
126 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
of the good and bad fortunes that occur to all living
beings in the world, also with trees and plants. The
third includes the answering of particular questions, by
reference to the position of the heavenly bodies at the
time, and whether particular days shall be lucky or
unlucky.
‘‘ The foundations of Hindu astrology are based on
the theory, that from the heavenly bodies are derived
air and ether and from them fire, from these three, water,
and from the combination of the four, earth. Since
these elements come from the heavenly bodies it follows
that living things are influenced by the flowing forth
from the planets of some ethereal emanation.”
The Hindu astrologers argued that as the Sun gives
out heat and draws off vapour, burns up grass and
attracts other heavenly bodies, it is the source of phy¬
sical life.
Similarly all the planets exert five influences. The
heat man gives off from his body, interacting with the
heat of the Sun, produces abnormal bodily heat, result¬
ing in disease. In the same way, man exerts the four
other influences.
‘‘ To remedy bodily disturbance arising from the in¬
fluence of heat or cold, various devices have been in¬
vented such as fires, garments and the use of ice. It is
allowed that there is a mutual attraction subsisting
between all the heavenly bodies and this world.”
All plants they believed came into existence through
the Moon and Venus, “ because these two emanate
watery rays; coral, pearls, shells, and all animals
found in water, are also produced by these two bodies.
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES 127
Man is born through the influence of the Sun and Jupiter
and he dies under the influence of the Moon. Minerals
are produced through the influence of Mars and Saturn.”
In Rig-veda it is said: “Death is from the Moon: The
Moon gives coldness and when a man becomes ab¬
normally cold, he dies.” Many of these Hindu beliefs
can be traced to western sources.
According to the Rig-veda, “ Astrology is the eye
of Brahma.” The Brahmins were credited with the
power of predicting striking phenomena of nature and
were generally believed to possess the faculty of predict¬
ing the future, and they therefore came to be consulted on
all kinds of events. From the horoscope of any person,
they said, it was impossible to predict anything until
after the native had reached the age of five years, when
the child is able to distinguish between good and
evil.
The Hindus have the following tradition as to
the origin of astrology and the signs of the Zodiac.
“ The first stanza in Sainyamuni Sutra says, that when
Iswara (the Lord) was telling the pranavamantram to
Parvathi, his son Subramania happened to hear it,
and having learnt it, unknown to his parents, went
and concealed himself. Iswara wanted to find him and
to do so invented astrological science.”
They believe that eighteen personages brought astro¬
logy into this world, the chief being Surya, Vyasu, Atri,
Narada, Manu, Uromasa and Aaunaka, all of whom were
pupils of Paramasiva. Yoga philosophy is intimately
connected with astrology and Patanjali divides the body
into six parts, each part being sub-divided into two
128 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
other portions, making twelve in all, corresponding to
the signs of the Zodiac.
The Hindus have a belief that the influence of some
of the planets gives them an inclination to worship
certain gods, thus the Sun is said to incline to the wor¬
ship of Siva, Mars the worship of Durga, Mercury the
worship of Vishnu and Jupiter the goddess Brahma or
Gayatri.
Their astrologers claimed that they could determine
the sex of a child by the position of Jupiter, Saturn,
Venus, or Mars, and that Jupiter and Mars signified the
male sex.
Saturn was common to both. They declared that if
Saturn was in conjunction with the male planets, the
child would be a male, or if in conjunction with the
female planets, it would be a female, the position of
Saturn giving the final determination of the sex.
The male signs according to Hindu astrology are Aries,
Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius, while the
female signs are Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capri¬
corn and Pisces.
Caste they believed was determined by the Sun, Jupi¬
ter, Venus, the Moon and the Lord of the nineth house.
The caste would be Brahmin, provided Jupiter and the
Sun were in the majority and exercised a strong influence.
If Saturn and the Moon were among the majority, the
subject would be Sudra.
The Hindus held that faith was a very necessary
factor in connexion with astrology, and one who has
faith may learn the lucky and unlucky dates in his
life.”
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES 129
An astrologer relates the story of a Pandian king
named Yaday Kattar, who having learned from an
astrologer that a famine which would last for twelve
years would commence at a certain date, prepared to
meet the same, and did so successfully, by storing up
grain and rearing goats beforehand. Thus he was
able to save his subjects from a great calamity.
An interesting account of some curious marriage cus¬
toms among the ancient tribe of Ramoosies which sur¬
vived until 1833, in which astrology played an important
part, has been left by Captain Mackintosh. He states,
that this tribe originally migrated from some part of
the ancient kingdom of Telingana, probably east or
south-east of Hyderabad. They had a distinct language
and their own funeral rites and ceremonies of purifica¬
tion.
They were profound believers in astrology, and during
the period of occultation of the planets Jupiter and
Venus, no marriages were allowed to be celebrated,
neither during the last day of the Moon, nor at the time
the Sun passes from one Zodiacal sign to another. With¬
in a fortnight after the birth of an infant, the father had
to wait on the Jossy or local astrologer, to ascertain
what name he was to call the child. Before the Jossy
determined the name, it was necessary that he should
know the day and the particular watch during the day
or night, in which the infant had been born, to enable
him to establish in what churnu ” or quarter of the
“mukshuttur ” it happened. This information having
been supplied, he had to refer to the Aukkur Chukkur ’’
which all the astrologers could repeat by rote, and if he
9
130 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
found that the child being a boy was born during the
third division of the Mukshuttur cheetra, he was to be
named Ramjee, or if a girl, Bheemy.
Certain divisions or houses of the Moon were considered
peculiarly inauspicious, for it is written that, if a boy
is born during the first churnu of the moon the father
will die,” unless the required propitiatory offerings and
sacrifices are made. The evil effects of such a birth were
believed to continue for seven years. The consequences
attending the birth of a girl were similarly fatal, but
the evil influence did not extend in her case longer than
three years. A child born during the fourth churnu
of the Asslesha will entail the most fatal consequences
on its father, and if in the third churnu it will prove fatal
to the mother-in-law.”
However, it is said that the evil influence could be
counteracted by timely gifts to the astrologer.
The Chinese have an interesting tradition respecting
the origin of astrology in their country. It is recorded
in the “ Canon of the Emperor Yaou who flourished
2356 B.C.,” that, “ he commanded He and Ho in rever¬
enced accordance with their observation of the wide
heavens, to calculate and delineate the movements and
appearances of the Sun, the Moon, the stars and
Zodiacal spaces and so deliver respectfully the seasons
to the people.
One astronomer was commanded by the Emperor
to ^ reside at Nankeaou and arrange the transformations
of the summer and respectfully to observe the extreme
limits of the shadow.’
‘‘ The day he said is at its longest and the star is Ho ;
PTOLEMY AND HIS DISCOVERIES 131
you may thus exactly determine midsummer. Ho (fire)
is Antares in Scorpio.
The star of the winter solstice, when the day is at
the shortest is Maou, which is the Pleiades.”
Directions are given for observing the spring and
autumn equinoxes, when day and night are of medium
length, and certain other stars are to be observed.
The Chinese Zodiac or Yellow path of the Sun ”
as it was called, contained the Mouse, Cow, Tiger,
Rabbit, Dragon, Serpent, Horse, Ram, Ape, Hen, Dog
and Pig.
These signs were largely adopted by the Koreans,
Japanese, Tibetans and Tartars in their Zodiacs.
The identification of the planets and stars with the
dwelling places or abodes of heroic or supernatural
beings, prevailed extensively in China. Thus the spirit
of the Prince Chih-yu is supposed to inhabit Mars, while
Hsing-chu, the ^Lord of the Stars’, is said to reside in
a star near the pole known by his name.
CHAPTER XII
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES
Michael Nostradamus, who has been
variously described as an astrologer, magician
and prophet, was undoubtedly a remarkable character
and judging from his works, was by no means a charlatan.
He may be regarded more as a prophet or prognosticator
than a practitioner of the occult arts, although he
claimed to have been inspired in his predictions by
magical agencies.
He was born at St. Remy, a small town in Provence,
on December 14th, 1503 and was the son of a notary.
He was sent to the ancient University of Montpellier
to study medicine and at the age of twenty-two, went
to live at Vordeaux where he commenced to practice.
After a period of four years he returned to Montpellier
to obtain his degree, and then settled at Salon de Craux,
a little town between Avignon and Marseilles.
He is described in early life as being a short man,
vigorous in body, with a broad fore-head, straight nose
and grey eyes. He had a florid complexion and wore a
long thick beard, but was always very alert, ‘‘ with a
lively wit, seizing with quick comprehension everything
he wished to acquire.”
He is further said to have been, reticent in speech and
132
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS
Born 1503. Died 1566
From an engraving of the XVI Century
Facing vage 132
- * . - - ■ ■' '-f ■•. . • : *“'0 j.' ■'' .' - ■ ■ \
\ ^ V •' '
» -■ ■' • it -- ■ ■ • - V • *1 '
3^:.; ^ ■ - 'i. . . - .• _^ n
' ksT Vi.-”- J» «• ' »- M
-?■ . ' * *5. I''t*.v >
■ -- t » - ." •
•,'..' * - V
•'" •, ■#/„• 3 '. . i.*V
^ iv* . •**
L 7 V” ^
i- ♦ ►
' - ■>■ Xl ■ ''V* ■ ’ * •^tlv
- ?*•,♦-'“Vii-^ y'-^* -'* ^
■• "^ j
t C ■ ^ . *■«!
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES 133
spoke but little, though his judgment was very pene¬
trating.”
He was a man of strong religious principles and a fer¬
vent Roman Catholic. A deep thinker, he is said to have
been always ‘‘ wrapped up in his studies and slept but
four or five hours out of the twenty-four.”
Little is known of his life at Salon de Craux but it is
probable, that he continued to practice medicine to¬
gether with the study of astrology, and pursued the
latter in the night watches.
According to his own mystic words :
“ Gathered in night in study deep I sate
Alone, upon the tripod stool of brass.
Exiguous flame came out of solitude.
Promise of magic that may be believed.
The rod in hand set in the midst of the Branches,
He moistens with water, both the fringe and foot ;
Fear and a voice make me quake in my sleeves ;
Splendour divine ! the God is seated near.”
A commentator on these lines says, the general
meaning seems to be, that he sat with a wand or branch,
like the water-diviners, with a fork in each hand to
evoke his genius. When he appeared, he moistened in
the brazier that held water, himself, the fringe of his
robe and his foot. Then came fear that made his hands
tremble and the inward voice of prophecy.”
If this surmise is correct, it is interesting in connexion
with the use made of the divining-rod by astrologers of a
134 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
later period in their endeavour to find the locality of
hidden objects.
There is apparently no authentic date of the time
when Nostradamus first began to record his Oracles ”
or prophecies, but they were collected by Jean Aimes de
Chavigny, and published in twelve books under the
title of the ‘^Centuries” in 1555.
The first seven are dedicated to his eldest son Csesar
and probably occupied him many years in writing.
In the dedication he states : “ Prophetical inspiration
is received from God,” and that the Almighty had
revealed to him by impressions made on his under¬
standing, some secrets of the future according to the
Judicial astrology.
He continues : I have made Books of Prophecies,
each one containing a hundred astronomical stanzas,
which I have joyned obscurely and are perpetual
vaticinnations from this year to the year 3797, at which
some perhaps will frown seeing so large an extension of
time. If thou livest to the natural age of a man, thou
shalt see in thy climat the future things that have been
fore-told.”
His gift of prognostication and foretelling the future
soon brought him more than local celebrity and the fame
of Nostradamus spread throughout France.
In 1556, Henry H sent for him to come to Paris and
on his arrival in the capital, the Lord Constable de
Montmorency called upon him at his inn and conveyed
him to the presence of the King, who ordered that he
should be lodged at the palace of the Cardinal Archbishop
of Sens.
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES 135
The King shortly afterwards sent him a hundred crowns
in gold in a velvet purse, and the Queen, who had also
consulted him, made him a similar gift. She also desired
him to go to Bloise to see the Royal children and to give
her a report on their health. He was received with great
favour at the Court, and while he remained in Paris he
was consulted by many of the leading personages of the
time.
When Charles IX travelled through Provence in 1564,
he went to Salon de Craux to see Nostradamus, and the
Monarch and the Queen-mother when at Lyons later on,
sent for him and he was appointed Physician-in-Ordinary
to the King.
There is a quaint story recorded that when Nostra¬
damus was once staying at the Castle of Faim in Lor¬
raine, while he was walking one day in the courtyard
in company with the Lord of Florinville, two little pigs,
one of which was white and the other black, ran in front
of them. Lord Florinville, as a joke, asked Nostradamus
what would become of the two pigs ?
We shall eat the black and a wolf shall eat the
white,” Nostradamus replied gravely.
After they had left the courtyard. Lord Florinville
who was determined that the astrologer’s prediction
concerning the pigs should not come true, went to the
kitchen and secretly instructed the cook, to be sure and
kill the white pig and serve it at the table.
The cook thereupon killed the white pig,” says the
chronicler, and having dressed it, left it on the kitchen
table.
“ Meanwhile, a wolf stole in through the door and
136 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
devoured most of it. When the cook returned and saw
the remains, fearing his master’s anger, he went out and
killed the black pig which he dressed and roasted and
served it for supper.
Lord Florinville delighted to show Nostradamus that
his prediction had proved false, turning to his guest said:
‘‘ Well sir, we are now going to eat the white pig ; so
the wolf did not devour it after all.”
I do not believe it,” replied Nostradamus, this is
the black pig that is on the table.”
Lord Florinville then sent for the cook to settle the
matter and he told the story of what had befallen the
white pig, much to the satisfaction of Nostradamus
and the astonishment of his host.
Like several other astrologers, he began by publishing
almanacs which were necessary for making astrological
calculations, and also wrote several works on medicine,
concerning which he believed that no perfect knowledge
could be attained without the aid of astrology.
The Oracles of Nostradamus are so voluminous it is
only possible for us to quote a few here but those
interested may study them in detail in the English
translation made by Garencieres and printed in 1672.
On reading through them we shall find that the
phrases he employs are so ambiguous, and his descrip¬
tions generally so vague, that their meaning might be
construed in many ways.
One of the most remarkable features about them is, the
fact that he mentions by name several persons who were
non-existing in his time and who were born after his
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES 137
death. Among them are Clement who murdered Henry
III of France, Gabrielle d’ Estree and Louis, Prince of
Conde, while according to some of his commentators he
indicates the date of the French Revolution. These of
course may have been added at a later period. His
allegories however, they admit, led to much misinter¬
pretation of their meaning.
A number of his prophecies refer to England, thus in
the following, he is said to predict a visitation of the
plague in London and in Tuscany.
‘‘ The great man falleth by the lightning in the day¬
time.
An evil foretold by a common porter.
According to this foretelling another falleth in the
night ;
A fight at Rhemes and the Plague at London and
Tuscany.”
The first line,” says the annotator, “ concerns some
great man, who being premonished by a common carrier
not to travel on a certain day, did slight the advice and
was stricken by lightning.”
At the same time there was a fight at Rheims and
plague broke out in London and Tuscany.”
Another ‘ Oracle ’ reads :
The Young Lion shall overcome the old one
In martial field by a single Duel,
In a golden cage he shall put out his Eye.
Two wounds from one, then he shall die a cruel
death.”
138 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
This is said to foretell the death of Henry II of France
who was killed in a tournament, where he received a
wound through the eye which pierced his gilded helmet.
His death was likewise foretold by Gaurick, an astrologer
patronised by Catherine de Medici. (See page i88)
The next is said to refer to the fall of King Charles I,
the sacrifice of Strafford, and the rise of Oliver Cromwell,
events which happened about eighty years after the
death of Nostradamus.
“ He who had the right to reign in England shall be
driven from the throne.
His counsellor abandoned to the fury of the popu¬
lace.
His adherents will follow so low a truck
That the usurper will come to be Protector.”
Cromwell is said to be again referred to in the follow¬
ing lines :
A butcher more than king rules England.
A man of no birth will seize the Government by
violence.”
The following is claimed to be a true forecast that
^ Britain was to rule the waves : ’
‘‘ England will rule the great empire (of the waters)
for more than three hundred years.”
Another ‘ Oracle ’ referring to the Commonwealth
reads :
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES 139
The miserable and unhappy Commonwealth
Shall be wasted by the new magistrate.
Their great gathering from exiled persons
Shall cause Swedeland to break her contract.”
This is said to allude to the great sums exacted by the
Parliament from the Royalists and why Sweden fore-
sook the friendship of England.
The next is the ^ Oracle ’ stated to foretell the Great
Plague in 1665, London and the burning of
St. Paul’s.
The blood of the just shall be required of London
Burnt by fireballs in thrice twenty and six (1666)
The old cathedral shall fall from its high place
And many (churches) of the same sort shall be
destroyed.
“ The great plague of the maritime city shall not
diminish
Till death is sated for the just blood,
Basely sold and condemned for no fault,
The great cathedral outraged by feigning saints.”
The first quatrain contains a remarkable prediction
of the fire of London and the burning of St. Paul’s, the
precise year of its destruction being mentioned. ‘ The
great cathedral outraged ’ is said to refer to its pollution,
when used as a stable by the Cromwellian soldiers.
The following is said to refer to the imprisonment of
Mary, Queen of Scots by Queen Elizabeth, and the
140 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
embassy Mary sent to the King of France (called the
great physician) asking for his aid.
‘‘ An Ambassador for a Lady,
Shall set oares to his ship
To intreat the great Physician,
To take her out of such pain.
But a Queen shall oppose it.”
A curious prediction concerning floods in England, is
declared by contemporary chroniclers to have been ful¬
filled :
“ Great Britany, comprehended in England,
Shall suffer so great an inundation of waters.”
At the end of January 1607, the sea came in with a
great tidal wave on the east coat and flooded the fens.
“ The towns were like islands. At Grantham and
Kingston, none of the buildings could be seen and a great
many people and cattle were drowned. Bristol was also
inundated and Somersetshire flooded.”
The Restoration is said to have been predicted in the
following ‘ Oracle ’:
‘‘ The endeavours of the North (the Dutch) shall be
great ;
Upon the Ocean the gate shall be open.
The Kingdom in the Island shall be re-established.
London shall quake for fear of sails discovered.”
The quatrain which is said to refer to the birth of
Napoleon Buonaparte in Corsica, and his subsequent rise
to be Emperor, reads ;
MICHAEL NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES 141
An Emperor shall be born near Italy,
Bought by the Empire at a bankrupt rate ;
You’d say the herd he gathers to himself
Denote him a butcher rather than a Prince.”
Such are a few of the ' Oracles ’ of Michael Nostrada¬
mus said to have been written before 1555.
That he was a man of genius and a keen observer of
the times there can be no doubt, and his knowledge
of events throughout Europe is in itself remarkable.
Whether the events that he predicted and which happened
many years after his death were due to mere coincidences
or not, they show that he was a man of remarkable
foresight, keen judgment and of great intelligence.
He married twice, and one of his sons, called Michael,
after him, also practised and wrote several works on
astrology.
He died on July 20th, 1566 at Salon le Craux at the
age of sixty two years, having it is said predicted his
own death a month previously, and was buried at the
church of the Franciscan Friars in that town, where a
marble tablet erected to his memory bears the follow¬
ing inscription :
Here lies the bones of the most famous
NOSTRADAMUS
One who among men hath deserved the opinion of all,
to set down in writing with a quill almost Divine,
the future events of all the Universe caused by
the Coelestial influences.
He lived 62 years 6 months and 10 days and died at
Salon in the year 1566.”
CHAPTER XIII
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY-SIGNIFICATION
OF THE PLANETARY HOUR-THE TEMPERAMENTS-THE
FAMOUS DOCTOR ARCANDUM
JUDGING from manuscripts that have come down
to us from the fifteenth century, astrologers of that
period were frequently consulted by those about to travel
or make a journey, so that it should be undertaken at a
propitious time and when the planets were favourable.
Travelling in those days was generally a matter of some
risk, so the avoidance of the perils of the road or the
stormy sea, were often submitted to the ruling of the
stars.
A manuscript of the fifteenth century thus begins :
“ Here I will you wyse make.
When you will a journy take.
Your Journy shall be disposed be
According to your nativitie.”
Another astrologer warns those about to travel, to
avoid the hour of Saturn and observes: ‘‘ In ye hour of
Saturn take no voyage to sea nor any long journey by
land, for crosses will assuredly attend and small success
be expected.”
142
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 143
He then proceeds to indicate the signification of the
planetary hours ; “ what may be done and what should
be avoided.”
“ In the hour of Saturn,” he says, “ Take no physick,
entertain no servant, for they will be idle, careless
persons. It is not good to put on a new garment or cut
ye hair, nor good to borrow money in this hour or to fall
sick in, for it threatens a long disease and sometimes
terminates in death.
But this hour is good to buy or take leases of houses
or land, good to buy any kind of grain, or to dig up ye
earth or plow.
■ In ye hour of Jupiter, his good to apply to ecclesias¬
tical persons and all great men. The same, all great
I senators, judges and lawyers. In this hour his good to
I take a journey ; good to sow all kinds of seeds or plant.
I He who falls sick in this hour will soon recover. ’Tis good
1 to lend or borrow money in. To contract matrimony in,
I but not good to let blood in.
‘‘ In ye hour of Mars, begin no worthy action or enter-
I prise. ’Tis unfortunate in all things. If you take a
I journey, you shall be in danger of thieves and very ill
! on sea voyage.”
The astrologer thus demonstrates his usefulness, as
I no doubt many would appreciate his advice as to the
! best time to ask for a loan or to get married, and above
I all how to avoid sea-sickness.
“ The hour of the Sun,” he continues, “ is not to be
I chosen, as being generally unfortunate and very dan-
:i gerous to fall sick in. Not good to begin a building or
li put on a new garment, not good to court ye female sex •
144 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
yet ’tis good to receive preferment or make applications
to great persons.”
The hour of Venus as might be expected, is recom¬
mended as a good time for marriage, but why it should
be unpropitious for wearing new clothes is somewhat
difficult to understand.
“ Thus,” says our astrologer, “ in the hour of Venus
’tis good to court women or begin a journey but not a
voyage.
‘‘ Good to enter in upon any play or sport or pastime.
Good to take physick. This hour is generally good for
any business relating to men’s concerns, or any delight¬
ful actions for marriage or contracting singularly good,
but not good to begin a new garment.”
The influence of the various planets on the disposition
and character of individuals born under them, is thus
expressed by an astrologer in a manuscript of the fif¬
teenth century.
Sol. Who is born when he reigneth, he shall be full of
flesh. He shall be broad and of good countenance.
Quick of speech. Helper of goodness and putter
down of evell.
Venus. He that is born under this signe shall be
lecherous. Having swete words. A good synger.
Merry thoughts and often times marry.
Mercurius. He that is borne under this signe shall
have knowledge in science and full of good language.
Luna. He that is born under this planet shall be not
stable and slow of foot.
Saturnus. He that is born under this planet shall be
AN ASTROr.OGER
From a manuscript of the XVI Century
Facing page IfX
■ H
- - t ^ •'\SmY-
• •. J ' f -
-' '. . ,■ “^^’^:r-. <5^ -
■ HP
■ •*_ ^
V. •
7%. -.at. •‘•v-
' " ^ 4 *
.-<;.i «»T
. s --fA' .
-<
A ^
■ >-
' ‘"i'•■ - - *
'*-^r
sgr\
i. -/
■#*'
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 145
envious, greatly hated, angrie and slothful and dull of
wytte.
Jupiter. He that is born under this planet shall be
good crystian man and religious, wyse, stedfast,
comfortable to women, and be rich and merciful.
'' Mars. He that is borne under this planet shall be
hastie, wrathfulle, violent, privy-rich, false, proud
and ungracious.”
The temperaments of individuals, according to the
powers of the Zodiacal signs under which they happened
to be born, are thus classified by another early astrologer:
The Fiery signs (Aries, Sagittarius, Leo) incline men
to be cholerick, hasty, furious, quarrelsome, revengeful,
proud, rash, and to easily change their opinions.
'' The Airy signs (Aquarius, Libra, Gemini) shew men
cheerful, affable, faithful, free-handed, loving mirth,
singing, dancing, music, of good reason and under¬
standing.
The Earthy signs (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn) give
persons reserved thoughts and are slow of speech. They
frequently prove to be very fraudulent, covetous and
suspicious, seldom forgetting injuries, but for the most
part prudent and wise.
^‘The Watery signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces) make
men cowards, wanton, dull fellows with low whining
voices, very timorous and deceitful.”
The famous Doctor Arcandam or Aleandrin, as he is
called, in a little work written in 159^? recommends his
own method of calculating nativities which differs from
the usual rules employed by astrologers.
10
146 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
He says, ‘‘ If yee will know the constellation of any
man, take his naturall name, which is commonly called
his proper name, and the proper name of his mother.
Then diligently consider every letter of the sayde two
names and amongst the same, gather the numeral letters,
such as signifie a number which according to the ancient
accompt are seven.
I signifieth one, V five, X tenne, L fifty, C hundred
D five hundred, M signifieth a thousand.
Taking all and singular letters of the said two names
as well the number, as such as signifie a number.
Then gather the whole summe, which summe so
collected divide, if it be possible, by XXIX because of
the XXIX constellations and Starres, which after the
ancient manner is the first division of the signs.
“ And hereby it appeareth, that the principall parts of
the particular starres and signs celestiall in number are
XXIX, as hereafter shall appear.
Sometimes the sayde number doth amount just to
the summe of XXIX and sometimes exceedeth the same,
wherein it is to be noted, that either the number doth
exceed or else is equall.
If it exceed, then the number ought to be applyed
and divided by their unities to the sayde figures, be¬
ginning at the first signe which is the head of Aries, and
so the rest successively. Then whatsoever the last
unitie of this number shall rest or remayne, that is the
speciall signe as is of most force in the time of the
nativitie.
Now these are the significations of the signes in the
various houses :
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 147
The infant born in Aries disposeth his life in that
signe, and also placeth in the sayde signe his speech,
wisedome, augmentation of all his workes, his beginning,
his name and the originall of his life and yeares.
In Taurus is contayned his gaine or losse, his living,
debts, giftes, servants, his witnesses and treasure, and
this signe because it is the second house signifieth the
end of his youth.
'' Gemini, because it is the third house, is a token of
brethren, sisters, friends, neighbours, of husbands and
such as proceede on the mother’s side. Likewise it is a
token of faith, religion, news and small journies.
In Cancer, the infant disposeth his father, grand¬
father, and all his parents on his father’s side. Also it sig¬
nifieth houses, landes, rights, treasures, prisoners and
such as happeneth to the dead, being buried or without
burial, such as be hanged, beheaded or otherwise slaine.
Because it is the fourth house, it signifieth death before
he growe up to man s state and the ende of things.
Leo betokeneth infants, love, novelties, gifts, re¬
wards, fayre promises or mirth.
I^ ^hgo are contayned infirmities, thinges contrary
to health, maydes, lying, unrighteousness, and because
this signe is the sixth house it doth insinuate end of
life and all such things as shall happen before old
age.
In Libra, mariages are contayned, mischiefe and
peril in marriage, contentions, warres, enemies, theeves,
and because it is the seventh house, it noteth the moity
and end of life toward old age.
In Scorpio is contayned death, feare, sadness, des-
148 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
paire, separation, lethall poyson, because it is the eighth
house.
'' In Sagittarius are expressed long journies, religion,
wisedome, philosophie, wrytinges, bookes, news, and
interpretation of dreams, great wonders, much honour
and joy. As this signe is Lorde of the nineth house, it
signifieth a beginning and also entrance into halfe of the
life.
'' Capricornus, the tenth house, prefigureth kingdom,
authorities, deputies, and all arts whereby man may bee
a maister. It signifieth things stolen or carried away,
also mother, grand-mothers and ancestors of feminine
kind, mother-in-laws and halfe the terme of life.
In Aquarius, the birth appoynteth his proper and
prosperous constellation, and it betokeneth prayse,
honour, great fortune, faithfull friends, ayde of Kings
and Princes, treasure, society, and signifieth halfe the
yeares of man’s life.
“ Pisces being the twelfth house, doth signifie weari¬
ness, sadness, poverty, deceit, feare, sorrow, blasphemy,
ambushments, prisons and captivities.
In maner above expressed is intreated only of the
infant borne in Aries, although the same must be divided
and spoken of every signe ascending in the nativitie of
every birth and all other signes following the signe
of nativitie, till by recourse the number XII be
attayned.
^^All which, well beloved reader, may through the
dexteritie of thy art bee easily understood, whether the
infant be borne in Taurus, in Gemini or in Libra.
And so every man may learne to know by this arte
Facing page US
ILLUMINATED MINIATURE: REPREISENTING MARS IN
THE SIGNS OF ARIES AND SCORPIO
From a manuscript on Astrotogy, A'F century (Bodleian Library)
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 149
determinately his own fate, his proper and passive con¬
stellation.
A wyse man may set and prohibite the very future
effects which proceede of the starres and the influences
thereof.
'' And so, if hee will, may rule the sayde starres and
heavenly motions.”
A curious method of prognosticating whether a mother
or her children should die first, is thus recorded in an
astrological manuscript written in the sixteenth century.
“ Who shal di firste of the mother and her children.”
“ And first of the mother and her daughter. Should
the mother’s name be even letters and the daughter s
name odd, as in the names following, the daughter
shall die first.
The mother The daughter
Alicia - 6 Francisca - 9 death
Jeanna 6 Doritea - 7 death
Lettitia 8 Hestera - 7 death
Joanna 6 Maria - 5 death
Elizabetha - 10 Hellina - 7 death
If the mother’s name and the daughter’s also be even
letters, then the daughter shall die first.
The mother The daughter
Alitia - 6 Agneta - 6 died
Alitia - 6 Alitia - 6 died
Martha 6 Anna - 4
Agneta 6 Martha - died
150 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
If the mother’s name have od letters and the daughter’s
even, the daughter shall di firste.”
The mother The daughter
Hellina - 7 Margeria - 8 died
Maria - - S Joanna - 6 died
In a manuscript in the Bodleian Library, written about
1430 entitled : Here begynnyth the Boke off Astronomy
and phylosophye that contyns the wordes of the wysest
phylophys and astronomys,” there are some curious
coloured drawings illustrating the ‘‘ Planettys and
Elementys of complexyons.” They depict the various
occupations governed by Mars when in Aries and Scor¬
pio, and Mercury in Gemini. In the former a combat,
knights fighting and a fire are represented, and in the
latter, the clockmaker, the scribe, the apothecary, the
smith, the musician, the sculptor, the artist and the
leech are quaintly represented.
In another manuscript of the sixteenth century en¬
titled : The judgment of Astrology ” by Henry Harney,
the following method is given to find out How many
husbandes a mayde shall have.”
To doe this, looke from the degree of the loth house
to the degree of Mars at the question mor’d and take
how many planets you find between them. So manie
husbandes is she to have, but if Mars be in the nth
house, then ye shall see from Mars to Jupiter how manie
planets there be and so judge.”
Harney also describes methods for answering ‘‘ all
kindes of questions to knowe anythinge, as if anythinge
be lost, which way it was carried, what place it lyeth
ILLUMINATED MINIATURE REPRESENTING MERCURY
IN THE SIGN OE GEMINI, WITH OCCUPATIONS
From a manuscript on Astrology, A'L century (Bodleian Library)
Facing page 150
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 151
hidden, how manie were at the theft’s doinge, whether
it was stolen or not. To choose tyme to marry and to
take a journy,” all of which must have been invaluable
to the astrologer in solving these problems.
After pondering on the significations and advice given
in these old manuscripts, who can wonder that the
astrologer at this period should have been generally
regarded as a guide, philosopher and friend.
CHAPTER XIV
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS OF THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY
-COPERNICUS-TYCHO BRAHE-PARACELSUS
OVER a thousand years elapsed after the time of
Ptolemy before the next great figure in the history
of astronomy appeared to astonish the world with his
discoveries.
Although Copernicus can scarcely be called as astrolo¬
ger, his researches did much to influence the art which
developed side by side with astronomy.
He was born at Thorn on the Vistula on February
19th 1473 educated at the University of Cra¬
cow where at first he chiefly devoted himself to the
study of medicine, with a view to adopting it as a
career.
At the age of twenty-seven he decided to turn his
attention more to science, but on the persuasion of his
uncle, who was a bishop, he took Holy orders and became
a canon of the cathedral of Fraunenburg.
Although engaged in the work of the church and daily
ministering to the sick and poor, he still found time to
devote to the study of astronomy and mathematics, in
both of which he was deeply interested.
The first of his great discoveries relates to the rotation
of the earth on its axis. He proved that the air must
152
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 153
accompany the globe and that the Sun was the centre of
the system.
His discoveries which revolutionized the science
of astronomy, were not however published until he was
quite an old man. It is said that before his work was
published he was taken ill, but a copy of it was brought
to him from the printers on May 23rd 1543, so that he
might be able to see and to touch it before his death,
which took place a few hours afterwards.
One of the most picturesque characters of this
period, who not only was a great astronomer but also
a firm believer in astrology, was Tycho Brahe, a man
who had a remarkable career.
He was the son of a Danish Privy Councillor who was
governor of the Castle of Helsingborg and was born in
1546. At the age of thirteen he was sent by an uncle
who had brought him up, to the University of Copen¬
hagen, where he soon showed a preference for the study
of astronomy over other sciences.
When an eclipse of the Sun occurred on October 21st
1560, which was partially visible at Copenhagen, Tycho
made himself prominent among the observers and with
others excited great interest in it throughout the
country. He managed to obtain a copy of Ptolemy’s
work and devoted most of his time to studying its
pages which he carefully annotated. This book is still
preserved as one of the chief treasures in the library
of the University of Prague, the city where he ended his
days.
After spending three years at Copenhagen, his uncle
wishing to complete his education and hoping to divert
154 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Tycho from the astronomical studies to which he was
devoting so much time, arranged to send him with a tutor
to Leipzig. But his dominating ambition to become an
astronomer prevailed and his nightly occupation was
gazing at the starry heavens. He spent all his allow¬
ance in buying books and materials to carry on his
favourite study and began to take regular observa¬
tions with some primitive instruments of his own
construction. The first of these was his cross-staff,
by means of which he sought to measure the places of
the stars.
On the death of his uncle, he went to Rostock to carry
on his work and there observed an eclipse of the
Moon on October 28th 1566. He posted up some verses
at the University of that city, in which he announced
that this lunar eclipse prognosticated the death of the
great Turkish Sultan, whose deeds at that time were
much in the public eye. When the news of the Sultan’s
death was actually received at Rostock some time after¬
wards, Tycho was greatly elated that his prediction had
been verified ; but when it was subsequently learned,
that the Turkish ruler had died before the eclipse took
place, his fame as an astrologer suffered a serious set¬
back.
During his stay in Rostock, he became involved in a
quarrel with a Danish nobleman which resulted in a
duel being fought at the dead of night. Tycho appears
to have got the worst of it, for during the combat, his
opponent managed to cut off a piece of his nose which
greatly disfigured him. With much ingenuity however
the astrologer determined to repair the misfortune and
TYCHO BRAHE
Born 1546 Died 1601
Facing page 15h
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 155
set to work to construct an artificial nasal organ with an
alloy of gold and silver, and so he became one of the
pioneers in plastic surgery.
His first achievement was the discovery of a new star
of great brilliancy in the constellation of Cassiopeia in
the year 1572. By means of a large quadrant of his own
construction he proved that the star’s distance was too
great for measurement and showed that it had no proper
motion in the heavens. He then began to record the
successive changes in its brightness from week to week.
At first he said it was like Venus and Jupiter and its
influence would therefore be benevolent, but as he ob¬
served it became more like Mars, he predicted evil and
there would come a period of wars, seditions, captivity,
the deaths of princes, and destruction of cities, together
with drought and fiery meteors in the air, bringing pesti¬
lence and venomous snakes.”
Later, when he concluded it had become like Saturn,
he predicted a ‘‘ time of want, death, imprisonment and
all kinds of sad things.” It was a common belief among
astrologers of the time, that as the star of Bethlehem
announced the birth of Christ, so the end of the world
would be heralded by a new star in 1572.
About this period Tycho extended his studies and
embraced alchemy, with a view to investigating the sup¬
posed influence of the planets on various metals, and
this led to the study of medicine, for which he afterwards
evinced a great liking.
The news of his discoveries reached Denmark and
King Frederick H becoming interested, on hearing
of his fame summoned him to Copenhagen in the
156 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
hope of persuading him to remain in his native
country.
On returning to Copenhagen, Tycho had a long inter¬
view with the King, and explained to him the objects of
the work to which he had so long wished to devote his
life, if he could only find means to pursue his studies
unmolested.
The monarch impressed by his sincerity and genius,
eventually offered him the Island of Hveen in the Sound
near Elsinore and promised to provide him with funds,
not only to build a house upon it, but also the greatest
observatory that had ever been constructed.
Tycho at once accepted this generous offer ; his hopes
were at last to be realised and the dearest wish of his
heart fulfilled. Meanwhile he remained in Copenhagen
and on September 23rd 1574, request of the King,
he delivered an oration at the opening of a course of
lectures at the University of that city.
This remarkable address which doubtless reflects the
views on astrology in his time, is worth quoting in some
detail.
He begins with an historical survey of the history of
astronomy from the time of Seth to the Egyptians, and
then comments on the discoveries of Ptolemy and Coper¬
nicus, urging the value of astrology and its importance
and influence to mankind.
‘‘ We cannot,” he says, deny the influence of the
stars, without disbelieving in the wisdom of God.
“ The Sun causes the four seasons, while during the
increase and decrease of the Moon, all things which are
analogous to it, such as the brain and the marrow of
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 157
animals, increase and decrease similarly. The Moon also
causes the tides, and its influence on these becomes
greatest when that of the Sun is joined to it, at new
Moon and full Moon.
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS OR HOROSCOPE OF TYCHO
BRAHE
From an MS. in the Bodleian Library
Sailors and agriculturists noticed, that the rising and
setting of certain stars cause stormy weather. Con¬
junctions of Mars and Venus in certain parts of the sky
cause rain and thunder ; those of Jupiter and Mercury,
158 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
storms; those of the Sun and Saturn, turbid and dis¬
agreeable air.”
Concerning planetary conjunctions, he mentions that
Jupiter and Saturn in 1563 were in the beginning of the
sign of Leo, near the hazy stars of Cancer, which Ptolemy
considered to presage pestilence.
This conjunction was in a few years followed by an
outbreak of plague.
While many admitted the influence of the stars on
Nature, they denied it where mankind was concerned.
But man,” he asserts, is made from the elements
and absorbs them as much as food and drink, from which
it follows that man must also like the elements be
subject to the influence of the planets, and there is
besides a great analogy between the parts of the human
body and the seven planets. The heart being the seat
of life corresponds to the Sun and the brain to the Moon.
In the same way the liver corresponds to Jupiter, the
kidneys to Venus, the milt to Saturn, the gall to Mars
and the lungs to Mercury.”
He believed experience to have shown, that those who
were born when the Moon was affected by the evil
planets, Saturn and Mars, and unluckily placed, had a
weak brain and were under the influence of passions,
while those, in whose case the Sun was influenced
by those planets, suffered from palpitation of the
heart.
But if both luminaries were in unlucky aspects,
those born at that time were of weak health and
intellect.
Those people at whose birth Saturn the highest
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 159
planet was favourable, are inclined to sublime studies,
while those whom Jupiter has influenced are attracted
to politics. The solar influence makes people desire
honour, dignities and power ; that of Venus makes
them devote themselves to love, pleasures and music,
while Mercury encourages people to mercantile pursuits
and the Moon induces them to travel.
Many philosophers,” he continues, have con¬
sidered, that astrology was not to be counted among the
sciences because the moment of birth was difficult to
fix. Many are born at the same moment whose fates
differ vastly, because twins often meet with different
fortunes, while many die simultaneously in war or
pestilence whose horoscopes by no means foretold such
a fate. To these contentions I say, even if there was an
error of an hour in the assumed time of birth, it would
be possible from subsequent events to calculate it
accurately.
With regard to war and pestilence, prudent astrolo¬
gers always make a reservation as to public calamities
which proceed from universal causes.
Difference of education, mode of life, explain the
different fates which people born at the same time meet
with, and twins are not both born at exactly the same
moment for one is always naturally weaker than the
other.”
These were the ideas of a man who was certainly a
genius and one of the foremost figures in the world of
science in the sixteenth century.
Further, he did not consider the fate of man to be
absolutely settled by the aspect of the stars, but held,
160 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
that God could alter it at his will. He also believed
that man was not altogether bound by the influence
of the stars, but the Creator had so made him that
he might conquer that influence as there was some¬
thing in man superior to it. Forewarning of threatened
evils gave us the opportunity of averting them and in
this way he declared, astrology was of great value to
humanity.
On August 30th 1.576, the foundations of the Castle of
Uraniborg the house and observatory designed for
Tycho Brahe were laid, and he was granted a pension
by the King.
On its completion he established himself in the
picturesque and wonderful building and set about to con¬
struct some remarkable instruments fitting for it.
These included his famous mural quadrant with which
he has been depicted and by means of which he ob¬
served the altitudes of the celestial bodies with greater
accuracy than hitherto.
As time went on, students flocked to Uraniborg from
all parts of Europe to study under the direction of
Tycho Brahe.
He added a subterranean observatory, of which the
roof only was visible above the ground, and on the
walls he placed pictures of eight astronomers including
one of himself.
He had small bells fixed in the rooms of the students
which could be rung by touching hidden buttons in the
observatories, and so used to surprise his guests by
mysteriously summoning them to his presence.
“ He used to lie in bed,” says Wolf, writing in 1654,
TYCHO BRAHE AND HIS GREAT MURAL QUADRANT
AT URANIBORG
1587
Facing page 160
^ ' i‘ ^r '* • ‘ •>! * * • . '* ^
• i » ^ •' . »
^ - , i . V * .
^ > V * • •« ^ -u
tfi' '•^ ■- ■ •
'-.■W
,-*^4
•A
:>
■ V.J - ♦ ■ * «! ^ • -IB ^
•■ ^- - -. - ^ - .,'- 7- ^K3.. * :"V
. - -'• - - :-■ V -
II'V:1
'‘•*i 1’’*"-*■ F ‘'’**. ^.■’ •. ■•-i, -y^ ^ ' >iU , _...-*'VV , J • - ’ ,.
•"i 'tHnc i >*- *,, j •■ >>'■ --• - - ' /-T ‘ ’ V.* ■'^WL'' '* •■ ■'•««*-'*'
i/^Pi
• .U"-lS ^
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 161
and observe the stars through a hole in the wall with
some mechanism that could be turned round.”
^577? when an heir was born to King Frederick,
Tycho was summoned to Copenhagen to cast the nativity
of the infant and prepare a horoscope. He attended the
christening ceremony and other celebrations of the
event, and on July ist presented to the King a very
full horoscope fore-telling the future of the young
prince.
In this interesting document which is still extant, he
predicts that the years of infancy would pass without
danger and only slight illness. In his twelfth year, some
serious sickness was indicated '^arising from black bile.”
In his twenty-nineth year he is warned to be careful
about his health and dignity.
^ A very critical time would come in his fifty-sixth year
and he would hardly survive that age, but if God
prolonged his life he would then have a happy old
age.
Venus will make him pleasant and comely, fond of
music and of the fine arts, while Mars will make him
warlike and Mercury add cleverness and acuteness to
his character.”
The prospects as regards marriage were not so favour¬
able, and Tycho expressed the opinion, that the prince
would be more inclined to other amours than to matri¬
mony (a prediction which eventually proved correct).
He saw nothing to indicate a violent death. Such
were some of the chief predictions in the Royal horo¬
scope.
Tycho Brahe worked at Uraniborg for twenty years
162 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
surrounded by his wife and family, among whom was a
pet dwarf who he appears to have adopted. This curious
little person, who was called Jeppe or Jep used to follow
him about and sit at his feet during meals, when he was
fed with morsels from his master’s hand. He chattered
incessantly and was supposed to be clairvoyant, so his
words were listened to with attention. It is said, that
when any person was sick at Hveen, the dwarf was
called to give an opinion on the chance of recovery or
if the illness was likely to have fatal results, and his
prediction generally proved correct.
Tycho appears to have given a good deal of attention
to medicine at this period and gave his advice freely
to those who sought his aid. He had an apothecary
called Paulus Pharmacopeia in his service, whom he
often alludes to by that name in his diary. He prepared
many of the medicines he prescribed himself and gave
the remedies to his patients.
The formulae for some of these survived him and the
Danish Pharmacopoeia of 1658, contains recipes for
several of Tycho’s Elixirs. He gave the Emperor
Rudolph a prescription to be used against epidemic
diseases in 1599, which chiefly consists of the Treacle of
Andromachus mixed with spirit of wine, sulphur, aloes,
myrrh and saffron. This compound he considered to be
more valuable than gold and instructed the Emperor,
that if he desired to improve it still further, he might
add ‘‘ a single scruple of either tincture of coral or of
sapphire, of garnet, of dissolved pearls or of liquid gold.”
He declared that, if combined with antimony, this elixir
would cure all diseases which could be cured by inducing
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 163
perspiration.” Worm writing to Gassendi in 1653,
informs him that this elixir was then much used in
Denmark and he himself had found it most powerful
in causing perspiration.
On the death of Frederick II in 15^^? Tycho lost his
great friend and benefactor, and when his successor
came to the throne, he soon stopped the subsidy that
had been given for the upkeep of the Castle of Uraniborg
and finally his pension.
Deprived of means for carrying on his work, Tycho
resolved to leave the island and abandon the castle and
observatory where he had lived so long. Disheartened
and embittered by the new King’s treatment, he turned
his back on his native land and went to Bohemia
where he settled at Prague and died in that city in
1601.
Although that remarkable man Paracelsus, the famous
physician and alchemist of the XVI century, can
scarcely be called an astrologer, he believed in astral
influence on the human body. He says: A physician
who wishes to be rational must know the constitution
of the universe as well as the constitution of man. An
astrologer may calculate your horoscope correctly and
tell you by what diseases you are threatened and when
they will end, but he takes only one cause into considera¬
tion, and the chances are four to one, that his predictions
will prove to be wrong.
'' All the influences that come from the sun, the planets
and stars act invisibly upon man, and if these influences
are evil they will produce evil effects.
No vegetables would grow without the influence of
164 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the sun, but if that influence is too strong, they will
wither and perish. The moon may exercise a very bad
influence, especially at the time of the new moon, which
may be very injurious for persons whose sidereal bodies
possess magnetic influence that will attract that in¬
fluence, and the conjunction of the moon with other
planets may make her influence more injurious.
For instance, a conjunction of the Moon, Venus and
Mars, may give rise to the plague or a conjunction with
Saturn to certain acute diseases, but no evil influence
can develop a disease where the germ of that disease
does not exist.
The Moon’s influence is cold, and insane people
have been called lunatics because they are often in¬
juriously affected by the Moon, whose influence acts
upon the brain and stimulates the sexual passions and
causes injurious dreams and hallucinations.”
Paracelsus believed, that there were certain stars
whose influence corresponded to the medicinal qualities
of certain metals, and others that corresponded to cer¬
tain plants, and that they may act for good or evil if
they were attracted by corresponding elements in the
sidereal body of man.
‘‘ A physician,” he says, “ should know the physiology
and anatomy of heaven as well as that of man, to under¬
stand the cause and cure of astralic diseases, because he
may vainly try his remedies as long as his patient is
under the ascending influence of an evil star, but after
that evil influence ceases, the disease will also be changed
or disappear.
Every metal and every plant possesses certain
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 165
qualities that may attract corresponding planetary in¬
fluences, and if we know the influence of the star, the
conjunctions of the planets, and the qualities of our
drugs, we will know what remedy to give to attract such
influences as may act beneficially on the patients.”
He directs that, if a woman is deficient in the element
whose essence radiates from Mars and consequently
suffers from poverty of blood, and want of nervous
strength, she should be given iron. In a case of dropsy,
it would be exceedingly injurious to give any remedy
that would help to attract the evil influence of the Moon.
He believed, that every organ of the human body was
formed by the action of certain principles that existed
in the universe. Thus the heart was in sympathy with
the elements of the Sun, the brain with the Moon, the
gall-bladder with Mars, the kidneys with Venus and the
spleen with Saturn.
If a man gets angry, it is not because he has too
much bile, but because the Mars combative element in
his body is in a state of exaltation. If a man is amorous
it is because the Venus element in his body is in a state
of exaltation. If a conjunction of the combative and
amorous elements takes place in his body, an ebullition
of jealousy may be the cause.”
The Paracelsian theory is undoubtedly ingenious and
he was an original thinker. He rejected many of the
doctrines of astrology common in his time and evolved
many of his own of which the following are examples.
No one,” he states, needs to care for the course of
Saturn ; it neither shortens nor lengthens the life of
anybody. If Mars is ferocious, it does not follow that
166 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Nero was his child, although they both may have had
the same qualities.
It is an old saying, that ‘ a wise man may rule the
stars, and I believe in that saying. The stars force
nothing into us that we are not willing to take ; they
incline us to do nothing which we do not desire.
You believe that one man is more successful in the
acquirement of knowledge, another one in the acquisi¬
tion of power ; one obtains riches more easily and an¬
other one fame ; and you think this is caused by the
stars ; but I believe the cause to be, that one man is
more apt than another to acquire and to hold certain
things, and that this aptitude comes from the spirit.
It is absurd to believe that the stars can make a man.
Whatever the stars can do we can do ourselves, because
the wisdom which we obtain from God overpowers the
heaven and rules over the stars.
The sun and the stars attract something from us and
we attract something from them, because our astral
bodies are in sympathy with the stars.”
He believed, that the occult properties of plants were
to a great extent modified by the time of the day or
night and under what planetary conjunctions they had
been gathered, and at what time they were used.
Each plant,” he says, ‘‘ should be gathered at a time
when the planet to which it is related rules the hour, and
its essence should be extracted as long as it is fresh. If
we knew all the qualities of the stars we would find, that
the quality of each of them is represented on the earth
by some plant.”
These were the main ideas that Paracelsus expounded
SOME GREAT ASTROLOGERS 167
in his theories concerning astral influence on the body of
man, and although some are contradictory to the astro¬
logical doctrines generally accepted in his time, he was
a believer in its value as an aid to healing.
CHAPTER XV
ASTROLOGY IN THE WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND
SPENSER
%
IN Dante’s time, between 1265 1321 when he
died, astrology was almost a universal belief. It
is not to be wondered that the starry realms of night
should appeal to the poet’s imagination and that we
should find allusions to the Zodiac, the planets and
the stars in some of his beautiful lines in both the
^ Purgatorio ’ and ^ Paradiso.’
He was born at Florence in May 1265, the month ruled
by the sign of Gemini and thus refers to the Sun’s
reflection when in that sign.
Full well the poet noted that I stayed
Bewildered at the chariot of the day.
Where entrance ’twixt us and the north it made
Whence he ; in company if Castor, say
And Pollux both this mirror could enfold
Which upward, downward, doth its light convey.
The ruddy Zodiac thou would’st behold
Still closer to the Bear’s revolving plann’d
Unless it wandered from its path of old.”
Purgatorio^ Canto IV.
MINIATURE IN GOLD AND COLOURS REPRESEN'I'ING THE
SUN AND THE MOON BY LUCAS VAN LEIDEN
From a manuscript of the X VI Century
British Museum
Facing page 168
WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND SPENSER 169
He makes a further allusion in the following lines :
‘‘ As white ’twixt this world’s poles seem to blaze
The Galaxy, by less and greater stars
Distinguished, so that doubts the wise amaze.
Thus constellated in the depths of Mars
Those rays that venerated shape designed
As quadrants in a circle join their bars.”
Canto XIV.
The effects of the Sun when in the sign of Aries is
thus referred to :
Scattered and faded now is all the foliage
Which had burst forth, beneath the power of Aries,
To beautify the world, the grass is withered.”
Canto XV 40-42.
The sign of Taurus which follows Aries he alludes to
thus :
So may I, Reader, once return to sight
This holy triumph, for whose sake my sin
I weep full often and my breast I smite.
Thou hadst withdrawn and thrust thy finger in
The flame less quickly than I saw the sign.
The Bull! which follows and could entrance win.”
Canto XXII.
In the following quotation from ‘ Paradiso ’ he refers to
where the equator encounters the Zodiac :
170 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Uplift then to the lofty wheels thy sight,
Reader, with me, directed to that part
Where doth one motion on the other smite.
‘‘ See thence how branches off, oblique to wind
The circle which the planets hear, content
To make the world that calls on them designed.’’
Cantos IV, X.
The course of the stars and the constellations are
referred to in the following lines :
Imagine to conceive if thou wouldst seek
Rightly what then I saw . . .
The stars fifteen, whose divers regions through
V/hich animate the heaven with rays so bright.
All density of air that they subdue ;
Imagine too, that wain, both day and night
The breast which so suffices of our sky.
That the pole’s turning puts it not to flight ;
Imagine of that horn the month, that nigh
The axle’s point is fashioned to commence.
Round which revolving the first wheel doth ply.
Themselves in heaven two signs to evidence
The rays of one within the other pent.
And in such manner both revolving made
That one in front, behind the other went.
And of the constellation true a shade
Thou’lt have as ’twere, and of the double dance
Which circles round the point where I was stayed.”
Canto XIII.
WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND SPENSER 171
In the next he imagines the appearance of Jupiter
if it became the colour of Mars :
‘‘ Before mine eyes the four bright torches stayed,
Enkindled, and the one that earliest came
Began more vivid still to be displayed ;
And such in its appearance it became
That Jove, if he and Mars were birds and vied
With interchange of plumes, would be the same.”
Canto XXVII.
In the following he attempts to describe Capricorn,
which the Sun enters at the winter solstice and the first
fall of snow.
As from our atmosphere, when with the tips
Heav’ns Goat, the Sun is touching of its horn.
Downward in flakes the frozen vapour dips . . .”
Canto XXVIL
The poet’s knowledge of astronomy is evidenced in the
following canto, in which he alludes to the moment
between the time of the setting sun and rising moon,
when they are opposite each other at the equinox.
“ When of Baton’s children* both the pair.
Surmounted by the Ram and by the Scales
Together as a belt the horizon share,
Long as from the zenith balanced hails.
Until the one and other to include,
By changing hemispheres, that girdle fails . . .
Was Beatrice silent.” Canto XXIX.
*Apollo and Diana. The Sun and Moon.
172 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
In Dante’s time, it was believed that nothing but
unbroken sea lay between the Pillars of Hercules and
India, and he located his Mount of Purgatory at the
Antipodes, on the same line of longitude as Jerusalem.
In the following lines he describes how Ulysses and
his fellow-voyagers sailed into the west ; then changed
their course south until:
“ The stars that lit the darkness of our night
Were those that circle round the southern pole.
And ours the ocean floor withheld from sight.”
This quotation is interesting, as according to a tradi¬
tion recorded by Jacopo Doria of Genoa in his Annals, a
voyage of the kind was actually attempted in 1291 by
two Franciscan friars, who set out with others in a galley,
to discover a western passage to India.
Dante when escaping from the gloom of the Inferno
thus beautifully describes Venus which he sees in the
skies :
“ Sweet colour of oriental sapphire.
Which was gathering in the serene aspect
Of the sky, pure even to the first circle.
To my eyes restored delight.
So soon as I had come forth from that dead air.
Which had troubled eyes and breast.
The fair planet that inspires love
Was making all the orient smile
Veiling the Fishes which were in her train.”
Purgatorio, Canto I. 13-21.
WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND SPENSER 173
Chaucer in the Canterbury Tales,” gives an in¬
teresting picture of English life in the fourteenth cen¬
tury and in the ‘‘ Miller’s tale ” introduces to us one
Hendy Nicholas, a poor scholar or tutor, but a student
of astrology who lived in Oxford. He tells us that he :
Had learned art, but all his fantasy
Was turned for to learn astrology.”
He was consulted by the yeoman of the neighbour¬
hood as to the weather, if it would be fine or wet, or
by their wives about the future and for casting horos¬
copes of their children.
The chamber in his lodgings where he held his consul¬
tations is thus described :
‘‘ A chamber had he in that hostelry.
Alone without any company.
Full fetisly—y—dight with herbs swoot,
And he himself was sweet as is the root
Of liquorice or any setewale.
His Almagest and books great and small.
His astrolabe belonging to his art.
His augrim stones layed fair apart.
On shelves couched at his beddes head.”
One can picture Master Nicholas sitting thus arrayed
in his laboratory, filled with the odour of fragrant herbs
that vied with the sweetness of liquorice and valerian.
Prominent among the many books by which he is sur¬
rounded is Ptolemy’s ‘ Almagest,’ and on a shelf above
174 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
his bed his astrolabe by means of which he told the stars,
and the augrim stones, usually pieces of slate marked
with figures used for diving or fore-casting.
In the Nun’s Priest’s tale,” the good-wife shows she
is not without some knowledge of medical astrology.
Addressing the sick person she says :
‘‘ Through in this town is no apothecary,
I shall myself two herbes teache you,
That shall be for your health and for your prow.
And in our yard the herbes shall I find,
To purge you beneath and eke above,
Sire, forget not this for Godde’s love.
Ye be full coleric of complexion.
Ware that the sun in his ascension
You finde not replete of humours hot,
And if it do, I dare well lay a groat.
That ye shall have a fever tertians.
Or else an ague that may be your bane.”
In the “ Canon’s Yeoman’s tale,” the poet introduces
us to the yeoman of a cleric who is learned in alchemy
and in his disquisition on the fundamental principles
of the science, he thus alludes to the metals that were as¬
signed to the several planets.
I will tell you as was one taught also
The foure spirits and the bodies seven.
By order as oft I heard my lord them neven
The first spirit quicksilver called is ;
The second orpiment, the third y-wis
WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND SPENSER 175
Sal-ammoniac, and the fourth brimstone,
The bodies sion eke lo them here anon ;
Sol gold is, and Luna silver was threpe.
Mars iron. Mercury quicksilver, we clepe,
Saturnus is lead, and Jupiter is tin
And Venus copper, by my father’s kin.”
It is interesting to compare this with the following
lines from Goethe’s ‘ Faust,’ where the astrologer is
prompted by Mephistopheles :
The Sun himself is gold of purest ray ;
The herald. Mercury, serves for love and pay ;
Dame Venus has bewitched you all, for she.
Early and late, looks on you lovingly ;
Chaste Luna has her whims, no two alike ;
Mars threatens you, although he may not strike.
And Jupiter is still the splendid star.
Saturn is great, though seeming small and far ;
As metal, him we don’t much venerate.
Of value slight, though heavy in his weight.
Now, when of Sol and Luna unions had—
Silver with gold—then is the world made glad ;
All else, with them, is easy to attain—
Palaces, gardens, cheeks of rosy stain.”
In the works of Edmund Spenser several allusions are
to be found to the Zodiacal signs and the stars. In the
Faerie Queen ” he thus alludes to the immutability of
the heavens :
176 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Besides the sundry motions of your Spheares,
So sundry waies and fashions as clerke’s faine,
Some in short space, and some in longer yeares
What is the same but alteration plaine ?
Onely the starrie skie doth still remaine.
Yet do the Starres and Signes therein still move
And even itself is mov’d, as wizard’s saine
But all that moveth doth mutation love ;
Therefore both you and them to me I subject prove.”
Book VII Canto 7.
He embodies the ancient theory of the elements in the
following lines :
“ The Fire to Aire, and th’ Ayre to Water sheere ;
And Water into Earth ; yet Water fights
With Fire, and Aire with Earth approaching neere;
Yet all are in one body, and as one appeare.”
In his review of the months and seasons from which
the following lines are extracted he thus introduces the
various signs of the Zodiac.
“ First, sturdy March with brows full sternly bent.
And armed strongly, rode upon a Ram.”
* ^
‘‘ Next came fresh April full of lustyhed.
And wanton as a kid, whose home new buds ;
Upon a Bull he rode, the same which led
Europa floting through th’ Argolick fluds.”
WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND SPENSER 177
May, the fayrest mayd on groind
Upon two brethrens shoulders she did ride,
The Twinnes of Leda.”
*****
And after her came jolly June, array’d
All in greene leaves, as he a Player were.
Upon a Crab he rode.”
*****
Then came hot July boyling like a fire
That all his garments he had cast away ;
Upon a Lyon raging yet with ire.
He boldly rode and made him to obay ;
*****
The sixt was August, being rich array’d
In garment all of gold downe to the ground ;
Yet rode he not, but led a lovely Mayd
Forth by the lilly hand, the which was crowned
With eares of come and full her hand was found ;
That was the righteous Virgin, which of old
Liv’d here on earth, and plenty made abound ;
*****
Next him, September marched eeke on foote ;
Yet was he heavy laden with the spoyle
Of harvest’s riches, which he made his boot.
And him enricht, as fit for harvest’s toyle.
He held a knife-hook, and in th’ other hand
A paire of Waights, with which he did assoyle
Both more and lesse, where it in doubt did stand
And equall gave to each in Justice duly scann’d.
THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Then came October full of merry glee ;
Upon a dreadful Scorpion he did ride,
The same which by Dianaes doom unjust
Slew great Orion and eeke by his side
He had his ploughing share, and coulter ready tyde.
*****
Next was November he full grosse and fat,
As fed with lard ;
*****
Whereon he rode, not easie was to deeme ;
For a dreadfull Centaure was in sight,
The seed of Saturne, and fair Nais Chiron hight.
*****
And after him, came next chill December ;
*****
Upon a shaggy bearded goat he rode
The same wherewith Dan Jove in tender yeares
They say was nourisht by th Idaean mayd ,
*****
Then came old January, wrapped well
In many weeds to keep the cold away ;
*****
Upon a huge great Earth-pot steane he stood.
From whose wide mouth, there flowed forth the
Romane floud.
*****
And lastly came cold February, sitting
In an old wagon, for he could not ride ;
Drawne of two Fishes for the season fitting.
WORKS OF DANTE, CHAUCER AND SPENSER
When I bethinke me on that speech whyleare,
Of Mutability, and well it way,
Me seemes, that though she all unworthy were
Of the Heav’ns Rule ; yet very sooth to say.
In all things else she beares the greatest sway.”
179
CHAPTER XVI
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS AND THEIR PREDICTIONS
From the fourteenth to the sixteenth century,
when astrology flourished throughout Europe,
there was scarcely a ruler of importance or reigning
prince, who had not his Court astrologer, upon whose
advice and prognostications he depended to guide
him in problems of State and other important
matters*
These men occupied high and influential positions
and wielded considerable power.
Louis XI of France was a convinced believer in
astrology and is said to have often consulted Angelo
Catto and d’Almonsor, two famous astrologers of the
time. .
Concerning the latter, there is a story that, one night
whilst walking near the Castle of Plessis-les-Tours,hewas
suddenly seized and blind-folded and taken to a house.
When the bandage was removed from his eyes, he
found himself in the presence of two masked knights
and three armed men.
With their swords pointed at his throat, he was com¬
manded by the knights to read their fate and answer
truthfully their questions. D’Almonsor recognising
who he had to deal with, then began casting their
i8o
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS 181
horoscopes and when he had completed them, declared,
that the stars foretold, that death by violence would
come to one and the life of the other would end by
poison.
Answer me,” exclaimed one of the knights,‘‘ and
speak truly if thou valuest thy life, dost thou see aught
of combat or strife at hand ? ”
‘‘ Noble Sir,” replied d’Almonsor, ‘‘ thy horoscope is
truly a violent one. Thou wilt die nobly and in a
good cause. Moreover, thy death is near. The Sun is
opposed to Mars, dangers beset thee.”
“ What do the stars portend of my fate ? ” demanded
the other knight.
‘‘ Thou art menaced by a man of power, but the
danger is in the secret acts of others. Beware of the
cup ; the venom in that which thou drinkest.”
The Due de Berri, the knight thus addressed, died
shortly afterwards and his death was said to have been
due to poison, the administration of which was insti¬
gated by Louis XL
The Due de Burgundy the other knight, was killed in
battle about the same time.
Another story concerning Louis is related by Sir
Walter Scott. Attached to the court of the king at this
time and lodged in magnificent apartments, was the
celebrated astrologer Galeotti Martins.
He had formerly been a favourite at the court of the
King of Hungary, from whom it is said he was decoyed
by Louis, who grudged the Hungarian monarch the
counsels of one so skilful in reading the decrees of
Heaven.
182 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Martius was none of those ascetic, withered, pale
professors of mystic learning of those days, who bleared
their eyes over the midnight furnace, and macerated
their bodies by out-matching the polar bear. He was
trained in arms and renowned as a wrestler. His apart¬
ment was splendidly furnished, and on a large oaken
table lay a variety of mathematical and astrological in¬
struments, all of the most rich materials and curious
workmanship.
His astrolabe of silver was the gift of the Emperor
of Germany and his Jacob’s staff of ebony jointed
with gold, was a mark of esteem from the reigning
Pope.
In person, the astrologer was a tall, bulky, yet stately
man. His features though rather over-grown were
dignified and noble, and a Santon might have envied
the dark and downward sweep of his long descending
beard. His dress was a chamber-robe of the richest
Genoa velvet, with ample sleeves clasped with frogs of
gold and lined with sables. It was fastened round his
middle by a broad belt of virgin parchment, round which
were represented in crimson characters the signs of the
Zodiac.
Such was the astrologer of Louis XI, who was con¬
sulted on matters of state policy and intrigue and
exercised a considerable influence over that weak
monarch.
The costly nature of such a courtier is well illustrated
in an interview which the king has with his astrologer
and places on his table when leaving, a purse of gold
as a reward for some special -service. But the con-
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS 183
tents did not by any means satisfy the reader of the
stars.
He emptied the purse, which we are told contained
neither more nor less than ten gold pieces.”
The indignation of the astrologer was extreme.
“ Thinks he,” he exclaims, that for such a paltry
rate of hire, I will practice that celestial science which I
have studied with the Armenian Abbot of Istrahoff, who
had not seen the sun for forty years ; with the Greek
Dubravius, who is said to have raised the dead ; and
have even visited the Sheik Ebn Hali in his cave in the
desert of Thebais ?
“ No, by heaven ! He that contemns art shall perish
through his ignorance. Ten pieces !—a pittance which I
am half ashamed to offer to Toinette to buy her new
breast laces.”
Petrarch made frequent attacks on the doctrines of
astrology and denounced the belief that destiny could
be foretold from the stars, and in the sixteenth century
Cornelius Agrippa opposed it, but without much
success.
The Emperors Charles IV and Charles V, both
became its votaries and among the Popes, Sixtus IV,
Julius H, Leo X and Paul HI, were accounted among
its believers.
The astrologer became part of the official life at both
the Imperial and Papal courts, in so much, that even
ambassadors were not received until the Court astrologer
had been consulted.
In Italy especially, astrology found many believers
and towards the close of the thirteenth century, the
184 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Florentines appointed Guido Bonatti as their official
astrologer.
The famous Ghibelline, Guido of Montefeltro, who
was a great soldier, retained him as astrologer in his
service and believed that he achieved his victory at
Forli through acting on his advice.
Bologna, Milan and Mantua became centres for the
study of astrology and treatises for students were written
by Paolo Toscanelli, called Maistro Pagollo, a pious
physician who was a special exponent, and by Lucas
Gauricus, the Court astrologer to Popes Leo X and
Clement VII.
Catherine de Medici made astrology popular at the
Court of France, and is said to have been proficient in
the art herself, which she practised at an observatory
she had erected near Paris.
Salimbene tells us of one Asdente of Parma who
though a poor working cobbler was also an astrologer.
‘‘ He was a pure and simple man but fearing God ;
courteous and urbane, illiterate but with great illumina¬
tion of mind.
His proper name was Master Benvenuto, commonly
called Asdente, that is toothless, by way of contrary,
for he hath great and disordered teeth and an impedi¬
ment in his speech. He dwells at the bridgehead of
Parma, hard by the city moat and the well, along the
street which goes to Borgo San Donnino.
“ He was once asked to dinner by a bishop and con¬
sulted by the warring factions of Reggio and Parma.
He is said to have fore-told the death of two Popes and
a naval defeat off Pisa by Genoa.”
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS 185
Michael Scot, who wrote several books on the occult
sciences including astrology, became astrologer to
Frederick II who took him to Italy. He is said
to have warned Frederick that he would die in
Florence.
Cecco d’Ascoli who was professor of astrology
at Bologna and who used to cast horoscopes for
the students, eventually fell under suspicion as a
sorcerer and was burnt at the stake in Florence in
1327.
In Germany, many famous men defended the belief
and among them, Johann Stoffler a professor of Tubin¬
gen, Matthias Landenberg and Philip Melanchthon were
practitioners of the art.
Their prognostications were duly recorded in manu¬
scripts of the time and in one we find the following pre¬
dictions :
‘‘ Regiomontanus (A.D. 1475) did in certain verses
prophecie, that the yeare 1588 would be a wonderful
year. How truly the events concurred with these
predictions will appear to him who considers that,
that yeare the kingdom of Polonia had three Kings
ursurping the title while the fourth was yet un¬
buried.
“ Maximilian in ye beginning of that yeare was taken
prisoner and his armie overthrowne. That yeare, the
King of Denmarke Fredericke, dyed.
‘‘ That yeare England obtained a glorious victorie
over ye Spanish Armada. The Spanish lost about
eighty of their ships and as it was thought 20,000 men.
That yeare the King of France fled ; the Duke of Guise
186 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
and his brother the Cardinall of Lorayne put to death.
The Queene Mother ended her life ; the Prince of Conde
poisoned. That yeare, the Turke suffered great over¬
throws in Hungaria and that yeare, Sophie of Persia
died.”
Another prediction is thus recorded in a manuscript of
the sixteenth century : Francisco Corvino, a Tuscan
astrologer, who the night before Henry IV of France was
slain, was leaning on a balcon in Florence, which is
neare six hundred miles from Paris, prying into ye
motions of the stars. Suddenly he broke out of his
speculation into these wordes, ‘ To-morrow, one of the
greatest monarchs of Christendome will be slain.’ And
the verie next day, the mortal stab was given by Tavail-
lac.”
A French historian relates a story of a visit paid by
Marguerite of Burgundy to Paviot, a famous astrologer
of her time, in Paris.
‘‘ It was eleven o’clock at night when Marguerite
accompanied only by her confidant Mogis left the Hotel
Nesle, and wrapped in a dark cloak, silently traversed
the muddy streets of the city. At length she and her
attendant reached a foetid and narrow alley. Mogis
recognised the house of the astrologer and knocked. The
door was opened by a short, squinting woman of sly
expression, holding in her hand a resinous taper. They
entered, and after crossing two court yards they passed
through a narrow passage and reached an iron-plated
door. The bolts were drawn and they entered the
wizard’s den. On the right, on the left, in every direc¬
tion, lay strangely-formed phials and vases and books
y*
/ r*
/
/
/
r^'
tv
-»'
/
3,
^£.
ejS'^
r
'//
' ^*! '-©'^
- / ;€’:*
'vJ
-7^-
De 4 Plj-cv/A*• 1 ^ ^ J
4"4z. 'f y>U ^Hre /V'/^j
”2-' I
■ /'
// 0^0^<5
^ /-’n- ^ ^ ^ /-
#rr2n' ?:®’'"“’7^"''S:*'"''““^^
1ft-" "•'■''' ^ <jo7^Zr^
■ cJfc dtwf C'<,-i-'wiz. cc'mJn^h '
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS, WITH NATIVITY AND HOROSCOPE OF
MARY, OUEEN OF SCOTS
From a manuscript of the X VI Century
Facing page 186
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS 187
closed or half open, and some symbolical images, and
amidst this strange collection stood a brazier from
whence arose a blueish flame. The astrologer now
made his appearance, clad in a long, loose black robe ;
in his right hand he held a book and in his left a
divining wand. Figures of the sun, moon and con¬
stellations glistened on his robe and on his head he
wore a turban.
With an imposing gesture he motioned Mogis to
retire, and then with an commanding glance he fas¬
cinated the trembling Marguerite and claimed her
attention.”
“ Madame,” he said in a deep voice, “ the future
looks dark and threatening. Beware Madame ! Beware,
the fourth constellation for it indicates in the distance, a
terrible and bloody catastrophe.
‘‘ I also perceive in the constellation, Sirius which in¬
fluences the heart, a spot of evil omen.
In that of Orion which influences the left hand, an
extraordinary movement, which indicates a violent
death.
“ Nevertheless, these events may be prevented.
‘‘ The constellation which displays the long stars is
pure ; it indicates that a return to laudable feelings may
prevent you from falling into the abyss.
Hear me yet a little farther, Madame,” said the
astrologer, ‘‘ since you have faith in the sublime art of
astrology. Caesar, Pompey, Grassus and very many
other great men of the olden day, believed in it as you
do. Wait, and I will consult the virtue of the houses of
the Sun.”
188 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Paviot then began to trace with his wand, represent¬
ing the signs of the Zodiac, twelve triangles, so as to
form the astrological square.
‘‘ Know,” he continued, ‘‘ the state of the heavens at
the hour of your birth. All that I have to do, is to
connect in this square, each planet of the constellation
with which it was then in conjunction.
“ I pass over the houses, wealth, heritages, patri¬
monies, gifts, marriage, religion and travels, offices and
dignities, and friends. These would be of secondary
importance to you.
But I see in the houses ist life, 6th grief, 8th
terror and death and I2th imprisonment and violent
death, prognostics which confirm the prophecy to which
I have just given utterance.”
Marguerite, bewildered and terrified, rose and
threw a purse to the astrologer, but pushing it
aside he said in solemn tones, ‘‘ Take back that gold
Madame the Queen; the man who is in contact with
superior intelligence may accept a souvenir but not vile
metal.”
Marguerite immediately handed him a valuable jewel
and hastened away.
Another old historian thus recounts the scene, when
Henry II of France was presented with his horoscope
which he had commanded should be drawn up for
him. Unrolling the parchment he read it and after¬
wards remarked, “ I expected this man would have
predicted some of the future events of my life but
I perceive that he has solely engaged himself in
seeking to discover what manner of death God has
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS 189
in store for me. Does that signify that my end is near
at hand ? ”
“ Oh, sire,” exclaimed Anne de Montmorency, who
was with the King at the time, what need can you
have to consult such a set of scamps, who are all alike
babblers and liars ? ”
Why ? ” replied Henry, “ these men sometimes tell
the truth. Just see Constable, what a strange death this
astrologer prophecies to me. According to him I am
to be killed in single combat.”
Sir,” returned the Constable, '' I pray you throw
the parchment in the fire.”
Why ? That would not alter the prophecy. More¬
over, I would as soon—nay I would rather die that death
than any other.”
Calling one of his secretaries the King added: ‘‘M. de
I’Aubespine take this and put it carefully away so that
I may have it whenever I ask you for it.”
Scarcely had a year elapsed, ere Henry fell in a tourna¬
ment, being mortally wounded in the right eye with the
lance of Montgomery, captain of the guard, whom the
King had almost forced to joust with him.
When the wounded King was carried to his apartment
the Constable suddenly remembering the prophecy,
called M. de TAubespine and asked him for the parch¬
ment.
Ah,” exclaimed Montmorency when he had glanced
at it, “ that was the single combat in which it is written
that the King should perish.”
Albert von Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland, was an en¬
thusiastic student of astrology, in which it is said, he was
190 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
first instructed by Paulus Virdingius who was a friend of
Kepler, while he afterwards studied the art under Argoli
at Padua.
In the campaign against Gustavus Adolphus, he
evidently hoped to glean information from the stars as
FIGURE OF THE HEAVENS OR HOROSCOPE OF THE
NATIVITY OF KING HENRY VIII
From an MS. in the Bodleian Library
to the destiny that awaited the king, judging from the
following letter he wrote from Gitskin dated May 21,
1628.
I thank you for having sent me the notice of the
King of Sweden’s birthday. Now, I have further need
HISTORIC ASTROLOGERS 191
to know the place of his birth, for it is necessary on
account of the elevatio poli ! I pray you to forward this
as soon as may be. I should further be glad that you
would cause the scheme to be erected by Dr. Herlicius,
not that so much stress is to be laid on this, but it is my
wish that various hands should be employed in this part.
He need not give any conclusions but only the figura¬
tion.”
Kepler came under the influence of Wallenstein
and cast horoscopes for him, and it is evident that, even
some of the scientific astronomers of this period found
astrology a more profitable branch of the art than pure
astronomical research.
When Wallenstein was afterwards relieved of his post
and a deputation was sent to inform him of the fact,
before he allowed them to enter on the subject of their
mission, he produced a horoscope, from which he told
them, that he already knew the cause of their coming and
the nature of the message which they were deputed to
deliver. In his retirement he still continued the study
of the art and Zenno or Senni, an astrologer of Genoa,
became one of his household and there assumed a posi¬
tion of great influence.
Of astrology, Kepler sagely wrote, Astrology is the
foolish daughter of a wise mother and for one hundred
years past, this wise mother, could not have lived with¬
out the help of her foolish daughter.”
Carden the astrologer on the other hand, was a strong
defender of the art and thus adjured the critics of his
time :
192 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Hence fiery zealots, you I dare to tell
Astrology’s from Heaven, not from Hell;
’Tis no black Art; no damned Necromancy,
No witchcraft neither, as some please to fancy ;
For shallow brains think all that’s hard or high.
Unlawful or impossibility.”
CHAPTER XVII
ASTROLOGY IN SHAKESPEARe’s PLAYS
interest in astrology and the influence it
1 exercised on the public mind in Shakespeare’s
time, is nowhere better illustrated than by some of the
allusions he makes to it in his plays.
In King Lear,” we And the aged King thus comment¬
ing on the belief of the influence of the stars on the
destiny of man :
And take upon’s the mystery of things,
As if we were God’s spies and we wear out
In a wall’d prison pacts and sects of great ones
That ebb and flow by the Moon.
(Act 3 Sc. V.)
Gloster’s remark that, “ These late eclipses in the sun
and moon portend no good to us,” brings the reply from
Edmund. This is the excellent foppery of the world,
that, when we are sick in fortune (often the surfeit of
our own behaviour) we make gaiety of our disasters
the sun, the moon and the stars ; as if we were by
necessity, fools by heavenly compulsion, knaves, thieves
and trenchers by spherical predominance, drunkards,
liars, and adulterers by an enforced obedience of planet-
193 13
194 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
ary influence, and all that we are evil in by a divine
thrusting-on, an admirable evasion of a man to lay his
goatish deposition to the charge of a star.
My father compounded with my mother under the
dragon’s tail and my nativity was under ursa major,
so that it follows I am rough and lecherous.”
(Act I Sc. 2).
There was a general belief that eclipses of either the
sun or the moon portended evil, to which Edmund
refers in the following lines :
I am thinking brother, of a prediction I read the
other day what should follow these eclipses.
Edgar. Do you busy yourself with that ?
Edmund. I promise you the effects he writes of
succeed unhappily.”
In the first part of “ Henry VI ” there is the following
allusion to comets and their portent.
Bedford. “ Hung ye the heavens with black, yield
day to night.
Comets, importing change of times and states,
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky,
And with them scourge the bad revolting stars
That have consented to Henry’s death.”
Afterwards he invokes the spirit of the king, to
“ Combat with adverse planets in the heavens.”
ASTROLOGY IN SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS 195
In the same play, Talbot thus addresses his son :
‘‘ I did send for thee
To tutor thee in strategems of war
But O malignant and ill-boding stars
Now thou art come to the feast of death,
A terrible and unavoided danger.”
(Act IV Sc. S).
In the Two Gentlemen of Verona,” Julia observes :
“ But truer stars did govern Proteus’ breath.”
(Act II Sc. 7).
And in the ‘‘ Merry Wives of Windsor,” Pistol ex¬
claims that : he is the very Mars of malcontents.”
In Much ado about nothing,” Don John thus alludes
to the evil influence of Saturn under which he was born :
I wonder that thou, being (as thou say’st thou art)
born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral medi¬
cine to a mortifying mischief.”
(Act I Sc. 3).
In All s well that ends well,” Helena gives evidence
of possessing a considerable knowledge of the astrolo¬
gical art, concerning which she says :
It were all one that I should love a bright particular
star and think to wed it.”
(Act I Sc. i).
and later remarks on
196 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
“ The poorer born, whose baser stars do shut us up in
wishes.”
At the close of the scene she thus converses with
Monsieur Parolles :
Helena. ‘‘ Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a
charitable star.
Parolles. Under Mars I.
Helena. I especially think under Mars.
Parolles. Why under Mars ?
Helena. The wars have so kept you under, that you
needs be born under Mars.
Parolles. When he was predominant ?
Helena. When he was retrograde, I think, rather.”
The retrogression of a planet, which was said to have
an oppressive effect, is also alluded to by the King in
Hamlet ” when he observes “ It is most retrograde to
our desire.”
In ‘‘ Love’s labour lost ” there are several references
to the influence of the moon, and the Great Bear is thus
alluded to, by the ist Carrier :
Charles’ wain is over the new chimney and yet our
horse is not yet packed.”
In ‘‘ Julius Caesar,” the Emperor thus speaks of the
constancy of the Northern star :
‘‘ But I am constant as the Northern Star,
Of whose true and resting quality
There is no fellow in the Armament.”
ASTROLOGY IN SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS 197
An allusion to the Ephemerides, so essential to the
astrologer, is made by Prince Henry in the “ Second part
of Henry IV,’’ in the lines :
‘‘ Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction ! What
says the almanack to that ? ”
(Act H Sc. 4).
In ‘‘ Troilus and Cressida ” the former observes:
‘‘ And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove
Or like a star dis-orb’d,”
thus alluding to the radius in which a planet is effective.
In ‘‘ Romeo and Juliet,” Romeo thus rebels against
the astral destiny of his beloved, when he hears the
news of her death.
Is it even so ? Then I defy you stars,”
while later in the tomb he exclaims :
O Here
Will I set up my everlasting rest
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars from this
world-wearied flesh.”
In the final scene in Othello ” the influence of the
stars is thus adjured.
“ It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul.
Let me not name it to you, ye chaste stars.
Oh heavy hour, methinks it should be now a huge
198 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
eclipse of sun and moon ; but oh vain boast who
can control his fate ?
Be not afraid, here is our journey’s end. Oh ill-
starr’d wench.”
Again in Act V Sc. 2, Othello cries :
‘‘ 0 heavy hour !
Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse
Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe
Should yawn at alteration.”
An allusion to the supposed influence of the Zodiacal
signs on certain parts of the human body is thus made
by Sir Toby in Twelfth Night ” ;
Replying to Andrew’s wish to set about some revels
he says :
‘‘ What shall we do else ? Were we not born under
Taurus ?
Sir Andrew. Taurus ? That’s sides and hearts.
Sir Toby. No, Sir, it’s legs and thighs.”
(Act I Sc. 3).
As a matter of fact both were wrong, for Taurus ruled
the neck and throat, but probably Shakespeare meant
the error to be intentional.
The quality of Jupiter is thus expressed in the letter
to Malvolio :
“ In my stars I am above thee.
But be not afraid of greatness.”
ASTROLOGY IN SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS 199
4nd later Malvolio says :
Jove and my stars be praised ! Jove I thank thee ;
I will smite I will do every thing that thou wilt have
me.”
(Act II Sc. 5)
In the clown’s response to Viola we have a further
reference to Jupiter in the lines :
Now Jove in his next commodity of hair send thee a
beard.”
(Act III Sc. i).
The belief in the influence of the planets on the for¬
tunes of the new-born child is evidenced from Glen-
dower’s boast :
At my nativity
The front of heaven was full of flery shapes
Of burning cressets ; know, that at my birth
The frame and huge foundation of the earth
Shak’d like a coward.”
To which Hotspur sarcastically replies :
Why, so it would have done
At the same season, if your mother’s cat
Had kittened, though yourself had ne’er been born.”
First part of King Henry IV
(Act H Sc. 4).
Shakespeare in “ Othello ” thus alludes to the ancient
tradition that the Moon was the cause of insanity :
200 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
“ It is the very error of the Moon,
She comes more nearer earth than she wont
And makes men mad.”
(Act V Sc. 2)
The Moon was also regarded as the ruling power over
thieves, thus exclaims Falstaff, '' We that take purses go
by the Moon.”
First part King Henry IV (Act III Sc. 3).
Autolycus in Winters Tale ” alludes to Mercury ;
in the well-known lines :
Who, being as I am, littered under Mercury was
likewise a snapper-up of ill-considered trifles.”
(Act IV Sc. 2).
There are several references to the Moon in '' Mid¬
summer Night’s Dream,” as when Theseus says to
Hippolyta :
“ Now fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour
Draws on apace, four happy days bring in
Another moon.
Hippolyta. Four days will quickly steep themselves
in nights.
Four nights will quickly dream away the time.
And then the moon, like a silver bow new bent
heaven shall behold the night
Of our solemnities.”
Later Hermia is told by Theseus to
ASTROLOGY IN SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS 201
‘‘ Take time to pause, and by the next new moon
The sealing day betwixt my love and me . .
In “ The Tempest ” Prospero alluding to his lucky
star says :
“ I find my Zenith doth depend upon
A most auspicious star ; whose influence,
If now I court not, but omit, my fortunes
Will ever after droop.’’
(Act I Sc. 2).
In ‘‘ Winters Tale,” Camillo thus refers to the influence
of the moon on the tides :
‘‘ Swear his thought over
By each particular star in heaven and
By all their influences, you may as well
Forbid the sea for to obey the moon.”
In the Sonnets, there are several beautiful allusions
to the stars and planets as instanced in the following :
XV. When I consider every thing that grows
Holds in perfection but a little moment.
That this huge state presenteth naught but shows.
Whereon the stars in secret influence comment.
Cheered and checked even by the self same sky
Vaunt in their youthful sap at height decrease
And wear their brave state out of memory.
Then the conceit of this inconstant stay.
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
Where wasteful time debateth with decay
202 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
To change your day of youth to sullied night
And all in war with time for love of you
As he takes from you, I engraft you new.”
XIV. Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck
And yet methinks I have astronomy,
But not to tell of good or evil luck.
Of plagues, or dearths or seasons quality.
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell
Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,.
Or say with princes if it shall go well.
By oft predict that I in heaven find ;
But from thine eyes my knowledge I desire.
And constant stars, in them I read such art
As truth and beauty shall together thrive.
If from thyself to store thou wouldst convert
Or else of thee this I prognosticate
Thy end is truth’s and beauty’s doom and date.”
CHAPTER XVIII
A YORKSHIRE PROPHETESS AND A CHESHIRE SEER-
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON
WHO was Mother Shipton and did she ever exist ?
are questions that have never been satisfactorily
answered, although her name has become a household
word and her prophecies have survived nearly three
hundred years ?
She is said by some of her biographers to have been
born at Knaresborough in Yorkshire in the time of
King Henry VI1.
They tell strange stories of her birth, some declaring
that her father was a necromancer, while others aver
that her paternal relative was no other than the devil
himself.
At the age of twenty she is said to have married one
Toby Shipton a carpenter by trade, and afterwards
achieved a local reputation for fore-telling the future and
prognosticating events.
As her fame got spread abroad, people journeyed to
see and consult her from far and near.
As a matter of fact the first reference known con¬
cerning her, is contained in a tract, that was first pub¬
lished in 1641, which is entitled The Prophecie of
Mother Shipton in the reign of Henry 8th, fore-telling
203
204 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the death of Cardinal Wolsey, the Lord Percy and others,
as also what should happen in ensuing times.’’ This
was followed by the publication of numerous re-prints
to which various astrologers made additions. Lilly
quotes eighteen of her prophecies and in speaking of them
is stated to have said : ‘‘All I can say is, that I fear they
will prove true, more true than most men imagine, as
Mother Shipton’s prophecies were never yet questioned
either for their verity or antiquity, so look to them to
read the future with a certainty and act accordingly.”
In the first tract, prominence is given to the prophecy
relating to Cardinal Wolsey. According to the story
on learning that the Cardinal intended to come and reside
in York, Mother Shipton publicly announced that he
should never reach that city.
On this declaration coming to the ears of the Cardinal,
he despatched the Duke of Suffolk, the Lord Percy and
Lord Darey in disguise to interview the prophetess.
When they arrived at her cottage to their surprise, she
knew them each by name and asked them in and regaled
them with cakes and ale.
They informed her of their errand, to which she replied:
“ I said he might see it, but never to come to it.”
They told her, that if the Cardinal came, he would
certainly have her burnt as a witch.
On hearing this, says the chronicler, “ she took her
linnen handkerchief off her head and said : ‘ If this burn,
so shall I,’ and then cast it into the fire. There she let it
lay for a quarter of an hour, and taking it out again, it
was not as much singed.
“ The Cardinal on coming to Cawood, ascended the
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON 205
castle tower and viewed the city of York which was about
eight miles distant, but e’er he descended the stairs, a
message arrived from the king demanding his presence
forthwith. He was obliged to return at once, and being
taken ill at Leicester, he gave up his ghost on the
journey and so the prophecy was fulfilled.”
MOTHER SHIPTON
From a woodcut illustrating her Prophecies
1686
Her other prophecies are chiefly in mystic verse, which
one writer states, she delivered into the hands of the
Abbot of Beverley. The following are some examples :
“ Time shall happen. A ship shall sail upon the River
206 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Thames till it reach the City of London ; the Master
shall weep and cry out: ‘ Ah ! What a flourishing city
was this when I left it, unequalled in the World 1 ’
But now scarce a house is left to entertain us with a
flagon.”
This was supposed to foretell the Great Fire of London.
Pepys in his ‘ Diary,’ October 20th 1666, records of
Sir Jeremy Smith: ‘‘He says he was on board the
‘ Prince ’ when the news came of the burning of London
and all the Prince (Rupert) said was that now Shipton’s
prophecy was out.”
“ Alecto next assumes the Crown,
And streams of blood shall Smithfleld drown.”
This was said to refer to Queen Mary and the burning
of the martyrs at Smithfleld.
Queen Elizabeth and the destruction of the Spanish
Armada was thus fore-told :
“ A maiden Queen full many a year
Shall England’s war-like scepter bear.
“ The Western Monarch’s Wooden Horses
Shall be destroyed by the Drake’s forces.”
The next is said to refer to King James of Scotland,
who on coming south, joined the two kingdoms together.
The Northern Lyon over Tweed
The maiden Queen shall next succeed
And joyn in one two mighty States
Then shall Janus shut his gates.”
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON 207
The Civil War is thus said to have been prophecied :
‘‘ Forth from the North shall mischief blow,
And English Hob shall add thereto
Mars shall rage as he were wood,
And earth shall drunken be with blood.”
The following is said to refer to the execution of
Charles 1.
‘‘ But tells what’s next. Oh ! Cruel fate,
A King made Martyr at his gate.”
Cromwell’s usurpation and the Restoration are thus
fore-told :
‘‘ The just King dead, the woolfe shall then
With blood usurp the Lyons Den.
But death shall hurry him away.
Confusion shall a while bear sway.
Till fate to England shall restore
A King to reign as heretofore,
Who mercy and justice likewise
Shall in his Empire exercise.”
The next is said to refer to the Great Plague, as well
as the Fire.
Triumphant Death rides London through
And men on tops of houses go.”
Hunt refers to a prophecy not included in the printed
versions which runs: ‘‘ The men are to be killed, so that
one man shall be left to seven women, and the daughters
shall come home and say to their mothers: ‘ Lawk,
208 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
mother, I have seen a man.’ The women shall have to
finish the harvest.”
He offers however no comment on this prediction.
Lilly re-printed the first edition of the prophecies in
1645 and so they became well-known in London.
In 1667 Richard Head published an account of the
‘‘ Life and death of Mother Shipton ” and Thomas
Thomson wrote a play which he called Mother Ship-
ton, her life.” In an edition printed in 1684 it is stated
that: “ Her prophecies are strangely preserved amongst
other writings belonging to an old monastery in York¬
shire,” and in another version published in 1877, it is
related that, ‘‘ the prophecies were discovered in the
British Museum written in an old manuscript work
A.D. 1448.” This statement is without foundation.
In 1862, Charles Hindley reprinted Head’s “Life and
death of Mother Shipton,” with the addition of some
fresh prognostications, which he declared foretold
among other events the end of the world !
These fictitious predictions apparently deceived no
one, although they show some ingenuity. They are as
follows:
“ Carriages without horses shall go
And accidents fill the world with woe.”
Hindley wrote this prediction in 1862, which might
well refer to the many accidents on the road to¬
day.
“ Primrose Hill in London shall be
And in its centre a Bishop’s See.”
rn ai//v tfi/w/ h' f/tc. Diryjl
liu' lMv*l ?<»4^>!i^>- •'Uiif'H>n^- m
th^m h€inh'kt:^l hy Aj^uHtii.
fkimmA-^flf], Mef/urShf/ilm^-i sVif/ycy fmmk^
MOTHER SHIPTON
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF INCIDENTS IN HER LIFE
Facing page 208
>;
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON 209
Around the world thoughts shall fly
In the twinkling of an eye.”
‘‘ Through hills men shall ride
And no horse or ass be by their side
Under water men shall walk
Shall ride and sleep and talk.
In the air men shall be seen
In white, in black and in green.”
A great man shall come and go !
Three times three shall lovely France
Be led to play a bloody dance !
Before her people shall be free
Three tyrant rulers shall she see ;
Three times the people’s hope is gone ;
Three rulers in succession see
Each springing from different dynasty.
Then shall the worser fight be done
England and France shall be as one.”
“ The British olive next shall twine
In marriage with the German vine.”
Men shall walk over Rivers and under Rivers
Iron in the water shall float
As easy as a wooden boat.”
England shall at last admit a Jew
The Jew that was held in scorn
Shall of a Christian be born and born.”
H
210 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
‘‘ But when the North shall divide the South
An eagle shall build in the Lion’s mouth
Taxes for blood and for war
Will come to every door.”
“ The world then to an end shall come
In eighteen hundred and eighty one.”
In 1873 Hindley confessed that he fabricated this
doggerel in order to sell the edition of ^ Mother Shipton’s
Prophecies’ he printed in 1862.
The popularity of the prophecies in the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries is shown from the fact that,
fifty one different editions and reprints were published,
some in prose and others in rhyme, between 1641 and
1881.
According to one of the tracts Mother Shipton lived to
an extraordinary age and died at Clifton in Yorkshire,
where a stone bearing this epitaph marks her grave :
‘‘ Here lyes she who never ly’d
Whose skill often has been try’d
Her Prophecies shall still survive
And ever keep her name alive.”
There is however no proof that the stone in question
marks the grave of Mother Shipton or that she was buried
at Clifton.
In Rackstow’s Museum in Fleet Street in 179^5 ^
figure of Mother Shipton and her skull, brought from
her burial place, is said to have been exhibited, and there
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON 211
was also an effigy of her at one time among the wax
figures at Westminster Abbey.
It is probable, that the legend of Mother Shipton
originated with some eccentric old woman who lived
near Knaresborough and acquired a local reputation for
prognosticating, and telling fortunes, as it is stated, per¬
haps with some truth, that, there resorted to her house
all kinds of people, old and young, rich and poor,
especially young maids who had a great desire to know
whether they shall be married.” Her sayings and pro¬
phetic utterances were no doubt repeated from one to
another, until someone recorded and printed them in
1641, after which they were exploited by the astrologers
of that period.
Another seer whose existence is mainly based on
tradition was Robert Nixon, known as the ‘ Cheshire
prophet,’ who acquired a similar reputation to Mother
Shipton. His first recorded ‘‘ life and prophecies ” was
printed in 1714.
He is said to have been the son of a farmer of Vale
Royal, Delamere Forest, Cheshire, while according to
another account, he was born at the little town of
Over in 1467.
As a youth he seems to have been chiefly remarkable
for his stupidity, and on the death of his father, he was
left to the care of an elder brother and worked on the
farm.
His early prophetic utterances appear to have been of
a local character and he first achieved notoriety by fore¬
telling the destruction of the town of Nantwich.
212 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
According to the story of his life, when the Battle of
Bosworth field was being fought between Henry VII
and Richard III, Nixon was ploughing a held. He
suddenly stopped his team and pointing with his whip
cried out, Now Richard ! Now Harry 1 ” several times,
and later he called: ‘‘ Now Harry get over that ditch and
you will gain the day.”
The prediction was told to a special messenger sent to
announce the proclamation of King Henry on the battle-
held, and on the messenger’s return, the King on being
informed of the rustic’s prophecy sent for him to be
brought to his presence.
At this time Nixon was in the town of Over, and
astonished the people by running about the street
saying, that the King had sent for him, an announce¬
ment which was received with laughter and derision.
A few days afterwards however, the King’s messenger
arrived again and inquired where he could hnd Robert
Nixon. He was directed to the brother’s farm where
Robert was found by the messenger turning the spit.
Mr. Thomas Cholmondeley of Vale Royal is said to
have taken an interest in Nixon, and for a while he
lived at his house, where most of his prophetic utter¬
ances were recorded by the steward. On the Christmas
before he was taken to Court, one day while sitting with
the servants, to their surprise he suddenly started up
and cried, ‘‘ I must prophecy,” and continued: “ If the
favourite of a King should be slain, the Master’s neck
shall be cleft in twain.” This was afterwards said to have
been fulfilled when the Duke of Buckingham was
assassinated and King Charles I was executed.
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON 213
When Nixon was brought to the Court, according to
the story, the King wishing to test his powers, hid a valu¬
able diamond ring, and after causing a strict inquiry to
be made for it, he sent for Nixon. He told him of the
loss he had sustained and asked him if he could not
find it, as he had no hope of its recovery. On hearing
this, Nixon said to the King: “ He who hideth can
find.”
Nixon appears to have been constantly under the
impression that he would be starved to death while at
the Court and the King on hearing this, ordered that he
should have the utmost liberty and be allowed the run
of the kitchen.
All went well until one day, when the King was
going hunting, Nixon ran after him and begged that he
might not be left behind as he was sure that his majesty
would never see him again alive.
Crying, he declared, that he was sure that he would be
starved if left alone, as the time was come for him to
die.
The King although disturbed at his distress, told him
it was impossible for him to come, and handed him over
to the care of an officer of the household.
When the hunting party had gone Nixon returned to
the kitchen, where the servants mocked and teased him to
such an extent, that the officer thought it safest to lock
him up in a closet. Some time afterwards, a message of
importance coming from the King to the officer, he set
out at once to obey the Royal command, forgetting to
set poor Nixon at liberty.
When he returned in three days’ time, he recollected
214 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the unfortunate prophet and on opening the closet, to
his dismay, he found him lying dead.
Such is said to have been the end of Robert Nixon
whose predictions made him famous, ignorant rustic
though he was.
He made no claim to have had any knowledge of
astrology and the following are some examples of his
prognostications.
‘‘ And the men of the North shall sell precious blood,
yea their own blood. And they shall sacrifice a noble
warrior to the idol and hang up his flesh in high places.
^‘And a storm shall come out of the North which shall
blow down the steeples of the South and the labourer
shall rise above his master and the harvest shall in part
be trampled down by horses.”
The noble warrior referred to, is said to have been
the Marquess of Montrose.
‘‘ The departure of a great man’s soul shall trouble a
river hard by and overthrow trees, houses and estates.”
This prediction is said to refer to the death of Oliver
Cromwell and the great storm that happened at the time.
‘‘ I see men, women and children spotted like beasts,
and their nearest and dearest friends affrighted at
them.”
I see towns on fire and innocent blood shed but when
men and horses walk upon the water, then shall come
peace and plenty to the people but trouble is preparing
for the kings.”
Thus he is said to have predicted the Great Plague and
the Fire of London.
Many of his prophecies are so vague that apparently
MOTHER SHIPTON AND ROBERT NIXON 215
no one attempted to interpret them as instanced in the
following :
‘‘ In Britain’s land shall be a knight
Of then shall make a cruel sight.”
The bull and the red rose shall stand in strife,
That shall turn England to much woe,
And cause many a man to lose his life.”
“ The weary eagle shall to an island in the sea retire.
Where leaves and herbs grow fresh and green.”
The last couplet is stated to refer to Napoleon Buona¬
parte and his banishment to the island of Elba.
Charles Dickens alludes to Nixon in the Pickwick
Papers ” as Red-faced Nixon,” probably referring to
the coloured portraits of the Cheshire seer sometimes
used to illustrate the chap-books of his prophecies.
CHAPTER XIX
ASTROLOGY IN MILTOn’s POEMS
^ I ^HE many allusions made by Milton to the heavenly
bodies in Paradise Lost,” the beauty of which
are unsurpassed, show the extensive knowledge of
astronomy he possessed.
Like Dante, he adopted the Ptolemaic conception of
the universe, which enabled him to localise those regions
of space in which the chief incidents in his poem are
described, such as Heaven, of the Empyrean, Chaos, Hell
and the mundane Universe.
He mentions fourteen of the constellations and their
relative positions on the celestial sphere in Paradise
Lost ” alone, and to the planets, especially the Sun, he
pays frequent tribute, as instanced in ‘‘ L’ Allegro : ”
‘‘ Right against the eastern gate
Where the great Sun begins his state.
Robed in flames and amber light.
The clouds in thousand liveries dight.”
Of the Moon he thus sings in ‘‘ II Penseroso.”
“ To behold the wandering Moon,
Riding near her highest noon.
Like one that had been led astray
Through the heaven’s wide pathless way,
216
ASTROLOGY IN MILTON’S POEMS 217
And oft as if her head she bowed
Stooping through a fleecy cloud.”
In the Angel’s reply to Adam the Universe is described
as follows :
‘‘ To ask or search I blame thee not; for Heaven
Is as the Book of God before thee set,
Wherein to read his wondrous works and learn
His seasons, hours, or days, or months, or years.
This to attain, whether Heaven move or Earth
Imports not, if thou reckon right ; the rest
From Man to Angels the Great Architect
Did wisely conceal, and not divulge
His secrets, to be scanned by them who ought
Rather admire.”
(VIII 66-84).
It was a general belief in Milton’s time that the planets
were whirled round the Sun as if by the action of some
powerful magnetic force, and to this he alludes in the
following lines :
They as they move
Their starry dance in numbers that compute
Days, months and years, towards his all-cheering
lamp.
Turn swift their various motions, or are turned
By his magnetic beam.”
(Ill 579-83).
Milton’s knowledge of astrology is revealed in his
allusion to the five planetary aspects recognised by
218 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
astrologers, each of which was supposed to possess its
peculiar influence on events. He thus refers to the Moon,
the planets and the constellations and their conjunc¬
tions :
To the blanc Moon,
Her oflice they prescribed; to the other five
Their planetary motions and aspects.
In sextile, square, and trine and opposite ;
Of noxious efficacy, and when to join
In synod unbenign ; and taught the fixed
Their influence malignant when to shower—
Which of them rising with the Sun or falling.
Should prove tempestuous. To the winds they set
Their corners, when with bluster to confound
Sea, air and shore ; the thunder when to roll
With terror through the dark arrial hall.”
(X 651-67).
In the seventeenth century no definite conclusion had
been reached by astronomers with regard to the nature
of the stars, and Milton thus refers to their mysterious
movements in the following beautiful lines ;
Mystical dance, which yonder starry sphere
Of planets and of fixed in all her wheels
Resembles nearest ; mazes intricate.
Eccentric, intervolved, yet regular.
Then most, when most irregular they seem ;
And in their motions harmony divine.
So smooths her charming tones that God’s own ear
Listens delighted.”
(V 620-27).
ASTROLOGY IN MILTON’S POEMS 219
Satan’s impressions of the Universe, the stars and con¬
stellations, as he looked down from the gate of heaven,
are thus described :
Such wonder seizes, though after Heaven seen.
The spirit malign, but much more envy seized.
At sight of all this World beheld so fair.
Round he surveys (and well might, where he stood
So high above the circling canopv
Of night’s extended shade) from eastern point
Of Libra to the fleecy star that bears
Andromeda far off Atlantic seas
Beyond the horizon.”
Referring to the Sun and the constellations, he con¬
tinues :
Turn swift their various motions, or are turned
By his majestic beam, that gently warms
The Universe, and to each inward part
With gentle penetration, though unseen.
Shoots invisible virtue, even to the deep ;
So wondrously was set his station bright.”
(Ill 552-87).
In the two last lines the poet alludes to the unseen
properties of the Sun’s rays.
Later he gives a beautiful description of the Sun to
which Satan is so much attracted.
Compared with aught on Earth, metal or stone ;
Not all parts like, as glowing iron with fire ;
If metal, part seemed gold, part silver clear ;
220 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
If stone, carbuncle most or chrysolite,
Ruby or topaz, to the twelve that shone
In Aaron’s breastplate, and a stone besides
Imagined rather oft than elsewhere seen ;
That stone or like to that, which here below
Philosophers in vain so long have sought.
In vain, though by their powerful art they bind
Volatile Hermes and call up unbound
In various shapes old Proteus from the sea.
Drained through a limbec to his native form.
What wonder then if fields and regions here
Breathe forth elixir pure, and rivers run
Potable gold, when, with one virtuous touch.
The arch-chemic Sun, so far from us remote.
Produces, with terrestrial humour mixed.
Here in the dark so many precious things
Of colour glorious and effect so rare.”
(HI 588-622).
The Sun was the alchemist’s symbol for gold. Milton
here suggests that alluvial gold and precious stones were
produced by the Sun, and while the alchemists could
use mercury and recover salts from the sea, they sought
in vain the planet’s secret.
He makes many comparisons of the brilliancy of the
stars with precious stones, as instanced in his description
of the first evening in Paradise.
Now glowed the firmament
With living sapphires ; Hesperus that led
The starry host, rode brightest, till the Moon,
Rising in clouded majesty, at length
ASTROLOGY IN MILTON’S POEMS 221
Apparent queen, unveiled her peerless light,
And o’er the dark her silver mantle threw.”
(IV 598-609).
Adam in his reply to Eve, clearly illustrates the
belief held by many in Milton’s time of the influence of
the planets and stars on plants and herbs.
Thus Adam addresses Eve ; alluding to the stars :
Daughter of God and Man accomplished Eve,
These have their course to finish round the earth
By morrow evening, and from land to land
In order, though to nations yet unborn,
Ministering light prepared, they set and rise ;
Lest total darkness should by night regain
Her old possession and extinguish life
In Nature and all things ; which those soft fires
Not only enlighten, but with kindly heat
Of various influence foment and warm.
Temper or nourish, or in part shed down
Their stellar virtue on all things that grow
On Earth, made hereby apter to receive
Perfection from the Sun’s more potent ray.”
(IV 660-88).
These extracts show the remarkable knowledge of
astronomy Milton possessed, and how the Sun, Moon and
other planetary bodies appealed to his wonderful poetic
imagination.
As a writer observes, concerning his description of the
Creation: The rising of the Earth out of Chaos ; the
creation of light and of the orbs of the firmament; the
222 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
joyfulness associated with the onward career of the new¬
born Sun ; the subdued illumination of the Full-orbed
Moon and the thousand, thousand stars that spangle the
nocturnal sky ; all afforded Milton a rich field in which
his imagination luxuriated and in the description of
which, he found subject matter worthy of his gifted
intellect.”
CHAPTER XX
TWO NOTABLE ASTROLOGERS—JOHN DEE—WILLIAM
LILLY
The most outstanding figure among English
astrologers in Tudor times was John Dee, magician,
mathematician and astrologer.
Much has been written concerning his exploits with
his gazing-crystal and black mirror, his favourite media
for fore-telling the future.
He was born in 1527 snd educated at the Chantry
School at Chelmsford, after which he entered St. John’s
College Cambridge and later became a fellow of
Trinity.
He was a clever mathematician and at first, devoted
much of his time, to the science of astronomy, but later
took up the more lucrative art of astrology, which at
that time had a considerable influence over the public
mind.
After travelling in Holland and Flanders, he returned
to London and obtained an introduction to the Court of
Edward VI.
On settling in London, he rapidly gained a reputation
for his successful astrological predictions and when
Mary Tudor succeeded to the throne in 1553, Dee was
asked to calculate her nativity as well as to cast the
223
224 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
horoscope of the Princess Elizabeth, who at that time
was living at Woodstock.
The royal patronage gave him increased prestige and
Elizabeth did not forget Dee, for when she came
to the throne, she commanded Robert Dudley to
request him to predict an auspicious day for her cor¬
onation.
She sent for Dee soon after her accession and is said
to have invited him to enter her service at Whitehall
and promised him a Mastership at St. Catherine s
Hospital.
According to an account given by William Lilly, who
was alive in Dee’s time, he was appointed Queen
Elizabeth’s ‘ Intelligencer ’ and had a salary for his
maintenance from the Secretary of State.” He des¬
cribes him as a ready witted man, quick of apprehen¬
sion, very learned and of great judgment in Latin and
Greek. He was a perfect astronomer, a curious
astrologer and was excellent in all kinds of learning.
With all this, he was the most ambitious person living ;
most desirous of fame and was never so pleased as when
he heard himself styled ‘ Most Excellent.’ ”
Dee’s fame began to decline after his association with
Edward Kelly, a plausible rogue whom he engaged as
an assistant for his reputed skill as a ^ skryer or crystal-
gazer. Kelly apparently persuaded Dee to believe that
he had received inspiration from the spirit world, and
their exploitations in alchemy and the transmutation of
metals, both in England and on the continent, are related
in detail in the ‘‘ Mysteries and Secrets of Magic.”*
*Mysteries and Secrets of Magic,” C. J. S. Thompson.
JOHN DEE AND WILLIAM LILLY 225
Dee was almost forgotten when he returned to England
about 157^? settled at Mortlake, whither he removed
his instruments and books.
Although the Queen and other notable people occasion¬
ally visited him there, he never recovered his former
prestige and ‘‘became so poor,” says Lilly, “that many
times he was enforced to sell some book or other to buy
his dinner.”
He died in 1608 and was buried in the chancel of the
parish church at Mortlake.
During the renaissance of science in the latter part
of the seventeenth century, the old belief in astrology
began to be discarded by the more thoughtful and in¬
telligent minds. Medicine commenced to free itself
from the mass of superstition that had clung to it from
the Middle Ages, and the more enlightened physicians
no longer sought the stars as an aid to the diagnosis of
disease. But in spite of this, astrology still exerted con¬
siderable influence over many people.
Among the practitioners of the art who became
well-known about the middle of the century, was
William Lilly, who later achieved considerable
notoriety for the predictions made in his prophetical
almanacks.
He was born at Diseworth in Leicestershire on May
8th 1602, where he was brought up until he reached the
age of eleven, when he was sent to the Grammar School
at Ashby-de-la-Zouch and remained a pupil until he was
sixteen.
Owing to his father, (who was a yeoman farmer) be¬
coming impoverished, he was unable to go to
15
226 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Cambridge University as he greatly desired, and eventu¬
ally decided to seek his fortune in London.
He has left an interesting autobiography giving an
account of his early struggles, from which the following
particulars have been extracted.
His total capital he tells us, was twenty shillings, out
of which he bought a new suit of clothes, and with a gift
from his friends of ten shillings, he bade farewell to his
father (who was then incarcerated in Leicester gaol for
debt), and set out in company of ^ Bradshaw the carrier ’
to tramp his way to London.
When he arrived, beyond his clothes, two shirts, a pair
of shoes and a pair of socks, he had only seven shillings
and sixpence left in cash.
He had received a recommendation to a certain Gil¬
bert Wright, a Leicestershire man, whom he at once
sought out and received a kindly welcome.
His new master, to his delight, supplemented his ward¬
robe and bought him a new cloak, and he soon settled
down in the household.
‘‘ My work,” he says, ‘‘ was to go before my master to
church ; to attend my master when he went abroad ;
to make clean his shoes ; sweep the street ; help to
drie backs when he washed; fetch water in a tub
from the Thames (I have helped to carry i8 tubs
of water in a morning) weed the garden, scrape the
trenchers and all manner of drudgeries I willingly
performed.”
On the death of Mistress Wright in 1624, he came into
possession of a small scarlet bag which had belonged to
her. This bag contained some curious things and among
JOHN DEE AND WILUAM LILLY 111
others, several sigils, amulets and charms. Some of
these bore astrological symbols, such as those of Jupiter
and Venus. “ There were some of iron and one of gold,
pure angel gold of a thirty-shilling piece of King James
coinage. In the circumference of this, on one side was
engraven: VICIT LEO de TRIBU JUDAE. TETRA-
GRAMMATON ; and within the middle a ‘ Holy Lamb.’
In the circumference on the obverse side, were ‘ Am-
raphel ’ and three crosses, and in the centre SANCTUS
PETRUS, ALPHA OMEGA.”
This charm, it appears, had originally belonged to the
first husband of Mistress Wright, who once ‘‘ when
travelling in Sussex, happened to lodge in an inn and to
lie in a chamber thereof, wherein not many months
before, a country grazier had lain, and in the night cut
his own throat. After this night’s lodging he was per¬
petually, and for many years, followed by a spirit,
which vocally and articulately provoked him to cut his
throat. He was heard frequently to say: ‘ I defy thee,’
and to spit at the spirit. This spirit followed him many
years, he not making anybody acquainted with it, until
at last he grew melancholy and discontented, which
being carefully observed by his wife, she many times
hearing him pronounce ‘ I defy thee,’ desired him to
acquaint her with the cause of the distemper which he
then did.”
Away the wife went to Dr. Simon Forman who lived
then in Lambeth and acquainted him with it. Forman,
who was a notorious character and an astrologer who
professed to practice magic, gave her the charm to hang
around her husband’s neck, which he wore until he died
228 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
and was never after troubled by the spirit. Lilly says:
I sold the sigil for thirty-two shillings, but transcribed
the words verbatim as I have related.”
When plague broke out in London in 1625 Gilbert
Wright fled from the city leaving Lilly and a fellow
servant in charge of his house. Apparently, William
had now an easier time, for he appears to have had
leisure to pluy bowls with ^ Wat the cobbler ’ and others
of his friends in Lincoln’s Inn Fields. He also turned
his attention to music, for he tells us, that “ he bought a
bass-viol and paid a master to instruct him how to play
it.”
Whether the contents of the scarlet bag with its
astrological charms awakened his interest, or whether it
was due to other causes, he decided to study astrology,
and found an instructor in one Master Evans, who was
one of the many quack-practitioners of the art so com¬
mon in London at that time.
He was poor, ignorant, boastful, drunken and
knavish,” says Lilly. But he had a character
or reputation for erecting a figure, predicting
future events, discovering secrets, restoring stolen
goods and even for raising spirits, when it so pleased
him.”
It is of this Evans the story is told, that hearing
of his repute as a magician. Lord Bothwell and
Sir Kenelm Digby visited him at his lodging in the
Minories, so he might give a demonstration of his
powers.
On the arrival of his distinguished visitors, Evans
drew a magic circle and with them took up his position
lurjh‘—YranidV alad taje
Her S ddX thad lomi d in a. mplicity--^\
i -B dp^dcm ta 'Xruido piurlv iX JDue
IM. (TTUs^ Lilly wee iehoIddheraTwo
WILLIAM LILLA^ WITH CARDAN AND GUIDO
From an engraving i6‘j6
Facing page %%8
229
JOHN DEE AND WILLIAM LILLY
inside it, but as he was beginning his invocation, he was
suddenly caught up from the others and whisked oif to
Battersea Fields, where he was found next morning by a
countryman sound asleep. He afterwards explained to
Sir Kenelm, that the cause of his sudden disappearance
was due to the fact, that he had forgotten to make the
necessary suffumigation before calling on the spirit,
whereupon it had taken offence and carried him
off.
There was a tradition at this time, that a quan¬
tity of treasure was concealed somewhere in the
cloisters of Westminster Abbey, and Lilly bent on exer¬
cising the art he had acquired from Evans, obtained
permission from the authorites to try to find the spot
where it was hidden.
For this purpose he resolved to try the effects of
divining rods, and in company with John Scott an expert
in divining and several friends, one stormy winter’s
night he arrived at the Abbey to carry out the
search.
Scott with his rods, watched by the others, slowly
paced round the cloisters and at length when on the
west side, declared they indicated that the treasure lay
there.
The ground was then dug to the depth of six feet,
when a coffin was discovered, but as it was not heavy,
Lilly decided not to open it, a decision he appears to
have afterwards regretted.
They were about to proceed to the Abbey, when a
sudden fierce and strong wind sprang up, in so much
they were afraid that the west end of the building would
230 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
collapse upon them. The divining rods would not
operate, the candles and torches were nearly extin¬
guished, and John Scott turned pale, and did not know
what to think or do.” Lilly however took command and
‘ dismissed ’ the demons, and when this was done and
all was quiet, the search party dispersed without attain¬
ing their object.
Lilly afterwards attributed his failure to the fact, that
there were too many people present, some of whom
were laughing and others deriding.” He declares his
belief, that if he had not dismissed the demons, most
part of the Abbey would have been blown down 1 ”
Lilly next turned his attention to writing prophetical
almanacs and in 1644, he published his Merlinus
Anglicus Junior.” In June of the same year, he also
brought out two books viz., Supernatural sight ” and
‘‘ The White King’s Prophecy.” The latter is said to
have proved very successful and 1800 copies were sold
in three days.
Although he professed to be a supporter of the Par¬
liamentary Government, he is said to have always had
a secret regard for the Royalists and especially for King
Charles L
In 1645 he published in his ‘‘ Starry Messenger,” an
interpretation of three mock suns which had been ob¬
served in London on May 29th 1644 on the anniversary
of the birthday of the King.
As the “ Messenger ” was deemed to contain treason¬
able matter, Lilly was summoned before the Parliamen¬
tary Committee, but the charge against him being con¬
sidered frivolous, he was discharged.
LILLY’S HIEROGLYPHIC
SUPPOSED TO FORETELL THE VISITATION OF THE PLAGUE
From a woodcut,
Facing page 2S0
231
JOHN DEE AND WILLIAM LILLY
There is a story that he was asked to consult the stars
as to the safest place for the concealment of the King
when he escaped from Hampton Court. Lilly after
erecting a figure declared, that a suitable place would be
found in Essex about twenty miles from London,
but apparently his recommendation was not acted
upon.
During the last days of the King at Windsor, it is said
that on one occasion, when he was looking through Cap¬
tain Wharton’s Almanack he remarked, My book
speaks well as to the weather.”
But what saith his antagonist, Mr. Lilly,” queried
one of his gentlemen in attendance.
“ I do not care for Mr. Lilly,” rejoined the King, he
has always been against me.”
Sire,” said the gentleman, the man is an honest
man, and writes but what his art informs him.”
I believe it,” replied the king, and that Lilly under¬
stands astrology as well as any man in Europe.”
In 1648 the Council of State gave Lilly a grant of £50
for his services and he was awarded a pension of £100
per annum, but the latter he only received for two years.
He gathered considerable wealth however from the
sale of his publications which he invested and bought
a country house with land and buildings at Hersham
in Surrey.
In 1651, he published his Monarchy or no monarchy”
which was illustrated with several symbolical pictures or
hieroglyphics, as he called them. Among these one
represented burials after an epidemic and another a
great conflagration.
232 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
The occurrence of the plague in 1665, appears to have
attracted no special attention to Lilly’s supposed pre¬
diction of the event in one of his ‘‘ hieroglyphics,” but
after the Great Fire in the following year, he was sum¬
moned to appear before the Committee appointed by the
House of Commons to inquire into the cause of the
catastrophe.
According to the account: ‘‘At 2 of the clock on
Friday 25th Oct. 1666, Lilly attended the Speaker’s
Chamber to answer such questions as should then and
there be asked him.
“ Sir Robert Brooke thus addressed him :
“ Mr. Lilly, this Committee thought fit to summon
you to appear before them this day, to know if you can
say anything as to the cause of the late fire or whether
there might be any design therein. You are called
rather hither, because in a book of yours long since
printed, you hinted some such thing by one of your
‘ hieroglyphics ’.”
To this Lilly made a long reply in which he stated :
“ After the beheading of the late King, considering that
in the three subsequent years the Parliament acted
nothing which concerned the settlement of the Nation’s
peace, I was desirous, according to the best knowledge
God has given me, to make inquiry by the art I studied,
what might from that time happen unto the Parliament
and the Nation in general. At last having satisfied
myself and perfected my judgment therein, I thought it
most convenient to signify my intentions and concep¬
tions thereof in forms, shapes, types, hieroglyphics, etc.,
without any commentary, that so my judgment might
i.iLi.Y’s hip:r()(;lyphic
SUPPOSED TO FORETELL THE GREAl' FIRE OF LONDON
From a woodcut, lO.f j
Facing page '232
233
JOHN DEE AND WILLIAM LILLY
be concealed from the vulgar and made manifest
to the wise. Having found, Sir, that the great City of
London should be sadly afflicted with a great plague
and not long after with an exorbitant fire, I framed
these two hieroglyphics which in effect have • proved
true.”
‘‘ Did you foresee the year ? ” asked one.
I did not,” replied Lilly, ‘‘ nor was desirous of that.
I made no scrutiny.
Now Sirs,” he continued, whether there was any
design of burning the city or any employed to that
purpose, I must deal ingenuously with you, that since
the fire I have taken much pains in the search thereof,
but cannot or could not give myself the least satisfaction
therein. I conclude that it was the finger of God
only, but what instruments He used thereunto, I am
ignorant.”
The two hieroglyphics without inscriptions here repro¬
duced, one of which represents the burial of a number of
bodies and the other a city on fire, are events which might
have happened anywhere, and there is nothing to con¬
nect them directly with the two great calamities that
befel London.
The sign of Gemini was regarded by astrologers as
especially associated with the fortunes of London and
accordingly they tell us that the Great Fire, the Plague,
the building of London Bridge and other events, all
occurred when this sign was in the ascendant or when
certain planets were in it.
Among the Ashmolean manuscripts is an interesting
letter from Grinling Gibbons to William Lilly, which
234 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
«
shows the belief the celebrated wood carver had in
astrology. It is dated
Oct. 12. 1682.
Honor’d
You waer as I have undertaken a consarne of great
consequence and in order I would fain know wether I
and my partners in consarned shall have good lucks or
no ? Praing good Sir pardon this
You’re ombell ser.
Grinling Gibbons
This enkloe is yt the Acount of my birth.
The letter is endorsed by Lilly : ‘‘ Reed ist Oct 1682.
8 p.m.”
In 1665, Lilly who had been failing in health, finally
left the metropolis and settled down in his country house
at Hersham, where he devoted his time to the study of
medicine. In 1670 he received a license to practise, from
the Archbishop of Canterbury and gave his services to
all his neighbours without charge.
Every Saturday he rode into Kingston and gave advice
and medicine to all who came to see him, while at Her¬
sham he was much respected and lived the life of a
country gentleman.
In 1681 he became afflicted with total blindness and
finally was seized with paralysis and died on June 9th
of that year. He was buried in the chancel of Walton
Church where Elias Ashmole, who had been his friend
for years, placed a slab of black marble over the place
of his interment.
The following elegy was published after his death :
235
JOHN DEE AND WILLIAM LILLY
‘ Our prophet’s gone ; no longer may our ears
Be charm’d with musick of th’ harmonious spheres.
Let Sun and Moon withdraw, leave gloomy night
To shew their Nuncio’s Fate, who gave more light
To th’ erring world, than all the feeble Rays
Of Sun or Moon ; taught us to know those days
Bright Titan makes.”
CHAPTER XXI
SOME ENGLISH ASTROLOGERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH
CENTURY
Among the astrologers contemporary with William
Lilly was John Gadbury w^ho was born at Wheat-
ley near Oxford in 1627. He studied astrology under
Dr. Fiske and for a time lived in London where he became
acquainted with Lilly, but in 1652 he returned to his
native place.
He was a prolific writer and in August 1659, published
‘‘ The Nativity of the late King Charls(sic) Astrologi-
cally and faithfully performed with Reasons in Art of
the various success and misfortune of His whole Life,’’
which he followed by the King of Sweden’s Nativity.”
In 1661 he wrote a book entitled: “ Britain’s Royal
Star or an Astrological Demonstration of England’s
future Felicity,” which he professed to be founded on the
position of the stars at the date of Charles IPs proclama¬
tion as King.
He became mixed up in political controversies and
‘ popish plots,’ and was eventually arrested on suspicion
and lodged in gaol in November 1679, but after two months
captivity he was liberated, and succeeded in obtaining
£200 as compensation for wrongous imprisonment.”
He is said to have been an habitual conspirator, and
236
ASTROLOGERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 237
later on, was again accused of being implicated in a
plot against King William III and thrown into prison.
He was however released, after being kept two months
in custody.
He quarrelled with Lilly whom he alludes to as ‘‘ that
grand (but fortunate Impostor) Mr. William Lilly.’’
Gadbury died in 1704 and was buried in St. Margaret’s
Church, Westminster.
During the Civil War astrologers were prominent in
both parties, and the King on one side and the Parlia¬
mentary leaders on the other, were equally curious to
know what astrologers like Lilly and Gadbury had dis¬
covered from the stars touching the fortune of the
struggle.
Scott tells us, that once a year the astrologers of the
time had a public dinner or feast, where the knaves were
patronised by the company of such fools as claimed the
title of Philomaths or lovers of the mathematics, by
which name were still distinguished, those who en¬
couraged the pursuit of mystical prescience, the most
opposite possible to exact science.
Elias Ashmole seldom failed to attend these gather¬
ings.”
Nicholas Fiske, Gadbury’s instructor, was a licentiate
in physic who came of a good old family and was born at
Framlingham in Suffolk. After studying medicine and
becoming a licentiate, he settled down to practise at
Colchester where he became acquainted with the
famous Dr. Gilbert, the author of “ De Magneti.”
After turning his attention to astrology, he came to
London in 1633? where he achieved a reputation in cast-
238 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
ing nativities. He was a person very studious, labori¬
ous and of good apprehension and in astrology would
resolve horary questions very soundly, but was ever
diffident of his own abilities. He was exquisitely skilful
in the art of directions upon nativities and had a good
genius in performing judgment thereupon,” says Lilly,
‘‘He singularly well-judged Sir Robert Holborn’s
nativity.”
Henry Coley, who is said to have been a better
mathematician than an astrologer, became the adopted
son of William Lilly. He was born in Oxford in 1633
and when he came to London he lived in Baldwin s
Gardens off Grays Inn Lane, from whence most of his
works were published. He seems to have been chiefly
engaged in writing and teaching mathematics and
narrowly escaped death during the plague.
In 1669, he published his Clavis Astrologiae Elimata
or a key to the whole art of Astrology, new filed and
polished ”, which attracted some attention.
He brought out an Ephemeris in 1672 and Lilly be¬
queathed to him on his death his own still popular
almanack, which had then reached the 36th year of
publication. It was continued by Coley from 1681 under
the title of “ Merlini Anglici Ephemeris or Astrological
Judgment for the year, according to the method of Mr.
Lilly.” When Lilly was first taken ill at Hersham,
Coley went to live with him and became his amanuensis.
A type of astrologer common in London at the time
of the Restoration, was Captain Bubb who lived on
Lambeth Marsh. He is described as “ a proper hand¬
some man, well-spoken but withal covetous and of no
ASTROLOGERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 239
honesty, but despite the latter drawback he was
regarded as an excellent and successful exponent of
horary questions, especially as regards thieves and the
finding of missing articles. It is said that a certain
butcher who was robbed of forty pounds when going to
a fair, consulted Bubb, and arranged to give him ten
pounds down if he would help him to discover the thief.
The astrologer instructed the butcher to take up his
station at a certain lonely spot, at an exact time, and
there the thief would come to him. He was then to stop
him by any means, and hold him fast.
At the time appointed, the butcher duly armed with
a stout cudgel, arrived at the place as arranged and
awaited events. At the hour of midnight, he heard some
one approaching on horseback riding at a furious speed,
at full gallop.
The butcher ready prepared, stepped out when the
horseman got near and knocked the rider off, then seiz-
ing his steed took them both captive to the town.
It was subsequently discovered, that the man on the
horse, was the servant of Captain Bubb, and for con¬
spiring to defraud the butcher the astrologer was in¬
dicted and sentenced to stand in the pillory.
Another of these practitioners was William Poole who
must have been a versatile person, for he is described as
not only being a nibbler ” at astrology but also fol¬
lowed the occupations of an apparitor, a drawer of
linnen^ handkerchiefs, a plaisterer, a bricklayer and gar¬
dener.” In addition to these callings. Master Poole was
also noted for his rhymes, which needless to state were
hardly of a refined character.
240 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
He died at his lodging at St. Mary Overy’s Southwark
in 1651, and bequeathed his books to one Dr. Arder
or Delahay, with this injunction : ‘‘ If Dr. Arder gives
my wife anything that is mine, I wish the Devil may fetch
him body and soul.”
Terrified at this curse, the doctor gave all the books to
William Lilly, who in turn handed them over to Poole’s
widow.
Lilly says, that this Dr. Arder had originally been an
attorney, but falling into poverty and being driven from
his Derbyshire home by the Countess of Shrewsbury,
he turned to astrology and medicine to make a living.
‘‘ He had at one time known one Charles Sledd, a friend
of Dr. Dee’s, who used the crystal and had a very per¬
fect sight.”
Arder is said to have declared to Lilly, that an angel
had once offered him a lease of life for a thousand years,”
but why he declined the offer he does not state ; however
he lived to the age of eighty.
An astrologer of a more enlightened kind was John
Booker, who was born in Manchester in 1601. Early in
life he is said to have made up his mind to become a
student of astrology, and was continually to be found
studying almanacks and any books on the subject he
could find.
While still a young man he journeyed to London and
became an apprentice to a haberdasher in St. Lawrence
Lane. He was clever with his pen, and having attained
great proficiency, he left his trade and became a writing
master at Hadley in Middlesex, where he was also en¬
gaged as secretary or clerk to Sir Christopher Clethero
ASTROLOGERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 241
and Sir Hugh Hammersley, two influential aldermen in
the city.
He first became known owing to his prediction of a
solar eclipse in 1663, which he declared would presage
the death of two kings, and the demise of Gustavus, King
of Sweden and the King of Bohemia which followed, was
stated to be a fulfilment of his prophecy. He is said to
have been eminently successful in the discovery of thefts
and the resolving of love questions.”
‘‘ He was a man of great honesty,” says Lilly, '' Ab-
horing any deceit in the art he loved and studied. He
had much good fortune in detecting thefts. His know¬
ledge of astronomy was by no means limited ; he under¬
stood a good deal of physick ; was a great advocate of
the antimonial cup 5 was not unskilled in chemistry
though he did not practise it.
During the Long Parliament Booker published his
Bellum Hibernicale,” which is described as a very
sober and judicious book, and shortly before his death
a short treatise on Easter Day.”
He died,” continues Lilly, ‘‘ in the sweet odour of
a good reputation in 1667, leaving behind him a toler¬
able library which was purchased by Elias Ashmole, a
widow, four children and the MSS of his annual prog¬
nostications.”
The antimonial cup mentioned above, was a small
vessel made of that metal employed in the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries for making an emetic drink.
This was prepared by filling the cup with wine,
which was then allowed to stand for several days,
so that the wine might dissolve a small quantity of
16
1
242 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the antimony. The contents were then swallowed to
induce vomiting.
A curious character typical of his time, was
Alexander Hart, whose abode was in Houndsditch. His
early life had been spent in the army, but in his later
years he turned to astrology for a living, which like
many other practitioners he combined with medicine.
He is described as a “ comly old man of good aspect,”
which evidently inspired confidence in his patrons, for he
acquired quite a reputation for answering questions
especially as regards luck or fortune.
His greatest skill is said to have been shown in the
advice he gave to young men about town as to the best
times to play dice, so that they might win for a cer¬
tainty.”
He was once consulted by a man from the country on
certain questions to which he wanted answers. Hart told
him it was a very difficult matter, and he would have to
raise a spirit to help him in his deliberations, and it
would at least cost him thirty pounds. The country¬
man agreed and paid him over twenty pounds on ac¬
count. Appointments were made for a conference wfith
the spirit which never materialised, and at length after
many other delays, the countryman’s patience became
exhausted and he indicted Hart for a cheat at the Old
Baily.
At the trial, some of the magistrates on the bench
inquired what Hart did when he was consulted ?
He sat like an Alderman in his gown,” replied the
plaintiff, At which,” states the record, the Court
fell into great laughter, most of the Court being Alder-
%
-f- :.
•\
**
'% '
1 ^
r
(fvmo.
oc^-
frFC^^
'■' >" ^ * ffi '
,
V M-
igft^r
fturtiJS (frryrf
' cf' m
Im-
-J"
1*’'
%
*r^§4
V-.'
_B.
1
$n’Ir-
-
TYz>r.^'-
U^ei yA/e^
/,✓"
J
-J
4-/p4k
f vy^4<!~
i
fn .
O'^ (:
^neej^c J-(F.fCi
%t.Jl
LEAF FROM AN ASTROLOGER’S NOTE-BOOK WITH A
TABLE OF THE ZODIACAL SIGNS AND THE PARTS OF THE
HUMAN BODY THEY GOVERN
From a manuscript of the X VII Century
Facing page W
ASTROLOGERS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY 243
men. He would have been sent to the pillory but was
bailed out and fled to Holland.”
These men who were little better than knaves and
charlatans were keen observers of current events and
the signs of the times.
In the British Museum, there is still preserved a
curious note book which was kept by one Francis Ber¬
nard in 1683, in which he has entered over three hundred
events which took place in the city of London. He
records, in particular, many fires and alludes to the Great
Fire as follows :
Sept. 2, 1666. Fire in Pudding Lane, Thames Street.
The greatest fire of any age,
again on Jan. 25, 1671. King’s Play house burned.
On Jan. 4. 1697. Whitehall almost all burned. Be¬
gan about 3 h. p.m.
Elias Ashmole kept a daily record of his observations
on the weather in a book still extant, when at his house
in South Lambeth from 1677 to 1685.
CHAPTER XXII
ASTROLOGY IN THE TIME OF QUEEN ANNE
By the early part of the eighteenth century, the
practice of astrology had almost entirely passed
into the hands of the charlatans and quack-doctors, who
found the casting of horoscopes and foretelling the future
a lucrative addition to their business.
In London, in the time of Queen Anne, quacks of
every description abounded and flourished, and astro¬
logy fell to the level of a vulgar superstition
as the growth of experimental investigation in the
natural sciences began to banish belief in its tradi¬
tions.
A type of the better-known exponents of the art was
John Partridge, who was a warm admirer of William
Lilly. About 1660 he became apprenticed to a shoe¬
maker in Covent Garden, and while engaged in cobbling,
delighted to pore over all the astrological books he could
obtain.
Inspired by Lilly’s success, when his popularity was
on the wane in 1680, he gave up shoe-making and
started his career as an astrologer by bringing out an
almanac, called ‘‘ Merlinus Liberatus ” which had a
large sale.
About 1689, he increased his capital by marrying a
244
ASTROLOGY IN THE TIME OF QUEEN ANNE 245
wealthy widow, and continued the publication of his
prophetical almanacks, which not only brought him
notoriety but also a considerable income.
Swift, under the pseudonym of Isaac Bickerstaff,
amused the town by publishing a pamphlet, in which
he made a mock prediction of the death of Partridge.
This was followed by an announcement of the demise
of the astrologer.
Swift’s well-known Elegy on the death of Mr. Par¬
tridge was then published as a broadside which ran as
follows :
Here, five feet deep lies on his back
A cobler, star-monger and quack ;
Who to the stars in pure goodwill.
Does to his best look upward still.
Weep all you customers that use
His pills, his almanacks or shoes.
Step to his grave but once a week,
This earth which bears his body’s print.
You’ll find has so much virtue in’t
That I durst pawn my ears, t’will tell.
What e’er concerns you full as well,
In Physick, stolen goods or Love,
As he himself could, when above.”
Other wits of the time, including Steele and Congreve,
carried on the joke much to the discomfiture of Partridge,
who had a difficulty in convincing the public that he was
still alive.
Swift’s Elegy called forth the following lines :
246 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
“ Strange an Astrologer should Die
Without one wonder in the Sky.
Not one of all his Crony Stars
To pay their duty at his Hearse.”
“ Some Wits have wondered what Analogy
There is ’twixt Cobhng and Astrology,
How Partridge made his Opticks rise,
From a shoe-sole to reach the skies.”
Partridge actually died at Mortlake on March 29th
1715.
After William Lilly retired to Hersham, his house in
Blackfriars was occupied by William Saffold, a notorious
quack-doctor, and on his death it was taken by John
Case, another quack, who called himself a Christian
Astrologer. He took over the apparatus of both of his
predecessors, and is said to have been especially proud
of the darkened room and the collection of mysterious
apparatus, that had been used by Lilly to impress those
who sought his aid to see visions of their departed
friends and to question the oracle as to the future.
He announced that:
‘‘ At the Golden Ball and Lillies Head
John Case yet lives, though Saffold’s dead.”
Case who was born at Lyme Regis about 1660, came
to London to seek his fortune when he was fifteen years
of age.
He took lodgings in Lambeth and gave himself up to
study, being particularly attracted by books on medicine
ASTROLOGY IN THE TIME OF QUEEN ANNE 247
and astrology. Here he became acquainted with John
Partridge who at that time was publishing his propheti¬
cal almanacks, and fired with an ambition for literature,
he wrote his first book called The wards of the Key
to Helmont proved unfit for the Lock, or the Principles
of Mr. William Bacon examined and refuted,” to which
Partridge contributed a commendatory preface.
This was followed by three other works, the last
being entitled Celestial Observations,” but finding
literature not so remunerative as physic and astrology,
he decided to devote himself to the latter arts.
He soon gained notoriety by issuing bills, in one of
which he states :
Case, he can do what may be done, by
Either Physick or true Astrology.”
He offers the ‘ Poor, Sick, Sore and Lame advice for
nothing and doth also, with great certainty and privacy,
resolve all manner of Lawful questions according to the
Rules of Christian Astrology, and more than fifteen
years experience’.”
Pope introduced Case as the doctor in the Phrenzy,”
and it is to him to whom Addison alludes in the following
mock advertisement he inserted in the Tatler.”
Whereas an ignorant upstart in Astrology has
publicly endeavoured to persuade the world that he is
the late John Partridge who died 28th March 1708.
These are to certify all whom it may concern, that the
true John Partridge was not only dead at that time but
continues so to this present day.
248 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
‘‘ Beware of counterfeits, for such are abroad.”
In the last bill issued by Case addressed to You noble
and ignoble ” he states :
“ You may be foretold anything that may happen in
your Elementary Adversity, the end thereof.
‘‘ Young men may foresee their fortunes and pretty
maids their husbands as in a Glass, by this Noble, yea,
Heavenly Art of Astrology.
This is my last time of publishing bills, therefore be
still mindful of the
House and Place wherever may be, J. Case.”
Another astrologer of a similar type was Professor
Woodward who lived at the Sign of the Globe over
against the Cheshire Cheese,” in Arundel Street, off
the Strand.
He expressed himself ready to answer such (Questions
as: What part of the world, city or country is best to
live in ?
Life whether long or short, happy or unhappy ?
Servants or Lodgers, if trustworthy or not ?
If good to hire or buy the house, ship, or land desired .?
Money owing, if recoverable ? Law suits, who shall
overcome ? What manner of person one shall marry ?
If attain the office or place of preferment ? ”
These and many other important questions Woodward
was ready to answer any inquirer on payment of his fee.
A follower of the Famous Mr. Lilly and a practitioner
of Astrology ” was Mr. Baynham, who was to be found
at the Blew Ball in St. Andrew^s Street. He claimed
ASTROLOGY IN THE TIME OF QUEEN ANNE 249
remarkable powers and declared he was ‘^able to tell the
Christian name and trade of any lover or friend as well
as their own.” To the ladies he was ready to tell them,
How many husbands they shall have, or to the married,
whether man or wife shall die first. He also calculateth
nativities by the time of birth and in physick, by an
Astrological Rule, resolving whether the disease will end
in Life or Death.”
The astrologers were often consulted as to the best
means of finding lost valuables, and their aid was also
sought in discovering thieves and stolen goods.
The information given to one inquirer by an astrologer,
and his directions for finding the thief, is thus re¬
corded.
Go a quarter of a mile from your own dwelling and
then turn easterly and walk forward till you come to the
sign of a large four-footed beast, and search within three
or four doors of that sign and you will go near to take
him, if you go soon enough, or hear of him, who is of a
middle stature and in poor habit.
If the inquirer is unsuccessful in the quest, he is to
go home satisfied, for they shall certainly find the
missing spoons in three or four days’ time, hid in a
private hole, in such a part of the kitchen, or he’ll make
the Devil to do with those that have them, and force
them to bring in open shame and disgrace at dinner
time, and lay them down upon the table in the sight of
the whole family.”
A further hght is thrown on the methods of the astro¬
logers of the time, by the bill of one practitioner who
thus warns his patrons against cheats in the profession.
250 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Too many have been deceived and cheated of their
money by applying themselves to ignorant professors
of Art of which there are several sorts, viz. there are a
sort of women and some men that pretend to fore-tell
things by silly fancies, or new Inventions made into
books under the names ^ Shepherd’s Calender,’ ^ The
Dutch Fortune Book,’ ‘ The Wheel of Pythagoras,’
which are all of no more worth or operation than Toys
for children.
‘‘ A pretended Astrologer hath got considerable summs
of money from many ignorant, silly creatures, by promis¬
ing to do such strange things for them as raise the wind,
at other times he must raise a Spirit (out upon him for
shame) and to others he’ll say, that he hath rare secrets
which he calls Pentacles and Sigils, but I am sure they
will do nothing else but draw money out of people’s
pockets.
When this bill comes to the hands of those persons
who have been so cheated of their money, if they please
come to me, I will (without any reward to myself) set
them in a way to get aU their money again, without
the trouble or charges of commencing a Suit of Law for it.
Those that shall profess to conjure for you or to shew
to you the Face of the Quesited in a Glass, or to work by
charms or Inchantments, are neither Conjurers nor
Astrologers—BUT MEER CHEATS.
‘‘ Believe in God, his Works do not deride.
And let the lights of Heaven be thy Guide ;
The Planets ever were, and will be still
God’s Candles for the Wise to search his Will,”
ASTROLOGY IN THE TIME OF QUEEN ANNE 2Sl
Are you any ways afflicted ? Come and learn the
best way to be comforted. Are you poor ? Come and
learn how to get riches. But if you will not believe the
Operations and Effects of God’s Handy-Work, sit still
at home, and slug on, and receive not the Benefit of
his offers.”
A Gentlewoman who practised astrology and who
lived next door to the Castle Tavern without Cripple-
gate, declared, that she was always ready to answer the
following important questions to those who sought her
aid.
The inquirer shall learn : Whether Life may be long
or short, happy or unhappy. If a person absent or
missing, be dead or alive. Whether one shall be rich or
poor, and if rich, when and by what means to attain it.
She will tell you concerning Husbands, Wives,
Children, Ships at Sea, or other things if true or false.
‘‘ If a person is with child, she will tell you if it is male
or female. What kind of person you shall marry and
whether the sweetheart’s position be great or small.”
These and many other questions this female professor
of the Art was ready to answer.
Another Astrologer who hailed from Hanging-Sword-
Court in Fleet Street, who also practised physic, issued
his invitation to customers in rhyme.
Would you your minds free from each labouring
doubt.
The future state of your Disease find out ?
The WHEN AND HOW of things to come explore,
Shall you grow rich (or God forbid) be Poor ?
252 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Are you fallen sick or grievous pains endure ?
Kg 11 tell the Best and Speediest way to cure.
If good to marry, if the charming Soul
That wounds your Heart, will ever make it whole ;
Ask but the Doctor, you shall truly know
What in each thing the ruling Stars will do.”
Those that can procure the time of their birth are
desired to bring it with them, because some questions
are best answered and some diseases best discover’d by
the Party’s nativity.”
One more practitioner, who calls himself '' A Remark¬
able Person ” may be mentioned, as he claimed to be
able to work marvels. He was to be found at the
Golden Ball in Gulstone Square and informs the
public, that he has obtained the Art of Presaging or
Fore-telling all remarkable things that ever shall happen
to men or women in the whole course of their lives, to
the great Admiration of all that ever come to him, and
this by a method never yet practised in England.’"’
Many other amusing bills of this kind are extant and
serve to show the types of men who practised astrology
in London in the time of Queen Anne and who were to
be found in many of the lanes and alleys of the City in the
eighteenth century.*
* See “ Quacks of Old London,” by C. J. S. Thompson. (Brentano)
CHAPTER XXIII
A FAMOUS ASTROLOGER OF THE GEORGIAN ERA
ONE of the most noteworthy astrologers of the
late eighteenth century was Ebenezer Sibly, the
son of a mechanic who is believed to have been
born in Bristol in the latter part of the eighteenth
century.
With the intention of following medicine as a career,
he came to London to study surgery, and afterwards in
^79^? graduated as a doctor of medicine at King’s
College, Aberdeen.
He settled for a time at Ipswich, but fascinated by the
study of astrology he returned to London, where his
brother Manoah, who was a well-known Swedenborgian
preacher, had a place of worship where he officiated in
Friars Street, Ludgate Hill in 1790.
Ebenezer called himself an Astro-philosopher ” and
wrote several books on astrology, the chief of which was
entitled: A New and Complete Illustration of the
Celestial Science of Astrology,” first published in 1787.
A second edition in two volumes was published in
1817, the preface of which he indites from i Upper
Titchfield Street, Cavendish Square.”
In this work, he sets out his reasons for his belief in
astrological doctrines and declares, that “ astrology in
253
254 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the Heavens does really exist, as it was ordained by God
from the beginning of the world.”
He argues that, some men are born lucky and others
contraiwise, according to the planets position at the time
of their birth. “ By time and chance also,” he states:
“ Nature performs all her great and secret operations.
The Egyptians, finding the efficacy of this art every¬
where, joined physic to prognostic astrology, and hence
it is apparent, that if they had thought futurities could
not be removed or diverted, they would never have
prescribed certain remedies and preservatives.
They therefore sought out a method at once advan¬
tageous and profitable, that by astrology the quality of
the subjacent temperaments, and the accidents which
come to pass by the influence of the heavenly bodies,
might be discovered and known but by the medical
art. To distinguish the sympathies and antipathies of
each, and to understand the natural cure of present
disease and the true mode of preservation from future
ills.
“ Without this species of astronomical knowledge, the
medical art is found in many cases to fail.”
Sibly has nothing new to say on the subject of astro¬
logy or its doctrines, but recapitulates the powers
of the Zodiacal signs and the planets, in the
same terms as did his predecessors centuries before his
time.
The doctrine of nativities,” he observes, is the very
essence of astrology, and the principal criterion by which
mankind will judge of the utility and reasonableness of
the science.”
CHATTERTON AND ASTROLOGY 255
He states his belief, that a certain secret power is
i diffused through all things that are near the earth,
; according to the nature and properties of the firmament,
5 and the power and influence of luminaries and other
] celestial bodies.
Thus the Sun, being the superior luminary and the
] fountain of life, governs all things that bear relation to
j the earth, not only by varying the seasons and bringing
i to perfection the seeds and the fruitfulness of plants,
; the flowing of water, and the mutation of bodies.
The Moon also being nearest to the earth, distils
c down an amazing influence, by which things, animate
f and inanimate are affected and changed. Rivers are
i augmented and diminished according to her light, the
tides vary, plants and animals, in whole or part, in-
: crease or decrease with her.
In the same manner the stars, fixed and erratic, as
[; they keep on their uniform course, cause many appear-
j ances around us, for they produce cold and heat, wind
and rain, and their mutual configurations as their in-
i fluences co-operate with or oppose one another, produce
variations accordingly.”
Sibly in his book makes an interesting allusion to the
li ill-fated poet Thomas Chatterton, whose nativity he
I claims to have cast and therein prognosticated his fatal
3 end.
He states, that in his horoscope he found, that ^^Saturn
(| configured with Venus in that particular part of the
3 heavens, and under such noxious irradiations has been
found to occasion death by poison. I have many
!i reasons to believe, that his knowledge of the uranical
256 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
part of astronomy had enabled him to fore-see by his own
geniture, the evils he had to combat, and the fatal ter¬
mination of a life which his own folly had rendered in¬
supportable.”
Chatterton’s knowledge of astronomy and the interest
he took in the science, is indicated in the following poem
which he wrote in Bristol.
The Sun revolving on his axis turns.
And with creature fire intensely burns ;
Impell’d by forcive air, our earth supreme
Rolls with the planets round the solar gleam ;
First Mercury completes his transit year.
Glowing refulgent with reflected glare ;
Bright Venus occupies a wider way.
The early harbinger of night and day ;
More distant still our globe terraqueous turns
Nor chills intense, nor fiercely heated burns ;
Around her rolls the lunar orb of light.
Trailing her silver glories through the night.
On the earth’s orbit see the various signs,
Mark where the Sun, our year completing shines.
First the bright Ram his languid ray improves ;
Next glaring wat’ry through the Bull he moves ;
The am’rous Twins admit his genial ray ;
Now burning through the Crab he takes his way ;
The Lion flaming, bears the solar power ;
The Virgin faints beneath the sultry shower.
Now the just Balance weighs his equal force.
The slimy serpent swelters in his course ;
The sable Archer clouds his languid face ;
A MARRIAGE PfOROSCOPE
t roni Sibly s Celestial Science of Astrology ”
FaciiKj pa:ie 256
CHATTERTON AND ASTROLOGY 25!
The Goat with tempest, urges on his race ;
Now in the Water his faint beams appear,
And the cold Fishes end the circling year.
Beyond our globe the sanguine Mars displays
A strong reflection of primeval rays ;
Next belted Jupiter far distant gleams.
Scarcely enlighten’d with the solar beams j
With four unfixed receptacles of light.
He tours majestic through the spacious height.
But farther yet the tardy Saturn lags.
And five attendant luminaries drags ;
Investing with a double ring his pace.
He circles through immensity of space.
These are thy wond’rous works.
First Source of Good !
Now more admir’d in being understood.”
Bristol. Dec. 23.
Sibly published a curious little astrologer’s note book,
engraved from plates throughout, with blank spaces for
recording the position of the various planets, to prove
the complexion or temperament of a ‘ native,’ and dia¬
grams ready for casting horoscopes.
He was a firm believer in the value of astrology in
nuptual matters, and gives an account of an amusing
case on which he was consulted.
^ One day a young lady sought his advice as to the ad¬
visability of her marriage with a rich old gentleman.
She admitted she had no great regard for him but he
had sought her hand.
17
258 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Sibly undertook to consult the planets on her behalf
and thus gives the result of his observations.
“ The planet, lord of the ascendant, Saturn,” he says:
‘‘ Aptly described the person of the bridegroom, viz.,
tall, lean, with long visage, dark hair, and peevish dis¬
position. His imbecility was correctly denoted.
‘‘ The Moon in Cancer in the seventh house, repre¬
sents the bride and describes her of middle stature,
round, full face, brown hair and well-proportioned. Of
strong passions and spirit, fiery and impatient, though
good natured and courteous.”
Judging from his observations he concluded that
the hands of the would-be bride and bridegroom might
be joined, but not their hearts.
Although he informed the lady, that it was plainly
demonstrated that they would soon separate, and gave
his opinion very freely, Cupid was not to be baulked and
the marriage took place.
“ The facts,” says Sibly, '' quickly followed my pre¬
diction. The newly-married pair were put to bed. The
bride rose with the sun, having been refused that par¬
ticipation of fortune her friends blazoned out, and im¬
mediately deserted her husband who never took pains
to retrieve her.”
Sibly claimed to have predicted the American war of
Independence, and in a symbolic picture illustrating his
“ Celestial Science of Astrology,” represents the posi¬
tion of the planets on a scroll presented by a figure
depicting Fame, from which he drew the conclusion,
that “ America in time should have an extensive and
rising commerce, an advantageous and universal traffic
HOROSCOPE AND SYMBOLIC REPRESENTATION OE THE
INDEPENDENCE OF AMERICA
From Sihly's “ Celestial Science of Astrology I77^
Facing page 25S
■ . • fr ^ V I y-^ » -< -C-V ■•'*^ Jj. < ,
*31 «■ •-.<,'-• '• few , j.'- '_ -fi r ' t . ■~' , -.
, ' ^ ~ • *< ^ . * «' ''•• 'j •■' * -f' ' '' • '^''1: ^
Vf■■•;' ■- < ;*:^p-'-*-‘'‘.' v-: . K ■?;- <-'• •i’
•: . .-v^ ^ ..^
,^,r:-v ■*-'> -
, ■M-?
■ ^
■^■*■7.. -t. V
. ' ■ V
t -
' -— J •w. ■ 1
4 t'*
’> wifi
-■ -* ; _ *■ ■^- ■"'^H
, r- '■ -.i) '-ir'
. >' w •- - ♦ , * ■ ■' -• '■-■ %
« • . ^ T .r'. .^-4 - v'1
' V *<« *W -■ -^ . •w ; ' •■-* • ■'j'*'. ■^’ ■' .' '. j
’ -or ' •: »
-■*' *
-> *
■ ^ r
V
A
. ^
i'
r «
4
' *•»
A *
r
& . ' * .,•■ •
"• ' - - -v-
* « »*V W. • ’
* ■ " J4.
’• *1 ‘
- -
W}*: ‘ .V?, ,
' --H’ ',. ■i"'
■' . I :."
' s- ■
•'*.
S-^r
• t V' :■
%-v ^
■ W'
if
i
c'i’f
IS»
.-'-'
•« I -^^ .< j>'
a: >.r-.-
‘'* ..V’Jf V ■ vsC..^
i-* fif'-y-VY .r' ' ' - '';*.
%
• .-^
%\ '■
1*
Aj.;. . _ \.v . • ‘/:/' * V 'c
“‘■‘ " *7' ■•-. f
r i
1 s
"?V>
•s**-
j'jF-
.1‘/
i .-
'V
»!•
^ ■■ ■^•
■/ -• .V
----id'
1
4?» •- '■. i. '•
- i «bt
feV’' .AS
4
< i .*'
L. l
CHATTERTON AND ASTROLOGY 259
to every quarter of the globe and great prosperity among
its people.”
He shows in the horoscope, the figure of the Sun’s in¬
gress into the tropical sign of Cancer, which took place
nearly fourteen days before the Americans declared their
independence.
He further observes, that '' Mars, who is the significa-
tor of Great Britain is disposed of by Mercury, the signi-
ficator of the French King. From these remarkable
positions and effects we may fairly conclude, that the
Americans had not only the French natives to assist
them, but also had many strong and powerful friends
in Great Britain who would support their cause.”
Sibly concludes his work by stating, that in the action
of the stars upon man it leaves the wall and soul totally
unconstrained, whilst the body only is influenced which
allures and attracts the wall. The doctrines of astrology
go no farther than to define and explain them through
all the tracks of occult speculation and science.
CHAPTER XXIV
ASTROLOGICAL ALMANACKS-EPHEMERIDES
EPHEMERIDES, or almanacks as they were
afterwards called, were very necessary to the
astrologer, for their tables showed him the predicted
positions of the heavenly bodies for every day during a
given period, from which he was able to make his cal¬
culation for casting a horoscope.
They date back to an early period and were employed
by the Roman astrologers. From about the thirteenth
century, they were written on vellum, but after the era of
printing, towards the close of the fifteenth century,
they began to be issued in increasing numbers and
developed into the almanacks or calendars, which later
became very popular on account of the astrological
predictions which many of them contained.
One of the earliest and probably the best known, was
the Shepheard’s Kalendar,” which was first printed in
French in 1493, and translated into English and printed
by Richard Pynson in 1506.
This work, which is illustrated by several curious
woodcuts, is now very rare and of the edition published
in 1506, only three copies are known.
It is a strange mixture of astrology and religion, and
260
ASTROLOGICAL ALMANACKS—EPHEMERIDES 261
begins with a Prologue, in which it is told ‘‘ how every
man may lyve.”
The first part commences: ‘‘Here begynneth the
THE SHEPHERDE AND THE STARS
From a woodcut illustrating '' The Shepherde's Kalender "
1506
Maister Shepeherde ” and indicates the most favourable
times of the year for agriculture. The “ Seconde part
262 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
deals with the tre of vices and the paynes of hell. The
first branche of pryde, envy, wrathe, slewth, covetyse,
glotony and lechery. The branches of the seven dedely
synnes. The Crede in Englysshe. Of the XII artycles
of Faithe. The Astronomy of the Shepherdes.”
Other interesting items are ‘‘ The balad of the Shep-
herde,” ‘‘ The Song of a woman shepherde,” The song
of Death,” The comandementys of the devyll contrary
to them of our Lorde,” and the “ Monynges of the hevyns
with the VII planettys.”
The months of the year are each introduced with a
quaint verse, such as the following one for January.
‘‘ Called am I Januyare the colde
In Christmas season good fyre I love.
Yonge Jesu, that sometime Judas solde.
In me was circumcised for man’s behove.
Three Kinges sought the sonne of God above ;
They kneeled downe, and dyd him homage wuth love
To God their Lorde that is man’s own brother.”
The reader is also informed: ‘‘Of the synes whiche be
goode to go Journes and whiche to travayle in for an
evyll may happen to harme and the goode mae gothe
never amys.”
“ What pianette Rayneth every houre in the daye and
nyght and whiche pianette is goode and whiche is bad.
The properties of pianettes. The foure coplexyos. A
figure showong how shepardys knowes of the nyght in
the feldes in all tyme. What houre it is before mydnyght
or after. The Monthes and seasons.
ASTROLOGICAL ALMANACKS—EPHEMERIDES 263
“ Also a lytell treatyse for to knowe what pianette the
chylde is borne under.”
The book concludes with the following verse :
“ Thus endeth here the Shepardys Kalender,
Drawn into Englyshe to Goddys reverence
And for profyte and pleasurs and male clarkes to
chere.
Playnly shewed to theyr intellygens.
Our parte is done, now reder do your dylygens
And remember that Pynson saythe to you this
He that levyth well, maye not dye amys.”
The Shepherd’s Kalendar continued to be published
until 1631.
Some of the sixteenth century almanacks had extra¬
ordinary titles, which though complicated were cer¬
tainly comprehensive, as instanced in one published in
1550 by Anthony Askham. It is called :
‘‘ A Prognossicacion and an Almanack fastened to¬
gether declaring the Dispocission of the People and also
of the Wether, with certain Electyons and Tymes
chosen both for Phisike and Surgerye, and for the hus¬
bandman. And also for Hawkekyng, Huntyng, Fishyng
and Foulynge, according to the Science of Astronomy,
made for the Yeare of our Lord God, M.D.L. Calculed
for the Merydyan of Yorke.”
Another published twelve years later is entitled :
A Prognosticacion for the yere since the birthe of
our Lorde Jesus Christ, 1562, whiche is the yere from
the beginnyng of the worlde 5524, wherein is declared
264 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
the disposicion of the whole yere, as touchyng the
weather, victuals, diseases, etc.
Practised in Salisburie in Newe Strete by
Maister Jhon Securis, professour of Physicke, 1562.
Imprinted at London by John Waley.”
It begins with a declaration of the Almanack for the
year, which is followed by a ‘‘ table of the Zodiacke and
the twelve sygnys and their names.”
There is also a figure of the anatomy of man and how
every part is ruled. Rules for election concerning the
signs. ‘‘ When it is goode to set, sowe or plante, goode
to stop fluxes, goode to enter into a bathe, goode to
hunt, goode to fish, goode to buy oxen, the best tyme to
bie anything goode or cheape and the best tyme to take
a journey.”
Next come Rules for letting blood and ministering
purgations,” a list of medicines, which is followed by the
Calendar in which suitable days are duly marked and
the ruling sign and planet.
It concludes with prognostications of the weather for
the year and of diseases likely to be prevalent. Fore¬
casts of Peace or War, the ‘‘ plentie and scarcitie of
vitualles in the yeare ” and the most unfortunate days to
take ill.
It is not to be wondered, that almanacks containing
such diverse and useful information should have had a
large sale and that their contents were carefully pon¬
dered.
In the seventeenth century, almanacks and calendars,
mainly produced by astrologers, multiplied. One of
them is called : The New Bloody Almanack for 1641,
AN ASTROLOGER
From a woodcut illustrating Astrologaster.” John Melton, 1620
Facing page '26k
. ' ' . X: ^
- #
■ *rt.
. \
V
V
ASTROLOGICAL ALMANACKS—EPHEMERIDES 265
with some observations from that admired Astrologer
of our- daye Mr. John Booker.”
The frontispiece consists of a lurid symbolical picture
described as ‘‘ A Cold winter, Townes fired, Feavers
plenty, A glorious State.” The predictions that follow
are said to have been made by John Walgrave in 1508.
Then comes Mr. John Booker’s emphatical observa¬
tions of the present year 1644,” which mainly
consist of forecasts concerning the weather, ‘‘ the opening
of the gates of heaven, cold rains, sleete, or snow and
hale and a troubled unwholesome aire.” He declares
that “When the newe Moone is in the 7th house of Venus
it is very unfortunate and signifyith the death of women
and of four-footed beasts.”
John Gadbury got into trouble with the authorities
for the political references in his almanacks, as their large
circulation, at a time when newspapers were few and
' limited, offered opportunities for spreading such pro¬
paganda.
Henry HI of France issued a decree, that forbade all
prophecies concerning individuals or the Government,
and James I, with the same object, ordained that the
Company of Stationers and the Universities of Oxford
and Cambridge only, should publish these works, but
they got over this mandate by allowing others to sell
them.
The popularity of these almanacks is evidenced by
the large number published in the seventeenth
century.
Besides Lilly’s “ Prophetical Merlin ” there were “ The
newe Almanack ” by George Wharton, Astrologer, in
266 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
1666 ; Angelus Britannicus ” by John Tanner;
Ephemeride ” by Thomas Nunnes ; “ Astrological
Judgments ” by William Andrews ; ‘‘ Diary Astrolo¬
gical ” by John Gadbury; Ephemeris by John
Swan ; Apollo Anglicanus ” by Richard Saunders ;
Dove’s, Vincent’s, and Wing’s Prophetical Almanacks
and many others.
One of the most amusing and popular publications of
the kind was entitled Poor Robin. An Almanack after
a New Eashion, wherein the Reader may see (if he be not
blinde) many remarkable things worthy of observation,
written by Poor Robin. Knight of the Burnt Island, a
well wisher to Mathematics. London 1664.”
‘‘ Calculated for the Meridian of Saffron Walden
where the Pole is elevated fifty-two degrees and six
minutes above the Horizon.”
‘‘ Poor Robin ” was an inveterate rhymster with an
undoubted sense of humour, and extracted a good deal
of fun out of the foibles of his time.
He thus begins :
‘‘ Wherefor this Table serves, wouldst have me tell ?
Reader, truth is, I know not very well
Myself ; only sometimes such pretty knacks
I have observed in other Almanacks.”
His prognostications include the following :
‘‘ If Mars and Venus happen to be in conjunction this
year, you may chance to hear of some wenches being
gotten with child about the season of the year icleaped
Haytime.”
ASTROLOGICAL ALMANACKS—EPHEMERIDES 267
He introduces each of the various terms with an appro¬
priate verse. Thus for Hilary he writes :
‘‘ Annoint thy Lawyer, grease him in the fist,
And he will plead for thee even what thou list.
He’ll make thy cause strong though the same were
weak.
But if thy purse be dumb, his tongue can’t speak.”
In the Loyal Chronology ” and the “ Fanatic’s
Chronology ” various historical events are recorded
as follows :—
Since Rebel Tyler was by Walworth slain
Since Crook-backed Richard did in England reign
Since Bonner fryed men in fire like Bacon
Since Guido Faux was with his lanthorn taken.”
The months also are introduced with appropriate verse
and for May he writes :
‘‘ Now the gallants and ladies for pleasure resort
To Spring-garden, Hide Park and to Totnam Court
Where those who will then please for to walk abroad
May see Fashions and Complements there A-la-
mode.”
For June:
‘‘ Now mid-summer Moon approaches which will cause
strange whimsies, gim-cracks, tricks and devises in the
nodles of many people.”
For July :
“ If we should have much snow this month it would
be a great hindrance to haymaking.”
268 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
For October :
‘‘ October, October should we not name thee
For my Lord Mayor’s Show, the people would
blame me
Or should we Crispin forget, the shoemakers would
swear
We had left out the choisest saint in the Year.”
The following is ' Poor Robin’s ’ quaint advice on
marriage :
For young men ’tis too soon to marry.
Old men without wives, well may tarry
For rich men ’tis best living free
To poor men they small comfort be.”
Then comes certain ‘‘infallible rules to know what
weather it will be,” such as :
“ Signs of Cold weather. When Ladies ride abroad
with waxed boots and men thresh with their cloaks
on.”
Signs of Wind :
“ When the pot boyles before it comes to the fire and
women fall a scolding as soon as they are up.”
Signs of Rain :
“ When women are so teachy their husbands know
not how to speak to them and maids refuse to let men
kiss them.”
One of the weather forecasts was apparently kept set
up in type, as it appears in every edition for years. “ It
is predicted that there will be much frost and cold
weather in Greenland in January, and in February
we may expect some showers of rain, this month or the
ASTROLOGICAL ALMANACKS—EPHEMERIDES 269
next, or the next after that or else we shall have a very
dry spring.”
The Almanack concludes with a mock quack-doctor’s
advertisement with testimonials, of which the following
is an example :
He cured Sir Harry Vane, who had a windmill on
his head which sometimes ground for the Protector,
sometimes for Lambert, sometimes for the Army and
sometimes for the Rump.”
The following old rhyme which includes the names of
the signs of the Zodiac is to be found in many of the old
almanacks :
‘‘ The Ram, the Bull, the Heavenly Twins,
The Crab and next the Lion shines
The Virgin and the Scales,
The Scorpion, Archer, then She-goat,
The man that holds the Watering Pot,
The Fish with glittering tails.”
CHAPTER XXV
ASTROLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY
JUDGING from the works of those who professed
to practise astrology in the nineteenth century,
they chiefly adhered to the methods employed by
their ancient predecessors.
Unlike the astrologers of old, however, they seem to
have preferred to hide their identity under fictitious
names.
They based their prognostications largely on the
nature and influence of the planets and stars and their
positions in the signs of the Zodiac. Thus one writing
in i86i states : A man born with the sun rising in the
middle of Aries, is ever very different in bodily form and
in mental character, from a man born with the sun rising
in the middle of Virgo.”
For forecasting great events and changes of the world
such as wars and revolutions, the following methods
are recommended.
First, by casting figures of the heavens for the moment
of the sun’s entry into the cardinal signs, viz. Aries,
Cancer, Libra and Capricorn.
Second. By casting figures of the heavens for eclipses
of the sun and moon.
Third. By marking the transits of the superior
270
ASTROLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 271
planets, viz. Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune,
through the signs of the Zodiac.
Fourth. By watching the progress of certain eminent
fixed stars through the signs of the Zodiac.
The later astrologers were not disconcerted by the
discovery of two new planets which were unknown to
their predecessors, viz. Uranus which was discovered by
the elder Herschel in 1781, and Neptune by Adams
in 1843. They soon endowed them with what they con¬
sidered suitable powers and properties and gave them
a place in the astrological firmament. Uranus was
deemed to govern Strange, sudden and extraordinary
events,” while Neptune was regarded as the “ significator
of great crises.”
The later figure of the heavens is usually drawn in
the form of a circle which is divided into twelve man¬
sions or houses. It has two hemispheres, the upper
diurnal and the lower nocturnal, also two other grand
divisions effected by the line drawn from the upper meri¬
dian (when the sun is at noon) to the lower (when the sun
is at midnight). These four divisions are the east, south,
west and north angles respectively. The inner circle
represents the earth and the outer one the heavens. The
double line drawn from east to west is the horizon line,
the line from south and west is drawn from the upper
to the lower meridian.
Each quadrant is sub-divided into three equal parts.
The ascendant is the first house and the other houses
are numbered in rotation. The sun in his daily courses
passes through the 12th, nth, loth, 9th, 8th and 7th
houses and in his nightly courses through the 6th, 5th,
272 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
4th, 3rd, 2nd and ist houses. The ist, 4th, 7th and
loth houses are the angles and a planet located in any
one of them at a solar ingress, an eclipse, a great con¬
junction or a birth, is considered very powerful.
The ascendant relates to public health, the condition
of the people, the loth house to the monarch or govern¬
ment, the 7th house to war and public enemies of the
government in power.
The general character of the influences ascribed to the
planets according to Pearce are :
Jupiter : peace, prosperity, reform, justice, honour
and health, etc.
Venus : mirth, love, feasting, pleasure, etc.
Mars : herald of war, commotion, bloodshed, etc.
Saturn : significator of woe, misery and sickness.
Mercury : ruler of science, literature, art, etc.
Uranus : strange sudden and extraordinary events.
Neptune : significator of great crises.
Sun : significator of Emperors, kings and Princes and
all in power.
Moon : significator of the common people.
The relationship of the several signs of the Zodiac
with the chief countries and cities of the world, in the
later astrology, varies but little from the list used in the
early centuries so need not be recapitulated.
It is stated by the later astrologers, that the planetary
positions at the moment of a great eclipse, are the most
important indices of future events in the countries
where they are visible, and the following events are
cited in support of this contention.
ASTROLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 273
The battle of Isandhlwana in the Boer War was
fought during an annual eclipse of the sun.
‘‘ It was during a partial eclipse of the moon at
Washington, on April loth 1865, General Lee sur¬
rendered to General Grant with the army of Virginia,
which ended the Civil War in America.
The Tay Bridge disaster occurred on the evening of
December 28th 1897, during a partial eclipse of the
moon, and three da^^o after a total eclipse of the moon
on July 12th 1870, the Emperor Napoleon III declared
war on Prussia.”
With regard to judgment of the mind and disposition
of the individual, modern astrologers believe that
Mercury has chief dominion over the mental faculties,
while the sentient and the passions are governed by
the Moon and the ascendant.
Some give rules for describing from positions of the
planets and stars at the hour of birth, both the personal
appearance and disposition of the native, but with
respect to the former, one astrologer admits they do not
succeed so well as in the latter.
The physical influences attributed to the planets are
stated to be as follows :
Saturn : causes a sallow complexion, black hair and
broad chest.
Jupiter : fair or clear complexion, large eyes and digni¬
fied stature.
Mars : fair ruddiness, healthy constitution, blue or
grey eyes and sturdy flgure.
Venus : similar to Jupiter but becoming more grace¬
ful, especially in women.
18
274 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Mercury: yellowish complexion, small eyes, and
moderate growth of hair.
Sun and Moon : the former adds nobleness to the figure
and increases health while the latter gives better pro¬
portions and delicacy of figure.
With regard to the fore-casting of destiny, most of
the astrologers admit, that the influence of the stars
is to incline and not compel, and that man is free
to choose his path through life but can not control his
destiny.
They contend, that astrology claims to show those
who are born fortunate and those otherwise. The signi¬
fications of a fortunate and successful career are : i. Sun
and Moon in mutual benefic aspect (the sextile or trine)
one of them being in the meridian. 2. Sun or Moon
applying to the conjunction, sextile or trine aspect, with
Jupiter, one of them being angularly posited. 3. The
Sun attended by one fortune and the Moon by the other,
one or both of the luminaries being in an angle. 4. The
Moon applying to the conjunction with Jupiter in the
second house and free from affliction.
The signs of an unfortunate career are :
I. Sun or Moon ascendant and mid-heaven afflicted
by Saturn and unsupported by either of the fortunes.
2. Sun or Moon applying to the conjunction, square or
opposition with Saturn and neither luminary configur¬
ated with the fortunes.
They warn those in whose horoscopes the ascendant
mid-heaven, the Sun or Moon is afflicted by Saturn, never
to speculate and caution them to be extremely cautious
when dealing in land or property.
ASTROLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 275
Lawyers will be interested to learn, that to command
success in their profession, Mercury and Jupiter must
be strongly placed in the horoscope, and favourably
configurated, with either the Sun or Moon. Physicians
also should be made aware, that if they are to be success¬
ful in life. Mars should be strongly posited and happily
configurated with either the Sun, Moon, Mercury or the
mid-heaven.
Marriage is the next important subject on which ad¬
vice is given, and most of the later astrologers agree, that
love at first sight, is due to the concurrence of Venus and
Mars, and to the harmonious configurations of the lumin¬
aries. If the malefics afflict the luminaries, the course
of true love wiU not run smooth, and like Romeo and
Juliet, it will be a case of Star-crossed ” lovers.
It is recommended, that a comparison of the respective
nativities of lovers be made, and that betrothal should
not be allowed if the horoscopes are found to be dis¬
cordant.
It will be advantageous for those about to marry to
know, that unhappiness in married life is fore-told when
Uranus is in conjunction, square or opposition with the
Sun at the birth of a woman, or with the Moon at the
birth of a man. When at the same time, Uranus is
evilly configurated with Venus, separation usually
ensues.
The horary astrologer took upon himself to decide and
diagnose the nature of a disease, the methods employed
being the same as those used by the early astrologers.
In 1842, Zadkiel ” published a horoscope of King
Edward VII when Prince of Wales, which he declares
276 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
that he cast at the time of his birth. He was
born/’ he states, ‘‘ at 10.48 a.m. on November 9th
1841. The sign in the ascendant was Sagittarius, which
in Ptolemy’s words produces a ' tall, upright body, oval
face, ruddy complexion, chestnut hair, much beard,
good eye, courteous, fair-conditioned, noble deport¬
ment, just, a lover of horses, accomplished and deserving
of respect.’ ”
The Sun being well aspected prognosticated honours,
and as he was in Cancer, in sextile with Mars, the
Prince would be partial to maritime affairs and win naval
glory.
The house of wealth was occupied by Jupiter aspected
by Saturn which betokened great wealth through in¬
heritance.
The house of marriage was unsettled owing to the
conflicting influences of Venus, Mars and Saturn and the
Prince, after some trouble in his matrimonial specu¬
lations,” was to marry a princess of high birth and one
not undeserving of his kindest and most affectionate
attention.
His marriage was to be expected in 1862, after which
follow many predictions as to events. The house of
sickness showed a predisposition to fever, and the
astrologer concludes with the observation: “ If this
Royal native lives to mount the throne, he will sway the
sceptre of these realms in moderation and justice and be
a pious and benevolent man and a merciful sovereign.”
Mayo in his Fate in the Zodiac,” gives the following
list of celebrities, together with the signs and planets
under which they were born.
ASTROLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 111
“ Mozart, Mendelssohn, Burns and Byron belonged to
the sign of Aquarius—Saturn. Jan. 20 to Feb. 19.
Chopin, Vandyke, Meissonier, Victor Hugo belonged
to Pisces—Jupiter Feb. 19 to Mch. 20.
Shakespeare and Bismarck belonged to Aries—Mars,
Mch. 20 to Apl. 19.
Alexander Pope, and Emerson belonged to Gemini—
Mercury, May 20 to June 21.
Napoleon Buonaparte belonged to Cancer—Mars,
June 21 to July 22.
Sarah Siddons belonged to Leo—Sun. July 22 to
Aug. 22.
Goethe belonged to Virgo—Mercury. Aug. 22 to
Sept. 23, also many successful chemists, lawyers, de¬
signers, philosophers, novelists and politicians.
“ Sarah Bernhardt, Peg Woffington and Modjeska be¬
longed to Libra—Venus. Sept. 23 to Oct 23.
Richard III, Marie Antoinette belonged to Scorpio—
Mars, Oct. 23 to Nov. 22.
Paderewski belonged to Sagittarius—Jupiter. Nov.
22 to Dec. 21.
Gladstone, Disraeli, Isaac Newton belonged to
Capricorn—Saturn Dec. 21 to Jan. 20.”
It may be well to explain here the meaning of some
of the terms employed in astrology already mentioned.
Affliction is when the Sun, Moon or planet is in
conjunction, parallel declination, semi-quartile, quartile,
sesqui-quadrate or opposition with an evil planet.
Ascendant. The eastern angle or first House.”
Aspects. Certain distances between any points in the
heavens.
278 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
Benefics. Jupiter and Venus, also the Sun when strong
and well aspected.
Configurations. The relative positions of celestial
bodies.
Conjunction. Two heavenly bodies are said to be in
conjunction when they have the same longitude.
Co-significators. The Moon is the co-significator of
the questioner except as to love and marriage.
Cusp. The commencement of any one of the twelve
houses of the heavens.
Descendant. The western horizon.
Decumbiture. The map of the heavens drawn for the
moment at which a person goes to bed ill.
Malefics. Saturn, Uranus and Mars.
Opposition. A planet is said to be in opposition to
another when the longitudes differ i8o degrees or half
the circumference.
Quadrature or Quartile. A difference of 90 degrees in
the longitudes of two bodies.
Sextile. A difference of 60 degrees in longitude.
CHAPTER XXVI
CONCLUSIONS ON ASTROLOGY
HERE are indications from recent utterances, that
renewed interest is being aroused in astrology
which for over two centuries has remained practically
dormant.
A short time ago, a distinguished writer, in a speech
reported in The Times ”, made a picturesque allusion
to the use of astrology by Nicholas Culpeper in diagnosing
a case of small pox. He contrasted the old theory that,
this creation though composed of contraries, is one
united body of which man is the epitome, and that he
therefore who would understand the mystery of healing,
must look as high as the stars ” ; with that of the dis¬
coveries of modern science in chemistry, radio-activity,
astronomy, electricity and other branches of science.
He said, ‘‘ it is arguable that we may still mistake
secondary causes for primary ones, and attribute to
instant and visible agents of disease, unconditioned
activities which, in truth, depend on some breath
drawn from the motion of the universe ?
But what does that matter, if any fraction of any
idea helps towards mastering even one combination in
the great time-locks of Life and Death.
‘‘ Suppose then,” he speculated, “ at some future time
280 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
when the bacteriologist and the physicist are for the
moment at a standstill, wouldn’t it be interesting if
they took their problem to the astronomer, and in
modern scientific language, put to him Nicholas Cul¬
peper’s curious question :
“ What was the aspect of the heavens when such-and-
such phenomena were observed ? ”
Interesting though it might be, we are afraid that
the astronomer’s judgment would be by no means con¬
vincing.
Astrology was also introduced into a case which came
before the Law Courts recently. The learned Judge thus
commented on the study of the art : As to its antiquity
and its hold on men’s minds for ages, nobody who knew
anything about science, history or literature would
deny.
Astrology regarded the human creature as an item
in the great circle of life, the fate of which was influenced
by external natural tendencies, especially by the course
of the stars. So they had cast horoscopes of various
people. It was shown by maps or charts how, by reason
of the time of birth, and the state of the planets, the
course of human life was likely to be affected by unseen
external natural influences.”
He asked the questions : Did the parties concerned
really believe in the subject they professed to study, and
were they people of a clean mind following an innocent
even a foolish study ? ”
Although the system of divination, which professed to
discover from the heavenly bodies the secret of man’s
destiny has long been shown to be erroneous, the fact
CONCLUSIONS ON ASTROLOGY 281
that the belief in astrology was so widespread in ancient
times and remained such an important factor in human
life for centuries, causes the question still to be asked is
there any truth in its doctrines ?
The investigation of its history therefore is of real
interest to-day, and to find the truth we must review it
from its origin.
In the preceding pages an endeavour has been made to
trace the genesis of astrology from the star-worship of
the primitive races that inhabited the valley of the
Euphrates over five thousand years ago, for they were
probably the first, according to our present knowledge,
to associate the stars with their deities.
The Sumerians, Babylonians, Assyrians and Egyp¬
tians did likewise and attributed to each known planet
a particular god.
The Greeks adapting these beliefs to their own pan¬
theon peopled the planets and stars with their deities
and mythological heroes, whose special characteristics
came to be assigned to the mysterious influences that
were supposed to emanate from them.
We may thus readily conceive, how many of the
mythological fables and superstitions connected with
the planets, stars and constellations, came to have their
origin.
It can be easily understood how the sun should have
been regarded as the embodiment of kingly power. The
followers of Aesklepios, the Greek god of healing, in¬
voked its aid in the treatment of the sick, for they
realised that from the sun the whole universe drew its
life and energy. They knew how its refulgent rays in-
282 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
fluenced the growth of vegetable life on which the very
existence of man and animals depended.
They also observed the influence of the moon as she
circles round the earth and how the tides arose and sank
with her movements.
The ancients were always ready to interpret omens
and assign prophetic significance to phenomena in the
heavens.
In many cases the mythological characteristic of the
deity can be traced to the planet with which it was
associated, as instanced in Mercury whose rapid motions
corresponded with the attributes of the god.
The influence of Mars also on account of its colour
came to be connected with bloodshed, wars and evil.
In early times man saw in the mysteries of astrology
which he did not comprehend, something that appealed
to his natural desire to see into the future. He did not
try to solve the problem, of why the emanations from
the stars and constellations should influence his life and
destiny, but he accepted the dictum of the astrologer
as one who understood the art he professed to practise.
It can be understood how when judicial astrology came
to be practised it retained its hold on the human mind.
The man whose horoscope was cast, believed that the
stars had ordained that ill would befall him unless he
followed a certain course of action and doubtless felt
his life was ordered for him and his destiny fore-told.
He may be compared with the sufferer from some ail¬
ment, who is told by his physician that so long as he
abstains from certain things he will remain well.
Yet astrology had its critics from the time of Eudoxus
CONCLUSIONS ON ASTROLOGY 283
and Cato for the latter cautioned the Romans against its
fallacies.
In later times there were many great thinkers who
doubted its doctrines, and Bacon expresses his attitude
towards it as follows :
Astrology is so full of superstition that scarce any¬
thing sound can be discovered in it, though we judge it
should rather be purged than absolutely rejected. Thus
we banish that empty notion about the horary reign of
the planets and yet this fiction produced the divisions
of the week.
Thus likewise we reject as an idle figment the doc¬
trine of horoscopes and the distribution of houses, though
these are the darling inventions of astrology which have
kept revel, as it were in the heavens.
And lastly for the calculation of nativities, fortunes,
good or bad hours of business and the like fatalities, they
are mere levities that have little in them of certainty and
solidity, and may be plainly confuted by physical
reasons.”
Richard Burton, the author of the ''Anatomy of
Melancholy ” had his misgivings about astrology and
states : " I will not here stand to discuss whether starres
be causes or signs, or to apologise for Judicial Astrology.
If thou shalt aske me what I thinke I must answer, they
doe incline but not compell, no necessity at all and so
gently incline that a wise man may resist them ; they
rule us but God rules them.”
Sir Walter Scott, who was a keen student of the occult,
calls astrology, " the ' Queen of the mystic sciences,’ who
flattered those who confided in her, that the planets
284 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
and stars in their spheres, figure forth and infiuence the
fate of the creatures of mortality.
'' A sage acquainted with her lore could predict with
some approach to certainty the events of any man’s
career.
‘‘ Imagination was dazzled by a prospect so splendid
and in the sixteenth century, we find the cultivation of
the fantastic science was the serious object of men
whose understanding and acquirements admit of no
question.”
The wisest men have been deceived by the idea that
some supernatural influence upheld and guided them, and
from the time of Louis XI to that of Buonaparte, am¬
bition and success have placed confidence in the species
of fatalism inspired by a belief in the influence of their
own star.
The State prognostications of astrologers were usually
impositions, whose responses were, like the oracles of
old, grounded on the desire of deceit and gain.
No proof has ever yet been furnished, that the move¬
ments or positions in the heavens of the planets and stars
can influence the life and destiny of any human being,
or that they are able to impart special properties to
vegetable life.
Butler in his ‘‘ Hudibras ” says :
“ As if the planets first aspect
The tender infant did infect
In soul and body, and instil
All future good and future ill;
Which in their dark fatalities lurking
CONCLUSIONS ON ASTROLOGY 285
At destined periods and all a-working
And break out like the hidden seeds
Of long diseases, into deeds,
In friendships, enmities and strife.
And all the emergencies of life.”
In natural astrology and predictions concerning the
weather, based on the coincidence between astronomical
causes and climatic changes, the astrologers were on
surer ground.
The Sumerian shepherds no doubt noticed and com¬
pared climatic variations, and so also the Babylonians
who kept careful record of their observations and by
comparison were able to fore-tell changes in the weather.
It has long been well known to farmers and sailors and
those who live in close touch with nature, that changes
of weather are closely related to changes of wind, and
changes of wind to changes in the distribution of atmos¬
pheric pressure.
So from their knowledge of the heavens, the winds and
tides, they are often able to fore-cast the weather with
some degree of certainty.
It is said that the astrologers of ancient Egypt could
fore-cast times of scarcity, plenty, pestilence, earth¬
quakes and inundations in their country.
Earthquakes were generally believed to follow closely
on eclipses and Pliny records that Anaximander fore¬
told the earthquakes that overthrew Lacedaemon.
Although the tenets of astrology are now generally
regarded as belonging to a past age, it has left an im¬
pression on our language of the present day. Thus we
286 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
speak of the martial, mercurial or saturnine person,
without perhaps remembering that these terms are
derived from and related to the supposed influence of
Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. The “ ill-starred ” individual
is often referred to in literature, and allusions are fre¬
quently made to those whose star is in the ascendant ”
or to some person who was born under a “ lucky star.”
Almost all the paths of mystic knowledge in the early
ages led to poverty, and even the alchemist, although
confident and enthusiastic concerning the gold his art
was to produce, lived upon hopes as unsubstantial as
the smoke of his furnace.
But the practitioner of astrology called for immediate
remuneration for his services. He became rich by the
eager hopes and fond credulity of those who consulted
him, and he lived by duping others, instead of starving
like others by duping himself.
In spite of the advance of education and the achieve¬
ments of science however, belief in astrology has not yet
entirely died out. The desire to penetrate the veil that
hides the future, which manifested itself in the earliest
dawming of the human mind is so deeply rooted, that a
lingering belief in some occult influence emanating from
the stars still exists.
Astrological almanacs with their fore-casts, prognos¬
tications and hieroglyphics, are still published and sold
in large numbers as they were in the seventeenth cen¬
tury, and there are said to be believers in the predictions
they contain.
Astrologers advertise to predict fortunate days and
numbers, planetary influence on marriage and business,”
CONCLUSIONS ON ASTROLOGY 287
even in this year of grace. One of these practitioners
claims to cast horoscopes by ye methods of ye ancient
Egyptians and wise men of the East and to predict
events and chances.”
Although the belief that comets and the aurora
borealis bring evil in their train is not now entertained
by intelligent people, there are others that still look
upon Saturn as the harbinger of disease and misfortune,
and wear charms made of his metal on ‘‘ Saturn’s
finger,” in the hope that they will ward off the threatened
danger.
People who profess to see into the future by one
method or another, still find their dupes, not only among
women but also among so-called hard-headed business¬
men.
As in the history of magic and alchemy, where true
science has prevailed and gradually displaced the false,
so we find that astronomy has superseded the old super¬
stitious beliefs that surrounded it in the past and freed
itself from the pseudo-science of astrology.
In early times, enthusiasm usurped the place of
reason, but opinions so formed could not maintain their
ground in the presence of reasoning experience,” says
Proctor.
History testifies that as soon as thinking and intelli¬
gent men perceived that facts were against the supposed
mysterious influences attributed to the planets and stars,
the doctrines of astrology began to be rejected. Time
has robbed the operations of the magician of their
mystery, and shown the quest of the alchemist for the
elixir of life to be a chimera.
288 THE MYSTERY AND ROMANCE OF ASTROLOGY
And so astrology, with its belief in the influence of the
Zodiacal signs on human beings, and its claim to predict
man’s life and destiny in health and disease from the
position in the heavens of the planets and stars, must like¬
wise be banished with other ancient cults to the realms of
romance.
THE END
INDEX
Adam and astrology - - - - -
Agrippa, Cornelius - - - - -
Agrippa and Octavius - - _ _
Agrippina and the astrologers - - -
“ Affliction,” meaning of -
Alexander and the astrologer - _ _
Albumasar
Algol
Alkendi -------
“ Almagest ” -
Alphonso of Castille - - - - -
Anareta -------
Andrew’s Almanack - - - - -
Angelo Catto ------
Angels and demons assigned to the planets -
Antares -------
Antimonial Cup - - - _ _
Antiquity of Greek Astrology - - -
Arabian astrologers - - - - -
Aratus of Soli ------
Arcandam, Dr. - - - - _
Arcandam’s rules for casting horoscopes
Arder, Dr. ------
Asdente of Parma - - - - -
Askham’s Almanack - - - - -
Ashmole Elias ------
“ Ascendant,” meaning of -
Aspects of planets and their symbols -
Assyrian astrology - - - - -
Astrologers in time of Queen Anne
Astrologers of Nineveh and Babylon -
Astrologers of the nineteenth century
Astrology, meaning of the word - - -
Astrology still survives - - - -
Astrology and its impression on our language
Astrology and its critics - - - _
Astrology in the Law Courts - - -
Astrology and medicine - - - -
Astrology in Persia - - - - -
289
17
21
70
69
277
47
123
25
123
72, 122
124
93
265
180
49
25
241
59
123
61
145
146, 147
240
184
263
234, 243
- 277
- 83
46
244, 250
51
271
18
- 286
- 286
283
280
103
124
290 INDEX
Astrology among the Ramoosies
Astrological figures - - -
Astrological warnings to travellers
“ Astronomica ” - - -
Assur-bani-pal _ _ -
Aztec Calendar _ - _
129
106
142
-62, 63
-40, 51
30
Babilus -.
Bacon on astrology ------
Babylonian astrology- - - - _ -
Babylonian astrologers - - - - _
Babylonian Zodiac ------
Babylonian boundary stone - _ - _
Babylonian prognostication from the planets and stars
Babylonian omens from the Moon, Mars and Mercury
Baynham, the astrologer - - - - -
“ Benefics ”, meaning of -
Bernard, Francis ------
Blazing dragons ------
Bleeding, Times for ------
Bloody crosses ------
Booker, John -------
Booker’s “ New Bloody Almanack ” -
Brahmin astrologers ------
Bubb, Captain -------
Bubb, Captain, and the butcher - - - .
Burton on astrology - - - - -
Butler’s “ Hudibras ” - - - - -
69
283
- 38
44
44
28
55
54
249
278
243
95
117
95
240
264
127
238
239
283
284
C
Calculating nativities.
Case, John -------
Celebrities, signs and planets under which they were born
“ Celestial Science of Astrology ”
Chaldean astrologers ------
Charles I and William Lilly - - - - -
Chatterton, Thomas, and his horoscope - - -
Chatterton and astronomy _ - - - -
Chancer’s astrologer ------
“ Cheshire prophet,” The ------
Chinese Astrology -------
Chinese Zodiac -------
Coley, Henry --------
Colours of Zodiacal Signs ------
Comets and misfortune ------
Comets over London ------
Comets that caused panics - - - - -
“ Configurations,” meaning of -
“ Conjunction,” meaning of - - - - -
Copernicus -
145
246
277
- 253
39
231
255
256
173
211
131
131
238
36
-95, 97
100
loi, 102
278
278
’ 152
INDEX 291
Copernicus, and his discoveries -
Court astrologers - _ _
Constellations mentioned by Aratus
Corvino,, Francisco - - -
“ Co-significators ” -
Culpeper, Nicholas - - -
Cusp - - _ _ _
153
183
-61, 62
- 186
278
279
278
D
D’Almonsor -------
D’Ascoli, Cecco
Dante, Astronomy in the works of - - -
“ Decumbiture,” meaning of -
Dee, John
Dee, John, casts the horoscope of Princess Elizabeth
Dee, John, appointed Queen Elizabeth’s Intelligencer
Dee, John and Kelly- - _ _ _ _
“ Descendant,” meaning of - - - -
Diagnosis by the stars - - - _ _
“ Dignities ” of the planets - - - _
Diseases and their remedies - - _ _
Domitian
Duration of life ------
Dutch tradition as to influence of tides
180
185
168, 172
278
223
224
224
224
278
104
- 84
113
70
91
121
E
Egyptian astrology - - - .
Egyptian horoscopes
Egyptian Zodiacs - - - .
Elements, Fire, Air, Earth, Water
Ephemerides - - - - .
Evans, the astrologer
Eudoxus ------
Events claimed to have been predicted
57
- 58
-33, 59
20
260
228
62
- 273
Fiske, Nicholas
Flaming swords
Forman, Silas - - -
“ Four Triplicities,” The -
Fuscus, Arellius
G
.236
184
.29
.233
.175
.284
Gadbury, John _ _ -
Gauricus, Lucas - - -
Gemini, antiquity of - -
Gemini and the fortunes of London
Goethe and astrology
Great men deceived by astrologers
237
95
227
35
292 INDEX
Greek astrology - - _ _
Greek horoscope -
Greek, names for Stars - - _
Greek Zodiac - - - _ _
Grinling Gibbons and his letter to Lilly
H
Hadrian.
Halley’s Comet - - _ _ .
Halos, prognostication from - - _
Hart, Alexander - - - _ -
Hart, Alexander, and the Aldermen
Head, Richard - - - _ _
Hebrew astrology - - _ _ _
Henry II of France and his horoscope-
Hindley, Charles and his fictitious predictions
Hindu astrology - - _ _ _
Hindu astrologers - - - _ _
Hindu, legend of the origin of astrology
Hipparchus
Historic astrologers - - - _ _
Horary astrology - - _ _ _
Horoscope, casting of the - - - _
Horoscope of American War - _ _
Horoscope, modern methods of casting
“ How many husbandes a mayde shall have ”
Hyleg, The.
“ Hymn to the Setting Sun ” -
I
Influences ascribed to the planets in nineteenth
Influence of planets on diseases
Influence of planets on herbs and plants
J
Josephus and the origin of astrology
“ Joys ” of the planets - - _
Judicial astrology - _ _ _
Jupiter and diseases _ _ _
Jupiter, influence of -
Kepler
K
L
“ Lettinge of ye bloode ”
Lilly, William -----
INDEX 293
Lilly, William, life of - 226
Lilly and the Fire of London - - - - - - -233
Lilly and the scarlet bag ------- - 226
Lilly tries to discover the treasure at Westminster - - . 229
Lilly’s “ Prophetical Almanacks ” - - - - - - 230
Lilly’s Elegy - -- -- -- -- - 235
Lilly’s hieroglyphics - - - - - - - - -231
Lilly summoned to the Speaker’s Chamber - - - - 232
Louis XI and his astrologers - - - - - - -181
Lunar influence on vegetation - - - - - - -120
M
MaLEFICS -------
Manetho
Manilius, Marcus ------
Marduk --------
Marguerite of Burgundy and her visit to an astrologer
Marmonides and the stars - - -
Marriage horoscope - - - -
Martins, Galeotti - . - -
Mars and diseases - - - -
Mars, influence of -
Mazzaroth - - - - -
Mercury, influence of - - -
Mercury and diseases - - -
Methods of later astrologers
Meton ------
Mexican Zodiac - - - -
Milton and astrology - - -
Milton and astronomy - - -
Mira ------
Mistress Wright - - - -
Modern believers in astrology
Montmorency, Anne de -
Moon and diseases - - - -
Moon, influence of -
Moon, influence on the insane -
Moon’s influence on cattle-
Moon’s horns, prognostication from the
Mother Shipton _ - _ -
Mother Shipton, stories of her birth -
Mother Shipton and Cardinal Wolsey
Mother Shipton’s prophecies
Mother Shipton’s skull - - -
278
104
62
52
- 186
18
258
181
109
77
23
8i
109
274
62
30
216
221
25
227
287
189
109
79
119, 120
53
53
203
203
204
206
210
N
Natural astrology -
Nero and his astrologer
Nicetas - -
Nixon, Robert -
74
69
62
211
294 INDEX
Nixon and King Henry - - - _
Nixon at Court - - - . .
Nixon’s death
Nixon’s prophecies - - _ _ .
Nostradamus, Michael - - _ _
Nostradamus and the pigs - - - -
Nostradamus, prophecies referring to England
O
“ Opposition,” meaning of
Oracles of Nostradamus
P
PARACELSUS and his belief in astral influence
Paracelsus and the attraction of the sun and stars -
Paviot -
Petrarch and astrology - - - _ _
Physician diagnosing by astrological rules
Plants and herbs ruled by the planets - - .
Partridge, John
Plague of London - - - - _
Pleiades
Planetary influence on disposition - - .
Planetary influence on temperament - - -
Planets that are “ friendly ” -
Planettys and Elementys of Complexyons ”
Poole, William
“ Poor Robin ”
Portents of the heavens.
Posidonius
Powers of the Signs - . - _ _
Prayer to Saturn.
Prayers to the planets.
Prognosticum, The
Prophecies forbidden by Royal decree
Prophecies of Nostradamus - - - _
Ptolemy
Pythagoras
o
<( meaning of
“ Quartile,” meaning of -
R
Regiomontanus - . _ .
Roman astrology - _ _ .
Roman attributes of the planets -
Roman Zodiac - _ _ ,
212
212
214
214
132
135
137-139
278
134
163
- 166
- 186
- 183
114, 115
no. III
244
228
22
144
145
- 84
150
239
- 266
95
62
35
67
49
90
265
134
72,122
60
278
278
- 185
65
66
- 65
INDEX 295
Sabeans and the stars 50
Saturn, evil influence of - > - - - - -74, 92
Saturn’s influence on diseases - - - - - - 108
Scorpio, antiquity of - - - - - - -28, 33
Scot, Michael - - - - - - - - - - i8s
Scott, Sir Walter, on astrology - - - - - - - 283
Securis’ Almanack - - - - - - - 263
Selection of remedies by astrological rules - - - - - 116
Severus, Septimus - - - - - - - 68
Sex of a child determined - - - - - - - - 128
“ Sextile,” meaning of - - - - - - - 278
Shakespeare and astrology - - - - - - 193 -202
Shepheard’s Kalendar - - - - - - - 260
Sibly, Ebenezer - - - - - - - 253
“ Sickman’s Glass ” - - - - - - - - III
Signification of the planetary hours - - - - - - 143
Significance of the Houses- - - - - - - - 87
Sirius - - - - - - - - - - - 24
Solomon and astrology - - - - - - - 49
Spenser and the Zodiac - - - - - - 176 -179
Spurinna and Caesar - - - - - - - 71
Star of Bethlehem - - - - - - -
41
Starry spheres called “ herds ” - - - - - - -
19
Stellar influence - - - - - - - 19
Stdffler, Johann - - - - - - - 185
Summary of investigations - - - - - - - - 281
Sun, influence of - - - - - - - 78
Sun and diseases - - - - - - - 109
Sumerian names for planets and stars - - - - - 42
Swift’s Elegy on Partridge - - - - - - - 245
Symbols for Zodiacal signs - - - - - - 34
Symbols of Zodiac - ■■ *• 83
Talismans, astrological .
T
105
Tanner’s Almanack - - - - - - - - 265
Taurus - - - - - - - - - - - 33
“ Tetrabiblos ” - - - - - - - 123
Thales - - - - - - - - - - - 60
Theogenius . - - - - - - - - - 70
Thrasyllus the elder - - - - - - - - 67
Tiberius and the astrologer - - - - - - - 68
Toscanelli Paolo - - - - - - - 184
Treasure buried in Westminster Abbey - - - - - 229
Tribes of Israel and their astrological devices - - - - 48
“ Twelve houses of Pleaven ” - - - - - - - 86
Tycho Brahe - - - - - - - - - -
153
Tycho Brahe, his discoveries - - - - - - -
155
Tycho Brahe, address on astrology - - - - - - 156
Tycho Brahe, at Uraniborg - - - - - - - 160
Tycho Brahe, casts the nativity of the Prince of Denmark - - 161
Tycho Brahe, and medicine - - - - - - - 162
296 INDEX
U
Uranus, discovery of
271
V
Virgo .
Venus and diseases - - _ .
Venus, influence of -
33
109
80
W
Wallenstein, Albert von
Warning to surgeons- - - _
Weather prognostications - . -
Wharton’s Almanack - - _
Whiston’s prediction- - _ _
“ Who shall die first, mother or children ”
Woodward, Professor _ . _
Worship of the stars - - _
Worship of the Sun - - »
189
119
285
265
lOI
149
248
19
57
Z
ZadKIEL’S horoscope of King Edward VII
Zodiac and disease - - _ _
Zodiac and its influence on man’s body
Zodiac, derivation of word
Zodiac in decoration - _ _
Zodiacal signs - - . _
Zodiac, origin of names - - .
276
105
103
27
65
27
28
Made and Printed in Great Britain by Ebenezer Baylis and Son, Limited
The Trinity Press, Worcester.
