{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__piper___life_and_work_of_mrs_piper.pdf","mytitle":"Life And Work Of Mrs Piper","mylang":"de"}
ALTA L. PIPER
The Life and Work
OF
Mrs Piper
With an Introduction by
SIR OLIVER LODGE
F.R.S., D.Sc.
LONDON
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & Co., LTD.,
BROADWAY HOUSE: 68-74 CARTER LANE, E.C.
1929
PRIN'l'ED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY W, JOLLY AND SONS, LTD., ABERDEEN.
Mrs. PIPER
[fronllspiect
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Mv thanks are due in no small measure to the
Council of the Society for Psychical Research
for permission to use and quote from the material
contained in the Society's Proceedings. I wish
also to express my grateful acknowledgments
to all those who have graciously permitted me
to make such use of their correspondence as
I desired. And to Miss H. A.. Dallas for
permission to quote from her book Mors Janua
Vitae I also extend my thanks.
HARROW-ON-THE-HILL,
ENGLAND,
1929.
ALTA L. PIPER.
CONTENTS
FOREWORD BY SIR OLIVER LODGE,
OJlAPTBB
Pf.GB
- lX
I. MEDIUMSHIP : SOME GENERAL CONDITIONS, I
II.
III.
IV.
CHILDHOOD EXPERIENCES,
MARRIAGE: AND THE FIRST MESSAGE,
THE TESTIMONY OF PROFESSOR JAMES,
- IO
- 16
- 21
V. PROF. JAMES AND DR. HODGSON, - 29
VI. DR. HODGSON BEGINS HIS INVESTIGATION, 34
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.
XI.
XII.
XIII.
XIV.
xv.
XVI.
XVII.
DR. HODGSON'S PROPOSAL,
ENGLAND, NOVEMBER, I 889,
MR. MYERS AND SIR OLIVER LODGE, -
TRANCE CONDITIONS,
HOME LIFE,
"G. P."
" IMPERATOR GROuP ",
PHENOMENA,
APHORISMS FROM THE OTHER SIDE, -
THE DEATH OF DR. HODGSON (1905),
RICHARD HODGSON-THE MAN,
XVIII. ENGLAND AGAIN,
XIX. THE LATIN MESSAGE,
xx. THE LATIN MESSAGE Cont. (I.),
XXL ,, ., ., ., (II.)
XXII. MARIEMONT AND SIR OLIVER LODGE,
XXIII. TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL OF POWER,
- 42
- 47
- 54
- 62
- 69
- 76
- 83
- 93
- 109
- Il5
- 121
- 128
- 135
- 139
- 150
- 161
- 16g
XXIV. RESUMPTION OF POWER, - I 76
XXV. THE FAUNUS MESSAGE, - 180
XXVI. SOME SUGGESTED HYPOTHESES, - 185
XXVII. RECENT. PHENOMENA, - 189
XXVII!.MRS. PIPER, THE WOMAN, AND HER WORK, 198
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
MRS. PIPER
MRS. PIPER-AS A CHILD
WILLIAM JAMES
F, W. H. MYERS
MRS. PIPER SOON AFTER HER MARRIAGE
RICHARD HODGSON, LL.D.
SIR OLIVER LODGE
SPECIMENS OF AUTOMATIC WRITING •
Frontispiece
- facz'ng page 12
,,
"
22
" "
58
" "
72
" "
122
,, ,, I 64
pp. 85 and 89
FOREWORD BY SIR OLIVER LODGE
THERE is a popular idea that persons possessed
of pronounced psychic faculty must be of un-
balanced character and unfitted for normal life.
To some extent the same feeling exists about
people endowed with Mathematical or Artistic
or Mu~ical faculty, though not to the same ex-
tent. It is well therefore to have this impression
mitigated, if not removed, by a fuller acquaint-
ance with the facts. There are no doubt many
varieties of exceptional endowment, and there is
naturally some curiosity to know how the faculty
was discovered in any particular person, and
what it feels like to be so endowed.
About Mrs. Piper's gifts there is no sort of
doubt. She was brought to our notice in England
some forty years ago by Professor William James,
who, being pestered by the ladies of his family
with strange accounts of supernormal knowledge
possessed by a Mrs. Piper in Boston, decided to
go, as an esprit fort, and explode the superstition.
With the result that he was himself entangled,
and perceived that he had unexpectedly en-
countered something unrecognised by orthodox
psychology, something which badly needed ex-
ploration and elucidation. For many years there-
x Foreword by Sir Oliver Lodge
after Mrs. Piper was under the scrutiny, and
submitted to the critical methods, of the Society
for Psychical Research ; with the results which
all the world knows or may know, both from
books and from the Proceedings of that Society.
Of exemplary family life, Mrs. Piper continues
to this day leading a normal existence with her
two devoted daughters. Her psychic· faculties
which during a time of strain were for some years
diminished to the more ordinary level of auto-
matic writing, have since returned. We cannot
legislate for these things ; our business is to learn
from the facts.
Her life work has been devoted to providing
material for a nascent science, including a kind
or variety of interaction between mind and matter,
which, though puzzling and unusual, has already
had instructive and beneficent and comforting
results. In most walks of life people who have
thus sacrificed themselves and leisure for the
good of the community are appreciated and
honoured, and Mrs. Piper has herself made many
devoted friends ; but so long as the power ex-
hibited in a state of trance is regarded as ab-
normal or uncanny, so long will the services of
genuine mediums fail to meet with their due
share of gratitude and recognition.
It is in the hope that gradually a saner and
more friendly attitude will be taken by the com-
munity at large to those who serve it that I
welcome this account of Mrs. Piper's life and
work by one who, since infancy, has lived with
Foreword by Sir Oliver Lodge x1
her, and who, though not endowed with her
mother's power, has knowledge about it and
sympathy with it, having often acted as amanu-
ensis for communicators from the other side.
It is no light task and no small service which the
few exceptionally endowed mediums have per-
formed and are performing. They have thereby
been privileged to bring comfort and restore faith
to the bereaved, to reunite otherwise broken
family ties, to demonstrate the truth of survival
in the most practical and definite way, and
generally to assist scientific investigators in their
endeavour to understand better the nature and
properties of the human soul, apart from its
customary bodily manifestations.
The atmosphere of doubt and hesitation which
still clings round the subject in scientific circles
is unworthy of what might be our present en-
lightenment, and is too reminiscent of the struggle
for truth which our ancestors underwent in the
past when they testified to novel experiences.
A better day is dawning, though progress is
slow. The facts are too strong much longer to
be resisted ; and this conscientious and careful
volume may be of some assistance as well as
of considerable interest inasmuch as it publishes,
and republishes, some of the facts, and at the
same time displays to the world the private
history of one of the most famous mediums of
our own day.
OLIVER LODGE.
THE LIFE AND WORK OF
MRS. PIPER
CHAPTER I
MEDIUMSHIP: SOME GENERAL CONDl1IONS
DURING that terrible cataclysm, the Great
War, already mercifully fading into the
background of men's minds, millions of lives
" went out " like candles in the wind. Quicker
than thought, that intangible, invisible, dimly
sensed "something" which makes of this mass
of flesh and blood and bone, a living, breathing,
animate thing, became, to all intents and pur-
poses, extinct. Where had it gone, men found
themselves wondering. What had become of it,
that which they called the "soul " ?
Those fortunate ones whose heritage of faith in
a hereafter was stronger than their sorrow, found
comfort in that faith. But others, and a vast
majority they formed, having long since broken
away from the orthodoxy of their fathers, now
found themselves suddenly brought to grips with
an overwhelming, overpowering grief, and in their
extremity turned restlessly to the various " isms "
of the day, searching-searching for a ray of
comfort in their darkness ; many of these, in their
A
2 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
great need, finding themselves driven, as it were,
to investigate that hitherto more or less rigidly
tabooed realm of psychical research. It was this
hope, born of despair, that here at last might be
found that proof of immortality so desperately .
desired, that created the unprecedented interest
manifested in spiritualism and psychical research
during the closing years of the Great War, and
which still in great measure continues unabated.
Indeed, the well-read man or woman of to-day
who is not interested in some phase of psychical
research is the exception ; though, as is but
natural, this interest manifests itself in different
ways and to different degrees according to the
temperament and training of the individual. On
one point, however, all thinking men and women
are agreed, and that is that without personal
experience, no matter how extensive one's course
of reading or study may be, it is impossible to
touch more than the very outermost fringe of this
comprehensive subject.
Now, it is just in this matter of acquiring the
essential personal experience wherein, to the novice
at least, lies a potential danger. For, in order to
attain this experience, it is perforce necessary to
obtain the services of a medium, if one does not
possess mediumistic power oneself, and if we are
deadly honest we have to admit that by no means
all who claim to possess this power are justified in
their pretensions : sometimes it is a case, un-
fortunately, of deliberate dishonesty on the part
of the medium, but more often than not one of
Mediumship 3
genuine self-deception. Especially are instances
in the last mentioned category to be found in that
phase of mediumship known as automatic writing
which is now becoming so comparatively common.
That this should be so, however, is but passing
strange when we remember that these "automatic"
scripts more often than not are genuinely produced
without any conscious knowledge or volition on
the part of the automatist ; a fact which must
obviously tend to strengthen the readiness, some-
times eagerness, which the producer of these scripts
not infrequently manifests in attributing their
origin to "spirits." Now it is against a too readily
accepted assumption of this nature that both the
automatist and the investigator must constantly
and assiduously be on guard as, very often, upon
careful and unbiassed analysis, these writings are
found to display naught, really, but the reflection
of the philosophical, religious, or materialistic
musings, or convictions, of the automatist himself.
It is perfectly true that one of the most moot
questions of the day in the study of mental phe-
nomena is to what extent the personality, educa-
tion, training, and environment of a medium
influence tbe phenomena produced. But in the
type of automatic writing referred to above, this
problem, as such, obviously does not exist.
The problem to what extent the medium's own
mental equipment influences the phenomena is an
intriguing as well as an important one, and to my
way of thinking is closely analagous to the simile
of the window glass. It is of course recognised
4 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
that light passing through a clean window-pane is
stronger and clearer than that which filters through
a dirty pane, although through the partially ob-
structed, or cloudy glass, a certain amount of light
does pass. In other words, to a certain extent,
the medium affects that which it conveys. And
this is true, not only of the window-pane but of
other physical mediums of conduction as well.
Wherefore, then, may it not conceivably be equa1ly
true of psychical mediums ?
In this connection we are all doubtless familiar
with the question, so commonly asked, if spirit
communication i"s possible, why has not something
really worth while, something for instance in the
nature of an invention, been given in this way
to an interested and waiting world. Now, con-
sidering the equipment and temperament of the
mediums who thus far have produced veridical
intellectual phenomena, this question whenever I
hear it asked, immediately conjures up the picture
in my mind of, let us say, a Savant who finds him-
self confronted with the necessity of telegraphing
a speech in Russian and can procure for the
purpose only an English speaking telegraphist
to whom he is obliged to telephone his text.
With this difference, however, that in our hypo-
thetical illustration the difficulties are well known
and appreciated, whereas, in the other instance,
they can only be surmised and that imperfectly.
But let us return, for a moment, to the con-
sideration of the question of self-deception, or
delusion, on the part of the medium. This is
1
Mediumship 5
indeed, a serious condition and requires careful,
patient, and considerate handling when it can in
time be helped ; but an even more serious con-
dition with which we sometimes find ourselves
faced is that of deliberate and intentional dis-
honesty. This is a factor which must be borne
in mind at the beginning and, indeed, through-
out the course of any scientifically conducted
investigation. Although most regrettable it is,
nevertheless, understandable that mediums ac-
cepting payment for their services-and the
labourer is worthy of his hire-may conceivably
be over-anxious to return value, as they under-
stand it, for their fee, and consequently, if genuine
phenomena are not at the time forthcoming, they
may be tempted on such occasions to resort to
fraud rather than, as it probably appears to them,
disappoint their clients. And this condition of
affairs is no doubt further complicated and ag-
, gravated by the fact that genuine metapsychical
phenomena cannot be produced at all times or
under all conditions. As Sir Oliver Lodge says,
" We cannot legislate for these things, our
business is to understand them."
The factors which contribute to this disability
are probably not all known but from among those
that are, we need consider here only the two most
important ones, viz., ill-health, or over-fatigue
from any cause, on the part of the psychic. Both
these factors are likely, though not bound, to act
as powerful deterrents to the successful production
of psychical phenomena either physical or mental;
6 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
and the importance of recognising and protecting
the psychic as far as possible from both conditions
cannot be too strongly stressed. For, when the
deterrent effect of these two contributing causes
is really understood, and the negative conditions
remedied intelligently, the resultant improvement
in the psychic's work will richly repay any in-
vestigator.
On the other hand, it must not be lost sight of,
that wise and unceasing caution on the part of
the investigator as well as a bias towards being
over-critical, rather than too credulous, of all
phenomena obtained, are essential qualifications
of a really sound experimenter. And it is hardly
necessary, perhaps, to add that the very first
requirement at the beginning of an investigation
is to establish beyond reasonable doubt the
personal integrity of the medium with whom one
is working.
A propos of this last remark, I want particularly
to stress the wisdom and necessity, both for his
own sake and the sake of psychical research, of
every potential medium's submitting freely and
gracefully to intelligent scientific investigation at
the outset of his career, if I may use this term
in this connection. Also, it would be well for
every experimenter to remember that the part
of a psychical investigator is no sinecure, for he
must be ever vigilant, alert, and at all times pre-
pared to meet and cope with new and puzzling
problems, situations, and conditions. Nor must
he allow himself ever to forget that only by
Mediumship 7
patiently persevering, sometimes in the face of
seemingly insurmountable difficulties, can he hope
eventually to determine even the genuineness,
let alone the true nature, of the phenomena that
he observes.
Up to this point we have considered but one
angle of the psychical investigator's task, and
that, perhaps, the obvious one. There is yet
another angle, however, which is every bit as
important and which requires just as much, if
not more, care and intelligent handling on the
part of the investigator than that which we have
already considered. This is the sympathetic
understanding and consideration due to the
medium with whom the experimenter is privileged
to work. For that this is a privilege, as well as
that the medium, who is willing to submit to
scientific investigation, should be accorded the
fullest measure of sympathetic consideration
compatible with the requirements of truth,
justice, and accuracy-in other words, with the
dictates of science-is happily coming to be
realised and conceded more and more with each
succeeding year.
Nor for one moment must we allow ourselves
to forget that genuine mediumship is a delicate
and as yet by no means wholly understood pheno-
menon. Equally must we remember that if this
phenomenon is to endure, it is essential that it
should be handled with the greatest care and
circumspection; and never either by the possessor,
or by the investigator, abused.
8 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
So much, experience has thus far taught us.
And if we consider for a moment, we realise
that this is not an imposition peculiar to the
psychic medium, but that it is equally applicable
to all known mediums of communication. The
seismograph, the radio, the familiar telegraph, to
cite but a few of the best known, are all sensitively
and delicately constructed mediums of communi-
cation, and require careful manipulation if their
usefulness is not to be impaired. Even that
common, and often much abused instrument of
our modern communication, the telephone, cannot
be banged about regardless of the consequences
if the best results are to be obtained.
And so it is with psychic mediums. If in-
vestigators desire the best results it is every
bit as essential that they should exercise the ut-
most consideration for their instrument as that
they should constantly be on their guard against
the possibility of fraud, conscious or, otherwise.
Both these requirements are indispensable to the
successful investigation.
A psychic investigator who combined in an
extraordinary degree both the intelligent under-
standing of his instrument with the necessary
caution in the handling of his investigation, was
Richard Hodgson, LL.D., and Fellow of St.
John's College, Cambridge, England, who for
sixteen years as Secretary and Treasurer of the
American Branch of the English Society for
Psychical Research, investigated the phenomena
of Mrs. Piper. Moreover, the annals of Psychical
Mediumship 9
Research, contain no record of any other psychic
who has so willingly, so rigorously, or for so
long a time been investigated by science as has
Mrs. Piper. Wherefore, this little volume on
-,,. the life of this renowned psychic together with
an account of the investigation of her phenomena
by Dr. Hodgson, F. W. H. Myers, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Professor William James, and other men
of science and letters, by one who has been
privileged to observe them from an unique angle
is now being published in the hope that it may
be of help, as well as of interest, to all earnest
students of the comparatively new but ever
growing science of Psychical Research.
CHAPTER II
CHILDHOOD EXPERIENCES
I AM going to begin this short narrative of Mrs.
Piper's life and work, by answering the two
questions which are invariably asked me by
strangers. The first in point of interest is when
and how did Mrs. Piper discover her psychic
power; but the second, did Mrs. Piper's family
ever object to the development of her power,
which may be answered more briefly than the
other, I will take first.
The only persons who might justifiably have
objected to the development of my mother's
power were my father, my sister and myself. In
regard to my father I can emphatically state that
from the time my mother discovered her psychic
gift until his death in 1904, my father was as
interested not only in my mother's phenomena
themselves but in their ultimate solution, as was
Mrs. Piper herself; while, if it be remembered
that my sister and myself were only babies when
my mother began her work, it will be seen that
any objection we may have voiced, even if intelli-
Childhood Experiences II
gible, must have been futile. This, then, disposes
of the question of any objection to her work on
the part of Mrs. Piper's family.
In this connection, however, it may be of
interest to add that no mystery was ever made of
the work even when we were tiny children. It
was always spoken of and discussed quite freely
before us, so that as we grew up we came to
regard not the possession of psychic gifts as
unusual, but, if anything, their absence. Person-
ally, my only regret to this day is that my mother's
work for science occupied so much of her time
that, when children, it deprived us of many
precious hours of her companionship. But not-
withstanding her busy life and the many engage-
ments she had to fulfill there was one daily ritual
with which she never allowed anything else to
interfere, and this was always, herself, to hear our
good-night prayer which as soon as we could lisp
she had taught us; then, with a good-night kiss
and " God bless you, darlings," she left us to our
nurse's care.
Let me just add here, that tall, slender, with a
grace and dignity difficult to describe, with clear
cut Grecian features, and masses of golden hair,
my mother very early in life formed my ideal of
womanhood; and well do I remember when only
a tiny tot asking God to " make me like mamma
when I grow up! "
And now we come to the second, or as I have
said, in point of interest, the first question. How
and when did Mrs. Piper discover her psychic
I 2 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
power? To answer this we must first turn the
pages of her life's story backward to her early
childhood. One afternoon, after school, when my
mother was about eight years old, she was playing
by herself in the garden, busily engaged in the to
her all absorbing occupation of pushing oak acorns
through a hole in one of the garden seats ap-
parently just made for that purpose. Suddenly,
she felt a sharp blow on her right ear accom-
panied by a prolonged sibilent sound. . This
gradually resolved itself into the letter S. which
was then followed by the words, " Aunt Sara, not
dead, but with you still." Terrified, the child ran
sobbing into the house holding on to the side of
her head and calling loudly for her mother. My
grandmother, an unusually calm, well-poised, and
thoroughly practical woman tried for some time
in vain to comfort her, for in answer to all her
questioning as to what had happened the child
only cried the harder, finally managing, however,
to stammer out between her sobs, " Oh, I don't
know !- Something hit me on the ear and Aunt
Sara said she wasn't dead but with you still."
Gently her mother soothed the frightened child
until presently, with the happy resilency of child-
hood, she was once again playing with her acorns
as if nothing out of the usual had happened. But
my grandmother, puzzled and a little troubled by
the incident, made a note of the day and time at
which it had occurred and then forgot all about it
until several days later when, communication being
slower then than now, word was received from a
Mrs. PIPER-as a child
[ /ace p. 12
Childhood Experiences
distant part of the country that at the very hour
and on the very day of her little daughter's strange
experience, her sister "Aunt Sara" had passed
out of the body suddenly and unexpectedly.
Only one more incident of a somewhat unusual
character need be recorded here. One night, a
few weeks after the experience related above, my
mother had been put to bed as usual, and the light
extinguished, when my grandmother, who had left
the room only a few moments earlier, hastened
back again in answer to the child's cries of
" Mother, Mother ! " It appears that on this
occasion the child could not sleep because of
" the bright light in the room and all the faces in
it," as well as because " my bed," a big old-
fashioned four-poster, "won't stop rocking." Her
fears were quickly allayed, however, and holding
her mother's hand she soon fell asleep, awaking
the next morning refreshed and untroubled by
any recollections of her experience the night
before.
My mother's girlhood and young womanhood, ·
except for an occasional experience of this kind,
was perfectly normal in every way. The fourth
of six children, according to my grandparents
she was the ring leader in a11 their games and
sports. Full of mischief and high spirits she
was, in those days, the life of all about her.
Although very fond of the great out-of-doors and
out-door sports she, like every other girl of her time,
became an expert needlewoman long before she
was out of her "teens ; " and many evidences of
Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
her exquisite needlework are still preserved on
the baby clothes of my sister and mysel£ She
was also quick and good at her studies which
in those days consisted chiefly of the three "Rs,"
spelling, geography, history and grammar. In
spelling she excelled and at all the "Spelling
Bees," a quaint New England custom which
Whittier has immortalized in "School Days,"
she always came out at the top of the line having
" spelt all the others down."
My mother's father and mother were both of
English ancestry and thoroughly God-fearing
people greatly beloved and respected in the
community in which they lived. Deeply religious
they were both members of the Congregational
Church and in this faith my mother was brought
up and remained until her visit to England in
1910 at which time she was baptized and con-
firmed in the Church of England. In her child-
hood days children were required to ·attend not
only the long dull Sunday morning services and
Sabbath Schools as well, but Sunday evening
services and Friday night prayer meetings also!
And to this regime, my mother had to conform
as well as other children. Perhaps it is not so
surprising, then, that on her ninth birthday her
father presented her with a small Bible as "a
reward for having read the sacred Book from
cover to cover!" An accomplishment, I fear, of
which few of us can boast to-day.
Both grandparents, I may add, were strong,
healthy, normal people of their time.
Childhood Experiences 15
My grandfather's death, many years ago, was
the result of injuries received in the American
Civil War; while my grandmother, a really re-
markable old lady, died of pneumonia four years
ago, at the age of eighty-eight.
CHAPTER III
MARRIAGE : AND THE FIRST MESSAGE
WHEN twenty-two years of age, my mother
married William Piper of Boston, and
three years later I was born. Soon after this
my mother who was suffering from the effects
of a coasting accident sustained many years pre-
viously, was persuaded by Mr. Piper, Sr. to
consult a blind clairvoyant who was then at-
tracting considerable attention by his remarkable
medical diC!-gnoses and subsequent cures. At this
time, my parents were living with my father's
family on Beacon Hill and my mother, at first
reluctant, finally yielded to their entreaties and
accompanied by my grandfather went to this
clairvoyant's home on Sunday, June I 9. During
the consultation, while my mother was seated
opposite the clairvoyant listening to his-as was
later ascertained-accurate diagnosis of her trouble,
she noticed that " his face seemed to become
smaller and smaller, receding as it were into the
distance, until gradually I lost all consciousness
of my surroundings."
This first period of unconsciousness, as my
First Message
grandfather has recorded, lasted only a few minutes
during which nothing of very much importance
occurred. But disturbed and greatly puzzled by
her experience, it was only after much persuasion
that my mother consented on the following Sun-
day to accompany my grandfather to one of the
regular meetings, or circles, which the clairvoyant
was accustomed to hold Sunday evenings at his
home. These " circles 11
were held for the pur-
poses of effecting " cures 11
and of " developing
latent rnediumship.11
At the meeting which my
mother and grandfather attended on this par-
ticular Sunday evening, those present seated
themselves in the form of a circle around which
the clairvoyant then passed placing his hands
on the head of each person in turn. When he
reached my mother hardly had he put his hand
on her heaa before she felt what she describes
as "chills" and saw in front of her "a flood of
light in which many strange faces appeared,11
while " a hand seemed to pass to and fro before
my face." She then rose from her chair and,
unaided, walked to a table in the centre of the
room on which writing material had previously
been placed. Picking up a pencil and paper
and writing rapidly for a few minutes she then
handed the written paper to a member of the
circle and returned to her seat.
Recovering consciousness in a few minutes, but
retaining no recollection of what had just trans-
pired, Mrs. Piper was considerably surprised on
being approached a little later by an elderly
B
-------------- ---_,... _.,,_,,...- -- - ..-- -,.---
18 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
gentleman who, after introducing himself, said in
substance, "Young woman, I have been a spirit-
ualist for over thirty years but the message you
have just given me is the most remarkable I have
ever received. It has given me fresh courage
to go on, for I know now that my boy lives."
This man was Judge Frost, of Cambridge, a
hard-headed and noted jurist who, it seems, had
been driven, as many before and since have been
driven, to seek in spiritualism and the realm of
the occult an answer if may be to the world-old
·question-are they who have crossed the "Great
Divide" forever lost to us; or have they but gone
before to blaze a trail for those who follow after !
For no one, man or woman, king or peasant, but
sooner or later must take that same journey ; by
different paths, perhaps, but the same journey for
all that.
Is it, then, so strange that those of us who have
felt the sting of that terrible separation, have ex-
perienced the irreparable loss ofthe daily presence
and ministrations ofsome dearly loved companion,
should seek untiringly, leaving in our search no
stone unturned, in the effort to solve that riddle
which haunts our thoughts by day and our dreams
at night-is Death for each and every one of us
the end ; the annihilation of the body, soul and
mind ; or is it, in very truth, for all of us the
gateway to Life, a broader, richer, fuller existence
than we here are able to conceive? Was Long-
fellow right, perchance, when he wrote those
lines-,
First Message
"There is no death ; what seems so is transition ;
This Life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the Life Elysian,
Whose portal we call death."
Have Plato, Swedenborg, and Henry James the
elder, grasped the heart of the mystery when
they so confidently tell us that it is the life to
come that is the Real ; while this life here, seem-
ingly so solid, so definite, is but a dream world of
existance, the shadow of the Real ? Well, all
speculation is idle except as it spurs us on to
greater knowledge ; so let us return to Judge
Frost's experience with Mrs. Piper. It seems
that many years previous to his experience on
this Sunday evening, Judge Frost had lost his
only son under tragic circumstances which had
left their inevitable mark on the father. The
son, in the prime of life, had been fatally injured
in an accident, had lingered in a semi-conscious
condition for several months and then, eventually,
had passed on without having, after the accident,
again recognized either father or mother.
It appears that it was this failure on the part of
the son to recognize his father which had left a
wound so deep that for more than thirty years
this respected jurist, although strictly sub rosa
as it were, had tirelessly sought to obtain through
various mediums some faint ray of hope that his
beloved son had indeed " but gone before." And
on this Sunday evening he had at last obtained
that for which he had so long sought-an identi-
fying message from his boy. According to the
20 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
pencilled message which had been handed him by
Mrs. Piper, Judge Frost's son had called him
"Father" ; had given his own name while
assuring his father that he still "lived"; had
mentioned that his head was as clear as ever
now ; and then had added to these details the
emphatic statement that if his father could but
know and understand all, he would realize that
what had happened had indeed been for the best.
And in this manner Mrs. Piper's psychic power
had been " discovered." A report of Judge
Frost's experience having been spread abroad, as
such things are, Mrs. Piper soon found herself
literally besieged with requests for "sittings.''
But Mrs. Piper herself, far from being pleased
with this unsought notoriety, was greatly distressed
thereby with the result that, apart from the mem-
bers of her immediate family and one or two
intimate friends, she definitely refused to see
anyone.
Thus, but for a curious turn of the wheel of
Fate which brought Mrs. Piper to the attention
of Prof. William James of Harvard College, an
interesting and baffling psychological phenome-
non might have been forever lost to the world.
Destiny however, as we shall see, willed otherwise.
CHAPTER IV
THE TESTIMONY OF PROFESSOR JAMES
IT was in the autumn of the year 1885 that
Professor James' attention was directed to
Mrs. Piper's phenomena in the following curious
way.
My grandparents had at that time in their
service an old Irish servant who had been with
them for years and who, while good-natured,
faithful, and utterly devoted to the family, pos-
sessed withal the Celtic imagination and ingrained
superstition of her race. Now " Mary" had a
sister " Bridget" who was also in service on
" The Hill," and .many and marvellous were the
tales with which Mary regaled her sister concern-
ing the "queer doings of my young Mrs. Piper."
It may quite well be that the fragments of con-
versation overheard by this good soul at various
times and pieced together by an active imagination
lost nothing in their re-telling. Be that as it may,
some of Mary's tales eventually reached the ears
of Prof. James' mother-in-law Mrs. Gibbins, a
frequent visitor in the family where Bridget was
employed, and this good lady's curiosity being
22 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
aroused, she forthwith appealed to Mrs. Piper for
a s1ttmg. For some inexplicable reason her
request was granted, and Mrs. Gibbins being
much impressed with the results of this first sitting
succeeded in obtaining a sitting for her daughter
the results of which appeared equally, if not more,
surprising than her own.
I ought here to mention that Mrs. Gibbins was
entirely unknown to Mrs. Piper, and when per-
sonally making the appointments both for herself
and her daughter, she had taken special care that
her identity should remain concealed.
Now, when Mrs. Gibbins and her daughter
recounted their experiences with Mrs. Piper to
Prof. James, although as he says, he played "the
espirit fort on that occasion before his feminine
relatives," he was, nevertheless, so impressed by
" the marvellous character of the facts which they
brought back" that a few days later he also sought
and succeeded in obtaining a sitting for himself
and Mrs. James. It was after this first sitting
that he wrote to Mr. F. W. H. Myers, after first
explaining that Mrs. Gibbins and her daughter
had gone to Mrs. Piper "out of curiosity," as
follows; "She (Mrs. Gibbins) returned" he says,
"with the statement that Mrs. P. had given her a
long string of names of members of the family,
mostly christian names, together with facts about
the persons mentioned and their relations to one
another, the knowledge of which on her part was
incomprehensible without supernormal powers.
My sister-in-law went the next day with still
WILLIAM JAMES
I/ace p. 22
The Testimony of Prof. James 23
better results, as she related them. Amongst
other things, the medium had accurately described
the circumstances of the writer of a letter which
she held against her forehead, after Miss G. had
given it to her. The letter was in Italian and its
writer was known to but two persons in this
country." (Proc. Vol. VI.)
Of his impressions regarding his own and his
wife's first sitting Prof. James writes thus ; " My
impression .after the first visit, was that Mrs. P.
was either possessed of supernormal powers, or
knew the members of my wife's family by sight
and had by some lucky coincidence become ac-
quainted with such a multitude of their domestic
circumstances as to produce the startling impres-
sion which she did. My later knowledge of her
sittings and personal acquaintance with her has
led me absolutely to reject the latter explanation,
and to believe that she had supernormal powers."
(Proc. Vol. VI.)
If any of us have any doubts that Prof. James
fully realised even at that time the necessity of
exercising the utmost caution and care when deal-
ing with phenomena of this nature, or, think that
he was a person whom it might have been easy to
"hoodwink," the extract which I shall now quote
from his review of E. Sargent's "Planchette," first
published in the " Boston Daily Advertiser" in
1869, should banish any such doubts forever. "If
our author," wrote Prof. James " in concert with
some good mediums, had instituted some experi-
ments in which everything should be protected
24 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
from the possibility of deceit, remembering that
the morality of no one in such a case is to be
taken for granted, and that such personal pre-
cautions cannot be offensively construed, he would
probably have made a better contribution to
clearing up the subject than he has now done."
And again in the same paper, " But an author
writing avowedly for the purpose of propagandism
should have recognised more fully the attitude of
this class, (that is, scientists) and recollected that
one narrative personally vouched for and MINUTELY
controlled, would be more apt to fix their attention,
than a hundred of the striking but comparatively
vaguely reported second-hand descriptions which
fill many pages of this book. The present attitude
of society," Prof. James shrewdly remarks, "on
this whole question is as extraordinary and ano-
malous as it is discreditable to the pretentions of
an age which prides itself on enlightenment and
the diffusion of knowledge. · We see tens of
thousands of respectable people on the one hand
admitting as facts of every day certainty, what
tens of thousands of others, equally respectable,
claim to be abject and contemptible delusion; while
other tens of thousands are content to stand
passively in the dark between these two hosts and
in doubt, the matter meanwhile being-rightfully
considered-one of really transcendant interest.
In this state of things recrimination is merely lost
time. Those people who have the interests of
truth at heart should remember that personal
dignity is of very little consequence."
The Testimony of Prof. James 2 5
The sentiments which Prof. James expresses
so truly in this paper, although written now more
than fifty years ago, are equally applicable to-day,
except that the "tens of thousands" have now
become, in each faction, "hundreds of thousands."
What then, one wonders, will be the position in
regard to these things at the end of another fifty
years!
During the eighteen months following his first
experience with Mrs. Piper, Prof. James not only
had several other sittings, but virtually controlled
all arrangements for the sittings which, under his
direction, Mrs. Piper gave during this period, as
well. All appointments for sitters were made
with Mrs. Piper by Prof. James himself, and in
no instance were the names of the sitter, or
sitters, announced to her, or in her presence. In
a report on certain phenomena obtained at this
time, which was published in the Proc. of the
American branch of the S.P.R., Prof. James says
in part, "the medium showed a most startling
intimacy with this family's affairs, talking of many
matters known to no one outside, and which
gossip could not possibly have conveyed to her
ears. The details would prove nothing to the
reader unless printed in extenso, with full notes
by the sitters. It reverts, after all, to personal
conv1ct1on. My own conviction is not evidence,
but it seems fitting to record it. I am persuaded
of the medium's honesty, and of the genuineness
of her trance ; and although at first disposed to
think that the ' hits ' she made were either lucky
26 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
coincidences, or the result of knowledge on her
part of who the sitter was and of his or her
affairs, I now believe her to be in possession of
a power as yet unexplained."
Perhaps a few incidents which Prof. James
regarded as particularly striking, taken from his
report of his sittings with Mrs. Piper during the
years 1885 and '86, may be of interest at this
time, before passing on to other matters.
1. " My mother-in-law, on her return from Europe,
spent a morning vainly seeking for her bank-
book! Mrs. Piper, on being shortly afterwards
asked where this book was, described the place
so exactly that it was instantly found."
2. " I was told by her that the spirit of a boy
named Robert F. was the companion of my
lost infant. The F.'s were cousins of my
wife's, living in a distant city. On my return
home I mentioned the incident to my wife,
saying, 'Your cousin did lose a baby, didn•t
she? But Mrs. Piper was wrong about its
sex, name and age.' I then learned that
Mrs. Piper had been quite right in all those
particulars, and that mine was the wrong
impression."
3. At the time of Mrs. Gibbin's second visit to
Mrs. Piper, she was told that one of her
daughters was suffering from a severe pain
in her back on that day. This altogether
unusual occurrence, unknown to the sitter,
proved to be true.
4. An aunt, purporting to be communicating at
one time, told Prof. James " of the condition
of health of two members of the family in
The Testimony of Prof. James 27
New York, of which we knew nothing at the
time, and which was afterwards corroborated
by letter."
5. At one sitting, Mrs. Piper told Prof. James
"how my New York aunt had written a
letter to my wife warning her against all
mediums, and then went off in a most amus-
ing criticism, full of traits vifs, of the excellent
woman's character."
6. During a sitting, at which Mrs. James and
Prof. James' brother, Robertson James, were
present, they were told that Prof James'
" Aunt Kate," who was then Jiving in New
York, had passed over that morning between
two and half past, and that Prof. James would
be made atquainted with the fact upon his
return home. Commenting on this incident,
Prof. James says-" On reaching home an
hour later I found a telegram as follows-
Aunt Kate passed away a few minutes after
midnight."
Of these and many similar incidents in this first
series of sittings with Mrs. Piper, Prof. James has
this to say, "Insignificant as these things sound
when read, the accumulation of a large number of
them has an irresistible effect. And I repeat
again what I said before, that, taking everything
that I know of Mrs. Piper into account, the result
is to make me feel as absolutely certain as I am
of any personal fact in the world that she knows
things in her trances which she cannot possibly
have heard in her waking state, and that the
definite philosophy of her trances is yet to be
found." (Proc. Vol. VI.)
------------------- - - - - - - - -- - .
28 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
Thus Prof. James wrote in 1890. And four
years later, to quote but one other instance, he
expressed a similar opinion on the occasion of his
becoming president of the Society for Psychical
Research. It was on this occasion, also: that he
used the since famous illustration of the " white
crow " when alluding to a point he wished to
make in connection with Mrs. Piper. " If," he
said, " I may be allowed the language of the
professional logic shop, a universal proposition
can be made untrue by a particular instance. If
you wish to upset the law that all crows are black
you must not seek to show that no crows are ; it
is enough ifyou prove one single crow to be white.
My own white crow is Mrs. Piper. In the trances
of this medium I cannot resist the conviction that
knowledge appears which she has never gained by
the ordinary waking use of her eyes and ears and
wits."
CHAPTER V
PROFESSOR JAMES AND DR. HODGSON
DURING the winter of 1886 and '87, Prof.
James, finding himself overburdened with
college and other responsibilities, and feeling that
"any adequate circumnavigation of the phenomena
would be too protracted a task for me to aspire
just then to undertake," relinquished the personal
supervision of Mrs. Piper's work. His interest,
however, in the phenomenon which up to the time
of his death he regarded as " the most baffling
thing I know," continued unabated throughout his
life. In this connection it is a great pleasure to
record that throughout her long years of associa-
tion with Prof. James and his investigation, my
mother has only the happiest and most grateful
recollections of this charming personality. His
attitude toward her phenomena while sanely critical
at all times, was yet unfailingly sympathetic, and
to her, in common with all who were privileged
to know him, his death in 1911 brought not only
much sorrow but a sense of personal bereavement
as welL
30 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
My own recollections of Prof. James are also of
the happiest, and I want very briefly to record
one or two little incidents which so well illustrate
his thoughtfulness for those around him in spite
of a life "overfreighted," as he himself said, with
responsibility, and of his outstanding ability to
meet on their own ground those younger than
himself. It was very largely these two character-
istics which Prof. James possessed in an unusual
degree that so endeared him to young and old
alike.
The first incident I have in mind occurred one
year when after a protracted stay in England we
returned to America in November, that miserable
month of snow and cold. Our house which we
had let, prior to leaving the States, was still
occupied, with the result that we found ourselves
two days before Thanksgiving, in a rented flat in
Boston surrounded by boxed and crated furniture
of all descriptions, and with not the slightest
chance, moreover, of getting settled for a long
time to come. Now, as probably everyone knows
Thanksgiving in the States is essentially a holiday
of happy family re-unions as well as of much
feasting, and the prospect which loomed before us
returned travellers, was not one that brought much
happiness in itscontemplation. Itwas intothe midst
of this chaos and general lugubriousness that Prof.
James chanced, unexpectedly, with a greeting of
welcome for my mother on her return ; and, as a
result of this unexpected visit, instead of the lonely
holiday we had expected, we spent a merry Thanks-
Prof. James and Dr. Hodgson 3I
g1vmg Day with Prof. James and his family in
their delightful home in Cambridge !
A second incident, which illustrates very clearly
Prof. James' genius for meeting young people on
their own level, occurred while we were at dinner
on this occasion. Someone mentioned that I had
recently won the cup in a tennis tournament
whereupon Prof. James, turning to me with almost
boyish enthusiasm asked quickly, "How big is
your cup? And what is it made of?" I told him
it was a very modest affair indeed, being made of
copper and pewter, and not very big. But my
answer did not seem to satisfy him quite and so
he asked again " How bi"g is it?" I illustrated
then as well as I could, and smiling broadly, he
remarked with much naivete, "Oh, then mine is
bigger than yours ; and mine is made of silver ! "
If I remember correctly, his cup had been pre-
sented to him by his students at Harvard as a
token of the love and veneration in which they
held him.
Prof. James, like Dr. Hodgson and Sir Oliver
Lodge, was the simplest and most unassuming of
men and, as I have said, his thoughtfulness for
others and their comfort was outstanding. One
afternoon, prior to our visit to England in 1909,
he brought Miss Alice Johnson, the research
officer for the S.P.R., then on a visit to America,
to call on my mother. During this visit the
conversation chanced to turn on the atrocities
of the English climate in November, whereupon
Prof. James admonished us strictly "not to for-
32 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
get your goloshes for you will find the London
mud ubiquitous." Again, it was to Prof. James'
thoughtfulness that I owed, on this visit, my
introduction to the Clarks of Harrow, a delightful,
musical family with whom we all spent many
happy hours..
Notwithstanding his busy, over-crowded life,
Prof. James was never too busy, too impatient,
nor too tired to answer patiently and under-
standingly all who in doubt, or perplexity, appealed
to him for help. And it was in great measure
due to his sympathetic encouragement and under-
standing of the many difficulties, with which she
found herself confronted in the early days of her
career, that my mother was able to adhere un-
falteringly to the onerous course which she had
set herself to follow. And later, when in addition
to his college work, Prof. James felt himself un-
able to undertake further his investigation of her
phenomena, it was he who wrote to various
members of the English Society stating so
effectually the puzzling and remarkable facts of
Mrs. Piper's mediumship, and emphasizing so
emphatically his opinion that the phenomenon
was "a genuine mystery," that as a result of
his representations, and only a few weeks later,
Richard Hodgson arrived in America for the
express purpose of continuing, on behalf of the
Society for Psychical Research, the investigation
of that " phenomenon." ·
An Australian by birth and a graduate of
Melbourne University, Richard Hodgson, LL.D.,
Prof. James and Dr. Hodgson 33
and Scholar of St. John's College, Cambridge,
England, fresh from his recent expose in India
of Mme. Blavatsky,* and with unbounded con-
fidence in his ability to detect and uncover fraud
wherever it existed, now undertook the investiga-
tion of these new psychic phenomena determined
to expose the fraud which he was confident existed
but which had thus far successfully cloaked in
mystery, even to an astute mind like Prof. James'
"phenomena undoubtedly of purely natural origin."
In this spirit, then, and with this attitude of mind,
Richard Hodgson undertook that investigation
which was to last until his death in 1905, and
which resulted not only in making him renounce
all preconceived ideas and hypotheses, but which
forced him, eventually, to accept the spiritistic
hypothesis as being the only one that satisfactorily
and adequately explained the phenomena of Mrs.
Piper.
Considering, as we shall, throughout the follow-
ing chapters, as well as incidents in Mrs. Piper's
life, the development of her psychic gift, we shall
better understand, perhaps, how her phenomena
were able to effect the conversion of so redoubt-
able a sceptic as Richard Hodgson.
*Proc. Part 9, Vol. 3.
c
CHAPTER VI
DR. HODGSON BEGINS HIS INVESTIGATION
WHEN Dr. Hodgson began his investigation
with Mrs. Piper, in the spring of 1887, my
father and mother were still living on Beacon
Hill, Boston, with my grandparents. Shortly
afterward, however, both parents, realising that
my sister and I were in danger of being spoilt
by the indiscriminate affection which our grand-
parents were lavishing upon us to a degree
calculated to turn the heads of such tiny folk
completely, decided it would be wiser if we were
removed from the immediate scene of danger,
and with this idea in mind they moved into a
flat in ''The Highlands," at that time a new and
beautiful part of Boston.
This move, very much in the nature of an
experiment-as flats in those days were a distinct
innovation-was regarded rather sceptically by
the ·grandparents ; but the wisdom of it soon
became apparent for my mother, never having
had the responsibility and care of managing a
household, would undoubtedly have found a house
with its greater responsibilities, in conjunction
Dr. Hodgson Investigates 35
with her psychical work, too great a strain. As
it was, the management of servants, the daily
planning and general supervision which even a
small household entails, in addition to her sittings,
left all too little time for recreation or relaxation,
disadvantages, however, which my mother felt
to be immeasurably offset by the fact that we
two irresponsible bits of humanity were no longer
being subjected to the "spoiling" of adoring, but
injudicious, grandparents!
Looking back, now, over my mother's life it is
amazing to me how she ever accomplished what
she did : for no one, who has not learned it by
personal observation, can in any degree appreciate
the fag and strain that constant psychical activity
entails on the psychic ; and this, even when it is
unaccompanied by stress of any other kind. Only
a woman of exceptional mentality and fine con-
stitution could have come through my mother's
life unscathed. In those early days, in addition
to the management of her household and the
general control and supervision of us children-
for she could never bring herself to entrust us
who11y to the care of nurse or governess-she
was giving, on an average, two sittings a day;
and these, for the most part, to persons totally
unknown to her who came from all parts of the
world, and for whom appointments had been
made by Dr. Hodgson.
This condition of concealed identity on the part
of the sitter, was in itself a great strain, ~nd one
the full significance of which can be appreciated
/
36 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
only when it is realised that Mrs. Piper's phe-
nomena are accompanied by a deep sleep, or
trance. Only the utmost confidence in the judg-
ment and discernment of Dr. Hodgson could
make the imposition of such a condition possible,
a confidence, which it is almost an impertinence
to add, was at all times merited in the fullest.·
Apparently, one of the most difficult things for
anyone who has come to know my mother at all
intimately, to understand, is how a woman of
such innate refinement and a temperament which
from the first shrank with almost undue sensitive-
ness from publicity or notoriety in any form,
should or could have deliberately chosen to devote
her life to the development of a gift which would
of necessity involve her in both. And to all
who have questioned her on this point she has
invariably replied, "When I found that I pos-
sessed a gift, power, or what you will, which to
the best of my knowledge formed no part of
my conscious Self, I determined then that I
would give my life, if need be, in the attempt
to fathom its true nature." And in later years,
she has sometimes added, " But I wonder if, now
'
after all this time, we are any nearer the real
solution than we were at the beginning." An
arresting reflection and one which now, more
than forty years after Mrs. Piper began her quest,
can yet only be answered according to indivi-
dual conviction.
But if this particular aim has not been attained,
much else of value and importance has been ac-
Dr. Hodgson Investigates 37
complished. When Mrs. Piper began her work,
spiritualism was befouled by vulgar, hysterical
exploitation. Fraud, charlatanry, blatant deceit
and trickery were everywhere rampant, and
medium after medium after causing, for varying
periods of time, the entire country to gape with
wonder at the miracles which they performed,
were eventually caught red-handed and ruthlessly
exposed to a bewildered and indignant public.
Things had come to such a pass, indeed, that
persons with a claim to any degree of respecta-
bility, let alone culture and refinement, seldom
deigned to touch even the outer fringe of spirit-
ualism so afraid were they of the reputation which
clung round the whole subject at that time. It
was as the American writer, Margaret Deland,
so truly puts it when she says, writing of the
early 9o's, "It never occurred to me to investigate
my own premise: 'there cannot be personality
without an organism.' Such investigation meant,
I thought, spiritualism-and the very word irri-
tated me. It stood, in my mind, for trivialities
and vulgarities ; for mediumistic utterances, often
offensive to taste, and frequently accompanied by
clap-trap as old as the rods of the Egyptian
priests that turned into serpents-and yet as
young as those early 9o's, when tables tipped
and tambourines floated."
And what was true of America was likewise
true of the European Continent and farthest
India. Everywhere, the most startling spiritual-
istic phenomena appeared and for a time, swept
- - ---- - - · · - - - -
38 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
forward on a great wave of hysteria only to be
beaten back eventually by the unmasking and
expose of their perpetrators. At no time in its
history has spiritualism been in greater disrepute.
And Mrs. Piper knew this. It was not as if
she had been ignorant of the true condition of
affairs, or had failed to realise their seriousness.
But secure in the knowledge of her own integrity,
she courageously accepted the challenge which
the whole world, at that time, was throwing in
the face of spiritualism. And once having taken
the first step forward she never turned back.
When criticism and contumely were heaped upon
her by friends and even relatives, she did not
falter. She had placed her hand upon the plough
and continued her furrow to the end, thus earning
the respect and admiration of peoples in all parts
of the globe, for I am told by those who know,
that records of her remarkable phenomena have
been translated into practically every tongue
spoken to-day, including Chinese.
In his interesting little book, " Mrs. Piper and
the Society for Psychical Research," Mons. Sage
says in part, "Praise and warm gratitude are
due to the men who have studied the case of
Mrs. Piper. But we owe no less to Mrs. Piper,
who has lent herself to the investigation with
perfect good faith and pliability. None of those
who have had any continued intercourse with
her have a shadow of doubt of her sincerity.
She has not taken the view that she was exercis..
ing a new kind of priesthood ; she has under-
Dr. Hodgson Investigates 39
stood that she was an interesting anomaly for
science and she has allowed science to study
her."
And in this alone, if in nothing else, Mrs.
Piper z"s unique. She, herself, in all these years
has never made any claim for her power. She
has never professed to be able to do this or that.
Her attitude has always been one of simple
desire to know the truth, to discover, if possible,
the real nature of her power. Thus, when at
various times in her career she has been ap-
proached by persons who, deeply impressed by
her phenomena, have offered her every conceiv-
able inducement to use her gift for their private
interests, she has steadfastly refused, preferring
to devote her time and power to the interests
of science rather than to private exploitation.
But the decision, in the first place, to develop
that 'power at all, was not so easily arrived at
as perhaps I have made it appear. Notwith-
standing her fundame'ntal desire to understand,
if might be, the raison d'etre of her phenomena,
her aliveness to the unsavoury atmosphere with
which the subject was at that time surrounded,
and the inevitableness of having her name in-
eradicably connected with it for all future time,
caused her many moments of serious reflection
and perplexity; and, it was only after the most
earnest consideration and prayer, that her decision
was finally taken. Moreover, in spite of her
high courage and unswerving integrity of purpose,
even she, in the face of the many trials, discourage-
40 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
ments and disappointments, which she encountered
from time to time, and above which she forced
herself to rise, would have found it almost im-
possible to carry on but for her unshakable faith
in the ability of Right to triumph over Wrong,
and in a just and beneficient Power which in-
dubitably watches over us all, even in our darkest
hours.
This unalterable faith, so characteristic of my
mother, even· as it was of her mother, has
throughout her life been to her a never failing
source of strength. Not very long ago, when I
was passing through a time of great mental and
physical stress, in a letter full of quiet confidence
and faith that all would yet end well, my mother,
after referring briefly to a few of her own diffi-
culties which she had overcome, ended her letter
thus, "And so, in spite of all, my faith i~ strong.
The Lord has never forsaken me even in my
darkest hours, nor will He you now, my child.
But you must have faith, for without faith we
can accomplish nothing."
It was this same faith which not only carried
my mother triumphantly through those difficult
years when Dr. Hodgson, firm in his unbelief
that psychical phenomena could be produced by
other than normal means, mercilessly probed and
probed for that which he confidently expected,
if not hoped, to find ; but which also enabled
her, still in the interests of science, to give up
her home within two years of its establishment,
in order that by taking her out of her own
Dr. Hodgson Investigates 41
country, Dr. Hodgson might definitely prove to
his own and to the satisfaction of all who were
interested, whether or not Mrs. Piper's phenomena
were produced by the procuration-through ordi- •
nary and recognised channels-of information
concerning those who came to her for sittings.
For only a sublime faith could have made so
young a woman, and one so devoted to her
home and family as my mother, take this drastic
step, the wisdom of which only time and sub-
sequent events could prove.
CHAPTER VII
DR. HODGSON1
S PROPOSAL
IT must not be forgotten that Dr. Hodgson
began his experiments with Mrs. Piper with
the firm conviction partially inherent, partially
based on previous experience, that here was
another instance of fraud, cleverly perpetrated,
undoubtedly, as that keen observer and able
psychologist, William Ja:mes had already placed
himself on record as believing in its genuineness-
but fraudulent nevertheless, for were not all
psychical, or spiritualistic phenomena fraudulent
in one way or another? Indeed, during the latter
years of his investigation, I more than once heard
Dr. Hodgson say, ruefully, that his amour propre
had never quite recovered from the shock it
received when he found himself forced to accept
unreservedly the genuineness of the so-called
" Piper phenomena." It is, therefore, not sur-
prising that such a staunch sceptic did not re-
linquish his ingrained conviction without a struggle,
or that, when finally forced to admit and accept
the genuineness of the trance state itself, he should
still seek doggedly for some materialistic explana-
tion of the phenomena produced.
How and by what means was the intimate
knowledge of the lives of her sitters, their friends,
and their relatives which Mrs. Piper displayed in
Dr. Hodgson's Proposal 43
her trance state, acquired? This was the question
which confronted Dr. Hodgson and which for
years he tried to explain by any and all hypotheses
except the spiritistic hypothesis.
The obvious materialistic explanation, that of
information being obtained by agents, occurred to
Dr. Hodgson at an early stage of his investigation
and when, a little later, a member of the American
branch of the English Society for Psychical .Re-
search of which Dr. Hodgson had been made
secretary, definitely put forward the suggestion
that it might be well to watch not only Mrs.
Piper's movements, but the movements of the
various members of her household as well, Dr.
Hodgson decided forthwith to act upon it.
Had those responsible for this experiment
stopped to consider the e~ormous expense that
must have been involved in a system of espionage
sufficiently extensive to provide Mrs. Piper with
the minutire of detail which she gave to her sitters,
who even in those early days came to her from
all over the world, such an hypothesis must, from
the outset, have been recognised as untenable. Dr.
Hodgson, however, actuated by his preconceived
idea that all so-called psychical phenomena must
of necessity have their origin in some materialistic
source, and determined at all costs to trace these
particular phenomena to their beginning, decided
that no stone should be left unturned in the effort
to find that beginning. It soon became evident,
however, that whatever the ultimate explanation
of the " Piper phenomena" might be, it did not
44 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
lie in any of the ordinary materialistic explanations;
for the agent employed by Dr. Hodgson reported
that neither Mr. Piper nor Mrs. Piper, nor any
member of their household, questioned anyone
indiscreetly, made any suspicious journeys, visited
cemeteries in order to obtain names, dates or other
information from the tombstones, or employed
agents to act in this capacity for them.
So far, then, the phenomena remained as great
a mystery as ever. But this experiment was
productive of another result which had not been
foreseen by its investigators ; for when my mother
first learned of this step which had "been taken
in the interests of science," and notwithstanding
the fact that it had resulted wholly to her credit,
she was so distressed and indignant that such an
action should have been thought necessary that
she was sorely tempted to refuse, henceforth, to
have anything further to do either with the work
or with Dr. Hodgson. Her own consciousness of
integrity and her sense of dignity were so outraged
that it was difficult, almost impossible, for her to
realise at that moment that had this step not been
taken it was possible, incredible as it appeared to
her, that from time to time some doubting Thomas
might arise who would advance as a possible, even
probable solution to an otherwise baffling enigma,
the very hypothesis that had now and for all time
been eliminated. Eventually, however, her sound
common sense and good judgment triumphed over
the first sense of personal indignity, and in this
she was to a large extent, helped by Prof. James
Dr. Hodgson's Proposal 45
who, while regretting the incident from her point
of view, yet realised its importance to the future
progress of the work. The following excerpt from
one of Prof. James' letters to my mother at that
time, is interesting as illustrative of his attitude in
the matter. He writes in part:-" I hope neither
you nor your husband will take the thing seriously,
it has its very comic side, and you are the ones
who can best afford to laught at it. Above all,
keep good friends with Hodgson, who is perhaps
the most high minded and truthful man I know."
Considering the results of this acid test it would
seem that one might be justified in expecting Dr.
Hodgson, thenceforth, to have relaxed, to some
extent at least, his hyper sceptical and critical
attitude toward these particular phenomena : yet
nothing of this kind occurred. Neither this con-
clusive test nor the precautions which Dr. Hodgson
had adopted from the first of making the appoint-
ments for sitters himself; introducing them to
Mrs. Piper, if at all, under pseudonyms ; or bring-
ing them into the room only after the trance state
had begun, convinced him that a materialistic
explanation was not to be discovered and with
unabated zeal, therefore, he continued to seek for
further and, if possible, more stringent precautions
and experiments which might be tried.
Thus, a little later, he conceived the idea of
removing Mrs. Piper from her normal surround-
ings and associations and placing her in a foreign
country where she would be not only completely
separated from her friends and family but would
46 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
also be surrounded by people, customs, and en-
vironment entirely strange to her. This idea of
Dr. Hodgson's having met with Prof. James'
approval, he next communicated it to one or
two members of the English S.P.R., who had
previously shown themselve·s more than ordinarily
interested in the reports of Mrs. Piper's phe-
nomena, and in due course received a reply from
Mr. F. W. H. Myers suggesting that Mrs. Piper
should come to England for a short visit for the
purpose of allowing the English members there to
investigate her psychic power. This suggestion
fitting in with Dr. Hodgson's purpose exactly, it
only then remained for him to broach the subject
to Mrs. Piper which he did in the following letter.
18th Aug., 1889.
" DEAR MRS. PIPER,
" Will you take into consideration the idea of
visiting England, to remain there about a month, from
say the middle of October to middle of November? My
friend Myers suggests it in a letter to me. You would
be in Cambridge part of the time and London part of
the time. The object of the visit is to enable some of
my friends in England, who are much interested in the
accounts which they have had, to have some sittings with
you. Please let me know at once whether you will think
about it. I shall hope to see you at latter part of this
week if you will be in Boston then, and can explain at
more .Jength than I can write. But I am anxious to hear
from you at once on the matter. A letter to usual address
will be forwarded to me. It would involve your leaving
America about beginning of October and returning about
end of November.
Yours sincerely,
RICHARD HODGSON."
CHAPTER VIII
ENGLAND, NOVEMBER I 889
WHEN Dr. Hodgson's letter reached her in
the White Mountains, where she was
resting during the summer months, my mother
was not only amazed but greatly perturbed as
well. What could these investigators be thinking
about? Did they really mean and did they really
expect her to leave her husband and two little
children and travel three thousand miles across
the Atlantic Ocean merely for the purpose of
further probing, and testing, and experimenting?
Surely this was more than could legitimately be
expected of her! And, yet, what if she refused ?
What construction would be put upon such a
decision were she to make it?
In her perplexity and anxiety she did, indeed,
regret that she had ever undertaken her work, or,
at least, that she had ever lent herself to scientific
investigation and, until now, whole-hearted co-
operation with her investigators. In her dilemma
she appealed to my father for help and advice in
making her decision; but he, in his earnest desire
to help her most, and feeling that her own judg-
48 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
ment and intuition must inevitably prove her best
counsellors, steadfastly refrained from influencing
her one way or the other.
That the situation with which my mother was
at this time faced was not an easy one, I think,
will be readily conceded. My father was a man
unusually fond of and dependant upon his home ;
and while, in Dr. Hodgson's letter, a month had
been suggested as the probable length of the
proposed visit, it seemed not improbable, as
eventually proved to be the case, that it might
be longer. Then, again, my mother refused to
consider the suggestion at. all unless she was
allowed to take her two little children, my sister
and myself, with her ; while my father would not
hear of being left alone subject only to the minis-
trations of a housekeeper.
At last, permission having been granted my
mother to take us with her, and my father having
expressed himself as willing to stay with his
parents during the time we should be away, my
mother decided to accept Dr. Hodgsons' proposal.
Now began a time of much bustle and activity
of which I remember little save the atmosphere of
general excitement and a few outstanding features.
The little home that had so recently been acquired
was given up-it being impossible in those days
to let anything quickly or for a short time-the
pretty furniture and furnishings, which had given
both parents so much pleasure in the choosing
thereof, were boxed and crated, and through it
all my mother was nerving herself to face, with
England 49
what courage she could, this new and greatest test.
Only a few months previously, my grandparents
had bought a large house in Arlington Heights, a
new and very beautiful suburb of Boston, and to
this refuge, a fortnight before the date of sailing,
the flat at the Highlands having by that time
been dismantled and the boxed and crated
furniture stored nearby, my father and "we two"
betook ourselves; "mama" having gone to stay
with Prof. and Mrs. James in New Hampshire
for a brief holiday as well as to discuss the final
arrangements for her forthcoming trip.
During this visit at Chocorua, my mother en-
joyed many happy hours of climbing and fishing
with Prof. James, Dr. Hodgson, and other
members of the household and, incidentally, had
the distinction of catching the largest bass that
up to that time had ever been caught in Lake
Chocorua. Of his impressions formed of my
mother during this visit, Prof. James wrote to
Mr. Myers-" I then learned to know her person-
ally better than ever before and had confirmed in
me the belief that she is an absolutely simple and
genuine person. No one when challenged can give
' evidence ' to others for such a belief as this. Yet
we all live by them from day to day, and personally
I should be willing to stake as much money on
Mrs. Piper's honesty as on that of anyone I know,
and am quite satisfied to leave my reputation for
wisdom or folly, so far as human nature is con-
cerned, to stand or fall by this declaration." And
just before my mother sailed, Prof. James wrote
D
-,..-------------·----------·- - --·----~-------·-----------·----·---
50 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
her a letter in which he wished her " God-
speed," gave her much sound advice, and concluded
characteristically thus, "and I hope you will con-
tinue to be the same simple, genuine, unassuming
Yankee girl that you are now." Prof. James
himself was nothing if not genuine and unassuming
and nothing ever appealed to him more.
At last the actual day of our departure arrived
and on Nov. 9th., I 889, we sailed from Boston on
the old Cunarder " Scythia." I suppose I shall
never forget that experience for the memory of it
is as fresh to-day as at the time it happened. I
was heartbroken at leaving my father and cried
bitterly, begging and imploring him to "come too."
Of course this could not be, but tiny tot that I
was I could not grasp the exigency which made
the separation necessary ; nor realise that my
grief was but making it harder for both parents.
In an effort to distract my mind and so assuage
my grief, my father tossed me from the pier several
bright new pennies which, though I scrambled
about the deck to find them, still left me unconsol-
able ; and even after the big ship weighed anchor
and the lonely figures on the dock had faded from
our sight, I still cried bitterly. It was then that
my little sister, always the angel of the family,
bravely putting aside her own grief, patiently tried
to comfort mine. I seem to hear her now, with
her little arms about my neck-" Don't ky, Alta
dear ; please don't ky ; you're making mama ky
too." But the bitterest grief passes eventually
and the next thing I remember was the jolly rope
England
swing which by the Captain's orders had been
erected in the bow of the ship for " the little
American ladies." It was not often, however,
that we could make use of this new pleasure, for
the crossing even for that time of year was the
worst on record, and we steamed into the Mersey
minus bulwarks and ventilators and with the ship
covered with ice.
Dr. Hodgson had stipulated that my mother
should not take our own nurse with her as the
principal object of this visit to England was to
surround her with everything new and strange ;
but, owing to the fortunate circumstances of
"Minnie's" deciding to visit her uncle in Ireland
at that particular time, she crossed with us as far
as Queenstown and, in this way, my mother was
relieved of a good deal of care and responsibility
on the outward voyage.
When we called at Queenstown, my mother
received this letter from Mr. Myers which so
well illustrates his characteristic and kindly
thoughtfulness for all with whom he was at any
time associated.
" DEAR MRS. PIPER.,
LECKHAMPTON HOUSE,
CAMBR.IDGE, ENGLAND,
Nov., 14th., '89.
I am so very glad you are coming after all ! and we
will do our best to make your visit pleasant. My wife
and I hope that you will stay wi'th us it'll you are suited
with lodgings and we shall try to find lodgings near us,
so that your children may be able to play in our garden.
52 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
I am hoping to meet you at Liverpool. The Cunard
Company say that the "Scythia" is due there Monday
evening, 18th., or Tuesday morning, 19th. I shall go
there on Monday evening about 5-to the London and
North Western Hotel, Lime Street (which adjoins the
station from which you will have to leave) and I shall
look out for you there that evening. J shall try and go
out on the tender, or meet you at the landing-place; but
at any rate I shall be at the hotel. Next morning,
Tuesday 19th., I most unluckily have to go to Edinburgh
to deliver a lecture-so I must leave Liverpool. But if
you have not arrived on Monday evening so that I myself
receive you, I shall see that a friend is there to receive
you-Mr. J. A. Smith, whom you will much like. He
was Mr. Gurney's secretary. In that case he will conduct
you to Cambridge. If you are looking out for him or me
on the tender, remember that he is a short young man
with well cut features, black hair, mustache, but no beard ;
and that I am rather tall and stout, with short, greyish
beard and probably great-coat with fur collar.
The journey from Liverpool to Cambridge is very easy.
You leave Liverpool at 9.4 a.m. or noon, change at
Bletchley, and reach Cambridge 3.491 or 6.13 p.m. There
are no good trains later, and as you have young children
with you you had better take one of these trains. But
Smith or I will be there to help you. I will engage a
nursemaid for you.
I hope you have had a good voyage and will get this at
Queenstown.
Yours very truly,
F. w. H. MYERS."
The " Scythia" did not reach Liverpool until
Tuesday the 19th. Mrs. Piper was then met
at the pier by a hotel servant who handed her
another letter from Mr. Myres explaining his
enforced absence on account of his lecture that
I
England 53
even'ing in Edinburgh. He also explained the
arrangements he had made for her at the hotel,
and introduced his friend Sir Oliver Lodge-then
Prof. Lodge-whom he had finally delegated to
meet her. Prof. Lodge took us all directly to the
hotel and there my mother rested quietly until
Mr. Myers arrived on Thursday morning when
he conducted us to Leckhampton House, his
charming home in Cambridge. When Mr. Myers
introduced my mother to his wife Mrs. Myers,
who spoke with a slight lisp, exclaimed in sur-
prise: "Why, Mrs. Piper, you are .not at all like
what I expected! I thought you would wear
your hair in frizettes and be dressed in majenta !"
CHAPTER IX
MR. MYERS AND SIR OLIVER LODGE
ALMOST immediately following Mrs. Piper's
arrival in Cambridge, the English series of
eighty-three sittings were begun. This series,
supervised by Mr. Myers, Prof. Lodge, and Mr.
\\Talter Leaf, and given between November 1889
and February 1890, contains much of interest to
students and laymen alike. The possibilities
which the record of these phenomena suggest to
even the casual reader are intriguing ; and from
the student invite close examination and study.
Obviously, any analysis of them within the limits
of this small volume, would be impossible, but the
narration of a few incidents chosen at random' from
the printed records, as well as of the precautions
which the English experimenters employed at this
time, is essential for our purpose here.
Let us begin the narration by reading what
Mr. Myers in his resume tells us of the pre-
cautions which he personally thought it wise to
take. Referring to Mrs. Piper, he writes : " She
stayed first in my house, and I am convinced she
Mr. Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge 55
brought with her a very slender knowledge of
English affairs or English people. The servant
who attended on her and on her two young
children was chosen by myself, and was a young
woman from a country village whom I had full
reason to believe to be both trustworthy and also
quite ignorant of my own or my friends' affairs.
For the most part I had myself not determined
upon the persons whom I would invite to sit with
her. I chose these sitters in great measure by
chance ; several of them were not resident in
Cambridge; and (except in one or two cases where
anonymity would have been hard to preserve) I
brought them to her under false names-some-
times introducing them only when the trance had
already begun." (Proc. Vol. 8).
So much for Cambridge and Mr. Myers! But
Prof. Lodge exceeded even Mr. Myers in his
precautionary measures. Prior to Mrs. Piper's
stay in Liverpool, Mrs. Lodge-as she was then-
had engaged an entire new staff of servants ; and
on the morning following Mrs. Piper's arrival,
Prof. Lodge collected and safely locked away the
family Bible-that oft time~ fertile source of dates
and names-and all family photograph albums as
well. Moreover, throughout the duration of her
stay, all of Mrs. Piper's correspondence passed
through Prof. Lodge's hands and permission, in
practically all instances, was given him to read it.
One day, it having occurred to Prof. Lodge
that some, at any rate, of the puzzling knowledge
which Mrs. Piper displayed in the trance state
56 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
might be derived from a perusal of certain books,
such, for instance, as directories, biographies,
"l\Ten of the Times," etc., he proceeded to search
her luggage in toto without, however, it is hardly
necessary to add, finding that for which he sought.
Permission for this examination of her boxes was
first obtained from Mrs. Piper though, naturally,
the request was perfunctory, otherwise the search
must have been regarded as futile.
At another time, being curious to know how
m<iny of the incidents concerning the boyhood
d;1ys of two of his uncles-one having been
dead some twenty years, while the other, a twin
bi-other, was then "quite an old man "-with
which "Phinuit" showed himself extraordinarily
familiar, might perhaps have been obtained by
normal means, Prof. Lodge sent a professional
inquiry agent to the scene of the various child-
hood episodes, retailed by Phinuit, for the
purpose of making full and exhaustive inquiries
regarding them. This agent's report is interest-
ing. "Mrs. Piper,'' he wrote to Prof. Lodge,
"has certainly beaten me. My inquiries in
modern Barking yield less information than she
g·ave. Yet the most skilful agent could have
done no more than secure the assistance of the
local record keepers and the oldest inhabitants
living. I have failed up to the present to prove
from these records that there was a Smith's field,
and, therefore, cannot trace the Smith boys. I
cannot find anyone who remembers the creek
incident ; nor can I learn anything whatever
Mr. Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge 57
about Mrs. Cannon from the old people." And
again, later, "The Tithe Collecting Agency is a
failure. The Secretary has no old records, and
no possible means whatever of assisting us to
discover the Smith's field. I have no further
ideas at present. Can you suggest anything?"
Is it surprising or to be wondered at, in view
of the foregoing expedients and precautions which
Prof. Lodge adopted, that he should have felt
able, when making his report, to express his
conclusions in these unequivocable terms-· "Mrs.
Piper's attitude is not one of deception." Or,
again, "No conceivable deception on the part of
Mrs. Piper can explain the facts."
During this visit to England Mrs. Piper stayed
twice in Cambridge with Mr. and Mrs. Myers
and Prof. and Mrs. Sidgwick ; twice in Liverpool
with Prof. and Mrs. Lodge; and twice in London
in lodgings chosen for her by those in charge of
the investigations. And wherever she stayed all
her movements were planned and arranged for
her, and even when shopping she was accompanied
by some member of the Society. Moreover, to
add to the general strain that she was under,
during her stay in London both my mother and I
succumbed to a sharp attack of influenza, and to
be ill in a foreign country three thousand miles
from home, surrounded by strangers however
kindly, is neither cheering nor reassuring. How-
ever, under the skilful and sympathetic treatment
of Mr. Myers' brother, Dr. Myers, we both re-
covered fairly quickly from a very nasty attack.
'58 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
London, in those days, was not what it is now.
For instance, in the little hotel, where the Society
had taken rooms for us, candles were used for
lighting purposes, and a tiny fireplace was sup-
posed to heat adequately a good sized room, even
in a particularly cold and gloomy November.
Thus, to one accustomed to the more modern
conveniences (even at that ~ime), bright sunshine
and blue skies of America, the feebly lighted and
inadequately heated rooms, black fogs and leaden
skies of England in winter, were bound to be
depressing as well as extremely trying ; all of
which added appreciably to the constant strain
under which my mother laboured during this first
visit.
Although my personal recollections of this first
visit are naturally rather hazy, there are one or two
incidents which are still quite vivid. One is that
of Mr. Myers playing " bear" with us and his
own three little children Sylvia, Leo, and Harold,
in the nursery at Leckhampton House, when, on
hands and knees and "growling" ferociously amid
shouts of laughter from us children, he crawled
in and out. among the nursery furniture until one
by one he proved too quick for us and caught us
all. And, again, his storming of our "fort," a
grassy mound in the garden which we all struggled
excitedly and valiantly but ineffectually to hold
against him.
En passant, let me mention here, that my
mother's outstanding personal recollection of this
time is centred about Mr. Myers. His charming
F. W. H. MYERS
[face p. 58
Mr. Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge 59
voice, great culture, poetical mind, and, withal,
simple, kindly, and sympathetic nature was to her,
during this visit, a source of helpfulness, pleasure
and inspiration for which, and of which, she has
always remained not only grateful but unforgetting.
Of Sir Oliver's family my only recollections of
those early days is of "Violet," the eldest daughter,
though then only two and a halfyears old, but who
in later years was to become one of my closest and
dearest friends, and the recollection is an amusing
one. It was Sir Oliver's custom, whenever a
sitting was in progress, to pin on the outside of his
study door a slip of paper bearing the one word
in large letters " SILENCE" ; and little Violet,
having been cautioned about this, never failed
to say most solemnly and admonishingly as, for
instance, we all trooped noisily down the passage
when returning from a walk, "Hush! Papa's
smz'lence is on the door."
These are the happy memories of that time.
But there is, as well, one memory not so happy ;
and this concerns the first time in our lives when
my sister and I were separated from " mama."
During one of my mother's visits to "Leckhampton
House," Mr. Myers, thinking it might be more
restful for her, arranged for us and our nurse to
have rooms in another house a little distance away
but near enough for us to run across and play in
his beautiful garden whenever we wished. Mr.
Myers' only idea in making this arrangement, as
I have said, was to afford my mother, who was
devotion itself, greater rest and freedom for a
60 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
time ; but never shall I forget the evening when
the change was made. When it finally became
clear to me on this particular evening that we
were not merely going for a walk but were, in
fact, not returning to Leckhampton House that
night, which meant of course being separated from
"mama," I refused pointblank and quite definitely
to budge one inch ; and the more my mother tried
to reason with me the more I sobbed and the
tighter I clung to her. Finally, feeling the coming
separation herself very keenly and greatly affected
by my stormy grief she managed to release herself
from my grasp and disappeared into the house
saying that she would be out again in a moment.
But she did not return, alas! Instead, out came
Mr. Myers very kind but exceedingly firm ; and
recognising the inevitable at last, I allowed the·
long suffering nurse to lead me still sobbing away.
Looking back across the years from this distance
and trying to reconstruct and visualise some at
least of my mother's experiences during that early
visit to England, I wonder how, surrounded ·by
strangers and an atmosphere of critical suspicion
wherever she went, a woman C?f her highly-strung,
sensitive nature could have endured with any
degree of fortitude, those months of investigation
in a strange land. And I find the only answer
to my wanderings in the personality of the woman
·herself. It is as Lady Lodge said to a friend last
autumn-" When I first knew that my husband
and Mr. Myers wanted the medium with whom
they desired to experiment to stay in our house,
Mr. Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge 61
I was very much opposed to the whole idea. I
wasn't interested then in Psychical Research or
in mediums, though because of my husband's
great interest I finally acquiesced to his proposal.
Then, when Mrs. Piper came to us and I saw
that beautiful face and realised the utter refine-
ment of the woman, I became interested in my
husband's investigations in spite of myself."
And so it came about that when Mrs. Piper
sailed from Liverpool for New York in February
1890, she watched the shores of England fade
from view with mingled feelings of pleasure and
regret. During her brief sojourn there, she had
made many friends and had come triumphantly
through an ordeal which had sometimes sorely
taxed both her courage and her strength, but the
stress had indeed been great and she was very
tired. Then too, she had been away from her
own country and those she loved for what was
beginning to seem a long long time, and the call
of home was becoming increasingly urgent with
every passing day. In spite of this, however, the
culture, the refinement, and the old world charm
of England had wound themselves very tightly
about her heart so that it was not wholly with
unalloyed joy that she saw the hats of Prof. Lodge
and Mr. Thompson which they had boyishly
placed on the ends of their sticks and were waving
in farewell, gradually fade into the mists of the
Mersey as the White Star Liner slowly drew
away from the little tender, homeward bound!
CHAPTER X
TRANCE CONDITIONS
NOW, in the previous chapter we have noted
the effective surveillance with which Mrs·
Piper was surrounded in England and it might
be as well at this juncture to point out that,
allowances being made for her. different mode of
living in America-that is, living in her own home,
for instance-much the same watchfulness and
supervision of her movements surrounded her
there.
In regard to the sittings in the States, all new
sitters were invariably accompanied by either Dr.
Hodgson or his secretary Miss Lucy Edmunds,
and both took every possible precaution to conceal
the sitter's identity. An amusing illustration of Dr.
Hodgson's extreme caution in this particular has
recently come to my knowledge. It appears that
one very wet morning as Dr. Hodgson and a
sitter entered the house at Arlington Heights, the
lady deposited her dripping umbrella in the stand
provided for that purpose near the front door.
Whereupon Dr. Hodgson, who was already half-
)
Trance Conditions
way up the stairs, noticing her action immediately
rushed down again, and· seizing her by the arm
admonished her brusquely thus-'' You idiot !
Haven't you any more sense than to do a thing
like that? Don't you know that you might be
accused of being in colJusion with Mrs. Piper if
you leave your umbrella there? It might be
thought that by this means you were conveying a
note, or other information to Mrs. Piper through
one of her daughters, for instance. Bring your
umbrella upstairs, even if it is wet, and in future
mind what you're about!"
Then there was the case of Prof. Hyslop who
on the occasion of his first two or three sittings
with Mrs. Piper, took the extraordinary precaution
of putting on a mask before he got out of the cab,
removed it only after Mrs. Piper was entranced,
and resumed it before she awoke!
I have sometimes, in looking back upon those
old days, wondered what the old cabby, Mr. Dow,
must have thought of the actions of some of his
patrons ; or of the scraps of conversation which
must occasionalJy have reached his ears! And
speaking of this reminds me of another recollection
of Dr. Hodgson. Meticulous as he was in con-
cealing the sitter's identity, he was, if possible,
even more careful about keeping the appointments
made for sitters, never allowing any circumstance
within human control to interfere with the arrange-
ments made by" lmperator." Ifa sitter for whom
an appointment had been made was prevented from
keeping that appointment by illness or any other
64 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
unforeseen or unavoidable reason, Dr. Hodgson
himself, or Miss Edmunds, would take it on behalf
of the sitter.
This punctiliousness on Dr. Hodgson's part
was sometimes carried into effect only under great
difficulties and inconvenience as, for instance, when
the long three quarter of a mile hill from the
station to our house was a glare of ice in winter.
No conveyance was then available, but undeterred
Dr. Hodgson many a time made the journey on
foot though not without grave personal risk. The
ascent was bad enough but the descent infinitely
worse. This redoubtable spirit, however, proved
himself equal to the emergency and borrowing
one of our" flexible flyers" imperturbably coasted
that perilous three-quarters of a mile to the station..
Something of the man's character and utter ab-
sorption in his work can be deduced from this.
I have already mentioned several of the pre-
cautions in connection with ·the sitters and the
sittings which Dr. Hodgson felt it expedient to
take. There yet remains, however, his interdiction
with regard to the daily newspaper which perhaps
is the most extraordinary of all. Thinking that
possibly something regarding a prospective sitter
might be gleaned through this medium by Mrs.
Piper, Dr. Hodgson forbade her to see a morning
newspaper on the days sittings were to be given.
And, moreover, he carried his zeal so far that he
went to the one and only local newsagent at the
Heights and ordered him on no account to deliver
a morning paper to Mrs. Piper on the first three
Trance Conditions
days of the week ! It is only fair to explain, how-
ever, that many of the sitters who were known to
Mrs. Piper were prominent in the public eye and
it was quite possible that some item of interest
regarding them might have appeared in the paper
prior to their having a sitting. An example of
this can be found in the incident of the death of
"Mme. Elisa's friend 'F' ", recorded in Chapter
XIV. But it all goes to show how Mrs. Piper's
movements were watched and controlled, and how
little she was allowed, in those days, to live her
life in her own way.
Now, apart from the precautionary measures
taken to prevent Mrs. Piper obtaining knowledge
of her sitters in any normal way, both Dr. Hodgson
and Prof. James (I am speaking now of the very
early days) felt it important that certain tests
should be made to estaplish definitely and once
and for all whether the trance into which Mrs.
Piper appeared to pass during the sitting, was in
truth the deep sleep it seemed to be, or was,
perhaps, an exceedingly cleverly feigned condition.
To this end, then, certain rather drastic measures
were employed.
Among other experiments, Prof. James reported
that during trance he had found Mrs. Piper's lips and
tongue insensible to pain, and Dr. Hodgson later
confirmed this statement by placing a spoonful of
last in Mrs. Piper's mouth no notice whatever being
taken of the proceedure. Hodgson, also, applied
strong ammonia to the nostrils taking "especial
pains to see that the ammonia was actually inhaled"
E
66 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
without, however, eliciting any signs of discomfort.
Experiments in pinching "sometimes rather severe-
ly" were also tried, the effect of which was to make
the affected parts " feel like a stick." And once,
when Dr. Hodgson suddenly placed a lighted
match against the forearm, in reply to his question
if pain was felt, he was told " No, felt cold."
But the most drastic experiment ever tried in
those early days was when Prof. James, who was
a fully qualified physician as well as psychologist,
during a sitting at which Mrs. James was present,
made a small incision in Mrs. Piper's left wrist.
During the trance state no notice was taken of
this action and the wound did not bleed ; but
immediately upon awaking the wound bled freely,
and Mrs. Piper bears the slight scar the incision
left on her wrist, to-day.
In England, a few similar experiments were
tried. Prof. Lodge pushed a needle suddenly into
Mrs. Piper's hand ; and at another time Prof.
Richet inserted a feather up her nostril. But in
neither case was any notice taken of the act
or any discomfort felt.
To anyone who knows Mrs. Piper well in every-
day life, and realises her extreme sensibility to pain,
these experiments afford food for thought. In
normal .life Mrs. Piper is a true "Sensitive" in
all ways. An almost imperceptible bruise will
cause the skin to remain discoloured for days ;
while an inconsequential burn from sealing wax I
have known to cause her great pain and discomfort
for some time.
Trance Conditions
Perhaps, while we are considering the trance
state thus particularly, it may be interesting to
read Mrs. Piper's own description of her sensa-
tions while passing in and out of this deep sleep
in which so much of her life has been spent. " I
feel," she says, "as if something were passing over
my brain making it numb ; a sensation similar to
that I experienced when I was etherised, only the
unpleasant odour of the ether is absent. I feel a
little cold, too, not very, just a little, as if a cold
breeze passed over me, and people and objects
become smaller until they finally disappear; then, I
know nothing more until I wake up, when the first
thing I am conscious of is a bright, very very
bright light, and then darkness, such darkne!?s.
My hands and arms begin to tingle just as one's
foot tingles after it has ' been asleep,' and I see,
as if from a great distance, objects and people in
the room ; but," she adds " they are very small
and very black." A propos of this last remark,
Mrs. Piper's first greeting to the sitter, as she
awakes from her sleep is, invariably, "Oh! how
black you are!" And a further· interesting point
is that she always resumes the conversation at that
point where it was broken off before the sitting
began.
Perhaps it is not unnatural that when I consider
all that Mrs. Piper has been subjected to in the
course of her long, arduous years of investigation
and then consider the conditions attending the pro-
duction ofphenomena by the mediums springing up
around us to-day, I should find myself seriously
68 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
wondering of how many of these that astute, clear
thinker William James, could write confidently,
as he wrote of Mrs. Piper shortly before his death-
" Dr. Hodgson feels that the hypothesis of fraud
cannot be seriously entertained. I agree with him
absolutely. The medium has been under observ-
ation, much of the time under close observation,
as to most of the conditions of her life, by a large
number of persons, eager many of them to pounce
upon any suspicious circumstances, for fifteen years.
During that time not only has there not been one
single suspicious circumstance remarked but not
one suggestion has ever been made from any
quarter which might lead possibly to explain how
the medium, living the apparent life she leads,
could possibly collect the information about so
many sitters by natural means."
CHAPTER XI
HOME LIFE
IT is scarcely to be wondered at that at the
conclusion of her first visit to England. Mrs.
Piper should have felt the effects of the long
strain to which she had been subjected by the
exacting conditions imposed upon her during
those four months of investigation ; or that, upon
her return to America she should have felt it
expedient to rest for several months before re-
suming her work for Dr. Hodgson. Not only
had the English climate proved trying but the
two long sittings each day as well as the atmo-
sphere of secrecy and of exaggerated caution
with which she had been constantly surrounded
were bound to react. adversely on a sensitive
nature and temperament like Mrs. Piper's, and
it was not until the December following her
return to America in the previous February, that
she again resumed her sittings.
During the winter and early spring months
after our return, we occupied the house at Arling-
ton Heights which had been rented prior to
our leaving America; but with the coming of
70 Life an~ Work of Mrs. Piper
summer our grandparents, who had by that time
found their big house much too large and too
lonely for themselves, successfully persuaded my
father and mother to share it with them. This
arrangement was a particularly happy one for
the grandparents, as we were the only grand-
children-our father being an only child-and
as it also proved a congenial one to the entourage
of both families, we soon adjusted ourselves to
the new conditions ; and the years that then en-
sued were not only productive of a steady
development in my mother's power and pheno-
mena but were, for us all, the happiest that I
remember.
Arlington Heights, the suburb in which those
years were spent, was one of the most healthful
and beautiful places imaginable. Our house was
nearly at the top of a very long hill, from the
summit of which could be seen hundreds of other
suburbs stretching in every direction, their lights
at night sparkling and twinkling like millions of
tiny glow worms ; and here in this beautiful
spot, with its clear health-giving air, my sister
and I grew from childhood to young womanhood
flourishing like young bay trees !
In those days, the winters were noted for their
severity, the earth being covered with its white
blanket from early Novemher to late April, while
the snow drifts often reached a height of ten or
twelve feet. But how we loved those hard
snowy winters! In our rubber boots we would
wade through the snow-drifts, tumbling and roll-
Home Life
ing each other about until we resembled veri-
table snow-men, while our big St. Bernard dog
gambolled and frisked with us in utter joy and
abandonment.
One of our favourite sports, after the snow-
ploughs had levelled and smoothed the snow in
the road, was to start just outside our house and
coast the entire length of the hill with the wind
howling and whistling in our ears and occasion-
ally cutting our cheeks like knives : then, the
bottom of the hill being reached, up we climbed
again, and down we went once more, '' Gyp "
reaching the foot of the hill a " close second."
No wonder our cheeks glowed and our little
bodies radiated health and strength. But I have
sometimes wondered if our governess, poor soul,
enjoyed this strenuous sport as we did ! I rather
suspect that she was not sorry, when the shadows
lengthened and the short winter day drew to a
close, to seek the warmth and shelter of the
big house. Though that, too, was a happy time
for us when, changed and rested, we drew our
chairs close to "grandma's" knee, or crept into
her lap, while she read us some bewitching fairy
tale and, if we were very good, perhaps two !
Those were happy days indeed ! And little
did we realise at that time the constant thought
and care with which our lives were being directed
by our mother. For, notwithstanding the exact-
ing demands made upon her time and energy
by her work and other duties, she never failed
to exercise the most careful supervision, not only
72 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
of our health and dress, but of our education as
well. First our governesses, then our schools
were chosen with the greatest care and fore-
thought, while the monthly report cards-those
ofttimes damning evidence of time not too wisely
spent-were scrutinised with an attentionwhich not
infrequently we felt they might quite easily have
'been spared! Our musical instruction and pro-
gress, too, received the same careful and intelli-
gent consideration, the inevitable and unwearying
hours of daily practice being given especial care.
But what to my mind is most important of
all, is the fact, that wise counsellor and guide
though she always was, our mother was also our
confidante. Never was she too busy or too tired
to listen to and sympathise with our childish
troubles, griefs and joys ; and what is better
still, to enter into them with an understanding
of our needs which only many years later did I
learn to appreciate fully. Numerous and varied
were the wise counsels which she unobtrusively
gave us both, and much that I unconsdously ab-
sorbed then has helped me to meet and overcome
successfully many unexpected, and sometimes
difficult problems which I have since encountered.
At heart, a deeply religious woman, she early
taught us that prayer was the greatest force for
good in life and it is to her own unfaltering faith
in such .a power that she attributes in great
measure such success as she has had.
The memory of these years is especially dear
to me, also, because of their close association
Mrs. Piper soon after her marriage
(My Father's favourite photograph ofmy Mother)
[face f>. 72
Home Life 73
with my father who died when I was barely
twenty. Very dignified and reserved, and a man
of deep feeling, my father although friendly and
sociable with many, was yet well known to but
a few. He was a great student and passionately
fond of music yet, withal, a keen lover of all
out-door sport. Croquet, of which game he made
a science, was his hobby, and often in early spring
and late autumn when the days were short and
the dark came quickly, it was nothing unusual
for us to finish a match by the aid of bits of
white cloth tied on to the tops of the hoops,
or of lanterns placed by the side of them.
In addition to his love for music, he was a
fair performer himself on both the violin and
piano, and many and ingenious were the devices
he originated to encourage us when children to
practice faithfully ; while, as soon as it was at all
practicable, he insisted, oftentimes much to our
annoyance! on regular ensemble practice. At
these times, my sister played the piano, and my
father and I the violin, the trio thus formed, often
becoming a quartette by the addition of the flute,
or 'cello, of a friend.
One other trait of my father's character which
is outstanding in my memory of him, is that of
his punctiliousness in keeping engagements.
Never would he break one engagement in order
, to take advantage of another, as is so frequently
done now-a-days, and I have always been grate-
ful that this same punctiliousness he successfully
inculcated upon both my sister and mysel£
74 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
For us all, winter was a very busy time, and
it was always with. a feeling of relief that each
year, when our school closed and her work ceased,
our mother sought the rest and quiet of some
little-frequented village in the beautiful range of
hills in new Hampshire known as the "White
Mountains," and there, with our big dog, horse
and donkey, we remained tucked away in seclusion
until the shortening days sent us back again to
town.
This peace and quiet, right away from the mass
of humanity which forced its griefs and cares upon
her throughout the winter, were essential for our
mother ; and its wisdom as regards my sister and
myself was made apparent in the renewed vigour
and restored interest with which we resumed our
school work each autumn. Moreover, for me per-
sonally, these restful summer days, spent far from
the conventions and amenities of town life, meant
time to observe and to grow to love Nature, as I
never, otherwise, would have done ; for then it
was that I learned to realise that gentle strength
and deep inward peace. which close association
with the wonders and marvels of God's unspoiled
handiwork must always bring to one who honestly
seeks it. It is only by dropping all artificialities
and getting near to the heart of nature that one
is able to find one's real self, that mysterious
hidden self which, nevertheless, exists in each and
every one of us. And it was the knowledge of
just these facts born of her own deep appreciation
for and great love of nature, together with the
Home Life 75
realisation that her health and therefore her work
must benefit from such a course, that made my
mother, each year, seek that rest and quiet among
"the White Mountains" where, whenever possible,
our father joined us.
Eventually, but always too soon, autumn, her-
alded by its blazing foliage when every tree and
shrub flamed with beauty, came creeping slowly
down upon us turning, perforce, our thoughts
toward home; and, yet, so loath were we to leave
our sanctuary that, not until the trees in very truth
stood out " against the sky like lace," did we at
last, refreshed and invigorated, return to the
winter's work. But I verily believe that those
days and hours of close and joyous companionship
with father and mother will ever stand out in our
memories as among the happiest of those happy
years of our lives.
CHAPTER XII
"G.P."
AS I have said, the years following my mother's
first visit to England and until my father's
death in 1904 were not only particularly happy
years but years noticeable for the development
of my mother's power and phenomena as well.
'Dr. Phinuit" remained in control until 1892 and
in a letter to Mrs. Piper, headed Boston and dated
October 20th, 1891, Dr. Hodgson refers to the
work being done by "Phinuit," at that time, in
the following enthusiastic manner :-
BOSTON, MASS.,
Oct. 20th, 1891.
,, DEAR MRS. PIPER,
Bravo I Splendid sitting on Friday. I have
report. Lots of details right previously unknown to
sitter. Sitter wished me to thank you. Miss Edmunds
will tell you details. I should like to send Miss E. out
this week for a Society sitting if you can arrange it.
Indeed I am very anxio_us to have several as soon as
possible and then begin again and have a lot more. I
shall not be able to go myself for a week or so, not until
"G.P." 77
I get the last word offabout Phinuit to England. Phinuit
seems to be right on the war path now and I want to
keep him at it while he is good and fresh and uncon·
taminated with thousands of relatives and sick people
that used to take up all his time (! ! !)
With kindest regards,
Yours sincerely,
RICHARD HODGSON."
It was also during these years (1892) that the
control known as "George Pelham" (pseudonymn),
or "G.P.", first manifested itself, and although
"Phinuit" continued to communicate-his last
appearance being on Jan. 24th, 1897-to all
intents and purposes " G. P.", from the time he
first appeared, became the principal communicator
and control. It was "George Pelham" who de-
veloped the automatic writing whi~h, while not an
entirely new phenomenon in Mrs. Piper's work, had
heretofore been of the briefest and most scrappy
kind. This means of communication, although
much less of a strain on the medium, undoubtedly
robbed the communications of a great deal of that
"dramatic" quality which had previously been so
noticeable a characteristic of her phenomena. In
the "Phinuit" days the voice had been the chief
means of communication, and the sense of reality
produced upon the sitter by the deep gruff voice
of this control was one of the outstanding features
of that period. The contrast between the heavy
rather rough voice of " Phinuit" and the light,
pleasantly modulated voice of Mrs. Piper, was not
only striking in the extreme but was also convin-
78 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
cingly suggestive of the presence of an extraneous
personality.
The new control, " George Pelham," although
he had been educated as a lawyer, had preferred
to devote himself to philosophy and literature
rather than to his own chosen profession, and
before his death, had published at least two books
which had been warmly commented upon by
competent cr1t1cs. He and Dr. Hodgson were
fond of arguing on the possibilities of a future
life, Pelham strongly contending that such an
idea was not only improbable but inconceivable,
while Dr. Hodgson held that, if not probable, it
was at least conceivable. Eventually, during one
of the last conversations on this mooted question
shortly before his death, Pelham recanted on this
particular point sufficiently to promise that if he
died first and found Hodgson's contention to be
correct he would certainly return and " make
things lively" in an effort to establish the fact.
A few months later, in February 1892, when but
thirty-two years of age, he was killed in New
York by a fall; and on March 221 only four or
five weeks later, he made his first appearance as
a communicator during a sitting at which Dr.
Hodgson and a friend were present. From that
time onward, he made good his promise that, ifhe
died first and found a future life to be a reality,
he would " make things lively " in his efforts to
prove his discovery to an anxious but sceptical
world.
The following interesting datum of the "G.P.''
"G.P." 79
regime must make one, whatever his views, pause
and think. During the years covering the period
from 1892 to 1898 "G.P." saw and talked with
one hundred and thirty persons of which number
thirty had been previously known to him during
his life time, and not only did he recognise and
correctly call by name each one of these thirty
sitters, but he used with each, as. well, both the
tone and the manner which he had been accus-
tomed to use when living. Not once did he
mistake a stranger for a friend, or vice vers~.
During the autumn of 1893 Dr. Hodgson, who
was at that time visiting the World Fair, wrote
Mrs. Piper a letter in which he made the following
passing reference to the continued improvement
in the sittings.
" DEAR MRS. PIPER,
CHICAGO,
October, 31, 1893.
Yours of the z6th reached me in Chicago.
I hope to leave in a week or so. I hear that your
sittings are better than ever and of course am delighted
to hear it, though I don't know any details yet. And
I am very glad indeed that you feel well . . . It was
a treat to get your letter and know you are first rate.
I have seen nearly all of the World's Fair that I care
to see, and am interviewing our members and other
persons here who have had experiences But I shall
be heartily pleased when I start on my way back.
With best remembrances and love to Alta and
Minerva, and tell them I hope they are improving
famously.
Yours sincerely,
RICHARD HODGSON."
80 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
About that same time, or a little later, Mr.
Myers who was then visiting America, wrote the
following letter to Mrs. Piper which shows clearly
both his continued and keen interest in her
phenomena and his delightfully sympathetic and
human personality.
" My DEAR MRS. PIPER,
C/o DR. HonosoN,
5, Boylston Place,
Boston, Mass.
I have followed with great sympathy the
accounts which Dr. Hodgson has sent me of your illness
and recovery. I do trust that you have now before
you a life much freer from suffering and weakness ; al-
though I fear not for one still not quite strong.
My wife sends you very kind remembrances as also
do Prof. and Mrs. Sidgwick, Prof. and Mrs. Lodge,
Mr. Leaf and my brother Dr. Myers. The interest in
your phenqmena continues to g-row in England; and
the record in our Proceedings is more and more bought
and studied. Prof. Lodge in his paper for the Chicago
Congress (and I also in mine) are alluding to the
marvellous phenomena obtained through you. You will
doubtless see a report.
One of my main hopes in visiting America was to
see you again and I was disappointed to hear that you
were not in Boston. But I hope to return to Boston
after the Chicago Congress, about September 8-12, and
I do most earnestly hope that yo)! may then be able
to give me the pleasure of seeing you again.
I hope that your two little girls are well and happy.
I should, of course, be very glad if opportunity
offered to make the acquaintance of other members of
your family and to tell them how deeply my friends
and I value your phenomena.
"G.P." 81
Hoping to see you before long, I remain, dear
Mrs. Piper,
Yours very sincerely,
F. W. H. MYERS.
You will be writing, no doubt, to Dr. Hodgson-do
not trouble to send me a separate reply."
At that time Mrs. Piper, as was her custom,
was spending the summer holidays in the White
Mountains, but upon receipt of Mr. Myers' letter,
she arranged to return to Boston in time to see
him on his way back from Chicago and notified
Dr. Hodgson to this effect receiving in reply
the following acknowledgment from Mr. Myers.
" DEAR MRS. PIPER,
I was so very glad to hear from your
letter of yesterday to Dr. Hodgson that we shall have
the pleasure of seeing you early in September; I hope
at Boston. We shall probably return from Bar Harbour
to Boston about September 7, and shall hope to see
you then and to have several days in whiCh to meet
you so as not to fatigue you. Mr. Hodgson tells me
wonderful things of your recent sittings ! You will write,
no doubt, to him as soon as you can as to plans. Our
time is veritably full I but sittings with you come above
everything else in my view!
Kindest remembrances !
Yours truly,
F. W. H. MYERS."
Mrs. Piper returned to town as she had pro-
mised, and gave Mr. Myers the sittings he so
much desired little realising that they would be
the last that he would ever have, for Mr. Myers'
F
Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
death occurred in 1901 and as, in the interim,
he did not re-visit the United States, or Mrs.
Piper go to England, she never saw him again.
In the passing of this profound scholar and poet,
the English Society for Psychical Research lost
not only one of its original founders, but one of
the most enthusiastic, earnest and able, albeit
kindly and sympathetic investigators it has ever
had.
CHAPTER XIII
"IMPERATOR GROUP"
IN 1 893, Mrs. Piper was obliged to undergo an
operation for the injuryreceived in the coasting
accident of so many years ago : and again, three
years later, in 1896, a second operation, for hernia,
was performed. Since that time, however, her
health has been excellent ; and it is an interesting
fact and one worth noting, that with the improve-
ment in health her phenomena also improved
markedly.
Mrs. Piper's phenomena, or perhaps better the
development of them, falls readily into three
stages, or periods, which may be classified as
follows : the first stage which began with the
inception of her power in 1884 and continued
for a period of eight years under the control of
the quaint and whimsical personality known as
" Dr. Phinuit ; " the second, beginning with the
advent, in 1 892, of George Pelman-or G. P. as
this control was generally known-as the principal
communicator ; and the third, or last stage which
began in 1 897 with the appearance of the group
of controls known as the " Imperator Group,"
L_
84 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
and which still continues at the present time.
The second period of development witnessed the
gradual cessation of the Phinuit control; but in
the third stage " G. P.," although yielding primary
control of the " machine," yet continues to mani-
fest at various times and with certain sitters.
All three; stages have their own particular
"earmarks," each in its way being distinct and
separate from the others. Thus the bluff, rough-
and-ready but withal~kindly and humorous Phinuit,
of the first period, was utterly unlike the straight-
forward but more polished "G.P." of the second
period; while "G.P.," in turn, is the antithesis
of the gentle, patient, and reverent "Rector" who
acts as the "amanuensis" for the "Imperator
Group" and so becomes the principal communi-
cator of the third period. In this connection it
has aptly been said of Mrs. Piper that could she
of her own accord impersonate, with such striking
realism, the many and diverse personalities which
have from time to time manifested in her sittings,
she would indeed be the greatest actress the world
has ever known.
In the early days of Mrs. Piper's phenomena,
and throughout "Phinuit's" regime, the voice
was used, and among the sitters of this period
" Phinuit" numbered many warm friends, chief
among whom, perhaps, was Prof. Lodge-as he
was then-whom ·' Phinuit" always addressed as
"Captain," and by whom the withdrawal, in
January; 1897, of this interesting personality was
regarded with genuine regret. When "G.P."
"Imperator Group" 85
assumed control of the phenomena in 1892
" Phinuit" still continued to use the voice ; while
"G.P.", although he also uses the voice upon
'
JS D. ."'
SPECIMEN OF AUTOMATIC WRITING.
occasions, yet prefers, as his medium of com-
munication, the automatic writing which, during
his leadership, he developed to a high degree of
efficiency.
86 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
An interesting fact which Dr. Hodgson records,
is that of two or three sitters being communicated
with separately, sometimes for an hour at a time,
by means of the hand and voice being used by the
controls simultaneously. On one or two occasions,
three sitters have received three communications,
completely distinct in character, by means of the
simultaneous use of both hands and the voice.
An example of this triplicate control is recorded
in a sitting of Miss Edmunds'-Dr. Hodgson's
secretary-during which her deceased sister wrote
with one hand, "G.P." with the other, while
" Phinuit" used the voice. (Proc. Vol. XI I.,
P· 293-4).
Not infrequently, sitters find difficulty in reading
the automatic script. Dr. Hodgson, however,
was an adept, as might perhaps be expected, at
deciphering it ; and neither my sister nor I ex-
perience any particular difficulty in reading it as
it is written. To some extent this is due, un-
doubtedly, to more or less familiarity with the
writing which very likely does present certain
difficulties especially to the novice and particularly
when a word, or words, are superimposed ; but,
in my experience, the tension and general sense
of strangeness experienced by the ,average sitter
at a first, or even second, sitting tends markedly to
lessen his powers of comprehension either through
the instrumentality of sight or sound. Anid for
this reason alone, it is always wise to restrain
~me's judgment of the results until after a second
sitting at least.
" Imperator Group "
But to return to the advent of the " Imperator
Group" in 1897. Under the control of this group
of personalities, the communications assumed a
dignity and loftiness of expression, as well as a
quasi-religious character, which they had hereto-
fore entirely lacked. Moreover, the passing in
and out of the trance state which in the earlier
stages had been attended with a certain amount
of difficulty and discomfort, now, under the new
conditions, became quiet and peaceful. Mrs. Piper,
also, was less fatigued by the sittings, and her
general health, already greatly benefited by the
operations, continued to improve steadily.
Writing of the change, which at this time
occurred, Dr. Hodgson says-" Most remarkable
has been the change in Mrs. Piper herself in her
general feeling of well ·being and her manner of
passing into trance ... She passes into trance
calmly, easily, gently, and whereas there used to
be frequently indications of distress and shrinking
when she was losing consciousness, the reverse is
now the case ; she seems rather to rejoice at her
' departure ' and to be in the first instance de-
pressed and disappointed when, after the trance
is over, she comes to herself once more in this
' black world ' of ours and realises her physical
surroundings." (Proc. Vol. LVI I., p. 438).
Sir Oliver Lodge also was impressed with the
changed conditions. "In the old days," he says,
" the tone was not so dignified and serious as it is
now : it could in fact then be described as rather
humorous and slangy ; but :there was a serious
88 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
undercurrent constantly present even then ; the
welcomes and farewells were quaint and kindly-
even affectionate at times-and nothing was ever
said of a character that could give offence."
(Proc. Vol. LVIII., p. 133).
Certainly it is true that the tone in the old days
was less serious and dignified than it is now, for
there is a peculiarly impressive atmosphere about
the communications of the "Imperator Group'
which cannot be conveyed by words and must be
experienced to be appreciated. Very little imag-
ination is required when conversing quietly with
the patient, kindly, and dignified personality
known as "Rector," to feel about one the grey,
silent, and time-mellowed peace of some old-world
cathedral sanctuary ; or, indeed, to believe oneself
far removed from the confines of this strife-ridden
little world of ours.
In this connection I may state here that a fact
which has aroused considerable interest during
recent years among those familiar with Mrs.
Piper's phenomena is her remarkable development
as a spiritual adviser in her waking state. It is
almost as if, since the trance state has been less
and less resorted to, the cloak of Rector has fallen
upon Mrs. Piper herself, and the good that she
has been able to do along these lines, during the
past nine or ten years, is almost unbelievable. I
know of no record anywhere, in the ever-growing
annals of psychical research, of anything even
approaching the spiritual advice given by Rector
as the amanuensis for the Imperator Group; and
"Imperator Group" 89
that this spiritual faculty, or power, has latterly
been so largely transmitted to the waking Mrs.
)
SPECIMEN OF AUTOMATIC WRITING.
Piper the countless number of perplexed and
troubled souls who almost daily seek the help of
this remarkable woman amply testifies.
90 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
In the earlier days, it was very largely the
results of Dr. Hodgson's experiences with this
lmperator Group and with q..P., that effected the
complete reversion of his original almost bellig-
erent attitude of scepticism in which he began his
investigation of Mrs. Piper's psychic power, and
.which enabled him to state without equivocation,
in his profound and illuminating report of I 898,
that he felt no longer able to place himself on
record as professing IC to have any doubt but that
the chief 'communicators,' to whom I have re-
ferred in the foregoing pages, are veritably the
personalities that they claim to be, that they have
survived the change we call death, and that they
have directly communicated with us, whom we call
living, through Mrs. Piper's entranced organism."
(Proc. Vol. XIII., p. 40).
To me this report of Dr. Hodgson's has always
appeared a masterpiece ofanalytical reasoning, and
it puzzled me not a little that, in the course of my
reading along these lines, I had never come across
any reference to it; therefore, it is in the nature of
an interesting coincidence that I record .the follow-
ing incident here.
On the afternoon of the day when, in my
writing, I had referred to Dr. Hodgson's report (as
above) I chose at random from my bookcase two
books with which to while away a few hours on
that warm spring day. The books which I had
chosen turned out to be a volume of the S.P.R.
Proceedings, and Mr. J. Arthur Hill's IC Psychical
Miscellanea." Glancing lazily through. tb.e .early
I
I
"Imperator Group" 91
pages of the Proceedings, my attention was sud-
denly rivetted on these words of Prof. James'-
" I admire greatly Hodgson's own discussion
of the Piper-case in Volume XII I of our PRO-
CEEDINGS, especially in sections 5 and 6 where,
taking the who1e mass of communications into
careful account, he decides for this spiritist in-
terpretation. I know of no more masterly
handling anywhere of so unwieldly a mass of
material." That pleased me. And I remember
my feeling of mild surprise that at last I had
found my own feelings in this matter endorsed
and by no less an authority than that of William
James. But my "mild surprise" developed into
acute astonishment, as well as gratification, when,
later on, I came across this passage in the
paper on "Evolution of a Researcher," in Mr.
Hill's little book. " I cannot sufficiently express
my admiration," writes Mr. Hill, "which is as
great as ever, for such masterly pieces .of evidence
as, for instance, Dr. Hodgson's account of sittings
with Mrs. Piper, in volume r3. If we were per-
fectly logical beings, without prejudice, that account
ought to convince anybody ; certainly it ought to
convince the reader of the operation of something
supernormal, and it ought to go a long way towards
excluding telepathic theories and rendering the
spirit explanation the most reasonable one."
It is truly a matter of the most profound regret
that Dr. Hodgson did not, before his death in
1905, write that later report on Mrs. Piper's
phenom·ena which he had for some time con-
92 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
templated writing, and which he so much desired
to write. For, however well his material may
have been handled by those into whose hands it
passed at his death, it is obvious that its compilers
must needs have lacked the personal knowledge
and understanding which Dr. Hodgson would
have brought to bear, not only on its compilation,
but on its interpretation as well.
:I
I
) CHAPTER XIV
PHENOMENA
/ PERHAPS at this point the reader, if unfamiliar
with Mrs. Piper's phenomena, may find of
interest a few examples representative of the
different periods or stages. We will first consider
one or two episodes taken from Sir Oliver Lodge's
report on his sittings with Mrs. Piper during her
~ first visit to England in 1889-90, and then pass
on to reports of various sitters in America during
the years 1888-1898. These incidents will illus-
trate the type of phenomena of the first and
second periods of Mrs. Piper's psychic work;
while examples of the work during the third and
last period will be found in the Latin Message
(Chaps. XIX-XX-XXI) and in Chap. XXVIII
which contains an account of some experiences
with Mrs. Piper in 1925-27.
At the time of Sir Oliver's-or Prof. Lodge's,
as it was then-first sittings with Mrs. Piper in
1889, he had an elderly uncle, "Uncle Robert,"
who had lost a twin brother, "Jerry," some years
previously. After interesting this Uncle Robert,
"generally," as he says, Prof. Lodge asked him
-----------·-----~ - - - -- - -- - -- - - -- -- - - ·-- - - - - -- -
94 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
for some relic of the deceased Uncle Jerry and by
the morning post he received a watch which had
formerly belonged to this uncle and of which he
had been very fond.
That same morning, no one in the house having
seen it or known anything about it, Prof. Lodge
gave it to Mrs. Piper during the sitting. Almost
immediately he was told that the watch belonged
to an uncle who had been mentioned before as
having died from the effects of a fall, an uncle
who had been very fond of Uncle Robert, in
whose possession the watch then was, and with
whom the uncle was most anxious to communi-
cate. " This is my watch," he was told, "and
Robert is my brother and I am here. Uncle
Jerry, my watch." "All this," writes Prof.
Lodge, " at the first sitting on the very morning
the watch had arrived by post, no one but myself
and a shorthand clerk, who happened to have
been introduced for the first time at the sitting
by me, and whose antecedents are well known to
me, being present."
Prof. Lodge then goes on to say that, "Having
thus ostensibly got into communication through
some means or other with what purported to be
a deceased relative, whom I had indeed known
slightly in his later years of blindness, but of whose
early life I knew nothing, I pointed out to him
that to make Uncle Robert aware of his presence
it would be well to recall some trivial details of
their boyhood, all of which I would faithfully
report.
-
I
l
J
Phenomena 95
"He quite· caught the idea and proceeded,
during several successive sittings, ostensibly to
instruct Dr. Phinuit to mention a number of
little things such as would enable his brother
to recognise him. References to his blindness,
illness, and main facts of his life were compara-
tively useless from my point of view ; but these
details of boyhood, two-thirds of a century ago,
were utterly and entirely out of my ken. My
father was one of the younger members of the
family, and only knew these brothers as men.
'Uncle Jerry' recalled episodes such as swimming
the creek when they were boys together, and
running some risk of getting drowned ; killing
a cat in Smith's field; the possession of a small
rifle, and of a long peculiar skin like a snake-
skin which he thought was now in the possession
of Uncle Robert.
"All these facts have been more or less com-
pletely verified. But the interesting thing is that
his twin brother, from whom I got the watch, and
with whom I was thus in a sort of communication,
could not remember them all. He recollected
something about swimming the creek, though he
himself had merely looked on. He had a distinct
recollection of having had the snake-skin, and of
the box in which it was kept though he does not
know where it is now. But he altogether denied
killing the cat, and could not recall Smith's field.
" His memory, however, is decidedly failing
him, and he was good enough to write to another
brother, Frank, living in Cornwall, an old sea
96 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
captain, and ask if he had any better remem-
brance of certain facts-of course, not giving any
inexplicable reasons for asking. The result of
this enquiry was triumphantly to vindicate the
existence of Smith's field as a place near their
own home, where they used to play, in Barking,
Essex ; and the killing of the cat by another
brother was also recollected; while of the swim-
ming of the creek, near a mill-race, full details
were given, Frank and Jerry being the heroes
of that foolhardy episode." It was in connection
with this episode of " swimming the creek,"
"Smith's field," etc., that Sir Oliver, it will be
remembered, sent the confidential agent to
Barking in order to make inquiries and ascertain
how much of what Phinuit recounted at the
sittings might possibly have been acquired nor-
mally by Mrs. Piper. And it was this same
agent who, in his report, stated that " Mrs. Piper
has certainly beaten me," etc." (Chap. IX.)
Prof. Lodge then goes on to say, "I may say
here that Dr. Phinuit has a keen " scent "-shall
I call it ?-for trinkets or personal valuables of
all kinds. He recognised a ring which my wife
wears as having been given ' to me for her ' by
a specifie¢l aunt just before her death ... He
called for a locket which my wife sometimes
wears, but had not then on, which had belonged
to her father forty years ago. He recognised my
father's watch, asked for the chain belonging to
it, and was still unsatisfied for want of some
appendage which I could not think of at the
I
Phenomena 97
time, but which my wife later on reminded me
of, and Phinuit, at another sitting, seized at a
seal which had usually been worn with it, and
which had belonged to my grandfather.
"He pulled my sister's watch out of her pocket
and said it had been her mother's, but disconnected
the chain and said that didn't belong, which was
quite right. Even little pocket things, such as
fruit-knives and corkscrews, he also assigned to
their late owners; and once he quite unexpectedly
gripped the arm of the chair Mrs. Piper was
sitting in, which had never been mentioned to
him in any way, and said that it had belonged
to my Aunt Anne. It was quite true: it was an
old-fashioned ordinary type of armchair which she
valued and had had re-upholstered for us as a
wedding present twelve years ago."
This same series of sittings contains numerous
accounts, recorded by Prof. Lodge, of Phinuit's
diagnoses of physical ailments with, in some
instances, the prescriptions which he recommended
and which, when tried, proved efficacious. In
fact the whole regime of this quaint personality
affords many incidents of this kind and it will be
seen that the two which I will now quote, contain
the element of prophecy as well.
In 1888 Mrs. Pitman, a member of the American
branch of the S.P.R., had two sittings with Mrs.
Piper, at one of which she was, told that she was
going to be very sick ; that she would go to
Paris-emphasis again being laid on the fact that
she would be " very sick " while there-and that
G
98 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
her trouble would be great weakness of the
stomach and head. She was further told that
she would be attended in her illness by a sandy-
complexioned gentleman. Mrs. Pitman denied
that she had anything the matter with her
stomach and contradicted Phinuit on every point
which seemed to annoy him very much.
Finally, Mrs. Pitman asked what the outcome
of the illness would be but to this Phinuit gave
evasive replies ; Mrs. Pitman then asked Dr.
Hodgson's intervention and he, in turn, insisted
that Phinuit should answer ; but Phinuit got out
of the difficulty by saying when she got over the
illness she would be " all right." Not long after
this sitting, Mrs. Pitman became very ill and was
attended by a Dr. Hubert, a very fair man,
who diagnosed her illness as inflamation of the
stomach. Mrs. Pitman then began to feel that
perhaps she had done Phinuit a<11 injustice,
although interpreting his last words wrongly,
she thought she would recover. In Paris,
where she went later, she was attended by Dr.
Charcot for a serious illness during which she
suffered much weakness in the head, her mental
faculties becoming impaired, and shortly after-
wards she died (Vol. XIII., p. 4g6).
The second incident (Vol. XIII., pp. 565-66-67)
is taken from the series of sittings of Dr. and
Mrs. Thaw, in New York, whose experiences
with Mrs. Piper, to quote from a recent letter
of Mrs. Thaw's to me, constituted-" A rushing
river of important and evidential things." During
Phenomena 99
a sitting which Dr. and Mrs. Thaw shared, while
Dr. Hodgson took notes in shorthand, Phinuit
said suddenly "William says Will is coming to
us." William was Dr. Thaw's father (deceased)
and "Will" Dr. Thaw's brother, then thirty-
seven years old who, from a boy, had suffered
with eczema and asthma. At the time this
sitting took place, this brother was in Florida
and there was, as Mrs. Thaw says, no· more
reason to expect his death than at any time
during several years past. In reply to Dr.
Thaw's question, "How is Will going to pass
out?" Phinuit answered-" He's going to sleep
and when he wakes he'll be in the spirit. Kid-
neys out of order, He's out of order all over."
Dr. Thaw then asked, " How soon?" and Phin-
uit replied, '' He's coming within six months or
a year," later on changing this to "six months
or less." Two weeks la:ter, the brother came to
New York to consult a specialist who, after
examining him, told Dr. Thaw that his heart
and kidneys were affected; and when Dr. Thaw
then asked how long he thought he would live,
answered " about a year." .
· Four months from the time of the sitting Dr.
Thaw received a cable from Germany, where his
brother and family had been staying, announcing
his brother's death ; and months later, when the
widow returned to America, she told Dr. Thaw in
answer to his question-" How did Will die?"-
that he "went to sleep in his chair and his heart
stopped."
~~~--~-----~..---~-------~
roo Life and Work ot Mrs. Piper
The next five. incidents are taken from the
artist, Roger Rich's, series of sittings in 1888-89.
(Vol. VIII., pp. 127-131).
At one of his sitttings, Mr. Rich produced a
dog's collar which was immediately recognised by
Phinuit as belonging to a collie dog that Mr.
Rich had owned and which Phinuit described
accurately. Phinuit then told Mr. Rich to call
the dog as he used to do, and when Mr. Rich
complied by whistling Phinuit said-" Here he
comes! Oh, how he jumps! There he is now,
jumping upon and around you ! Rover ! Rover !
No-Grover! Grover! That's his name! " Mr.
Rich remarks-" The dog was once called Rover
but his name was changed to Grover in 1884, in
honour of the election of Grover Cleveland."
At another time, Mr. Rich brought an article
which had been placed in cotton wool in a box
wrapped round with paper and tied with string.
The contents of the box were unknown to Mr.
Rich who had been given the box by a friend as
a test. Handling the parcel, Phinuit described
the friend who had sent it; described the person
who had given the article it contained to the
friend as from-" far off over the sea" ; and then
proceeded to describe certain characteristics of
this person as well as his connection with Mr.
Rich's friend. All these descriptions were after-
wards verified as correct by the friend, and the
article which Phinuit had described as "a charm"
and "glittering," was proved to be a beautifully
carved, but not "glittering," button latterly worn
Phenomena IOI
as a charm with a gold attachment, which had
formerly been in the possession of a noble Japan-
ese family of great antiquity, and surreptitiously
been taken from them by a visitor who had
brought it to this country.
When Mr. Rich complained at a sitting that
the remedies prescribed by Phinuit had not helped
him, Phinuit said they had not been properly
prepared. Mr. Rich denied this and assured
Phinuit that every care had been taken in their
preparation ; Phinuit waxed emphatic and said
that the coloured cook, to whom their preparation
had been entrusted, had not followed the direc-
tions ; had used the wrong proportions ; had
forgotten to watch them ; and had made a mess
of things generally. On enquiry, Mr. Rich says-
" I found this to be the fact, for she (the cook)
had understood me to say a quart instead of a
. pint, and confessed to having forgotten the
mixture and allowed it to boil down but ' thought
it wouldn't make any difference.' " At this same
sitting, Mr. Rich presented a piece of embroidery
made by a sailor while abroad on a cruise, and
"at once 'an old wizened-up man ' came to its
influence." Asked who he was, Phinuit replied,
"Why, D.'s grandfather," and gave the friend's
correct name although Mr. Rich had never known
him by that name and had only learned it after a
year's acquaintance or more, the friend having
followed the sea "as usual with sailors, under an
assumed name.''
During his series of sittings, Mr. Rich was
102 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
frequently told by Phinuit that a child, "a blood
relative a sister," was constantly with him and
had much influence over him. Mr. Rich em-
phatically denied this as he had never had a
sister and had never heard of one. His denial,
however, did not affect Phinuit in the slightest,
who only answered-" I know that you were
never told of it. The birth was premature, the
child dead, born some years before you were.
Go and ask your aunts to prove it." Mr. Rich
did thii;; and thus records the results of his
inquiries: "on questioning an aunt, who had
always been a member of our family, I learned
that such had been the case, and that by the
time I came into the world the affair had been
forgotten, and there had never been a reason for
informing me of the circumstances, proving that
I in no way had any intimation of it, and that
this co.mmunir.ation could not be explained by
thought-transference or the like."
As illustrating the apparent power of "pertinent
selection" on the part of the "controls," a factor
which perhaps places the greatest difficulties in
the path of the sceptic, the following incidents
may be cited. (Vol. XIII., p. 378).
On the way out to a sitting at Arlington
Heights, Dr. Hodgson read in the newspaper a
notice of the death the day before of "F." At
the sitting that day, the first communication came
from "Mme. Elisa," a near relative of "F.'s,"
who explained that "F.'' was there with her but
too weak to speak directly, and added that she
Phenomena 103
wanted to tell Dr. Hodgson how she helped "F."
to reach her. She then said that she had been at
"F.'s" bedside just before his death, and repeated
a remark she had made to him-" an unusual form
of expression"-declaring that "F." had heard and
recognised her at the time. This statement of
Mme. Elisa's was afterwards confirmed in toto
in toe only way possible. It appears that Dr.
Hodgson showed an intimate friend of his and
Mme. Elisa's, an account of this sitting, and
a day or two later, the nearest surviving relative
of "F.'s," without knowing anything about the
incident at the sitting of course, told this friend
that, when dying, "F." had suddenly said that he
saw Mme. Elisa and that she was saying some-
thing to him which he then repeated aloud after
her.
The expression which the relative now, in his
turn, repeated, was identically that which Dr.
Hodgson had been told by Mme. Elisa at his
sitting with Mrs. Piper on the day after "F.'s"
death, when the incident of the death-bed was
unknown to him.
Then, there is the experience of Mrs. Blair
Thaw's brother, Alexander Dow. Mr. Dow and
his friend, George Perkins, had brought with them
to a sitting the fraternity pin of another friend
who had died that winter and of whom they had
both been fond. Before this boy, Alfred Howell,
appeared, two other boys came, one of whom
immediately referred to a misunderstanding he
and " George " had had, expressing a desire to
I 04 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
" make it up then." But the point to be noticed
is, that neither of these boys laid any claim to the
pin. Then, Phinuit said another boy with dark
hair, dark eyes, high forehead, and a small dark
moustache, with a little colour in his cheeks,
good-looking and smiling (an exact description
of A. Howell), was there; and this boy at once
recognised and claimed the pin as his.
The next few episodes are particularly difficult
to explain on the basis of that bug-a-boo tele-
pathy. (Vol. XIII.)
When a sitter, known as Mrs. W.L.P., asked
the communicator, " Louis R.", for the German
nickname by which he used to call her husband
she was given, not the name she had in mind,
but another, " Up and Dust," by which the
communicator had occasionally called her husband
because of the odd pronunciation he had once
given to the German "lch hab' ein' Wurst."
Another sitter, Miss Vance, once asked G.P.
for the name of a deceased college friend of·her
brother's and was immediately given the name of
"Harry Guild," who had died in 1888, a college
friend of her brother's, certainly, but not the one
she was thinking of at the time. G. P. correctly
gave the name she wanted a little later after Miss
Vance had explained that Harry Guild, although
correct, was not the friend she had in mind.
At Dr. and Mrs. Thaw's first sitting, an intimate
friend of their's, a "Dr. H.", who had been dead
about .a year and a half, gave them a nickname
by whieh he said he had been called. This name
'·
Phenomena 105
was unknown to either Dr. or Mrs. Thaw, but
later, upon enquiry, they were told by the widow
that " it was the name commonly used by his
mother and sisters, all dead, but not used by
anyone living." Again, at a subsequent sitting,
this same communicator, "Dr. H.", answered
correctly a test question which ·Dr. and Mrs.
Thaw asked on behalf of the widow and the
answer to which was unknown to either of them.
Prof. Nichols of Harvard College, and his
mother, once gave each other a ring for Christmas,
and in each ring was engraved the first word of
the giver's favourite proverb. Prof. Nichols had
lost his ring, the one given him by his mother,
many years before, but at his sitting with Mrs.
Piper, a year after his mother's death, he had in
his hand and " in mind only " the ring he had
given his mother, which at her death had been
taken off her hand and returned to him at her
request. When Prof. Nichols asked what was
written in his mother's ring, his mother, who
purported to be writing at the time, " slapped
down on the paper," not the word in the ring
he was holding, but the word in the ring which
his mother had given him and which he had lost
years ago while travelling.
One morning, Dr. Hodgson's secretary, Miss
Edmunds, was taking a sitting for a lady entirely
unconnected with G.P., or his friends. During
the sitting G. P. wrote a little and at the end, as
Mrs. Piper was coming out of the trance, the voice
said excitedly, "Tell Alec Bousser (pseudonym) not
t 06 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
to leave them alone." Now Alec Bousser was
entirely unknown to 'Miss Edmunds but was well
known to Dr. Hodgson. He had been an inti-
mate friend of G.P. and was the husband of
Mme. Frederica, the living sister of Mme; Elisa
for whom G. P. frequently acted as amanuensis.
Dr. Hodgson sent the message to Alec Bousser
at once from whom he received the following
reply:-" There certainly do happen to be some
people I just was happening to be debating about
-in my own mind in a way that makes your short
message perfectly significant and natural. I am
sorry thus to be obliged to feed your credulity for
I hate your spirits."
Another morning, G.P. sent this message to his
father whom he was anxious to convince of his
identity, by a Mr. Howard:-" I saw father and
he took my photograph and took it to the artist's
to have it copied for me. I went to Washington;
my father will be hard to convince, my mother
not so hard." A few days later Mr. Pelham
wrote to Mrs. Howard that "The letters which
you have written to my wife, giving such extra-
ordinary evidence of the intelligence exercised by
George in some incomprehensible manner over
the actions of his friends on earth, has given food
for constant reflection and wonder. Preconceived
notions about the future state have received a
severe shock . . . My wife is writing."
In Mrs. Pelham's letter she wrote, "Some of
the things you state are very inexplicable on any
other theory than that George himself was the
Phenomena 107
speaker. His father d£d, without my knowledge,
take a photograph of him (the same as the one
sent you) to a photographer here to copy-or
enlarge. The negative has been broken. Mrs.
L. was going to have it copied in N.Y., and Mr.
Pelham thought he would see what they could do
here."
When recovering from the trance one day,
after a sitting, Mrs. Piper said, "I saw a bright
light and a face in it, a gentleman with a beard
on his face and he had a very high forehead, and
he was writing." Dr. Hodgson then said, "Would
you know it again if you saw it?" "Oh, yes,"
replied Mrs. Piper, " I would know it I think."
When fully awake she was shown a collection of
thirty-two photographs, nine of which were men,
and from these she selected, without hesitation,
the one which she said resembled the man she
had seen when coming out of the trance. She
had picked out an excellent photograph of G. P.
Later she picked out a second photograph, also
of him.
Incidents such as these above might be multi-
plied almost ad £njinz"tum. Indeed, one becomes
bewildered and perplexed in trying to make
selections from among the numbers. But those
reproduced here may, as I said at the beginning
of the chapter, be taken as fairly representative
of Mrs. Piper's phenomena of the first and the
beginning of the second period. In the chapter
following this, I have included a few aphorisms
also typical of the type of phenomena of the
-
108 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
second period. And in Chapter XXVI II I am
able, through the kindness of Margaret Deland,
the writer, to include two unusual experiences
which occurred in her sittings with Mrs. Piper
during 1925-26, thus bringing an account of the
phenomena up-to-date.
J
J
)
f
l;
,(
CHAPTER XV
APHORISMS FROM THE OTHER SIDE
BE more passive, living in the faith that nothing
of wrong can come to thee-that thy life is
not one of disappointment and mistake, but live
in the truth, believing that God is with thee and
will look after thee ; that He hath ordained thy
life to be one of happiness and not of sorrow.
When thou hast become awakened to the
beauties of thine own spirit, thou canst then go
to thy friends' thoughts, through thought and
prayer, and help awaken their spirits, and give
greatly to those who have never seen a "light"
or known themselves in any way other than that
they were sz'rnply mortal be£ngs.
Know and understand thyself in all things and
become stout-hearted, brave, and noble; doing all
things wisely and in the most straight-forward,
honourable, and noble manner possible for mortal
man or woman.
We would have thee read good books; go out
for open fresh air ; bathe in the sunlight of thine
earthly world which God hath given thee to
110 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
enjoy. Look into Music, Art, and all things
good and pure ; listen to the very best that is
within thee, and listen to the songs of the birds ;
study the flowers that are the light of your world;
the highest thoughts of the best there is in thy
life should predominate and grow and send forth
from thee all that is good and holy.
Now, friend, sincerely believe and trust that
the Supreme Being is thine earthly guide, and
that if thou dost put thy trust in Hirn, He will
lift thee out of all darkness. Do not make it an
effort, but simply relax into a perfect state of
calm and trust.
Now, to acquire this higher plane of spiritual
development, it is not necessary that thou shouldst
struggle and strain thyself up to a higher tension,
so to speak, than thy spirit can endure ; but it is
necessary for thee to sincerely open the doors of
the mortal and let the divine and holy spirit enter
therein. To do this, worry not ; think not of
anything but that thou art a part of Him, and
that that part should be thy guide ; and struggle
not for this, but become passive and calm and
have perfect trust and faith in Him. Go thee
forth, not in a state of anxiety and material care,
but be ye uplifted and let thy spirit rest.
Listen ! Make no haste in anything that thou
wouldst do ; be calm, considerate. Make thyself
submit to this, that is, the feeling that hasty
judgment be not of wisdom. Have charity for
all. Speak not without knowledge of anything,
,.-·-
,.
1
I
I
Aphorisms from the Other Side I I I
or anybody ; in other words, judge not that ye
be not judged.
If thou wilt only turn to the highest that is
within thee, and live by it at all future time, thou
wilt surely have peace. -
Always think before thou dost give expression
to thy thoughts;. and say, "Oh God, thou seest
me, I put myself as a child into thy hands, give
me light, give me strength in all ways, spiritually,
mentally, physically. Make me all that thou
wouldst have me be.
In all spiritual things there is great love and so
it always will remain.
Now, friend, we ask thee to rest in time for rest,
and yvork when it is time for thee to work, and also
pray; but let thy spirit drink as from the fountain of
God all things good and pure-a peacefulness, a
calmness, an earnestness in thy undertakings.
And peace and happiness and a full and complete
understanding of God's will and laws will then be
thine.
Live in thy better self and believe in God's
power to help and all will be well.
The spirit is of God, and the body of the earth,
and whenever the spirit is found and understood,
the earthly conditions can soon be mastered and
brought under the absolute control of the spirit ;
and there will be perfect peace between mind and
body and no thought of anything wrong or evil.
Say, " I see the best that is within me, and I
1 12 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
am fully aware of my own weaknesses but I
desire to throw off all these conditions and live
absolutely by the best." Then never waver from
it.
There is reaIIy nothing for thee to worry over.
What art thou, friend, anyway ? Only a spiritual
part of the Most High. Live in it then.
Live in the open air. Walk a little each day,
friend, and listen to the music of earth, and look
at the flowers of earth which are symbolic of all
that is good and holy.
Constancy, calmness, confidence and so on
through thy life. Feel that God is a part of thy-
self, and that thou art not the man that thou
dost think thou art, alone the man, but that there
is something nobler and higher than thyself.
And when thou canst make thyself believe that
God is of thyself a part, then from that moment
thy life will begin anew and thou wilt see that
thou art but the shadow of Him and He leadeth
thee in the light.
Be charitable to aU, and hold malice towards
none. Be open-hearted, open-minded, true to
thyself in all things.
Throw thy pride to the winds and have Charity.
Follow only the highest within thyself. Re-
member that thou canst not pass through the
highest development without suffering some pain.
Be brave, noble, true to thyself and to God.
Live simply, humbly, peacefully with God and
·~I
·~
Aphorisms from the Other Side 113
mortals of earth in the belief that if thou has
perfect faith, He will henceforth act for, ever
guide, and carry thee over peaceful waters.
As thou dost progress out of the material to
the higher spiritual growth, understanding will
surely be thine.
Do not live in the past, but in the present and
the future as much as possible.
Our lives in the material are for a holy purpose.
They are not myths.
If thou wilt only live patiently and have full
trust that it is not for thee to suffer, but that there
is much for thee which is thine by actual claim on
the Most High, it will be given thee.
When the spirit is shut in and man alone
acting, he cannot do anything ; but when he doth
allow his spirit to possess him and doth let it
shine forth out of the imprisoning body, then all
will seem changed to him. Let this guide thee
ever.
There is really no separation between the life
there and here, and your interests are always
ours, every day you live ; and in everything you
really wish we are with you in the thought.
If it was not for the spirit there would be no
understanding in the body, and the body would
really be nothing. The life in the mortal is only
a beginning of the life in the spiritual, but the
body is a discomfort to the spirit if too much
thought is centered upon it, and that must not be.
H
-------~-----~--~ - --~----- -·.
114 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
Friend, call upon the Supreme to help and give
knowledge and knowledge will be given. Simply
say, "I have striven and I seem to fail. I believe
in thee and thy power to help ; I come to thee
for help," and thou wilt find it at once, friend.
And there is no such thing as His failing thee.
CHAPTER XVI
THE DEATH OF I!>R. HODGSON (1905)
THE years following Mrs. Piper's return from
England in 1890 were, as I have said, years
of growth and development, as well as very happy
years for us all. My mother's health was better
during this time than it had been for many
years and her phenomena showed a correspond-
ing improvement and development. As for my
sister and myself(both splendidlyhealthy creatures,
thanks to our mother's sane and careful bringing
up of two naturally sensitive and highly strung
temperaments) we found the time occupied as
it was in winter with our music and school, and
in summer with the joys and interests of the
long holidays en famz'lle-slipping away into
years with almost incredible rapidity. And so
Time passed! But there is a saying, I believe,
to the effect that the pendulum swings both ways!
The first event to bring this truth home to
us and at the ·same time to shatter the even
routine of the past fourteen years, was the death
in June 1904, of my father. Even though for
t 16 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
some time previously he had been an invalid,
his passing left a gap in the lives and hearts of
us all which has never disappeared.
The second event which was responsible for
many changes thereafter in the hitherto even
tenor of our lives, was the death in 1905, the
year following the death of my father, of Dr.
Hodgson, who while playing a game of hand-
ball at the Union Boat Club, on the afternoon
of December 20, dropped dead of heart failure.
Dr. Hodgson's death was indeed a terrible
shock to us all but, naturally, more especially to
my mother. Our first intimation of the trag~dy
was on the morning after its occurrence and
reached us through the medium of the daily
newspaper which in the manner of these things,
blatantly announced on its front page the death
of Richard Hodgson, LL. D., the famous psychical
researcher, or words to that effect. The severity
of the shock was all the more severe as only
two days before this Dr. Hodgson, to all intents
and purposes in his usual excellent health, had
taken a sitting on behalf of a sitter (who for some
reason had not been able to be present in
person) and for nearly an hour on this occasion
had discussed with me in his brusque though
kindly way, certain changes in the arrangements
and conditions of the work which for my mother's
sake, I was anxious should be made.
And now he was gone ! It seemed incredible.
The magician who when we were little had
before our astonished eyes turned our common-
The Death of Dr. Hodgson (1905) 117
place everyday marbles into wonderful Australian
nuts some of which we still have! That wise
counsellor who had first made us acquainted
with the delights of "Water Babies," "Back of
the North Wind," and all the bewildering array
of Lang's Fairy Books! Or, again, the Ogre
who on that memorable morning of my childhood
when our newly acquired donkey "Billy" having
arrived without previous warning and I, in a
dilemma as to what course to pursue but feeling
the occasion was one that demanded instant and
drastic action of some kind, had flown upstairs
and, knocking timidly on the door of the sanctum
sanctorum where even then a sitting was in pro-
gress, had inquired in a wee and quavery voice of
the astonished and outraged man who opened
the door what I should "do with the donkey"-
the Ogre who having out of sheer amazement
listened to my agitated question, grimly shut the
door again and in a voice which made me quake
in my shoes bade me "run downstairs and not
bother me about donkeys! '' But most outstand-
ing of all, that staunch true friend, who ever in
times of trouble, or distress, stood ready in the
unobtrusive way that was his, to help in any and
every possible way the needy or afflicted.
No, it seemed impossible to realise that Dr.
Hodgson was gone! And yet staring at me
from the front page of that newspaper to which
my grandfather had called my attention, was the
cold definite announcement to that effect. My
mother had not yet seen the paper-she usually
I I 8 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper·
breakfasted in bed-how should I break the
news to her most gently? And pondering this,
I bethought me of the dream the night before
which she had told me only that morning on
my way downstairs, and decided to use that as
my opening wedge. It seems that in the early
part of the previous night my mother had been
very restless and unable to sleep and-but we
will let her tell her dream in her own words as
a friend, who called later in the day to sympathise,
transcribed it, at my mother's request, in short-
hand.
"I retired," she says, ''at half-past nine last
evening and after a most unco,mfortable, restless
night, at twenty minutes before twelve I went
to the dining-room to get a warm drink thinking
that might induce sleep. I returned to bed and
lay awake until one thinking and feeling that there
was someone present, walking about my room ;
and it disturbed me so that I had the impulse
to get up and light the lamp to see if there was
anyone present. I did not do this, however,
owing to my being so weary. After the clock
struck one, I fell asleep and was awakened sud-
denly at four o'clock having dreamed of trying
to enter a tunnel which looked dark as I looked
into it. As I looked toward this tunnel and
approached the entrance, I saw a man with a
beard, wearing a slouch hat, but did not recognise
the face. As I stepped forward to enter, the
man raised his hand as a warning to prevent
my entering and as the hand was extended it
The Death of Dr. Hodgson (1905) 119
woke me and I sprang up and went to the
window only to find the rain beating in. I
closed the window and returned to bed after
which I slept about two hours. At half-past
seven my daughters came into my room and I
told them about it. It impressed me as being
so out of the ordinary that, in talking it over
with them, I remarked that the hand strongly
resembled Dr. Hodgson's. In fact, I told Alta
that the hand was more like Dr. Hodgson's than
anything I had seen. At half-past eight Alta
came into my room again with a copy of the
morning paper in which the sudden death of
Dr. Hodgson was announced."
Among the packet of Dr. Hodgson's letters to
an English friend which I was permitted to read
this winter, and from which I have quoted several
extracts in the following chapter, was one dated
Feb. 20, I 905, in which I read this statement:
" ' G. P .' has dropped a hint that this may be the
last season with Mrs. Piper but I don't know
what is going to happen." Did the "person-
alities " know of Dr. Hodgson's approaching
death, I wonder? or was it one of those tragedies
which those on "the other side " assure us do
occasionally occur, when individuals are stricken
down and cut off from their work before the
intended time? I do not know. But, certainly,
if "G. P.'s" remark or "hint" was intended as an
intimation of Dr. Hodgson's passing, Dr. Hodg-
son himself-even as in the case of Mrs. Pitman
(Chap. XIII)-misconstrued it, for he interpreted
120 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
it as referring in some way to Mrs. Piper I Per-
haps warnings such as these are purposely veiled.
Who knows ? It is all, still, such a maze in which
we find ourselves hopelessly lost if we are not
extremely careful. At any rate, the passing of
this upright, fearless soul from our midst was an
indescribable loss and sorrow to all who were
privileged to know him.
CHAPTER XVII
RICHARD HODGSON-THE MAN
IT is amazing to see how little, even to the more
. profound students of psychical research, is
known of Dr. Hodgson's life. While his work is
known and appreciated by all, practically nothing
of his individuality or personal life seems to have
percolated beyond that relatively small circle of
intimate friends and confreres with whom, in his
lifetime, he surrounded himself. Possibly this is
all the more surprising to those who knew him
well for, as Dr. Walter Prince recently said to my
mother-" If ever there was a hero, Dr. Hodgson
was one."
Living alone in one room in Boston, with no
private means of his own, dependent even for his
bread and butter on a wholly inadequate and
voluntarily contributed salary, he nevertheless
refused several remunerative offers from various
colleges and universities in order that he might
be free, as he saw it, to devote all his time and
energy to the subject which he felt to be of vital
interest and importance to mankind. A member
of the Tavern Club of Boston, he there surrounded
1 22 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
himself with a select coterie of the finest literary
and scholastic brains of his day. And there, also,
he found in strenuous exercise-squash rackets,
hand ball, and fives-the necessary antidote to
the fatiguing, mental work with which nine-tenths
of his day was filled. Dr. Hodgson was also an
enthusiastic swimmer and enjoyed, more than
anything else, going for an hour's sail down
Boston harbour to Nantasket Beach where ex-
ceptional facilities were afforded the swimmer.
Even now, I can visualize him so plainly as in
the first warm spring days, the sitting over, he
dashed from the house, brown ulster coat tails
flying, and bag straps streaming in the wind,
rushing for the last train that would enable him
to make connections for Nantasket. And, inci-
dently, so well-known a figure had he become to
the railway officials between Boston and Arlington
Heights that I have known, more than once, the
train to be stopped after it had started, when Dr.
Hodgson's hurrying figure was seen at the top of
the station steps. After his death, a conductor
on one of these same trains remarked to my father,
one day, that it did not seem right to start his
train without Dr. Hodgson being there.
Brusque, quick, and bluntly outspoken, there
was yet something so likeable about Richard
Hodgson's whole personality that his friends
esteemed him greatly. Young and old loved
him, and by children he was particularly adored.
Knowing full well what it meant to struggle
along without always knowing where the next
RICHARD HODGSON, LL.D.
[/ace p. 122
Richard Hodgson-the Man 123
day's bread was coming from, he never failed,
whenever it was possible, to help someone else.
One day, when my mother mentioned having
seen a poem of his in a current magazine, his
great laugh rang out as he replied simply : "Yes,
I got fifteen dollars for that, just enough to pay
W.'s milk bill which had got badly in arrears!"
That was all that mattered to this big-hearted
man.
As I have said, children adored Dr. Hodgson
and well they might, for not only could and did
he amuse them by the hour with clever and
bewildering conju.ring tricks, but .he also com-
posed to order the most absurd stories and
rhymes for their benefit. Little Popsey-Wopsey,
inspired by " Beatrice " the little daughter of Dr
and Mrs. Thaw, is an example of these.
"Little Popsey-Wopsey,
Chicka-biddy-chum,
She shall have some
Piesey-wisey and
A sugar plum.
She shall ridey-piedy
In a coachy-woachy, too,
All around the
Parky-warky with
A cock-a-doodle-doo."
But it was not only for his ability to amuse
them that children so loved Dr. Hodgson. In-
stinctively they realised that he was their friend
in sorrow as well as in joy. I will give one
little personal incident of what I mean. I was
1 24 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
about eight years old at the time, and we were
visiting Dr. and Mrs. Thaw in New York. Very
recently, I had began to study the violin and this
was my first experience away from my teacher.
One afternoon when I made quite sure, as I
thought, that everyone, except the nurse and little
Beatrice Thaw who were upstairs in the nursery,
had gone out, I got my fiddle out of its case and
began with some trepidation to tune it. But I
did not get far. Even to my untutored ear the
sounds that followed the drawing of the bow
across the strings were pretty awful, and all my
struggles seemed only to make bad matters worse.
Finally, reduced to tears, I looked up to see Dr.
Hodgson standing on the threshold holding out
his hand for my wretched instrument. Writing
in the room below, he had heard the dreadful
noises coming from above and suspecting the pro-
able results, had come upstairs to put things right.
The contrary pegs soon yielded to his under-
standing skill and then, tucking the fiddle under
his chin, he entertained both himself and me for
half an hour, or more, with old college airs and
songs.
I think very few of Dr. Hodgson's friends and
acquaintances know, even to this day, that he
could play the violin very well, or that he was
passionately fond of music. Neither was it
generally recognised, I think, what a deeply
religious, poetical nature lay hidden under that
bluff, jovial exterior, and which more and more
during the last years of his life came to the fore,
;I
J,
I'
IJ.•
Richard Hodgson-the Man 125
developed, he always said, " by the fine, beautiful
precepts and counsels of Imperator."
Recently, an old and dear friend of Dr. Hodg-
son's, allowed me to read some of his letters to
her which she had carefully preserved. With her
permission I have chosen a few passages from
these letters for insertion here which, I think,
portray very clearly not only the man's indubitable
belief in God but his innate sense of justice as
well. In one letter he writes, in part : " It adds
a great deal to life, of course, to be assured of the
nearness and help of particular discarnate spirits,
but apart from this there is no necessityfor anyone
wko believes z"n God-for doubting the absolute
persistence of the moral order throughout the
whole of his existence." And again, "And what
I meant when I said that you ' must be all right
in God's universe' was not Christian Science! But
it was meant to be a good banging, cudgellimg
blow-a real scolding jeer! The trouble is that
nobody believes in God enough. Don't you see
that if you really believe fully in God's infinite
love you must feel all right no matter what
happens? The only alternative is to suppose
that God is a feeble old thing that would like
to take care of us but can't. Now do you or
don't you believe in God !" Then the simple
but forceful admonition, " Don't forget to pray
much and to trust in God 'The Father, Infinitely
Fatherly.' " And again this extract showing the
man's fine sense of justice-'' About your own
lodging matter," he writes, "that's a question for
126 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
your own conscience. How can I tell you?
Your agreement with your friend may involve
your carrying it out even at cost of some in-
convenience, etc., to yourself, and on the other
hand, of course, there are limits. I suspect that
if your friend did as well as she could you are
not justified in leaving. So far as I can see it
comes to a question of square dealing, about
which men are much more particular, as a rule,
than women. She may have suggested to you
to leave, feeling that you wanted to, but she
may feel aggrieved all the same and think you
have behaved badly. If you have left, and if
you think she does feel this way, you'd better
make a clean breast to her and get peace !"
Each year, at Christmas, Dr. Hodgson adopted
the rather unusual and quite characteristic custom
of having printed as his personal Christmas card
for his friends and acquaintances, some poem, or
verses, of which he was particularly fond. He
was a great reader and especially fond of poetry
with a vivid and deep appreciation of its inner or
esoteric meaning. Considering this fact, it is
certainly interesting that he should have chosen
for his Christmas greeting in 1905 the following
selection from Tennyson the first verse of which
epitomizes Dr. Hodgson's personal code of life;
while the second, in view of his death the follow-
ing year, becomes strangely prophetic.
"Let be thy wail, and help thy fellow-men,
And make thy gold thy vassal, not thy king,
And fling free alms into the beggar's bowl,
j
'.
Richard Hodgson- -the Man I 27
And send the day into the darkened heart ;
Nor list for guerdon in the voice of men,
A dying echo from a falling wall.
And lay thine uphill shoulder to the wheel,
And climb the Mount of Blessing, whence, if thou
Look higher, then-perchance thou mayest-Beyond
A hundred ever-rising mountain lines,
And past the range of Night and Shadow-see
The high-heaven dawn of more than mortal day
Strike on the Mount of Vision !"
Much, very much more could be written of
this fine, true personality and perhaps some day
this will be done; but here, briefly of necessity,
I have given just those high lights which I hope
will, even if only in some small degree, help those
to whom the man is but a name, to understand
better the loss sustained by psychical research
and by his friends in the passing of Richard
Hodgson.
CHAPTER XVIII
ENGLAND AGAIN
WHEN we consider that for the eighteen years
prior to Dr. Hodgson's sudden death, Mrs.
Piper's work had been under his sole and com-
plete charge, it is not surprising that its even
tenor and continuity should have been temporarily
interrupted by the passing of this courageous soul.
With the beginning of the new year, however, a
member of the American branch of the Society,
Mr. B-, having obtained Prof. James' sanction,
persuaded Mrs. Piper to resume the sittings under
his management, an arrangement which continued
in effect until the following June when Mrs. Piper
received a letter from Lady Lodge, written at Sir
Oliver Lodge's instigation, suggesting on behalf
of the S.P.R., that she once again visit England
for the purpose of investigation.
This letter followed closely the return to
England ·of Mr. J. G. Piddington, an English
member of the Society who, while in Boston in
the early Spring, had had several sittings with
Mrs. Piper. It came, moreover, at a critical time
in our domestic arrangements. The big house at
:.~.
,,,
.J
England Again 129
Arlington Heights after the death of my father
and grandmother, was much too large for our
needs and altogether too great a responsibility for
my mother with her psychical work, so that at
the time Lady Lodge's letter arrived, we were
facing the problem of unwisely continuing as we
were, or of seeking a smaller and less pretentious
home nearer town. But custom is a powerfully
actuating motive and our affections had so sturdily
twined themselves about the old home and its
associations, that I doubt if we should not un-
wisely have remained on at the Heights, had
not Lady Lodge's letter arrived just as it did.
This decided us, however, as a temporary break
at least would be necessitated by my mother's
acceptance of the Society's invitation; and so, the
necessary arrangements having been completed
by early autumn, we once more sailed for Eng-
land.
The crossing, this time, was uneventful. Upon
·our arrival at Liverpool, we were met by Mr. Ed-
win Thompson, the son-now grown to manhood
-of Mr. Isaac Thompson who, with Sir Oliver
Lodge, had seen my mother off for America at
the termination of her previous visit to England,
and of whose death she now learned with genuine
regret. Mr. Thompson conducted us direct to his
mother's, Mrs. Thompson's, with whom we spent
the first few days of our arrival. One little incident
of that drive from Princess Pier to Waverly Road,
although not in any way bearing upon the object
of our visit, yet made a great impression on my
I
I 30 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
mind, unused as I was at that time to English
ways and customs. We were in a "growler,"
piled high with American luggage, and we had
gone only a little more than half-way when I
noticed a man, running doggedly behind our cab.
After watching him for a moment, I asked Mr.
Thompson in surprise, " What is that man doing
who seems to be following us?" "He z's follow-
ing us," was the answer, "and he will probably
continue to follow us all the way in the hope that
he can earn a few coppers by helping with the
luggage." The sight of this poor fellow running
that distance, hoping to pick up a few pennies,
appalled me, and· I was thankful when I saw my
mother slip a small extra po6rbois into his hand.
During that first week in Liverpool, my mother,
although suffering from a very heavy cold which
she had contracted on the voyage, yet gave several
noteworthy sittings to various members of Mrs.
Thompson's family as well as to Sir Oliver Lodge.
SirOliverhad come on from Birmingpamto arrange
for our going to "Mariemont" the following week
although, as a matter of fact, our departure was
slightly delayed owing to my mother's very severe
cold. E ventua1ly, we bade farewell to our kindly
hostess, however, and at the end of a surprisingly
short journey through fascinating English·country,
arrived at Edgbaston where we entered forthwith
upon a new and delightful experience for us all.
At this time, all twelve of the Lodge children
were at home, six boys and six girls. An amusing
anecdote is still told of Sir Oliver Lodge in con-
England Again 131
nection with the birth of the first little gir] after
Lady Lodge had presented him with five sturdy
sons. In addition to the announcement of
"VioJet's" birth, etc., Sir Oliver had added this
comment-" Thank God ! a girl at last ! "
No small feat of memory was required to learn
by heart the names of this big family ; but we
mastered them at last and, thereafter, took great
pleasure in reciting them in sequence as rapidly
as possible, Oliver, Brodie, Alec, Lionel, NoeJ,
VioJet, Raymond, Honor, Norah, and the twins
Barbara and Rosalynde-so the sequence ran !
And after reading these, it wilJ scarcely appear
surprising that White1aw Reid, at that time the
American Ambassador to England, hearing my
sister "Minerva" addressed by name one night at
dinner, and mistaking her for one of Sir Oliver
Lodge's daughters, should have remarked to his
host with a smile : " I see, Sir Oliver, that you
have had to draw on mythology for some of your
children's names!"
It is impossible for me to describe, with any
degree of justice, this big, happy family of boys
and girls, all living in perfect harmony and de-
voted to one another ; or the happy, jolly times
we had with them during that three weeks' visit
at " Mariemont." That first visit passed with
incredible swiftness. ·.My mother's work went
spJendidJy while, for my sister and myself, each
day was fraught with pleasure. First, there was
"Violet's" coming-out party, held at the Assembly
Rooms, which created much excitement among us
I 32 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
all. Then the mad, delightful hockey games at
the week ends which were played on the big field
adjoining the tennis court, and one amusing inci-
dent of which still causes me to smile when I
recall it. One particularly well-fought game had
waxed long and hard and the evening shadows
were fast closing in around us. Only one goal
had so far been won and that by " our side " ; but
the other side were struggling valiantly and gamely
to make the score a tie. Suddenly " Noel," with
a well-directed shot, sent the ball bounding down
the field straight as a die for the goal. "Yuki "
(Baron Inouye, the Japanese ambassador to
Berlin's little daughter who at that time was stay-
ing with the Lodges for the purpose of learning
English) was goal keeper at the time and so
quickly and unexpectedly was the ball upon her
that, in a panic ofapprehension and shrieking with
excitement she spread her skirts with both hands
and dropped like a plummet on the bounding ball
within an inch of the line. And there, amid shouts
of laughter from us all, she sat tight I
Then, besides the outdoor games, there were
the amusing charades acted in the big library
during the long evenings; or the cosy after-dinner
gatherings when Sir Oliver would read to us until,
punctually at ten o'clock, "Harrison" appeared
with a huge tray of glasses, two tall jugs of
steaming hot milk, and cake for all. After this
the "good-nights " were said, and off we went
to bed.
On these occasions when Sir Oliver read aloud,
England Again 1 33
he demanded perfect quiet from his listeners and
even a slight noise troubled him. One night,
during the reading of Shaw's "Major Barbara,"
Lady Lodge, busying herself with some form of
needlework as was her custom at these times, was
startled, as were we all, when Sir Oliver, suddenly
putting down his book and rubbing his broad
forehead agitatedly as was his wont when per-
turbed, inquired in a very gruff voice indeed,
" What is that noise going on ?" After a
moment's silence, Lady Lodge raised her bit of
sewing for his inspection, and smiling sweetly
answered gently, "It's the twin's hat, Ollie, dear."
A burst of laughter greeting this announcement,
Sir Oliver smiled in spite of himself, and picking
up his book resumed his interrupted reading-this
time in silence !
Is it any wonder, then, that at the end of those
three weeks we found London, where we went
direct from "Mariemont," even drearier, foggier,
dirtier, and more thoroughly cheerless than is its
wont even in chill December! A wave of home-
sickness nearly overcame us all, and never shall I
forget the night when Sir Oliver, having sensed
our feelings from our letters-although we had
been most careful in what we wrote in our desire
not to " upset " things-unexpectedly appeared at
our hotel prepared to take us back with him the
following day. Perhaps it was the realisation
that our growing sense of martyrdom could, at a
word, be thus assuaged, which gave us the courage
to remain on in London according to the original
I 34 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
plan. At any rate, we bravely permitted Sir
Oliver to return to "Mariemont" the next day,
alone. Looking back upon our feelings during
those first few weeks in London, they appear
dreamlike and unreal, for long before the winter
was over we had learned to love not only every
fog, but even the grey days and "ubiquitious
mud" of Prof. James' as well, so deeply attached
to England did we become.
And it was during this time-the winter of
1906 and '07-that the now famous "cross-
correspondences " took place which, in a way,
introduced an entirely new phase of psychical
research. No record of Mrs. Piper's work would
be in any way complete without an example of
this type of investigation, and I have chosen for
inclusion in these pages that cross-correspondence
known as the Latin Message, although anyone
interested in this line of experimentation should
most certainly read the " Lethe" cross-corre-
spondence which may be found in Vol. XXIV.
of the S.P.R. Proceedings.
CHAPTER XIX
THE LATIN MESSAGE
IN this experiment of the Latin Message
cross-correspondence, three automatists took
part; Mrs. Piper in London, Mrs. Verrall and
Miss Verrall in Cambridge. The origin and
purpose of this experiment is clearly and con-
cisely set forth in the following excerpt from
Miss Alice Johnson's interesting discussion on
cross-correspondences, in the S. P.R. Proc. Vol.
XXVII.
" About a month after the cross-correspondence
just described had occurred, viz. in April 1906,
the theory that cross-correspondences were ex-
pressly designed to provide evidence for some-
thing transcending telepathy between the minds of
the automatists was first definitely formulated....
In the autumn of the same year Mr. Piddington
and I, in view of the sittings with Mrs. Piper
which were about to be held in London, devised
the experiment of a ' Latin Message' to be
addressed to Myers in Latin. The original
version of the message was as follows :
I 36 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
We are aware of the scheme of cross-correspon-
dences which you are transmitting through
various mediums, and we hope that you will
go on with them.
Try also to give to A and B two different messages,
between which no connection is discernible.
Then as soon as possible give to C a third
message which will reveal the hidden con-
nection.
"It appeared to us that if the experiment suc-
ceeded and cross-correspondences of the desired
type occurred, they would afford almost conclusive
evidence of the agency of a mind external to
those of all the automatists, and might afford
strong evidence of the identity of this mind."
This, then, was the inception and purpose of
the Latin Message experiment and should be
kept in mind throughout the following resume.
The English version of the message was trans-
lated into Ciceronian Latin by Mrs. Verrall's
husband, Dr. A. W. Verrall, the distinguished
classical scholar, his translation being by no
means easy even with the help of a dictionary, to
re-translate into English by anyone not thoroughly
conversant with Latin. For the sake of clear-
ness, Dr. Verrall's translation with its literal re-
translation into English, as given by Mr. Pidding-
ton in the Proceedings, is here appended.
(a) Diversis internuntiis quod invicem inter se
respondentia jamdudum committis, id nee fallit
nos consilium, et vehementer probamus.
Unum accesserit gratissimum nobis, si, cum
'I .
The Latin Message
duobus quibusdam ea tradideris, inter quae
nullus appareat nexus, postea quam primum
rem per tertium aliquem ita perficias, ut latens
illud in prioribus explicetur.
(b) As to the fact that (quod) for some long time
past you have been entrusting (committis) to
different intermediaries (or, messengers) things
which correspond mutually between themselves,
we have observed your design, and we cordi-
ally approve it.
One thing besides this most agreeable to
us will have happened [£.e. You will even add
to our pleasure] if, when you shall have de-
livered to two particular persons things between
which no connexion is apparent, afterwards
as soon as possible through some third person
you so complete the matter (or business) that
that which was latent in the first two (messages)
may be revealed.
At this point, the question may arise as to
the knowledge of the various automatists con-
cerning the nature of this experiment and the
fact that it was to be undertaken at all. Again
I quote Miss Johnson :
"(a) Mrs. Verrall was fully acquainted with it.
(b) Miss Verrall must be assumed to know some-
thing about it, since she was present at the
sitting of December 19, 1906, when part of
the message was dictated to Mrs. Piper in
trance.
(c) To Mrs. Piper the subject was mentioned only
while she was in trance, and the message was
dictated in Latin to the trance-personalities."
138 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
With reference to another important aspect of
this experiment, that is, what effect the know-
ledge, or lack of knowledge, on the part of the
different automatists, had on the value of this
cross-correspondence, Miss Johnson writes as
follows : " The knowledge or ignorance of the
automatists about the Latin Message had of
course no bearing on the evidential value of the
cross-correspondences, but it might have had
some effect on the wording of the scripts."
To do the Latin Message experiment full
justice would require a book by itself, but for
the purposes of the present work, I shall try
to give as condensed a summary of those points
generally conceded to be of greatest interest, as
is consistent with clearness and lucidity. All of
those who are interested to pursue this subject
further, will find valuable material in Mr. J. G.
Piddington's skilfully handled and detailed report
(Proc. Vol. XXI I.), and in Miss Johnson's inter-
esting paper (Proc. Vol. XXVII).
CHAPTER XX
THE LATIN MESSAGE CONT. (J.)
IN order that the incidents in this experiment,
with which we shall herein concern ourselves,
may be quite clear, we shall begin our analysis of
them with a chronological summary first, how-
ever, explaining that the letters "U. D.," are used
by Rector and Myers P. as abbreviations for all
parts of the verb "to understand," as well as for
the noun "understanding," and that the com-
munications purporting to come from Mr. Myers
through Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Verrall and Miss Ver-
rail, respectively, are designated thus :-Myers P.,
Myers v., and Myers H.v.
This experiment began in London on the
morning of Dec. 17, 1906, and extended over a
period of five months and a half, or until June 2,
1907. At the first sitting Mr. Piddington gave
to Rector, who acted as amanuensis for Myers P.,
the first nine words of the Latin Message pro-
nouncing each word syllable by syllable and
spelling it letter by letter, a method which he
continued to use throughout the entire trans-
mission of the Latin. Also, at this same sitting,
140 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
Mr. Piddington carefully explained 'to Rector, in
the following words, the importance which he
attached to this message :-
"I attach great importance to this message and
to its being correctly transmitted. One object in
sending this message in Latin is to see whether
Myers can understand it. To show that" he must
send an intelligent reply to it ; not merely such a
reply as ' I understand,' or ' Yes ' or ' No,' but a
reply which will show that he has grasped the
purport of it."
On the morning of the r 7th, as Mr. Piddington
gave the last word "committis," he noted that the
clock struck twelve. At this precise moment, it
so happened, Mrs. Verrall in Cambridge, started
to write the following script :
" Revolving axes
Revolving spheres the mystic music make
Revolving spheres the harm~ny began
Harmonious sound scarce audible to man
Then from every several unit of the whole
Joined the majestic music of the Soul
no! no I
Majestic music
No-you dont see what I want-begin again.
Relvolving spheres the harmony began-
A diapason manifest to man-
Each single unit played its several part
Discoursing symphony with godsent art
Till the majestic music of the whole
Throbbed in pulsation :-and the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame
Felt the lost Presence-to the Presence came.''
J
\
j
The Latin Message Continued (I) 141
It is interesting to note that in Mr. Piddington's
view the lines
"Each single unit played its several part,
Discoursing symphony with godsent art,
Till the majestic music of the whole
Throbbed in pulsation :-and the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame,''
foreshadow the poem "Abt Vogler," the founda-
tion upon which this cross-correspondence rests ;
and he draws especial attention to the phrase,
" and the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame,''
as reflecting the following line from this poem :-
"That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound but
a star."
This suggestion of Mr. Piddington's is of
interest because, as we shall see, the idea of star
became later an important element in this com-
plex cross-correspondence..
On December 19, at which sitting Miss Verrall
was present, Mr. Piddington gave Rector five
words more of the Latin Message, and on the 24th
thirteen more; after which, on the 31st, he carried
the message through the word "rem" in the
second paragraph. At this last sitting Rector
remarked:-" We have in part U.D. and con-
veyed your message to your friend Myers and
he is delighted to receive it so far as he has been
able to receive it."
At the next sitting on January 2, 1907, Rector
wrote that-" Hodgson is helping Myers with his
translation "-a remark that becomes interesting
--~.---- ----~
-
142 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
when considered in connection with subsequent de-
velopments. Later at this same sitting, Myers P.
told Mr. Piddington that the message had impressed
him very much and that he would gladly translate
it into English for him, whereupon Mr. Pidding-
ton explained that he did not wish him necessarily
to translate the message but to reply to it in such
a way that his answer would prove he had under-
stood the purport of the message. And to this
Myers P. replied-"! quite understand and I will
certainly do so " ; after which Mr. Piddington, in
accordance with his request, gave him 'the re-
mainder of the Latin.
On January 16, it was suggested to Myers P.
by Mr. Piddington that when giving a cross-
correspondence it might be well to affix to the
script of each automatist some symbol-such as a
triangle within a circle-in order more clearly to
establish a connection, where connection was in-
tended, between the scripts. This suggestion
seemed to please Myers P. who said he should
"be very glad to try this." Mr. Piddington, also
at this same sitting-, tried again to impress upon
Myers P. the importance which the experimenters
attached to cross-corresponding messages.
On January 23, Myers P. said, "I should like
to go over the first and second sentences of our
Latin Message . . . I believe I can send you a
message which will please you if I understand
it clearly." On the night of this same day Mrs.
Verrall wrote the following script.
I
f
I
I
The Latin Message Continued (I) 143
SCRIPT OF JANUARY :23, 1907.
Justice hold the scales
That gives the words but an anagram would be
better. Tell him that-rats star tars and so
on. Try this. It has been tried before RTATS
re-arrange these five letters or again tea rs
seam
same
and so on.
stare
Skeat takes Kate's Keats stake steak.
But the letters you should give to-night are not
so many-only three-a s t
No further reference to the Latin Message was
made by Myers until February 11 ; meanwhile;
on January 28, and February 3rd, the following
scripts had been written by Mrs. and Miss Verrall
respectively.
SCRIPT OF JANUARY 28, BY MRS. VERRALL.
Aster [a star]
repm; [a sign or wonder]
The world's wonder
And all a wonder and a wild desire-
The very wings of her.
A WINGED DESIRE
inro7rrepo~ lpw~ [winged love]
Then there is Blake
And mocked my loss of liberty.
But it is all the same thing- the winged desire
lpw~ 71'oeewo~ [passion] the hope that leaves
the earth for the sky-Abt Vogler for earth
too hard that found itself or lost itself-in the sky.
That is what I want
On the earth the broken sounds
threads
- --
I 44 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
In the sky the perfect arc
The C major of this life
But your recollection is at fault
fQJ
~
D
A D B is the part that unseen completes
the arc.
PART OF MISS VERRALL'S SCRIPT OF FEBRUARY 3.
a green jerkin and hose and doublet where the
c:;ong birds pipe their tune in the early morning.
therapeutikos ek exotikon [a healer from aliens]
a monogram
The crescent moon
remember that
and the star
like a thunder riven oak the grim remains
stand on the level desolation of the plains
a record for all ages of the span
which nature gives to the weak labour o(,a man
The Latin Message Continued (I) 145
~ bird
On February I I, Myers P. told Mr. Piddington
that he had referred to Hope, Star, Browning in
Mrs. Verrall's script.
On February 17, Miss Verrall wrote a script
which is given below.
MISS VERRALL'S SCRIPT OF FEBRUARY 17.
androsace (?) Carthusian candelabrum
many together
that was the sign she will ~
understand when she sees it.
diapason ota 7rarr'1J11 p118µor; [rhythm through all]
no arts avail
the heavenly harmony WS' e</>11 o?rAaTwv [sic]
[as Plato says]
the mystic three (?)
and a star above it all
rats everywhere in Hamelin town
'OOw do you understand Henry
K
146 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
On February 27, Myers P. told Mr. Piddington
that "Hope Star Browning" was his answer to
the Latin Message.
On March 6, Myers P. referred to having given
Mrs. Verrall a circle and triangle and mentioned
" Hope Star Browning" in connection with them.
On March 1 3, Myers P. again referred to the
circle, which he had given Mrs. Verrall as being,
in his mind connected with these three words,
" Hope Star Browning."
On March 20, Myers P. referred again to
having given Mrs. Verrall " Browning Hope
Star " and reiterated that these words were as-
sociated, in his mind, with the Latin Message.
On April 8, during a sitting at which Mrs.
Sidgwick was the sitter, Myers P. made the
following statement :
(Myers P. communicating, after referring to the Latin
Message and poem) I made a circle.
E.M.S. Oh I a circle. Yes, I remember.
As it suggested it to my mind . . . I
then drew or tried to draw a star ...
through the other light.
E.M.S. I see ; you drew a star.
And I did so so you would U.D. that I
U.D. the message.
E.M.S. Yes.
And I did this (a star was then drawn).
E.M.S. Yes, there was a star drawn.
I drew it so you would U.D. that I did
it, also a crescent.
The Latin Message Continued (I) 147
E.M.S. Do you remember the name of that poem?
' That is what I am trying to get through
here ... I was very much afraid my
message would not be U.D. therefore I
drew the star to make sure.
E.M.S I see.
that I did U.D. and I will try and give
the name again . . . I am most anxious
to make Rector U.D. about the name of
that poem.
From the foregoing it will be seen that Myers P.
definitely states that he has drawn a star and a
crescent through " the other automatist."
On April 24, Myers P. identified as " Abt
Vogler" the poem of Browning's which he had
in mind when he gave the words '.'Hope Star"
and then added :-
Now, dear Mrs. Sidgwick, in future have
no doubt or fear of so called death, as
there is none, as there is certainly in-
telligent life beyond it.
E.M.S. Yes, it's a great comfort.
Yes, and I have helped to proclaim it
for you all.
E.M.S. You have indeed.
Later, during this same s1ttmg, Myers P. ex-
plained that it was " the uncertainty of Abt and
the faith which he held " that recalled to his
memory his own experience and prompted him
to quote from this poem ; and when Mrs. Sidg-
wick asked him to state definitely his reason for
choosing Abt Vogler as his answer to the Latin
Message, he explained as follows :-
148 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
I chose that because of the appropriate
conditions mentioned in it which applied
to my own life. U.D.
E.M.S. I see.
and nothing I could think of so com-
pletely answered it to my mind as those
special words. .
On May 6, Myers P. said in part:-
now one word more Mrs. S. my reply
was about the poem, and long ago I gave
the word Music which came to me as
appropriate to my answer and U.D. of the
message.
E.M.S. Yes, quite right.
You must patch things together as best
you can. Remember we do not give
odd or singular words without a deep
and hidden meaning.
On May 7, Myers P. in a passage quoted
below, made still another effort to make clear
the quotation from " Abt Vogler " which he had
in mind as being especially pertinent to the Latin
Message. ·
(Myers P. communicating). If instead of
a fourth came a star (here an incomplete
drawing of a star was made) ... In my
Passion to reach you clearly I have made
Rector try to-draw a star for me so
there can be no mistake.
E.M.S. No, there can be no mistake.
Now are you satisfied?
E.M.S. Yes, quite.
The Latin Message Continued (I) 149
Having herewith completed the chronological
summary ofsuch incidents in this cross-correspond-
ence as are necessary for our present purpose, let
us now proceed to consider these isolated data in
their relation one to another, or in the words of
Myers P. " patch things together as best we can "
and see what comes of it.
CHAPTER XXI
THE LATIN MESSAGE CONT. (11.)
FOR the purpose of patching things together
and considering the various data in their
relation one to another, our starting point will
be Mrs. Verrall's script of December I 7, I 906,
which it will be remembered, was begun just as
Mr. Piddington finished dictating to Rector the
first nine words of the Latin Message. Now, the
dominant theme of this script is clearly MUSIC or
HARMONY, the word MUSIC being mentioned four
distinct times, a fact which assumes interest for
us when considered in connection with the state-
ment made by Myers P. on May 6, 1907, to the
effect that he had "long ago" given the word
Muszi:.
But why, may very naturally be asked, should
we attribute to Myers this script of Mrs. Verrall's
which is unsigned? Mr. Piddington meets this
objection thus: "In spite of the absence of signa-
ture I have no hesitation in attributing the script
of December 17 to Myers v., for not only is it in
the same style as many of the signed communi-
cations of this personality, but, as Mrs. Verrall
The Latin Message Continued (II) 15 1
herself pointed out . . . some of its phraseology
is certainly borrowed from a verse-translation of
F. W. H. Myers'." The work here referred to
is Myers' translation of two Greek Oracles, pub-
lished in ESSAYS CLASSICAL, pp. 97-100, and the
particular quotation is as follows:-
" 0 God ineffable, eternal Sire,
Throned on the whirling spheres, the astral fire,
Hid in whose heart thy whole creation lies,-
The whole world's wonder mirrored in thine eyes,
Thee the first Number and harmonious whole
Form in all forms, and of all souls the Soul.
Once by God's grace was from thine eyes unfurled
This veil that screens the immense and whirling world,
Once, while the spheres around thee in music ran,
Was very Beauty manifest to man;"-
Mr. Piddington also sees in the phraseology of
this script evidences of the following quotation
from Dryden's "Hymn for St. Cecilia's Day":-
"From Harmony, from heavenly Harmony
This universal frame began
From harmony, from heavenly harmony
This uiversal frame began :
From harmony to harmony
Through all the compass of the notes it ran,
The diapason closing full in Man.
As from the power of sacred lays
The spheres began to move,"
But Mrs. Verrall's script of December 17, 1906,
is not the only script that shows traces of this
-- ,,,-
I 52 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
poem of Dryden's ; for Miss Verrall's script of
February 17, 1907, contains the words "heavenly
harmony " and " diapason," and these are actual
quotations from it. Moreover, the occurrence in
both scripts of the word "diapason,'' together with
the fact that the " Harmony" of Mrs. Verrall's
script is, as Mr. Piddington points out, " clearly
a heavenly harmony,'' serve to bring these two
scripts into direct relation with each other. A
further interesting thought in connection with this
word "diapason,'' which occurs to me as I write,
is that this is the term used to designate the two
foundation stops of an organ, and it is on an
organ that Abt Vogler, in Browning's poem of
that name-the poem that figures so prominently
in this cross-correspondence-is improvising.
" Diapason," then, like
"the throbbing Soul,
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame."
seems again like a foreshadowing of "Abt Vogler."
And still another point of connection between these
two scripts is suggested by the use of the word
"mystic," which, while occurring in both of these
scripts, occurs nowhere else, as Mr. Piddington
says, during the period occupied by the experiment
of the Latin Message, although during that time
Mrs. Verrall produced sixty-three scripts and Miss
Verrall seventeen.
Now this script of Miss Verrall's of February
17 which, as we have just seen links up with that
of Mrs. Verrall's of December 17, also links up
with her own script of February 3, by means of
/
The Latin Message Continued (II) 153
the following points. In both scripts the word
"star" and a drawing of this symbol appear;
furthermore, while the script of February 3 con-
tains a possible first approach to Browning's Pied
Piper of Hamlin in the words "pipe" and "a
healer from aliens," the script of February 17
has an undoubted reference to this poem in the
form "rats everywhere in Hamelin Town." Then
again, these two scripts of Miss Verrall's contain
several points in common with Mrs. Verrall's
script of January 28. When sending this latter
script to Mr. Piddington on the 29th, Mrs Verrall
added on the back of the envelope a pencilled
note suggesting that the words in it-viz., "wings,"
"winged," and "Vogler" (Vogel)-might be an
attempt at "bird." Now Miss Verrall's script of
February 3 which contains, in common with Mrs.
Verrall's script of January 28, the word "star"
and the allusion to Browning already noted,
contains also the drawing of a bird ; while in
her script of February 17, the drawing of a star
followed by the words "that was the sign she
(Mrs. Verrall) will understand when she sees it,"
and again, " and a star above it all," is closely
allied to the "aster (star sign)" of the script of
January 28.
As this script of January 28 is of especial in-
terest to this cross-correspondence experiment,
let us pause in the process of correlating the
scripts, in order to examine it in greater detail.
It will readily be seen that not only does Brown-
ing, who appears in the scripts of February 3
154 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
and 17 by means of implicit reference, pervade
the whole of this script, but that a poem of his,
"Abt Vogler," is explicitly mentioned by name.
Moreover, the word " Hope" makes its appear-
ance in this script in the line immediately pre-
ceding that in which "Abt Vogler" is mentioned,
and particular attention is directed to it by means
of the following curious device. In the script,
the phrase "the hope that leaves the earth for
the sky" is evidently a misquotation of the phrase
in the poem that reads, " The passion that left
the ground to lose itself in the sky," and that Mrs.
Verrall was perfectly aware of this misquotation is
shown by the following excerpt from a letter which
she wrote to Mr. Piddington on February 15-" I
knew perfectly well when I read the script that
it should have been ' passion ' which left the
ground for the sky-and I was annoyed at the
blunder! The ~pw~ 7roOei110~, which came straight
out of a passage that I had been translating in
the course of my work, represents ' passion.'
And I wondered why the silly thing said 'Hope."'
It would appear, therefore, that the misquotation
was intentional and made for the purpose, as
already suggested, of calling particular attention
to the word "Hope."
Mr. Piddington when first reading these scripts,
thought them meaningless, and it was not until
Myers P, during the sitting of February 11, said
that he had given the words "Hope Star Brown-
ing" to Mrs. Verrall, that Mr. Piddington, upon
re-reading her scripts, noticed that they did contain
The Latin Message Continued (II) I 55
a possible allusion to these words. He then, for
the first time, read Browning's "Abt Vogler," and
was immediately struck by the extraordinarily apt
answer to the second sentence of the Latin
Message which could be extracted from one of
the only passages in the poem in which the
word 'star' occurs."
" But here is the finger of God, a flash of the will that can,
Existent behind all laws, that made them and, lo, they are !
And I know not if, save in this, such gift be allowed to
ma1;1,
That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but
a star.
Consider it well : each tone of our scale in itself is nought;
It is everywhere in the world-loud, soft, and all is said :
Give it to me to use ! I mix it with two in my thought :
And there! Ye have heard and seen:
consider and bow the head ! "
Summing up his impressions as to the per-
tinency of this stanza to the Latin Message, Mr.
Piddington says : "Were one to search English
literature for a quotation pertinent to the ex-
periment suggested in the Latin Message, it
would be difficult to find one more felicitous than
these lines from stanza vii. of Abt Vogler.
It is interesting to note Mr. Piddington's reason
for thinking it was this stanza which Myers P.
had in mind. He first noticed that in both Mrs.
Verrall's scripts emphasis was thrown on the
word " Star ;" then, later, after reading "Abt
Vogler," he was particularly impressed with the
pertinency of "aster ..,./par; " the opening words
1 56 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
of the second script, to the star in the poem
which was framed out of " three sounds " and
was " both a sign and a wonder." The " broken
sounds " of the script also seemed to him sug-
gestive of this particular stanza. Later on, he
found further support for his line of reasoning
in the following definition of -repar given in
LIDDELL'S and SCOTT'S "Greek-English
Dictionary," "any appearance or event, in which
men believed they could see the finger of God,"
this definition employing the actual phrase in
. stanza vii., " But here is the finger of God."
Again, the phrase "Justice holds the scales," sug-
gested " each tone of our scale," a suggestion
that was strengthened when Myers P. at the
sitting on May 7 succeeded in giving the word
"scale" thereby completing the quotation "in
my passion to scale the sky ; " this play on the
three different meanings of the word " scale "
being quite in keeping with the character of the
whole experiment in which, as we shall see,
anagrams play so important a part. Finally, the
8ta 'TT'acr;;,v pv6µ&r of Miss Verrall's script of Feb-
ruary I 7, suggested the lines " each tone of our
scale in itself is nought ; It i's everywhere z"n the
world" of this same stanza ; while the phrase
"the mystic three," following as it did, the words
"the heavenly harmony," brought to his mind
" the three sounds " of stanza vii.
Now, turning back to the examination of the
scripts and their relation to one another, we find
a connection established between the scripts of
f
\
I
I
i
The Latin Message Continued (II) 157
February 17 and January 23 by means of the
similarity of the anagrams which appear in both
as well as by the emphasis which each throws
on " star."
The following interesting incident which Mr.
Piddington relates in connecti9n with these ana-
grams attains added interest when considered in
conjunction with Rector's statement of January 2,
that Hodgson is helping Myers with hz's translation.
It appears that when Mr. Piddington first read the
script of February 17, which contained the words
"rats, star, arts," he got the impression that some-
where he had seen these anagrams before, an
impression which, in spite of his efforts to rid
himself of it, persisted ; furthermore, he seemed
to remember having seen them in Dr. Hodgson's
handwriting among the papers in Boston, U.S.A.,
which, after Dr. Hodgson's death, he had gone
through early in 1 906. And it was because of
the persistency of this impression that he event-
ually wrote to Dr. Hodgson's executors in America
and asked them to look through Dr. Hodgson's
papers for one containing the words " rats, star,
arts." In August, 1907, he received from Mr.
Henry James a sheet of paper on which, in Dr.
Hodgson's handwriting, were the following ana-
grams:
• 158 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
RATES
STARE ASTER
TEARS TER.ESH
TEARS ESTHER
TARES HESTER
HE REST
ARE ST REST HE
ST aRE THREES
A REST HERE ST
REST a THERE'S
STAR
TARS
RATS (COAL) TARS
ARTS
TRAS
In describing his feelings when he saw this
paper Mr. Piddington says:-" I confess that
when this came into my hands I felt as I sup-
pose people do who have seen a ghost; for,
though not surprised to see the ' rats, arts, star,'
anagram, I was positively startled when I saw
the anagram 'rates, stare, tears, aster,' etc., of
which I had no recollection whatever."
One further interesting point in connection with
these anagrams to which Mr. Piddington calls
particular attention is, that although three people
independently make anagrams of the four letters
AT Rs-Hodgson in his lifetime and Mrs. Verrall
and Miss Verrall in script-none of the three hits
on the obvious anagram Ts AR. This fact would
seem to tell a little in favour of Hodgson post
mortem being concerned in the scripts of Mrs.
and Miss Verrall which contain the anagrams,
l
I
!
I
,J·
I
Th~ Latin Message Continued (II) 1 59
especially as Mrs. Verrall, like Hodgson, produced
a five-letter anagram on ET s RA as well.
It is also interesting to note in connection with
the anagrams produced by Miss Verrall that, far
from being a hodge-podge arrangement of words,
each word seems to have been chosen deliberately
and because of its direct bearing on the subject-
matter of this cross-correspondence. '' Star " is
obviously one of the three words so strongly
insisted upon by Myers P.; "rats" we have
already considered in its implicit reference to
Browning ; and "arts " in the phrase " No arts
avail" when taken in conjunction with the phrases
"the heavenly harmony," "the mystic three," and
"and a star above it all," is, as Miss Johnson
says, strongly suggestive of the following lines
from "Abt Vogler" :
"It \i.e. both painting and poetry) is all triumphant art, but
art in obr:dience to laws. . . .
But here (i.e. in Music) is the finger of God, a flash of the
will that can,
That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound but
a star."
This completes our brief examination of the
scripts of Mrs. and Miss Verrall in their co-
relation to one another and to the statements
which Myers made at various intervals during
the progress of the Latin Message cross-corre-
spondence experiment ; and we realise that, how-
ever definitely we can trace an interweaving of
material in the scripts, the ultimate value of the
experiment must depend upon how far Myers P
-------------------------- - -
160 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
showed knowledge of what appeared in these
scripts. For, if this communicator is considered
to have displayed actual knowledge on this point,
it follows that such consideration must tend to
strengthen the theory of the existence of an ex-
traneous intelligence responsible for, and capable
of, directing the production of diverse and frag-
mentary " bits " which, when fitted into place like
pieces of a picture puzzle, form in their entirety
the complete pattern of the whole.
•.r
CHAPTER XXII
MARIEMONT AND SIR OLIVER LODGE
ALTHOUGH the value of such experiments
as the foregoing is fairly obvious to all, it
is, nevertheless, interesting to know what real
students of these matters like, for instance, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Sir William Barrett, or J. G.
Piddington feel regarding them and I have
therefore chosen a brief statement of their
opinions for inclusion here.
Mr. Piddington writes that, "On the problem
ofthe real identity of this directing mind-whether
it was a spirit or group of co-operating spirits,
or the consciousness or sub-consciousness of some
living person-the only opinion I can hold with
confidence is this : that if it was not the mind
of Frederic Myers, it was one which deliberately
and artistically imitated his mental characteristics."
In the "Church Family Newspaper" of Nov-
ember 51 1909, Sir Oliver expresses his opinion
thus, "What we are quite clear about is that
ingenuity of a high order has been at work, even
if it be only deceptive ingenuity-nothing that
can with any justification be styled 'imbecility'
L
162 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
and that, to whatever agency the intelligence
may ultimately have to be attributed, intelligence
and scholarship and ingenuity are clearly and
unmistakably displayed. Of that we have no
doubt whatever."
While Sir William Barrett, in his book "The
Threshold of the Living," expresses himself even
more emphatically. He says, "The significance
of the more recent communications-through
Mrs. Piper, the late Mrs. Verrall and several
other automatists-which contain what have been
called ' cross-correspondences,' is precisely this
that they seem inexplicable except on the recog-
nition that some intelligence, which is certainly
not the conscious intelligence of any incarnate
mind, has planned, co-ordinated and directed
them."
The value of such experiments was also ap-
parent to Prof. William James who, while taking
no active part in them, yet discussed them at
much length with various members of the S.P.R.
during his trip abroad in 1908 after which, upon
his return to the .States, he wrote to Mrs. Piper
as follows :-
" DEAR MRS. PIPER,
95, IRVING STREET,
CAMBRIDGE,
November 28, '08.
I have hardly got going in my old ruts
after my return from Europe, but I hope to get in to
see you some day. I am glad that the sittings have
recommenced and I hope that you will confine them
Mariemont and Sir Oliver Lodge I 63
entirely to work along the evidential lines carried on in
the past few years and not go in for tests or advice
sittings when you can possibly escape it. I'm sure it
interferes with the other work.
We are all well and I hope you are. My wife
sends regards and so do I, to you all.
Very sincerely yours,
WM. JAMES.
P.S. I saw Mrs. Sidgwich, Miss Johnson, Lodge and
Piddington in England. They all spoke with much
regard of you all. "
Thus Mrs. Piper's work during the winter of
1907-08 takes its place-a very important place-
in the 'growing annals of psychical research ; and
at the conclusion of the Society's experiments in
the spring, my mother felt that she could then
return to America with the full consciousness
and satisfaction of work well done.
We left London early in May and went direct
to Edgbaston where we spent a further three
happy weeks at "Mariemont," renewing the de-
lightful friendships of the previous autumn. As
was not unnatural in his capacity as Principal
of Birmingham University, Sir Oliver took con-
siderable interest in the curriculum of the private
school which my sister and I had attended in
America, being most favourably impressed with
'its comprehensiveness; but in its entire omission
of the study of astronomy, he considered it re-
miss. One night after dinner, when the heavens
were particularly clear, he asked the boys to set
up his big telescope on the lawn, and this being
-------~----------~..-- --·.......,- ... - .
164 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
done, for well over an hour he instructed us in
the mysteries of some of the constellations, stars,
and planets, afterward presenting us with a copy
of his book 11 Pioneers of Science," which he in-
scribed to 11 Alta and Minerva Piper, from t_he
author, with love and good wishes, qliver Lodge."
Only the other night, I picked up this book intend-
ing to renew my acquaintance for half an hour or
so with Herschel and Newton, but so fascinat-:-
ingly is the story told that it was long after
midnight when I finally laid the boo&: down and
went very sleepily to bed !
Quite naturally, Sir Oliver rarely allowed any
interruption to occur in the regular routine of
his well-filled days ; but there was one notable
exception to this rule while we were there. One
morning at breakfast, he suddenly announced his
intention of taking my mother, my sister and
myself, together with little 11 Youki Inouye," that
same day to Stratford-on-Avon. To say that
we were amazed is putting it very mildly, but
with a wild scurry and scramble we succeeded
in getting ourselves together and ready to start
at the appointed time. Sir Oliver could nev~r
bear unpunctuality -in anyone. On the journey
there, I remember how tremendously impressed
I was with Sir Oliver's powers of concentration.
As soon as the train had started, he an-
nounced that he had work to do and did not
wish to be interrupted until the journey's end, ,
and thereafter, in spite of the conversation about
him, and the bustle and commotion caused
SIR OLIVER LODGE
tface />. l64
Mariemont and Sir Oliver Lodge 165
by departing and incoming passengers, he re-
mained immersed in his books and papers until
Stratford-on-Avon was reached. Then, gather-
ing up his things and storing them away in his
capacious pockets, he entered into the business
of the day with all the enthusiasm and enjoy-
ment of a boy.
There was not much that we did not see that
day, the first thing being the old home of John
Harvard, the founder of Harvard College in
Cambridge, Massachusettes, and outside of which
Sir Oliver good-naturedly allowed himself to be
"snapped" with the others. Then the old church
at the bend of the winding Avon. Here, after
wandering around for a while, Sir Oliver was
recognised by the verger who mysteriously
producing a book from somewhere among the
folds of his black gown, begged the big man
literally towering above him, for his autograph.
Nor was Sir Oliver allowed to leave the church
until he had inscribed his characteristic signature
in the visitors' big book to which he was cere-
moniously conducted by the verger. And again,
at the little inn where we all had lunch, Sir Oliver
was recognised by "mine host" ; indeed, it was
both interesting and pleasing to notice the ad-
miration and respect accorded to this distinguished
but simple and unassuming man, wherever we went
that day. Although tired and quite ready to rest
when " Mariemont" was again reached, the day
was unanimously voted a huge success, and the
little souvenirs which Sir Oliver gave us all are
166 Life and Work of Mrs. _Piper
still carefully preserved among our many treasures
of those days.
But it was not only for the happy times and
pleasant friendships of "Mariemont" that I have
always blessed those visits. It was there that I
had instilled into me that -important and far too
often neglected, or ignored, lesson of life the
unwisdom of indulging in too prolonged or
rigid mental application without judiciously inter-
spersing it with some form of physical exercise,
or other form of relaxation. Although, at the
time of which I write, Sir Oliver's days were
very full with his duties in connection with the
principalship of the University, as well as with
his own writings, he, nevertheless, always found
time for a game or two of tennis which in those
days he enjoyed greatly. For instance, I re-
member one day late in May when as I sat
reading in my room, there came a knock at my
door and upon opening it I found Sir Oliver in
his white tennis flannels looking, as we should
say in modern parlance, "thoroughly fed up."
"I want a little exercise, Alta, will you have a
game of tennis with me?" queried the big man.
"Of course, Sir Oliver ; give me a few minutes
to change and I'11 be with you." And joining
him on the court a little later we had a jolly good
game for rather more than an hour, or until the
tea gong rang, after which the recesses of Sir
Oliver's study swallowed him up again and we
saw him no more until dinner time.
As a matter of interest I should like to record ·
Mariemont and Sir Oliver Lodge I 67
here that, of all the scholars and savants whom
it has been my privilege to know during my
mother's long association with psychical research,
Dr. Richard Hodgson and Sir Oliver Lodge
have somehow conveyed to me the strongest im-
pression of complete sanity and normality. Both
strong, virile men, they yet combined with their
splendid physical development and fine mentalities
a deeply spiritual nature which rounded out and
perfected the whole to a most unusual degree.
My mother always felt this most markedly and
regarded it as a real privilege, for so long a time
and so intimately, to have been associated with
two such splendid and outstanding personalities.
Finally, it was during this second visit to
"Mariemont," in the spring of 1907, that. was
consumated with "Violet," Sir Oliver Lodge's
eldest daughter, that friendship that was ever to
grow in strength and beauty until her death in
J 924. Perhaps how this delicate but rarely
beautiful spirit was regarded, not only by myself
but by my mother and sister as well, is best
shown by the following passage from one of
my mother's letters written just after the news
of Violet's death had reached me in America.
" Life cannot but be the richer," she wrote,
" for such a friendship. Such rarely beautiful
characters are seldom found in this queer world
of ours, but when they are one cannot estimate
in words the value of their friendship. One can
only feel and be grateful for having experienced it."
At the conclusion of our visit to " Mariemont "
168 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
we went to Tarbert, a little ·village beyond the
Kyles of Butte in Scotland, and there we had the
pleasure of renewing our friendship with Mrs.
Thompson and her family who had rented a
cottage in this beautiful and secluded little spot
for the month of June. I do not believe there
were more than two days in that whole month
when the sun shone ; but the continuous rain
did not in the least deter us from long tramps
across the heather-covered moors, or from long
hours in a row boat nosing in and out among
the many beautiful coves with which this part
of Scotland abounds.
In fact we soon came to regard the inclement
weather very much in the light of the old Scots-
man, the baker of the village, who chancing to
meet my mother and Mrs. Thompson splashing
through the heavy downpour one morning, char-
acteristically answered their disgruntled greetings
with: "Aye, it's a wee saft, I shouldna wonder
to see rain afore nicht !"
After this delightful holiday in Scotland we
returned to Liverpool and shortly thereafter, on
July 7, sailed for home, landing in Boston some
ten days later in the very worst heat wave I
remember.
CHAPTER XXIII
TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL OF POWER
IT has always seemed a very great pity that the
work done in England during the previous
season could not have been carried on system-
atically and along similar lines in America after
Mrs. Piper's return. There is no doubt that
grave difficulties stood in the way of this as it
would not have been an easy task to find a
trained and experienced person who would have
been able, either from a financial or academic
point of view, to spare the time necessary. As
a matter of fact, one or two persons who were
. approached on the matter refused the suggestion
for one or both of the above reasons. Thus,
when Mr. B- again offered to take charge of
the sittings, gratis, the English Society accepted
his offer gladly.
Now, in view of the facts stated above, it is,
perhaps, unfortunate that it should be necessary
here to refer to the management of the work
during the ensuing two seasons, 1908-09, in other
than a complimentary manner ; but in the nature
I 70 Life and Work ot Mrs. Piper
of this little volume, which is intended to be an
accurate account of Mrs. Piper's life and work,
this important period in that work cannot be over-
looked or passed by without comment. More-
over, it should be clearly understood that, except
where those concerned in the investigation and
development of Mrs. Piper's phenomena have
touched upon or, even in some small degree,
have affected her personal life, they are referred
to in these pages merely in the light of partici-
pators in that investigation, and any criticism
of their methods is ipso facto purely impersonal
and inserted merely as a matter of record.
With this clearly in mind then it must, un-
fortunately, be recorded here that the manage-
ment of Mrs. Piper's work during 1908-09 was
a grave mistake. Contrary to Prof. James'
suggestion and advice the work, far from being
carried on along systematic and evidential lines,
was devoted largely to private and personal
sittings of which, moreover, inadequate or no
records were kept. But by far the most un-
fortunate and regrettable mistake of all was the
introduction of sitters unfamiliar with the modus
operandi of this particular psychic, or, indeed, as
subsequent events seem to prove, unfamiliar. with
the most rudimentary laws of psychic phenomena;
sitters who, without supervision of any kind,
undertook to make certain physical tests and
experiments of such an ·unwarrantably harsh
character that they resulted, as will be seen
overleaf, in the temporary withdrawal of power.
.-"
Temporary Withdrawal of Power 171
Following immediately upon this period, Mrs.
Piper, in October, 1909, made a third visit to
England under the auspices of the Society. It
was not an auspicious moment for a visit of this
kind, however, as soon transpired. Unduly tired
when she sailed, Mrs. Piper contracted an ex-
ceedi~gly heavy cold on the voyage from the
effects of which she did not completely recover
for many months. This circumstance greatly
increased her general feelings of fatigue and,
naturally, did not help to produce those conditions
of good health and general well-being upon which
her phenomena are in such large measure de-
pendent for success. In fact, it was not until the
late spring and early summer of 1910, that Mrs.
Piper was able to give her first two or three
sittings in England. These were given under
the supervision of Sir Oliver Lodge who also
supervised in the following spring and summer
the few subsequent sittings which Mrs. Piper was
able to give prior to her return to America in
the autumn.
During this brief period, the recovery from the
trance was prolonged greatly beyond the normal
duration and was frequently attended with con-
siderable difficulty, a condition which, not un-
naturally, gave rise to a feeling of uneasiness on
the part of the sitters. The Imperator Group of
controls also appeared disturbed by these conditions
and at a sitting on May 24, 1911, they advised
the withdrawal, for a time at least, of the power.
On July 3, a sitting which had previously
I 72 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
been promised to Lady Lodge, was given at
"Mariemont," and was opened by a new control,
"Mme. Guyon," and closed by Imperator. This
was the last sitting given in England, and the
last trance-sitting given for a long time, although
communications by means of automatic writing,
unaccompanied by trance as formerly, continued
intermittently until about 1915 when the trance
state again made its appearance. As will be seen
in the following letter, Sir Oliver refers therein to
some of these automatic scripts which began in
England shortly before Mrs. Piper's return to the
States.
"Mv DEAR ALTA,
" MARIEMONT,''
EDGBASTON,
14th October, 19 1 I.
Many thanks for the clear particulars you
have sent about the important piece of script, also for the
additional thirteen pages. Please thank your mother for
this and tell her how sorry I am that she is so soon
crossing the Atlantic (they are evidently making an effort
to get some things through before she goes), but that I
hope things will settle themselves there, and that we shall
be able to welcome her back again before long,
Yours affectionately,
0. J. L."
To me the explanations for the conditions
attendant upon Mrs. Piper's phenomena at this
time and as outlined above, although extremely
regrettable, are both normal and simple. During
the twenty odd years of her connection with the
)
Temporary Withdrawal of Power 173
English Society for Psychical Research (with the
exception of the brief period immediately following
Dr. Hodgson's sudden death already referred to),
until her return to America after the second visit
to England, Mrs. Piper's phenomena had always
been supervised by men like William James,
Myers, Lodge, and Hodgson; men in whose
ability to handle with due wisdom and care the
investigation of her phenomena Mrs. Piper's in-
herent feeling of confidence had without exception
been merited to the fuilest. This is indisputably
proved, if proof were necessary, by the fact that
although the physical experiments employed by
these investigators* were considered sufficiently
drastic to establish the genuineness of the trance
state, and, at least to a great extent, Mrs. Piper's
insensibility to pain while entranced, the experi-
ments left no injurious after effects upon the
medium. Unfortunately, the same cannot be
said of those physical experiments which certain
investigators made during the season of 1909,
one of which made,-as I was afterwards told
when I complained of the results-to establish
the degree of anesthesia present in the trance
state, resulted in a badly blistered and swollen
tongue which caused Mrs. Piper considerable
pain and inconvenience for several days ; while
yet another left on the palm of the right hand
a series of small very red marks, something like
pin pricks, in the form of a circle. This last test
tesulted in numbness and partial paralysis of the
right arm for some time afterward.
*Chap. X., pp. 65-66.
I 74 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
Now it seems reasonable to suppose that
experiments such as those above might very
naturally have two possible results on the sensi-
tive organism of a psychic. Firstly, the appli-
cation of presumably some liquid sufficiently
powerful in its action to blister the tongue, and
the use of some instrument which resulted in a
partial paralysis of the hand and arm for several
days, might conceivably prove a shock sufficient
to upset, to some extent and for some time, the
delicate balance of that as yet little understood .
mechanism which we know only as psychic : and
secondly, when it is realised and taken into con-
sideration how completely Mrs. Piper places
herself in the hands of her investigators during
a sitting, it can readily be understood what the
violation of her confidence in the wisdom and
integrity of her investigators must mean to her,
and how, when once shaken, such confidence
might be difficult to regain. Wherefore, it does
not seem difficult to explain, or to understand the
cause of the conditions attending on Mrs. Piper's
phenomena in England during 1910 and '11 ;
conditions which resulted in lmperator's ultimatum
that the power must be withdrawn for a time in
order to repair the "machine."
It is this temporary and partial cessation of the
phenomena which has given rise in the past to the
belief among many that Mrs. Piper had "lost her
power," a statement which I have frequently heard
during the past ten years or so and, occasionally,
seen in print, notably in Flournoy's " Spiritism
\'
\
·i
l\
I
I
Temporary Withdrawal of Power 175
and Psychology," where he states, with reference
to the duration of mediumistic power, that "it is
gradually lost over a period of years or, on the
contrary, suddenly wrecked by harsh methods of
experimentation-as in the case of Mrs. Piper."
But that Mrs. Piper's power, although remaining
in abeyance for some years, was not "lost" will
be fully shown in later chapters.
Before going on to other matters, however, I
desire to state here emphatically that never in
Mrs. Piper's years of experience and connection
with the English Society for Psychical Research,
except in the instance of G. Stanley Hall and his
assistant, Dr. Amy Tanner-referred to above-
has the most complete and absolute confidence in
the discretion of her investigators been other than
merited in the fullest degree.
-
CHAPTER XXIV
RESUMPTION OF POWER
ALTHOUGH for a few years following Mrs.
Piper's return to America in October, c911,
her power was to a large extent 'Seemingly in
abeyance, yet during this time messages, by
means of the automatic writing, were frequently
given for Sir Oliver Lodge and other friends of
years gone by; and these, as before leaving
England I had been asked by Sir Oliver to do
in the event of their being received, I transmitted
to the various persons for whom they were in-
tende<l, keeping in each instance a careful record
of both messages and all data concerning them.
These communications though unaccompanied
by trance were, according to their recipients, clear,
pertinent, and in nearly all instances voluminous.
No attempt during these years was made either
to encourage the resumption of the trance or to
undertake the continuation of systematic experi-
ments or investigation; and for the first time,
therefore, since she had begun her work Mrs.
Piper was able to live a life of quiet and unob-
trusive freedom. That is to say, for instance, that
If--~-----------------·--·--·--. -···-··-· -- -~ - - - ---- ----- --------
Resumption of Power- 177
she was able to meet and talk with acquaintances,
or friends, without the ever-present consciousness
that conversation must be closely watched and
guarded for the reason that a word or remark
casually uttered at such times, mz"ght later on be
regarded as the probable source of an otherwise
important communication at a sitting ; and in the
same way and for the same reason she ~as able
during these years, as never before, to handle and
examine a book, a picture, or a photograph in the
homes she visited, without the feeling that such
objects thus handled might be suspected of
forming the nucleus of a future communication
purporting to be the emanation of a discarnate
intelligence. In other words, she was, during
this interval, able to live the normal life of a
woman unhemmed round with the mesh of
scientific restrictions and preclusions ; while my
sister and I, although much preoccupied with our
music-both being professional musicians-were
yet able to enjoy in greater measure than ever
before the companionship and comradeship of our
mother.
But, while all this undoubtedly had its compen-
sating side, it must not be imagined that Mrs. Piper
rejoiced unequivocably in this greater freedom, or
that she regarded other than with deep regret the
circumstances which had brought it about; for
the main purpose, and the one which had origin-
ally influenced her in deciding to use her gift
exclusively for purposes of scientific investigation,
she regarded as still unattained ; a keen dis-
M
i1
178 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
appointment after all the years of intelligent and
faithful adherence on her part to the exigencies
of that investigation.
As has always been her custom Mrs. Piper,
during this time, continued to spend several
months of each year in the country far away
from town and all appertaining thereto ; and it was
during one of these quiet, restful sojourns in the
mountains under the following circumstances, that
the trance condition made its first re-appearance.
In the late summer of 1915, I was asked through
the automatic writing to request Miss Robbins,
one of Mrs. Piper's earliest sitters, to be present
at a meeting " as of old " which would take place
on Sunday, the eighth of August. This I did, and
although her acquiescence entailed a journey of
several hours and necessitated her spending the
week-end out of town which, in view of her im-
pending trip to California she was reluctant to do,
Miss Robbins nevertheless acceded to "Rector's"
request. Accordingly on Sunday morning, the
8th, Miss Robbins having arrived the previous
evening, preparations were made for a sitting
which was, as we understood the message, to be
accompanied by the deep sleep of old ; nor were
we misled in these expectations for the sitting
took place as and how we expected.
I have given these facts somewhat in detail be-
cause this meeting was important from two points
of view : first, it marked the return of the trance
condition which had been held in abeyance for
the four years previously ; and, secondly, it was
Resumption of Power 179
at this time that the "Faunus" message, relating
to the forthcoming death of his son "Raymond,"
was given for Sir Oliver Lodge, the raison d'etre,
presumably, of "Rector's" request for this sitting
to take place.
In the following chapter will be found the
original message as it was received by Miss
Robbins and myself on this occasion, together
with comments and interpretations of its signifi-
cance by Sir Oliver, Mrs. Verrall, and the Rev.
M. A. Bayfield ; but should readers desire a
more detailed analysis of this incident and its
construed application to the subsequent death of
"Raymond," it can be found either in Sir Oliver's
book " Raymond," Part II., Chap. I I., or in Mr.
Piddington's paper in Part LXXII Vol. XXIX.
of the Proceedings.
CHAPTER XXV
THE FAUNUS MESSAGE
THE sitting opened with ·greetings to Miss
Robbins followed by comments and advice
on her forthcoming trip to California, after which
the control, 11 Hodgson," began abruptly as fol-
lows : 11 Now Lodge while we are not here as
of old, z:e. not quite, we are here enough to give
and take messages. Myers says you take the
part of the poet, and he will act as Faunus•
FAUNUS. Myers. Protect. he will U.D. (under-
stand). What have you to say Lodge. Good
work. ask Verrall, she will also U.D. Arthur
says so." For a moment from the previous refer-
ence to 11 poet " Miss Robbins misunderstood the
name "Arthur" as alluding to Tennyson, but
upon suggesting this to the control she was told-
" No. Myers knows. So does . . . you get
mixed but Myers is straight about Poet and
Faunus." Commenting on the name 11 Arthur,"
Sir Oliver says " ' Arthur' clearly means to us
Arthur W. Verrall." ·
The following interpretation and analysis of
the above message are excerpts from a paper
by Sir Oliver Lodge in Vol. XXIX of the Proc.
The Faunus Message
"My son Raymond joined the army, September,
1914. He trained near Liverpool and Edinburgh
with the South Lancashires, and in March, 19151
was sent to the trenches in Flanders. In the
middle of July he had a few days' leave at home
and on the 20th returned to the front.
" The first intimation that I had that anything
might be going wrong was a message from Myers
through Mrs. Piper in America; communicated
apparently by ' Richard Hodgson' at a time
when Miss Robbins was present, on August 8,
191 51 and sent me by Miss Alta Piper together
with the original. A copy of this script was sent
by me to my friend Mr. J. Arthur Hill in the
ordinary course, and returned endorsed by him.
(Sir Oliver gives the extract and then continues).
11 In order to interpret this message, I wrote
to Mrs. Verrall as instructed, asking her : ' Does
THE POET AND FAUNUS mean anything to you?
Did one " protect the other " ?' She replied at
once (September 8, 1915) referring me to Horace,
Ode II. xvii. 27-30, and saying:
11 'The reference is to Horace's account of his
narrow escape from death, from a falling tree,
which he ascribes to the intervention of Faunus.
Cf. Odes II. xiii. ; II. xvii. 27 ; III. iv. 27 ;
III. viii., 8 for references to the subject. The
allusion to Faunus is in Ode II. xvii. 27-30.'
Me truncus illapsus cerebro
Sustulerat, nisi FAUNUS ictum
Dextra levasset, Mercurialium
CusTos virorum.
182 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
'" Faunus, the guardian of poets,' ('poets' being
the usual interpretation of' Mercury's men.')
'' The passage is a very well-known one to all
readers of Horace, and is perhaps specially
familiar from its containing, in the sentence
quoted, an unusual grammatical construction.
It is likely to occur in a detailed work on Latin
Grammar.
"The passage has no special association for
me other than as I have described, though it
has some interest as forming part of a chrono-
logical sequence among the ODES, not generally
admitted by commentators, but accepted by me.
The words quoted are, of course, strictly ap-
plicable to the Horatian passage, which they
instantly recalled to me."
"I perceived, therefore, from this manifestly cor-
rect interpretation of the ' Myers' message to
me, that the meaning was that some blow was
going- to fall, or was likely to fall, though I didn't
know of what kind, and that Myers would inter-
vene, apparently to protect me from it. So far as
I can recollect my comparatively trivial thoughts
on the subject, I believe that I had some vague
idea that the catastrophe intended was perhaps
of a financial rather than of a personal kind ;
though, as Mr. Piddington has now reminded
me, a falling or fallen tree is a recognised symbol
of death-the symbolism being perhaps derived
from a misunderstanding of Eccl. xi. 3.
" The above message reached me near the
beginning of September, 1915, in Scotland. Ray-
The Faunus Message 183
mond was killed near Ypres on the 14th Sept-
ember, 1915, and we got the news by telegram
from the War Office on September 17th."
The following interesting and more detailed
interpretation of this incident is contained in a
letter from the Rev. M. A. Bayfield which Sir
Oliver embodies in his paper.
"Horace does not, in any reference to his
escape, say clearly whether the tree struck him,
but I have always thought ·it did. He says
Faunus lightened the blow; he does not say
' turned it aside.' As bearing on your terrible
loss, the meaning seems to be that the blow
would fall but would not crush ; it would be
'lightened' by the assurance, conveyed afresh to
you by a special message from the still living
Myers, that your boy still lives.
I shall be interested to know what you think
of this interpretation. The ' protect ' I take to
mean protect from being overwhelmed by the
blow, from losing faith and hope, as we are all
in danger of doing when smitten by some crush-
ing personal calamity. Many a man when so
smitten has, like Merlin, lain
'as dead,
And lost to life and use and name and fame !'
"That seems to me to give a sufficiently pre-
cise application to the word (on which Myers
apparently insists) and to the whole reference to
Horace."
In a postscript to this letter Mr. Bayfield adds the
following :-" In CARM, 111 8, Horace describes
184 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
himself as jJrope funeratus ar/Joris ictu, ' well nigh
killed by a blow from a tree.' An artist in ex-
pression such as he was would not have mentioned
any 'blow' if there had been none; he would have
said 'well nigh killed by a falling tree '-or the
like. It is to be noted that in both passages he
uses the word z"ctus. And in 11.13.11 (the whole
ode is addressed to the tree), he says the man must
have been a fellow steeped in every wickedness
.'who planted thee, accursed lump of wood, a thing
(meant) to fall (this is the delicate meaning of
caducum-not merely "falling") on thine undeserv-
ing master's head.' Here again the language
implies that he was struck, and struck on the
head.
Indeed the escape must have been a narrow
one, and it is to me impossible to believe that
Horace would have been so deeply impressed by
the accident if he had not actually been struck.
He refers to it four times . . .
I insist on all this as strengthening my inter-
pretation, and also as strengthening the assign-
ment of the script to Myers, who would of course
be fully alive to all the points to be found in his
reference to Faunus and Horace,-and, as I have
no doubt, believed that Horace did not escape
the actual blow, and that it was a severe one.
CHAPTER XXVI
SOME SUGGESTED HYPOTHESES
IT is incidents like these of the Faunus Message
and the cross-correspondence tests that make
us pause and think ! What power is responsible
for them? From whence do they emanate?
The ramifications of telepathy, which pheno-
menon has now pretty generally been accepted,
although admittedly not fully understood, are
legion ; but are they, when all is said and done,
sufficiently numerous, or sufficiently elastic, satis-
factorily to explain the foregoing type of incident ?
And, if not, what theory is ?
One hypothesis which has sometimes been
advanced as an explanation of Mrs. Piper's
phenomena, is that of hypnosis. But Mrs. Piper
has never been successfully hypnotised. Experi-
ments towards this end have been tried by
Professors James and Hyslop, and by Dr.
Hodgson, but without success as such is under-
stood by hypnotists. "I could not affect her
consciousness," Professor James says (Proc. VoL
VI.). Dr. Hodgson admits that he was likewise
unsuccessful ; while Professor Hyslop states his
186 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
conclusions thus:-" I have never found the
slightest traces of suggestability as that is known
to the practitioner." (Vol. XVI.)
While dealing with the hypnotic hypothesis, a
theory advanced by Mrs. Piper herself may be
of interest, although from the very nature of
things it is evident 'that as a critic or elucidator
of her own phenomena, Mrs. Piper's opinion
must necessarily be of little value. -
One day, during our stay in Woking in the
winter of 1910, while my mother and sister wc:.re
walking with Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, my mother
in reply to Mrs. Sidgwick's question whether she
herself had any idea as to the nature of her
power, said that she had sometimes wondered
if the trance could be a state of self-induced
hypnosis. This suggestion appeared to interest
Mrs. Sidgwick who said she had never thought
of that. Some time later when reading her
voluminous report on the Piper phenomena (Proc.
Vol. XXVII I.), I found that Mrs. Sidgwick had
adopted this suggestion as the theory upon which
her arguments in this volume of the Proceedings
are based.
I mention this en passant as, when Mrs. Piper
had previously suggested this hypothesis to Prof.
James, and to Dr. Hodgson, both of whom had
been familiar with her phenomena practically
from their inceptiO'n, they had rejected it emphatic-
ally as not being in keeping either with the
medical, or psychological, facts of the case and,
'herefore, as untenable.
I
I
)
)
)
)
Some Suggested Hypotheses 1 87
Another hypothesis sometimes suggested is
that of a secondary personality, an hypothesis
which, like that of telepathy, is often stretched
to great limits by persons who, either ignorant,
or careless, of scientific definitions, imagine the
power possessed by secondary personalities to be
capable of displaying all manner of supernormally
acquired knowledge.
That this idea is entirely inaccurate is clearly
shown by the following paragraph from a letter
of Professor Hyslop's to Miss H. A. Dallas.
"The scientist has to have a term to denote
the sub-conscious production of matter which is
neither supernormal nor spiritistic, but derivable
from the normal experience of the subject, and
latent to the normal consciousness and memory.
" As secondary personality is known to the
scientist, it has no traces of the supernormal . . .
We must remember that the term secondary
personality is not a name for any special pmyer
of the mind other than the normal, as many
people have supposed, but it is as I have de-
fined it....
" Mrs. Piper shows no traces of secondary
personality as defined and recognised m psych-
atry or pathology."
These, then, are ·a few of the most salient
theories, or hypotheses, which from time to time
have been advanced as being explanatory of Mrs.
Piper's phenomena, in contra-distiction to that of
NOTE.-From Mors Janua Vitae, page 69. Quoted by kind
permission of the author, Miss H. A. Dallas.
188 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
the spiritistic hypothesis. Which theory one
accepts as being most satisfactory at the present
stage of progress in the field of psychical re-
search, is, of course, largely a matter of personal
and individual opinion ; and whether a concensus
of opinion on any one theory will ever be rendered
imperative and inevitable by facts elucidated from
further psychical research is, at the moment,
problematical. It is, however, I think, con-
ceivable that episodes like those of the Cross-
correspondence and Faunus Messages, if
accumulated in sufficient numbers, may in time
form a beacon of truth whose rays will at last
penetrate even the enveloping darkness of un-
certainty, and so sweep away the least remaining
shadow of a doubt.
I
[
f
{
)
J
/
CHAPTER XXVI I
RECENT PHENOMENA
DURING the intervening ten years between
1914 and 1924, Mrs. Piper's psychic power
although apparently as clear and strong as ever,
was yet used only for occasional sittings and at
irregular intervals; regular or systematic work
during this time being impossible for two reasons.
One was the constantly increasing demands made
upon her time and strength during this period by
the gradually failing health of my grandmother to
whom my mother was devoted ; .the other being
the same reason that we have met before, namely,
the seeming impossibility of finding a suitable
person to undertake the supervision of the work.
But in the autumn of 1924 Dr. Gardner
Murphy, a young, enthusiastic, and highly trained
psychologist, connected with the departments of
psychology both at Harvard and Columbia, ob-
tained permission to conduct a series of sittings
which extended into the late spring of the follow-
ing year. This series was productive of a good
deal of interesting material as the outcome of
190 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
which, permission was sought and obtained from
the English Society for Mrs. Piper to work with
the newly formed Boston Society during the season
of 1926-27. Doubtless a report will be issued in
due course by the proper authorities covering this
period of Mrs. Piper's work. In the interim,
however, I am able, through the courtesy and
interest of Margaret Deland, to give here two
remarkable incidents taken from the series of
sittings which she had with Mrs. Piper during
this time. The first instance, which I shall call
the "button" incident, was written by Mrs.
Deland for the Clark University Symposium
which was held at Clark University, Worcester,
Mass., in November and December, 1926 ; the
second incident, or "galley proof" episode, has
not so far been published.
In her paper for the Symposium, Mrs. Deland
makes use of the ingenius argument of a scientific
sieve through which, by means of the familiar
tags "Clairvoyance," "Intuition," "Coincidence,"
"Telepathy," etc., she essays to push various
incidents of ouija board spellings, automatic
writings, visions, and so on, in the contention
that if any refuse, even after "some pushing and
straining," to pass through the meshes of this
sieve it is a logical deduction that this residuum
argues for the theory of survival. We will let
her tell this " button " incident in her own words.
"I know another story," she says ... "It is
concerned with a baby's rompers. About a year
and a half ago afriend-whom I will call 'Molly'-
l
I
j
J
J
)
Recent Phenomena
and I were sitting with Mrs. Piper in Boston, and
' Molly's' sister, Lucy, who had died, 'purported'
(as the saying is) to write with the entranced Mrs.
Piper's hand. She said that the day before she
had seen her mother in another town, doing so
and so. The statement was correct ; but as
Molly happened to know exactly what her mother
had been doing at the time she, of course, credited
the information to mind reading on the part of
Mrs. Piper. Then another personality began to
write but paused to say :
'LUCY HAS GONE AGAIN TO FIND MOTHER AND SEE
WHAT SHE IS DOING.'
I, rather surprised, said, 'What! now!' There
was no reply; the other communicator just went
on writing about his own affairs, then some twenty
minutes later paused to say abruptly:
'HERE"S LUCY!'
" I said, as nearly as I can remember, ' Well,
Lucy, did you see your mother ? What was she
doing ?' Mrs. Piper's hand wrote :
MOTHER JUST LOOKED AT MORNING NEWS (here fol-
lowed a drawing of newspaper) AND LAID IT ON A LITTLE
TABLE. PICKED UP WHAT LOOKED LIKE A BOX OF
BUTTONS (here the hand drew seven little circles-0 0 0 O O O O
-suggesting buttons) AND SHOOK THEM. LOOKED INTO
IT. PICKED UP TWO OR THREE AND SAT DOWN IN
A CHAIR TO PUT THEM IN ANOTHER PLACE.
" Later, this was reported to Lucy's mother,
who said that at the time this was being written
in Boston, she may have been reading a paper;
she generally did at about that hour, but she
couldn't be certain. But she was certain that
192 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
she had taken up a little tray of buttons, perhaps
a dozen, shaken it, because (she remembered)
some ravellings were clinging to the buttons, then
picked out two, and sat down to sew them on
to her little granddaughter's rompers. To me,
those buttons for a baby's bloomers lie as a
residuum in the sieve, when golden crowns or
harps would have slipped through! No eye of
flesh saw that simple domestic scene. Mrs. Piper,
in Boston, knew nothing of Lucy's mother, or
of her occupation ; nor did Lucy's sister, Molly,
have any idea what was going on in Cambridge
at eleven o'clock that April morning. Yet here
is a statement co-incidental with an event; 'she
picked up a box of buttons and shook them.' "
Now, the second, or "galley proof" incident
which I want to give here, is rather longer and
more complicated than the "button" incident ;
but, I think, even more interesting-and, perhaps.
remarkable. It concerns a large bunch of galley
proof which having finished correcting under
pressure, Mrs. Deland had at last with a good
deal of relief despatched, before starting on a
holiday, to the office of the magazine which was
to publish it. Weeks later, she was horrified to
receive word from the magazine that they had
not yet received the proof now long overdue.
Then ensued a frantic series of telephone and
telegraph messages in an attempt to trace the
"lost" MS.-seemingly, however, without suc-
cess. In the midst of all this turmoil and distress,
Recent Phenomena I93
Mrs. Deland had a sitting with Mrs. Piper at
which she was told that the proof was in the
office of the magazine, that it would be found,
and that a boy and a dog were mixed up in its
loss. The script as Mrs. Deland received it that
day was in part as follows :-
IF YOU WILL INQUIRE AND STICK TO IT I WILL
HELP TO GET IT AND THAT IS A PROMISE. 1 TELL
YOU THEY ARE NOW IN THE OFFICE. SLIPPED
UNDER IN BAG. WILL YOU PLEASE BECOME ACTIVE
ABOUT IT AND QUESTION BOY AND YOU WILL FIND
ME RIGHT. JUST TRUST ME NOW. YOU WILL GET
IT.
There was also mention made, as I have said,
of a boy and a dog in connection with the loss
of the proof.
And now after this brief preliminary, let us
read Mrs. Deland's own account of the incident
as she wrote it out for me at my request.
"Mv DEAR ALTA,
KENNEBUNKPORT, MAINE,
February r3, r928.
The story of the lost manuscript is, briefly,
this :-In the winter and spring of 1926 I was reading
the proof of iny last novel, 'The Kays.' I was awfully
tired, and was reading the stuff under a good deal of
pressure. In the midst of it we packed up and went
down to Hampton, Virginia, for a rest of two or three
weeks. On the way we stopped over for a few days in
New York; but even these few days had to be given
up, to some extent, to proof reading. I was with a
friend on 83rd Street, and had no way of sending my
corrected proof, as I finished it, down to the office of
the magazine which was publishing it, and I was afraid
to trust it to the mail; so I telephoned the Editor's
N
194 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
office and asked her if she would send a messenger up
to 83rd Street to get some proof; just how much I didn't
know. This was done, and to my great relief I got rid
of a big roll of some twenty galleys. Then, with an
easier mind, I started south for Hampton. There, I
immediately went to work on more proof, and every
three or four days I would mail a batch of it to New
York. By the time I was ready to come back to Boston,
the work was pretty much done, and when I settled
down in my little apartment at Riverbank Court I had
not very much ahead of me to do. You may imagine,
then, my consternation, when one day-I think it must
have been the 31st of March-I received a letter from
the Editor of the magazine in regard to various matters
of business, and at the end of it came a casual post-
script: 'By the way, we haven't yet received your proof
for "such and such" a number of the magazine.' I
was perfectly flabbergasted-if you will permit the slang
-because I knew that I had read innumerable proof
sheets and sent them back, at various times, nearly a
month before; I didn't know, however, whz''ch sheets
went at any special time. Of course I telegraphed im-
mediately to the effect that the proofs had been read and
despatched to them, and that I feared it was lost ! Then
ensued, of course, a frantic exchange of telegrams be-
tween us. I took it for granted that the proof had been lost
in the Hampton, Virginia, post office as several different
rolls had been posted there; so I sent a long despatch
to a friend in Hampton, asking him to go over to the
Hampton post office and hunt the thing up. I said
that I had mailed proof there, and that I had taken a
receipt for it, but that, unfortunately (just two or three
days before the notification from the magazine came) I
had destroyed this receipt. The people in Hampton
telegraphed back that they had made every possible
exertion to get on the track of the lost proof, but that
all they knew was that it had been registered at the
Hampton post office, and a receipt was given me.
Recent Phenomena
"That was all they knew about it! The New York
post office then tried to get on the track of it but at the
office of the Magazine they said, definitely, that it had
never been received at their office. In the midst of this
confusion, when I was confronted by the necessity of
reading over again this whole tremendous batch of proof,
I was to have a sitting with your mother. I confess that
for once my mind was in such a turmoil that it seemed
useless to keep the appointment, for I didn't suppose
anything would come to me. Nevertheless, such appoint-
ments are too precious to be thrown overboard, so a friend
and I went to Allston-but we were both in a very pre-
occupied and worried frame of mind.
"We had our sitting and your mother's script was, as
usual, voluminous, and I, reading it as it came out, could
not see very much in it. But I brought it home with
me and that night, after I had gone to bed, I began to
read it all over. You know I don't read your mother's
writing very easily ! However, I did my best, and I
studied especially certain references to the lost proof, a
subject I had introduced. In the midst of reading it a
sudden conviction came into my mind; the conviction
was so acute that it was almost like a stab. It was this :
The missz"ng proof z"s z'n the office of the Magasz'ne.
This, of course, on the face of it, seemed perfectly
ridiculous. The one place on earth where that proof
was not likely to be was in the office of the magazine
which so distractedly desired it. However, the impression
was so vivid and so inescapable that the next morning I
called the office up on the telephone and said that
I had a very strong feeling that possibly the proof had
been, in some way or other, mislaid, and would be found
in the office or in the composing room of the magazine.
I can remember even now the annoyance, not to say
irritation, in the voice of the member of the staff who
answered me on the telephone : ' Oh, my dear Mrs.
Deland, that is quite impossible! We have never re-
ceived that proof from you.' This was definite, and
I 96 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
really only what I had expected; yet I couldn't get away
from the impression which had come to me when I was
reading your mother's script; so I said (perhaps a little
faintly) that I wished very much that they would make a
further search for the proof. To which this lady answered,
very coldly and with a good deal of dignity : 'Of course,
we will look, Mrs. Deland, but such a thing is out of the
question I No proof could be lost in this office.' So I
rang off and gave the matter up. In three or four hours,
however, the pressure of this idea becaa:e irresistible, and
again I squandered my hard earned money on a long
distance message to New York and got hold of this same
official. I said that the more I thought of it the more
convinced I was that the proof might be found with them.
In reply this lady said in effect, and with added coldness,
'I am very sorry, Mrs. Deland, but the suggestion is
entirely z''mpossihle. l assure you that we have looked,
that every care has been taken, and that your proof is
not here and has never been recez''ved.' So there was
nothing for me to do but ring off and resign myself to
reading all over again some twenty-five galleys of proof.
I think it was about half past two when my hopes were
thus finally dashed. At about five the telephone rang;
it was a telegram from New York saying, with voluminous
apologies, that the proof had been found I That it was
in the office, and that a letter was following to explain to
me how this perfectly incredible thing had happened!
You may imagine my relief-indeed, I have no words
strong enough to express it. Well, the letter came the
next morning and it stated that the ' impossible ' had
taken place; that the proof had been received, and that
it had been found in, so the· lady said, 'a perfectly im-
possible place.'
" And now I want to explain the peculiar applicability
of the script to the facts. When I received the letter of
abject apology from the editor's office it took whatever
Christian grace I had to reply, with somewhat cold
politeness, that I was glad to know that the proof had
/
(
Recent Phenomena
been found, and regretted. the trouble they had had, etc.,
etc. I also said something to this effect : 'Will you be
good enough to answer one or two questions in regard to
the loss of the proof? Was there, in any possible way,
connected with this loss, a boy and a dog ?' The
secretary who answered my letter was plainly very be-
wildered by the question-she probably thought I was ·
losing my mind ! (I am sorry I didn't think to say then
that if I was losing my mind it was owing to worry over
the inadequacy and bad management of her editorial
office !) However, I didn't say this. I merely sent my
question off and she made tqe following explanation : it
appears that the proof which was lost was the proof, to
protect which I had telephoned to the Editor, when
I was in New York, asking that a special messenger
might call at East 83rd Street and get it; because, I
said, I was ' afraid to trust it to the mail.' Accordingly
the office had sent a hoy to get the stuff and take it down
to the Park Avenue office. The hoy had a dog.
" Perhaps I ought to say-though it shows how stupid
I am-that in all that week of hurry and confusion of
telephoning and telegraphing, and hunting for the lost
manuscript, the one thing that rli'rl not occur to ' Molly '
or myself was to enquire about the first batch of proof
which was sent by special messenger to the office. I
took it for granted, as did everybody else, that the lost
proof was proof mailed from Hampton. There were three
or four such mailings, and nobody could tell which batch
of proof was mailed on any one date. This confusion
seems incredible now, but such is the fact. The whole
time the proof was being hunted for, it was lying concealed
in what the secretary said was an 'impossible place ' in
the Magazine office I There is the whole thing I "
CHAPTER XXVIII
MRS. PIPER, THE WOMAN, AND HER WORK
I HAVE already mentioned that in the late
autumn of 1924 and spring of 1925, previous
to her temporary association with the Boston
Society, a series of experiments with Mrs. Piper
was carried out under the direction of Dr. Gardner
Murphy. In a letter to Mrs. Piper, written on
May 5, 1925, Dr. Murphy wrote as follows: "At
these recent sittings I realised more than ever the
extraordinary sacrifices which both you and your
daughters constantly make for the cause of psy-
chical research, and for the benefit of the sitters ;
and I want to tell you again what a deep privilege
it has been to be associated with your work, and
to have an opportunity to see at first hand the
powers which I had formerly known through
reading the published records."
Now, for more reasons than one, this excerpt
cannot but be of interest indicating as it does a
tendency at least among the younger generation
of investigators, to regard the opportunity of
experimenting with a psychic as a privilege and
I
I
)
,
'
Mrs. Piper, the Woman and her Work 199
not a right, an attitude which marks a big step
forward in the right direction.
But if we concede this point, as ultimately we
all must, ~t then, ipso facto, devolves upon the
psychic who is willing or desirous to use his or
her professed power for the benefit and enlighten-
ment of mankind, to submit to reasonable investi-
gation by reputable and competent psychical
researchers ; for in no field of research to-day-
either philosophical or scientific-are there such
opportunities for deception-deliberate or other-
wise-as in this realm of psychical phenomena,
either physical or mental ; and even to the
veritablest tyro it must be fairly obvious that the
very first essential of definite or permanent pro-
gress in psychical research, henceforth, rests upon
the establishment first of the genu£neness of any
medium whose powers are being used voluntarily,
or professionally, for purposes of demonstration.
A propos of this contention that the honesty of
any medium must first be proved before his or her
phenomena can justly be considered of value, it is
interesting to note that some of the older psychical
researchers, who in the past have done much good
and valuable work, receive this assertion with a
shrug of the shoulders, or the words "Oh, tests,"
uttered in a tone of voice which renders their
meaning quite clear even to the most obtuse.
And in such instances, it is only the realisation
that it is the surety of their present convictions
which has long since to them overshadowed the
fact that those very convictions were arrived at
200 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
only after years of the most cautious, insistent, and
continuous experiments, which enables us to recon-
cile their reputation as careful investigators with
their attitude at the present time !
But to revert, for a moment, to the question of
competent investigators. The prolonged and con-
stant study which I have made of the investigators
who have experimented during the past thirty
years with Mrs. Piper, has convinced me that in
addition to the obvious qualifications of absolute
probity, exceptional accuracy of observation, and
a capacity for carrying on an investigation with
purely impersonal and disinterested motives which
are essential to every psychical investigator he
must, in addition, possess a personality at least
not antagonistic to the psychic.
Nowby "personality" I do not refer to any attitude
of mind which the investigator brings to bear upon
his work, for experience has also taught me that
one can be as sceptical as one chooses without in
the very least affecting the ultimate results of his
investigation-although, undoubtedly, pronounced
scepticism does retard the procuration of these
results; but rather do I refer to that subtle, in-
tangible quality, indefinable but easily recognised,
which we all possess and are accustomed to call
"personality." Probably no one has not at some
time or other experienced a feeling of antagonism
towards some one which, while not explainable,
has. yet had the effect of making us feel neither at
ease nor at our best when in the presence of the
one who inspired it.
Mrs. Piper, the Woman and her Work 201
Well, just so with psychical investigators. If
the investigator possesses a personality, which for
some reason or other is antagonistic to the medium,
he is but wasting her strength and his own time
in continuing his experiments; for, indeed, such a
position is analagous to that of an electrician who
by connecting two cathodes, or negatives, expects
to produce a current of electricity.
I cannot stress this point too emphatically, for
surely psychical research presents numerous enough
difficulties to the thoughtful man or woman with-
out adding thereto one which can comparatively
easily be eliminated; and it is always necessary
to remember that, notwithstanding the progress
made during the past quarter of a century, psy-
. chical research is still in its infancy.
We have spoken of the qualifications of the
psychical investigator which are fairly obvious;
but what of the qualifications of a genuine and
successful psychic ? Are there none ? Or has
not the time yet come when we can answer that
with certainty ? I do not know. But in the
case of Mrs. Piper I do know this-she does not
smoke or touch alcohol in any form, not alone
from. principle but because both are distasteful
to her, and it is only just to say that to my
personal knowledge-and perhaps no mother and
daughters have been more closely, intimately, or
constantly associated with one another than we
three-she has lived always the most moderate
and most upright life consistent with the fact
that, after all, she is a human being and so sub-
o
202 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
ject to the errors of judgment, mistakes, and
minor temptations of us all. Highly strung, often
very impatient, and when overtired or over-
strained inclined to be irritable, she nevertheless
rarely loses that quiet, sweet calm, so truly in-
dicative of a well-poised mind and temperament
and which to the whole woman imparts a dignity
and charm difficult to describe, yet recognised
by all who contact her.
So much for the woman herself; and now what
of her work to which she has devoted so many
of the best years of her life and for which, in
order that it might be put to the best possible
use, as it ap~ared to her, she has given up so
much of ease; of luxury, and even of comfort?
How much nearer, if at all, is she now to her
goal than when she started ?
We are all familiar with those sentences of
Sir Oliver Lodge's in his arresting book "The
Survival of Man" (1909), in which he states that
the constant hammering of the pickaxes are
wearing thin the sides of the long tunnel, and
that already the sounds, made by those at work,
are beginning to be heard on both sides of that
tunnel. But, perhaps, some of us are less familiar
with the sentiments of Sir William Barrett-one
of the original founders of the English Society
for Psychical Research-who in his paper" Some
Reminiscences of Fifty Years Psychical Research
(Proc. Vol. XXXIV) has thus recorded his con-
clusions : " I am personally convinced that the
evidence we have published decidedly demon-
1,
)
)
Mrs. Piper, the Woman and her Work 203
strates (1) the existence of a spiritual world, (2)
survival after death and (3) of occasional com-
munications from those who have passed over."
Richard Hodgson, LL. D., in his report of 1898
states in no unequivocal words that his researches
have at last forced him to admit that "Having
tried the hypothesis of telepathy from the living
for several years, I have no hesitation in affirming
that the 'Spirit' hypothesis is justified by its
fruits and the other hypothesis is not." Professor
Hyslop some time before his death reached much
the same conclusion as is shown by the following
quotation from his book "Psychical Research and
the Resurrection " : " Those who read the Piper
case carefully will discover that the phenomena
have all the appearance, at least, of being or-
ganised efforts on the other side to prove the
identity of those who have passed away." And
in a letter dated November 29, '25, Miss H. A.
Dallas, author of " Mors Janua Vitae," and other
similar books, wrote to me as follows ;-" Your
mother has recognised the importance of looking
all facts in the face and has always been willing
that any test should be applied which might help
to elucidate the meaning of her wonderful faculties.
The public owes her a debt of gratitude for this
and for her patience and courage. As one who
has benefited in my search for truth by her
marvellous mediumship, I would ask her to ac-
cept ·my grateful acknowledgment."
These are only a few of the opinions which
wholly or in part have been founded on the
204 Life and Work of Mrs. Piper
work of Mrs. Piper. But now what of the
future? Having for well over a quarter of a
century 'been experimented with and tested to
a degree to which no other psychic has ·ever
even remotely approximated, does it not ;now
seem but reasonable and just that, henceforth,
her 'power should be used rather for the help
and comfort of those who, perchance, may seek
it, than 'for the purposes of further experimenta-
tion? While upon the shoulders of some younger,
more untried, and less wearied psychic shall
devolve, if may be, the future task of assisting
Science in its attempt to unravel the problem of
mental psychic phenomena?
However this may be, it is but <e-O>nsistent to
suppose that the woman whose highest ideal has
ever been the rendering to humanity of the
greatest possible service in all ways of which
she was capable, regardless of any personal sacri-
fice, ·should continue in one form or another to
render like service to the end, thus meriting if
possible, in even fuller measure the tribute which,
in grateful and understanding appreciation of her
services to psychical research, Sir Oliver Lodge
has inscribed on the frontispage of one of his
books to her:-
" This book is sent by the author to MRS.
PIPER as an instalment of the thanki; of the world
for her lifelong service and help at the beginning
of a difficult science."
\'.
