{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__muldoon_carrington___the_projection_of_the_astral_body.pdf","mytitle":"The Projection Of The Astral Body","mylang":"de"}
THE PROJECTION OF
THE ASTRAL BODY
By
SYLVAN J. MULDOON
AND
HEREWARD CARRINGTON
At!Tl'IOI\ OF "YOU!\ PSYCBlC POWI!lS : AND HOW TO DltVItLOP THEM"
"HlG!iiJ:I\ PSYC!UCAI. DltVItLOPMJ.NT j" n MODERN PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA," ltTC,
"In my opinion, it is this ••• notion of a subtle body,
which for so many centuries has played the dominant r6/e in
the traditional psychology of both the East and the West,
that is most deserving of being retried, reviewed and revised,
to serve as a working hypothesis to co-ordinate and explain a
very large number of these puzzling psychical P.henomena."
G. R. S. MEAD, in Tile 8u6tle Body.
"These self-projections represent the most extraordinary
achievements of the human will, and. are perhaps acts which
a man might perform equally well berore and after death.''
F. W. H. MYERS, in Huma11 Perso11ality.
I
i
LONDON: RI·D.,ER ~ CO.
;.
PATERNOSTER HOUSE, E;C.
..
:1929 ..__ .
First Published
Reprinted.
February, I939
August, I939
Printed in Great Britain at
7'Ill Mayjlow., Pr~ss, Plymmllll. William Brendon & Son, Ltd.
SYLVAN J. MULDOON
PREFACE
W
HEN my first out-of-the-body experiences occurred I
was but twelve--so young and immature in mind that
I did not realize their magnitude. The occurrences
came about involuntarily and repeated themselves fre-
quently, until I became so accustomed to them that, as a matter of
fact, I soon regarded them as nothing extraordinary and seldom
mentioned them even to members of my own family, to say nothing
of keeping a record of them, although I had been urged to do so by
many interested persons.
I had been told, by persons professing to know, that conscious
projection of the astral body was nothing unusual, and that many
psychics could produce it at will. I, too, wanted to be able to
produce it at will, and I admit that I was envious of those who (I
had heard) could do so. So I began a search for some one who could
produce the phenomenon voluntarily. But my search proved
fruitless, and eventually I concluded that I could not find that
" some one." Thus I began to experiment with the phenomenon
myself, and in this book you will find the results of my experiments.
Although we are living in the twentieth century we still have with
us the intolerance of the Middle Ages, and I am not optimistic
enough to believe that a great many will read without prejudice
what I have to say. I have written this work with the idea of giving
the results of my findings to other students of the OCGUlt. Unfor-
tunately many occultists are of the belief that what is claimed to be
conscious astral projection is nothing more nor less than a dream.
I am well aware of the fact that one must first exper:Umce conscious
astral projection before he can believe in it, and I confess that I
should not accept it as true myself, perhaps, had I not experienced
it and know it to be true. The sceptic says, " I want the proof, the
objective proof, then I will believe it ! "
And the projector replies, " You cannot have objective proof.
You must experience it, then you will have the proof." The argu-
ment that the projector cannot prove to the sceptic that it is not a
dream is of no avail ; for neither can the sceptic prove to the pro-
jector that it is a dream. Thus argument is useless--as useless as
arguing the matter of a first cause or a last effect !
I stand on a clear-cut issue. I say experience it. " The proof of
the pudding is in the eating ! " I have not tried to conceal anything
v
•
vi PREFACE
nor resorted to pseudo-arguments about the u dangers " involved,
which is a common characteristic of most writers on this subject. I
have given the specific methods for bringing about the projection of
the astral body, as I know them, and I am willing to have the truth·
of my statements judged squarely by the results'obtained through
the practice of these methods. You want proof, and I say you can
have it-but you must experience it. You want to know how you
can experience it, and I tell you how to go about it. I can do no
more.
In this volume I have related many of my experiences ; however,
the experiences I have given do not in any way represent all which
I have had; a book this size could scarcely hold the accounts of all
of them. I could never .have gleaned the information which is con-
tained herein by the few experiences which I have quoted.
The average human being is not interested in the experiences of
others-he is interested in his own experiences ; and I haye pre-
supposed, in writing this book, that the reader wishes to know just
how the phenomenon is produced, and not merely to read experiences.
Although, as I have stated, I am not optimistic enough to believe
that many will read what I have to say without prejudice, I am
optimistic enough to believ:e that no one can give the methods which
I have outlined a conscientious and thorough trial, and not obtain
results.
Do not try to judge the book by reason alone. Judge it by experi-
ment. I want no one to accept my word for what I have written.
I say-experience it I Follew the formulre and judge the merits of
my statements afterwards. That is the time to judge-afterwards ;
not in advance !
I have been accused of being " superstitious," because of my belief
in phantoms of the living and phantoms of the dead. Usually I find
that my accusers are themselves superstitious on other subjects !
Recently a churchgoer told me that he did not understand how I,
or any other person, could believe that he had a .. ghost " inside
him. Yet this same critic professed to believe the Bible from cover
to cover-even that "Christ gave up the ghost" at dealh I
On the other hand the Materialist believes that it is superstition
if anyone believes that the mind can exist apart from the brain.
His theory is that the brain "oozes" thoughts, just as the liver
oozes bile. And the Materialist (who cannot prove that the brain
oozes thoughts) forgets that he cannot prove his argument-and
demands proof of the spiritist ! If you press the Materialist for
proof, he will tell you that by experiment (by experiment, remember)
it becomes evident that the brain produces thought. And that is
about the very thing the spiritist will tell you, viz., by experiment it
is evident that the brain does not produce thought I Both Materialist
and Spiritist must throw away "reason " and resort to experi-
ment.
PREFACE vii
And that is all I ask the reader to do, to convince himself of the
merits of what I have written : throw away reason and try experi-
ment. It is my hope that all who are successful, even those who
produce minor results (by following the methods contained herein),
will make those results known to me : for I wish to collect the
evidence I I take· this opportunity to express my thanks to Mr.
Carrington for his valuable co-operation and assistance ; and to my
fiancee, Miss Goodrich, for her help in typing the manuscript.
S.M.
CONTENTS
PREFACE .
PAGE
v
xiii
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
INTRODUCTION. BY H. CARRINGTON
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS .
XV
xxxvii
CHAPTER I
Existence of the Astral Body long known-My first conscious projection I
CHAPTER II
Astral catalepsy-Types of projection-Astral somnambulism-Con-
scious interruptions during astral somnambulism-Distant point
projection-The phantom's three moving speeds-Morbidity an
incentive to projection-Instantaneous astral exteriorization-An
ephemeral conscious projection experience--Instantaneous projec-
tion is not uncommon-Collision may cause astral exteriorization-
A projection caused by a mis-step-The fundamental law of astral
projection-Intentional and unintentional projection both result
from the same causes-Meaning of physical" incapacity "-Where
and whatis theconsciousmind ?-The hypnagogic state, neurosis and
sleep-Sensation and emotion at different stages of exteriorization 10
CHAPTER III
Route the phantom travels in projection-Some symptoms of astral
exteriorization-The astral cable--Cord-activity range--An in-
teriorization caused by a noise--Repercussion of the astral body :z6
CHAPTER IV
Typical "projection " dreams-How I discovered the cause of many
falling dreams-Types of "falls" or interiorizations-The causes
of the different "falls "-How to break the repercussion in a
falling dream-Types of flying dreams-The flapping dream:-
Head-thumping dream-Dream of moving toward a phantasmal
object-Dream delusions . . 37
CHAPTER V
Effect of instability-Eccentricities of the senses-Duplicate sense of
touch-Phantom can pass through needle-points without feeling-
Delusions of the senses during the hypnotic trance--Duplicate
sensibility and obsession-The case of" 8g "-The painful bayonet
case-Duplicate and shifting motivity-A " rap " produced at
will, during exteriorization of motivity. 51
ix
X CONTENTS
CHAPTER VI
The purpose of sleep-Dream control-Subjects of "nervous tempera-
ment" are best suited for psychic experiments--When outside cord-
activity range the phantom is free-Prolonged projection-':fhe
projector cannot get lost-How the physical is recharged during
projection-Not dead but sleeping 1-The astral cable is akin to
the umbilical cord 68
CHAPTER VII
Where the astral " line of force " makes contact with the bodies-
Turning over in the air-The four brains of man-The pineal
gland-The pituitary body-The Cosmic energy-DoctorLindlahr's
views on energy-Foods, fasting and psychic development-
Fasting increases the inflow of Cosmic energy-How fasting aids
astral projection--Consciousness uses up energy I 82
CHAPTER VIII
ConsciousneSs during astral projection-A" dreaming-true" experience
-Awakened in the astral by a" noise "-The dream world-The
"dream-control" method of projection-The proper dream will
always project the phantom-Summary of the dream-control
methed-Bringing consciousness to the dream body 95
CHAPTER IX
The factors which stimulate the subconscious Will to action-How I
discovered that "desire" is an activating factor-The action of
the unconscious phantom is governed by the "stress "-Sexual
desire is a negative factor-Phantom projects more easily to a
familiar place--Projecting from an unfamiliar to a familiar place-,.
Phantoms of the dead are often dominated by the " stress " of
desire or habit-The unconscious phantom sometimes moves
material objects--A " haunter " under the stress of a desirable
habit-An early morning" haunter "-The factor" enervation" IIO
CHAPTER X
Determining the proper "stress" to use in developing-Incapacity-.,..the
fundamental difference between astral projection and physical som·
nambulism-An astral projection which was caused by thirst-
A physical SOII1llambulation·which was caused by thirst-:How I
discovered that incapacity is an important factor-Some positive
minor factors--Repercussion noises-" Light" a negative factor~
An int~riorization caused by excess light-Telepathic repercussion I25
CHAPTER XI
How to induce "incapacity "-Developing a consciousness of Self-
Dyriamization of projection-What is '' will " ?-Typical dreams of
projectiop.-How to instil the stress of routine-How to instil the
stress of thirst-Projecting to water . 145
CONTENTS
CHAPTER XII
Conscious projection is rare-The passive Will-Inducing projection by
the passive Will method-The results produced by dynamization
xi
PAGB
of projection-Some typical projections . 163
CHAPTER XIII
The crypto-conscious mind-Crypto-conscious manifestations often
credited to phantoms of the dead-The various ways in which the
mind functions-A superconscious projection-Automatic pro-
jection-A horrible experience-Why victims of violent death
re-enact their death in the astral body-The case of Irene 179
CHAPTER XIV
The crypto-conscious mind and telekinesis-An astral projection in
which I moved a physical object-" Raps " produced during a
dream-The sex of the astral body-Inter-relation of the physical
and astral counterparts-Composition of the astral body-Cal-
culated weight of the astral body-The clothing of the phantom-
" As a man thinketh "-Purgatory-Thought sustains the astral
body-Earthbound phantoms not numerous-An encounter with
an astral fiend 195
CHAPTER XV
Obsession-The Akashic Records-Enacting future events in the dream
body-Many clairvoyant dreams are mistaken for astral projections
-Dream consciousness is not the real consciousness-Death is
merely a permanent projection. :u8
CHAPTER XVI
Projection during the sleep of an~sthesia-A peculiar dream-There
may be other methods-A prophecy-All possess the powers of
projection-Concerning morals-The demon theory-Conclusion • 234
INDEX. 239
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
SYLVAN J. MULDOON Fronlispiect
PACINI> PAG"
HEREWARD CARRINGTON xiv
THE KA, VISITlNG THE MUMMY xxii
THE PHANTOM, SLIGHTLY OUT OF COINCIDENCE 6
THE PHANTOM LYING IN THE AIR ABOVE THE PHYSICAL BODY • 32
THE ROUTE THE PHANTOM TAKES IN PROJECTING 52
PHANTOM PROJECTED AND UPRIGHT WITHIN CORD·ACTIVITY
RANGJi: • 64
How THE PHANTOM INTERIORIZES 82
THE SWAYING OF THE AsTRAL BoDY 104
OLD CHINESE PRINT, SHOWING THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL
BODY 154
THE DEPARTURE OF THE AsTRAL BODY AT DEATH 186
ATOMIC STRUCTURE OF THE ASTRAL BODY 208
HEREWARD CARRINGTON
,
INTRODUCTION
Bv HEREWARD CARRINGTON
T
HE Astral Body may be defined as the Double, or the
ethereal countocpart of the physical body, which it
resembles and with which it normally coincides. It is
thought to be composed of some semi-fluidic or subtle
form of matter, invisible to the physical eye. It has, in the past,
been spoken of as the etheric body, the mental body, the spiritual
body, the desire body, the radiant body, the resurrection body, the
double, the luminous body, the subtle body, the fluidic body, the
shining body, the phantom, and by various other names. In recent
Theosophical literature, distinctions have been made between these
various bodies; but for our present purposes we may ignore these
distinctions, and speak of the " Astral Body " as some more subtle
form, distinct from the organic structure known to Western science,
and studied by our physiologists.
The broad, general teaching is that every human being " has " an
astral body just as he has a heart, a brain and a liver. In fact, the
astral body is more truly the Real Man than the physical body is,
for the latter is merely a machine adapted to functioning upon the
physical plane. But·it must not be thought that the astral body is
held to be the Soul of man either. That is a mistake often made.
It is said to be the vehicle of the Soul-just as truly as the physical.
body is a vehicle-and constitutes one. of the essential connecting~
links between mind and matter. To the Materialist, of course, who
regards mind merely as a product of certain brain activities, such a
theory would appear superfluous and nonsensical. But the prese~t
book is not addressed to Materialists. It is addressed to those who
believe in the reality of certain supernomial (psychical) phenomena,
and in the theoretical possibility, at least, of the astral body. To all
such students this book will, I. am assured, prove a veritable mine
of valuable and unique information. •
THE DOCTRINE
The astral body, then, coincides with the physical body during the
hours of full, wakiilg consciousness; but in sleep the astral body
withdraws to a greater or lesser degree, usually hqyering.just abov~ '
it, neither conscious nor controlled. In trance, syncope; ·)Vhile
b XY
•
-- ;
•
xvi INTRODUCTION
fainting, when under the influence of an anresthetic, etc., the astral
body similarly withdraws from the physical. Such cases of with-
drawal constitute instances of automatic or involuntary projection.
As opposed to such cases we place those of conscious or voluntary
projection, in which the subject "wills" to leave his physical body,
and actually does so. He is then fully alert and conscious in his
astral body ; he can look upon his own physical mechanism, and
travel about at will, perhaps viewing scenes and visiting places he
has Qever seen before. Subsequently, he can verify the truth of
these experiences by visiting the scenes or places in question. While
fully conscious in the astral body, he seems to be possessed of extra-
ordinary, supernormal powers. He can at will return to his physical
body, or may be drawn into it again automatically by reason of
some shock, fright or vivid emotion.
The astral and the physical bodies are invariably connected by
means of a sort of cord, or cable, along which vital currents pass.·
Should this cord be severed, death instantly results. The only
difference between astral projection and death is that the cord is
intact in the former case, and severed in the latter. This cord-the
" Silver Cord " spoken of in Ecclesiastes-is elastic, and capable of
great extension. It constitutes the essential link between the two
bodies.1
The above is a general, and very brief, summary of the_ doctrine
and teachings regarding the astral body and its projection.
Now, although the literature regarding this subject is fairly volu-
minous, I have been unable to find anywhere in it much material of
scientific value ; above all, next to nothing of a practical nature-
how to project the astral body. If such a body actually exists, and
can be projected voluntarily-as many individuals assert it can-
why has so little practical advice and information ever been pub-
lished regarding it ? It is all very well to dwell upon the possible
" dangers " connected with such a procedure ; every sensible person
realizes that they may very well exist, but would ,be willing to try
the experiment just the same. Nevertheless, it is next to impossible
to obtain any practical and precise information from those indi-
viduals who assert they can " project " at will ; and in this I feel
sure psychic students everywhere will agree with me. Why should
this be so? I quite agree with Mr. Muldoon in thinking that the
reason for all this secrecy is not on account of the theoretical
"dangers" involved, but simply because these self-styled "teachers"
do not know. They know that astral projection occurs; they may
have experienced it themselves ; but the actual details of the pro-
cess-how it is accomplished-this they do not know, and conse-
quently cannot tell others. The great value of the present book
consists in the fact that this information is given to the world for
1 See a brief article ori "The Silver Cord," by Max Heindel, in The Occult
Digest, May, 1928.
INTRODUCTION xvii
the first time ; and I cannot but believe that we have here a docu-
ment of the utmost value-information for which psychic students
have waited for years, and which might never have been given out
had not a combination of fortuitous circumstances rendered its
publication possible. It may therefore be of interest to the reader
to know how the following book came to be written, and something
of the author himself.
HOW THIS BOOK CAME TO BE WRITTEN
In my book Modern Psychical Phenomena, I had devoted a chapter
to the experimental projection of the astral body-summarizing the
work of M. Charles Lancelin (to be discussed more fully later on).
This material I amplified considerably in a later book, Higher
Psychical Development. This dealt almost exclusively with the work
of others, however, and I always felt that it was all most inadequate ;
it epitomized everything that I had been enabled to unearth, how-
ever, dealing with this important subject. In November, 1927, I
received a letter from Mr. Sylvan Muldoon, in which he said :
" I have recently finished reading your volumes on the ' Occult
and Psychical Sciences.' ... I was much interested in your chapter
on ' Astral Projection,' as I have been a ' projector ' for twelve
years-long before I knew that anyone else in the world ever did
such things.... What puzzles me most is that you make the remark
that M. Lancelin has told practically all that is known on the
subject. Why, Mr. Carrington, I have never read Lancelin's work,
but if you have given the gist of it in your book, then I can write a
book on the things that Lancelin does not know ! . . . I have been
wondering whether M. Lancelin is in fact a conscious projector.
From what you have given, I have concluded either that Lancelin
does not project at all, or that his subjects are not in the clear
conscious state while exteriorized. Is this not reasonable ? If M.
Lancelin or his subjects were clearly conscious, could they not give
every qetail of the phenomenon ? Of course they could ! But they
do not.... Now I have been all through this, and I know every
emotion, every move, every last detail that takes place from clear
consciousness in the physical, out, into the astral with that same
unchanged consciousness and back into 'coincidence.' ... But the
thing I marvel at most is that so little is said about the astral cord
-the very foundation of the whole phenomenon. Is it possible that
none of Lancelin's subjects ever examined this cord, nor even saw
it ? •.• Nothing is told as to how this cord works, how it stabilizes
the phantom, or throws it into instability. How large it is while the
bodies are nearly in coincidence ; how it decreases in size and resist-
ance up to a certain distance (which I have measured exactly), and
so forth. Lancelin says that the phantom appears as if rocked by the
wind, but he does not say what causes this.... Lancelin does not
XVlll INTRODUCTION
tell how to control the astral cord, the mechanism which is the vital
factor. He says that the astral body emerges from the solar plexus
-which is anything but true. The bodies separate at all places
simultaneously. The cord centres at a given plexus, and the ideal
spot is the medulla oblongata, which has direct control over the organs
of respiration in the oblivious physical body. Lancelin says nothing
of suppressed desires and the condition of the heart-beat through
the cord ; nor how to stabilize the phantom after the exteriorization
is accomplished. He says nothing of the form the phantom takes ;
how it moves in coming out ; how a cataleptic state ensues· while
the phantom is under control of the subconscious mind, and is still
conscious. . . . He has not told of the various degrees of sight and
hearing in the phantom ; nor how it travels, nor how it gets into a
condition where it is helpless and unable to travel. ... The Will
Power part of the process is greatly over-stressed. There are other
ways of accomplishing this besides will power. In fact, several other
ways. And the Good Health idea is nothing short of a blunder. I
say, and can prove it, that the nearer dead a person is, the easier it
is to project.... I could go on telling you many more things about
astral projection ; but I suppose that after all was said you would
reply, 'Prove it.' But it cannot be• so readily proved I It would
require a treatise upon the subject. I once thought of writing a
book upon this topic, but abandoned the idea when everyone told
me that I was 'crazy,' and found that no one would pay any
attention to it.... Just the same, I have exteriorized enough to
know that if you have given the gist of what is now known, then
indeed there is much darkness upon the subject.... I might add
that I am a boy twenty-five years old, and that if you even read
this letter and take it seriously, it will be an honour to me...."
It need hardly be pointed out that I realized at once that I had
discovered some one possessed of a vast fund of most valuable
information ; and I lost no time in replying at length, and in urging
Mr. Muldoon to begin his book at once, which I promised to revise
and edit and introduce. The following book is the result. I may
say that Mr. Muldoon and myself have worked together upon it
most harmoniously ; he has covered many points and tried many
experiments which I have suggested to him, and in every way
. demonstrated his complete sincerity, and his scrupulous adherence
to the truth. He makes no claims he cannot justify ; he advances
no theories which are not based upon actual experiences ; if he does
not know a certain thing, he frankly says so. The additional
extracts from his letters (pp. xxxvii-xli) will bring this out even
more clearly, and will also furnish the reader much valuable material,
not included in the book. I may add that the bulk of this work was
written when Mr. Muldoon was so ill that he could not get out of
bed, and was never certain but that the next day might prove his
last! If ever a man may be expected to be truthful and sincere, it
INTRODUCTION xix
would be at such a time. But the writer's truthfulness and sincerity
are apparent in every line.
I should like to draw the reader's attention particularly to the
fact that no wild or preposterous claims are anywhere made in this
book as to what has been accomplished during these" astral trips."
Mr. Muldoon does not claim to have visited any distant planets-
and return to tell us in detail their modes of life ; he does not claim
to have explored any vast and beautiful " spirit worlds " ; he does
not pretend to have penetrated the past or the future ; to have
re-lived any of his past " incarnations " ; to have read any " Akashic
Records " ; to have travelled back along the stream of time, and
reviewed the history of mankind, or the geologic eras of our earth.
He asserts, merely, that he has been enabled to leave his physical
body at will, and travel about in the present, in his immediate
vicinity, in some vehicle or other, while fully conscious. This is
perfectly rational, and is precisely what we should expect, on the
theory that these "trips" are actual experiences. Assuming that
some such entity as an Astral Body exists, and can at times be
voluntarily detached from the physical body, everything else which
is said falls naturally into place, and is precisely what might be
expected to happen under such circumstances.
THE DIFFICULTY OF "PROOF"
Of course, it may be replied: "Very true, provided the reality of
your astral body once be established! After once having swallowed
the camel, it is useless straining at the gnat I" But the evidence
for the existence of some such entity as an astral or etheric body
has been constantly accumulating-quite apart from these cases of
conscious or voluntary " projection." The very first thing which
struck the early investigators of the Society for Psychical Research,
when they began their investigations, was the great number of
apparitions coinciding with the death of the person thus represented ;
and the result of the first Census, published in Phantasms of the
Living, and of the second and far more extensive one, published in
Vol. X of the S.P.R. Proceedings, confirmed the belief that- such
coincidences were more than chance would account for; that there
was some causal connection between the apparition and the death
of the person whose "double" thus appeared. Quite logically, the
attempt was made to explain the majority of these experiences as
.. telepathic hallucinations." But all of them could not be so readily
explained, and even as the result of the first Census, Mr. Myers felt
qualms as to the sufficiency of this explanation, as his "Note on a
Suggested Mode of Psychical Interaction " clearly shows. The evi-
dence for the objectivity of certain phantoms appeared, indeed, so
strong that Mr. Andrew Lang was forced to write, in his Cock Lane
and Common Sense (p. 206) : " ••• Some apparitions are ' ghosts '
XX INTRODUCTION
-real objective entities, filling space." And it may be said that the
evidence for this has considerably increased of late years-quite
aside from " materializations " and similar manifestations. Into
this evidence we have not, unfortunately, the time to enter now.1
It may be asserted, therefore, with considerable confidence, that
the evidence for the existence of some sort of an " astral body " has
been constantly accumulating as the result of our psychical investi-
gations, and that this evidence is now very strong. It need hardly
be pointed out that, if this were once definitely accepted, it would
enable us to account for a large number of otherwise baffling phe-
nomena very readily-haunted houses, apparitions seen by several
persons at the same time, psychic photographs, clairvoyance, etc. ;
and (assuming that such a body might occasionally move or affect
matter) raps, telekinesis, " poltergeists," and other physical phe-
nomena. In fact, once the objective existence of an astral body be
postulated, a flood of light would be thrown upon psychic mani-
festations, both physical and mental.
Now, quite apart from such collateral evidence, there have always
been individuals who have asserted that they could leave the physical
body at will, and travel about in some " astral body " for a longer
or shorter period of time-retaining consciousness throughout. The
difficulty has always consisted in furnishing proofs of such claims.
Indeed, this is a most difficult thing to do, in view of the fact that
the experience must of necessity be subjective ; and it is an open
question whether such proofs have been furnished even in the present
book. However, the attempt has been made to do so; and the
specific instructions which have been given will perhaps enable
others to " project " themselves-thereby affording them the best
possible means of verifying the accuracy of the statements made.
Should a number of (otherwise sensible!) persons come forward and
assert that they too have succeeded in voluntarily projecting their
astral bodies, this question would at once assume a very different
status. -
In the present book, Mr. Muldoon has discussed both falling and
flying dreams, and has advanced the ingenious theory that many of
these may be due to actual movements of the astral body. Of
course, Mr. Muldoon would be the first to admit that the majority
of such dreams are due to ordinary psychological--even physio-
logical-causes, and, as examples of " illusions of levitation " pro-
1 It need hardly be said that alleged " spirit communications " have invariably
asserted this to be a fact. Thus, in Dr. Hodgson's Second" Report on the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper," we read:
" The statements of the ' communicators • as to what occurs on the physical
side may be put in brief general terms as follows. We all have bodies composed of
'luminiferous ether' enclosed in our flesh and blood bodies. The relation of Mrs.
Piper's etherial body to the etherial world, in which the •communicators' claim to
dwell, is such that a special store of peculiar energy is accumulated in connection
with her organism, and this appears to them as • a light.' ... " etc. (Proc., XIII,
P· 400).
INTRODUCTION xxi
duced by such purely physiological mechanisms, I cannot do better
than summarize the interesting articles of Mr. Lydiard H. Horton,
which appeared in the Journal of Abnormal Psychology (April, 1918;
June, 1918 ; August, 1919), in which he attempted to prove this
fact-that such illusions of levitation may be so produced-even
without sleep! He induced a number of experimental subjects to
lie upon a bed or couch, and relax completely. Upon the degree of
relaxation thus attained depends the success of the experiment. If
the patient can induce this complete relaxation of the muscular
system without falling asleep, he will often experience an " illusion
of levitation." " Out of the thirty subjects who relaxed completely,
and of the twenty or so who retained consciousness after they had
completely relaxed, eight of them reported illusions of levitation."
The following are typical experiences of this nature:
"One of them jumped out of the chair and was afraid to continue
the experiment, so realistic was his apperception of a soaring motion.
" Another, this time a woman, gripped the chair in the momentary
·belief that she was floating away; two others reported that they
felt' caught up' by a wave, but that their reason reassured them at
the time.
"One other enjoyed the sensation so much that he took it as a
matter of course, and supposed it was part of the 'treatment.' One
other said that if his head had been as light as his body he would
surely have floated away. He reported himself' just floating away,'
the sensation being overwhelmingly real. .. .''
Mr. Horton attempts to aGcount for all such cases as follows:
"The mechanism underlying the flying dream and the levitation
illusion is attributed, mainly, to the functions of the adrenal-sympa-
thetic nervous system.... The genesis of the illusion of levitation
does not come from the diminution of tactile sensations. Whether
due entirely to an inhibition in the course of the pressure sense
tracts (deep sensibility, I mean), or merely to lessening of actual
muscle pressure, is a question. I think the latter is a great factor,
but that the sensory ' inhibition ' is real too.... This of itself does
not become the adequate or efficient basis of the illusion of levitation
till the vaso-motor relaxation supervenes. Out of the combination
there arises the bodily 'stimulus' (negative in this case) which
becomes the foundation of the illusion of soaring... .''
This attempted explanation, it will be observed, differs essentially
from that offered by Horace G. Hutchinson (in his Dreams and their
Meanings) and also that of Havelock Ellis (in his World of Dreams)
which is that "flying dreams" are best explained by a combination
of respiratory sensations together with cutaneous anresthesia. It is
quite possible that some such explanation may ultimately be found
for, and will adequately explain, many .ordinary flying dreams ; but
it must be emphasized emphatically that such dreams are quite
different from clean-cut instances of " projection," and that any
xxii INTRODUCTION
explanation of the latter by such principles is absolutely unjustified
-just as unjustified as, e.g. the attempt to " explain " the super-
normal knowledge displayed in Mrs. Piper's trance by postulating
some physiological causation of that trance. The essential problem
would remain untouched. In all cases of astral projection, it must
be emphasized that clear consciousness of Self is maintained by the
subject, while he is outside his body; he can look back and see his
body ; he can view his present surroundings ; he can observe people,
and note distant scenes and events just as they are--or are occurring
-which he could not possibly have seen and known, but which he
was afterwards enabled to verify and check off as correct. This is
the distinctly supernormal factor involved, which is the crux of the
whole matter ; and for this no purely physiological explanation in
any way accounts. In his experiments, Dr. Horton succeeded only
in producing the illusion of levitation, which is not even a flying
dream; and a flying dream is, according to Mr. Muldoon. again an
entirely different matter from a conscious projection!
HISTORICAL
It is hardly necessary to remind the reader that the Egyptians
believed implicitly in the KA-which might be said to correspond to
our conception of the "Astral Body." This KA was not the Soul of
man, it must be understood, but its vehicle-just as the astral body
is thought to be the vehicle of the mind and soul to-day. It was
this KA which visited the mummified body from time to time, and
was usually depicted as a sort of bird-like Double of the deceased.
Many of the older Egyptian paintings show this. The wanderings
and trials of the dead man in the Under World are described at great
length in the Egyptian Book ofthe Dead, and in other early writings.
'Even more striking and important, from our point of view, how-
ever, is the recently translated Tibetan Book of the Dead, edited by
Dr. W. Y. Evans-Wentz, and published by the Oxford University
Press (r927). This work-the Bardo Thodol-was probably first
committed to writing in the eighth century A.D., and embodied
teachings much older. The manuscript from which the present
translation is made is judged by experts to be between rso and 200
years old. As the reader may have surmised, it deals with the same
general top!c as the earlier Egyptian work; but, from our modern
point of view, is far more" rational," and many of its teachings
coriespend, in a remarkable way, with those of Occult and Psychical
Science. A very brief summary of those portions of the book which
deal tnore or less directly with our theme will doubtless prove of
interest.
Wheri a-man is about to die, a Lama is called·in, whose duty it is
to- jlttend 'to the eying man and usher him properly into the next
world. The arteries on the sides of the neck are pressed. This is
THE ASTRAL BODY, OR KA, VISITIKG THE ~!U~!~!Y
INTRODUCTION xxiii
done to keep the dying person conscious, with the consciousness
rightly directed. For the nature of the Death-consciousness deter-
mines the future state of the " soul-complex," existence being the
continuous transformation of one conscious state to another. The
pressing of the arteries regulates the path to be taken by the out-
going vital current {Prana). The proper path is that which passes
through the Foramen of Monro. "If the expiration is about to
cease, tum the dying one over on the right side, which posture is
called the' Lying Posture of a Lion.' The throbbing of the arteries
{on the right and left sides of the throat) is to be pressed. If the
person dying be disposed to sleep, or if the sleeping state advances,
that should be arrested, and the arteries pressed gently but firmly.
Thereby the vital force will not be able to return from the median
nerve and will be sure to pass out through the Brahmanic aperture.
Now the real setting face to face is to be applied. At this moment,
the first glimpsing of the Bardo, of the Clear Light of Reality ...
is experienced by all sentient beings."
All the time the patient is dying, the Lama urges him to keep his
mind tranquil and poised, so that he may see and enter into the
Clear Light of Reality, and may not be troubled with hallucinations
or " thought-forms " which have no objective existence, save in his
own mind. The Lama superintends the whole process of the with-
drawal of the astral body from the physical at death. "It is com-
monly held that the process (of separation) takes from three and
one-half to four days, unless assisted by a priest called hpho-bo
(pron. pho-o), or 'extractor-of-the-consciousness-principle'; and
that, even if the priest be successful in the extracting, the deceased
ordinarily does not wake up to the fact of being separated from the
human body until the said period of time has elapsed."
If the mind of the dying person has not been properly concen-
trated upon the Clear Light, he is liable to see scores of devils and
demons of all sorts I But it is emphasized over and over again in
the book, that these demons have no actual, objective existence :
they are merely hallucinations, or " thought-forms," having no
actuality, save in the mind of the seer. They are all purely sym-
bolical. The mind is capable of manufacturing these, or creating
them, just as we do every night in our dreams. He must clea"tte his
way through these into the Clear Light of the Void. ~e somi'er he·
can do this, the sooner is " liberation " attained.
The teachings concerning the astral body are very clear .and
concise: "When thou wert recovered from the swoon (of death)
thy Knower must have risen up in its primordial condition aDd a~·.
radiant body,resembling the formerbody,musl have sprung forth.. :.
It is called the desire-body.... The Bardo-body hath been spoken
of as 'endowed with all sense-faculties.' ... Unimped~d motion
implyeth that thy·present body being only a: desire body...is not a •
body of gross matter.... Thou art actually endowed with the power ..
,·
"
xxiv INTRODUCTION
of miraculous motion. . . . Ceaselessly and involuntarily wilt thou
be wandering about. To all those who are weeping (thou shalt say)
'Here I am, weep not.' But they not hearing thee, thou wilt think,
'I am dead!' And again, at that time, thou wilt be feeling very
miserable. Be not miserable in that way.... There will be a grey,
twilight-like light, both by night and by day, and at all times....
Even though thou seekest a body, thou wilt gain nothing but
trouble. Put aside the desire for a body ; and permit thy mind to
abide in the state of resignation, and act so as to abide therein. . . .
These are the indications of the wandering about on the Sidpa Bardo
of the mental body. At the time, happiness and misery will depend
upon Karma...."
THE LITERATURE OF THE SUBJECT
Much has been written, in the past, concerning the Astral Body-
mostly in books devoted to " Magic " and " Occultism." I believe
that I have gone through the majority of such works carefully, in
my endeavour to find some practical information bearing upon this
question, but with little result. Thus, there are numerous references
to the astral body in e.g. Eliphas Levi's Doctrine and Ritual of
Magic, in his " Key of the Mysteries" (published in The Equinox,
Vol. X) ; in A. E. Waite's Mysteries ofMagic, and his Occult Sciences;
in Dr. Franz Hartmann's Magic, White and Black, and in the various
writings of Paracelsus. In the older works upon Sorcery and Witch-
craft there are, of course, frequent allusions to astral projection.
Theosophical literature is full of this subject, but even here I have
been unable to find anywhere precise information-any practical
instructions as to how the projection of the astral body is to be
accomplished. This is true not only of the older works, such as
Leadbeater's The Astral Plane, and Annie Besant's Man and Ms
Bodies, but also the newer and more voluminous treatises, such as
those of Major Arthur E. Powell-The Etheric Double, The Astral
Body, The Mental Body, etc. In all these books, much theoretical
information is given (of course, from the strictly Theosophical point
of view) but very little practical advice. The same criticism applies
to D'Assier's book Posthumous Humanity : A Study of Phantoms.
Some interesting spontaneous experiences are given in Little Journeys
into the Invisible: A Woman's Actual Experiences in the Fourth
Dimension, by M.Gifford Shine ; Some Occult Experiences, by Johan
van Manen; My Travels in the Spirit World, by Caroline D. Larsen,·
and in other books of the kind ; while some curious lore of a general
nature is contained in The Astral Light, by" Nizida." An interesting
historic study of this subject is given in G. R. S. Mead's Doctrine of
the Subtle Body in Western Tradition, in which he summarizes the
views of the early Fathers, as well as the later conceptions. Charles
Hallock's book Luminous Bodies: Here and Hereafter, contains little
INTRODUCTION XXV
to the point. Occasional references to what Mr. Myers (in his Human
Personality) called " Self Projection " may be found scattered
through the journals and Proceedings of the S.P.R., and the very
striking case of Dr. Wiltse (Proceedings, VIII, pp. 180-194) is, of
course, classical. The case of the Rev. L. J. Bertrand (pp. 194-200)
is also of considerable interest ; while the same may be said of the
case recorded by Dr. I. K. Funk, in his Psychic Riddle, pp. 179-185.1
Mr. A. Campbell Holmes has some remarks upon " The Double "
in his Facts of Psychic Science and Philosophy, while I have devoted
chapters to the subject in my Modern Psychical Phenomena, and
Higher Psychical Development. Several years ago, Mr. Prescot Hall
published in the journal of the A.S.P.R. a number of" communica-
tions" of considerable interest, which he had received regarding the
astral body through the instrumentality of a blind medium. Their
value, of course, depends altogether upon the authenticity of their
source.
This is practically all the published material which I have been
enabled to find relative to the astral body and its projection, with
the exception of Mr. Oliver Fox's articles in the Occult Review, to be
quoted presently, and two books in French. These are: Le Fant6me
des Vivants, by H. Durville, and Methode de Deboublement Personnel
(Exterioration de la Neuricite: Sorties en Astral), by M. Charles
Lancelin. These will be quoted and referred to more fully later on.
But, as I have said, with these exceptions, I have found practically
nothing of value in the entire literature of the subject; and this
criticism is especially true when we come to the most important and
central theme of all, viz. how to project the astral body experiment-
ally and retain consciousness within it. Upon this vital theme our
authorities are especially silent !
It is just here that Mr. Muldoon is most explicit. He explains in
the greatest detail just how the projection of the astral body is to
be effected, and he describes precisely what takes place in the
subject's mind and body during such a projection-together with
many other details connected with the process. Any impartial
reader will agree, I think, with the conclusion that it would be
impossible for Mr. Muldoon to have written as he has-to have
acquired this knowledge-without in some sense experiencing what
he claims to have experienced. His reading upon the subject has
been very scant; his contact with anyone liable to possess even a
tithe of this information is next to impossible-when we take into
account the fact that he lives in an obscure village in the Middle
West. No; his knowledge has been gained at first-hand, and as the
result of actual experimentation; that is very evident. How such
information could have been acquired-had he not actually under-
gone these experiences-! leave it for the reader to decide. '
1 Extracts from these cases are given elsewhere.
xxvi INTRODUCTION
SPONTANEOUS CASES
As before mentioned, there are two types or varieties of astral
projection: the spontaneous and the experimental. In the former,
the individual undergoing the experience merely finds himself " pro-
jected " without knowing how or why ; he finds himself outside his
own physical body-which he can clearly see-but how he got there
he does not know. In the latter, the experimenter makes a deter-
mined and voluntary effort to " project "-usually to some definite
locality-and wakes up, to find himself there, or en route. Of course,
the vast majority of such attempts end in failure; successes are
extremely rare. Or the subject may be " seen " by some individual
at the locality in question, and remain quite unconscious of his
apparent success. Examples of all types or varieties of projection
are to be found in this book, together with an analysis of the modus
operandi involved, and an explanation of the success or failure, as
the case may be.
Let us consider, first of all, a few typical cases of "spontaneous "
projection. As before stated, this may occur, theoretically, when
the subject is asleep, in trance, while under the influence of an
anresthetic, etc. Or it may occur when the subject is awake and
conscious, but merely relaxed-at least at the beginning of the
experience. A good illustration of this may be found in a recently
published book entitled My Travels in the Spirit World, by Caroline
D. Larsen, where we read:
" ... Suddenly I underwent a very strange experience. A feeling
of deep oppression and apprehension came over me, not unlike that
which precedes a fainting-spell. I braced myself against it, but to
no avail. The overpowering oppression deepened, and soon numb-
ness crept over me until every muscle became paralyzed. In this
condition I remained for some time. My mind, however, was still
working as clearly as ever. At first I heard the music (downstairs)
plainly, but soon the sounds began to slip away from me by degrees
until finally everything became a blank, and I was unconscious to
life and the world. How long this state lasted I do not know. What
happened during this period I am also unable to relate. The next
thing I knew was that I, myself, was standing on the floor beside
my bed looking down attentively at my own physical body lying in
it.... I recognized every line of that familiar face, pale and still as
in death, the eyes tightly closed and the mouth partly open. The
arms and hands rested li.Inp and lifeless beside the body. . . . I
turned and walked slowly towards the door, passed through it and
into a hall that led to the bathroom.... Through force of habit I
went through the motions of turning on the electric light, which, of
course, I did not actually turn on. But there was no need for
illumination, for from my body and face emanated a strong whitish
light that lighted up the room brilliantly... .''
INTRODUCTION xxvii
In the case published by Dr. I. K. Funk, in his Psychic Riddle
(pp. 179-I85), the writer describes how he" lost control of his body "
-by reason of a cold n11tflbness which spread over it, on a number
of occasions-before having his first conscious projection. On the
occasion in question, after these preliminary symptoms, he first of
all became momentarily unconscious : " . . . There came a flashing
of lights in my eyes and a ringing in my ears, and it seemed for an
instant as though I had become unconscious. When I came out of
this state, I seemed to be walking in the air. No words can describe
the exhilaration and freedom that I experienced. No words can
describe the clearness of mental vision. At no time in my life had
my mind been so clear or so free.... I became conscious of being in
a room and looking down on a body propt-up in bed, which I recog-
nized as my own. I cannot tell what strange feelings came over
i:ne I This body, to all intents and purposes, looked to be dead.
There was no indication of life about it, and yet here I was, apart
from the body, with my mind thoroughly clear and alert, and the
consciousness of another body to which matter of any kind offered
no resistance.... After what might have been a minute or two,
looking at the body, I began to try and control it, and in a very
short time all sense of separation from the physical body ceased,
and I was only conscious of a directed effort toward its use. After
what seemed to be quite a long time, I was able to move, got up
from the bed and drest myself, and went down to breakfast...."
As to the criticism invariably advanced-that this was a mere
" vivid dream "-the writer says :
" I know that many people may think that the statements recorded
here are simply the result of an active imagination or perhaps a
dream, but they are neither the one nor the other. If the whole
world were to rise up ... it would not make one particle of difference
in my mind, as I am absolutely certain that I have been as free from
my physical body as I ever will be, and that my life apart from it
was far more wonderful than any life I have ever experienced in
it...."
The case of Dr. Wiltse is very well known. It was first printed
in the St. Louis Medical and Surgical journal, November, 1889, and
afterwards in Vol. VIII of the S.P.R. Proceedings. It was also
published, in part, in Human Personality (VoL II, pp. 315-22). In
view of this, only a few brief extracts from this most interesting case
will be given-referring the reader to the above sources for the full
account. After a few preliminary remarks and descriptions, Dr.
Wiltse goes on to say : ·
" ... With all the interest of a physician I beheld the wonders of
my bodily anatomy, intimately interwoven with which, even tissue
for tissue, was I, the living soul of that dead body.... I watched
the interesting process of the separation of soul and body. By some
power, apparently not my own, the Ego was rocked to an fro,
xxviii INTRODUCTION
laterally, as a cradle is rocked, by which process its connection with
the tissues of the body was broken up. After a little time, the latter
motion ceased, and along the souls of the feet, beginning at the toes,
passing rapidly to the heels, I felt and heard, as it seemed, the
snapping of innumerable small cords. When this was accomplished
I began slowly to retreat from the feet, towards the hea~l, as a
rubber cord shortens. . .. As I emerged from the head I floated up
and down and laterally like a soap-bubble attached to the bowl of a
pipe until I at last broke loose from the body and fell lightly to the
floor, where I slowly rose and expanded into the full stature of a
man. I seemed to be translucent, of a bluish cast and perfectly
naked.... I directed my gaze (to the bed) and saw my own dead
body. It was lying just as I had taken so much pains to place it,
partially upon the right side, the feet close together, and the hands
clasped across the breast. I was surprised at the paleness of the
face.... I turned and passed out of the open door...."
Dr. Wiltse then relates a number of mental experiences which he
had during his extended " trip "-including the perception of certain
things which he did not know existed, but which were subsequently
verified and found correct-and, at the conclusion of his astral
journey, he was suddenly arrested by what appeared to be a dense,
black cloud : " A small, densely black cloud appeared in front of
me and advanced toward my face. I knew that I was to be stopped.
I felt the power to move or to think leaving me. My hands fell
powerless to my sides, my shoulders and head dropped forward,
the cloud touched my face and I knew no more...."
When he regained consciousness, he was in his own physical
body.
The case of the Rev. L. J. Bertrand, also given in Proceedings,
Vol. VIII, p. rg4, is thus summarized by Mr. Myers :
"During a dangerous ascent of the Titlis, Mr. Bertrand separated
from his companions, sat down to rest, and became paralyzed by the
cold. His head, however, remained clear, and he experienced the
sensation described by Dr. Wiltse of passing out of his body and
remained attached to it by' a kind of elastic string.' While in this
condition, he had clairvoyant impressions about his absent com-
panions, and much astonished them on their return by describing
their doings to them. . . ."
EXPERIMENTAL CASES
We now come to cases of voluntary or experimental projection.
These, as I have said, are much rarer, and-apart from a few
scattered cases (possibly) in Phantasms of the Living-are limited
more or less to Mr. Fox's records, in the Occult Review-to be quoted
presently-and a few dubious and historic cases, fairly "remote."
Two books have been published in French, however, dealing with
INTRODUCTION xxix
this subject ; one by M. Charles Lancelin, the other by M. Hector
Durville. Both of these works deal with the attempt to "extract,"
as it were, the astral body from the " magnetized " subject while in
a state of trance. Neither of them contains cases of self-projection.
The subject was placed in a deep magnetic or mesmeric (as distinct
from hypnotic) trance, and suggestions were then given that the
subject should, if possible, leave his (or her) own body, and move
away from it for some appreciable distance. A variety of ingenious
experimental tests were then made, to ascertain, so far as possible,
that this had been successfully accomplished.
I shall not now stop to consider the work of M. Lancelin, as I have
already summarized it quite fully in my Modern Psychical Phe-
nomena, and in Higher Psychical Development, and Mr. Muldoon has
dealt with it at considerable length in the present volume. I may,
however, give a brief summary of the findings of M. Durville, as
given in his book Le Fant6me des Vivants.
The book is divided into two parts: Part I being historical and
theoretical, dealing with the general theory of the "double," and
citing a number of ancient and more modern cases which might
possibly be considered examples of its manifestation.1 Part II is
experimental, dealing with cases in which the astral body was ap-
.Parently projected, while the subject was in deep" magnetic" trance.
Some of this material is of considerable interest, and agrees remark-
ably with the descriptions and experiences of Mr. Muldoon. Thus
we read (p. 189) : " The subject of the experiment is constantly en
rapport with the " double " through the intermediary of a fluidic
cord, capable of elongation.... Usually this is cylindrical, but may
sometimes appear to be a sort of ribbon...." As to the clothes of
the phantom, these seem to be composed of a sort of " fluidic
gauze" (p. 215). Various sense-impressions are conveyed to the
bedy by means of the astral cord (p. 235). The question of tem-
perature is important; and too much light has a detrimental effect
upon the astral body. Experiments with the dynamometer showed
that the muscular strength (grip) of the subject was always greater
after projection than before (p. 152). On the contrary, the tem-
perature of the hand-particularly of the right hand-almost invari-
ably fell as the result of the experiment (pp. 195-197). One chapter
is devoted to the action of the phantom upon (a) the double of
another subject-both being "projected" at the same time; and
(b) upon the physical body of another person. Some positive results
were apparently secured in both cases. Calcium sulphide screens
were then placed at some distance from the subject, and the sugges-
tion was given that the phantom should approach one or other of
these screens. As it did so, the screen in question glowed up with
added brilliance as the result of the proximity of th.~ astral body
1 Such as cases recorded in Owen's Footfalls; The Debatable .Land; Mrs. C~owe's
Night Side of N atur11 ; certain cases in Phantasms of the Living; etc.
XXX INTRODUCTION
(pp. 275-280). Some successes are also reported in obtaining physical
movements of objects and raps, and in moving the straw of a Sthen-
ometer, at a distance from the entranced subject-by the projected
astral body (pp. 297-332). The last chapter details a number of
attempts to photograph the astral body, and various vital radiations
emitted by it or by the physical body. M. Durville concludes his
book as follows :
r. Projection of the astral body is a certain fact, capable of being
demonstrated by means of direct experiment. This also demon-
strates to us that living force is independent of matter, and that our
Individuality is composed of a physical body and an intelligent Soul
-and a vital link, the astral body.
2. Since this phantom can exist and function apart from the
physical body, it may also exist after death. That is, Immortality
is a fact which is thus proved scientifically.
This apparently little-known work of M. Durville is full of curious
and interesting material, and if one could be assured that the results
attained were all scientifically accurate, would constitute a treatise
of first-rate importance. It is to be noted that many of his findings
tally, in a very striking manner, with those of Mr. Muldoon. Some
critical comments on these results are to be found in the text of the
present book.
MR. OLIVER FOX's EXPERIENCES
The only detailed, scientific and first-hand account of a series of
conscious and voluntarily controlled astral projections which I have
ever come across is that by Mr. Oliver Fox, published in the Occult
Review for 1920 (pp. 256-264; 317-327). These articles were
entitled, respectively, "The Pineal Doorway," and "Beyond the
Pineal Door/' and embody the author's personal experiences. I
shall endeavour to summarize very briefly-quoting a few especially
important passages verbatim.
Mr. Fox very logically begins by placing squarely before the reader
the two alternate theories which might be advanced to account for
his experiences. These are (a) exceptionally vivid dreams, and (b)
real projections. Which of these is the correct explanation? Mr.
Fox admits that it is extremely difficult to prove the latter theory
objectively, and therefore thinks it wiser to confine himself to a
description of his own experiences and a summary of his own methods
of development, hoping that others might possibly obtain the same
results by following his advice, thereby proving the reality of astral
projection for themselves.
The first step (says Mr. Fox) consists in acquiring a certain dream-
control-but not the same kind of dream-control as that detailed in
the present book. It consists in acquiring, by observing some incon-
gruity or anachronism, the knowledge that one is dreaming. I quote
Mr. Fox's own words 1
INTRODUCTION xxxi
"Eighteen years ago, when I was a student at a technical college,
a dream impelled me to start my research. I dreamed simply that
I was standing outside my home. Looking down, I discovered that_
the paving stones had mysteriously changed their position-the long
sides were now parallel to the curb instead of perpendicular to it.
Then the solution flashed upon me : Though that glorious summer
morning seemed as real as real could be, I was dreaming! Instantly
the vividness of life increased a hundredfold. Never had sea and
sky and trees shone with such glamorous beauty; even the common-
place houses seemed alive and mystically beautiful. Never had I,
felt so absolutely well, so clear-brained, so divinely powerful. Verily
the world had become my oyster. The sensation was exquisite
beyond words ; but it lasted only a few moments, and I awoke. As
I was to learn later, my mental control had been overwhelmed by
my emotions; so the tiresome body asserted its claim and pulled
me back. And now I had a (to me) wonderful new idea: Was it
possible to regain at will the glory of the dream ? Could I prolong
my dreams?
" I have italicized the heading of this section.1 It sounds simple ;
but in practice I found it one of the most difficult things imaginable.
A hundred times would I pass the most glaring incongruities, and
then at last some inconsistency would tell me that I was dreaming;
and always the knowledge brought the change I have described. I
found that I was then able to do little tricks at will-levitate, pass
through seemingly solid walls, mould matter into new forms, etc. ;
but in these early experiments I could stay out of my body only for
a very short time, and this dream consciousness could be acquired
only at intervals of several weeks. To begin with, my progress was
very slow ; but presently I made two more discoveries 1
"I. The mental effect of prolonging the dream produced a pain
in the region of the pineal gland-dull at first, but rapidly increasing
in intensity-and I knew instinctively that this was a warning to
me to resist no longer the call of my body.
" 2. In the last moments of prolonging the dream, and while I
was subject to the above pain, I experienced a sense of dual con-
sciousness. I could feel myself standing in the dream and see the
scenery ; but at the same time I could feel myself lying in bed and
see my bedroom. As the call of the body grew stronger the dream-
scenery became more faint ; but by asserting my will to remain
dreaming, I could make the bedroom fade and the dream-scenery
regain its apparent solidity...."
The thought then occurred to Mr. Fox: What would happen if
he were to disregard this pain and " force " his dream-consciousness
still further? Not without some trepidation, he finally did so; a
sort of " click " occurred in his brain, and he found himself " locked
out ~' in his dream. He no longer seemed connected with his physical
1 By observing ••• etc.
xxxii INTRODUCTION
body ; the sense of dual consciousness vanished ; the ordinary sense
of time likewise disappeared, and he found himself free, in a new
world. This was his first conscious projection.
It lasted only a short time. Owing partly to the sense of utter
loneliness, he experienceda sort of panic. Instantly, the same strange
cerebral click was heard, and Mr. Fox found himself back in his
physical body, completely cataleptic I Very gradually, he regained
control of his organism, moving first one muscle and then another.
"Suddenly the trance broke, my eyes opened, and I was free. I
jumped out of bed with great joy, and immediately collapsed upon
the floor, being overwhelmed with nausea. I felt ill for two or three
days aft~rwards...."
·Just here, Mr. Fox enumerates what appear to him to be the
possible dangers connected with these experiments. These are :
I. Heart-failure, or insanity, arising from shock.
2. Premature burial. /
3· Obsession
4· Severance of cord.
5. Repercussion effects upon the physical vehicle.
Of course, as Mr. Fox wisely remarks, the last three of these
would be scorned by the orthodox scientist. It may be added here
that all these dangers are more imaginary than real, and are dealt
with very fully in the present book.
The chief characteristics of these ·astral projections Mr. Fox
summarizes thus :
I. The body appears to be in a semi-rigid condition, which may
approach in severity the seeming cataleptic state already described.
2. Though the eyes are closed, the room is plainly visible ; and
the atmosphere also, so that one gets an effect rather like particles
of dust illuminated by the sun-or ·roughly a golden glow, very
variable in its intensity. Behind this, as it were, and only just on
the border-line of visibility, is so:rnething like a mass of frog's eggs,
bluish-grey in colour and vibrating.
3· Physical sounds are distinctly audible.
4· In this condition one is liable to any imaginable hallucination
or sight or sound; or, to voice the other view, one is both clair-
voyant and clairaudient.
5. In this condition, especially if it be mistaken for the waking
state, one falls an easy prey to wild and unreasonable fear.
6. One is conscious of strange atmospheric stresses--the before-a-
storm feeling, but enormously intensified.
So far, Mr. Fox had never succeeded in effecting a true projection
without any break in consciousness. He always felt that some one,
or something, was holdip.g him back. "It was like.getting ~ast the
INTRODUCTION xxxiii
'Dweller on the Threshold.' " 1 Then the solution of the problem
suddenly occurred to him : " I had to force my incorporeal self
through the doorway of the pineal gland, so that it clicked behind
me.... It was done, when in the trance condition, simply by con-
centrating upon the pineal gland and willing to ascend through it.
The sensation was as follows : my incorporeal self rushed to a point
in the pineal gland and hurled itself against the imaginary trap-door,
while the golden light increased in brilliance, so that it seemed the
whole room burst into flame. If the impetus was insufficient to take
me through, then the sensation became reversed; my incorporeal
self subsided and became again coincident with my body, while the
astral light died down to normal. Often two or three attempts were
required before I could generate sufficient will-power to carry me
through. It felt as though I were rushing to insanity and death ;
but once the little door had clicked behind me, I enjoyed a mental
clarity far surpassing that of earth-life. And the fear was gone....
Leaving the body was then as easy as getting out of bed...." (Mr.
Fox, with admirable scientific caution, warns his readers against
taking what he has said about the pineal gland too literally; but
he asserts that these are the exact sensations, and he believes that
what he has said is not far from the truth.)
In the vast majority of his experiences, Mr. Fox asserts that there
was a break in consciousness (seemingly, for only a few moments)
between his attempt to enter the " pineal door " and his fully con-
scious state, outside the physical body.2 He did ultimately succeed,
however, in attaining a number of projections, fully conscious from
the beginning. As he himself states :
" This, then, was the climax of my research. I could now pass
from ordinary waking life into this new state of consciousness (or,
from life to ' death ') and return, without any mental break. It is
easily written, but it took fourteen years to accomplish."
Mr. Fox mentions three different methods of "locomotion" in
the astral body. The first of these is Horizontal Gliding-" accom-
plished by a purely mental effort." Usually this is easy, but when
the pull of the cord is felt, it is anything but effortless ; " it is as
though one tugged against a rope of very strong elastic." Mr. Fox
also observed that whenever he was pulled back into the body, he
had the sensation of being drawn backwards into it. (The reason
for this feeling is fully explained in this book.)
The second method of locomotion is a variety of levitation, very
similar to the typical " flying dream." This is described as " easy
and harmless."
The third method is what Mr. Fox calls " Skrying," and in this
he appears to shoot upwards, like a rocket, with great velocity. It
1 For a discussion of this, see Steiner: Initiation and its Results; also my Higher
Psychical Development.
• See 'the lengthy discussion of this point later on, in the present voluma.
.. ..
xxxiv INTRODUCTION
is described as " difficult and dangerous." A typical experience of
this sort is given in the article referred to.
As to the people encountered in these astral trips, Mr. Fox notes
(1) the total absence of "elementals" or other terrifying beings, so
often said to inhabit the Astral Plane; and (2) the fact that he is
nearly always invisible to them, though his presence may at times
be felt. He points out, however, that this is always unfortunate,
for when such is the case the entity is shocked and frightened, and
this state produces a corresponding shock within himself, the result
of which is to draw him back into his physical body immediately.
(The reasons for all this will be made very clear in the text of the
present book.) As to the scenery, this was almost always similiar
to that seen on earth-though, of course, unfamiliar scenes were
very common ; probably more common than familiar ones. One
very curious and unusual feature about Mr. Fox's experiences is
that he was never able to see his own body, when "projected,"
though he could see his wife's body, e.g. very plainly. This is
almost the only instance on record, so far as I know, in which this
has been the case. Generally, the physical body of the projector is
the first object seen. In this, Mr. Fox's experience is almost unique.
On the whole, however, his impressions and experiences are quite
typical, and tally with those of other investigators in this field, as
will be brought out more fully later on. Lack of space unfortunately
prevents me from recounting the very dramatic and extraordinary
manner in which Mr. Fox lost this power, after having acquired it
with so much effort and diligence. This may be found in full in the
articles referred to, from which this summary has been drawn.
SOME PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
I may perhaps conclude this section by giving a brief account of
a few attempts of my own, made some years ago, at " astral pro-
jection.'' These were undertaken when I was experimenting in Yoga.
On a number of occasions I " willed " to appear to a certain young
lady-naturally quite psychic-just as I was falling to sleep. Most
of these attempts were apparent failures, but on three occasions she
awoke suddenly and saw me standing in the room or sitting on her
bed. I remained visible for a few seconds, then "melted away."
I was quite unconscious of any seeming " success " on any occasion ;
I merely awakened in the morning as usual, not knowing whether
anything had " happened " or not. These experiments extended
over a period of several weeks, and it is hardly necessary to say that
I never gave the slightest inkling of the times selected for trying
these " projections."
Of course, while these may have been actual unconscious pro-
jections, they may also have been purely subjective experiences-
perhaps telepathically initiated. But one experience was quite
striking, and should perhaps be recorded in greater detail.
INTRODUCTION XXXV
I may state that the young lady in question is an accomplished
pianist, and has a phenomenal musical memory. If she has once
played or heard a piece of music, she never forgets it. This is
important, for reasons which will be apparent later. One day I
asked her if she had ever heard of an old song, " When Sparrows
Build," made famous years ago by Jenny Lind, and a favourite of
my childhood days. She stated that she never had. I said that I
would get and send her a copy "some time," as I thought she
would like it. That was all that was said about it at the time, and
no particular importance was attached to it. A couple of nights
later, I attempted to " appear " to her, and as usual awoke in the
morning, without knowing whether my experiment had" succeeded"
or not. A little later, I received a telephone call, and the young
lady in question informed me that I had "appeared" to her the
night before-rather more vividly than usual-and that she had
th~reupon been seized with the impulse to write automatically-the
result being a verse of poetry. That afternoon I called, was told of
the experience, was shown the poetry, and confess that I received
quite a momentary thrill! The "poetry" consisted of the opening
lines of the song "When Sparrows Build," absolutely accurate, with
the exception of one word!
I merely record the above case for what it may be worth, since I
can furnish no "proof," and the whole incident may have been
merely a case of remarkable coincidence. Personally, I doubt that
it was. However, I shall not press the point, being content to
record it, as illustrative of the curious results one is able to obtain
while experimenting in this baffling field. As we have seen, other
experimenters have had far more striking and convincing results.
* * *
I must now draw this Introduction to a close. It has been my
privilege to work with Mr. Muldoon throughout the writing and
preparation of this book, and I have added a few foot-notes from
time to time, and suggested certain experiments which might be
tried or certain points which might be covered; apart from these
the writing of the body of the book has been his work entirely, and
I feel that the psychic world owes him a deep debt of gratitude for
his self-sacrifice and determination, in undertaking the labour in-
volved in writing it, when ill in bed and in great physical pain. I
desire to record here my complete conviction of his sincerity, his
truthfulness and his remarkably detached and scientific attitude
toward his·own experiences. All of which will, I feel assured, be
evident in the book itself. It is a work of the utmost importance,
and is just the sort of book for which psychic students, the world
over, have long waited I
HEREWARD CARRINGTON.
EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS
T
HE following extracts from letters written to me by Mr.
Muldoon contain much interesting material, not found in
the text of the book itself. They serve to throw an
interesting sidelight upon the writer's psychology; and,
inasmuch as this is highly important in a case such as this, I feel
assured that their inclusion is fully warranted-for this, if for no
other reason. It is hardly necessary to say that these extracts have
been made with Mr. Muldoon's permission.
The phraseology of the writer-as shown in these letters, as well
as in parts of the book itself-is also of interest, and will serve as
a further indication of his inner Self. These letters were of course
written to me during the writing and revision of the present book.
H. C.
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
You ask me if I have ever touched the physical body while in the
astral body. No ! This is difficult to do. I have tried it, and I
find that one cannot keep from interiorizing, because of the very
close range. Did you ever attend a materialization seance where
you tried to hold a " spirit " from getting back fnto the cabinet ?
Well, if you have ever met with that tremendous magnetic pull, you
will realize how hard it is to keep from interiorizing, when one gets
close enough to the physical body to meddle with it....
You have asked me, too, if I have ever seen anything while in
the astral which I did not know existed, and later verified by seeing
it in the physical. Certainly l This is nothing unusual to do, while
consciously projected. I have often gone into houses, and noted the
things-later going there in the physical, and seeing everything
exactly as I saw it in the astral. . . . But when in coincidence. I
have never had a clairvoyant vision in my life-not one. The only
way I ever was able to see astrally was in the astral body. When
in the physical body, I couldn't see a spirit if there were a million
of them in the room I ... Seeing inside a box would be no trouble,
although I have never tried to do so, while exteriorized. It just
never occurred to me; but I have seen right inside houses, and have
seen people in them, etc., without ever going inside....
*
xxxvii
xxxviii EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS
On a table, in the parlour of my home, there stands a little device
which is used to beat time for a pupil learning music-a metronome.
All one has to do to make this device work is to start the pendulum,
and it will click very loudly until the spring runs down. I sleep in
a room next to the parlour. The other night, I dreamed that I
stood very near this device._; in the dream I seemed about to start
the metronome. No sooner had I dreamed this than I awoke in my
physical body, in bed. About one second later the device in the
next room started to click, click, click. Now there is no possible
way in which that device can start itself ; further, it has stood on
the table for months without being used. It seemed that no sooner
had I touched it-in the dream-than I awoke and heard it start
clicking in the next room. Were it not for the time element, I
should be inclined to think that I started this in the dream body-
which, of course, is the astral body in a partially conscious condi-
tion. But it did not start until I was awake in the physical-though
I started it, in the dream, an instant before. Could it be possible
that the motivity travelled to the device-while I dreamed of it-
remained there until after I was conscious, and started it then ? If
I had been projected in the astral body, would not the device have
started before I got back into the physical ? I wonder if it is possible
to do something of that sort : to try and move something in the
astral body, and not have it move until some time after the astral
body has left it ? ••.
What I have just told you was written several days ago. Last
night I again started the metronome in a dream, just as I did the
first time. Now l have tried to move things while projected and
conscious, but never could. And the strange part is that I never
made such a suggestion to myself-the dream occurred both times
spontaneously. If only I could do this intentionally I What I
cannot understand is this : Why the device did not start until about
two seconds after I dreamed of starting it ? The metronome is
about fifteen feet from where I sleep. There is a wall between, of
course, but that doesn't count if it was the dream body which
started the thing going. Perhaps it is that we do not have the faith,
the conviction, while conscious, and that therefore the motivity is
not powerful enough (through conscious suggestion) to move any-
thing. (Seep. 384 of your book The Coming Science.) Does not what
I have just said concerning my experience jibe with what is there
said, in a fair degree ? There is only one thing which bewilders me
-the time element. Why does not that metronome start before
I am again clearly conscious in the physical body ? To be sure, it
takes no time at all to interiorize the phantom, while one is not
conscious ; but still, that would not account for the time element I
If I were to dream of starting it, then awaken and hear it going,
that could easily be accounted for. But it does not start until after
I am awake....
* * *
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
l. .
"• .,. ....
...
«-'
..
SYLVAN J. .MULDOON
THE PROJECTION OF
THE ASTRAL BODY
By
SYLVAN J. MULDOON
AND
HEREWARD CARRINGTON
AUTHOR OP CC YOUR PSYCHIC POWERS : AND HOW TO DIVILOP TRIM"
"HIGRJ:R PSYCHICAL DIVJ:LOPMINT;" "MODERN PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA," lTC,
"--
"In my opinion, it is this ••• notion of a subtle body,
which for so many centuries has played the dominant r8/e in
the traditional psychology of both the East and the West,
that is most deserving of being retried, reviewed and revised,
to serve as a working hypothesis to co-ordinate and explain a
very large number of these puzzling psychical phenomena."
G. R. S. MEAD, in The Subtle Body.
"These self-projections represent the most extraordinary
achievements of the human will, and. are perhaps acts which
a man might perform equally well befOre and after death."
I
F. W. H. MYERS, in HumafJ Perso11ality.
:
L 0 N D 0 N : R I·D_E R &f._ C 0.
PATERNOSTER .HOUSE, E:e.
1929
-...
..
•
-~
-·
..
• •
Fi,st Published •
Reprinted.
Februa,y, I9119
August, I9119
Printed in Great Britain at
7'11.1 M•Y~UJtW p,.••, Plymoulll. William Brondon & Son, Ltd.
(
PREFACE
W
HEN my first out-of-the-body experiences occurred I
was but twelve-so young and immature in mind that
I did not realize their magnitude. The occurrences
came about involuntarily and repeated themselves fre-
quently, until I became so accustomed to them that, as a matter of
fact, I soon regarded them as nothing extraordinary and seldom
mentioned them even to members of my own family, to say nothing
of keeping a record of them, although I had been urged to do so by
many interested persons.
I had been told, by persons professing to know, that conscious
projection of the astral body was nothing unusual, and that many
psychics could produce it at will. I, too, wanted to be able to
produce it at will, and I admit that I was envious of those who (I
had heard) could do so. So I began a search for some one who could
produce the phenomenon voluntarily. But my search proved
fruitless, and eventually I concluded that I could not find that
" some one." Thus I began to experiment with the phenomenon
myself, and in this book you will find the results of my experiments.
Although we are living in the twentieth century we still have with
us the intolerance of the Middle Ages, and I am not optimistic
enough to believe that a great many will read without prejudice
what I have to say. I have written this work with the idea of giving
the results of my findings to other students of the occult. Unfor-
tunately many occultists are of the belief that what is claimed to be
conscious astral projection is nothing more nor less than a dream.
I am well aware of the fact that one must first exp~nce conscious
astral projection before he can believe in it, and I confess that I
should not accept it as true myself, perhaps, had I not experienced
it and know it to be true. The sceptic says, "I want the.proof, the
objective proof, then I will believe it I "
And the projector replies, " You cannot have objective proof.
You must experience it, then you will have the proof." The argu-
ment that the projector cannot prove to the sceptic that it is not a
dream is of no avail; for neither can the sceptic prove to the pro-
jector that it is a dream. Thus argument is useless-as useless as
arguing the matter of a first cause or a last effect I
I stand on a clear-cut issue. I say experience it. "The proof of
the pudding is in the eating I" I llave not tried to conceal anything
v
•
vi PREFACE
nor resorted to pseudo-arguments about the "dangers" involved,
which is a common characteristic of most writers on this subject. I
have given the specific methods for bringing about the projection of
the astral body, as I know them, and I am willin&_ to have the truth·
of my statements judged squarely by the results obtained through
the practice of these methods. You want proof, and I say you can
have it-but you must experience it. You want to know how you
can experience it, and I tell you how to go about it. I can do no
more.
In this volume I have related many of my experiences ; however,
the experiences I have given do not in any way represent all which
I have had; a book this size could scarcely hold the accounts of all
of them. I could never .have gleaned the information which is con-
tained herein by the few experiences which I have quoted.
The average human being is not interested in the experiences of
others-he is interested in his own experiences; and I han pre-
supposed, in writing this book, that the reader wishes to know just
how the phenomenon is produced, and not merely to read experiences.
Although, as I have stated, I am not optimistic enough to believe
that many will read what I have to say without prejudice, I am
optimistic enough to believe that no one can give the methods which
I have outlined a conscientious and thorough trial, and not obtain
results.
Do not try to judge the book by reason alone. Judge it by experi-
ment. I want no one to accept my word for what I have written.
I say-experience it I Follew the formulre and judge the merits of
my statements afterwards. That is the time to judge-afterwards,·
not in advance I
I have been accused of being" superstitious," because of my belief
in phantoms of the living and phantoms of the dead. Usually I find
that my accusers are themselves superstitious on other subjects I
Recently a churchgoer told me that he did not understand how I,
or any other person, could believe that he had a " ghost " inside
him. Yet this same critic professed to believe the Bible from cover
to cover-even that" Christ gave up the ghost" at death I
On the other hand the Materialist believes that it is superstition
if anyone believes that the mind can exist apart from the brain.
His theory is that the brain "oozes " thoughts, just as the liver
oozes bile. And the Materialist (who cannot prove that the brain
oozes thoughts) forgets that he cannot prove his argument-and
demands proof of the spiritist I If you press the Materialist for
proof, he will tell you that by experiment (by experiment, remember)
it becomes evident that the brain produces thought. And that is
about the very thing the spiritist will tell you, viz., by experiment it
is evident that the brain does not produce thought I Both Materialist
and Spiritist must throw away "reason" and resort to experi-
ment.
PREFACE vii
And that is all I ask the reader to do, to convince himself of the
merits of what I have written : throw away reason and try experi-
ment. It is my hope that all who are successful, even those who
produce minor results (by following the methods contained herein),
will make those results known to me : for I wish to collect the
evidence I I take-this opportunity to express my thanks to Mr.
Carrington for his valuable co-operation and assistance ; and to my
fiancee, Miss Goodrich, for her help in typing the manuscript.
S.M.
CONTENTS
PREFACE •
ll'AG&
v
xili
XV
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
INTRODUCTION. BY H. CARRINGTON
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS • xxxvii
CHAPTER I
Existence of the Astral Body long known-My first conscious projection I
CHAPTER II
Astral catalepsy-Types of projection-Astral somnambulism-Con-
scious interruptions during astral somnambulism-Distant point
projection-The phantom's three moving speeds-Morbidity an
incentive to projection-Instantaneous astral exteriorization-An
ephemeral conscious projection experience-Instantaneous projec-
tion is not uncommon----Collision may cause astral exteriorization-
A projection caused by a mis-step-The fundamental law of astral
projection-Intentional and unintentional projection both result
from the same causes-Meaning of physical" incapacity "-Where
and whatisthe consciousmind?-Thehypnagogic state, neurosisand
sleep-Sensation and emotion at different stages of exteriorization 10
CHAPTER III
Route the phantom travels in projection-Some symptoms of astral
exteriorization-The astral cable----Cord-activity range-An in-
teriorization caused by a noise-Repercussion of the astral body 26
CHAPTER IV
Typical "projection " dreams-How I discovered the cause of many
falling dreams-Types of "falls" or interiorizations--The causes
of the different "falls "-How to break the repercussion in a
falling dream-Types of flying dreams-The flapping dream-
Head-thumping dream-Dream of moving toward a phantasmal
object-Dream delusions . . 37
CHAPTER V
Effect of instability-Eccentricities of the senses-Duplicate sense of
touch-Phantom can pass through needle-points without feeling-
Delusions of the senses during the hypnotic trance-Duplicate
sensibility and obsession-The case of" 89 "-The painful bayonet
case-Duplicate and shifting motivity-A " rap " produced at
will, during exteriorization of motivity. sx
ix
X CONTENTS
CHAPTER VI
The purpose of sleep-Dream control-Subjects of "nervous tempera-
ment" are best suited for psychic experiments-When outside cord-
activity range the phantom is free-Prolonged projection--:fhe
projector cannot get lost-How the physical is recharged during
projection-Not dead but sleeping !-The astral cable is akin to
PAOli:
the umbilical cord 68
CHAPTER VII
Where the astral " line of force " makes contact with the bodies--
Turning over in the air-The four brains of man-The pineal
gland-The pituitary body-The Cosmic energy-DoctorLindlahr's
views on energy-Foods, fasting and psychic development-
Fasting increases the inflow of Cosmic energy-How fasting aids
astral projection-Consciousness uses up energy! 82
CHAPTER VIII
Consciousness during astral projection-A " dreaming-true " experience
-Awakened in the astral by a" noise "-The dream world-The
"dream-control" method of projection-The proper dream will
always project the phantom-Summary of the dream-control
methed-Bringing consciousness to the dream body 95
CHAPTER IX
The factors which stimulate the subconscious Will to action-How I
discovered that "desire" is an activating factor-The action of
the unconscious phantom is governed by the " stress "--Sexual
desire is a negative factor-Phantom projects more easily to a
familiar place-Projecting from an unfamiliar to a familiar place-
Phantoms of the dead are often dominated by the "stress" of
desire or habit-The unconscious phantom sometimes moves
material objects-A " haunter" under the stress of a desirable
habit-An early morning "haunter"-The factor " enervation " no
CHAPTER X
Determining the proper " stress" to use in developing-Incapacity-,.the
fundamental difference between astral projection and physical som·
nambulism-An astral projection which was caused by thirst-
A physical son,mambulation which was caused by thirst-How I
discovered that incapacity is an important factor--Some positive
minor factors-Repercussion noises-" Light" a negative factor-
An in~riorization caused by excess light-Telepathic repercussion 125
CHAPTER XI
How to induce "incapacity "-Developing a consciousness of Self-
Dyriamization of projection-What is" will" ?-Typical dreams of
projectiqn-How to instil the stress of routine-How to instil the
stress of thirst-Projecting to water . 145
CONTENTS
CHAPTER XII
Conscious projection is rare-The passive Will-Inducing projection by
the passive Will method-The results produced by dynamization
xi
PAGB
of projection-Some typical projections 163
CHAPTER XIII
The crypto-conscious mind-Crypto-conscious manifestations often
credited to phantoms of the dead-The various ways in which the
mind functions---:-A superconscious projection-Automatic pro-
jection-A horrible experience-Why victims of violent death
re-enact their death in the astral body-The case of Irene 179
CHAPTER XIV
The crypto-conscious mind and telekinesis-An astral projection in
which I moved a physical object-" Raps " produced during a
dream-The sex of the astral body-Inter-relation of the physical
and astral counterparts-Composition of the astral body-Cal-
culated weight of the astral body-The clothing of the phantom-
" As a man thinketh "-Purgatory-Thought sustains the astral
body-Earthbound phantoms not numerous-An encounter with
an astral fiend 195
CHAPTER XV
Obsession-The Akashic Records-Enacting future events in the dream
body-Many clairvoyant dreams are mistaken for astral projections
-Dream consciousness is not the real consciousness--Death is
merely a permanent projection • 218
CHAPTER XVI
Projection during the sleep of anresthesia-A peculiar dream-There
may be other methods-A prophecy-All possess the powers of
projection-Concerning morals-The demon theory-Conclusion • 234
INDEX. 239
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
SYLVAN J. MULDOON FrontispieCI
FACIK& PAGE
HEREWARD CARRINGTON xiv
THE KA, VISIT1NG THE MUMMY xxii
THE PHANTOM, SLIGHTLY OUT OF COINCIDENCE 6
THE PHANTOM LYING IN THE AIR ABOVE THE PHYSICAL BODY • 32
THE ROUTE THE PHANTOM TAKES IN PROJECTING 52
PHANTOM PROJECTED AND UPRIGHT WITHIN CORD-ACTIVITY
~~. ~
How THE PHANTOM INTERIORIZES 82
THE SWAYING OF THE AsTRAL BoDY 104
OLD CHINESE PRINT, SHOWING THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL
BODY 154
THE DEPARTURE oF THE AsTRAL BoDY AT DEATH 186
ATOMIC STRUCTURE OF THE AsTRAL BoDY zo8
:xiii
HEREWARD CARRIXGTON
,
xvi INTRODUCTION
fainting, when under the influence of an anresthetic, etc., the astral
body similarly withdraws from the physical. Such cases of with-
drawal constitute instances of automatic or involuntary projection.
As opposed to such cases we place those of conscious or voluntary
projection, in which the subject "wills " to leave his physical body,
and actually does so. He is then fully alert and conscious in his
astral body ; he can look upon his own physical mechanism, and
travel about at will, perhaps viewing scenes and visiting places he
has !).ever seen before. Subsequently, he can verify the truth of
these experiences by visiting the scenes or places in question. While
fully conscious in the astral body, he seems to be possessed of extra-
ordinary, supernormal powers. He can at will return to his physical
body, or may be drawn into it again automatically by reason of
some shock, fright or vivid emotion.
The astral and the physical bodies are invariably connected by
means of a sort of cord, or cable, along which vital currents pass.
Should this cord be severed, death instantly results. The only
difference between astral projection and death is that the cord is
intact in the former case, and severed in the latter. This cord-the
" Silver Cord " spoken of in Ecclesiastes-is elastic, and capable of
great extension. It constitutes the essential link between the two
bodies.1
The above is a general, and very brief, summary of the_ doctrine
and teachings regarding the astral body and its projection.
Now, although the literature regarding this subject is fairly volu-
minous, I have been unable to find anywhere in it much material of
scientific value; above all, next to nothing of a practical nature-
how to project the astral body. If such a body actually exists, and
can be projected voluntarily-as many individuals assert it can-
why has so little practical advice and information ever been pub-
lished regarding it? It is all very well to dwell upon the possible
"dangers" connected with such a procedure; every sensible person
realizes that they may very well exist, but would ,be willing to try
the experiment just the same. Nevertheless, it is next to impossible
to obtain any practical and precise information from those indi-
viduals who assert they can " project " at will ; and in this I feel
sure psychic students everywhere will agree with me. Why should
this be so ? I quite agree with Mr. Muldoon in thinking that the
reason for all this secrecy is not on account of the theoretical
"dangers" involved, but simply because these self-styled"teachers"
do not know. They know that astral projection occurs; they may
have experienced it themselves; but the actual details of the pro-
cess-how it is accomplished-this they do not know, and conse-
quently cannot tell others. The great value of the present book
consists in the fact that this information is given to the world for
1 See a brief article on "The Silver Cord," by Max Heindel, in 1'he Occult
Digest, May, 1928.
INTRODUCTION
BY HEREWARD CARRINGTON
T
HE Astral Body may be defined as the Double, or the
ethereal counterpart of the physical body, which it
resembles and with which it normally coincides. It is
thought to be composed of some semi-flui<llc or subtle
form of matter, invisible to the physicat eye. It has, in the past,
been spoken of as the etheric body, the mental body, the spiritual
body, the desire body, the radiant body, the resurrection body, the
double, the luminous body, the subtle body, the fluidic body, the
shining body, the phantom, and by various other names. In recent
Theosophical literature, distinctions have been made between these
various bodies; but for our present purposes we may ignore these
distinctions, and speak of the " Astral Body " as some more subtle
form, distinct from the organic structure known to Western science,
and studied by our physiologists.
The broad, general teaching is that every human being H has" an
astral body just as he has a heart, a brain and a liver. In fact, the
astral body is more truly the Real Man than the physical body is,
for the latter is merely a machine adapted to functioning upon the
physical plane. BuHt must not be thought that the astral body is
held to be the Soul of man either. That is a mistake often made.
It is said to be the vehicle of the Soul-just as truly as the-physical'
body is a vehicle-and constitutes one of the essential connecting...
links between mind and matter. To the Materialist, of course, who
regards mind merely as a product of certain brain activities, -such a
theory would appear superfluous and nonsensicaL But the prese11t
book is not addressed to Materialists. It is addressed to tliose who
believe in the reality of certain supernormal (psychical) phenomena,
and in the theoretical possibility, at least, of the astral body. To all
such students this book will, I. am assured, prove a veritable mine
of valuable and unique information.
THE DOCTRINE
The astral body, then, coincideswith the physical body during the
hours of full, wakiilg consciousness; but in sleep the astral body
withdraws to a greater or lesser degree, usually hQ.l!ering.just abov<: ~
it, neither conscious nor controlled. In trance, syncope;·while
b XV
. .
•
...
·.
•
INTRODUCTION xvii
the first time; and I cannot but believe that we have here a docu-
ment of the utmost value-information for which psychic students
have waited for years, and which might never have been given out
had not a combination of fortuitous circumstances rendered its
publication possible. It may therefore be of interest to the reader
to know how the following book came to be written, and something
of the author himself.
HOW THIS BOOK CAME TO BE WRITTEN
In my book Modern Psychical Phenomena, I had devoted a chapter
to the experimental projection of the astral body-summarizing the
work of M. Charles Lancelin {to be discussed more fully later on).
This material I amplified considerably in a later book, Higher
Psychical Development. This dealt almost exclusively with the work
of others, however, and I always felt that it was all most inadequate;
it epitomized everything that I had been enabled to unearth, how-
ever, dealing with this important subject. In November, 1927, I
received a letter from Mr. Sylvan Muldoon, in which he said:
" I have recently finished reading your volumes on the ' Occult
and Psychical Sciences.' ... I was much interested in your chapter
on 'Astral Projection,' as I have been a 'projector' for twelve
years-long before I knew that anyone else in the world ever did
such things.... What puzzles me most is that you make the remark
that M. Lancelin has told practically all that is known on the
subject. Why, Mr. Carrington, I have never read Lancelin's work,
but if you have given the gist of it in your book, then I can write a
book on the things that Lancelin does not know! ... I have been
wondering whether M. Lancelin is in fact a conscious projector.
From what you have given, I have concluded either that Lancelin
does not project at all, or that his subjects are not in the clear
conscious state while exteriorized. Is this not reasonable ? If M.
Lancelin or his subjects were clearly conscious, could they not give
every 4etail of the phenomenon ? Of course they could I But they
do not.... Now I have been all through this, and I know every
emotion, every move, every last detail that takes place from clear
consciousness in the physical, out, into the astral with that same
unchanged consciousness and back into ' coincidence.' ... But the
thing I marvel at most is that so little is said about the astral cord
-the very foundation of the whole phenomenon. Is it possible that
none of Lancelin's subjects ever examined this cord, nor even saw
it ? ... Nothing is told as to how this cord works, how it stabilizes
the phantom, or throws it into instability. How large it is while the
bodies are nearly in coincidence ; how it decreases in size and resist-
ance up to a certain distance {which I have measured exactly), and
so forth. Lancelin says that the phantom appears as if rocked by the
wind, but he does not say what causes this. . . . Lancelin does not
xviii INTRODUCTION
tell how to control the astral cord, the mechanism which is the vital
factor. He says that the astral body emerges from the solar plexus
-which is anything but true. The bodies separate at all places
simultaneously. The cord centres at a given plexus, and the ideal
spot is the medulla oblongata, which has direct control over the organs
of respiration in the oblivious physical body. Lancelin says nothing
of suppressed desires and the condition of the heart-beat through
the cord ; nor how to stabilize the phantom after the exteriorization
is accomplished. He says nothing of the form the phantom takes ;
how it moves in coming out ; how a cataleptic state ensues· while
the phantom is under control of the subconscious mind, and is still
conscious.... He has not told of the various degrees of sight and
hearing in the phantom ; nor how it travels, nor how it gets into a
condition where it is helpless and unable to travel. ... The Will
Power part of the process is greatly over-stressed. There are other
ways of accomplishing this besides will power. In fact, several other
ways. And the Good Health idea is nothing short of a blunder. I
say, and can prove it, that the nearer dead a person is, the easier it
is to project.... I could go on telling you many more things about
astral projection ; but I suppose that after all was said you would
reply, 'Prove it.' But it cannot be• so readily proved! It would
require a treatise upon the subject. I once thought of writing a
book upon this topic, but abandoned the idea when everyone told
me that I was ' crazy,' and found that no one would pay any
attention to it.... Just the same, I have exteriorized enough to
know that if you have given the gist of what is now known, then
indeed there is much darkness upon the subject.... I might add
that I am a boy twenty-five years old, and that if you even read
this letter and take it seriously, it will be an honour to me...."
It need hardly be pointed out that I realized at once that I had
discovered some one possessed of a vast fund of most valuable
information ; and I lost no time in replying at length, and in urging
Mr. Muldoon to begin his book at once, which I promised to revise
and edit and introduce. The following book is the result. I may
say that Mr. Muldoon and myself have worked together upon it
most harmoniously ; he has covered many points and tried many
experiments which I have suggested to him, and in every way
demonstrated his complete sincerity, and his scrupulous adherence
to the truth. He makes no claims he cannot justify ; he advances
no theories which are not based upon actual experiences ; if he does
not know a certain thing, he frankly says so. The additional
extracts from his letters (pp. xxxvii-xli) will bring this out even
more clearly, and will also furnish the reader much valuable material,
not included in the book. I may add that the bulk of this work was
written when Mr. Muldoon was so ill that he could not get out of
bed, and was never certain but that the next day might prove his
last I If ever a man may be expected to be truthful arid sincere, it
INTRODUCTION xix
would be at such a time. But the writer's truthfulness and sincerity
are apparent in every line.
I should like to draw the reader's attention particularly to the
fact that no wild or preposterous claims are anywhere made in this
book as to what has been accomplished during these" astral trips."
Mr. Muldoon does not claim to have visited any distant planets-
and return to tell us in detail their modes of life ; he does not claim
to have explored any vast and beautiful " spirit worlds " ; he does
not pretend to have penetrated the past or the future ; to have
re-lived any of his past" incarnations"; to have read any" Akashic
Records " ; to have travelled back along the stream of time, and
reviewed the history of mankind, or the geologic eras of our earth.
He asserts, merely, that he has been enabled to leave his physical
body at will, and travel about in the present, in his immediate
vicinity, in some vehicle or other, while fully conscious. This is
perfectly rational, and is precisely what we should expect, on the
theory that these " trips " are actual experiences. Assuming that
some such entity as an Astral Body exists, and can at times be
voluntarily detached from the physical body, everything else which
is said falls naturally into place, and is precisely what might be
expected to happen under such circumstances.
THE DIFFICULTY OF "PROOF"
Of course, it may be replied: "Very true, provided the reality of
your astral body once be established I After once having swallowed
the camel, it is useless straining at the gnat I " But the evidence
for the existence of some such entity as an astral or etheric body
has been constantly accumulating-quite apart from these cases of
conscious or voluntary "projection." The very first thing which
struck the early investigators of the Society for Psychical Research,
when they began their investigations, was the great number of
apparitions coinciding with the death of the person thus represented ;
and the result of the first Census, published in Phantasms of the
Living, and of the second and far more extensive one, published in
Vol. X of the S.P.R. Proceedings, confirmed the belief that- such
coincidences were more than chance would account for ; that there
was some causal connection between the apparition and the death
of the person whose " double " thus appeared. Quite logically, the
attempt was made to explain the majority of these experiences as
" telepathic hallucinations." But all of them could not be so readily
explained, and even as the result of the first Census, Mr. Myers felt
qualms as to the sufficiency of this explanation, as his " Note on a
Suggested Mode of Psychical Interaction " clearly shows. The evi-
dence for the objectivity of certain phantoms appeared, indeed, so
strong that Mr. Andrew Lang was forced to write, in his Cock Lane
and Common Sense (p. 206) : " •.. Some apparitions are ' ghosts '
XX INTRODUCTION
-real objective entities, filling space." And it may be said that the
evidence for this has considerably increased of late years-quite
aside from " materializations " and similar manifestations. Into
this evidence we have not, unfortunately, the time to enter now.1
It may be asserted, therefore, with considerable confidence, that
the evidence for the existence of some sort of an " astral body " has
been constantly accumulating as the result of our psychical investi-
gations, and that this evidence is now very strong. It need hardly
be pointed out that, if this were once definitely accepted, it would
enable us to account for a large number of otherwise baffling phe-
nomena very readily-haunted houses, apparitions seen by several
persons at the same time, psychic photographs, clairvoyance, etc. ;
and (assuming that such a body might occasionally move or affect
matter) raps, telekinesis, "poltergeists," and other physical phe-
nomena. In fact, once the objective existence of an astral body be
postulated, a flood of light would be thrown upon psychic mani-
festations, both physical and mental.
Now, quite apart from such collateral evidence, there have always
been individuals who have asserted that they could leave the physical
body at will, and travel about in some " astral body " for a longer
or shorter period of time-retaining consciousness throughout. The
difficulty has always consisted in furnishing proofs of such claims.
Indeed, this is a most difficult thing to do, in view of the fact that
the experience must of necessity be subjective ; and it is an open
question whether such proofs have been furnished even in the present
book. However, the attempt has been made to do so; and the
specific instructions which have been given will perhaps enable
others to " project " themselves-thereby affording them the best
possible means of verifying the accuracy of the statements made.
Should a number of (otherwise sensible!) persons come forward and
assert that they too have succeeded in voluntarily projecting their
astral bodies, this question would at once assume a very different
status. ,
In the present book, Mr. Muldoon has discussed both falling and
flying dreams, and has advanced the ingenious theory that many of
these may be due to actual movements of the astral body. Of
course, Mr. Muldoon would be the first to admit that the majority
of such dreams are due to ordinary psychological-even physio-
logical-causes, and, as examples of " illusions of levitation " pro-
1 It need hardly be said that alleged "spirit communications" have invariably
asserted this to be a fact. Thus, in Dr. Hodgson's Second" Report on the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper," we read:
" The statements of the ' communicators ' as to what occurs on the physical
side may be put in brief general terms as follows. We all have bodies composed of
' luminiferous ether • enclosed in our flesh and blood bodies. The relation of Mrs.
Piper's etherial body to the etherial world, in which the •communicators' claim to
dwell, is such that a special store of peculiar energy is accumulated in connection
with her organism, and this appears to them as ' a light.' ••• " etc. (Proe., XIII,
p. 400).
INTRODUCTION xxi
duced by such purely physiological mechanisms, I cannot do better
than summarize the interesting articles of Mr. Lydiard H. Horton,
which appeared in the Journal of Abnormal Psychology (April, 1918;
June, 1918; August, 1919), in which he attempted to prove this
fact-that such illusions of levitation may be so produced-even
without sleep I He induced a number of experimental subjects to
lie upon a bed or couch, and relax completely. Upon the degree of
relaxation thus attained depends the success of the experiment. If
the patient can induce this complete relaxation of the muscular
system without falling asleep, he will often experience an " illusion
of levitation." "Out of the thirty subjects who relaxed completely,
and of the twenty or so who retained consciousness after they had
completely relaxed, eight of them reported illusions of levitation."
The following are typical experiences of this nature :
" One of them jumped out of the chair and was afraid to continue
the experiment, so realistic was his apperception of a soaring motion.
" Another, this time a woman, gripped the chair in the momentary
·belief that she was floating away; two others reported that they
felt' caught up' by a wave, but that their reason reassured them at
the time.
" One other enjoyed the sensation so much that he took it as a
matter of course, and supposed it was part of the ' treatment.' One
other said that if his head had been as light as his body he would
surely have floated away. He reported himself' just floating away,'
the sensation being overwhelmingly real. .. .''
Mr. Horton attempts to account for all such cases as follows:
" The mechanism underlying the flying dream and the levitation
illusion is attributed, mainly, to the functions of the adrenal-sympa-
thetic nervous system.... The genesis of the illusion of levitation
does not come from the diminution of tactile sensations. Whether
due entirely to an inhibition in the course of the pressure sense
tracts (deep sensibility, I mean), or merely to lessening of actual
muscle pressure, is a question. I think the latter is a great factor,
but that the sensory ' inhibition ' is real too.... This of itself does
not become the adequate or efficient basis of the illusion of levitation
till the vaso-motor relaxation supervenes. Out of the combination
there arises the bodily 'stimulus' (negative in this case) which
becomes the foundation of the illusion of soaring... .''
This attempted explanation, it will be observed, differs essentially
from that offered by Horace G. Hutchinson (in his Dreams and their
Meanings) and also that of Havelock Ellis (in his World of Dreams)
which is that" flying dreams" are best explained by a combination
of respiratory sensations together with cutaneous amesthesia. It is
quite possible that some such explanation may ultimately be found
for, and will adequately explain, many ordinary flying dreams; but
it must be emphasized emphatically that such dreams are quite
different from clean-cut instances of "projection," and that any
xxii INTRODUCTION
explanation of the latter by such principles is absolutely unjustified
-just as unjustified as, e.g. the attempt to " explain " the super-
normal knowledge displayed in Mrs. Piper's trance by postulating
some physiological causation of that trance. The essential problem
would remain untouched. In all cases of astral projection, it must
be emphasized that clear consciousness of Self is maintained by the
subject, while he is outside his body; he can look back and see his
body; he can view his present surroundings; he can observe people,
and note distant scenes and events just as they are--or are occurring
-which he could not possibly have seen and known, but which he
was afterwards enabled to verify and check off as correct. This is
the distinctly supernormal factor involved, which is the crux of the
whole matter ; and for this no purely physiological explanation in
any way accounts. In his experiments, Dr. Horton succeeded only
in producing the illusion of levitation, which is not even a flying
dream; and a flying dream is, according to Mr. Muldoon, again an
entirely different matter from a conscious projection!
HISTORICAL
It is hardly necessary to remind the reader that the Egyptians
believed implicitly in the KA-which might be said to correspond to
our conception of the" Astral Body." This KA was not the Soul of
man, it must be understood, but its vehicle-just as the astral body
is thought to be the vehicle of the mind and soul to-day. It was
this KA which visited the mummified body from time to time, and
was usually depicted as a sort of bird-like Double of the deceased.
Many of the older Egyptian paintings show this. The wanderings
and trials of the dead man in the Under World are described at great
length in the Egyptian Book of the Dead, and in other early writings.
'Even more striking and important, from our point of view, how-
ev.er, is the recently translated Tibetan Book of the Dead, edited by
Dr. W. Y. Evans-Wentz, and published by the Oxford University
Press (r927). This work-the Bardo Thodol-was probably first
committed to writing in the eighth century A.D., and embodied
teachings much older. The manuscript from which the present
translation is made is judged by experts to be between rso and zoo
years old. As the reader may have surmised, it deals with the same
general top~c as the earlier Egyptian work ; but, from our modem
point of view, is far more " rational," and many of its teachings
correspond, in a remarkable way, with those of Occult and Psychical
Science. A very brief summary of those portions of the book which
deal tuore Qr less directly with our theme will doubtless prove of
interest.
When a.man is about to die, a Lama is called'in, whose duty it is
to· ,ilttend 'to the d¥ing man and usher him properly into the next
world. The arteries on the sides of the neck are pressed. This is
THE ASTRAL BODY, OR KA, VISITIKG THE ~IU~I:.IY
INTRODUCTION xxiii
done to keep the dying person conscious, with the consciousness
rightly directed. For the nature of the Death-consciousness 8eter-
mines the future state of the "soul-complex," existence being the
continuous transformation of one conscious state to another. The
pressing of the arteries regulates the path to be taken by the out-
going vital current (Prana). The proper path is that which passes
through the Foramen of Monro. " If the expiration is about to
cease, tum the dying one over on the right side, which posture is
called the' Lying Posture of a Lion.' The throbbing of the arteries
(on the right and left sides of the throat) is to be pressed. If the
person dying be disposed to sleep, or if the sleeping state advances,
that should be arrested, and the arteries pressed gently but firmly.
Thereby the vital force will not be able to return from the median
nerve and will be sure to pass out through the Brahmanic aperture.
Now the real setting face to face is to be applied. At this moment,
the first glimpsing of the Bardo, of the Clear Light of Reality ...
is experienced by all sentient beings.''
All the time the patient is dying, the Lama urges him to keep his
mind tranquil and poised, so that he may see and enter into the
Clear Light of Reality, and may not be troubled with hallucinations
or " thought-fonns " which have no objective existence, save in his
own mind. The Lama superintends the whole process of the with-
drawal of the astral body from the physical at death. " It is com-
monly held that the process (of separation) takes from three and
one-half to four days, unless assisted by a priest called hpho-bo
(pron. pho-o), or 'extractor-of-the-consciousness-principle'; and
that, even if the priest be successful in the extracting, the deceased
ordinarily does not wake up to the fact of being separated from the
human body until the said period of time has elapsed.''
If the mind of the dying person has not been properly concen-
trated upon the Clear Light, he is liable to see scores of devils and
demons of all sorts I But it is emphasized over and over again in
the book, that these demons have no actual, objective existence:
they are merely hallucinations, or " thought-forms," having no
actuality, save in the mind of the seer. They are all purely sym-
bolical. The mind is capable of manufacturing these, or creating
them, just as we do every night in our dreams. He must cleave his
way through these into the Clear Light of the Void. ~e soo:aer he·
can do this, the sooner is'' liberation" attained.
The teachings concerning the astral body are very clear .and
concise: "When thou wert recovered from the swoon (of death)
thy Knower must have risen up in its primordial condition cw.d a~ .
radiant body,resembling the fonner body, must have sprung forth.. :.
It is called the desire-body.... The Bardo-body hath been spoken
of as ' endowed wi-th all sense-faculties.' . . . Unimped~d motion
implyeth that thy present body being only a; desire bodyAs not a·
body of gross matter...• Thou art actually endowed with the power '- ,.·
:
xxiv INTRODUCTION
of miraculous motion.... Ceaselessly and involuntarily wilt thou
be wandering about. To all those who are weeping {thou shalt say)
'Here I am, weep not.' But they not hearing thee, thou wilt think,
'I am dead I' And again, at that time, thou wilt be feeling very
miserable. Be not miserable in that way. . .. There will be a grey,
twilight-like light, both by night and by day, and at all times....
Even though thou seekest a body, thou wilt gain nothing but
trouble. Put aside the desire for a body ; and permit thy mind to
abide in the state of resignation, and act so as to abide therein....
These are the indications of the wandering about on the Sidpa Bardo
of the mental body. At the time, happiness and misery will depend
upon Karma. ..."
THE LITERATURE OF THE SUBJECT
Much has been written, in the past, concerning the Astral Body-
mostly in books devoted to " Magic " and " Occultism." I believe
that I have gone through the majority of such works carefully, in
my endeavour to find some practical information bearing upon this
question, but with little result. Thus, there are numerous references
to the astral body in e.g. Eliphas Levi's Doctrine and Ritual of
Magic, in his "Key of the Mysteries" (published in The Equinox,
Vol. X) ; in A. E. Waite's Mysteries of Magic, and his Occult Sciences;
in Dr. Franz Hartmann's Magic, White and Black, and in the various
writings of Paracelsus. In the older works upon Sorcery and Witch-
craft there are, of course, frequent allusions to astral projection.
Theosophical literature is full of this subject, but even here I have
been unable to find anywhere precise information-any practical
instructions as to how the projection of the astral body is to be
accomplished. This is true not only of the older works, such as
Leadbeater's The Astral Plane, and Annie Besant's Man and h£s
Bodies, but also the newer and more voluminous treatises, such as
those of Major Arthur E. Powell-The Etheric Double, The Astral
Body, The Mental Body, etc. In all these books, much theoretical
information is given (of course, from the strictly Theosophical point
of view) but very little practical advice. The same criticism applies
to D'Assier's book Posthumous Humanity: A Study of Phantoms.
Some interesting spontaneous experiences are given in Little]ourneys
into the Invisible: A Woman's Actual Experiences in the Fourth
Dimension, by M. Gifford Shine ; Some Occult Experiences, by Johan.
van Manen; My Travels in the Spirit World, by Caroline D. Larsen,
and in other books of the kind ; while some curious lore of a general
nature is contained in The Astral Light, by " Nizida." An interesting
historic study of this subject is given in G. R. S. Mead's Doctrine of
the Subtle Body in Western Tradition, in which he summarizes the
views of the early Fathers, as well as the later conceptions. Charles
Hallock's book Luminous Bodies: Here and Hereafter, contains little
INTRODUCTION XXV
to the point. Occasional references to what Mr. Myers (in his Human
Personality) called " Self Projection " may be found scattered
through the Journals and Proceedings of the S.P.R., and the very
striking case of Dr. Wiltse (Proceedings, VIII, pp. r8o-194) is, of
course, classical. The case of the Rev. L. J. Bertrand (pp. 194-200)
is also of considerable interest ; while the same may be said of the
case recorded by Dr. I. K. Funk, in his Psychic Riddle, pp. 179-185.1
Mr. A. Campbell Holmes has some remarks upon "The Double"
in his Facts of Psychic Science and Philosophy, while I have devoted
chapters to the subject in my Modern Psychical Phenomena, and
Higher Psychical Development. Several years ago, Mr. Prescot Hall
published in the Journal of the A.S.P.R. a number of" communica-
tions" of considerable interest, which he had received regarding the
astral body through the instrumentality of a blind medium. Their
value, of course, depends altogether upon the authenticity of their
source.
This is practically all the published material which I have been
enabled to find relative to the astral body and its projection, with
the exception of Mr. Oliver Fox's articles in the Occult Review, to be
quoted presently, and two books in French. These are: Le Fant6me
des Vivants, by H. Durville, and Methode de Deboublement Personnel
(Exterioration de la Neuricite: Sorties en Astral), by M. Charles
Lancelin. These will be quoted and referred to more fully later on.
But, as I have said, with these exceptions, I have found practically
nothing of value in the entire literature of the subject ; and this
criticism is especially true when we come to the most important and
central theme of all, viz. how to project the astral body experiment-
ally and retain consciousness within it. Upon this vital theme our
authorities are especially silent !
It is just here that Mr. Muldoon is most explicit. He explains in
the greatest detail just how the projection of the astral body is to
be effected, and he describes precisely what takes place in the
subject's mind and body during such a projection-together with
many other details connected with the process. Any impartial
reader will agree, I think, with the conclusion that it would be
impossible for Mr. Muldoon to have written as he has-to have
acquired this knowledge-without in some sense experiencing what
he claims to have experienced. His reading upon the subject has
been very scant ; his contact with anyone liable to possess even a
tithe of this information is next to impossible-when we take into
account the fact that he lives in an obscure village in the Middle
West. No; his knowledge has been gained at first-hand, and as the
result of actual experimentation; that is very evident. How such
information could have been acquired-had he not actually under- .
gone these experiences-! leave it for the reader to decide.
1 Extracts from these cases are given elsewhere.
I
xxvi INTRODUCTION
SPONTANEOUS CASES
As before mentioned, there are two types or varieties of astral
projection : the spontaneous and the experimental. In the former,
the individual undergoing the experience merely finds himself " pro-
jected" without knowing how or why; he finds himself outside his
own physical body-which he can clearly see-but how he got there
he does not know. In the latter, the experimenter makes a deter-
mined and voluntary effort to " project "-usually to some definite
locality-and wakes up, to find himself there, or en route. Of course,
the vast majority of such attempts end in failure; successes are
extremely rare. Or the subject may be" seen" by some individual
at the locality in question, and remain quite unconscious of his
apparent success. Examples of all types or varieties of projection
are to be found in this book, together with an analysis of the modus
operandi involved, and an explanation of the success or failure, as
the case may be.
Let us consider, first of all, a few typical cases of "spontaneous"
projection. As before stated, this may occur, theoretically, when
the subject is asleep, in trance, while under the influence of an
anresthetic, etc. Or it may occur when the subject is awake and
conscious, but merely relaxed-at least at the beginning of the
experience. A good illustration of this may be found in a recently
published book entitled My Travels in the Spirit World, by Caroline
D. Larsen, where we read:
" ... Suddenly I underwent a very strange experience. A feeling
of deep oppression and apprehension came over me, not unlike that
which precedes a fainting-spell. I braced myself against it, but to
no avail. The overpowering oppression deepened, and soon numb-
ness crept over me until every muscle became paralyzed. In this
condition I remained for some time. My mind, however, was still
working as clearly as ever. At first I heard the music (downstairs)
plainly, but soon the sounds began to slip away from me by degrees
until finally everything became a blank, and I was unconscious to
life and the world. How long this state lasted I do not know. What
happened during this period I am also unable to relate. The next
thing I knew was that I, myself, was standing on the floor beside
my bed looking down attentively at my own physical body lying in
it.... I recognized every line of that familiar face, pale and still as
in death, the eyes tightly closed and the mouth partly open. The
arms and hands rested limp and lifeless beside the body.... I
turned and walked slowly towards the door, passed through it and
into a hall that led to the bathroom.... Through force of habit I
went through the motions of turning on the electric light, which, of
course, I did not actually turn on. But there was no need for
illumination, for from my body and face emanated a strong whitish
light that lighted up the room brilliantly...."
INTRODUCTION xxvii
In the case published by Dr. I. K. Funk, in his Psychic Riddle
(pp. I7g-r85), the writer describes how he" lost control of his body"
-by reason of a cold numbness which spread over it, on a number
of occasions-before having his first conscious projection. On the
occasion in question, after these preliminary symptoms, he first of
all became momentarily unconscious: " ... There came a flashing
of lights in my eyes and a ringing in my ears, and it seemed for an
instant as though I had become unconscious. When I came out of
this state, I seemed to be walking in the air. No words can describe
the exhilaration and freedom that I experienced. No words can
describe the clearness of mental vision. At no time in my life had
my mind been so clear or so free.... I became conscious of being in
a room and looking down on a body propt-up in bed, which I recog-
nized as my own. I cannot tell what strange feelings came over
me I This body, to all intents and purposes, looked to be dead.
There was no indication of life about it, and yet here I was, apart
from the body, with my mind thoroughly clear and alert, and the
consciousness of another body to which matter of any kind offered
no resistance.... After what might have been a minute or two,
looking at the body, I began to try and control it, and in a very
short time all sense of separation from the physical body ceased,
and I was only conscious of a directed effort toward its use. After
what seemed to be quite a long time, I was able to move, got up
from the bed and drest myself, and went down to breakfast...."
As to the criticism invariably advanced-that this was a mere
" vivid dream "-the writer says :
" I know that many people may think that the statements recorded
here are simply the result of an active imagination or perhaps a
dream, but they are neither the one nor the other. If the whole
world were to rise up ... it would not make one particle of difference
in my mind, as I am absolutely certain that I have been as free from
my physical body as I ever will be, and that my life apart from it
was far more wonderful than any life I have ever experienced in
it...."
The case of Dr. Wiltse is very well known. It was first printed
in the St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, November, r889, and
afterwards in Vol. VIII of the S.P.R. Proceedings. It was also
published, in part, in Human Personality (Vol. II, pp. 3I5-22). In
view of this, only a few brief extracts from this most interesting case
will be given-referring the reader to the above sources for the full
account. After a few preliminary remarks and descriptions, Dr.
Wiltse goes on to say : ·
" ... With all the interest of a physician I beheld the wonders of
my bodily anatomy, intimately interwoven with which, even tissue
for tissue, was I, the living soul of that dead body.... I watched
the i,p.teresting process of the separation of soul and body. By some
power, apparently not my own, the Ego was rocked to an fro,
xxviii INTRODUCTION
laterally, as a cradle is rocked, by which process its connection with
the tissues of the body was broken up. After a little time, the latter
motion ceased, and along the souls of the feet, beginning at the toes,
passing rapidly to the heels, I felt and heard, as it seemed, the
snapping of innumerable small cords. When this was accomplished
I began slowly to retreat from the feet, towards the heap, as a
rubber cord shortens.... As I emerged from the head I floated up
and down and laterally like a soap-bubble attached to the bowl of a
pipe until I at last broke loose from the body and fell lightly to the
floor, where I slowly rose and expanded into the full stature of a
man. I seemed to be translucent, of a bluish cast and perfectly
naked.... I directed my gaze (to the bed) and saw my own dead
body. It was lying just as I had taken so much pains to place it,
partially upon the right side, the feet close together, and the hands
clasped across the breast. I was surprised at the paleness of the
face.... I turned and passed out of the open door...."
Dr. Wiltse then relates a number of mental experiences which he
had during his extended " trip "-including the perception of certain
things which he did not know existed, but which were subsequently
verified and found correct-and, at the conclusion of his astral
journey, he was suddenly arrested by what appeared to be a dense,
black cloud : " A small, densely black cloud appeared in front of
me and advanced toward my face. I knew that I was to be stopped.
I felt the power to move or to think leaving me. My hands fell
powerless to my sides, my shoulders and head dropped forward,
the cloud touched my face and I knew no more...."
When he regained consciousness, he was in his own physical
body.
The case of the Rev. L. J. Bertrand, also given in Proceedings,
Vol. VIII, p. 194, is thus summarized by Mr. Myers :
"During a dangerous ascent of the Titlis, Mr. Bertrand separated
from his companions, sat down to rest, and became paralyzed by the
cold. His head, however, remained clear, and he experienced the
sensation described by Dr. Wiltse of passing out of his body and
remained attached to it by' a kind of elastic string.' While in this
condition, he had clairvoyant impressions about his absent com-
panions, and much astonished them on their return by describing
their doings to them...."
EXPERIMENTAL CASES
We now come to cases of voluntary or experimental projection.
These, as I have said, are much rarer, and-apart from a few
scattered cases (possibly) in Phantasms of the Living-are limited
more or less to Mr. Fox's records, in the Occult Review-to be quoted
presently-and a few dubious and historic cases, fairly "remote.''
Two books have been published in French, however, dealing with
INTRODUCTION xxix
this subject; one by M. Charles Lancelin, the other by M. Hector
Durville. Both of these works deal with the attempt to "extract,"
as it were, the astral body from the " magnetized " subject while in
a state of trance. Neither of them contains cases of self-projection.
The subject was placed in a deep magnetic or mesmeric {as distinct
from hypnotic) trance, and suggestions were then given that the
subject should, if possible, leave his {or her) own body, and move
away from it for some appreciable distance. A variety of ingenious
experimental tests were then made, to ascertain, so far as possible,
that this had been successfully accomplished.
I shall not now stop to consider the work of M. Lancelin, as I have
already summarized it quite fully in my Modern Psychical Phe-
nomena, and in Higher Psychical Development, and Mr. Muldoon has
dealt with it at considerable length in the present volume. I may,
however, give a brief summary of the findings of M. Durville, as
given in his book Le Fant6me des Vivants.
The book is divided into two parts : Part I being historical and
theoretical, dealing with the general theory of the "double," and
citing a number of ancient and more modern cases which might
possibly be considered examples of its manifestation.1 Part II is
experimental, dealing with cases in which the astral body was ap-
,parently projected, while the subject was in deep" magnetic" trance.
Some of this material is of considerable interest, and agrees remark-
ably with the descriptions and experiences of Mr. Muldoon. Thus
we read (p. r8g) : "The subject of the experiment is constantly en
rapport with the " double " through the intermediary of a fluidic
cord, capable of elongation.... Usually this is cylindrical, but may
sometimes appear to be a sort of ribbon...." As to the clothes of
the phantom, these seem to be composed of a sort of " fluidic
gauze" (p. 215). Various sense-impressions are conveyed to the
body by means of the astral cord (p. 235). The question of tem-
perature is important; and too much light has a detrimental effect
upon the astral body. Experiments with the dynamometer showed
that the muscular strength (grip) of the subject was always greater
after projection than before (p. 152). On the contrary, the tem-
perature of the hand-particularly of the right hand-almost invari-
ably fell as the result of the experiment (pp. rgs-r97). One chapter
is devoted to the action of the phantom upon (a) the double of
another subject-both being " projected " at the same time ; and
(b) upon the physical body of another person. Some positive results
were apparently secured in both cases. Calcium sulphide screens
were then placed at some distance from the subject, and the sugges-
tion was given that the phantom should approach one or other of
these screens. As it did so, the screen in question glowed up with
added brilliance as the result of the proxi.rility of th.~ astral body
1 Such as cases recorded in Owen's Footfalls; The Debatable-Land; Mrs. Ciowe's
Night Side of Natur11; certain cases in Phantasms of the Living; etc.
XXX INTRODUCTION
(pp. 275-280). Some successes are also reported in obtaining physical
movements of objects and raps, and in moving the straw of a Sthen-
ometer, at a distance from the entranced subject-by the projected
astral body (pp. 297-332). The last chapter details a number of
attempts to photograph the astral body, and various vital radiations
emitted by it or by the physical body. M. Durville concludes his
book as follows :
r. Projection of the astral body is a certain fact, capable of being
demonstrated by means of direct experiment. This also demon-
strates to us that living force is independent of matter, and that our
Individuality is composed of a physical body and an intelligent Soul
-and a vital link, the astral body.
2. Since this phantom can exist and function apart from the
physical body, it may also exist after death. That is, Immortality
is a fact which is thus proved scientifically.
This apparently little-known work of M. Durville is full of curious
and interesting material, and if one could be assured that the results
attained were all scientifically accurate, would constitute a treatise
of first-rate importance. It is to be noted that many of his findings
tally, in a very striking manner, with those of Mr. Muldoon. Some
critical comments on these results are to be found in the text of the
present book.
MR. OLIVER FOX'S EXPERIENCES
The only detailed, scientific and first-hand account of a series of
conscious and voluntarily controlled astral projections which I have
ever come across is that by Mr. Oliver Fox, published in the Occult
Review for rg2o (pp. 256-264 ; 317-327). These articles were
entitled, respectively, "The Pineal Doorway," and "Beyond the
Pineal Door," and embody the author's personal experiences. I
shall endeavour to summarize very briefly-quoting a few especially
important passages verbatim.
Mr. Fox very logically begins by placing squarely before the reader
the two alternate theories which might be advanced to account for
his experiences. These are (a) exceptionally vivid dreams, and (b)
real projections. Which of these is the correct explanation? Mr.
Fox admits that it is extremely difficult to prove the latter theory
objectively, and therefore thinks it wiser to confine himself to a
description of his own experiences and a summary of his own methods
of development, hoping that others might possibly obtain the same
results by following his advice, thereby proving the reality of astral
projection for themselves.
The first step (says Mr. Fox) consists in acquiring a certain dream-
control-but not the same kind of dream-control as that detailed in
the present book. It consists in acquiring, by observing some incon-
gruity or anachronism, the knowledge that one is dreaming. I quote
Mr. Fox's own words 1
INTRODUCTION XXXl
"Eighteen years ago, when I was a student at a technical college,
a dream impelled me to start my research. I dreamed simply that
I was standing outside my home. Looking down, I discovered that
the paving stones had mysteriously changed their position-the long·
sides were now parallel to the curb instead of perpendicular to it.
Then the solution flashed upon me : Though that glorious summer
morning seemed as real as real could be, I was dreaming I Instantly
the vividness of life increased a hundredfold. Never had sea and
sky and trees shone with such glamorous beauty ; even the common-
place houses seemed alive and mystically beautiful. Never had I
felt so absolutely well, so clear-brained, so divinely powerful. Verily·.
the world had become my oyster. The sensation was exquisite
beyond words ; but it lasted only a few moments, and I awoke. As
I was to learn later, my mental control had been overwhelmed by ·
my emotions ; so the tiresome body asserted its claim and pulled
me back. And now I had a (to me) wonderful new idea: Was it
possible to regain at will the glory of the dream ? Could I prolong
my dreams?
" I have italicized the heading ofthis section.1 It sounds simple ;
but in practice I found it one of the most difficult things imaginable.
A hundred times would I pass the most glaring incongruities, and
then at last some inconsistency would tell me that I was dreaming ;
and always the knowledge brought the change I have described. I
found that I was then able to do little tricks at will-levitate, pass
through seemingly solid walls, mould matter into new forms, etc. ;
but in these early experiments I could stay out of my body only for
a very short time, and this dream consciousness could be acquired
only at intervals of several weeks. To begin with, my progress was
very slow; but presently I made two more discoveries •
" I. The mental effect of prolonging the dream produced a pain
in the region of the pineal gland-dull at first, but rapidly increasing
in intensity-and I knew instinctively that this was a warning to
me to resist no longer the call of my body.
" 2. In the last moments of prolonging the dream, and while I
was subject to the above pain, I experienced a sense of dual con-
sciousness. I could feel myself standing in the dream and see the
scenery ; but at the same time I could feel myself lying in bed and
see my bedroom. As the call of the body grew stronger the dream-
scenery became more faint ; but by asserting my will to remain
dreaming, I could make the bedroom fade and the dream-scenery
regain its apparent solidity...."
The thought then occurred to Mr. Fox: What would happen if
he were to disregard this pain and " force " his dream-consciousness
still further? Not without some trepidation, he finally did so; a
sort of u click " occurred in his brain, and he found himself " locked
out " in his dream. He no longer seemed connected with his physical
1 By obs11rving ••• etc.
c
xxxii INTRODUCTION
body ; the sense of dual consciousness vanished ; the ordinary sense
of time likewise disappeared, and he found himself free, in a new
world. This was his first conscious projection.
It lasted only a short time. Owing partly to the sense of utter
loneliness, he experienced a sort of panic. Instantly, the same strange
cerebral click was heard, and Mr. Fox found himself back in his
physical body, completely cataleptic! Very gradually, he regruned
control of his organism, moving first one muscle and then another.
" Suddenly the trance broke, my eyes opened, and I was free. I
jumped out of bed with great joy, and immediately collapsed upon
the floor, being overwhelmed with nausea. I felt ill for two or three
days aft~rwards...."
Just here, Mr. Fox enumerates what appear to him to be the
possible dangers connected with these experiments. These are :
I. Heart-failure, or insanity, arising from shock.
2. Premature burial. "
3· Obsession
4· Severance of cord.
5· Repercussion effects upon the physical vehicle.
Of course, as Mr. Fox wisely remarks, the last three of these
would be scorned by the orthodox scientist. It may be added here
that all these dangers are more imaginary than real, and are dealt
with very fully in the present book.
The chief characteristics of these 'astral projections Mr. Fox
summarizes thus :
I. The body appears to be in a semi-rigid condition, which may
approach in severity the seeming cataleptic state already described.
2. Though the eyes are closed, the room is plainly visible ; and
the atmosphere also, so that one gets an effect rather like particles
of dust illuminated by the sun-or roughly a golden glow, very
variable in its intensity. Behind this, as it were, and only just on
the border-line of visibility, is something like a mass of frog's eggs,
bluish-grey in colour and vibrating.
3· Physical sounds are distinctly audible.
4· In this condition one is liable to any imaginable hallucination
or sight or sound; or, to voice the other view, one is both clair-
voyant and clairaudient.
5· In this condition, especially if it be mistaken for the waking
state, one falls an easy prey to wild and unreasonable fear.
6. One is conscious of strange atmospheric stresses-the before-a-
storm feeling, but enormously intensified.
So far, Mr. Fox had never succeeded in effecting a true projection
without any break in consciousness. He always felt that some one,
or something, was holcl4lg him back. " It was like getting J:ast the
INTRODUCTION xxxiii
' Dweller on the Threshold.' " 1 Then the solution of the problem
suddenly occurred to him : " I had to force my incorporeal self
through the doorway of the pineal gland, so that it clicked behind
me.... It was done, when in the trance condition, simply by con-
centrating upon the pineal gland and willing to ascend through it.
The sensation was as follows: my incorporeal self rushed to a point
in the pineal gland and hurled itself against the imaginary trap-door,
while the golden light increased in brilliance, so that it seemed the
whole room burst into :flame. If the impetus was insufficient to take
me through, then the sensation became reversed; my incorporeal
self subsided and became again coincident with my body, while the
astral light died down to normal. Often two or three attempts were
required before I could generate sufficient will-power to carry me
through. It felt as though I were rushing to insanity and death;
but once the little door had clicked behind me, I enjoyed a mental
clarity far surpassing that of earth-life. And the fear was gone....
Leaving the body was then as easy as getting out of bed...." (Mr.
Fox, with admirable scientific caution, warns his readers against
faking what he has said about the pineal gland too literally ; but
he asserts that these are the exact sensations, and he believes that
what he has said is not far from the truth.)
In the vast majority of his experiences, Mr. Fox asserts that there
was a break in consciousness (seemingly, for only a few moments)
between his attempt to enter the " pineal door " and his fully con-
scious state, outside the physical body.2 He did ultimately succeed,
however, in attaining a number of projections, fully conscious from
the beginning. As he himself states :
" This, then, was the climax of my research. I could now pass
from ordinary waking life into this new state of consciousness (or,
from life to ' death ') and return, without any mental break. It is
easily written, but it took fourteen years to accomplish.''
Mr. Fox mentions three different methods of "locomotion" in
the astral body. The first of these is Horizontal Gliding-" accom-
plished by a purely mental effort." Usually this is easy, but when
the pull of the cord is felt, it is anything but effortless; "it is as
though one tugged against a rope of very strong elastic." Mr. Fox
also observed that whenever he was pulled back into the body, he
had the sensation of being drawn backwards into it. (The reason
for this feeling is fully explained in this book.)
The second method of locomotion is a variety of levitation, very
similar to the typical ":flying dream.'' This is described as "easy
and harmless.''
The third method is what Mr. Fox calls "Skrying," and in this
he appears to shoot upwards, like a rocket, with great velocity. It
1 For a discussion of this, see Steiner: Initiation and its Results; also my Higher
Psychical Develop-me.
• See the lengthy discussion of this point later on, in the present voluma
xxxiv INTRODUCTION
is described as " difficult and dangerous." A typical experience of
this sort is given in the article referred to.
As to the people encountered in these astral trips, Mr. Fox notes
(r) the total absence of "elementals" or other terrifying beings, so
often said to inhabit the Astral Plane; and (2) the fact that he is
nearly always invisible to them, though his presence may at times
be felt. He points out, however, that this is always unfortunate,
for when such is the case the entity is shocked and frightened, and
this state produces a corresponding shock within himself, the result
of which is to draw him back into his physical body immediately.
(The reasons for all this will be made very clear in the text of the
present book.) As to the scenery, this was almost always similiar
to that seen on earth-though, of course, unfamiliar scenes were
very common ; probably more common than familiar ones. One
very curious and unusual feature about Mr. Fox's experiences is
that he was never able to see his own body, when "projected,"
though he could see his wife's body, e.g. very plainly. This is
almost the only instance on record, so far as I know, in which this
has been the case. Generally, the physical body of the projector is
the first object seen. In this, Mr. Fox's experience is almost unique.
On the whole, however, his impressions and experiences are quite
typical, and tally with those of other investigators in this field, as
will be brought out more fully later on. Lack of space unfortunately
prevents me from recounting the very dramatic and extraordinary
manner in which Mr. Fox lost this power, after having acquired it
with so much effort and diligence. This may be found in full in the
articles referred to, from which this summary has been drawn.
SOME PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
I may perhaps conclude this section by giving a brief account of
a few attempts of my own, made some years ago, at " astral pro-
jection." These were undertaken when I was experimenting in Yoga.
On a number of occasions I " willed " to appear to a certain young
lady-naturally quite psychic-just as I was falling to sleep. Most
of these attempts were apparent failures, but on three occasions she
awoke suddenly and saw me standing in the room or sitting on her
bed. I remained visible for a few seconds, then "melted away."
I was quite unconscious of any seeming " success " on any occasion ;
I merely awakened in the morning as usual, not knowing whether
anything had " happened " or not. These experiments extended
over a period of several weeks, and it is hardly necessary to say that
I never gave the slightest inkling of the times selected for trying
these " projections."
Of course, while these may have been actual unconscious pro-
jections, they may also have been purely subjective experiences-
perhaps telepathically initiated. But one experience was quite
striking, and should perhaps be recorded in greater detail.
INTRODUCTION XXXV
I may state that the young lady in question is an accomplished
pianist, and has a phenomenal musical memory. If she has once
played or heard a piece of music, she never forgets it. This is
important, for reasons which will be apparent later. One day I
asked her if she had ever heard of an old song, " When Sparrows
Build," made famous years ago by Jenny Lind, and a favourite of
my childhood days. She stated that she never had. I said that I
would get and send her a copy "some time," as I thought she
would like it. That was all that was said about it at the time, and
no particular importance was attached to it. A couple of nights
later, I attempted to "appear" to her, and as usual awoke in the
morning, without knowing whether my experiment had" succeeded"
or not. A little later, I received a telephone call, and the young
lady in question informed me that I had "appeared" to her the
night before-rather more vividly than usual-and that she had
th~reupon been seized with the impulse to write automatically-the
result being a verse of poetry. That afternoon I called, was told of
the experience, was shown the poetry, and confess that I received
quite a momentary thrill ! The " poetry " consisted of the opening
lines of the song "When Sparrows Build," absolutely accurate, with
the exception of one word !
I merely record the above case for what it may be worth, since I
can furnish no "proof," and the whole incident may have been
merely a case of remarkable coincidence. Personally, I doubt that
it was. However, I shall not press the point, being content to
record it, as illustrative of the curious results one is able to obtain
while experimenting in this baffling field. As we have seen, other
experimenters have had far more striking and convincing results.
* * *
I must now draw this Introduction to a close. It has been my
privilege to work with Mr. Muldoon throughout the writing and
preparation of this book, and I have added a few foot-notes from
time to time, and suggested certain experiments which might be
tried or certain points which might be covered; apart from these
the writing of the body of the book has been his work entirely, and
I feel that the psychic world owes him a deep debt of gratitude for
his self-sacrifice and determination, in undertaking the labour in-
volved in writing it, when ill in bed and in great physical pain. I
desire to record here my complete conviction of his sincerity, his
truthfulness and his remarkably detached and scientific attitude
toward his·own experiences. All of which will, I feel assured, be
evident in the book itself. It is a work of the utmost importance,
and is just the sort of book for which psychic students, the world
over, have long waited I
HEREWARD CARRINGTON.
EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS
T
HE following extracts from letters written to me by Mr.
Muldoon contain much interesting material, not found in
the text of the book itself. They serve to throw an
interesting sidelight upon the writer's psychology; and,
inasmuch as this is highly important in a case such as this, I feel
assured that their inclusion is fully warranted-for this, if for no
other reason. It is hardly necessary to say that these extracts have
been made with Mr. Muldoon's permission.
The phraseology of the writer-as shown in these letters, as well
as in parts of the book itself-is also of interest, and will serve as
a further indication of his inner Self. These letters were of course
written to me during the writing and revision of the present book.
H. C.
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
You ask me if I have ever touched the physical body while in the
astral body. No ! This is difficult to do. I have tried it, and I
find that one cannot keep from interiorizing, because of the very
close range. Did you ever attend a materialization seance where
you tried to hold a "spirit " from getting back into the cabinet ?
Well, if you have ever met with that tremendous magnetic pull, you
will realize how hard it is to keep from interiorizing, when one gets
close enough to the physical body to meddle with it....
You have asked me, too, if I have ever seen anything while in
the astral which I did not know existed, and later verified by seeing
it in the physical. Certainly! This is nothing unusual to do, while
consciously projected. I have often gone into houses, and noted the
things-later going there in the physical, and seeing everything
exactly as I saw it in the astral. . . . But when in coincidence_ I
have never had a clairvoyant vision in my life-not one. The only
way I ever was able to see astrally was in the astral body. When
in the physical body, I couldn't see a spirit if there were a million
of them in the room I ... Seeing inside a box would be no trouble,
although I have never tried to do so, while exteriorized. It just
never occurred to me; but I have seen right inside houses, and have
seen people in them, etc., without ever going inside....
* * *
xxxvii
xxxviii EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS
On a table, in the parlour of my home, there stands a little device
which is used to beat time for a pupil learning music-a metronome.
All one has to do to make this device work is to start the pendulum,
and it will click very loudly until the spring runs down. I sleep in
a room next to the parlour. The other night, I dreamed that I
stood very near this device._; in the dream I seemed about to start
the metronome. No sooner had I dreamed this than I awoke in my
physical body, in bed. About one second later the device in the
next room started to click, click, click. Now there is no possible
way in which that device can start itself ; further, it has stood on
the table for months without being used. It seemed that no sooner
had I touched it-in the dream-than I awoke and heard it start
clicking in the next room. Were it not for the time element, I
should be inclined to think that I started this in the dream body-
which, of course, is the astral body in a partially conscious condi-
tion. But it did not start until I was awake in the physical-though
I started it, in the dream, an instant before. Could it be possible
that the motivity travelled to the device-while I dreamed of it-
remained there until after I was conscious, and started it then ? If
I had been projected in the astral body, would not the device have
started before I got back into the physical ? I wonder if it is possible
to do something of that sort : to try and move something in the
astral body, and not have it move until some time after the astral
body has left it ? . . .
What I have just told you was written several days ago. Last
night I again started the metronome in a dream, just as I did the
first time. Now I have tried to move things while projected and
conscious, but never could. And the strange part is that I never
made such a suggestion to myself-the dream occurred both times
spontaneously. If only I could do this intentionally ! What I
cannot understand is this : Why the device did not start until about
two seconds after I dreamed of starting it ? The metronome is
about fifteen feet from where I sleep. There is a wall between, of
course, but that doesn't count if it was the dream body which
started the thing going. Perhaps it is that we do not have the faith,
the conviction, while conscious, and that therefore the motivity is
not powerful enough (through conscious suggestion) to move any-
thing. (Seep. 384 of your book The Coming Science.) Does not what
I have just said concerning my experience jibe with what is there
said, in a fair degree ? There is only one thing which bewilders me
-the time element. Why does not that metronome start before
I am again clearly conscious in the physical body? To be sure, it
takes no time at all to interiorize the phantom, while one is not
conscious; but still, that would not account for the time element !
If I were to dream of starting it, then awaken and hear it going,
that could easily be accounted for. But it does not start until after
I am awake....
* * *
EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS xxxix
(Later letter). That metronome incident I No, it was not an
auditory hallucination. I had to get up to shut the thing off. The
second time I let it go, just to see if anyone upstairs would hear it.
My brother did, and after a time he came downstairs and shut it off.
It ran five or six minutes the first time, and about twenty minutes
the second time. One could not call a reality like that a hallucina-
tion, could he ?
Do you think it would be all right to mention this incident, as a
possible proof that things can be moved in dreams-even though I
cannot prove it to anyone ? Of course, I could not prove that the
dream actually did play a part ; but, if not, how in the world did
the thing start-immediately after I dreamed of starting it-if I
did not have something to do with it?
· I have been ordered to stay in bed for four weeks, but I probably
can write along-although not at a very fast rate.... My back is
getting pretty tired, so I'll have to lie down for a while, and will
close for now. Will send you another batch of MS. in a few days....
* •
This morning I had an accidental projection, while lying on my
stomach and in complete light (if that isn't running contrary to the
laws of projection, nothing is!). And this is what I discovered.
While lying on the stomach, the sensations while moving through
the air are reversed. When you move upward, you think you are
moving downward, and vice versa. The only way to tell the true
direction of movement is by the sense of sight. I would have sworn
that I was moving downward, but on looking saw that I was moving
upward! ...
* * *
A few mornings ago, I awoke at about six o'clock and lay awake
for about twenty minutes. Then I dozed off to sleep again, and
dreamed that I was standing on the same spot which I occupied in
the metronome dreams-in the instances I told you about before.
I dreamed that my mother was sitting in a rocking chair, and she
said to me: "Do you know you're dreaming?" I replied: "By
gosh, I am, aren't I ? " That ended the dream, and it seemed that
I had no sooner said " By gosh, I am " than I awoke in the physical
body, in bed. I was conscious, but unable to move ; I could not
utter a sound, could not move my eyelids. This condition prevailed
for about three minutes, and all the time my entire body kept
twitching, especially the limbs. Then I suddenly became normal.
About two seconds later a loud rap sounded-as if some one had
struck the iron of the bed a blow with a heavy mallet. The noise
was so loud that I "ducked," as it rather frightened me....
Remember, I was perfectly conscious for about two seconds before
this rap sounded. No one was anywhere near, and this occurred in
full light. These physical manifestations are certainly interesting
-
xl EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS
-to me, at least-as I never before have experienced such things.
But then, neither have I ever tried; these things came about by
themselves.
You know, there is a belief that materializations cannot take place
without a circle. Well, I once saw three spirits materialize, and
walk right round the room, and talk! My mother was very ill, and
had been confined to bed for several weeks. One evening, we were
alone in the house-she in bed, under the influence of morphine,
·talking as one under its influence often does. One minute she would
talk rather sensibly, and the next minute, not. I sat in the next
room reading-facing the door of her room. I had not been paying
much attention to her " talk," as I had become used to it....
I was reading when suddenly I heard a clatter of voices ; one of
them I recognized as my grandmother's. I looked up. There were
three fully materialized spirits standing and walking about the
room where my mother was. At first I thought that she was out of
bed, then I saw that there were three of them. I immediately
recognized my grandmother, but I did not know the other two. For
a moment I could not believe this was actual. Then my mother
called out : " Sylvan, come here quick ; here are your grandmother,
grandfather and Louis." (I had never seen the two last mentioned,
but had known my grandmother before her death.) .
My grandmother was a German, and was talking in German. I
heard her say something like this: "Vot fail de young? '' I
jumped up and went into the room, slowly, fearing that they would
dematerialize. My grandmother stood in the doorway, facing me,
and said: "Solbun I" She could not say "Sylvan," and always
called me this when I was small. I advanced to the door and spoke.
One of the figures seemed to drop down through the floor. Another
disappeared, but my grandmother still stood there, and I could see
by the expression on her face that she wanted me to stand back.
Then she vanished, and I rushed through the door. My mother
was quite rational, and said : " Why didn't you come in sooner-
all three of them were materialized!" I assured her that I had
seen the whole performance through the open door. There was a
fair amount of light in the bedroom, and also in the room where I
was reading. I asked my mother," What did she say? It sounded
like, Vot fail de young! " My mother said something in German
which I cannot quote, but which sounds exactly like what I heard,
and said, " It means, What's the matter, girl ? " My mother is half
English and half German, and can understand and talk German.
Anyway, this is just what happened !
* * *
Every time you see one of these division lines, it means that I
have to stop and take a rest, for sitting up tires me very much. But
I hope to be able to write for a longer time together soon. The
EXTRACTS FROM MR. MULDOON'S LETTERS xli
past few days I have been very weak, and thought that I would
"cash in" last Monday I ... I suppose it will be some time before
I have another batch ready to send, but will do so as soon as I
possibly can.... I hope you can read this, as it's difficult to write
in bed...•
When I stop to think about it, it seems very hard for me to
believe that conscious astral projection is not universally known.
I can hardly conceive that such a real phenomenon is ever doubted;
that it is not accepted, just as physical life is accepted. But then,
perhaps I should not feel as I do if I had not experienced it so
many times myself. When one is consciously projected, there is no
question about it ; one knows it ; I know it-just as well as I know
I am sitting here writing this letter. But how can I prove this to
anyone else ? I might be told that I am dreaming when I am
physically conscious, and I could not prove that I am not. It is
self-evident. . . .
* * *
I am out of bed and at it again. I wish I could have felt better
when I was writing the book, for I probably could have done a
better job. As it is, every word was written with reluctance I
* * *
I have never had a conscious out-of-the-body experience when I
was not here on the earth plane, just as much as I am right now.
I wouldn't know where to look for the higher planes I Curious,
indeed-how some astral projectors can get into these higher planes,
when many spirits on the lower planes assert that they cannot do
so I Most projectors who claim to be able to do this are so ego-
tistical that they imagine they will at once wake up, after death, in
some higher-plane. I know one near --, always telling about her
trips in the spirit world, but always telling something which a mere
clairvoyant dream would account for. She is constantly saying that
the secret of projection is a " dangerous tool " in the hands of the
"ignorant," etc.-!o that she will not be pressed for an explanation
as to how she does it I . . . Now this is just where I think she is
doing the wrong thing. I believe that if a person knows how it is
done, he should tell exactly how-so that others can experiment
and try it for themselves. I would not have the cheek to tell others
that a thing is too dangerous for them to try, but is not too dangerous
for me to try-because I do not think that I am so much wiser
than they are. . . . * * *
I am sending you the last batch of MS. to-day. Would it not be
a good idea to ask readers to report their results ? Perhaps some
valuable material might be collected in this way. This request
might be inserted somewhere in the. book....
* * *
THE PROJECTION
OF THE ASTRAL BODY
CHAPTER I
EXISTENCE OF THE ASTRAL BODY LONG KNOWN
"THEREis a natural (physical) body and there is a spiritual
body." So states St. Paul, in his first "Epistle to the
Corinthians." Psychic research, too, has long ago estab-
lished the belief that within every material being is a
non-material "double," a cryptic entity coinciding, with minute
exactitude, with the physical mechanism in every centre and cell.
Records are numerous, coming from many trustworthy scientists,
which substantiate the claim that this non-material being-the
" astral body " as it is commonly termed by them-is capable
of separating from its physical counterpart, and of existing
entirely outside its material abode, intangible to the beings
surrounding it.
This enigmatic occurrence will be spoken of as "astral projec-
tion," or "astral exteriorization," both terms being synonymous.
In occult writings, many have told of this strange phenomenon
of astral projection, but with all the knowledge thus far accumu-
lated we may still consider ourselves merely in the kindergarten
of the school of mystery.
For exteriorization of the astral body is, in fact, the first step
into that mysterious realm called "death," which sooner or later
all of us must enter. So, reader, if you are interested in this dark
phenomenon, if you have stood o'er the casket and gazed upon
the cold corpse, and in silent awe have wondered how that being
who only shortly before was animate-possessed of intelligence,
moving, thinking, and talking, even as you-could now be but a
lifeless clod, the same as you shudder to think you too will become,
then you are interested in astral projection, for astral projection
and death are not unlike.
To the vast multitudes who have never met with this phe-
nomenon, and even to those who have in some manner acquainted
themselves with it, it must necessarily be placed in the c~tegory
of " theories " ; but to the conscious astral projector himself,
2 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
exteriorization of the non-material counterpart of the physical is a
great reality, as self-evident as the fact that he is consciously alive.
At the outset, the reader should understand that the writer is
well acquainted with the phenomenon, having indulged jn hundreds
of projections during a period of twelve years-projections both
of a pleasant and a disagreeable nature, while completely conscious
and partially conscious. The greater part of the material contained
in this work is from his own experience.
After so· many years as an astral projector, and at the same
time while conducting many experiments with the phase, I have
gleaned countless facts and made numerous reasonable deductions
from those facts-some of which, so far as I can ascertain, have
never before been discovered or made known by other writers
in the occult field. _
Realizing that the world is filled with sceptics who "stand-pat"
in their tracks, proclaiming themselves "practical," who are not
open to new possibilities, the " prove it " folks who cannot see
that the Road leading to the "Real" is befogged with mystery
-and merges into the horizon of mystery at both ends-! wish to
state that, if you are one of this type, looking for proofs that
can be measured and weighed through the medium of your limited
mind and five senses, you will not find them in this book.
The Materialist, of course, will reject the very idea of Astral
Projection as nonsense. " Reason " is his idol, the light that
guides his convictions. He revels under what he terms " the
divine torch of reason." There is only one trouble with this divine
torch-it doesn't shed much light on the mysteries of life I
Life itself is beyond comprehension by .the mind of man-to
say nothing of its appealing to reason. Just which of the
Materialist's five senses it is that gives him an understanding of
life, of creation, or of thought and mental processes, he does not
make known-yet he must accept them. Indeed, everything is
accepted without extensive reasoning. We may examine every-
thing, examine anything, analyze till Doomsday, yet there will
always loom up the Inexplicable.... On the other hand:
"There is no point in the Occult Teachings better established,
longer held, or more thoroughly proven," says William Walker
Atkinson, "than that of the existence of the Astral Body. This
teaching of the Ancient Occultists is being corroborated by the
experiments and investigations of the Psychic Researchers of the
present day.
"The Astral Body, belonging to every person, is an exact
counterpart of the perfect physical body of the person. It is
composed of fine ethereal matter, and is usually encased in the
physical body. In ordinary cases, the detachment of the astral
body from its physical counterpart is accomplished only with
great difficulty, but in the case of dreams, great mental stress,
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 3
and under certain conditions of occult development, the astral body
may become detached and sent on long journeys, travelling at a
rate of speed only less than that of light-waves.
" On these journeys it is always connected with the physical body
by a long, filmy, connecting link. If this link were to become broken,
the person would die instantly, but this is an almost unheard-of
occurrence in the ordinary planes of action.
" The astral body exists a long time after the death of the physical
body, but it disintegrates in time. It sometimes hovers around the
resting-place of the physical corpse, and is mistaken for the spirit
of the deceased person, although really it is merely a shell, or finer
outer coating of the soul.
" The astral body of a dying person is often projected to the
presence of friends and loved ones a few moments before the physical
death, the phenomenon arising from the strong desire of the dying
person to see and be seen. The astral body frequently travels from
its physical counterpart, in Psychomantic phenomena, and visits
scenes far distant, there sensing what is occurring.
" It also leaves the body during what are known as Psychomantic
dreams ; or under the influence of anresthetics ; or in some of the
?eeper phases of hypnosis; when it visits strange scenes and places,
and often holds mental conversation with other astral bodies; or
else with disembodied entities. The jumbled and distorted recollec-
tions of these dreams are occasioned by the brain not having received
per~ect impressions transmitted to it, by reason of lack of training,
development, etc.-the result being like a blurred or distorted photo-
graphic plate."
I have assumed that the reader has already convinced himself of
the reality of the phenomenon, or is occultly interested enough to
accept it. No discussion will be made of spiritism in general, which
does not contribute to the problems of astral projection, for there
are volumes too numerous to mention by far more able writers than
myself.
In this study we are mostly concerned with certain eccentricities
of the astral body which take place while we are physically alive ;
and although this astral body exists through and after death-as
I have mentioned befor~thers have told of its survival; so our
interest rests upon considerations of the astral body before the
physical counterpart has been permanently severed from it.
We call ourselves physically alive, but in reality the material part
of us is as dead as a door-nail. It is the energy behind the physical
mechanism that is the real "live" thing. Nerves themselves are
not'alive-if they were, we have buried many~ living body-it is
the neuric energy which animates, and the astral body is the con-
denser of the nervous energy you are using right now.
"Why!" you will say, "then the astral body is in existence
now." And it is I Many have been the authorities upon this
4 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
subject of astral projection, and many are under the impression
that the astral body is formed by a mental process, which is not the
case. If it were the case, where would the victim who is cc bumped
off " instantly get his astral body ? If such were the case, no one
would be possessed of an astral body after death, except the fellow
who was lucky enough to have heard of the cc creative mental
process."
Yes, you are using your astral body even now ; it is tuned down,
we might say, to harmonize with the vibrations common to material
substance. Now there are factors which hold it down, and there
are factors which tune it up. The powers which can be exerted to
disharmonize the attunement are the powers which will cause the
astral to move out of the physical.
The astral body coincides with the physical throughout. Both
bodies being "substance," it is obvious that both will be identical
in shape ; and the phantom is, in appearance, an exact duplicate of
the physical body.. Surviving what is termed "death," the astral
body is often seen by others present at death-the true likeness of
the physical. After death, the phantom continues to hold this true
form, but sooner or later changes to a much more finely composed
spirit.
The range of vibration to which our earthly existence is limited
does not extend over all creation ; consequently we are unaware of
the vast realities all around us. When the astral phantom (whose
eyes you are using even now in reading this) becomes tuned up
-which it can be-those eyes will be able to see other things besides
the familiar surroundings, and the astral body will be able to get
out of the physical. The fact that the eyes, after projection, are
capable of seeing earthly and other astral beings too shows that the
range of vibration has increased.
This may appear paradoxical to one who is accustomed to the
idea that the conscious mind is a part of the physical mechanism.
In fact, the material body has no mind at all, but clings over the
astral, to speak symbolically, which is the real "Ego "-through
which the conscious mind really functions. It is erroneous to believe
that the astral being has a super-mentality. It has not. The con-
scious mind, as you know it, is the mind of the astral body. Your
normal, conscious mind--everything it contains-is the vou, you
the individual, now and thoughout eternity, learning as it goes.
There is, however, the Subconscious-that vast, unfathomable
super-intelligence which is wellnigh omnipotent and inherent in all ;
yet we do not conceive this as the individual, as we do the Conscious.
Most believers in " the spirit " are somehow under the impression
that, to awaken in the astral, is to be enlightened by all the powers
of the subconscious, which is not the case ; for the subconscious
sustains practically the same relation to the exteriorized phantom
as it does to the interiorized (physically alive) being. ·
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 5
Suppose, for example, that your physical body were to drop off
(die} this very instant. You would be in the astral, still unchanged,
not as a super-intelligent being, but retaining your identical men-
tality as before ; no more, no less. And this is one great point to
remember : the physical is but non-intelligent material, and is like
a cloak to the astral phantom.
It is logical to suppose that, at birth, the astral body-the Ego
-was brought into being by the omnipotent intelligence which is,
was, and always will be ; while the conscious mind of this body
was in the form of a blank-ready to receive impressions, learn and
grow. It matters not at what stage of life we may die, our total
consciousness, at the end of earthly existence, is the total we possess,
after physical expiration.
MY FIRST CONSCIOUS ASTRAL PROJECTION
Holding the fact firmly in mind that the astral member is the
real, live self, and that the physical is but a sort of shell, we will
now tum our attention to what actually occurs when astral projec-
tion takes place. I shall describe the very first conscious projection
I ever experienced. Realize, however, that all experiences are not
alike, and that if, by following the laws of the art, which will be
summed-up later, you succeed in projecting, what you meet with
may not tally in all respects with what I have given, and that pro-
ficiency is acquired by practice.
At the time I was a youth of twelve, thinking little of life's more
serious problems and caring less. Although others in the family
had studied along occult lines to some extent, I knew practically
nothing concerning the higher life. To be sure, I had heard that
we live after death, much as we do now ; but that was the sum-
total of my knowledge on the subject, and even that was not a
matter of thought with me.
Through reading some books on spiritism, my mother, mostly
urged by curiosity and the desire to determine whether it was fact
or fiction, decided to visit the camp of the Mississippi Valley
Spiritualists' Association, at Clinton, Iowa. I accompanied her, as
did my very small brother, and the occurrence which I shall now
relate took place there.
We retired at an early hour that evening, incidentally rooming
in a house where lodged half a dozen widely known mediums. I
dozed off to sleep about ten-thirty o'clock, in the same natural
manner as I had always done before, and slept for several hours.
At length I realized that I was slowly awakening, yet I could not
seem to drift back into slumber nor further arouse. In this bewilder-
ing stupor I knew (within me) that I existed somewhere, somehow,
in a powerless, silent, dark and feelingless condition.
Still I was conscious-a very unpleasant contemplation of being I
I repeat again : I was aware that I existed, but where I could not
B
6 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
seem to understand. My memory would not tell me. The stupe-
faction which one experiences when first arousing from the influence
of an anresthetic is similar. I thought that I was awakening from
natural sleep, in a natural manner, yet I could not proceed. There
was but one thought dominating my mind. Where was I ? Where
was I?
Gradually-it seemed an reon of time, but in reality it was but a
short interval-! became more conscious of the fact that I was lying
somewhere. These few half-clear thoughts brought relative thoughts,
and shortly I seemed to know that I was reclining upon a bed, but
still bewildered as to my exact location. I tried to move, to deter-
mine my whereabouts, only to find that I was powerless-as if I
adhered to that on which I rested. Adhered-that is the exact
sensation. If conscious at the beginning of exteriorization, one
feels fairly glued down, stuck fast, in an immovable position.
A peculiar fact about this phenomenon is that one can be con-
scious, yet unable to move. This condition I have called " astral
catalepsy," since there is no word yet coined to define it. Astral
catalepsy will be discussed later on in more detaiL Suffice it to
say here that astral catalepsy can be present either with or without
the functioning of the senses, and with or without consciousness ;
for astral catalepsy is direct subconscious control.
Eventually the feeling of adhesion relaxed, but was replaced by
another sensation equally unpleasant-that of floating. Occurring at
the same time, my entire rigid body-! thought it was my physical,
but it was my astral-commenced vibrating at a great rate of speed,
in an up-and-down direction, and I could feel a tremendous pressure
being exerted in the back of my head, in the medulla oblongata
region. This pressure was very impressive, and came in regular
spurts, the force of which seemed to pulsate my whole body.
All this was to me like some queer nightmare, in total darkness-
for of course I knew not what was taking place. Amid this pande-
monium of bizarre sensations-floating, vibratory, zigzagging and
head-pulling-! began to hear somewhat familiar and seemingly far-
distant sounds. The sense of hearing was beginning to function.
I tried to move, but still could not-as if I were in the grip of some
cryptic and super-powerful directing force.
· No s~oner had the sense of hearing come into being than that of
sight followed. When able to see, I was more than astonished I
No words could possibly explain my wonderment. I was floating I
I was floating in the very air, rigidly horizontal, a few feet above
the bed. The room, my exact location, was now comprehended.
Things seemed hazy at first, but were becoming clearer. I knew
well where I was, yet could not account for my strange behaviour.
Slowly, still zigzagging with the strong pressure in the back of my
head, I was moving toward the ceiling, all the while horizontal and
powerless.
THE PHANTOM, SLIGHTLY OUT OF COINCIDE~CE
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 7
I believed naturally that this was my physical body, as I had
always known it, but that it had mysteriously begun to defy gravity.
It was too unnatural for me to understand, yet too real to deny-
for, being conscious, being able to see, I could not question my
sanity. Involuntarily, at about six feet above the bed, as if the
movement had been conducted by an invisible force present in the
very air, I was uprighted from the horizontal position to the per-
pendicular, and placed standing upon the floor of the room. There
I stood for what seemed to me about two minutes, still powerless
to move of my own accord, and staring stright ahead. I was still
astrally cataleptic.
Then the controlling force relaxed. I felt free, noticing only the
tension in the back of my head. I took a step, when the pressure
increased for an interval and threw my body out at an acute angle.
I managed to turn around.. There were two of me I I was beginning
to believe myself insane. There was another " me " lying quietly
upon the bed I It was difficult to convince myself that this was
real, but consciousness would not allow me to doubt what I saw.
My two identical bodies were joined by means of an elastic-like
cable, one end of which was fastened to the medulla oblongata region
of the astral counterpart, while the other end centred between the
eyes of the physical counterpart. This cable extended across the
space of probably six feet which separated us. All this time I was
having difficulty in keeping my balance-swaying first to one side,
then to the other.
Ignorant of the true significance of my condition, my first thought,
on seeing this spectacle, was that I had died during sleep. I did not
know at that time that death comes only with the severing of the
elastic-like cable. I made my way, struggling under the magnetic
pull of the cord, to where the consanguineous earthly beings lay
asleep in another room, hoping to awaken them and let them know
of this awful plight. I attempted to open the door, but found
myself passing through it. Another miracle to my already astonished
mind!
Going from one room to another I tried fervently to arouse the
sleeping occupants of the house. I clutched at them, called to them,
tried to shake them, but my hands passed through them as though
they were but vapours. I started to cry. I wanted them to see me,
but they could not even feel my presence. All of my senses seemed
normal, save that of touch. I could not make" touchable" contact
with things as formerly. An automobile passed by the house; I
could see it and hear it plainly. After a while the clock struck two
and, looking, I saw it registering that hour.
I began to prowl about the place, filled with the anxiety that
morning would come and that then those sleepers would awaken
and see me. As I recall it, I prowled about in the different rooms
for perhaps fifteen minutes, when I noticed a pronounced increase
8 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
in the resistance of the cable. It was pulling with a stronger and
stronger tug. I began to zigzag again under this force, and found
presently that I was being pulled backward toward my physical
body. Again I found myself powerless to move. Again I was in
the grip of a tremendous, unseen, directing power. I was cataleptic
and was resuming the horizontal position, directly over the bed.
It was the reverse procedure of that which I had experienced while
rising from the bed. Slowly the phantom lowered, vibrating again
as it did so, then it dropped suddenly, coinciding with the physical
counterpart once more. ·At this moment of coincidence, every
muscle in the physical jerked, and a penetrating pain, as if I had
been split open from head to foot, shot through me. I was physically
alive again, filled with awe, as amazed as fearful, and I had been
conscious throughout the entire occurrence.
* * *
Since the adventure I have just related took place, I have experi-
enced hundreds of other projections, with countless deviations from
the given sensations, but with the corporal movement always
cli:nging to the same route as that which I have described. Although
repetition naturally brings about greater perfection, this is probably
one of the most unusual first projections on record, so far as con-
sciousness is concerned-eclipsing in its clarity many of the best
efforts of adept mediums.
While it is my personal opinion that I naturally possess a hidden
power to project the inner being from my body, I also credit the
extraordinariness of this first conscious exteriorization to the fact
that several remarkable mediums slept in rooms adjacent to the
one which I occupied. It is a fact, as most students of the occult
understand, that a line of force can be established between persons
for the benefit of another person. I shall touch upon this point
later, inasmuch as it concerns this phenomenon.
I have purposely omitted many details, in drawing a picture of
this first projection, which will be fully covered as we go more
deeply into the study. A long story in itself could be told of astral-
plane life, earthly relativity, association of phantoms, etc. ; yet no
disclosure capable of being consigned to pen and ink could ever do
justice to it all ! So I shall refrain from delving into this depart-
ment now, my purpose being to give a more analytic presentation
of the phenomenon of astral exteriorization, and how it is produced.
About the first hot-shot that the sceptic, or even delvers into the
supernormal, will give the conscious projector, is that he (the pro-
jector) did not leave his physical body at all, and that what he
supposed happened was but a dream which was indelibly registered
in his memory. There is only one answer to this ridiculous supposi-
tion. If a person does not know when he is conscious, then indeed
he should be submitted to a sanity test !
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 9
The doubter will say: "Now, you could have been dreaming all
this. In your dream you would not know you were not fully con-
scious." This is reverse reasoning. In a dream a man may not
know that he is unconscious; but when he is conscious he does know
positively that he is not dreaming ! Why ? Simply because we
have a distinct understanding of both present and past, when con-
scious. So do not form the idea that conscious astral projection is
but a dream reminiscence.
Now let us go on. From what has gone before, we now have a
fair mental picture of an astral-body projection, wherein conscious-
ness participated from the very commencement to the very finis of
the process. It is, however, not always that such is the case-this
being the exceptional and not the commonly-met-with occurrence.
Consciousness, in fact, may interpose at any time, or at any place,
or in any position during the process. It may be interspersed with
unconsciousness, or it may never enter into the act at all.
As a rule, when consciousness does intervene, it makes its debut
after the body has already separated, and is walking about, totally
unaware of the fact up to the time of awakening. Incidentally, this
being the most common time and place for the intervention of con-
sciousness, it is also the most desirable; for thus the preliminary
and disagreeable stages-spoken of in the foregoing account-are
eliminated from the subject's consciousness.
The elementary stages-the subconsciously controlled catalepsy,
zigzagging and floating-are not pleasant to experience consciously
(although one soon becomes hardened to them). Nevertheless, these
preliminary activities always do take place (providing, of course,
that the exteriorization occurs with the physical entranced in a
lying, or horizontal position) when the subject is unconscious.
CHAPTER II
ASTRAL CATALEPSY
M
ENTION was made of astral catalepsy, and as this
condition is the cause of many different phenomena
attributed to other sources, it will be well to under- .
stand it more thoroughly. We have all heard of cata-
lepsy. Webster defines it as" a sudden suspension of sensation and
volition, with muscular rigidity." That is what it is when the astral
body is in coincidence with the physical ; yet catalepsy is subcon-
scious control of the astral body, and can exist apart from the
physical organism-as was .shown in the above-quoted experience.
Under catalepsy, the astral body is set, unyielding to form," rigid"
one might say, not unlike the physical body during cataleptic
rigidity.
When a person is physically cataleptic, he is in that condition
because he is astrally cataleptic. Most of us have seen demonstra-
tions in hypnotism, where a subject, under cataleptic rigidity, is
suspended, horizontally, by his heels and head, while huge boulders
are placed upon the centre of his body and smashed into bits with
a sledge-hammer. It is catalepsy of the astral body which produces
physical catalepsy.
With the phantom once exteriorized and powerless, under cata-
lepsy, the subconscious can manceuvre it as it pleases. This is an
example of the wisdom of the super-intelligence. All of us know
how difficult it is to lift a limpid, living body to the upright position,
and how easy it is if the body be resistless and stiff. The subcon-
scious, it seems, makes use of this law. Even though the astral
body be cataleptically controlled, the conscious mind can function,
or partially function ; but usually it does not function until the
spell is removed.
Astral catalepsy reigns from the beginning of exteriorization until
it progresses to that point where the phantom is in the vertical or
standing position. It is not unusual for the phantom to stand there
for some time before being liberated. Some projectors get only to
this point, and never become free-interiorizing again, all the time
in a cataleptic condition.
When such is the case, the body will always be unstable, swaying
to and fro, from side to side, forward and backward. This is really
an incompleted projection. A completed projection could not be
considered so unless the phantom were liberated from catalepsy.
IO
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY II
In the interiorization movement of a complete projection, catalepsy
comes into being again at the time when the body is ready to transit
from the vertical to the horizontal.
TYPES OF PROJECTIONS
There are three kinds of projection which may be classified as:
conscious-partially conscious--unconscious. Under the latter
classification (unconscious) there are two distinct forms of the
phenomenon. First, immotive ;· second, somnambulistic! Immo-
tive unconscious astral projection is simply unconscious astral cata-
lepsy in the perpendicular or standing position. It is a frequent
happening for the projector to stand in this manner-as I have
shown in the preceding paragraphs.
Just as, under the unconscious classification, there are two kinds
of phenomena, immotive and motive (somnambulistic), there are
likewise immotive and motive types of conscious projection. The
only difference between the unconscious motive and immotive types,
and the conscious motive and immotive types, is that, in the latter,
the subject is awake. Obviously, the immotive type always pre-
cedes, and may develop into, the motive.
ASTRAL SOMNAMBULISM
Just as there is somnambulism (commonly called sleep-walking)
of the physical being, there are also persons who, while asleep, walk
about in the astral body. This I have termed""'' astral somnambu-
lism." It is a state of unconscious projection more advanced than
the unconscious, immotive state. It is the state where the phantom
is liberated from catalepsy, but remains unconscious, and is far
more common than is generally supposed.
During sleep many mediums travel in the astral body, but never
become conscious, while doing so; consequently they never realize
the fact. I stated formerly that when consciousness does intervene,
it comes, in most cases, while the subject is either standing cataleptic
or is astrally somnambulating. It has been my most common
experience to gain consciousness, and find myself astrally somnam-
bulating. In astral somnambulism, just as in physical somnambu-
lism, the subconscious mind controls the meandering body.
CONSCIOUS INTERRUPTIONS DURING ASTRAL SOMNAMBULISM
At scattered intervals, throughout astral somnambulism, the
dormant, conscious mind may become active for an infinitesimally
short time, or partially conscious for a longer or shorter time. When
the intermittent flashes of" awareness" occur, they register muddled
and haphazard scenes, sounds, etc. ; and the next day the subject
may recall a jumble of phantasmal recollections.
12 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
There are innumerable different variations of interrupted som~
nambulism. A perfect or imperfect working of the senses, inter~
mingled with countless degrees of consciousness, will naturally bring
about a registration upon the memory, in exact accordance with the
complications. It is obvious that the nearer normal is the function~
ing of the senses, and the nearer normal the state of consciousness,
the nearer true will be the recollections.
Perhaps you have visited an entirely unfamiliar place, and upon
viewing it have had faint or conglomerated recollections of having
been in that very spot before. Yet you knew you had not been
there. It is possible that you could have been there in a state of
interrupted, astral somnambulism. The future, contemplating,
subconscious mind sometimes projects the astral body to places
which the subject, later, visits in the physical. Far more often,
however, it is clairvoyant vision, and not projection, that does this.
Conscious interruptions, during astral projection, are by no means
confined to the somnambulating state, for they can take place while
in the unconscious, immotive stage too. It is easily seen that if the
body be somnambulating while the flashes of consciousness are
participating, it will be passing through a changing environment,
which will tend to bemuddle the registration upon the memory.
While, if the body be in the immotive condition, the registration
will be more single and specific. Not all that we call dreams are
caused by conscious interruptions, although some of them are. I
will point out later the relation of astral projection to dreams.
DISTANT POINT PROJECTION
Another distinct form of the phenomenon being discussed is
"distant point projection." The astral body separates from its
physical counterpart, and travels to some far-away place during
the state of unconsciousness, although sometimes becoming con-
scious, for an interval, at that place. Usually the medium, while
awake, instructs his subconscious to send him to the remote place
where he wishes to go, so that he may witness the scenes and events
which are happening there. Trance intervenes. On awakening
again, he is aware of having been at the desired place, but scarcely
ever has any recollection of having made the trip.
In such a case, the actual distance covered is not recalled, because
the flight is seemingly made with the speed of light, and is always
unconscious. Obviously, the actual distance and the creations which
it contains are not consciously recorded in the projector's conscious-
ness. There are records of distant point projectors who have been
seen in the astral body-far removed from the physical-by others,
mediumistically inclined.
No less an authority than William T. Stead has told of a lady of
his personal acquaintance who was especially gifted with the ability
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY I3
to project afar and there materialize. She became a source of great
worry and distress to her friends, for she would pay them unexpected
visits, materialize and frighten them I Naturally they supposed
that she must have died and that this was her "ghost." The
occurrences, however, became so frequent that her friends finally
became familiar with the phenomenon and viewed it with great
interest and wonder.
Many so-called distant-point projections are probably not pro-
jections at all, as a matter of fact, but are subconscious creations
of the medium's own-as the subconscious alone can vision a distant-
point scene, not unlike that which the conscious astral body would
see, if there. Of " distant-point vision" one writer has said:
"The view of a distant scene obtained in this way is in many ways
not unlike that seen through a telescope. Human figures usually
appear very small, like those upon a distant stage, but in spite of
their diminutive size they are clear, as though they were close by.
Sometimes it is possible by this means to hear what is said as well
as to see what is done; but as in the majority of cases this does not
happen, we must consider it rather as the manifestation of an
additional power than as a necessary corollary of the faculty of
sight.
"It will be observed that, in cases of this kind, the clairvoyant
does not actually leave his physical body at all-he simply manu-
factures for himself, and uses, a kind of psychic telescope. Conse-
quently he has the use of his physical powers, while he is examining
the distant scene ; for example, his voice usually describes what he
sees, even while he is in the act of making the observation."
THE PHANTOM'S THREE MOVING SPEEDS
There are three different velocities at which the phantom travels;
First, the natural or normal speed, which is in use when the subject
is conscious and free to move about in his immediate environment,
or while he is in a state of astral somnambulism. He merely walks.
Second, the intermediate speed, in which the subject moves along
without effort, faster than the normal speed, but not fast enough to
cause loss of perception. When this takes place one does not appear
to be moving, but everything seems to be coming toward him,
through him, passing him, just as the fields and fences seem to
" speed backward " when one rides in a fast train.
The phantom does not seem to pass through the door ; the door
seems to pass through the phantom. Streaks of light (scintillations)
are thrown off by the astral body, and extend backward about two
feet, as it moves along at this intermediate speed.
These scintillations appear phosphorescent-the colour of the
astral body-and trail behind it in the same manner that scintilla-
tions trail behind a " shooting star." This intermediate speed
14 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
enables the subject to cover considerable distances rapidly, without
loss of consciousness.
Third, is the supernormal travelling velocity-a speed beyond
comprehension. It always occurs when the subject is unconscious,
and is in play when the phantom is moving back and forth over
great distances.
It would be utterly impossible to move across a vast area at such
speed and realise the distance, for the conscious mind is too slow in
its thinking, and before it could formulate one single thought the
objective would already be reached.
What I have just said concerning the three speeds at which the
projected astral body moves is true also of permanently separated
astral beings (the dead). It has been the contention of some that
every transit of the projected astral body always takes place with
super-speed. This is true only when the phantom is moving toward
a very distant place. On other occasions the intermediate travelling
speed may be used; and still at other times the free phantom
behaves in a manner befitting its physically-alive self, with all its
own peculiarities of stride, swing and carriage.
MORBIDITY, AN INCENTIVE TO PROJECTION
The supposition should not be made that astral projection occurs
only during natural sleep. It may take place when the subject is
in practically any state of unconsciousness. In times of sickness-
especially that sort of sickness which is staid or sedative-astral
projection can and often does take place.
It is a fact that the more weakened, languid and enervated the
physical becomes, the more easily the astral member detaches itself
from it ; for at such times less material resistance is brought to bear
against the inner workings which prompt the separation. Undoubt-
edly, at the time of death, many people are already erect in the
astral body before the final breath of the physical body is taken-
although they may not be conscious of the fact.
It is my firm belief that physical debility is an incentive to most
kinds of mediumship, for the less material co-ordination a person
has, the less material will be the influences to overcome by the sub-
conscious resources. This " morbidity factor " is also true of astral
projection. In making this statement I am aware that it is contrary
to the ideas of many prominent authorities.
Popular opinion seems to have it that perfect material co~rdina­
tion (health) is an essential requisite to the production of the
phenomenon of astral projection ; but I hope to discredit this belief
by quoting experiences, and pointing out specific reasons for believing
that the contrary is_ true. If I do disagree with others as to what
produces, assists, and influences projection of the astral body, I do
so because of my own experience with this phase. So, I can only
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 15
say that if my disagreeing contemporaries are right in their
claims, then I am an exception! I shall, however, return to this
" morbidity " question later.
Exteriorization may be induced by hypnotism and mesmerism. It
is a significant fact that Andrew Jackson Davis-the seer of Pough-
keepsie, and one of the world's greatest-had astral projection
induced at an early age by a mesmerist, William Livingston.
Davis's first out-of-the-body experience was that of moving through
the air in a spiral direction.
INSTANTANEOUS ASTRAL EXTERIORIZATION
A violent blow, especially upon the head, or any extreme shock,
wherein unconsciousness ensues as a consequence, is another common
cause of instantaneous astral projection. If you wish to try a simple
formula for instantaneous astral projection, allow some friend, or
preferably some enemy, to strike you over the head with a base-ball
bat-a percussive blow I
This is about the most simple method ; but since you might not
be conscious, while exteriorized, it might perhaps be best to follow
some of the formulre which will be given later. To speak seriously,
however, it is true that a vigorous blow or jolt will often cause a
speedy and ephemeral separation-whether the victim be aware of
it or not.
AN EPHEMERAL CONSCIOUS PROJECTION EXPERIENCE
A neighbour, a man of seventy, whose present home is within
sight of where I write this account, related an event to me which was
purely a case of ephemeral and instantaneous astral projection of
the conscious type.
He had hitched his team, one wintry day, and gone into the
country after a load of firewood. On his return, he was sitting atop
the loaded sleigh. A light snow was falling. Without warning, a
hunter (who happened to be near the road) discharged his gun at
a rabbit. The horses jumped, jerking the sleigh and throwing the
driver to the ground head-first.
He said, when he told me of the accident, that no sooner had he
landed upon the ground than he was conscious of standing up and
seeing another " himself " lying motionless near the road, face down
in the snow. He saw the snow falling all about, saw the steam
rising from the horses, saw the hunter running toward him. All
this was very exact; but his great bemuddlement was that there
were two of him, for he believed at the time that he was observing
all that occurred from another physical body.
As the hunter came near, things seemed to grow dim. The next
conscious impression he had.was of finding himself upon the ground,
with the hunter trying to revive him. What he had seen from his
16 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
astral body was so real that he could not believe that there were not
two physical bodies, and he even went so far as to look for tracks
in the snow, in the place where he knew he had been standing I
INSTANTANEOUS PROJECTION IS NOT UNCOMMON
Such a manifestation as this not only shows how unchanged the
individual is, when apart from his physical body, in everything but
substance and composition, but it also demonstrates that the astral
body is a component part, the very Self, of earthly existence; that
it is the seat of the conscious mind and is not created by the will of
the individual. Many people have undergone more or less similar
experiences, but, being ignorant of just what took place, have dis-
carded it as some unexplainable or peculiar caper of the physical
self.
The duration of such an instantaneous projection depends upon
the severity of the concussion causing it. If the blow or shock be
violent, a longer interval of unconsciousness results than if it is less
vigorous. It may easily be seen that the more prolonged the uncon-
sciousness the longer-lived could be the exteriorization.
Ephemeral coma could only allow ephemeral projection, and many
times the duration of exteriorization is but a fraction of a second.
In truth, exteriorization and interiorization of the astral body can
take place with such speed that the subject does not even realize
that he was " out " of his physical body at all, having only felt
dazed for an instant, and, perhaps, during that instant, he believed
that he had advanced about a foot beyond the spot where he was
actually standing.
Probably everyone has at some time in his life encountered a
"jolt" that made him "see stars," as the saying goes. The glow
seen is an aura, and is visible for an instant as the two bodies dis-
coincide. This same glow, in greater expanse, can be seen for a
longer time, when the projection is conscious, i.e. at the beginning
of a prolonged separation.
The astral phantom is so much our very Self that we do not
realize how bound up in it we are ; we do not seem to comprehend
that we are using it this very moment. It is our life, this astral body,
and when it permanently severs from the physical body, that physical
is of no account. I wish I could convince you, reader, that this
phantomous body is not a new entity, which you will acquire in the
future ; it is the " You " of the present-your consciousness, your
animation.
Without the astral body your physical anatomy would be but a
crude mass of insensible material, lying inert in the power of gravity.
This phantom becomes accustomed to the habits it has formed by
being coincident with, or merged into, the physical, and made to
conform to the laws applying to the physical.
When something unusual or unnatural occurs to upset the harmony
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 17
of the physical-a shock, a jolt, a broken habit, an intense un-
appeased desire, sickness--in fact, anything which would cause a
lack of perfect material co-ordination-there is always a jar to the
astral.
COLLISION MAY CAUSE ASTRAL EXTERIORIZATION
Concussion to the extent of injury is not the only way in which
an instantaneous separation is often produced, for even an unex-
pected shake or jar of the physical will sometimes throw the phan-
tom out of coincidence.
Many are they who marvel at the thought that astral separation
can be accomplished-yet I dare say almost everyone has already
had this very thing occur to himself in some mild form, whether he
knows it or not I And the extensive form of projection is but a con-
tinuance of the lesser.
The following are two axioms appropriate to this simple type of
astral detachment:
I. A sudden force unexpectedly exerted against the body, while
it is moving in a given direction, will not instantly interrupt
the astral, and the latter will continue for an instant to move
in the given direction, bringing itself momentarily out of
coincidence.
z. A material body, moving in a given direction, if suddenly and
unexpectedly colliding with the inert body, will cause the
physical member to move slightly out of coincidence in the
given direction. (The astral, an instant later, moves ahead
into the physical.)
It must be remembered that this is but a short-lived and short-
distance separation, and takes place with lightning speed-almost
too swift for the subject experiencing it to become unconscious,
although he does feel a spurt of bewilderment as it occurs.
Again, at such a time, one may feel as if he were about to rise into
the air, or may feel a breath-taking sensation in the pit of the
stomach. In either case, the collision must be unexpected, sudden,
and forceful enough to interrupt the normal momentum of the
moving mass.
When the automobile stops quickly, throwing the occupants
vigorously and unexpectedly forward, it is the ephemeral dishar-
mony of the two bodies (astral and physical) which causes the
breath-taking sensation. This may seem too commonplace to be
true ; if so, it is because our astral self is so much a part of " us "
that we do not recognize the fact ; we do not know ourselves.
A PROJECTION CAUSED BY A MIS-STEP
Here is an example of how an unexpected jar will throw the
phantQm out of coincidence. One night, a few years ago, I was
r8 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
coming down the stairs of my home. I had been sleeping, and was
still quite drowsy. There were fifteen steps, and I had trodden up
and down them hundreds of times, having lived in the house all my
life. Just why I do not know, but, as I reached the bottom step I
tried to take one step more (many of us have done this), and the
impetus jarred me vigorously.
A breath-taking sensation shot through the pit of my stomach,
and even before the physical dropped to the floor, I found myself
projected from it, in a perfectly conscious state. And I don't mean
that I thought I was conscious-! mean that I was conscious. I
both saw the physical mechanism fall to the floor and also felt it fall,
while standing several feet from it. Let me analyze this, and see
what actually happened, for by doing so we shall discover the
fundamental law of astral projection.
THE FUNDAMENTAL LAW OF ASTRAL PROJECTION
It must be understood that it is not the conscious mind which
causes projection, but it is the subconscious Will. We can walk by
conscious effort, but we usually walk unconsciously-under sub-
conscious Will. It is when the body is under subconscious motiva-
tion, and an unexpected barrier intercepts the physical, that the
astral body keeps on moving in the given direction for a moment.
If propulsion were conscious, this would not happen. In descend-
ing the stairs, had I been stepping consciously, the mis-step would
have been avoided. But the descent was unconscious, under the
control of the subconscious Will, and when the barrier (floor)
interrupted the physical, the subconscious Will was still under the
inclination to descend, and actually moved the astral body out of
coincidence.
This same principle applies to separation brought about by a
moving force colliding with an inert body. The inert body stands
under subconscious Will. When the colliding force meets the
physical, the subconscious Will is under the inclination to remain
in its given position until the conscious moves it. Thus, the phan-
tom stands while the material is thrown out of coincidence.
By analyzing the cause of fnstantan~ous or insignificant separa-
tion, the following conclusions become self-evident:
r. The body (coinciding bodies) can move unconsciously.
2. The body can move unconsciously when the conscious mind is
functioning.
3· The body can move unconsciously when the conscious mind is
not functioning (somnambulism).
4· When the body moves unconsciously, it is the subconscious
Will which moves it.
Which brings us to the bed-rock rule of astral projection : IF THE
SUBCONSCIOUS WILL BECOMES POSSESSED OF THE IDEA TO MOVE THE
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY rg
BODY (COINCIDING BODIES) AND THE PHYSICAL COUNTERPART IS
INCAPACITATED, THE SUBCONSCIOUS WILL MOVES THE ASTRAL BODY
INDEPENDENT OF THE PHYSICAL.
INTENTIONAL AND UNINTENTIONAL PROJECTION BOTH RESULT
FROM THE SAME CAUSES
Since this is the fundamental law of projection, the question
arises : How can the subconscious Will be voluntarily incited to
motivate, while the physical is incapacitated, or extremely passive ?
"This is not an easy thing to do," you will say. And it is not an
effect which can be brought about by a mere thought or half-hearted
trial, although there are positive, certain methods which can accom-
plish this.
If we locate the causes which promote unintentional projection
of the astral body, and put these causes to work intentionally, for
the purpose of projection ; then is there any reason why it cannot
be brought about at will? All my early exteriorizations were
accidental, unintentional. At first, I believed that somehow I
possessed some unnatural power, which others lacked; but, by
making a lengthy study of the manifestations as they occurred, and
noting with care all the peculiarities encountered, I eventually was
able to determine the causes which brought about the seeming
miracle. Putting these causes into being, with astral projection in
mind, I succeeded in producing the phenomenon at will-long
before I ever read one word on the subject from the books of
others.
At present I shall not delve deeply into these causes, but will
discuss them later on, as I wish, first, to give some more general
information concerning the subject. It will not be out of place,
however, to state here that "suppressed desire" is by far the
greatest single factor inciting unintentional projection.
We can see how determined the subconscious Will becomes, once
it is stimulated into activity I When you start walking, you would
walk and walk and walk, were it not for your conscious mind
stopping you. And, when you are standing, you would stand
and stand and stand, did not your conscious mind start you
moving.
Now, how does suppressed desire possess the subconscious Will
to motivate the body? While conscious, you desire something.
You do not appease that desire. You would appease it-but there
is some obstacle in your way. So you go on desiring, desiring,
desiring-all the while tensing the subconscious Will. The stress
grows so great that you are at war with yourself. You can feel the
subconscious trying to accomplish that which you want. It
would do so instantly, could it but get the best of your conscious
mind.
20 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
At this point the subconscious Will is " all set " to move, the
minute you try to hinder it no more. So, while you sleep, the
conscious mind can no longer tell the subconscious Will "no," and
the subconscious Will tries to project the body to the spot desired.
Now, if the sleeping subject were physically incapacitated, the astral
body would be projected.
MEANING OF PHYSICAL "INCAPACITY"
What do I mean, physically incapacitated ? Simply that the
physical body is not in an active enough condition to respond, the ·
instant the subconscious Will begins to move. As a rule, during
sleep, the body is not in the same active condition which it is while
awake. The heart is beating more slowly, and the whole mechanism
is below the level which it attains when normally awake.
If the subject is morbid, the physical mechanism will not respond
at once, which points more convincingly to the contention made-
that, the weaker the subject, the more easily can the separation
take place-providing the sickness be of a sedative nature.
In The Psychology of Dreams, Walsh says :
"Once sleep has actually begun, certain changes take place in
the physical structure. The heart and respiratory rates become
slower, less forcible; there is a fall in blood pressure; a warmth of
the skin ; an increased production of sweat. The stomach, intes-
tines, kidneys, liver and other organs are active, though at a lessened
pace. Since the amount of work required by the physical structures
is much less than when awake, these parts are enabled to rest.
Since repair exceeds waste, the various structures are sufficiently
recuperated after a due amount of sleep."
So by " physically incapacitated " is meant a condition of unusual
passivity, whether the subject be bed-bound through illness, or
soundly sleeping, so that he will not become instantly active when
the subconscious Will becomes possessed to move the body.
J:· Consider the somnambulist. While he sleeps, the subconscious
Will becomes possessed to move the body-usually through sup-
pressed desire. The sleeper rises from his bed and walks about in
coincidence, because his physical body is not inactive enough (not
incapacitated) to be behind time, when the subconscious Will
started the movement ; whereas, if he had been unusually passive,
the astral body would have moved out of the physical, and he
would have been in a state of astral somnambulism.
WHERE AND WHAT IS THE CONSCIOUS MIND ?
What is the composition of the conscious mind ? Where does it
exist ? Where is the conscious mind, when it is not conscious ?
These are questions which cannot be answered by the most sagacious
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 2I
of occult philosophers, and they no doubt always will remain but
material for speculation. We know not even the bounds, the nature
or the locality of the conscious mind.
Still, we know we are using the mind, and that it (apparently}
becomes unconscious. Yet, where is it, during unconsciousness?
That is the great question I It seems almost as ridiculous to believe
that the conscious mind can instantly evaporate into nothing, as
coma intervenes, as to believe that it is in existence during the
interval of coma, without our being aware of the fact !
Now, if it were possible for the conscious mind to become
"nothing," during the interval of coma, how could it recreate itself
at the end of that interval, with duplicate perfection-from nothing?
And, on the other hand, if it be still in existence, throughout the
oblivious period, how can we account for the fact that we are not
conscious at the place where consciousness exists ? And where does
consciousness exist ?
The more one probes into this riddle the more probing will
become necessary. To dwell upon it for a moment should convince
even the most hopeless egotist that he does not know himself very
well after all. That the mind is, is self-evident; but what becomes
of it during coma remains unfathomable !
Some contend that it is the senses, and not the conscious mind,
which makes the exit ; that without sense-functioning there would
be no consciousness. But can the nature of the senses be defined
any more than the conscious mind can be defined ? What are the
senses ? How do they work ? What makes sensibility ? Where
is sensibility, during unconsciousness? Attempting to solve one
mystery by substituting another only results in having more
mysteries to solve.
Others are of the opinion that, when coma intervenes, the con-
scious mind is exteriorized in the astral body-therefore one is
unconscious. But how is it that the subject is not always aware of
being exteriorized in the astral body, at every intervention of
oblivion, if this were true ? How is it that we ever sleep ? Where
is the somnambulist's conscious mind ? There can be but one reply,
"We do not know." The best that can be done is to compare the
conscious mind, while sleep is reigning, to a prisoner locked fast in
a vault, unable to get out until the door is opened.
If we could but determine what opens and closes the door of con-
sciousness, then we could also determine why some astral projec-
tions result in consciousness, and some do not. And, further, we
roight discover a means by which the unconsciously projected
phantom could always be made conscious, instead of the present
hit-and-miss experiences.
c
22 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
THE HYPNAGOGIC STATE, NEUROSIS AND SLEEP1
When consciousness is present from the very beginning of an
exteriorization, the etheric body egression begins in the hypnagogic
state, which is the borderland between the conscious and the uncon-
scious. Of the hypnagogic state, Walsh says:
" Before going to sleep we must pass through an unnoticed stage
of half-waking, half-sleeping, termed the hypnagogic state. We
must pass through a similar stage before we awaken. Usually the
hypnagogic state lasts but a few seconds, but it may be prolonged
for as much as fifteen minutes. It is apt to be longer when passing
from the sleeping to the waking state, than the reverse.
"As sleep is coming on, the sensation of falling may be experi-
enced. This is occasioned by the general relaxation of the muscular
system, which occurs at this time. Should a person be much dis-
turbed, while in the hypnagogic state, the normal transition from
waking to sleeping, or the reverse, may be markedly disordered.
" Consciousness may fully awaken, but the motor centres may
awaken more slowly ; this causes a temporary paralysis of the
limbs, speech, and consequently an inability to move or talk. This
form of paralysis, called "noctual paralysis" by some writers (the
present writer contends that it is astral catalepsy), may occur after
a natural awaking.
"As a rule the paralysis lasts but a short time; should it be
prolonged, it excites much mental disquiet. Fatigue, nervousness,
general ill-health may provoke it."
This only strengthens my belief that lack of material co-ordination
is a favourable factor in projection. The etheric body is in catalepsy,
inclined to move slightly out of the physical. Why does fatigue,
nervousness, general ill-health provoke this so-called paralysis ?
Because there is a deficiency of neuric energy centred in the bodies.
In fact, that is exactly what nervousness is-inability to hold the
energy within the bounds of the physical.
Energy is cosmic, omnipresent ; it can flow into and out of the
etheric counterpart, which is a veritable condenser of that energy.
Now, I have found that when the etheric body moves slightly out
of coincidence, it becomes more of a magnet to the universal energy
than when in coincidence. Thus, in the person of ill-health, the
paralysis experienced is but astral catalepsy, which is always the
first state of exteriorization; caused by the subconscious being
under the inclination to discoincide the bodies, so that the etheric
condenser may" charge" more freely.
This occurrence takes place with millions of people every night ;
yet it is only when consciousness is still in play that they ever
1 For a detailed study of Hypnagogic Phenomena, see thearticle by F. E. Leaning:
Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. XXXV, pp. 287-4II, and the Bibliography therein
contained.-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 23
experience the paralysis or catalepsy. What is thought to be an
"aura," resting above sleepers and seen by seers, is in reality the
etheric body, out of coincidence a few inches. As a rule, in normal
persons, consciousness is lost before this phenomenon begins.
It is not difficult to understand that, if consciousness is desired
throughout a complete projection, the hypnagogic state is the ideal
place for the egression to begin. Catalepsy with consciousness is
more apt to occur in passing from sleeping to waking than the
reverse. Trial will prove convincingly that, if consciousness begins
to function a little too strongly, after the subconscious has effected
a slight separation, on entering sleep, the phantom is more apt to
coincide again than it would be in a similar condition when waking
from sleep. ·
In other words, most projections will be more successful-con-
sciously-if they begin in the hypnagogic state, when coming out of
sleep. When one awakens and finds himself powerless in astral
catalepsy-called "noctural paralysis "-the very first thing he
usually does is to become alarmed. He wishes to become physically
active again, and struggles within himself to be free. This is nothing
short of a conscious suggestion to the subconscious Will, and that
Will soon responds.
If this discomposure could be eliminated, and the subject would
keep emotionally calm, the suggestion of becoming physically active
would not be given to the subconscious control. Then, if the subject
would think of rising up, up, up, toward the ceiling, and suggest
that he float in the very air above him, the subconscious Will would
continue the exteriorizing process, and a completely conscious and
extensive projection would result.
At such a time, the physical body is greatly incapacitated. The
subconscious Will already has the astral entity in its power. It is
merely a matter of what suggestion is given to that Will which
determines whether the phantom will continue to move out, or will
move back into coincidence again.
It is exactly the same as walking. Once you are in motion, the
subconscio;us Will is in control, but the moment you give a conscious
suggestion that you will stop, you stop. When you are consciously
in astral catalepsy, if you then suggest that you wish to become
physically active again, that is what will result.
Perhaps you will reply to this as a friend of mine did, by saying,
"I'd like to see the fellow who wouldn't get excited on awaking
and finding himself paralyzed l " Yet I have done this, and I wager
that anyone can bring about an extensive, conscious projection if
he keeps emotionally calm and gives the right suggestions when he
does awaken, and finds himself cataleptic. He couldn't help but do
it. It is the very law. It is the same law we use every day of our
lives when we walk about, directing the power that does the walking
by conscious suggestion.
24 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
To be sure, it is no easy matter for one to prevent himself from
becoming emotional at the supernormal, especially when he himself
is in the grip of it; but, like all things supernormal, conscious pro-
jection soon loses its awe, as one becomes more accustomed to it.
SENSATION AND EMOTION AT DIFFERENT STAGES OF
EXTERIORIZATION
The place to which the phantom has progressed when conscious-
ness comes (if it does) will naturally determine the first conception
or sensation the subject will experience. At different degrees of
separation, different sensations are produced. If consciousness
makes its first meagre appearance in the hypnagogic state, and the
subconscious Will is under projection-inclination, the very first
conception is that one exists" somewhere."
If slight awareness comes a second or two later, "glued-down,"
or catalepsy, will be the first impression. If, still an instant later,
floating; next, trembling, zigzagging, etc. It is the action, or place
of progression of the phantom which determines what the first
conscious thought will be. And this very first thought is of vital
importance I It is then that one must remain calm and suggest
uprising.
Most conscious projections are ruined at the outset merely because
the action of the phantom brings about an unpleasant sensation,
which in turn causes emotion. The following rule may well be
applied to this phenomenon: EMOTIONS OF UNPLEASANTNESS,
ALARM, FEAR, ETC., ARE VERITABLE SUGGESTIONS TO THE SUBCON•
SCIOUS WILL, THAT THE SUBJECT WISHES TO BE NORMAL, OR PHYSI-
CALLY CORRECT.
Thus the first thought will influence the immediately succeeding
or relative thoughts, and if the activity is of a nature to cause emo-
tion, the desire to become physically normal will at once follow, and
be a suggestion to the subconscious Will to that effect.
Conscious projection is more liable to take place just as the first
conscious thought makes its appearance, before the phantom moves
into the air, or after it is extensively projected and is upright, either
immotive or somnambulating. The stages between are more pro-
motive of unpleasant emotion. When one becomes trained, and has
practised the phase, the instant he has his first cons~ous thought,
he will instinctively associate it with rising into the air, instead of
becoming uneasy, and will use every conscious effort to keep himself
calm throughout what is about to happen.
It is astonishing how really easy this is to do after it has been
accomplished once. It is like a hesitating man, about to take an
aeroplane ride. Should he suddenly awake and find himself in the
take-off, he would immediately say, "Let 'ergo I This is going to
feel funny, but here goes."
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 25
It may seem paradoxical that the action of the phantom will
affect the emotions, and that the emotions will affect the action of
the phantom; however, such is the case. It also may seem con-
trary to received opinion that nervousness is a factor favourable to
detachment, and that the emotions must be calm; still, this too
is true I
However, were it not for such unnatural conditions involved in
the production of projection, everyone would be doing it. Con-
scious astral projection never will be accomplished by anyone who
cannot control his emotions.
CHAPTER III
ROUTE THE PHANTOM TRAVELS IN PROJECTION
I
BELIEVE that this is the first time that any writer has ever
definitely declared that the subconscious Will ejects the
phantom in a specific route, and that the position of the
physical body at the time of ejection invariably governs the
direction in which the " double " will move out of it.
When the body is in a lying-down position, or horizontally at rest,
the astral advances from the body in an upward direction, rigid,
remaining strictly parallel to the material body. As a rule, all parts
of the two bodies separate simultaneously. The etheric member
shakes throughout its entire length-" vibrates" more properly
describes it-not from side to side, but upward and downward.
Usually the progress upward in this manner is slow, the astral
body advancing only an inch or so at a time, and many times falling
back again. After approximately one foot of separation it begins
to zigzag, much like a snagged stick zigzags back and forth in the
current of a stream. To become conscious at this spot will almost
always excite the emotions and interiorize the phantom, until one
becomes accustomed to it.
In this manner the astral body eventually reaches a height of
anywhere from three feet to six feet above the "shell." At this
point the uprighting force begins to operate. The lower half (feet)
begins to draw downward, while the upper half (head) moves
upward, which brings the phantom to the vertical or standing
position. It is as if there were a pivot through the centre of the
body.
There are times when the subconscious control does not upright
the phantom directly over the shell, but, after raising it to a height
of about five feet, will begin to force it along in the air, still hor-
izontal, for some distance, and then bring it down to the vertical.
The trembling ceases as the uprighting begins, and the zigzagging
becomes more of a side-to-side swaying.
If the sense of sight be functioning, a variegated aura can be seen
from the very beginning. This is always the route the phantom
takes, when exteriorization takes place while the body is in the
horizontal position. The entire process may occur quickly, or it
may be prolonged.
If exteriorization takes place when the physical body is in an
\)pright position, it may readily be seen that the horizontal activity
26
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 27
is automatically eliminated, for then the etheric member moves
right out from the material body, already in a standing position.
Astral exteriorization is not unlike another phenomenon-what
has been termed "the passing," at the time of death, in so far as
the behaviour of the phantom is concerned. " The passing " simply
denotes the transition of the finer body, {rom its coinciding position
with the physical. ·
While the astral body movements are alike in death and in
exteriorization, there is one element present in the latter phe-
nomenon which is absent in death-a vital line of force connecting
the physical body with its astral counterpart. This line of force is
called "the astral cord," or " astral cable," and in its presence lies
the difference between deathly projection and projection which is
not "unto death."
In death, as in astral projection, the phantom may not become
conscious for some time. Some are said to become so quickly.
Some exist for a while in the dream state. Others, it is claimed,
remain unconscious for a long period of time. And some never
even taste death-as Christ said-never even slumber.
Picture some one, perhaps a soldier, walking straight ahead,
consciously bent upon reaching a certain place. If, as he hastens
along, something should instantly rend him asunder (say a flying
missile, killing him instantly), the astral body would keep right on
walking, ignorant of the fact, for the moment, that he was physically
"dead." This is given merely to show the relation which corporal
position sustains to the astral body during their separation.
SOME SYMPTOMS OF ASTRAL EXTERIORIZATION
Perhaps you can now recall having experienced one or more of
the elementary stages of astral projection-the adhered or glued-
down sensation, the sensation of floating, of whirling, of zigzagging,
of uprising; jumps in the hypnagogic state, breath-taking sensation
at pit of stomach, a feeling as if one's" consciousness" were getting
out of one's head.
These same things may have happened to you many times, when
you were unaware of them. When you are conscious of them, the
Doctor will pass it off as " nerves." It is easy to tell a patient that
"nerves" cause such peculiar happenings, but telling him how
nerves cause these happenings is a horse of another colour. Nerves
cause such peculiarites because the astral is not bound tightly in
the physical.
What is dizziness ? It is a condition of looseness of the astral
body. What loosens the astral body ? Many things ; a blow on
the head, abnormal functioning of vital organs ; a score of causes.
Regardless of the cause, dizziness indicates that the astral body is
not bound tightly to the physical. When dizzy, we stagger because
28 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
the astral body is loose and half inclined to withdraw from the
physical. Whirling will cause dizziness, since it loosens the astral
body ; and, in this connection, it is interesting to note that the
Fakirs often resort to "whirling" to accomplish astral exterioriza-
tion.
An experience which is not altogether rare is that of waking at
night, for an instant, and seeing a duplicate of oneself hovering
about a foot above one. It lies in a horizontal position, and is
trembling, as if resting on the air. It is gauzy-coloured. A moment
later we awake with a jump. In such a case, the etheric (I call the
astral "etheric," not because I believe it is composed of ether, but
because others who do believe this have given it that name) was
about one foot out of coincidence.
But you will say, " I saw this from my physical body I" And you
did. But the conscious mind was not in the physical body. I will
attempt to explain later how the senses can cut capers. The
track of sight-sensation came from the conscious mind in the body
above you-where you really were-and travelled through the astral
cable to the physical eye.
Some other symptoms of astral exteriorization are: catalepsy,
coldness of body, falling and flying dreams, and head-thumping
dreams. One may see lights, images, figures--hear sounds of various
kinds-all the way from inarticulate noises to beautiful strains of
music. Mr. Prescott Hall, in his work on Astral Projection,
summarized his own experiences in this connection as follows :
"The most definite objects seen were a Greek profile and the
head and shoulders of a Hindu in a turban. These were perfectly
distinct. A brilliant red object. Third, large, round, blue lights.
Fourth, a small blue and yellow light. Fifth, landscapes, sometimes
of two tones and sometimes of natural colours. Sixth, luminous
spaces or patches of mist or colour; frequently outlines of persons,
but showing no definite details. Seventh, irregular-shaped figures
of all kinds, white in colour and usually seen in a patch of blue sky,
... or tissue-paper figures. These were perhaps the rarest sights,
and required the most effort to produce.
" The principal sounds heard were the following : a hissing or
whistling, as of escaping steam ; single musical notes ; musical
phrases, generally new to the hearer. Hymn tunes and other tunes,
which were known. Harmonics--often very beautiful. Two or
more notes, alternating in regular sequence. The sound of a bell
or bells, sometimes in harmony. Metallic noises like the striking of
an anvil." •
It is not unusual, at the beginning of a projection, to hear seem-
ingly:far-distant..sounds which sound familiar to the subject. Often
it is as if some one, far away, were calling, in a musical voice. A
very peculiar sensation is as if some one unseen were blowing in
one's face. Again, it is as if some unseen finger-tips touched one
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 29
about the throat, mouth and nose, causing a "tickling" sensa-
tion.
THE ASTRAL CABLE
Nearly every student of spirit phenomena professes to know that
the astral cord is an elastic-like structure, connecting the astral body
with the physical ; and this seems to be the extent of knowledge
so far given to the world, concerning this schematic astral organism.
Such ignorance is not difficult to account for. On the one hand is
the psychic experimenter who, if not capable of projecting himself,
can only form his conclusions from the statements of others. On
the other hand, most persons who do project, do not maintain
consciousness clearly, if at alL Some become possessed of temporary
awareness at a distance from the physical body ; and still others
are so absorbed in the wonders met with that the thought of inves-
tigating causes never enters ipto their minds at the time. It is
estimated that about rs,ooo persons now living "see" more or less
on the astral plane; and that about fifty persons can go out into
that plane at will.
Many times, while consciously projected, I have succeeded in
intimately examining and observing the peculiar action of the astral
cable. It is a sort of side-show mystery, participating in the main
act called "projection." This vital structure is composed, so far as
I am able to see, of the same material, or essence, as the astral body
itself. Its erratic action always made a very profound impression
upon me, and at times I was almost led to believe that it actually
was intelligent. Where it comes from, on the outgoing of the phan-
tom, where it disappears, when the phantom coincides, are too deep
mysteries for me to fathom. Its elasticity is far beyond the imagina-
tion, and is not comparable to any material object in its stretching
qualities.
The nearest one can come, when trying to form a conception of
the astral. cord, is to compare it to an elastic cable; yet such a
comparison does anything but justice to this truly living organ.
The astral cord always stretches from one body to the other, regard-
less of the space or distance between them.
CORD-ACTIVITY RANGE
The less space that lies between the two bodies the greater is the
thickness of the astral caNe, the greater is its magnetic pull, and
the more difficult to hold the stability of the phantom. When
slightly out of coincidence, the cord is the diameter of a silver dollar.
This is the maximum calibre of the cord itself, yet the aura surround-
ing it gives the impression to the eye that it is about six inches in
thickness at this point.
The diameter decreases in proportion to the increase of separation
30 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
of the bodies, up to a given distance, where it is then at its minimum
diameter, which it retains from there to infinity-its calibre then
being about that of an ordinary sewing thread. From immediate
separation to the distance when the astral cord assumes its minimum
calibre there is always much activity present in it. This (distance)
is called fhe "range of cord activity."
I wished, naturally, to determine how far this "range of cord
activity " extended, for it had an important bearing, I found, upon
the projection of the astral body. So, the very first conscious pro-
jection I made thereafter, I noted with extreme care the spot I
occupied, as the cord reached its minimum thickness. When
physically active again, I took the tape and measured the range of
cord-activity, and found it to be fifteen feet. For some time I
thought that I had the distance calculated correctly ; but when
I again tried the experiment, to verify the first finding, I met with
a different result. This time it was but eight feet.
It was clear, then, that the range of cord-activity was variable,
and, after dwelling for almost a year upon the matter, I eventally
discovered why the range of cord-activity varied. I noticed that,
when I was not feeling as well as usual, the range of resistance, or
cord-activity, was less than when I was in better physical condition.
Repetition only strengthened this discovery. And I say again
that the more one searches into this phenomenon of astral projection,
the more certain one will become that material co-ordination is a
powerful, negative, influencing factor in the result. The more healthy
the subject, the more energy is stored in the condenser (astral body),
the stronger will be the flow of energy through the astral cable-if
he succeeds in projecting at all-and the longer will be the cord-
activity range.
The more energy that is condensed in the astral body, the tighter
will that body be bound to the physical counterpart. The more
enervated the individual becomes, the less energy is stored in the
condenser, the less tie it has on the physical, and the shorter will
be the range of cord-activity. And if a person becomes weakened
to a very great extent, the astral cannot remain in the physical at
all-and moves out, sometimes permanently. Then the Doctor
says, "he died beause he didn't receive enough nourishment!"
So, it is obvious that the range of cord-activity varies as the
health of the projecting individual. A few inches of separation of
the bodies, and the cable is about the size of a silver dollar, regard-
less of the condition of health ; but the decrease in size is speedier
in the case of the enervated individual. When in fair condition,
physically, the cord decreases (according to the distance of separa-
tion) somewhat as follows : At a few inches of bodily separation,
one and three-quarter inches; at ten feet, three-fourths of an inch
-resembling a piece of garden hose; at fifteen feet, approximately,
it might be at its minimum thickness-holding this size to infinity.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 31
It i! in appearance of a whitish grey colour, and, when greatly
extended, is not unlike a long, single strand of cobweb. From
coincidence to the end of cord-activity range, there is always a
double action taking place in the cord-that is, as far as one's eyes
can determine. Yet I dare say that there are many activities
present which are too subtle to be seen by the consciously projected
individual, even if he observes the cable at close range.
One is a regular pulsating action. The other appears to be a slight
expansion and contraction of the outstretched organ. Ostensibly
they are merged. There can be no doubt concerning the operations
involved ; the movement in the cord is an outward manifestation of
a subtle, vital process. Mention has been made elsewhere of the
distinction between what is termed " the passing " at the time of
death, and the projection of the astral body. This difference lies in
the fact that the astral cord is intact, running from one body to the
other, during astral projection.
The phantom body is the condenser of cosmic energy-the very
energy you employ in moving about. This energy is the " breath
of life "-omnipresent in every living thing. The Adam and Eve
story is no doubt fiction, but the ancient writer hit upon the truth
of the matter when he said, " And the Lord God formed man of the
dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life ;
and man became a living soul."
Without tJ¥s "breath of life," man would be really nothing but
the dust of the ground. The breath of life is the universal, the
cosmic, energy, condensed in the astral body, which you are using
every instant. You may think you are a living body, but you are,
as Moses said, " a living soul." It is the astral entity which is the
real " You " ; it is the universal energy that is the breath of life.
But what has all this to do with the astral cable ? Simply this :
When the astral body is in coincidence, you are physically alive.
When the astral body moves out of coincidence, you are physically
dead-unless the astral cable, running from the energetic body to
the physical body, is intact. That is the purpose of the astral "line
of force"; to deliver the "breath of life" to the physical body,
while the finer body is projected.
Throughout exteriorization, the breathing and heart-beat of the
material counterpart must be sustained, and when the phantom is
within cord-activity range, an outward manifestation of this action
can actually be seen throughout the entire length of the cable.
Have you ever suffered from a headache when regular pulsations
could be felt in the back of the head ? Excepting the pain, such
pulsatory action is like that felt in the medulla oblongata region of
the exteriorized phantom-if the phantom is conscious-at every
beat of the heart.
Each throb of the heart can be felt in the astral ; each throb is
expressed throughout the cable, each throb produces a beat in the
32 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
physical heart. All three are simultaneous. One can not only feel
the heart's pulsations in his astral head, but he can feel them by
touching the cable with his astral hand, just as you can feel your
ohysical pulse with your physical hand.
Each breath taken in the astral can be seen pulsing over the
astral cord and causes a duplicate breath to be taken in the insen-
sible body. When consciously exteriorized, one can suspend his
breath at will, just as he can while in coincidence ; but this is
not a wise thing to do, especially for the amateur, as physical con-
gestion is liable to set in and cause death.
I have tried the experiment many times of holding the breath,
while consciously projected, and within cord-activity range. The
instant it is suspended the before-mentioned action of slight expan-
sion and contraction ceases, in the psychic cable, as it likewise does
in the physical body ; but while the respiration ceases the regular
pulsating action continues. A deep breath in the astral will produce
an identical breath in the physical; a short one will produce a short
one ; a quick one will produce a quick one ; etc. You breathe in
the astral and your heart beats in the astral, just as it does when
you are in coincidence. Your physical heart beats because within
it the astral heart beats. " It is the spirit that quickeneth I"
When exteriorization occurs there is always a constant pushing
and pulling sensation of the cable, which can be felt in a noticeable
degree by the projector, when within cord-activity range. If you
can imagine some mighty giant holding you by the back of the head,
with a steady grip, at arm's length, pushing you slowly away from
him, drawing you back toward-him, moving you from side to side,
yet always maintaining a steady hold upon your head, and in that
very grip you could feel a regular pulsation ; then you can imagine
how it feels to the conscious projector within cord-activity range.
This cord-pressure varies according to the distance of separation ;
the nearer the bodies are to coincidence the greater the pressure ;
or, as I might express it, the greater the space between the bodies,
and the smaller the diameter of the cable, the less the amount of
resistance. This must be, or should be, held in mind by anyone
contemplating projection, for it is difficult to accomplish much
with the range of cord-activity.
Once you can advance beyond it, however, you will be as free
as a permanently detached phantom. There is but one way to
combat this resistance, and that is by wilful effort-actually to
exert all your will to move away from the physical counterpart. It
is my belief that, in most of the experiments in projection which are
conducted by hypnotists, the phantom seldom is induced beyond
cord-activity range.
We have seen how the breathing in the physical counterpart is
controlled from the astral body, and how one can consciously inter-
fere with this vital function. Conscious interference, I have found,
THE PHANTm! LYING IN THE AIR ABOVE THE PHYSICAL BODY
Phantom sometimes uprights here.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 33
will exercise a control over the cable resistance. So, too, will the
heart-beat affect cord-resistance. The more calm the breathing,
the less will be the cable-pull. If conscious, strong, deep breaths are
taken by the phantom, when within cord-activity range, the pull on
the cord will increase-often even to the point of drawing the astral
entity toward, or even into, the physical. I have tried this and
know it to be a fact. On the other hand, the speedier and stronger
the heart-beat, the greater the cord-resistance.
Although suspending the breath, while consciously exteriorized,
will weaken the c::..ble resistance, it is not advisable to practise it, to
enable one to get out of cord-activity range; for, as I have pointed
out before, the physical would become endangered for want of
oxygen, as it is already in a weakened condition. The great point
.to be brought out is that emotion will increase cable-pull, and act
detrimentally to the success of projection. Why? Merely because
emotion increases the respiration and heart-beat.
Suppose, for example, you should become consciously exteriorized
in the astral body within cord-activity range, and that fear should
come over you. Your emotions would increase the heart-beat and
the breathing would be hastened. The physical would be more
enlivened. The resistance in the cable would greatly increase and,
unless other factors favourable to exteriorization balanced this
opposition, interiorization would begin.
Although the astral " line of force " can be likened to a rubber
cable, it is in one sense unlike it. Suppose a rubber or elastic cable
to be held at each end and pulled out. As the length increases the
diameter would decrease, and the resistance would intensify. With
the astral cable, as the length increases the diameter decreases, but
the resistance becomes less.
The force working in the cord is not produced by it. The force
itself remains mysterious. At times, the power working in the cable
seems to be well-governed, projecting the phantom steadily from
the physical; and again, this power seems erratic-first forcing the
astral body ahead, then quickly drawing it back, then throwing it
to one side, then to the other, etc.
Now, at all times during projection, there are factors at work
which are helpful and factors which are opposed to the phenomenon
-just like everything else in nature. When the positive factors
overbalance the negative factors-projection progresses in an
orderly and well-controlled manner.
If the negative factors predominate, while in coincidence, projec-
tion cannot be accomplished. If the negative factors begin to grow
stronger, while the phantom is projecting (within cord-activity
range) they interfere with the orderly procedure. And although
these two opposing forces are always present, the helpful influences
must necessarily be slightly greater than the opposing ones, or
outward advancement will cease.
34 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
The force working in the astral cable will govern itself according
to the balance of positive and negative factors, which are always
present. Remember, it is not the phantom which moves itself away
from the physical, or back, into the physical. It is the subconscious
force. To the conscious phantom it seems as though the cable were
actually intelligent. This is the subconscious force working in it.
This force depends upon the balance of factors, positive and negative.
When these opposing factors are almost equally balanced, and
when the phantom has reached a distance of separation of {say) six
feet, there will be instability of the body, a swaying from side to
side, and forward and backward. You have already learned how
emotion will increase the pull of the astral cord, and how placidity
will decrease it. It is really very seldom that these opposing factors
do not conflict during a projection. Sounds {like emotions) will
increase the tension in the cord, so the need of quiet is obvious.
AN INTERIORIZATION CAUSED BY A NOISE
I recall one exteriorization when I was about fifteen feet advanced,
but still within cord-activity range. It was about eleven o'clock at
night. The progress was erratic and slow. In the cellar, some one
of the family began to shake the furnace-grates vigorously. The
noise came unexpectedly. The whole cable seemed to vibrate for
an instant, then, with a super-pulling force, the resistance drew me
completely from the upright position into the horizontal, right
through the air to a position directly over the body {physical) and
down into coincidence-the entire " coming back " consuming an
infinitesimally short time.
Sounds and emotions will " shoot " the phantom back into co-
incidence more quickly than any other opposing factor-often with
lightning-like speed. When such takes place, "shock" is always
felt in the physical body-sometimes accompanied by pain ; or as
I have termed it, " a split-in-two " feeling. This is termed " reper-
cussion."
REPERCUSSION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Within cord-activity range many curious phenomena may occur:
repercussion of the astral body itself, repercussion of sensibility,
repercussion of motivity, dual sensibility, lack of sensibility, cata-
lepsy, instability of body, and many others. We will first consider
repercussion of the astral body itself.
Probably the most common cause of bodily repercussion is the
awakening of consciousness, during the process of an unconscious
projection. The phantom may be projected to any distance, within
cord-activity range, in an unconscious state, when suddenly con-
sciousness begins to appear. Almost before the first scintilla of
consciousness comes, the astral repercusses into the physical with
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 35
unthinkable speed. When thrust back into coincidence in this
manner, the entire physical mechanism is jolted thoughout-as
though every muscle in the body contracted at the same moment,
and the body gives a spasmodic jerk-more noticeable in the limbs
than elsewhere. Consciousness, which incited the bodily repercus-
sion, has commenced to become active ; and, as a rule, immediately
after the repercussion, the subject is conscious, in the physical
body.
There are hundreds of people (yes, everyone who sleeps) whose
astral bodies move slightly out of coincidence for the purpose of
becoming charged with cosmic energy, every night. Have you
ever noticed how, when greatly fatigued, and in the hypnagogic
state (just entering sleep), you have suddenly given a spasmodic
jump and become conscious? The Doctor calls this "nerves," but
that explains nothing.
The solution of the problem is simple. When the condenser, the
astral body, is run down, the subconscious moves it out of coincidence
as soon as possible, to enable it to recuperate more quickly. So,
when fatigued, or in a condition of enervation, and you enter the
hypnagogic state, the phantom moves out of coincidence. A
shimmering of consciousness appears, or a sudden noise, or some-
thing excites the emotions-such as fear. The astral body reper-
cusses, shocking the physical-although it might not have been
separated more than a few inches from it.
The phantom, remember, is cataleptic, and the instant it coin-
cides with vigour, it forces the relaxed muscles of the physical body
into conformation with its own. If the phantom reinhabits the
physical quietly, while cataleptic, and you become conscious, you
would find yourself in temporary paralysis. The shock that reper-
cussion brings is always unpleasant, and at times more violent than
at other times. The violence of the shock corresponds to the extent
of space through which the astral must move, before coming into
coincidence, and also the speed with which the interiorizing takes
place.
And the speed of interiorizing, in turn, is regulated by the amount
of overbalance of negative factors. The greater the speed and the
greater the distance, the more forceful will be the jolt. Velocity
and distance combined produce the maximum repercussion ; but
speed is the more important of the two ; for even at a distance of
separation of only one foot, if the return to the physical is with
intense velocity, the physical will undergo a violent shock.
The most striking result of this quick reanimation-when both
speed and distance are involved-is the feeling of being split through
the centre of the body. " Split through the centre " describes the
agony better than any other words I can think of. It is a sudden
thrust of severe pain, as though a sharp-bladed instrument had
passed directly through the entire length of the body.
36 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
This more severe effect is not experienced so frequently as
"jumping," for the reason that most people do not have extensive
separations. However, both are distressing eno1.1gh t Whether
there be any danger in this painful repercussion of the astral body
I am not prepared to say, but it is probable that such happenings
are more unpleasant than harmfuL When the return is governed,
as it should be, by the subconscious-with positive balance-the
re-coincidence is not felt by the subject.
Should the student, in attempting to develop this phase (projec-
tion), meet with severe bodily repercussions, it is a symptom that
projection has been accomplished to some extent, but that the
negative factors are strong. One severe repercussion is likely to
write "finis " on the production of further extensive projections,
for the subject will be in dread of the shock, and this suppressed
fear will always induce an emotion at the very first flash of con-
sciousness, and will shoot the body back into coincidence-only
causing a repetition of such repercussions.
On the other hand, if one is really anxious to project extensively,
and undergoes bodily repercussion, he must look upon it, not from
the standpoint of painfulness (which is but temporary), or fear it as
dangerous; but accept it as evidence that he is succeeding, and that
it is harmless, and that he doesn't care a rap whether he repercusses
or not I This eliminates the hidden fear which startles the emotions,
when one first becomes conscious, while projected.
Sounds, sensations and emotions cause bodily repercussions-
providing the phantom is within cord-activity range. Outside of
the range of cord-activity, of course, these influences are nil. Emo-
tion is probably the fundamental cause ; sounds, sensations, etc.,
are contributory factors. And just here is another paradox. Astral
projection of the unconscious type is of such a nature that it will
promote sensations I These sensations cause emotions in the mind,
or dreams. And the emotion in the dream will cause the finer body
to interiorize.
You may call this" reasoning in a circle." In a sense it is; yet,
such action is the same as in dreams-e.g. irritation of or sensation
in the bladder, will cause a dream of emptying the bladder. And
the dream of emptying the bladder will cause it to be emptied.
Usually the sensations promoted by astral body activities bring
about " aviation type " dreams, which we will next discuss.
CHAPTER IV
TYPICAL "PROJECTION " DREAMS 1
T
HERE are several " repeater " dreams, caused by astral
body exteriorization, which we shall now discuss :
I. Falling Dreams.
z. Flying Dreams
a. The swimming dream.
b. The (upright) flying dream.
c. The giant stride dream.
3· The Body and Head-flapping Dream.
4· The Head-thumping Dream.
5· Dream of Moving Toward a Phantasmal Object.
Have you ever experienced dreams of flying and of falling ? If
so, you will know how unpleasant they are I Many theories have
been advanced to account for such dreams, and some of them are as
incorrect as their originators are eminent. Yet these dreams are
easily accounted for, once you experience astral projection. Let us
see what Walsh has to say concerning the dream of falling, and
notice how it compares with what we have already learned of astral
projection. I quote Dr. Walsh:
" Dreams of falling are far from pleasurable. Generally they
cause a shock which awakens the dreamer (repercussion). A super-
stition has it that if the dreamer falls to the bottom of the precipice,
or what not, death will occur. This is fiction surely, the only point
in its favour being that we cannot awaken a person found dead in
bed, and ask him if he has had a dream of falling ; on the other
hand, the superstitious cannot prove their belief. It is, of course,
1 The literature on Dreams is, of course, enormous, and it would be impossible
to give even a selected Bibliography here. I may mention, however, a few books
which the reader may find of especial interest-as throwing light upon the special
problem of astral projection. These are :
Studies'in Dreams, by Mrs. Arnold-Forster.
Dreams and their Meanings, by Horace G. Hutchinson.
The Dream Problem (Ed. by Ram Narayan).
Dreams, by C. W. Leadbeater.
The Dreams of Orlow, by A. M. Irvine.
Imagination in Dreams, by Frederick Greenwood.
Dreams and Premonitions, by L. W. Rogers.
An Experiment With Time, by J. W. Dunne.
The Nature of Dreams, by H. Carrington. H. C.
D 37
38 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
possible that hysterical or nervous persons may have such vivid
dreams of falling that functional paralysis or weakness results.
" The dream of falling may be associated with one of flying-
coming after the latter; or it may occur independently. For
example, a person may dream of flying pleasurably, and then may
suddenly fall ; or he may dream of falling from a mountain-top, or
other high place, without any previous dream of flying. In dreams
of falling, we awaken always before we touch bottom; this is
because we are on the road to awaking at the time of the dream,
and awake before its completion, or because the emotions excited
by the dream are sufficiently strong to cause the awakening.
"There are many possible explanations of the falling dream.
The usual explanation given is that it is related to the dream of
flying-the difference being that, in the former, respiration be-
comes mote impeded and slower, and the numbness of the skin
increases. Some interference with health may, as times, produce
these changes.
"Jewell, quoted by Ellis, states that 'certain observers, peculiarly·
liable to dreams of falling and flying, ascribe these distinctly to
faulty circulation, and say their physicians,. to regulate the heart's
action, have given them medicines which always relieve them and
prevent such dreams.' Occasional dreams of falling are not to be
considered of grave import, however.
" In not a few instances the dream of falling occurs just as one is
going to sleep. As before stated, sleep comes on gradually, the
muscles slowly relaxing and the senses becoming dulled. Many
people, on going to sleep, experience the feeling of sliding down a
hole, or an incline, and sometimes awaken startled. These persons
are of a nervous type, though fatigue or slight deviation from good
health may predispose to the sensation. It is possible, by paying
attention to the sensations which are psychologically present in the
hypnagogic state, to note the relaxation of the muscles and the
sinking or sliding sensation accompanying it. Such attention is not
advisable, however, when one is inclined to be impressionable and
nervous.
''The use of a firm, hard bed often prevents the sinking sensation,
in the hypnagogic state, and may thus prevent certain falling
dreams. If the bed sags, it may add to the sensation of sinking, as
sleep is about to come on ; or it may cause the sensation, with a
dream of falling, when one changes posture in sleep. Persons
troubled by disturbing dreams may occasionally find a remec,ly by.
obviating noisy window shutters, creaking bed-springs, etc....
" The sensation which we feel, when awake, of being drawn to
the edge of some high building we may be on, or the giddiness
experienced on ascending a high place rapidly, may have some role
in explaining falling dreams. The chief explanation for these sen-
sations in the waking state is a fall of blood pressure. In a dream
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 39
one may re-enact a scene from actual life, especially if he h~s actually
experienced the feeling of falling very distinctly. A fall of blood
pressure occurs not infrequently during sleep, occasioned :t>Y slight
physical disturbances; this fact may also explain some falling
dreams."
In the. foregoing Dr. Walsh has given an ideal description of the
falling dream and advanced some plausible explanations for its
occurrence, and some of these causes no doubt do incite dreams
of falling; yet I can say with certainty that the usual cause of the
falling dream is interiorization of the projected phantom.
The double may be exteriorized several feet from the body;
negative factors set in; the astral will be pulled from the upright
position into the horizontal, through the air to a position over the
physical, then drop right down into it. The sensation of floating is
caught, often, when the phantom is lying horizontal, above the
pliysical, and the first flash of consciousness comes. A dream of
flying, or of floating, will then begin. The emotions are aroused-
more negative factors ; a speedy descent will occur. The dream
then changes to that awful sensation of falling. As the phantom
re-coincides with vigour-repercusses-the shock is imparted in the
physical body. '
This illustrates how projection will incite sensation-akin to the
action which is taking place-impress a dream, stir up the emotions
and interiorize the phantom. The dream itself may appear to the
subject to have taken a longer interval of time than it would take
the phantom to interiorize, but such is not the case. A dream.
consuming a seemingly long period of time, may take place in a very
short interval.
If you have ever experienced the falling dream, you know exactly
what it feels like to interiorize with speed. Even when fully con-
scious, repercussion of the astral body will give the identical sensa-
tion which it does when not fully conscious. For a long time prior
to my first conscious projection I experienced, almost nightly,
falling dreams, dreams of floating and vigorous repercussions. One
can be but a few inches out of coincidence and experience a falling
dream during the descent.
Although I do not entirely agree with Dr. Walsh, he has given an
ideal description of the dream, so, let us take some of his excellent
material in single sentences and apply them to astral phenomena.
Statements thus taken will be .designated by "W."
W. "Dreams of falling are far from pleasurable." It. is for this
very reason that intense emotion stimulates and repercusses the
body more vigorously.
W. "Generally they cause a shock that awakens the sleeper."
That is " repercussion " of the astral body.
W. "A dream of falling may be associated with one of flying,
coming after the)atter."
40 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
When a dream of flying precedes a dream of falling, as it usually
does, the floating or flying sensation is first noted because the astral
body is actually floating above and to one side or the other of the
physical. It is floating thus as the first gleam of consciousness
dawns. The sensation arouses the emotions, the cable and the
physical body are likewise affected, and begin to draw the phantom
back to a position directly over the physical-hence the sensation
of flying. Next, the astral drops downward into the physical, giving
the sensation of falling. When it coincides, it repercusses, or shocks
the physical.
W. "A person may dream of falling from a mountain-top, or
other high place, without any previous dream of flying."
When this occurs the first flash of consciousness comes when the
astral body is lying directly above the physical. It merely drops
downward or, I should say, is pulled rapidly downward by cable
pressure.
W. "In dreams of falling we awaken always before we touch
bottom; this is because we are on the road to awakening at the
time of the dream, and awake before its completion, or because the
emotions excited by the dream are sufficiently strong to cause
awakening."
Most authorities agree that the subject always awakens before
hitting bottom, in a falling dream. This is not true. I have hit bottom
many times in such dreams, and I have inquired extensively for the
testimony of others upon this question. Most of those of whom I
inquired, like myself, do hit bottom exactly on time with the reper-
cussion. That is, hitting bottom in the dream and hitting the
physical body, occur simultaneously. One can hit bottom in the
falling dream, experience only a light repercussion, drift back into
sleep, and go on dreaming that he is badly injured, even smashed
into bits, from the fall.
W. "Certain observers, peculiarly liable to dreams of falling or
flying, ascribe these distinctly to faulty circulation, and say their
physicians, to regulate the heart's action, have given them medi-
cines which relieved them and prevented such dreams."
Another score for astral projection I Giving medicine to regulate
the heart's action prevented the dream of falling, because it pre-
vented astral separation. One may take strychnine, and positively
prevent a projection, because, by regulating the heart's action,
unusual passivity of the physical is prevented. We shall see later
how slowing down the speed of the heart promotes projection.
Unusual physical passivity is always governed by the heart.
W. "These persons (subject to falling sensations)'are usually of
a nervous type, though fatigue and slight deviation from good
health may predispose to the sensation."
Fatigue, nervousness, etc., always promote astral body separation.
Almost before sleep intervenes the astral has moved slightly out of
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 41
the physical, in order to charge with cosmic energy. One may be
in the hypnagogic state, and several inches out of coincidence.
Again the Doctor says: "The sensation which we feel, when
awake, of being drawn to the edge of a high building we may be on,
or the giddiness experienced on ascending a high place rapidly, may
have some role in explaining falling dreams." This is very true;
I know from experience.
Despite my criticisms, however, I have found Dr. Walsh's book,
The Psychology of Dreams, to be a highly informative and interesting
-work, and I would advise the reader to procure it, if interested in
dream phenomena.
HOW I DISCOVERED THE CAUSE OF MANY FALLING DREAMS
When a small child I was in the habit of going almost daily to
play with a friend of mine, about my own age, who lived near by.
He lived in a very large house, a square, frame building-unusually
high-for it was built on the top of a mound. On the roof, which
was flat, there was a railed-in porch, which was accessible by means
of a flight of stairs in the attic.
Many times we had tried to go on to the roof-porch, but each
time my friend's mother foiled our plans. Then came a day when
this sentry was off duty I We were playing soldiers, and went to
the roof-porch, which we called" Look-out Mountain," to watch for
the enemy. For some time I stayed near the centre of the porch,
but after a while I crawled on my hands and knees over to the edge,
and, pushing my head through the upright pieces which held the
railing, I looked downward. I grew dizzy and seemed impelled to
jump or fall to the ground. Had not the railing been there, I believe
I should have done so. But in a moment I became frightened, and
crawling back toward the centre of the porch, made an immediate
exit, and came down through the house and outdoors once more.
I was always afraid to go on to the high porch after that. Even to
think of it now makes me feel unsteady I
About a year later I began to be troubled with falling dreams, and
every dream was identical. I would dream that I was floating
directly over my friend's home-always directly over the spot where
I had crawled from the centre to the edge of the porch. And, in the
dream, the instant I reached the edge (exactly where I had looked
down, that day we played soldiers) I would begin to fall. The
instant I bumped the earth I would awaken with a jump. Always,
in this dream, I was full grown and a uniformed soldier.
I had experienced several conscious projections then, when one
night the dream recurred. I was floating over the house where my
friend lived. {This was about seven years after we had played
soldiers on" Look-out Mountain.") But the floating did not seem to
startle me so much this time. Finally I stopped, directly over the
42 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
spot where the falling always began. I was not falling this time.
I was lying still, in the very air, at the edge of the roof. I was
becoming conscious slowly. When conscious enough to understand;
I found that I was projected in the astral body, and was lying in
the air directly above the physical body, approximately three feet
over it. It will not be out of place to add here that one can move
downward fn the dream a great distance, apparently, but in reality
the drop of the astral is but a very small part of that distance.
You will notice that the astral body was not actually in the place
where I thought I was, in the dream; but that it was conducting
an activity which resembled the action taking place in the dream.
It was the sensation derived from the action of the astral body which
was in some way connected with the subconscious impression I had
received that day when-as a child-! had peeped over the edge of
the roof, and which brought about the dream.
It was then that I understood the significance of" falling dreams."
During that part of the dream when I was flying over the house, the
astral body was above and to one side (or other) of the physical.
(A scintilla of consciousness had come and, as I was actually floating,
the sensation of floating came with this flash.) The emotions were
aroused. The cable began to pull, the phantom to move through
the air (fly) to a position directly above the physical. Here I was
dreaming that I was on the very edge of the roof-porch. As the
phantom lowered, the dream would be of falling. As the body
repercussed, consciousness would return. And this explains the
phenomenon of falling dreams I
So, to go back to where we started; astral body activity can
incite a dream (of floating, flying, falling) and the dream can stir up
the emotions; the emotions will activate the physical and cause
cable-pull, interiorizing the phantom. And the whole interiorizing
may be said to come from one fundamental cause--emotion.
Actions, sensations, dreams, sounds, all are contributory factors to
this emotion. Emotion itself can be, one might say, positive and
negative. If the sensation be pleasant the emotion will be affected
likewise; this may be said to be positive to exteriorization. But
if the sensation be not pleasant, the emotion will be negative.
Usually what causes negative emotion, while the phantom is
floating, is the "process of awakening." If the subject were to
experience a dream of floating, while the astral body really was
floating, and this dream was of something pleasing, something he
enjoyed-say, of being an aviator-the sensation would cause a
pleasant emotion, and consciousness would not be so apt to inter-
vene. In such a state the subject would have a pleasant flying
dream, and the astral would be induced to move out, rather than in.
This would be an emotion positive to exteriorization.
Flying dreams are often recalled as pleasurable. I have a close
friend who experiences very pleasant flying dreams. The flying, he
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 43
says, is so real that he, when physically awake, can almost feel
himself leaving the ground. He states that, in these dreams, he
always seems to be several feet from the earth, moving over the
heads of others.
The common explanation given by psychologists for flying dreams
is that they are caused by the rising and falling of the chest ; but
Ellis, and others, point out that such dreams cannot be accounted
for by respiratory action alone, maintaining that one would have to
lose the sense of contact with that on which one reclined. Nervous-
ness is a noted symptom. Walsh says : " Epileptics sometimes
have the sensation of lightness and of rising into the air. A patient
asserted that, just prior to a convulsion, she felt as if she rose
' right into heaven.' The sensation of rising also occurs to some
dying persons, leading to the idea that they are being carried to
heaven. One individual's dying words: 'Don't let them take me;
keep me down,' were probably occasioned by this sensation."
Theories can be advanced till doomsday to account for falling,
:floating, rising and flying dreams. One investigator suggests that
the "falling sensation" is a relic of prehistoric days, and represents
experiences and memories carried over from our " monkeyhood "
state. This explanation " takes the prize " as being the most pre-
posterious I have ever heard. Another prevalent belief is that the
" falling " of the falling dream merely symbolizes a " fallen woman,"
a " fallen soul," etc.
The underlying cause of most " aviation type dreams " is found
in astral body phenomena. The particular movement which the
astral body is undergoing, when the dream is being impressed,
determines the type of aviation sensation that is felt. If you will
keep in mind the route the phantom takes in exteriorizing, it will be
much easier to grasp the relation of astral projection to the aviation
type dream. Remember that the astral body moves upward into
the horizontal position, then either uprights above the physical or
moves off to one side (or other) for some distance before uprighting.
This latter operation is not uncommon, and it is still more common
for the astral to move upward in the horizontal for some distance-
say four feet-then move off several feet to one side, still horizontal
or parallel to the earth, and lie there for some time, and then return.
This is as far as many projections progress, and it is in this type of
experience that many aviation dreams are instigated.
Still another activity is this: the astral moves to a given height,
while lying horizontal, then moves off several feet to one side,
slowly, then reverses again and moves back to a position directly
above the physical, then out again-all the while lying parallel to
the earth. If you could observe the countless astral body activities,
or astral projections, you would be impressed by one outstanding
feature, while the phantom is within cord-activity range. This
feature is : repetition of movements.
44 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
It has always impressed me as being very like a mother allowing
her child to go to some distant place. The mother {subconscious)
allows the child {astral body) to go a short distance away from her,
then brings him back ; the child is allowed to go farther and farther,
coming back each time. Eventually the child is allowed to go to
such a distance that his mother can no longer call him back (outside
cord-activity range) and the child can do as he pleases. However,
after a while, his mother will come after him and bring him home
again. But the subconscious {like most mothers) sometimes permits
the child to go away from home without repeatedly calling him
back.
Fear causes many falling dreams. One can be lying horizontal in
the air and have a dream (not of being in the air, but just an ordinary
dream) wherein he is frightened-although he may not remember
the dream. The emotion which the dream arouses becomes so
intense that interiorization of the dream-body begins. Hence, the
falling dream.
One member of my family, only a short time ago, had such an
experience. She had first dreamed that the house was being robbed.
One of the burglars was going to shoot her. She became so terrified
that the emotion speeded her dream-body back into coincidence,
and she experienced a " falling dream " as this action took place.
It is not unusual for one to experience a falling dream after going
to sleep, having had a bad fright during the day; for a terrifying
incident, whatever it may be, comes to the surface of the mind
during sleep and excites the emotions.
TYPES OF "FALLS" OR INTERIORIZATIONS
There are three distinct ways in which the astral body interiorizes,
whether the subject be conscious, unconscious, or partially con-
scious ; in other words, three "falls." These are:
I. The spiral fall.
z. The straight fall.
3· The slow, vibratory fall.
(Sometimes the astral comes in from the side, but this is not a
fall. Of this, more later; see the "dream of being drawn
toward a phantasmal object.")
We experience the first two of these falls in our falling dreams.
The third one we undergo every night during sleep, and is the normal
method of interiorization.
The straight fall- results in a violent repercussion, for the astral
body drops straight down into the physical mechanism.
In the spiral drop the astral body falls with a spiral motion and,
while there is repercussion, it is not of the more violent type, such
as accompanies the straight drop. However, the sensation of the
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 45
actual (spiral) drop is very unpleasant ; much more so than the
straight drop.
At all other times (except when the body is drawn in from the
side) the double descends into the physical mechanism slowly, the
entire organism vibrating, upward and downward, as it coincides
with ease. This is the normal, perfectly controlled interiorization.
THE CAUSES OF THE DIFFERENT "FALLS"
What causes these different " falls " ? This question came to my
mind many years ago, and, through sheer experience, I discovered
that the conscious will can cause the astral body to become more
subject to gravitation, if exercised in that direction, and less subject
to gravitation, i£ so willed. I noticed also that the subconscious
Will can cause the astral body to move quite independently of the
conscious Will.
I also observed that emotion will usually cause the controlling
intelligence to make the astral body more subject to gravity. Thus,
within cord-activity range, emotion has a double effect. First,
emotion brings about greater vital activity in the physical body-
through the cable--causing the astral body to be drawn back
toward the physical. Second, emotion usually causes the astral
body to be more subject to the law of gravitation.
When the astral cable begins to draw down the floating astral
body, if the latter (through subconscious Will) spontaneously, or
incited by emotion (in a dream) be suddenly thrown into a condition
where it is pulled by gravity also-a straight drop results with a
violent repercussion.
In the spiral drop we have one force working against the other-
instead of both of them working together, as in the straight drop.
That is, in the spiral drop, the cable is pulling in the phantom, but
the astral body is in a condition in which it tends to resist gravity ;
so instead of dropping straight down into the physical mechanism,
the body begins to whirl, as the cable pulls it downward.
You can get a fair idea of this by imagining a boy pulling in his
kite. The kite represents the astral body and the string represents
the astral cord. When the boy pulls the string the kite, resisting
gravity, begins to whirl with a spiral motion as it comes down-
ward.
In the spiral drop, the emotion, as a rule, will cause the astral
body to be pulled by gravity a moment before it hits the physical,
but the repercussion has been offset to a great extent by the pre-
ceding spiral. In the spiral drop, the head of the subject often
seems to be spinning more pronouncedly than the body. This is
merely because the pull of the astral cable comes on the head. At
other times the pull, on the head, becomes so intense that the body
will lose its spiral course and begin to zigzag instead.
46 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
In the slow, vibratory drop, there is a balance of factors, and the
controlling power has everything perfectly under control. It is this
balance of forces which causes the slight trembling of the phantom
in an upward and downward direction, for it is almost as inclined to
move upward as downward-the balance is so delicate.
It is obvious that, in the first two drops, something has upset the
perfect control of the guiding intelligence--e.g. emotion or fear, in
a dream. It will not be out of place to mention here that exterioriza- ·
tion is of three kinds also, that is, there is the straight rise, the spiral
rise and the normal, slow, vibratory rise.
Where there is a straight rise, we have a steady push in the cable,
while the body is not affected by gravitation. In the spiral rise,
we have the push in the cable, while the body is affected by gravity.
In the slow, vibratory rise, we have a balance, and the rise is under
perfect control.
In the spiral drop, or rise, the subject can frequently hear a
" swishing " sound as if wings were fanning the air around him, or
as if his body resisted the air as it whirled through it.
HOW .TO BREAK THE REPERCUSSION IN A FALLING DREAM
After we experience a falling dream repeatedly, on its recurrence
we know, while falling, that it is a falling dream; and we dread to
hit bottom. Now, I discovered long ago that one can break a
falling dream, merely by" letting himself go."
It is a curious fact, but nevertheless true, that several others to
whom I told this secret recalled it, while falling, and" let themselves
go." Every one of them testified that the repercussion was then
almost insignificant. Do not fear hitting the bottom ; just let
yourself fall, and the repercussion, if any, will be slight. Fear speeds
up the fall!
TYPES OF FLYING DREAMS
There are several variations of the flying dream, almost as many
as there are positions for the astral body to assume and movements
for it to make, as it oscillates in the air, over the physical body or
on the surface of the ground. Remember, "projection dreams" are
almost invariably " true action " dreams. If you could control your
dreams, you could control the movements of the dream-body. Of
this, more later!
One variation of the flying dream is the "swimming dream,"
with or without motion of the legs and arms. This always occurs
while the astral body is worming along, lying in a horizontal position
in the air.
Another variation is that in which the dreamer is standing upright,
and is moving at great speed over the surface of the earth, or along
a street, etc. One is actually doing this in the dream-body, during
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 47
many such dreams, i.e. moving at the intermediate speed. I have
awakened in this dream several times, to find myself doing this in
reality in the astral. Usually this dream is pleasant.
Again there is the " giant stride " dream, in which the dreamer
seems to be moving over the surface of the earth, in giant strides-
very gracefully, almost gliding along-ludicrously, at times. This is
another true-action dream. At such a time the dreamer is moving
in the air in the astral body, and although there is motion of the
limbs, he is being moved by the subconscious Will. Thus, every
step covers a great distance, for it is not the actual step which drives
the body forward.
This is akin to the steps taken by children whirling on the play-
ground apparatus-the " giant stride "-the body travelling some
distance between each step. Did you ever see a runner shown in
slow-motion pictures ? I know of no better example of the " giant
stride" dream than one sees there; the gliding effect, the graceful-
ness, the apparent lack of weight, etc.-as if the runner were sus-
tained by the air, each step covering a great distance.
THE FLAPPING DREAM
A typical " inside cord-activity range " dream is the body-flapping
dream. In it the dreamer prances round, while his body seems to
be very lax, and flaps upward and downward, much as the body
and arms of a horseback rider flap upward and downward when the
horse is on thil run.
In this dream the body seems very light and the "jumps" are
often graceful, coming at regular intervals, in rapid succession.
Often the dreamer will advance along a street, or some other path,
in a like manner. At other times it seems to be only the head of
the dreamer which does the flapping or jerking, and this very pro-
nouncedly.
This dream is usually caused by " cord-activity "-the push and
pull in the cable causing the dream-body to jerk to and fro. With
some persons the dream is as if they were jumping along like a
rabbit. Usually the flapping is exaggerated, and it may seem ages
between one " flap " and the next.
HEAD-THUMPlNG DREAM
This is a commonly experienced "within cord-activity range"
dream. The dreamer always dreams that some one or something is
thumping him over the head. The thumping is very pronounced and
regular. The ordinary psycho-analyst (belonging to the school
which maintains that all dreams are the results of prior states of
consciousness) might tell the subject that this dream had its origin
in the fact that at one time he (the subject) had seen a man beating
48 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
a child over the head, and that this scene had made a deep impres-
sion upon him. This would be about as far from the truth as the
Adam and Eve story.
The head-thumping dream is brought about, as a rule, by the
pronounced pulsations of the heart, transmitting through the cable, -
which makes its point of contact at the back of the head in the
dream-body.
Nine times out of ten when a projector becomes conscious within
cord-activity range, he feels the pulsations in the astral cable, in
the medulla oblongata region, even before his consciousness is clear
enough to tell him what is happening.
It will not be out of place to state here that all dreams cannot be
accounted for by prior states of consciousness. It should be under-
stood, also, that I do not contend that all of the dreams which I have
mentioned are caused by astral body activities, but that many of
them are. For example, a floating dream can often result from gas
collected under the diaphragm and crowding the heart, giving rise
to the sensation of being in the air.
DREAM OF MOVING TOWARD A PHANTASMAL OBJECT
Very often the dream-body will rise out of the physical, and move
along in the air for some distance, then lower itself until it is on the
sa.me level as the physical body, but some distance from it-say
ten feet. The astral body may lie in this position for some time ;
then, for some reason (usually because of some incited emotional
state) the cable will begin to draw the" double "toward the physical,
which is on the same level as itself.
The subject, of course, is dreaming and sees a phantasmal object
instead of his physical body. He is therefore being drawn, in the
dream, toward the phantasmal object-such as a Buddah, some
hideous person, an animal, etc.; in fact, anything which his mind
conceives at the time. His physical body is the reality thus symbo-
lized, toward which he is being drawn.
Often the object seems to be advancing toward the dreamer,
instead of the latter moving toward the object. This being a
"repeater" dream, on its recurrence the mind pictures the same
object. The dreamer is drawn closer and closer, until eventually he
is swallowed up in the object, and usually awakens with a reper-
cussion, as he coincides with his physical body, at the spot where
the phantasmal form was in the dream. The " drawing forward "
may be very gradual or very rapid.
This dream is not unlike the falling dream in so far as its causes
are concerned, the difference being that, in the falling dream, the
dream-body moves downward, while in this dream the body comes
in from the side.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 49
Whenever I have experienced this dream I have always been
drawn toward some monstrous phantasmal, Buddah-like object ;
and as I crashed into it, lights would fly in all directions, from the
centre where I struck, and this would be simultaneous with the
repercussion. .
A friend tells me that, when she has this type of "repeater"
dream, two monstrous eyes seem to be staring at her, and these
eyes advance toward her steadily, growing larger and larger as they
approach, until at last she is swallowed up in them and awakens
with a start, in her physical body.
My sister used to be troubled with this dream (of being drawn
toward a phantasmal object) and, in her case, the object was a
massive bottle, lying on its side. She would be drawn toward, then
into, the neck of the illusory bottle, in her dream ; and in doing so
would awaken with a start, crying out: "The cork's pulling me
through the bottle I "
There are countless variations of this dream, but the action of the
dream-body really remains the same. It is the cable, of course,
which draws the astral body into the physical, in the dream. I
have inquired extensively concerning this dream, and find that most
of those who have experienced it have done so about the age of
puberty. Whether there be any significance in this I do not know.
DREAM DELUSIONS
In many dreams persons and objects appear as they actually are,
while in many they appear to be very different. One may see some-
thing or some one, in his dream, and immediately associated ideas,
or relative impressions, are called up, just as one idea brings forth
another while we are awake. The mind then sees something or
some one which is only relative to, or associated with, the real
spectacle. While dreaming you " see " anything you think about ;
so when a relative thought is brought into the mind you see it as
substance, though it is a delusion.
Thus, in the flying dream, one's physical body might be sensed
below, and this impression would bring relative impressions, and
the body might "through associated ideas " take on the aspect of
a crowd, or an animal, or what not, and the subject would then
believe that he was flying over a crowd, an animal, etc. In the
falling dream the bed might appear to be the ground, or the bottom
of a pit, etc.-because the mind associates the ground, or the bottom
of a pit, with falling. These are just crude examples of dream
delusions.
Th~re is a constant association of ideas and impressions taking
place in the cryptic chambers of the mind while we sleep. We may
not always be aware of them, we may not remember our dreams,
-
so THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
but nevertheless there is always the continuous :flow of impressions.
And it is through association of ideas that many persons and
objects appear different to us, or become distorted.
To the dreamer, a man with a long beard might invoke the
impression of a hairy animal. The man in the dream would then
turn into an animal ; in other words, the dreamer would be under
a delusion. The animal might suggest hunting; hunting might
suggest a gun ; a gun might suggest being shot by some enemy,
etc. If the subject, on awakening, remembered only that part of
the dream in which he was being shot, he would say that he had a
dream to that effect. ·
One may be travelling in the astral body, dreaming, and on
awakening find that many things apparently seen in the dream
were but delusions. Also, in our dreams, we have exaggerations as
to time and distance. For example, in the " :flapping dream," it
sometimes seems ages between one "flap" and the ne~t. while in
reality it is but a very short time. And, in the falling dream, we
often seem to fall a very great distance, while the actual drop of
the astral body is not to be compared with this distance.
CHAPTER V
EFFECT OF INSTABILITY
I
HAVE found that, as a rule, the subconscious frees the phan-
tom from catalepsy at the end of cord-activity range. When
motivity is restored to the projected body within this range,
it is almost certain that interiorization will come instantly
{for one who is conscious and an amateur).
I will detail what takes place when the phantom is freed from
catalepsy within cord-activity range. Suppose the astral body is
projected, and upright, at a distance of about eight feet from the
physical. It is within cord-activity range, and there are pull and
push in the astral cable. Now, if the phantom were endowed with
its motive powers here, it would act very much like a staggering
drunkard or like a child learning to walk, being thrown from one
side to the other. Emotions would be stirred ; the phantom would
become cataleptic again, pulled into the horizontal, over the phy-
sical, and drop into it.
Of course, a continuance of such happenings would eventually
accustom the projector to them. One actually has to learn to walk
when he first becomes a projector, and is given his powers of motiva-
tion within cord-activity range. Another undesirable feature of
being given motive power within cord-activity range is that the
individual is seldom able to hold true stability, but becomes stupefied,
or giddy, thinking that he is standing still and that everything else
about him is in motion. However, the subconscious tries, and
usually succeeds, in holding the phantom in catalepsy until it has
advanced beyond cord-activity range.
There are so many individual functions, complex in themselves,
and working simultaneously, during an act of astral projection, that
I wonder if I am not muddling the reader a little. It should be
remembered that most .of these functions take place within cord-
activity range, where the phantom is apart from the physical, yet
not free from the physical. In reality a perfect projection could not
be considered such if within cord-activity range-even though the
etheric entity were entirely separated from the material one.
" Range of cord-activity " seems to be unknown to many ; and
in fact, so far as I am aware, no one has ever given an explanation
of it, or even mentioned it before; and it is my personal opinion
that most experimenters in this field do not even know that cord-
activity exists, believing that the phantom is free the moment it
leaves the physical body.
51
52 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
It is not so probable that the student, attempting astral projec-
tion, will become liberated from catalepsy or gifted with motivity,
or be conscious and have perfect sense-functioning, while inside the
range. It seldom happens. The fact that mediums possessing the
ability to project consciously have never told of the eccentric
working of the cable is weighty evidence that they have never been
perfectly normal while within cord-activity range. I believe that
the subconscious has a definite plan for projecting the astral body,
and that if this works correctly-as the subconscious intends it to-
normalcy will not appear in the phantom until at the end of, or
outside of, cord-activity range.
There is no fixed time required for the astral to move from coinci-
dence to the end of cord-activity range. The temperament of the
individual governs this. Some people are of such a make-up-
naturally possessing strong positive factors, tending toward pro-
jection-that they can move out rapidly-sometimes being even
unable to stop themselves. Such individuals experience uninten-
tional projections very often (when asleep at night being the usual
time).
Others can move out, but more slowly-through a chance inter-
vention of positive factors, or by intentionally inducing these
factors. There are still others who, while appearing perfectly con-
scious, healthy, and even when walking, will have factors set in
which are positively favourable to projection. The etheric will
begin to shake, reel, and unbind itself from its physical counterpart.
The physical will begin to move, twist, tremble. Next, the etheric
will become cataleptic, ready to move out. The physical will become
so also. Then the etheric separates, and the physical falls in a
relaxed heap.
This is commonly called "epilepsy." For the past eight years I
have been in close contact with this disease-which has baffled
medical science-and I have finally made up my mind that what
I have described is precisely what occurs, at the time of an attack.
Usually there is a physical derangement somewhere in the victim
which is the basic cause of the unbinding of the etheric body. Brain
lesions and abnormalities of the sexual anatomy are common causes.
I know of one case where pressure of gas aga,inst the solar plexus
throws the patient into the spell.
Abnormal mentality always looms up with this disease; and I am
of the opinion (this is not original with me, however) that the
unbalancement of the mind-i.e. insanity in any form-is caused
because the etheric is not bound tightly to the physical.1 If some
1 Regarding this question of Insanity, the anonymous author of The Maniac
(that most valuable psychological document) says, in a footnote :
" ... The Ego can safely withdraw from the physical body, and the Etheric
Body-which is the link between the physical body and the Ego-must be shuffled
off as one 'sheath' and left together, united. Then the physical suffers no harm.
The trouble in 'madness' is that a separation has taken place between the two
ARROWS SHOW THE ROUTE THE PHA~TOM TAKES I~ PROJECTI!\G
This is the position whieh the phantom oft(•Il occupies, prior to a flying dream, \\hich is followe<i by a tailing dream. Phantom often uprights herf·.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 53
panacea could be found--either in medical science, mental science,
or any other science-which would accomplish the result of creating
a stronger tie between the two counterparts, what a godsend it
would be to humanity I
When the intermediary between the etheric and physical body is
not normal, as in the case of epilepsy, some subjects drift into
imbecility. I am acquainted with one woman who became gifted
with unusual clairvoyant powers about the same time when she
became a victim of epilepsy. Again, some outstanding figures in
history have been epileptics, such as Cresar, Napoleon and Socrates.
Just why abnormalities of the mind bring about specific results in
specific cases is a matter of which we know little.
ECCENTRICITIES OF THE SENSES
The senses, within cord-activity range, function so capriciously
that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to give an entirely
satisfactory account of what might, and might not, happen in the
"sense field." The best that can be done, at least the best that I
can do, is to tell of these curious sense-functionings, as I have
experienced them.
First, let us take the sense of sight. When we are in coincidence,
and conscious, we see only those objects which agree in vibration,
or are within the r~nge of vibration, to which our eyes are attuned
-unless we are clairvoyant. When we move out of coincidence,
and are conscious, the sense of sight does not always restore itself
immediately ; but when it does, the range of vibration has increased,
and we are then able to see not only the material things, which we
formerly saw, but astral things as well. We call this "seeing
astrally," or " astral vision."
During close-range separation, with consciousness, there are
several ways in which this" seeing" may occur. The astral cable
is as adaptable to the conduction of " sense currents " as is the body ;
and the senses can shift back and forth from one body to the other,
or be in both bodies and the cable at the same time-within cord-
activity range. Oft-times the phantom can be detached (within cord-
activity range) and consciousness will be on duty. The subject
will see the phantom from the physical eyes (although they are
closed) moving, standing, lying, in the air, etc.-in the room.
' sheaths ' (the physical and the etheric) which should never be separated during
the lifetime of the physical body: and which cannot be separated, partially, without
causing serious physical injury, or completely, without causing the death of the
physical body.... Doctors having already discovered, in amesthetics, something
that acts directly upon the 'etheric link' and drives U out of the physical body,
should now tum their attention to discovering some means of acting upon the
etheric link in the reverse way ; to drive it back, or draw it back, or attract it back
into the physical body from which it has become dislocated. When they have
discovered a means to accomplish that, they will have discovered the means to
~ure all cases of' madness' caused by and due to such dislocations•..."-H.C.
E
54 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
I believe I mentioned before that the sleeper will sometimes
become conscious and see himself, in the astral, from his physical
eyes; lying about one foot above, and horizontal to, his physical
body. This body, which is resting in the air, appears gauzy and
seems to be trembling. He may awaken almost immediately after
seeing this, with a repercussion. And he will insist that he saw all
this by means of the physical eyes ; for, he will say, "I saw this
from the physical ; I saw the astral lying above me. Therefore, I
was conscious in the physical."
True as it may seem to him, he was not conscious in the physical
at all. He was conscious in the astral-the " sight current " moving
through the cable to the physical eyes. The physical did not see
the astral. It was not the physical eyes which saw the phantom
lying above the physical body, for the normal physical eyes could
not see the phantom, and, furthermore, the physical eyes were closed.
The seat of consciousness is in the astral body; and the current o~
vision, instead of centring at the astral body's eyes, was cutting
one of its peculiar capers, and making a circuit across the cable to
the physical eyes.
By way of illustration, let us take our normal sight, while
physically conscious. We look out from the eyes, we say, because
the current runs from the eye to the conscious mind. Now suppose
your eyes and the "wires" running from them were lifted out of
their sockets, placed one foot in front of you, and turned toward
you. Then you would see yourself, instead of looking out from
yourself. And that is how the astral-vision-current occasionally
functions, across the cable, and the phantom sees itself. And this
is but one eccentricity of astral vision !
There is another, still more complicated, more mystifying phe-
nomenon than astral vision, however, and that is dual astral vision,
which occurs when the projector apparently sees from the physical
eyes, and at the same time sees from the eyes of the astral body,
where he really is. When this occurs (it does so very rarely) the
subject can watch the astral just as if he were in the physical,
observing it as it moves about in the room ; and at the same time
he is able to see the physical counterpart, lying with closed eyes
upon the bed, as he moves about in the astral body.
What would you think if you were actually to experience such an
unbelievable happening ? What would you think if you could see
from two places, separated from each other, at the same time?
Why, it would only be natural for you to believe that you were
conscious at these two different places simultaneously. But we
have already learned that the conscious mind is not a part of the
physical body, but operates in the astral body. This dual astral
vision is not necessarily dual consciousness ; it is a double-track
sense of sight, one of these tracks running across the "line of force "
to the physical body, and the other to the astral body.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 55
The first time I ever experienced this I thought it was dual
consciousness; but I soon discovered that it was merely dual vision.
It occurs only within cord-activity range (so far as I know) as does
the single sense of sight from the physical eye. If dual astral vision
be operative, and the phantom moves beyond cord-activity range
-plink !-out goes the vision from the physical eyes.
Now, there are authorities who are of the opinion that it is
possible to produce dual consciousness, or consciousness in the
physical and the astral simultaneously. For my own part I cannot
say that this is impossible ; I have seen too many mystifying things
to deny that such dual consciousness can be produced. However,
I do not believe that I have ever experienced it-now that I under-
stand the dual action of the senses, which I formerly thought was
double consciousness.
In his book, Higher Psychical Development, Hereward Carrington
says:
" The astral body is, of course, very closely connected with the
' dream body '-with which it is more or less identical. Dr. Van
Eeden, of Holland, conducted some extremely interesting experi-
ments upon himself, in his dream body. He endeavoured to transfer
his consciousness to this body, so that he remembered everything
that transpired during sleep ; and to control that body so that,
through it, he would be enabled to manipulate physical objects in
the material world.
" He did not succeed fully in doing so, but came very near it-
and succeeded to the extent that he induced a complete dual con-
sciousness. He remembered clearly that he was asleep in bed, with
his arms folded across his breast ; and at the same time he remem-
bered clearly that he was looking out through the window and saw
a dog run up and look at him through the glass, and run away
again-and details of that character. He then remembered gliding
towards the couch on which his physical body was lying-lying
down beside it-and a moment later woke up and was again, of
course, in the physical body. But he had the extreme sense of
duality of consciousness of the two bodies."
Here, you will see, Dr. Van Eeden maintains that he was conscious
in the two bodies at the same time. I have met with experiences
similar to this one recorded by Dr. Van Eeden, many times, and at
first I too believed that my consciousness was in both bodies simul-
taneously; but after further investigating the mystery, I concluded
that it was, as I stated before, a double functioning of vision.
I have made the remark, and I again make it-that I have seen
too many wonders to deny that dual consciousness is possible; so,
although I do not contradict Dr. Van Eeden's claim in the least, I
wish to point out the striking similarity between what the Doctor
believes to be dual consciousness and what I believe to be dual
vision. You will notice, no doubt, that the account which Dr. Van
-
s6 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Eeden gives could easily be explained as the result of dual vision,
with a single consciousness, and the astral line of force carrying the
sense of sight to the position occupied by the physical eyes.
There is to me something about dual consciousness which seems
undesirable, even if it were a possibility. If consciousness can, in
fact, multiply itself ; if it can be in the physical body in the absence
of the spiritual body, then the claims which have been advanced-
that the consciousness operates through the non-material counter.;.
part alone-are fallacious. Now if, during a projection, the physical
body had a consciousness of its own-then of what use is the inner
man ? Can both bodies be conscious at the same time, while sepa-
rated ? If the cable breaks, will the physical still exist consciously ?
I think not. It is my own idea-and I have good reason for believing
it to be true-that what is supposed to be dual consciousness is in
reality an accessory track of astral vision located in the astral" line
of force" and working concurrently with the phantom's eyes.
Dropping this matter of dual consciousness for the present, we
will go back to our discussion of dual vision, for it is certain that
the latter exists within cord-activity range on many occasions. We
might even say that-during a conscious projection, within cord-
activity range-the sense of sight can function in three ways :
From the eyes of the phantom (as it should) ; from the spot occupied
by the physical eyes ; and from both simultaneously.1
As a rule one finds that the sense of sight acts from the phantom's
eyes alone ; but there are the above-mentioned exceptions ; and in
this work I have not followed the usual procedures, but have gone
deeply into the unusual features as well. However, I would advise-
the reader not to concentrate too long on those things which I have
spoken of as the unusual features of projection,lest these crystallize
in his mind, and by doing so influence his development ; for in the
astral " as one thinks, he is."
DUPLICATE SENSE OF TOUCH
In studying the above account of Dr. Van Eeden's,let us consider
an interesting feature contained therein. While standing by the
window {in the dream body or astral body} and looking out, the
Doctor saw a dog run up and look at him through the glass and run
away again. Evidently this dog could see astrally, as he was appar-
ently able to see the astral body of Dr. Van Eeden; and there is
no reason to believe that animals cannot do so as well as human
beings.
The dog, especially, seems equipped with subtle senses. I had
often heard that dogs are sensitives. I had a pet dog, in fact I have
1 There are times when the projected phantom can see from different parts of
its body without using the eyes. Of this, more later.-S.M.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 57
him yet, although he is thirteen years old. "Jack" is his name, a
mongrel, but always a true friend to me. I wanted to find out if
Jack could see me, while I was exteriorized in the astral body; so
I gave him sleeping-quarters in my own room. I knew I could
trust Jack not to meddle or to make any noise, and that he would
growl if anyone came near the room door at night.
There was only one trouble with Jack; he slept too soundly
these quarters, and whenever I did succeed in" getting out," he was
asleep and my presence did not arouse him I Then a night came
when, by accident I suppose, I was consciously exteriorized and
Jack was not asleep. He was standing on the floor, looking appeal-
ingly at my body on the bed, as if waiting for an invitation to
jump up and sleep beside it.
From the other side of the room I tried to get Jack's attention.
I moved to a spot where his eyes would be in line with mine, and
went through the motions of beckoning and calling him. Still his
eyes watched the physical, although once he held his head up and
sniffed the air in the direction of the phantom. But this was only
for an instant, and he seemed more taken up with watching the
shell than in seeing me. I do not believe that he even sensed that I
was not in the shell.
Finally something happened which did prove interesting. Jack
leaped on to the bed and pushed in closely against the side of the
oblivious body, and curled up there. And a.s he did so a strange
thing happened. The physical was rocked upward and downward
slightly, from the action of the springs, as the dog's weight landed
upon the bed, and the astral, in exactly the same time, rocked
upward and downward in the air, in perfect harmony with the
movement of the physical, although the astral body was in the
vertical and the physical was in the horizontal position.
But the most amazing part was that as the dog curled up against
the physical-it felt to me as if he were actually curling up against
my side in the astral, and I could feel his weight against me in the
side of my astral body until physically active again I How did this
transference of feeling or sense of touch occur ? In the same way
that one feels anything material ; in the same way that it feels,
when physically active-by sensing it through the currents of
feeling. They happen to be in physical, cable, and astral body,
when projected. In other words, if you feel anything material,
while in the astral body, you must be within cord-activity range,
and what you will feel will have to touch the material counterpart;
then it is transmitted over the "line of force " into the astral body,
and that is where you really feel it.
But this is only an idiosyncrasy of the sense of touch-just as
the sense of sight acts in an erratic manner, and occurs (so far as I
know) only within the range of cord-activity. We have seen, too,
that even movement, in the physical, can duplicate itself in the
58 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
astral, as it did when the physical rocked up and down from the
jar of the dog's weight, as he jumped upon the bed.
I have long known that, at times, when within cord-activity
range, a touch on the material body may be felt in the same spot
on the astral member; but it was news to me that the reverse of
this is possible also; and that a touch on the astral member can
be felt in the physical member; yet some eminent authorities seem
to have established this as true. Thus:
~·In some experiments which I have conducted, I have succeeded
in partly dissociating the two organisms, by means of hypnotic
suggestion; while the subject was in deep trance-and the inde-
pendent existence of this astral or etheric body has been proved by
phenomena of sensibility and motivity.
"Thus, after the inner body has been to some extent loosened, I
have pricked this body with a needle; and, though the prick was
some inches distant from the surface of the real, material body, the
subject, nevertheless, felt the prick as if it were on her real body.
" I pricked the surface of the etheric body, that is, distant some
six or eight inches from the material body, but, by a phenomenon
known to psychical students as ' repercussion " (of sensibility) it
rebounded or reacted upon the material body in such a way that
the subject felt the pricks actually in the body itself."
The experiments of others, along this line, strengthen or corrobo-
rate these tests, and Mr. Carrington, in his book, Higher Psychical
Development, goes on to say:
" The French experimenters . . . have conducted many useful
experiments on what they call exteriorization of sensibility, and
motivity-that is, the sensory power and the motive power. If I
place my hand over a match-box in order to move it, I have to
touch it. If, however, I am a medium, and I place my hand at a
distance of half an inch from the match-box, and then will that the
box shall be moved, it really is moved-the theory being that, in
this case, I can project from my fingers an energy which bridges the
gap between the fingers and the box-and so moves it. That is
projection of motive force.
" On the other hand, if I prick my finger, I feel it only if my finger
be touched; but when the sensibility is projected beyond the body,
-as it is, seemingly, in some cases of deep hypnosis and trance-
then you can prick a space half an inch from the finger, and you
will feel it ; and that has gone so far, in the experiments of Col. de
Rochas, and others, that they claim to have taken out the astral
body altogether, from the physical, and set it to one side, as it were ;
and, by pricking this body, every prick in the asttal body ' reper-
cussed,' as we say, or was felt in the original, physical body,
wherever the prick was made in the astral body.
"This, of course, bears.a striking resemblance to the old' witch-
craft ' phenomena-in which the witch was supposed to tum into
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 59
a dog or cat; and if the dog or cat were shot, or had an eye put out,
the next day the witch was found with an eye out-repercussion I
It is a striking similarity, curious and interesting."1
We have spoken of this before in connection with "materializa-
tion," you--will recall.
Although I have long known that, at times, when the projected
phantom is within cord-activity range, any touch on the physical
member is felt on the same spot of the astral member, the reverse
was " news " to me. And, without casting any doubt upon the
genuineness of these experiments, I must confess that I cannot
understand how a needle can prick the astral body, and be felt,
when that body is intangible and impervious to material things.
Remember that the experimenters who discovered this "reper-
cussion" of sensibility are scientific men, and are trustworthy.
The fact that I cannot understand how the needle can actually
come into contact with the astral body, which is non-material, does
not in the least disprove these claims.
In trying to solve this problem several purely theoretic explana-
tions presented themselves to my mind. I noticed, in reading these·
accounts, that the subject was under hypnosis, and wondered if this
repercussion of sensibility was not in some manner brought about
because of this condition. I also wondered if a similar occurrence
might not be brought about when projection occurred without
suggestion or hypnotism.
PHANTOM CAN PASS THROUGH NEEDLE-POINTS WITHOUT FEELING
It was about two years ago that I read the first accounts of reper-
cussion of sensibility, caused by needle-pricks on the astral body,
and I constructed a rude" pricker," to test this out. Taking a board
which reached from the head to the foot of the bed, I planted
several needles in it, points outward, and fastened this to the irons
of the bed, about eighteen inches directly over the place where I
slept, so that the needles pointed downward.
I succeeded in producing one projection, and experienced another
which was unintentional, during the weeks when I was trying this
experiment. Although the separations were not extensive, I did
pass through the board without the least tinge of feeling. It is for
this reason that I have been speculating upon the belief that reper-
cussion of sensibility, as produced by the French experimenters, is
somehow accounted for by reason of the hypnosis. I readily admit,
however, that I may be wrong in this idea. Let us, now, see how
1 A great deal of curious material regarding "repercussion" may be found in
Adolphe D'Assier's book Posthumous Humanity, in which an attempt is made to
connect such cases with certain phenomena of " witchcraft." See also my discussion
of the same theme, in The Problems of Psychical Research, Ch. " Witchcraft: its
Facts and Follies."-H.C.
6o THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
this might be hypnotic delusion of the senses. I quote ·Professor
L. A. Harraden :
DELUSIONS OF THE SENSES DURING THE HYPNOTIC TRANCE
"When this state is complete {hypnotic trance) the mind of the
subject remains dormant until aroused to activity by some suggestion
conveyed to him by the operator, and to which he responds as
automatically as a locomotive obeys the manipulations of its driver.
He is indeed, for the time, a mere thinking automaton. He is given
up to the domination of any idea that may be made to possess him,
and he has no power of judging its consistency with the actual facts,
because he is unable to bring it into comparison with them.
" Thus, he may be played upon like a musical instrument-
thinking, feeling, acting, just as the operator wills that he should
think, feel, speak or act ; but this, not as has been represented,
because his will has been brought into direct subjection to that of
the operator, but because his will is in abeyance, and all his mental
operations are directed by such suggestions as the operator may
choose to impress upon his consciousness.
" His mind, having lost its power of self-direction, cannot shake
off the yoke of any dominant idea, however tyrannical, but must
execute its behests. It cannot bring any notion with which it may
be possessed to the test of common sense, but must accept it; it
cannot recall any fact,. even the most familiar, that is beyond its
immediate grasp."
In another place Prof. Harraden says : " The organs of sense
and perception are all channels for the conveyance of any suggestion
made to the subject. In very many ways, by a look or a movement,
the hypnotist is able to convey a suggestion to his subject which will
be quite as potent as if made by means of speech." With a subject
in deep hypnotic trance, a needle can be run through the flesh, with
the suggestion to the subject that it is not felt ; and such will be
the result. .
Now, if a needle were stabbed into the space occupied by the
astral body {while that body is exteriorized and under hypnosis),
why could the subject not be made to feel this prick in the physical?
for we have already learned that sense-currents can be present in
the astral body, in the cable, and in the physical, all at the same
time. Thus, even though the pain be imagined it would be as real
to the subject as if it were not imagined, and, through duplicate
sensation, would be felt in the physical body.
The question in my mind is : Is the subject normally conscious,
when under the control of an operator, or is he subject to delusions,
·illusions, and hallucinations of the senses ? I think the latter is
the case. If the prick of the needle actually did make contact with
the sensibility of the astral body, and the subject were normally
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 61
conscious, he should feel it there. But I wonder if this same reper-
cussion of sensibility would occur if the operator suggested that it
would not be felt, as he pricked the space occupied by the astral
counterpart ?
For my own part, I cannot understand how a subject can be
himself, while exteriorized, can understand the true significance of
what is taking place, and still be under hypnotic tontrol. Most of
the French experiments were conducted through the medium of
hypnotism, but whether a normal condition of the phantom can be
brought about in this manner I am not prepared to say.
All that I have undertaken to say, however, in connection with
repercussion of sensibility, is nothing more than speculation. In
truth, I am no authority on astral projection which is induced by
hypnosis; I have never met with repercussion of sensibility, from
the astral to the physical, caused by the contact of any "material
object with the astral body-although repercussion of the astral
body itself is very common.
On the other hand, if the phantom were materialized at the end
of the " line of force," the needle could prick this temporary material
body, and, through duplicate sensibility, could be felt in the perma-
nent material, body. This would be logical, consistent; where<W~
pricking a needle into the non-material form and having it felt,
when the needle does not make contact with the astral, seems (to
me) to be very inconsistent. Suppose this theory to be true-that
a needle prick on the exteriorized astral body actually would make
contact with the sensibility. Wouldn't an astral entity have to be
constantly on the watch, dodging" pointed" material objects? If
he did not, these pointed objects would make contact with his
sensibility I There is something wrong with this theory ; I believe
it is delusion of the senses.
However, it would be the height of folly for me to say that reper-
cussion of sensibility (as claimed by the French authorities) is
impossible, especially when such notable men proclaim it to be
true. There is one thing of which I feel certain, however, in this
connection-which is that, if repercussion of sensibility takes place,
it does so while the phantom is within cord-activity range.
Let us again recall what " cord-activity range" is. It is a range
of near-separation, when the astral " line of force " is active and
above its minimum size ; when pull and resistance are present ;
when the senses cut capers and duplicate themselves ; when duplicate
motivity can be present; when catalepsy is almost always present;
when instability of the body is usual ; when the breathing and
heart-beat can activate the cable; when repercussions of the astral
body can take place. In short, it is a state of separation which is
not perfectly free, and in which abnormalities can exist ; it is a
state when, although the phantom is separated, it is still bound to
the physical counterpart-through the medium of the " line of
62 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
force " more or less firmly, according to the individual who is the
projector.
DUPLICATE SENSIBILITY AND OBSESSION
Let us again turn our attention, for a few moments, to transmis-
sion of sensibility from the physical to the astral body through the
medium of the cable. It has long been known that many victims of
violent death, especially when the death was painful, have returned
shortly after to mediums and have complained of still feeling the
pain which was present in the physical body at the time of death.
Most mediums, believing the astral body to be immune to pain,
have, while in communication with such tormented phantoms, told,
them that they (the phantoms) were dead, in a body immune to pain
and that the Ego, in the astral, is suffering from pain which is purely
imaginary. These bewildered beings do not merely imagine their
agony, in the beginning-even though the state of mind does keep
them obsessed with the idea long after the cable has" snapped."
What really happens in such a case is this : The phantom, at the
time of death, was exteriorized and within cord-activity range, while
sensibility was transmitted from the physical body to the astral
body-just as I, while exteriorized and within cord-activity range,
could feel the weight of the dog in my side, while in the astral body.
This pain, in conjunction with the bemuddlement of such an
experience as the victim is passing through, actually drives him
mad, obsessed, and the obsession continues, long after the cable
severs. It is not merely a condition of mind which puts the phantom
in this predicament; it is the actual transference of sensation across
the" line 9f force," transference of the actual pain-the actual pain,
mind you. And, in this madness, the victim is of·ten constantly
living through-even for months afterwards-the death he experi-
enced ; in other words, he continues to experience the death and
its painfulness. Let me quote an experience which illustrates this.
Mrs. M. E. Hess, a personal friend of the present writer's, who is an
obsession-healer living at La Salle, Illinois, gives this account, which
we will call :
THE CASE OF u 89 "
A patient-a lady of about thirty-five years of age-was brought
to Mrs. Hess. The patient believed that she was a locomotive
{engine) and would make all of the sounds characteristic of what she
·thought she was. She would go through the house-chug-chug-
chug-then blow out steam-then whistle-and would follow the
track through imaginary towns.
On investigation, the healer found that a spirit, in the astral, was
constantly following the woman, and that this spirit was a loco-
motive engineer. Next, Mrs. Hess got into communication with the
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 63
obsessor, and learned that he was killed in a violent manner, under
his engine, No. 8g. This, in fact, was what he called himself (8g),
and he was in such bewilderment that he thought he was still under
the engine. He could not understand that he was dead and in the
astral body.
By bringing the engineer's mother on to the scene-who had
passed away prior to that time-the obsessor was eventually en-
lightened, and found that his body was not hurting him after all.
But it had not been mere imagination in the beginning. "Eighty-
nine" was thrown into this insanity in the outset by actually being
conscious in the astral body, within cord-activity range, when
duplicate sensation existed, and he could feel the engine upon him,
accompanied by the pain it brought.
You wonder at these astral victims becoming insane, being them-
selves obsessed? Why, such an experience as this would drive any
one into a similar state of mind ! But, fortunately, factors at the
time of death are not always as unfortunate as they were in this
case. Consciousness does not always manifest at the same time and
place; sensibility does not always circulate in the three organisms
at once (the physical body, astral body and astral cable); deaths
are not always violent and crushing. Yet this case goes to show
that there is, after all, a reason why some spirits return and com-
plain of the pangs which they are still experiencing-and which to
them are more than imagination.
Do not think for one minute that this pain in the astral is not
genuine. It is real; the sensibility is the same sensibility that it
was when the bodies were in coincidence ; and, although the astral
phantom is insensible to physical things, if he does contact the pain
by way of the physical-through the cable-it is a real pain, and
stays after the cable snaps and until it is cured by the mind. It is,
I realize, hard to conceive of sensibility existing apart from the
nerves of the body ; but merely because it seems incredible is no
reason why it cannot do so.
Perhaps this in some manner explains why some persons who
have had arms, or legs severed, claim to be able to feel the arm or
the leg after the stump has healed. Might it not be through the
sensibility present in the astral, occupying the space formerly
occupied by the physical arm? In Psychical Phenomena and the
War, Hereward Carrington has quoted a case similar to that of the
engineer " eighty-nine." We will call this :
THE PAINFUL BAYONET CASE
On New Year's Day, rgr6, three friends were sitting for spirit-
communication when a soldier " came " to them, complaining that
the bayonet (which killed him) was still through his body (astral),
and that it was giving him pain; that he wished to have it removed.
64 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
After an extensive conversation between the astral entity and the
three sitters, much was learned as to the phantom-that he was a
Canadian, was the husband of a Mrs. Weston's cook {whose name
was Alice) who lived in Herne Bay {near London), and other details.
But his main concern was that the bayonet was hurting him (he
had been run through by a German, on Christmas Day) and he
wanted it removed. One of the sitters replied : " You are deluding
yourself. If you are dead you are in a new body-the bayonet may
be sticking in the old body, but it is not really sticking in you now."
To this the phantom replied, "Just try a bit yourself." It seems
that the astral being was fully aware of the pain, and would not
admit that it was a delusion until one of the sitters apparently
pulled the bayonet out. Where did this soldier get his idea of pain ?
From having it transmitted across the astral cable, from the physical,
while conscious. Because it was ultimately eliminated by the mind
does not prove that the pain did not exist.
But, you will say: "How do you account for the bayonet?
Surely there was no bayonet sticking in the phantom's astral body."
But there was l Not a physical bayonet, but an astral form of the
bayonet, created by the mind of the phantom. We will discuss
how the mind creates its own environment later.
DUPLICATE AND SHIFTING MOTIVITY
A tremendous "force" operates within the astral cable. I have
often wished that some method could be devised for measuring this
force in physical terms ; that is, to determine just how much material
weight could be moved by this force, if the cable could make contact
with it.
I firmly believe that, while projected and within cord-activity
range, if I could obtain some tangible " grip " upon a physical
object, the force in the cable could move that object, even though
the latter weighed a ton !
From my experience, I have good reason to believe that a" free"
cable can extend outward from the body, i.e. a cable or rod without
an astral body at its end, and that this free cable can exert a push-
and-pull action, and can transmit " motivity " which, under certain
conditions, can cause raps and move objects. (One of the methods
by which clairvoyance is said to be facilitated is by means of an
astral " line of force.")
Granting this to be true, it would be possible for the" motivity"
of the subject's body to shift outside the body, along the "line of
force," and with his bodily motivity thus exteriorized, the subject
would be powerless, for the time, although his astral body would
still be in coincidence and he could be conscious. It has often been
noted that a medium has been in this condition of powerlessness
when "raps" were produced.
l'HAI\TOM I'H.O.JECTE!l Ar\D UPRH;HT WITH!~ COH.D-ACTII'!TY-RAI\GE
The pu::.h ancl pu11 in the astralliur-of-forcP rauscs instability of tlw phanto1n
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL.BODY 65
A " RAP" PRODUCED AT WILL, DURING EXTERIORIZATION
OF MOTIVITY
In fact I have produced "raps" myself while in this state. I
recall very distinctly waking one morning, and finding myself minus
my motivity ! I reasoned within myself thus : If my motivity is
extending outside my body, and I am now conscious, why cannot I
wiU that a rap be produced ? And I did wiU with determination
that a rap should come on the dresser. The rap was produced! As
a rule, however, when one gets into this condition of exteriorized
motivity, he becomes too excited ever to think of doing such a thing,
and, instead of willing his motivity away from him, he is only
anxious for its return !
As to moving objects when the astral body itself is projected on
the end of the line of force, under certain conditions this can be
done, and we shall discuss this later. For the moment, the point I
wish to emphasize is this : Motivity can " shift " across the astral
body, just as sensibility can. It can make quick shifts or slow shifts.
And, during astral projection (within cord-activity range), dual
motivity can exist in some degree. Of this I am certain ! When
this occurs, every move of the projected end of the line of force
reacts upon the subject's physical anatomy-usually in a slight
manner, depending upon the amount of motivity still existing there,
which as a rule is very little.
With this condition of duplicate motivity, a move of the astral
arm will produce a twitch ~n the physical arm-much as a dog's
legs will twitch in his dreams.
Duplicate motivity is much less common than duplicate sensi-
bility, some persons seeming to be more inclined to it than others.
It is present in the unconscious and the dream state more than in
the conscious state. Here is a mystery which is too deep for me ;
but I know it to be the truth, viz. that one can move an object in
his dream, but that the object does not move until about two seconds
later-in reality. I have had an expe~ence of this character myself.
All of which reminds me of what Sir Oliver Lodge has stated, in
discussing the phenomena produced by Eusapia Paladino. He says,
in part:
"The fact ... that the medium's body undergoes sympathetic
or corresponding movements or twitches is very instructive and
interesting. Sometimes, when she (the medium) is going to push a
distant object, she will make a little sudden push with her hand in
this direction, and immediately afterward the object moves. Once
this was done for my edification with constantly the same object,
viz. a bureau in the corner of the room.
" ... When six or seven feet away the time-interval (between the
push and the movement of the object) was something like two
seconds. When the accordion is being played, the fingers of the
66 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
medium are moving in a thoroughly appropriate manner, and the
process reminds one of the twitching of a dog's legs when he is
supposed to be dreaming that he is chasing a hare. It is as if
Eusapia were dreaming that she was fingering the instrument, and
dreaming it so vividly that the instrument was actually played.
" It is as if a dog dreamt of the chase with such energy that a
distant hare was really captured and killed, as by a phantom dog ;
and, fanciful as for the moment it may seem, and valueless as I
suppose such speculations are, I am, I confess, at present more than
half disposed to look in some such direction for a clue to these
effects. In an idealistic conception of nature it has by many
philosophers been considered that thought is the reality, and that
material substratum is but a consequence of thought.
"So, in a minor degree, it appears here; it is as if, let us say,
the dream of the entranced person were vivid enough physically to
effect surrounding objects and actually produce objective results ;
to cause not only real and permanent movements of ordinary objects,
but also temporary fresh aggregations of material particles into
extraordinary objects-these aggregations being objective enough
to be felt, heard, seen and probably even photographed while they
last."
When I say that one can dream of moving a physical object, and
that {if the object be moved} it is not moved in reality until about
two seconds after one has dreamed that he has moved it, I mean
just what I say, regardless of the fact that common sense would
deny this. {Perhaps this peculiarity will be fathomed in the future.)
When the physical body twitches in a dream, it is often be&use the
dream body moves, and duplicate motivity causes the reaction upon
the former.
The phantom can lie above the physical body during sleep, of
course, and duplicate involuntary actions take place, e.g. nervous
twitches or similar unconscious movements on the part of the
physical body.
It is easier to move a physical object with a free line of force than
with the astral body projected on the line of force, for in the former
case the motivity is concentrated at the point, while in the latter
case the motivity is required to manipulate the astral body, and if
the body has its motivity restored to it, the motivity is diffused
throughout it.
I have often spoken of the tremendous magnetic pull exerted by
the line of force, during interiorization. It is interesting to know
that this "drawing-in" force is identical with the force which
draws the materialized spirit back into the cabinet; and many
prominent experimenters have found that, when anything happens
to the materialized form, it reacts upon the body of the medium in
the cabinet ; in other words, there is a line of force between the
medium's physical body a,nd the materialized form.
.
THE- PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
· The theory might be advanced that (on many occasions, at least)
it is the medium's astral body which materializes, constituing a
-duplicate material body of the medium outside the cabinet. Should
this happen (and it does) what would the sceptic say? He would
pronounce the manifestation a fraud, and insist that he had exam-
ined the medium's flesh-and-blood body. And to prove his argu-
ment he would stick a hat pin into the wrist of the materialized
form-which, of course, would react upon the body of the medium,
inside the cabinet, and this scar would prove (to the sceptic, who
knows nothing of repercussion and reaction) that the medium had
been "faking." I do not by any means say that all mediums are
genuine, but there is a possibility for a genuine medium to be
discredited.
If the psychic cable be severed, while the astral body is projected,
death to the physical body is the result. This is apparently what
has taken place in certain seances, when the "body" has been
seized-which, in such cases, proved to be the astral body of the
medium. It was prevented, as it were, from being drawn back into
the physical. In some cases-which are on record, I believe-the
medium has died in the cabinet.
I am well acquainted with an old occultist, Carl Pfuhl, who told
me that, on one occasion, a little girl who was sleeping in a hammock,
outside the seance room, while a materialization seance was in
process inside, materialized in the seance room, and claimed to be
the daughter of a member of the circle-who had a spirit daughter
about the same age. Yet the form was that of the girl sleeping in
the hammock outside, and had not been in any way " transformed "
to represent the girl she claimed to be I The girl who slept in the
hammock knew nothing of it, on awaking!
We know that thought can affect the form of the astral body,
and it might be possible for some spirit, wishing to manifest, to
impress the unconscious astral body of the medium into a form like
its own, and then talk through it. However, this is a subject into
which we have not time to enter now. We have gone a long way in
our discussion of duplicate motivity, but I believe that it has been
worth our while.
-
CHAPTER VI
THE PURPOSE OF SLEEP1
"SEPARATION" and "discoincidence" have been used
more or less as synonoymous terms, although actually
there is a difference in their meaning in relation to astral
phenomena. The astral entity can be discoincided from
the physical, and yet not be separated from it, so that a clear space
lies between the two. That is, the astral can be one inch out of
coincidence, and still the bodies would, in parts, occupy the same
space. Yet these parts would not coincide with each other.
I suppose you will say, "If this were true we should have known
it before." However, I tell you that every time you sleep your
astral body moves slightly out of coincidence-perhaps only a
fraction of an inch, perhaps more. At any rate there is discoincidence
during sleep, although this discoincidence may be infinitesimal, and
has little to do with one's ability to project, even though projection
is an extension of discoincidence. One can be normal, entirely
"immune" to astral projection; yet his astral body always slightly
discoincides during sleep.
Hereward Carrington was on the right track when he wrote :
"Various theories have been advanced in the past to explain
sleep, but no satisfactory theory has ever been fully accepted.
Thus we have so-called "chemical theories," which endeavour
to account for sleep by assuming that certain poisonous substances
are formed in the body during waking hours and are eliminated
during sleep. Others have suggested that sleep is due to peculiar
conditions of the circulation of blood in the brain ; still others that
the action of certain glands explains sleep; others that muscular
relaxation accounts for it ; others that the lack of external stimuli
is sufficient to induce profound slumber.
" All of these theories have been shown insufficient to explain
the facts. We shall never arrive at a satisfactory theory of sleep,
doubtless, until we admit the presence of a vital force and the exist-
ence of an individual human spirit, which withdraws more or less
completely from the body during the hours of sleep, and derives
spiritual invigoration and nourishment during its sojourn in the
spiritual world."
There is one thing about sleep we do not understand and that is
1 Sleep is the natural restorative, though how this is brought about is
unknown . .. "-Brain and Mind, by R. J. A. Berry, F.R.S., p. 489.-H.C.
68
...
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 69
"the process of unconsciousness." We do not know how uncon-
sciousness is brought about. We do not know where the conscious
mind seemingly evaporates to. We do know, however, the purpose
of sleep. You would never recuperate " nervous energy " if the astral
body conformed everlastingly to the physical, and were in exact
coincidence. We might term this natural discoincidence, which
everyone undergoes, " the zone of quietude," for there is no activity
of the bodies there, except the natural functioning. If you could
see (astrally) some one asleep, you would observe the physical form,
and above this (perhaps only extending a fraction of an inch beyond
it) you would see an outline of the astral body. Remember I am
speaking only of natural sleep. .
Normally, the astral slides out of coincidence and into coincidence
again, unnoticed by the subject going to sleep, or awakening-in a
slow, quiet way. Yet it can do so with such speed that we cannot
consciously comprehend this duration of time. It is usually in the
hypnagogic state that this occurs, and, as I have said before, the
subject is seldom aware of it, seldom feels it-although at times h€
does so. Let us recall what Walsh has said regarding this:
" Sleep comes on gradually, the muscles slowly relaxing and the
senses becoming dulled. Many people, on going to sleep, experience
the feeling of sliding down a hole, or an incline, and sometimes
awaken startled. These people are of a nervous type, though
fatigue or slight deviation from good health may predispose to the
sensation. It is possible, by paying attention to the sensations
which are psychologically present in the hypnagogic state, to note
the relaxation of the muscles and the sinking or sliding sensation
accompanying it."
Now, if you could hold consciousness up to the last moment, in
the hypnagogic state, you could feel this act of discoincidence, as
indeed nervous and fatigued people often do. And why do they ?
Because the astral always moves into the zone of quietude, or
slightly discoincides, during sleep, for the purpose of charging with
universal, or cosmic, energy.1 In the nervous person, in the fatigued,
1 As to this theory-that the human body is recharged with energy during the
hours of rest and sleep--this is one which I myself have defended at great length,
purely from the physiological point of view, in my Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition
(pp. 225-350) and elsewhere: (journal, A.S.P.R., April, 1908; Annals of Psychic
Sci6nce, August, 1908, etc.) The theory then advanced was that the human body
more nearly resembles the electric motor than it does the steam-engine; and that
the ordinary theory (that chemical combustion of food supplies the vital energy of
the body) is a mistake; rather, the nervous system is re-charged with vital energy
during the hours of rest and sleep, and that food merely supplies broken-down tissue.
Arguments in support of this theory were then advanced, drawn from (a) fasting
cases, and (b) daily observation-which shows us that, no matter how much food
we eat, there always comes a time, nevertheless, when we must rest and sleep in
order to restore this energy, and that no amount of food will take the place of sleep--
thus differentiating the human body from all other machines. It was also pointed
out that all the accepted facts of physiology (calorimeter experiments, etc.) could
be explained just as adequately on this theory as on that commonly accepted ; and
further that, if such a. theory were true, it would enable us to accept, and accou:Qt
F
70 THE PROJECTION QF THE ASTRAL BODY
the " condenser" (astral body} is greatly run down ; that is what
nervousness really is, the astral moves out more easily, sooner, while
unconsciousness follows a moment later; hence the subject experi-
ences the astral body movement.
And just here another eccentric sensation is felt. The astral,
where the mind really is, often gets the sensation of sinking or
sliding, because the sensibility is in both bodies, and the physical
seems to move downward, while, as a matter of fact, the astral
moves upward. The subject, of course, thinks that he is in the
physical body, while the truth is that he is a fraction of an inch
discoincided from it.
The question no doubt has presented itself in your mind : " Can
the subject ' feel ' this disattachment of the astral, when in the act
of projection?" Naturally, the subject would have to be conscious
in order to know anything as to what is taking place; and, if he is,
there are certain sensations, which when once he has become familiar
with their significance, he will always recognize as " signs " of the
loosening of the astral body.
One does not have to experience an extensive projection in order
to know what these " feelings " are like. He can experience them
in the hypnagogic state, when going to sleep-if he will but concen-
trate his attention upon himself, and try to see what is really
happening, as he enters sleep. In other words, if he will but train
himself to keep the balance between consciousness and unconscious-
ness-while slightly favouring the former-without tension of mind
-and will maintain this well into the hypnagogic state, he will feel
the discoincidence, as the phantom enters the zone of quietude,
usually as a falling sensation, or as if air had suddenly accumulated
under the centre of his body, mostly under the stomach. A slight
repercussion of body generally follows this, if conscious, because of
emotion.
There is one thing more to which I would call attention. When
the subconscious contemplates an extensive projection, the astral
phantom is put under the spell of catalepsy. This can take place
either while in exact coincidence, or in the zone of quietude. If it
(the astral body) becomes cataleptic, while in exact coincidence with
the physical, the physical will be cataleptic ; but if it comes under
this spell while the phantom is in the zone of quietude, the physical
does not become cataleptic. These conditions do not develop
for, many psychical phenomena which would be quite inexplicable on the ordinary,
materialistic theory.
(The reader is referred to the argument, for the detailed defence of this theory.)
Mr. Muldoon's idea-that the astral body is the " condenser " or accumulator or
vehicle of this energy, is an extension of this view, postulating the astral body as the
link between the nervous system and the Cosmic Reservoir of Energy, from which
the energy is drawn. Our theories dovetail together with the greatest nicety, and
I cannot but feel that the teachings of orthodox physiology,must ultimately be modi-
fied, somewhat along these lines, in order to include supemormal physical phenomena,
and also the reality and intermediary-functioning of the astral body.-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 7I
suddenly, but creep over one almost unnoticed, and the subject
must be very impressionable to catch them at all.
When you experience the falling or sliding sensation, in the
hypnagogic state, and become startled (usually jumping) you may
think you have been slightly conscious up to that time ; but if you
will observe the psychological changes very carefully, you will find
that consciousness was slowly diminishing all the time-it was
slowly diminishing-almost gone-then the sliding feeling concur-
rent with the startled jump-and you are conscious again I And if
you think about it you will admit that, for a moment, you were not
sure of being conscious. It was during that very brief moment of
"unknowingness" that the subconscious Will moved the phantom.
DREAM CONTROL
Many dreams are instigated by the state of the mind at this time,
and you will acquire the ability to dream a certain dream, and in
that dream you will often keep the body (astral) moving on, instead
of stopping in the zone of quietude. We shall see, before finishing
this work, how an astral projector can be dreaming and suddenly
become conscious, and find his body projected in an environment
suited to the dream. I have done this several times, and will relate
these instances later. Thus you can, by practice, produce a desired
dream. This is called "dreaming true," and dream-control is one
method of producing projection of the astral phantom-and a
pleasant way too.
Of this subject Hereward Carrington says : " There is a practical
experiment which may be conducted, by which ' true dreams ' can
be induced. It is very important to observe yourself in the process
of ' falling ' to sleep ; to observe consciousness while it is passing
into the dream state.1 If you conduct experiments of this character
on yourself, you will be enabled gradually to keep conscious control
of yourself up to the moment you fall asleep ; and this self-observa-
tion-the consciousness of going to sleep-is extremely interesting.
"When you have learned to do that, then construct before your-
self, mentally, a definite scene, which you must hold firmly in mind.
Then, as you are falling to sleep, hold this scene before you, and at
the very last moment-before you fall asleep-consciously transfer
yourself into the scene-in other words, step into the picture ; and,
if you have developed yourself to the requisite point, you will be
enabled to carry over an unbroken consciousness into the dream
state ; and in this way you have a perfect continuity of thought ;
there is no break in the consciousness ; you step into the dream
picture and go on dreaming consciously. That is the process of
1 Was it coincidence that put the term "falling to sleep" into use, I wonder,
or was this brought into being because of the falling sensation ?-S.M.
72 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
dreaming true, and after this dream is fully enacted, then you should
remember perfectly all that has transpired during the sleep period."
I wonder if Mr. Carrington knows how almost perfectly in har-
mony his instructions for " dreaming true " are with the method of
dream control used to induce the astral body out into space-to
enact a part in that dream? One step beyond what Mr. Carrington
has here given is the accomplishment of moving out the astral body
to a locale which the subconscious hitches up with the dream formu-
lated by the conscious. Later, when you learn the method of pro-
moting projection, and learn how to induce factors which are
positive, or favourable to projection, you will be able to cause the
astral actually to step out into the dream, and will either remember
all that has transpired, on awaking, or will become wide awake
during the act of the dream. In that case the dream vanishes and
you are there-projected.
This, you will recall, was the formula followed by Dr. Van Eedan,
which brought him such successful results. Care must be taken,
however, in constructing the dream, and the dream must be fully
thought out by the conscious mind, and repeatedly constructed,
before the subconscious can reproduce it accordingly. Now, the
nature of the dream to be produced is important, and should be
built upon lines of action which correspond to the actions which
the astral phantom naturally follows on exteriorizing, so that the
sensation in the dream will agree with the sensation produced by
the action of the phantom, should that phantom awaken.
The nature of the dream must necessarily be that of plausibility,
so that the sensation of the dream is enjoyed by the dreamer, and
is also in harmony with the sensation of exteriorization; then, if
separation be induced, the sensations and emotions will be pleasant
-should the phantom begin to regain consciousness. A dream
which agrees in action and sensation with the same actions and
sensations produced by exteriorization will tend to pull the phantom
out.
Action, of course, means action of Self in the dream. One must
have movement of self outstanding in the dream-must always be
participating in the dream-not merely standing back and looking
on. Still stronger promotive factors (to projection) will be induced
if the dream be of this nature, and centred around a desire or
suppressed desire. Later, I shall give specific directions for pro-
ducing astral projection by " dream control."
A word of warning ! If you are neurotic, easily influenced, lack
" will," and are fearful; if you have any reason to believe yourself
susceptible to obsession; if you live in an atmosphere of discord-
do not try to practise astral body projection. If you are this type,
never " think within yourself" and never " watch yourself in the
process of falling to sleep " ; turn toward physical culture rather
than psychical culture.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 73
SUBJECTS OF " NERVOUS TEMPERAMENT " ARE BEST SUITED FOR
PSYCHIC EXPERIMENTS
While everyone slightly discoincides during sleep, i.e. moves into
the "zone of quietude," those of a nervous temperament do so
sooner, more easily, and exteriorize further than those of other
temperaments. Temperament, after all, has much to do with pro-
jection ; the neurotic types, not being bound so strongly to the
physical body, are the best subjects for projection-although other
types are not to be considered immune.
Hereward Carrington, who has gone deeply into all phases of the
occult, and whom I shall no doubt quote freely throughout this
work, says, in summing up the experiments of Dr. Charles Lancelin,
a French scientist and occultist :
" The right or suitable temperament .must be chosen for the
experiment ; and if this be not found, the experiment is liable to
fail, or only succeed partially. 'Temperament' must not be con-
fused with 'character,' or mental make-up. Temperament is a
psychological state produced by the predominance of an element,
organ or system in the human body.1
"There are four chief types of temperament-nervous, bilious,
lymphatic and sanguine. Of these, the nervous temperament is the
best suited for psychic experiments of all kinds ; the bilious is the
most receptive ; the sanguine is liable to hallucinations, both sub-
jective and objective; while the lymphatic is the least suitable of
all, from every point of view.
" Of course, one's temperament is usually a compound of all of
these, which are rarely found in their ideal state; but the pre-
dominantly nervous temperament is the one best suited for this
test-as for all other psychic experiments. Now, there is at all
times a certain outflowing of nervous force, or 'externalization of
neuricity,' as it is called, in all individuals, but this becomes very
pronounced in certain types of individuals known as ' mediums' or
'psychics.' In them this force, which is thus radiated, can be
measured by means of specially constructed instruments, known as
Biometers, Sthenometers, etc.
" Several instruments of this kind have been devised by French
experimenters. They show that there is a repulsive force generated
from one side of the body, and an attractive force from the other
side. In normal human beings these forces should be equal. When
they are not, odd things are likely to happen in their immediate
environment. Their relative power may be tested by means of
these instruments."
Although, as Lancelin has pointed out, there is an inflowing and
outflowing of cosmic energy, or force, in all types, during the waking
1 The reader must bear in mind that·this quotation embodies merely a summary
of the views of M. Lancelin.-H.C.
74 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
hours, the outflow exceeds the inflow, especially in the nervous type.
So, when sleep intervenes-which is Nature's way of charging up
the Condenser-the astral condenser separates from the physical
body. The nervous type, requiring the greatest amount of re-
charging, moves out of coincidence more easily, sooner, and to a
greater distance than any other type.
WHEN OUTSIDE CORD-ACTIVITY RANGE THE PHANTOM IS FREE
Once the phantom advances beyond cord-activity range, it is free
and subject to its own will. There is no longer any liability to
eccentricities of the senses, instability of body, or other complica-
tions which are present before reaching this superior position.
These complications do not all disappear in an instant, but
gradually, as the body has been advancing; and, when projection
eventually reaches a certain point, the cable has diminished to its
minimum calibre, resembling a long strand of spider-web and
showing no activity whatever.
Regardless of the apparent deadness or laxity of the cord, there
is necessarily an intrinsic flow of cosmic energy from the astral, or
animate, to the physical, the inanimate; but this flow of force by
no means compares, in quality, with what it was before this advance-
ment.
PROLONGED PROJECTION
In the type of projection which is distant and prolonged, the
physical may take on a cadaverous aspect-the cosmic energy it
receives being meagre in amount. There are accounts of people
who, while projected, have been thought dead. This is rare, of
course, but the physical body may have all the appearances of being
dead. When projection is of this type, the temperature of the
torpid member may take an unbelievable fall-the condition much
resembling hibernation in animals.
THE PROJECTOR CANNOT GET LOST
You may wonder if this (projection) is not after all a dangerous
practice. You may wonder if the phantom, once free, cannot lose
itself; if it might not remain at a distance for too long a period of
time, and allow the physical body to expire. As a rule the sub-
conscious-controlling-power knows exactly what it is doing ; it is a
far better detector of conditions than the conscious mind.
Do you think that one could project himself into the free state-
outside cord-activity range-and be conscious there and refuse to
come back, and thus allow his physical body to die? Naturally
one who has never projected may sieze upon this idea; but he will
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 75
find, when he attempts to stay away too long from the physical
body, that he cannot retain consciousness.
Some authorities believe that a projector can become lost, while
out of the body. This is not true. Again these same authorities
will tell you that the astral body can project to distant and un-
familiar places by an effort of will. This is true, and being true the
projector cannot become lost, for he can return to his physical body
by willing to do so.
The subconscious mind can intervene in the twinkling of an eye and
pull back the phantom instantly, from any distant place, into cord-
activity range whence it is pulled back into the physical. In fact
it is subconscious power that speeds the phantom to distant places
and back again, even though consciousness be never missed during
that infinitesimal moment. One can be walking about, outside
cord-activity range, perfectly conscious, and suddenly find himself
under subconscious control and moving toward the physical to
interiorize.
So, you see it makes no difference whether one does get outside
cord-activity range, and is free ; he is still under the operating sub-
conscious will. You may have nursed the opinion that one might
become dissociated from his physical counterpart and wander into
some strange place in the astral, and, being conscious, not have the
insight or sense of direction to find his way back again to his material
abode. This is impossible ; the subconscious Will can shoot one
back into the physical-almost before the thought of getting back
has fully completed itself. You may think that the conscious mind
is in itself wonderful, you may fancy that you can think and act
with rapidity ; but once you have become conscious in the astral
body, you will realize at what a snail's pace the conscious mind
moves in comparison with the super-intelligence which is subcon-
scious. If you undertake to develop projection of the astral body,
you need have no fear of becoming lost in the astral.
HOW THE PHYSICAL IS RECHARGED DURING PROJECTION
I have on different occasions observed that while one is in the
free state-no matter whether in the immediate environment of the
" shell " or remote from it-he will be shot back within cord-
activity range at intervals, and at once the physical body will begin
to respire in a stronger manner. It is plain that the subconscious
has an eye on the condition of the physical body, as well as every-
thing else, and that the condenser of cosmic energy-the phantom
-is brought back to charge up the physical through the medium of
the cable, which has increased in size as the bodies approach one
another, and is carrying over a stronger line of force.
In his book Higher Psychical Development Carrington has said:
"This question of the projection of the astral body is a very
•
· 76 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
important one, because, in the first place, it is one of the most
interesting of all psychic experiments ; and is, in one sense, the
object of attainment of all three schools-the Yoga, the Occult and
Psychic. They all endeavour to arrive at very much the same
result, by different means ; and they attain it in different degrees
of self-consciousness.
" When the Yogi has obtained the degree of perfection in which
he can project his astral body at will, he can travel to great dis-
tances and see and hear distant events-which accounts for the
Hindus' extraordinary power of knowing things which are happening
at a distance; and also renders possible voluntary interment for
long periods of time-burial, and so forth-the astral being removed
from the physical.
" The body of sensation being entirely gone, the physical body
merely keeps up its vegetative functions, for the time being,
sufficiently to allow life, in some sense, to remain in it. But, you
see, the physical body is supported, on this theory, by a continuous
life-current, which travels to it from the astral body, through this
astral cord or connection, connecting it with the astral ; and after
he is revived and has been restored from the trance state, the Yogi
claims to remember the experiences which he has passed through,
during this period of interment-when he was apparently ' dead '
to the outer world."
In her commendable work, My Experiences While Out of My
Body, CoraL. V. Richmond has said:
"I became aware of being led to where the earthly form was still
breathing, being cared for and imbued with breath by a guardian
spirit, and by devoted friends in human life."
From this we learn (and it is true) that friends in the invisible
realm can and many times do lend a helping hand to the projected
medium ; which naturally is a great asset in conquering this phase.
There is one inconsistency found in this testimony of Mrs.
Richmond, however, which is that her guardian spirit is credited
with imbuing the senseless body with "breath." We have already
learned that the force which regulates breathing is transmitted
from the astral body to the physical, through the astral cord. To
imbue the earthly counterpart with life is the ultimate purpose of
the astral cord.
Friends in the invisible world can aid. Of this there can be no
doubt. But the power of respiration comes through the astral
cable. It is probable that Mrs. Richmond, beholding a friend
watching over her, assumed that what she has said was true. Astral
exteriorization is not dependent upon "spirits" in any way, yet
they (spirits) can assist. Projection can take place without a mortal
or spirit ever nearing the physical form. The directing power lies
within the individual himself.
It is evident that Mrs. Richmond took it for granted that the
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 77
guardian spirit was responsible for the breathing process. It has
been shown how, during projection into the free state, the phantom
is brought back at intervals to recharge the physical. Further
searching into Mrs. Richmond's experiences reveals the fact that
she was, after all, aware of this line of force operating between the
bodies, for in another place she says, "These periods of calling my
attention to and visiting the body were brief-just enough to keep
the vital spark alive," etc.
A student, in attempting this phase, should never forget that the
super-intelligence which performs the seeming miracle is within
himself. He need never suppose that, in undertaking his develop-
ment, he is entrusting his life to the conscious intelligence of anyone
-either mortal or spirit-although he should be thankful for any
aid others may render him.
It is the super-intelligence within him which handles the situation
and if he even forms the idea that he must depend upon others in
the spirit, he will probably never achieve his aim. To accomplish
results, therefore, do not go outside yourself; go within yourself.
"I am a jealous God," says the Bible. The God within you is like-
wise; and if you do not depend upon His wisdom, but believe it is
to be found in " spirits," He will not act favourably.
NOT DEAD, BUT SLEEPING!
There are, of course, exceptions to all rules, but in following the
usual course of life we depend upon the general trend, and not upon
the exceptional ; and although the subconscious, during a projec-
tion, almost invariably carries itself with omnipotent dignity, there
is always the possibility of some complication. The controlling
intelligence may make occasional mistakes, but when it does so it
is because of some foreign influence.
So, if there are recorded cases of mediums having met with
unfortunate results, or even death, it is because of the exceptional.
Cora L. V. Richmond is said to have remained projected in the
astral for many days. Hamid Bey "the youngest of Egyptian
Fakirs," whose marvellous demonstrations of the power of the mind
over the body have startled the Western world, has undertaken
several prolonged public burials.
He remained buried an hour in Atlanta, Ga. ; three hours in
Englewood, N.J.; seven hours in San Diego, Cal., etc.-without
any coffin having been placed directly in the ground, with the
earth covering his face and body-in the presence of sceptical news-
paper men. Accounts of these burials were published in the Press
at the time, and are available to any interested reader. ,
Although these performances may strike the average spectator as
almost unbelievable, such demonstrations are by no means uncom-
mon in the Orient, and hundreds of similar cases have been reported
78 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
by travellers returning from India, Egypt, and other Eastern
countries. Many of these burials were under excellent conditions,
the whole procedure being controlled by sceptical witnesses.
Some years ago, a celebrated fakir from the Province of Lahore,
India, was buried for a period of thirty days, under the supervision
of Prince Ranjeet Singh and Sir Claude Wade. The fakir was
placed in a sack-after entering the state of catalepsy-which was
securely tied. This sack was then placed in a box, which was locked
-the keys being kept by the British General.
The box was then deposited in a brick vault, the door of which
was sealed with Ranjeet Singh's seal, and a guard of British soldiers
was detailed to guard the vault day and night. At the end of the
thirty days,. the vault was opened, the box and sack unfastened,
and the fakir-very emaciated, but still alive-was resuscitated by
his friends !
If projection of this type were not fully governed by an all-
knowing intelligence, the body would surely have been neglected ;
and, should the unusual intervene, i.e. should the astral body not
be pulled back within cord-activity range from time to time, to
recharge the physical, death would have been the natural conse-
quence.
It is obvious that, during an extensive and prolonged projection
the material counterpart might assume the characteristics of a
corpse, and the temperature drop exceedingly low-even to such an
extent that the misunderstanding people of the world would pro-
nounce the subject "dead." I have concluded, as the result of a
study of this subject, that the heart may actually cease beating fo:r
some time, and yet the astral cord may not be disconnected.
Naturally this condition could not exist long before the cord would
"snap." In a recent Press article, the head of the American Medical
Association stated that resuscitation is sometimes possible, after
four hours of apparent death.
Mr. Carrington has written several books on "Death," and has
summarized many cases of premature burial. "There can be no
doubt," says this authority, "that many hundreds of persons have
been buried alive, during the centuries which have preceded us.
Societies for the Prevention of Premature Burial have actually been
formed in England, America, etc. Cases of trance, catalepsy, sus-
pended animation, etc., were mistaken for death, before our more
modern methods of diagnosis were introduced."
Historic accounts, and the statements of returning spirits-if this
testimony may be accepted as probable-seem to indicate that the
astral "line of force " severs more rapidly at death with some
individuals than with others. It is probable that we exercise too
much haste in soliciting the services of the undertaker, when some
one is pronounced dead, and, as the saying goes, "not allowing the
corpse to get cold."
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 79
There are many records of people who have been pronounced
dead and returning to life, and there is always such a possibility, if
the astral cable be still intact, even though it be exceptional.
Exteriorization might be enduring, the physical appear cadaverous,
and an embalmer might have completed his work before the termina-
tion of a prolonged projection.
In one book, which has the endorsement of prominent spirit-
ualists, a spirit claims to have been" earthbound," and related that
he was held in this condition because a mere thread was holding
him to the physical counterpart for many months after the burial.
How much truth there may be in this account I do not know.
In the Bible there are several accounts of individuals who were
brought back to life. Take, for example, Christ's resurrection of
his friend Lazarus. If Lazarus were actually dead and the astral
cable disconnected, then Christ did perform a miracle ; but if the
cable was still engaged, it was an apparent miracle, and the resur-
rection was merely a resuscitation.
Christ was a marvellous occultist and seer, the peer of mediums,
and was a friend of Lazarus. Might it not be possible that Lazarus
was an astral projector ? There seems to have been some misunder-
standing on the part of the disciples as to whether Lazarus was
really dead or not. Christ first of all told his followers that Lazarus
was not dead: "This sickness is not unto death." Next He told
them that Lazarus was asleep: "Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but
I go now that I may awake him from sleep."
Christ next went to the grave where Lazarus lay-a cave with a
stone upon it ; He ordered the stone to be removed and with a loud
voice cried, "Lazarus, come forth I " And he that was dead came
forth. Could not a similar demonstration be given to-day-by a
hypnotist and an astral projector ?
Another Bible instance of resuscitation is the bringing to life of
a certain ruler's daughter. "And he cometh to the house of a
ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the tumult, and them that wept
and willed greatly. And when he was come in, he said unto them,
'Why make ye this ado, and weep? The damsel is not dead, but
sleepeth.' And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put
them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and
them that were with him, and entered in where the damsel was
lying. And he took the damsel by the hand, and he said unto her,
' Talitha-cumi ' ; which is, being interpreted : ' Damsel, I say unto
thee, arise I' And straightway the damsel arose and walked.''
For these few singular demonstrations Christ gained the reputa-
tion of being capable of resurrecting the dead ; but in every case
Jesus himself stated that the subjects were not dead, but sleeping.
If the persons were literally dead-if the line of force had actually
been severed-and still they were brought back to life, is it not a
wonder that more were not likewise revived ? Surely there were
8o THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
others, begging to be reunited with their loved ones-innocent
children crying for their mothers, lovers begging for their sweet-
hearts who lay in death-pathetic mourners all about-and yet only
a few were resurrected !
There is much evidence to sustain the belief that those who were
restored were still on the astral plane. But it is not necessary to
go back to Bible times to find accounts of those who, having been
thought dead, were miraculously restored to life. Such things
occasionally happen in every generation. Knowing this to be true,
at one time, in France, bodies of those pronounced dead were first
taken to a morgue, there to lie under watch for a definite time before
burial was permitted. Thus it was hoped to avoid the possibility
that any of the victims might be prematurely interred.
Not many years ago, in a little Iowa town, funeral services were
taking place. The victim lay in state in the church, and, as her
friends were taking the last view of the remains, blood was seen
oozing from the nose of the corpse. The woman came back to life,
and lived for many years afterward! This writer is acquainted with
trustworthy persons who can swear to the truth of this incident.
All this, of course, relates directly to astral phenomena. Once
the astral cable severs from the physical body, that body is on the
road to the dust whence it came. What has been said in the pre-
ceding paragraphs regarding projection need not frighten the
student who is attempting to develop. The chances that the
subconscious will "go wrong" are insignificant.
Severe sickness, in which life is a matter of uncertainty, is usually
the cause of such disastrous results as have been depicted, and in
this case the projection is brought about involuntarily. It may
readily be seen that, although sickness is an incentive toward pro-
jection of the astral body, one should not be in too subnormal a
condition, physically, when attempting a prolonged projection.
THE ASTRAL CABLE IS AKIN TO THE UMBILICAL CORD
Now that we have compared projection with " death," let us for
a moment compare it with "birth." Do not the astral body and
the astral cable afford striking similarities to the newborn physical
body and the umbilical cord ? And, after all, which process is the
more mysterious ? So far as understanding the intelligence behind
either of these processes is concerned, they are in the same category!
It has always occurred to me as inconsistent for the sceptic to
refer to birth as natural, and astral projection as supernatural, when
he can explain neither. It is merely this: What we call" natural"
is natural only because we have become familiar with it, for even
the " natural " is often inexplicable.
Because he is unfamiliar with the phenomenon of astral projection,
the unbeliever scorns the idea on the ground that it is supernatural;
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 8r
still, physical birth, with the body existing at the end of the cord,
is called natural, simply because he is familiar with it-not that it
is less mysterious than projection.1
But such is the way of the human mind l The supernatural,
undoubtedly, does not exist. It is the unfamiliar which is called
supernatural. A grain of sand is as mysterious as a planet ; a
physical body as mysterious as an astral body ; the umbilical cord
as mysterious as the astral cord. So when we think of that wonderful
organism-the astral cord-and wonder at its ability to sustain life,
there may be some satisfaction-or dissatisfaction-in knowing that
the astral and umbilical cords are strikingly similar.
" ... By aid of a placenta a fertilized ovum is able to form a complete separate
new organism-in itself, one would think, a sufficiently extraordinary fact." Sir
Oliver Lodge. ]ourtw.l A.S.P.R., Jan., 1928, pp. 43-44.-H.C.
CHAPTER VII
WHERE THE ASTRAL " LINE OF FORCE " MAKES CONTACT WITH
THE BODIES
I
NVESTIGATION into the matter seems to indicate that there
is a conflict of opinion among authorities as to where the point
of contact is which the astral " line of force " makes with the
bodies. We know, at least we should know, that there are
so many different conditions involved, so many differing individual
make-ups, such various and intermingled degrees of matter, that
naturally some experimenters arrive at conclusions which are at
variance with those of others.
One authority holds that the astral cord adheres to the physical
body at the solar plexus, situated just behind the stomach. Another
maintains that the spot is low down on the forehead, between the
eyes. And still others (and they seem in the majority) maintain the
belief that the point of contact is at the medulla oblongata. I believe
that the latter is true, and that the evidence for this outweighs all
evidence to the contrary.
If all these claims can be vindicated, then the controversy lies
only in the opinions of their originators; the truth is that the cable
can extend from any of the several vital centres of the body. One
well-known authority on the subject, who ranks second to none, and
whose word carries much weight, is a staunch adherent to the belief
that the astral cord finds its point of contact at the solar plexus--
i.e. of the physical body. But where does it join the astral body,
if this be true ? Does it centre at the solar plexus of the projected
body too? Surely, if it does so, the conscious astral projector must
find himself in a clumsy condition when within cord-activity range I
This is what roy experience has revealed : I have never found
the cable making contact with the physical body at the solar plexus,
but I have observed it to do so at the front, side, and back of the
head. But, with roe, the astral end has invariably adhered to the
medulla oblongata region of the phantom. I make this suggestion,
however : that the experimenters who hold to the solar plexus
point of contact use suggestion to that effect while developing.
Be that as it may, the reason why the astral cable fastens at
different spots of the physical head is because of the position of the
physicalj,body at the time of projection. The astral and physical
bodies coincide : in whatever way the physical body lies, so will
the astral lie. If the physical be facing upward, while lying in the
82
HOW THE PHAKTO~I INTERIORIZES
Sometimes the phantom can be projected and will upright within cord~activity-range-, when u-e~ative factor>; sd io
the phantom will be puHOO backu•ard into the horizontal) through the air, to a position directly ovtr the physical,
emotion or noise))
tht•n down, into it~
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 83
horizontal position, the astral will emerge facing upward also. The
astral cable will thus come out of the physical at the front of
the head, between the eyes, and fasten on to the phantom at the back
of the head-the medulla oblongata region. I might add that this
is the ideal position for projection.
On the other hand, if the physical be facing downward while
lying in the horizontal position, the astral body will emerge facing
downward. The astral cable will thus circle from the medulla
oblongata of the physical, directly over the top of the head, to the
medulla oblongata of the phantom. If one be conscious, when a
projection from this position occurs, he will feel the astral cord
circling over his head, in the astral, and it will feel like a piece of
soft hose, in which there are regular pulsations. I had the following
experience several years ago, which illustrates this point:
TURNING OVER IN THE AIR
The first perception I had in this experience was that my head
was drawn downward until my chin rested upon my chest, and that
something was thumping me on the top and back of my head. An
instant later I was awake in the astral, and found that my head
was drawn downward, my chin was resting upon my chest.
The thumping in my head was due to the pulsations in the astral
cable. In this condition I was lying in the air, just under the ceiling
of the room. I could not move voluntarily, and seemed to be
smothering. I was lying upon my chest (physically) and was like-
wise facing downward in my astral body ; thus it was that the
astral " line of force " pulled my head downward, and I could feel
it resting upon my head from that point, then down, over the top
of my head, as plainly as if it had been a piece of garden hose,
fastened to the back of my astral head and pulled over the top,
forcing my head on to my chest, and pulsating all the time.
This experience proved conclusively to me that the astral cable
is always attached at the medulla oblongata region of the astral body,
for there never would have been a better time for it to have been
attached elsewhere ; yet it made contact at this point,. which on
this occasion was not an ideal arrangement I
For several moments I stayed in this position; then I noticed
that I was beginning to turn over on to my side. I thought that
my head would be twisted from my body I The " turnover " move-
ment continued until I eventually found myself lying upon my back
in the air. This once accomplished, the controlling power began to
move me outward and downward into a standing position. Just
why the ruling intelligence found it necessary to turn me over in
the air before completing the projection, I do not know.
On interiorization the same process took place in the reverse order.
I was pulled first from the upright into the horizontal position, i.e.
84 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
to a point directly above my physical body. This movement took
place while I lay face upward in the air. I was then turned over
and slowly dropped (face downward) into the physical mechanism,
which lay face downward upon the bed. If this experience could
be considered typical, it would appear that " lying upon one's back "
is the ideal position for projection.
THE FOUR BRAINS OF MAN
Of course, where the astral cable appears to make contact with
the head, and where it actually ends, are two different questions.
The cable might appear to the projector to be centred at the medulla
oblongata, the front, or the side of the physical head, depending
upon which side faced upward at the time ; and still it would only
be apparent, and the cable might actually end inside the head at
the pineal gland, for ought we know.
There are four large nervous or psychic centres in the body-
four brains of man they are sometimes called-the cerebrum, the
cerebellum, the medulla oblongata and the solar plexus. Besides
these there are the pituitary body and the pineal gland. Because
projection of the astral body depends in some degree upon concen-
tration centred upon one or more of those centres, we must discuss
them briefly.
The cerebrum, divided into two hemispheres, is the frontal portion
of the brain, within the cranium. The cerebellum lies behind and
below the cerebrum. The two are connected by a short stalk,
known as the mid-brain. The solar plexus (abdominal brain) is in
the abdomen, just behind the stomach. It is complexly composed
of material similar to that composing the other two brains.
The medulla oblongata is a bulbous continuation of the upper end
of the spinal cord, extending into the skull and lying below the
cerebellum.1 It is a peculiar arrangement of divisions, strands, of
the ganglia connected with the two neighbouring vital centres. It
is well known that, within the medulla oblongata, are located certain
nerves which have control over the functions of respiration. I leave
it to the reader's judgment whether this would not be an ideal spot
for the astral " line of force " to connect with and thus deliver the
" force " of respiration.
THE PINEAL GLAND
Situated within the brain is a peculiar organ, the pineal gland,
which, until recent years, was a source of mystery-although the
Orientals have long held that the gland has significance in relation
1 For a lengthy discussion of the functions of the medulla oblongata, see Brain
and Mind, by Berry, pp. l58·I93·-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 8S
to the occult. The pineal gland, aside from its physiological impor-
tance, is now recognized by many Western students of psychics, as
well as by the Orientals, as being a connecting link between the
physical and spiritual worlds.
Swami Bhakta Vishita states: "The pineal gland is a mass of
nervous substance which is found located in the brain, in a position
near the centre of the skull, almost directly above the extreme top
of the spinal column. It is shaped like a small cone, and is of a
reddish grey colour. It lies in front of the cerebellum and is attached
to the third ventricle of the brain.
" It contains a small quantity of gritty particles, a sand-like
substance, which is commonly known as ' brain sand.' It derives
its scientific name from its shape, which resembles a pine-cone.
The Oriental occultists claim that the pineal gland, with its peculiar
arrangement of nerve-cell corpuscles, and its tiny grains of brain
sand, is intimately associated with certain forms of transmission
and reception of waves of mental vibration.
"Western students have been struck with the remarkable resem-
blance between the pineal gland and a certain part of the receiving
apparatus employed in wireless telegraphy, the latter also containing
small particles which bear a close resemblance to ' brain sand ' of
the pineal gland."
THE PITUITARY BODY
The pituitary body, situated in front of and below the pineal gland,
is another organ regarded as having an occult significance. There
is a connecting link between the two bodies, the pineal gland and
the pituitary body, over which, it is claimed, a subtle force operates.
Dr. W. H. Downer says, on this subject :
" Molecular motions in the pineal gland cause spiritual clairvoy-
ance, but to make this clairvoyance illumine the field of the Uni-
verse, the fires of the pituitary body must unite with the fires of the
pineal gland, and this union means that the sixth and seventh
senses have become as one, or in other words that the individual
consciousness is so indrawn that the magnetic sphere of the highest
mentality and the highest spiritual sense is conjoined."
Considering the important functions of any or all of these vital
centres, one would be perfectly safe in asserting that the astral
cable can deliver the " breath of life " into any one of them, while
the phantom is projected, and that the energy would be properly
distributed ; for after all the nervous system is in tune, one part
with another, throughout the entire physical mechanism.
Some authorities have found that concentration upon the pineal
gland (properly concentrated thought, of course) will facilitate the
projection of the astral body ; and there is little doubt that a line
II
86 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
of force will be created at the spot upon which the subject concen-
trates. The force is not created by the physical nervous centre;
the physical nervous centre is operated upon by force.
THE COSMIC ENERGY
None of the vital bodies mentioned in the foregoing can create
the force which operates through them; they are but its distribu-
tors, rectifiers, transformers; the complicated mechanical arrange-
ments that the energy of life works through and upon. Because
the physical body can be destroyed, that in no sense destroys the
force behind the body-any more than breaking an electric bulb
would destroy the energy operating through it.
It is interesting to know that there have been people who have
had portions of their brains taken out, without apparent ill-effects.
Geley, in his work, From the Unconscious to the Conscious, cites
many such-the surgical operations having been performed upon
soldiers, in France, during the war.
Physiologists do not believe that the vital energy-consciousness,
sensibility, motivity-can exist apart from the physical mechanism
-believing that the material body itself creates the energy. The
main reason for their belief is that it cannot be proved that the
physical body does not create its energy. But it cannot be proved
that the physical body does create its energy either; therefore
there is no foundation for that belief.
The physical body itself cannot even hold the energy of life, that
energy being held in the astral condenser, and poured through the
physical, during projection, by means of the line of force, running
to a vital centre of the physical mechanism. To discuss astral
phenomena-even life itself-without discussing the energy which
is behind it all would be like building a house without a foundation ;
like discussing electrical appliances and ignoring the force which
operates them.
Perhaps it has never occurred to you that the energy you are
using is cosmic, present everywhere, that it is not created by you,
but is attracted by you and condensed in your astral body-which,
as you have already learned, does its recharging during sleep, and
therefore has an important bearing upon astral projection. You
must realize, also, that food and diet constitute an important factor
in the phenomenon of astral body separation.
The ordinary belief concerning energy is that it is created by the
body-that to eat" so much" food will produce" so much" energy.
If this idea were true, we could easily substitute food for sleep, and
the minute we felt ourselves becoming tired, weak, or enervated,
simply eat more food, and thus never need sleep. If this were true,
the more food we injected the more energy we should create ; but
scientific investigators have found that to "stuff" the invalid only
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 87
makes his condition worse. Food is material, like the physical body.
and builds up the body because the cosmic force operates upon it ;
not because it produces energy in itself.
DR. LINDLAHR'S VIEWS ON ENERGY
Let us now turn our attention for a few moments to what Doctor
Henry Lindlahr, world-famous food scientist and exponent of nature
cures, has to say in answer to the question : For what reason do
we eat and drink? Says Dr. Lindlahr:
"The majority of people would reply: 'Why everyone knows
that from food and drink we derive our strength.' ... Are you so
sure about this? Do you really believe that the large amount of
animal heat and vital energy which the human body manufactures,
radiates and expends every twenty-four hours is derived from a
few pounds of food consumed in the course of the day ? Any hard-
working labourer or athlete spends an enormous amount of power
and energy every day. A healthy individual may continue to do
this for several weeks without taking any food whatever.
"The best proof that not all the heat and muscular energy of the
body are derived from the combustion of food materials is furnished
by a long fast. Of late years, since fasting has become popular as
a natural remedy, many thousands of people have fasted from four
to ten weeks at a stretch. The majority of these' Marathon £asters'
report but slight loss in physical energy. Many claim that they are
stronger at the end of the fast than at the beginning. The loss of
animal heat is negligible. While in some cases the temperature
declines a fraction of a degree, or a degree, in the majority of cases
it remains normal. We have verified this in hundreds of cases
under close observation in our institutions.
" To cite a case from personal observation : One of our patients
suffering from typhoid fever did not take any food except water for
seven weeks. At the end of that time his body temperature was
normal. During the last two weeks of the fast he lost only two
pounds. Another patient afflicted with cancer of the stomach lived
two years on a few ounces of food daily, mostly white of egg and
fruit juices. His temperature was normal almost to the last.
Whether sweltering under the tropical sun of the equator or freezing
in the arctic cold, the temperature of the body is exactly the same.
If it drops or rises a few degrees below or above normal, death
ensues.
"This regulation of animal heat, regardless of the surroundil).g
temperature, and, within certain limits, regardless of the quantity
and quality of food consumed, is one of the greatest mysteries of
our wonderful human organism. If foods were the only source of
animal heat and working energy, fasting for a long period would be
impossible; the temperature of the body would sink below normal
88 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
soon after the commencement of the fast. It may be said that,
while. abstaining from food, the body lives upon itself-that it
consumes its own tissues ; this, however, does not account for the
production of all the heat and energy expended during the fast."
Continuing this subject, Lindlahr says ; " If they (foods) do not
give life, what, then, are the functions of food and drink in the
economy of the body ? All that they can do is to furnish the
materials to keep the system in such a condition that vital force
can manifest in and through it. The inflow of life-force into the
cells and organs of the body and its free distribution, by way of the
nervous system, depend upon a normal or healthy condition of the
organism. Anything and everything in natural methods of living
and of treatment that will help build up the blood on a normal
basis, that will purify the system of waste and morbid matter, that
will correct mechanical lesions and harmonize mental and emotional
conditions, will insure a greater supply of life-force and its derivitives,
strength, vitality, resistance, and recuperative power. In other
words, the more normal, healthy and perfect the organism, the
more copious will be the inflow of vital energy."
FOODS, FASTING AND PSYCHIC DEVELOPMENT
When such exhaustive researchers as Doctor Lindlahr must go
outside the body to find the source of its vital energy, is it not time
for others too to recognize this omnipresent force working all about
them and through them ? It is impossible here to go into the study
of foods and dietetics. The study of food and its effects upon life
constitutes a science in itself.
Plainly, different foods bring about different conditions in the
body, some seeming to supply more energy, some less-depending,
no doubt, upon the way in which they attract or repulse the vital
energy which is cosmic, and which is held by the astral body-the
condenser of cosmic energy.
It is probable that the negative and positive charges in foods,
in some unknown manner, affect the astral body. The physical
body is built up by the foods because the basic elements of matter
constituting both foods and flesh are united ; but the energy is
manifested in and through the astral counterpart.
"There is an occult doctrine regarding food," says Carrington.
" It is that a vegetarian diet tends to make the molecules of proto-
plasm shorter and more sensitive to shorter wave-lengths. It is
qUite conceivable that it should actually do this. We know that a
bar of iron becomes ' magnetized ' when all the molecules of its
structure are, as it were, 'pointed' in the same direction.
"If you strike a magnet of this type a sharp blow with a hammer,
or heat it red-hot and allow it to become cool again, it will be found
to have lost its magnetism. What has happened ? Probably the
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 8g
molecules of iron, which before had been uniform, in their polarity,
are now ' pointing ' in all directions, and hence the energy which
formerly played on or through the bar of iron, in one continuous
unbroken stream, is now broken up, and playing in a thousand
different directions. Hence the iron will no longer be a magnet.
"It is possible that something of the same sort takes place in the
body; and that its molecules, when finely attuned by rhythm, and
acting in unison, may allow a flow through the body of energies
which would otherwise be limited or altogether restrained in their
action. This is merely by way of suggestion, which one may take
for what it may be worth."
Mr. Prescott F. Hall, in a most interesting article in the Journal
of the American Society of Psychical Research, says :
"A vegetable diet tends to loosen the vibric matter of the astral
body ; and vegetables, fruits and prunes make the blood able to
attract spiritual power. Carrots also are beneficial. Nuts, especially
peanuts, are bad-especially near the time of sitting for develop-
ment, as they tend to make one's atmosphere of one colour. Raw
eggs are favourable. Liquids are favourable to development. . . .
Fasting often helps the liberation of the astral body."
You will notice that Mr. Hall has stated that liquids are favourable
to development ; yet he does not state in what way they are bene-
ficial, nor to what type of development. I must take exception to
this, and shall shortly point out that, in developing astral projec-
tion, abstinence from liquids constitutes an important positive
factor. However, Mr. Hall is correct in his asserton that" fasting"
often helps the liberation of the astral body.
It is enough to say that food is one of the most vitally important
factors of life, but it is as necessary to eat the right kind of food as
it is to eat at all. I know that, in stating this fact, I shall arouse the
ire of many Spiritualists, who think along the lines of mental healing
and Christian Science ; their motto being " leave the food question
alone, the mind will take care of that."
While healing by the power of the mind is not by any means an
untruth, the idea that one can ignore the food question is ridiculous.
Food is as necessary as breathing. Why not stop breathing, and
let the mind take care of that? The question is: do these people
eat ? If so, why ? They will answer that they eat because it is
necessary to sustain physical life, but that it makes no difference
what they eat, just so it be labelled " food."
Now if it be necessary to eat at all, it is necessary to eat properly.
I wonder if the mental healers could eat dirt and, by using their
minds, make it nourish their bodies? They would say, "Dirt is
not food." But many of the things eaten by us every day belong
to the same category! For instance, it is not generally known-
but many investigators know-that much of the so-called " whole-
wheat " sold in America is little less than ground corn-cobs. Con-
go THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
coctions sold for " whole-wheat " sometimes contain as much as
three-fourths of the "stuff" hogs refuse to eat I Dr. Ward and
others have pointed this out, after investigation.
If it be true that the mind can take care of the food question,
why not let the mind take care of eating too ? There is just one
standpoint in this matter-if it is necessary to eat at all, it is neces-
sary to eat the proper elements of food. Eating, breathing and
sleeping are natural laws. We cannot ignore a single one of these
without suffering ill effects-not in this earthly life, at least.
FASTING INCREASES THE INFLOW OF COSMIC ENERGY
But, of the three sources of energy, sleep is the most important,
and it may readily be seen that if we could eat, drink and breathe
properly, we should sleep less, and still retain the needed amount
of energy; and that, if we slept more, we should not require the
usual amount of food.
And this is one of the reasons why fasting is promotive of astral
projection : When the fast is in progress, one of the secondary
sources of energy is cut off ; and in order to retain in the system
the needed amount of energy, the astral body at night is thrown
further out of coincidence, in order to collect a greater charge of
cosmic energy to balance the loss. That is why people can undergo
long fasts without losing energy, and in some cases actually increase
their energy.
Some may say, " How is it that, while taking a fast, the patient
sleeps no longer, yet retains enough energy to make up for the
deficiency ? " In other words, how can the subject collect more
energy while fasting, through sleep, than while not fasting-and
still sleep the same length of time ? The answer is that it does not
depend upon the length or duration of sleep, but upon the distance
of separation of the astral and physical bodies during sleep.
Remember that the astral body discoincides from the physical
during sleep for the purpose of recharging, and the further out of
the physical it emerges, the more easily does it condense the cosmic
force. Thus we can see the relation of fasting to astral projection.
The more profound the sleep, the more inactive the body (or the
more incapacitated) the greater will be the distance which the astral
counterpart will move out. That is why, in the hypnotic sleep, the
subject can derive as much benefit in a short time as in a much
longer period of natural sleep.
The Orientals grasped the significance of this cosmic force long
ago. They called it "prana," and Swami Bhakta Vishita defines it
thus:
"It is a subtle form of energy permeating the universe, but
manifesting in a special form in the organism of the human being.
This subtle force, or prana, is held to be capable of being trans-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY gr
mitted from one organism to another, and it is held to be the
.energizing power by means of which many forms of occult and
magic phenomena can be produced.
" Prana is very much akin to the ' human magnetism ' of the
Western occultists, and the properties attributed to the latter are
really those which the Orientals for centuries past have held to be
among the essential properties of prana; so, at the least, there is
found a practical agreement here between the Oriental and Western
schools of occultism, respectively, in spite of their differing term-
inology.''
This cosmic energy has many faculties. One of these is the
"healing" faculty. Every ill that is cured, is cured by cosmic
energy. Medicine, chiropractic, Christian Science and every other
healing method, depend upon the prana to bring about the cure.
All that any curative method can do is to assist. When ailing, if
you take a fast, you not only assist nature in clearing the poisons
from the body, but you automatically increase the inflow of cosmic
energy-the curative energy.
America's foremost authority on Yoga, Hereward Carrington,
states in his Higher Psychical Development that: "The Hindus
have a whole mythical system of physiology.... They claim that
there are certain energy-carriers, or Nadis, as they call them. There
are 72,000 of these, and each of them has innumerable ramifications.
"If you take a scalpel or a knife, and dissect the human body,
you will not find these centres. But the Hindus say,' Ah I they are
not composed of physical matter but of astral matter ; therefore,
not having any astral senses, you cannot see them I ' These energy-
carriers are the storage centres and the chief means of circulating
the prana.''
Again, in the same book, we find : " Doctors say we need more
sleep-about eight hours usually. If you sleep eight hours a day
you spend a third of your life in sleep I It seems rather a waste !
The Hindus said, ' Cannot we get rid of some of this waste ? Cannot
we reach a state in which we no longer require sleep ? ' By following
out these exercises-this system of diet and living (which Mr.
Carrington explains in detail)-they were enabled to cut down their
hours of sleep very much. In practice, we find that the curve of
sleep runs thus:
"We start with what we call the 'threshold of consciousness';
it sinks when we fall to sleep, and then gradually rises again ; so
that immediately after you fall to sleep you are at the deepest point,
and from that point it is a gradual upward curve until you awaken.
The query is : Is it not possible to deepen that curve so that you
enter into deeper sleep, and require less of it ? The Hindus think
they have found a method of artificially deepening sleep, and not
spinning it out so long ; and we in the West have partially done this
by means of hypnotism.'' ·
92 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
All this has an important bearing upon the subject we are studying,
viz. astral projection. I believe this is the first time anyone has
ever put forth the claim that the astral body discoincides during
sleep for the purpose of recharging, and that the depth of sleep and
the amount of recuperation depend upon the distance between the
astral and the physical bodies ; i.e. the greater the distance of
separation the freer the inflow of cosmic energy, or prana, into it.
And does not all this show us convincingly that the weaker the
individual the more adaptable he is to extensive projection of the
astral body ? I assert-in spite of what other authorities maintain
-that morbidity is a positive factor in projection. For my part,
I cannot see what reasons can be advanced to refute this statement
-although I readily admit that it is far more dangerous to attempt
extensive or prolonged projections with an ill-functioning physical
mechanism.
Do not form the idea that I am advising you to produce mor-
bidity intentionally, as a positive factor to projection. I am merely
trying to make it plain how perfectly ridiculous is the claim that
good health is a necessary factor in the art of astral projection. If
this were true (that good health is necessary) the nearer one came
to death (the weaker he became) the harder it would be for him to
die (permanently project). But common sense shows us that this
is not true!
Another common belief is that we " burn up " our energy. But
what we really do is" externalize our energy," i.e. the neuric energy
externalizes from the astral body. In the individual of nervous
temperament, this externalization is very pronounced, and that is
the reason why the individual is neurotic. I believe it was men-
tioned that this externalization of energy can be measured by certain
instruments. If you could cut off the excessive externalization of
energy in the neurotic individual, the nervous temperament would
disappear.
It is easily seen that persons of nervous temperament require
more recharging, during sleep, than individuals of other tempera-
ments. One set of bodily exercises and postures will cause the
cosmic energy to externalize, while another set of exercises and
postures will cause the energy to interiorize. It has been discovered
that fear will fill the blood-stream with poisons, almost instantly.
It is claimed that, for this reason, a person becomes weak when in
the grip of fear.
I am going to tell you why fear weakens, and this is the first time
anyone has made this claim : Fear externalizes the neuric energy
from the astral body, automatically weakening the victim. Nothing
causes " externalization of nervous energy " as completely and as
quickly as fear. If it were true that energy is "burned up," there
could be no condition of "instantaneous enervation "-such as we
have when in the grip of fear. Energy is omnipresent and indes-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 93
tructible ; it is not created, nor is it burned up, it is internalized
and externalized, and it is condensed in the astral body.
When projected in the astral body, and conscious, one can observe
this neuric energy; that is, he can see its colour and condensation
in the bodies of others. It is luminous, like white light. It is this
energy which gives the astral body its phosphorescent appearance.
It is the scintillations of this condensed energy which trail along
behind the phantom, when the latter is moving at the intermediate
speed.
Although the glow of the neuric energy can be seen throughout
the entire body, it is condensed mostly in the centre of the body.
It is very luminous in the centre of the body-at the solar plexus
region. I have noticed this many times. Andrew Jackson Davis
used to say that he always saw the nervous system in the interior
of the body as though full of light.
It is my belief, from astral observation, that the great store-house
of condensed energy in the human being is located at the solar
plexus region. We have physiological indications, too, that this is
true. I told you that fear causes instantaneous externalization of
neuric energy, and true enough, we always feel the effects of fear in
the solar plexus. The astral projector, when conscious, can see the
neuric energy; it is interesting to know that spirits usually speak
of mediums as" lights."
HOW FASTING AIDS ASTRAL PROJECTION
Since we are speaking of energy being cosmic, and not produced
wholly by the foods we eat, let us recall what Christ said of food:
"Man does not live by bread alone." Christ was known to undergo
long fasts, and there is good reason to believe that He did so in order
to produce spiritual phenomena-perhaps to aid Him in travelling
in His spiritual body.
We have learned one of the reasons why fasting tends to liberate
the astral body ; and, to avoid any misunderstanding, we will
review it. Sleep, food and breathing are the sources of bodily
energy. Sleep is the main source, for, as Schopenhauer said, " Sleep
is to the individual what winding is to the clock."
Food is a secondary source of energy, and thus, when a fast is
undertaken, this secondary source of energy is shut off. The astral
body-the condenser of energy-always discoincides from the
physical during sleep, for the purpose of recharging, and during a
fast must take in (condense) a greater quantity of prana to make
up for the deficiency caused by the fast.
The further out of coincidence, the more energy the astral body
gathers; the more easily it recharges itself, or is recharged. Hence,
during a fast, it moves out further into the stream-which means
nothing more than that it projects further than the zone of quietude
94 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
(normal sleep). This is but one reason why fasting is a positive
factor in projection of the astral body. There is another reason,
which will be discussed under "suppressed desire."
It has often been observed that sometimes a blow, or what not,
which produces unconsciousness, will cause the victim to feel more
energetic after regaining consciousness. The reason is obvious ;
the astral body moved out some distance into the Cosmic stream of
energy. And here is another observation I have made:
CONSCIOUSNESS USES UP ENERGY I
Consciousness (merely being awake) uses up energy, just as
exertion uses it up. You can sit still or lie motionless, and be con-
scious, and you use up energy. Here is something else I wish to
impress upon your mind: Although the astral body recharges,
when it moves out of coincidence with the physical, or separates
from it, unconsciousness is necessary in order to reap the full benefit
of the recharging.
If you project the astral and retain consciousness all the time,
you will not recharge the astral body ; unconsciousness is a necessary
factor in conjunction with separation. I have noticed many times
that, after experiencing an entirely conscious projection, I felt still
enervated upon recoinciding with the physical-in fact more so
than upon retiring. And, on the other hand, I have found that,
when the projection was unconscious (i.e. when I merely caught
myself in the act of interiorizing and therefore knew I had been
projected) I always felt invigorated-sometimes even to the extent
that, upon awakening, I actually believed I could fly off the ground.
It is very common to experience a " dog-tired " feeling after an
exteriorization that has been conscious, accompanied by a headache
in the back of the head. I am convinced, for my part, at least, that
spirits in the lower planes must become unconscious, for consciou-
ness uses up energy, no matter whether one be in the astral body or
in the physical body.
There is strong evidence to support the contention of many
occultists, viz. that sleep-unconsciousness-is not brought about
by a condition of the material boqy, but is caused by some agency
outside the physical body. Such theories as cerebral hyperl'emia,
cerebral amemia, and all other material influences must be dis-
carded-they do not cause sleep. Neither does the withdrawal of the
astral body; for even that entity sleeps, and can be unconsc~ous
and projected-or conscious and projected !
CHAPTER VIII
CONSCIOUSNESS DURING ASTRAL PROJECTION
THOUGH, in the majority of cases of astral projection,
"consciousness" is chiefly a matter of chance (that is,
it seems to be chance, whether or not consciousness be
present), there is little doubt in my mind that schemes
could be worked out,. or influences brought to bear, which would
have some effect in bringing full consciousness to the projected
entity.
Of course, it is possible to be conscious from the very beginning
of exteriorization, but this is not usually the case ; and, in many
projections in which I have become conscious, I have analyzed the
causes which (I believe) aroused consciousness. Some of these
causes are not unlike those which bring about consciousness while
the bodies are in coincidence.
Unless consciousness be present from the very beginning of a
projection, it will first begin to manifest itself in the form of a
dream. It seldom comes suddenly, but slowly, when the phantom
is projected-a dream always preceding it, and it works itself out
of the dream. If the dream corresponds to the action of the phantom,
consciousness is more likely to appear-that is why dream control
is such an important factor. I will now tell you of an awakening
which illustrates this point ; you will then see the difference between
" dream consciousness " and " real consciousness."
A " DREAMING-TRUE " EXPERIENCE
I was dreaming that I had entered a massive hall with a high
ceiling, skylights and coloured windows. It was a large room when
I first entered it, but after being within it for a short time I noticed
that it had changed! It was now a small room, and there was but
one small hole in the centre of the ceiling through which I could see
light.
As I remember the dream, the room was about twelve feet square,
and I stood on the floor in the centre of the room, looking up through
the hole in the centre of the ceiling. That was the only opening
through which I could escape, since the doors and windows which
I had first observed had disappeared.
There I stood, looking up and wondering how I was ever to escape.
There was no way in which I could climb up to the window, for the
95
g6 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
walls were perfectly bare, and there was nothing in the room upon
which I could stand. So there I stood, looking up through the hole
in the centre of the ceiling. It seemed that I stood there for some
time, when suddenly I wondered if I could not fly through the
hole.
I began to rise into the air, but as I was passing through the hole
I became caught fast in it. Half my body-from my hips down-
remained inside the room, and the upper half was outside. There
I was-stuck fast ! I could not move eitheF way ! At this point I
began to awaken and realize what was taking place.
I found myself projected! Yes, it was the same old story,
awakening from a dream and finding myself exteriorized. But the
interesting thing was that the position of the body (astral) corre-
sponded with the position it held in the dream. I was just half-
way through the ceiling of the room, when I became conscious.
That is, I had moved upward, directly over the shell, had uprighted,
and was half above and half below the ceiling, on awakening.
This is merely one of the many" awakenings" I have experienced,
when emerging from a dream, and I have noticed every time that
when the dream corresponds to the action of the astral body, real
consciousness generally appears. When the dream corresponds to
the action of the astral body, it will always cause that body to
exteriorize.
AWAKENED IN THE ASTRAL BY A " NOISE "
Here is another example in which " noise " participated : Before
retiring, one evening, I had been reading of an Indian massacre:
The leader of the band of Indians was named "Little Priest."
After going to sleep I began to dream. I was in a clearing in the
wilderness. The clearing was quite large-about sixty feet square.
I had a gun with me, and, as I was passing through the clearing
in the wilderness, I suddenly saw Indians poking their heads through
the trees and underbrush all around me. I raised my gun and began
to fire at them, first at one and then at another. It was one con-
tinual-bang-bang-bang ! It seemed that the gun I was using
made a very loud noise-unusually loud-making me tremble every
time I discharged it.
Yet I could not stop shooting, or the Indians would get me! But
that awful-bang-bang-bang! How it went through me! Next
I saw the chief of the Indians. It was " Little Priest," and he was
coming through the clearing toward me-to kill and scalp me, I
feared.
So I turned the gun toward him and fired-bang-bang-bang I
But I could not seem to hit him, and he was getting nearer and
nearer. As he approached me, I dropped the gun and began to
cringe back. But the-bang-bang-bang-continued. It was
THE PROJECTION OF THE. ASTRAL BODY 97
growing more distinct I I was forgetting about the Indian chief.
I was conscious I
It was a windy night, and the screen-door, outside, was slamming
back and forth in the wind-bang-bang-bang. I found, when
conscious, that I was projected in the astral, and standing near my
shotgun, behind the door of the kitchen. But that was not all !
There stood an Indian (spirit) and he said, " You call Little Priest ? "
* * *
These are but two examples of how one becomes conscious when
projected in the astral body. I could cite many, many more, but
that would take a book as large as this one. Considering only the
last case, had I been within cord-activity range, when this banging
and fearful Indian fighting commenced, an interiorization would
have resulted, because of the emotion. You can readily see how
consciousness is faintly functioning in a dream, and that it is but a
step from a dream to complete awakening.
THE DREAM WORLD
There is a dream world. When you are dreaming you are not
really in the same world as when you are conscious-in the physical
-although the two worlds merge into one another. While dreaming,
you really are in the astral plane, and usually your astral body is
in the zone of quietude. The distance of separation has nothing to
do with it ; once detached-whether slightly or remotely-you are
in the astral plane.
Perhaps this is the first time you have ever realized that you
enter the astral world every time you go to sleep, and discoincide.
The fact that you stay in the zone of quietude does not make you
any the less in the astral world. When out of coincidence, you are
attuned with, or in harmony or vibration with, both astral and
physical worlds. You can be conscious, partially conscious, or
unconscious, either within or out of coincidence.
In a dream, you are partially conscious, and can be discoincided;
your mind is thus a receiving station for the vibratory waves, ether
waves-carrying with them thoughts, sounds, influences, music,
voices, and what not, of two worlds ; and it is through the reception
of these impressions that many dreams are instigated. When you
fall (or really rise) to sleep, if the conscious mind be locked up
partially, it functions in conjunction with the subconscious, and the
material for dreams is obtained from the thoughts, noises, etc., of
two worlds. If the conscious mind be locked up tightly, you do not
dream, or I should say, you do not remember having dreamed on
awakening.
When you are asleep, your vibration-reception-ability is greater
than when you are physically awake. When sleeping, you are not
98 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
unlike a medium, but, being unconscious, you do not realize it ; if ·
partially conscious, you are open to the vibrations of two worlds.
If you awaken from a dream in the physical body, your vibration-
reception-ability is attuned to the physical plane ; and if you
awaken from a dream, while projected in the astral body, your
vibration-reception-ability covers both astral and physical planes.
The dream state lies between complete consciousness and com-
plete unconsciousness ; so you can see that, once projected and
dreaming, it is but a step into complete consciousness. The astral
body has well been termed the " dream body," for it is in that body
that we dream-even though we may be in coincidence, or but a
fraction of an inch out of coincidence-or completely separated
from the physical.
Instigation of dreams cannot be credited to any single cause ; the
influences which bring them about are so numerous, cryptic, and
subtle that it is doubtful whether we shall ever understand the true
significance of nocturnal phantasy. But we can, by using the
knowledge we have gleaned, use dreams to promote astral projection I
Concerning dreams, there is one rule which one must remember :
WHEN THE ACTION OF SELF, IN THE DREAM, CORRESPONDS TO THE
ACTION OF THE ASTRAL PHANTOM, THE DREAM WILL CAUSE THE
PHANTOM ACTUALLY TO EXTERIORIZE. The sceptic may say, "How
do you know that, if the action of the self in the dream corresponds
to the action of the phantom while projecting, it will cause projec-
tion?,
There is but one answer-experience proves it. Although it takes
the reader but a couple of seconds to read that rule, it took the
writer several years to discover and prove the rule to be true. Now,
accepting this as true, all that it is necessary to do is to be able to
"dream true," which can be done, keeping in mind the route which
the phantom takes, and moulding the dream in accordance with it.
Naturally the dream must be of an "aviation" type. You can
"dream true," but unless you understand the route taken by the
phantom, and apply it to the dream, it {the dream) will have no
"pulling out" effect upon the astral body. It is only reasonable to
suppose that a properly applied dream should do this. The mind
is partially conscious during a dream, and the dream acts as a
" suggestion " to the subconscious will-the power which actually
moves the etheric counterpart.
Recall the fundamental law of projection: WHEN THE SUBCON-
SCIOUS WILL BECOMES POSSESSED OF THE IDEA TO MOVE THE BODY
{COINCIDING BODIES) AND THE PHYSICAL BODY IS INCAPACITATED,
THE ASTRAL BODY WILL MOVE OUT OF THE PHYSICAL. It is the
dream proper which gives the subconscious will the suggestion to
move the body, and the physical is incapacitated-the astral being
in the zone of quietude-so that the astral body is " pulled out "
by the dream, which must be of an aviation type.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 99
The proper dream suggestion is as certain to project the astral
body as a conscious suggestion to " walk " will start you walking
subconsciously, when physically awake. It is the same subconscious
will which moves the body, or bodies, as the case may be. If you
ask me which is the most pleasant way to promote astral projection,
I should answer by saying "dream-control." There are several
methods of promoting this seeming miracle, but every method must
rest upon the same fundamental law. And assuming that some
would like to attempt projection by means of "dream-control," I
shall now give the instructions for doing so. Later I shall go into
other methods. My advice here, however, is that the reader does
not attempt any method, until first studying the entire contents of
the book.
THE " DREAM-CONTROL " METHOD OF PROJECTION
For several nights after you retire (several weeks would be better)
watch yourself during the process of going to sleep. Try to con-
centrate your thoughts within yourself. Think of nothing and
no one but yourself. Try to keep a close watch upon yourself, as
your consciouness grows dim. Try to remember that you are
awake, but still going to sleep. You :will catch the significance
of this when you try it-far more than you do now, while reading it.
After you have learned to hold consciousness well up into the
hypnagogic state, until you actually are enveloped in sleep, then
you must go a step further and construct a proper dream to hold
in mind, while going to sleep. Remember: the dream must be
constructed so that your are going to be active in it ; and
further, it must be constructed so that the action you go through
will correspond to the route taken by the phantom when pro-
jected.
What do you like to do? Swim? Ride in an aeroplane? Go up
in a balloon ? A ferris-wheel ? An elevator ? Be sure and do (in
your dream) the thing you " like " to do. If you select something
you do not like, the sensation will interiorize you, for it will be
unpleasant. Do that which will give you a sensation which you
like, and if you become fully conscious, once you are projected,
you will like the sensation which you will actually get from the
phantom floating in the air. This will go a long way toward ulti-
mate success--to have the action in the dream of such a nature that
you enjoy the sensation.
Now let us suppose that you enjoy going up in an elevator. (This
is the formula I use.) You have already learned to hold conscious-
ness up to the time you go to sleep. Lie upon your back. Think
within yourself. You are lying upon your back on the floor of an
elevator. You are going to lie there quietly and go to sleep, and as
you enter sleep the elevator is going to move upward. And you
Ioo THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
are going to enjoy the sensation of going up, as you lie upon your
back on the floor of the elevator.
Now it is trembling a little, getting ready to go up to the top
story of a large building. Slowly, quietly, it is going up, going up,
going up ! You are conscious that you are moving upward. You
are enjoying the sensation to the utmost. It is nearing the top
story now. It has stopped. You are going to rise to your feet and
walk out of the elevator and round the floor of the upper story of
the building.
You are going to look all about you, as you walk round, observing
everything. Now you are going to walk back into the elevator and
lie down upon your back on the floor. Slowly you are moving
downward, slowly downward, and now you are lying on your back
on the floor of the elevator, on the ground floor of the building.
I have stated that this was the dream I constructed for the
purpose of inducing the astral body to emerge from the physical.
Now, it is important to use the same dream over and over again;
for if you try first one dream and then another, the subconscious
will not be impressed with the construction (of the dream) as strongly
as if you repeat the same one over and over each night, as you are
entering sleep.
Have the dream vividly worked out in your mind, and hold it
before you as your consciousness is slowly diminishing; shift your-
self right into the "elevator " just as the moment of " unknowing-
ness " comes to you ; and the astral body will move upward in
the elevator ; it will upright itself above the shell, just as you dream
of standing up when the elevator reaches the top floor ; it will
move outward, just as you dream you are walking out of the ele-
vator. Likewise, on the return, as you walk into the elevator, the
astral will move to a position directly over the shell ; as you lie
down, the astral will resume the horizontal position ; as the elevator
lowers itself, the astral body will lower itself also.
The dream is a suggestion to your subconscious Will, and that
Will acts accordingly. You should be able to remember the dream
after awakening. Another advantage of this method is that the
astral cable does not annoy one as it does when a projection is
induced by other methods.
If one can project oneself by dream control, and move some
distance away, and then become conscious, one should never know
that cord-activity range exists. The big problem lies in gaining
consciousness, when once one is projected. Remember that the
dream consciousness is not the true consciousness-although you
can remember the dream.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 101
THE PROPER DREAM WILL ALWAYS PROJECT THE PHANTOM
Now, it is not necessary to employ the dream I have mentioned;
you can construct your own dream, making it appropriate in every
respect-in action and sensation. Perhaps you think that you can
dream this sort of dream, and that the astral body will not do as
I have stated. Don't deceive yourself I It will-even though you
are not clearly conscious.
When I first experimented along this line, I found that reper-
cussion (of the body) would take place, at times, but that was
always because I had dreamed that the elevator descended too
quickly. I found also that I could produce repercussion of the
astral body at will, merely by imagining myself falling from a high
building, as I entered sleep. I would hold this thought in mind
(that I was falling from a high building) and soon after going to
sleep, I would repercuss. All you need to do to convince yourself
that these things I am telling you are true, is to follow the instruc-
·tions, and find out for yourself.
If you like to swim, of course you must plot the dream so that as
you are in the water, it (the water) must rise, bearing you upward.
Then, when you have been raised to a position when the water
floods its banks, you swim outward. This follows the action which
the phantom takes in projection.
Many, no doubt, will say that they could never project their
astral body into space, that they could never disconnect one body
from the other ; yet every time one goes to sleep the astral counter-
part moves out of the physical, to some extent ; every time you
have a falling dream your astral body has been projected, and is
returning as you dream of the fall.
But the big problem, I repeat again, is: How can one project
and possess true consciousness while projected ? I have said that
consciousness is more or less a matter of chance, and I have tried a
few experiments in which I succeeded in bringing about conscious-
ness, which I do not think would have appeared, on these particular
occasions, but for the factor which I then introduced. I shall
discuss this matter shortly.
However, now that we are on this subject of " dream control,"
a few more suggestions for dream-plots will not be amiss. The main
action, of course, is the upward movement, in getting the phantom
" out " ; so, even though the sideway action is not equally realistic,
always have the upward movement of Self vividly pictured in the
mind ; and, if possible, with the body (in the dream) lying in a
horizontal position, as it moves upward.
Plan your dream as you would plan an important matter in daily
life; the mere fact that it is "but a dream " does not lessen its
significance in moving the phantom. Here are a few suggestions
B
:'1'
102 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
for dream-plots, some of which I have taken from Dr. Carrington's
Higher Psychical Development. ·
See a mental image of yourself in a mirror-your own picture.
Construct, as it were, or imagine, a mirror about twenty feet behind
you in space, and picture yourself walking backwards into that
mirror.
Another exercise is to endeavour to lift yourself out of your body
to a point about eighteen inches above your own head-like Baron
Miinchausen lifting himself by his own bootstraps I
Imagine that you are steaming out of the body-coming out of
all the pores. Now this steam is collecting just above you and is
forming a replica of yourself and is then carried upward on the air.
Climbing a ladder is another good exercise to construct mentally ;
likewise climbing a rope. (The writer has had many projections
which were brought about by dreams of climbing a ladder.)
Another, and a very good one-for it corresponds closely to the
action of the phantom, while exteriorizing-is to imagine a tank
gradually filling with water-on the top of which one floats. The
object is to find a small hole in one side of the tank through which
one passes out. However, if the subject has a fear of water, such
an exercise is not advisable. On the other hand, for one who likes
water-bathing, swimming, floating-a better exercise could hardly
be constructed, for the action of the Self is correct and the sensation
would be pleasant.
Another is to imagine oneself whirling. Whirling objects are
much used in development work. The Dervishes and other Orientals
resort to whirling exercises, which doubtless have this fundamental
object of loosening the astral body from the physical, and in inducing
estatic states of consciousness as the result. You will recall what
I told you formerly, i.e. that dizziness is merely a condition of
looseness of the astral counterpart. Epileptics usually begin to
whirl just as a " ·spell " is coming on, often making several complete
revolutions of the body before catalepsy begins.
The image of a revolving star is used to stimulate the activity of
the astral body. Concentration upon the image of a whirlpool; the
sense of expanding and contracting the body is very useful-as is
that of being carried along on the surface of a wave.
One very useful exercise is the image of a cone. The image of a
cone in one form or another is quite common in development work,
because it involves the idea of contracting to a point or expanding
from a point ; thus passing through a waterspout or an hour-glass-
shaped space, is an image used. Construct a cone of circles becoming
smaller and larger, and turning such a cone inside out; or making
a revolving disc assume the form of a cone, and flatten out again
into a disc, is another.
Holding the image in mind of a flame of fire, and endeavouring
to identify yourself with the flame is another very useful mental
.•.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY ro3
image to stimulate the activity of the astral body. If you could
really see an astral body while projected, it would appear like a
white flame, holding the human shape and dimensions.
A good exercise for this purpose is to close the eyes, then roll the
eyeballs until they are fixed at a point on the forehead, between
the eyes-in much the same way as the Yogis do--and make a con-
centrated effort to gather together your psychic energies at that
point. Will, with the whole force of your being, that you are there ;
and when you have concentrated your full Self at the spot, then
will that you shall be projected outwards, in space, from that point
of departure. This method is a strain upon the eyes, but is one
which has been found very effective--as the result of numerous
experiments and experiences.
Here is a very effective developing exercise. Lean back in an
armchair in such a manner that you can look directly into a mirror
(a real mirror) which is about four feet in front of you. Relax ; rest
in peace; think only of yourself. Now try to go to sleep, watching
through partly closed eyes the image of yourself in the mirror.
Continuing, you will eventually become drowsy and your head
will begin to nod; but just keep watching the image in the mirror.
This is an almost automatic way of developing, for as the astral
tries to withdraw, your head tends to fall. If the astral does with-
draw, the head will drop. Thus you see, the state you are trying to
attain consciously is more impressive, for the instant you are about
to "rise" to sleep, your head begins to fall, which at once arouses
you slightly.
The next step is to imagine that you are floating out of the chair
into the air of the room-just as you are in this condition-the
condition in which your head wishes to fall, in which you are reatly
going to sleep, in which the astral body is really moving slightly
out.
You have doubtless noticed that the instant a person falls (rises)
to sleep, the physical body seems to collapse slightly, and that if
there be any member of the physical body which is not resting upon
something solid, it will fall; also that this has the effect of slightly
reviving the subject. Now this principle can be employed in order
to stimulate consciousness as the astral body is trying to withdraw,
for it is the withdrawing of the astral which brings about the relaxa-
tion.
You may have observed that this principle was employed in the
last exercise given. It can be employed likewise while going to
sleep in the horizontal position. It is interesting to try this and
note the consequences. After retiring, hold your dream-construc-
tion before you, and at the same time hold one arm in the air, so
that it will fall when you go to sleep.
Now, as you enter the hypnagogic state, the arm will begin to
sway, to fall, and this will slightly awaken you, for you must not
-.
104 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
let it fall. In this way you force consciousness further into the
hypnagogic state. It is not at all unusual, when trying this exercise,
for the subject to feel breathless in the region of the stomach (just
when the arm is falling} and he will jump slightly to stop it.
This slight "jump " is nothing less than slight repercussion of
body. Even subjects most unadaptable to projection can experience
what I have just described-can actually feel the astral moving-
by following this formula. This is a good exercise to practise, for,
in order to "dream true," you must be able to hold consciousness
up to the very moment when you " rise " to sleep. It is true
that some people never have a consciousness of going to sleep, in
fact most people do not; but until the subject can experience the
" consciousness of going to sleep " he will never be able to dream
true.
It is not as difficult to cause the projection of the astral body by
the dream-control method as you might think. Once the etheric
begins to rise, the dream impresses the action of the" dream" body
and the action of that body impresses the dream. This may be a
little difficult to comprehend, but it is true. The whole " trick "
lies in the proper start-in the proper condition of the mind at the
"take-off." You do not have to start the body, it will start itself
as you enter sleep-but you must get into the dream and keep the
body moving onward.
The astral naturally moves out of coincidence at the moment of
sleep ; it naturally starts itself, and that is just the moment when
you must mentally project yourself into the upgoing elevator (or
whatever the dream may be) and "keep going." The "dream
body," of course, is nothing more nor less than the astral body in a
partially conscious condition. In such a dream the astral body
acts out exactly whatever the dream may be.
A properly constructed dream is as sure to move the astral body
out, as the dream of falling is to move it in. The queer thing about
this type of dream phenomenon is that you dream what is actually
happening-so far as the action and sensation in the astral body are
concerned. It is natural for the inexperienced investigator to say
that the dream might begin by holding true to the plot and then
divert from it ; but it never will ; the dream holds the astral
activity true, and, being a reality, the dream is true.
If you become completely conscious in such a dream, you would
usually find yourself in some place corresponding to the place of
action which was last seen in the dream. That is, if you used the
elevator dream, e.g. and became conscious just as you were up-
righting yourself at the top story, you would find yourself in the
astral body uprighted directly over the shell. I care not how
nonsensical this may seem to anyone; it is the truth, and I have
found it to work out, time after time. It is a pleasant and certain
way of projecting the astral body into space.
• THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 105
SUMMARY OF THE DREAM-CONTROL METHOD
I shall now sum up this method of projection of the astral body
through dream-control:
1. Develop yourself so that you are enabled to hold consciousness
up to the very moment of " rising " to sleep. The best way
to do this is to hold some member of the physical body in such
a position that it will not be at rest, but will be inclined to fall
as you enter sleep. (See exercise given in the foregoing.)
2. Construct a dream which will have the action of Self pre-
dominant. The dream must be of the aviation type, in which
you move upward and outward, corresponding to the action
of the astral body while projecting. It must be a dream of
something which you enjoy doing.
3· Hold the dream clearly in mind ; visualize it as you are rising
to sleep; project yourself right into it and go on dreaming.
In the dream the elevator (or what not) begins to move upward
coincidentally with the projection of the astral ; that is, you
imagine that you are starting upward the very moment you
" rise " to sleep.
That is the bare formula for inducing projection of the astral body
by means of dream-control, and every part of it must be strictly
adhered to. lt is no idle phantasy, but a tried and proven method.
Of course, as you learn of other methods, you can naturally weave
other promotive factors into this scheme of procedure.
You will find that if, before retiring, you read a story or article
which is fascinating to you-which holds you in suspense-a story
of men who work at great heights, a story of daring aviators-such
as Bird's flight to the North Pole-you will strengthen your efforts
to project by the dream method.
The very night after I took my first aeroplane trip I experienced
a dream of it, and, awakening from that dream, found myself pro-
jected. Inquiring of others who have likewise experienced their
first trip, I found that most of them had an aviation-type dream
shortly afterward, and that several were falling dreams, with reper-
cussions.
So you see that an impressive activity-along the lines of your
plotted dream-during the day, even though it be but the reading
of a thrilling aviation story, will bring forth positive results by night.
If, by following this formula, you have a dream, you will remember
it, and you can depend upon it that the astral body, the dream
body, participated. (However, do not mistake "dream conscious-
ness" for real consciousness.) Now the next, and probably the
most difficult, step is to bring that dream body to real consciousness,
after it has been projected-and preferably outside cord-activity
range.
106 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
BRINGING CONSCIOUSNESS TO THE DREAM BODY
A partially conscious projection is a step in advance of uncon-
scious projection, and Conscious projection is still a step in advance
of a projection which is partially conscious. Either the phantom
will awaken by chance-the reason for the awakening being-Unknown
-or else some means must be d~vised by which you bring true
consciousness about.
So far as I know, there are but two influences which will serve to
awaken the projected phantom-other than the natural awakening.
These are, " sounds " and " properly applied suggestion, prior to
the projection." The latter is by far the more successful, and the
former (i.e. sounds) will " work " only when the phantom has
advanced outside cord-activity range; inside that range they
(sounds) will have the opposite effect and interiorize the phantom.
It will be found that the more one projects the more liable con-
sciousness is to intervene, of its own accord. I have noticed, also,
that the place at which consciousness appears once, will be the place
at which it will intervene again, if the phantom happens to cross that
spot while somnambulistic in the astral. Why this should be I do
not know. However, I have a theory:
Have you ever travelled-say along a road in an automobile-
and, at a certain place, thought of a certain thing ? And, even
weeks later, have you ever travelled over the same route and, at
the same spot, thought of the same thing which you had in mind
when on that spot formerly ? Of course you have, and as you recall
it, it seems to you that the locale, the spot, suggested the same things
to you that you had in mind when on that spot before-even though
those objects sustain no relation whatever to what you have now in
mind.
For instance, every time I pass a turn in the road about a mile
from where I live, I think of a circus. Just why, I do not know;
yet every single time I pass that turn, I visualize a circus. Now,
that is just what happens in the astral. If you are somnambulating
(and I might say that the astral body has a habit of following the
same course, time after time, although it does take other courses)
and you become conscious at a certain place, you will find that if
you ever cross that spot again in the astral body, you will again
become conscious there.
There are many, many people who are "out" in their astral
bodies-somnambulating-every night. But they do not know it !
I wager that the world would be greatly surprised if it knew how
common unconscious and partially conscious astral projection really
is. Now, as the astral body moves forward:._if it is in a dream state
-the environment along its pathway will influence the dream.
Those dreams which are vivid, in which we seem very active-
dreams that we have dreamed over and over again-may be,
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 107
and usually are, astral somnambulistic dreams. Now sometimes,
during such a dream, the route is not misconstructed very much in
the memory; and, during the waking hours, should we happen to
pass over the same route (or a similar one) which the phantom was
traversing during the dream, we should recall the dream.
But this is not all! The next time we have the dream, we know
that it is a dream-and thus we dream that we are dreaming!
Now this may seem difficult to understand, but that is the way it
works. It is a strange phenomenon-this dreaming experience!
Let us now go still further. What dreams do you have over and
over again, in which you take an active part ? Do you ever dream
that you are dreaming? If so, what is the dream about? Can
you find a locale in your awaking hours which will induce you to
recall the dream ? That is, where are you, in the physical body,
when you suddenly think of having been in a similar place in your
dream ? These are the things which you must notice.
If you can harmonize these conditions, try to act out the dream
in your physical body ; go over the route, while thinking of the
dream, and, as you are doing so, tell yourself that the next time you
dream of reaching this spot you are going to awaken-at this tree
-in this doorway, etc.
The dream may recur again soon, spontaneously; or, by thinking
about it, as you enter sleep, you may produce it intentionally. If
the dream actually were an astral somnambulistic dream, the sug-
gestion that you will awaken at the given spot, as you reach it in
the astral body, will be one of the strongest possible factors toward
restoring complete astral body consciousness.
The suggestion is not unlike the suggestion given to the subject
in the hypnotic state, to" awaken." The operator says, " I'll count
five-then you will awaken I " or "Now walk straight ahead, and
when you get to that door you will awaken I" The dream gives
this suggestion to the mind of the astral somnambulist, who is in
the dream state.
If you have located the spot (or a similar one) where you were in
the dream, and go over this route in your physical body, exactly as
you recall the dream, and then tell yourself that when you get to
this tree, this door (or what not) in the dream, you will awaken-
this suggestion will be fulfilled as you walk up to the door, tree, etc.,
in the dream body.
This is the most certain way of bringing consciousness to the
projected phantom, even though it does involve a study of your
dreams. Of course, once you can produce an aviation type of dream,
and remember it, the thing to do is to suggest to yourself, just before
going to sleep, that you will awaken at a certain place.1
1 I have a friend to whom I gave these instructions. He was quite successful
in producing the proper dream, but when the suggestion (to awaken) should come
forth, he would dream that he was dreaming-and dream that he could not awaken.
-S.M.
108 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Take, for example, the elevator dream. Tell yourself that after
you have been lifted to the top floor of the building, and have left
the elevator and walked away from it, that you will then awaken.
This is a simpler method, but not as effective as the complicated
" dream study " method just given. Always use good judgment in
suggesting the spot where you wish to awaken, making sure it is
not too near the physical body, or you might awaken within cord-
activity range, which is to be avoided if possible.
Let us suppose for a moment that you sleep on the lower floor of
your home--or on any floor, so long as there are other floors above
you. You have planned an elevator dream, in which you will be
carried upward, will upright yourself, walk out of the elevator and
walk around on the upper floor of the building. A good thing to
know is the "setting," the way in which things really are arranged
on the floor above you, and mould your dream accordingly.
Find one object on the floor above you-a door-a window-
something that will be in your path in the dream ; and, as you are
holding the dream-construction before you, on going to sleep,
suggest to yourself that you will awaken when you reach that object.
In this way when you approach it in the dream body the suggestion
will be fulfilled.
The suggestion that you will become conscious upon reaching a
certain place in your astral body will always be more effective than_
merely the suggestion that you will become conscious " somewhere "
in the astral body. Suggestion of "place" works in the same way
in the astral as " time " does in the physical.
Perhaps you have tried" suggestion" to replace the alarm clock,
and, by suggesting, upon retiring, that you will awaken at a certain
hour, you have been enabled to do so. That is the way in which
" place " affects the astral body ; simply will that you awaken at
a certain" place," in the astral body, just as you will to awaken at
a certain "time" in the physical body.
Although the proper kind of dream-the aviation type-will
seldom fail to "pull out" the dream body in practically all cases,
the nervous, temperamental person is so susceptible that he will
often be projected spontaneously, while asleep; and while one
temperament can have a dream (not necessarily of the aviation
type, but just an ordinary dream) in which his dream body does
not move out of the zone of quietude, the nervous type might have
a similar dream, and his dream body would move out and enact the
dream.
In other words, while the aviation type of dream will usually
" pull out "the dream body with all types of people, even an ordinary
dream will often project the dream body in the nervous type. When
this occurs, one can never tell what the phantom will do : but its
action will always be found to sustain some relation to the dream.
The phantom may be projected to the very locale which the subject
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 109
is dreaming about. If the locale is a product of the imagination in
the dream, the phantom may find a locale that is similar to the one
which the mind created.
The phantom may linger about objects which are similar to
objects seen in the dream. As an example of this, recall the dream
I had in which I was shooting Indians, and, becoming fully conscious
in the dream body, I found myself standing near the spot where my
shotgun stood (Exp. No. II). You may dream of a lake or even of
the ocean, hundreds of miles away, and, if the dream body moves
out to participate, it may be projected to the ocean, or it may only
project to the pond just across the street from where you are asleep.
CHAPTER IX
THE FACTORS WHICH STIMULATE THE SUBCONSCIOUS WILL TO
ACTION
W
E have spok.en of individuals projecting spontaneously,
and have stated that a certain type-the nervous type
-often does so. But this is not because of their adapt-
able temperament alone. The subconscious Will must
first decide to move the body, for otherwise even the subject of
nervous temperament will not project.
Recall the fundamental law of astral projection: WHEN THE SUB-
CONSCIOUS WILL BECOMES POSSESSED OF THE IDEA TO MOVE THE
BODY (COINCIDING BODIES) AND THE PHYSICAL BODY IS INCAPACI-
TATED, THE SUBCONSCIOUS WILL MOVES THE ASTRAL BODY OUT OF
THE PHYSICAL.
Of course, it is no trick to cause the subconscious Will to move
the coinciding bodies, when we are fully conscious and are capable
of moving. We do this every day. All we need to do is to suggest
to ourselves that we walk, and the subconscious Will will keep us
walking until it receives further instructions. The subconscious
Will, therefore, is not so mysterious after all-we are using it every
day.
How can this subconscious Will be induced to move the astral
body when we are asleep ? That is the important question, and I
will show presently how it is done. But first, let us do a little
reasoning. If the factors which stimulate the subconscious Will to
action, unintentionally, can be discovered, cannot these same factors
be put to work intentionally, and produce the same effect? Of
course they can !
M. Flammarion once said, " There are two methods of investiga-
tion in all scientific problems : that of observation and that of
experiment." And that is exactly how the present writer acquired
his knowledge of astral projection. By careful observation, analysis
and experiment, during conscious, unintentional projections, I have
been enabled to determine those factors which arouse the subcon-
scious Will. First, I shall enumerate these factors; next, explain
them ; and then show how to put them into use, for the purpose of
producing projection of the astral body :
A. Dreams.
I. Aviation type.
2. Dreams which arouse desire and habit.
IlO
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY III
B. Desire. (To possess or do something-not a necessity).
r. Intense desire.
2. Suppressed desire.
C. Bodily desires-necessities.
r. Hunger.
2. Thirst.
3· Enervation (lack of cosmic energy).
D. Habit.
I. Long-standing habit.
a. Routine.
3· Desirable habit.
4· Broken habit.
Some of the factors listed are not as strong as others, as you will
learn soon. We have already discussed the first group," Dreams";
have seen how the subconscious Will is activated by them, and
have also learned how to use " dreams " to promote projection.
Next we shall discuss groups, B-C-D.
The subconscious Will does not constitute the entire realm of the
subconscious mind; the latter is so vast that it can work within
itself, so to speak. The subconscious mind· can " suggest " some
action to the subconscious Will-as it does during sleep-if one of
the factors which I have listed happens to come to the surface, or
is strong enough to remain at the surface (of the subconscious mind)
during sleep. That is, the suggestion to the subconscious Will-to
move the body-when we are asleep, comes from the subconscious
mind ; just as the suggestion-to move the body-when we are
awake, comes from the conscious mind.
It is the same "Will" that moves the body, regardless of the
source or mind from which it takes the suggestion. The only reason
why the astral moves out of the physical in the former case (while
we sleep) and not in the latter case (while we are awake) is simply
because the physical counterpart is " incapacitated " in the former
state. So far as the suggestion is concerned, the subconscious Will
responds as readily to subconscious suggestion as it does to conscious
suggestion.
We can readily see that the prime requisite is to impress one of
these " activating " factors so strongly upon the subconscious mind
that that mind will retain the impression during sleep. This can be
done by way of the conscious mind, by repeated action (as in
"routine") or suggestion (as in " desire") or, in some cases, by
combining both action and suggestion.
When we impress one of these "activating" factors upon the
subconscious mind, there often occurs an unintentional projection,
while the subject sleeps. Here is the explanation :
Perhaps you have formed the habit of going to a certain place.
You persist in this habit, and, in doing so, you impress it upon the
subconscious mind. Now, if this impression becomes strong enough,
II2 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
and comes to the surface during sleep, the subconscious mind sug-
gests that you repeat the action, and the subconscious Will is
imbued with the suggestion. Other factors being favourable-
temperament-inactivity of the physical body, etc.-projection of
the astral body will result.
Students have said that there is " spontaneous " projection of the
astral body, yet there is always some underlying cause. The reason
it is called "spontaneous" is merely because these causes inter-
vened, and conditions favourable to projection were brought about,
unknowingly.
Ordinary habit and ordinary desire, although they will sometimes
bring about projection, in the proper temperament, will as a rule
not impress the subconscious mind so strongly.
Intense desire and long-standing habit, as you can see, will make
a stronger impression upon the subconscious mind, and are therefore
more positive. In fact, long-standing habit and intense desire root
themselves in the subconscious mind.
Suppressed desire and broken habit act similarly. After a habit
has been deeply rooted in the subconscious mind, that mind learns
to express the habit-that is why it is a habit ; it seems to have a
desire to express the habit, a determination to express it. That is
why habits are so difficult to break-because they are expressed by
the subconscious mind, in which they are rooted.
Now, if you have a deep-rooted habit, and suddenly break it, the
stress of expression becomes intensified in the subconscious mind.
You can feel this stress within you. So while you sleep, the stress,
the desire for expression of the habit, the determination to express
it-which has accumulated in the subconscious-" breaks loose,"
and the subconscious Will endeavours to move the body in order to
perform the habitual act.
Suppressed desire works similarly I You have a deep-rooted
desire, and, unless you can appease that desire, you must hold
yourself back by conscious effort. Yet within yourself you keep on
desiring-desiring-desiring. You would satisfy that desire in a
moment, if it were not for some obstacle.
So, by desiring and preventing yourself from appeasing that
desire, you increase the "stress" within the subconscious mind.
You can feel the urge of expression boiling within you. You are at
war with yourself, so to speak. The " stress " of expression becomes
so great within the subconscious mind that it bursts forth-when
you sleep and can consciously prevent it no more. Thus the sub-
conscious Will is impelled into action I
Hence, the breaking of a long-standing habit, or the suppressing
of a desire, will act similarly, and are stronger factors than mere
habit or desire. The whole secret of causing the subconscious mind
to " suggest " to the subconscious Will, is the " stress of expression,"
which can be accumulated in the subconscious mind.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY II3
Some occult experimenters believe that it is the subconscious
Will which is strengthened, that it is the subconscious Will which
suddenly bursts forth. This is not true I The subconscious Will is
super-powerful at all times l It is the " stress of expression " which
is strengthened and bursts forth-it is not the subconscious Will
itself. Remember, the subconscious "mind" and the subconscious
" Will " are two different things. You could not strengthen the
subconscious Will so that it would burst forth by night.
What you do is to strengthen the " impression " in the subcon-
scious mind, the "stress of expression," and this merely acts as a
suggestion to the subconscious Will, which carries out the suggestion.
You make the impression-habit, routine, desire, etc.-so strongly
established in the subconscious mind that it comes to the surface,
or remains on the surface, after you go to sleep, and thus acts as a
suggestion-which it really is-to the subconscious Will.
Suppressed desire, broken habit and routine are the three out-
standing factors that "stress" the subconscious mind and cause
unintentional projection-provided, of course, other factors are
favourable. Routine is any regular course of action adhered to day
after day-work, pleasure, etc.
If you could watch an unconscious projector during the course
of the projection, you would often see that the phantom was follow-
ing the routine which the subject was accustomed to follow during
the day. The subconscious mind has the action so deeply rooted
in it that the phantom begins to follow its habitual course. Routine
and habit are more or less intermixed. And there is another reason
why the person who is bedridden by sickness will often project.
Everyone follows some routine, and the action becomes, through
repetition, deeply rooted in the subconscious mind. Whether you
are aware of it or not there is always a " stress " there (in the sub-
conscious mind) and this is one of the strongest " stresses " we
possess. We have all heard of people who " just must work,"
because they say that they get irritable if they stop or retire. That
is because the " stress " of the routine is there.
So long as you continue the daily action you " work off " the
"stress" and therefore do not notice it. But if, suddenly, you
break the routine, you will feel the urge within you. Farmers
especially seem to have this "stress" of routine strongly rooted in
their subconscious minds. They will stop farming, try to live in
town, and it will not be long before they are back on the farm again.
They must work off that urge.
Now, when a person is suddenly compelled to break his routine--
perhaps through sickness-the " stress " in the subconscious mind
will begin to accumulate, because it is not worked off-just as gas
accumulates in a bottle, and, if it were not uncorked at times and
allowed to escape, would finally blow up of its own accord. This
" stress " would become so strong that it would remain on the
II4 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
surface of the subconscious, or come to the surface of the subcon-
scious, while the patient slept ; and the subconscious Will would
be brought under its sway, and attempt to move the astral body
out of the physical and perform the routine action in question.
Now it may seem a little strange that if we adhere tenaciously to
a routine it will strengthen the " stress " of it ; and to break the
routine will also strengthen the " stress " of it ; but a little reflection
will show you that this is true. And, incidentally, this agrees in
part with the findings of Dr. Charles Lancelin, a French scientist of
note, who uses " tenacious routine " to develop astral projection.
I will give the substance of what Lancelin has to say along this
line; at the same time I beg to disagree with Dr. Lancelin when he
states that the success of the experiment depends upon the power
which the subconscious Will possesses ; for I maintain that it is
the power of the " stress of expression " in the subconscious mind
which suggests to the subconscious Will, that one must develop the
"stress," and not the subconscious Will itself. However, we both
agree that " tenacious routine " brings about the result.
"The first thing to do, to insure the success of our astral projec-
tion," according to Lancelin, "is to dynamize the Will-to hyper-
dynamize it, in fact, so that it is overcharged and capable of bursting
forth, like champagne, when the cork is removed. There are various
methods of doing this. One of the simplest is to repeat to oneself
many times just before dropping off to sleep, 'I have will-I have
energy ! ' This must be kept up until sleep intervenes and the
memory is lost. Then one may think of the next day's work clearly,
in detail, and make up one's mind not to deviate therefrom, even
under great pressure and temptation. This will give the subcon-
scious Will a force that nothing else can equal. The subconscious
Will thus strengthened," etc.
We can see from what Dr. Lancelin has to say that "tenacious
routine " has been found by him to be a· promotive factor-just as
I maintain that it is-even though we disagree as to the reason
why " tenacious routine " is really an aid to projection.
Naturally I believe Dr. Lancelin is mistaken in his belief that the
subconscious Will is strengthened, If we examine the matter care-
fully we shall find that it is the impression made by the routine
which is strengthened ; it is the rooting of the habit which becomes
so strong that it bursts forth-thus suggesting to the subconscious
Will to perform the action.
Imagine the subconscious Will as a locomotive, and the stress as
the engineer. Now, in order to get the locomotive to move, the
engineer must cause it to move ; the locomotive will not move of
its own accord. Any of the factors which I have listed, when coming
to the surface during sleep, will suggest action to the subconscious
Will. The subconscious Will must obey this action.
If it were true that it was dynamized so powerfully that it could
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY II5
not hold itself back, the subject would surely be in a predicament
during his waking hours, for his suggestions would then amount to
naught. Remember this : IT IS THE SUGGESTION WHICH BURSTS
FORTH-NOT THE SUBCONSCIOUS WILL. And the suggestion may
come from either the conscious or the subconscious mind. ·
If the subconscious Will could operate without first receiving a
suggestion, how would the astral projector ever be able to control
his movements? In fact, how could we control our actions when
conscious ? The fact that the subconscious Will moves the body
does not in any sense denote that it does so because it is hyper-
dynamized.
It is no more necessary to dynamize the subconscious Will so that
it will move the astral body than it is to dynamize the subconscious
Will so that it will move the physical body. It is "suggestion"
which does it-not accumulated dynamic energy. When we are
conscious, and wish to move, we do not stop to dynamize the Will;
all we need to do is to suggest such movement to ourselves, and we
move along under subconscious Will.
And that is what happens when the subconscious Will decides to
move the body while we sleep-it merely takes a suggestion from
the subconscious mind. It is the suggestion which suddenly comes
forth, and the reason we use " tenacious routine " is to impress that
suggestion, so that it will come forth by night.
If the subconscious Will had to be hyperdynamized before it
could move the astral body, then how could that Will ever move
the physical body ? The astral body has been calculated by some
scientists to weigh approximately two ounces. Suppose the physical
body of a subject to weigh r6o pounds. The physical would weigh
r28o times as much as the astral body. Yet we can move the
physical body by a mere suggestion ; and it is merely " suggestion "
which causes the subconscious Will to move the astral body while
we sleep, too-even though it emanates from a dream.
If there is anything which needs to be strengthened it is the
conscious Will, so that we shall stick steadfastly to our routine and
force its impression upon the subconscious mind. Yet even conscious
Will power is not necessary, for we can cause the astral body to move
"out" by an appropriate dream.
Everything we do is impressed upon the subconscious mind, and
these impressions are constantly " suggesting " themselves ; or at
least we can recall these impressions (unless we are victims of
amnesia). Now, when an act or thought is repeated and repeated,
naturally it is more strongly impressed upon the subconscious mind,
and naturally it will "suggest" itself more easily.
When we use our conscious Will power, and hold tenaciously to
a routine, or when we like (desire) the routine so much that we hold
fast to it, we impress it so strongly upon the subconscious mind
that it stays there, on the surface, or comes to the surface, when
II6 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
we sleep (suggests itself) and the subconscious Will is impelled to
move the body. That is the main factor involved-the suggestion
being realized in action. The subconscious Will obeys suggestion
not unlike the hypr!ttized subject who obeys the suggestions of the
operator.
HOW I DISCOVERED THAT "DESIRE " IS AN ACTIVATING FACTOR
Now let us examine desires which are necessities-bodily neces-
sities. I will tell first how I came to stumble upon the fact that
desire " suggests " directly to the subconscious Will while we sleep.
One warm summer night I retired, and, as I lay in bed, I noticed
that I was becoming thirsty-! desired a drink of water-but
instead of getting up and appeasing the desire, I did not stir from
the bed-to be truthful, merely because I was too lazy-perhaps I
should say, drowsy.
So, the desire was suppressed instead of being appeased. Several
times I was on the verge of rising and going for a drink, but I did
not do so. Eventually I was lost in sleep. When I regained con-
sciousness, I was in the projected astral body. It was the result
of a dream-a very insignificant dream. I was dreaming that I
stood beside the water-tap above the sink in the kitchen, and that
I could not turn it on so that I could get a drink.
I became clearly conscious there, and my hands (astral) were on
the faucet, but unable to turn it, of course.1 There was this difference
between the dream and what actually took place : In the dream I
thought that the faucet was shut off so tightly that I could not
turn it, but in clear consciousness I knew it was because my hands
would not make direct contact with the materiaL
The thought dawned upon me then and there that desire had
played some part in the projection ; so I experimented along this
line and found that it was so. One must not conclude that a sup-
pressed desire is no longer a desire; for the suppression is merely
by the conscious mind and the real desire is present in the subcon-
scious. A suppressed desire is really an intensified desire in the
subconscious mind, and it thus comes to the surface and acts as a
suggestion while we sleep.
In the case of ordinary desire, we might continue for many days
-even months-before the impression of it would be strong enough
to assert itself while we slept ; but in the case of a desire which is
a necessity, such as thirst, even the course of an hour will greatly
impress the desire upon the subconscious mind.
You know this without my statements ; if you do not, the next
1 To my mind, this is one of the many strong indications that an astral projection
cannot be a mere dream ; for in a dream it would be the easiest thing in the world
for the dreamer to tum the tap, and obtain the longed-for drink. Yet Mr. Muldoon
has again and again emphasized the impossibility of doing so while projected-
he could never affect matter, as he easily could in a dream.-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY II7
time you get thirsty try to suppress the desire and notice how the
desire within you accumulates, until eventually you can endure it
no longer I You will notice how forcefully the desire for drink
asserts itself. That is just what it does during sleep-suggesting
very strongly that you desire water, and the subconscious Will will
be impelled to move the body, for you cannot suppress it now that
you are no longer conscious.
So, if your physical body be " incapacitated " (in a condition
where it will not instantly respond the moment the subconscious
Will is exercised) the astral body will be moved out of the physical.
Thirst is the strongest and most quickly produced " stress " which
can be used in developing the phase.
Next to thirst comes hunger-desire for food. Fasting exerts a
double positive influence upon astral projection. You will recall
the first reason ; we discussed it in speaking of energy, and learned
that, during a fast, a secondary source of energy is cut off, and that
consequently the astral, during sleep, is thrown further out of
coincidence, to "recharge" with cosmic energy the more easily.
The second reason why the lack of food is a positive factor in the
projection of the astral body is that a desire for food is usually
present-especially at the beginning of a fast, and this desire being
suppressed by the conscious mind, is intensified in the subconscious
mind-the stress growing so intense that it comes to the surface
and suggests itself while the subject is asleep. The subconscious
Will is dominated by the suggestion, just as it is in the case of thirst.
So one can readily see the advantage of fasting, while trying to
promote astral projection. I shall give some specific directions later
for instigating the different "stresses" intentionally.
THE ACTION OF THE UNCONSCIOUS PHANTOM IS GOVERNED BY THE
"STRESS"
If the suggestion of "routine" come to the surface of the sub-
conscious mind, while we sleep, and we project in the astral body,
unless we become conscious and direct our movements, the phantom
will go through the movements of the routine.
If the suggestion of any deep-rooted habit comes to the surface
of the subconscious mind, while we sleep, and we project in the
astral body, unless we become conscious and direct our movements,
the phantom will enact the habit.
If a dream (suggestion) of moving upward through the air comes
to the surface of the subconscious mind, while we sleep, and we are
not conscious enough to direct our movements, the phantom will
act out the dream.
If the suggestion of an intense desire comes to the surface of the
subconscious mind, while we sleep, and we project in the astral body,
u8 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
but do not become conscious and direct the movement, the phantom
will try to appease the desire.
The phantom obeys the dominating impression which it receives
from the mind-either mind-when it is projected I Although I
have enumerated the factors which, impressed upon the subconM
scious mind, and coming to the surface during sleep, suggest them-
selves to the subconscious Will, not every factor will act in the
same manner ; and, as we shall see, all three groups are more or less
related-dreams, habits and desires.
For instance, we may have a habit of doing a certain thing, we
may also desire to do it, and we may also dream of doing it. The
" golf-bug " probably realizes the truth of this ! A dream can cause
a habit. A habit can cause a dream. A desire can cause a habit.
A habit can cause a desire. A desire can cause a dream. A dream
can cause a desire, etc.
The suggestion which you want to "burst forth," as you sleep,
must be one which involves movement of body, of Self-whether it
comes from habit, desire or dream-or a combination of any or all
of these factors. If the habit which " bursts forth " is one in which
you have a movement of Self, the suggestion will be to that effect.
If the desire which " bursts forth " is one which requires movement
of Self, in order to appease that desire, the suggestion will be to
that effect.
It requires very little reflection to demonstrate that the most
powerful suggestion which could " burst forth " would be from an
impression caused by more than one factor being involved in making
the impression. The " shade " of the impression determines the
way in which the subconscious Will acts. It might respond with
determination, half-heartedly, actively, weakly, etc., depending upon
the shade of the suggestion which dominated it, and the extent of
" incapacity " of the physical, and the extent of energy in the
condenser, etc.
Again think of the subconscious Will as a locomotive and the
•• suggestion" as the engineer. The engine obeys the manipulations
of the engineer, and the subconscious Will obeys any suggestion
from the subconscious mind, in a similar manner. The phantom,
while projected, may be conscious, partially conscious or uncon-
scious. If the phantom is unconsciously projected, it will go through
the habitual act, or try to appease the desire (whatever it may be),
and the subject will not know it.
If complete consciousness comes to the projected phantom, the
phantom will usually respond to the conscious suggestion which it
receives. If, however, a partially conscious projection results, the
phantom will perform the action (according to the suggestion it
receives) and the subject will dream-a dream more or less similar
to the action.
The suggestion of either hunger or thirst, if active during sleep,
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY ng
not only impels the subconscious Will to " go forth " and appease
the desire, but very often starts the phantom dreaming; thus a
double positive force is exerted-desire and dream. The way in
which hunger and thirst come to the surface of the mind while we
sleep was observed even by the ancient Hebrews. They also noticed
that in the dream the desire was appeased.
Thus we read in Isaiah xxiv, 8: "It shall even be as when a hungry
man dreameth, and behold, he eateth ; but he awaketh and his soul
is empty : or as when a thirsty man dreameth, and behold, he
drinketh; but he awaketh, and behold, he is faint." The starving ·
Baron Trenck, who was imprisoned in a dungeon, had many
dreams in which he enjoyed luxuriant feasts.
Now, do not think for one minute that every time you dream, the
astral body projects, or that every time you project, the astral body
dreams. A strong desire may come to the surface of the subconscious
mind and cause a non-projecting dream, for, although the desire
to move "out" is in the subconscious Will, other factors may not
be favourable. Yet the conscious mind must be partially function-
ing, or you would not have the dream. On the other hand, a strong
desire might come to the surface during sleep, project the phantom,
and the subject might not dream of it.
Strong desires and habits come to the surface of the subconscious
mind every night, but the conscious mind is not functioning, even
partially, so no dream results-yet a projection might result, and
this very often happens. In other words, during an unconscious
projection, the phantom is actually sleeping, yet, strange as it may
seem, the phantom can be walking about, standing still, or lying in
the air. You will recall that this state was mentioned before as
"immotive projection" and "astral somnambulism."
SEXUAL DESIRE IS A NEGATIVE FACTOR1
Knowing how sexual desire becomes active during sleep, it might
be thought that this would be a strong activating factor, and that
it would assist the body to project ; yet this is a "stress" which
works against itself, so far as projection of the astral body is con-
cerned ; for such an intense desire would become emotional ; the
blood in the physical body would begin to circulate more rapidly,
and " incapacity " of the physical body would not be present ; con-
sequently the astral body would not project ; in fact it would be
drawn more closely into the physical body instead of moving out-
wards from the zone of quietude.
The subject would be physically restless. The subconscious mind
does not conceive of appeasing such a desire otherwise than in the
physical body ; for it has been accustomed to this and to the body
1 We are here considering only the copulative desire. " Affection" will be.
discussed later.-S.M.
r2o THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
being, at such times, in a reclining position; so, suggestion, inthis
case, when coming to the surface of the subconscious mind by night,
would pull the astral body into, rather than away from, the physical
body.
PHANTOM PROJECTS MORE EASILY TO A FAMILIAR PLACE
Another powerful (broken habit) factor which has a very strong
activating effect upon the subconscious Will, is that of sleeping in
a strange place ; that is, in a place where one is not in the habit of
sleeping. You probably have no idea how inclined the subconscious
mind is to move the body back to the place where it is accustomed
to lie while sleeping.
PROJECTING FROM AN UNFAMILIAR TO A FAMILIAR PLACE
When I was about sixteen, I went one day to visit my aunt who
lived in a neighbouring village, fourteen miles away. That night
I slept there and, before going to sleep, seemed very restless, wishing
that I were at home, sleeping in the room and bed where I was in
the habit of sleeping.
I finally dozed off to sleep and, shortly, I was dreaming that I was
flying about with wings, in the air of my room at home, just over
the bed where I had always slept. Consciousness came to me in the
astral body, and I found myself hovering horizontally over the
bed, at home, where I was in the habit of sleeping.
Here is another experience, in which I thought I was dead, on
first awakening. I did not see my physical body lying upon the
bed, as I had been accustomed to, when projected and conscious,
in this particular room. The first thought, on seeing the absence of
the physical body, was that I had died, and had been unconscious
for some time, and that, while in that condition, the physical body
had been buried.
" Where is my body ? " I wondered, " I want to find it I " But
scarcely had I thought of finding my physical body than I was back
in the room-at my aunt's-where it was. You can get some idea,
from this, just how slowly the conscious mind functions, in compari-
son with the rapidity of the subconscious. Before I had time to
(consciously) remember that I had been sleeping at my aunt's
home, I was back in my physical body I
In this instance, you will observe, the three factors-habit-
desire-and dream-were all present. Further, I was wishing to be
in a certain place, and, in order to appease that desire, the astral
body moved to that place.
In any projection, the astral body will always " project " with
much more ease to a familiar place than to a strange place ; in fact
the astral body, when exteriorized and unconscious, will be found
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 121
to meander about in the subject's familiar haunts, very much of
the time-going through activities which have become habitual to
the subject. And this applies not alone to temporary, projected
phantoms, but to permanently disembodied phantoms also (phan-
toms of the dead).
PHANTOMS OF THE DEAD ARE OFTEN DOMINATED BY THE" STRESS"
OF DESIRE OR HABIT
This is one of the reasons for " haunted houses " and " haunted
localities." Phantoms of the dead may have" desire" and" habit"
so strongly embedded within them that they will continue stead-
fastly in their habits and conduct, even after becoming conscious,
simply because the " stress " is there, and they must work it off.
It is this same stress of desire or habit, or both, which the phantom
tries to work off when we sleep ; and, knowing this, we are able to
force the subconscious Will to move out the phantom, while we
sleep-by instilling a strong "stress" of desire or habit, or both,
which will come to the surface of the subconscious mind, during the
hours of sleep-while our physical body is usually "incapacitated"
-and the phantom will be liberated, to work off the stress of habit
or appease the desire.
Phantoms of the dead, for a time, after entering the astral plane,
do not conduct themselves in a manner differing from projected
phantoms of the living.1 Some remain unconscious for a time ;
others are conscious even before the astral cable snaps ; and others
roam about in a dream, or partially conscious.
While in either the unconscious or partially conscious condition
the phantom is under the stress of habit or desire, and does not
deviate from it as long as the "suggestion" remains active. But,
once conscious, he-can, if he wills to, break off the continual appeas-
ing of desire and the routine of habit. Yet, as a matter of fact, the
stress is so strong that the phantom in many instances loiters about
its familiar haunts, submitting to the urge of the stress-even while
conscious.
After death, habits are unbroken, desires are unappeased-and
the " stress " of them remains. The phantom goes through the
process of appeasing some desire which he had in the flesh, or
the habit to which he had been accustomed.
THE UNCONSCIOUS PHANTOM SOMETIMES MOVES MATERIAL OBJECTS
You have been told that the way in which the subconscious Will
responds to the suggestion depends upon the " shade " of the sug-
gestion. Under the stress of deep-rooted habit, routine, the sub-
• The astral plane coincides with the physical plane, just as the astral body
coincides with the physical body.-S.M.
122 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
conscious Will becomes, on some occasions, actually determined-it
uses powerful "motivity" in every action, and this motivity, while
performing a habit, is much more powerful than at other times.
This is the reason why phantoms of the dead-while under the
stress of habit, in their accustomed haunts-often move objects,
which their conscious Wills could not move. It is the stress of
suggestion which is sv powerful and deep-rooted in the subconscious
mind, that it produces a strong subconscious Will response.
The unconscious phantom, under the stress of working off a habit,
~ can sometimes move things which another conscious phantom
cannot move-because the conscious Will cannot produce the
"motivity," which the subconscious Will can produce, and a single
conscious suggestion is not as strong as a deep-rooted subconscious
suggestion.
Many "haunted houses" are thus easily accounted for. The
phantom whose activities are detected there is under the stress of
desire or habit ; and the "motivity " is so strong that " detection "
-by earthly beings residing there-is brought about; and the
"haunter" may be unconscious, partially conscious or conscious.
Many haunted house investigators have noted that certain mani-
festations occur at certain times, regularly. This is because the
phantom is under the stress of habit. Here is an example :
A "HAUNTER" UNDER THE STRESS OF A DESIRABLE HABIT
I knew an old lady who lived in a room on the second floor of a
house, where she spent the last years of her earthly life. She had
a habit, during the last ten years of her life, of reading the Bible,
regularly. Every morning between four and five o'clock she would
arise, take a squeaky old rocking-chair, which she cherished, and
read the Bible while she rocked back and forth-every rock of the
chair producing a similar squeak.
At five o'clock she would close her Bible, then go downstairs.
This routine she kept up for ten years. Finally she passed out of
earthly existence. The occupants who lived in the house after the
old lady's death were awakened every morning, about four o'clock,
and could hear the chair, which the old lady had used, squeaking, as
if someone were rocking back and forth in it.
The story circulated that the house was" haunted," and not only
did occupants who lived there, immediately after the old lady's
death, move out, but no one would ever move into the house after
that. Although the people who moved out were not superstitious
-so they said-and "did not believe in spirits," they nevertheless
insisted that they heard the chair squeaking regularly, between four
and five o'clock every morning !
This is given merely to show how the stress of habit in the sub-
conscious mind will grip the phantom; and further, how strong
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 123
motivity is, under the stress of a desirable habit. The phantom
was under the desire to read the Bible and under the habit of reading
it regularly at a certain place.
AN EARLY MORNING "HAUNTER " 1
Here is another case which illustrates how the phantom turns to
its regular habits, when projected. An old man, 75, lived with his
son and his son's family. All slept on the upper floor of the house,
the old man having a room of his own, the husband and wife a
room of their own, and the two children likewise.
The old gentleman was in the habit of rising early in the morning
and lighting the stove, downstairs. He did this regularly at 6.30
o'clock, not because he was under any obligation to do so, but
because he wanted to do it.
One Sunday morning, at about this hour, the son awoke upstairs
and heard the stovelids rattle on the stove downstairs. He re-
marked to his wife that his father (the old man) was lighting the fire.
Nothing unusual in that, and about half an hour later the son and
his wife arose.
Going downstairs they found that the stove had not been lighted.
Still they knew that they had heard the old man-or at least some
one-rattling about the stove at 6.30. The wife, going upstairs to
the children's room, told them not to make a commotion, when
getting up, as their grandfather was still asleep in his room.
But the children objected to this, saying that they had heard
their grandfather go through the hall and downstairs and heard
him rattling about the stove. With the children confirming their
former belief-that the old man was already up-the son and his
wife went to the old man's room.
He was lying as if asleep, but examination proved that he was
dead. A doctor was immediately summoned, and stated that the
old man had been dead at least five hours. So they concluded that
it could not possibly have been he (the old gentleman) whom they
had heard and whom the children had heard.
Cases similar to this are numerous and on record. The projected
phantom was under the stress of habit, and the " motivity " in such
a case is powerful. I shall come back to this subject. of how the
phantom may move physical objects, later.
THE FACTOR "ENERVATION"
In the list of factors which incite the subconscious Will to
move the· astral body, may be found " enervation." There is no
need to go into a study of this factor, for we have already learned
that " enervation-lack of cosmic energy-causes the astral to move
1 I a.m well acquainted with every person mentioned in this account.-S.M.
124 THR PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
further out, into the cosmic stream of energy, during sleep. We
have learned that subjects of nervous temperament move outmore
quickly, further and more easily.
Enervation is really a bodily condition. It is an aid to projection
of the astral body. Now, if you repeat to yourself over and over
again, " I have energy-! have energy-! have energy," day after
day-as some authorities maintain that you should do, to promote
projection-instead of aiding projection, you are actually binding
your astral body tighter to the physical, for the more energy you
store up the less inclined will the astral condenser be to move to a
greater distance during separation.
If the nervous temperament be the best suited to projection, then
is it not inconsistent to say that to build up the energy is the best
method of attaining projection ? Surely it is I It is lack of nervous
energy which makes the nervous temperament ; and to build up
one's energy by any means is only to draw the subject further away
from the end desired.
The astral body does not separate from the physical body at night,
during sleep, because it has too much energy-but because it has
not enough; that is the reason why we go to sleep. If it were
strength of Will and accumulation of energy which caused projection
of the astral body, the sick person would be unable to project; but
this is precisely the opposite of the known facts. Now I have the
greatest of respect for all of my contemporaries in this field, but I
believe that their theories of " good health " and " accumulation
of energy " are honeycombed with inconsistencies ; and I am
dogmatic in my" subconscious stress" theory.
CHAPTER X
DETERMINING THE PROPER " STRESS " TO USE IN DEVELOPING
N
ow that we understand what it is that impels the sub-
conscious Will to move the body, while we sleep, all
that it is necessary to do is to develop one of the factors
strongly enough so that it will come to the surface, or
stay at the surface, of the subconscious mind, after we go to
sleep.
In choosing the factor one wishes to use, one should not select
the first one he thinks of, but should first of all resort to analysis,
and see if it be the factor suited to his individual case-one which
would not be too difficult to develop in the subconscious mind-
one which would be in hannony with the laws of projection, and
one which he has already strongly developed, instead of creating an
entirely new one, etc. Ask yourself questions such as the following :
Have I a desire which I dream of appeasing frequently, or which
grips me forcibly in my waking hours? Will it require movement
~ of the astral body in order to appease it ? Is it a sex desire ? (If so,
do not use it-it will not permit passivity of the physical body.) Is
it a desire for revenge directed against some one? (If so, do not
try to develop it.) Have I a habit which I like? Is it a desirable
habit ? Do I dream of it frequently ? (This merely shows you that
it is strongly rooted in the subconscious mind, and suggests itself
while you sleep.) Is it part of my routine? Do I dislike my
routine ? etc.
The object of asking oneself questions such as these is merely to
enable one to determine which factor would be the best for develop-
ment-the one which would fit your particular requirements the
best. If you have learned the requirements for astral projection,
you will be enabled to select the factor more scientifically, so to
speak. It is not for me to dictate which factor you select in trying
to develop, but my advice would be to try "thirst," for several
reasons.
First, why go to the trouble of developing a habit of tenacious
routine, working probably weeks in impressing it strongly on the
subconscious mind, when you can impress " thirst " there in a few
hours, with little effort? Second, thirst must be appeased; the
subconscious knows this, and will resort to anything to get the body
to water-so it will move the astral out with determination, if it
cannot move the physical. (I shall give the formula later.)
125
126 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
INCAPACITY-THE FUNDAMENTAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ASTRAL
PROJECTION AND PHYSICAL SOMNAMBULISM
Before any specific instructions can be laid down for you to follow,
it is necessary for us to study another aspect of the process. We
know that the subconscious Will does not only have to become
possessed of the idea of moving the body, but that the physical body
must be "incapacitated."
After we learn how to quiet the physical body we shall come to
the instructions for combining both "stress" and "incapacity,"
which must be done in order to produce the desired effect-projec-
tion of the astral body. As you will recall, " incapacity " of the
physical body means that it is unusually passive, inactive-so
passive that it will not respond the instant the subconscious Will
tries to move the coinciding bodies.
When this happens the astral body just breaks away from the
physical. If the subconscious Will attempts to move the body, just
as the subject is " rising " to sleep, the phantom will project,
without stopping in the zone of quietude.
If the subconscious Will attempts to move the body-that is, if
a suggestion bursts forth-while the phantom is in the zone of
quietude, and the physical body is not in the proper degree of
passivity, the phantom slips back into the physical mechanism, and
the two coinciding bodies will move. The subject may be partially
conscious or unconscious; he may act out what he is dreaming (if
partially conscious) ; may appease a desire, may enact a habit, etc.
This is physical somnambulism, and in it the subject may become
conscious, just as he can in astral somnambulism.
The only difference is that the physical body is incapacitated in
one case, and is left behind; while, in the other case, the physical
body is not incapacitated and moves along also. A study of som-
nambulism will help us to appreciate the significance of astral pro-
jection, for we can see the similarity-can see that there is but one
factor determining whether it will be the physical body which
moves or the astral alone which moves. That factor is "in-
capacity," and there is a specific method of bringing it about at will.
Before going into this method, let us first observe the similarity
between the cause and continuation of physical somnambulism and
the cause and continuation of astral project!on. The cause, as has
been pointed out, is, in both cases, the risirtg. to the surface of the
subconscious mind of an impression-which acts as a suggestion to
the subconscious Will-the nature of the impression being a habit,
a desire or a dream.
Once the phantom is projected, or once the subject begins to walk
in his sleep physically, the condition of the mind is the same. The
physical sleepwalker can act out the dream which is in his mind-
so can the astral somnambulist. The movement of the somnambu-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 127
list is so certain that, if observed, one would be struck by the con-
trolling intelligence.
If the somnambulist encounters a person, he will either pay no
attention t~ him, or-at once that person will become a part of the
dream-if the subject is partially conscious. In the astral body,
acting under similar conditions, should the projector in a dream
encounter other individuals-either earthly or in spirit-they like-
wise at once become characters in the dream. Recall the dream in
which I was shooting Indians (Exp. No. II). Recall that "Little
Priest " stood nearby I
One writer has stated that he knew of a man who went to bed,
wondering if he had locked the door of his shop; and that the man
was subsequently stopped by a policeman close to the shop ; he
was walking thither in a somnambulistic condition.
We can see how this impression remained upon the surface of the
subconscious mind, and activated the subconscious Will while the
man slept. Had he been physically incapacitated the astral body
alone would have travelled the route to the shop-rather than the
physical.
You may say : " This is not a case in which the impression is
caused either by desire, habit or dream." But it is I So far as the
dreamer's mind was concerned, the habit of locking the shop-door
was apparently broken. There was also a desire to know whether
the shop was unlocked, and if so, to lock it.
You will find by analysis that all somnambulisms and all astral
projections are caused by the same fundamental factors--desire,
habit or dream, of the proper type. Even though, by studying the
actions of the sleepwalker, one can find no clue which leads him to
accept this belief, there is somewhere to be found the clue which
leads to desire, habit or the proper dream.
Now a strong habit may project the phantom, or put the sleep-
walker into action, and so may a dream-suggestion, even though
it leads him away from the fulfilment of the habit. This is what
generally happens, too. The subject is always dominated by the
strongest suggestion in the mind at the moment.
As an illustration of this, suppose one should go to bed hungry,
and the desire for food should come to the surface, or remain on the
surface, of the subconscious mind. If the desire were strong enough,
the suggestion " food " would be given to the subconscious Will.
If the subject were not physically incapacitated-and did not
become conscious-he would begin to somnambulate. If he were
physically incapacitated he would project-under the dominant
suggestion" food." If no dream-suggestion occurred, or if a dream
occurred which suggested eating (as it would in all probability) the
subject would continue under the dominating impression, and might
go to the cupboard, to a restaurant, to a bakery, etc., depending
upon the relative thought which food brought up in the mind.
128 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
If, on the way to fulfil this desire, he should encounter, in a
partially conscious condition (that is, in the dream) something which
would bring a different impression to his mind, he might forget his
desire for food and begin to do something else.
Suppose he were projected, or physically somnambulating, under
the suggestion " food," and that the relative impression was of the
bakery, and that he was journeying to the bakery. Now, on the
way, suppose he should pass the bank, where he transacted business
and kept his money, and where he was in the habit of going very
often to deposit his earnings. This suggestion might dominate the
one he was following, and he would try to enter the bank instead of
continuing to the bakery.
If he were in the astral body he would pass right through the door
of the bank, go to the teller's window, make his deposit, then walk
out again, following the course he usually followed when coming
from the bank, after making a deposit. If he were in the physical
body, in a somnambulistic condition, he might go up to the door of
the bank, dream that it was closed, turn around and start home
again. He would be following the suggestion which he derived from
the mind which guides his movements-just as it is suggestion which
guides our movements while we are conscious.
Walsh writes: "In certain persons the sleepwalking attacks vary
very little. Every word, gesture or other act occurs at exactly the
same time with each performance, just like a drama on the stage.
Should the attack be terminated abruptly the dream-drama will,
with the next attack, begin at the point where it was broken off."
" This point is illustrated by a case of Charcot's. His patient
was a newspaper man, who, during somnambulistic attacks, believed
he was a novelist. After he had written two or three pages, these
were taken away from him and the attack terminated. In the next
attack he would begin to write at the point where he left off."
Once again we see desire (to write) and habit as active causes.
Thus we see that physical somnambulism and astral projection rest
substantially upon the same foundation. The difference consists
merely in whether or not the physical body is active enough to cling
to the astral during the performance.
AN ASTRAL PROJECTION WHICH WAS CAUSED BY THIRST
Just as, under the dominating suggestion of hunger, the proper
subject may either physically somnambulate or be projected in the
astral body, and may go to the cupboard, restaurant, or bakery,
so will the same type of person go to the water faucet, or to a
stream, or to any place where he can appease the desire, if he be
under the suggestion of " thirst."
When first experimenting along this line-that is, when first
voluntarily inducing the desire for water, before going to sleep-!
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 129
was successful at the very outset in producing projection of the
astral body. To strengthen the desire-stress I would prevent
myself from drinking for some time before trying the experiment,
and at the same time aggravate the desire by thinking of drinking,
gazing at a glass of water, putting it almost to my mouth, and then
refusing to drink it.
Before retiring, I would force myself to swallow about an eighth
of a teaspoonful of salt. This was an ordeal, as you may well
imagine, but think of the " stress " which was put upon the mind
by doing this ; imagine the desire for drink which was accumulating
even after sleep intervened.
The first projection-by means of this method-in which I became
conscious was a dream projection. I dreamed that I was walking
along a dusty road. It was a sweltering hot day. I was thirsty,
but could find no place to get a drink. I pulled off my shirt and
tried to moisten my mouth with the perspiration which it con-
tained.
My thirst was increasing. I was becoming weak and blinded by
the sun, when finally I reached a farm-house. There was a wind-
mill! I hurried as fast as I could to the tank below it-but it was
dry ! I looked up at the wheel above me and saw that it was not
turning, and, knowing that it would pump water if the wheel turned,
I began to climb the structure, intending to stand upon the platform
at the top and turn the wheel by hand, and thus pump some water
into the tank, then descend and drink it.
I began to climb up the ladder of the windmill. Just as I reached
the top, the wheel began to turn rapidly and, catching my clothing,
threw me outward through the air. I was glad (in the dream) that
I was flying through the air, for I could see that I was speeding
toward a river near my home, and that I should probably get a
drink there. Soon I was by the river and on my knees drinking.
It was at this moment that I became clearly conscious, and I found
myself in the astral body on the bank of the river-which is less
than Ioo yards from my home-at a spot where I often sit when
fishing.
You will notice the various elements in this experience, which
affect projection. There was the desire for water ; there was the
dream of going upward (up the windmill); of moving outward (as
the wheel caught my clothing) ; of awakening at a spot near the
river, where I had been in the habit of fishing.
By instilling the stress of thirst, I produced several recurrences
of the earlier experience which I have given-in which I woke at
the water-tap in the kitchen with my hands (astral) on the faucet.
Remember that when you once become conscious in a certain place
in the astral, you will probably again become conscious in the same
spot, under similar conditions.
130 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
A PHYSICAL SOMNAMBULATION WHICH WAS CAUSED BY THIRST
The following incident was related to me, and illustrates how the
"stress" of thirst inay cause physical somnambulism, as well as
astral projection. A man of middle age, who had not been in the
habit of drinking much water, gradually developed an intense desire
for drink. By day he would drink immense quantities, and finally
he began to get up in his sleep and do so also.
He would rise from his bed, in the somnambulistic condition,
slip on his shoes, go downstairs, put on his hat, take the pail out to
the well, fill it, and then come back into the house again and drink.
This performance was kept up every night regularly.
A physician who was called to observe the case pronounced it a
"nervous affliction," but his tonic for the nerves did not stop the
sleepwalking. Finally another doctor was appealed to. The second
physician came several nights to observe the man's movements, and
noticed all the details.
He concluded that it was the desire for drink which caused the
man to somnambulate in this manner, and, after examining the
man carefully, discovered that he was suffering from a bad case of
gastritis, which is always accompanied by intense thirst. By curing
the gastritis the man's intense desire for water disappeared, and the
nocturnal activities also ceased.
If one experiences an intense desire for wrongdoing, a criminal
desire, which he is forced to suppress, and the desire bursts forth
while he sleeps, should he somnambulate physically, or project in
the astral body, he will attempt to appease that desire.
Walsh says: "As a rule the acts of the sleepwalker are harmless
and in accord with his experiences or inner nature. Somewhere I
have read of a clergyman, a most upright character by day, who by
night was a thief; and of another individual who resembled Mr.
Hyde, made famous by Stevenson. We may attribute these cases
to very powerful dreams, or to strong impulses which the individual
was able to repress by day."
And Dr. Walsh is correct; it is the suggestion which bursts forth
while the subject sleeps, and whether the subject projects in the
astral body, or whether the physical body clings on to the astral,
during the performance, depends solely upon one factor-" in-
capacity."
HOW I DISCOVERED THAT INCAPACITY IS AN IMPORTANT FACTOR
Let me tell of another discovery which I made, while in search of
the causes which brought about my early projections, and you will
learn thereby one of the main reasons for "incapacity." Being of
an inquisitive nature, after experiencing several conscious projec-
THE PROJECT!~ OF THE ASTRAL BODY 131
tions, I concluded that there was a cause, that the seeming miracle
could not possibly happen unless behind it there were certain factors
which promoted it ; and within myself I was annoyed, since I could
not at once find the cause.
Several prominent Spiritualists, to whom I wrote, informed me
that no one knew any specific causes for astral projection ; that it
was a gift; that the Hindus were especiallygifted with the ability, etc.
So, after retiring at night, I would wonder if I should go out in
that phantomous body I I remained awake for hours, thinking of
this strange reality upon which no one could enlighten me. I would
drift into the hypnagogic state, visualizing projection, thinking pro-
jection ; in fact the experiences which I had encountered seemed
to have gripped my every thought after I went to bed at night.
And to experience such a reality and yet find no one who would
believe me-that was the dismaying part I My associates-yes,
even members of my own family-ridiculed the very suggestion of
such an "impossibility," as they called it. I was pronounced a
" dreamer," and said to be " off in the upper story."
The scorn which I received from others hurt me. I would cry,
often, after going to bed, to think that no one would place any
credence in my claims. If I could find the causes, I reasoned, and
could make them known, perhaps others would believe in the
phenomenon. So, within me, arose a determination to learn what
brought about the projections. You have already been made
familiar with some of the findings which I then made. This is how
I made the discovery that " incapacity " of the physical body is
essential.
One night I lay awake in bed and had been concentrating, in a
quiet mental mood, upon different parts of my body. My mind
came to rest upon my heart. I noticed that it did not seem to be
beating at the speed it should, when normal.
Next day I went to the doctor and had the organ examined. It
was beating but forty-two times per minute, but was steady. He
. gave me a box of strychnine-a cardiac stimulant-assuring me
that this would correct the condition. He added, however, that
occasionally in his practice he had come upon similar cases--one
man, whom he named, having a pulse which was in the forties also.
Now, for almost a year prior to this, a week seldom passed by
that I did not experience a projection in some form ; and every
night I could notice the astral body rising out of the physical, in the
hypnagogic state, causing me to "jump." I believe I mentioned
once before that persons who have been troubled with sinking,
sliding, rising and falling sensations and " jumps" (repercussions
of body) are relieved when their physicians give them a remedy to
regulate the heart's action.
And here is the reason why a heart stimulant will relieve the
condition: The heart activates the physical body. If the heart be
XJZ THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
slow, the body (when at rest) becomes more passive than when the
heart-beat is normal or fast. The astral body always withdraws
into the zone of quietude during sleep. When the physical body is
normally active, the astral cannot withdraw until it becomes passive.
Unconsciousness usually intervenes before the astral body emerges
from the physical ; and the body becomes passive before the astral
rises out of the physical.
Now, if the heart be below normal, the physical body becomes
passive enough for the astral body to move O"llt of it shortly before
consciousness is lost, and the subject notices the astral body's
movement. Give the subject a cardiac stimulant, and the physical
body will not become inactive enough to allow the astral to rise
until long after unconsciouness has intervened; and, further, the
stimulant holds the astral body very near the physical body.
Recall, now, what was said regarding enervation. When the
astral condenser is run down, the astral moves out of coincidence
more rapidly than when it is holding a fair amount of energy. That
is why the subject who is nervous (lacks nerve-energy) experiences
symptoms similar to those of the subject whose heart-beat is below
normal-when entering sleep.
A heart-beat below normal has the same effect as enervation-it
allows the astral body to move out of coincidence before the subject
has lost consciousness. Imagine what would happen if the subject
were lacking in neuric energy and possessed a heart-beat which was
far below normal at the same time I Well, that is just the condition
which I was in I
I stated that before taking the cardiac stimulant, which I pro-
cured from my doctor, I had experienced a projection in some form
almost every week, and the primary stages of projection every night.
No sooner had I begun to take the heart stimulant than all trace of
the phenomenon disappeared-even the primary stages. I gave this
a thorough trial, taking the pellets for two months, and became
firmly convinced that "passivity" of the physical body is a neces-
sary requisite for producing the phenomenon of astral projection.
I stopped taking the pellets. In a few days I observed that the
rate of my pulse was dropping, and it was not long before I was
again experiencing the things I had formerly experienced. Then I
made another discovery. I could control my pulse-rate by means
of my mind ! After retiring and relaxing, I would concentrate upon
my heart, and, in less than two weeks I could speed up the heart-
beat or slow it down at will.
It was not long before I succeeded in keeping the heart at its
normal rate, without the use of the stimulant ; but the ability to
reduce the pulse-rate also enabled me to induce complete " incapa-
city " of the physical body at will. I shall later on give you the
instructions for doing so, in order that you too may be enabled to
induce this necessary condition.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 133
SOME POSITIVE MINOR FACTORS
But, while realizing that the two major factors of astral projection
are "proper stress of suggestion" and "physical incapacity," you
will, while concentrating upon these essentials, realize that there are
numerous minor factors which contribute to the two major ones,
and will learn to include every possible promotive element. I shall
now enumerate some of these, and you will no doubt be able to
think of others.
The correct temperature for the experiment is extremely impor-
tant. If the temperature in which you attempt development be
too cool, you will harbour a mental disquietude. If it be too warm,
you will likewise be uncomfortable--thereby preventing passivity
and relaxation. Further, the warmth of the body will aid the heart
in circulating the blood more freely, which tends to prevent "in-
capacity." The ideal temperature is one in which the subject is
"cool but comfortable."
Anything taken into the body which produces a stimulating effect
-liquor, medicine, food-will exert a negative force, mostly because
the stimulant works against " incapacity."
Although the emotions should be calm, the mind should not be,
as is commonly supposed. One can retire when greatly troubled in
mind, and that very condition of being may create the proper
"stress," which stays at the surface, or comes to the surface, after
sleep intervenes.
Of course, with hypnosis, when the " suggestion " comes from the
operator, instead of from the subject himself, placidity of mind is
essential. In the type of projection we are now studying, the mind
of the subject himself acts in the same manner as the mind of the
operator, in hypnosis.
In self-projection, the suggestion comes from the subject's own
mind. In projection induced by hypnosis, the suggestion comes
from the mind of the operator. If, in fact, the mind were calm, no
suggestion would come forth during sleep ; consequently no pro-
jection of the astral body would be brought about. The vital factor
in projection is the " stress " of the mind.
The conscious mind can be greatly troubled before the subject
goes to sleep, and the " stress " which is there continues to stay at
the surface of the subconscious. Recall the incident of the man
who went to bed, worrying, thinking that he had left his shop door
unlocked. This "stress" remained on the surface, even after he
had gone to sleep, possessed his subconscious Will, and he arose in
his sleep and went to the shop to lock the door.
If you have formed the opinion that the mind must be calm, in
order to produce projection of the astral body, you will be forced to
revise this idea, for passivity of mind is a sure way to prevent
projection.
K
134 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
The sleeping quarters in which the subject sleeps should be far from
disturbing noises. Noises have a tendency toward interiorization
and physical alertness. There is nothing new in this assertion, for
everyone knows that when a sleeper is to be awakened, noise is one
of the surest ways of arousing him.
However, if the phantom has been projected out of the physical
body for some distance-outside cord-activity range-noise is as apt
to awaken him in the astral body as it is to awaken him in the
physical body. In attempting development, however, the subject
is not apt to make a complete long-distance separation at first, and
therefore " sounds " are undesirable.
I have noticed that it is the unusual sound which usually awakens
the phantom. The tick of a clock, the draughting of a stove or
furnace-sounds which have become familiar and pass unnoticed-
do not seem to affect the experiment. Naturally a country environ-
ment is more suitable to the experiment than a city environment,
in so far as the " sound " element is concerned.
Anything and everything which contributes to the comfort and
relaxation of the body which can be instituted, during the attempt
at astral body projection, should be put into use. It is advisable
to use as little bed-covering as possible, for sometimes extra weight
upon the body will induce peculiar psychological effects during sleep.
The weight resting upon the body may cause the belief-during
sleep-that the subject is under some massive structure, or that he
is smothering, causing dreams to that effect and not infrequently
~rousing the emotions. But this is not all that heavy bed-clothing
is liable to do. Several times, when within cord-activity range, and
conscious, I have noticed that there seemed to be some indes-
cribable weight resting upon me-as if something actually pressed
upon me ; it was as if my breathing did not satisfy my desire for
breath.
Again, I have had dreams wherein I seemed to be standing up
and trying to walk, while some massive weight rested upon my
head; and I have awakened from these dreams and found myself
projected and within cord-activity range, and still the weight seemed
pressing me downward. Observation convinced me that this sensa-
tion, of being under a great weight (while projected and within cord-
activity range) was caused by the weight of the clothes resting upon
the physical body.
Thus, heavy bed-covers are not only apt to induce a dream which
will prevent the suggestion (for projection) but will actually suggest
the idea of going d0wnward, under weight, to the projected phantom.
There is yet another way of looking at this matter. Might not
the heavy bed-coverings give to the subconscious mind the idea of
smothering, or cause a dream of smothering, which would set-up
the desire for air, causing the subconscious Will to move the body
out-of-doors to appease the desire for air? Of course it could; and
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 135
if the physical counterpart were "incapacitated" the phantom
would move out. Just another cause of so-called "spontaneous
projection "-which always has some fundamental law behind it!
It would not be advisable, however, for any one to endeavour to
produce a projection of this sort at will-by trying to smother himself
into a desire for air-for in trying it, he might " take the air "
permanently I
The clothing of the body can bring about results similar to those
just mentioned. During the time of the experiment it is advisable
to wear nothing which can be dispensed with. Wearing nothing is
better than wearing something. Tight fitting clothing is most
undesirable, for it is not only uncomfortable but shuts off the blood
circulation. While it is desirable to slacken the circulation of the
blood, it is unwise to prevent its circulation.
The less restrictions of this sort the better. It is not that the
astral body cannot pass through the clothing or bed-covers, for it
can easily pass through a brick wall or a steel vault, but clothing
and other such restrictions produce a psychological effect which is
not altogether desirable. With little or no clothing covering the
body, during the experiment, a psychological effect of "freedom"
and " lightness " is produced, which is a powerful factor in
strengthening the sensations peculiar to projection.
One can quite understand how such sensations would counteract
the sensations of projection, which are lightness and freedom. The
sensation of being held down will hold the phantom down ; likewise
the sensation of lightness will affect the phantom in a similar way-
even instigating dreams which have a pulling-out effect upon the
dream body. So much for the clothing element. It is well to
remember that " weight " upon the body-from clothing or any-
thing else-is an unfavourable condition for astral projection.
Projection of the astral body can take place while the subject is
seated in a chair-but lying in the horizontal position is greatly to
be preferred. Those hours of the night which one has allotted to
sleep will probably be found the most satisfactory. There are many
reasons why this would be so. When you retire at night you put
away thoughts of wordly activities until the next day; whereas,
if you attempt projection during the day, you will say to yourself,
"I'll just lie down for a while and see what I can do; then get to
my work again," etc.
There are so many reasons for practising the phase at night
rather than during the daytime, that it would seem almost a waste
of time to try to enumerate them all-and they should be self-
evident by now. At night there are not so many influences to dis-
tract your attention from what you are concentrating upon, and
you will find that you can think of Self (which is important) with
much more ease at night than during the day.
Although projection of the astral body can take place at any
I36 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
time, I have noticed that, as a rule, it occurs several hours after
the subject has been sleeping, and usually after midnight. It is
only natural that this should be so, for during sleep the physical
body becomes less active; further, the outside world is more liable
to be in a state of quietude, after midnight.
One of the most certain ways of insuring the projection of the
astral body, and especially a projection which is conscious from the
outset, is for the subject to go to sleep, sleep several hours, and
then begin to project in the astral body, just as he is becoming
conscious-that is, while he is in the hypnagogic state emerging
from sleep.
This is the time when astral catalepsy is commonly met with. It
is often several seconds before one can move, physically, when in
this condition; first, because the physical body is very passive ;
second, because the phantom is cataleptic ; and third, because the
"motivity" may be outside the body. This is a favourable time
for conscious projection-which, of course, can be brought about
by suggestion.
Lying upon the right side or upon the back are the two positions
best suited to astral projection, although it can take place regardless
of the position of the body. Lying upon the back has always pro-
duced the best results for me, and you will probably find that this
position is especially favourable, if you are trying to produce
exteriorization in the hypnagogic state, on entering sleep.
The sensation of floating and of rising upon the air are more
easily produced by lying upon the back. One reason for this is
that the blood is prevented from circulating freely along the spine,
with its many nerves, thus deadening one's feeling of contact with
the bed. The sensation, regardless of where it primarily originates,
is decidedly what is wanted for producing astral body uprising-
provided, of course, you enjoy the sensation.
You will notice, too, that while lying upon the back it is easier
to note the sensation which is produced when the astral body moves
into the zone of quietude. Many people cannot go to sleep while
lying upon their backs for this very reason-because they have the
sensation of floating just as they are about to lose consciousness,
and have slight repercussions.
Many people, when undergoing this, will ejaculate a more or less
distinct word or syllable concurrently with the repercussion, and
will have a breath-taking feeling in the pit of the stomach. Terri-
fying as the experience may seem to the subject at the time, it is
usually amusing to him afterward when he thinks it over. Others
become so terrified that they will jump out of bed before they can
stop themselves.
There is on record the case of a woman who experienced the astral
body's movement as she was "rising to sleep," and repercussed
with a shriek. She jumped out of bed and ran outside before the
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 137
terror left her. Coincidentally with the repercussion she would
always shriek. She stated that, as she was going to sleep, "some-
thing" would get under her and push her up into the air, then let
her drop.
She thought that it was her physical body, and noticed that this
took place only when she lay on her back. What actually happened
was this : The lady experienced the movement of the astral
body, as she was about to go to sleep ; this frightened her and
she repercussed with a shriek. (She ran outside, she said, to get
air.)
The astral body seems to rise more quickly when the subject is
lying upon his back, and it also seems that one has a tendency to
cry out more frequently during a repercussion. Hey I Wow !
Ouch I and Oh I are utterances likely to be shrieked out at such a
time. Another common sound is as if one had been struck a vigorous
blow on the abdomen-so vigorous that it forced the air through
the vocal cords, causing a loud grunt.
If you are one of those who" just cannot sleep" upon your back,
because of unpleasant sensations such as those mentioned, there is
a good chance that you will experience conscious projections. But
you must suggest to yourself that you like the sensation, and
practise projection as you are entering sleep, e.g. by means of the
elevator dream. It is not as easy to achieve success if you lie upon
the left side or upon the stomach.
REPERCUSSION NOISES
Slight repercussions, accompanying natural sleep, or even the
more severe repercussions-like those experienced in falling dreams
-will often be accompanied by a peculiar noise which seems close
to the ear or inside the head. A very common one is " pop I " as
if a toy balloon burst close to the ear.
Another is a loud" sizz," and sometimes a sound inside the brain,
causing that organ to vibrate. Another is a crackling sound, not
unlike the noise made by an electric spark when the positive and
negative posts of a battery are touched together. This sound is
often heard just at the take-off of a projection, as well as at the
moment of re-coincidence, and seems to be in the head, near the
back part of the skull.
Still another commonly heard sound, at the time of re-coincidence,
is a" zing," as if a string were tightly drawn through the head and
then struck, as one might strike the strings of a guitar. At other
times the subject may hear a distinct word uttered ; it seems very
close to the ear, and even, at times, as though the word were spoken
right inside the head.
The striking thing about these sounds is the way in which they
can be felt-yes, actually felt-moving about inside one's head ;
138 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
one's brain seems to shake like the diaphragm of a drum which
vibrates when it is struck, and resounds.1
On one occasion I was projected and was standing about tenfeet
from my physical body. A dog began to bark, in the street. I heard
the dog barking with my physical ears, but could feel it in my astral
head! This is very difficult to explain, but is precisely what
occurred. It was as if my ears had been projected, and I could feel
the sound of the barking inside my (astral) head.
You may have heard of persons who could smell colour. Sounds,
too, can evoke colours. Carrington has touched upon this subject
in his book, Higher Psychical Development. It is interesting to
know, too, that at times, during astral projection, the subject may
see out of different parts of his astral body, i.e. he may lie upon
his back in the air and see what is taking place below him-while
looking in the opposite direction with his eyes !
Usually, force of habit compels the projector to use his eyes, but
this is not absolutely necessary in all cases. I have never k~own
this to be true, however, outside cord-activity range-although it
may be. There are persons who can do this in the physical body.
I personally know a man who seems to have the ability to see out
of his forehead.
A. J. Davis, in commenting upon his first experiences along this
line, says : " Having tightly secured my bodily eyes with handker-
chiefs he (the operator) then placed the book on a horizontal line
with my forehead, and I saw and read the title without the slightest
hesitation. This test, and many experiments of the kind, were
tried, and repeated ; and the demonstration of vision, independent
of the physical organs of sense, was clear and unquestionable."
Lombroso and others have recorded many cases in which persons
have been able to see by way of the solar plexus, completely inde-
pendent of the physical eyes. There are times when the projected
phantom can also see things which are many miles away; but as
a rule the phantom will instantly move to the spot.
" LIGHT " A NEGATIVE FACTOR
The astral body will separate from the physical with much greater
ease in total darkness. Although " light " has a tendency to bind
the astral to the physical more securely, it is true that projection
can be accomplished regardless of this fact; but, as a rule, only the
most advanced student will be successful in doing so.
Perhaps, knowing this, you may believe it best to attempt develop-
ment in total darkness, and it is true that many occultists advise
1 One is here reminded, of course, of the " head snapping," so frequently noted
in the case of Mrs. Piper, just as she emerges from trance. This has been discussed
at considerable length by various researchers, in the Prouedings and journals of
the S.P.R., and elsewhere.-H.C. .
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 139
this; but, for my part, I should never offer such advice, for there
are many reasons why total darkness is not the most suitable
condition for the amateur.
Perhaps you will say, "Oh yes, I know why. It is because one
wouldn't be able to see if one were exteriorized." No, that is not
the reason, for once you are exteriorized, and your sense of sight
working, the room, which was dark to your physical eyes, is no
longer dark-for you are using your astral eyes, and there is a
"foggish" light everywhere, such as you see in your dreams, a
diffused light we might call it, a light which seems none too bright,
and yet is not too dim, apparently sifting right through the objects
of the material world.
Have you ever gone to sleep in total darkness, then awakened,
and not been able to comprehend where you were ? Do you recall
what an unpleasant effect the bewilderment of the situation had
upon your mind ? You will remember that you had no sense of
direction-thinking that your head was where your feet should have
been, or that the bed was turned around, or that the door of the
room was not in the place where it should have been, etc.
Most people have at one time or another experienced such an
awakening, in total darkness, when they have lost their sense of
direction. One friend told me that he awoke one night, in total
darkness, and tried to find the door of his room, and that he was
so bewildered that he went in a direction directly opposite to where
the door really was, and ran into the dresser. He opened the
drawer of the dresser and tried to crawl int-o it, thinking that he
was opening the door ! Yet he insists that he was entirely conscious
at the time. He then began feeling round the walls for the door,
which he eventually found.
Suppose, e.g., you go to bed with your head at the. head of the
bed, your feet at the foot of the bed, the window to the right, the
door to the left, the dresser to one side, etc; in other words, you
go to bed consciously oriented and aware of your position. You
go to sleep. Later you awaken and think you are lying in a different
position to the one you really occupy; you have lost your sense of
direction. Why?
Do you think it is because you cannot see in total darkness, and
that this has caused you to lose your sense of direction? Why does
not your consciousness, which told you your true position before
you went to sleep, direct you to the door which is to your left?
Do you think this is because of lack of vision ? If so, why do you
not become bewildered in your direction when you go into a dark
room ? Here is the solution of this problem:
You might go to bed, consciously aware of your position ; in
fact you could get up again before going to sleep and go out of the
room with your eyes closed-simply because you "know" your
true position and do not need to see. Why is it that, after you have
140 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
slept for an interval, you sometimes believe that you are in a different
position to the one you really occupy ? You can get up and walk
to the place where you think the door is, and find the dresser instead.
What has become of that consciousness which " knew " where you
were formerly, and could take you from the room with closed eyes?
Well, this is what happens oft-times :
When you go to sleep, the astral body rises out of the physical,
and can lie at a different angle than the physical. The senses,
during sleep, are keen, and impress the fact upon the mind that
the body is lying at a different angle. When you awaken, in the
physical, the impression made by the astral body having been at
an angle to the physical is in the mind, and of course you think
that you are lying at a different angle than you really are, and,
being unable to see, you cannot prove or disprove the matter.
Thus, you get up and start toward the spot where you think the
door is, and run into the dresser instead, etc. And you will remain
under this impression until you can prove, by sight or feeling, that
you are under a delusion.
Another way of explaining this point : Stand a person in the
middle of the street, blindfold him, and yet he will know which way
he is going-because he was conscious of the direction before being
blindfolded. He does not have to depend upon his sight, he" knows."
But blindfold him and whirl him around, and he will lose his sense
of direction. And that is how the movement of the astral body,
during sleep, can cause the subject to think that he is, in the physical,
where he was in the astral.
While sleeping in total darkness, we are liable to awaken, thinking
we are in a different position to that in which we really are, and give
the matter no thought and go to sleep again. If one in this condition
of mind-thinking he is in a different position to the one he really
occupies-has an extensive projection, and suddenly something
happens which starts the astral speeding back to the physical, the
subconscious will land the astral body at the spot where the subject
thought he was, and not directly into the physical mechanism.
. Should a falling dream accompany the fall of the astral body, the
subject will think he has been smashed into pieces and have a
terrible nightmare-before the subconscious mind can discard the
suggestion which it took from the conscious mind and realize the
fact (within itself) that the conscious suggestion was a mistake, and
that the physical body was not lying in that particular spot. Of
course, this is the unusual, but the mind can actually delude itself
and can work within itself, as it were. No one knows positively
what the mind can do. I believe there are a few cases on record
where persons have experienced falling dreams in which they were
smashed into pieces on hitting the ground or what not. I have
experienced a few of these particular dreams myself, and attribute
the causes to what I have just pointed out.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY I4I
. Still another undesirable result of developing in total darkness is
ft. sort of reluctance in the subject's mind ; and this is markedly
true if he has ever undergone the terrifying experience of having a
violent repercussion in total darkness, with his sense of direction
missing. If there is anything which is truly unnerving it is to ex-
perience a violent repercussion, accompanied by a terrifying dream,
and then be unable to see or realize one's true place of reclination,
after becoming conscious.
My advice, especially to the beginner, and more especially to the
subject of high nervous temperament, is always to permit enough
light to enter the sleeping chamber, so that you can immediately
discern your true position, in relation to other objects in the room,
the instant you awaken. If there is anything you do not want to
do, it is to lose your sense of direction, for this not only has its
physical effects, but often affects the astral body as well, and can
even influence the subconscious mind. You will find, I am sure,
that a dim twilight is the best possible light condition for the
practise of astral body projection.
AN INTERIORIZATION CAUSED BY EXCESS LIGHT
An interesting little experience I once had, involving the " light "
element, may be given here. The room in which I usually sleep has
a window which is directly in line with the street-lamp. Lying in
bed, I can see the light through the window, and it in turn casts its
rays into the sleeping-room. Sometimes the lights are turned on
at a later hour than at other times, by the local electric company-
depending upon the time of year, etc.
One night I retired when the light was not on, and was succeeding
in producing a conscious projection. I had moved upward, out of
the physical, to a distance of about two feet. Just at this point, on
came the lamp, flooding the room with light! And down went the
astral into the physical with a "zing" and a repercussion. I
believe that this was the longest" zing" sound I ever heard, and it
felt as if my brain, inside my skull, were trembling-as if I could
feel the noise.
Have you ever heard the steel run along the length of the string
on a Hawaiian guitar? That is exactly like this sound, which often
accompanies interiorization. From this you can see the detrimental
effect of too much light. It might be of interest to add, here, that
many people who suffer from nightmares have found that, by
sleeping in a lighted room, they have been able to avoid them. So
much for the light problem.
Carrington, quoting Lancelin, has these additional factors listed,
which influence astral projection ; and, as my own experience has
not dealt with them, I give them for what they may be worth, in
influencing your own development.
142 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Humidity: The air should be dry and clear, barometer high.
Atmospheric electricity : If high, this is prejudicial to the experi-
ment.
Sex: This should preferably be male for the projector, female for
the recipient or " seer " of the phantom.
Sitters : If possible, projector and seer should be alone.
What has been stated concerning " sitters " is only of interest
when the experiment is undertaken in collaboration, that is, when
one is attempting to appear to a seer, or where the subject believes
that the presence of some sympathetic friend, at his side, would be
beneficial to his success.
You will find, I believe, that, as a rule, imparting any information
to others as to what you are attempting to do will do you no good !
About the only time when others can be of assistance, unless they
are mediumistic, is when they are asleep ! It reminds one of the
saying: "You're a good boy, Johnny, when you're asleep."
I cannot attempt to explain why the presence of others sleeping
near the projector seems to give him strength, but I know positively
that this is a fact. And I also know positively that the presence of
others, awake and near the projector (unless they are mediumistic),
tends to exert a repelling force to projection, regardless of how quiet
they may be.
TELEPATHIC REPERCUSSION
Here is a little experiment which I first came upon by chance,
then tried it intentionally on two different subjects, and attained
similar results. One lazy afternoon my brother, who was then
twelve years old, was lying upon the bed, intending to take an
afternoon's nap. I thought I would follow his example and lay down
beside him.
There was a space of about one foot between us, and we both were
dozing off to sleep-I thinking of astral projection unconsciously;
not intending to project but just thinking in a relaxed condition
of mind of that seeming miracle which I had so often experienced.
My mind was far from tense, far from thinking of the one who lay
beside me. I recall that I was just thinking how the astral body
moves out of the physical in a casual manner. Thoughts relating
to the phase naturally followed, one after the other. Then came
the thought of how the body often repercussed. And no sooner had
the thought entered my mind than my brother had a violent
repercussion.
If this had happened but once we might call it coincidence, but
when it happens repeatedly there is some foundation for the belief
that the mind of another person can influence the movement of the
astral body. So, in order to see if this occurrence were mere coinci-
dence, I tried the same arrangement again, and procured the same
result.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 143
Then I tried a variation of the arrangement, using mental effort.
I would lie down beside my brother, about the time he was ready
to go to sleep, and, by an effort of Will, I would try to "bounce"
the astral body back into the physical, after forcefully suggesting
in my mind, for some time, that he was out of coincidence: But
this did not" work." The forceful, conscious thoughts did not have
the same effect as the casual and calm-I might say unconcerned-
thoughts, of projection and repercussion.
I have tried this same experiment on two friends since, and have
found the result to be the same. Casual and calm thoughts of
separation and repercussion produced repercussion, while wilful and
tensed thoughts had no apparent effect.
It is possible that the subject, while going to sleep, was in a
receptive mood, and that the rising of the astral body into the zone
of quietude, being in harmony with the thoughts issuing from my
mind to that effect, brought about an attunement in which the mind,
in the astral body, received the impressions from my mind (by
telepathy) ; and that, when my thoughts turned to repercussion
the astral body would fly back into the physical.
I am firmly convinced, for my part, that almost any two people
can produce this repercussion, by doing exactly as I have said; and
if the subject, attempting astral projection, wishes to have some
sympathetic friend try to assist him, I believe that this would be
the best possible exercise to attempt first, as it "registers," we
might say, when the minds are in attunement, and thus the two are
able to find the route to more extensive experiments. I will give
the exercise again, precisely as it should be followed:
The subject and his helper should lie side by side upon the bed,
or wherever the experiment is to be tried. It is best to attempt it
at night, when one really intends going to sleep. The subject must
not think of what is being done, merely going to sleep in a natural
way. The assistant centres his mind upon the fact that the astral
body of the subject is rising out of the physical body.
There must be no tension in the mind of the assistant ; he must
merely visualize, in an unconcerned manner, the astral body of the
subject moving out of the physical to a distance of three or four
inches-just as the subject is "rising" to sleep-and he must not
try to force.the thought, allowing the vision to bring its own relative
thoughts, which concern the astral body, and eventually the thoughts
of repercussion. At this last thought, the subject should repercuss.
Those who are interested in things occult will find that they will
have little difficulty in producing this. The attunement between
the subject and his assistant comes about when the subject is
"rising" to sleep-performing the very act which is in the mind of
the assistant.
From then on the mental condition of the assistant is what counts
for results-he merely holding the thought and vision of the subject's
144 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
astral body being in the zone of quietude, and then changing the
thought to one of repercussion. It will be found that the reper-
cussion is not severe enough to cause discomfort for more than an
instant.
However, my advice is to attempt astral projection without the
assistance of anyone, once you know exactly what to do. When
you do this, you develop a stronger self-control, a sort of self-
mastery over the situation, and will not be influenced by the con-
scious or unconscious thoughts transmitted from the minds of others.
I have always found it difficult to project when there were others
near me. One of the first thoughts one has, when he becomes con-
scious in the projected astral body, is of the physical body. When
one is projected the very first thing he does, when he senses anyone
moving near the spot where the physical body lies, is to interiorize.
In fact, that is what I have always done, and I believe that any
truthful projector will admit that he has a mistrust of anyone who
approaches his physical body, while he is projected. For many years
I would never attempt a projection unless I were in a locked room,
and I have found that, in doing so, I gained an inner sense of security.
You will find it to your advantage to try this. If it is necessary
for you to have a "seer " partake in the experiment, let the seer
stay in the next room, and have it understood by everyone that
they are to keep "hands off." Even go as far as Christ went when
he said to Mary," Touch me not." Perhaps you did not understand
the significance of this, or why one should go to such extremes ; but
if you ever experience a conscious projection, all these seeming irrele-
vancies will be self-evident to you.
Do not talk to others of what you are trying to accomplish.
This is a valuable tip. Perhaps you are not aware of it, but if you
are really desirous of producing a projection, keep the desire locked
up within yourself; this " stresses " it and the " stress " promotes
projection. Talking of projection somehow relieves the " stress "
within you.1
1 This is, of course, strictly in harmony with the teachings of " New Thought,"
which also emphasizes this point.-H.C.
..
CHAPTER XI
HOW TO INDUCE "INCAPACITY"
D
URING natural sleep, we know that the physical body
is "incapacitated" more or less; but in order to make
this incapacity more pronounced, the heart-beat must
be slowed down. I have already explained how I
stumbled upon this fact, and that I devised a method of voluntarily
slackening the rate of the pulse. Incidentally the exercise for
slowing the pulse also causes concentration and relaxation-thus
eliminating the necessity of special exercises for each of these factors.
The first thing which you are to do, upon retiring for the night
(or upon retiring at any other time), is to assume a comfortable
horizontal position, preferably upon your back. If you cannot
possibly tolerate lying upon your back, then lie upon your right
side. I am presuming that you are now reclining in a horizontal
position, upon your back, with your hands lying at your sides.
First, take a deep breath ; hold it for a second, then try to force
that breath into the pit of your stomach, so that the diaphragm
bulges out at that point. Then exhale, forcing all of the air out of
your lungs. Repeat this about six or eight times. This is for the
purpose of relaxing the solar plexus. A word of advice, in this
connection, from Mr. Carrington's book on Yoga will fit in nicely
here:
" It is very essential to feel the relaxation of the solar plexus so
that you can consciously feel that it 'opens' like a flower-just
below the spot where the ribs divide. If that be tense, it will stop
your development until you can relax it. The thing to do is to
concentrate and get enough 'control,' so that you can feel it, and
then you can relax.
" The plexus itself is like a great octopus ; it is the biggest nerve-
centre in the body, aside from the brain, and is the ruler of the
' sympathetic system,' the digestive and other vegetative functions ;
so, for that reason, the stomach should not be full when these Yoga
exercises are undertaken, because it would press against the plexus
and against the heart. That is one of the reasons why it is very
important that the stomach should be empty, and the food very
light."
Next : Close your eyes and picture Yourself in your mind. Now,
starting at the top of your head, think of your scalp and try to move
it by tensing the proper muscles. Next think of your jaw and tense
145
146 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
and relax it a few times. Next think of your neck; tense and relax
the muscles in it a few times. Next your upper arms; then your
lower arms; then grip your fists and relax them. Then, starting
at the base of the neck, go downward, thinking of each part of the
body in tum, and trying to tense the muscles at each particular
spot, until eventually you are tensing and relaxing your toes-like
a cat tensing and relaxing its paws, while purring.
Now, concentrate upon your heart, not with tension of mind, but
think of that organ with relaxed thought. You will presently notice
its pulsations, and be able to feel them at that spot in your chest.
Keep your mind centred upon these pulsations, until they are very
pronounced, until you can both feel and hear them distinctly.1
These are the same pulsations which you feel in the back of your
head, when you are projected and within cord-activity range, and
they are, in fact, the only genuine physical feelings you possess,
while projected, unless you feel the weight of the bed-covering over
you, etc. That is, when within cord-activity range, a duplicate
sensation permits the pulsations to be felt, as they are in the physical
counterpart, and as you can now feel them by concentration upon
your heart-beat. (The easiest way is to lie upon the left side, but
not the preferable way.)
After you have acquired the ability to lie still, and both feel and
hear your heart-beat within your chest (which you will, no doubt,
acquire in one or two trials), your next step is to be able to feel and
hear the pulsations in any part of your body-by concentrating
upon that particular spot. I am now assuming that you are lying
according to my instructions, and while in a relaxed condition of
mind can both feel and hear your heart pulsations.
Listen to them (the pulsations) closely; they are going thump-
thump-thump-thump. Now shift your centre of concentration
to your neck. You can feel your heart beating in your neck-thump
-thump-thump. Now that you can feel the pulsations in your
neck, shift your thought to your cheeks and you will soon feel them
there. Just as soon as you have pronounced pulsations in your
cheeks, then go to the top of your head and centre your thought
on that steady-thump-thump-thump. Now you feel them
there!
Now that you can feel the pulsations in your scalp, shift your
thought back again, over each particular spot-the cheeks, the
neck, the chest, and keep on going downward. Now you can feel
them in the pit of your stomach. Do not shift your concentration
until they are very pronounced. There they are-thump-thump
-thump. Now you can concentrate a little further down, in the
lower abdomen. That is an easy place to feel the pulsations-
almost as easy as feeling them in your neck.
1 Remember, you do not feel these pulsations with your hand. Keep your
hands at your sides. You must feel the heart within you, pulsating.-S.M.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 147
Now that they are perfectly plain, you can concentrate upon your
thighs, both at once. There ; you feel the thump-thump-
thump. Now concentrate upon the calves of your legs, and as soon
as you can feel the pulsations regularly and plainly, concentrate
upon your feet, the very soles of your feet, and you will be able to
feel your heart-pulsations very plainly, in your feet-just by
thinking about them.
Now go back to your calves again. There, you feel them. Now
go back to your thighs again. There are the pulsations. Next
concentrate on your right thigh and forget about the left one. See,
you can feel the pulsations of your heart anywhere you concentrate.
The next time you have cold feet (literally) try to increase the
circulation in your feet by doing what you have just done !1
If you will concentrate upon the medulla oblongata region, and
cause the pulsations to be felt there, you will know exactly how the
pulsations feel at that point (through the astral cable) to the
projected phantom.
One word of advice before going further. If you are a victim of
heart disease, do not attempt astral projection, for the heart is a
vital factor, and often runs very low during a projection; and, as
you know, the welfare of the physical mechanism, during the pro-
jection of the astral body, depends upon the function of respiration.
On the other hand, if your heart is reasonably sound, there is
nothing to be alarmed at in this suggestion.
Now that you have the knack of feeling your heart's pulsations
in any part of your body, through concentration, the next step is
to be able to reduce the speed of the pulsations, which is not difficult
to do. What is desired, in astral projection, is a slow and steady
heart-beat. During your concentration upon the organ, assume
that you are one intelligence and that it is another, and that it can
understand your thought and obey it ; for that in reality is about
the true situation. The heart is controlled by an intelligence behind
it, the subconscious intelligence. Your thoughts, your concentra-
tion, can be considered another intelligence. So, if you desire to
decrease or increase the speed of the heart, assume that it is governed
by intelligence.
Perhaps you have tried to drive thoughts or directions into your
subconscious mind, and have afterwards said to yourself, " How do
I know whether or not my suggestions convinced the innate intelli-
gence? " Well, with your heart, you can tell.
If you concentrate upon it, thinking that it is beating slower and
slower, or faster and faster, as the case may be, and it obeys your
suggestion, then you know that your suggestion has reached the
controlling intelligence. And further, if you know the mood your
conscious mind is in, when it is able to control the heart, then you
1 It is also possible, by proper concentration, to withdraw the blood from different
parts of the body.-S.M.
148 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
know what mood that mind should be in at any other time, when
you wish to sink thoughts into your subconscious mind.
Many people become annoyed when they think that their sub-
conscious mind will not obey the very first conscious direction it
is given. Many do not like the job of repeating and repeating over
and over an affirmation before the subconscious mind will obey.
But think a minute ! What would happen if the controlling intelli-
gence did act upon the very first affirmation?
Suppose you should think your heart had stopped, and suppose
the innate intelligence should immediately obey that suggestion?
Wouldn't that be a fine mess? Fortunately, the subconscious mind
is not so easily controlled ; yet it is not very difficult to persuade it
to slacken or speed up the heart-beat.
To resume: We are now supposing that you are lying upon your
back, relaxed, with your arms at your sides, and that you have
acquired the ability to feel your heart's pulsations in any part of
your body. Now you are concentrating upon your heart again, and
if it is not steady you are to tell it, in your mind, that it is steady,
and you are to catch the rhythm of the proper beat, and beat time
in your mind, concentrating upon the thump of the heart at the
proper rhythm. Keep this exercise up until your heart is beating
steadily.
Now, if it had before been unsteady, and you have steadied it, or
if it be naturally steady and healthy, you are now ready to concen-
trate upon a slower beat. Think only of these pulsations. Concen-
trate upon these pulsations, which you feel in your chest, in your
heart. Beat time to them in your mind, even allowing your head
to move slightly at each beat, if it be inclined to. After keeping up
this true rhythm for several minutes, begin beating time-in your
mind-just a little slower, thinking that the heart is beating a little
more slowly. ·
Do not stop concentrating in order to determine whether or not
the heart is obeying your suggestion, for you will be able to know
this fact in your mind. Continue your concentration, in this manner,
until you have the heart beating at the speed at which you wish it
to beat. This is not nearly as difficult to accomplish as you might
think, and most people, without a doubt, will be enabled to do this
after a very few trials.
One cannot say definitely how slowly the heart should beat in
order to induce a fair degree of physical "incapacity." You will
recall that my heart-beat, when experiencing projections regularly,
was forty-two pulsations per minute. This speed could never be
considered dangerously slow, and yet it brought about passivity of
the physical to an unusual degree.
Of course, the pulsations of the heart usually are less per minute
while we are asleep, than when we are awake; so that if my heart
were beating at forty-two per minute, while awake, it must have
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 149
been considerably slower while I was asleep. It is the circulation
of the blood, you understand, which enlivens or on the other hand
produces torpor in the physical body-in other words, the degree of
its " incapacity."
The normal heart-beat, of course, can be said to vary more or
less in different individuals ; and, while the physical body naturally
is "incapacitated" to some extent during sleep, it- is obvious that
a reduction in the pulsations, of ten or fifteen below normal will
incapacitate the physical mechanism still more profoundly.
You can determine your own condition of passivity far better
than anyone else can do so for you. You can reduce it amazingly,
so much so that it can scarcely be detected in its beating. If, before
going to sleep, you should feel yourself becoming chilly, when you
should not be, or believe that you can feel air blowing lightly upon
your legs or arms, you have the evidence of "incapacity" which
will be profound when you do sleep. You do not, however, want to
be cool to the extent of discomfort. Try to hit upon some arrange-
ment whereby you can be both cool and comfortable.
On the other hand, if you do not fancy the "slow heart" idea,
and would prefer to try the experiment with the usual degree of
passivity you possess during sleep (with a normal heart-beat}, you
can do so and still not be immune to success; for, as you know,
many projections take place in this degree of physical calm. Natur-
ally, the greater the incapacity the greater the chance of success;
and it is for this reason that I have given the instructions for
producing more profound incapacity.
The zone of quietude, in natural sleep, is governed very much by
the condition of the physical body ; the more lively the physical,
the closer will the phantom stay to coincidence; just as it is
governed by the amount of energy stored in the condenser, the
astral body. Profound incapacity plus enervation, and the phantom
could move two feet out of coincidence as you enter sleep.
On the other hand, if you go to bed without being tired, having
an abundance of energy-plus physical enlivenment-you may
not be able to go to sleep; and, when you do, the phantom might
only discoincide a fraction of an inch from the physical. Go to bed
with enervation, but without physical passivity, and the phantom
might move but six inches out of coincidence, etc.-depending upon
the factors involved.
As a rule, the phantom moves upward more and more as sleep
becomes more and more profound. As one " rises " to sleep, the
phantom may rest but two inches out of coincidence; but, after
sleeping for several hours, the phantom may be one foot out of
coincidence, because the physical body had gradually become more
passive. Most projections take place after the subject has slept for
several hours, for this reason.
After you have gained the knack of slowing down the speed of the
L
150 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
heart, you will be surprised at the way in which that organ responds
to your directions, and you will be able to reduce your pulse-rate in a
few moments. After you have practised the exercise and can control
the organ at will, then do this. Speak to the heart. Say, for
example, " Heart, you are now to .beat fifty times per minute, and do
so until further notice I "
You will be amazed to find that this organ will keep going at this
speed, until you tell it to do otherwise. It is just like hypnotizing
the controlling intelligence behind the heart. But do not give the
heart this direction, then grab your watch and say," I don't believe
it is doing it," as you time it to see, for this offsets the suggestion
you have just given it. If you insist on timing it, do so with the
belief that the heart is beating fifty times per minute.
Heart control is, as far as I know, the only sure way in which
voluntary " incapacity " can be produced, and in practising it you
are unconsciously promoting " consciousness of self "--one of the
most essential requisites in projection of the astral body.
Always remember to amass all the factors which are favourable
to the_incapacity of the physical body that you possibly can-just
prior to your attempt to project the astral body, regardless of the
method you use to impress the subconscious Will. So much for
"incapacity."
DEVELOPING A CONSCIOUSNESS OF SELF
In order to be a successful projector, you should centre your mind
upon yourself ; study yourself, get inquisitive about yourself, try
to know yourself. There is only one person just like you in the
whole world, and that is-YOU. Stop studying other people
for awhile, and begin to study yourself. You do not have to
look ninety-two million miles away at the sun in order to find
something to marvel over ; the sun is no more mysterious than you
are I
When you begin to investigate yourself, in this manner, you will
wonder that you knew so little about yourself before I Several
years ago, I believe it was in Physical Culture magazine, I read an
article by a well-known writer, who stated that the majority of
persons had no idea what their bare backs look like ; they had
never seen their own spine in a mirror I Yet these same people
believe they know themselves I
In astral projection, a " consciousness of self "is highly important ;
so begin now to study yourself. Here is an exercise which I believe
brought me successful results, and you will find it invaluable as an
aid to astral projection:
Place a chair before a mirror, for you are now about to try to
bewilder yourself with yourself. In this exercise, you are to study
yourself so intensely that you almost go to sleep while doing so,
and lose your understanding of which is the real You.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 151
I am assuming that you are now comfortably seated in an arm-
chair, facing your reflection in the mirror. Do not think of the
mirror, and do not believe that you are looking at a reflection ; try
rather to convince yourself that you actually are where the reflection
is; that you are not in your real body at alL
Now begin to scrutinize yourself carefully, trying to find things
about yourself which you have never recognized before. See the
true colour of your hair, the true expression of your eyes, the true
shape of your nose. See that cheekbone, those few whiskers on
your chin, the lumps on your forehead, the little ridges around
your nose I Yes, there is enough to keep you busy looking at and
studying yourself for some time ; so keep it up I
Now that you have given yourself a concentrated examination
stand up in front of the mirror and look directly into your eyes.
Keep your eyes centred on the eyes in the reflection. Blink when
you are inclined to, but keep your eyes on the eyes in the mirror.
Are you growing unsteady now ? Are you swaying slightly from
side to side ? That is what you should do.
Now sit down again in the chair and gaze directly into the eyes
in the mirror, keeping your stare concentrated upon those eyes.
As you do this, repeat your own name over and over, distinctly and
monotonously. This has a very subtle effect upon the mind. If,
after a while, your eyes seem to be getting dim, or misty, do not
let this distract your attention, but keep everlastingly gazing into
your own eyes.
In your mind, you are to believe that the reflection in the mirror
is the real you. You are not to remember the fact that you are
sitting in the chair ; believe only that the real you is the reflection
in the mirror I You are seeing Yourself, but the real You is in the
mirror I Try to go to sleep with this in mind, and with your eyes
centred upon the eyes in the mirror.
This delusion of self " rattles" the astral body, for it puts the
idea in the subconscious mind that the reflection is the real You ;
and after you go to sleep the suggestion to that effect is often strong
enough to " possess the subconscious Will " to move the astral
body over to the place where the innate mind thinks you really
are.
Remember, it makes no difference how true the suggestion coming
from the subconscious mind really is; if the mind is deluded by the
belief that you are at the spot shown in the reflection, it impresses
the subconscious Will to that effect. You can try this at night if
you wish to, intending to go to sleep in the chair ; or you can
practise the exercise until you are " dog tired " ; then jump into
bed and go to sleep at once, keeping the vision in mind.
Needless to say, in this exercise, you are to use your own eyes, in
the mirror, as you would a crystal ball. It would be a good idea,
also, to read up on how to develop crystal gazing, and apply it in
I52 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
this exercise, for space cannot be devoted to that subject here.
This is an excellent exercise, involving the specific requirements
of astral projection.
DYNAMIZATION OF PROJECTION
One of the strongest aids to projection of the astral body is
"realization of astral body phenomena"; that is, an understanding
of the true facts-of the actions of the astral body, the causes for
these actions, etc. These must be firmly fixed in mind. Sometimes
the realization will suddenly burst upon you, and you will wonder
how you ever missed such obvious realities before I Some of the
readers of this book may, perhaps, open their eyes to these phe-
nomena of Self after studying it, and will almost immediately begin
to notice symptoms of astral body activity which had hitherto
passed them by without a second thought.
Read about the phenomenon, think of the phenomenon, and
practise the phenomenon intensely, if you would become a projector !
Root an understanding of the phenomenon in your mind so deeply
that it becomes a part of your life. Become so bound up in the
study of astral projection that you will become almost irritable i£
you are interrupted when thinking and studying and learning about
it.
That is the big secret in making yourself " express " the phe-
nomenon. Remember, I am now telling you of another method of
causing the astral body to project, that is "by stressing astral pro-
jection in your mind." This is the direct method; and when it
becomes a part of the subconscious mind, the mind is obsessed by
the knowledge that the astral body can exist apart from the physical,
as well as in coincidence with the physical, and the mind sees,
therefore, no reason why the astral body should not be outside the
physical.
Do you see the significance of this ? You are to so thoroughly
saturate your subconscious mind with astral projection that it creates
a stress of astral projection in your mind. You do this by way of
the conscious mind, through tenacious study of the art-practise of
the art-thinking of the art. Have one great ambition, to project
your astral body ! Become wrapped up in this one ambition, and
you are not only creating a strong desire:-which the subconscious
mind (which now knows all about projection) tries to appease-but
you are creating a tenacious habit, and will often begin to dream -
of the phenomenon.
This will be especially probable if you go to bed reading about it,
and go to sleep with it in your mind. Mark this-if you ever begin
to dream of astral projection (that is, dream that your astral body
can and does do these things) you are positively sure to experience
a projection of the astral body. How could you have dreamed of
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 133
the actual phenomenon until now, for you did not fully understand
it ? Perhaps you never knew you possessed an astral body ! But
now you can saturate your mind so thoroughly with the under-
standing of the phase that you have a clear vision of it and can
become so profoundly interested in the matter that it will be a part
of your very life, and you can dream about it.
I know, positively, that dreaming of astral projection will cause
the projection of the astral body. Even a dream of projection,
brought about by the fear of projection, will pull out the dream body.
I shall now explain how fear exerts both a negative and positive
effect upon projection, depending upon the circumstances under
which the fear manifests.
When I first experienced conscious projection of the astral body,
I'll admit, I used to be afraid, not during the projection-that is
the strange part-but before going to sleep. The wonder of it
gripped my mind beyond words ; gripped me more than anything
else ever gripped me.
I somehow conceived the idea (mostly as the result of hearing
others tell about it) that fiends, murderers and all sorts of devils
lurked on the astral plane, waiting to get into people! One promi-
nent Spiritualist informed me that some devil might influence me
while projected, or that he might get into my physical body and
prevent me from getting back into it again !
I admit that I was frightened-so frightened at first that I was
afraid to go to sleep at night. I had the whole phenomenon firmly
fixed in my mind, and would always begin to think of it, to vision
it, just as soon as I went to bed, because of my fear that I should
project and would be apprehended by some astral monster !
And what did this fear do? It made me project all the more,
for my mind was so saturated by the knowledge of what took place,
and intensified by fear-fear which externalized my neuric energy,
as it does everyone else's, making me still more subject to extensive
separations-that, no sooner would I fall asleep than I would be
dreaming of projection.
And every single time the astral body would be pulled out by
the suggestion coming from my mind. Many times I would become
conscious, emerging from the dream state ; and many times I would
merely dream the action out-with the body participating. Reper-
cussions were a nightly occurrence. But the fact which baffled me
the most was this : Why was I so terribly frightened when in the
physical, or when first awakening within cord-activity range (which
would cause repercussion) while, when free-that is, when waking
outside cord-activity range-! would have no fear whatever?
This was one of the observations that impressed me the most
forcibly-why the fear disappeared. It was like a player before a
football game, or a prizefighter before the fight began, dreadfully
fearful and nervous, but suddenly losing all fear and becoming
' .
I54 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
composed. Yet that was the way I experienced it.1 After a while
I became so accustomed to projection that I began really to like it ;.
the devils and astral fiends did not seem to be so concerned about
me after all, and they were not, so far as I could see (when I did
happen to see anyone), very different from the people I had always
known.
As the fear of projection left me, I noticed that the projections
themselves began to occur less often. And as desire replaced the
fear, I again noticed that I was becoming more subject to them. I
now know that fear and desire produce the same effect in the sub-
conscious mind, carrying the suggestion of astral projection into
sleep, or bursting forth in the mind while one sleeps. My subcon-
scious mind had been fairly saturated with the knowledge of what
my astral body could do, and by the desire to do it.
And that is how you too can develop yourself. Simply dynamize
the subconscious mind with the true knowledge of, and desire for,
astral projection. With your mind so dynamized go to sleep. You
can saturate the subconscious mind with this knowledge and desire
by way of the conscious-think projection, practise projection, and
read of projection, over and over again.
Go to sleep reading about it. Concentrate, on going to sleep, on
the route which the phantom will take when projected. This latter
statement is very important, and I have found that once the mind
is dynamized, it is one of the best possible forces tending toward
success. But you could not have done this before, for no one had
ever before told you the route which the phantom invariably takes
in projecting, until you read it in this book.
Henceforth, whenever " dynamization of projection " is men-
tioned, it simply means the saturation of the subconscious mind
with the knowledge of and desire for projection of the astral body.
And you cause this saturation of the subconscious mind by way of
the conscious mind, the conscious Will.
WHAT IS " WILL " ?
What is the conscious Will, you may ask? Allow me to quote
C. Franklin Leavitt :
" A lot of nonsense has been written about the cultivation of the
Will. Most books on the subject get a person nowhere, for they do
not explain the process of Willing.
"We have a habit of thinking that 'to Will' means making
oneself do something, getting into action, effort.
" It does mean making oneself do something. It means getting
into action-MENTALLY. It means effort of-THE ATTENTION.
1 The reader can rest assured that the actual projection of the astral body is
anything but what the imagination believes it to be. It is the suspense in the mind
which is unpleasant, not the actual projection. No doubt this is true of permanent
projection (death) also.-S.M.
OLD CHIXESE PRIXT, SHOWE\G THE l'ROJECT!OX OF THE ASTR~L BODY, AND
THE CORD OR CABLE BIKDIKG THE ASTRAL TO THE PHYSICAL BODY
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 155
William James points out that this is all Will amounts to-ATTEN-
TION---simply to hold the attention upon a certain thought or
idea until it fills the mind, and crowds all other ideas out of the
consciousness.
"You will have little trouble making yourself do a certain thing,
if no other idea is allowed to stay in your mind. For the ideas
which impel one to ACTION are those which dominate the conscious-
ness--those which possess the attention. . . . Think resolutely and
determinedly. Make plans for carrying your thoughts into action.
Concentrate. Shut out all opposing thoughts. In time you will
find yourself acting in accordance with these thoughts."
After you have acquired this" dynamization of projection," after
you have your subconscious mind completely saturated with the
knowledge of and the desire for projection of the astral body, then
your hardest task is over. But remember, above everything else,
that your mind must be dominated by this knowledge of and desire
for that which you seek ; then the stress of it stays at the surface
of that mind, while you sleep. You have the knowledge of the art,
and the desire stimulates the subconscious Will, performing the
projection.
TYPICAL DREAMS OF PROJECTION
'' Dynamization of projection " should produce a dream of pro-
jection, and always will if the astral body is in a partially conscious
condition, and the " stress " (the stress of projection) is active
during sleep. The substance of the dream of projection will depend
upon the degree of understanding of projection in your mind ;
therefore, it is of vital importance to have a thorough understanding
of the phantom's actions and of its route, after separation.
Now do you see the fundamental principle of dream control-
trying to dream a dream which is true, concerning the phantom ?
The easiest way to produce such a dream is to have the under-
standing of and desire for projection take such a grip on your mind
that you cannot go to sleep without thinking about it. Then, when
you do go to sleep, the " stress " is still there. It is the " stress "
which does the business. The stress in this case consists in suggesting
the very thing you are trying to accomplish. You will remember
that I stated that " dream-control " was the easiest method of pro-
jecting the astral body. Now I am telling you that" dynarnization
of projection " is the easiest method of dream-control, for the
dynamization of a desire for and knowledge of the astral body's
movement will produce the proper dream. For many years my
mind was completely "dynamized with projection"; in fact I
could think of nothing but projection of the astral body, and I
would have dream after dream, night after night, that I was pro-
jecting in the astral body, and in many of these dreams I would
become conscious, while projected.
156 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
In the dream (the dream of projection) I would sometimes dream
that I was lying horizontal just above my body (even knowing in
the dream that I was dreaming ; that is t}» difficult thing to com-
prehend), and then I would dream of movlftg over the route which·
the phantom actually takes on projecting. One is so near true
consciousness when he dreams that he is dreaming, and it is a dream
of projection, that true consciousness cannot seem to keep from
intervening. And that is how most of my conscious projections
came abouL
On other occasions the dream would vary. Instead of dreaming
that I was rising in the astral body, I seemed to be standing to one
side, watching the astral body project and then, after a while, I
would get into the astral body-sometimes continuing to dream of
being there and sometimes actually awakening in it.
There are several possible, though purely theoretic, explanations
which I might advance to account for this. Thus, I once noticed
that the instant I dreamed of getting into the (already projected)
astral body, I became conscious in that body. Keep in mind that
"consciousness" withdraws from the astral body when "uncon-
sciousness" is produced. It is not the astral body's withdrawal
from the physical body which causes unconsciousness. Never! For
the astral body can be conscious outside the physical body, and the
astral body can be unconscious outside the physical body, and the
astral body can be unconscious within the physical body.
Because the astral body moves into the zone of quietude, during
sleep, this does not in any sense denote that the astral body's with-
drawal is the cause of unconsciousness. It merely occurs in that
way; merely appears that way; but withdrawal of the astral
body from the physical body, and the intervention of unconscious-
ness, while usually occurring almost simultaneously, are entirely
separate functions.
If we became unconscious every time the astral body withdrew
from the physical, there could be no such thing as conscious astral
projection. As a matter of fact, many of us can, in the hypnagogic
state, when entering sleep, move into the zone of quietude-perhaps
only a quarter of an inch of discoincidence-and still be conscious,
not realizing the fact that we have done so, and suddenly repercuss
in the physical body.
This is a very common occurrence. Because unconsciousness
usually occurs when entering sleep--just an instant before we make
the transit into the zone of quietude-many occultists have seized
upon the idea that the withdrawal of the astral body is the cause
of unconsciousness. But this is a mistake.
It is true also, that we can be unconscious in the physical body
for some time before the astral body moves into the zone of quietude.
This is especially true when the body is under the influence of some
stimulant. Thus, there are exceptions to the rule as to when the
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 157
astral body moves into the zone of quietude. The rule being that
it does so immediately after unconsciousness has set in.
In some persons it moves sooner, in others later, depending
entirely upon the condition of the individual at the time. One can
easily see that, in order to have a conscious projection-conscious
from the beginning-one should be of the type, or make up, which
begins to make the transit into the zone of quietude before uncon-
sciousness sets in. This condition of the individual is brought about
by several factors: temperament, incapacity, etc., as we have
already seen.
Knowing that it is the withdrawal of consciousness from the astral
body which produces unconsciousness, we might in this manner
account for the dream in which one dreams that he is projected in
the astral body, but is apart from that body, looking on-because
the real consciousness is apart from that body. And this theory
becomes still more probable in those cases when one has a dream of
projection (wherein he is apart from the astral body, looking on,
watching its movements) and then getting into the body-and being
conscious in that body the moment he dreams of getting into it.
Now, if full consciousness withdraws from the body when the
astral body is unconscious, consciousness must be partially with-
drawn from the body when it is partially conscious. And in a dream
of this nature-when one dreams that he is watching the astral
body's movement, and then gets into it-is it not possible that a
portion of the consciousness which was withdrawn from the body
actually understood? Or, perhaps, even a more refined body,
coinciding with the astral body, could withdraw in such a dream,
and look on as the astral body followed its route ; then go over and
get into the astral body again.1
At any rate, these are the two typical dreams of projection which
I had when dreaming of projection. First, dreaming that I was in
the astral body, moving over the route the phantom takes while
projecting. Second, dreaming that I stood apart from the astral
body, watching the astral body go over the route, and that I would
then get into it.
If you will think back, you will recall that I mentioned that one
can sometimes see the astral body from the physical eyes, because
of the circuit of sight running across the astral cable. Now, if one
can see this, while conscious, why not while partially conscious, and
thus dream that he is standing to one side, watching the astral body
move? For my part, I believe that this is a plausible explanation
of such a dream of projection-when we dream that we are watching
the astral body project.
The most direct way, and certainly the most sensible way, of
1 This would correspond, of course, to the" mental body" of the Theosophists,
and might be said to afford some direct experimental evidence in favour of the
reality of such a body.-H.C.
r58 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
creating the proper "stress" in the subconscious mind, which will
suggest itself during sleep, is the way that I have just pointed out
-viz. "dynamization of projection." Why, I would ask you,
should you go to the trouble of saturating your mind with a habit
which is unrelated to projection of the astral body, merely because
the stress of that habit will impress the subconscious Will, when
you can saturate your mind in the same manner with the desire for
and knowledge of the art, and thus be enabled to dream directly of
what is occurring, instead of dreaming of some habit-e.g. your
routine?
HOW TO INSTIL THE STRESS OF ROUTINE
However, if you wish to put a stress of routine into your sub-
conscious mind, which will assert itself while you sleep, you must
direct all your conscious Will-power upon this routine. You must
stick with determination to your course throughout the day, never
diverting from it under any circumstances.
Go to bed on time, get up on time, eat your meals on time, per-
forming your duties regularly and conscientiously day after day,
until the routine becomes a part of your very life, until your mind
has crowded all other impressions into the background, and you are
almost automatic in performing the routine. With your mind so
saturated with the "stress" of the habit, you must hold the vision
of yourself performing the routine as you" rise" to sleep, instigating
complete passivity of the physical body prior to taking up the vision
of the routine.
The subconscious Will will act according to the power of the sug-
gestion. We enact habits for one of two reasons, or perhaps, in
some cases, for both. These reasons are : (r) because we desire to
perform the duty, and (z) because necessity compels us to perform
the duty.
Granting this to be true, the "stress " of the routine in the mind
will impress the subconscious Will accordingly. If you desire the
routine, the subconscious Will will move the body more easily than
if you were compelling yourself to perform the routine, through
necessity; which means, simply, that desire plus habit will dominate
the subconscious Will more completely than habit alone.
Dynamization of projection is much easier to put into the sub-
conscious mind than dynamization of a routine, for the routine is
too commonplace to " grip " the mind as powerfully as astral pro-
jection-the supernormal-will grip it. To me, attempting to
develop projection of the astral body by the tenacious-habit method
seems emphatically the most difficult method of all ; and, if I am
any judge of human nature, most people will have no inclination
to stick so tenaciously to their daily, commonplace routine. Dyna-
mization of projection is as far ahead of dynamization of a routine, in
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 159
the production of astral projection, as the steamboat is ahead of the
sailboat. Yet either will lead one eventually to the destination he
is seeking.
Develop a strong habit of the study of astral projection, make a
routine of the practice of the art, desire the ability to project in
your astral body so strongly that your mind is dominated by" astral
projection." Induce complete passivity of the physical body, and
" rise " to sleep, visualizing the route the phantom invariably takes,
on projecting. That is the way to project at will
You may think it pretty difficult to project the astral body, after
all; but when you stop to think that the very causes of astral pro-
jection come about unknowingly at times, it should convince you
that to instigate these causes intentionally should not be such an
exacting task, after all.
HOW TO INSTIL THE STRESS OF THIRST
You will find that, in promoting a " stress " of desire, which is
not directly for projection, that the desire for drink is the most
easily instigated and the strongest possible creation-stress. If you
think that thirst is not stress-creating, just try and see how long
you can go without water I Drink is a necessity. Thirst must be
quenched. The mind becomes determined to satisfy the desire, and,
in projection of the astral body, the subconscious Will acts in a like
manner.
A method, and one which I have proved to be successful in pro-
moting projection of the astral body, is the following :
First, deprive yourself of drinking for a considerable period of
time before retiring-presuming, of course, that you are attempting
the experiment on going to bed at night. The length of time during
which you must refrain from taking liquids into the system must be
calculated by yourself, as different individuals vary as to the amount
of liquid required.
It is a good plan to begin in the morning, to deprive yourself of
drink, and if the desire becomes too intense as the day progresses,
take a sip of water now and then, temporarily to allay the desire.
Toward evening, just before retiring, if the desire for water becomes
too intense, take a few sips of salt-water. In this way you satisfy
the desire, in some degree, for a short interval, but the desire comes
back stronger than ever later on.
Also, during the day, tr-y to increase the desire for drink, by
almost drinking, thinking of drinking, gazing into a tumbler of
water, etc. Just before going to bed, place a glass of cold water in
some place where you are accustomed to getting a drink-say in
the sink in the kitchen. Take a chair and look into the glass of
water, concentrating upon the water in the glass.
Keep your eyes fixed upon the water, and, as you do so, centre
r6o THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
your mind upon your astral body, visualizing it as leaving your
physical body in the room where you sleep, and travelling to the
sink to drink the water which is before you in the glass. Have this
vision of the route which the astral body will take in going to the
sink for water firmly fixed in your mind. Repeat this mental
process again and again, all the while gazing steadily at the glass of
water.
Now you are ready to go to bed and to sleep. You are thirsty
when you do so, but forget about the thirst and begin thinking of
your heart, slowing it down by concentration upon it. If you
cannot possibly go to sleep, you will then have to take another sip
of water, preferably salt water, and the desire will keep on increasing
even after you sleep.
But the fact that you cannot go to sleep with ease shows that the
stress of thirst is very strong within you ; and this same stress-
which is keeping you awake so long-is the stress which will impel
the subconscious Will to move the body after you do go to sleep.
As you fall asleep, keep thinking of the glass of water ; keep
thinking of your astral body moving out, and going to the glass of
water. If you have the proper" incapacity" induced in the physical
body, the astral body, during sleep, will move away from the
physical, and attempt to appease the desire. The route you pre-
planned will at once suggest itself and the body will travel over
that route.
I want to tell you that this is an extreme exercise, and will easily
move the astral body, for, as a matter of fact, the desire for water
alone will move the astral body, and the mind will direct the body
over a route to some place where one can drink, without pre-planning
the route and place. Yet, in going to the above extreme with the
exercise, you are more sure of success.
After you have practised this exercise for a while, analyze your
dreams, and see whether you have had a dream which would relate
to the action. You might even become conscious, while projected.
But if you do not, then concentrate upon the fact (while practising
the exercise) that when you get to the glass of water, you will awaken.
See yourself becoming conscious, just as you touch the glass of water.
Then, when you do project and touch the glass-at least the space
where the glass is-the suggestion that you become conscious will
present itself.
You can instigate the desire for food in the same manner, and
intensify the desire by the same method as you intensified the desire
for drink-causing the astral body to move out to appease your
hunger. This is not quite so unpleasant as the thirst method. If
you are a very hearty eater, this method will succeed; but, on the
other hand, if you are one of those who find little concern in eating,
the "stress" created by the fast will not possess your mind so
completely.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY I6I
You can create your own exercise, while inducing the hunger
stress, for if you do not understand the principles involved in the
projection of the astral body by this time you are not yet ready to
project. In speaking of development in his book devoted to Yoga,
Carrington says :
.. The first step is abstinence from stimulating foods and drinks.
The pituitary body and the pineal gland are said to be stimulated
excessively by these things, which affect the blood-stream in the
brain." This is one thing, too, which you must always keep in
mind, when attempting to develop astral projection, for stimulating
drinks and foods work against" incapacity" of the physical body.
Mention was made, before, of the fact that certain foods are said
to affect the astral body, and you will recall that some investigators
have claimed that one diet has a loosening effect upon the astral body,
while another has a binding effect. Be that as it may, I believe that
I have tried more diets than anyone in the world, for the purpose
of loosening the astral counterpart (much to my regret), and I have
eventually come to the conclusion that, even if certain foods do
tend to loosen the astral body, the effect is too insignificant for
consideration.
It is the stress in the mind which moves out the body, and no
food at all is the way to create the proper stress. I believe that you
will only delude yourself if you think you can cause astral projection
by certain diets-unless the diet creates hunger, just as a fast will
do ; or unless the diet favours incapacity, thus aiding other factors
in projection. That is about all a certain diet can do, viz. aid the
major factors of projection.
PROJECTING TO WATER
When experimenting with the thirst stress, I had the following
experience : There is a spring gurgling forth from the roots of a
tree, just at the bottom of a wooded hill, within sight of where I
am now writing this account. In order to get to this spring I would
have to cross the road in front of the house, go about a quarter of
a mile along the river to a bridge, cross the bridge, walk along the
railroad track a short distance, to the spot where the track neared
the foot of the hill.
I had a hobby of strolling along this route often, and, on reaching
the spring, would sit down beside it. I dearly loved to drink the
water from that spring (and do yet for that matter), and time after
time I have strolled over to the spring, just to have a drink of its
water.
Somehow I liked the spring water much better than the water in
the village. So, one afternoon, I took the jar and went acr~ss the
river to the spring, filled the jar and returned. That night I placed
a tumblerful of the water in the sink-where I always drink when
r6z THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
at home-and gazed at it for about twenty minutes before going
to bed. I expected to project to the sink and the water.
But, instead of projecting to the sink, where the tumbler of spring
water stood, I awakened in the astral body right by the spring !
The astral body had passed the sink, passed the river, and stopped
at the spring, across the river. No dream preceded the awakening
this time, as is usually the case. I just awoke suddenly, to find
myself at that spot. Allow me to say that it is always desirable to
have some dream precede the awakening ; for unless it does so, one
becomes agitated for a time. The dream allows consciousness to
come on gradually.
CHAPTER XII
CONSCIOUS PROJECTION IS RARE
R
ARELY does an astral projector ever experie.nee projec-
tions which are completely conscious from beginning to
end. I know this to be a fact, not only from my own
experience, but by reading the experiences of others.
Most accounts of astral projections begin when the subject finds
himself in a new body, outside his physical body; that is, the
subject does not become conscious until he is already projected
some distance from his physical body, i.e. outside cord-activity
range.
Some projectors claim to understand just how they get there ;
others frankly admit that they do not understand the reasons why.
But one thing has always puzzled me : if the projectors who under-
stand how they do so, really do understand the process, why have
they not made it known ? I have understood this process for many
years, and presumed that all students of the occult understood it
more or less.
It was not until I began to turn my attention to what others had
written upon the subject that I was convinced that the process was
not generally understood after all. It is easy to tell people what
· happens, once the astral body is projected; but telling them how
to cause the projection is another matter.
It is easy to say, "I will not reveal the process of actually
separating the bodies," as most adepts of this phase do, under the
claim that it would be giving "dangerous" information which
would lead to "disastrous consequences." I have concluded that
the reason why none of these sages have given the detailed process
of projection is not because they are concerned as to the dangers
involved, but because they do not know.
They know that certain practices will insure projection of the
astral body, but they do not know why these practices produced
the desired result. They know that they have awakened outside
the physical body, but, not knowing why, they have pronounced it
a "gift," or said that it was "spontaneous." And the fact that
most tales of conscious astral projection begin after the astral body
has left the physical, points with certainty to the conclusion that
an entirely conscious projection, from beginning to end, is very
rare.
And a completely conscious projection is rare. I believe I have
I6J
164 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
said before that, in most instances, consciousness only comes after
one is already projected. And this is the most desirable way of
having consciousness intervene, too, for consciousness from the very
beginning permits the subject to experience certain undesirable
activities which take place within cord-activity range.
However, I have produced such a projection (conscious from the
very beginning) several times, and have experienced unintentional
projections of this type on several other occasions. You will
remember that my very first projection was conscious from the
outset.
Whenever a projection of this type took place, I always noticed
it did so after I had been sleeping for several hours. I would awaken
between one and four o'clock in the morning, usually, and the astral
body would begin to" rise," as I entered sleep again; but, on other
occasions (as in the first experience quoted), the projection would
begin in the hypnagogic state when emerging from sleep.
I will tell you what takes place in each of these states-(1) the
hypnagogic state, emerging from sleep, and (2) the hypnagogic state
when going to sleep-respectively.
The first experience quoted is an example of what takes place
when a conscious projection occurs in the hypnagogic state following
sleep. One begins to awaken slowly, unable to understand where
he exists, but conscious that he does exist somewhere. Close your
eyes and seal your ears and you will have some idea of the condition
which one is in just before the " take-off " in a projection.
Consciousness grows slightly stronger, and one understands that
he is lying upon the bed, before he can see or hear ; and there will
be a very noticeable pulsation in the back of the head. This is the
heart-beat. Often this is the very first thing one does notice, even
before he can understand that he is lying upon the bed.
Presently the subject will realize that he cannot move; and if
he wishes to produce the projection he must have no desire to move
physically, but must think of rising into the air. But he cannot
try to move up into the air by trying to use effort ; for this would
interfere with the power which actually moves the body. At this
time one merely lies quiet, without emotion, and thinks of moving
upward.
The subject will feel as if he weighed a ton, as if he were glued
down to the bed. Eventually, he will feel as if this" glue," holding
him down, has lost its adhesiveness, and that he is like a balloon,
when the anchor is disconnected ; he begins to move upward. Then
the floating sensation is present, because the astral body really is
floating. The subject must lie perfectly calm, enjoying the sensa-
tion of floating, and thinking only of moving upward and outward.
He will be cataleptic, as a rule, until after the power has moved
him outside cord-activity range, but he becomes free from catalepsy
-sometimes (after the body has uprighted) when within cord·
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 165
activity range. But he never becomes free from catalepsy while the
body is in the horizontal position-he could not and remain
horizontal.
All the time, within cord-activity range, the subject can feel the
hea,rt's pulsations, in the back of his head, and there will almost
always be present, in some form or other, the eccentricities which
you have studied and which will manifest within the range. Once
outside the range of cord-activity, the phantom is free, and is
possessed of the most indescribable agility and exhilaration.
This is where most people, who have experienced a conscious pro-
jection, first gain consciousness. Most of the accounts begin like
this: "Once more I found myself outside my body, possessed of a
freedom which I could never describe." Is not this the most desir-
able place to become conscious ? It certainly is ! There is nothing
undesirable in astral projection, when one can awaken with such
an enlivened feeling, and be perfectly free.
Notice that, when a conscious projection begins during the second
hypnagogic state (emerging from sleep), the subject will feel the
disconnection of the two bodies. But when the projection occurs
during the first hypnagogic state (entering sleep) the astral body
rises up so easily that the subject scarcely knows that he has moved
upward until suddenly he sees this to be the case. When the sense
of hearing first begins to manifest, the sounds seem far away. When
the eyes first begin to see, everything seems blurred and whitish.
Just as the sounds become more distinct, so does the sense of sight
become clearer and clearer. There is a spot, just out of coincidence,
in which, as the phantom passes upward through it, the conscious-
ness seems to fade out to some extent; then radiate back to normal
again.
I have noticed this every time. Just as the astral body leaves the
physical, the consciousness grows dim for an instant ; then comes
back again-like an electric bulb growing dim for an interval, then
again becoming bright. This spot is the place where it is most
difficult to hold consciousness; and, remember, it is very close to
coincidence ; it is in the zone of quietude.
Producing an entirely conscious projection of the astral body is
a very delicate and difficult feat, and usually one's attempt will be
unsuccessful, unless his physical body is in the most profound state
of" incapacity," and his emotions are absolutely calm.
No subconscious "stress" is necessary, in such a case, as the
subconscious Will takes the suggestion of moving upward directly
from the conscious mind. The reason why completely conscious
projections only occur, as a rule, after the subject has been sleeping
for several hours, is because the physical body has become " inca-
pacitated " to a greater extent.
It is not unusual for people to awaken early, in a condition of so-
called "nocturnal paralysis," which is really a cataleptic condition
M
r66 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
of the astral body, and this is the opportune time to try to project
the astral body, which then becomes merely a matter of proper
suggestion and emotional calm.
I had noticed that com~letely conscious astral projections practi-
cally always occurred after I had been sleeping for several hours,
sometimes even after I had slept the entire night, often making
their appearance at six and seven o'clock in the morning. As a rule,
I would suddenly become wide awake, almost always at the same
hour, every morning, for six or eight mornings regularly, and then
would come an awakening, at that identical time, when I would
experience the projection of the astral body.
For about six mornings', at two o'clock, I would suddenly awaken,
and, lying awake for about fifteen minutes, would go back to sleep
again. Then would come a morning when I would awaken at two
o'clock, and would have an astral projection-sometimes when
emerging from sleep, and sometimes on going to sleep again.
THE PASSIVE WILL
Have you ever had an intense desire to acquire or do something,
and found that you awakened regularly, in the dead of night, with
this desire upon your mind, and that you could think of nothing
else? And have you ever noticed that, after you had experienced
this for some time, that what you desired you oftimes acquired?
When you stop to think about this, did it not seem that some
influence within you awakened you, just for the purpose of allowing
you to desire that which you wished ?
It has always appeared so to me; and I have, on three different
occasions, acquired things which I very much wanted, and which
in my hours of daily consciousness, seemed absolutely beyond my
reach. You will find, if you analyze this, that you will be able to
conceive of doing or acquiring some of the most seemingly impos-
sible things, when you awaken in the dead of night and think about
them ; things which you could never think of doing during your
hours of daily thought. Take the following by way of example :
Brown desires a rise in wages. He has had this desire for some
time, but hesitates to ask his employer for more money. In the
dead of night, Brown awakens with his mind upon" more money."
Perfectly conscious, he lies there and tells himself he will go to the
boss and tell him " what's what." He will do this and he will do
that. But when the next day comes, where has this strong Will,
this determination, disappeared?
When Brown thinks of the resolutions he made, when drowsy,
but conscious, during the night before, he wonders how he possibly
could have thought of doing such ridiculous things. Next night
Brown awakens again, thinking of the same thing-more money.
And while he lies there-conscious, but quiet and drowsy-he again
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 167
has the strong Will, which seems almost ridiculous during the day,
and his intentions to tell the boss" what's what," and demand more
money, once more seem perfectly sane and reasonable.
All of us have experienced this. We have thought up things,
planned to do things, determined to acquire something, while awake
in the dead of night ; and on the morrow have looked back upon
those resolutions as almost too extreme, almost fantastic, almost
carrying Will too far ! If we had the " nerve " in reality which we
had in our nightly imagination (conscious imagination) wouldn't
we be brave indeed?
You have learned that WILL is putting into action, making our-
selves do something-MENTALLY; centreing our attention upon one
thing until it crowds all other impressions into the background.
There is a passive Will and there is an active Will, we will say. The
passive Will is the stronger, the more determined, and this is the
Will which we have when we awake in the dead of night and plan
our air-castles. We will call this the passive Will because we are in
a passive condition while we are using it, when we are Willing in
the night, conscious but drowsy-passive.
The Will we use during the day, which we are more or less com-
pelled to use, we shall call the active Will, because we are active in
body and mind. The Will we use during the day is the Will which
looks back upon the resolutions, the contemplations, of the passive
Will, the night before, and now thinks them too extreme.
The passive Will is the imaginative Will, but is deteqnined and
extreme in its Willing ; nevertheless, the subject is firmly con-
vinced, while the passive WilLis functioning, that its premises are
reasonable. Just another example, now, to show you the difference
between the passive Will and the active Will-for all this is impor-
tant in producing astral projection, as we shall presently see.
I remember that, when I was a small boy, my older brother had
a ten-gauge shotgun. I had always wanted to be able to tell my
friends that I had shot off that gun, and how it " back-fired," etc.
A boy next door one day told me that if I shot off the gun, the
recoil would knock me over, and'' dared" me to try it. I wanted
to pretend that I was capable of handling a gun, but within me I
was terribly afraid that if I did try to discharge it, I should get
knocked over.
Several nights I awakened, thinking of shooting off that big gun,
and, as I lay thinking about it, I would resolve to do the deed ; I
could see myself doing it, see my friend next door looking on with
envy, etc. To shoot off that ten-gauge gun seemed perfectly reason-
able in the night, when I thought of it, and many times I said,
" I will shoot it off."
But when the next day came, and I looked at the gun, the resolu-
tions of my passive Will, my imaginative Will-all my determina-
tion, which seemed so reasonable the night before-would seem
£68 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
preposterous and even fantastic. Now, if I but had the same
determined Will, the same extreme Will, while active which I had
while passive, there would have been no hesitancy upon my part in
discharging the gun.
Of course, the active Will and the passive Will may be said to
merge into one another; but, for my present purpose, we shall
consider that there is a distinctly passive Will, an imaginative Will ;
and that there is a distinctly active Will-both conscious.
You will understand, of course, that the passive Will is by no
means confined to manifesting itself during periods of wakefulness
during the night ; for the imaginative Will can function at any
time while we are conscious. The active Will and the passive Will
can function simultaneously; that is, one can be performing an
action dictated by the active Will, and at the same time the passive
Will can be Willing something else.
INDUCING PROJECTION BY THE PASSIVE WILL METHOD
When we are day-dreaming we are often using the passive Will.
We can be imagining, but not Willing. We can Will without being
imaginative. But when we are imagining to extremes; when we
awaken in the dead of night and think of performing some act,
which during the day seemed preposterous, and that act seems at
the time perfectly reasonable; when you say, "I will do this" or
"I will do that" to your imaginings-then you are putting super-
powerful impressions into your subconscious mind.
When you are serious in your suggestions as to what you will do,
and when the act which you intend doing is extreme, the impression
made upon the subconscious mind is proportionately powerful.
Remember that the subconscious mind takes these suggestions
seriously, regardless of the source whence they come; and hence,
if you use your passive Will upon that which you desire-the
imaginative Will, the extreme Will, the determined Will-the sub-
conscious mind receives determined, extreme, suggestions-sugges-
tions which it could not possibly receive from the active Will.
Perhaps you will say, " What are you trying to make us believe ?
That one can project merely by imagining that he can?"
In one sense, this is truer than you might think ; but I am not
advancing the claim that imagination alone can project the astral
body. I am advancing the claim that passive Will, the imaginative
Will, can cause the projection of the astral body. Since the sub-
conscious mind accepts all suggestions without reasoning, the sug-
gestions which it receives from the passive Will-the extreme Will
-are accepted without reserve.
Let us go back to that fellow, Brown, who wants more money
from his employer. Under the influence of the passive Will, as
Brown lies awake in the dead of night, thinking about his desire, he
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 16g
visualizes, imagines, sees himself going up to his employer and
demanding higher wages. And all the time, under this imaginative
Will, Brown sees this as reasonable, and even says, " I will do this
and I will do that," really in earnest for the time being. His sub-
conscious mind is similarly influenced, and the " stress " of the
extreme determination is powerful.
Now if Brown were to continue to use his extreme Will, he would
do the things he imagined that he would do. The subconscious
mind, which received the suggestions, continues to hold them jn
that light; and if Brown's conscious mind were to "exit" for a
time, the subconscious would still hold the stress of the passive
Willings.
Now that is the principle under which you work to produce pro-
jection of the astral body: viz. awakening in the night, under the
passive Will to project, and going to sleep again with these extreme,
determined Willings still centred in your mind.
I have told you how I used to awaken at two o'clock every morning,
for many successive mornings, just before a conscious projection.
Every time I awakened, it seemed to me that some power within
me had purposely awakened me, so that I would think about and
desire the projection of the astral body. (I would imagine seemingly
impossible things concerning projection, and yet in that state of
passivity, they did not seem at all unattainable, and I often said,
"I will project, fully conscious from the start. I have done it
unintentionally, and I can do it again. I will go to such and such
a place," etc., allowing my imagination all the time to be accepted
as perfectly reasonable).
Yet, by day, I confess that I would modify my Will, and think
that I might project fully conscious from the start, that I might
appear at such and such a place ; and, even though I had done so
before, I doubted that I could intentionally do so again. Thus, it
eventually dawned upon me that the passive Will, the imaginative
Will, was the stronger Will after all, and that those serious and
extreme imaginations, which seemed reasonable at the time, actually
would take root in the subconscious mind, just as forcibly as my
passive Will had impressed them upon it. It was thus that the
first conscious astral projections were brought about.
Although I had noticed the fact that I awakened about two o'clock,
morning after morning, for many days, prior to a conscious projec-
tion, and that, during the waking period, I would think of nothing
but projection, the real cause of the completely conscious projection
did not occur to me for several years.
I now know that it was during these periods of nocturnal wakeful-
ness that I was using the passive Will, hyperdynamizing the desire
for projection which was already in my mind. Yes, the desire was
already there, it was dynamized by my knowledge of and desire
for projection, and the stress of the desire would awaken me in the
170 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
night, and then I would be using the passive Will upon the very
stress which awakened me, thus hyperdynamizing it, and later
causing conscious projection from the beginning. And the com-
pletely conscious projection began at the hour at which I had been
awakened each night.
As a matter of fact, when the "stress" of a desire is strong
enough to awaken you at night, it is strong enough to project you
in the astral body, without hyperdynamizing it by the passive Will ;
but to awaken each night successively and use the passive Will upon
the stress, the desire, actually does hyperdynamize that stress, and
it will become so strong that you can then produce a projection
conscious from the beginning---sometimes when emerging from sleep,
and sometimes when going to sleep again.
The stress of the mind will do one of three things when it becomes
strong. It will awaken the subject; it will cause him to somnambu-
late, physically ; or, it will project the astral body. If the stress
awakens you in the night, you can take advantage of this to use
your passive Will upon it, and thus make it stronger, more dynamic
than ever, and some time or other a night will come when conscious-
ness does not appear on time, and the subconscious Will will be in
the act of moving the astral body when consciousness does appear ;
perhaps it is just on the verge of moving the astral body, and
perhaps the body is already projected some distance.
I do not hesitate to declare that passive Will to project, imagina-
tive Will to project the astral body is one of the big secrets of projecting.
You can call it a process of mere imagination if you wish, but it is
not mere imagination, but imagination plus Will to do that which
is imagined.
You can never force the passive Will successfully, for the instant
you try to force passi:ve Will, it becomes active Will. You must
just have the desire to project so strongly within you that it produces
passive Will, which in turn builds up the stress of the desire, and
convinces the subconscious mind that the visions you imagine con-
cerning projection are perfectly reasonable and possible.
By day, perhaps, under active Will, you may think of projecting
yourself, but will have your doubts as to whether you can do so ;
but by night you can awaken and imagine yourself projecting, and
hav-e faith that you can do it-just as I had faith, at night, that I
could discharge the shotgun, but had my doubts during the day,
when under active Will. That determined, that extreme Will,
which we have when awakening in the dead of night, conscious but
drowsy, is the Will which promotes the projection of the astral body.
Use it to obtain results !
Try to awaken at a certain hour-say at three o'clock every
morning-and, if your desire for projection be sufficiently strong,
your imaginative Will will dwell upon that desire. Use no effort of
Will ; just allow the Will and the imagination concerned in projec-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 171
tion to take their course, and fall to sleep again during the process.
Do this for several nights in succession, and soon strange things will
begin to happen about this hour in the morning I
THE RESULTS PRODUCED BY DYNAMIZATION OF PROJECTION
If you believe that you have your mind sufficiently dynamized
with the desire to project, and if your belief is correct, one of the
following things should occur :
I. You should dream of a projection of the astral body.
2. You should somnambulate physically. (One of the indications
is to awaken and find yourself just getting out of bed.)
3· You should awaken in the night with the desire upon your
mind.
4· You should experience a conscious projection.
If none of these manifestations occurs, there is but one explanation.
Either you only imagined that your mind was dynamized with the
desire, or else you are experiencing unconscious astral projections.
And let me tell you this : unconscious astral projection is a common
occurrence. I believe that no one has any idea of how really com-
mon unconscious astral projection is. It is my firm belief that, for
every case of physical somnambulism, there are a dozen astral
projections of the unconscious type. I have experienced many
conscious astral projections, and I have no idea how many times
I have been unconsciously projected; yet I have, so far as I know,
only experienced two or three physical somnambulisms in my life.
As to the four different results which dynamization of the desire
to project in the astral body should produce : First, should you
dream of the projection of the astral body, at once try one of the
methods for causing it to awaken when you reach a certain place.
Second, if you somnambulate physically, you have not yet induced
the proper degree of " incapacity " of the physical body ; so you
must reduce the heart-beat still more, and then, when the subcon-
scious Will decides to project the body, the physical body will not
respond instantly and will be left behind.
Third, should you awaken in the dead of night with the desire in
your mind, exert your passive Will upon this desire-your imagina-
tive Will-and " rise " to sleep under the influence of this imagina-
tive Will. Also, be sure that you induce complete bodily passivity
before going to sleep, so that you may awaken in astral catalepsy.
Fourth, should you find that none of the first three occurrences
takes place, you have either a lack of desire-stress, or are undergoing
unconscious projections. In this case, suggest to yourself, on
retiring, that you will henceforth awaken at three o'clock every
morning.
If this does not awaken you, use an alarm clock until you can
form the habit of awakening at the proper time. Lie awake, in the
172 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
silence of the night, conscious but drowsy, and allow your passive
Will to work upon the desire to project. Continue this night after
night until the habit of doing so is established. Then, on retiring
at night, induce greater bodily passivity, by slowing down the speed
of the heart.
This is one of the methods I tried with fair success, remaining
conscious from the beginning. With my mind dynamized with the
idea of projection, I would retire at night, and reduce the heart-
beat considerably before going to sleep, often it would be beating
about thirty pulsations per minute before sleep came on, and this
would, of course, make it still slower when sleep did overtake me.
Then I would awaken at a certain hour in the night, and, if I did
not find myself without my motivity, I would allow my passive
Will to take its course, and could sometimes produce a projection
upon entering sleep again. But if I did find that I was lacking in
motivity, I would lie perfectly at ease and think only of moving
upward into the room and away.
As a rule, the astral body will be found to separate from the
physical before the subject awakens, as it did in my case many
times, when trying this method-aside from the "conscious-from-
the-beginning" cases.
There is still another method which I have found to be good, very
good in fact, and probably the most pleasant experience I ever had
was obtained by this method. My mind being dynamized with the
desire to project, I would awake at two o'clock in the morning, and,
while lying awake-conscious but drowsy-I would think of pro-
jecting, and of waking in the room of one of my friends, some dis-
tance from my home. I would lie there, passive, my imaginative
Will working upon this desire, and finally go to sleep with this in
mind. And it worked I I had only repeated this process about
one week when I awoke in her (my friend's) room instead of in my
physical body.
She was at the time asleep, and, after standing there watching her
for a while, I departed. You may say, "Why didn't you try to
awaken her while you were there?" But I in turn would ask you
this: What good would it have done to try the same old experi-
ment-of making contact with things physical? I have tried that
so many times, without success, that in my mind it seems but a
waste of time, when there are so many other things to see and
experience while one has the chance to do so.
I had often told my friend about projection of the astral body
and explained it to her ; but although she would listen, she always
had her doubts. After I discovered this relatively easy method of
projecting the astral body to her side, I hit upon a plan which I
hoped would get results, and convince her that I really could pro-
ject my astral body. I wanted very much to convince her, and
cared not whether anyone else believed me or not.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 173
SOME TYPICAL PROJECTIONS
So we agreed upon this plan. Both of us were to awaken at two
o'clock, and lie awake, conscious but drowsy. I was to think of
projecting myself into her room. She was to visualize my doing so.
I hoped, by this method, to use not only my own powers of projec-
tion, but also to utilize her psychic force to assist me. We were to
allow our passive Wills to work upon our desires, in the dead of
night, at the same time.
Several weeks passed, and during this time I succeeded in project-
ing myself into her room several times, and becoming conscious
when there. But I had no recollection of having travelled the
intervening distance; in other words, I remained unconscious until
the time when I awakened. On one occasion when I awakened, she
was awake too, but did not see me.
A queer thing did happen, however. I decided, on the next occa-
sion, to do certain things, which I would not tell her, and see if she
could describe to me what I did-provided she admitted seeing me.
I accordingly went over to her dresser, put my hand upon her
hair-brush, walked over to her and put my hand upon her shoulder,
stood there for a few moments, then went back and placed my
hand upon the hair-brush, then back to her again, etc.-repeating
this about a dozen times. All the time she was apparently sleeping.
The next day I enquired if she had seen me in her room. " No,"
was the reply," but I dreamed that you were there."
" What did you dream ? " I asked her.
"I dreamed that you were trying to brush my hair," she replied,
"and that you kept running back and forth, trying to find the
comb, and that I kept telling you it was on the dresser."
I concluded that this was very nearly a complete success--even
though she were but dreaming; however, attempts on her part to
see me seemed to be unsuccessful. And then, what do you suppose
happened ? I had a dream of being in her room (evidently a partially
conscious projection, as I did not recall having had the dream until
the next day, when I met her) and she stated that she had seen me
there. Nothing would convince her that she had not seen me 1
Of course, the theory of" thought-forms" might be advanced to
account for this ; but then, it is no greater miracle for the astral
body to be at a spot than for a thought-form to be created and seen.
If the astral phantom can project by night, and influence the
thoughts of others at a distance-is it not possible that many
persons may have committed crimes, as the result of some criminal
phantom hovering near them, while they slept, and influencing
their minds to commit a crime ? It is certainly possible !
The idea that dreams are all caused by events met with in prior
states of conscious every-day life, which are recorded in the sub-
conscious mind, is pure fallacy. Phantoms of the dead and of the
174 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
living, thoughts of the dead and" of the living, can bring about
dreams, and also influence the minds of individuals-the latter
being quite unaware of the fact.
And here is another point. Suppose one should project in his
astral body, by night, and enter a house belonging to some one else,
and that some one residing in that house should see the phantom ?
Do you suppose that you could induce the ordinary individual to
believe that the phantom thus projected was that of an earthly,
living person, like himself, who was but sleeping somewhere ?
Hardly!
And if the projected phantom were unconscious, the seer would
say that the "spirit " he saw walked right past him, without paying
any attention to his being there. Thus, there are many ways of
accounting for haunted-house phenomena. And, further, if the
projected phantom were unconscious, why might it not be influenced
by the thoughts of those residing in the house, and do the things
which these individuals conceived it doing ? Might not telepathy
exercise a control over the phantom's mind? I think it highly
probable. For example, while I was dreaming of being in my
friend's room, at the time she thought she saw me there, might not
her mind have instigated the dream which I had (of being there) in
my mind?
In any case, that is what happened on that occasion, and she
stated that I came into the room through the wall, just as she was
about to go to sleep, and that I paid no attention to her, as I walked
about the room, finally passing out through the wall again. As
time passed, with the cares and duties of everyday existence, our
experimenting dropped into insignificance; but since then I have
awakened several times in her room, by using the passive Will, the
imaginative Will, to do so ; and at other times during unintentional
projections.
Why not try this experiment, therefore, if there are no reasons
why you cannot try it ? Arrange with some one of whom you are
fond, and who in turn is affectionately disposed toward you. Both
should awaken at a given hour in the night, and, lying awake-
conscious but drowsy-allow your conscious passive Wills to operate
upon the desire.
The one who is to project must desire to be at the side of the
seer, must visualize himself moving upward, out of the physical,
and speeding through the air to the seer's side; and the seer must
imagine the projector doing so, at the same time. But do not for-
get to use your passive Will, your imaginative Will. Go to sleep
using the passive Will.
The greater the affection which exists between the projector and
seer, the greater the harmony and the greater will be the desire.
And, as a mere experiment, some day, when you are away from
some one you love, on going to bed at night, use your imaginative
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 175
Will, and desire to come back to him, or her; visualizing yourself
moving upward, out of the physical body, just as you are entering
sleep. Another factor which will aid in this experiment is that the
astral body usually is under the inclination to move back to the
place where it is in the habit of residing, and also moves with much
more ease from a strange place to a familiar place.
I have taken the following accounts, which are similar to those
which I have just given, from Carrington's True Ghost Stories. Here
is a case of this nature, experienced by the English investigator, the
Rev. William Stainton Moses, who corroborates the following
account, which is furnished by the agent :
"One evening I resolved to appear to Z., at some miles distance.
I had not informed him beforehand of the intended experiment, but
retired to rest shortly after midnight, my thoughts intently fixed
upon Z., with whose rooms and surroundings I was quite unac-
quainted. I soon fell asleep, and woke next morning unconscious
of anything having taken place.
"On seeing Z., a few days later, I enquired: "Did anything
happen at your rooms on Saturday night?"
" Yes," he replied, " a great deal happened. I had been sitting
over the fire with M., -smoking and chatting. About twelve-thirty
he arose to leave, and I let him out myself. I turned to the fire to
finish my pipe, when I saw you sitting in the chair just vacated
by him. I looked intently at you, and then took up a newspaper
to assure myself that I was not dreaming; but on laying it down
again I saw you still there. While I gazed, without speaking, you
faded away."
Some occultists would contend that the foregoing case might
readily be accounted for as a thought-form ; that is, that the will
of the person who determined to appear was so powerful that it
created his form at the place ; but as for me, I have undergone too
many of these experiences, while conscious, ever to accept the
thought-form theory, although I admit its possibility.
Just why experimenters should try to discard one seeming miracle
by substituting another is beyond me. Is the astral body theory
more difficult to accept than the thought-form theory? Here is a
typical unconscious astral projection. Another explanation advanced
is that by means of telepathy, a person might impress his thoughts
upon the mind of another, in some distant place, so strongly that
the latter would have a "telepathic hallucination," and believe
that he saw the "agent" there. I shall discuss how the mind can
create thought-forms later.
In the case which follows, the initials only are used ; but the
writer of the account was known to the officers of the -S.P.R., who
vouched for the general trustworthiness of the writer :
"On a certain Sunday evening, in November, I88I, having been
reading of the great power which the human Will is capable of
176 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
exercising, I determined with the whole force of my being hat I
would be present in spirit in the front bedroom of the second floor
of a house situated at 22 Hogarth Road, Kingston, in which room
slept two young ladies of my acquaintance, namely, Miss L. S. V.,
and Miss E. C. V., aged respectively twenty-five and eleven years.
" I was living at the time at 23 Kildare Gardens, a distance of
about three miles from Hogarth Road, and I had not mentioned in
any way my intention of trying this experiment to either of the
above ladies, for the simple reason that it was only on retiring
to rest upon this Sunday night that I made up my mind to do so.
The time at which I determined to be there was one o'clock in the
morning and I had a strong intention of making my presence
perceptible.
"On the following Thursday I went to see the ladies in question,
and, in the course of my conversation, without any allusion to the
subject on my part, the elder one told me that on the previous
Sunday night she had been much terrified by perceiving me
standing by her bedside, and that she screamed when the apparition
advanced toward her, and awoke her little sister, who also saw me.
I asked her if she was awake at the time and she replied most
decidedly in the affirmative, and, upon my inquiring the time of
the occurrence, she replied, 'about one o'clock in the morning.'
" This lady at my request wrote down a statement of the event,
and signed it.''
Mr. Gurney (one of the authors of Phantasms ofthe Living) became
deeply interested in these experiments, and requested Mr. B. to
notify him in advance on the next occasion when he proposed to
make his presence known in this strange manner. Accordingly,
March 22, r884, he received the following letter:
DEAR MR. GuRNEY,
I am going to try the experiment to-night of making my
presence perceptible at 44 Morland Square, at 12 p.m. I will let
you know the result in a few days.
Yours very sincerely,
S.H.B.
The next letter, which was written on April 3, contained the
following statement, prepared by th~recipient, Miss L. S. Verity :
" On Saturday night, March 22, r884, at about midnight, I had
a distinct impression that Mr. S. H. B. was present in my room,
and I distinctly saw him, being quite awake. He came toward me
and stroked my hair. I voluntarily gave him this information when
he called to see me on Wednesday, April2, telling him the time and
the circumstances of the apparition without any suggestion on his
part. The appearance in my room was most vivid and quite
unmistakable."
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 177
Miss A. S. Verity also furnishes this corroborative statement: "I
remember my sister telling me that she had seen S. H. B., and that
he touched her hair, before he came to see us on April :a."
The agent's statement of the affair is as follows : " On Saturday,
March 22, I determined to make my presence perceptible to Miss V.
at 44 Morland Square, Notting Hill, at 12 midnight ; and as I had
previously arranged with Mr. Gurney that I should post him a letter
of the evening on which I tried my next experiment (stating the
time and other particulars), I sent him a note to acquaint him with
the above facts. About ten days afterward I called upon Miss V.,
and she voluntarily told me that on March 22, at twelve o'clock,
midnight, she had seen me so vividly in her room {whilst wide
awake) and that her nerves had been much shaken, and she had
been obliged to send for a doctor in the morning."
Experiences such as these might be passed off as "telepathic
hallucinations," but to my way of thinking each example given is
a typical unconscious projection of the astral body.
Do you know how long it takes the astral body to speed to a
distant place and come back again into the zone of quietude while
the subject sleeps ? Just about one ten-thousandth of the time
which it takes you to think about it !
When a projected phantom is conscious at some place at a dis-
tance, how is such an event to be explained ? By the telepathic
hallucination theory or by the astral body theory ? The foregoing
are all typical examples of the method I have just given-the passive
Will method of projection of the astral body.
Through passive Will, imaginative Will, many of those who have
been classed as " dreamers " have performed very unusual feats---
some good, some bad. The fact that they were dreamers has been
pointed out emphatically. The reason they have been enabled to
accomplish the very unusual is because they have allowed their
passive Wills to work upon the very thing which they wished to
accomplish-even though they did so unconsciously-and their
passive Wills subjected them to an extreme stress, which, when it
did burst forth, produced extreme results.
If you wish to guard yourself from doing evil, you must not only
govern your active thoughts, but your passive thoughts, and
especially your imaginative Will, as well. And if you wish to
accomplish the unusual, you must not only use your active Will,
but your imaginative Will. That is how to develop this extreme
" stress " in the mind-by desiring to project to a certain place or
person-by awakening in the dead of night and using your passive
Will upon the desire, and going to sleep again with the desire
dominating the mind in this extreme manner.
If you could keep this up nightly, for a period of several months,
you would soon find that your subconscious mind needed no other
" stress " than the desire to project, in order to cause you to do so.,
178 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
and you would be enabled to project merely by reducing your heart·
beat, upon retiring for the night, and thinking about the place, or
person to whom you wished to be projected. I have done this many
times-merely giving myself one single suggestion (to project to a
certain place) on going to bed, and during the night I would find
myself projected to that particular place.
CHAPTER XIII
THE CRYPTO-cONSCIOUS MIND
W
HEN you use the passive Will method, you realize, of
course, that it is not the conscious Will which moves
the astral body out of the physical, but the unconscious
Will. The reason that the passive, conscious Will is
such a powerful factor is because it Wills to the extreme, setting up
an extreme " stress " in the unconscious mind ; then the subcon-
scious or unconscious mind works within itself to bring about the
projection.
Neither is the controlling intelligence the ordinary subconscious
mind, which does not reason, but is a department of the unconscious
mind which does reason, analyze and direct. Some identify it with
the " Superconscious " mind ; at least the controlling intelligence
is thought to be the superconscious mind.
This department of the unconscious mind has a Will of its own,
just as the conscious mind has a Will of its own. Because this
division of the unconscious mind has all the qualities of the conscious
mind, and has a Will of its own, like the conscious, I shall call it
the " crypto-conscious " mind. And it is this Will, which (for the
sake of reducing the explanation to its simplest terms) we have
spoken of as the subconscious Will.
So far, it has not been necessary to point out any of the various
departments of the mind, and I have referred in general to the sub-
conscious mind and the subconscious Will ; but now, in order to
explain more fully several interesting aspects of these phenomena,
it becomes necessary for us to understand this distinction. Remem-
ber, then, that the intelligence controlling an astral body projection
is the " crypto-conscious " mind.
Once you begin your study and practice of the art, the crypto-
conscious mind is apt to take all matters into its own hands, i.e.
plan out a projection (seemingly for no reason at all), and use its
own Will independent of any other mind. Thus, the subject
suddenly discovers that he is the victim of a projection, and that
the inner intelligence is controlling him, instead of his controlling
the inner intelligence I
When such an automatic projection occurs, one can do little to
prevent it. One occultist has grasped the significance of this condi-
tion, for he says, writing upon the subject : " During development
179
r8o THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
the astral seems to get a Will of its own, and may go ahead too
fast, even without the person knowing it."
Here, then, is another cause of so-called spontaneous projection
-being practically automatic. When the crypto-conscious mind
does execute an astral projection automatically, the laws attributed
to ordinary projection-stress, incapacity, etc.-seem to be of little
import; the force exerted upon the astral body is so powerfuL I
have experienced this type of astral projection, when no physical
" incapacity " was present, in full daylight, without quietude of
environment, and when lying upon the front of my body l
Several times before, I have stated that the controlling intelli-
gence, during an astral projection, seems present-in the very air-
in the astral cable-somewhere-! know not where. (See account
of first experience given.) Although one may remain conscious, he
often has no control over the intelligence which moves him about at
its will.
The crypto-conscious mind is the intelligence which elevates the
astral body, throws it under and frees it from the spell of catalepsy,
turns the body in the air, moves it outward, places it in a standing
position, and performs various manceuvres such as these. The
crypto-conscious mind can execute an endless number of the most
dexterous and amazingly clever capers with the astral body; con-
trolling it as a hypnotist might control his subject ; yet the curious
part is that one can be conscious all the time he is under the influence
of the crypto-conscious Will.
The crypto-conscious mind operates upon and directs a powerful,
subtle force in order to do this. This force, this motive power,
which the intelligence directs, is the factor of which we know the
least ; and it is without a doubt inherent in all of us. If we could
once discover it, explain it, understand its constitution and nature
we should make a great stride forward in the explanation of many
unusual physical phenomena, e.g. raps, telekinesis, etc.
CRYPTO-cONSCIOUS MANIFESTATIONS OFTEN CREDITED TO
PHANTOMS OF THE DEAD
With many mediums, the crypto-conscious mind, operating upon
this hidden force, does curious things, such as producing physical
manifestations. The power is in the medium, and is directed by the
crypto-conscious mind, while " spirits " from the other side are
credited with producing the phenomena. Even the medium himself
does not realize that the intelligence, behind the manifestations, is
the crypto-conscious mind.
I know of nothing which acts more cunningly than the crypto-
conscious intelligence, when it has one under control-even doing
extremely comical things. It is my belief that the crypto-conscious
mind often produces effects which amuse sitters, just as they would
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY r8r
like to be amused, and haunts a place with "raps," etc., merely
because human beings residing in that place expect to hear or see
"manifestations." All this would not be " mere hallucination,"
you understand.
Earthly beings can haunt a house in which they live-they can
hear and see physical manifestations, which they attribute to
"spirits," but which are produced by their own crypto-conscious
minds operating upon this hidden "force." And they will say:
'' We did nothing to produce these manifestations, therefore other
spirits must have produced them." However, be not deceived;
spirits too can produce similar manifestations-haunt houses, etc. ;
but we must not blame everything upon departed entities I
It is also probable, I believe, that many messages, given by a
controlled medium, and assumed to come directly from " spirit
friends," are given by the crypto-conscious mind of the medium.
It is not going too far to say that the crypto-conscious mind may
even represent a departed friend, while giving the message.
Most advanced occultists agree that many psychic phenomena are
produced by the inner intelligence of the medium, operating upon
some vital force, while many are governed by spirits. And this
hidden intelligence, which acts so cleverly is the crypto-conscious
mind. It is the controlling intelligence behind astral body pro-
jection, operating upon some subtle force, and manceuvring the
body at will.
In fact, this clever manceuvring of the astral body is one of the
most striking-yes, astonishing-impressions which one has, on first
experiencing a completely conscious astral projection. I would not
say that it is the first astonishing perception, but it is the second.
The first, almost staggering realization is that of being alive, as you
have always known yourself, outside your physical body.
The realization of it, when consciously projected-when looking
upon one's lifeless physical shell-is almost too amazing to be
accepted as true, and throws one into an almost ecstatic state. After
recovering from this first staggering realization, the second visual
miracle is the dextrous controlling intelligence in operation.
THE VARIOUS WAYS IN WHICH THE MIND FUNCTIONS
We shall now consider the various ways in which the mind
functions from the beginning of the projection of the astral body up
to the end of cord-activity; then beyond the range of cord-activity.
First, consider an intentional or unintentional projection which
takes place during sleep, when there is a stress-of desire or habit-
at the surface of the common, subconscious mind. This "stress"
is worked upon by a department of the unconscious mind, which we
call the crypto-conscious mind, i.e. the unconscious mind works
within itself.
N
r82 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
The crypto-conscious m1nd begins its consideration of this stress,
this problem, and, by a process of reasoning, decides that the way
to eliminate or ease the stress which is in the common subconscious
mind is to project the astral body and let it work off this stress.
It may be that the crypto-conscious mind does these things at
night, while we are asleep, because it knows that we will not do so
during the day, when we can consciously interfere; i.e. the crypto-
conscious mind realizes that the conscious mind is bound or pre-
vented, in many instances, from working off these stresses, and
therefore causes them to be eased while we are unconscious. At
any rate, the crypto-conscious mind takes control, directs the subtle
" force " and causes the projection.
When the astral body is in the act of projecting, the Subject can
sometimes:
r. Be unconscious ! When this is the condition, the crypto-
conscious Will governsthe entire movement of the astral body,
shooting it hither and thither about the astral plane, causing
it to work off habits, appease desires, etc.
2. Be conscious, and by his conscious Will influence the control
of the outward or inward movement. But he can never
influence the controlling intelligence to change the route of the
exteriorization or interiorization of the phantom. That is one
activity which remains invariably stable-the route which the
phantom travels.
For example, one can suggest uprising, when conscious (and
lying in the air), and the controlling intelligence will respond
to the suggestion and move the body further upward. Or,
when one is being uprighted into a standing position, he can
suggest that he remain horizontal, and he will do so.
Thus, one sometimes has control over the crypto-conscious
mind, even within cord-activity range ; in fact this holds true
most of the time.
3· But there are other occasions when one may be conscious, and
yet be absolutely unable to influence the crypto-conscious
mind by conscious suggestion. This is when the crypto-
conscious mind has taken· on a very determined Will of its
own. When this is the case, the best thing to do is to let it
work as it chases, for, as a matter of fact, one could do nothing
to hinder it, anyhow. When the crypto-conscious mind
" frames up " a projection itself, independent of any other
mind-an almost automatic projection--one may be conscious,
but completely under the Will of the crypto-conscious, up to
the end of cord-activity range, and even at times beyond this
point.
However, as a rule, when one does reach the end of cord-
activity, he is usually given his power of choice, and can do as
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY r83
he pleases; yet the inner power can intervene at any time, as
you will see ; for we shall now consider how the mind works
beyond cord-activity range.
Presuming, now, that one is conscious and outside the range of
cord-activity ; in other words that he is normally conscious in the
astral, his body is fully under the control of his conscious mind,
and he can walk about as he has always done in the flesh. (This
you will recall is the normal travelling speed.) Now he wishes to
move to his neighbour's house, but he makes no effort to do so.
Instantly he begins to move forward-apparently everything coming
toward him, through him, passing him. He is conscious, he realizes
what he is doing, but he is not using his own motive power. This
is the intermediate travelling speed, and is analogous to the condi-
tion within cord-activity range wherein one can suggest to the con-
trolling intelligence, and it will respond. .
Now he wishes to be at a friend's home, ten miles distant, and
instantly he finds himself there. This is the supernormal travelling
speed, and is always unconscious. At his friend's home he can walk
about normally, or move about at the intermediate speed, at will.
I cite this merely to show you how our inner minds can intercept
each other at any time during a projection of the astral body. This
is true also of spirits living on the astral plane. An ex~erience I once
had illustrates this ; I might also say that the followmg experience
is one of the most unusual I have ever had :
A SUPERCONSCIOUS PROJECTION
I call this experience" A Superconscious Projection" for a reason
which will be obvious when you have finished reading it. It was
one of those strange moonlight evenings when the very atmosphere
seemed filled with a weird quietude ; it was in the summer of I924.
I had left home shortly after the evening meal, and had gone down
to the village. Nothing seemed to interest me, that night, and I
seemed under the spell of some indescribable loneliness.
I walked up one side of the street and down the other, and eventu-
ally came to rest upon a bench which stood in front of one of the
garages. There I sat for some time, wondering and thinking of the
" whys and wherefores " of life, and I recall looking up many times
at the bright, beaming moon above, and feeling angry with myself
to think that I could not fathom it alL Finally, in disgust, I went
home, entered my room, locked the door and flung myself across
the bed.
I had lain there but a short time when my attention was drawn
to the fact that a sort of cool wave was passing over me, and that
my arms and limbs seemed to be getting numb.1 I reached down
t (I) This feeling often precedes an unintentional projection, as does (2) the cool
wave and numbness: i.l!l. a sort of crypto-conscious induced" incapacity."-S.M.
r84 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
and pinched my hip, but could feel nothing. Next, I did the same
with my arm, but it too seemed insensible. I am sure that a needle
could have been pushed into my flesh and that I should not have
felt it at the time.
In a few minutes I was unable to move. My motive power had
now left me, and I lay (conscious) for several minutes in this condi·
tion. It was, undeniably, a very unpleasant condition: I was
conscious, but unable to see, hear, feel or move ; I felt as though
consciousness alone existed within me. However, it was llOt such an
unusual experience for me, and, knowing what was about to happen,
I remained calm in mind, ready for another conscious excursion in
my astral body.
I was moved upward in the air, then outward to a distance of
about ten feet, where my sense of sight once more began to function.
As is often the case, everything at first seemed blurred about me,
as though the room were filled with steam, or white clouds, half
transparent ; as though one were looking through an imperfect
window-pane, seeing blurry objects through it. This condition is
but temporary, however-lasting, as a rule, about a minute in
practically all conscious projections.
So, presently, I could see normally in the astral body. From this
spot I was moved, by the controlling intelligence, into the upright
position, and placed upon my feet on the floor of the room, swaying
about, as I have stated one often does, through cord-action. When
I advanced outside cord-activity range, I was once more free and
normal, and walked through the house for a short time, then outside
and into the street.
No sooner had I got into the street than an almost bewildering
scene surrounded me, and I found that I was in a strange house, I
knew not where. I realized at once that I had travelled there at
the supernormal speed, but why I had done so remained a problem.
So I looked about me, wondering if, by chance, the inner intelligence
had shot me there for a purpose. Four people were in the room,
one of them a girl of about seventeen.
Still, I could see no reason for my being there. Knowing from
experience that if one does not use his own conscious Will, while
projected in the astral body, his subconscious Will will control him,
I reasoned in this manner : ' I will not try to see or understand
why I am here. I will just allow the crypto-conscious mind to
move me about.' So I relaxed my conscious mind, centreing my
thoughts upon being shown the reason for my landing in this strange
place, amid these strange people.
No sooner had I done so than my body moved, without effort on
my part, to a position directly in front of the young lady-who, by
the way, was sewing upon a black dress. Still, I could see no reason
for my being there ; so I went about the room again, taking visual
notes of various objects. There seemed nothing for me to do but to
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY r85
go home again-wherever that was-for this flight, so far as I knew,
had been purposeless.
Just before willing that I should go back to my physical body, I
took one last look about the place, outside and in, and saw that it
was a farmhouse. Instantly I was back in my own room again,
looking down at my physical body which still lay upon the bed.
As I have always been a little careful about extensive projections,
I decided to get back into the physical, and did so, merely by willing
that I should enter my body and moving toward it. (One has in
fact difficulty in preventing interiorization, if he approaches too
near the physical body.)
Six weeks passed; I had almost forgotten this experience, for it
was not unlike many other distant projections. Then, one after-
noon, as I was coming home, I saw a girl get out of a car, which she
was driving, and enter one of the neighbouring houses. Immediately
I recognized her as the young lady I had seen that night, six weeks
before, in the farmhouse, when I had been projected in my astral
body.
My curiosity was immediately aroused. I loitered about, waiting
for her to come out of the house-for I knew she did not live there.
Eventually ahe did come out and walked to her car, and I lost no
time in accosting her, saying, almost bluntly, " Excuse me, but
where do you live ? "
To this, I received the reply, "None of your business," she, of
course, thinking me forward and impertinent.
However, I did succeed in talking to her, and, in doing so, told her
that I had seen her before, and knew what her home looked like,
and even described it to her, to convince her that I had seen her
home. My description was so perfect that, on hearing it, she was
not so aloof and began to talk more freely, wondering who had told
me all this, and asked how I knew these things, when I did not
know where she lived.
One thing led to another ! I began to like her. I have seen her
many times since, have seen her home (exactly as it was in the
conscious projection) which is fifteen miles, as the crow flies, from
my own home. I have even convinced her that astral projection is
possible, for she has since seen me projected into her room. (See
the case, pp. 172-73). She is at the present time, in fact, a very
close friend of mine, and is the young lady with whom I have since
tried so many experiments.
AUTOMATIC PROJECTION
Although I have stated that "spontaneous projection" does not
exist, it is nevertheless true that the crypto-conscious mind can
produce a projection of the astral body without being stimulated to
do so. And although we may term this "crypto-conscious, auto-
186 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL "BOD~
matic " projection, it really cannot be considered spontartem~s, any
more than it would if we performed an act after conceiving it in the
conscious mind and carrying it out without any outside suggestion.·
When such a projection takes place, it is interesting to note how·
the intelligent mind within us acts very much like the conscious
mind would act during a voluntary projection. When we induce a
voluntary projection, we know that passivity of the physical body
is a very important factor; and we can induce this condition by
heart-control; also that, in doing so, we often feel " cool waves "
passing over us, and notice that we are quite torpid.
If one is conscious, at the beginning of a crypto-conscious auto-
matically induced projection of the astral body, one of the first
noticeable symptoms will be this "cool wave," then a numbness of
the arms and limbs (exteriorization of sensibility) often to such an
extent that pain cannot be felt.
Next, he will find that the inner power has removed his motivity
from him. Is this not similar to voluntarily induced " incapacity " ?
Voluntarily we produce a completely passive condition of physical
body, not unlike that produced by the crypto-conscious mind, when
about to project the astral body.
Regardless of all that I have said concerning the mental functions,
during the process of astral projection, nothing which I have said is
invariably true, for, as a matter of fact, the departments of the
mind all influence each other, more or less, and work both in-
dependently of each other and in collaboration with each other.
It would be well-nigh impossible for anyone to state exactly how
the various departments of the mind will function, even though he
can, by study and experience, set down many important functions
which do take place within those unfathomable realms.
After one has experienced even one single conscious projection,
he will be convinced of the superiority of the crypto-conscious mind.
However, he will also notice that, while this mind controls him to
perfection on some occasions, it is influenced by impressions from
the other minds on other occasions. To explain more fully:
r. The crypto-conscious mind can produce a crypto-conscious
automatic projection of the astral body, and the subject may
be unconscious-the controlling power doing with the body
whatever it wishes, independent of any outside impression.
2. The crypto-conscious mind can work upon a "stress" from
the common subconscious mind ; it can project the body and
be influenced by the common subconscious mind's impressions.
This is very common.
3· The crypto-conscious mind can take a suggestion directly from
the conscious mind, and then produce a projection of the astral
body. This is not so common, but can be done at times,
especially by using the passive conscious Will.
THE DEPARTURE OF THE ASTRAL BODY AT DEATH
A(~Cording to clairvoyant vision of Andrew Jackson Davis.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 187
4· The crypto-conscious mind can have the body under control,
(the subject being conscious) and take suggestions from the
conscious mind, or ignore the suggestions from the conscious
mind.
5. The crypto-conscious mind can have the body under control
(the subject being conscious) and take suggestions from the
common subconscious mind-such as a " stress " of habit.
Thus, if the crypto-conscious mind refuses to take suggestions
from the subject's conscious mind, but pays attention to the
suggestions coming from the common subconscious mind, the
subject will be compelled to enact a habit, or appease a desire
--of which there is a" stress "-even while conscious. (Haunt-
ing phantoms are often in this condition).
The foregoing will give you an idea of the many different ways in
which the "minds" work; however, the rule is that one is able to
influence the controlling power by his conscious Will most of the
time during a projection which is conscious; in fact, the controlling
power usually frees the subject after projecting him. So far as
unconscious projections are concerned, what difference does it make,
for we are then unaware of what is happening in any case ? The
crypto-conscious mind is doubtless responsible for many psychic
phenomena which I shall touch upon soon. First, permit me to
quote another experience.
A HORRIBLE EXPERIENCE
One day in the summer of rgr6, a violent wind and rain storm
swept the locality in which I live, and, althougli its duration was but
brief, considerable damage was done-buildings were wrecked, trees
uprooted, power-lines damaged and large pools of water stood in the
depressions of the ground.
After the storm the boy next door, my brother and I walked down
the street to see the results of the catastrophe. We were walking
along the sidewalk, discussing the storm, when about three blocks
from home we came to a place where the electric power-lines had
snapped--one of the wires hanging from a pole directly across the
street.
We stopped, wondering whether it was a "live" wire. The
ground was very wet, as was the sidewalk on which we stood.
I reached forward to move the wire out of the way. That is
all I remember, for the wire was carrying a high voltage and,
having no rubbers on my feet, I was immediately knocked un-
conscious.
The boys told me afterward what occurred immediately after I
touched the wire. I bounded vigorously forward ; I was rigid and
my face bulged as if ready to burst from blood-pressure. The jump
z88 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
was so violent that I landed almost ten feet from the sidewalk in
the mud and water of the street, the wire clinging to me, or I to
the wire, as I did so !
Of that I knew nothing ; but I presently became conscious
outside my physical body and saw it lying there, i.e. I saw it from
my astral body. I could feel the terrible electricity passing through
me, even as I stood some feet away from my physical body, which
was in contact with the wire. (See " Duplicate. Sensation.")
And the terror, the pain, the feeling of that ordeal! Just to
think of it now makes me wonder how I ever could have stood it I
I have no words which can describe the awful feelings which I under-
went, while conscious in the astral body-my physical body still in
contact with the wire. Although exteriorized from the physical
body, looking on, and feeling the agony, I could do nothing. I
could not move by my own volition.
My arms, in the astral body, were held rigid-as if grasping a
wire which was not there-just as my arms in the physical body
were grasping a wire which was there ; and I could not move my
arms from that position. My astral body, wherein I was conscious,
although upright, was in exactly the same position as the physical
body, which was horizontal. One limb of each body was drawn up ;
each body was curled up slightly in the middle ; both hands of
each body were holding similar poses, as if the astral too were
clinging to a wire.
Amid this agony I could see the boys standing beside me, frightened
dumb, but afraid to touch me (my physical body) lest they too
became victims. In vain I shrieked to them to run for help, but they
could neither see me in the astral body nor hear my pleas. Again
and again I kept screaming, "Tell them to shut off the current I
Tell them to shut off the current I" But my cries fell upon deaf
ears, and the two boys stood there afraid to move.
Suddenly they seemed to gain their senses and began to shriek
and jump about frantically. I could see them pacing back and
forth, yelling with all their might for help. According to them, I
too had screamed out when I first touched the wire and hit the
ground, after being thrown there. But I have no recollection of
having done so, and must have been shrieking while unconscious.
After landing upon the ground, they say, I raised myself up two
different times and fell back again; then they thought me dead.
This must have been about the time the projection occurred, and I
became conscious in the astral body.
At any rate I became conscious and found myself standing beside
my physical counterpart in the astral body, and I felt the intense
agony of being electrocuted as plainly as if I had been conscious in
the physical body at the time. It is only now that I realize that no
words of mine can describe my agony of that day. It was as if pain
were seething like steam from every cell of my body, and I wa•
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 189
trembling in the astral exactly as the physical body was.trembling
under the current.
There I stood, helpless, for several minutes, which to me were like
so many years. Then, thank God, I could see people coming on the
run toward the spot, from all over the neighbourhood, and I seemed
to know that someone would get me out of my torment. There
was M. climbing a fence almost a block away, and he was one of my
best friends. Over the fence I saw him come, then rush toward the
scene.
Two ladies from the nearby houses were coming. I knew them
too. And there, a man and his son were running toward me-the
man carrying a hatchet ; he had rubber boots on. This man·
reached down to pick up my physical body, and as he did so, I
seemed to bound right back into it again and was conscious there,
as all the neighbours stood by, looking on.
Every one whom I have mentioned in this account is still living
and would vouch for the genuineness of this occurrence, so far as
the physical aspects are concerned. I have omitted their names for
the reason that they might be opposed to having them appear in
a book of this character.
All were astonished at the fact that I "came back to life," as
they said, and the examining physician who was called was likewise
baffled, considering the length of time I had been upon the wire and
the current it was carrying. The spectators, in fact, presumed that
I had been dead for some time. The boys stated that about ten
minutes had elapsed from the time I first touched the wire until I
was taken from it. As I was conscious for at least five minutes, I
must have been unconscious for about five minutes before awakening
in the astral body.
WHY VICTIMS OF VIOLENT DEATH RE-ENACT THEIR DEATH IN THE
ASTRAL BODY
Almost every night, after this tragedy, I dreamed that I was
being electrocuted, and in the dream I would live through the whole
experience again, exactly as it happened. Sometimes I would
become conscious, and find that it was only a dream, but on doing
so always found myself projected and usually standing beside my
physical body which lay upon the bed. Even then, at times, it
would take me severalminutes to understand that I was conscious and
in my astral body, and that the experience was a thing of the past.
On one occasion I awakened in this awful dream and found myself
projected, living through the horrible experience exactly on the
spot where it occurred, which was several blocks from my home. I
believe I mentioned before that the victim of a violent death often
re-enacts his death, over and over again in the astral ; and when we
consider this fact it really seems cruel that this should be so.
rgo THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Just why the victim should live over his death time after time is
not difficult to account for. It is not so much the actual pain which
remains as it is the mental terror which the pain has impressed
deeply upon the mind (the stress) which has gained control of the
victim, unless his conscious mind be functioning perfectly.
To bring the explanation of this home to you, let us suppose for
a moment that I had died upon the wire-instead of becoming
physically alive again. More than one condition could then be
brought about wherein I, then permanently in the astral, would
re-enact the death.
We have seen that this is exactly what I did when physically
alive, astrally living through the event, by night. Would I not do
the same thing while sleeping, even though I were permanently
projected? Oh yes, astral beings sleep and dream even as you and
I ; the astral body is the dream body ; we must not forget that.
Thus, even had I become a resident of the unseen world, I should
not be unlike I am now in the flesh ; and by night, or whenever
unconsciousness would overtake me, or when I would dream, I
would live through my death, in the astral body, exactly as I lived
through the experience in the astral body while still physically alive.
The dominating impression made upon my mind (the "stress")
would have me under control; just as the stress of habit compels
the projector to enact the habit. One can well imagine the impression
made upon the mind by the terror of a violent death I This terror
can even unbalance the mind of the victim, and he will actually be
insane in the astral for a time ; the dominating "stress" in his
mind will compel him to constantly re-enact the scene.
He is then "earthbound," of course, and should he be observed
re-enacting the scene by earthly beings, the spot would be said to
be "haunted." Much has been written about earthbound entities,
yet most writers fail to state why the entities are in such a condition
-some even claiming that the "haunter" must have led a bad
life, while in the flesh, and was therefore "held down" in the astral!
This is about the most logical explanation which objective
reasoning can give, but experience in astral projection reveals the
reasons I am giving 'you now. The most upright earthly being is
just as apt to become the victim of an earthbound condition as the
most wicked. He is earthbound not because of his morals, but
because of his psychic condition.
I have been criticized by Spiritualists, on several occasions, for
making this statement, i.e. that the most upright earthly being is
just as apt to become a victim of an earthbound condition as the
most wicked. Yet it is true that a perfectly innocent person may
become earthbound. It is always the victim of a murderer who
lives over his death and haunts the place of his death. How often
do we hear of the murderer haunting a place? No, it is always the
victim-the innocentparty, who figures in haunted house phenomena.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY rgr
In fact, the whole foundation of modern Spiritualism rests upon
" haunted house " phenomena.1
There are four, and only four, reasons why spirits are earthbound;
and, curiously enough, we have already employed three of them in
the production of self-projection. They are all conditions of the
mind and its functionings, namely : (r) Desire; (2) Habit; (3)
Dreams; (4) Insanity. It may appear unreasonable-especially to
those who believe that an earthbound conditio·n is only brought about
by living a wicked earthly life-that revenge will cause an entity to
be earthbound, and will cause him to " haunt " a place or person ;
and that love will do the very same thing.
A mother, desperately longing to clasp her child once more to her
breast, will frequent a place for some time after death, will" haunt "
it, in other words. The criminal, desiring revenge, will do the same
thing I Both are under the influence of the " stress " in the mind,
and will not only do so while conscious (i.e. when the crypto-
conscious Will pays attention to the stress, and ignores the conscious
suggestions, as it sometimes does), but will do so while unconscious
or in the dream state.
I know of a case in which a grandmother, who dearly loved her
children, had died and haunted the place after her death for many
months. Further, she had been insane for some time before her
death. After many months of haunting, one member of the family
got into communication with her and said :
"What on earth do you want to keep prowling about here for-
annoying us? "
To this, the old lady replied in her German brogue: "I not
know I bane here for good while. I come now yest to see how my
chilren are, den I go vay again."
The earthly communicator then instructed her, telling her that
she could do little good, and that she must throw her earthly desires
and habits away. From that time on, the house was no longer
haunted by the old lady's presence. This is a case of love (desire)
holding the entity back by its " stress."
Speaking of living over again one's death in the astral, there is
a case on record in which two men became involved in a quarrel, on
the road to a mill, near Bristol, England. A desperate struggle
ensued. They wrestled, rolled, beat and pounded each other until
eventually one of them killed the other.
For many months after that, at the same time each night (the
time when the death actually occurred) the victim was repeatedly
seen, living through the quarrel and death (just as I re-enacted my
electrocution over and over again at night). He would fight, beat
and tussle with his imaginary foe for some time; then disappear.
Investigators who saw the scene stated that the entity appeared
to be dreaming, yet he occasionally conversed with them as logically
1 See, in this connection, Hydesville in HistOYy, by M. E. Cadwallader.
192 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
as any conscious person would. This is what baffles many experi-
menters, for they reason that because an earthbound entity is
conscious enough to understand and talk, he cannot possibly be
dreaming. But this is a big mistake!
It is the crypto-conscious mind which has the entity under control
at such a time, and it is this mind which does the talking, answers
the questions, etc., while the conscious mind is engaged in the
dream. On the other hand the entity can be conscious, and under
the domination of the crypto-conscious mind, which ignores his
conscious suggestions and pays attention to the stress of the sub-
conscious mind. But this does not occur frequently.
I have stated that the crypto-conscious mind always controls the
subject-projector or spirit-when he is unconscious or in the dream
consciousness, even though it may take suggestions from the dream
consciousness. Whenever you have found an earthbound condition,
you have a condition in which the subject's conscious mind is not
functioning normally, £.e. strongly enough, and the crypto-
conscious Will is controlling him.
Perhaps you do not believe this? Very well, we do not have to
go into the astral to prove it. I have stated that the only difference
between astral somnambulism and physical somnambulism is that,
in the latter case, the physical body clings on to the astral, which
is under the control of the subconscious Will, the crypto-conscious
Will.
Now, the next time you meet a sleepwalker who can talk to you
logically-in his somnambulism-speak to him, then wake him and
ask him if he remembers what he said. He will say" No "practically
every time. Yet he talked logically, and acted with instinctive pre-
cision (instinct comes from the crypto-conscious mind). Hence, it
was not his conscious mind to which you were talking after all.
Neither is it always the haunter's conscious mind which answers
you, when he is living over his death, or incidents connected with it,
in a dream.
It is the impression made-the " stress "-put upon the mind by
the terror of a violent death which (coming to the surface, when the
conscious mind is off guard, or not strong enough to control the
stress) influences the crypto-conscious mind. Had I somnambulated
physically in my dream of being electrocuted, I should have acted
out the tragedy with my physical body clinging to the astral, just
as I did in my astral body alone. It was a very common occurrence,
during the World War, to see soldiers, while dreaming, jump from
their beds and re-enact terrors which they had met with and which ·
had left deep stresses in their subconsciQUS minds.
No, we do not have to go into the Unseen to prove why a projector
or a spirit "haunts" a place, or why it lives over and over again
some tragic event. Janet has recorded many interesting cases of
somnambulism, among them the case of Irene, aged :ao, who for
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 193
sixty nights had watched her mother, who was dying of tupercu-
losis. This case demonstrates, very effectually, the point which I
have been trying to impress upon you.
THE CASE OF IRENE
"After the mother's death she tried to revive the corpse, to call
the life back again; then, as she had the limbs upright, the body
fell to the floor, and it took infinite exertion to lift it again on to the
bed. You may picture for yourself all that frightful scene. Some
time after the funeral, curious and impressive symptoms began. It
was one of the most splendid cases of somnambulism I ever saw.
The crises last for hour£ and they show a splendid dramatic perfor-
mance, for no actors could rehearse these lugubrious scenes with
such perfection.
"The young girl has the singular habit of acting again all the
events that took place at her mother's death, without forgetting
the least detail. Sometimes she only speaks, relating all that hap-
pened with great volubility, putting questions and answers in turn,
or asking questions only, and seeming to listen for the answer;
sometimes she only sees the sight, looking with frightened face and
staring on the various scenes, and acting according to what she sees.
"At other times, she combines all hallucinations, words and acts,
and seems to play a very singular drama. When, in her drama,
death has taken place, she carries on the same idea and makes ready
for the suicide.1 She discusses it aloud, seems to speak with her
mother, to receive advice from her, she fancies she will try to be
run over by a locomotive. That detail is also a recollection of a
real event in her life. She fancies she is on the way and stretches
herself out on the floor of the room, waiting for death, with mingled
dread and impatience. 2
" She poses and wears on her face expressions really worthy of
admiration, which remain fixed during several minutes. The train
arrives before her staring eyes, she utters a terrible shriek, and falls
1 Here is an excellent illustration of how the different departments of the mind
can work separately or in collaboration. The crypto-conscious mind, which controls
the movements of the body, takes itssuggestions from the strong impression (" stress'')
in the memory, and works them out in good order. The department giving the
suggestions to the crpyto-conscious is not the department which controls the body,
making it act-out the drama.
The controlling power is the crypto-conscious. As the suggestion of the mother's
death comes along, the mind goes off at a tangent, and the impression of being
run over by the locomotive-another strong" stress" in the girl's mind-starts the
controlling intelligence to act this out-the girl's death, instead of the mother's.
This is akin to the way in which the astral somnambulist will go off at a tangent, i.e.
he might project, starting to the,,bakery, then cross a path leading into the bank
where he had his money, and was'in the habit of going, and thus walk into the bank
to deposit money.-S.M.
a If this were occurring in the disattached astral body, it would often project to
the railroad track-to the spot, or a spot resembling, the one seen in the dream.
-S.M.
194 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
back motionless as if she were dead. She soon gets up and begins
acting over again one of the preceding scenes. In fact, one of the
characteristics of these somnambulisms is that they repeat them-
selves indefinitely.
" Not only are the different attacks always exactly alike, repeating
the same movements, expressions and words, but in the course of
the same attack, when it has lasted a certain time, the same scene
may be repeated again, exactly in the same way five or ten times.1
At last the agitation seems to wear out, the dream grows less clear,
and gradually, or suddenly, according to the causes, the patient
comes back to her normal consciousness, takes up her ordinary
business, quite undisturbed by what has happened." ·
1 When this occurs, the impressions composing part of the " stress " are stronger
than the impressions composing the rest of the" stress."-S.M.
CHAPTER XIV
THE CRYPTO-CONSCIOUS MIND AND TELEKINESIS1
I
T is extremely difficult to give objective proof of the projec-
tion of the astral body ; much more difficult than most
persons seem to think. The idea that, once a "projector"
gets outside his body, he can manipulate physical objects by
an effort of Will is all right in theory, but a very different story in
practice I
Before attempting to give a brief explanation of how physical
objects may be moved by the projector, let me appeal to your
reason. How many people have died within the past year ? A
good many-thousands ! Is anyone so perfectly illogical as to say
that these thousands, who have passed over and are astral beings,
do not use conscious Will power, in an effort to communicate with
their beloved earthly friends ?
That is the very first thing one would do, when awakening in the
astral body ! How many records are made each year of astral beings
successfully manipulating physical objects? Very few, in com-
parison with the number who have died and are trying to give evi-
dence of their presence. No, conscious Will is not a vital factor in
producing physical phenomena.
Knowing which, is it not unreasonable to expect all sorts of
physical manifestations by the conscious astral projector ? Few
persons have any idea of the intangibility of physical objects to
astral beings. Even many experimenters do not seem to know that
the astral body is vibrating at a higher rate when two feet out of
coincidence than it does when six inches out of coincidence.
Yet that is true, and it is vibrating at a still higher rate when
three feet out of coincidence. If it were not, the astral being would
be unable to pass through an earthly being. " But," you will say,
"an astral body can pass through a physical body."
But wait I Did it ever occur to you that, if the astral body in
coincidence vibrated at the same rate as the one out of coincidence,
they would collide as the astral being tried to pass through the
coinciding bodies of the earthly being ? If the astral did not raise
its rate of vibration, it could not pass through the astral body which
is in coincidence with the physical body.
It is true, however, that Will-power is the factor behind the
1 See, in this connection, "Duplicate and Shifting Motivity," page 64.
I95
196 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
manipulation of physical objects. But it is not the conscious Will
-it is the unconscious Will, the Will of the crypto-conscious mind.
It is perhaps possible that, after a spirit has advanced, he may learn
how to control this crypto-conscious Will more deftly. But, for the
temporarily projected astral being, it is another matter; his crypto-
conscious mind controls him much of the time, as I have already
said.
Why, then, does this crypto-conscious mind not produce physical
manifestations more often ? All physical manifestations are not
produced by the crypto-conscious Will, it is true, but when they are
this Will must operate upon some " force " in order to do so. The
Will alone could not move physical objects-it is the " force " which
the Will operates upon and manipulates. Will is mental, and this
process of the crypto-conscious mind operating upon " force " in a
certain manner (with determination} sets into action the motive
force of which we know so little-yet know that it exists I
When you are conscious, and in control of your.. motivity, you
may Will (say} to knock a tumbler off the table, and, by using your
motive force, hit the tumbler with your fist and knock it off as
willed. But you must use" force "-your Will does not perform the
act alone; neither does your arm or your fist. Force must be
aroused by the inner mental process.
So, with the crypto-conscious mind ; its Will must manipulate
"force" before it can manipulate objects. Just how the mind
(either mind) does this is not known. It is easy to say that, in the
physical body, your arm lunges out and knocks the tumbler off the
table-because an impression runs along the nerves from the brain
and contracts the muscles in such-and-such a manner. But to
explain how the impression originated, and in what it consists, is
impossible at the present time. The so-called impression, of course,
is force.
There are several conditions of the Will-the crypto-conscious
Will-each affecting the "force" in a different manner. This is
true also of the conscious Will. If you merely Will in a half-hearted
manner to knock the tumbler to the floor, your Will affects the
"force" but slightly, and you knock the tumbler off the table in
a half-hearted manner, akin to the way in which you Willed the
action.
If you had Willed with determination, to knock the tumbler to
the floor, you would have hit it vigorously. Therefore, the force
necessary to strike vigorously was aroused by the determined Will.
The Will must, therefore, have operated upon the "force" more
firmly, more "solidly." And that is exactly the way in which the
different conditions of Will, in the crypto-conscious mind, affect the
"force."
If, then, the crypto-conscious mind, over which the projector or
astral spirit has so little control, Wills weakly, the "force" will be
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 197
weak. If it Wills with determination, or in a hyperpositive manner
-the " force " it sets into work becomes what wemight call " solid.''
And this is the force which moves physical objects 11
It is possible, I suppose, for some individuals to develop conscious
Will enough to do this; but the crypto-conscious Will is normally
much more powerful than the conscious Will. Of course, the
conscious Will gets into rapport, or arouses, the crypto-conscious
Will, very often. ·
The question naturally arises as to how this " force " can become
"solid." We do not know with certainty. If we could conceive
this force as being composed of atoms and electrons, the theory
might be advanced .that a change could take place in the atomic
"structure" of the force, causing it to become more solid, thus
capable of making contact with other solids.
Another possibility (in the case when the astral body itself moves
objects) is that the atomic structure of the body may be made more
solid by a certain action of the crypto.-conscious Will. My own
observations cause me to believe that a " determined crypto-
conscious Will " actually tends to make the astral body more
" solid," as will be shown by an experience which I shall soon relate.
A moment, first, to consider Professor Flournoy's idea as to the
possible nature of telekinetic action. Professor Flournoy writes :
"It may be conceived that, as the atom and the molecule are the
centre of a more or less radiating influence of extension, so the organ-
ized individual, isolated cell, or colony of cells, is originally in pos-
session of a sphere of action, where it concentrates at times its
efforts more especially on one point, and again on another, ad
libitum.
"Through repetition, habit, selection, heredity, and other prin-
ciples loved by biologists, certain more constant lines of force would
be differentiated in this homogeneous, primordial sphere, and little
by little could give birth to motor organs.
"For example: Our four members of flesh and blood, sweeping
the space around us, would be but a more economic expedient
invented by nature, a machine wrought in the course of better
adapted evolution, to obtain at the least expense the same useful
effects as this vague, primordial, spherical power.
" Thus, supplanted or transformed, these powers would thereafter
manifest themselves only very exceptionally, in certain states, or
with abnormal individuals, as an atavistic reappearance of a mode
of acting long ago. fallen into disuse, because it is really very imper-
fect, and necessitates, without any advantage, an expenditure of
vital energy far greater than the ordinary use of arms and limbs.
" Perhaps it is the Cosmic power itself, the amoral and stupid
1 Eusapia Palladino was wont to say that she could move objects if her Will
were sufficiently solid. This coincidence in the choice of terms is assuredly very
striking.-H.C.
0
rg8 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
'demiurge: the Unconsciousness of M. Hartmann, which comes
directly into play upon contact with a deranged nervous system, and
realizes its disordered dreams without passing through the regular
channels of muscular movements."
Professor Flournoy's theory is interesting. Many telekinetic
phenomena are produced by the medium's own motivity transmitted
along an astral "line of force." We discussed formerly how this
motivity could shift to and fro, across a free cable, and also across
the cable when the astral phantom was projected within cord-
activity range.
As far as the astral projector is concerned, there is very little
chance of his moving material objects by conscious Will, unless he
is at the same time controlled by the crypto-conscious mind, in a
determined mood. But when the crypto-conscious is determined,
seldom can the conscious Will affect it ! And even during that part
of the time when the crypto-conscious mind is not determined, it
will not usually respond to conscious suggestion.
I have tried so many times to move physical objects, while con-
scious and projected, that I gave it up in disgust ! This failure (to
move physical objects) is one of the most aggravating things I know
of. One becomes exasperated, almost tortured in mind, trying to
make contact with things material. Surely this condition is a
veritable " hell " for the unfortunate who can neither get back into
his physical body, nor throw off the yoke of his earthly habits and
desires.
Reader, you have no idea what an aggravating experience this is I
I have been projected from my physical body, and conscious, and I
have tried and tried and tried to get into touch with material things
-tried so exhaustively, in fact, that I became frantic; and when
once more I would awaken in my physical body, and could feel ~11
those beloved things I had always known, I felt like crying out,
" What a grand and glorious feeling ! "
I am frank to confess that I have never moved a physical object,
by conscious Will, in all my projections. But recently I had an
experience in which I apparently moved an object of considerable
weight by means of the crypto-conscious Will. (This experience I
shall narrate presently.)
It is my contention that astral projectors, earthly mediums, and
earthbound entities can and do move physical objects by means of
the crypto-conscious Will-the Will which controls them-whether
they are aware of it or not. Objects can be moved in dreams which
the subject, were he projected, could not budge by conscious Will,
merely because the crypto-conscious mind completely controls the
body at such times ; and if it takes a suggestion-from the dream
-to move something, and becomes determined, the force it uses
becomes" solid," and operates solidly against the object.
On two different occasions I have dreamed of moving objects in
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 199
my home, and on awakening have found the objects moved accord-
ingly. Dr. Burns tells of a gentleman who, in a dream, pushed
against the door of a distant house so strongly that those in the
room were scarcely able to resist the pressure l Determined crypto-
conscious Will I
And this is the reason why the earthbound entity, the" haunter,"
can move physical objects-at least why he often does move them.
You will remember that you can, by repetition of an act (habit or
desire), increase its "stress" in the mind. Astral entities who prowl
about, haunting, do so because of one, or a combination of any of
four, factors, viz. desire, habit, dream or insanity. What we call
insanity is not a far cry from the dream state, either 11
In those cases where an entity gets into earthly rapport, while
insane or in the dream state, the crypto-conscious mind always
controls him ; and if this mind becomes determined of its own accord
-for reasons we do not know-the " force " it operates upon
becomes " solid " : moving objects. An individual, earthbound
entity can produce physical manifestations which an advanced
spirit could not produce without a "Circle." It can for the
simple reason I have just given, viz. crypto-conscious Will, acting
in a hyperpositive manner upon the "force."
Permit me to call attention to the difference between the " power "
of the crypto-conscious Will and the conscious Will itself. We do
not have to go into the "Unseen" to illustrate this, either I Con-
sider an insane person-here in the flesh. When under the influence
of his conscious Will, he is not so superior, in strength, to anyone
else. But when his conscious mind loses its balance, and his inner
intelligence is allowed to assume control of him, his subconscious
Will gets en rapport with his conscious Will, and, in the twinkling of
an eye, his power is greatly multiplied-almost beyond belief.
I know a young man, far from strong ; any ordinary man could
handle him when his mind is running along in conscious balance ;
but when he gets into one of his insane tantrums, he becomes a
giant; on one occasion five men, exerting all their energy, could
scarcely hold him. All insane spells of the kind are doubtless cases
of crypto-conscious control; this is exactly the same principle as
that involved in the cases we are now considering-viz. the " force "
generated by the crypto-conscious Will, and how it produces physical
manifestations.
In the cases where the " haunter " is under the stress of desire or
habit ; if this " stress " becomes hyperpositive, the crypto-conscious
Will usually acts in a hyperpositive manner upon the "force."
That is why many earthbound entities are sensed by mortal beings
after death, as they live through their habits and try to appease
their desires-often moving physical objects while doing so.
1 Jewett, Sleep and Dreams ; chapter, " The Analogy of Insanity to Sleep and
Dreams."
200 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
And let me assure you that the desire is increased tremendously
when the entity cannot appease it-thus often hyperdynamizing
the stress of the desire more and more in the subject's subconscious
mind-impelling the crypto-conscious Will to act with determin-
ation, resulting in the force becoming u solid," and producing the
physical phenomenon.
We can now see the reason why an individual "haunter" can
often move physical objects, when a higher spirit-whose desires
and habits have worn off, and whose mind is settled-cannot do so.
Accepting all this as true, if the haunter be subject to spells of
insanity (in which condition his crypto-conscious Will is dynamic)
he should be able to move physic9l objects with comparative ease.
The " haunter " featured in the " Great Amherst Mystery " seems
to have been of this type, and, like most individuals subject to
insane spells, was under the possession to kill ! Higher spirits, no
doubt, can utilize the same "force" principles scientifically, which-
the " haunter" employs unknowingly (in the production of physical
phenomena), as is indicated by the fact that" spirit scientists" are
employed in many seances. Knowing, as we do, some of the subtle
expressions of the crypto-conscious mind, and of the way in which
it manipulates" force," poUergeist phenomena should not be difficult
to understand.
AN ASTRAL PROJECTION IN WHICH I MOVED A PHYSICAL OBJECT
The experience which I shall now relate occurred on the night of
February 26, 1928. For some time I had been suffering from a
serious stomach complaint. I slept alone, on the lower floor of the
house, my·mother and small brother occupying a bedroom on the
upper floor.
Between u.30 and I2 o'clock that night, I was suddenly over-
come by unusually severe pains in my stomach. Unable to help
myself, I called several times for my mother; but, as she was sound
asleep, she did not hear me. I continued to call in vain for several
minutes, then I decided to get out of bed and crawl along the floor
to the hall, which leads to the stairs, hoping that from that spot she
could hear my voice.
I managed to get out of bed and started for the door, but the pain
grew so intense that I could not reach it, and fell over in a faint.
I soon recoyered consciousness again, and, by exerting all my
will power, managed to advance a few feet further; but, having
been confined to my bed for almost a month, the exertion was too
much for me, and I fainted again.
This time I awoke outside my body, and found myself moving up
the stairs, under crypto-conscious control-that is, without direction
or effort on my part. Here, if ever, the crypto-conscious Will was
in a determined mood, for I never before remember being so com-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 2or
pletely under its deliberate influence.1 Naturally I wanted to look
at my physical body-which is always the first thing one does-but
my thought to that effect had no influence upon the controlling
power this time.
Advancing up the stairs, I went through the wall of my mother's
room and s~w her, and my small brother, lying upon the bed, sound
asleep. This impression was very distinct, but at this point a gap
came in my consciousness.2 On again becoming conscious, I found
myself standing near the foot of the bed. I cannot say exactly what
my movements were during this gap in consciousness, but on
awakening I saw both of them (my mother and brother) in confu-
sion, the former standing on the floor near the bed and the latter
almost off the bed; they were talking excitedly about the mattress
having been lifted up and rolling them out of bed, while they were
sleeping I
All this was very distinct. I was as conscious as ever I was in the
flesh. Instantly I vanished from the room ; I was drawn down to
my physical body and pulled into it with a spiral motion-experi-
encing a conscious repercussion while coinciding.
I immediately called out to my mother again, and she hurried
down the stairs, very excited-so excited in fact, that she forgot
all about my being out of bed and lying on the floor, and began to
tell me how" spirits" had lifted up the mattress and rolled her out
of bed I She said that they had lifted it not once but several times,
and she confessed that she was terrified for a moment.
If occurrences such as these can take place during the nocturnal
hours (when the subject actually finds himself involved in them),
I wonder how many similar occurrences take place which are
attributed to the dead, but which should be credited to the projected
astral body, under the influence of the hyperpositive crypto-conscious
Will, while the subject is not conscious. No doubt many I
11
RAPS " PRODUCED DURING A DREAM
On the evening of March I7, rg28, I had been reading about
D. D. Home, and of his ability to levitate his physical body. I
went to sleep with this in mind, and, in the early morning, I dreamt
that I met Home, and that we walked along the street discussing
levitation. It seemed to me that we were very good friends and
talked as close friends would talk.
I said to him, " By gosh, Home I You surely had that levitation
act down pat! Tell me how you did it, so that I can show people!"
With this, I dreamed that Home gave me a demonstration-
rising into the air and eventually coming back to earth again. He
1 In this case the determined conscious Will got into rapport with the determined
crypto-conscious Will.-S.M.
• This, by the way, is not at all an unusual happening.-S.M.
•
202 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
explained to me just what to do. Unfortunately I do not remember
what he said! Anyway, I tried it, and the first attempt resulted
in my landing upon my face on the sidewalk !
I got up and he instructed me again ; and presently I realized
that I was moving upward through the air. It felt very real and
instantly I became conscious and found myself projected-the dream
(aviation type) having caused the projection. There was my
physical body lying upon the bed, but I was not on the sidewalk,
and there was no Home, nor anyone else, present.
I went up the stairs, and through the upstairs rooms, and looked
at the rest of the family as they lay asleep. Then I decided to go
downstairs again and try to touch my physical body with my astral
hand. This had been suggested to me by a friend for the purpose of
finding out what sort of repercussion would be produced. But in
this I failed, for when I had advanced to within a distance of about
four feet from my physical body, I lost control of myself and dropped
down into coincidence.
I lay awake for some time, heard the clock strike three, and
finally drifted off to sleep again. Later, I began to dream once more.
This time I dreamed that I was in the back yard of my home,
walking about. I realized in the dream that I was dreaming. (This
is a common occurrence after one has practised dream control.)
There is a large 6oo-gallon oil-tank against the house, and I
walked up to this tank, took a monkey-wrench which was lying upon
it, and began to strike the tank vigorous blows. (Remember, this
was a dream). The noise of the hammering seemed to. startle me-
it was so loud-and then I remember moving through the wall of
the house and awakening in my physical body. I heard the blows
still resounding from the tank, while fully conscious. Three other
people, also, testified that they heard the hammering on the tank,
each one of these saying that it was exactly as if someone had been
pounding upon it with a hammer, and were surprised at seeing no
one near it.
When you arouse the crypto-conscious Will by way of the conscious
Will, you will find how difficult it is-how hard you must work, to
exert your conscious Will-to the point, often, when you " throw
up the sponge." That is why you do not attain a thing, often, until
you cease your efforts and give up trying. Then the crypto-conscious
Will-that superior Will-gets a chance to work on the "stress,"
and that which you had given up trying to attain "materializes" !
The passive Will method arouses the crypto-conscious Will much
more easily ; that is why the passive Will method of projection of
the astral body often succeeds when the active Will method does
not. Repetition, of course (e.g. developing a habit), is another way
fo arousing the crypto-conscious Will.
But the way in which the" force" is manipulated by the crypto-
conscious Will is what we do not know ; how the crypto-conscious
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 203
Will gets hyperpositive, while working within ~tself, is another
mystery ; but when it does, or when it gets hyperpositive by
working upon an impression from another department of the mind,
the " force " it manipulates becomes, so to say, solid.
In many respects our minds, our Wills, " force" and " control,"
function in the same manner when we are in coincidence as they do
when we are out. Notice that astral somnambulism and physical
somnambulism are alike ; there is astral body levitation and there
is physical body levitation-both horizontal, when the body floats
about in the air.
There is vertical levitation when the body rises straight up into
the air. Home is said to have floated, in his physical body, out of
one window and in at another, seventy feet from the ground, in the
presence of three eye-witnesses, who were the Earl of Dunraven,
Lord Lindsay, and Captain Wynne-all men of honour and repute.
Wallace called this a "modern miracle." Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
has stated that Home's performance had much to do with his interest
in the occult. Sir William Crookes witnessed many of Home's
singular levitations. Schrenck-Notzing, at the last Psychic Con-
gress, read a paper concerning a young man in Germany who had
practised Yoga, and had been levitated-physically-some twenty-
seven times !
Think of the energy which the crypto-conscious mind must be
manipulating in order to cause the mass of the physical body to
float ! Take this same energy and imagine how easily it could
manipulate the astral body, which probably weighs a thousand
times less than the physical.
When the crypto-conscious Will gets into an active mood, and
the subject is free from his physical body, he will move as that Will
moves him, and it is not unusual to bound here and there, unable to
put the "brakes " on the controlling power. The "brakes," of
course, represent the conscious Will.
THE SEX OF THE ASTRAL BODY
I have been asked on several occasions-even by spiritists who
should know better-whether or not one retains his organs of sex
in the astral body. Certainly! After all I have said concerning the
exact duplication of the counterparts, it seems almost a waste of
time to go into this matter ; but I will repeat again : the astral
counterpart is the exact duplicate of the physical body, in every
centre and cell.
INTER-RELATION OF THE PHYSICAL AND ASTRAL COUNTERPARTS
We know that the physical body is shaped, is affected, by physical
laws to which we must conform. This being true (and the astral
being an exact duplicate of the physical) it is apparent that the
204 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
physical body gives the astral body its true form. For aught we
know, this may be the purpose of the physical body-to shape our
spirit. Christ said : "The body is the temple of the spirit."
Andrew Jackson Davis seems to have had a similar idea, for in The
Harmonial Philosophy he wrote :
" Man's body is the fruition of all organic Nature, and the spirit
body is formed by the outer body. The physical body is the focal
concentration of all substances ; the spirit is the organic combina-
tion of all forces. The representation of every particle of matter is
ultimately made by man. The body of the spirit is a result brought
out by physical organization. I do not mean that the spirit is
created, but that its structure is formed by means of the external
body.
"The mind itself is not a creation or ultimation of matter, but
mental organization is a result of material refinement. The use of
a physical bone is to make a spiritual bone, of the physical muscle
to make a spiritual muscle-not the essence but the form.... The
physical ear is animated by a spiritual ear. In a word, the whole
outward body is a representation of that which is imperishable."
Again, Davis says: "Spirit is substance and, although not unlike
matter, it obeys the law of gravity. Every person's Rperience is
a complete demonstration that spirit is substance, because in each
of us it moves the body from place to place. It can even move
without thinking, because the hidden spirit-principle is composed of
all vital forces. Man's spirit demonstrates its own substantiality by
means of its own normal manifestations.
"Although the spirit of man has substance and weight, has
elasticity, divisibility and the several ultimate qualifications and
properties of matter, yet-as just indicated-it obeys laws which
are superioc to ordinary gravitation and the known physical forces.
The truth is that man's being is duplex. He has two eyes, two
brains, two hands, two feet, two sides to the lungs ; the human
heart is double, and so is each part of the system.
"The double visible structures come from dual invisible prin-
ciples, 8.1ld these are male and female. They operate reciprocally,
and regulate all action and animation. One contracts, the other
expands. These principles together form a unit, imparting one action
into the twofold system.... The spirit, unlike inanimate bodies,
operates upon a positive and negative principle, by virtue of which
the spirit holds up the body and the body holds up the spirit. . . .
" If a spirit's organism is substance, then-as substance-it
weighs something. When it escapes from the material body, the
spiritual body does not weigh more than the sixteenth of a pound,
but it continues to absorb the elements of the invisible air until it
becomes comparatively weighty, acquiring not only a power of
gravitation, but also a power to overcome it.... Spiritual doctrine
teaches that the innermost man is a Spirit which flows through our
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 205
nerve sensations; .... which thinks and reasons, feels better, nobler,
purer emotions than the forms, forces and things around it; which
teaches intellect and heart to recognize something higher than the
fleeting circumstances whereunto it is harnessed. It is the invisible
presence of the Divine in the visible Human."
There you have Davis' idea of the inter-relation of the physical
and astral counterparts. The physical body is affected as to its
form by physical laws. If, then, the astral body be an exact dupli-
cate, it must also be affected as to its form by the same physical
laws. Be that as it may, the theory would not account for the shape
and form of a being who died before maturity ; so we must accept
the theory that a being can also be shaped in the astral, independent
of the physical.
COMPOSITION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Another question which is frequently asked me, by many of those
who have heard of my out-of-the-body experiences, is this: "Of
what is the astral body composed? " And when I confess that I
do not know, they never fail to sneer.
However, the fact that I do not know the composition of my
astral body should in no way discredit what I have said concerning
it. The truth is that I do not even know the composition of my
physical body, and I have had infinitely more opportunity to study
it than I have my astral body! Just why a projector, whose trips
in the astral are brief, should be expected to solve every mystery
-to explain everything which is unknown-is surely a greater
mystery still-especially when " spirit scientists " who return do
not tell us these things, even after they have been on the astral
plane for years.
No, indeed. The fact that I cannot explain the composition of the
astral body should not discredit one single thing I have said con-
cerning it. It has been one of my greatest disappointments-that
I have not been enabled to discover what the astral body is com-
posed of. But then, it appears that no one else knows, either !
Some refer to it as a "fluidic double." Lodge says it is "etheric;"
The common belief is that it is not unlike matter-the difference
being only in the arrangement of its atoms. This has always been
my idea too. Read, e.g. what Dr. Henry Lindlahr has said con-
cerning it : -
" This life-force is the primary source of all energy-from which
all other kinds and forms of energy are derived. It is independent
of the body and of food and drink, as the electric current is indepen-
dent of the glass bulb and the carbon thread though which it mani-
fests as heat and light. The breaking of the incandescent bulb,
though it extinguishes the light, does not in any way diminish the
amount of electricity behind it.
"In a similar manner, if the physical body '.falls dead,' as we
206 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
say, the vital energy keeps on acting with undiminished force through
the spiritual-material body; which is an exact duplicate of the
physical body, but whose material atoms and molecules are infinitely
more refined, and vibrate at infinitely greater velocities than those
of the physical-material body. This is not merely a matter of
speculative reasoning, but a demonstrated fact of natural science."
" When Saint Paul said : ' There is a natural body and there is a
spiritual body,' he stated an actual fact in nature. Indeed, it would
be impossible to conceive of the survival of the individual after
death without some sort of material body to serve as a vehicle for
consciousness, memory and the reasoning faculties, and as an instru-
ment for physical functions.
"Therefore, if survival of the individual after death be a fact in
nature, and if the achievement of immortality be a possibility, a
spiritual-material body is a necessity.
"Sir Oliver Lodge says that the substance of the spiritual body
is ether. This is to me unthinkable. The ether is impalpable and
omnipresent. It is, as far as science now knows, the primordial,
universal element which permeates and enters into the composition
of all matter. But ether alone does not and cannot constitute
matter. The atoms of various elements are made up of negative
electrical charges, or electrons, whirling around positive
centres. . . . This is no doubt true of spiritual matter as well as
physical matter.... The only difference between the two is that
the atoms and molecules of spiritual matter are infinitely more
refined and vibrate at higher velocities than the atoms of physical
matter.
"The sensory organs of the spiritual body are attuned to these
higher and finer vibrations. Therefore, spiritual matter is to spiritual
sight and touch just as real and substantial as physical matter is
to our physical sensory organs.
" From the foregoing arguments we conclude that modern science
verifies the wisdom of Pythagoras, who taught, twenty-five
hundred years ago, that all matter is made up of three elements-
substance, motion and numbers. According to modern science, the
' substance ' of Pythagoras corresponds to the universal ether,
'motion' to electricity, and 'numbers' to the number of electrons
vibrating in the atom and to the number of atoms in the molecule."
That is Dr. Lindlahr's view of the composition of the astral body.
Although, at the present time, the exact composition of the astral
body is not known with certainty,most occultists are of the opinion
that the time is near at hand when science will solve this interesting
problem conclusively. But it will have to be solved in the laboratory,
and not, as many think, by a mere projector examining it, while
consciously projected. This would be as impossible as it would have
been to solve the nature of the physical body merely by observing
and feeling the physical body.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 207
CALCULATED WEIGHT OF THE ASTRAL BODY
A few years ago, at the International Convention of Spiritualists,
at Paris, it was stated humorously that the spirit of a man had
about as much weight as a flea's whisker! There is a difference of
opinion among occultists as to the weight of the astral body. For
my part I do not believe that the weight of man's "double" is
known, absolutely.
Andrew Jackson Davis believed it to weigh about one ounce.
Others say that it does not weigh anything. However, being sub-
stance, the astral body must have some weight. In this connection,
let us consider the experiments of two Dutch physicists-Drs.
Malta and Zaalberg Van Zelst, of the Hague, in their endeavour to
ascertain the composition and structure of the astral body.
They constructed an instrument, extremely complicated in
character, which they called a" dynamistograph"; and, by means
of this instrument (they claimed) they were enabled to obtain
"direct" communication with the spirit world, without any medium
at all! In other words, they put this instrument in a room by
itself, observed its actions through a small glass window, which
had been cut in the wall, and the instrument was thereupon manipu-
lated by apparent spiritual intelligences, and long" communications"
were spelled out, by means of a lettered dial, at the top of the
dynamistograph.
There is a book, in French, entitled The Mystery of Death, which
gives a long account of these experiments. Mr. Carrington has
summarized it in his Modern Psychical Phenomena (chapter, " Instru-
mental Communication with the Spirit World"). From this article
I abstract a few paragraphs which deal with the astral body-the
existence of the astral body having been established by their experi-
ments.
They, being physicists, said to themselves, "Let us investigate
and determine the exact physical and chemical structure and com-
position of this body-its molecular arrangements and activity-
and discover, if possible, its exact composition, as we would any
other body." Their conclusions-arrived at as the result of a long
series of experiments, which we cannot now stop to summarize-
were these:
" The body is capable of contraction and expansion, under the
action of the Will-that is, the Will of the astral body-the expan-
sion being about 1.26 mm., or about I/40,ooo,ooo of its own volume;
its contraction being much greater-namely, about 8 mm., or
rf6,2So,ooo of its volume. Its specific weight is about 12.24 mgs.
lighter than hydrogen, and 176.5 times lighter than air.
"The Will acts upon this body mechanically, causing it to expand
(rise) or contract (descend) as the action takes place. It is thus
subject to the law of gravitation. There is an x force (unknown
208 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
force} which holds the molecules of this body together. The atoms
composing this body are extremely small, widely separated and
heavy. The internal density of the body is about the same as that
of the external air. If the pressure of the air outside the body be
increased, that inside the body will increase in exact proportion....
The weight of this body was also calculated, and found by them to
be about 6g.5 gr.-approximately 2! oz."
These results, I may say, agree more or less with certain experi-
ments conducted by Dr. Duncan McDougall-of Haverhill, Mass.-
some years ago, in which he weighed a number of patients dying
from consumption, at the moment they died. He placed the cot,
containing the patient, on a delicately balanced scale-so that the
patient (bed and all} was weighed ; and at the moment of death the
beam of the balance went up and struck the upper arm suddenly.
The weight thus lost was calculated, and was found, in four out of
six cases, to be between 2 and 2t oz. This seems to be a rather
interesting confirmation of the Dutch experiments. It also seems
to show us that the astral body is, in a sense, a material thing-very
tenuous, probably, but still material in one sense.
THE CLOTHING OF THE PHANTOM
Phantoms of the dead and phantoms of the living have b~en seen
on many occasions by mortal beings. One of the (negative} argu-
ments often employed by sceptics is that the phantom is clothed-
the seers usually describe the attire of the entity-therefore (they
say) it was but hallucination ; for, while the physical body might
have its astral counterpart, the physical clothing could not--<:onse-
quently (many sceptics claim) the phantom, if it did appear, must
be nude.
It is perfectly natural that the sceptic should advance this argu-
ment and press the believer for an explanation. And the believer
might say to the sceptic: "Where did the baby get his clothing
when he became a resident of the physical world? Were not his
clothes provided for him? " The sceptic replies in the affirmative ;
and the believer maintains that the phantom's clothing can be
provided for him also.
I have been asked on several occasions to state what light I can
give upon this subject of the phantom's attire, and I must admit at
the outset that it is very little. I can only make known what I have
observed. As to the creation of the clothing, I know no more about
that than I do about the creation of my physical body or my astral
body.
But one thing is clear to me-the clothing of the phantom is
created, and is not a counterpart of the physical clothing. The
absorbing question to my mind is this : How are they created ?
For, whenever I was clothed in my projections, I invariably asked
ATOMIC STRUCTURE OF THE ASTRAL BODY
According to Drs. Matta and van L:elst. The small black dots represent the atoms of the body.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 209
myself what the clothing was made of, where it came from, how it
came, what it looked like.
I believe that I have already stated that I usually sleep in scant
attire, in order to offset depressing dreams and consequent depres-
sion of the astral body, should I project. On the other hand, should
the occasion call for it, I would sleep in pajamas. It is very curious
to observe the way in which astral duplication is established ; and
nine times out of ten I awaken in the astral body with everything
so perfectly duplicated that I do not realize that I am out of my
physical shell-until I begin to move, or try to make contact with
objects (physical) about me.
It would be safe to say that, if the testimony of every person who
had died could be given us, the majority of them would state that,
on awakening in the astral body, they thought they were in the
physical body I This shows us how completely the physical world
is duplicated in the astral. All this must, of course, be governed by
some superior Intelligence within the individual.
Peculiarities of our entire lives are established for us in the astral.
That is one of the mystifying things about the astral world. If one
has remained aloof from the crowd, he will find himself in a similar
condition when awakening, or when first living in the astral.1 Most
of my life has been spent away from association with the crowd,
and I find that I am in that same condition when awakening in the
astral-seldom meeting with anyone. This may seem strange to
the reader, but nevertheless it is true.
This is but one example of how a lifelong habit may be continued
in the astral. Besides this, there is the duplication which is estab-
lished at the time of projection (temporary or permanent) when
one awakens and finds everything duplicated. Under this category
(duplication) comes the clothing of the phantom.
I have noticed that, as a rule, if my physical body were clad in a
certain garb, my astral counterpart would be clothed in an identical
garb. I say as a rule. But again, there have been many exceptions
to that rule-which demonstrates the eccentricities of the controlling
intelligence I Sometimes the physical body will be clothed, and the
astral body will be clothed in a different manner, e.g. a sort of
flimsy, gauzy white. This is not at all unusual, and is perhaps the
reason why " ghosts " have invariably become identified with white
garments~
Sometimes this astral garment is mistaken by observers for an
··aura," and sometimes the aura is mistaken for the garment of
white. There is a distinction. . .. One can be nude in the astral
body and the aura would then act as clothing. In fact, it is my
belief that the clothing is formed from the aura. At times the aura
is more dense than at other times ; it also seems to collect in some
1 From the records of haunted houses and localities, it appears that hermits very
often become earthbound.-S.M.
210 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
spots more densely than in other spots-causing the phantom to
take on a blotchy appearance-really hideous. Of course, this is
only as he appears to the observer, not as he really is.1
No one need worry about awakening in the astral and being
abashed because he is nude, for his aura surrounds him, and no
sooner does he begin to think about his clothing than he will discover
that his thoughts have already formed or materialized clothing for
him. Thought creates in the astral, and one will appear to others
as he is in mind. In fact, the whole astral world is governed by
thought.
On one occasion, I noticed the clothing forming itself out of the
emanation surrounding my astral body, when only a few feet out of
coincidence, and the clothing was exactly like that covering my
physical body. On another occasion I awakened and found myself
moving along at the intermediate speed. A very dense aura sur-
rounded me-so dense, in fact, that I could scarcely see my own
body. It remained so until the phantom came to a stop, when I
was dressed in the typical ghost-like garb I
One can awaken, from unconsciousness, in the astral, and find
that he is already clothed ! Thus, it is evident that the same portion
of the subconscious mind which establishes duplication also causes
the clothing to be brought into being, from astral substance. It is
plain to be seen (by anyone who has ever experienced a conscious
projection) that the conscious mind does not necessarily create the
phantom's attire-as many seem to think.
The clothing is created. Of that there can be no question. It is
created by the inner mind, as thought-forms are created-even by
the conscious mind. As to the process of the actual creation itself,
I know nothing, for the same reason that I know nothing as to how
physical matter was· created. But, as I have observed it, the
clothing seems to form out of the coloured aura which surrounds
the astral body ; that is, when one see~ the clothing form (and it
does so quickly-instantaneously) it seems to form by the aura
growing very dense, close to the body.
I remember several instances in which I have been dressed in the
astral-when only a moment out of coincidence. My mother has
seen me, on several occasions, while I have been out of the body.
A few times I have been conscious at the same time, and saw her-
at the moment she saw me. At other times she has seen me prowling
about the house in the dead of night, when I have been quite
unaware of the fact, i.e. unconscious in my astral body.
She always described the clothing I had on at the time, and
although, as I have said before, the phantom is usually garbed in
raiment which duplicates that which the physical is wearing, she
1 Elliott O'Donnell, in his Ghostly·Phenomena (p. 4) describes a" ghost" he once
saw, having "a huge, fiat face, covered with fulsome-looking yellow spots about the
size of a threepenny bit." The nude body was covered with similar spots.-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 2rr
did not know, on many occasions, which suit of pajamas I had on,
and she verified her impression afterwards. I could never begin to
tell of all the experiences and experiments of this nature which have
taken place within my own home-most of them occurring when no
prearrangements had been made by myself ; in other words, on
most of the occasions when I was " seen " they were unintentional
projections-which eliminates all possibility of hallucination induced
through" expectancy and suggestion."
Some contend that nude spirits do not exist. This is folly. Spirits
dress according to custom, and to the customs of the geographical
locations in which they have lived. We have nude and scantily
clothed races here on the earth-plane. Similarly, we have them on
the astral plane.
As to the clothing of the phantom, one writer has said:-" Where
did Christ get his clothing when he appeared after his death ? The
account distinctly says that the soldiers divided his raiment among
them by casting lots."
Incidentally, my own observations in this matter of the phan-
tom's attire coincide in part with what Caroline D. Larsen has to
say on this same subject, in her book, My Travels in the Spirit
World. She says:
" As the astral body is an exact copy of the physical, so men and
women remain men and women in the Spirit World. All their
characteristics and peculiar masculine and feminine qualities remain
unchanged. Spirits, like humans, wear garments.... The appear-
ance of clothes is effected in the following manner : From every
spirit emanates a strong aura, a pseudo-phosphoric light. This
aura is completely controlled by the mind. Out of this substance is
moulded the vesture of the body.
" At first, right after death, the moulding in most cases is an
unconscious act. For no sooner is a spirit separated from the
physical body than it is in some manner dressed, even though the
garment be only a sort of a shroud. But as the mind gains control
of itself, the act of dressing becomes a conscious act, and the fashion
of the wearing apparel is largely governed by the individual's taste.
" Hence, just after death, when the mind is still completely
dominated by earthly ideas and habits, the spirits generally effect
the fashions of the clothes which were worn previous to passing
over. So, the first thing to catch my eye, in my first wandering in
the astral, was the strange spectacle of spirits who appeared as
mortals in earthly raiment walking everywhere.
"In the Spirit World, the colour of the aura defines the quality
of the spirit. All darker colours denote a low state of development.
As the spirit progresses upward the colours of the aura become
continually brighter. These aura colours, of course, determine also
the colour of the spirit garment. Hence the character, quality and
development of the spirit are denoted by the colour of the garment."
zr2 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
" AS A MAN THINKETH "
All this reminds me of another point-perhaps the most difficult
of all to comprehend concerning the phenomena of astral projection :
It is that everything in the astral plane seems to be governed by
thought-by the mind of the projector. As a man thinks, so is he!
When I think of trying to convey just what this implies, I almost
give up in despair and realize how insignificant is my ability to
express myself. So I can only say again-as one is in his mind he
becomes in reality, when he is in the astral body.
If you ever learn to project consciously, you will be a.IJlazed at
the response which follows your thoughts. You will see that half
the time you cannot think fast enough. I suppose that after one
has lived on the astral plane for a time he overcomes this. Most of
the time, however, even before you can complete a thought, you
have already attained what you are thinking about.
In speaking of her own experiences, when out of the body, Cora
L. V. Richmond has said: "I became more and more aware that
the whole of me, released from the fetters of the bodily senses, could
perceive and receive perfectly the answer to every question-even
before its complete formulation in thought."
It seems almost unbelievable, but the subconscious Will can bring
about the result before the conscious thought is completed. You
may think of going to a friend's home, and, before you have the
thought completed, you are there ! The subconscious Will naturally
gets the best of the projector much of the time, but the more one
projects-which also means the longer one remains in the _astral
-the more his conscious Will becomes its own master again.
One can move along a street in the astral body and think :
" What's going on inside that house ? " Instantly one finds oneself
inside, or one may merely see inside, or one can go inside wilfully.
That is how uncertain everything is on the astral plane; one can
never tell what may happen I
PURGATORY
Marvellous as the Astral may seem, it is in another sense in a
condition of "muddlement" ; that is why. no two have the same
experience, for the very things which are true on one occasion, in
one particular condition of mind, would be entirely different on
another occasion, when in a different mental state. It seems that
the mind creates its own environment-yet the environment is real!
This condition could not possibly last indefinitely; it is a sort of
purgatory wherein one must learn to think correctly.
You could no more get out of this condition by incorrect thinking
than you could" buy" your way out with money; for your wrong
thoughts create their own environment. This " place " we are
Epeaking of (I have loosely termed it the astral plane) is here upon
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 213
earth, in the earth's atmosphere. Perhaps you think there is no
significance in what is commonly called" purgatory," but that term
seems very fitting for the lower astral condition.
So far as higher astral conditions are concerned, I know nothing
of them. A few mediums claim to have been projected into various
planes and sub-planes of the astral world, and give specific informa-
tion concerning each of these planes and sub-planes. But I have
never had a conscious projection when I was not upon earth-as
much so as I am in the flesh, yet intangible to all earthly things.
Some tell me that I am not " developed " enough ; that if I were
I should not be in such a condition, when projected. To hear some
mediums talk, one would think that they were so perfect that, at
death, they would at once awaken on the Twentieth Plane ! I am
afraid many of them are sadly mistaken l
No one understands the astral world! No one could understand
it. It is too complicated. What holds true on one occasion is any-
thing but true on another occasion. The astral world is a subject
for speculation, for argument, and many different theories con-
cerning it have been advanced by different cults.
The general belief is that the astral plane is composed of seven
planes and seven sub-planes. I make no apology for admitting that
I know nothing whatever about the truth of this sevenfold scale of
planes, which are said to represent the One Astral Plane. Many
projectors assert that "guides" show them and explain all these
things to them. But these guides must have no liking for me-for
I have never yet seen one of them!
In every conscious out-of-the-body experience I have ever had, I
have never seen anyone but the earthly things I have always seen.
I have seen astral phantoms among the earthly, but none whom I
would choose for a guide I 1 have been told that one must be
"highly developed" in order to get out of the earth's atmosphere;
perhaps that is why I do not see the marvellous things others tell
about, while projected.
At any rate, I have always projected in the earth's atmosphere,
and I believe that practically everyone will awaken, in the astral,
in the earth's atmosphere, which I call..f' purgatory." What takes
place beyond this purgatory I do not know ; however, there are
several books on the market, by projectors who claim to have
penetrated into the Higher Realms, and there are also countless
volumes treating of life after death, which any interested reader
can procure.
There is one thing I do know, however, which is that, in the
earth's atmosphere-in this purgatory of the dead-are the astral
·entities who haunt the earthly ; that is, there are many phantoms
of the dead living on the earth plane, but they are intangible to
physical things.
Modern Spiritualism holds that the Spirit merely sojourns in the
l'
214 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
astral, and that it will continue to progress ever onward, into higher
and higher realms. There is another school which maintains that
the astral world exists, but that these phantoms of the dead are
merely waiting there (in the astral) to be reincarnated-to dwell in
the flesh again.
Catholicism, throughout the ages, has held to the doctrine of
"purgatory." In this respect the Catholic Church approaches the
teachings of Spiritualism more nearly than any other religion ;
"purgatory" in either case being but a temporary, intermediary
state wherein the " spirits of the dead " are prepared for a more
permanent life. Curiously enough, both Catholics and Spiritualists
maintain that souls can be helped, in this purgatorial existence, by
the prayers of the living.
In the purgatory of the dead, the mind of the phantom regulates
fts condition of being ; its habits and desires hold it in their grip.
The phantom must learn to think correctly, for a man's thoughts
govern him.
THOUGHT SUSTAINS THE ASTRAL BODY
It is thought which sustains the astral body I Do you think that
the astral phantom walks upon the floor of a house because the floor
holds him up? No l Never that! He is independent of the floor;
he does not make contact with the floor at all. Yet he can walk
upon it! Why? Merely because his thought sustains him.
He has always walked upon floors in the physical, and, through
force of habit, thus learned in the physical-the habit rooted in the
subconscious mind-he is sustained. The habit of walking upon a
floor permits a phantom to do that in the astral-holds him on the
line of the floor. So, the desire to walk upon an u r floor could
sustain the phantom and allow him to do that. subconscious
Will regulates the weight of the astral body, causing it to rise, to
fall, or to remain at any given elevation. The conscious Will can
do the very same thing also.
All this can never be explained by mortal mind-how thought
creates or makes " reality " in the astral world. Imagine walking
upon the upper floor of a house, as if that floor sustained you, and
yet not making contact with the floor I You would naturally
suppose this would be a strange sensation. But it is not. In fact,
it is unnoticed by the phantom ; but if one begins to think about it
-as I have, many times-down through the floor one goes. Why ?
Merely because the projector thinks that the floor, not making
" contact " with him, cannot sustain him I
One goes along, unconsciously walking in this manner, because
the subconscious Will, through habit, actually holds the body in its
position. You do not think of walking in the physical, do you ?
Neither do you in the astral. It is habit; in other words subcon-
scious expression. Similarly, when you walk upstairs and down-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 215
stairs, in your astral body, you are not aware that you are not
actually stepping upon the stairs. But think of it, and down you go !
All this has a striking resemblance to the Bible story, in which
Christ walked upon the water-his thought sustained him ; but
when Peter, who stopped to think about it, tried to do so, down he
went I There is not the slightest doubt that Christ could do this.
He could do it in the physical body by levitation. He could do it
in the astral body naturally-merely by thinking He could ; and His
thought sustained Him, as thought will sustain each and every one
of us when we depart from our physical anchors.
One more case to illustrate how erratically the mind can function
in the astral. As a rule, in our earthly life, we dodge automobiles
-at least we try to dodge them-while crossing streets. It has
become a habit with us to look, before crossing a thoroughfare, and
wait for approaching vehicles to pass.
Now, I remember one occasion when I was projected in the astral
bOdy and walked down the street. I was about to cross to the other
side, but stopped to see if a car might be coming I At the same
time, I knew positively that cars could not harm me, but would
pass right through me. Force of habit I Yet again, on other occa-
sions, I have never stopped to see if cars might be coming which
would run over me, should I cross the street.
Similarly, one will dodge other persons, at times. One may be
walking along the street, and, on meeting someone in the flesh, will
dodge unconsciously. On the other hand, one will at times pass
right through earthly people-never think of colliding with them.
All of which goes to show that (in the astral) what happens on one
occasion may not happen on the next; it all depends upon the
dominating thought in the mind-conscious or unconscious.
Speaking of passing through earthly beings, this is a thrill indeed
when one does it for the first time I It has been said that, when
this occurs, the earthly being feels a chill. I do not know whether
this be true or not ; but I doubt it. The astral being feels nothing
at such a time; yet it is a real thrill to pass through beings material!
There are no words to express the feeling of " prodigiousness "
which overwhelms the projector, when he becomes perfectly con-
scious in the purgatory of the dead-sees earthbound phantoms,
rides upon the air, sustains himself by thought, passes through
material beings and objects (which offer no more resistance than the
air itself) and listens to the " chatter " of those who suspect not his
presence. ·
And "chatter" it seems, too; for, when one is in such a state,
with the miraculous all about him, how trivial seem the common-
place subjects of everyday discussion I No wonder that the dead
soon forget to listen to the constant chatter of the earthly I
And yet, for all the marvellous things upon the astral plane, it
does feel good to get back into the physical body again and" touch."
216 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
Touch! If one could only "feel" things in purgatory! That is
the " hell " of it, speaking seriously ! It is a wonder to me that
some of the case-hardened, earthbound phantoms, under a super-
stress of habit or desire to make "touchable" contact, do not go
insane. There is but one cure for this condition, and that is to turn
away from the earthly-to "will" to break the stress of habit and
desire to make contact with the earthly.
EARTHBOUND PHANTOMS NOT NUMEROUS
Earthbound phantoms are not as numerous as one mfght suppose.
One of the greatest possible mistakes is to believe that, the instant
one is outside his body, he sees thousands of spirits all about him.
This is not the case, for although there are some, they are not
numerous. Usually, one never sees a spirit during projection.
Usually he finds himself alone-a stranger in a strange land, and
yet a familiar land. It is said that, on the streets of large cities,
hundreds of astral phantoms mingle with the flesh and blood beings.
Some will tell you that you can see vast distances, when projected
and conscious in the astral body. This, like everything else, is not
always true. In fact, one can scarcely answer one single question
concerning the astral plane without saying, "sometimes this is true
and sometimes it is not true."
One might project and encounter one condition, interiorize again,
and think he knew all about the astral ; yet he would know only
about that particular condition which he experienced. Because of
these innumerable conditions, many stories concerning the astral
world are contradictory ; what one medium sees and hears and tells
us, another will reject, because he has found a different condition.
This is true also of spirits. The mind of one spirit will be at variance
with that of another.
While upon the subject of earthbound phantoms, permit me to
quote another experience I once had. (I could quote experiences
enough to fill another book, but have tried to give only those which
shed light upon the different aspects of the phenomenon.) I might
entitle this :
AN ENCOUNTER WITH AN ASTRAL FIEND
In 1923, a man living in my home town died of cancer of the
stomach. This man's wife was well acquainted with my mother,
and, a few days after the funeral, chanced to be talking to her. She
(the wife of the dead man) confided many things to my mother,
and told her the real character of her husband, F.D. He had been
a brute-" all bad "-according to her story ; and some of the
things which were said concerning the dead man aroused within me
a hatred of him. I remember very clearly standing back and
taking in the conversation between this woman and my mother,
and how my " blood boiled " with rage against the dead man.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 217
This conversation took place about 7.30 p.m., and by 9 o'clock
I had forgotten the incident. That night, on going to sleep, I
experienced a conscious projection. I had undergone the primary
stages very perfectly, landing upon my feet just outside cord-activity
range, and I was free. I walked ahead a few steps, then stopped to
look back at my physical body. (One seldom fails to do this!)
My eyes encountered an ominous spectacle-a terrifying sight.
There stood F.D., glaring at me like a maniac. I shall never forget
the savage look upon his face as long as I live. I knew instinctively
that he meant revenge, and was frankly terrified. I did not know
what to do, but before I had time to do anything he leaped upon me !
We fought for a few moments-he getting the better of me, as he
cursed and beat me with all his might.
His strength seemed greatly superior to mine, at the time, but in
a moment I suddenly realized that my controlling power was pulling
me " in." When this power came to my rescue, F.D. seemed like a
mere pigmy in strength, for I moved steadily toward my physical
body-he clinging on to me as I did so. When I was inside cord-
activity range, even greater power seemed to overwhelm me.
I was raised into the air horizontally, in spite of all the fiend's
efforts to hold me, pulled to a position directly over my physical
body, and dropped-a drop that caused probably the most severe
repercussion I have ever experienced-as I became physically alive
again. I was throughout as conscious as I am this very moment-
as you are, reading this account. Sceptics may say that this was a
nightmare; but I know when I am conscious, and I know what is
real when I am conscious. It was no nightmare ! It was real ! It
was as real as any tussle with a flesh-and-blood devil could be.
Was it Luther who claimed to have had a tussle with a devil?
Who knows? Perhaps he did! Although I have never read them,
I have been told that there are other accounts in spiritistic literature
not unlike this one.
CHAPTER XV
OBSESSION
D this brings us to the subject of " obsession." There
is a dispute among the spiritists themselves as to whether
or not earthbound phantoms-phantoms in purgatory-
can exert evil influences upon mortal beings. The present
writer is a staunch believer in spirit obsession. It is inconsistent
indeed for spiritists and occultists to maintain that good spirits can
influence earthly minds, when those minds get into the right condi-
tion; but that evil spirits cannot do so, when the mortal's mind
gets into the wrong condition.
Modern science does not accept, as true, the doctrine of spirit
obsession, claiming that all cases of so-called spirit influence are
really only cases of diseased mind and body-requiring for their
cure proper medical attention. Experienced Spiritualists, however,
know that, while many cases of apparent obsession may be accounted
for in this manner, there are also cases of real obsession by less
developed, disembodied spirits; and as great a psychologist as
Prof. Wm. James said, shortly before his death:
"The refusal of modern enlightenment to treat obsession as a
hypothesis to be spoken of as even possible, in spite of the massive
human tradition based on concrete experience in its favour, has
always seemed to me a curious example of the power of fashion in
things ' scientific.' . . .
"That the demon theory (not necessarily a devil theory) will have
its innings again is to my mind absolutely certain. One has to be
' scientific ' indeed to be blind and ignorant enough not to suspect
any such possibility."
Prof. J. H. Hyslop, in his Life after Death says : " I have asserted
that the explanation of this case is obsession, spirit or demoniac
obsession, as it was called in the New Testament. Before accepting
such a doctrine, I fought against it for ten years, after I was
convinced that survival after death was proved."
The case referred to is the following, thus summed up by Dr.
Hyslop:
" ... Here is a case of dissociation caused by a parent's brutal
act that results in a form of multiple personality which the physicians
regard as incurable and certain to terminate in the insane asylum
in death. It was variously diagnosed as paranoia and dementia
prrecox, but, under the patience and care of a clergyman, was cured,
:n8
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 219
and the girl made a perfectly healthy person, capable of carrying on
a large poultry business, and serving as vice-president of a poultry
association in the country where she lived, presiding over its meetings
with intelligence and coolness....
"Then, when she was cured, experiments with a psychic appear
to show that it was a case of spirit obsession, with the identity of
the parties affecting her proved. Mediumship begins its develop-
ment as a means of preventing the recurrence of the evil obsession.
This mediumship proceeds along with a normal and healthy life."
And speaking of the consequences of such a belief, this author
·further says : " The chief interest in such cases is the revolutionary
effect in the field of medicine. It is possible that thousands of cases
diagnosed as paranoia would yield to this sort of investigation and
treatment. It is high time for the medical world to wake up and
learn something."
In "The Case of 8g," which I related earlier in this book, under
the heading" Duplicate Sensibility and Obsession," we have a most
unusual example of the obsession of an earthly being by an astral
phantom. If the Bible be true, it appears that Christ himself was
an advocate of the belief in evil-spirit obsession, for in not a few
cases he demonstrated his ability to " drive out the devils " from
afflicted persons. St. Paul, too, believed that evil spirits could
influence earthly beings as well as good spirits.
Some phantoms obsess intentionally; others do so unknowingly.
Often the phantom is himself obsessed, as in the case of" 8g." The
stress of earthly desire is so strong, in the astral, that the only
wonder is that thousands are not obsessed by these earthbound
entities, who are trying to get back into material bodies to appease
their desires. Needless to say, the intelligences which obsess earthly
persons are phantoms in purgatory.
Some very striking cases of obsession-in which the obsessing
entities gave remarkable evidence of their own independent exis-
tence-are to be found in Mr. J. Godfrey Raupert's books: The
Dangers of Spiritualism, Modern Spiritism, and The Supreme
Problem; as well as in Dr. Peebles' Spirit Obsession : The Demonism
of the Ages. A unique discussion of the subject is to be found in
Dr. C. H. Carson's pamphlet on Obsession; while some very striking
cases, presenting all the external evidences of the historic phenomena,
have come under the observation of Mr. Carrington.
Thirty Years Among the Dead is a book on "obsession" by Dr.
Carl Wickland. It is interesting to note that Dr. Wickland has an
Institution in Los Angeles, Cal., in which scores of " obsessed "
patients are cured every year-by treating them along regular
spiritualistic lines; while a number of our modern writers and
investigators are coming to the conclusion that genuine spiritual
" obsession " is indeed a fact.
The greatest objection which I have heard advanced against the
220 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
practice of astral body projection is that, while the phantom is
exteriorized from the body, a foreign astral entity might be able to
inhabit the physical mechanism, and prevent the real owner (the
projector) from getting back into his own body again! What the
probability of this type of obsession is I confess I cannot say;
however, it is my belief that somewhere there is a flaw in this con-
tention, which is so often advanced by spiritists, and that there is
a reason why this type of obsession is not likely to occur.
Indeed, if an earthbound entity had only to get into the physical
mechanism, while the astral body was withdrawn, each night
hundreds of people would become victims ; for each night there are
hundreds of people exteriorized-travelling in their dream bodies,
whether they are aware of it or not. Surely we cannot say that
earthbound entities would not take advantage of this fact, and
seize control of the vacated physical mechanism I No doubt many
of the so-called dangers of astral projection are greatly exaggerated.
While psychologists ascribe all cases of dual or even multiple
personality to dissociation, or " splits " within the subject's own
mind; many prominent Spiritualists contend that many such cases
are merely instances of spirit obsession. To my way of reasoning,
the Spiritualists have by far the best of the argument ; they have a
logical explanation as to where the foreign consciousness comes from,
and can show where that consciousness is developed. But the
psychologists, it appears, cannot always give a satisfactory explana-
tion as to how this secondary consciousness develops ; and some of
the explanations advanced by them are anything but plausible.1
We know, of course, that all so-called "obsession " is not neces-
sarily spirit obsession, and that the subject's own mind can at times
obsess him, in itself.
THE AKASHIC RECORDS
There is a widespread belief that, once a person is projected from
his physical body, into the plane of forces, or the astral plane, he is
at once possessed of the faculty of seeing both past and future. In
all my conscious projections, however, I have seen only the present
-just as I see only the present (but remember the past) as I write
this account.
It is claimed that, somewhere in the plane of forces, there is a
record of everything which has ever been said or done, and that,
under certain conditions, one can "read" this Record. Although
1 It is to be remembered that even orthodox psychologists and the most scientific
investigators have, at times, had doubts as to the sufficiency of the ordinary psycho-
logical explanations of such cases. Thus, in writing of the" Watseka Wonder"
(Lurancy Vennum), Dr. Hodgson stated that, in his opinion, the case belonged to the
"Spiritistic Category." (]ournalS.P.R., Vol. X, p. 103). And Dr. William M'Dougall
was similarly forced to the tentative conclusion that" Sally "-in the Beauchamp
case (Morton Prince: The Dissociation of a Personality) was also a" Spirit." See his
discussion of " The Case of Sally Beauchamp," Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XIX, pp.
410-31, especially p. 430.-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 221
I have never seen them-the Akashic Records, as they are called-
and although I have never seen the future either, while conscious,
I have, while partially conscious, in the astral body, lived through
events which had not yet occurred in my physical life. I shall tell
of this presently. First, allow me to summarize what others have
said of the Akashic Records.
The Akashic Records are not contained within some great Book,
but are impressions of every word, scene and action which has
ever occurred, in the Universal Ether or " Astral Light." This
should not be so great a marvel, however, for we have an example
of it in our own memory. Stored away, somewhere, is the record
of our past. Dissect the brain, and you find no trace of what we
call" memory" ; yet, every time you recall a past event, you have
proof that somewhere this record lies hidden and invisible. Where,
then, is the memory ? Is the Akashic Record so much more
mysterious than your own memory ?
Astronomy teaches us that light travels at the rate of more than
r86,ooo miles a second. There are fixed stars, so far distant from
the earth that light which left them thousands of years ago is only
now reaching us. We can look at a distant fixed star, but we do
not see it as it is, or where it appears to be, but we see it as it was
hundreds of years ago-when these light-rays left it.
Of this subject, Mr. Carrington has written :
" It takes an appreciable time for light to travel these vast dis-
tances; even at the rate of r86,ooo miles per second. (That is
about seven and a half times around the earth in one second!)
According to such calculations, it would take about eight minutes
for light to reach us from the sun.
" Now, if you were looking at the sun, you would see it at that
moment (apparently) but you do not see the sun as it is now, but
as it was eight minutes ago ; and you do not see the sun as it is
now until eight minutes hence ; so that, if there were a horse
galloping on the sun, and you could see it, you would not see that
horse galloping until eight minutes after he finished the race!
"Theoretically, if the sun were moved farther away, and you
could still see what was going on there, light, instead of taking eight
minutes to reach us, might take a year, and then you could see
things as they were happening a year ago. Now, some of the stars
are so far distant that it takes hundreds of thousands of years for
light to reach us, travelling at the rate of r86,ooo miles a second!
(They calculate distances, astronomically, by what they call' light
years'-that is, the distance which light can travel in one year-and
this is the unit of calculation ! Some stars are half a million light
years away !)
"All of which leads up to this point: Supposing something were
happening on our earth, and a being, there in space, were sufficiently
far away, looking at our earth, to see what was happening here a
222 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
year ago-that is, light leaving the surface of our globe and travelling
outward into space, would reach that point in space one year from
now. Very well! You perform a certain action ; a year hence this
theoretical onlooker would see that action-i.e. it is recorded there
a year from now--or a hundred or a thousand or amillion years from
now-it all depends upon the distance-how far away he was placed.
" So, if you could get jar enough away in space, there would
always be a time, theoretically, when you could see that action,
being recorded in the ether. So that every stone put in place on the
Great Pyramid is now being put there-at a certain distance in space.
The ' creation ' of the world can now be seen in space-at a certain
distance I "
We still see the record of stars which went out of existence
hundreds of years ago. The light vibrations, set in motion long
ago, still exist after their source has disappeared I Are the Akashic
Records more mysterious ? The universal ether is said to have a
true record of everything which has ever been ; and the Hindus
say that if one were developed properly, he could read these records.
Swami Panchadasi, who is said to be a master of the art of astral
projection, says :
" By travelling to a point in time, on the fourth dimension, you
may begin at that point, and see a moving picture of the history of
any part of the earth from that time to the present--or you may
reverse the sequence by travelling backward.
"You may also travel in the astral, in ordinary space dimensions,
and thus see what happened simultaneously all over the earth at
any special time, if you wish.
" As a matter of strict truth, however, I must inform you that the
real records of the past . . . exist on a much higher plane than the
astral, and that which you have witnessed is but a reflection (prac-
tically perfect, however) of the original records.
" It requires a high degree of occult development in order to
perceive even this reflection in the astral light.... An ordinary
clairvoyant, however, is often. able to catch occasional glimpses of
these astral pictures, and may thus describe fairly well the happen-
ings of the past."
So much for the Akashic Records, which this writer has never had
the pleasure of observing I ·
ENACTING FUTURE EVENTS IN THE DREAM BODY
We have already learned how one can live over events (which
have happened in the past) in the astral body, during a projection-
dream. Frequently the future-contemplating mind will cause the
(projected) dreamer to live through events which have not yet
happened in the material world.
Of course, one can have a future-contemplating dream in which
the dream body does not act out the apparent action ; but it fre-
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 223
quently happens (especially to those inclined toward projection)
that a future-contemplating dream takes place in which the astral
body does participate. I have had many such experiences-
awakening from a dream and finding myself acting it out in the
astral body. The following is a simple example, which took place
several years ago :
I dreamed that I came out of the front door of my home and
started to walk up the street, on my way to school. (To get to the
school-house I could go in· either one of two ways; one, a direct
route, leading through the residential district; the other, leading
through the business district. On returning to school, after my
noonday meal, I almost invariably went through the residential
district-the shorter and more direct route.)
In the dream, as I walked along the street, I heard someone
calling me, and, turning round, saw one of my friends who lived
several blocks beyond my home, running to catch up with me. He
was in my class at school ; and as we walked along we discussed
the problems of the afternoon session.
Finally, we came to the place where the trail branched-one
running through the business section, the other through the resi-
dential district. I started to walk along the latter route and expected
my friend to go that way too. But he said, "Come on, let's go
through the town, we've plenty of time I "
So we went by way of the path which led through the business
section. I stopped to look into one of the store windows and, seeing
a pair of socks there which struck my fancy, I entered and purchased
them. Then we walked on, toward the school building. As we
advanced through the park I saw a boy, whom I recognized at once,
coming toward us. As we met, he came very close to me and spat
upon one of my shoes; then, with a gesture, said, "tee-hee," and
ran. This boy was a mischief in reality, too I
It was only a short distance from this point to the school building,
and as we continued moving toward it, I became more and more
awake, it seemed, and realized, even before full consciousness came,
that I was actually walking through this park. I then awoke in
the astral and found the action true; but the persons melted out
of the scene, and I was there alone in my astral body.
It was several weeks after this that the occurrence actually took
place; everything occurred in the same order as it had happened
. in the dream. I left home on my way to school ; my friend hailed
me ; we walked to the fork in the trail, where he persuaded me to
go through the town; I saw the socks in the store window and
purchased them ; we went through the park and met the small boy
-the same boy I had seen in the dream ; and, as he was approaching,
I said to my friend: "This kid's going to spit on my shoe." And
he did-saying "tee-hee" and running.
From this you can see that the astral body acted out an event
224 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
which did not occur in the physical world until several weeks later.
To give one more example :
In the spring of 1927, I awakened one night in the astral, and
found myself in a strange place-an unusually attractive park. I
looked about me, observed its characteristics, and noted many
special features, as well as its general aspect. I noted particularly
a high rocky wall, and two small bridges crossing a stream.
I had no memory of ever having visited this particular place, nor
did I know where the place was. Neither could I remember the
trip back to my physical body. It was two months later when, on
a trip with a friend, I accidentally entered a park in a town about
fifty miles from my home, and discovered that it was the same place
I had formerly visited in the astral !
I could quote many experiences similar to this one, but they
would be irrelevant. In fact, scarcely a week goes by without
some future-contemplating dream ; and occasionally I become con-
scious in the dream-only to find that I am acting out the contem-
plated action in my dream body.
I have observed that, when one does have a future-contemplating
projection-dream, it nearly always begins with some routine action.
That is, the dream begins with some routine action, and runs off
into another channel ; or the dreamer enacts something which he
is in the habit of doing every day, and then certain novel aspects of
the action which have not yet happened are dreamed about. For
example, in the experience I have just related, I dreamed first of
my daily routine-going to school-and then certain incidents which
had not yet occurred were dreamed and acted out.
Usually, after I have experienced such a dream, it" materializes"
during the day following the dream ; but again, as in the cases just
given, the action did not happen in reality until several weeks after
the astral body had enacted it. Again, my astral body may have
enacted many, many future-contemplating dreams, of which I know
nothing-for one does not always remember a dream, and a pro-
jector does not always awaken in a dream. It is to be regretted
that we cannot find some method of dreaming future events at
will!
Sometimes, in a projection-dream, the subject may be in some
strange place, and be almost conscious, and see what is taking place
there; but, on awakening in his physical body, he does not know
for certain that the events really did take place, but attributes them
-if he recalls them at all-to nocturnal phantasy. He may never
hear that the events really did take place and does not know that the
dream was more than mere phantasy.1
1
See, in this connection, the remarkable book by W. J. Dunne, An Experiment
with Time, in which he not only narrates a number of cases of this character, but tells
how he succeeded in obtaining prophetic dreams at will, and tells his readers how
they may obtain them too !-H.C.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 225
MANY CLAIRVOYANT DREAMS ARE MISTAKEN FOR ASTRAL
PROJECTIONS
One must not be deceived into the belief that the dream body
acts out every dream. It does not! Many believe that, during
every dream, the astral body projects and enacts the dream. The
astral body does not even respond to some dreams, but lies at rest
without action. One may dream while the astral body is in coinci-
dence with the physical body, and there will be no action on the
part of the astral body. One may dream while the astral body is in
coincidence with the physical, with resultant action of the body-
physical somnambulism, in other words.
On the other hand, one may dream while the phantom lies motion-
less in the zone of quietude; or he may dream and act out the
dream in the astral body. And again, one may dream and the astral
body will project and enact the dream in its true locale ,· or one may
dream the same dream, and the astral body will enact the dream
close to the physical body-the mind creating the environment, or
the locale, exactly as it appears in reality, in the distance. One may
dream of events which are happening at some distant place, without
ever being projected there, just as a clairvoyant may see things
happening at a distant place, without being actually projected there.
Undoubtedly, there are many accounts on record which are said
to be examples of astral projection which are not astral projections
at all. The following is an interesting experience of this type, and
is recorded by the S.P.R. It is related by a correspondent of the
Society:
"One morning in December, 18-, he1 had the following dream,
or, he would prefer to call it, revelation. He found himself suddenly
at the gate of Major N. M.'s Avenue, many miles from his home.
Close to him was a group of persons one of whom was a woman with
a basket on her arm; the rest, men, four of whom were tenants of
his own, while the others were unknown to him.
"Some of the strangers seemed to be assaulting H. W., one of his
tenants, and he interfered. I struck violently at the man on my
left, and then with greater violence at the man's face on my right.
Finding to my surprise, that I had not knocked down either, I
struck again and again with all the violence of a man frenzied at
the sight of my poor friend's murder. To my great amazement I
saw my arms, although visible to my eye, were without substance,
and the bodies of the men I struck at and my own came close together
after each blow through the shadowy arms I struck with.
"My blows were delivered with more violence than I ever think
I exerted, but I became painfully convinced of my incompetency.
I have no consciousness of what happened after this feeling of
unsubstantiality came upon me. Next morning A. experienced the
1 The incident is narrated in the third person.
226 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
stiffness and soreness of violent bodily exercise, and was informed
by his wife that, in the course of the night, he had much alarmed
her by striking out again and again with his arms in a terrific
manner, as if fighting for his life.
"He, in turn, informed her of his dream, and begged her to
remember the names of those actors in it who were known to him.
On the morning of the following day (Wednesday) A. received a
letter from his agent, who resided in the town close to the scene of
the dream, informing him that his tenant had been found on Tuesday
morning at Major N. M.'s gate, speechless and apparently dying
from a fracture of the skull, and that there was no trace of the
murderers.
" That night A. started for the town, and arrived there on Thurs-
day morning. On his way to a meeting of magistrates he met the
senior magistrate of that part of the country, and requested him
to give orders for the arrest of the three men whom, besides H. W.,
he had recognized in his dream, and to have them examined
separately. This was at once done.
"The three men gave identical accounts of the occurrence, and
all named the woman who was with them. She was then arrested
and gave precisely similar testimony. They said that between
eleven and twelve on the Monday night they had been walking
homewards together along the road, when they were overtaken by
three strangers, two of whom savagely assaulted H. W., while the
other prevented his friends from interfering. H. W. did not die, but
was never the same man afterwards; he subsequently emigrated.''
Although the foregoing account might be considered a good
example of astral projection, it is anything but that. In fact, the
subject's astral body was not even out of coincidence, for the next
morning he was suffering from the soreness and stiffness of violent
bodily exercise, and was informed by his wife that, in the course of
the night, he had struck out again and again with his arms in a
terrific manner, as if fighting for his life.
This is a case of physical somnambulism, in which the subject
merely dreamed of what was taking place at a distance. The astral
body could not be projected to some distant point, outside the
physical body, and the latter still be active. So, I say again, do
not be deluded into the belief that the dream body enacts all dreams
outside the physical body, or that one cannot see the same events,
without projecting, which he could see if actually projected.
There are only two ways in which one can know that he is actually -
projected in his dream. Either, some clairvoyant would have to
see the astral body of the dreamer ; or, the projected dreamer
would have to become fully conscious at that place. Dreams in
which the subject believes he is at a distant place should never be
put on record as astral projection-dreams, merely because they seem
very real. In many cases of physical somnambulism, the subject
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 227
has been able to describe distant scenes, and tell precisely what is
occurring there. Physical somnambulism and astral projection
cannot occur simultaneously in the same subject.
Akin to distant-point vision is what might be called immediate-
environment vision, in which the dreamer sees occurrences which
are actually happening in his immediate environment, and even in
the room wherein he sleeps. Such dreams usually occur in the day-
time, during a midday nap ; not infrequently just an instant before
the dreamer awakens. For example, one may dream that a certain
person is at the door, and will awaken an instant later and find that
the person in question really is at the door, etc.
DREAM CONSCIOUSNESS IS NOT THE REAL CONSCIOUSNESS
Hence, we see that there is a dream consciousness which is not the
real consciousness. Volumes of" astral-projection experiences" are
on record in which the subject was merely in a state of dream con-
sciousness; and it is a fact that many people-even those who have
had out-of-the-body experiences-believe that this is the only con-
sciousness there is. It is for this reason that most of the accounts
said to be real conscious projections are of a more or less visionary
character.
This point should be understood: There is a dream consciousness,
in which the subject sees precisely what he would see if really con-
scious, but with more or less phantasy involved. I could write a
whole book of experiences of this type-yet how could I be certain
thatthese were, after all, astral body projections?
That a dreamer, in a clairvoyant dream, can see scenes and events
which are occurring elsewhere on the earth plane-and believe he has
really projected to that .place, is a fact. Many investigators know
this to be true. I know it to be true also. One can see events and
scenes, in his dreams, which are taking place upon higher planes,
and believe that he has projected into these spirit planes, when he
actually has not done so.
This is, in fact, the way in which much information concerning
"spirit-life" has been obtained by individuals who assert that they
have been into the higher spirit realms. They have not actually
been projected into these realms; they merely believe that they
have-because of the apparent reality of the clairvoyant dream-
just as many believe that they have been projected to some
distant earthly point, when they have merely seen that place in
the clairvoyant dream.
It is important to remember this : During sleep one can often see
distant earthland scenes and occurrences without projecting-and
yet think he actually has projected, and also see spiritland scenes
and occurrences and think he has projected. But this is not real,
conscious, astral projection. It is no more to be confused with astral
228 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
consciousness than it is with physical consciousness-which is the
same consciousness. There is no comparison at all ; one is a dream,
the other is a state of real consciousness.
No one who has ever had a true, conscious projection is likely to
believe that a clairvoyant dream is a conscious projection ; and, on
the other hand, anyone who has ever experienced a real, conscious
projection knows that true consciousness is not to be confused with
dream consciousness. Suffice it to say that one can exist apart from
his physical body as fully alive and conscious as he can in the
physical body.
DEATH IS MERELY A PERMANENT PROJECTION
From our study of astral projection we should now have a fair
idea of "the passing" at the time of death ; for, after all, death is
but a permanent projection-a projection of the astral body, wherein
the subject does not return to animate his physical counterpart.
Most deaths are, without a doubt, unconscious. Dr. Bailie has
stated that "all his observations of death beds inclined him to
believe that nature intended that we should go out of the world as
unconscious as we came into it."1 And he adds: "In all my experi-
ence I have not seen one instance in fifty to the contrary."
There are, however, exceptional cases, in which consciousness
seems to be retained to the very last. Sir Benjamin Brodie and
others have recorded such cases. Professor Hyslop had a valuable
article on the " Consciousness of Dying " in the ] ournal of the
S.P.R. (June, 1898). He makes it a point that, in view of this
undoubted fact that the patient seems to be conscious of his own
passing, and inasmuch as it would be impossible, theoretically, for
consciousness ever to be conscious of its own extinction, the appear-
ance is that consciousness is being merely withdrawn, and not
extinguished.
One may consider himself lucky indeed if death takes place while
he sleeps, and is not brought about through violence. Violent death
is a great shock to the consciousness, and implants the " stress " of
the shock in the subconscious mind ; and, in many cases, the victim
remains in a condition of semi-insanity, in the earth's atmosphere
-as we have seen in several cases quoted in this book. The stress
of a violent death, which is put into the subconscious mind, not
infrequently causes the victim to live over and over again his
death in his astral body-obsessed himself and sometimes obsessing
others.
However, it is quite probable that permanent projection (death)
and temporary projection are very similar in nature, and that no
two persons would have exactly the same experience in" passing";
1 It is interesting to know that there are persons who claim to have been conscious
of their own birth. And the !?resent writer is one of them. Warrington Dawson
had an article in Health and Life magazine recently on this subject.-S.M.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 229
some would pass out of the body consciously ; others would be in
a partially conscious condition; while the majority undoubtedly
would leave their bodies while quite unconscious. Some spirits who
have returned seem to have had a more or less clear consciousness
of "passing." In this connection, allow me to quote a few para-
graphs from a reported case, in which a soldier, Private Dowding,
describes his own death, through the mediumship of Mr. Tudor-Pole:
" ... As you see, I hasten over these 'important' events-
important to me once, but now of no real consequence. How we
over-estimate the significance of things earthly l I was afraid of
being killed, and was sure it would mean extinction. There are
many who still believe that. It is because extinction has not come
to me that I want to speak to you.
"Physical death is nothing. There is really no cause for fear.
Some of my pals grieved for me. When I went West they thought
I was dead for good. This is what happened. I had a perfectly
clear memory of the whole incident. I was waiting at the corner of
a traverse to go on guard. It was a fine evening. I had no special
intimation of danger, until I heard the whizz of a shell. Then
followed an explosion somewhere behind me. I crouched down
involuntarily, but was too late.
"Some thing struck, hard, hard, hard, against my neck. Shall I
ever lose the memory of that hardness ? It is the only unpleasant
incident that I can remember. I fell, and as I did so, without
passing through any apparent interval of unconsciousness, I found
myself outside myself I You see I am telling my story simply ; you
will find it easier to understand. You will know what a small
incident dying is.
" Think of it I One moment I was alive, in the earthly sense,
looking over a trench parapet, unalarmed, normal. Five seconds
later I was standing outside my body, helping two of my pals carry
my body down the trench labyrinth towards a dressing-station....
I seemed in a dream. I had dreamt that some one or something
had knocked me down. Now I was dreaming that I was outside
my body. 'Soon,' I thought, ' I shall wake up and find myself in the
traverse, waiting to go on guard.' " 1
Later, Private Dowding wrote : " When I lived in the physical
body I never thought much about it. I knew very little about
physiology. Now I am living under other conditions I remain
uncurious as to that through which I express myself.
"By this I mean that I am still evidently in a body of some sort,
but I can tell you very little about it. It has no interest for me. It
is convenient. It does not tire. It seems similar in formation to my
1 Apparently Private Dowding was ' dreaming true,' i.e. dreaming of the action
which was actually taking place. He realized also that he was dreaming, and
believed that he would soon wake up. This is strikingly similar to dreaming true
during temporary projection.-S.M.
Sl
230 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
old body. There is a subtle difference, but I cannot attempt analy-
sis.... Each of us creates his own purgatorial conditions. If I had
my time over again, how differently I should live my life I . . . I
neither lived enough among my fellow-men nor interested myself
sufficiently in their affairs."
We find many points in Private Dowding's tale which agree with
what we have learned from temporary astral projection. Thus,
Caroline D. Larson, in ker book, My Travels in the Spirit World,
states that on one occasion she actually witnessed the astral body
pass in and out of the physical body (of a dying man) several times
and finally leave it. Mrs. Larson tells the incident as follows:
" Mr. G. was well known to both my husband and myself, although
it could not be said that we were on friendly terms with him. He
was a man who indulged liberally in liquor, a failing which mastered
him time and again. Through some special trouble not necessary
to state here he lost his head completely and started a career of
drink and dope to which he finally succumbed.
" On the night he died, I harpened to be out in my spirit body.
Passing his home I went in. In bed lay Mr. G. in terrible convul-
sions caused by an overdose of dope and liquor. Beside his bed
stood two men who, I knew, were also trying to do something for
him. (This was later verified through the efforts of my husband.)
"Suddenly I saw Mr. G. rise up in his astral body and step out
entirely from his physical counterpart. At once he started an eager
and thorough search .all round the bed for a half-filled bottle of
whiskey and a small bottle of narcotics which he had secreted. He
found them and endeavoured to lift them to his mouth~ Failing in
this, an expression of chagrin spread over his face. Then he went
up to his body and swiftly he connected with it once more.
" In a short while he again stepped out of his mortal form only to
go through the same performance. This he did several times and it
was strange to observe that every time he left his body it became
still in death and that as soon as he connected with it, it writhed
in fearful convulsions.
" Finally he came out for the last time, and just as he started to
look for the bottles again he suddenlycaught sight of me. Straighten-
ing up he looked me full in the eyes with an expression of stupefied
surprise. Then turning away, he staggered out of the house com-
pletely confused in his mind and ignorant of the fact that he had
left behind his physical form which he was never to inhabit again.
"It was significant that each time that he stepped out of his
physical body his aura instantly covered him with a dress similar to
a sack suit he always wore. But it was of brown colour, denoting
the lack of any spiritual development."
Andrew Jackson Davis witnessed more than one death scene,
through his ability to see astrally, and has stated that no two deaths
are alike viewed either from the physical or the astral plane. In
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 23I
his Harmonial Philosophy he has given the following description of
one case which he observed :
"A human being lies on the bed, and is indeed actually dying.
It is to be a rapid death. The physical body grows negative and
·cold, in proportion as the elements of the spiritual body become
wann and positive. The feet become cold frrst. The clairvoyant
sees right over the head what may be called a magnetic halo-an
ethereal emanation, golden in appearance and throbbing as though
conscious.
" Now the body is cold up to the knees and elbows. The legs are
then cold to the hips and the arms to the shoulders. The emanation
is more expanded, though it has not risen higher in the room. The
death-coldness steals over the breast and around on either side.
The emanation has attained a position nearer the ceiling. The
person has ceased to breathe, the pulse is still.
" The emanation is elongated and fashioned in the outline of the
human form. It is connected with the brain. The head of the
person throbs internally-a slow, deep throb, not painful, but like
the beat of the sea. The thinking faculties are rational, while nearly
every part of the person is dead. The golden emanation is connected
with the brain by a very fine life-thread.
" On the body of the emanation there appears something white
and shining, like the human head; next comes a faint outline of the
face divine; the fair neck and beautiful shoulders manifest, and
then in rapid succession all parts of the new body down to the feet
-a bright shining image, somewhat smaller than the physical, but
a perfect prototype in all its details....1
" The fine life-thread continues attached to the old brain. The
next thing is the withdrawal of this electrical principle. When the
thread snaps the spiritual body is free....,,
Death, however, is a question which holds but little place in the
minds of the majority, and we have discussed it here only in so far
as it relates to the projection of the astral body. It never seems to
occur to the average individual that some day he is going to die.
If the thought (of his own death) does occur to him, he casts it out
of his mind as something horrible. This is a curious paradox indeed,
when we consider how strong is the instinct of self-preservation in
all mortals.
Few philosophers have devoted much serious attention to the
question. Mr. Carrington seems to be the foremost writer upon the
subject, having written several books upon the nature of death. As
Professor Fournier D'Albe, in his New Light on Immortality says:
"The twentieth century is too busy to occupy itself much with
1 One might get the impression from this de~cription that Davis saw the astral
body in the process of creation, at the time of death. What the seer observed was
the etheric body becoming more and more visible to his eyes, through the aura which
enveloped it.-S.M.
232 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
the problems presented by death and what follows it. The man of
the world makes his will, insures his life, and dismisses his own death
with the scantiest forms of politeness. The churches, once chiefly
interested in the ultimate fate of the soul after death, now devote
the bulk of their energies to moral instruction and social ameliora-
tion. Death is all but dead as an overshadowing doom and an all-
absorbing subject of controversy.
"The spectacle of z,ooo,ooo,ooo human beings rushing to their
doom, with no definite knowledge of what that doom may be, and
yet taking life as it comes, happily and merrily enough as a rule,
seems strange and almost unaccountable. The spectacle somewhat
resembles that inside a prison during the Reign of Terror, when
prisoners passed their time in animated and ever gay converse,
not knowing who would be called out next to be trundled to the
scaffold.
"Every year some 40,ooo,ooo human corpses are consigned to the
earth. A million tons of human flesh and blood and bone are dis-
carded as of no further service to humanity, to be gradually trans-
formed into other substances, and perhaps other forms of life.
Meanwhile the human race, in its myriad forms, lives and thrives...."
" Death is a topic on which philosophers have been astonishingly
commonplace, ..." says Professor F. C. S. Schiller, of Oxford
University. "Spinoza was right in maintaining that there is no
subject concerning which the sage thinks less than about death-
which, nevertheless, is a great pity, for the sage is surely wrong.
There is no subject concerning which he, if he is an idealist and has
the courage of his opinion, ought to think more, and ought to have
more interesting things to say...."
At one extreme is the Materialist, proclaiming that death means
the complete extinction of the individual. At the other extreme is
the Spiritualist, maintaining that death is but the beginning of a
greater life. And between these two schools of thought there exists
an army of cults, religions and creeds, most of them regarding death
as a " curse," which has been bestowed upon humanity.
Surely it is not death which is the curse : It is life I " Life " with
its pains, its turmoils and its hardships, is the curse which has. been
bestowed upon mankind. No future state of happiness is worth
suffering for ; nothing can compensate for the pains and torments
of life.1 One must be a Stoic indeed to be able to live in joy on
another plane, knowing at the same time that others are suffering
on this plane. Such a person, in my estimation, does not deserve to
be happy. Is it possible that spirits lose that divine trait, " sym-
pathy"?
" Oh death, where is thy sting ? Oh grave, where is thy victory ? "
is indeed Stoic philosophy. There is a sting in death: the dying
mother clutching her babe ; the dying father leaving the wolf at
' r~!~ H~~~f..!~p ! Pare Medireval Chri&ti~Pity 1-H,C,
THE PROjECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 233
the door of his half-raised family; the lover weeping o'er the cold
corpse of his sweetheart-Oh death! there is thy sting; oh grave!
there is thy victory I
For my part I see life as the curse. I regret that life exists. No
mortal mind can advance even the weakest argument in defence of
life. I regret that the Materialist is mistaken. I regret that death
does not end all. I wish that death would bring one long and
dreamless sleep. But alas, my experiences have proved conclusively
to me that-" dust thou art and to dust retumeth "-was not
written of the Soul.
CHAPTER XVI
S
INCE destiny has willed that we must live in spite of our
pessimism ; since there is no extinction of the human mind,
even in death, we may as well (and no doubt will profit by
so doing) make the best of life and turn our thoughts into
more optimistic channels, with the hope that the Riddle. of Life,
when solved, will far surpass our fondest expectations, and that
the dictates of our intelligence (that life is tragic) may prove futile
in the distant future. So, let us again turn our attention to astral
projection and, by way of conclusion, touch upon a few more or
less disconnected after-thoughts which have arisen in my mind
and relate to our subject.
PROJECTl'ON DURING THE SLEEP OF AN.lESTHESIA
We have devoted our principal interest, in the foregoing pages,
to that type of projection which occurs during natural sleep, and,
I think, discussed hypnotically induced projection enough to
become familiar with what has been, and what we may expect to
see, accomplished along this line.
We did not, however, more than mention the fact that projection
. often occurs under the sleep of anresthesia, and that this field, too,
bids fair for further development. An interesting out-of-the-body
experience, under the sleep of anresthesia, is given in Theosophy,
or Spiritual Dynamics, by J)r. George Wyld.
He had been inhaling chloroform to allay the pain of passing
a small renal calculus, when he was astonished to find himself
clothed, possessed of normal reasoning faculties, and standing
about two yards away, observing his own motionless physical body
upon the bed.
He was enabled to understand the significance of the revelation,
while standing there, and later learned that others were able to
corroborate his experience, which brought him to the conclusion
that sensation is centred in the subtle body, and that the effect of
an ancesthetic is to drive that body out of its physical abode, thus
rendering the latter incapable of feeling pain.
H. Ernest Hunt, who collected the testimony of a number of
persons who had undergone out-of-the-body experiences while
under the sleep of ancesthesia, states that :
" The tales they tell are essentially the same, and unless one is
quite gratuitously to assume that they are all telling lies and, more
234
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 235
wonderful still, the same lie, it is only reasonable to suppose that
they tell the truth."
Some of them have assured the writer that they have watched
the operations upon their own bodies-as if the tenant had left the
house while it was being repaired-and that they were looking
downward at the physical body from above it, and that they saw,
heard and remembered everything that transpired.
J. Arthur Hill, in Man is Spirit, tells of a Miss Hinton who, at
the age of seventeen, was put under chloroform in order that some
of her teeth might be removed. Her return to consciousness was
delayed, resulting in much alarm, but when she did awaken she
said that she had been above her physical body, around which those
present were gathered, and that she had tried, without success, to
talk to them. Supposing herself dead she had wondered why she
was not being judged !
Such experiences as these show conclusively that in addition to
experiments in astral projection, during natural sleep, there is a
wide field for medical experiment through the use of amesthetics.
A PECULIAR DREAM
In Why We Survive, a fine little book by Mr. Hunt, whom I have
just mentioned, a London friend of that author has related a
peculiar dream which, incidentally, is in many respects a very
common out-of-the-body dream.
" She (the dreamer) found herself, on one occasion--of course in the
the dream-upon the roof of a building, and for some. reason or
other was particularly interested in a cord which she took to be,
quite prosaically, a clothesline looped over the roof.
u Curiosity led her to follow-up this line as it went over the
edge of the roof and into a bedroom window. It led her to a bed
in which lay her own sleeping body, and immediately upon the
recognition of this she found herself awake and in her own body
once more."
I have had dreams similar to the foregoing many times, and
coincidental as it may seem, I too had an inclination to follow
what I thought to be a clothesline, which always led me to my
physical body. I became so accustomed to this dream that I knew
(in the dream) as I followed the line along that I would find my
body at the end of it.
I had 1ntended to discuss this typical dream under the heading
"Typical Projection Dreams," but allowed more important aspects
of the phenomena to predominate in my mind, and thus overlooked
it at the time. In this dream one seems to be very inquisitive as to
just what the cord is, and where it leads to, and one is always very
anxious to follow it back to the physical body.
What is thought to be a clothesline, unwound thread, or what
not, in the dream, is, of course, the extended astral cable at its
236 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
minimum diameter, and the impression to follow it up is merely
another way in which the mind impresses the strolling dream-body
to return to its physical counterpart.
THERE MAY .BE OTHER METHODS
I hope that no on'e, after a perusal of the methods of inducing
astral projection given in this work, will form the idea that I have
set forth the last word on the subject ; for this would not be the
case. I have merely unfolded the methods with which I am
familiar. There may be, for ought I know, valuable information
relating to the modus operandi in the possession of others. As an
example of this, there are said to be several "MetaphysicalSocieties,"
in which occultly inclined students may enrol and, when such
students have advanced to the degree where they are admitted to
the " inner-circle," they then (it is claimed) receive the necessary
secret instructions for leaving-their-bodies, visiting spiritual realms,
and obtaining therefrom direct information. What method is
followed in such Institutions, and what success is derived by their
students, I do not know.
Aside from these societies, there are any nt~-mber of individuals
who maintain that they are in possession of occult knowledge which
enables them to project in the astral. Whether their methods overlap
any which I have given-and I believe that they must necessarily
do so-l have never been able to learn. So, again, I wish to repeat
that I do not claim to have given the last word on the matter, but
only the facts which I personally understand.
A PROPHECY
We have learned how the astral body is capable of travelling
through space, and I believe that the time is not far distant when,
through the mastery of certain subtle laws, all of us will be enabled
to travel through space physically, automatically, and at will,
just as the astral is capable of doing. It is true that we have ships-
of-the-air ; yet physical modes of conveyance will not be perfect
until we can move through space automatically. I expect to see
many developments, in which the physical body is made to over-
come gravity and take on motive force, in the future.
ALL POSSESS THE POWERS OF PROJECTION
Astral projection is not a gift to a chosen few ; every living
soul has latent forces at his disposal which merely require the
proper manipulation. A prevalent idea is that one who is capable
of projecting is one who is gifted with a peculiarly abnormal astral
entity, much different from his fellow-beings; but I assure you
that the physical body plays as important a part in the phenomenon
as does the astral, and usually the abnormality is not existent in the
astral body but in the physical body.
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY 237
CONCERNING MORALS
While I do not wish to preach on the subject of morals, I desire
to point out once more-what has been pointed out in every age-
that all of us should strive to lead an honest and good life. It is
most important that we guard our thoughts and think no evil of
our fellow-beings, for our very thoughts create an astral environ-
ment around us, and revenge is a trait not unknown to the dwellers of
the astral world.
Let me call your attention once more to the unpleasant (fEn-
counter With an Astral Fiend," which I had, and which resulted
merely because I had thought evil toward the man mentioned in the
account given. I urge you, especially if you attempt the practice
of projection, to heed the warning of Confucius and " speak no
evil, hear no evil, see no evil." If you do not, you may meet with
experiences which will cause you to believe that the whole atmo-
sphere is filled with enemies. And this brings us to another
consideration' which is :
THE DEMON THEORY
The most common and the most effective objection raised against
occult science, especially Clairvoyance, Hypnotism, etc., is the
demon theory, i.e. that all such manifestations are the works of the
Devil or of evil spirits. In the past few years a powerful religious
organization (with which, no doubt, all my readers are acquainted)
has launched a crusade against occult practices.
Some idea of the extent and success of their campaign may be
gained by observing the fact that the 1928 edition of one of their
books exceeded 3,5oo,ooo copies. And they have published a score
of similar books I Their resources seem inexhaustible. They have
delivered their lectures over the greatest radio hook-up on earth,
and have their canvassers in the most remote of villages.
Besides this there are other strong organizations bent upon a
like purpose, as well as individuals, like O'Donnell, who stoutly
insist that all occult phenomena are of the Devil's origination I
Consequently many investigators of the occult have been turned
away from their researches and studies, especially after turning
the facts over in their minds and considering the contradictions
of mediums and the lack of information imparted by returning
spirits.
CONCLUSION
To all those seeking the truth on this question, i.e. whether
psychic phenomena are from the spirit of man or from the ingenuities
of the Devil, I wish to say that, once you experience the p · ction
of your astral body, you will no longer doubt that the i 'dual
can exist apart from his physical body. No longer will you be
238 THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
forced to accept theories. No longer will you be forced to base your
belief in immortality upon the word of the Medium, the Pastor, or
the Holy Books, for you will have the proof for yourself-as sure
and as self-evident as the fact that you are physically alive.
For my part, had a book on immortality never been written, had
a lecture on " survival " never been uttered, had I never witnessed
a seance or visited a medium ; in fact, had no one else in the whole
world ever suspected " life after death," I should still believe
implicitly that I am immortal-for I have experienced the projection
of the astral body.
INDEX
A
D'Albe, Dr. Fournier, 231-32
D'Assier, Adolphe, x:x.i.v, 59
Akashic Records, the, 22o-22
Ana;sthesia, projection during, 234
Astral cable, and umbilical cord,
8o-81
Astral Fiend, encounter with an,
216-17
Astral line of force, where contacts,
82-83
Atkinson, W. W., 2, 3
Automatic projection, 185-87
B
Bailie, Dr., 228
Berry, Dr. R. J. A., 68
Bertrand, Rev. L. J., case of, xxvili
Brodie, Sir Benj., 228
c
Cable, astral, 29
Car:riDgton, Hereward, xv-xxxv, 55,
58-59, 63, 68, 69-7o, 71-72, 73,
75-76, 78, 88-89, 91, 102, 138,
141-42, 145, 161, 175, 207, 219,
221-2i, 231
Carson, Dr. C. H., 219
Catalepsy, astral, Io-II :ff.
Christ's miracles, 79-80
Clairvoyant Dreams versus Astral
Projectjon, 225-27
Clothing of the Phantom, 208-II
Collision and astral projection, 17-
18
Composition of the astral body,
205-6
Conscious interruptions, n-12
Conscious mind, the, 2o-21
Conscious projection, ,5-8
Conscious projection is rare, 163-
66
Consciousness, bringing, to the dream
body, I o6--9
Consciousness during astral projec-
tion, 95
Consciousness of Self, developing,
I 5o-52
Consciousness uses up energy, 94
Cord-activity range, 29-34, 74, :ff.
Cosmic energy, 86-87
Crookes, Sir William, 203
Crypto-conscious mind, 179-83, 195-
203, :ff.
D
Dangers of projection, alleged, v-vi,
xvi, 163
Davis, A. J., 93. 138, 204-5, 207,
23o-3I
Dawson, Warrington, 228 n.
Death and Life, 228-33
Delusions of senses, during hypnotic
trance, 6o-62
Demon Theory, the, 237
Desire, an actuating factor, n6-17
Diet, question of, 161
Distant-point projection, 12-13
Dowding, Private, case of, 229-30
Downer, Dr. W. H., 85
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 203
Dream versus Real Consciousness,
227-28
Dream, a peculiar, 235
Dream consciousness not real con-
sciousness, 227-28
Dream control, 71-72
Dream control method of projection,
99-105
Dream delusions, 49-50
Dream world, the, 97-99
Dreaming true, 95-96
Dreams of projection, typical, 155-.58
Dual vision, 54-56
Dunne, W. J., 224
Duplicate and shifting motivity, 64
Duplicate sense of touch, 56-59
Duplicate sensibility and obsession,
62
Durville, H., xxv, xxix-xxx
239
INDEX
E
Earthbound spirits, 19o-91
Earthbound phantoms, not numerous,
216
Eccentricities of the senses, 53-56
Electrocution case, 187-89
Ellis, Havelock, xxi
Enervation, the factor, 123-24
Ephemeral projection, 15-16
Epilepsy, cause of, 52
Evans-Wentz, Dr. W. Y., xxii-xxiv
Experience, necessity for, v-vi
F
Factors which stimulate the sub-
conscious will, uo-16
Fakirs, 77-78
Falling dreams, 41-46 ff.
Familiar versus Unfamiliar Places,
I2Q-II
Fasting, foods, etc., 88~4
Fear, effects of, 92~3
Flammarion, Camille, IIO
Flapping dreams, 47
Flournoy, Th., 197~8
Flying dreams, 42-43, 46-47 ff.
Foods, fasting, etc., 88~4
Four brains of Man, 84
Fox, Oliver, xxx-xxxiv
Fundamental law of astral projection,
18-19
Funk, Dr. I. K., xxv, xxvii
Future events, enacting, in dream
body, 222-24
G
Geley, Dr. Gustave, 86
Goodrich, Miss, vii
Gurney, Edmund, 176, 177
H
Hall, Prescott F., xxv, 28, 8g
Hallock, Charles, xxiv
Hamid Bey, 77
Harraden, L. A., 6o
Hartmann, Dr. Franz, xxiv
Haunted houses, 121-23
Head snapping, 138 n.
Head thumping dream, 47-48
Heart, controlling, 146-50
Heindel, Max, xvi n.
Hess, Mrs., M. E., 62
Hodgson, Dr. Richard, xx, 220 n.
Holmes, A. C., xxv
Horton, Lydiard H., xxi-xxii
Hunt, H. Ernest, 234-36
Hutchinson, Horace G., xxi
Hypnagogic state, 22-24
Hyslop, Dr. James H., 218-19, 228
I
Incapacity, meaning of, 20, 126-28,
13o-32, 145-50
Insanity, 52, 53
Instability, effect of, 51-53
Instantaneous astral projection, 15,
16-17
Intentional and unintentional pro-
jection, 19-20
Interrelation of physical and astral
bodies, 203-5
Irene, case of, 193~4
J
James, William, 218
Janet, P., 192
K
Ka, the, xxii
L
Lancelin, Charles, :x:vii, xviii, xxix,
73· 1 14
Lang, Andrew, xix-xx
Larsen, Caroline D., xxvi, 2II, 230
Law, fundamental, 18-19
Leadbeater, C., xxiv
Leaning, F. E., 22 n.
Leavitt, C. Franklin, 154-55
Levi, Eliphas, xxiv
Levitation, 203
Life and death, 228-33
Light, a negative factor, 138-42
Lindlahr, Dr. H., 87~88, 205-6
Lodge, Sir Oliver J., 65-66, 81, 205,
206
Lombroso, C., 138
M
McDougall, Dr. Duncan, 208
McDougall, Prof. William, 220 n.
Material objects sometimes moved by
phantom, 121-22
Materialization, xl
Matla, Dr., 207-8
INDEX
Mead, G~ R. S., xxiv
Mental body, the, 157 n.
Methods of projection, other, 236
Metronome incident, xxxviii-ix
Morals, concerning, 237
Morbidity, and projection, 14-I5
Moses, William Stainton, 175
Myers, F. W. H., x.ix, xxv, xxviii
N
Nervous temperament, subjects of,
73-74
Nocturnal paralysis, 22, 23
Noises, effects of, 34· 96-97
0
Obsession, :u8-2o
O'Donnell, Elliott, 2IO n.
p
Palladino, Eusapia, 65-66
Paracelsus, xxiv
Passive will method of projection,
I68-7I .
Passive will, the, I66--68
Peibles, Dr., 219
Personalexperiences,xxxiv-v
Pfuhl, Carl, 67
<Phantom without feeling, at times,
59-00
Phantoms of the dead, dominated by
"stress," etc., I2I
Phantasmal object, dream of, 48-49
Physical objects, moved, 2oo-1
Pineal gland, 84-85
Piper, Mrs. L. E., xx, xxii, 138 n.
Pituitary body, 85-86
Positive (minor) factors in projec-
tion, 133-37
Powell, Major A. E., xxiv
Prana, 90-91 ff.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 220 n.
Projector cannot get lost, 74-75
Projection, all possess powers of, 236
Projection dreams, 37-41
Projection, dynamization, of 152-54,
171-72 ff.
Projection to water, 161-2
Projection, types of, I I
Projections, some typical, 173-78
Prolonged projection, 74
Proper dream will proje9t the
phantom, IOI-t •
Prophecy, a, 236
Purgatory, theory of, 212-14
Pythagoras, 206
R
Raps, produced at will, 65-67
Raps, produced during a dream,
20I-3
Raupert, J. Godfrey, 219
Recharged, during projection, 75-77
Repercussion noises, 137-38
Repercussion of the astral body,
34-36
Repercussion, telepathic, 142-44
Richmond, CoraL. V., 76, 77, 212
Route the phantom travels, 26-27
s
Schiller, F. C. S., 232
Schopenhauer, 93
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. von, 203
Sensation and emotion, 24-25
Sex, of astral body, 203
Sexual desire, and a.iiltral projection,
II9-20
Shine, M. Gifford, xxiv
Silver Cord, xvi
Sleep, and energy, 22-24, 68-71 ff.
Somnambulism, astral, II ·
Spinoza, 232
Stress, phantom governed by, II7-19
Stress, the proper, 125
Stress of routine, how to instil,
158-59
Stress of thirst, how to instil, 159-61
Superconscious projection, a, 183-85
Symptoms of astral exteriorization,
27-29
T
Telekinesis, I95-203
Telepathic repercussion, I42-44
Thirst, and astral projection, I28-3o
Thought sustains the astral body,
2I4-I6
Three moving speeds, the, 13-14
Tudor-Pole, 229-30
Turning over in the air, 83-84
v
van Eeden, Dr. F., 55, 56, 72
van Manen, Johan, xxiv
Vin Z:~l3t, ~1\~lberg, ~o7,S
INDEX
Vibration, of astral body, 3-4 .
Victims of violent death, 189-94
Vishita, Swami Bhakta, 85, 90-91
w
Waite, A. E., xxiv
Walsh, Dr. WilliamS., 20, 22, 37-39,
40, 41, 43. 6g, 128, 130
Weight of astral body, 207-8
Wickland, Dr. Carl, 219.
Will, what is ? 1.54, .55
Will, passive, the, 166-68
Wiltse, Dr., case of, xxvii-viii
Witchcraft, 58, 59
y
Yoga, 91 :ff.
z
Zone of quietude, the, 6g fi.
