{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__tissot___silent_friend.pdf","mytitle":"Silent Friend","mylang":"de"}
THE
SILENT FRIEND:
A MEDICAL WORK,
ON THE DISORDERS PRODUCED BY THE DANGEROUS EFFECTS OF '
ONANISM,
ALL ITS DREADFUL C O N SE Q U E N C E S #C O N S ID E ® ]j^ Q ^ .
INCLUDING
NERVOUS AND SEXUAL DEBILITY, IM PO TEN C Y , &.O.
VENEREAL AND SYPHILITIC DISEASES,
WITH
PLAIN DIRECTIONS FOR THE REMOVAL OF
SECONDARY SYMPTOMS, GONORRHOEA OR CLAP, GLEETS,
STRICTURES, WHITES, AND ALL DISEASES OF THE
URINARY PASSAGES,
Without the use of M ercury, Confinement, or Hinderance from Business;
FOLLOWED BY
General Instructions for the perfect restoration of those who are incapaci­
tated from entering into the holy (State of
MARRIAGE;
BY THE EVIL CONSEQUENCES ARISING FROM EARLY ABUSE, OR SYPHILITIC
INFECTION J
ILLUSTRATED BY ENGRAVINGS.
BY R. AND L. PERRY ANDCO.,
jrEONS,
44, Albion-street
l:
CONSULTING SURGEONS,
4, Great Charles-street, Birmingham, and 44, Albion-street, Ieed9.
BIRMINGHAM:
PU BLISH ED BY THE AUTHORS,
A nd S o ld by S tra n g e , 21, P a te r n o s te r - r o w ; W ilson, 18, B ish o p g ate-
s t r e e t ; P u rk e ss, C o m p to n -stre e t, S o h o ; Jackson & Co, 130,
N ew B o n d -s tre e t, L o n d o n ; an d by a l l B o o k s e lle rs
in t h e U n ite d K ingdom .
Cen tered at station er’s hall.]
S S § tged by Google
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS.
Advice to Patients ......................................................................
Aetius, on Self-Abuse ......................................................................
Barrenness ................... . . . ................................ .
---------------- cure for . . . ......................................................
Bones, affections of t h e .................................... . . . . . . . .
Bubo, how to d isp e r se .....................................................................
BufTon, on the effects of Onanism
Cases of Patients ...................... ......................................
Celibacy, the Duty of its Observance ......................................
Chancres ......................................................................................
— . different forms of, with their various treatment . . . .
Chordee .................................... ......................................
------------- treatment for its cure ...................................... . . .
Cleanliness, its importance .................... . ......................
Coition, when useful and when detrimental .......................
C o rd ia l B a lu of S tria cu m , its effects in cases of Debility, resulting
from Self-Pollution ......................................................
------------------------------------------- its advantages combined with cold bathing
------------------------------------------security against counterfeits. . . .
19
59
61
119
100
17
134
49
110
112
97
98
122
25
38
70
72
75
Disease, ..................
Eruptions, Venereal, ou the face and skin
--------------------------------cure for . . . .
Pluor Albus ......................................
Galen’s remarks on Semen ................
G le e t ................................................................
---------its treatment and cure ..................
---------M u c o u s ..............................................
Gonorrhma or Clap ................................
----- treatment for its cure ..................
Groin, Swelling of, how to reduce
Hippocrates, on Self-Pollution . . . .
Hoffman, on ditto . . . . . . . .
Impotency, with directions for its cure
Incidental Diseases ......................
L. D. case of ......................................
Lomntius, on Self-Abuse . . . .
Louvain on ditto . . . . ; . . .
directions for taking the . . . .
its efficacy in every stage of the Venereal
94, 98, 102, 104, 107, 117, 180, & 126
114
117
53
17
102
104
104
86
90
100
19
21
55
107
30
20
21
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS.
Marriage ................................................................... . . . .
------------proper age f o r ........................................................................
------------its disqualifications .......................................................
------------ directions, to be observed previous to its contraction
Patients, Notices to
Pediculi, or Crab-lice, remedy for ......................................
Perry & Co., Messrs, their address ......................................
Phymosis and Paraphymosis, with directions for their cure . . . .
Pox, confirmed, its dreadful consequences......................................
Public Medicines, remarks on ........................ . . . . . . . .
P urifying Spec ific P il l s, security against counterfeits . . . .
Disease, . . . . 90,93,94,98,99,100,101,104, 107,117.118,120 & 126
Sanctorius on Self Pollution . . . . . . . .
Self Pollution . . . . ......................................
------------------- its sinfulness . . . . . . . .
Semen, evidences of its importance . . . .
Seminal Weakness . . . . ......................
Sexual Power, decay o f ......................................
Sore Throat, Venereal, its treatment and cure
Sponging the Body, its beneficial effects . . .
Sterility ......................................................
■ its causes ......................................
■ cure for •• •• ......................
Strangury, directions for its cure . . . .
Stricture ......................................................
------------ Spasmodic,how brought on . . . .
------------its treatment and cure . . . . . . . .
Syphilis and Secondary Symptoms . . . .
Testicle, Swelling of, how to reduce . . . .
Tissot, on Self Abuse ......................................
Tulpius on ditto . . . . .*...................
Turn of Life ......................................................
Venereal D isease, observations on . . . .
—' how introduced to the system
------------------------ Ulcers and Sores . . . .
Verspretius, Case of ......................................
U lcers......................................................................
Warts . . . . ...................... ......................
.... 128
130
49 & 133
... 122
144
107
.... 73
.... 98
83
.... 76
.... 72
>real
120 & 126
20
. 10
63
24
41
18
118
71
69
60
61
95
106
107
. 107
108
99
22
20
62
77
80
120
20
110
114
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
In commencing our remarks on the highly important
subject of Self-Pollution, we cannot impress too
strongly on ourreaders the Divine ordinance, “ increase
and multiplyfor by constantly bearing in mind the
object for whichwe were sent into this world, it will at
once be seenhow sinful must be thapractices of those,
who, by fatally anticipating the purposes of Nature,
are incapable of procreation, and entail everlasting
misery, shame, and ignominy on themselves here and
hereafter, The seminal liquor, it must be observed,
is the richest and most powerful of all the animal se*,
cretions; it is, in fact, the very essence of life; it
is the fluid that strengthens our bodies, and, by ren­
dering our nervous system powerful, enables us to
exercise our memory, imagination, and judgment for
our worldly benefit and happiness. Now, if this im­
portant fluid is wasted, what results must follow ? In
the first place the nervous system of the masturbator
becomes impaired, the brain, the heart, and lungs
become impoverished, and hence arise melancholy,
impotency, a bewildered mind, nervousness, and a
general decay of the system; ’tis then ! that the truth
flashes across his mind, and he becomes aware of the
extreme wretchedness of his situation, and that he is
no longer a proper object of society; a complete i«W
it
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
becile, incapable of sexual intercourse ; a man only in
form, but not in substance, without the power of ex­
ercising his functions either of mind or body: the
former participating in the disease, becomes morbidly
affected, and distrust, fear, extreme sensitiveness, and
frequently madness ensues^
Here then arises a proof of the importance and ne-i
cessity of the arrangement whereby some well inforau
ed members of the medical profession, should devote
their exclusive attention to the Diseases arising from
the undue* excitement of the generative system, to­
gether with those incidental forms of acute disorder,
which, if neglected, terminate in the horribly wasting
forms of constitutional disorganization.
To this part of the subject we have paid the most
anxious and untiring attention from a very early period
of our professional career. It is one, in fact, in which
not a day passes in which we are not consulted either
by professional visit, or by correspondents in different
parts of the kingdom, and we feel that we are not ex­
ceeding the limits of truth, or transgressing the
bounds of professional etiquette, in asserting that our
mode of practice, suggested and improved by long
and multiplied experience, has been productive of the
happiest and most successful results in the treatment
of sexual debility in both sexes; and during our prac­
tice we have too frequently marked the great extent
of constitutional disease, primarily springing from neg­
lect or mal-treatment of syphilitic diseases. Every
medical man who will make it his study, as it has
"V
Digitized by Google
tarK O D U C T IO N . vii
1)6611 ours, to investigate as far as possible in every
case, the original channel through which disease or
constitutional disorder first found its entry into the
system, will be astonished atthe mass of human suffer­
ing which may be traced up to a venereal origin,
although its primary symptoms may have been for
years, apparently, eradicated from the frame. Nor do
the sources of this misfortune lie very deep from ob­
servation. The malady generally commences its
attack in early life, before experience has overcome
the short-sighted heedlessness of youth, and taught it
to look beyond the pains and pleasures of the passing
moment. Delicacy or shame will not allow him to
geek assistance, until the poison has acquired strength
and virulence too alarming to be neglected; and the pa­
tient then, instead of applying to his usual professional
friend, fliesto some unskilful practitioner,who tempora­
rily arrests the external symptoms, and discharges him
as cured. Thus mattersgo on until the maladybecomes
constitutional; and the patient is at last compelled to
place himself under the treatment of those, who, at an
earlier period, might have preserved his constitution
untainted, and his body comparatively uninjured by
the ravages of this insidious disease.
It is some years since the idea first occurred to
us that a popular treatise, divested as much as possible
of technical'language, would be of much avail in
counteracting the effects of the complaint, resulting
from mahtreatment or neglect. Under these impres­
sions we have ventured to submit the following pages,
and trust their utility may be acknowledged; we are
desirous of explaining that they are not intended to
Digitized by Google
viii INTRODUCTION.
supersede medical aid in any stage of the disorder,
but that, on the contrary, we would impress upon the
reader, if he need it, the prudence of having imme­
diate recourse to it, in the earliest stages of the dis­
ease. But where, from circumstances which in vene­
real complaints very frequently occur, the party cannot
have recourse to professional aid, the next best step
is certainly to place in his hands those medicines
which are most likely to be successful with himself.
In the following pages we have as briefly as possible
brought under the notice of the reader the causes,
varieties, symptoms, and peculiarities of those disor­
ders of the generative organs, which either partially or
totally obstruct them in the due discharge of those
important functions which they are ordained to per­
form in the human economy, and on the proper dis­
charge of which, not only rests the happiness of in­
dividuals in families, but also the welfare of empires ;
for it is not to be disputed that on the degree of vigour
and healthy action of those organs in the parents, de­
pends in a great measure the healtli of their offspring :
daily experience presents to our notice painful and not
unfrequently loathsome evidence of this fact. Hence
it behoves us, before entering the marriage state, to
enquire whether or not we are in such bodily health
as may ensure that our marriage bed shall not become
a hot-bed of disease, from whence nought but weak
and puny offspring shall be produced—living evi­
dences of our follies and brutally selfish passions.
How degraded, and utterly lost to all the finer feelings
-which alone ennoble us, must that man be, who,
knowing himself to be tainted by disease, or so debili-
A
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. ir
tated by early and guilty excesses, that^t is next to
impossible that he should give life to any but tainted
and doomed progeny—doomed in their mother’s
womb! yet dares to offer his polluted and shattered
frame at the pure shrine of female love.
To these causes may be traced much of that domes­
tic unhappiness we daily see, and many of the serious
diseases under which we suffer from one generation to
another; therefore, reader, if you be still unmarried,
let us beg of you, well to ponder on these truths—
truths, which if Jou neglect now, may at some future
time painfully and vividly be recalled in your oim
families.
Our attention for many years papt has been exclu-
siyely directed to the treatment of syphilitic diseases,
loss of sexual power, and such complaints as arise
more immediately from a disorganisation' of the gene­
rative system, whether constitutional or acquired; and
we now point out to suffering hmnanity the SILENT
FRIEND, as a medical adviser, to be consulted with
assured confidence of success.
R. k L. PERRY k Co.
Digitized by Google
THE
SILENT FRIEND,
ONANISM
AND
G E N E R A T I V E I N C A P A C I T Y , k c . k c .
Onanism is a practice denounced in various parts o f
the sacred writings, and is recorded in the 38th ch a p ­
ter of Genesis, as the crime of Onan, the son o f
Judah, with a view, no doubt, of transmitting to p o s­
terity his chastisement.* In scripture, besides th e
instance of Onan, we find self-polluters termed *effe­
minate,’ 4filthy,’ and 4abominable.’
Of all the varied causes by which diseases of d eb i­
lity and nervous relaxation are solicited and maintain­
ed, none are more common than too great evacuations
of any character, and certainly of all evacuations, that
of the semen is most to be feared, when carried b e­
yond the period of natural excitem ent: and it forms
a very interesting feature in this investigation, b q t
experience attests the fact, that though an unguarded
excess in sexual energy may be the fruitful parent
o f numerous derangements, yet the fact stands on th e
basis of physical experience, that an equal loss o f
semen by self-pollution is far more.productive of dis-
THE SILENT FRIEND. 11
ease, and still m ore to be dreaded in its final develope-
m ent, than regular intercourse.
From a know ledge o f these circum stances, it ap­
pears evident, that those individuals who suffer them ­
selves to be governed by passion rather than reason,
and whpse vivid im agination propels them into sensual
habits earlier than N ature destined, anticipate the
ability o f m anhood ere vigour has established her
em pire ; thus dem olishing the delicate groundwork of
physical energy, and soliciting a m anhood o f disgrace­
ful im becility. T his m aniacal act o f delusion not only
abridges the system o f its salutary and essential sup­
port, but also obstructs the power o f sem inal ex cite­
m ent ; and, by stim ulating the organs to transient
vigour, brings, ere m iddle life breaks on the sum mer
o f m anhood, all the sensitive infirm ities and foibles o f
a g e ; producing, in its im petuous current, such an
assem blage o f m orbid irritation, that even on trivial
occasions its excitem ent is o f so high and inflamm able
a character, and its endurance beyond the power o f
reason to su stain : and when the lucid interval breaks
through the dark clouds, what is the retrospection ?
w hat lights upon the m ind’s ey e? — all that is at anti­
podes w ith every honourable and honest fe e lin g !
because the more that reflection consolidates itself on
this surreptitious act, the m ore derogatory to every
thing manly appears this singular and extraordinary
deviation from correct deportm ent.
B y the repeated excitem ents o f this act, the consti­
tution is left in a deplorable state of health, and that
nervous m entality kept up w hich places the individual
in a state o f anxiety for the remainder o f life,— a kind
Digitized by Google
12 THB SILENT FBIEND.
of contingency, which it is difficult for language ade­
quately to describe: he vegetates, but lives not: hence
the consequences arising out of the ashes of this dan­
gerous Phoenix are not confined to its pure physical
result, but branch to moral ones, leading the excited
deviating mind into a fertile field of seductive error—
into a gradual and fatal degradation of manhppd—into
a pernicious and disgraceful application of those in­
herent rights which nature wisely instituted for the
preservatipn of her species. When once this destruc­
tive practice is established, down falls the barrier of
intellectual controul; for the mind, that changling of
social cultivated man, by a singular adjunction, be­
comes not the corrector, but the exciter and co-ope*
rator in defiance of culture, moral feeling, moral
obligation, and religious sensibility: thus the man,
who, in the attitude of youth and genius was endowed
with gaiety and sociality, becomes, ere twenty-five
summers shed their lustre on him, a misanthrope, and
a nadir-point of discontent! What moral region does
that man live in ? what moral feeling does he cherish,
that would not unite all the energies of his nature to
Stem the torrent of so fatal a cataract ? Is it nothing to
give license and tacit approbation to a weakness and
predilection that break through all the barriers of na­
ture,-and give to the individual a callous insensibility,
foreign to the native texture of his heart, by darken­
ing all the brilliant and enthusiastic prospects of the
future ? Is it nothing to surrender up all the refined
and manly enjoyments of social and conjugal inter­
course, and substitute in their places a deep and bar­
ren misery ? Is it nothing to light the solemn torch
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 13
that guides, by slow and melancholy steps, to the se­
pulchre of manhood, in the gay and fascinating spring
of youth and ardent desire ; when the brilliant fire of
passion, genius, and sentiment, ought to electrify the
whole frame ? Is it nothing to raise a host of sensa­
tions, all hostile to the natural ardency of youthful
passions ?
To begin the career of manhood by the abuse
of Nature’s functions, and that at a moment when
the system has not completed its organization, and
abounds with energy and passion, appears contra­
ry to all the rules of health and happiness: exclusively
absorbed by this principle, all the powers of mind and
system are wasted in delusive illusions, and an age of
care and anxiety follow s; for as it keeps the indivi­
dual in a state of perpetual effervescence, it is the
worst of all delusions ; and, under the varied forms of
its peculiar excitement, it produces morbid sensibility,
erratic imagination, and their consequent results—
hypochondriasm, hysteria, indigestion, &c.— which, on
their first approach, are considered of too slight a
character to merit attention: and thus d ay succeeds
day, till the whole system is environed with relative
or positive disease. That the dangerous consequences
of those delusive acts are not early felt, does not prove
they.never w ill: and if, in some iron constitutions,
its future results produce no physical consequences,
it still leaves upon the mind a painful impression, and
produces doubt, anxiety, and a dissatisfied future :
in fact, it has no counterbalancing advantage, nowre­
deeming quality; it is equally against physical and
moral purity; and, however modified by strength
of constitution or mind, ought not to be regarded with
Digitized by Google
14 THE SILENT FBIENDw
indifference : it is a catastrophe too fertile, indeed, to
be looked upon with indifference; and we hesitate
not to say, that, in its mischievous progress, it is the
herald of every baneful v ic e : and when the indivi­
dual, overwhelmed with disgrace, contempt, and
odium, can no longer sustain the excitement, the
mind, revolting against an existence that assimilates
to it nothing but unhappy aberrations, seeks peace
from its errors in suicide : it gradually diminishes the
sensibility of the organs; and generally produces
emaciation, which ends either in tabes or atrophy, for
this act sooner or later weakens the powers of diges­
tion : the bile, the gastric and pancreatic juices, all
become vitiated. In some habits, a few weeks’ indul­
gence in this infatuated propensity will induce these
diseases, either by sympathy or connection; and where
a predisposition to insanity exists, that derangement
follow s: it not only occasions impotency, by produ­
cing a paralysis o f the muscles concerned in sexual
energy, but it here destroys the excitement itself
An act so outrageously at variance with all the
established laws of the animal economy, can­
not, with any reference to moral conduct, be at
all countenanced: feeling and principle are equal­
ly uniform against it. Hence it is a bandage a-
gainst social, moral, and scientific harm ony; and
every stimulus should be produced that is likely to
contend with and overcome the folly of this hostile
excitem ent; as nature, principle, and every correct
feeling are hostile to this fearful practice. In its roll­
ing demonology, it allures gradually from one stage o f
degradation to another ; and the painful impression
Digitized by Google •
THE SILENT FRIEND. 15
it leaves on the mind stimulates on the individual
through all the excitements of unmanly pusillanimity.
It is an abandonment of the essential position
that he should occupy in society: look at it, in-*
deed, under any aspect, and the plainest facts de­
monstrate its pernicious tendency. Appeal to nature •
ask her the character of this horrid act; and in the
pure, calm, reflecting language of simplicity and
truth, she replies, that the deed is only in unison with
every thing that is injurious to physical, intellectual,
and moral operation; draining the constitution of its
vigour and vitality, and of every manly and virtuous
feeling ! It is a vampire, feeding on the vitals of its
victims: it renders them for ever ambiguous beings,
in the scale of manhood: they present the complex
idea of animal energy, without the corresponding re­
action of animal vitality.
By this practice a constant irritation is kept up in
the system, which, by its perpetual influence, renders
the delicate fibres of those organs callous to the
act of coition : for, by its repetition, the organs
of these parts are so familiarized to the dictates
of the imagination, that they are more readily excited
into action by this morbid and vitiated influence than
by the effect of their natural stimuli; and produce
that debility which must ever result from excessive
action, and that general weakness which is the morbid
consequence of power exerted beyond its natural
limits. Thus the foundation of an aversion to Paphi-
an pleasures is laid, and nocturnal emissions follow.
Some slight local irritation of the parts agitates the
first link of that chain of ideas which has been artifi-
Digitized by Google
16 THE SILENT FRIEND*
cially associated with the action of these organs;
uninterrupted by external impressions, the chain
continues; and the organs, undisturbed, continue to
perform their functions in compliance to this excite*
menjt. These repetitions are more than the natural
stimuli can hear, and appear to produce that insen­
sibility to erection in the male which lays the founds*
tion of impotency, and which produces in the female
an aversion to sexual intercourse; the mind, by be,,
coming interested in the performance of this act,
grows debilitated; and silently tortured by the bitterest
agonies of remorse, produces a general lassitude of
the nervous action, in which the whole system par­
ticipates, but more particularly the organs of repro­
duction : for such is the sympathy of these parts to
the act of impression, that all the physical and moral
sensibilities are directed to them, as to one common
focus, A stronger illustration of this fact cannot be
met with than in l)r. Darwin’s Zoonomia, where,
treating of that hallucination#
of mind produced by the
predominance of one particular impression, he men­
tions the circumstance of a man who shot himself,
leaving upon the table a slip of paper containing these
words only, ‘ I am impotent, and not fit to live,’
Returning to the immediate object of our investi­
gation, let us inquire, in the first place, if there is no
moral turpitude attached to an act that counteracts the
end for which we were designed ? secondly, has the
constant repetition of this act no effect on the animal
mechanism ? thirdly, will not the seminal vessels, b j
being emptied too often, fill with greater abundance
but less vigour ? Agreeably to the laws of the animal
v.
Digitized by L.ooole
TILE SILENT FRIEND, i 7
economy, as this elaborate secretion becomes very
great, all the rest of the secretions must be im­
poverished ; which effect confines its operation not to
muscular energy alone, but also to the intellectual
one. Galen says, “ that every pote is full of semen,
with those who refrain from sexual intercourse.; that
it has excellent virtues, and very speedily communi­
cates some of its power and energy to all parts of the
body.,, “ Nature,” says an eloquent writer, “ has
given us hunger for the preservation of the individual,
and lust for the support of the speciesreasonable
creatures correct these incentives, and make them
conducive to the purposes of friendship and society,
by placing over them moral sentiment and superior
intellect. In fact, this practice not only fatigues
the body, but the mind also, and that at a period
when it is full of genius and wild sensibility: even at
that moment when the passions are developing them­
selves into the zenith of their bloom and the energy of
their action, this spreads through the whole fabric,
uniting itself with the mind, and rendering the indivi­
dual unqualified for the necessary avocations of social
life : reducing him to a state of childish imbecility
and premature decrepitude, and bringing on all the
habitudes of premature age, ere the middle of life:
he carries with him the form and aspect of other men,
but without the vigour and energy of that season
which his early youth bade him hope to attain. Buf-
fon observes : “ How many men cease to be men;
or, at least, cease to enjoy manhood, at thirty? How
many at eighteen receive the impression of the seeds
of a disgraceful disease itself, which it is impossible
c
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FR IEND .
afterwards to eradicate ?” For an abuse of sexual
impulse powerfully accelerates old age; and unfortu­
nately, as the season of life advances, to its imbecility
is added all the errors that approximate to youthful
sensuality : thus th£ desire of venery is either transi­
ent, or totally annihilated, producing a debility little
short of death. In the generative system, it forces
and weakens the vessels of these organs to such a
baneful extent, that when the gay luxuriance of youth­
ful passions prompts to the lively intercourse of sexual
bliss, they feel, they burn, with all the ardour of those
endearing blandishments, yet want the energy neces­
sary for their gratification.
. Many individuals scarcely turned of forty years of
age, and sometimes even earlier, who have lived
rather freely, are not unfrequently, about that period,
greatly altered in their powers of sexual intercourse.
They may, indeed, in general health, be stout, and,
fipr several years, not very sensible of their powers
degenerating, but the frequency of their inclination
for such duties, gradually becomes much less, and
that symptom is at all times portentous of approach­
ing impotence; for the inclination gradually and en­
tirely ceasing, the power soon follows. In others,
about the same time of life, the physical power ceases
first, (which, occasions a most farcical catastrophe,)
and the inclination continuing, often for many years
after, they are obliged to gratify themselves in amuse­
ments which are the mere 'pantomime o f amorous
indulgences /—such individuals, otherwise in tolera­
ble health, are recoverable.
From actual observation, we are convinced, that-all
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 1 9
these different states owe their origin, and even their
immediate existence, to nearly the same cause, and
may, in almost every instance, be removed by nearly
similar treatment.
Hippocrates, the most ancient and just observer,
has already described the ills that are occasioned by
self-abuse, under the title of Tabes dorsalis : “ This
disorder arises from the spinal marrow; and those of
a lascivious disposition are afflicted with it They
have no fever, and though they eat well tfiey fall away
and become consumptive. They feel as if a sting or
stitch descended from the head along the spinal mar­
row. Every time they go to stool, or have occasion
to urine, they shed a great quantity of thin seminal
liquor. They are incapable of procreation, and they
frequently dream of the act of coition. Walking,
particularly in rugged paths, puts them out of breath
and weakens them; occasioning a heaviness in the
head and noise in the ears, which ar# succeeded by a
violent fever, (lypiria,) that terminates their days.”
There can be nothing more dreadful than the picture
which Aetius has left us of the ills that are produced
by too great a discharge of the semen. “ Young
people,” says he, “ have the air and appearance of old
age ; they become pale, effeminate, benumbed, lazy,
base, stupid, and even imbecile; their bodies become
bent, their legs are no longer able to carry them;
they have an utter distaste for every thing, are totally
incapacitated, and many become paralytic.” “ The
stomach is disordered,” says Aetius, “ all the body is
weakened; paleness, bodily decay, and emaciation
succeed, and the eyes sink into the head.” These
20 TH E S IL E N T FRIENDS
testim onies o f the m ost respectable ancients, a re
confirm ed by innum erable m o d em w riters.. S ancto-
rius, w ho has exam ined w ith the g reatest attention all
the causes w hich actuate our bodies, has observed
th at it w eakens the stom ach, destroys digestion, o b ­
stru cts th at insensible perspiration, the irreg u larity o f
w hich produces the m o st fatal consequences, occasi­
ons the liver and reins to be over-heated, gives a
disposition for th e stone in th e kidneys, dim inishes th e
natural h eat*and usually occasions th e loss. of,, or a t
least w eakens, th e sight, L om m ius, in his b eau tifu l
com m entaries upon the passages of C elsus w hich w e
have quoted, supports th e testim ony of this a u th o r,
w ith his ow n ju st observations. “ F re q u en t em issions
o f the seed relax, dry u p , w eaken, enervate, and p ro ­
duce a crow d of ev ils; apoplexies,lethargies,epilepsies,
faintings, the loss o f sight, trem ors, palsy, spasm s, a n d
every species of the m ost racking gout. ”
T he description w hich T ulpius, th at celebrated p h y ­
sician o f A m sterdam , has left us, cannot be read w ith ­
out h o rror. “ T he spinal m arrow does n o t only w aste,
b u t th e body and m ind both equally languish, and th e
m an perishes a m iserable victim . S am uel V ersp retiu s
was seized w ith a flux of hum our extrem ely sh a rp ,
w hich im m ediately affected the h ind part of the h e a d
and nape of the neck; from thence it com m unicated
to the spinal m arrow ; th e loins, th e buttocks, and th e
th ig h ; w hich m ade this unfortunate m an suffer such
excruciating pain, th at his countenance was entirely
distorted, and he was seized w ith a slow fever, w hich
by degrees consum ed him , b u t not so fast as he d e ­
sired ; and he was in such a situation, th at he frequently
Digitized by Google
T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D . 21
invoked death before it snatched him from his m isery.”
“N othing,” says th at renow ned physician, D e L ouvain,
“ w eakens th e stom ach and abridges life so soon.”
B lanchard has been an eye-w itness to a sim ple gon­
orrhoea, to consum ptions, and dropsies, w hich have
flowed from this source.
Too great a dissipation of th e anim al spirits w eakens
th e stom ach, destroys the appetite, and nutrition having
no longer a place, th e m otion of th e h eart is w eakened,
all th e parts languish, and an epilepsy succeeds. M .
H oflm an has se e n .th e m ost fatal accidents flow from
a dissipation of the seed. “A fter frequent nocturnal
pollutions,” says he, “ not only the pow ers are lost, the
body falls aw ay, and th e face tu rn s p a le ; but m ore­
over, th e m em ory fails, a cold vsensation seizes the
lim bs, th e sight is clouded and th e voice becom es
h o a rse ; all th e body languishes by d e g rees; distu rb ­
ing dream s prevent sleep adm inistering any relief.”
In a consultation w hich was held for’ a young m an,
w ho am ong other ills w hich he had draw n upon him ­
self by m asturbation, was afflicted w ith a g reat w eak­
ness of sight, he says, “ th at h e had seen several
exam ples of people even in an advanced age, th a t is to
say, after the body had attained its full vigour, who
had not only brought on redness and acute pains in
the eyes, b u t also such a w eakness of sight th at they
could n eith er read nor w rite anything w hatever.” A n
account of th e disorder w hich gave rise to this con­
sultation, will doubtless be agreeable to the reader.
“ A young m an at the age of fifteen, having given w ay
to m asturbation, and having frequently practised it till
he was tw enty-three, was, at th at period seized w ith
Digitized by Googl
T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D .
such a w eakness in his head and eyes, th at th e latter
w ere frequently afflicted w ith violent spasm s at the
tim e of his sem inal em issions. W hen he w anted to
read any thing, he was tak en w ith such a kind of
stupor as intoxication c re a te s: th e pupil was very
m uch dilated, and h e suffered exquisite pain in his
e y e s ; th e lids w ere very heavy, and sfcut them selves
at n ig h t; he w as constantly shedding te a rs ; and a
g reat quantity of w hitish m atter gathered in the two
corners, w hich w ere very painful. T hough he ate
w ith pleasure, h e w as reduced alm ost to a skeleton,
and as soon as he h ad done eating, he was in a kind of
intoxication.” T he sam e author has com m unicated
to us another observation, of w hich he was an eye­
w itness, and w hich we th in k .should find a place here.
“ A young m an, eighteen years of age, who had fre­
quently practised self-pollution, was on a sudden
seized w ith a w eakness, and a general trem or in all
his m em bers; his face becam e red, and his pulse v e ry
w eak. H e w as relieved from this state in an h o u r’s
tim e, b u t an incessant languor continued upon h im .
T he fit frequently returned, and threw him into g re a t
agonies, w hich at th e end of eight days, occasioned a
contraction and tum our in th e right arm , w ith a p a in
in th e elbow, w hich w as greatly increased w ith th e fit.”
T h e disorder continued increasing for a long tim e ,
notw ithstanding m any rem edies w ere p rescribed: a t
length a cure was perform ed.
T he eloquent T issot also rem arks, th a t “ all t h e
intellectual functions participate in this d eran g em en t :
th e m em ory loses its retentive p o w er; th e ideas a r e
connected w ith no so lid ity ; caprice rath er th an re fle c -
Digitized by Google
T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D . 23
tion governs every action, and, in fact, p artial insanity
invades th e w hole sy stem ; w hile inw ard terror, rest­
lessness, and constant anguish, are never absent from
th e hapless sufferer, if this state of system is long
allow ed to predom inate.” M ost of such individuals
becom e hypochondriacal or hysterical, w ith all the ills
atten d an t on these tedious com plaint^: som e are affect­
ed w ith coughs, slow fevers, and lingering consum ptions:
th e m ost acute pains pervade different parts of the
body; w hich frequently have been referred to im aginary
sensibility, bu t w hich sensations,w e contend, are actually
present, and produce a change of organization equally
as hostile to th e m ind as to th e constitution, and w hich
are called into action on th e slightest im pression.
T here are not only to be seen pim ples on th e face,
w hich is a com m on sym ptom , b u t even blotches there,
as w ell as on th e nose, breast, and th ig h s; and, oc­
casionally, fleshy excrescences arise on th e forehead.
A m id this m ighty ravage of silent disease, th e genera­
tive organs are also affected : th e sem en is evacuated
on th e slightest irritation, even on going to stool:
num bers are affected w ith habitual gonorrhoea, w hich
entirely destroys th e energy and vigour of th e consti­
tution, th e discharge assum ing th e appearance of th at
w hich flows from old ulcers in th e le g s: im potence
m ore or less e x is ts: th e functions of th e intestines
are som etim es totally destroyed ; and som e individuals
com plain of costiveness, others of diarrhoea, piles, and
a discharge of a foetid m ucus from th e in te stin e s; thus
constituting a class of disease, calam itous indeed, w hich
perhaps at its first approach m ay arise w ithout pro­
ducing any organic alteration, but ultim ately assists in
Digitized by Google
T IIE S IL E N T F R IE N D .
nourishing those changes th a t becom e com bined w ith
the affections produced. W e are of opinion th at th ey
hot only occasion im potency in th e one sex, and sterility
in the other, b u t th at they lay th e foundation of th o se
tedious discharges w hich som etim es assum e th e ch arac­
ter of sem inal, and at other tim es'o f m ucal, gleets.
T he first object^ of m edical treatm ent, in this sta te
of things, is to endeavour to convince our patient o f
the im propriety of this a c t; w hich, if tim ely abandoned,
requires only th e rem edies hereinafter enum erated.
A n idea m ay be form ed of th e im portance of th e sem i­
nal liquor, by observing th e effects it produces as soon
as*it begins to be form ed ; th e voice, the physiognom y,
and th e features of th e face change ; the beard grow s,
and th e w hole body often takes another appearance,
because th e m uscles acquire a thickness and firm ness,
w hich form a sensible difference betw een th e body of
an adult person and th at o f a youth not yet arrived at
th e age of pu b erty ; these changes are prevented by
destroying th a t organ w hich serves to separate th e
liquor th at produces i t ; ^and ju st observations evince
th at th e am putation of the testicles, at th e age of
virility, has m ade th e beard fall and a ' puerile voice
return.
A fter this, can th e pow er of its operation upon the
body be questioned, or can any one doubt of the vari­
ous ills th at m ust necessarily flow from a profuse eva­
cuation cf a hum our th at is so precious?* Its d esti­
nation determ ines th e only proper m ethod of its being
evacuated, certain distem pers cause it som etim es
to run off. It m ay be involuntarily lost in lascivious
dream s.
\
Digitized by Google
T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D . 25
I f th e dangerous effects of th e too abundant discharge
of this hum our depended only upon th e q u a n tity , or
were th e sam e w hen th e quantities w ere equal, it
would be of little im portance, in a physical sense, w he­
ther this evacuation was occasioned by either of th e
m ethods m entioned; b u t th e m a n n er is in this respect
equal to the substance. Too great a quantity of sem en
being lost in th e n atu ral course, produces very direful
effects: b u t they are m ore dreadful, w hen th e sam e
quantity has been dissipated in an unnatural m aim er.
T he accidents w hich happen to such as w aste th em ­
selves, in a natural way, are very terrib le; those w hich
are odfcasioned by m asturbation are still m ore so.
S anctorius furnishes us in his own O bservations w ith
the prim ary cause of this peculiar danger. “ M oderate
coition” says he “ is useful w hen n atu re solicits for
it; w hen it is solicited by th e im agination, it w eakens
all th e faculties, and particularly th e m em ory.” T his
is easily explained. N atu re in a state of health, does
not inspire desires; b u t w hen th e vesiculce sem in ales
are replete w ith a quantity of liquor, w hich has ac­
quired such a degree ‘of thickness as to render its re­
tu rn into th e m ass of blood difficult; in these cir­
cum stances, w hen an evacuation follows, we m ay be
assured th at th e body w ill not be thereby sensibly
w eakened. B ut such is th e organization of the genital
parts, th at th eir action and th e desires w hich succeed
a re p u t into play, not only by the presence of a super­
ab u n d an t sem inal hum our, b u t also th e im agination
h av in g great influence upon these parts, it m ay, by
b ein g occupied w ith desires, p u t them into such a
situation as serves reciprocally to excite th e m ; and
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
26 T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D .
desire leads to th e act, w hich is m ore pernicious in
proportion as it is unnecessary. T his organ of con­
venience is like all others, w hich are never properly
actuated, b u t w hen n atu fe stim ulates them . H unger
and th irst indicate th e w ant of food and d rin k ; if a
g reater q u an tity of eith er is tak en th an these sensations
require, th e surplus prejudices and w eakens th e body.
T h e necessity of going to stool and voiding urine, is
signified by certain physical co n d itio n s; b u t a bad
habit m ay so far p erv ert th e constitution of th e organs,
th a t th e necessity of these evacuations m ay no longer
depend upon th e quantity of m atter to be evacuated.
W e subject ourselves to w ant w ithout being in w a n t;
and such is th e case of m asturbators. It is im agina­
tion, habit, and not nature, th at im portune them .
T hey drain nature of th at w hich is necessary, and also
o f th a t w hich she herself w ould have taken care to d is­
pose of. A t length, in consequence of th at law of an i­
m al econom y, w hereby hum ours are attracted by irri­
tation, th ere is a continued conflux of hum ours upon
these parts, and w hat H ippocrates form erly observed
occurs, “ w hen a m an practises coition, th e sem inal
vessels are dilated and attract th e sem en.”
W e shall range, under seven heads, th e ills of w hich
patients com plain.
I.— Involuntary nocturnal em issions; pains in th e
back, and often in th e h e a d ; form ication of th e sp in e ;
w eakness of th e m em ory and sig h t; and a m u co u s
discharge from the urethra, especially after stra in in g
-^ U t th e discharge of th e ex crem en ts; an aching p a in ,
•
Digitized by Google
T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D . 27
rolling, and dependency of th e testicles. T he testicles
b eing th e secretory organs of th e genital juice, are
furnished w ith arteries, veins, lym phatics, and nerves,
like other glands, and suspended by th e crem aster
m uscle. W hen, -therefore, from any cause, th eir te x ­
tu re is w eakened, a pain w ill be felt, and this is in-,
creased by th eir hanging dow n, w hich is derived from
th a t general relaxation of fibres th a t atten d s the w hole
body, th e crem aster m uscle in particular.
I I . — A ll th e intellectual faculties are w eakened, loss
o f m em ory ensues, th e ideas are clouded, th e patients
som etim es fall into a slight m adness: th ey have an
incessant irksom e uneasiness, continued anguish, and
so keen a rem orse of conscience th at th ey frequently
shed tears. T hey are subject to v ertig o es; all th eir
senses, b u t particularly th eir sight and hearing, are
w eak en ed ; th eir sleep, if they can obtain any, is dis­
turbed w ith frightful dream s.
III . — T he pow ers of th eir bodies decay, th e grow th
of such as abandon them selves to these abom inable
practices before it is accom plished, is greatly p rev en t­
ed. Som e cannot sleep at a ll; others are in a perpe­
tual state of drow siness. T hey are all affected w ith
hysterical or hypochondriac com plaints, and are over­
com e w ith th e accidents th at accom pany those griev­
ous disorders— m elancholy, sighing, tears, palpitations,
suffocations, and faintings. Som e em it a calcarious
sa liv a; coughs, slow- fevers, and consum ptions are
chastisem ents w hich others m eet w ith in th eir own
crim es.
Digitized by Google
28 T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D
IV . — T he m ost acute pains form another object of
patients’ com plaints; som e are thus affected in their
heads, others in th eir breast, stom ach, and in testin es;
others have external rheum atic pains ; aching num b­
ness in parts of th eir body, w hen they are slightly
.pressed.
V . — Pim ples not only appear in th e face, (this is
one of th e m ost com m on sym ptom s,) b u t even real sup­
purating blisters upon th e nose, the breast, and the
thighs ; and painful itchings in th e sam e parts. O ne
patient com plained even of fleshy excrescences upoa
his forehead.
V I. — T he organs of generation also participate in
th a t m isery of w hich they are th e prim ary cause. M any
patients are incapable of erection ; others discharge
th eir sem inal liquor upon th e slightest titilation an d
th e m ost feeble erection, or in th e efforts they m ake
w hen at stool. M any are affected w ith a constant g o n ­
orrhoea, w hich entirely destroys th eir pow ers, and th e
discharge resem bles foetid m atter or m ucus. O th ers
are torm ented w ith painful priapism s, dysuriae, stran g ­
uries, h eat of urine, and a difficulty in rendering it,
w hich greatly torm ents m any patients. Som e h a v e
painful tum ours upon th eir testicles, penis, b la d d e r,
and sperm atic cord. In a w ord, eith er th e im p ra cti­
cability cf coition, or a depravation of th e g e n ita l
liquor, renders every one im becile w ho has for a n y
length of tim e given w ay to this crim e.
V II. — T he functions of the intestines are so m etim es
Digitized by Google
T H E S IL E N T F R IE N D 29
quite disordered; and some patients complain of stub­
born constipations; others of the haemorrhoids, of a
foetid matter fromthe fundament. •
Thephysiognomy, that faithfulmirror of the stateof
soul andbody, gives the first indications ofthe internal
disorder. Thecomplexion andplumpness, whichjoint­
ly confer a youthful look, and which is the sole substi­
tute of beauty (foy without this even beauty produces
no other effect than cold admiration,) this complexion
and plumpness are the firstthings that disappear; then
a leanness succeeds, and the skin becomes rough, and
tinged of a lead colour; the eyes lose their brilliancy
and deaden, and by their langour express that of the
whole frame; (see e n g ra v in g ); the lips loose their
Digitized by Google
TH E SIL E N T F R IE N D .
Vermillion hue, the teeth their whiteness; and in a
word it is no uncommon thing for the whole body to
receive such a shook as for the shape to be entirely
distorted.
The increase of dangerous consequences flowing from
masturbation, is too obvious ‘to need comment; they
are too sensible of it themselves, from the shocking re­
morse with which it is followed. When illness has
opened the criminal’s eye#, he sees his crimes and dan­
gers, and feels
“ The silDg of pleasure w hich rem orse succeed*.
When the mask is dropt, and the real picture of their
conduct appears in its most hideous colours, they find
themselves guilty of a crime, the punishment forwhich
divinejustice ordainednothing less thaninstant death!
These various consequences are so completely illus­
trated and embodied in the following case, that it
would be wrong to omit quoting it
L. D. was by profession a watch maker; he had
lived prudently and enjoyed a good state of health till
he was about seventeen years of age. At this period
he gave himself up to self-pollution, which he repeated
every day, sometimes even to the third time, and the
evacuation was always preceededby aslight insensibili­
ty and a convulsive motion in the extending muscles
of the head, which drew it very much back, whilst
the neck was extremely swelled. A year had
not yet elapsed before he began to feel a great weak­
ness after every act. This notification was not suffici­
ent to rescue him from his filthy practices—his soul
Digitized by Google
31
TH E S IL E N T F R IE N D .
*
already devotedto these odours was incapable of form­
ing any other idea, and the repetition of his crime
became every day more frequent, till such time as he
was in a state to apprehend his death. Too late grown
wise, the evil had already made so great aprogressthat
he was incurable, and the genital parts were become so
easily irritated andwere so weak, that it was no longer
necessary that this unhappy youth should be an agent
in order to shed his own seed: the slightest irritation
immediately procuredan imperfect erection, which was
followed by an evacuation ofthis liquor, whichdailyin­
creased his weakness. The spasm, of which he was
not before sensible but in consummating the act, and
which peased therewith, was nowbecome habitual, and
frequently attacked him without any apparent cause, in
eo violent a manner, that during the whole period of
the fit, which sometimes lasted fifteen hours and never
less than eight, he felt such violent pain in the hinder
part of the neck, that he did not screamout but abso­
lutely howled, and all this while it was impossible for
him to swallow either solids or fluids. His voice was
become hoarse, he entirely lost his strength and was
obliged to give up his profession, .being altogether in­
capacitated. Thus overwhelmed in misery, he lan­
guished almost without any assistanceforsomemonths,
•and was the more to be pitied, for what memory he
had remaining, and whichhe was dt length entirely be­
reft of, only served him to take an incessant retrospect
of the cause ofhis misfortunes, which were increasedby
the aggravating horrors ofremorse;he less resembled a
living creature than a corpse; lying upon straw,meagre,
Digitized by Google
32 TH E S IL E N T F R IE N D .
•
pale, and filthy, castingforth aninfectiousstench, almost
incapable of motion, awatery palish blood issued from
the nose, his tongue was frightfully swelled, and saliva
constantly flowed fromhis mouth. {See e n g ra v in g o f
th e case,) Havingadiarrhoea,hevoidedhisexcrementin
the bed without knowing it, he had continued flux of
semen, his sore wateryeyes were deadened to that de­
gree that he could not move them, his pulse was very
small, quick, and frequent. It waswithgreat difficulty
he breathed, reduced almost to a skeleton in everypart
except his feet, which became dropsical; the disorder
ofhis mind was equal to that of his body, devoid of
ideas and memory, incapable of connectingtwo senten­
ces without being afflicted at his fate, without any
TH E SIL E N T F R IE N D . 33
sensation than pain which returned with every fit, at
least every third day:—far below the brute creation,
he was a spectacle, the horrible sight of which cannot
be conceived, and it was difficult to discover that he
had formerlymade part ofthe human species. He died
at the end of a few weeks, his whole body having
become dropsical.
All who give themselves up to this odious and
criminal habit, are not so severely punished; but
there are none who are not so more or less. The fre­
quency of the pollution, the variety of temperaments,
several circumstances independent of either, occasion
considerable differences. The symptoms we have the
most frequently witnessed, are a total derangement of
the stomach, which in some announces itselfbyloss of
appetite or by irregular appetite; in others acute
pains, above all during the time of digestion, byhabit­
ual vomitings, which resist every remedy, so long as
they continue their vicious habits. A weakness of the
organs of respiration, whence frequently result dry
coughs, almost always hoarseness, weakness of voice,
shortness of breath upon making any short violent
exertion. A total relaxation of the nervous system.
4
4I plainly feel,” wrote one patient, 4
4that this bad
practice has diminished the strength of my faculties,
and above all of the memory.” Let us here be per­
mitted to insert fragmentsofsomeletters, whichunited
will form a sufficiently complete picture of the physi­
cal disorders, produced by masturbation. “ I, like
many other young persons (afr the date of his letter,
the patient was of a ripe age,) had the misfortune to
Digitized by Google
34 TH E SIL E N T F R IE N D .
give way to a habit as pernicious to the body as to the
soul: age, assisted by reason, has for some time since
cured me of that wretched penchant, but the evil is
done. To an affection and extraordinary sensitiveness
of the nervous system, and the accidents it occasions,
are added a weakness, an uneasiness, an ennui, a dis­
tress ofmind, which seems pertinaciously to adhere to
me, I am worn out by an almost continual loss of
semen; my countenance is become pale and almost
cadaverous. The weakness of my body renders all
motion a trouble to me; that of my legs is frequently
such that I have great difficulty in keeping myself on
my feet, and I dare not venture to leave my room.
My digestion is so bad, that my food passes through
me almost unchanged, three or flhir hours after taking
it. My breast is loaded with phlegm, which keeps
me in continual pain, and the expectoration wears me
out. This is abrief description of my miseries, which
are still more aggravated by the mournful certitude I
have acquired, that each succeeding day will be more
painful than the previous one; in a word, I don’t be­
lieve that ever ahumanbeing was so afflicted as I am.”
. “ Should Providence not afford me some special
succour, I shall have much difficulty in supporting so
heavy a load.”
“ Did not religion restrain me,” says another,“ I
should already have put aq end to alife so much the
more cruel, as it is so by my ownfault.”
In fact, there is no situation in the world worse than
that of mental affliction: painis nothing in comparison
with it, and when joined to a crowd of physical evils,
it is not astonishing that the sufferer should wish for
Digitized by Google
TH E SIL E N T F R IE N D . 35
death, as the greatest blessing, and consider life,— if
so w retched a state can be called life— as a real m is­
fortune.
T he follow ing description is m ore b rief and less
te rrib le :—
“ I h ad the m isfortune to contract th at pernicious
h ab it, w hich soon ruined m y tem p eram en t; b u t above
all of late years, m y state is truly pitiable : m y nerves
are extrem ely w eak, m y hands are alw ays trem bling,
w ithout pow er, andteontinually clam m y w ith perspira­
tion ; I am subject to violent spasm s in th e stom ach,
pains in th e arm s, the legs, som etim es in the loins and
breast, frequently Jo co u g h ; m y appetite is voracious,
yet I fall aw ay considerably, and m y face every day
becom es m ore cadaverous.”
“ N atu re,” has w ritten a th ird , “ discovered to m e
the cause o f the debility I h ad fallen into, and the
danger o f th e abyss w here I was precipitating m yself,
b o th by th e pim ples and bladders w hich show ed them ­
selves in th e p a rt w hich was the instrum ent of m y
crim e, and by th e w eakness I felt in th e com m ission o f
th e crim e itself, and w hich did not perm it m e to doubt
o f its being th e cause o f it.”
W e m ight here a d d .a great aum ber o f relations~of
sim ilar diseases for w hich we have been consulted, bu t
they w ould only be useless repetitions.
N othing, perhaps, w eakens th e m ind so m uch as
these pernicious practices, w hich take possession of
th e w hole m ind and attention, and prevent its votaries
from follow ing th eir respective vocations, by engross­
in g th eir ideas, even w hen they should be em ployed
in devotion or b u sin e ss; rendering them stupid, dull,
3 6 'THE SILEN T FR IEN D
and thoughtful, and destroying their vivacity, cheer­
fulness, and health; by bringing on consumption,
weakness, barrenness, and all that dreadful train of
complaints which make them timid, whimsical, and
ridiculous. The mind is agitated with frightful ideas
and horrid dreams, which ultimatelyrender themfear­
ful of being left alone for a few minutes. Surely such
a train of miseries might be sufficient to deter young
persons from enteringinto such courses ! They should
take time to consider, that every alt of this kindstrikes
deep at the root of the constitution, inevitably hastens
many alarming diseases, and brings on all the languish­
ing infirmities of old age, and finallypremature disso­
lution.
How imbecile then, must be theur imagination, who
seek for pleasure by delusive and deceitful means.
True felicity and earthly happiness can never attend
those whose faculties of mind and body are corrupted
and buried in the vortex of imaginary enjoyment and
desires. If those then, who labour under \h e mental
infatuation of such poisonous principles, would only
let reason resume its sway, and nature her prerogative,
how sudden would be the transition from all id ea l to
real and substantial bliss? for if life’s nature, in all its
various forms, conditions and demands, becomes in7
valid, and the passions and sensibility of the frame
corrupted, how can you possibly look for that attain­
ment of reciprocal love andjconjugal regard, when the
basis is destroyed, and you yourselves have violated,
its organs and perverted its source and influence?
But another all powerful claim hangs over you; a
sacred debt, an awful responsibility and duty which
TH E SIL E N T FR IE N D . 37
you owe to your own inheritance, your forefathers, and
above all to your Creator, who ordained you for the
propagation of mankind, and that you should not
destroy the powers bestowed upoi* you by following
a destructive habit of so immoral a tendency, of so
heart-rending a description, and of so degrading a
condition.
Then let it be conjured that the victims of such
deadly self-intemperance will no longer continue to
dwell in the purgatory of such sin, but by self-casti-
gation throw off the bitter infatuation, and by a per­
severing endeavour regain the blessings of mankind.
It it chiefly on the youth of both sexes that self­
pollution commits most ravages. This is so much
the more mischievous, and so much more to be de­
plored, as it thus strikes at the very root of society,
and has a direct and immediate tendency to destroy it,
by enervating and debilitating, almost from their very
cradle, those individuals whom nature and nature’s
God intended as best adapted to preserve and adorn
it. How many of these debilitated and emaciated
objects do now daily present themselves to our view,
with pallid and haggard countenances and eyes sunk,
who are indebted solely to the abominable practice of
masturbation for this wretched state of debility and
exhaustion! Disabled from rendering any service
either to themselves or friends, they drag a life totally
useless to others and a burden to themselves, in the
midst of society in which they are despised.
It were needless to expatiate more upon the dangers
peculiar to masturbation; they are but too real, and
too well demonstrated.
Digitized by Google
38 TH E S IL E N T F R IE N D .
Having now described the dreadful effects resulting
from the practice of self-pollution, we shall now enter
upon the
*
M ETHOD OF TREA TM EN T A N D C U R E ;
and, in the first place must observe, 'that before any
remedy can be administered with any prospect of suc­
cess, the patient must determine on abstaining entirely
from the practice of this heinous crime, this abomi­
nable sin, condemned by God and m an; and here we
may observe, that this in general is the most difficult
point to get over, for when it is habitual it holds such a
powerful sway over the mind, that the most deter­
mined mental energy is required to overcome this
dreadful propensity.
Let Reason then resume her seat, and become a
convert to chastity and honour, for the debility of
nature can be completely reinstated by the celebrated
C O R D IA L B A L M O F S Y R IA C U M ,
which has restored strength and vigour to hundreds
o f debilitated individuals, of both sexes, deemed past
recovery by professional men of the first eminence
and respectability, and numbers of whom for the pur­
pose of benefitting mankind, have come forward and
personally attested upon oath, their wonderful release
from acute pains, and speedy recovery from inveterate
complaints ; for its re-animating powers exceed almost
credibility; its fine rich stimulating balsamic stoma­
chic qualities; its purification o f the blood; and,
TH E S IL E N T F R IE N D . 3 0
above all, its complete invigoration o f the nervous
system , whereby the whole faculties become restored
to their proper power and functions, and the ftfllen
fabric of life is raised up to beauty, consistency, and
duration, upon the ruins of an emaciated and prema­
ture decay, to sound and pristine health.
In that part of our practice in particular where the
Cordial Balm of Syriacum requires to be employed,
it were unreasonable in us not to expect the most de­
termined opposition, party spirit being exerted ex­
actly in proportion to the good effects of any newly
proposed remedy in cure of disease; and the proposer,
together with the remedy^ without giving either "the
opinions of the one, or the powers of the other, a fair
trial, are often overpowered by that concentrated mass
of stupidity and influence, through which the light of
science can never penetrate. Their contracted views
are calculated solely for the comfort and happiness of
themselves, not, except, in mere form, for the allevia­
tion of that mass of human misery, which, while it
perpetually surrounds us, calls aloud for our inter-,
ference and relief,
. Since our former publication appeared on the use of
this wonderful medicine, we have had numerous op­
portunities, not only of confirming the doctrines there
advanced, but of extending our views to a much great*
er extent than we ever expected. Our experience on
that subject, is now not only general, but, on the prin­
ciples we then hastily delivered, uniformly successful;
and the numerous favourable communications, which
we daily receive from every part of the United King­
dom, convince us, that in a much shorter time than
T
H
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
.
im portant im provem ents in the practical p art of our
art com m only m eet w ith public sanction, th is practice
w ill/w h en un d er proper regulations, at once become
still m ore general, and m ore extensively successful.
N o diseases, to w hich th e hum an fram e is liable, are
treated m ore by stubborn, general, m id hackneyed
rules, than those o f th e generative sy stem ; and, ex­
cepting in th eir very m ildest form , none seem -to
req u ire nicer attention. T his generalizing plan, or
to tal neglect; som etim es on th e p art o f th e patient,
som etim es on th e p art of the physician, and not un-
frequently on the p art o f b o th , o r even injudious
treatm en t, w hich m ust solely be ow ing to the m edical
attendant, h as often reduced an once healthy and
ro bust constitution to th e greatest possible degree o f
lingering m isery. T he various effects th a t u reth ral
discharges have upon the anim al fram e, depend g reatly
on th e influence they have on th e m in d : in som e, n o c ­
tu rn al em issions lay th e foundation o f sem inal w eak ­
ness and gleet, and cases o ccu r w here the sy stem
having long laboured u n d er th e influence o f n o c tu rn a l
em issions, feels m ore pow erfully th an others all th a t
nervous irritatio n w hich usually accom panies a p ro fu se
discharge o f the se m en ; proving, beyond d o u b t, t h e
#existence o f chronic debility : for w hat has little e ffe c t
on one constitution, produces sym ptom s in a n o th e r
extrem ely harassing bo th to th e body and m ind ; a n d
th u s a com plex derangem ent arises, the co m bined r e ­
sult o f a concatenation o f ev en ts‘th at m ay be tr a c e d ,
even to m athem atical precision, to this d e b ilita tin g
cau se: for w e are led to infer th at sem inal w e a k n e s s
precedes this nervous d eran g em en t: and to u s i t is
TH
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
. 41
evident, th at w hen nervous debility exists, th e n o ctu rn ­
al em issions are increased ; and the repetition of them
unquestionably w eakens th e vital energy, and, after an
indefinite p erio d , predisposes th e sensibility of the
cerebral organ to m orbid irrita tio n : thus, from in ter­
course w ith the nerves, the general system is d istu rb ­
ed, and body and m ind rendered susceptible to th e
caprice o f th at vicissitude of irritation w hose u n iv er­
sality o f influence can only be described by those
w ho have felt its agency: nor is th e effect o f this
influence th e offspring o f a fervid o r depressed im agi­
nation : on the contrary, a class o f painful and distress­
ing diseases are originated, w hich, in th eir progress,
have a g reat effect on o rganization; and this m orbid
irritability m ore frequently attends on constitutions
previously debilitated by venereal excesses, or, m ore
frequently still, by th e baneful habit o f onanism , by
w hich th e p arts are*not only so w eakened, b u t are also
rendered so irritable, and so easily, from h ab it, excited
by m ental influences, th at th e slightest stim ulus is
sufficient to call them into action, and thereby produce
p. discharge of sem en.
T his disease arises from a spontaneous erection of
th e penis, and a discharge o f sem en unsolicited by the
patient, w ho frequently is unconscious o f it till aw ak­
ened by the act o f em ission: this arises eith er from the
plenitude o f the vessels, or is th e consequence o f
dream s. O f this act m en are m ostly unconscious, if
how ever it arrest attention, its fr e q u e n c y and its con­
sequ en ces are the circum stances th a t rouse the pro p er
and natural fears o f the sufferer. F req u en tly occurring
n octurnal em issions are a decided p ro o f o f debility,
E
Digitized by Google
42 T
H
ESIL
X
JITFRIX
JtD
.
a n d th e ce rta in h a rb in g ers o f a p p ro a ch in g im potence.
O ur am ple experience w arrants th e conclusion that
th e debility is m ore obviously confirm ed,, and absolute
im potence m ore certainly follow s in those instances
w here em issions occu r p retty frequently, and on
w aking suddenly in th e n ig h t, at th e m om ent of the
discharge. In m any instances th e sleep is no t broken,
and it is com paratively difficult to ascertain how often
th e evacuation occurs, th e consequences o f th e loss o f
th e sem inal fluid are how ever sufficiently evident.
O ccurring m ore frequently than can b e fairly ascri-
bable to th e distention o f h ea lth y vessels, th e m ost
energetic m easures are instantly requisite to avert th e
identical m ischief w hich w ould arise if th e loss of th e
sem inal secretion w ere solicited and voluntary. T h e
only rem edy, perhaps, o f re a l efficacy, Mid from
w hich, by p ersevera n ce , a perm anent cure w ill be ob­
tain ed , is “ The Cordial Balm of Syriacum,” w hich
is possessed o f this adm irable quality, in preference to
any o th er ever yet discovered, th at w ith little or n o
stim ulus, it restores th e tone of the system , in a m an n er
incredible to those w ho have not observed its effects.
I t is from a strong im pression th a t no cure can b e
effected, th at this disease has increased ; and h e n c e
has arisen th a t m elancholy train of diseases co n n ected
w ith general debility. W ith this p reju d ice is c o n ­
nected th e fear o f not being able to perform th e g ra n d
function o f n a tu re ; for, n ex t to th e necessaries c o n ­
nected w ith th e preservation o f th e individual, th e
m ost im perious is th at w hich is subservient to t h e
p ropagation o f o ur sp ecies; every one feeling p ro u d ly
solicitous to exhibit proofs o f his m anly prow ess, in
TH
SSILEN
TFR
IE
N
D
* 43
th is m ysterious and m ost im portant act o f th e sex.
T h is em ission o f sem en is produced tow ards day­
break, arising from a renew al o f th a t general excita­
bility w hich takes place during th e first sleep : th e
interval betw een, rendering th e system m ore suscepti­
ble o f every new im pression, and th e debility o f a
sensitive m ind favouring the im pression, repetition
succeeding repetition, the above-described association
is fu rth er confirm ed, and, o f course, the difficulty o f
destroying th e habit rendered m ore tedious and doubt*
ful, w hile the pow er and desire o f perform ing th e
n atu ral functions are o f course proportionally im pair­
ed . T h e m ind encroaching upon th e prerogatives
o f the n atu ral stim uli, th e organs o f generation, either
from a m orbid rapidity o f action, or from being long
accustom ed to obey th e dictates o f the im agination on
th e slightest irritation, are no longer capable o f th e
excitem ent produced on a healthy subject by th e
opposite sex- As a disease o f the m ind, called into
action by all the possible causes th at produce physical
an d m oral irritatio n , the first o b ject is, to destroy the
acq u ired association o f ideas existing betw een the
m ental and organic action, and to prevent th e m ind
from recurring to its form er associations; else th e
stim ulating pow er w ill exhaust its excitability to such
a degree, as to bring on d irect d eb ility ; for th e
exciting pow er being disturbed, the natural functions
o f the body gradually grow m ore and m ore languid-
T h e constitution thus breaks, as it w ere, before, the
ravage o f the disease, and thus exhibits a m ost hope­
less state o f ex h au stio n ; all its pow ers becom e
d rain ed , all its energies evaporated ; and the disease
eventually rio ts u pon a hapless im becility, w hich no
Digitized by Google
44 T
H
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
.
physical no r m oral rem edy can reach— an im becility
closely u nited to m ania. B u t w hat the indescribable
process is th at precedes this m ania, we have no actual
th eo ry to guide u s : th e im m ediate cause w e cannot
trace o f this m ost afflicting b u t m ost obscure o f all
hum an m aladies, as none b u t th e m iserable sufferer
can describe the tension and pain o f those hallucina­
tions, m orosities, and b u rn in g sensibilities, th at, by a
gradual b u t certain action, d rive R eason from h e r
th ro n e : m edical inquiry is alone confined to external
sym ptom s, and, o f course, possesses no m eans o f
follow ing th e inw ard progress o f th e disease. T h e
existence o f it is generally indicated by great debility,
listlessness, w ant o f resolution and activity, a g reat
disposition to sadness, an idea of future evil, and a
.lo n g train o f sim ilar sensations, w hich pow erfully co n ­
trib u te to debilitate th e general system : this effect is
m anifested by the body becom ing feeble and m eagre,
th e appetite voracious, the organs o f generation sq
flaccid and enfeebled, th at th e slightest titillation p ro ­
duces erection, w hich is succeeded either by an
em ission o f a portion o f th e natu ral m ucus o f th e
gl ands o f the u reth ra, o r a secretion o f the p ro strate
gland and the vesiculge sem inales (but not of sem en,)
and a depression o f spirits : these sym ptom s, by con­
stant repetition, becom e very unpleasant durin g night.
A constant discharge o f a thin, clear, and slim y liquid,
is at last p ro d u c e d ; attended by th at nervous irrita­
bility’
, w hich, in delicate constitutions, lays th e founda­
tion o f m ore serious consequences, and, if persisted
in, will red u ce th e patient to the last stage o f a con­
firm ed consum ption.
T h e prom inent ch aracter o f sem inal w eakness - is
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 45
g e n e r a l, no t p a r tia l d e b ility ; and is very frequently
com bined w ith a venereal affection, very often accom ­
panies gleet, and m ay occasionally precede it. A
sem inal gleet is invariably attended by a w eakness of
the w hole body, loss of appetite, and a heavy pain
ro u n d the region o f th e bladder and the lo in s; the
sem en com es away insensibly on coughing, going to
stool, and th e slightest irritation o f the penis, w hose
erection, though constant, is feeble, and ejects th e
sem en easily, b u t w ithout th e force requisite for its
expulsion in h e a lth ; and this discharge is o f a hum id,
th in , and bluish cast, slightly staining the linen.
W e shall treat this disease as solely arising from th e
operation o f O n an ism ; for here th e secreting pow er,
o f th e testicles is too rap id for the penis, w hich, w«pit-
ing a corresponding erection, scarcely participates in
th e act o f em ission; hence it follow s, th at th e erection
o f th at m em ber depends m ore on th e m ind than on
th e secretion o f sem en.
I t is in this stage we are to consider sem inal w eak­
ness o f a dangerous te n d e n c y ; we generally find no
p articu lar affection o f th e organs of g en eratio n ; the
sem en here flows from an involuntary ac tio n ; w hile
in th e other tw o, th e action of friction or titillation
produces the discharge.
T his m alady is not a disease of h ealth and repletion,
b u t o f ill health and d ep letio n ; a disease o f exhaustion
and direct debility, induced by a m orbid action, p ro ­
ducing too general an excitem ent of th e anim al m a­
chine. In th e form er stages, copulation is recom ­
m ended, because N atu re herself dictates it: b u t in
this w e have a different object to> o b tain ; for here we
TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
have to supply a superabundant w aste o f th e sem en—
we have to replete, not d e p le te ; and how ever salutary ■
sexual intercourse m ay b e to a person in p erfe ct
h ealth , here it m ust be used w ith considerable p ru ­
dence. S e x u a l a b ility in m an is a m ysterious com ­
p o u n d pow er, req u irin g a perfect association in th e
action o f th e secretory organ o f th e sem inal secretion,
and th e instrum ent o f its ejaculation and discharge.
A ny functional irreg u larity , or w ant o f correspondency
betw een th e action o f the testicles and penis, is th ere­
fore an unquestionable state o f disease ; for since b o th
are so closely and intim ately dependant on each o th e r,
th e least w ant o f exactness in th eir adaptation m ig h t
be the cause o f Im p o ten ce. W h atev er be th e m o d e
in w hich this deviation from th e healthy and n atu ral
action of the p arts is first induced, it is no t difficult to
trace its inevitable effect in the p ro duction o f S e m in a l
D e b ility and the ultim ate destruction o f sexual pow er.
Irritatio n , how ever engendered, rapidly propagates
itself along th e u reth ra, and chronic inflam m ation o f
th e prostatic and m ost sensitive portion o f th at canal
is rapidly established, and the m uscles surrounding
th e m em braneous division o f th e urinary passage are
sym pathetically affected w ith irreg u lar spasm . T h e
irritatio n extends itself by continuity o f surface to th e
sem inal vesicles, and even to th e testicles, producing
in th e form er un n atu ral evacuations, and in th e latter
an exaggerated th in secretion, too rapidly elaborated,
and therefore for all the purposes o f generation, w o rth ­
less. A m ong individuals so affected, th e em issio n
(even on attem pting intercourse w ith the sex,) is too
q u ic k ly d isch a rg ed , nocturnal pollutions are freq u en t,
Digitized by Google
TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 47
(indeed these are often the im m ediate precursors of
sem inal w eakness,) or the sem en is expelled during
the evacuation of th e bladder and bow els. W ith som e
there is m ore or less com plete extinction o f venereal
desire, th en the erections becom e few and feeble,
incom plete, or absolutely im possible.
T his condition o f th e sexual organs has its appro­
priate general character, analogous to those w hich are
attributable to the w ilful and determ inate pollutions o f
earlier y o u th ; the sufferer now perhaps too late, sen­
sibly alive to the origin o f his w eakness, becom es
tim id, fearful, careless o f th e w orld around him , his
m ind absorbed in th e consideration of his m alady,
until the continual presence and recurrence o f the
sam e train o f painful th o u g h t involves him in the w orst
form o f m on om an ia, or rath er the prem ature childish­
ness o f age. A ll the functions of the body languish,
and are deranged, until a com plete and general degra­
dation sw eeps w ith uncontrolled dom inion over every
pow er and faculty b oth of body and soul. T h e sem i­
n a l flu id m a y dribble a rra y w ith o u t p le a su re , w ith -
o u t erectio n , w ith o u t th e n a tu r a l eja cu la tio n , and
its loss, w hen occurring in this m anner, gives rise to
th e sam e o r infinitely g reater evils th an those w hich
arise from m ere sexual excess, or w hat is w orse, from
self-pollution. T here have not been w anting som e
w riters w ho have contended th at not the sem en, b u t
only the m ucus of the canal or the prostatic fluid, fur­
nishes the discharge in these deplorable cases. B ut
w e k n o w th at this is far from being a correct view o f
th e pathology of th e disease. M ere chronic inflam ­
m atio n , arising from com m on causes, m ay be accom -
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
panied w ith sim ple m ucus d isc h a rg e ; h u t S e m in a l
W ea k n ess is in the m ajority o f instances the ultim ate
consequence o f self-pollution, w hich in the first in ­
stance brings about th at irritability w h ich evin ces it­
s e l f in n o ctu rn a l d isch a rg es ; a n d su b seq u en tly in
com plete d e b ility o f th e w h o le g e n e ra tiv e sy s te m .
T h e sem inal fluid, such indeed as it is, w eak, thin,
effete, and devoid o f all fructifying agency, is u n ­
doubtedly the fluid w hich the organs suffer to escape,
and to prevent its fu rth er flow, as w ell as to give
healthy tone to the secretory and retentive vessels,
oug h t to form our first care. T h e shock to the n er­
vous system , its repeated excitation and disturbance,
is no t the only avenue to disease and pow erless prostra­
tio n consequent upon loss o f th e sem inal secretion..
F o r w here the debility is great, and the dribbling loss
o f th in sem en, draining involuntarily from irritable
vessels, occurs daily, there is progressive w eakness n o t
referrible to m ere orgasm or voluptuous excitem ent.
Self-pollution is a very general source o f this distress­
ing m alady. F ew constitutions are capable o f bearing
the loss o f this fluid in excess, even in a natural m an­
ner, w ithout the probability of inducing th e sam e
k ind o f debility ; b u t w hen recourse is had to such p re ­
tern atu ral excitem ent, dism al is the train of suffering
w hich surely follow s. In th e early stage o f sem inal
w eakness, different persons are variously affe cted ;
som e are incapable o f procuring a discharge o f sem en
into th e cavity o f the fem ale genitals in a natural w ay,
though they m ay effect tem porary erection j w hilst
others cannot perform the act of copulation from
em ission taking place too quickly, and before th e
Digitized by Google
THE SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 49
requisite firm ness o f the m ale organ has enabled it to
effect the requisite penetration*
T hen let no illusion force y our thoughts and incli­
nations contrary to th eir natural d ic ta te s: for if by
self-exterm inating pow er you annihilate the grace b e­
stow ed upon you from above, in vain shall you seek to
partake of th at ethereal abode prepared for those w ho
leave the p ath of erro r for righteousness and life. B u t
if th is m alady is still p u rsu ed , (to the certain d estru c­
tion o f its disciples), celibacy should for ever separate
those w ho have rendered them selves unfit to be united
in the bands o f affection and the ties o f nature ; for in
th e holy state o f m atrim ony— w here you are called
upon, as you shall answ er for it at the dreadful day of
ju d g m en t, if you k n o w “ any im pedim ent,” & c., & c.,—
w hat im pedim ent can equal th at of self-insufficiency
o r im potency? P erju ry here arises; and th e un-
happy partn er o f your fate, w hom you sw ear to love
and cherish, becom es linked to unfruitfulness, disap­
pointm ent, and co n tem p t: the b rig h t daw n of hope
becom es o b sc u re d ; discontent, jarrin g , and reproaches
invade the h e a r t: and w hat should be a life of jo y
becom es a life o f p a in ; for w ithout the fond endear­
m ents of w edded life, vainly m ay you hope to num ber
y o u r years by a reciprocity of regard, feeling and
sensibility.
C onceive the situation o f a youth so unhappily
situated, w hen circum stances lead him to the form a­
tio n of a m atrim onial connexion, and he is called
u p o n to exchange his h ab it o f filthy propensities for
th e pure enjoym ents of th e nuptial c o u c h ! In this
case, how forlorn is the situation o f bo th individuals.
Digitized by Google
5Q Tg£ B
ILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
T h e husband perhaps experiencing an excitation of a
new b u t extrem ely pow erful description, essays to ful­
fil th e chief end of his union. H is passions are in­
flam ed to th e highest d e g re e ; every faculty appears
alive to a sensation o f exquisite ra p tu re ; b u t alas!
a t th e m om ent w hen h e is about to unloose th e virgin
zone of his expecting bride, a spontaneous em ission
takes place, th e excitem ent retires, all th e lively
em otions prem aturely decay, and the anim al functions
suddenly becom e palsied, and u tterly incom petent to
fulfil th e end to w hich th ey w ere excited.
T h e nuptial bed, instead o f teem ing w ith a hallow ­
ed, extatic, and undefinable delight, is converted into
a scene of blended m ortification, disappointm ent, and
suppressed a n g e r; and it is now th a t th e m istaken
bride is first penetrated w ith those suspicions, w hich
are too soon corroborated by subsequent experience ;
and if, under such circum stances, the unfortunate
fem ale falls a prey to som e artful seducer, h er offence
is not altogether w ithout a justification, and th e in­
ju re d husband m ay accuse him self as th e cause of h e r
unhappy deviation.
In som e instances th e pow er of th e m ale genitals
is not altogether destroyed, nay, im pregnation m ay
occur in a healthy fem ale, from th e laborious em braces
o f one w hose constitutional vigour is alm ost en tirely
destroyed. B u t th e offspring— can it be rationally
expected th a t the child of such a father should b e
otherw ise th an puny, feeble, and predisposed to those
diseases w hich un d er th e m ost favourable circu m ­
stances destroy so large a proportion o f.c h ild re n .
Digitized by Google
THE SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 61
Instances of this deplorable description com e too fre­
quently u n d er th e eyes of m edical m e n : som etim es
th e infant dies before th e b ir th ; at others, it expires
im m ediately on en terin g th e w orld.
I t therefore follows th a t th ere are and m ay be vari­
eties of sem inal w eakness, w hich though not absolutely
precluding th e perform ance of th e sexual act, m ay
ren d er th a t act unfruitful, or term inate in th e produc­
tion of progeny to w hom a sickly short dived exist­
ence is rath er a curse th an a blessing.
A lthough sem inal w eakness and gleet are som etim es
to be found existing, in one person, at th e sam e tim e,
yet they are not necessarily connected w ith each
other, as w e have often found them separately. W hen
th ey do exist together, one of th e m ost obstinate form s
of gleet is th a t w hich arises from such a state of th e
p a r ts ; for th e individual being conscious of m oral
tu rp itu d e, and at th e sam e tim e allured by this singu­
lar gratification, perseveres in his bad practices, and
conceals long th e m alady w hich entirely deranges th e
action o f th e sem inal vessels, gradually exhausts his
fram e, and destroys every m ental facu lty ; till at
length th e interference of relations and friends, w ho
are alarm ed at th e progress of em aciation and decay,
his own intolerable w eakness and dread o f death, in ­
duce him to apply for m edical advice.
T his state of disease m ay som etim es be th e com bin­
ed effect of self-pollution and venereal infection, al­
though such a state m ay arise from th e long continued
debilitating effects of m ercury.
W e also know th a t th e h ab it o f selfrpollution, indu-
Digitized by Google
62 TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
ces such a distressing state of the organs of generation,
th a t titiU ation of th e parts, th e slightest exertion, or
even the operations of th e m ind, cause a copious in ­
voluntary d isch arg e; and th e sam e m ay be said o f
excess of venery, how ever pure th e connexion.
W hile th ere are perhaps no com plaints to w hich
th e hum an body is liable, so tedious of cure, it is for­
tu n ate th a t th e principal m edicine by w hich they are
rem ovable, can, under proper regulations, be taken to
a n y e x te n t, or for a n y len g th o f tim e, and even th en
w ith the m ost beneficial effects. N o instance, indeed,
of such com plaints, has yet com e under our observation,
w hich has not, by p atient perseverance, been com pletely
and perm anently rem oved.
T he C ordial B alm of Syriacum differs from every
other M edicine w ith w hich we are acquainted, in
respect to the length of tim e it can be used. A ll
other m edicines lose th eir effects by use, and, if w e
expect benefit from them , they m ust be increased, in
proportion to th e tiipe th ey are used, w hile they a t
length assist, in a greater or less degree, in in ju rin g
th e constitution of the person who em ploys them . T h e
C ordial B alm of Syriacum , on th e contrary, th e longer
we em ploy it, the m ore it im proves every faculty, b o th
of body and m in d ; w hile instead of increasing the doses,
w hich is indispensable in all other m edicines, we a re
obliged to continue the last dose in exact proportion to
th e first, w hile it produces equally and frequently m ore
pow erful effects on th e general system ; thus, even w ere
it found advisable to use m edicine d uring th e remain**
d er of life, a circum stance we n^yer y et m et w ith, i t
Digitized by Google
THE8IEENT FRIEN
D
. 53
can produce no bad ^effects, and w ould certainly be
m uch less troublesom e th an th e presence of th e com ­
plaint for th e rem oval of w hich it was em ployed.
W e have lately m et w ith various cases, w here the
patients, although they applied to us, scarcely en tertain ­
ed a hope of relief, th eir m isery was so im m ovably
fixed— th a t no argum ent could convince them of th eir
progressive cure, till th e com plete re-establishm ent
of th eir h ealth left them no room to doubt.
M any fem ales are generally or partially affected w ith
fluor albus or w h ite s; even a p artial flow of this dis­
charge w eakens th e genital system , b u t especially in
those of a w eakly habit-: and w herever a languid con­
dition of th e body follows after any peculiar disease,
it is -commonly accom panied by this discharge. A n
early attention to these sym ptom s is of th e m ost
essential consequence, and it is frequently rem oved
w ithout m uch in ju ry ; b u t if perm itted to exhaust
itself, (a favourite m ode w ith so m e ;) if then, the
disease do not increase, it at least exhausts th e anim al
spirits, and produces general debility and protracted
lassitude ; causing heat of urine, now &nd then ulcers,
g reat pain in th e back and joints, a pale and sickly
colour in the face, indigestion, sw elling of th e legs, ex ­
trem e irregularity in the m enstrual discharge : and, il
th ese sym ptom s yield not to th e rem edies applied, the
p atien t gradually sinks into a hectic decline, atten d ed
w ith universal lassitude, till som e chronic disease
closes th e m elancholy scene. Som e, indeed, have
th is discharge so very m oderately at its first approach,
a n d perhaps then only at intervals, th a t they are aw are
F
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
o f no rem arkable detrim en t for tw o or th ree years,
and pay no attention to it— considering it a m ere no­
th in g : too m any, how ever, have suffered from th is
m ere n o th in g ; for it is to be borne in recollection, th a t
during all th is period th e disease is gaining stre n g th ;
and, unless its progress be stopped, w ill of course
increase.
T hough the disease in its prim ary stage is n eith er
dangerous nor difficult, unless accom panied w ith o th er
diseases, y et even in th a t sim ple state it m ay cause
incurable sterility : and though th e discharge is often a t
its com m encem ent so m ild as to excite little suspicion
of its ulterior consequences, y et by its continuance, it
soon acquires an acrid and irritating principle, ren d er­
ing th e parts susceptible even to th e passing of th e
w a te r; w hich so erodes th e ten d er surface over w hich
it passes, as not only to induce very unpleasing sen ­
sations, b u t lay the foundation of such various d iso r­
ders, as to ren d er th e best efforts of science ab o rtiv e
in attem pting th eir rem oval, and th e noblest functions
of n atu re u se less: for in som e patients, though th e
effects produceS on th e w hole body m ay apparently b e
slight, yet we are decidedly o f opinion it m ay v e ry
m uch debilitate th e organs of rep ro d u ctio n ; so m u ch
so, th a t w e have been led to believe th a t th e
continuance of th is discharge has produced n o t
only barrenness, b u t even a com plete aversion to
sexual intercourse. T his discharge follows no c e r­
tain rule w ith regard to tim e or duration. T h e
disposition th e uterus and vagina have to these d is ­
charges, are not only very num erous, b u t u n acco u n tab le
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 55
to th e w isest of us. Its continuance will alw ays
be influenced by th e h ab it of body and constitu­
tion of th e p a tie n t: and again, w e m ust always
bear in recollection, th a t during th e continuance of
this discharge, sterility frequently e x is ts ; for w hile
th e u teru s labours u n d er debility, th e pow er of concep­
tion and reten tio n is lost. A ll diseases are liable to a
recurrence, and none m ore than th e one under con­
sideration, therefore, its retu rn m ust b e prevented, by
an active and regular course of th e Cordial Balm
of Syriacum.
IM P O T E N C Y
M ay arise from a deficiency of vital heat, a w eakness
of th e solids, profuse venery, ill cured claps, gleets of
long continuance, &c., &c., b u t th e m ost frequent cause
o f im potency, at th a t period of existence w hen m an
should be in th e zenith of his procreative pow er, is in
a general w eakness of th e generative organs, induced
by too early an indulgence in coition, th e pernicious and
dem oralizing crim e of m asturbation, or th e abuse of
venereal pleasures. In these cases, erection w ill not
tak e place, or b u t feebly, although the m ind be highly
excited hy lascivious ideas. T he erector m uscles are
paralysed from over-use, and the sem en if any is secreted,
from th e lax and w ithered state of th e testes, is clear,
serous, w ithout consistence, and consequently deficient
o f prolific virtue. Som etim es th ere is a w ant of con­
sen t betw een th e im m ediate and secondary organs of
g en eratio n ; •thus, th e penis acts w ithout th e testicles,
Digitized by Google
56 T
H
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
and becom es erected w here th ere is no sem en to b e
ev acu a te d ; w hile th e testicles secrete too quickly, and
an evacuation takes place w ithout any erection of th e
penis.
Im potency is som etim es occasioned by p articu lar
diseases during th eir continuance, such as nervous and
m alignant fev ers; w hile, strange to relate, an opposite
effect is som etim es produced by other diseases, such
as gout and rheum atism , hoem orrhoids, & c .; and in ­
stances are on record, th a t others produce such a
change in th e constitution th a t an im potent m an m ay
find him self cured of his im potency on th eir cessation.
C opulation should never be an act of effo rt: we have
know n m any serious results arise from a fruitless p er­
severance in an attem pt in coitu ; and it is not long
since, th at at an inquest hoi den upon an aged person,
it was given in evidence th a t th e deceased fell a
victim at th e shrine o f his own presum ption. W h ere
th ere exists an inaptitude, and th at probably a tem ­
porary one, it is b etter at once to desist, and aw ait a
happier season.
A s excess in sexual indulgences im pairs the g enera­
tive pow er, no less injurious m ay be considered en tire
abstinence. T he due exercise of an organ tends to its
perfection, as the neglect or m isuse of it, to its im pair­
m ent. B esides, th ere is not any w onderful virtue in
abstaining from th e proper use of the sexes. W hy, in
th e nam e of m orality, w ere such pow erful im pulses and
desires bestow ed upon us ? W hy w ere such w onderful
organizations given to us ?— if they w ere not originally
designed to be used by every one who is possessed o f
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
. 57
th e m ? Society, in its present form , is not perhaps
constructed w ith a philosophical regard to our own
n atu ral instincts, and our own original rights.
Im potence in th e m ale, m ay arise th en from a w ide di­
versity of conditions. Incapacity of erection, generally
referrible to self-pollution ;— Im potence arising from a
w ant of pow er of retention in th e sem inal vessels, induced
by a m orbid susceptibility of those vessels, and brought
about in like m anner by a persistance in th e sam e vicious
p ra c tic e ;— Im potence from inability of retention result­
ing from repletion of these v essels;— Im potence from
m ental influences. E xclusive of this, th e generative
infirm ity under consideration, though ^occasionally
arising from sim ple disease, is ascribable in by far
th e greater m ajority of instances to th e delusive and
m entally annihilating propensity of O nanism .
N ex t to S elf-p o llu tio n , excessive venery is a fre­
quent cause of Im potency, as w ell as of sterility am ong
• th e m ale sex. T his is a frequent cause of w ant of off­
spring in young m arried persons. In these cases th e
sem en m ay escape w ithout th e aid of th e ejaculatory
m uscles, is im perfect in quality, devoid of pow er until
th e health is im proved, or if im pregnation ensue, th e
child undoubtedly partakes of th e debility of the parent,
soon to be consigned to a prem ature grave, th e victim
of th a t n am eless a tr o p h y , or w asting decay, w hich
hurries thousands of infants annually to th e tom b. In
these cases, th e m ale p aren t generally suffers from in ­
flam m ation of th e sem inal vesicles, or there is sem inal
w eakness w ith m ore or less involuntary discharge.
Im potent persons are perm anently cured by th e
58 T
H
ESILEN
T FRIEN
D
.
use of the Cobdial Balm of Syriacum, with the
assistance of cold bathing, which strengthens the con­
stitution, invigorates the general health, and favours
the reproduction of the semen.
In one of th e novels o f K otzebue, th ere is a re ­
m ark to th e following effect:— “ T h at N atu re in the
union of th e sexes, having th e m ultiplication o f the
species in view as h er principal object, n ev er fails,
w henever an opportunity occurs, to urge them on to
the accom plishm ent of th at object.” B e this as it m ay,
it was th e positive com m and of H eaven, th a t M an and
W om an should go forth, after th e fall, to m ultiply and
people th e a a rth ; and th e proper m eans for th a t d esira­
ble end w ere given to them before th e com m and. B u t
th e A ll-w ise did not stay h e re : aw are th a t som ething
m ore w as requisite to induce m an to ren d er obedience
even to his C reator th an a sim ple com m and, w ith a
view to enforce obedience to th e decree, he connected
ecsta cy w ith obedience, th u s subduing, by th e spell o f
pleasure, th a t natural disinclination to bend, even to th e
will of Providence, w hich exists, even to this m om ent,
in th e depraved m ind of m an.
“O
urM
akerbidsincrease;w
hobidsabstain
“B
utourdestroyer,foetoG
odandm
an?
M ilton, Bookiv.
T h e penalty of disobedience to this com m and is th e
loss of th at ecstatic en jo y m en t; a penalty so h eav y ,
th at few are disposed to incur it. N atu re has im p lan t­
ed in us a pow erful disposition to perform th e d u ty ,
rather than to hazard th e tptal loss of the delight w ith
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 59
w hich it is accom panied; and every feeling of th e h u ­
m an h eart revolts from th e surrender of th a t m oral
obligation enforced by H eaven, and th e relinquishm ent
of w hich m ust inevitably lead to a deprivation o f so
considerable a portion of th e enjoym ent of life.
S terility, or barrenness, w as of old recorded am ong
th e curses w ith w hich th e A lm ighty punished tribes,
fam ilies, an d individuals; and although, in this advanc­
ed age of society, th e curse m ay appear som ew hat
qualified in a religious sense, yet* th a t it is a real curse
is evident from th e discontents, anxieties, and even dis­
cords, w hich accom pany it in th e m arried state. T here
is nothing w hich seem s to console us so effectually, th at
we m ust q u it this b rief and chequered state of being,
as th e prospect of perpetuating our professions, nam es,
and, in som e degree, even our lineam ents. W e seem
thus to trium ph over oblivion; to possess a strong
guarantee th a t we shall, although in our own transitory
form s resolved into com m on dust, still survive in those
im ages w hich have sprung from our bodies, and partake
not inconsiderably of our character, likeness, and dis­
position. A s we approach th e confines of th e grave,
w e feel a greater necessity for som e reliance of this sort.
T h e m ind, in its increasing im becility, as it loses sight
of life, loves to cling m ore closely to th e progeny in
w hich it is to revive and continue th e scenes of existence.
T hen it is th at th e curse of sterility is felt in its full
force, w hen th e desolate and infirm w anderer is to tte r­
ing over th e tom b, and discovers th a t th ere w ill be left
behind no m em orial of nam e and being— then is the full
affliction of a childless p aren t found in the dread of an
oblivion never to be broken.
Digitized by Google
60 T
H
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
.
O n m arriage, th e wife relies on th e hope o f children,
to relieve th e m any tedious hours caused by th e neces­
sary absence of h er husband. In th eir presence she
looks for an am ple relief from the gloom of lo n elin ess;
for those endearing com panions, who, in m aturer life,
m ay in som e m easure, becom e th e substitutes of h er
husband, and, in th e event of th e m arriage tie being
separated by death, w ho m ay becam e th e solace and
support of widowhood. In proportion as th e fem ale
disposition has been habituated to dw ell on these an ti­
cipations, m ust be the regret and sorrow w hich will
ensue from a disappointm ent of hope. She cannot
look for relief in those active em ploym ents, w hich, for
m any years, m ay b lu n t th e disappointm ent in th e h u s­
band. T h e only rem edy she can find will be in th e
resources of h er own m in d ; and th e character and
ex ten t of these resources depend m ainly on th e educa­
tion and exam ples of h er early life.
T h e causes o f sterility in w om an are num erous.—
O ne o f th e m ost freq u en t, how ever, is th e existence
o f th e m alady called leucorrhcea, o r w hites. B arren ­
ness is also very often caused by a retention, irreg u la­
rity, o r profusion o f the m enstrual secretion, th ereb y
giving rise to th e diseases know n by th e nam es o f
chlorosis, o r green sickness, am enorrhoea, o r o b stru ct­
ed m en stru atio n , m enorrhagia, o r excessive m en stru ­
ation and flooding. It m ay also proceed from a
natural frigidity o f tem peram ent o r from aversion,
reserve, or indifference, instead of an appetency an d
pleasure, in short from an irrespondence in the feel­
ings of the fem ale to those o f the m ale.
Digitized by Google
T
H
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 61
H ow m uch dom estic unhappiness is hence induced.
W h at scenes o f dissension, sorrow and rem orse, do we
not find to resu lt from this indifference. H ow fruitful
a source is it o f unfaitfulness to th e m arriage bed.
A nd w hen it is accom panied by sterility on th e p art
o f th e fem ale, w hat reproaches, and even disgust does
it no t give rise to ,— converting love to h atred ,—
m aking th e nuptial couch a bed o f thorns, instead o f
roses,— m arriage a curse rath er th an a blessing.
W e are, indeed, aware, that by many m en o f high
attainm ent in the less enlightened period o f m edical
inform ation, r e lie f has been deem ed im practicable.
B u t we are also perfectly aware o f the possibility o f a
c u r e ; a n d th a t even w h ere th e d isea se o f s te r ility
appears to have taken th e firm est hold o f the fem ale
constitution, assistance can be given to the suffering
patient, not through the application o f transitory
stim u la n ts, to the destruction o f all constitutional
vigour, and ultim ately o f lif e ; nor yet by speculative
rem edies, w hich, by changing the sym ptom s and
appearance o f disease, m ay induce hope, and lead to
ardent expectations— only to destroy them . B ut
sim p ly by the softening tonic and prolific qualities o f
th e Cordial B alm of Syriacum, w hich w ill warm
a n d purify the blood and ju ices, increase the anim al
sp ir its , invigorate and revive the w hole hum an m a­
c h in e , and rem ove the usual im pedim ents to fertility.
N a tu re has assigned to fem ales a class of diseases
f r o m w hich the o th er sex has been exem pted, and no
c a r e or attention w ill enable w om an entirely to escape
f r o m th eir influence. F ro m the very character and
c o n s tru c tio n o f th e fem ale organs, th ere are peculiar
Digitized by Google
T
H
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
crises in th eir lives w hen every solicitude is attracted
to them . A nd we com e now to speak o f a m ost im ­
p o rtan t period o f fem ale life, v iz .: th a t period w hen
th e m enstrual flow, by its gradual disappearance,
w arns the p arty o f an eventual change. I t is usually
know n as th e tu rn o f life , and takes place from
about the 4 0 th to th e 4 5 th y e a r; though it is som e-
*tim es delayed longer.
T he diseases th at spring up at this tim e are n u m er­
ous and form idable ; and it behoves all w om en u n d er­
going the change in question, to reflect seriously on
th eir situation. L e t them n o t suppose, th at because
m any have passed th ro u g h the tu rn of life w ith little
difficulty, it is therefore to be neglected ; for, th o u g h
a safe conduct th ro u g h it is ensured by th e use o f th e
Cordial Balm of Syriacum, yet, su ch is th e fatal
effect o f neglect, th at we are assured m ore w om en are
carried off during the cessation o f th e m enses, th an at
any o ther period o f life.
A t the tim e this fluctuating change is going on, th e
constitution should be m ost carefully regulated, fbr
the m enstrual vessels do not suddenly surren d er th e ir
secretive pow er, b u t usually a distressing irreg u larity
torm ents the patient, attended w ith internal p ains,
som etim es actual enlargem ent o f th e w om b, w h ich
m ay be m istaken for pregnancy, & c.; indeed, m any
are the presum ed disorders th at th e sufferer attach es
to herself, often unw illing to allow th e im p o rtan t
tru th ; and, it is to be lam ented th at hab itu al d ro p sy
is no t unfrequently the penalty o f concealm ent. S om e
are afflicted w ith the w ell-know n sym ptom s o f p le ­
th o ra, h eat, flushings, restless nights, trou b leso m e
Digitized by Google
T
H
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
. 63
dream s, and u n eq u al sp irits; others are attack ed
w ith spasm odic affections, stiffness o f th e lim bs, sw ell­
ed ancles, piles, and o th er indications o f plentitude.
W hen th e m enstrual discharge is about to disappear,
it becom es irreg u lar b o th in tim e, q u a n tity , and
q u a lity ; som etim es sparing, som etim es profuse.
W om en, how ever, m ust be sensible o f th e peculiar
influence this secretion has upon th eir fram e, and we
have only strenuously to advise them , as soon as any
sym ptom s o f constitutional derangem ent shall begin
to display them selves, to com m ence a course of the
Cordial Balm of Syriacum, w hich m ust be taken
according to th e general directions.
T his m edicine has been uncom m only successful w ith
young people w ho have the appearance and air o f old
age; w ho are pale, effem inate, benum bed, stupid, and
even im becile; w hose bodies are becom e bent, whose
legs are no longer able to support them , w ho have an
utter distaste for every thing, or are totally incapaci­
tated for the perform ance of its natural functions. W hen
the stom ach is frequently disordered, the body is
w eakened; paleness, bodily decay, and em aciation suc­
ceed, and the eyes sink into the head. T he virtues o f the
Cordial Balm of Syriacum, are daily dem onstrated
in eradicating the w orst sym ptom s o f nervous debility.
N othing has tended so m uch to establish the fam e
o f this M edicine, as its certain success in those com ­
plaints w hich strike their roots so deep in the con­
stitution, and are so fatal to the happiness of m ankind.
A s th ere m ay be som e o f our readers w ho m ay
th in k th e description given in this little w ork, of th e
gross enorm ity and terrific consequences of indulging
Digitized by Google
64 T
H
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
,
in th e vicious habit o f self-pollution, has been exag*
gerated by us, w e shall take th e liberty o f adducing
a few passages from H oly W rit itself, in corrobora­
tion of th e sentim ents expressed by us. T he validity
of an appeal to such an authority is irrefragable and
undeniable, inasm uch as its tru th is above im peach­
m ent, and its p urity above suspicion. N or shall we
allow ourselves to be deterred from appealing to such
a tribunal by th e sneer of the infidel. T he object
we have proposed to ourselves in th e com position of
this w ork, is, we tru st, good; and every legitim ate
m eans w hich w e can em ploy to enhance its value, and
recom m end its perusal to youth and adults we are
determ ined to avail ourselves of. W e all know th at
to different individuals, different species of proof
bring different degrees of conviction: but in th e
present case, w herein w e adduce, observed, estab­
lished, and authenticated facts and results, and
w hen we trace these facts and results by th e pro­
cess of analytical reasoning, and by the law s of
induction to th eir causes, and w hen we m ake it
m anifest th at such causes are adequate to produce
such and such effects; w hen, in addition to all th is
hum an dem onstration, we bring to our aid th e w ord o f
G od him self, w ho neither “can deceive nor be d e ­
ceived,” unw ieldy and obdurate indeed m ust th at m an
be, w ho can resist th e com bined force of such over­
w helm ing authorities! W e shall now w ithout fu rth er
apology, adduce our proofs from S cripture of th e en o r­
m ity of th e sin of self-pollution.
St. P aul in his E p is tle to th e E p h e sia n s, chap, v.,
v. 6, says— “ L et no m an deceive you w ith vaijji
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
r
tB E SILEN
T FBIEN
D
. 65
w ords; for because of these things com eth th e w rath
of God upon the children of disobedience." " K eep
thyself pu re,” says th e sam e apostle:— 1 T im . chap, y.,
v. 2 2 . A nd again, “ U nto th e pure all things are p u re;
but unto them th a t are defiled, nothing is p u re; b u t
even th eir m ind and th eir consciences are defiled."
S t. P a u V s f i r s t E p is tle to th e T h essa lo n ia n s, chap.
iv. , v. 3 , 4 , 5 , and 7 ,— “ F or this is th e w ill of G od,
even your sanctification th a t ye should abstain from
fornication. T h at every one of you should know how
to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour. N ot
in th e lust of concupiscence, even as th e G entiles who
know not G od: for G od h ath not called us unto u n ­
cleanness, b u t unto holiness." E p is tle to th e R o ­
m a n s, chap, xiii., v. 1 3 .— “ N o t in cham bering and
w antonness.” “ W alk not,” says he, “ as other G en­
tiles w alk, w ho being past feeling, have given th em ­
selves over to lasciviousness, to w ork all uncleanness
w ith greediness.”— E p h esia n s iv., 1 7 , 1 9 , chap, vi.,
v. 1 5 . K now ye not th a t your bodies are th e m em bers
of C hrist? Shall I th en tak e th e m em bers of C hrist
and m ake them m em bers of an harlot.* G od forbid!”
1 C or. chap, iii., v. 1 6 .— ■
"K now ye not th a t your body
is th e tem ple of the H oly G host w hich is in you,
w hich ye have of God, and ye are not your ow n?"
A nd in th e sam e to th e C o rin th ia n s, chap, iii., v. 1 7 ,—
“ If any m an defile th e tem ple of G od, him shall G od
destroy, for th e tem ple of G od is holy, w hich tem ple
ye are."
B ut if it was not revealed to us th at G od is highly
offended at all m anner o f uncleanness, w hen w e re-
G
Digitized by Google
66 TH
E SILEN
T FRIEN
D
.
fleet on th e end of m arriage in all countries, and in all
societies, and th e m anner after w hich G od has ordain­
ed th at our species should be continued, natu ral reli­
gion and our own reason w ould in stru ct us, th at to
destroy th at end m ust be very offensive to G o d ; th a t
th e crim e in its e lf is m o n stro u s a n d u n n a tu r a l;
in its p r a c tic e f ilth y a n d odiou s to e x tr e m ity ; its
g u ilt is c r y in g , a n d its consequences ru in o u s ; it
d e stro y s co n ju g a l a ffectio n , p reven ts n a tu ra l in c li­
n ation , a n d ten d s to e x tin g u ish th e h opes o f p o s- .
te r ity .
In the foregoing pages, it has been proved th at the
h u rt w hich either sex m ay receive from self-pollution,
is corporeal as well as sp iritu al; because those w ho
once com m itted this act have in a grievous m anner of­
fended G od, and m any o f strong constitutions m ay for
som e tim e have been guilty of this sin, w ithout any per­
ceptible harm to their bodies, yet how to redress the
spiritual injury received, shall be our first and chiefest
care. T here is no C hristian w ho can be ignorant th a t
no pardon can be obtained for this as well as other sins,
w ithout repentance in general; bu t m any are apt to
deceive them selves concerning the nature of rep en t­
ance, as no t well know ing in w hat it consists; w here­
fore it is requisite som ething should be said of th e
m anner after w hich this duty ought to be perform ed,
as well as the necessity o f it.
T he repentance of those w ho are polluted by th is
sin, should rem ain w ith them to their lives end. T h ese
are n o t sins which a m an can forget, and the m em ory
of them ought to be always fresh, th a t the penitent m ay
Digitized by L . o o Q [ e
TflE SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 67
truly say with D avid, “ M y sin s a re ever before m e ”
N ot only the tim e th at has passed since the com m ission
o f it, but even the am endm ent of life, does not take
aw ay the sense of so great a fau lt; but, on the con­
trary, he becom es m ore and m ore sensible of it. E ven
this thought, th at the sinner has had the happiness to
obtain the pardon of his guilt, will render the rem em ­
brance of it the m ore b itte r; and the greater progress
he m akes in lioliness, the m ore abom inable w ill his
w ickedness appear. T he greater experience he has had
o f G od’s goodness, the m ore he will accuse and loath
him self; and the m ore hope he has o f salvation through
G o d ’s goodness, the m ore will he be affected w ith the
danger o f being excluded from it, to. w hich he had ex­
posed him self.
A nother great d uty th at belongs to repentance, is
conversion and am en d m en t: the guilty m ust forsake
their sin, and continue no longer in it. W hen our
blessed S aviour pardoned the w om an taken in adultery,
he said to h e r: “ G o , a n d sin no m ore ” T he crim e
m ust, therefore, be totally ren o u n ced ; and they which
d o no t this, bu t relapse into it, have n o t repented of
it. E very act, and every repetition of their sin, is an
aggravation of both their guilt and punishm ent.
B efore concluding, we th in k it rig h t to m ention,
th a t, in m any instances, patients w ho have in early life
indulged in th e habit o f self-pollution, are frequently,
m any years after they have abandoned th e pernicious
h ab it, annoyed and rendered w retched by the conse­
quences w hich it has left behind it. S uch persons
a re troubled w ith involuntary discharges, pains in the
Digitized by Google
68 TH
E SILEN
T FBIEM
L
b ack and lim bs, and several o th er anom alous sym p­
tom s, w hich the experienced practitioner w ill at once
refer to th eir tru e origin. T o such persons we w ould
earnestly recom m end an im m ediate recourse to the
Cordial Balm of Syriacum. T he success w hich is
to be derived from its use, is o f such a n atu re as to
insure to th e patient a restoration to strength and
vigour.
I t is o f course, unnecessary to state, th at the suc­
cess o f th e treatm ent herein recom m ended, as w ell as
th e celerity o f th e cure, are, in all cases, invariably
p roportioned according to th e attention w ith w hich
th e directions, contained in this W o rk , are com ­
p lied w ith.
G E N E R A L IN S T R U C T IO N S ,
T o b e observed by those labouring u n d er G enera­
tive D ebility, Sem inal W eakness, Im potency, N o c­
tu rn al E m issions, or D eficiency o f N atu ral S tren g th ,
w hile u n d er a course o f th e C O R D IA L B A L M
O F S Y R IA C U M .
A D V IC E A N D P L A IN R U L E S F O R P A T IE N T S .
T he first step th at should be taken w ith regard to
th e cure, is, to leave off those practices th at h av e
occasioned th e disease, though it m ay appear to b e
a difficult m atter, as th e very soul itself is generally
so m u ch po llu ted th at it can dw ell on no o th er id ea.
H ow ever, b y a sincere repentance, and fixed d e te r­
m ination to desist before it is too late, th ere is n o t th e
least dou b t b u t th at th e irritab ility m ay be su b d u ed ,
provided th e follow ing rules be atten d ed to .
THESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 6 9
A lthough th e efficacy o f the Cordial Balm of
Syriacum is such, th at in m ost cases no assistance is.
required from any thing else, yet a due attention to air,
exercise, sleep, and regim en, is in all cases p ro p er, and
in a few absolutely necessary. A few w ords on each
o f these heads will be sufficient.
W h erev er the patient is, he m ust no t neglect ex ­
ercise ; it should be m oderate at first and augm ented
by degrees, being always left off before too great
fatigue takes place. All exercise is best fasting, and
w ith regard to the kind of exercise m ost conducive to
health, none is preferable to w alking.
M uch depends on a due regulation of sleep, es­
pecially as the w ant or disturbance o f th at great
restorative is one o f the m ost distressing sym ptom s
o f the disease. T o contribute effectually to the cure,,
it should be sound and not too long ; the best way of
procuring sleep is upon a h ard b ed or m attre ss; to
rise early, take sufficient exercise and proper food
during the day, and sup lightly. T h e greatest atten­
tion should be paid by th e patient b o th to the quantity
and quality of his fo o d : he should rath er eat a little
and often, than gorge him self w ith a full m eal at any
one tim e : and this rule is the m ore necessary as a
p retu rn atu ral voracity o f appetite is a frequent sym p­
tom in this and every other species o f decay. A nim al
food should be taken once a day.
B oots, as potatoes, turnips, parsnips, carrots, &c.*
afford m uch n o u rish m en t; and, at dinner and supper,
d rin k good pu re w ater, discoloured w ith a little
w ine, or very good table beer, &c. S pirituous liquors
in any form are destructive ; som e m alt liquors ar«
Digitized by i ^ o o Q l e
ftfE SILENT
n o t a little injurious. F ro m tw o to th ree glasses of
p o rt w ine or claret m ay be taken, especially after or
durin g dinner.
F o r w eakness, deficiency o f n atu ral strength, and
relaxation o f the vessels, by too frequent indulgence of
th e passions, th e Cordial Balm op Syriacum w ith
th e Purifying Specific Pills, is a safe, certain, and
invaluable rem ed y ; and, if, durin g th e tim e th e
patien t is u n d er a course o f these m edicines, he w ere
to accustom him self to th e use o f sponging th e w hole
body w ith cold w ater, every m orning on first getting
o u t o f bed, it w ould b e highly beneficial; it should
be done quickly, and follow ed w ith a rough tow eL I t
has considerable effect in giving tone to th e skin, and
m aintaining a p ro p er action in it, and thus proves a
safeguard in the injurious influence o f cold and sudden
changes o f tem p eratu re; therefore, a person w ho is in
th e h ab it o f th u s fortifying th e skin, w ill be m uch less
likely to suffer in ju ry from heated room s, and th e
change from a h o t room to th e cold air.
T h e cold b ath recom m ends itself in a variety o f
ca se s; and is peculiarly beneficial to th e inhabitants
o f populous cities, w ho indulge in voluptuousness, o r
lead sedentary lives. In persons o f this description
th e action o f th e solids is alw ays too w eak, w hich in ­
duces a languid circulation, a cru d e indigested m ass
o f hum ours, and obstruction in th e capillary vessels
and glandular system . C old w ater, from its g rav ity ,
as well as its tonic pow er, is w ell calculated eith er to
obviate or rem ove these sym ptom s. It accelerates
th e m otion o f th e blood, prom otes th e different se c re ­
tions, and gives perm anent vigour to th e solids,—-
Digitized by Google
ffriESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. fi
T hese im portant purposes are alw ays m ost essentially
answ ered by se a-b ath in g ; for salt w ater ought to be
p referred , n o t only on account o f its sup erio r gravity,
b u t likew ise for its greater pow er o f stim ulating th e
akin, w hich prom otes th e perspiration, and prevents
th e patient from catching cold;
T he use o f th e Cordial Balm of Syriacum, and
sponging th e body regularly every m orning on first
getting ou t o f bed, is pointed ou t by the nature o f th eir
v irtu e s; they produce th e sam e effects; and being
com bined, w ill cure disorders w hich every o ther re­
m edy w ould only have increased. B eing stren g th en ­
ing, sedative, and febrifugal, th ey reinvigorate, d i­
m inish the feverish and nervous h e a t: they calm th e
irregular m otions produced by th e spasm odic disposi-*
tion o f th e nervous system ; they fortify a w eak sto­
m ach, and quickly dissipate its attendant pains ; they
restore appetite, they facilitate digestion and nutrition *
they prom ote all th e functions, and p articularly p er­
spiration, w hich renders th em so efficacious in all
catarrhous and cutaneous disorders. In a w ord, they
rem ove all th e disorders occasioned by w eakness,
provided th e p atient is not afflicted w ith indissoluble
obstructions, inflam m ations, nor internal ulcerous
abscesses, w hich conditions alm ost necessarily exclude
the operation*
Digitized by Google
*
In consequence o f the high repute and extensive Sale o f M essrs. Perry’s M edicines, it hus induced many unprincipled individuals
to foist uuon th e public illicit and spurious C om positions o f their ow n preparation, M essrs. Perry therefore beg to inform personspur­
chasing their M edicines, that none are genuine unless the underneath Label,(in coloured ink) containing the signature of K .& L. P e r r y
Sc Co. i« affixed on the outside o f each H oule o f the Co r d ia l B alm of St r ia c u m .
W
t
h
e
s
i
l
e
n
t
f
b
i
e
n
d
.
TH
E SILEN
TFR
IEN
D
. 7 3
T h e c o r d i a l b a l m o f s y r i a c u m ,
I s so ld in B o ttle s a t I Is., o r f o u r q u a n tities in one
B o ttle f o r 3 3 s , w h ereb y one 11*. B o ttle is saved.
M ay b e had o f all M edicine V enders in T ow n and
C ountry, A m erica, and the C ontinent o f E urope.
PREPA
RED O
N
L
Y B
Y
M E S S R S . P E R R Y & C O ., S U R G E O N S ,
4* G REA T C H A R LE S-STR E ET , FO U R DOORS FROM E A SY ROW,
B IR M IN G H A M , AN D 44* A L BIO N -STR EET , L E E D S.
M
E
SSR
S. PER
R
YEX
PECTW
H
ENC
O
N
SU
L
T
EDPER
SO
N
A
LLY
O
RB
YLETTER, TH
EU
SU
A
LFEEO
FO
N
EPO
U
N
D
,
L
E
T
T
E
R
S M
U
STB
EPRE-PAID.
P atients are requested to be as m inute as possible
in th e detail o f th eir cases,— as to th e duration o f th e
com plaint, th e sym ptom s, age, habit o f living, and
general occupation.
M E S S R S . P E R R Y & CO .
MAY BE PERSONALLY CONSULTED AT THEIK
ESTABLISHMENTS,
No. 4, G R E A T C H A R L E S S T R E E T ,
FOUR DOORS FROM EAST BOW* BIRMINGHAM,
A N D No. 44, A L B I O N S T R E E T , L E E D S .
PU
N
C
TU
A
LLY FR
O
MELEV
EN IN TH
E M
O
R
N
IN
G U
N
TIL
EIGHT IN TH
E EV
EN
IN
G
,
A
N
DO
NS
U
N
D
A
Y
SF
R
O
ME
L
E
V
E
NTIL
LO
N
B
.
Digitized by Google
THESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
Som e disorders have been m any years in proceeding
to such a degree of m alignancy as cannot be erad ica­
ted in a few w eeks ; therefore it is in order to encou­
rage steady perseverance in th e use o f pro p er m eans,
th at M essrs. P erry have adopted the plan o f packing
into boxes, T H R E E L A R G E B O T T L E S , containing
the quantity o f tw elve at 11s. for F iv e P ounds, by
w hich £ 1 . 12s. are saved.
T hose w ho w ish to have the £ 5 . cases o f m edicine
d irect from M essrs. P erry , can (as the m ost safe way
o f rem ittance) obtain a P ost Office order for £ 5 ., or
any sum under th at a m o u n t; or, if m ore convenient,
the m oney m ay be enclosed in a letter, and upon pay*
m ent of one sh illin g at the P ost Office, the sam e will
be registered, so th at persons sending any am ount will
be indem nified against loss. 1
P atients who correspond w ith M essrs. P erry , should
always preserve the sam e signature to prevent trouble
and delay, as the letters are carefully arranged a lp h a -
h elica lly, and m ust be exam ined previous to any
m edicine being prepared ; and this is im portant, no t
only to the patien t’s recovery, b u t to facilitate and
expedite the process of the m edicine intended to be
sent, as reference m ust be h ad to th e form er letters
upon every occasion.
Digitized by Google
TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 75
G E N E R A L D IR E C T IO N S F O R T A K IN G T H E
C O R D IA L B A L M O F S Y R IA C U M .
In all cases w here the Cordial Balm of Syriacum
is adm inistered, the P atient should take one table spoon­
ful half an hour before b reak fast; about eleven o’clo ck ;
five in the evening; and about an hour after su p p e r;
by itself, or in a w ine-glassfull of w ater, u n til health is
perfectly renew ed. A nd when the Cordial B alm of
Syriacum is taken for the cure o f weaknesses, debility,
deficiency of natural strength, and relaxation of the
vessels, by too frequent indulgence of the passions,
Perry’s Purifying Specific Pills should be adm in­
istered also, in doses o f tw o Pills at night, and one in
the m orning.
In respect to the Cordial Balm o f Syriacum , it should
be understood, th at its effects on the various com plicated
diseases are as surprising and singular as the m eans by
w hich we becam e acquainted w ith i t ; we therefore wish
to im press upon the m inds o f patients taking the sam e,
no t only is perseverance necessary, as it corrects and
purifies the whole m ass of blood and juices, bu t because
it is n o t at all uncom m on for the patient to take half
the quantity for a radical cure, before he p e rc e iv e s
a n y m aterial benefit.
T h ere is a very im p o rtan t observation to be m ade
respecting a P ublic M edicine, th a t unless its operation
be gentle, safe, and efficacious, it m ust and will speedi­
ly sink into o b liv io n ; and it req u ires the strongest
conviction o f th eir in trinsic w orth and physical excel­
lence, by long and g reat experience, to induce an in-
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
ventor or p ro p rieto r o f any M edicine to incur the
serious and certain expense o f m aking it know n by
ad v ertisem en ts; an expense o f no less th an £ 5 ,0 0 0
annually to M essrs. P erry & C o., independent of
£ 6 ,000 a year paid for G overnm ent Stam ps affixed to
th eir M edicines, w hich a very great and general de­
m and can only defray; and w hich nothing short of
fatuity could induce any one to en ter upon w ithout
such previous co n v ictio n ; for it w ere o f no avail to
enter upon th e task and vast expense o f m aking
know n th at rem edy, w hose m erits w ill not support its
character w hen know n.
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
P A R T II.
A PRA CTICA L TREA TISE
O N V E N E R E A L A N D S Y P H IL IT IC D IS E A S E S ,
IN THEIR MILD AND HOST ALARMING FORMS,
INCLUDING
SECONDARY SYM PTO M S, GONORRHOEA, G L E E T , ST R IC T U R E ,
AND A VARIETY OF INCIDENTAL DISEASES ;
WITH INTERESTING REMARKS OCCURRING IN A MOST EXTENSIVE
PRACTICE, AND OBSERVATIONS
ON TH E ABUSE OE MERCURY.
G E N E R A L O B S E R V A T I O N S O N T H E
V E N E R E A L D I S E A S E .
T he nature o f th e specific contagion, w hich consti-
tu tes th e disease we are now treatin g upon, and w hich
has the property o f inducing, in the individual, a
secretion possessing the sam e character, presents to
u s, on all sides, a variety o f difficulties, springing
principally from the various shapes it assum es, ac­
cording to th e constitution of the patient, the m alig­
nity and virulence o f the poison, its duration, the
H
Digitized by Google
78 TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
length o f th at duration, and m any o ther, perhaps
occult, causes. W e know th a t it arises from th e
absorption o f a specific m orbid poison, generally im ­
bibed during th e action o f coition w ith a person actu ­
ally in fected ; and th at thus p roduced, it is capable
o f receiving th at variety o f form s w hich it exhibits in
different constitutions, and w hich, depending on th e
nature o f th e virus, and the constitution receiving th a t
virus, gives rise to th at m ultiplicity o f sym ptom s,
w hich in som e constitutions are slight and in others
m alignant. T his pre-disposition to contagion is
pow erfully m anifested in som e constitutions, w hile in
others th e pow er o f repulsion or an inaptitude to th e
contagion is equally exhibited ; for how frequently do
we find, th at one individual shall transgress w ith a
fem ale actually infected, and no sym ptom s o f disease
follow ; w hile another less fortunate, un d er sim ilar
circum stances, and even in som e cases w ith th e sam e
fem ale, shall have th e disease in all its v io len ce; in
short it is an indisputable fact, th at every venereal
case, is a case su i g e n e r is , for in no class o f disease
do we m eet w ith cases less sim ilar to each other,
either in regard to the period the disease takes to
develope its action, or the character it shall display ;
w hich contrarieties appear to be greatly influenced,
by th e existing state o f the individual system at the
m om ent o f contagion; a know ledge o f these facts,
how ever, points ou t the necessity o f th e adoption o f an
early and unequivocal line o f conduct in the first stage
o f our fears, so th a t w e m ay not afterw ards reg ret,
th at th e w ant o f m ore decisive sym ptom s betrayed us
in to an indifference th at leads to future em barrass-
'V
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 7 9
m ent. W e w ould here im press on th e m ind o f the
patient, th at during th e early days o f infection, it is
generally easy o f eradication.
T o th e m edical philosopher, no subject adm its of
greater field for observation, and w e m ay add im ­
provem ent also, th an th e diseases arising from , and
dependent on th is : for tho u g h th e term s gonorrhoea,
gleet, and stricture, in th eir general acceptation, m ay
be w ell understood, yet these term s appear too
v a g u e ; accordingly it is necessary th a t o u r general
instructions should be perfectly explicit, so as to
d irect all classes o f society to th eir m ode o f treatm ent
and cure.
T his disease m ay be introduced into th e system ,
either in the natural and m ost com m on w ay, th ro u g h
the m edium o f the absorbent vessels, o r by transplant­
ing a to o th o f one venereally affected, into a sound
person. In th e first, it is necessary th at the virus
should pass th ro u g h th e absorbent vessels into the
blood, w hile in th e latter, th e absorbent vessels are
less necessary to the virus being applied to the blood.
In th e form er, the disease is generally slow in its p ro ­
gress, in the latter, it is rap id and violent. T h e in ­
fecting m atter cannot act th ro u g h the m edium o f the
air, b u t only th ro u g h th e m edium o f a fluid, as it can­
not be com m unicated, except by im m ediate contact
o f a sound, w ith a diseased, person. A nd, although,
for the m ost evident reasons, it com m only appears on
th e genitals, particularly on the delicate surface o f the
glans penis, & c., th e sam e virus is capable o f o c­
casioning m orbid appearances on any o th er p art or
organ o f the body.
B oth sexes are equally exposed to venereal infection,
THE SILEN
TFB
E
E
N
D
v
but, from the different structure of the parts, the
symptoms in the female are scarcely ever so violent
as in the male. This has been attributed to the sim­
plicity of structure of the female organs of generation,
but we are of opinion, that it arises more commonly
either from the natural or from the morbid flow of
fluids to these parts, washing off the infecting matter.
When the infection takes place, the poison is con­
veyed into the system by the lymphatic or absorbent
vessels. It is in consequence of their dispersion over
the whole body, that the virus may be absorbed on
any part to which it is applied, and, by means of their
infinite connections, that it may be diffused, often very
rapidly, over the whole system.
This poison, however, is absorbed more or less
quickly, according to the structure ofthe part to which
it is applied, and the existing peculiarity of theconsti­
tution, health, &c. of the person exposed to its effects.
If, for instance, from the same connexion, virus be
lodged on any of the parts beneath the prepuce, and
upon the external skin of the penis, and if such virus
act effectually on both these parts, there will be a dis­
tance of many days between the appearance of the
disease ; the virus lodged beneath the prepuce acting
before that upon the external skin.
. Like every other infectious quality causing disease,
the venereal poison undoubtedly possesses greater
virulence at one time than at another, and even, in
certain intervals, may be almost quiescent, though
not entirely injured, in its powers. There can be no
doubt, that the same circumstances attend every con­
tagious disease.
The infection received in the usual way, soon after
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 81
produces small ulcerstermed chancres, and afterwards,
by irritating and inflaming the inguinal glands, in its
passage through them to the system, produces bubo
in the groin.
The immense labour some authors have displayed,
in minutely tracing the different periods, from the
time the infection was caught, to the exact moment
when the disease made its appearance externally, in
the many hundred forms which it is said sometimes to
assume, is more curious than useful. Some of their
more general remarks may be applied to use, but the
attempt to establish a general doctrine, upon a multi­
tude of anomalous and uncertain occurrences, is, at
once, unprofitable and unnecessary.
Although it be from external appearances, such as
chancre, bubo, or other affections of different parts,
that we are usually guided in our opinions respecting
the existence of this disease, yet the system is some­
times affected by it, independently of the occurrence
of either of these symptoms. In these cases, the
glands of the groin are frequently more or less en­
larged. By this single mark, when we have no other
leading symptom, we may, in general, ascertain
whether or not the patient be really affected with
lues venerea: yet, sometimes the venereal virus
passes into the system, even without producing either
chancres, enlargement of these glands, or any other
external sign of disease, but afterwards, blotches on
the skin, ulcers on the tonsils, &c., will convince us.
of its actual existence.
The recent symptoms are chancre, with or without
bubo, and either or both of these, with or without
Digitized by Google
T
H
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
phymosis or paraphymosis. It is always an uncom­
mon occurrence for this disease to be introduced into
the system without one or the other of these appear­
ances. But should this happen, it may continue in
the system for years without exhibiting one external
symptom of its existence. Under this circumstance,
or should the affection he imperfectly cured, it will,
in some form or other make its appearance, at some
future period, no doubt greatly influenced by various
circumstances. In such instances, it most commonly
first affects the fauces with inflammation, which speed­
ily proceeds to ulceration, or appears in the form of
eruptions or blotches, of various kinds, on different
parts of tho body. On other occasions, though less
commonly, sensations somewhat similar to rheumatism
affect different parts, which at length settle in some
or other of the bones. These are the most common
secondary symptoms, although many others occur in
practice, and are to be found described by writers on
this disease. These, however, we decline enumera­
ting, as we wish principally to confine ourselves to
the more common and more important occurrences;
and when other symptoms appear, which are neither
common nor important, they may, together with their
treatment, be found enumerated in some books, where
they are described and dwelt upon with such intoler-^
able minuteness, as if they were daily occurrences.
The order, then, in which the venereal symptoms
generally appear, after the virus has been absorbed,
and before they have been checked, are, first, in the
form of chancre, next, bubo, then eruptions or ulcers
on the skin, ulcers in the throat, and affections of the
Digitized by Google
TH
E 8E
L
E
N
TFRIEN
D
. 8 3
bones. The first two symptoms are not so apt to vary
in the order of their appearance as the four last,
which, with the affection of the bones, (almost always
last, or at least in them the pains are last felt) are
extremely different in different individuals, both in
regard to time and severity.
Thus, however circumscribed the first appearance
of this disease may be, unless arrested in its progress,
it gradually proceeds to affect other parts ofthe body,
at length completely contaminating the whole living
system, and finally even terminating existence, having
previously reduced the whole body to a complete
mass of ulceration and almost of putridity.
Perhaps there is no appearance to which human
nature is capable of being reduced, which renders it a
more horrible spectacle, than the accumulated evils of
confirmed pox. We often have the misfortune to see
the once most manly and elegant form reduced to a
complete mass of deformity. The eyes become tender,
one or both squinting 'and considerably protruded
from their sockets—the nose flat, and the nostrils dis­
charging fetid matter in considerable profusion—the
gums consumed—the teeth rotten—the sockets ex­
foliating—the breath horribly fetid and disgusting—
the neck stiff—thejoints either large and decrepid, or
absolutely rigid, and totally unfit for their common
offices—ulcers of the very worst kind appear on
various parts of the body—a ghastly and haggard ap­
pearance—and the mind a complete and irrecoverable
wreck.
On the first appearance of this disorder in the Italian
provinces, the horrid lacerations of the human frame,
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
and the attendant excruciating tortures which it in­
flicted upon its victims, repelled, like a plague, the
approach of pity, and deterred those whom nature
and affection prompted to lend consolation and assist­
ance. Even those afflicted with leprosy counted
themselves fortunate in their escape from this more
tremendous evil, and shunned the unhappy victims of
this disease as they would the bite of a venomous
serpent or the shaft of unerring destruction. The
poor were compelled to fly from their habitations as
soon as any symptoms of the disorder manifested
themselves, and take refuge in the abodes ofthe brute
creation, in dens and caverns, and trackless forests.
Physicians, friends, relations, and even parents forsook
them; the ties of nature were rent asunder and all
social compact was annihilated—so predominant was
the fear of infection !
Many of the ancient authors give most disgusting
details of the fearful appearance which the disease as­
sumed in different subjects, but into these evils it is
unnecessary to enter now, when the disorder is so well
understood by those practitioners who make it their
whole study. It will suffice to remark, that in many
instances the symptoms closelyapproximate to those of
E le p h a n tia sis ; in others to those of L e p r o s y ; that
the disorder frequently corroded the sep tu m nasty
levelling it with the face ; that it fed upon the lips;
sometimes destroyed the u v u la ; at others perforated
the p a la te, and completely changed the tones and
properties of the voice. These symptoms experienced
multitudinous variations, with change of years, many
Google
TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 8 5
of the old ones becoming greatly qualified, and new
ones developing themselves, to the great alarm of those
who groaned under their influence, es well as the ex­
treme perplexity ofthe medicalpractitioners, whowere
yet in a state of comparative ignorance with respect to
the real nature ofthe disease; and whose endeavours
to repress its tremendous ravages were consequently
directed rather with a view to spaculative results,
than by any of those positive rules of practice, which
the industrious application of subsequent ages has ren­
dered successful.
Yet, increased as our knowledge of the nature of
this malady is, and improved as is our mode of treat­
ment, it is by n o means to be assumed that the disease
has become of trifling influence, or that it carries no
menace of consequence to the human frame; for with
allits modifications, it is still a disorder of that subtle
andmalignant disposition, whichrequires tobe watched
at its commencement and in its progress with sedulous
attention, and to be arrested with all the force of
medicine, without putting in peril the constitution
itself.
Our attention, for many years past, has been exclu­
sively directed to the treatment of venereal diseases,
and such complaints as arise more immediately from a
disorganization of the generative system, whether con­
stitutional or acquired. In this statement we must
not be understood to cast the slightest imputation
upon the skill of the authorized members of our profes­
sion, in the treatment of such complaints; on the
contrary, we mean simply to infer, that, as in all
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
important undertakings much can be effected by a
division oflabour, so it may reasonably be assumed on
our own part, that no less can be the result of an
unwearied attention to that particular branch ofstudy,
wherein wenow offer to the public, the knowledge and
experience of a long and extensive practice.
We shall now enter into details of its various forms,
with a view to sender the whole subject clear and
intelligible to all degrees of human capacity.
GONORRHOEA, OR CLAP.
Gonorrhoea is a contagious inflammatory, disease of
the mucous m e m b r a n e of the urethra, or urinary canal,
produced by the contact of infectious matter during
sexual intercourse. The symptoms are a discharge of
purulent matter from the orifice of the urethra, with a
sensation ofburning felt in the act of making water,
more or less severe according to the virulence of the
disease. These are the first and ordinary symp­
toms; and in many cases the disease stops here:
but in others, and, indeed, in the greater number of
persons attacked, it is found much more severe. The
discharge increases, the pain and burning sensation in
making water become much more intense, the penis
is excited to frequentand violent involuntary erections,
particularly in the night when warm in bed, during
which state it is bent into a curve, constituting that
painful and well known condition called Chordee.
The absorbent glands in the groin sympathize with
the adjacentdisturbance, andbecome slightlyinflamedj
Digitized by Google
T
H
ESILEN
TFR
IEN
D
. 8 7
but, fortunately, rarely suppurate. The swellings pro­
duced by gonorrhoea, are denominated Sympathetic
Buboes.
Under certain circumstances, an inflammation ofthe
foreskin occurs, whether when drawn forward on the
nut ofthe penis, or drawn back. In the former case,
it constitutes a particular affection, designated by
medicalmen, Phymosis ; in the latter Para-phymosis.
In cases of mismanagement or carelessness, or in
consequence of a sudden suppression of the purulent
discharge, an active inflammation of one or both tes­
ticles will arise, accompanied with much pain and
swelling, called Swelled Testicle.
When the inflammation issevere, it willhappen that,
at the time ofmaking water, owing to the rupture of
some small bloodsvessel, a quantity of blood will be
voided ; but this is rather beneficial than otherwise.
The inflammation sometimes extends to the bladder;
in which case the bladder becomes exceedingly irritar
ble, inducing a constant desire to make water, and
occasionally ulceration is produced, when a quantity
of muco-purulent matter is discharged, which mingling
with the urine, gives it the appearance ofwhey.
When a gonorrhoea is oftep repeated or improperly
treated, as by the imprudent use of astringent injecti­
ons during the inflammatory stage, or by intemperate
in living, strictures will ensue—the most distressing,
painful, and fatal disease the urethra is subject to,
creative at all times of a difficultyofvoiding the urine,
and not unfrequently inducing a total suppression.
When the inflammatory gonorrhoea is subdued, and
Digitized by Google
TH
ESILEN
TF
R
IE
N
D
*
all the bad symptoms are removed, there sometimes
remains a discharge from the urethra, of a pale yellow
or whitish colour, unaccompanied by pain, or scalding,
or chordee, and lasting for an indefinite time—for
months, sometimes for years. This discharge is called
Gleet.
Among the minor consequences of gonorrhoea, we
should not omit to mention Warts. They spring up
round the glans and prepuce in great numbers. In
some habits, they are always increased by, and often
owe their origin to want of cleanliness ; and are accor­
dingly found in all localities where that point is
neglected.
Another unpleasant consequence of gonorrhaea, is
excoriation; which is an eruption of small vesicles on
the nut of the penis. They break, leaving the mem­
brane red and excoriated—hence its name. They
will arise from any irritation, as well as that ofgonor­
rhoea. In this state the membrane of the nut and
foreskin will pour out a purulent or muco-purulent
discharge; and, in some instances, where the foreskin
is tightly contracted before the nut, it will assume the
appearance of clap.
To the foregoing dreadful symptomatical catalogue
might be added many others; forthis dreadful malady
frequentlyputs ontheappearance ofotherdisorders; and
many unfortunate persons may labour for years under
afflictions, originatingfrom a venereal cause, mistaking
them for gouty or bilious affections, rheumatic pains,
palsies, convulsions, asthmas, king’s evil, leprosy, &c.,
all of which may arise froma venereal taint; for there
Digitized by Google
THE SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. S9
is scarcely any distemper that has put on so many
different shapes, or been attended with such a variety
ofsymptoms; and ifthese Pills be not timely obtained,
the vital as well as natural animal functions are depra­
ved, the body becomes emaciated and unfit for motion,
and the unfortunate victim awaits with impatience the
kind messenger, Death, to put a period to his miser­
able existence.
This disease has been described as one of the most
surprising phenomena in the history of medicine,
whether as it regards the newness of its origin, the
malignant inveteracy of its symptoms, or the singular
mode in which it is producedand propagated. Its con­
sequences travel out of the ordinary track of bodily
ailment, covering the frame with disgusting evidences
ofits ruthless nature, and impregnating the wholesome
stream of life with mortal poison. It conveys into
families the seeds of disunion and unhappiness, under­
mining domestic harmony, and striking at the very
soul ofhuman intercourse.
We shall proceed now to the preventive means;
and then give abrief description of the different species
of these diseases as they rise in succession, with a
general mode oftreatment for the same ; and we wish
here to be understood, that in our description of these
diseases, we have confined ourselves to the essential
andmost probable symptoms that usuallyappear, rather
$han those that occasionally arise.
I
Digitized by Google
9 0 THE SILENT FRIEND.
TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP, &c.
In the cases just described, it will be found that by
a strict adherence to Perry’s P urifying Specific
P ills, of which two are to be taken at night and two
in the morning, that a safe and speedy cure will be
obtained without the slightest fear of the disorder
returning, provided the patient continues to take them
some time after everysymptomhassubsided, and which
(if combined with the Cordial Balm of Syriacum,)
willinvigoratethe debilitated system, after the contrac­
tion of venereal complaints, and thoroughly purify the
blood fromthis troublesome and often serious disorder.
These Pills are mild in their nature, powerful and
effectual even in the most stubborn cases; and the
most happy effects having constantly resulted from
their use, during a long and very extensive practice,
has induced Messrs.Perry &Co., Surgeons, to publish
them in England, as well as to prevent the fatal conse­
quences daily arising from the injudicious treatment
of practitioners in general.
As the disorder is sometimes violent, and attended
with a variety of symptoms—such as buboes, ulcers,
inflammations, &c., it will be necessary for the patient
to be acquainted with the nature of his complaint,
which may sometimes require outward applications,
which may be had for a trifle from any druggist, being
pointed out in the following General D irections
GONORRHCEA, OR CLAP.
A violent clap is an involuntary discharge of cor-
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 9 1
+
rupted mucus from the glands of the urethra in men,
or from the vagina in women, and is caused by con-
nexion with an infected person. The quantity of the
discharge is in proportion to the degrees of stimulus,
and its quality to the malignity of the infectious matter
received in impure copulation. The first symptom of
this disorder is general uneasiness about the parts of
generation, with titillation at the end of the penis ; to
this succeed the appearance of a little whitish matter
at the orifice of the urethra, a slight swelling, and
sometimes a redness, on the g la n d s or the head ofthe
penis, and a trifling pungency on the evacuation of the
urine. The discharge soon increases; the inflam­
mation at the orifice of the urethra becomes more
palpable ; the parts begin to burn, and the evacuation
of the urine is attended with a scalding heat which
greatly torments the parts affected; besides which
there is also a swelling of the lucunce or the mouths
of the internal glands of the urethra, with a manifest
and painful rigidity on the erection of the penis. The
discharge still becomes more copious, grows thinner,
loses its adhesiveness, and becomes of a yellowish, or
rather a greenish complexion: the mouth of the penis
begins to exhibit an increasing redness, the passing of
the urine is accompanied by excruciating pains from
the distension of the urethra, and such general symp­
toms of inflammation, as to prevent the extension of
the penis in erection, curving it downwards with
agonizing torture, which is rendered still more intoler­
able if the member be raised towards the belly. The
torture of this situation is greatly exaggerated by the
influence of that inseparable stimulus which causes
Digitized by Google
9 2 TH
ESILEN
TFRIENE^
frequent erections of the diseased member, especially
when warm in bed, attended with a degree of anguish
which prevents sleep, or awakens the patient, and not
uncommonly produces involuntary emissions of the
semen.
This is the usual type of the virulent gonorrhoea,
but all the diseases of this unhappy class are of a com­
plicated and varied nature: they embrace in their
consequences so many painful diseases, that we never
consider them, however slight in appearance, as mere
local effects, but always dread their approach to a con­
stitutional character ; for by a deplorable fatality, to
which limit is unknown, the most trivial cases of these
diseases, in their prolific energy, become the fruitful
mine of a thousand discordant feelings and symptoms,
that harass their devoted victimfor an indefinite period:
therefore we strongly recommend, in all cases, an im­
mediate recourse to our applications, in order that the
remedies may be effective at their onset. In diseases
of this kind, large evacuations, of any character, are to
be carefully guarded against: for in all the cases we
have seen, where they have been used, they have
done injury, by producing either irritability of the
stomach or the bowels, and thus rendering the system
unequal to the retention of the necessary remedies.
The period of its appearance is generally from four
to eight days after connexion: though in this there is
no certain rule; for the symptoms will, with some in­
dividuals, discover themselves so early as twenty-four
hours, and in other cases not for some weeks.
Suppuration and ulcer occur from neglect in the
earlier stage of this disorder j or from an improper
THE SILENT FRIEND. 9 3
mode of treatment, engendering various other genital
disorders, of which mention will be hereafter made.
In fact, some medical practitioners of eminence have
laid it downthat neglect and maltreatment will mature
gonorrhoea into general syphilis; and that when the
original symptoms are suffered to continue, or the
infection is extremely virulent, chancres displaythem­
selvesupon the head or upon the foreskin of the penis;
the mucus increases, and is discharged in larger
quantities, tinging the linen with a yellow or green­
ish stain.
The duration of gonorrhoea depends much on the
constitution and regimen of the patient, but far more
on the treatment to which it is subject. Numerous
examples have fallen under our practice; patients,
who, after labouring for three or four months under
this malady, have in less than a fortnight after taking
the P urifying Specific Pills, and Cordial Balm of
Syriacum, received the most effectual relief. This
period is, in fact, amply sufficient for the cure of ten
persons out of every twelve; and where the consti­
tution has never been degraded by acquired or heredi­
tary injuries, health and vigour are not unusually the
immediate effects of a few days care and attention.
The first stage of this disease has been frequently
mistaken in women, by experienced persons, for fluor
albus, and treated as such; but the matter discharged
in that complaint is larger in quantity, generally less
yellow, and of a more consistent nature, than what
accompanies a virulent gonorrhoea. Independent of
this distinction, however, a venereal infection is at-
Digitized by Google
9 4 THE SILENT FRIEND
tended with peculiar heat, inflammation, and pain,
which are not the general concomitants of a white
flux. It is to be admitted, however, that a vitiated
case offluor albus maybring on, by sexual intercourse,
a disease in men hardly to be equalled by the most
obdurate gonorrhoea.
In cases of gonorrhoea or clap in both sexes, the
patient must take two of Perry’s Purifying Specific
P ills at night, and two in the morning, and one tea­
spoonful of the following mixture three times a day,
which can be made up by any druggist:
R . B a te. C opaib, % j.
L iq : P o ta s . S . C. Z j.
m isce p ro b e et a d d e
A q : A n is e J i j M .
P ia t M istu ra eu ju s ca p ia t co ck , p a r v u m u n am te r
in d ie .
Where the patientisparticularlydesirous for a sp e e d y
recovery, the addition of the Cordial Balm of Sy r i-
acum in the proportion of one tablespoonful mixed
with each dose of the above mixture, will wonderfully
facilitate and expedite the cure.
The bowels are here to be regularly opened, but
not violently. Immerging the penis in warm water will
not only abate the symptoms, but tend to keep it
clean—an object of importance, and by which much
future inconvenience may be avoided. Purging would
be very hurtful, produce debility, and keep up the dis­
charge, by the irritation produced, and thus, by the
THE SILENT FRIEND. 95
effort of relaxation favouring absorption, accelerate the
introduction of the contagion into the general system.
S h o u ld sym p to m s o f in fla m m a tio n a p p e a r, th e
M ix tu r e o rd e r e d , a n d th e Cordial Balm of S yri-
acum m u st he e n tire ly d isco n tin u ed u n til th e inflam *
m a lo ry sta te is a b a te d ; and the bowels must be kept
open by the following Senna mixture:—
S en n a leaves . •• .................... IJ ounce,
E p so m s a l t s . . .......................... %p o u n d ,
C o ria n d er s e e d s ........*
............ 1dra ch m .
C a ra w a y seeds . . . . ................. 1d ra ch m .
G in g er ..................................... 2 d ra ch m %
Pour upon these ingredients one pint of boiling water,
and let it stand for several hours in an oven, or on the
hob of a fire-place. Strain, and then add
T in c tu re o f s e n n a .......... 4 ounces,
S a l vo la tile »•. ...........* . 2 d ra c h m s.
Dose—from three to four table-spoonsful every other
morning, fasting. »
This mixture, which loses none of its virtue by keep­
ing, if preserved in a well-stopped bottle, we can recom­
mend as a most valuable domestic medicine.
Where the patient is late in applying for assistance,
and symptoms of strangury, or difficulty in making
urine, come on, and which passes only in drops, with
much pain, the inflammation must be subcfued b y the
se n n a m ix tu r e , before any other plan is attempted ;
which then must be taken in dosesofth ree table-spoon -
Digitized by Google
96 THE SILENT FRIEND.
f u l every morning. When the strangury isrelieved by
the above means, then the plan formerly directed must
be had recourse to.
During the progress of gonorrhoea, an attention to
cleanliness cannot be too much recommended, by
frequently washing the parts with warm milk-and-
water, to prevent the acrimony of the discharge, which
is apt to fret the skin where it touches; and to pre­
vent this, it may also be proper to cover the point of
the penis with a small bit of lint, to absorb the matter.
Nor is regimen to be considered less necessary in the
cure of gonorrhoea than in the other heads of
treatment: everything which heats and stimulates the
body, increases the inflammation of the part, and pro­
motes the discharge. A mild nutritious "diet must
be adopted, consisting chiefly of vegetable matter,
pudding, and other light dishes; and when ani­
mal food is used, it should be boiled. The drink
should consist of weak lemonade, linseed tea, barley-
water, or toast-and-water; avoiding wine, spirits, and
malt liquors. The restriction of diet will be more
necessary in the first stage than afterwards: as the
symptoms of inflammation abate, the patient might
indulge with a little more freedom, but should still be
cautious to avoid excess; for no disease is so apt to
suffer from irregularities in this respect as gonorrhoea.
In enforcing regimen, some regard, however, must be
paid to the habit and constitution of the person.
When the habit is delicate and nervous, the restriction
recommended would be apt to affect the general health,
therefore it cannot be so rig o ro u sly enforced: it must
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 97
be left to the judgment of the patient what he can
bear; and in these cases adue mediumwill be the best
rule.
Sexual intercourse is particularly prohibited. In
the progress of the disease when the discharge has
become thin andwatery and devoid of.pain and inflam­
mation, the following slight injection maybe used:—
S u lp h a te o f l e a d ........................ 8g r a in s ,
S u lp h a te o f z in c ........................ 5g r a in s .
H o se w a te r •••...................... .. 8 ou n ces,
T in c tu re o f o p iu m ................... 1 d ra ch m ,
Mix well together; a little is to be put into a tea-cup,
from which a syringe isto be filled, and injected four
times a day. In injecting, a finger should be applied
on each side the orifice of the passage, to confine the
point of the syringe, and prevent the fluid escaping *
,
and after being retained a few seconds, the instrument
is to be withdrawn. The effect of the injection will
shewthe propriety of its useto the patient in afewdays.
A CHORDEE
Is a spasmodic contraction of the nerves inserted into
the cavernous body of the penis and the fre e n u m or
bridle of the member, by which the penis is bent down
in the form of an arch, as if pulled with a cord.
The contraction is attended with the most excru­
ciating pain, and is most severely felt when the pati­
ent is warm in bed. It is one of the symptoms of
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
virulent gonorrhoea, abating as the inflammation sub­
sides, but sometimes it will continue after the heat and
other virulent sym p to m s have d isa p p ea red .
If this symptom should be troublesome, the most
certain remedyisfifte e n d ro p s o f lau dan u m in a w in e
g la s s fu l o f w a te r, w h ich m u st he ta k en th e la st th in g
on g o in g to b e d : it must n ot be taken more than for
tw o o r th ree n ig h ts together, which will Jbe found
sufficient to remove this, painful and unpleasant symp­
tom. ................
After the pains and inflammation are abated, the
running will gradually diminish, and when the parts
have had time to recover their natural strength, en­
tirely disappear, the patient may go into the cold bath
every other day. The penis may now be kept clean
with cold water, when the discharge has become thick,
sticky, and ropy, and can be pulled out in strings
between the fingers, which are certain signs of the
taint being subdued; in this case one table spoonful
of the Cordial Balm of Syriacum, four times a day,
in half a pint of cold water, will be highly beneficial,
with two of the P urifying Specific Pills at night,
and two in the morning*
PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS.
When the nut of the yard is swelled and inflamed,
the fomentation ordered for a sw e lle d testicle will soon
reduce it, if used for half an hour together;after which
a warm poultice of bread and milk must be applied.
Sometimes the foreskin is so much swelled, that it
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 99
cannot get back to uncover the nut: this is called a
P hymos is, andisto be treated asjust mentioned. The
patient should frequently endeavour to get the foreskin
back verygently whileusing the fomentation, butnever
use the least force. When it goes backthe parts affect­
ed should be smeared with the ointment ordered to
disperse the sw e lle d g r o in , afterwards letting the fore­
skin go over the nut again; this and the fomentation
should be repeated several times a day, till the swelling
and inflammation are subdued. Sometimes the fore­
skin swells and inflames behind the nut, and cannot be
got over it; this is called a P araphymosis, and
requires the same treatment as the Phymosis, always
endeavouring to get the foreskin over the nut with
the greatest gentleness, as the least force will be very
injurious.
The P urifying Specific P ills mustbe takenat least
sixweeksafterallsymptomshave disappeared. Leech­
es are sometimes necessary in these cases; if they are
obstinate, it would be as well to apply six to the fore­
skin.
SWELLED TESTICLE
Is generally occasioned by great exercise asjumping,
running, riding or walking too briskly, or by cbld
bathing while.a clap continues : or by exposing the
private parts to cold more than necessary, or by
drinking inflamingliquor; sometimes by strong purges.
It being the most painful and dangerous symptom
attending the disease, the greatest care should be ob­
servedtoremoveit, The testicles should be supported
Digitized by Google
100 THE SILENT FRIEND,
or bound up with a linen truss or bandage; if the
patient is of full habit of body, bleedingwill beproper;
the diet in this case should be as low as possible. No
exercise whatever should be used, even sitting up is
hurtful; it will be requisite to lie down as much as
possible. The followmg fomentation will be requi­
site :—
T a k e o f e x tr a c t o f lea d a table sp o o n fu l, o f vin eg a r
f o u r table sp o o n sfu l, o f w a te r a q u a r t; shake them
together, and foment (as warm as the patient can bear
with ease) the swelled parts with flannel frequently
for some time together; after each time of fomenting,
apply a warm poultice of white bread and milk under
the whole private parts, and take the P ills regularly,
Should the swelling not go down, it will then be proper
to apply eight or tenleeches to the testicle, and repeat
them for two or three days,
Ifthe patient in a former complainthasbeen troubled
with this symptom, he should not neglect to*keep the
testicles supported while the clap continues, as swell­
ing is apt to return. Ifhe cannot conveniently procure
a linen truss, a slip of linen -or handkerchief may he
tied round the waist, and another brought underneath,
so as to support it.
BUBOES OB SWELLING IN THE GBOIN.
If a bubo should not have arisen much, it may be
dispersed by rubbing well into the thickest part of the
thigh, under the bubo,(the size of a large horsebean of)
the following ointment, for ten or fifteen minutes every
night and morning, taking the P ills regularly a fort-?
THE SILENT FRIEND. * 101
night or for a longer time, after it is dispersed:—
O f stro n g m e rc u ria l o in tm en t h a lf a n ounce,
e x tr a c t o f lea d th ir ty d ro p s, m ix them w e ll to g eth er.
If it should not decrease by this method, let it come
to a head by discontinuing the ointment. A warm
poultice of bread and milk applied two or three times
a day, will tend to hasten the suppuration, and produce
ease. When it is sufficiently ripe, it will burst itself:
then gently press out the matter, and endeavour to
enlarge the orifice by distending the skin, put a warm
poultice over it, or foment it with warm water, and
apply a little mercurial ointment, spread on lint, to the
opening twice a day. Always before it is dressed,
press the matter out, and wipe it very clean. The
same poultice must never be used but once in any case.
The poultice need only be usfcd a few days after it
bursts : or, if it is not convenient, four or five folds of
clean linen may be put over in its stead, first applying
the ointment. If proud‘flesh sprout up, a very little
red precipitate put into the ointment will consume it.
After it has been open about a fortnight a little of the
ointment ordered to disperse the swelling may be used
to heal it. The P ills must be used during the time
as follows ; tw o P ills a t n ig h t, a n d tw o in the m o rn in g ,
and should this quantity not quickly relieve the
symptoms, the dose must be increased to th ree a t
n ig h t, a n d tw o in th e m o rn in g . The patient has
only to follow the directions and take the Pills, and
he may relyon obtaining a perfect restoration to health,
K
Digitized by Google
*THE SILENT FRIEND.
as they have never been known to fail in effecting a
cure, however violent the symptoms may be.
After a bubo has discharged its contents, the strength
should be supported, an improved diet should be
allowed, port or other wines should be taken, and the
Cordial B alm of Syriacum taken regularly in doses
of one table s p o o n fu lfo u r tim es a d a y .
During the cure of venereal complaints, if the patient
catches cold, a soreness of the mouth and gums will
sometimes happen, which may be purged off by taking
a dose o f sa lts e v e ry m o rn in g , o r 20g r a in s o f ja la p
instead of the P ills, while the soreness of the mouth
continues; if while rubbing in the ointment, a sm elled
g ro in arises'it must be discontinued; but the chancres,
inflammation, &c., must continue to be dressed as
before directed. When the mouth and gums are well,
the P ills must be taken again and the purging left off,
only tw o P ills e v e ry father n ig h t, are then to be taken.
GLEET.
Amorbid or diseased excitement of the urethramay
induce gleet, which is a discharge of mucous fluid:
when the existence of this discharge owes its origin to
causes which have no connexion with venereal disease,
we distinguish it by the name of a constitutional gleet,
as will be subsequently shown. It is; however, more
commonly a disease growing out of anill-cured gonor­
rhoea, or a sequence of that disorder, in which it loses
its irritable malignity, becoming simple in its appear­
ance but of alarming consequence in its duration,
because it may and does often induce seminal weak*
Digitized by Google
THE SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 103
ness and several other complaints; it is especially
dangerous as being an auxiliary to the formation of
stricture of the urethra, a distressing complaint.
Gleet will remain a ch ro n ic, or continual disease,
for weeks, months, nay even years; and, under the
changes incident to habit and regimen, the symptoms
will v a r y —a circumstance which has not unfrequently
led medical men into the error of supposing such
changes to arise from f r e s h in fectio n t in these cases
the patient has over and over again submitted to the
routine of pharmaceutical doubts, and not until his
painful anxiety has become insupportable has an appeal
to further assistance extricated himfrom error, anguish
and uncertainty.
The discharge in gleet, however, is very much regu­
lated by the habit and diet of the patient; if he is
accustomed to indulge freely in the luxuries of the
table'and bottle, or in violent exercise, the discharge
will be increased both in quantity and acrimony; while
on the other hand temperance and regularity of diet
and exercise will materially assist the effect of our
medicines, by gradually diminishing the discharge and
ultimately relieving the patient of his long continued
torment. Premature mortality has been the conse­
quence of a neglected gleet; for it is a reasonable
inference that the constant waste will exhaust andlead
to an untimely extinction of the bodily faculties.
The patient should abstain from all vegetables, acid,
and sugar; Ife should rise early in the morning, take
gentle exercise, use the cold bath, first plunging in the
water overhead, and coming out immediately, without
104 TH
E SILEN
T FRIEN
D
.
taking the second dip, or remaining one moment in the
water. The private parts and testicles should be fre­
quently washed in cold water.
Take half a tea-spoonful of the mixture ordered
fa r clap, mixed with one table spoonful of the
Cordial B alk of Syjiiacum, at least four times a
day, using the following injection, and taking one of
the P urifying Specific P ills three times a day, till
health is perfectly restored.
Obtain a syringe, and inject up the urinary passage
the following injection, three orfour times a day:
Sulphate of Zinc ten grains. Rose W*iter four
ounces, mixed together.
If this should cause any pain up the passage, it must
be diluted with a little water.
MUCOUS GLEET.
This usuallyarisesfrom causesindependant ofgonor­
rhoea, and is characterized by peculiar symptoms,—
the subject does not, therefore, fall under consideration
in this part of the work, but may be found discussed
in the first part, “ On Onanism, or Self Pollution,*
which treats on a variety of disorders arising from
nervous debility and seminal weakness, which lead to
the compromise, if not to the extinction, of sexual
power.
Digitized by Google
THE SILEN
TFR
IE
N
D
* 105
STRICTURE.
Stricture is a disease that obstructs the free passage
of the urine, and causes it either to come in a small
forked or twisted stream, or drop by drop, with con­
siderable pain: if the urethral canal be not much
lessened by the stricture, it may exist many years
without any great degree of inconvenience: but though
this may be the case respecting the urine, we are
led to oonceive that the semen in the act of coition
may not properly be directed into the vagina; for not
issuing at the moment of ejaculation from the urethra,
it afterwards falls merely by the effect of its gravity:
of course, attention to this stage of the disease be­
comesrequisite; and more particularly in the jtftvanced
period of life, as the expelling powers for evacuating
the urine and ejection of the semen become weaker.
Although stricture may arise from constitutional
causes, from malformation or spasm, or from other ac­
cidental circumstances, the cure ofwhich must depend
upon minute reference to the particular origin, yet the
source of this distressing complaint is in nineteen cases
out of twenty tobe traced to venereal disease, or to an
improper method of treating a gonorrhoea. We may
look upon the matter of gonorrhoea, (after it has conti­
nued a long time,) as producing a new action in the
absorbents ofthe urethra at the particular point, which
forms a sort of membraneous band around the internal
urethra, the circle of which being hard, and situated,
within the natural space, is denominated a stricture.
106 THE SltrEtfT PRIENH.
It may be considered that the urethra being hollow,
muscular, andmembraneous, and naturally predisposed
to contraction, is readily so affected by inflammation
or violence of any kind; but the progress of stricture
is variable in different habits. Tropical climate,
sedentary pursuits, excessive indulgence in—or un­
naturally protracted—sexual intercourse, are sometimes
the causes of stricture; and in irritable habits will
*excite the disease, without the intervention of any
venereal complaint.
Spasmodic stricture is generally seated at the neck
of the bladder, and may occur to persons in good health,
frqm exposure to wet or cold, from some digestive de­
rangement, from long retention of urine, particularly
when walking, (owingto the absence of publicurinals,)
or to violent horse exercise: but more frequently does
it happen to those young men, who, when suffering
from gleet or gonorrhoea, imperfectly or only partially
cured, are tempted to commit an excess in wine,
spirits, or other strong drinks. Surrounded by jovial
society, glassful after glassful is swallowed, each one to
be the last. The patient, with his bladder full to
repletion, scarcely able to retain his water, yet pro­
bably “ g o in g " every moment, represses his desire
until the party breaks up, when, on encountering the
cold air, he finds himself unable to void even a drop,
or if so but with extreme difficulty. The greater the
effort, and the more determined the straining, the
greater isthe impossibility; and unless relief should be
afforded, the most alarming consequences may ensue.
Notwithstanding the danger attendant upon a neg- .
THE SILENT FRIEND. 107
lected or severe case of spasmodic stricture, when
judiciously treated none need be apprehended. The
patient should instantly send for a surgeon to draw off
the urine—there will seldombe anydifficulty in passing
.the catheter, especially ifthe operator be not too hasty?
andbe at all dexterous in the use of his instrument.
Force should never be employed; but as this part
devolves on the surgeon, the patient need be under no
apprehension: a constant use of the Cordial Balm of
Syriacum and Purifying Specific Pills, for a few
weeks, will remove this unpleasant disorder.
INCIDENTAL DISEASES.
There are many other complaints to whichthe urinary
as well as generative parts are subject, viz, F istu la s,
D isea se o f th e P r o s tr a te G la n d , and some other affec­
tions of the T e stic le s, B la d d e r , $ c : but as to
enumerate them would only be to swellthesepages, we
have mentioned such as are most important, and of
most general occurrence. If, however, the patient
should find any'symptoms of disorder notpreviously or
hereafter enumerated, he should, w ith o u t d e la y , des­
cribe minutely the symptoms, referring them (as far as
he is competent) to the proper source; but no time
should in anycase be lost, as changesgoon very rapidly,
and theviews of ajustpractitioner being alwaysdirected
to the protection of nature, he should have an opportu­
nity of preventing the intrusion of disease upon one of
her most important systems.
When the organs of generation are infested with
pediculi or crab-lice, the most efficacous and agreeable
Digitized by GOO; "
108 TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
.
remedy is the application ofstrong Mercurial Ointment,
which must be well rubbed in the parts. Such a prac­
tice is seldom ineffectual: even powdering them with
Calomel, will at once destroy the insects, and thereby
remove itching. The P urifying Specific P ills, and
Cordial Balm of Syriacum should be taken ac­
cording to the ‘General Directions/ and continued for
some time in order to purify the blood.
SYPHILIS OR POX, AND SECONDARY
SYMPTOMS.
Syphilis, or Pox, is another and more violent form
of the Venereal Disease, and is divided into two forms,
the primary and secondary. The former consists of a
chancre <
Jr ulcer, which forms on the foreskin and
nut of the penis, of an irritated and red appearance,
which gradually spreads, and if not speedily arrested,
ends in the total destruction of the penis. After the
disease has appeared in the form of a chancre, in a
fewdays a bubo or abscess of the groin follows, which
inflames, enlarges, and suppurates or bursts, when a
quantity of matter escapes; and, in severe cases, in­
stances have occurred where the abscess has extended
to deep parts and exposed the femoral artery, which has
ulcerated, and the patient has lost his life from hemor­
rhage. When the disease is uninterrupted’
, the consti­
tution becomes affected, and hence arise what are called
secondary symptoms, which at first affect the nose and
throat, secondly the skin and the surface of the body,
and lastly the bones.
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND^ 109
When the venereal virus attacks the throat or palate^
the membrane of the roof of the mouth becomes red
and inflamed, a pimple forms upon it, which opens,
ulcerates, and exposes the bony palate, which may be
felt by the probe; this is the first stage. The exposed
bone soon exfoliates, and communication is thereby
formed between the mouth and nose, the fluids return
through it, the voice is changed into a nasal twang,
and a most offensive discharge is secreted.
When the tonsil glandsareattacked, ulcers appear pre­
cisely similar in character to chancres—hollow ia the
centre, with raised ragged edges, yellow on the surface,
with a livid colour on the surrounding margiu. Asense
of dryness is perceived, extending up the Eustachian
tube to the ear. Sometimes the tongue is attacked.
Extending its course, it next attacks the larynx, or
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
top of the windpipe, when if not arrested it will soon
destroy life. Attending this affection of the larynx,
there is always loss of voice; the patient speaks in a
low whisper. It is more fatal than any other form of
the venereal disease.
The mucous membrane of the nose stands next in
order, as subject to the influence of Syphilis. The
patient’s attention is first directed to it by an incrusta-,
tion which forms inthe nostril. On this being removed,
a quantity of blood mixed with purulent matter is dis­
charged, which frequently lays bare the bone, and oc­
casions it to exfoliate, and horrible deformity is the
result, which is illustrated by the engraving, recently
drawn from a case under the care of Messrs. Perry.
CHANCRES, OR ULCERS.
The first appearance of syphilis is commonly in the
form of a chancre on the glans of the p e n is , or on the
foreskin, in men—and on the labia p u d e n d i, or
n ym ph o:, in women. It will appear in other parts,
however, as the back of thep e n is , and on the sc r o tu m ,
in men; and the p e rin e u m of women will sometimes
be the seat of the disease.
The precursor of chancre is a slight inflammation,
followed by a little pimple; this gradually exposes a
small pustule, the fluid in which is first transparent,
then white; itbreaks, and a small but spreading ulcer is
formed, sometimes painful—generally sore; i.thas hard
protuberant ash-colour edges, covered with a white
slough, and is difficult of cure. It seldom happens
that there is more than one chancre, although instances
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. Ill
occur where there are two, three, or four; this, however,
is usually the case with females; Dr. Hunter says,
from the surface on which the chancres act being so
much larger. These chancres pr ulcers are often con­
founded with little excoriations and ulcers produced
by friction, or by irritable sebacious matter in men ;
and with sores onthe labia and thighs of women, arising
from the fluor albus; these, when they arise from
coition, appear immediately, are easy of cure, or go off
in a few days, without the necessity of professional in­
terference.
Dr. Cullen asserts that chancre is one of the local
affections of syphilis, at the same time adding his belief
that it never appears in any degree without imme­
diately communicating to the bloodmore or less of the
venereal poison—“for,” says he, “I have constantly,
whenever chancre appeared found symptoms of a
general syphilis comeon afterwards.”
If chancre be seated in the urethra, it may be mis­
taken for gonorrhoea, but is distinguished by the small­
ness ofthe discharge, and the pain during erection being
in the extremity of the penis, or at a particular spot in
the urethra, but chieflyby examining, with the touch of
a probe or bougie, whether it is callous or not. The
lips ofthese ulcers neverappear swollen,but contracted,
and of a pale colour; the pus ofthem shines likemelted
tallow: it sinks no further than into the cellular mem­
brane, which it destroys; and when these ulcers heal,
the skin then adheres to the subjacent muscle, forming
a cavity of a livid red colour.
Chancres are of various kinds. The most remark­
able are—
Digitized by Google
112 TH
ESILEN
TFRIEND
.
1st. That characterized by its circular form, its ex­
cavated surface covered by a layer of tenacious and
adherent matter, and its hard cartilaginous base and
margin.
2nd. Another form of chancre, unaccompanied by
induration, but with avery high margin, appearingoften
on the outside ofthe prepuce, and seldomexistingalone,
called, from the preceding description, the 4
4superficial
chancre with raised edges.” These kinds of ulcers are
sometimes very tedious, neithergetting better norworse,
but resisting every plan of treatment for their removal.
We have known instances where they have existed for
several months.
3rd. The phagedenic chancre, a “ corroding ulcer
without granulations,” and distinguished by its cir­
cumference being of a livid red colour. Cases have
occurred where, from injudicious treatment, the whole
of the penis has been destroyed.
4th. Amost formidablekind ofchancre, denominated
the sloughing ulcer. It first appears as a black spot,
which spreads and becomes detached, leaving a deepr
ened and unhealthy-looking surface. The sore is very
painful, and encircled with a dark purple areola. If
neglected or improperly treated, the process of morti­
fication goes on until all the parts of generation are
destroyed.
The last-named chancre is more oftenthe consequence
of neglect on the part of the patient, than the natural
progress of the disease.
Digitized by Google
THE SILEN
TFH
IEN
D
. 113
Venereal poison does not produce ulceration imme­
diately, but obtains silen t ad m issio n into the system.
When a chancreor sore is perceived on the yard, tw o
p ills a re to be ta k en a t n ig h t a n d tw o in th e m o rn -
in g yfor a month after they are healed to secure a sound
and permanent cure. It will be proper to dress the
chancres three times a day with the following wash,
which may be had at any druggist’s shop:—
C a lo m e l................................... 1sc ru p le ,
L im e - w a te r .......... .. 3 ounces. M ix .
Always before the sores are dressed, the matter must
be wiped clean offwith a bit oflint, afterwards washed
with warm water; dip the whole penis in a basin of
water for a minute, then take off the moisture with a
piece of linen rag, and apply the black wash on a piece
of linen orlint, tobe kept wettedas much as possible.
Where at the expiration of a week, the chancre
neither recedes nor advances, discontinue the black
wash, and use the blue wash as underneath: should
the pain be very great in applying it, it maybe diluted
with a little water:—
S u lp h a te o f C o p p er............... 5 g ra in s
D istille d IF a ter.......................... Iounce
M ix a n d stra in .
Where the chancre is situated under the prepuce,
or skin, and the latter covering is sa inflamed and
swollen as to prevent its being drawn back to exhibit
the sore, the discharge should be carefiilly washed
out by any of the lotions already recommended, by
means of a syringe, several times in the twenty-four
hours. M u ch good is o ften done by v a ry in g th e lo ca l
rem ed ies, o ccasion ally fillin g u p th e u lc e r w ith blue
L
y
Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
o in tm en t, or in fact any substance which alters the
morbid action of the part; but, as a general rule, the
lotions will be found sufficient if persevered in.
WARTS.
A wart may be very properly considered a disease
ofthe skin, covered with a diseased cuticle, commonly
of a cylindrical shape. It appears on the foreskin and
glands of the penis, in m e n ; on the labia pudendi,
in the angle between the labia and the inner part of
the thigh, and about the perineum in w o m e n : in
n eg ro es the wart is black, like the rest of the skin.
Warts follow chancres, and sometimes gonorrhoea,
but frequently appear when no local symptoms are
present, the injudicious use of violent means often pro­
duces ulcerations:—the warts to be frequently smeared
with a feather or hair pencil with the following lotion:
N itr a te o f S ilv e r .................... 1 scru p le
D is tille d W a t e r ........................ 1ounce
M ix a n d str a in .
T w o P u r if y in g P ills to be ta k en a t n ig h t, a n d tw o
in th e m orn in g.
VENEREAL ERUPTIONS of the FACE & SKIN.
These eruptive diseases are the production of a
specific irritation, or a peculiar disposition of the con­
stitution, which sooner or later gives rise to a series of
obscure phenomena, singular in their character, and
very tedious intheir cure, repeatedlygoing and coming :
and yet, though they assume a mixed and doubtful
origin, they appear not to possess a contagious prin­
ciple, and, like all cutaneous diseases, spontaneously
terminate.
Digitized by Google
THS SILENT FRIEND. • 115
These eruptions make the skin thick, rough, and
unequal; the countenance acquires a livid hue ; and
the whole face exhibits an unnatural and unpleasing
aspect, being sometimes covered with spots of a red­
dish, brownish, or copper colour, spreading themselves
on the forehead and breast, and even extending their
action to the palms of the hand: the breath becomes
offensive ; and the teeth also suffer. The general ap­
pearance of the eruption is that of hard scorbutic
spots, about the size of spangles, of a livid, brown, or
copper cast, not raised above the skin: their surface,
soon after their appearance, becomes very rough, and
falls oft, in the formofwhite scales, leaving a slight pit.
The manner ofthe eruption occasionallyvaries ; and,
instead of displaying this kind of character, we find the
face and nose covered with real pimples, tetters, and
sebaceous concretions, which in their progress, become
very troublesome, and often suppurate; and they con-
Digitized by Google
tinue to display, to the great annoyance of the indi­
vidual, this kind of indefinite action for a great length
of time : even the larger spots occasionally continue to
pit, till the pit loses its covering, and degenerates into
an actual ulcer, which discharges a thin acrid matter
mixed with blood; and at other periods throws out
ragged warty excrescences, with itching, and even
deep-scaled ulceration. With these appearances the
face has been known to be completely covered : (S ee
en g ra vin g s,) and not only is the breath offensive, but
THE SILENT FRIEND. 117
the other excretions become alsoaffected by this putrid
action, exhaling a very unpleasant effluvia. Prior to
the re-appearance of these eruptions, scales, and dis­
colorations, the individual is frequently sick and faint.
There is an unaccountable languor and depression of
spirits—prostration of strength—restless nights, pain
in the various bones, or rather a sort oftightness, as if
they were bound with a cord. Although about this
period the bones are evidently affected, the pain is
never so acute as in confirmed venereal affections
principally affecting these parts.
From the feeling of the patient, the pain about this
time seems rather lodged about their external surface
than in the body of the bone. Sleep yields neither
comfort nor refreshment—a disagreeable sensation per­
vades the body, which is almost always accompaniedby
emaciation.
It will be necessary to avoid warm liquids, to dress
cool and light, and to take moderate exercise in the
open air, with nourishing diet.
The Pills mustbetaken regularly, tw o a t n ig h t a n d
tw o in the m o rn in g , and a half pint of the following
decoction morning and afternoon until the eruptions
have entirely disappeared:—
T a k e o f S a rs a p a rilla f o u r ounces, o f w a te r tw o
q u a r ts , boil it d o w n to th ree p in ts , a n d stra in it o ff
f o r u s e ; th e a d d itio n o f tw o table sp o o n sfu l o f th e
C o rd ia l B a lm o f S y ria c u m , ta k en w ith each dose o f
th e S a rs a p a rilla , w ill a ss ist n a tu re in p ro d u c in g
a rea ctio n o f th e S y ste m a n d g r e a tly fa c ilita te th e
cu re.
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
IIS THE SILENT FRIEND.
When the venereal eruptions are dry and scaly the
following lotion must be applied twice a day—
O x y m u ria te o f M e r c u r y .........2 g ra in s,
M u ria tic A c id ........................4 d ro p s,
E m u lsio n o f B itte r A lm o n d s .. 1\ ounces,
S im p le S p ir its o f L a v e n d e r •... J ou n ce.
VENEREAL SORE THROAT #
Begins with little or no pain: at first there is felt only
a slight pricking, on swallowing food: when the throat
is examined, ulceration is perceptible, and these ulcers
have a particular appearance, they are of a conical
shape, often of considerable depth, and generally attack
that part of the throat called the almonds: on each side
they are covered with afoul crust of thick white matter,
resembling hog’s lard : their effects, in the end, are, to
produce hoarseness, stinking breath, &c.
Besides the throat, every part of the mouth may
occasionally be the seat of venereal ulcers, though
they are most frequent on the palate of the tongue.
A deep copper-coloured spot, somewhere between the
pap and middle of the palate, is the first appearance:
this spot at last becomes ulcerated, and advances
rapidly, both in breadth and depth. The cure of the
venereal sore throat is only to be accomplished by the
proper and gradual administration of the P urifying
Specific Pills, in doses oftrvo a t n ig h t and trvo in the
m orn in g, which should be continued for at least two
months after the throat is quite well; but to assist their
operation, check the progress of the ulceration, and
Digitized by Google
TH
E SILEN
TFRIEN
D
. 119
prevent its destroying the soft palate, it is necessary
to make applications to the throat, in the formofgargle;
ofwhich the following will be found one of the most
successful:
T in ctu re o f C ayen n e P e p p e r .. 30 d ro p s
M u r ia tic A c id .......................... 15d ro p s
In fu sio n o f R o s e s ....... . 6 ounces
The throat to be gargled three or four times a day,
a n d be c a re fu l none p a s s e s d o w n th e th r o a t.
AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES.
Affections of the bones in syphilis, (or after the
primary symptoms have disappeared,) are often mis­
taken for Rheumatism, Gout or Lumbago, and is often
the indication of syphilitic action after not merely the
healing of local sores, but even after ulceration in the
throat and eruptive blotches upon the skin have en­
tirely passed away; it would seem that there is an
order of parts mostly but not always attacked in suc­
cession, of which the solid structure of the bones, as
well as their fibrous investment, are usually the last to
suffer.
The symptoms which mark the disease are as fol­
lows :—The patient experiences in the evening a sen­
sation of pain in the bone, which is afterwards the
seat of the node. In the course of a few days a swel­
ling appears in the evening, which disappears again on
the following morning; it is excessively painful and
tender at night, but in the morning it is hardly per-
Digitized by C ^ o o Q l e
THE 8ELENT FRIEND.
ceptible, and th e tenderness is alm ost gone. A t th is
particular period th e periosteum is only affected; b u t
w hen th e inflam m ation has continued som e tim e longer,
th e bone is diseased and becom es enlarged.
T he following treatm en t should be resorted to :— O ne
table spoonful of Cordial Balm of Syriacum f o u r
tim es a d a y , w ith one o f the Purifying Specific Pells
at each dose, and bathe th e parts affected frequently
w ith the follow ing em brocation:—
S u lp h u ric J E th e r ..................... 1 ounce,
C om pou n d C am ph or L in im e n t 1 ou n ce,
A c e ta te o f M o rp h in e ..............2 g ra in s.
V E N E R E A L U L C E R S A N D S O R E S
M ust be dressed frequently w ith th e B la c k W a s h
ordered for chancres, or, if m ore convenient, th e
o in tm en t p re s c rib e d f o r buboes m ay be applied, on
a little lin t tw ice a day.
In th e use of all these local applications to syphilitic
eruptions, it should be borne in m ind th a t they are b u t
of secondary u tility ; for w ithout th e use of th e P uri­
fying Pells, and, in m ost cases, th e Cordial Balm
of Syriacum, th e applications are n ex t to useless.
V enereal infection m ay b e conveyed to th e em bryo-in­
fant, w hich in such case is said to be hereditarily affected.
T hese infants, at th eir birth, or at an early period,
exhibit sym ptom s w hich, in th eir • progress, blossom
w ith all th e apparent character of syphilitic excitem ent:
som e are covered w ith dark-copper specks and spots
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 121
about various parts of th e organs of g en eratio n : som e
are excoriated, and have sm all angry-looking b u t not
deep-seated ulcerations: others are troubled w ith ulcers
about the m outh, lips, and nose: (see e n g ra vin g ,) th e
eyes are affected w ith an ophthalm ic discharge, the
ears suffer, & c.: in fact, it is not one sym ptom or one
organ w hich suffers, b u t the w hole system : th e child
snuffles very m uch in breathing, is fretful and w eakly,
w asting d a ily ; day after day its cheeks becom e m ore
pallid, and it looks anything bu t healthy, suffering in
its stom ach, bowels, and the alim entary canal g en erally ;
th e m esenteric glands, the lungs, th e liver, all are
deranged ; no p art or organ perform s its functions w ith
en erg y ; and the anim al system is totally out of order :
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
th e child, it is true, lives, b u t lives to m isery and in­
creased disease. I f th e anim al stren g th be sufficient
to conquer these affections, and th e child gain on th e
period of infancy, then th e excitem ent retreats into its
lingering and chronic type ; and should th is sw eeping
leviathan pass over th e lungs, m esentery, and the in ­
tern al viscera, w ith th eir trib u tary dependencies, it
then fixes w ith G oliath stren g th on th e spine or large
joints, and th ere assum es its not less certain b u t m ore
m odulated character of scrofula.
T hus this dreadful m alady passes from one stage to
another, till th e unhappy sufferer, w eakened and w earied
by such repeated and incessant attacks, falls, in th e
prim e of age and intellect, th e victim of its parent’s
error.
Perry’s P urifying Specific P ells and Cordial
Balm of Syriacum are particularly recom m ended to
be taken before persons en ter into th e m a trim o n ia l
sta te , lest th e indiscretions of a p aren t prove th e
source of vexation th e rem ainder of existence, by afflict­
ing his innocent b u t unfortunate offspring w ith th e evil
eruptions o f a m alignant tendency, and a variety of
other com plaints th a t are m ost assuredly introduced by
th e sam e neglect and im prudence.
C L E A N L IN E S S .
T hroughout th e w hole treatm en t of every species o f
venereal com plaints, a strict observance of cleanliness
ought to be our first and constant object. W ith o u t
this, we have not only to bear w ith th e filthiness,
naturally arising from such com plaints; b u t it has been
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 1 2 3
believed, th a t th e absorbtion of m atter w hich, on such
occasions, m ust take place, greatly aggravates th e very
disease for th e rem oval of w hich our other rem edies
are applied.
O B S E R V A T IO N S on the E F F E C T S of M E R C U R Y
WHEN EMPLOYED IN SYPHILIS OR POX,
W ith D IR E C T IO N S for P R O P E R T R E A T M E N T .
O f all the disorders of the hum an fram e, there is none
w hich has baffled the skill o f m edical m en m ore than
S yphilis; and w hen we look to the general treatm ent of
this disease in all its various form s, we cannot but
deplore the great loss o f life, w hich is daily occurring
from the use of th at deadly poison, M ercury, w hich is
constantly adm inistered by m edical m en, in cases of
the venereal disease; the blood in the system h p o iso n ­
ed, and by being so, it conveys, w herever it travels in
the arteries and veins, the seeds of disease. T he blood
thus poisoned goes to the heart, and diseases o f this
organ are the consequence : it goes to the lungs, and
this organ becom es m orbidly d eran g ed : in fact, to
w hatever organ it travels, there it lays the foundation
of disease. In cases like these, it has hitherto been
the custom of the faculty, n o t to rid the system o f the
poison w hich is destroying the unhappy sufferer by
inches, and preying upon his vitals, but they have p u r­
sued a course of treatm ent as incorrect w ith sound
theory, as it is repugnant to hum anity and com m on
sense.
Digitized by Google
1 2 4 TH E SIL E N T F R IE N D .
O ne w ould naturally suppose th at som e drug w ould
be adm inistered to counteract the effects of the poison
circulating in the veins. N ot so ! Instead of so doing,
o th er p o iso n s have been throw n into the system , in the
shape o f M ercury, A rsenic, and other m ineral poisons ;
so that the unfortunate sufferer, instead of being benefit­
ed, is doom ed to pass years of m isery and unhappiness.
In the V enereal D isease, it used to be the practise
always to throw into the system im m ense quantities o f
m ercury. A nd w hat were the consequences o f this
unnatural and inhum an m ode of treatm en t? T he
unfortunate being had caries of his bones, copper colour­
ed eruptions m ade their appearance all over his body,
w ith running sores in the neck, and distorted features.
(S e e en g ra v in g s.)
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 125
Yes, th e ro tten sk u lls w h ich a re to he f o u n d in
a n a to m ica l m u seu m s— w ith all th e other beautiful
specim ens o f diseased bones, w hich in our younger days
w ere so abundant in hospitals, in th e g reat m ajority of
cases w ere th e p ro d u c tio n o f lon g a n d h a rra ssin g
cou rses o f m e r c u ry . T he rash, indiscrim inate, and
unqualified abuse o f Mercury has been productive
o f infinite m ischief. U nder the notion o f its being an
antidote for a certain disease, the untutored think they
have only to saturate their system w ith M ercury, and
the business is accom plished. F atal error ! T h o u ­
sands are annually either m ercurialized o u t of existence,
or th eir constitutions so broken, and the functions of
nature so im paired, as to render the residue of life
m iserable.
T he disorder w hich we have in view, owes its fatal
results either to neglect or ignorance. In the first
stage it is alw ays local, and easy to be extinguished,
w ithout the sm allest injury to the co n stitu tio n ; but
w hen neglected or im properly treated, a m ere local affec­
tion will be converted into an incurable and fatal
m alady. # W hat a pity th at a young m an, the hope
o f his country and the darling of his parents, should
be snatched from all the prospects and enjoym ents of
life by the consequences of one unguarded m om ent,
and by a disease w hich is n o t, in its own nature,
fatal, and which never proves so if properly treated !
T o do am ple ju stice to the case, a m an m ust devote
his entire attention to investigate diseases, to detect
their occult indications, and prom ptly to apply a safe
and radical rem edy.
T he blood being poisoned in scrofula, leprosy, and
M
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
the V enereal D isease and its consequences, it is neces­
sary to introduce into the stom ach, m edicines w hich will
have the effect of im m ediately counteracting the destruc­
tive effects of the poison circulating in the veins ; for
this purpose the
P U R IF Y IN G S P E C IF IC P IL L S ,
AND
C O R D I A L B A L M O F S Y R I A C U M ,
have been invented and used for m any years by M essrs.
P erry with the m ost unprecedented success. T h e
Cordial B alm of Syriacum effectually destroys any
poison w hich m ay exist in the blood, and thereby cures
disease. H ow can health exist, w hen the very life of
the body is poisoned ? A nd is it natural to expect th a t
one poison in the body can be rem oved by introducing
another f T he P ills, by com ing im m ediately in contact
w ith the coat of the stom ach, are carried directly to
the blood, w hich they p u rify ; and in consequence of
w hich, cure those distressing diseases to w hich th e
hum an fram e is liable, as scurvy, scrofula, venereal
disease, leprosy, &c.
I t is only by purifying the vital stream from insidious
disease, th at the body can be preserved in health an d
vigour. H ence the infinite variety o f com plaints an
infected state o f the blood induces, and hence the new
and deceptive form s a tainted habit puts on, which often
deceive the m ost em inent of the faculty, and baffle the
best intentions tow ards a cure.
These P ills are m ild and effectual in their operation,
w ithout M ercury, or M ineral, and require no restraint
in diet, loss o f tim e, or hiuderance from b u sin e ss;
*
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 1 >7
possessing the pow er of eradicating every sym ptom of
the disease in its w orst stage, w ithout the least exposure
to the p a tie n t; and in those disorders wherein S A L I­
V A T IO N has left the patient uncured, w eak, and
disheartened, and w hen no other rem edy can restore
the unhappy sufferer to th at health w hich he unfor­
tunately lost, the Purifying Specific P ills will be
found the only effectual and radical rem edy.
M any persons th at have im agined them selves cured
of the venereal disease, have had the m isfortune to
break out six or seven years afterw ards. A proof
happened in our practice the other day. A gentlem an
was afflicted w ith the sam e com plaint, and cured as he
thought, by the advice and prescription of an em inent
surgeon. H e afterw ards entered on the state of m atri­
m ony, four m onths after w hich he caught a violent
cold, th at term inated in a sore throat. A t this crisis
w e w ere applied to , and acquainted him th at it p ro ­
ceeded from an old venereal com plaint. Pie then
called in an apothecary, w ho treated his com plaint as
a com m on sore th ro at, un til he becam e so bad, th at he
w as com pelled to call in a m edical m an, w ho confirm ed
th e tru th of w hat we had told him , b u t too late for
his recovery, the venereal com plaint having eaten aw ay
p art o f his th ro at and nose, th e ravages o f w hich
could not be stopped during his life, so th at he fell a
sacrifice to his obstinacy. P ersons, therefore, should
be extrem ely cautious in eradicating th e above com ­
plaint, for w hich th ere is nothing m ore beneficial than
P erry’s P urifying Specific P ills, w hich are a cer­
tain rem edy w ithout subjecting th e patient to the
dangers attending a course of m ercury.
Digitized by Google
128 TH E SIL E N T F R IE N D .
B u t it is necessary to state th at it w ill be in vain to
expect relief from this rem edy w ithout punctuality :
for taking a box or tw o properly, then leaving off for
som e days and beginning again, w ill be of no service.
T hey m ust be taken regularly.
P atients w ho reside in th e country, at w hatever
distance, can have the rem edies applicable to th eir
several disorders, forw arded to any part o f the U n ited
K ingdom , carefully secured in a portable com pass, and
in every respect of convenient use. T hey are re ­
quested to be as m inute as possible in th e d etail of
th eir cases, as to th e duration o f th e com plaint, th e
sym ptom s, age, habits o f living, and general occupa­
tion.
O N M A R R IA G E .
H aving duly considered th e diseases pertaining to
th e reproductive pow ers of both sexes, from early in d u l­
gence or infection, w e now offer a few rem arks on th a t
sacred condition w hich th e late “ Invalid” w hen
convalescent, w ill probably be m ost anxious to adept.
C onjugal society is a perpetual com pact betw een
m an and w om an to live together in m utual love and
friendship, for th e procreation, conservation, and ed u ­
cation of children, and to aid each other by m utual
succour for th e course of life. T h e diversity of th e
sexes w as in stitu ted for th is p u rp o se; and th ere is an
innate desire im planted in both to p erpetuate th e ir
species, th eir nam es, and to transfer th eir property to
th eir children.
O f all th e social institutions, th ere is none w hich
T IIE SIL E N T F R IE N D . 129
exercise so great an influence upon states as m arriage.
T he prosperity of a nation depends upon the strength
and vigour of its inhabitants, w hich are pow erfully
influenced by the com parative perfection of th e m arriage
law s.
I t was therefore w isely ordained th at m arriage should
be a sacred com pact, for w hich those engaging in it
should forsake th eir n earest relations and friends. T he
parties contracting it form th e strictest union and
nearest relation th a t can be established betw een tw o
individuals; th eir tem poral concerns are identical, and
consequently m arriage is universally considered the
source of th e greatest com fort and m ost perfect enjoy­
m ent on earth , securing all th e advantages of sincere
friendship, and th e reciprocal offices of tru e and tender
affection. T he parties entering into this state, vow
m utual love, fidelity, and friendship. It w as therefore
m ost w isely ordained in th e beginning of tim e, th a t
“a m an shall leave his father and m other, and shall
cleave to his wife, and th ey tw o shall be one flesh.”
M arriage w as originally in stitu ted betw een th e first
of th e hum an species, as a religious, political, civil, and
m oral contract of D ivine ordinance, th e origin of soci­
ety, th e law for th e reproduction of the species,— a
contract for th e transm ission of property, a guarantee
for obligations th e m ost interesting to m ankind. I t is
therefore universally respected.
M an is a rational and social being, deriving his
chief of earthly happiness from th e delights of
society, and th e interchange of thought. It is
th e interchange of th e charities and sym pathies of
THE SILENT FRIEND.
of life, w hich gives to hum an existence its real and
only value. H ence, m an in a state of solitude, or
even isolated luxury or affluence, w ould be th e m ost
pitiable and m iserable of creatures.
E xposed to th e corroding cares, sorrow s, b itter dis­
appointm ents, and m isfortunes of life, m an cannot
brave alone, and unbefriended, th e ingratitude, envy,
and m alevolence of th e w orld.
T h e perfection and sincerity of friendship can only
be found in th e m arriage state, w here an indentity of
in terest shuts out all p etty jealousies and vexations,
and a unity of thought, sentim ent, feeling, and conduct,
exists. T he qualities essential to conjugal happiness
are chiefly of a m ental or m oral nature, and not m erely
of a physical kind, as is unfortunately too generally th e
case.
T he proper age for m arriage, according to th e law of
th is country, is tw enty-one for th e m ale, and eighteen
for th e fem ale; b u t m any physiologists are of opinion
th at th e ages of tw enty-five and tw enty one w ould
m ore accord w ith th e com plete developem ent of adults.
Buffon held this position, “ th e natu ral state of m an
after puberty is m arriag e; ” b u t this Is evidently
untenable, because th e hum an body is not fully deve­
loped at this period of life, th e different functions
are not perfect, and as th e organs are only in th e pro­
gress of th eir grow th, th e offspring w ould be infirm
and d e lic a te ; and th e sexes totally incom petent to
perform th e various im portant duties of parents. I t is
at, or rath er after th e ad u lt age, th a t th e m ind and
body have arrived a t p erfectio n ; and therefore m oral-
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 13 1
ists and legislators have fixed this age as the best for
m arriage.
I t is universally know n, th at prem ature or excessive
exertion of any p art of the body is succeeded by fatigue
or decay of such p a rt; and m ore especially before
com plete developem ent has taken place. H ence it
follows, th a t th e prem ature exertion of th e genital
functions, or m arriage at too early an age, m ust not
only be highly injurious to th e parents in m ost cases,
b u t also to th e constitution of th e offspring. It is also
a m oral and m edical precept, th a t both m ale and fe­
m ale should observe th e strictest continence until the
adult age, so th a t th e great end of m arriage, th e pro­
pagation of healthful infants, m ay be accom plished.
Persons of strong and sound constitutions beget
healthful infants, w hile those who m ake excessive
m ental or corporeal exertion have generally feeble off­
spring. * I t is for th is reason th at sim ple, stupid vil­
lagers generally beget infants of high physical and
m oral p o w ers; w hile m en of the greatest genius, who
over-exert th eir m ental faculties, often engender only
idiots or pusillanim ous infants. T hus, by a protracted
continence or a purity of m orals, th e species are im ­
proved and strengthened both in m ind and body.
I t is m anifest th at individuals resulting from a love
w hich is languid, or in old age, enfeebled by the des­
tructive habit of self-pollution, are not only feeble and
debilitated, b u t w ithout any rem arkable faculties.
I t is also well know n th at parents contam inated w ith
ill-cured syphilis, often beget infants w hich are born
dead and decom posed betw een th e seventh and eighth
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
132 THE SILENT FRIEND.
m onth of p reg n an cy ; and th a t th e disease in question
is a com m on cause of prem ature parturition. It does
not, how ever, follow th at every m an infected w ith sy­
philis in a secondary or chronic form , begets infants
th a t perish in th e last m onths of pregnancy, for it
requires a certain degree of contam ination to cause
this re su lt; for w hen th e tain t is slighter, infants are
born alive, b u t w eak and delicate, and either covered
w ith a copper or dark-coloured eruption about the ge­
nitals and thighs, at birth, or this appears soon after­
w ards. W e have fully described this disease in in ­
fants, in another p art of this T reatise.
D uring the last few years we have know n num erous
instances w here m en, having laboured under local
debility, have been disappointed in begetting offspring,
b u t who, upon th eir recovering, have rendered fruitful
th e m arriage-bed. Im puissance in th e m jle, then,
m ay be considered, as far as our judgm ent carries us,
th e m ost frequent cause of fruitless m arriages.
T he absence of offspring to m arried couples is a
source of m uch dom estic infelicity. W e do not m ean
to im ply th a t fam ily jars are engendered in lieu th ere­
of ; b u t th ere is necessarily a w ant, appreciated best
by those who are fortunately blessed w ith a fam ily.
H ow com m on is th e expression w ith heirless people,
“ I w ould give anything to have a child.”
If it is in th e pow er of m edicine to further th at ob­
ject, th e Cordial Balm of Syriacum can alone afford
assistance; it favours th e reproduction of the sem en,
and strengthens at the sam e tim e th e secretory vessels
and the reservoirs, so as to insure at once a due ela-
Digitized by Google
TH E S IL E N T F R IE N D . 1 3 3
boration and sufficient retention of th at liq u o r; and
by th at m eans rem oves radically all the affections of
th e genital parts in both se x es; substituting vigour for
im potence, and fecundity in place of barrenness.
M arriage was instituted by th e divine C reator in the
tim e of m an’s prim itive innocence, as th e m eans of his
happiness, and th e perpetuation of his race. T he w is­
dom of its institution has been felt and acknow ledged
in every a g e ; b u t before undertaking th a t im portant
and p ru d en t step, w e w ould suggest th e necessity of
th e p atien t first thoroughly convincing him self of his
perfect recovery, and of obtaining th e sanction of his
m edical attendant, ere he em bark his happiness, by a
process w hich he cannot afterw ards honourably annul,
and from w hich w ill be entailed physical deform ity
and m ental m isery on th e innocent and helpless.
A m ong th e disqualifications of m arriage are various
diseases,— congenital, th a t is to say, those w hich are
born w ith us— accidental— and those w hich proceed
from infection, all of w hich have been treated upon in
th eir several places ; b u t of all causes of th e im pair­
m ent of th e virile pow ers, excess of indulgence is th e
reigning one. T hey m ay be injured in m ore w ays
th an one— th e m ixture w ith th e w orld offers m a n y ;
b u t th at has its restrictio n s: th e m ost poisonous one
is the one indulged alone, w here th e sanctity of th e
closet is invaded by th e m ost heart-ren d in g of all m is­
appropriations, n am ely :— w hat is understood by th e
nam e ‘ O nanism ,’ w hich has been fully discussed in
th e foregoing pages, containing th e necessary instruc­
tions for treatm ent and cure.
Digitized by Google
1 3 4 THE SILENT FRIEND.
C A S E S .
T h e follow ing com m unications are m ade public, at
the earnest desire of the parties w ho have been the
subjects of our care, som e of w hom have intim ated a
w ish to have th eir nam es attached, and others have
objected from m otives o f secrecy. T o prevent any
unpleasant feeling on so delicate a subject, we have
substituted the general initials o f A .B ., C .D ., k c.j;
nor do we intend at a future period to adopt any o th er
plan, nor to publish any case or com m unication, b u t
such as we m ay be entitled to m ake public, at th e
req u est o f the parties them selves to w hom such cases
refer.
L. O. B. aged 20, apparently stout, was about six years ago, while at school,
initiated in baneful practises. It was not, till after three years continuance in
these habits, that he fait the least inconvenience from them. 'Then, however,
he was suddenly affected with frequent emissions while in bed; but as they
proved only troublesome for the moment, he was not in the least intimidated
by them, and for a year after, he continued his habits more frequently than
ever. About two years ago, these involuntary emissions became more frequent,
occurring four aud often six times every week. These were now followed by
cold shiverings, which lasted for an hour or two each time, with complete
inability to sleep during the remainder of the night. He was also affected
with frequent cold perspiration all over his body, coldness of his extremities,
shrinking of his penis, and great pain of his stomach; sometimes wijh a
voracious appetite for food, but more frequently a disgust to all victuals for
several days. On such occasions, if lie swallowed anything but liquids, the
sensations he felt in his stomach were not actually painful, but indescribably
irksome. From the difficulty, too, which he felt in being obliged to perform
the act of respiration, almost entirely by his voluntary powers, he believed he
should die suddenly while in bed. About that time, he felt an irregular swell*
jug in one testicle; and he began, for the first time, to suspect the real cause of
his complaint. To prevent his relations becoming acquainted with it, he
exerted his ingenuity to prevent them applying for medical assistance. He at
first thought, that, by abstaining from his former practises, which he now
resolved to do, he should recover without being obliged to have recourse to any
other expedient; but this would not do; uow, in addition to his other die*
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND, 135
tresses, his bowels became obstinately costive, and he could procure no
evacuation, without the assistance of cathartic medicines. These with the
cold bath, and the internal use of Bark and wine, and occasionally mineral
waters, were the only medicines he used till he commenced taking the Cor­
dial Balm of Syriacum.
In October following, this gentleman had enjoyed much better health than
he had done for about three years before; his appetite was more regular, and
the state of his bowels more natural; his sleep was undisturbed by frightAil
dreams, and the emissions only occurred once a week, and were unattend­
ed by the sensations formerly so distressing to him. We desired him to
continue the medicine a few weeks longer.
On the 2d of June in the succeeding year, we were glad to be informed by
our patient, that his health was perfectly good, and he was capable of exercising
all his functions, and seldom had an emission.
Gentlemen, Plym
outh, Aug.2nd. 1841.
Through a destructive secret practice which I have given way to from a very
early period, 1 have greatly impaired my body and mind. A dizziness comes
over my eyes, a singing and sometimes a dull noise in my ears; with dejection
of spirits. I am very nervous, and upon the least irritation, such a trembling
comes over me that I can scarcely stand; with a frequent sense of cold water
running from the crown of my head down my back. I have now scarcely any
desire for venereal pleasures; and very seldom an erection. When I speak
with a female, I am seized with such a trembling that my legs will hardly
support m e; my teeth chatter, my mouth becomes parched and dry, a thin,
clear, and slimy liquid runs from the penis, which seems likewise so chilly and
flabby, that at times I cannot produce an erection sufficiently strong to per­
form the action. Upon taking any familiarities with a female, though it may
produce a faint desire or sensation, I have no erection, but a little titillation,
and the same thin clear water comes from me, without leaving any stain on
my linen.
My stools leave at times a slimy substance after them. My mind is so over­
powered with the thoughts'of this complication of symptoms, that scarcely any
thiug affords me pleasure; the least exercise fatigues; and I frequently sit
thinking of my misfortunes, till the idea of having brought them on myself
almost distraots me.
I am induced to apply to you for advice having read a case similar to my
own in your invaluable work entitled the “ Silent Friend."
In consequence of having practised the detestable vice of Onanism, roy con­
stitution is so reduced, and the parts are rendered so imbecile by continued repe­
titions of that solitary gratification,that frequently in the act of coition the penis
suddenly drops, nor will erection ever so slight take place for hours afterwards. I
Digitized by Google
1 3 6 THE SILENT FRIEND.
am twenty-fire yean of age; and bare panned this vicious habit for many yean
Inclosed is your usual consultation F ee; your early attention to my unfor­
tunate situation will much oblige, Tours, respectfully, IT. JET.
The following extract from this gentleman's ninth letter will show the won­
derful efficacy of the Cordial Balm of Syriacum, under another course of
which the party determined to enter upon.
After this favourable report, if you think necessary, pray send i t ; b ut I am
satisfied of my recovery, &c."
N
ov. 20<A., 1841. IF. H.
Glasgow.
Dear S in,—I do not find in your Silent Friend any case similar to my own,
I shall, therefore, without reserve, state my case, and if you are of opinion
that the Cordial Balm of Syriacum will cure me, I will commence a course
willingly. I have had one or two gonorrhoeas, and sinoe I had the last, about
three yean ago* I have been suffering somewhat under that state described as
morbid irritability, and an inability to retain the fluid in the secreting organs.
Before the period stated, my powers were quite equal, I believe, to those of the
generality of men. My age is forty-three, and I am in excellent general
health and spirits. Since the period above stated, I do not think the penis
has ever had the capacity it formerly had, when in bed. 1 constantly have
erections, but seldom if ever seminal emissions. On these occasions, the erec­
tions go down, without any emission; but when I address a female, with an
intent to cohabitation, the penis immediately becomes half erected, and fluid
oozes out, without any sensation whatever. This, however, does not q uench
the desire. When I come to the point with a female, I feel all the desire I
ever did, but the watery oozing out continues, and the penis does not expand
to anything near the size it does when 1 am by myself in bed. When I com­
mence the act of cohabitation, I frequently emit beforeI penetrate, and
riablytheinstantafter penetration. I presume it roust be a weakness in the
vessels containing the fluid. I have now waved all delicacy, and frilly explain
to you my case, and I hope you will excuse the freedom with which I have
done so. I should say my case came under the head of nervous debility, but
that I am in excellent health and spirits. If, gentlemen, you think, on this
full statement, that you see my case clearly and can cure it, I shall be happy
to place myself under your care as soon as possible. Tou will of course be
pleased to consider this as strictly private.
1 am, dear Sirs, yours truly, K. It. C.
Extract.
“ With great pleesure 1 announce my complete recovery. I have now arriv
ed at as good a state of health and strength as ever; the medicine has been
long finished, and my delay in writing was, that I wished tq see if there
would be any return of my disorder." K. R. C.
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 1 3 7
TO M ESSRS. PERRY .
When an individual has experienced any particular mark of kindness, in
which his welfare and happiness have been considerably promoted, nothing
is more natural than to seek out the person by whom we have been served,
for the purpose of expressing our grateful sense of the favour bestowed: but
in case ofhealth, where we have been recovered from the last deplorable stage
of debilitated nature and restored to the full enjoyment of all the various bless­
ings of life, we are forcibly called on by every consideration, to acknowledge
it in the most public m anner; we owe this equally to our own feelings, which
m ust be sensibly awakened on the occasion, to your skill and talents, which
merit every encomium of the public a t large, in order that those who may stand
in need of similar benefits may know where to receive them.
H aving made these general observations, 1 shall proceed to state the particu­
lar case that has occasioned them, and to lay before the public the salutary
effects that I have experienced under the greatest affliction that can possibly
befall us.
I was bom and educated at Northampton, and at sixteen years of age,
went to the University of Oxford. Prior to my leaving Northampton, and
more particularly at College, I was reduced to the most grievous state, by those
horrid and unnatural practices too incident to youth, and which ore not more
baneful to our health than sinful in the eye of God.
I was at first afflicted with a, dimness of sight, and a weakness in my loins,
and a depression of spirits; in this situation I applied to Mr. Ware, a famous
occulist, who informed me that it proceeded from the optic nerves. I for
some time followed his advice, till one day returning from shooting, I was
seized with a numbness in my limbs to such a degree as to lead me to conclude
that I should entirely lose the use of them ; this induced me to put myself
under the care of Dr. Letsom, of London, but neither his aid nor .the waters
of Bath, which place I visited, afforded me the least relief; my spirits at length
were so severely depressed, with violent palpitation of the heart, and my flesh
so much decayed, that I became a mere skeleton. Observing however in the
newspapers an advertisement respecting Messrs. Perry's Cordial Balm of
Syriacum, I was induced to try the same, when 1 fortunately discovered in a
pamphlet which it was wrapped in, the complaint I hud so long laboured
under.
I have the happiness to add, that by following the advice contained therein,
and going through a complete course of Messrs. Perry's iuvaluable Balm of
Syriacum, I am now, thank Heaven, perfectly recovered, and as well as ever
I was in my life.
I am, Sir, your most obedient servant, P. S. W.
A young gentleman of the age of sixteen had contracted a certain habit,
which he continued until he was twenty-five. At this period he experienced
N
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND,
extreme weakness of the optic nerves, and a very great dimness of s ig h t:
his memory was much impaired; he had also violent head aches, and some­
times excruciating pains in his forehead and temples. On endeavouring to
read he frequently found himself seized with a species of giddiness, similar
to that resulting from a state of inebriation, the pupils of his eyes were ex­
tremely dilated, and often pained him most acutely: the eyelids were
extremely inflamed, and on rising in the m orning be was unable to open
them without the application of some warm fluid. H e often shed tears in ­
voluntarily, and a quantity ofcorrosive pus continually issued from the corners
of his eyes. But certainly one of the worst and most debilitating symptoms,
was an infirmity to which he was subject, almost every night in his sleep, which
had reduced him to a most deplorable state of debility and emaciation.
This was an extremely obstinate and protracted case, but in the course of a
few months he was restored to himself, if we may use the expression, and to
society, of which he is now a respectable and useful member.
To M ESSRS. PERRY & Co., Suegf.ons.
Dear Sirs,—I return you my sincere thanks and most grateful acknow­
ledgments, for the wonderful cure I have experienced, and am extremely
desirous of annexing ray remarkable case to your list of cures for the good of
society. I am forty years of age, and about 18 months ago was afflieted in
the following distressing m a n n e r a disordered stomach, dry consumptive
cough, weakness in the voice, hoarseness, shortness of breath on the least
exercise, and relaxation of the whole system, paleness, languor of the eyes,
weakness of sight and memory, proceeding no doubt, from that baneful and
solitary vice which is early acquired at school, before reason has asserted her
right over the mind. I applied to several of the faculty, and was treated
according to the best of their abilities but received no benefit. I was in
consequence prevented from entering into the marriage state. I was at last
Tecommended by a friend of mine who had derived great benefit from taking
your Medicine for a similar complaint, to write to the Medical Establishm ent
for some.—You will bear in recollection, that I received of you three distinct
packages, and before I had finished the last, I found myself completely
recovered. I have now entered into the matrimonial state, having a son to
crown my happiness.
Castle Gate, Norwich. Yours, with great esteem aud regard, J. F.
To M ESSRS. PERRY , Subg eo ns.
W orcester, J uly 6,1838.
Dear Sirs,—A few months ago I called at your Establishment for your
advice, when you recommended a course of the Balm of Syriacum. I am at
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND, 1 3 9
last, with much shame, induced to address you on the miserable situation I
was iu, when I commenced taking your blessed Medicine. I am convinced
the disease I was afflicted with, was solely occasioned by my having contracted,
in my early youth a most infamous habit, the continual practice of which
had totally destroyed my constitution. The health of my body was not only
affected, but the powers of the mind were much weakened; my judgm ent
had lost its solidity, and my memory its retentive faculties, my head was
confused, and subject to frequent swimmings, and I had been much troubled
with an oppression at my breast, which occasioned a constant perspiration ;
I had pains in my stomach, and weakness and a general debility all over me,
with constant yawning, and sleepiness; my appetite was fluctuating, my
spirits greatly depressed, so that at times I could scarcely refrain from
sighing and involuntary weeping; my eyes were inflamed, and frequently
emitted a watery hum our; in a word I was an object of misery. I paid a
strict attention to your advice, and continued taking the Medicine according
to your directions for about three months. I am now perfectly recovered;
therefore I think it not only my duty to acknowledge the service you have
done me, but to inform the Public for the benefit of others, who labour
under the same, or any disease similar to those from which I was happily
recovered.
I am, dear Sirs, your most obliged humble servant, J. C. J.
CASE OF M R. G. M.
Having in my youth, I confess it with shame, been subject to the henious
offence of Self.Pollution, I brought upon myself a running, which neither
the cold bath nor any thing that I was advised to apply, could remove. Thus
circumstanced, no one suspected me of labouring under any bodily complaint
but my Doctor, which I accounted for from my being naturally robust, and
always preserving my colour. At this crisis I was induced to pay my addresses
to a young lady of great personal accomplishments, and soon obtaining her
consent, was dnited to her in the bands of wedlock. This I must acknow­
ledge was highly imprudent in me, who knew from my debilitated state, that
I was utterly incapable of consummating my nuptials. A seminal discharge
always preceeded a perfect erection, which at first I was weak enough to
attribute to a strong desire of possession, but the same disappointment
continuing, I had recourse to drinking, which instead of remedying the evil,
only increased it; no kind of erection could I procure, and positively emitted
the seed always before the connexion took place. The distress of my being
in this unfortunate predicament was greatly heightened by the fear that my
wife had dropped some hints to my mother of my incapability of performing
matrimonial duty, and I looked upon a divorce as inevitable, when I was
advised by a friend, whom I acquainted with my truly critical situation, to
purchase some bottles of your Cordial Balm of Syriacum. Persevering in
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
taking this excellent medicine has given a stam ina to m y constitution, o f
which I thought my youthful excesses had entirely bereft m e; in about five
m onths it accomplished a cure, and it is with pleasure I inform you, that m y
wife is pregnant with her first child, of which I think I should never have
heen the father, had it not been for your precious m edicine.
To M E SSR S. PE R R Y .
Dear Sirs, Coventry.
On the 20th o f last m onth, I received (Vom you the last box o f m edicine
and have since punctually followed the directions it contained. I write now
to inform you that the medicine is nearly expended, and that for this last
m onth there has not been any appearance of venereal infection. The only
thing which now gives me uneasiness, is the oontinued weakness of the
sem inal organs, which appears to have increased, and I am sorry to say, that
involuntary em issions have been more frequent and copious, taking place
every four or five nights, and there is often a discharge of clear adhesive matter
like sem en. I am tolerably well in health,[and do not feel any dim inution
o f strength. I m ust now beg your consideration in m y case, and inform you
that I shall be obliged to go abroad in the beginning o f next week; therefore
pray have the goodness to send me medicine for as long a time as you can, and
copious directions for m y guidance, both during the tim e it lasts, and after-
wards. I shall m ost probably be stationary, and at liberty to follow any plan
of living. Pray let me know on what occasions I m ust increase or diminish
the dose of the Cordial Balm o f Syriacum, and what diet and plan of life I
m ust follow. However, I leave all this to you, not doubting that you w ill
kindly feel for m y situation, and wish to bring the work you have taken in
hand, and so ably carried on, to a happy conclusion.
With m any thanks for the kindness and attention you have shewn m e, I am ,
dear sirs, yours, sincerely and obliged, K. L.
[T h e above gentleman’s case w as one o f the m ost complicated that ever
came under our know ledge; the virile power had been nearly destroyed by
the effects of Onanism—his habit was scorbutic, and he laboured under a n
irritable gleet. H e has since acquainted us by letter o f his complete recovery. 1
To M E SSR S. PE R R Y & CO., Surgeons.
Gentlemen, K ilkenny.
1 was sent to school not far .from London, where I was very early initiated,
into the baneful practice of Self-Pollution, which with shame I confess 1 have
followed with very little interruption tiU a short tim e ago, w hen I , fortunately
Digitized by < - . o o Q l e
THE SCLENT FRIEND, 141
for myself, saw your invaluable little Treatise. It was then for the first
tim e, (though I had before often suspected that I was not doing right,) I be­
came fully sensible of the madness o f m y conduct, and the certain m isery I
was entailing upon m yself; and though I have now determined never to
recommence the practice, and do not think my ease so bad as very m any of
those you have cured, yet I do want some of your assistance, and shall give
you a short statement of m y case. M y age is nearly twenty—I am thin and
not tall—my habits are sedentary, m y manner o f living regular, and m y diet
plain—I rise generally between six and seven, breakfast at eight, dine at four,
and have my tea at eight—Supper I hardly ever eat. I eat heartily o f anim al
food at dinner, and drink nothing but small beer, and very little wine— Spirits
I seldom touch. I am not, thank Qod, now so much troubled with nocturnal
em issions, but the semen which I used to void in m y wretched practice, wus
always thin and watery, and I found at last that after one act, I had great
difficulty in obtaining another. In the few connexions I have had with
women, I have always had emissions before I wished it, and afterwards found
m yself unable to obtain a sufficient erection at another time, all appetite being
gone. On the w hole I am afraid that I have m aterially injured m yself, and
now I trust entirely to you for a cure.
I had forgot to state, that for the four or five days last, I have been, and
am now still, troubled w ith a pain in the right testicle, which I think is
rather sw ollen; I am also troubled with a pain in m y thigh,and under part of
m y groin. T hese, I believe, are all the parts of my oase. I enclose you a note,
and shall be glad to receive a letter of advice, and also some medicine from
you as soon as possible, and at the same time I will thank you to let m e
know whether I shall be obliged to take an y large quantity, and what the
probable expense will be.
Please to direct the letter to m e, marked “ private."
I am, gentlemen, your very obedient servant, M e. C.
*** Cured by a course o f the Cordial Balm of SyriacnnK
CASE OF M R. D . M ., OF C H E S T E R
I was subject to a venereal disorder nineteen years, and during that period
w as under the hands of the first men in the science of physic, who adopted
every method wherein the smallest probability of success could be formed, and
apparently the disease was entirely expelled; but the alleviation was but for a
m om ent, and then returned with redoubled force; the want o f success, the
assertions o f entire restoration, by those who undertook the cure, entirely
dissipated those sanguine hopes I entertained of the infallibility of
m edical skill. T he natural consequences resulting from the ineffioacy o f the
various methods adopted, and the violent operation o f astringent m inerals
coming in oontact with the disease, produced an ulcer on the lungs. Then
Digitized by Google
THE 8ILENT FRIEND.
the horrors of existence were experienced, a description of which would be an
attempt vague and inconsistent; those only who have felt that degree of misery
can be sensible of its effects.
D uring this period, my di solution w as the only subject o f m y prayers,
when I received from a friend a pamphlet of Messrs. Perry’s, recommending
a medicine called the Purifying Specific Pills, and Cordial Balm of
Syriacum, in which was pointed out several cases of a nature strongly similar
to m y own ; through the importunity of my friend and being conscious I could
not be in a worse situation, I sent to Messrs. Perry, and went under a regular
course of their medicine, and in four m onths, was astonishingly recovered.
[M r. D . M. is entirely restored since the above statement, and has recom­
mended the Syriacum and £ ills, with that zeal which he is sensible they m erit.]
To Messrs. P E R R Y & Co.,
G entlem en,—W ith h eartfelt gratitude, I T etum you sin cere thanks, for
th e w onderful b en efit I have exp erien ced from your salu tary advice and
h ighly valued m edicine. A bout three m on th s sin ce, h aving unfortunately
contracted the venereal d isease, and not regarding it at the tim e as any­
thing m a teria l; till at lengh, I suddenly found m yself plunged into- th e
deep est m isery ; for I at last discovered that miy blood w as im pregnated
w ith that distressing d iso rd er: nodes on m y sh in b on es, ulcerated throat,
diseased nose, w ith pains in m y head, till at len gth a general d eb ility and
decay o f th e constitution ensued, and had I not persevered in th e use o f
your Purifying Specific Pills and Cordial B alm o f Syriacum , death w ould
have put an end to m y m iserable ex isten ce lon g ere th is. B ut, happily for
m e, receivin g one o f your pub lications, I applied, if you recollect, at the
E stablishm ent in Birm ingham , and you im m ed iately prescribed a course
o f Syriacum , (w hich to speak plainly, I put very little faith in ,having tried
so m any patent m edicines in vain). A fter tak in g one bottle at 33s. I per­
ceived little or no b en e fit; how ever I did not despair, but continu ed to
proceed according to th e direction s, but h ow great w as the surprise o f m y
friends, and m y ow n astonishm ent, w h en in the course o f a short tim e, I
discovered w onderful im provem ent, and an entire alteration in m y whole
person. N othing could exceed my joy, as my prospects in life are great, I
continued the Cordial Balm for two m onths, with the Purifying Specific Pills,
and was restored to health and strength, which I had long been a stranger
to ; and those unhappy persons who may be labouring under this destructive
disease, should take time to consider the dreadful consequences arising there*
from, and make immediate application for your superior advice, and m uch
esteemed m edicines. I remain, dear Sirs,
Norwich. Yourever grateful and obliged, R. P.
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND. 1 4 3
N O T IC E T O P A T IE N T S .
F or a series of years past a great portion of our
practice has been carried on in Epistolary Corres­
pondence. Since, how ever, th e alteration in th e
postage regulations, th e num ber of our correspondents
have increased m a n y fold. I t w ill be apparent, w ith
w hat facility advice can be sought for, and obtained
w ithin a few hours, suiting alike persons abroad and
at hom e. B y th e present postage arrangem ents, dis­
tance is no hinderance or additional expense to invalids
resident in th e H ighlands, th e lim its o f th e W elch
m ountains, th e E astern coast, or th e ‘ L and’s E n d ; ’
and by th em also, som e of th e severest infirm ities
of m ental and physical life can be revealed and as­
suaged. W e have alluded to th e diffidence besetting
individuals, suffering un d er m any of th e calam ities
enum erated, th e diffidence th at encourages them to
bear th e ills they have, rath er than, w ith a view to th eir
relief or m itigation, tak e into th eir confidence a profes­
sional neighbour, even as a relative or friend ; we
have adduced th e foregoing cases to shew w ith w hat
prom ptness and quietude th e difficulties m ay be over­
com e, and w hat probable success m ay follow. L etters
m ay be addressed A . B. or any other initials.
P atients are requested to be as m inute and exact as
possible in th e detail of th eir cases, as to th e duration
of their com plaint, the sym ptom s, age, habits of living,
and occupation. T he com m unication m ust be accom ­
panied w ith th e usual Consultation Fee of one
4
Digitized by Google
THE SILENT FRIEND.
pound ; or a Post-office order to th at am ount, to ensure
its sa fety ; w ithout w hich, no notice w hatever can be
taken of th eir ap p licatio n ; and in all cases th e most
inviolable secrecy m ay be relied on.
MESSRS. PERRY k CO.
MAY BE PERSONALLY CONSULTED AT THEIR
ESTABLISHMENTS,
No. 4, G R E A T C H A R L E S S T R E E T ,
Four doors from Easy Row*
B I R M I N G H A M ;
AND No. 44, A L B IO N S T R E E T , L E E D S.
PUNCTUALLY FROM ELEVEN IN THE MORNING UNTIL
EIGHT IN THE EVENING,
A N D ON SU N D A Y S FROM E L E V E N T IL L ONE O'CLOCK:
AND I T IS NECESSARY TO OBSERVE THAT
ONLY ONE PERSONAL VISIT IS REQUIRED
FROM A COUNTRY PATIENT.
Watton, Printer, Easy-row, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
