{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__pelley___seven_minutes_in_eternity.pdf","mytitle":"Seven Minutes In Eternity","mylang":"de"}
"SevenMinutes in Eternity"
WITH THEIR AFTERMATH
By WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
599 Fifth Avenue
Together with
A Biographical Sketch
of the Author
RoBBRT CoLLIBR, Inc.
New York, N. Y.
COPYRIGHT 192.9,THE AMERICAN MAGAZINE
CO PYRIGHT 192.9,WILLI.AM DUDLEY P ELLET
t
f ooooooooooooo!HlOOOOIH!Ooooooooooooo)
Seven Minutes In Eternity
By WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
The Unabridged Version of the Author's Notable
Experience in Altadena, California, in May, 1928,
together with an Afterword of Comment on the
Publication of the Narrative in "The American
'Magazine" in March, 1929, and Its Reaction
Throughout America and England.
IN
TH~ foothills of the Sierra Madre Mountains
near Pasadena, California, I formerly owned a
bungalow. When I wanted seclusion in order to
complete a knotty job of writing, I laid in a stock
of provisions, bade adieu to acquaintances, motored
up to this hideaway and worked there un'tlisturbed.
My only companion was Laska, a huge tawny
police dog.
In the early part of May, 1928, I wa,s living in
this bungalow while writing a novel. The work
had gone well and was nearing completion. I was
mentally untroubled, feeling physically fit, writing
[ 5]
[ 6] SEVEN MINUTES
six to eight hours a day, with plenty of outdoor
recreation.
One night I retired around ten o'clock and lay
in bed reading till I dozed. The book had nothing
to do with what subsequently happened, nor had
any occurrence of that day or week or month any
special significance in what that memorable night
brought forth. I emphasize this fact in order to
refute the claims of the skeptical that what I under-
went was some form of neurotic psychosis. The
book was a notable volume on Ethnology, some-
thing of a hobby with me and on which I hoped in
the near future to write a book from a somewhat
bizarre premise. I felt drowsy around midnight,
laid the volume aside, pulled off my glasses and
extinguished the bedlamp. I had gone through a
similar ·routine on a hundred other evenings; the
day had been no different than a hundred other
writing days spent in the bungalow.
My sleeping chamber was located at the back
of the house and was perfectly ventilated, with two
casement windows opening toward the mountains.
Laska curled on the floor at the foot of my bed-
her accustomed sleeping place-and that she did
not externally motivate the phenomena in any way,
I am positive. When it ended and I was back in
my body, I stumbled from the bed and the action
awoke her, bringing her over beside me where she
IN ETERNITY
thumped her tail on the rug and sought to lick my
wrist.
I do not recall having any specific dreams the
first half of the night, no physical distress, certainly
no insomnia. Ordinarily I do not use liquor and
had none on the premises or in my system on this
night in question. For twenty years I had been an
average smoker and puffed my pipe constantly over
the typewriter. But I had never observed any
derogatory effects from such indulgence and was no
more distressed than usual from this particular
day's consumption of tobacco.
But between three and four in the morning-the
time later verified-a ghastly inner shriek seemed
to tear through somnolent consciousness.In despair-
ing horror I wailed to myself:
"I'm dying! I'm dying!"
What told me, I don't know. Some uncanny
instinct had been unleashed in slumber to awaken
and warn me. Certainly something was happening
to me-something that had never happened in all
my life-a physical sensation which I can best de-
scribe as a combination of heart attack and
apoplexy.
Mind you, I say physical sensation. This was
not a dream. I was fully awake and yet I was not.
I knew that something had happened to either my
heart or head-or both-in sleep and that my con-
scious identity was at the play of forces over
[S] SEVEN MINUTES
which it had no control. I was awake, mind you,
and whereas I had been on a bed in the dark of a
California bungalow when the phenomena started,
the next i was plunging down a mystic depth of
cool blue space not unlike the bottomless sinking
sensation that attends the taking of ether for
anesthetic. Queer noises were singing in my ears.
Over and over in a curiously ·tumbled brain, the
thought was preeminent:
"So this is death?"
I aver that in the interval between my seizure
and the end of my plunge, I was sufficiently pos-
sessed of my physical sensfs to think: "My dead
body may lie in this lonely house for days before
anyone discovers it-unless Laska breaks out and
brings aid."
Why I should think that, I also don't know-
or what difference it would have made to me, be-
ing the lifeless "remains"-but I remember think-
ing the thought as distinctly as any thought I ever
originated consciously and put on paper in the
practice of my vocation.
Next I was whirling madly. Once in 1920 over
San Francisco an airplane in which I was pas-
senger went into a tail-spin and we almost fell in
the Golden Gate. That feeling! Someone reached
out, caught me, stopped me. A calm, clear, friendly
voice said close to my ear:
IN ETERNITY
"Take it easy, old man. Don't be alarmed.
You're all right. We're here to help you."
Someone had hold of me, I said-two persons in
fact-one with a hand under the back of my neck,
supporting my weight, the other with arm run under
my knees. I was physically flaccid from my "tum-
ble" and unable to open my eyes as yet because
of the sting of queer opal light that diffused the
place into which I had come.·
When I finally managed it, I became conscious
that I had been borne· to a beautiful marble-slab
pallet and laid nude upon it by two strong-bodied,
kindly-faced young men in white duck uniforms
not unlike those worn by internes in hospitals, who
were secretly amused at my confusion and chagrin.
"Feeling better?" the taller of the two asked
considerately as physical strength to sit up un-
aided came to me and I took note of my sur-
roundin gs.
"Yes," I stammered. "Where am I?"
They exchanged good-humored glances. "Don 't
try to see everything in the first seven minutes,"
was all the answer they made me then.
THEY did not need to answer my question. My
question was superfluous. I knew what had hap-
pened. I had left my earthly body back on a
bungalow bed in the California mountains. I had
gone through all the sensations of dying and
[IO] SEVEN MINUTES
whether this was the Hereafter or an intermediate
station, most emphatically I had reached a place
and state which had never been duplicated in all
my experience.
I say this because of the inexpressible ecstacy
of my new state, both mental and physical.
For I had carried some sort of a physical body
into that new environment with me. I knew that
it was nude. It had been capable of feeling the cool,
steadying pressure of my friends' hands before my
eyes opened. And now that I had reawakened with-
out the slightest distress or harm, I was conscious
of a beauty and loveliness of environment that sur-
passes chronicling on printed paper.
A sort of marble-tiled-and-furnished portico the
place was, lighted by that soft, unseen, opal illu-
mination, with a clear-as-crystal Roman pool diag-
onally across from my bench on which I remained
for a time striving to credit that all this was real.
Out beyond the portico everything appeared to
exist in a sort of turquoise haze. . . .
I looked from this vista back to the two friends
who had received me. There were no other persons
anywhere in evidence in the first half of my expe-
rience.
Somehow I knew those two men-knew them as
intimately as I knew the reflection of my own
features in a mirror. And yet something about them,
their virility, their physical "glow," their strong
IN ETERNITY (' II ]
and friendly personality sublimated as it were, kept
me from instant identity.
And they knew a good joke about me. They con-
tinued to watch me with a smile in their eyes when
I got down from my marble bench and moved
about the portico till I came to the edge of the
pool.
"Bathe in it," came the instruction. "You'll find
you'll enjoy it."
I went down the steps into delightful water. And
here is one of the strangest incidents of the whole
"adventure" ... when I came up from that bath
I was no longer conscious that I was nude. On the
other hand, neither was I conscious of having
donned clothes. The bath did something to me in
the way of clothing me. What, I don't know.
But immediately I came up garbed somehow by
the magic contact of the water, people began com-
ing into the patio, crossing over it and going down
the southern steps and off into the inexpressible
turquoise. As they passed me, they cast curiously-
amused glances at me. And everybody nodded and
spoke to me. They had a kindness, a courtesy, a
friendliness, in their faces and addresses that quite
overwhelmed me. Think of all the saintly, at-
tractive, magnetic folk you know, imagine them
constituting the whole social world-no misfits, no
tense countenances, no sour leers, no preoccupied
brusqueness or physical handicap-and the whole
[ 12 ] SEVEN MINUTES
environment of life permeated with an ecstatic har-
mony as universal as air, and you get an idea of
my reflexions in those moments. I recall exclaim-
ing to myself:
"How happy everybody seems!-how jolly!
Every person here conveys something that makes
me want to know him personally." Then with a
sense of shock it dawned upon me: "/ have known
everyone of these persons at some time or other,
personally, intimately! But they're sublimated now
- physically glorified-not as I knew them in life
at all."
I CANNOT make anyone underst and how natu-
ral it all seemed that I should be there. After that
first presentment of dying-which experience had
ended in the most kindly ministration-all terror
and strangeness left me and I never felt more alive.
It never occurred to me that I was in "heaven"
or if it did it occasioned me no more astonishme nt
that I should be there than that at some period of
my adolescent consciousness it had occurred to me
that I was on "earth" . After all, do we know much
more about the one than the other?
I had simply ended a queer voyage through
bluish void and found myself in a charming place
among affable worthwhile people who saw in me
something that amused them to the point of quiet
laughter. Yet not a laughter that I could resent. I
IN ETERNITY
had no mad obsession to go off at once in search
of Diety or look up Abraham Lincoln or Julius
Caesar. I was quite content to stroll timidly in the
vicinity of the portico by which I had entered this
harmo]J.iousplace and be greeted with pleasant nods
by persons whose individualities were uncannily
familiar.
They were conventionally garbed, these persons,
both men and women. I recall quite plainly that
11omeof the latter wore hats. The big, broad- .
shouldered, blue-eyed fellow in white duck who
had first received me with his hand beneath the
nape .of my neck always hovered in my vicinity,
I recall, and kept an eye on my whereabouts and
deportment . . . .
I pledge my prestige and reputation that I talked
with these people, identified many of them, called
others by their wrong names and was corrected,
saw and did things that night almost a year ago
that it is verboten for me to narrate in a magazine
article but which I recall with a minuteness of de-
tail as graphic as I see the keys of my typewriter
now under my fingers. Regardless of the fact that
imagination is the chief asset in one of my vocation,
I am not given to particularly graphic dreams. Cer-
tainly we never dream by the process of coming
awake first, knowing that we are suffering some
kind of heart or head attack, swooning and coming
abruptly conscious again in the arms of two kindly
SEVEN MINUTES
persons who reassure one audibly that everything
is quite all right. Nor do the impressions of a
dream stay with us-at least they have never so
stayed with me-that after a year such an experi-
ence is as vivid as many of my experiences in Si-
beria during the late world war.
I went somewhere, penetrated to a distinct place
and had an actual physical experience. I found
myself an existing entity in a locality where per-
sons I had always called "dead" were not dead at
all. They were very much alive.
The termination of this journey-my exit so to
speak-was as peculiar as my advent.
Instantly, instead of real biliousness, I was
caught in a swirl of bluish vapor that seemed to
roll in from nowhere in particular. Instead of
plunging prone I was lifted and levitated. Up, up,
up I seemed to tumble /eet first despite the ludi-
crousness of the description. A long, swift, swirling
journey of this. And then something clicked. Some-
thing in my body. The best analogy is the sound my
repeating deer-rifle makes when I work the ejector
mechanism-a flat, metallic, automatic sensation.
Next I was sitting up in bed in my physical body
again, as wide awake as I am at this moment,
staring at the patch of window where the Cali-
fornia starlight was visible, and a reflexion of
physical exhaustion through my chest, diaphragm
and abdomen that lasted several minutes. Not any
IN ETERNITY [ 15]
digestive distress, you understand. Simply a great
weariness in my torso as though I had passed
through a great physical ordeal and my heart must
accelerate to make up the lost energy.
"That wasn't a dream!" I cried aloud. And my
voice awoke Laska who straightened to her
haunches.
There was no more slumber for me that night. I
lay back finally with the whole experience fresh
in my senses but an awful lamentation in my heart
that I was forced to come back at all-back into
a world of stru ggle and disappointment, turmoil
and misinterpretation, to an existence of bill col-
lectors, unfriendly bankers, capricious editors and
caustic critics-to all the mental and physical aches
and pains which combine with the slings and ar-
rows of outrageous fortune to make of this Earth
Plane a Vale of Tears.
It was tragedy, the coming back.
Call it the Hereafter, call it Heaven, call it
Purgatory, call it anyone of the Astral Planes, call
it a Hyper-Dimension, call it What You Will.
Whatever it is-and where-that human entities
go after being released from physical limitations,
I had gone there that night. And like Lazarus of
old, I had been called back-back to the anguish
(in comparison) of physical existence to finish out
my time in the conventional manner. Up to the
time of writing this article almost a year later, I
[ 16 J SEVEN MINUTES
have had not the slightest inclination toward a repe-
tition of the episode. Dreams I have had, and occa-
sionally a fine old-fashioned nightmare, but have
known them for such. Somehow or other, in sleep
that night, I unhooked something in the strange
mechanism that is Spirit in Matter and from seven
to ten minutes my own conscious entity that is
Bill Pelley, writing -man, slipped over on the Other
Side.
There is a survival of human entity after death
of the body for I have seen and talk ed intelligently
with friends whom I have looked down upon as cold
wax in. caskets.
But that is not all. There is plenty of aftermath.
To describe the effects of the experience however,
it is necessary to intrude a few personal confidencs,
none of which I am eager to make.
I brought something back with me from that
Ecstatic Interlude-something that had interpene-
trated my physical self and which suddenly began
to function in strange powers of perception.
I WAS born the only son of an itinerant Metho-
dist preacher. Soon after my birth my parents be-
gan that old-fashioned Odyssey of traveling from
"call" to "call" in the northern Massachusetts
back hills.
Orthodox Protestant theology as it was forty
years ago, was far more plentiful in my father's
household ·than bread, butter, clothes and fuel in
IN ETERNITY
those days. Camp meetings and Quarterly Confer-
ences, the Higher Criticism, Predestination, Free
Will and Election, infant damnation, hell fire and
the Day of Jud gment, constituted the household
converse in my young and "tender" years. God
early shaped up to me as a weird combination of
heavenly Moloch and sublimated Overseer o.f the
Poor.
Parish poverty forced my father from the min-
istry while I was in middle boyhood but with grim
New England rigor he saw to it that bis relinquish-
ment of a pulpit did not lessen my surfeit of con-
ventional theology. Three times to church on the
Sabbath day and twice during the week-Tuesday
evening class meeting and Thursday evening prayer-
meeting-left me small opportunity to forget my
Maker and the gratitude I owed Him. Just what
this gratitude was owed Him for troubled my small
soul exceedingly in those far-off years because I
found myself created a perpetually hungry, shab-
bily dressed and none-too-happy youngster who
had to start his life labor at fourteen years of age
and stay with it thereafter, even to the present.
Much Scripture was quoted to prove that my
desire for a high school and college education was
unfilial in view of the struggle dad was having for
survival. I ceased to be strong for Scripture after
interest in my first mill job had become a stale-
mate. I must further attest that the treadmill of a
[ 18] SEVEN MINUTES
factory's discipline when other kids of my age were
disporting themselves in healthy animal play, did
not make me much stronger for God.
In the years between fourteen an\i twenty-two I
became a smouldering little Bolshevik against every
kind of authority-particularly against religious
authority which had apparently sanctioned these in-
justices against me---and picking up the rudiments
of a denied education by permiscuous reading, I
went far afield from accredited Christianity.
No need to clutter up this article with the books
I read, but at twenty-two, in a little town in
northern New York I was publishing a brochure
magazine of heretical tendencies. Not exactly
atheistic but holding few illusions about the Scribes
and Pharisees who wail loudly in public praying
places and who take good care that their alms are
seen of men. I had discovered myself possessed
of a certain facility with iconoclastic language, no
censor, and the courage of my ignorance. Fresh
from a wry, lonely, misunderstood childhood, clut-
tered up psychologically with the worst sort of New
England inhibitions, revengeful that I had been
denied social and academic advanta ges for which
my hunger was instinctive, I proceeded to play a
lone hand and Make Things Hot for several goodly
people whose only indictment was that they repre-
sented Authority as aforesaid-and especially
spiritual. I know I made existence rather annoying
IN ETERNITY
for a number of representative ministers of the faith
who saw life as through a glass darkly along with
myself but weren't blatting about it as I was. On
maturer perspective I-should have been spanked-
or educated-but all the theological misfits in forty-
eight states and a couple of foreign countries were
soon buying my magazine and my twaddle was
piling up to give me much heartburn later when I
came to see that I took out on God what I should
have taken out on an inhibited environment.
The Almighty stood the onslaught pretty well,
however. I got into newspaper work, and marriage,
and fatherhood, and more poverty, and that was
the last of the heretical magazine though not of
its owners theological complexes. I shopped around
in my religions. I read still queerer books. And
inevitably the day came when immature intelligence
couldn't stand the pace and instead of digesting I
ejected it ala mal d' mer. ... For ten years I
was one of the worst agnostics that ever had books
come to his post-office box in plain wrappers from
freak publishing houses. . ..
I had brains enough to see that my life had been
started all wrong and was "getting no better fast",
but not the academic or social equipment to alter
existence and start myself about-face.
Those were cruel, cruel years-looking back on
them now. A couple of my business projects went
to whack. So did my marriage. With each additional
[ 20] SEVEN MINUTES
snarl I got more and more vindictive. The death
of my first daughter mellowed me somewhat. I
wrote a couple of novels in which love of human
nature was largely a reflex from the fearful storm
of hatred and despair that was waging inside me.
I knew my life was a ghastly mess, that I was
cynical and caustic, that the so-called "friends"
whom I could trust could be counted on the fingers
of one hand-and most of them would stand watch-
ing-that we got nothing in this world unless we
fought for it with the ferocity of a Siberian wolf-
dog and that without a doubt Death ended every-
thing.
America's entry into the World War found me
in the Orient, not at all a healthy place for one
striving to escape the biologicc!,l
premise for human
existence. I went with the Japanese forces to Si-
beria, acted as Red Triangle man, consular courier
and war correspondent through the Bolshevik-
Czech campaign and came back to the United States
to face a newspaper business in ruins. The swarm-
ing millions of Asia had not confirmed my faith
in the conventional Almighty's goodness and wis-
dom-had made me only more skeptical in fact-
though I never had anything but remorseful ten-
derness in my heart for the memory of the Man
of Sorrows and what He epitomized in the human
scheme of things.
To save my newspaper creditors from loss, I
IN ETERNITY [ :H]
went to Hollywood and labored among the Flesh
Pots. I made a score of motion pictures. I wrote a
couple of books which my publishers refused. I
fought with them in consequence, still taking life
by strong-arm methods. I wrote many stories that
editors rejected. I fought with them too. When an
editor wouldn't buy a certain story I sat down to
my typewriter and contrived to tell him that I
thought him an ass. I even told the editor of The
American Magazine that he was an ass-in spite
of which he showed his calibre by taking my
opinion as painlessly as possible and going right
along buying and publishing my better submissions.
That hurt worse than as if he had fought with me.
You see, I had the unfortunate complex that the
attainment of success meant a knock-down-and-
drag-out scrap. It made me a lone wolf at life,
getting the least bit mangy as I reached my
forties....
Time after time I tried sincerely to correct my
psychology and get back certain religious (not
theological) cues I felt I bad lost with the passing
of boyhood. I plunged deeper than ever into eleven-
pound volumes on all sorts of racial traits and be-
haviorism. I was a walking museum of bow a man
may reach middle life and be the worst internal
mess that ever got into "Who's Who"....
In view of such an autobiographical summary,
[ 22] SEVEN MINUTES
can you see the significance of my nocturnal expe-
rience?
I went about my bungalow in the days that fol-
lowed as though I were still in a sort of trance-
which verily I was. Days of this, with a queer
unrest galvanizing me, a feeling that I was on the
verge of something, that out of my weird Self Pro-
jection onto another plane of existence I had
brought something that was working within me
like yeast.
Then came experience number two-not quite
so theatric and therefore harder to describe.
ONE NIGHT while still imbued with the "feel-
ing" of my fourth dimensional adventure , I took
down a volume of Emerson and opened it by
chance to his essay on the Over-Soul. In the middle
of it, though not reading any specific line, epigram,
paragraph or page, I had a queer moment of con-
fusion, a sort of cerebral vertigo, then a strange
physical sensation at the very top of my bead as
though a beam of pure white light had poured
down from above and bored a shaft straight into
my skull. In that instant a vast weight went out
of my whole physical ensemble. A veil was torn
away.
I saw no "vision" but something had happened
and was continuing to happen. A cascade of pure,
cool, wonderful peace was falling down from some-
IN ETERNITY
where above me and cleansing me. My book fell
from -my fingers to the rug and stayed there. I sat
staring into space.
I was not the same man I had been a moment
before!
I mean this physically, mentally, spiritually. I
knew that somehow I had acquired senses and per-
ceptions that I could never hope to describe to
any second person and yet they were as real to me
as the shape of my wrists. For a time I wondered
if "much learning had driven me mad" but then I
recalled that really mad people never stop to ques-
tion whether or not they're mad. Next I was aware
of something new and strange in my whole expe-
rience --
There was someone in that darkening room with
me beside Laska, my dog. In fact, I was aware that
several living, vibrant personalities were with me
in that room. Laska sat up, cocked her head from
side to side and wagged her tail at some of them-
at nothing apparently-one of them in particularly
standing at my desk at the north end of the room.
And yet I was not in the slightest afraid. Why be
afraid of our friends? . . .
In all of my life up to that time I had never
seen a ghost, never had more than an academic
interest in psychic phenomena, and pooh-poohed
spiritualism as a sort of crack-brained dogma that
belonged in the same pigeon-hole with palm-read-
SEVEN MINUTES
ing and astrology. I had not invited any of these
experiences that I knew of. They had simply come
to me.
What really had happened was, / had unlocked
hidden powel's within myself that I know every
human bevng possesses and had augmented my five
physical senses with other senses just as bonafide,
legitimate and natural as touch, taste, smell, sight
and hearing. That I had help in unlocking those
hidden powers I do not deny. Nevertheless, noth-
ing had happened to me that has not happened to
hundreds of other people, only in very rare cases
do they talk about it. What those hidden powers
are, and why I maintain that they are bonafide,
. legitimate and natural I will have to leave to an-
other article. But they had suddenly shown me that
life was not at all the ordinary, hum-drum, three-
meals-a-day thing that I had always accepted. Its
essence and its meaning was so vast and fine and
high and beautiful that it overwhelmed me and a
recognition of it performed a sort of recreation in
me that made me feel I was not the same fellow I
had been just before.
My desire to explain what I mean by this, is
almost an ache within me at this moment. But for
some uncanny reason words are not the medium
that conveys it. Thought doesn't convey it. Feeling
doesn't convey it. The only term I can employ that
comes anywhere near the truth is spirituaJ.ity. The
IN ETERNITY
"me" that is the Bill-Pelley identity can convey it
by "being" and the fact that I "am" gets it to you.
Is this last a nonsensical statement? All I can
say is, that I know by experience that there is a
great, overpowering existence outside of what we
call Life-that I have been in it and felt it-that
having been in it has endowed me with certain ca-
pacities that have transformed my whole concept
of the universe and some of my friends are kind
enough to add, have transformed me. Physically
as well as mentally.
MY first dramatic physical reaction-omitting
several supernatural perceptions that might make
the readers of The American Magazine believe I
am trying to convert them to some strange phase
of occultism-was a sudden change in the physical
components of my body. I discovered that miracu-
lously I had lost my "nerves" ....
Ever since childhood I had lived under such a
tremendous nervous tension that it had kept me
underweight, put lines in my face and an edge on
my voice, shatt ered me psychologically, so that op-
position of any kind infuriated me and made me
want to crash through it like an army tank flatten-
ing out a breast works. Attacks of nervous indiges-
tion were so common that I no longer gave them
thought. The tobacco I consumed had its basis in
this gnawing desire to anesthetize this nervousness.
Suddenly this had departed.
I was peaceful inside.
SEVEN MINUTES
I picked up my faithful old corncob and lighted
it to meditate on what weird transfiguration I had
undergone. Halfway through smoking it, it began
to taste "queer". I laid it aside and didn't smoke it
for the rest of that night. Next day in my office I
took a package of cigarettes from my desk in mere
force of habit. About to apply a light to one
of them, I heard a voice say as gently as any wor-
ried mother might caution a careless son, "Bill,
give up your cigarettes!" And even before it had
occured to me that no one was present in the flesh
to thus address me audibly, I answered: "All
right!" and tossed the package in the nearby waste-
basket. I went all that day without smoking. Next
morning again I reached for my tobacco tin across
on my desk to load up my corncob. It was knocked
from my hands with a slap that tossed it upward
in the air and deposited it bottom upward at my
feet with the tobacco spilled out. No cautioning
this time. But I knew!
The same strange prohibition seemed to shut
down for a time on coffee, tea, alcohol and meats.
I endured not the slightest distress to give these
items up. They simply ceased to exist for me. And
inversely a strange new sensation began to mani-
fest itself in my muscles and organs.
I had the glorious feeling of physical detachment
IN ETERNITY
from the handicaps of bodily matter. No form of
bodily exertion seemed to take energy that I need
consciously supply. I had always been slightly
stoop-shouldered. Without any unusual exercise my
spine straightened of itself, so to speak, and my
shoulders started broadening. My chest began to
acquire the measurements of the trained athlete
and in corresponding manner my waist grew small.
Without exercise, I repeat, my arms began to show
the supple, sizable biceps of the practiced swimmer
-and the rest of my body developed in propor-
tion.
Along with this physical phenomena went the
unexplanable faculty to withstand fatigue either
active or sedentary. If I wearied myself by tre-
mendous labor, it was the healthy weariness of
boyhood that overtook me. On the other hand, I
could sit at my typewriter twelve hours at a stretch
if necessary with hardly a muscle protesting such
inactivity.
With this alteration came a different feeling to-
ward those around me. I discovered that I couldn't
fight with people any more and that I was making
friends.
A queer statement this. Yet people were going
out of their way to perform services for me, to
counsel me, to seek my society, to make me one
with themselves. I think this amazed me more
than the strangeness of my new physical rebirth.
SEVEN MINUTES
And yet deep down underneath it all ... well,
I understood. That understanding, I aver, has been
growing within me every day and ho1,1r
since, com-
prising naturally many things that I am restrained
from offering in a magazine that is read by all
classes of people at all stages of mental, moral and
spiritual development. Still there are conclusions
and equations I may draw that have a universality
of application.
WHAT is this thing which has happened to me
and why did it happen?
First, I believe my subconscious hunger after
what the Bible terms "the things of the Spirit"-
that is, the sincere desire to penetrate behind the
mediocrity of three-meal-a-day living and ascertain
what mystery lay behind this Golgotha of Exist-
ence-that I attracted spiritual forces of a very
high and altruistic order to me who aided me in
making a hyperdimensional visitation.
Second, it goes without saying that having made
such a visitation and having had certain questions
concretely answered by those I confronted in that
dimension, my subconscious (or for that matter
conscious) knowledge of what the Fourth Dimen-
sion is, and means, and what can be done within
its area, undertook to operate first upon my physi-
cal body and performed the rejuvenation which sub-
sequently came to me. And yet I can no more ex-
IN ETERNITY
plain the Fourth Dimension with words than i can
convey to a man blind from birth the redness of
the color red. I know what it is myself, as I know
what redness is. I can see how it interpenetrates
Matter, constituting the "inside" of it, so to speak,
and how projections from it must come out the
reverse of what we know them on the physical plane.
But I can no more make it intelligible to the
average American reader than Einstien can explain
Relativity to a group of men in a smoking-car.
The average man or woman without his spiritual
perceptions duly awakened cannot possess any
equipment to assimilate what I may be trying to
tell him-any more than the blind man can assimi-
late the "redness" of red of he never had eyes
capable of knowing the peculiar attributes of Mat-
ter-Energy known as "color", or any more than ex-
ponents of Relativity can convey their meaning to
those unfamiliar with advanced mathematics.
Third, these experiences-the visitation, the
knowledge that was bestowed in the visitation and
as a result of it-immediately revealed to me that
there is a world of subliminal existence interpene-
trating the ordinary world in which most of us
exist as ordinary two-leggedAmericans full of aches ·
and worries, and that this subliminal world is the
real world-the world of "stern reality" if you
will-that it is waiting for the race to learn of it
and "tap" its beneficent resources long before what
SEVEN MINUTES
we call physical death, that our "dead" dear ones
are existant in it, alive happy, conscious and wait-
ing for us to join them either at death or any time
we reach that stage of spirituality where he can
make contact with them much as I did.
UNDERSTAND thoroughly-I am not a Spirit-
ualist, an Occultist, or a Psychic Researcher in the
ordinary meaning of those terms. I am not trying
to convert anyone to anything. I'm simply telling
you that something happened to me that was not
consciously self-invited, that my friends attest to
even a greater alteration having taken place in my
personality than I am capable of feeling from
within-although I feel plenty.
Having had certified that there is no such thing
as Death for the conscious entity that is you and
me as we know one another, I find this certainty the
touchstone that unlocks many another mystery-
the mystery of why one man is born rich and an-
other poor, one a splendid athlete and another a
hapless cripple, the mystery of the friendships we
make and the mates we marry, the poor luck or
good fortune that accrues to us, why we put work
and worry and love into the raising of children only
to have them snatched from us at the threshold
of maturity. It unlocks the mystery of the Christian
religion, the miracles of Jesus, the conversional
power of the Holy Spirit. It makes life strong and
IN ETERNITY [ 31]
beautiful and fine and true-something to be lived
without fear or doubt or unhappiness-and I think
the experience happened to me because as time
goes on I may be able to delineate in book and
story form "something of the redness of red" if
that conveys my meaning to those who may be in-
terested.
There is in every human heart a hunger and
thirst for the things of the spirit but in many of
them this desire has been so embalmed with the
poisons of worries, doubts, fleshly desires, struggles
to attain the wherewithal for physical survival, that
for all practical purposes it no longer exists.
The day is coming in the evolution of the race
when spirituality is going to be the whole essence
of life instead of the world's present materialism.
Here and there are those who by their unusual
visions, so to speak, self-invited or otherwise, might
be called monitors for the rest of us-showing us
what anyone may attain if he so orders his life and
thinking as to be susceptible to such revelations.
I believe that Nature-God-Universal Spirit-
give the Great Cause any name you will-is taking
this method of the unusual experiences happening
to the monitors to give the whole race an inspira-
tion by which it may quicken its spiritual pace.
There is nothing more prohibitive morally or ethic-
ally in exploring these new great Fields of Real
Reality than in exploring the fields of radio or
SEVEN MINUTES IN ETH.IUTY
atomic energy. In fact, the Great Cause means that
we shall explore them.
At any rate, whether I am right or wrong, I
know that for a limited time one night last year
out in California my spiritual entity left my body
and went somewhere-a concrete place where I
could talk, walk about, feel and see, and have an-
swers returned to my questions addressed to physic-
ally dead people that have checked up in the wak-
ing world and clarified for me the whole riddle of
earthly existence.
I know there is no Death because in a manner
of speaking I went through the process of dying,
came back into my body and took up the burden
of earthly living again. I know that the experience
has metamorphosized the cantankerous Vermont
Yankee that was once Bill Pelley and launched him
into a wholly different universe that seems filled
with naught but love, harmony, good humor and
prosperity.
What's the answer to that?
There is no answer except that it must be ac-
cepted as inevitably as I am forced to accept the
awareness of my own entity. I know because I
experienced.
And further deponent sayeth not.
r 0000000000000000000000000000000000,
THE AFTERMATH
To "Seven Minutes in Eternity"
ALMOST a year has now passed since I wrote
for "The American Magazine" the narrative of my
personal experience in a Fourth Dimension of Mat-
ter which I called "Seven Minutes in Eternity" . . .
I believe I have now bad time to digest the im-
port of the experience and see it in its proper
perspective.
At first I was dubious about writing the article.
It was a very deep personal experience and its na-
ture was such that I did not care to have myself
labeled a freak or a crank. But The American
Magazine's editors persuaded me, and so the article
was written and published. The circulation of this
publication is around 2,225,000 copies. Advertisers
estimate that each copy of a given magazine is read
by at least four persons. Which means that some-
thing like ten million people had access to that
narrative, and because it was the first article in the
magazine, most of them read it.
I know because of my mail in reaction.
[ 34] SEVEN MINUTES
Immediately the recount was published, things
commenced happening in the offices of the Ameri-
can Magazine. Mail addressed to the editor or to
me as author of the narrative, assumed proportions
analogous to that of Col. Charles Lindbergh after
his epochal flight to Paris. I happened to be back
in California at the time. Frantic trans-continental
telephone calls began to reach me from New York
imploring me to return and take up the gigantic
task of answering the thousands of correspondents
who wanted more light on this extraordinary expe-
rience.
I returned to New York and began the labor
of sorting, classifying, analyzing, and answering
this plethora of letters. Because of the pressure of
my regular literary work, it required six months!
But the strange part is, those letters are still ar-
riving-because of a magazine article published
nearly a year ago-and my replies still keep one
typist busy the better part of each day.
These. reactive letters, I discovered, grouped
themselves into three classes: The greatest mass
came from persons who declared they had under-
gone a similar experience; the next largest division
came from those who were neither facetious, skepti-
cal nor derogatory, but who merely wanted more
light; in the third class was that great army of spir-
itually-minded people who only wanted to thank me
for giving them an incentive toward stronger Chris-
IN ETERNITY [ 35]
tian faith and to implore me not to rest with the
writing of this one article.
And here is an astounding fact:
Out of all the mail that resulted from the pub-
lication of "Seven Minutes in Eternity", less than
24 actual communicati(!ns derided me as an eccen-
tric or expressed open disbelief that I was sane and
normal!
The great army of English speaking people who
read of my experience paid me the compliment of
taking my account at its face value and asked only
that I answer specific questions about that Fourth
Dimension in which I testified that those they loved
were dwelling.
To me that speaks volumes for the true spiritu-
ality of the English speaking peoples....
NOW considering the reactions from the expe-
rience both upon my readers and upon myself, there
is much to be said. I will discuss the prodigious
reader-reaction first as a "lead" to remarks on the
writer of the article.
The most gratifying surprise that I encountered,
was of course the immediate discovery that I had
not been alone in my adventure: that hundreds
upon hundreds of quite normal persons from time
to time throughout their lives had left their physi-
cal bodies under different sorts of provocation and
visited the same hyper-dimension which I had ex-
SEVEN MINUTES
plored so dramatically. But most of them lacked
the courage to tell even relatives, fearing an in-
dictment for irrationality.
I know that the vast majority of these persons
were telling me the truth, because in their letters
they went to considerable length to acquaint me
with details, particulars, and items of their expe-
riences which were substantially identical with de-
tails I had not mentioned in my public account in
the magazine, and some of which I had never men-
tioned to my closest friends.
I submit that two persons, unknown to each
other, traveling to Japan, and meeting in later years
can each easily check as to whether the other has
been to Japan, by a comparison of what they saw
and experienced in that altogether charming coun-
try. It was so with me and my correspondents. In
some cases they reminded me of details which had
actually slipped my mind.
And here is a still more interesting "check-up';-
In 95 percent of those testimonial letters, the
technique of getting into the hyper-dimen sion and
the scenes and experiences encountered there, were
so closely similar as almost to postulate a Law of
the process. A ·man in Oregon and a woman in
Virginia would write me of similar visitations made
by them, both recounting accurate details and speci-
fications which I had not mentioned, and neither
knowing of the other's letter.
IN ETERNITY
In a number of these letters too, this visitation
came as mine came: unheralded and unexpected.
Neither did it come always in the aftermath of
sickness, drug taking, or time of great trouble. But
invariably it did come in the wake of a tremendous
desire for spiritual truth and a hunger and thirst
after things of the Spirit. And let me add, the
writers of the letters in this class were not drawn
from any one type of person, any one sect, cult,
age or locality of residence.
The letters people wrote me came from a clean-
cut cross-section of Americans and Englishmen;
from railroad and bank presidents; from stenog-
raphers and street-car conductors; from every age
in years-octogenarians to ,boys and girls in high
schools and colleges-men and women being equally
represented.
And another startling fact to me was, that if any
one class of writers and inquirers was particularly
noticeable in this mass, it was composed of Protes-
tant ministers, most eager of all to lead their flocks
into clear understanding of the eternal verities. The
article, I might say, was copied in innumerable re-
ligious and theological journals, and to date those
of my own staff or that of The American Magazine
have learned of 144 sermons preached by clergymen
on the experience in question.
In only one instance was the position taken by
these pastors skeptical. This one instance came
SEVEN MINUTES
from a minister who sincerely believed that the
devil tampered with -my soul that night, because I
had not said anything in my article about imme-
diately encountering Jesus Christ when I found my-
self on the other side of the Veil. More of this
later ....
I found, I say, that vast numbers of people had
had that hyper-dimensional visitation, but had
taken no trouble to convince others not so fortu-
nate, because of the facetiousness with which they
assumed that they would be greeted.
Going completely out of the body is a common
experience among persons of all races, creeds, and
strata of society. Only I caused a sensation by say-
ing so in the lead article of a periodical having ten
millions of readers. And in view of the fact that
the great majority of those who from time to time
so enter other planes of being report similar sights
and experiences, it is not difficult to accept the
thesis that here is a field which Science may well
look over to its profit.
THE second class of correspondents universally
wanted to know how much of the article was fact
and how much fiction. Some of them would pick
out tiny differences of phraseology and context,
minute discrepancies in the narration which, any
person writing at high speed in the exhilaration of
composition might be guilty, and offer them as
IN ETERNITY
evidence that fabrication seemed to underlie cer-
tain sequences of my narrative.
To this class of questioner I wrote a personal
letter wherever practicable, assuring each one of
them that whereas whole sequences of my report
were deleted in the interests of common credibility
because dogmatic church people might take umbrage
at the magazine for printing such an article, every-
thing that did get printed was cold-blooded fact,
to the best of my knowledge and memory/ There
was no deliberate fiction in the article and it was
not written to make a literary sale or to enhance
my reputation by means of sensationalism. The
editors of The American Magazine will testify that
I wrote the article under protest, that I abhorred
having the designation of Spiritualist or occult
freak attached to my name as a writing man. At
the time I was finally persuaded to do it, n ne of us
knew whether it would be accepted by the public
or whether we would be charged with perpetrating
a hoax. We realized that we were pioneers of a sort,
and due to the fact that I could not go the whole
way and tell everything, I was risking my whole
reputation "on one game of pitch and toss". Hap-
pily the experiment came out all right and yet I am
no more eager to go on exploiting myself as a re-
ceiver of such phenomena than I was a year and a
half ago.
In this second class of correspondents, wanting
SEVEN MINUTES
more light on phenomena so amazing as those I set
forth, I grouped also those learned psychologists,
psychiatrists and physiologists, who went to the
trouble of composing monographs to convince the
editors of The American Magazine that they had
let themselves in for a hoax, in that what had hap-
pened to me was the result of a sort of mental
hallucination which they treated daily. Others gave
overwhelming argument that I must certainly be a
secret user of drugs-or that the experience resulted
from a prodigious use of tobacco.
What I could not tell these eminent professors is
the same thing I could not fully delineate to the
magazine's other readers, and which I have not told
to many persons aside from my intimate friends.
It is a thing which could be told only to those who
have witnessed the results of the phenomena in my
life and affairs since: the persistence of the strange,
supersensitive powers which were awakened in me
by contact with those on the Other Side that night,
and how that contact has been preserved in unin-
terrupted sequence ever since.
Let the modern psychologists and psychiatrists
explain these as hallucination if they will. I submit
that hallucinations do not endow us with super-
normal perceptions; that they do not enable us to
contact so-called dead people exactly as though
they were alive. My mental radio was awakened by
my experience to such an extent that I can tune in
IN ETERNITY
on the minds and voices of those in another dimen-
sion of being. I can carry on conversations with
them for myself or for others without trance of any
kind , proffer questions and get sensible, intelligible
and ofttimes invaluable answers. I have in some
cases taken down ten-thousand word lectures on
abstruse aspects of science, physics, cosmology and
metallurgy. I spend two to three hours a night,
three or four times a week, giving time to such
hyper-dimensional instruction. And lest the skep-
tical doubt the origin of such knowledge, and con-
tend that it bubbles up from my subconscious, let
me tell this brief anecdote-
After one of my discourses with a Great Brain
not operatin g at present in a physical body, I heard
another voice speaking in a language I did not
understand. I asked the stenographer at my elbow
to write out phonetically in long-hand the words of
this stran ge language as I heard and repeated them.
Word by word she took them down, marking the
vowel signs properly so that later we might read
them phonetically . Twelve pages of this queer script
were recorded. Some weeks later I showed the mes-
sage to an erudite philologist who found over a thou-
sand words of pure Sanskrit in it, composing a
sensible message that had to do with present-day
happenin gs in the world's affairs, but coming ap-
parently from an ancient Atlantean soul who de-
clared he had not incarnated in mortal form for a
SEVEN MINUTES
period of 65,ooo years. . . . This message was
given me in Sanskrit to refute those superficial
scholars who delight to explain one of Nature's
most prolific manifestations by naming it all the
Subconscious. . . .
I have taken down a 400-page book on Political
Economy so advanced in context and knowledge
that it has surprised authorities on the subject
who have perused portions of it.
As for my taking drugs or being poisoned by
tobacco, I have had two physical examinations
for life insurance since the experience and have
been pronounced physically perfect.
AS you have seen, the second class of my ques-
tioners wanted more light on the actual modus
operundi of the experience, but so involved was
the explanation that I had only one expedient to
adopt. It was evident that the happy solution was
to try to assemble the most significant questions
and reply to them in the form of a dramatized
story-that is, a novel-which should carry out in
fiction form some of the elucidations that letters
could not convey. So I set to work to write a book
which might clarify in entertaining form the process
which had been at work in myself, and the method
by which others might interpret the same phe-
nomena if experienced by them.
I wrote "GOLDEN RUBBISH" .... /
IN ETERNITY
I evolved the character of an old Vermont printer,
Potiphar Buss, who was designed to represent the
simple, child-hearted soul who had arrived at that
degree of spirituality where he could represent hu-
manity in the form most susceptible to celestial in-
struction. Over against him I put a hard-boiled New
York business woman who believed that physical
death was the end of everything and who had no
patience with any sort of Mysticism. She called it
rubbish! "Yes," said old Potiphar in answer to this
castigation, "but a Golden sort o' rubbish t' some
of us, Miss Lou," ... from which comes the book's
title: "GOLDEN RUBBISH" .
Into the affairs of these two I injected two mod-
ern business men-Basil Van Dyke, an "awak-
ened" young lawyer, and George Rohling, a soul
imbued with the true Christ Spirit. The stqry is the
playing out of the real significance of my own
"Seven Minutes in Eternity". And I have submitted
it to the nation as an answer to my ministerial
critic who claimed that if the devil had not been
tampering with my soul that night in California,
I would have had much to say about the Deity and
the Great Teacher of Galilee.
* George P. Putnam 's Sons published "GOLDEN
RUBBISH" on October rst. The book can be se-
cured from them by mail, if not available in all the
local bookstores throughout the nation. The price
is $2.
[ 44] SEVEN MINUTES
The reactions from this novel have been almost
as interesting as the reactions from "Seven Min-
utes in Eternity". Underneath "GOLDEN RUB-
BISH" is a deep symbolism, prophetic in its char-
acter, which only the spiritually enlightened-peo-
ple who are very close to an experience like my
own-have thus far succeeded in recognizing. The
average novel reader is not likely to understand
"GOLDEN RUBBISH" ... to him or to her it
will seem an unintelligible presentation of Mystical
ideas. But here and there all over the nation ad-
vanced students in spiritual and political affairs are
getting its message with a clearness of perception
that is most uncanny. These people seem to con-
stitute fl great spiritual conclave and they are scat-
tering report of the novel wherever they go. Slowly
the book is getting on its feet, but from all over .
the nation the assurance is coming in to me with
every mail that "GOLDEN RUBBISH" will be
read and remembered when the sensational season-
able novels of r929 are long since buried and for-
gotten in the archives of advancing modernity. I
report this for what it is worth. . ..
Because of the tremendous interest which seems
to have become aroused by "Seven Minutes in
Eternity" and "GOLDEN RUBBISH", I have
been requested to gather more than two hundred
of the short stories which have been published in
the nation's periodicals during the past rs years,
IN ETERNITY
and have them printed and distributed in one in-
expensive edition that will be procurable by the
thousands of persons who want to keep what I have
hitherto written, in permanent form. Arrangements
have been completed with Robert Collier, pub-
lisher of MIND, INC., of 599 Fifth Avenue, New
York City, to print and distribute IOo,ooo sets of
these books at $IO per set.
Thousands of readers of my Paris, Vt., stories in
The American Magazine and other periodicals have
written me, asking where they could procure in
more permanent form particular stories of mine
which they have enjoyed. In the 24 volumes com-
prising this $IO edition, they will be certain to
find any or all of these short stories.
WEEK on week, month on month, I am taking
down and transcribing volume after volume of
scientific and theological knowledge derived from
the same sources that were responsible for my Cali-
fornia experience, and from time to time I shall
edit and publish them. I have between 2 ,ooo and
3,000 pages of these typed to date, material which
squares perfectly with scientific information being
gathered and released by such great physicists as
Dr. Robt. A. Millikan, Prof. A. S. Eddington, and
others of equal prestige, I have been able to help
hundreds of persons privately with their problems
brought about by the loss of those they love, or
SEVEN MINUTES
who are troubled in their souls by doubts as to the
Continuity of Existence. '!:here are a score of pas-
tors, theologians and spiritual leaders, whom I am
counselling week by week. I look at my awakening
purely in the light of a privilege, an obligation.
Why did it come to me, you ask? Why doesn't it
come to you, or our neighbors? That I cannot
answer. It is an individual problem. I know, in my
own case, that I had arrived at a stage of literary
activity where through the pages of the great na-
tional periodicals I was addressing five to ten mil-
lion people a month. Even in writing fiction, I had
always borne heavily on the spiritual values of
human life. My private belief is that the Great
Spiritual Forces which operate Behind Life wanted
me to get my own cosmic principles right, that I
might counsel my readers correctly as to some of
the most beautiful and stupendous principles of
Truth. I was able to serve, and therefore I was
given the dispensation in order that I might serve
more intelligently. I believe furthermore, that when
any of us has arrived at that eagerness to serve
which I felt, similar dispensation will occur. I am
organizing nothing. I am starting no new sect. I
am striving to convince no one of anything. I am
simply telling thousands of people how it has been
with me!
Meanwhile my knowledge grows with my sensi-
tiveness, which keeps me attuned with the Great
IN ETERNITY
Intelligences broadcasting their ideas throughout
the universe, to be picked up by those human re-
ceiving sets which may be in accord with their
wave-length. I shall be twenty years writing and
publishing this constantly increasing mass of ma-
terial. None of it is trivial. Lecture after lecture
which I am taking down with a stenographer's aid,
appertains to subject matter so far beyond my per-
sonal knowledge that I should already be the wisest
man in the earth if I could be credited with fab-
ricating this material from my own subconscious
mind!
But as I said in "Seven Minutes," I do not claim
to have any special dispensation, any special mo-
nopoly, on this supersensitive receptivity. You have
the same powers within yourself, if you will get rid
of your dogmas, your theological inhibitions, your
inferiority complexes, of those lifelong notions that
"there ain't no such animal" when some one who is
already profiting from mental radio tells you he is
using it to immense profit for himself and others.
The universal heartcry, of course, seems to be:
How can I too develop these powers and prove the
existence of these truths? What is the technique?
How can I know that those I loved and lost are
not dead-that there is a finer form of matter not
perceptible to dull earthly gaze, in which they are
living quite normal lives?
To try to answer that, I wrote "GOLDEN RUB-
SEVEN MINUTES IN ETERNITY
BISH," and I shall have to refer you to that novel.
If you are ripe for disclosure, much of that book
will mean enlightenment to you. If you are not,
. . . keep an open mind.
I tell you solemnly, infinite patience is the key
which unlocks the door of earnest seeking, to the
Great Beyond of All Knowledge.
WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
{0000000000000000000000000000000000 \
THE AUTHOR
WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY first attracted the at-
tention of the Manhattan editorial group, particu-
larly in the magazine field, in August, 1917, when
The American Magazine publish ed a fiction story
as its leading feature for the month, entitled "Their
Mother."
The late John M. Siddall had revamped The
American Magazine and established it as the peri-
odical it bas since become in nati onal editorial
policy. He bad emphasized in its pages his desire
to bring out new writers. Therefore incoming manu-
scripts from free-lance contributors were given care-
ful attention. Albert A. Boyden, his assistant-editor
at the time, had found "Their Mother" in the daily
grist of voluntary contributions. Within a half-hour
after he had read the story and taken it to his
chief, a wire was on its way to Bennington, Ver-
mont, requestin g its author to come to Manhatt an
as soon as possible.
"Their Mother" was a simple, realistic, mother-
love story about 6 ,000 words in length, written in
an evening by a man who had lately sold the Wil-
[ 49]
[ 50] SEVEN MINUTES
mington (Vt.) Times to take a position on the edi-
torial staff of the Bennington Evening Banner. On
getting Mr. Pelley to New York to sign him up
for a long series of such stories, Mr. Siddall found_
that prior to this time Mr. Pelley had written noth-
ing of consequence for the magazines excepting a
short series of Wild West Show stories for The
Saturday Evening Post. Mr. Siddall before his ele-
vation to the editorship of The American had been
a newspaperman on the Cleveland Plain-Dealer and
in the author of "Their Mother" he discovered a
kindred spirit. A friendship sprang up between the
two men, because of their background and vocation,
which lasted until Mr. Siddall's death in 1923.
"Their Mother" was published in August, 1917,
and as Mr. Siddall had foreseen, it threw a bemb-
shell into New York magazine circles, particularly
the news companies who found the magazine selling
out and the entire edition of The American quickly
exhausted with no more copies to be had at any
price. The news companies had learned from the
public that "Their Mother" had been responsible
for this unprecedented sale, and this fact got re-
ported back to the circulation managers of other
monthly magazines.
Mr. Siddall had beaten his fellow editors to it,
however, in the matter of signing and holding Mr.
Pelley on his contributing staff. This happened
IN ETERNITY [ 51]
thirteen years ago, and barring two years (1920-
1922) when The Red Book secured 24 short stories
from Mr. Pelley's pen, the latter has remained a
contributor to The American Magazine down into
the present.
When Mr. Siddall got Mr. Pelley to New York
in 1917, he found a New Englander of about 30
years old, born in Lynn, Mass., educated in the
public schools of Gardner and Springfield (Mass .),
who had started his newspaper career after a gruel-
ling experience in the manufacturing business. At
the age of 17, Mr. Pelley had left school and gone
into the paper manufacturing business with his
father in Fulton, N. Y. It was the experience gained
there in handling over a hundred employes while
superintendent of the plant, that later made Mr.
Pelley a succesful newspaper publisher and supplied
the material for scores of his later magazine stories
and books.
Mr. Siddall also found that his new author had
established and published The Chicopee (Mass.)
Journ al, and The Wilmington (Vt.), Times. Be-
tween handling these deals he had been feature
writer on the Springfield (Mass.) Homestead-bet-
ter known throughout the country at the time as
"The New England Homestead"-,-also police re-
porter on "The Boston Globe" for all of western
Massachusetts. He had covered the Bull Moose
campaign of 1912 with Theodore Roosevelt as po-
SEVEN MINUTES
litical writer for his papers. He had also dabbled in
printing and publishing plants as side-lines, buying
and selling them as a dealer.
"Their Mother," however, started the long series
of Paris, Vt., stories of which more than 150 have
since been printed in the nation's periodicals. Pelley
took three Vermont towns-Bennington, Stowe,
and Saint Johnsbury-and combined the essential
geographical features of each in his mind to create
the mythical but representative town of Paris which ·
he proceded to people with his own characters
drawn from the life. Three of these main characters
have figured in almost every Paris story this author
has written: Sam Hod, editor of "The Paris Daily
Telegraph"; U'ncleJoe Fodder, town liveryman and
philosopher; and Sheriff Amos Crumpett, benevo-
lent old peace officerand proprietor of a local cigar
store.
For. the first four years of his contact with The
American Magazine, Mr. Pelley had six to ten
stories a year printed in that periodical. But his
output was so heavy that an arrangement was ar-
rived at where other magazines took the surplus
from his pen. These periodicals were The Red
Book, Cosmopolitan, Pictorial Review, and Elks
Magazine.
When America got into the war the following
year in earnest, through a combination of circum-
stances of extraordinary motivation, Mr. Pelley
IN ETERNITY [ 53 J
found himself in the combined role of Red Triangle
secretary with the Japanese in Siberia, consular
courier, and war correspondent for The Saturday
Evening Post. Early in 1918, at the behest of the
American State Departmnt, he was despatched on
a world trip under the auspices of the Methodist
Centennary, working for Uncle Sam on the one
hand and a syndicate of religious weeklies on the
other. This latter arrangement was soon terminated
with the coming of the Siberian Intervention and
Mr. Pelley was one of the first newspapermen to
get into Soviet Russia with the Czecho-Slovak
troops. He made his way 3,600 miles out of Siberia
in the dead of winter with two civilian employes of
the International Harvester Company, carrying
many of Ambassador Francis' documents out to·
Consul-General Harris and President Wilson, along
with $750,000 of the harvester company's funds
representing liquidated properties in Red M.oscow.
When he returned to America in 1919 he brought
back a wealth of adventure and international-rela-
tions material, much of which he wrote for The
Sunset Magazine of San Francisco.
At the time he left for the Far East, Mr. Pelley
had been the owner and publisher of another daily
paper: The St. Johnsbury Evening Caledonian. He
resumed publishing of this on bis return, until the
sale of the property in 1921, when he first became
interested in motion pictures. A curious anecdote
[ 54] SEVEN MINUTES
belongs here, however, concerning the publication
of his first novel "THE GREATER GLORY."
One winter 's night in late 1918, in a Y-Club Car
in interior Siberia, Mr. Pelley discovered a copy of
The · American Magazine containing the story
"Their Mother" which had opened the magazine
offices for him the previous year back in Manhat-
tan. Pilfering the magazine, he shoved it in his bag
for a peculiar reason. Shortly after "Their Mother"
had scored its unprecedented success as a short
story the previous September, Mr. John S. Phillips
of Doubleday, Page & Company, had one day sug-
gested to its author at lunch that if he would
develop the yarn to a book-length novel, it ought
to make an equal success as a book. With the war
ended and his Saturday Evening Post correspond-
ence "sunk without a trace, " Pelley started the
blocking out of this book from the story while still
in Siberia. Reaching the Pacific on his return trip,
his world journey having been abandoned, he ap-
plied himself in the 18 days at sea to writing the
text of the story. On reaching America he took the
manuscript through to Vermont. Running it -first
in his newspaper as a serial to iron .out its literary
wrinkles and guage its appeal to the public, he sent
proof sheets of newspaper publication to Little,
Brown & Company of Boston. Within another three
months his first book was out, enjoying a sale of
about 20,000 copies.
IN ETERNITY [ 55]
Encouraged by the instantaneous reception of
this book by the nation's critics, Pelley promptly
went to work on another, a more pretentious vol-
ume, giving it the title: THE FOG.
"THE FOG" went into seventeen printings
within 15 months of publication and has sold over
100 ,000 copies since first issued!
It was while "THE FOG" was getting into its
stride that Mr. Pelley did a three-part story for
the editors of The Red Book called "WHITE
FAITH" which opened for him the field of motion
pictures. The story was a modernization of Tenny-
son's "Holy Grail" and was quickly acquired by
Clarence Brown as a vehicle for Lon Chaney, sup-
ported by Hope Hampton and E. K. Lincoln. So
perfect a picture vehicle was it that two other pic-
ture companies were bidding on it at the time of
its sale. And the writing of it disclosed to Mr.
Brown the advantage to himself of collaboration
with its author as a photodramatist.
Mr. Pelley and Mr. Brown became incommuni-
cado at the Hotel Commodore in New York for a
matter of three weeks and wrote the script on the
story which was later shot under their combined
supervision at Fort Lee and released under the
title "THE LIGHT IN THE DARK."
This story formed the basis for a friendship
with Lon Chaney oh the author's part, which
was responsible for the latter going to Hollywood
[ 56] SEVEN MINUTES
and which has maintained down into the present.
After completing "The Light in the Dark," Mr.
Pelley adapted another story of his own, "The Pit
of the Golden Dragon," for Mr. Chaney which the
latter made under the Universal banner with the
title of "THE SHOCK."
Having been introduced to Hollywood under Mr.
Chaney's patronage, Mr. Pelley began to write for
other picture stars. He adapted his second novel
"THE FOG" for Metro and it was filmed by Mr.
M_
ax Graf at San Mateo with Cullen Landis and
Louise Fazenda. He wrote "HER FATAL MIL-
LIONS" for Viola Dana, "JERRY OUT O' MY
WAY" for Bert Lytell, and "LADIES TO
BOARD" for Tom Mix, all first-magnitude screen
stars at the period.
The success of these pictures prompted a still
more radical bit of experience for Mr. Pelley, equip-
ping him as a screen dramatist. He returned to
New York and with three other men, one of them
Mr. Searle Dawley, one-time director-general for
William Fox, made a picture of his own in the old
Talmadge studio in East 48th Street. Its chief value
lay in the practical experience of picture making
-the financial and exploitation end-which it gave
its author. Back to Hollywood he went and threw
himself into picture work in earnest, while also
maintaining his magazine output.
He wrote "THE SAWDUST TRAIL" for Hoot
IN ETERNITY [ 57]
Gibson, "WHAT WOMEN LOVE" for Robert
Brunton, "TORMENT" for Maurice Tourneur,
"THE SUNSET DERBY" for First National,
"LADY BIRD" for Betty Compson, "BACK-
FIRE" for Paramount, "LADIES NEED HELP"
for Colleen Moore, until finally he made a sale of
the picture rights to his third novel "DRAG" to
Richard Barthelmess. Screened by Warner Brothers
with Frank Lloyd directing, and the action of the
book being followed with absolute accuracy, it has
been pronounced one of the Ten Best Pictures
of 1929.
While engaged in these activities, between 1924
and 1929, Pelley established and operated "The
Pelley Press," a printing and publishing plant in
West 8th Street, New York, and "HI-HAT MAG-
AZINE" in Hollywood which later became "THE
WEST COASTER." He was business manager of
one of the entries in the Dole-Hawaiian flight, Presi-
dent of Pelley & Eckels advertising agency in Los
Angeles, and later The Briefmeal Corporation of
Pasadena.
The accumulated interest in his Paris, Vt.,
stories, which had been consistently published in
The American Magazine throughout the period of
these other activities, resulted in Mr. Pelley becom-
ing a contributor to COLLIER'S WEEKLY in
1929 and after a series of short stories had met
favorable reception in that periodical, a mystery
[ 58] SEVEN MINUTES IN ETERNITY
serial entitled "THE BLUE LAMP" was offered ·
COLLIER'S readers. It was while Mr. Pelley was
writing this serial in his California bungalow that
the experience came to him which has since made
his name of note all over America and England.
