{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__pelley___golden_rubbish.pdf","mytitle":"Golden Rubbish","mylang":"de"}
GOLDEN RUBBISH
-------------- A N o v e l --------------
BY
W ILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
NEW YORK : LONDON
G. P. P U T N A M ’ S SO N S
Gilts ^m tksibxLtkei dpiess
GOLDEN RUBBISH
*
/■
>
Copyright, 1929
by
William Dudley Pelley
First Edition
Made in the United States of America
To
MARY DERIEUX
4
CONTENTS
PART ONE
P A G E
" P r in t e r ’s Pi ” ....................................... 1
PART TWO
Br ea d o n St r a n g e W ater s . . . 3 9
PART THREE
T h e A w a k e n i n g ................................................. 213
vii
GOLDEN RUBBISH
PART ONE
“PRINTER’S PI”
CHAPTER I
/'A N an evening in May, back in 1906, "The Daily
Telegraph” in Paris, Vt., published the follow­
ing item under Personal Mention—
Among the new residents in town this week
is Mr. Potiphar Buss, a journeyman compositor.
Mr. Buss has secured employment in the me­
chanical department of this newspaper. He is
boarding for the present in the School Street
home of Mrs. Julia Matthews.
A circumspect item. No nonsense about it. A
man had come to town, he had landed a job, he
had found a place to live. N o eulogies on this
man’s past; no encomiums on his prospects.
Which omissions were not carelessness or paucity
of space. If Mr. Buss as a journeyman compositor
moved onward suddenly, no space of importance
was wasted in his heralding. And he might mov€
onward suddenly. Journeymen compositors had a
weakness for such movings.
So the paper made no mention of Mr. Buss’s
physical endowments. It neglected to state his
age, his affluence, his domestic entanglements. It
was taken for granted that he had set no planets
ablaze to date, overturned no dynasties, corrupted
3
4 GOLDEN RUBBISH
no civilizations. Those concerned in his current at­
tributes were the paper’s proprietors who won­
dered how long he would stick to the job, and the
School Street widow who needed his board money.
As for Paris at large, the "Telegraph’s” acquisition
of another tramp printer aroused less interest than
a meeting of the assessors, or that Ollie Frisbee—
inebriate of note— was again in the hoosgow. The
townsfolk might wonder what was piquing the as­
sessors, or how Ollie, being in, would contrive to
get out. But who was this Buss that a community
should toot trumpets at his advent in its midst?
He was a rumpled little man, as hairless as an
egg. Beneath a brow of Socratic grandeur were
inoffensive, tin-colored eyes. His nose was bulbous
and his spectacles foggy; his mouth was a vor­
tex in a lacework of wrinkles.
The principal item of his raiment was a heavy,
greenish ulster that covered a shirt whose pattern
was vague. He had removed his hat on entering
the office, women being present, and thrust be­
neath an elbow was a faded, fat umbrella. The
paper’s workers beheld this ensemble, the flatness
of his feet, the umbrella’s corpulence, and a quiet
merriment ensued on those premises.
"So,” smiled the editor, "you think you want a
job?”
He sank in a chair, this picturesque applicant.
The umbrella was laid across ponderous knees.
"PRINTER’S PI” 5
"Mental processes don’t enter it,” he answered.
"Long time ago I formed three bad habits— eatin’
food, wearin’ clothes, an’ sleepin’ in a bed. Provi­
dence may clothe th’ lilies o’ th’ field and feed th’
fowls o’ th’ air, but I give you my word, sir, I
ain’t no posie though I have been a bird. So I must
satisfy them, habits by th’ sweat o’ honest toil.
I’m askin’ you, sir, f ’r th’ chance t’ perspire. I do
it right easy,” he ended with a wheeze.
A slender, finely seasoned man was Editor Sam
Hod. His head was bald in front, his face was
smoothly shaven. Time had grizzled his sideburns,
softened his eyes, traced whimsy around his mouth.
He went about his plant in rimless gold spectacles,
rolled-up shirtsleeves and an unbuttoned vest. He
was forty-eight years old.
"Where you from?” he asked kindly.
"W ell now, there’s a question! Some days I’m
from Here. Some days I’m from There. On the
whole you might call it I come from Ancient
Parts.”
"You come from where?”
"Speakin’ in simile and metaphor— language be­
in’ given us t’ cover up life’s facts. I might o’ been
th’ galoot as went down t’ Jericho and fell amongst
thieves. I been amongst ’em all my life anyhow,
and relief’d be welcome. I might o’ led th’ Chil­
dren o’ Israel acrost th’ Red Sea or chased ’em in
chariots. At any rate, with th’ passin’ o’ time th’
tables is turned— whole armies o’ Jews is now
6 GOLDEN RUBBISH
chasin’ me regular, mostly for money on loans I
can’t pay.”
"A sort of Wandering Jew yourself— is that
what you mean?”
"Yes, I’ve wandered considerable. Now I’d like
t’ take root. I might o’ drunk a highball with th’
mad Nebuchadnezzar and seen ’em do th’ hootchy-
kootch in th’ streets o’ Gath and Ascalon. Up and
down th’ world I been— up and down— up and
down! Anyhow, you meet me: a printer in Ver­
mont.”
"And what name do you go by, in your present
incarnation?”
"Potiphar, sir— if it don’t sound presum’shuss.”
"It wasn’t your wife who got frisky with a cer­
tain young Joseph in Egypt?”
"Well, women alius did hanker t’ lay hands on
my garments— though my last name’s now Buss.”
The printer had drawn forth a blackened corn­
cob as he rehearsed this nonsense. He stuffed shag
tobacco down hard in its bowl.
"What I mean,” he went on, "th’ place a man’s
from don’t commence t’ stack up with where ’tis
he’s goin’. Our lives, I’ve observed, is perty much
alike. W e’ve done th’ same things, got ourselves
in much th’ same scrapes, knowed birth and love
and pain and dreams, five thousand years back th’
same as t’day.”
"I suppose so,” sighed Hod.
"So when you ask me where I’m from, I reply
“PRINTER’S PI” 7
'from Ancient Parts’. I’m th’ sum and substance
o’ all th’ race has suffered. I’m th’ Alpha and
Omega o’ all men’s joys and sorrows. If you really
pin me down, my likeliest answer’s the Garden o’
Eden. All o’ us started there origin’ly, most o’
us springin’ from Adam and Eve, here and there
some coot aspringin’ from th’ Serpent.”
Potiphar lighted the pipe and blew out the
match. The tin-colored eyes locked glances with
H od’s. Whatever his past, he wanted it forgotten;
closed like a book with weights on its covers.
“ Well,” mused the editor, “ I might find you a
place if you showed me you’d stick. W e’re tired of
taking on new men only to have them travel when
they’ve made a little money.”
“ I’ll stick,” promised Buss. He whetted puck­
ered lips. His shoes were very dusty. His heart,
like his feet, was weary from plodding.
"W e’ll see,” the other stated. "You come on
out back.”
Potiphar Buss picked up the umbrella. He
scuffed through the door. The composing-room
received him.
The composing-room received him!
Allowing deductions for eating and sleeping, the
printer-philosopher remained twenty years atop his
ad-alley stool, spectacles skewed on his cauliflower
nose, right arm swinging over the cases. And few
8 GOLDEN RUBBISH
beheld Potiphar with sleeves neatly rolled or the
front of his person properly fastened.
Month in, month out, he labored— spring, sum­
mer, autumn, winter— his faithfulness equalled by
an antiquated press. So long as the proprietor pos­
sessed that happy combination, Potiphar Buss and
an early model Duplex, he could always be cer­
tain of getting out a paper.
"W ell,” declared the comp, jostled amid the free­
masonry of the first nightly washup, “ this looks like
a job and darned if I don’t root. All th’ same th’
day’s cornin’ when I ease from my labors and sub­
sist on th’ fruits o’ my indigent husbandry.”
Retirement from labors was not difficult to grasp.
But what did he mean by the fruits of indigency?
The office grew indifferent at hearing him re­
peat it. For Potiphar repeated it. He repeated it
when holiday work was heavy and his fancy prone
to wander. He said it on dreary afternoons of
winter, on quiet summer nights, on Saturdays in
autumn when the week’s toil was ended and the
staff headed homeward to baked beans and brown
bread.
"F’r th’ love o’ Pete, Old Timer, whatta you do
with all your jack?” This from office newcomers
who heard the trite assertion. "You’d oughta
earned enough to retire a dozen times without in­
dignant husbands to support you.”
"That’s right,” would sigh Potiphar. "Plenty
money I’ve earnt. Just goes. Just goes.”
PRINTER’S PI 9
And yet Old Buss did not squander his wages.
Until he bought a small cottage down the south
River Road, he continued to board with the Mat­
thews relict and he paid his bill punctually. Ten
dollars a week covered his living expenses and the
paper paid him twenty. His only extravagances
were beer, when the nation was that unmoral, and
silver-foiled packets of insufferable tobacco. For
a time the office force believed he must be support­
ing relatives somewhere or perhaps the dependents
from youthful indiscretions . .
CHAPTER II
/''V N E afternoon in the spring of 1908, the editor
^ of "The Telegraph” returned from his lunch
to find a strange youth on the steps before his of­
fice.
He was a sorry looking boy whose hair needed
cutting. His eighteen-year-old countenance was
feathery with whisker, for a score of nights he
had slept in his clothes, and his badly mussed cap
was losing its sweat-band.
As he sat hunched over, face bowed on his wrists,
Main Street pedestrians glanced at him puzzled.
He was either drunk or ill, Sam thought, entering
his plant and shutting the door.
"H e wants to see you,” the office girl declared.
"H e’s been hanging around here since a quarter
past twelve. He fin’lly went out and draped the
front steps.”
Hod called the lad inside.
"Please now can I have work?” the nondescript
began without further introduction. "I’ll do any­
thing to earn real cash. If I can’t get work here
I’m just about sunk.”
A note of despair unsteadied his appeal. Aside
from the corrosion of adversity which did not be-
10
"PRINTER’S PI” 11
long on the face of a boy, one of his eyes was
queerly filmed with white, obviously a cataract
despite his adolescence.
"Where you from?” Hod demanded— the cus­
tomary question.
This applicant however, indulged in no persi­
flage.
"I now been working on and off lots of places.
But I came to Vermont to see folks in W ickford.”
W ickford was a hamlet ten miles above Paris.
"They didn’t have anything for me to do though,
. . . or they wouldn’t let me do it. They said to
see you. Please, please, can I have work? I’ll do it
faithf’lly— I promise I will!”
"W hy come to a paper? Do you claim to know
the business?”
"I can do anything ’round a printing office, once
I get the chance. That’s exactly the trouble. 1
can’t get the chancel”
A real estate man named Fred Babcock entered
while Sam was considering this appeal.
"What you lookin’ so glum about?” he de­
manded of the editor, scribbling an ad in the lat­
ter’s private cubby.
"That boy wants a job— and I can’t make him
out.”
Fred viewed the youth through the half-opened
door. "Pretty young to be a booze hound. All
wrong as a tramp. You better go careful. He
may have a 'record’.”
12 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"N o, I don’t think so.”
"What the devil ails his eye?”
"Got a cataract over it, or at first shot I’d say
so.”
"I always thought a cataract was a sign of old
age.”
"I’ve heard of poorly born youngsters getting
’em. Still, they’re usually rare.”
Fred paid for his ad. But he said anent cata­
racts—
"Old man Haslett had one. I think they cut it
off.”
"Yes, it’s done often. Though the operation’s
delicate.”
"Gonna try him out?”
The editor sighed. "I suppose so,” he said.
"Somehow, to turn down a chap with that ring in
his voice stacks up with pinching orphans or kick­
ing crutches from underneath cripples. Yet—
oh why should this business scoop up all the mis­
fits?”
" ’Cos you’re fool enough to let it,” Babcock
answered truthfully.
"So you claim to know the printer’s trade?”
Sam Hod repeated when Babcock had departed.
"What might your name be?”
"George Robling, sir. I only wisht you’d try
me.”
"Set ads, George Robling?”
“ PRINTER’S PI” 13
"Yes, sir!”
“ W e’ll see.”
"You mean you’ll give me work?”
"I’ll give you a break, if that’s what you’re after.
I’m willing to try you out.”
"But now, the wages. How much could you
let me have for— for setting ads— or anything?”
It nettled Hod, this splitting of financial hairs
when the giving of employment was largely a
charity.
"Nine dollars a week should be pretty fair pay
— for a fellow your age— little more than appren­
tice.”
The stranger’s lip tightened. "You— you
couldn’t make it twelve?”
"I can get half the boys in town for nine. W hy
should you want twelve?”
"I now couldn’t explain so anybody’d get it.
But— I’d rather have nine than nothing at all.”
"I said we’d see first how much you can do.”
"If I work my darndest, I wisht you’d make it
twelve.”
"Here’s a Classified ad Fred Babcock just wrote.
Suppose you go set it. I’ll have you shown the
cases of six-point.”
"Yes, sir. I’m now terribly grateful. You’ll see
I’ll do my darndest.”
"Well, on the other hand, don’t do your darn­
dest too much. Nothing’s more nuisance than
14 GOLDEN RUBBISH
someone out back working like a family man try­
ing to hold his job.”
Young Robling followed into the composing
room. He was shown a hook for his cap and coat,
introduced to Potiphar, and loaned a black apron.
Climbing a stool— after a lengthy fuss about a
suitable composing-stick— he commenced the dis­
agreeable, picayune task which all the compositors
avoided as they could: “ sticking” those daily Classi­
fieds from the nonpareil case of needles and slivers.
Babcock’s ad made a four-line announcement.
He would pay a trifling reward for a lost ring of
keys— with a tag marked Charles Stevens. Poti­
phar stewed at the new boy’s slow speed . . .
While half a dozen persons leaned about the
"stones” watching the last forms going together,
young Robling put a question.
"H ow does it happen that a man named Bab­
cock has lost some keys with another man’s name?”
"B’long to th’ Stevens place, them keys do,
prob’ly,” — this from the "make-up” intent upon
his work. "Fred’s caretaker, winters. Stevens
folks live in N ’York through cold weather. House
stays locked from November to May.”
"Furnished?” George asked faintly.
"Guess so,” growled the other, bothered by a
form that sagged in its center . . .
The queer boy commenced his labors on a Tues-
"PRINTER’S PI” IS
day. Through the balance of that week he worked
with application. By Friday night however, the
proprietor was troubled. He must send the lad
onward.
He had brains of a sort, this frenzied young
journeyman, yet he had to hunt his cases with a
vision that was faulty. Continually on his "blind
side” he ran into forms or knocked galleys floor-
ward— and he nettled Sam Hod by more references
to wages.
"Suppose,” the latter told him, "you sort of
look ’round and watch out for something better.”
"You now mean— I’m fired?” The white face
went whiter.
"N ot exactly— yet. You can stay on awhile and
do things like sweeping up. But find another
place without too long alooking.”
The boy worked out the balance o f his time
blindly, dully, given to small tempers. Once Poti-
phar came on him sniveling in the stock-room. He
became so expensive as another week ended that
Sam considered presenting him with nine extra
dollars and asking him to travel— to cut office mis­
haps. Meeting Mrs. Matthews, he questioned the
widow about the youth’s boardbill.
"Land’s sakes,” she exclaimed, "he ain’t livin’
to my place. He et one meal o’ vittles an’ bunked
in along Potiphar. Next day he went off an’ I
ain’t see him since.”
16 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Pinkie Price, the paper’s news cub, tried to get
better acquainted with the nondescript. The two
washed alone at the battered corner sink.
"Where’s your folks?” demanded Pinkie. "D o
your father and mother know you’re up here in
Vermont?”
"I never had any father and mother.” And
Robling turned away, staring out the back win­
dow.
"N o father or mother! How the devil was you
born?”
"I mean, both of ’em died when I was a kid.”
"You been traveling ever since? Who was it
raised you?”
"M y uncle and aunt. My— my uncle drove a
truck.”
"Drove a truck where?”
"Trenton, New Jersey. Do you know a good
job in this town— where a fellow could make
twelve dollars a week?”
"Where are they now? Couldn’t they help
you?”
"N o, we had a fight. I mean, I did— with my
uncle. He took it out on me— that Pa went to
the Klondyke— ”
"Your father went where? Did he get any
gold?”
Robling shook his head. "A ll Pa got to the
Klondyke was a knife between his shoulders. Ma
"PRINTER’S PI” 17
married again when she heard he was dead. Then
she passed out too— when she had a new kid.”
Pinkie was summoned and biography halted.
The ensuing Saturday the office girl figured
eighteen extra dollars into the payroll for Rob-
ling— at the editor’s instructions— drew a check
for the whole, got Sam to sign it, cashed it, and left
the money in the safe while she went home to
lunch. She had done the same thing on countless
other Saturdays despite the office jest that the
ancient green strong-box could be opened with a
hairpin.
When she came back, the payroll was missing.
So too, was Georgie Robling.
CHAPTER III
HPI-IE Monday following the theft of the pay­
roll, Potiphar Buss returned from his lunch­
eon. With hat and ulster hung away behind the
Duplex, corncob drawing smoothly, he read the
Boston paper spread open on his cases. Thus he
noticed, directly on a line with his eye, the black
cambric apron loaned to young Robling. It hung
limply by the window, a crepe to malfeasance. And
from one of its pockets protruded some envelopes.
Puzzled, certain they had not been therein when
George was loaned the apron, wondering if they
held any clue to the miscreant, the printer reached
over and lifted them out.
Jersey City postmarks cancelled all of the stamps.
But the addresses were different; they revealed the
boy’s Odyssey in quest of employment. Compas­
sion mingled with the printer’s curiosity. He read
them in the hope they might unsnarl a riddle.
When he had finished them, his lacklustre eyes
were fixed on vague distance.
"Poor son of a gun,” the man whispered softly.
In the time-mellowed office with its golden-
brown walls, with no noise disturbing but the sim-
18
"PRINTER’S PI” 19
mer of metal cooking in the linotype, Potiphar Buss
re-read one fraught paragraph—
. . . what’s more, I don’t believe a word you
say, about living in any closed country house to
cut down your expenses. I could swallow that
once but my eyes have been opened. You don’t
want us with you, either me or the baby. I don’t
see where your heart is . . .
"Closed country house!” Potiphar exclaimed.
"Where could he o’ took t’ livin’ ? An’ somewhere
they’s a baby!”
Then the vortex-mouth in the wrinkles dropped
open. Could the youngster have found that lost
bunch of keys?
The employes drifted in for afternoon labors.
Potiphar said nothing of what he had discovered,
but he did listless work that drab afternoon. The
sadness of ages lay upon his countenance. He was
given to long moments of gazing from the win­
dows.
At half-past four came early spring sunset. A
nipping wind blew up; clouds overcast the sky.
The night would be blowy and shot with dank rain.
Six o’clock arrived. The last carrier boy departed,
the forms were washed up, the customary jostling
prevailed about the sink. Only the talk tonight
concerned young Robling, how much he had taken,
where he had fled. Potiphar Buss did not join this
converse. He kept to his cases distributing "dead”
20 GOLDEN RUBBISH
ads. And some of the types went in wrong com­
partments.
When his last fellow craftsman had departed,
the printer trudged homeward and ate his supper
silently. The clouds were oppressive; much slush lay
underfoot. Nevertheless, having arrived at a deci­
sion, he buttoned his ulster on his fat little stomach,
fortified himself with a pipe of fresh tobacco, took
the baggy umbrella and departed in the night. He
went out through School Street and turned into
Main. Down through the business section he
trudged, down West Main Street, up Prospect
Avenue hill. He reached the hilltop finally, crossed
over an avenue lined with summer homes, at length
reached a backroad that forked northwestward.
N o street lamps lighted this eerie backroad.
The sidewalks ran out; the thoroughfare narrowed.
Wind loaded with rain tossed the baggy umbrella,
the puddles were continuous. Once a lonely auto
splashed him. Yet the cob pipe burned cheerily.
It burnished the end of a queerly splayed nose as
sparks whipped away on the curves of the gale.
When the fallen arches fell in several wretched
holes, the expletives resulting weighed eleven to
the pound.
Like the lines of a structure seen in a dream, the
Stevens house showed as he came along its fence.
He opened its gate and went up its walk. Where­
upon matches were struck, on its veranda.
Each brief yellow glare disclosed naked flooring,
"PRINTER’S PI” 21
closed storm doors, boarded fastened windows.
Cobwebs, leaves and old cocoons were frowsy in the
shutters. A skeleton woodbine, lashed by raw gale,
whistled and sawed against ice-encrusted posts.
Trying the front door, the printer found it fas­
tened even as the windows. Quaking on fat little
legs, from window to window along the eastern
side he groped, testing each in turn.
He was about to try the doors and windows along
the western side when naked maples paused in their
swaying and the printer’s blood turned suddenly to
clabber. He heard sounds from inside not made
by the gale. Through that vasty void of night
came a low broken babble. Then the wind started
up; the trees lashed anew. A small bough snapped
off and crashed down on a fence.
"Shucks!” cried Potiphar. "I ain’t afraid o’
Georgie!”
Firmly he clutched the dutiful umbrella. Des­
pite the dark, the ice, the puddles, he felt his way
around to a porch at the back. Twice he slipped
and went down, completely down, on the seat of his
person. But the ulster preserved him from calami­
tous wetting and without much ado he recovered
his hat. Regaining his feet he groped to the porch.
He found what he had scarcely hoped to find— an
unlatched kitchen window.
Whereupon stout little Potiphar Buss, in the raw
March night with no one to see, heaved himself
up and over the sill. Barking his shins, sprawling
22 GOLDEN RUBBISH
inside, he slid the sash down and nervously listened.
"Nellie!” came a cry— like the wail of one
damned.
It echoed through the rooms, the hallways, the
pantries. Then a senseless muttering ended in a
moan. In inky blackness Potiphar scraped a
match.
The kitchen had a shelf between two of its win­
dows. On this shelf was a lamp. In this lamp was
oil. Lifting the chimney, the printer dabbed the
wick. Then through that strange house he crept
forward on tiptoe, scuffing at times, nerving him­
self to open each door. Closer and closer he ex­
plored toward that babbling. It came from a
chamber in the southeastern corner.
"Georgie!” he called. He held the lamp high.
"It’s only me, Georgie. Potiphar Buss! Don’t be
scairt, Georgie. Potiphar Buss fr’m th’ printshop
has come.”
The boy’s body rolled on a low wooden bedstead.
A heavy gray blanket was half on the floor. He
stared at the other from glassy bright eyes.
"O h!— so you’ve come?” he addressed the first.
"That’s right! You’re right! It’s Potiphar Buss!”
"I won’t hurt you, Georgie. Don’t you be
scairt.”
"Good old Potiphar Buss! I know you, Potiphar
Buss. You now gave me two dollars to get some
grub last week. Nellie— this is Potiphar— Poti­
phar Buss— a good old scout, old Potiphar Buss!”
“ PRINTER’S PI” 23
The startled printer peered about the chamber.
But aside from themselves the cold crypt was
empty . . .
The man closed the door. Shutters and shades
were already drawn; no one could see the light
from the road. He set the lamp down on a near­
by chair-seat.
“ I see,” he remarked, "you found Babcock’s
keys.”
"N o— didn’t find ’em— remembered the place
from the ad I set— got in through a window—
found Nellie here waitin’— for me— to— ”
"Yes, yes,” soothed the printer. He drew a chair
close.
The lamp flame flickered and had to be adjusted.
The wind made the house creak. Piecing together
such parts of the tale as came out in interludes
of sanity, coupled with information given by the
letters, the boggle eyed man got the sorry boy’s
story . . .
"Were you ever in love, Mister Buss— with a
girl— with a girl— and did everything go wrong—
did happiness seem to have a grudge against you?”
"I know what it’s like,” the compositor ad­
mitted.
"I’ll tell you about it— everything— I’ll tell you
fust what happened. We were alone, sort of, Mis­
ter Buss. I was nineteen, going on twenty. She
was four years older— going on twenty-five— ”
24 GOLDEN RUBBISH
" — and prob’ly twice as wise,” the listening man
thought grimly.
"But that diff’rence in ages didn’t mean much,
Mister Buss. I loved her and she loved me. She
lived with her stepmother and worked in a store.
I set ads on a paper and was learning 'machine’.
When I got it learned, I’d take a job somewhere—
at man’s wages— and I’d send for her and we both
have the fun of a home of our own.”
Potiphar nodded kindly. "Tell me everything,
Georgie,” he encouraged.
"One night we took a walk, Mister Buss. We
came out above the river across from the city. It
was one of those misty nights, Mister Buss. We
now looked at the lights across the dark water, the
lonely ferries, the great high sky with the city
glow against it— and it seemed as though it was
just us two against the whole earth. She wasn’t
happy with her stepmother, Mister Buss. We were
both now alone.”
"Yes, Georgie,” said the printer, his throat
growing husky.
"A great big ache came over me then, to keep her
by me always, just for company against the loneli­
ness. It’s funny how that ache comes over a fellow.
It’s funny how a woman keeps it away. There
was no one to care what either of us did. I was
’fraid of the years, they seemed so long and empty.
I wanted someone by me— and she felt the same.
We reckoned it wouldn’t have happened, she and
"PRINTER’S PI” 25
I coming together like we did, if it wasn’t intended
for us to go on.”
"Which one o’ you suggested th’ two o’ you
hitch up?”
"It was this way, Mister Buss— we got talking
about our room rent. Her stepmother wanted to
go to Ohio. Nellie had to move— which meant a
hired room. Seven dollars they asked her, for
anything decent. I was paying five for mine.
Twelve dollars between us was a lot every week.
By living together we could get one for six, because
married people didn’t have to be so careful where
they lived as a girl. That’d leave the other six to
go in a bank.”
"That sort o’ figgerin’, son, has ruint more fel­
lers than bettin’ on hosses.”
"Well, that’s why we got married— the money
we could save. You see, I didn’t tell her how bad
my eye was bothering. And I never expected I’d
lose my job so quick. I tried my darndest, but I
couldn’t find another. I had to try outside, and
that’s how I left her— ”
"You didn’t have th’ money so’s she could go
with you?”
"I now only had the money for a license and a
minister— and the boarding house room where we
spent that first week. So after that night above
the river, we got married. I married her next
noontime when she came out for her lunch— O
26 GOLDEN RUBBISH
God!— years and years it seems— and she went back
to work as though nothing had happened— it
was all done so quick it hardly seemed lawful. She
— she clung to my neck that last morning, Mister
Buss, when I started for Elmira where I hoped a
job was waiting. Just like I was leaving to go to
war, it was. And I had a wife somewheres— it
seemed as though I’d dreamed it— ”
"It was bindin’, Georgie. Bindin’ for life. I
know, boy, I know!”
"I left her, I went away. I took jobs, Mister
Buss. You see how it was. They thought I was
a man, from the letters I wrote. When they saw
I was nineteen, they refused me man’s wages. I
could do a man’s work yet they paid me like a
kid.”
"And th’ new wife kept writin’ to know when
she should join you?”
"That’s it, Mister Buss. She couldn’t leave her
job— she mightn’t get another. Yet I couldn’t
have her come. I had no place to keep her. I
could hardly keep myself.”
Potiphar recalled the twelve-page closely writ­
ten missives, the first of the lot he had read that
noon. Bitterly he thought how the pages had
thinned— to single page scrawls. But the boy was
rambling on—
"I tried to make her see how it was. But she
claimed I’d stopped loving her, that was the hard
part. She said that I’d tricked her— that I’d only
"PRINTER’S PI” 27
wanted to sleep with a woman— that I didn’t want
her with me— that I’d never intended to have her
with me always. She’d ruined her life, marrying
me on impulse!”
"I know all she said,” the older man concurred.
"I worked, Mister Buss— O God, how hard I
worked! But my eye bothered more and— and her
letters kept coming— she claimed I’d never loved
her— that was the hard part!”
The printer sat sloughed in the comfortless chair.
He stared straight ahead— into still more cheerless
distance. Verily he knew. As a trade it was hard,
the wages were slender, boys of nineteen were ap­
prentices indeed. Even had he received the pay­
ment due a man, it would not have gone far when
divided by two and the wife’s share remitted to
finance her maternity. Add the urges of a boy to
enjoy himself a bit as an offset from his worry,
and the youngster had burdens which have broken
strong men.
"But I tried every week to send her what I could.
I asked for more wages and only got laughed at.
I tried to tell them I had a wife and baby. Some
of them cursed and said I was lying. Others re­
plied I had no business with a baby— if I’d gotten in
a scrape it would teach me a lesson. They never
seemed to think they were making Nellie suffer— ”
"And so you just went travelin’ !”
"I had to, Mister Buss. There was nothing,
nothing else. I got job after job. It was always the
28 GOLDEN RUBBISH
same. I had married men’s expenses but all they
let me draw was the wages of a boy. The time
came, I’m saying, when I hated to go to bed— in
fear of the panic that came with the dark.”
"Every man’s knowed that panic, son— not that
it helps so much at the time.”
Potiphar recalled the hard unreal ring in the
wife’s final letters. He thought of the long list of
the baby’s outfit as the girl had compiled it, with
prices noted carefully, expenses for this and that,
bargain offerings lost. He recalled her relinquish­
ment of work, how the baby had come in her agony
of helplessness. 'Where was his heart? How could
a man be a father to a son and manifest no interest
in either son or mother? Such queries rang sharp
as travail pains. The older man sensed that not
once had that father written of his troubles, his
trampings from place to place, the injustice of the
wages, his panic in the nights. Not a word about
his blindness. Only suffering as men suffer, doing
their best, making no outcry.
Potiphar likewise thought of bitter ultimatums.
The doctor from the institution had said that the
little son’s death might possibly be averted if cer­
tain things, all costing money, were immediately
provided. But there was no money— at least not
enough. And the letters no longer contained en­
dearing phrases or enshrined the future in glori­
fied mist. They told instead of many wild and
"PRIN TER’S PI” 29
shameful things their writer meant to do. And
they must have gone like iron nails, all of them,
straight through the father’s naked young heart.
"And so you stole Sam’s payroll t’ save your
baby’s life!”
"There wasn’t any other way, Mister Buss.
There wasn’t. There wasn’t.”
“ Still, you might know you’d end up arrested.”
"I just didn’t care.”
"Where’s th’ money now? What’d you do with
it?”
"I mailed it to Nellie as soon as I swiped it— so
they wouldn’t find it on me. Oh I wish I could
die! Maybe with me out of the way Nellie’d get
busy and marry someone else. Nellie’s pretty, Mis­
ter Buss. She could marry if she tried.”
"She’s prob’ly had plenty o’ marriage for a spell.”
"W ell anyhow— our baby— it had the right to
live. And so I took the payroll. I hated to do it,
after Hod had been so kind. But I’d got to the
end— the very, very end. Tell me, Mister Buss,
why do such things happen? W hy is it that some
of us are born only to find that no one gives a darn?
W hy’s life so hard when— we’re perfectly willing
— to play— the game?”
" ’Tain’t that,” responded Potiphar. "Folks do
care. They simply don’t know. A long time ago
some wise feller says, th’ heart knoweth its own
bitterness. Th’ world’s kind enough, boy. W e’re
30 GOLDEN RUBBISH
all in it t’gether. Folks help each other, far’s they
understand. Th’ big thing they lack is a sort o’
heart tellyphone!”
The house was chill, sinister, full of spookish
creaks and footfalls. The flame of the lamp con­
tinued to flicker; at times it smoked badly. Poti-
phar’s shadow was grotesque on the wall.
"O God!” groaned the boy. "I want to do so
much. Inside me, it’s here. But it’s all bottled up.
I started all wrong and can’t seem to get right.
I’m no crook, Mister Buss. You’ll believe I’m no
crook? I got it in me to be famous— yes, sir,
famotis!— if I only had the chance. That’s always
the trouble. I can’t get the chance.”
The old printer stared, though his eyes failed to
see. On the bed rolled the boy with fire in his
brain, this father too young to have title to a
baby, and yet with an uglier burn in his heart.
Did the older man’s soul, mellowed by its own
years of happiness withheld, know more of such
tragedy than the lad knew himself? Did Potiphar
read into that recital, long long paragraphs from
his own book of knowledge? Or was he merely
visualizing the vast numbers of humanfolk who
plead for a chance at the good things of life and
when given that chance, even as this boy had been
favored by Sam Hod, deport themselves incom­
petently and thieve in despair? What could have
made old Potiphar Buss sit so silently with that
look in his eyes, and not mind the cold, the wind,
"PRINTER’S PI” 31
the footfalls of phantoms, the lamp that burned
blue? . . .
The boy’s fever came from incipient tonsillitis.
That Potiphar recognized when Robling dozed fit­
fully.
"Sonny,” he whispered, as the wind died with
dawn, "you can’t be sick here. Besides, someone
might find you.”
"I know,” groaned the youth. "I stole money,
I remember. I’m a thief— a common, ordinary,
low-down thief. Well, I’ll go back. I’ll give my­
self up. But— I’ve saved Donny’s life-—though
I’ll prob’ly— never see him.”
"There’s more’n this you’ve got t’ face, ’fore
you’re done with life, son. I got my idees on all
such subjecks. You try t’ stand up. W e’ll get out
t’ th’ road.”
"Where’ll we go, Mister Buss?”
"You trust ol’ Potiphar. You’ll perish here.
And you musn’t perish anywhere. Potiphar won’t
have it. B’sides, they’s this new-born infant you
got t’ raise t’ manhood. You come along with
me. W e’ll unsnarl th’ tangle.”
“ You’re not kidding me, Mister Buss?”
"Potiphar never kids, Georgie. He ain’t th’ kid-
din’ kind.”
The fever plagued lad was raised from the bed.
There were risks to be run, transporting him so,
yet greater risks threatened if he stayed on those
32 GOLDEN RUBBISH
premises. A wrap was soon found. The lamp was
extinguished and the corpulent umbrella did service
as a cane.
"Where yoti taking me?” Robling cried shrilly
when they reached the crooked backroad.
"Just down t’ th’ boardin’ house, Georgie. You
lean your weight on Potiphar Buss.”
With the boy’s arm hooking his little round
shoulders, they came up West Main Street to a
gray, empty town. Potiphar stumbled often.
"Hard tellin’ which one o’ us is furtherest all
in,” he greeted his landlady. "See t’ Georgie, Julia.
I’m goin’ up South Maple Street and interview my
boss.”
Leaving the motherly widow to get the lad to
bed, Potiphar Buss trudged back out School Street.
Again he crossed through the business section,
turned the bank corner, went up Maple Street hill.
The newspaper owner, aroused from his slum­
bers, came down in a bathrobe to confront his
compositor. They went into the sitting-room.
It was warmer in the sitting-room.
"W hat’s the large idea?” Sam demanded grog-
gily-
"I got somethin’ for you, Sam Hod. I wanted
you should have it up here t’ your house.”
From an inside ulster pocket came a fat little
wallet, fat yet battered with existence like its
owner. Out from the wallet came certain dog-
"PRIN TER’S PI” 33
eared banknotes— on a corner of the sofa the
printer spread them out.
"It’s your payroll, Sam Hod. Georgie Roblin’s
give it back.”
"N ow I’ll tell one, Potiphar!”
"You heard what I said— Georgie Roblin’s give
it back.”
"Where’s the boy now? When did he do it?”
"That’s nobody’s business but Georgie’s and
mine. Point is, you can’t prosecute— ”
"Can’t I, though? Money back or not, he com­
pounded a felony.”
"Well, anyhow, you won’t!”
"What happens if I do?”
“ Prosecute him, Sam’el, and I swear I quit you
cold!”
"Y ou’ll what?”
"Quit you cold, Sam Hod. Walk out without
notice. Fire up my job!”
The editor gaped. Then he smiled wryly.
"O f course, Potiphar, if that’s the way you— ”
"That’s perzactly how I feel. What’s more you’ll
take him back— ”
"N o, I couldn’t quite do that.”
"Then I quit you cold, Sam’el. I fire up my
job!”
"But Potiphar— ”
"Sam’el, you listen. I’m a man who’s took
notions. I’ve saved a little money t’ provide for
34 GOLDEN RUBBISH
old age, but it’s youth who needs its benefits, not
an old coot like me. I’d far better use it t’ fix
up these young folks— ”
"What young folks, Pot? What the devil are
you saying?”
"Found some letters o’ Georgie’s in an apron t’
th’ office. Made me b’lieve he was hidin’ out to­
wards Bancroft’s— ”
"Bancroft’s Hill? Whereabouts?”
"— sick or somethin’. So I went out t’ see.
Found him all right. But gettin’ tonsillitis. I been
there all night. I learnt all about him.”
"What is it you’ve learnt?”
"Enough, man— enough! And I’m goin’ t’ loan
him boodle t’ fix a little house. Then if I can raise
it, I’ll loan him some more— t’ let him get that eye
fixed. Swell doctors can do it. And when he
comes back t’ th’ wife and baby son— ”
"T o the who? And the what?”
"You heard what I said.”
"That blind boy’s got a family?”
"A wife and baby son. And if th’ Lord sent
’em, it’s right for him to have ’em. You see, Sam’el
Hod, I’m old and played out and my life’s gone t’
seed. Nothin’ but an ol’ tramp printer— me—
who’s wasted his substance in riotous livin’. Fig-
gered it out as I set by that sick boy’s bed this night,
that lackin’ any folks t’ be sorry over me, I owe it
t’ society t’ give th’ lad a break. A real break,
Sam’el. I got t’ make a man o’ him, a better man
"PRINTER’S PI” 35
than I be, t’ take my place in life when I’m screwed
in a box and worms is havin’ hijinks, feastin’ off
my carcass. When I come t’ stand up ’fore God
Almighty and He says t’ me: 'Potiphar Buss, what
th’ blankity-blank did you ever do back on earth
t’ entitle you t’ a grandstand seat in Paradise?’
I got t’ have an answer, Sam’el. I want t’ say:
'They’s a young chap back down in Vermont, Lord,
who’s growin’ into a good man and father, a lovin’
husband, an honest citizen, ’cause I helped him.
They’s a woman back down in Paris saved from
monkeyshines, a satisfied young mother in a little
house where love is— ’cause I dug down and found
’em filthy lucre. And then there’s this Tad
Donald, whose life was saved by th’ payroll I give
back— though I doubt if you’ll find Sam Hod
ashowin’ up here, Lord, ’cause he aimed t’ prose­
cute. That’s my record, God,’ I want t’ answer,
'and I hope it’s strong enough t’ let me stick around
these heavenly parts a spell, and meet my folks,
and hear th’ singin’.’ That’s what I’m up to,
Sam Hod. And I ask you not t’ hinder when what
I’m really after is a milk-and-water alibi t’ prowl
’round Paradise. You see, I’ve took notions!”
The six o’clock whistle blew a long approving
blast down on the knitting-mill.
"A ll right,” Sam answered weakly. "If that’s
the way you feel. But take these dam’ banknotes.
I never want money from a man who’s got
notions.”
CHAPTER IV
" p O T I P H A R BUSS did ragged, ragged work in
the day which then ensued.
He went home in twilight ahead of the others
and mounted the stairs of the rooming house in
School Street. Satisfied that George had been given
proper care, he opened the door of his stuffy little
chamber, a chamber that smelled of matting and
shingles. Arriving in this room, he sank on the bed.
He seemed at a loss to know why he was there.
His mind was distraught, his sensations elusive. The
room grew dreamy while he sat there, picking at
his palms, his chin on his chest.
High over Bancroft’s flamed the spring sunset.
It turned to dull saffron and softened to pearl.
Up from the kitchen came the fumes of frying
supper. The printer heaved a sigh, a sigh long-
drawn as though freighted with pain . . .
He arose, pulled off the greenish ulster, dropped
it on a chair and discarded his hat. He moved
toward the closet. Groping around, he brought
out a bag, an old-fashioned telescope bag dragging
many leathern tails. On the bed the man set it,
then ran up the shade.
He needed all the light remaining to illumine a
packet he took from the bag. Sausage-like fin-
36
"PRINTER’S PI” 37
gers untied its faded ribbon. The ribbon bound
some letters— letters bedimmed by the musty lapse
of time yet perfumed with the sachet of many
years ago. Old Potiphar shuffled them. Twice he
tried to read them— as though he did not know
their contents— as though their sentences were
not written on his soul.
For the letters were penned in a woman’s hand
— love letters, forsooth, inscribed in an era when
Potiphar Buss was not old and seedy and bald as
an egg. The sun had shone warm in that fore­
noon of life. Birds had sung sweetly across hill­
tops of heart hopes; months had been made of rich
freighted moments; years had been something to
pass as deep music. Shadows and nights might have
closed upon the writer; death might have halted
the hand with the pen. Yet now in life’s evening
an old printer kept them. Love letters once. Now
Whispers from Beyond.
The sun sank at last. The corpulent compositor
sat onward in the dusk.
Whereupon, amid the envelops, his fingers found
a photograph. Almost in a starlight now, Potiphar
Buss saw the features of a woman. A dark-eyed
young woman, she was, her hair done quaintly,
with bangs upon her forehead.
And in the hollow of her shoulder lay a baby’s
wobbly head.
"Nanny! Nanny!” the printer whispered husk­
ily. "If only someone had done it for us!”
38 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Darkness came. The heart of evening. Poti-
phar Buss no longer saw the features— not the
features on the cardboard. Supper had ended in
the dining-room beneath him, up from the kit­
chen came the clinking of washed dishes. The
printer’s big fingers slid the picture in the packet.
"H e’ll make good, Nanny,” he declared— as some
men pray. "Just like Jamie would o’ done— our
Jamie— if I hadn’t lost that job and— found an­
other one too late.”
Then a long time later, with the bag put away:
" — someday we’ll see it was well worth th’
price!
PART TWO
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS
39
CHAPTER I
/''V N an August afternoon in 1928, a stranger rode
up the Green River valley. He traveled
aboard the train from the Junction that reaches
Paris at six o’clock nightly.
The valley enticed with Arcadian lure— a green
bowered, far from the madding crowd enticement
that would grow into shameless seduction by
autumn. The smoking coach was odorous, sooty;
yet subtle fragrances, old as the earth, blew in at
raised windows or wafted down aisles. Scents of
deep glens they were, of moist meadows, spruce pas­
tures, dried uplands. And when the train halted,
the quiet was profound. It was quiet composed
of small pleasant noises: whimpering steam, cattle
bells on a nearby hillside, the sudden laugh of a
station loafer, brown water purling beneath an old
bridge.
He was a tall, gaunt, heavy boned stranger with
iron gray hair and ragged moustaches. His soft hat
was black and so was his suit. Both too were rum­
pled. About his neck was a loop of black ribbon,
which suspended his glasses on an ash bedaubed
vest. His profile showed strength— even lines of
41
42 GOLDEN RUBBISH
past cruelties from the corners of his nostrils to his
big steel trap mouth.
The conductor sang out the end of the run . . .
"H ’m !— so this is Paris?” echoed the traveler,
following the trainman out on the platform.
"Yaas, so this is Paris!” echoed Fred Hartshorn.
He was weary of hearing that eternal paraphrase.
"But don’t go lookin’ for Napolean’s Tomb ’cos
just at present it’s used for a dog pound.”
"What say?”
"I said— we pulled down Notre Dame Cathedral
’cos we needed the stone t’ wall up th’ reservoir.
And Chomps Ulysses has been changed to Frog
Alley— ”
"You thought I was making fun of your town?”
" — otherwise it’s Paris and we’re here for the
night.” Fred swung from the steps to turn in
his ticket-box.
Jim Pease, station agent, leaned cambric cuffed
forearms on the inner bench of his telegrapher’s
bay-window, and took note of the stranger alighted
on the platform.
"What ails him, Fred?” demanded the agent.
"Looks like he’d seen corpses fresh from the
grave, don’t he?” Hartshorn grunted.
"O r was an animated corpse himself. I’ve heard
o’ such things. Reminds me of that freaky toad
down t’ Arizony. Shoots drops o’ real blood right
out of its eyes.”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 43
"That man’s sick inside, Jim. He’s a duffer
who’s had trouble.”
"Yeah, he gives me the creeps. And he’d bet­
ter vamoose or he’s gonna get wet.”
"Does look like a swell shower’s cornin’. Here’s
where I scoot ’for I need a Noah’s Ark.”
It was vaguely appropriate for this grizzled man
to arrive in town in the vanguard of storm. Higher
and higher over Bancroft’s Hill the thunderheads
had been piling steadily, eerie white on their pulpy
summits, orange destruction in their curdling
hearts. Louder and louder boomed distant ar­
tillery. Now came that interim when the world
was weirdly quiet— a sinister quiet excepting that
barrage. Then waiting trees thrashed suddenly in
gale. That gale was ghostly cold. Gigantic spirals
of dust careened; stray papers tore along sidewalks
and gutters; awnings flapped wildly. The dark­
ness came apace and lights were snapped on in Main
Street stores and offices.
Finally it rained.
Marble sized pellets first settled the dust— with
frantic clerks striving to get merchandise indoors,
then a billion smaller drops turned the pelting to
spray. The gale arose higher, sweeping the water-
veil from highway to highway, from building to
building, from treetop to treetop. Umbrellas
were demolished. Cars left at curbings had cur­
tains ripped loose and cushions quickly drenched.
44 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Every store door and hallway held its quota o f spec­
tators as one side of Putney Square was screened
from the other.
And high above town and valley the lightning
zipped and the thunder clacked, bursting into
heart throttling detonations that rumbled the
ground like a spasm of earthquakes.
This epochal shower drew attention from the
stranger. He reached the business section, found
the hotel, was allotted a room. By half-past seven
the downpour had lightened, the thunder growled
off in the direction of Barre and the aforesaid
Square was strewn with debris.
At a quarter to ten the stranger came down the
steel treaded stairs, and passed through the lobby
to a water-logged veranda. There he paused on
the steps.
Few lights burned within range of his vision. The
arc lamps were sparse and some of them were out.
One sentinel bulb illumined a bank vault— the
People’s Bank vault on the Maple Street corner.
The patent flash sign over Williams’ clothing store
besought a drenched community—
SEE O U R TW O -D O LLAR PANTS
Whether or not the stranger cared for a sight of
Ben Williams’ pants regardless of their price, Paris
was a sensible workaday metropolis. The storm hav­
ing passed, it disclosed no inclination to wait on the
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 45
eccentric behavior of one who because of the in­
clement evening, the civic lethargy, perhaps the
drab times on which life had fallen, beheld it
darkly as through a glass. . . .
The illuminated clock in the Court House tower
tolled ten as he stood there. Then down East Main
Street came the bobbing of head-lamps. A car had
entered town from the bridge across the river.
This machine slowed its speed as it neared Putney
Square, then swerved toward the curbing and
jerked to a halt.
A passenger alighted. Three noisy attempts and
its tin door was fastened. At a cheery "Good­
night!” its engine accelerated and down into Cross
Street the contraption flapped loosely.
The passenger thus deposited, turned and crossed
the sidewalk. He went up two steps and unlocked
an office. A half-moment later a window of
plate glass showed sizable letters in sharp silhouette
THE PARIS DAILY TELEGRAPH
The one on the steps of the hotel seemed startled;
the cigar came away from his ragged moustaches.
Glancing nervously about, he pulled himself to­
gether. Then he started across . . .
The door was unlocked but the office was empty.
Apparently the one left in front by the flivver had
gone into the composing room. But scuffing foot­
steps were soon heard returning, and the composing
46 GOLDEN RUBBISH
room door framed a quaint, rotund figure. The
stranger stared at Potiphar Buss.
"D o you edit this paper?” he asked with a shiver.
The veteran compositor, a little more sallow and
weazoned and puckered, retorted with irony:
"Ain’t you got more brains than t’ take me for
an editor?”
"N o offense,” said the stranger.
"N ot a bit,” replied the other. He came through
the door and closed it behind him.
"Well, who might you be— if I’m not too in­
quisitive?”
"Seein’ you’re alone and apparently defence­
less, I set up the ads that make this paper pay.”
"Garland’s my name. Peter Garland. Come up
from the Junction on the six o’clock train.”
"Have a chair, Mr. Garland. Have a couple o’
chairs. But remember I told you, I just work here
for wages.”
"I see. You’re one of the staff?”
"N o, nothin’ like a staff. Just a poor weak reed
in th’ Garden o’ th’ Lord.”
"Well, maybe you’ll do. I’m after information.”
"What sort o’ information? If Adam had been
more careful ’bout givin’ out such, we might all
o’ stayed in Eden.”
"Smoke?” asked the caller, offering a cigar.
The printer shook his head. "I’ll pull at this
Qob if vou don’t mind th’ smell. If I smoke that
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 47
black thing Ed bloom out like a cabbage— a moist
sickly cabbage, too long in a cellar.”
They seated themselves before the exchange
table, after Garland had given his chair the uncon­
scious pull to alter its position which every living
person gives a chair before using it. He lifted one
gourdlike knee across the other, pushed back his
hat and hooked one big thumb in an arm-pit of
his vest. Potiphar, in a suit of rumpled brown
weirdly resembling gunny sacking on his person,
leaned back in a swivel none too strong in the braces
and ran a grave risk of a spilling on his neck. A full
thirty seconds they inspected each other. Then the
printer rolled tobacco and tamped it in the cob.
He repeated as a match flame leaped above its
bowl:
"Reckon no angel with a flamin’ sword will shoo
us from this office. What sort o’ information was
it you wanted?”
"It concerns a person— a man— I’m hunting.
Party named Robling.”
" George Robling?” The printer’s puffing halted.
"You know him, then?”
"Know him! Why, whilst he was here among
us— ”
"You mean he’s not here now?”
"H e ain’t been in Paris for nigh twenty years.”
Dull incredulity made Peter Garland stiffen. In
the act of clipping the cigar, moistening its wrap­
per, he paused in small shock.
48 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"You mean— come on a goose chase, have I?”
"Looks like you have.”
"Could you— tell me where to find him?”
"W hat’s your purpose, knowin’ ?”
Garland felt absently for matches in his vest. He
lighted the cigar, blew out the match, held it in
his fingers and stared straight before him. Finally he
answered:
"It ain’t no special secret. I want to give him
money.”
"Money! How much?”
"Pretty good sum. P’raps half a million dollars.”
CLACK! Down on the floor went Potiphar’s
cob.
"You want t’ give him— how much?”
"What difference does it make, if he’s not here
to get it?”
The stupefied printer pushed back his swivel.
Under the table he groped for his pipe, crunching
out sparks with the soles of his boots.
"Be you— some sort— o’ relative?”
"N o, not a relative.”
"Lawyer then, mebbe?”
"N o, not a lawyer.” And Garland sneezed
thrice, fingering for his handkerchief.
"What ails you, Mister? You’re shakin’ all
over.”
"Got soaked by the storm, cornin’ down from
the depot.” The stranger blew two nasal blasts,
shivering again as he wiped his moustaches.
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 49
"Better take care o’ yourself. First you know,
you’ll catch cold.”
"Huh, I got cold already. When I get to my
room I’ll dose myself with Scotch. How ’bout this
Robling? I learnt that he come here. Why didn’t
he stay and where was it he went?”
But silence came first, till the printer got his
balance.
The wall clock ticked the moments into weeks
and months and years. More rain fell outside.
It gurgled in a spout. Midnight had gone when
he sighed in conclusion:
"I guess that’s ’bout all. Man in my business
finds it touch and go with queer ones. Ships that
Pass in th’ Night, as th’ poet feller tells us.”
"And you say his woman never showed up!”
"Well, you know how women are— some wo­
men. She wanted th’ money but she didn’t want
Georgie. Got a perty hard jolt, bein’ a mother
all alone.”
"And after all you did for him, paying up his
theft, getting him back the sight of his eye, he
fin’lly went off and forgot all about you!”
The printer’s big finger crunched the ash in his
pipe.
"Earth’s a mighty big place, Mister. Life is rough
and tempus fugits. You can’t hold boys respon­
sible when they’re luggin’ ’round a sorrow.”
"But you did fix his eye?”
50 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"O h yes, I fixed his eye. Went to Boston, he
did— and come home a changed feller. Smart he
was. Right away with that fuzz off, he changed
overnight.”
"Eyesight makes a diff’rence. I’ve known crim­
inals to be cured, just by fitting ’em with glasses.”
"But he couldn’t get over the loss o’ his woman.
Gripped hold o’ his gizzard. T ’ have brains is one
thing. It’s spirit makes us use ’em. He seemed t’
lose heart and I can’t say I blame him.”
"But didn’t he go to his wife and explain?”
"O h yes, he tried. Come back up here and
worked a little while— t’ be near me, he said, th’
only friend he had— but th’ blow was too much.
He wanted his young un. They’s boy-fathers
like that. Havin’ an infant is somethin’ perty fine.
When they up and lose it, th’ gash don’t heal t’-
gether.”
"Did his woman divorce him?”
"N ot that I heard tell on. They drifted apart
and th’ boy drifted down. You know how it could
be, when a feller’s hit hard. Didn’t care much
what happened. So it natcherly did.”
"Yet I can’t overlook his conduct toward you.
You say he made no effort to pay back your loans?”
"I didn’t say that. You musta got me wrong.
Georgie paid back his loans. Little dribbles at a
time— th’ payments hurt t’ take ’em. For three or
four year, that’s how I kep’ track.”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 51
" That’s what I’m after— where did they come
from?”
"H e commenced sendin’ money from a
town t’ Pennsylvanny. Next thing I heard, he’d
drifted t’ Chicago. Seems he worked there quite
a spell. Guess he got in bad company.” The
printer was silent a moment, musing. "Funny
thing happened, whilst he stayed t’ Chicago. Ben
Williams who runs a store t’ this place, met him
one night on Michigan Boulevard. Ben had been
t’ a clothin’ convention. By one chance in a mil­
lion he run smack int’ Georgie, stewed t’ th’ gills
in a cold, messy drizzle.”
"Drunk?”
"So soaked in hard licker he was plastered cock­
eyed. Things happen like that, such meetin’s, in
life. But he didn’t know Ben an’ reeled on out
o’ sight. Williams wrote east t’ Sam Hod about it.”
"Where did you hear from him next?”
"H e moved further west. Omaha. Denver.
Once Californny. Then for almost a year come
nary a word. From St. Louis fin’lly, or mebbe
Kansis City, he writ me he’d got him a job in Mon­
tana. Whether he took it I never found out.
Letter sounded blue and was writ a bit careless.”
"Just how long ago was that?”
"Before th’ big war opened t’ Europe.”
"What place in Montana was he taking that
job?”
52 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Dunno’s I could say. But I got the letter home
in my bag.”
"And you haven’t heard from him since the
world war commenced?”
"Nope,” said old Potiphar. "I often wondered
if he might o’ gone to it— he’d be just th’ right age
t’get hisself shot.”
"Gad, I hope not,” said the other.
"It’s th’ worst sort o’ tragedy there is,” cogitated
Potiphar, "when a man’s first wife goes through
so much, she decides in her mind that she’s married
a failure. That sort o’ decision leaves scars that
don’t heal. Th’ man might as well get out and
let her think so. Even if they patch things up, all
through their lives they’ll be nothin’ else.”
"As you’ve told me the story, the girl he married
never loved him to commence with. What wo­
man, really lovin’ a feller, would let him go off
alone to take a new job as soon after marryin’ ?”
"All I know is, a woman’s love o’ man is founded
on respeck. When a husband’s made her lose it,
it rarely comes back. Don’t ask me how I know,
but ’tain’t from mere guessin’. Never mind how
much money th’ duffer makes when he’s older and
wiser, she’ll never be able t’ forget them lean
years.”
"A certain type of female, Buss. Not all. I’ve
known some in my time who acted just the oppo­
site. The rottener the luck, the better they loved.”
Garland had been toying with his dead cigar
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 53
butt. He tossed it in the coal hod, wiping fingers
on his pants. One o’clock came. Two. His shiver­
ing turned to ague yet he made no move to go.
Chief Hogan saw the office lights burning at three
o’clock and tried the outer door to ascertain the
reason.
"But if Robling didn’t get killed to the war,”
the mysterious benefactor continually reflected,
"where could he have gone that he never wrote you
more?”
"Hard tellin’,” sighed Potiphar. "Just a plain
tramp printer prob’ly, earnin’ his wages and
blowin’ ’em for bootleg, lyin’ nights in th’ dark
and wonderin’ about his kid. Will I ever forget
him lyin’ in th’ Stevens house that night and want­
in’ t’ know why life was so cruel, why some of us
were born to find that no one gives a darn, why
th’ world was so hard when we’re willin’ t’ play th’
game. Them’s th’ words he used. I’ve heard ’em
over and over.”
"Maybe he’s in jail!”
"Yes, I’ve thought o’ that. Or mebbe he was
killed without goin’ t’ th’ war. Lots o’ things
could happen t’ a bum without folks and how’d
we ever know? And I can’t help recallin’ how he
says his father started for th’ Klondyke, t’ bring
back a fortune that’d give his son a chance. They’s
irony in that.”
Garland offered no comment.
"W hy couldn’t his Pa have been spared t’ come
54 GOLDEN RUBBISH
back? It’s a bad, bad thing for a sensitive kid t’
face the world without father or mother t’ steer
him ’round th’ pitfalls. Natcherly he would marry
some designin’ young Jezebel. Small wonder she
wrecked him.”
The caller brought his chair legs down to the
floor. He scraped his feet around and started to
arise.
"N o,” he corrected, "I wrecked young Robling!”
"You what?” exclaimed Potiphar, forgetting his
weariness.
"Before I leave this town I may tell you. Then
again, it’s possible I won’t. Sorry I’ve kept you
up so, half the night, Mr. Buss.”
"By cracky, you’ve kept me up th’ whole night.
How was it you wrecked Georgie?”
The stranger rubbed his eyes. When he lowered
his big hand, the printer felt that cringe of nerves
which comes to some persons at viewing a corpse.
"Man, you’re sick!” he cried blankly.
"Got my duds wet, I tell you. Feel grippy all
over.”
"You better come down t’ my house. Local
hotel ain’t no place t’ be sick in.”
"What I need is rest, if ever I get it this side
the grave!”
"Well, I’d rather have th’ grave than stay t’ th’
Whitney House.”
"But your wife— ”
"Shucks, I ain’t got none! I boards for
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 55
nine years with a widder named Matthews. When
she ups and dies, I gets me a house— I finds me a
housekeeper and does as I pleases. Daisy’ll look
after you as you need t’ be looked to. She’s th’
lookin’ kind— Eve learnt from experience.”
They arose to find their leg muscles stiffened.
Garland swayed badly as they moved toward the
door.
"Man, I am sick,” he admitted on the walk.
Main Street and the Square were clammy with
fog . . .
“ Just what I thought. You come along o’ me.”
“ But you don’t know me. W e’re strangers.”
"Y ou’re a feller-galoot who’s sick amongst
strangers. That’s enough t’ know about anybody
t’ take ’em t’ my house.”
“ How far’s the distance, wherever your house
is?”
“ Couple o’ miles t’ th’ south o’ th’ village— over
th’ hill and down along th’ river. But we’ll root
out a lift. They’s alius a flivver ’round Farrell’s
Quick Lunch.”
CHAPTER II
JJO T IP H A R ’S home was a sociable, well bal­
lasted, New England farmhouse to the right of
the highway where South Maple Street became the
river road that wound toward Bryant’s Crossing.
The only other domicile in the vicinity, the
James Twing residence over the way, was a more
modern structure of arabesques and angles. Poti-
phar’s dwelling was snug, complacent, friendly
like its owner. Set lengthwise toward the road,
its broad eaves came down to a spacious front
door, its windows watched the highway like kindly
human eyes, its doorstones were broad and its gate
rarely latched.
The house was painted white and so was the
barn. So too was the fence enclosing the yard— a
chaste rail fence— that stood out sharply in mid­
summer dusk or when powerful motor lamps
turned the tannery curve. The windows had
green blinds; the lintels of the doors held little fan­
shaped shutters. Between house and barn ran a
short connecting ell, its twelve-foot arches piled
with sawed stove wood. The ends of these billets
made a yellow mosaic.
A plethora of lightning rods distinguished this
56
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 57
abiding place. Each gable had one; each chimney
had two. Obviously Potiphar had no intention
of getting struck by lightning without knowing
it at once. A lordly Norway Pine grew off in a
fence corner, which might have had its rod had the
agent been a salesman.
The arrival of H od’s roadster in the printer’s
yard at half-past five the ensuing afternoon,
brought Potiphar out on the ell veranda. He had
spent the day in shirtsleeves and slippers.
"Something ail Daisy?” the editor greeted. "The
kid who brought your message said someone was
ill.”
"Eve took in a stranger who’s perty dam’ sick.
Doc Johnson’s been here three times since noon.
I didn’t go t’ work ’cause Daisy was nervous.”
"W hat’s he sick with, Potiphar?”
"Sudden pneumonnie, I think Johnson called it.
Daisy was ’fraid he might die on her hands. She’s
finicky, Daisy. She don’t like t’ have folks adyin’
on her hands.”
They tilted Windsor chairs on the kitchen ver­
anda, two pairs of life-worn soles pushed against
the railing. Sam lit a cigar.
"Hogan says someone was in the office with you
till after three this morning. Same feller, Poti­
phar?”
"Yeah— name o’ Garland,” said the other. "Been
in th’ leather business down t’ Pennsylvania but
sold out lately for quite a chunk o’ boodle. Come
58 GOLDEN RUBBISH
up t’ Paris t’ hunt young Roblin’. You remember
Georgie— who went t’ th’ dogs?”
"W hy’s he after that young scalawag?”
"Aims t’ give him some cash. A sickenin’ lot.
Half a million dollars.”
"The devil you say!”
Potiphar rehearsed the session of the night. "I’ve
sent for th’ daughter,” he said in conclusion.
"P’raps she’ll explain it.”
"Got a daughter, has he? Where does she live?”
"N ’York, he told us. Though just at present
she’s down t’ Virginny. Can’t get up here till
sometime t’morrer.”
"H ow about his wife?”
"I’ve took it he’s widowed.”
"H ow old’s the daughter?”
"Woman-growed, I think. Must be, it seems
like, t’ travel ’round on business.”
"So the one-eyed boy gets half a million dollars?
What is it, a legacy?”
"H e wouldn’t gimme details. Just set and asked
questions.”
"Fine time for the one-eyed boy to come into
money— about twenty years too late— when his
life’s gone to smash.”
"Did you ever hear tell o’ anyone inheritin’
money just when they needed it? Anyhow, I’m hop­
in’ th’ daughter gets here ’fore her daddy passes out.
He wants t’ see her bad and she’ll clear th’ mystery
up.”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 59
"Girl married or single?”
"Single, o’ course. We addressed th’ tellygram
'Miss Louise Garland’.”
"Queer she’d be travelin’ down in Virginia on
business when her father’s so rich he can give away
millions.”
“ Had your supper yet, Sam’el? Daisy’s got our’n
ready. Come in and chew a snack.”
The printer stayed at home the ensuing day like­
wise. Jim Twing drove into town during mid-after­
noon, bringing word to the paper the invalid was
sinking. In fact Johnson said he might "go” before
morning.
"Gad,” exclaimed Sam, "that’s being wiped out
sudden! Any word from the daughter?”
"Yeah, Pott got a telegram just before noon.
She passed through New York at eleven this morn­
ing. She’ll come over the mountain from Rutland
tonight.”
"Queer, her knowing about making better time,
cutting over from Rutland.”
Early evening came with Sam Hod still puzzled.
He sought out Uncle Joseph Fodder, veteran owner
of the livery and community genealogist. Old
Uncle Joe could advance no solution. Sam cranked
his roadster at a quarter to eight. He drove back
down the river.
Miss Louise Garland came "over the mountain.”
60 GOLDEN RUBBISH
A Rutland touring-car reached Putney Square
at a quarter after nine, and halted in front of Will
Seaver’s store. A man in the back seat with the
young woman, alighted and asked for Potiphar’s
residence; then the car resumed motion and turned
the bank corner.
Few evenings that summer were as mystically
beautiful. A great coral moon had just left the
mountains, the night air was balmy and insects
cheeped rhythmically. If tragedy had not clouded
the end of her journey, the girl from the south
would have found the town charming. Up
Maple Street hill the car sped swiftly, under arc
lamp after arc lamp, crossed Walnut at the top,
went down the other side.
Death was hard to conceive, stalking on such an
evening. Street traffic was lively; the sidewalks
held strollers returning from movies. In the sha­
dows of verandas, the giggling of girls followed
youth’s callow vaporings. From windows behind
— where screens kept the moths from mellow,
lighted rooms— pianos or radios tuned the velvet
dark with melody.
Once on the river road, the car hurried on
through cleft seas of fireflies. Potiphar’s house
was easily recognized; a roadster with physician’s
license plate was parked along its fence. Diagonally
across the highway the Twing home was lighted.
The Twing girls were giving a party that evening.
The printer and editor saw the motor halt in
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 61
front. They arose from their chairs on the homely
veranda.
"Is this Mr. Buss’s?” asked the woman from the
car.
"This is th’ place,” its owner responded.
She got down at once and came in through the
gate. Her escort paid their tariff.
"Is my father still with you?”
"H e’s just hangin’ on,” the printer informed
her. "W e told him you was cornin’. Doc says he’s
fightin’ t’ stay till he sees you.”
From the side piazza came Potiphar and Sam.
The former led the way to the low-hung front
door. He opened the screen. The young woman
entered— with a nervous nod of thanks. Down
the stairs came Daisy Crumpett.
A short, plump, panicky soul was Potiphar’s
housekeeper. Her hair was unruly, her nose was
a button, a pie might be set on top of her bust.
"You poor darlin’,” she cried, "we’re all of us so
sorry you’re goin’ to lose your father!”
Daisy might have clasped the young woman in
her arms— but three things prevented. This per­
son peeling off elbow gloves beneath the red newel
light was scarcely to be embraced on so brief an ac­
quaintance; Daisy’s arms were too short; the girl
was the taller by almost a head. She was likewise
older than they had expected. About thirty-two
years, Sam Hod guessed her age.
Clad in a dark-blue traveling frock of Canton
62 GOLDEN RUBBISH
crepe she was, with trim jeweled turban and veil­
ings to her shoulders. Her eyes were deep grey
and etched with fine wrinkles. Her hair was like
gold that is alloyed with copper. When she took
off her hat before going upstairs, those Vermonters
saw the father remolded in a woman. Her hair was
waved back from the same brainy forehead; her
features were strong without old Peter’s crude­
ness.
"It’s a crime to impose on you so,” she declared.
"That’s perfeckly all right,” little Daisy con­
tended. " ’Tain’t every day that you bury your
father.”
"N o— that’s a blessing. How is he? Con­
scious?”
"Lately he’s been sleepin’. Though it tears out
your heart when he strangles for breath.”
The daughter’s face whitened . . .
"Where is he, please?”
"In the south room upstairs— the one to the
left.”
"I’ll see that you’re amply repaid for this up­
set.”
"Shucks, we don’t want no pay. They’s beds
here aplenty— we could run a whole hospital.
Potiphar takes turns, sleepin’ where he likes. When
he gets sick o’ one he just dives in another. I’ve
knowed him to get up in the middle o’ the night
and hunt a diff’rent bed to dive in.” Daisy glanced
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 63
up the stairs. "I’d better go up and tell Doctor
you’ve come.”
A portly young flunkey now entered behind
them. He set down two bags. The woman turned,
nettled.
"W hy on earth have you brought in those bags?
Do you think we mean to live here?”
"But the man wouldn’t take ’em back to the
hotel. He’s gone home a different route.”
Miss Garland regarded her escort grimly. She
studied him in fact— with a queer, twisted dimple
in a corner of her lips. "— looking for signs of
human intelligence,” Sam chuckled later, though
the editor perceived what Potiphar did not. She
visited her companion with such ironic humor, not
only because Nature had made him to be heckled,
but because the young woman was terrified to
panic. . . .
She tried to display a concern to be abovestairs,
but she would rather have relinquished a pound of
her flesh. At length she faced Potiphar.
"Mr. Finch,” she said wryly, introducing the
escort.
"Howja do,” welcomed Potiphar.
"Charmed,” said the fellow, removing his derby.
But he didn’t look charmed. He looked sick
and half naked. The latter impression was con­
veyed by his head. As a head, it had points. But
hair was not among them. An enormous pair of
64 GOLDEN RUBBISH
tortoise-shell glasses distinguished his countenance;
his manner was effeminate; he was made to fetch
and carry. But he shook hands with Potiphar and
the latter turned about.
"This here’s Sam Hod. I work t’ his newspaper.”
"H ow do you do, Mr. Hod,” said the woman.
She offered him her hand.
"Delighted,” echoed Finch, taking Sam’s hand
in turn.
"Mr. Finch,” explained Louise, "is here at my
request. He acts as a sort of Man Friday in my
business. He accompained me tonight in case I
needed aid.”
The Finch person paled and looked more dis­
tressed than ever. He had visions apparently, of
being ordered abovestairs to stand over Peter and
make certain that he died— assist him in fact, if
the man found it difficult. He would doubtless
have bolted at the slaughter of a chicken.
Weary eyed and rumpled, old Doctor Johnson
emerged from the sick room. He came down the
flight.
Introductions were repeated.
"I’ve done all I can,” the physician said stoically.
He was iron-gray and lean— and needed shaving.
"W e brought out some tanks from the drug­
store in town, and for a time it helped— the oxygen,
I mean. But your father’s not makin’ much ef­
fort to live.”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 65
"Has he been— out of his head at all— since he
was stricken?”
"Lord yes!— half the day.”
"Has he said anything— anything peculiar— any­
thing that— well, that— ?”
"I don’t pay no attention to folks in his condi­
tion.” The doctor shrugged his shoulders. "I’ll
wait on the steps and get a brief smoke. If he starts
lookin’ queer, just call and I’ll come.”
The ordeal must be gone through with. The
daughter climbed the stairs . .
Daisy came down and went out toward the kit­
chen. The doctor and Hod stepped into the yard.
"Guess she don’t want you,” said Potiphar to
Finch. "Come along with us, ’round on th’ piazzy.”
The quartette found chairs in the side veranda’s
darkness and loaded their pipes in the hush of
mute tragedy— all excepting Finch, who preferred
cigarettes.
A hush on Potiphar’s premises only, however.
Across in the Twing house sounded revelry by
night. The cut-ups of Paris were "going full
blast.” . . .
"You know th’ Garlands perty well?” the printer
asked Finch.
"I know Miss Louise,” the stoutish one qualified.
"You work for her, she said?”
"I’m at present accepting employment with Miss
Garland. I act in her absence, if you know what
I mean.”
66 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Oh— you act in her absence? What kind o’
actin’ and what sort o’ absence?”
"I— er— handle her affairs when she— er— goes
off on trips.”
"She’s in some sort o’ business?”
"M y goodness, yes. She’s one of the biggest
business women in New York. Everyone knows
that.”
"Business woman, eh? What does she do?”
"She runs a chain of restaurants. The Wreath
and Tea Cup Tea Rooms. Don’t tell me you’ve
not heard of the Wreath and Tea Cup Tea Rooms!”
"Can’t say that I have. What th’ devil be they?”
"M y goodness! W hy— my goodness! Don’t
tell me you’ve not heard of the Wreath and Tea
Cup Tea Rooms!”
Potiphar paused in lighting his cob. He stared at
the stout one with mouth sagging open . . .
"I think I’ve seen ’em advertised,” Sam Hod put
in.
"Are they places to eat in?” the doctor asked
dully.
"Eat in! Why— certainly. What else are tea
rooms for?”
"I dunno. Sounds like they might be places to
drink in. Tea and other lickers.”
"M y goodness! Why— my goodness! Are you
meaning to imply, sir, that my employer’s a boot­
legger?”
"You never can tell these days,” chuc? led Sam.
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 67,
"I’ll have you know she’s not. These are per­
fectly respectable places. Our patrons are ladies
— ladies and gentlemen.”
"H ow many does she run— these tea rooms?”
questioned Sam.
"There are eighteen at present. There’ll be
twenty by October. The "Wreath and Tea Ctip
Tea Rooms! You know them by the trade-mark,
a wreath around a tea cup. Clever idea, I’ll say.
My goodness!”
"Clever idee! A wreath around a tea cup?”
"Yes. Certainly. A wreath means a garland.
And Garland— that’s her name. She thought it
up herself. It’s made a million dollars.”
"It’s made a -which?” cried Potiphar, startled.
For the second time within twenty-four hours,
millions had been mentioned with a certain artless
looseness.
"Our turn-over this coming year will pass two
million dollars,” and Finch tapped cigarette-ash
not quite ready for disposal.
"Where are these places?” Sam asked in interest.
“ Where are they? My goodness!— don’t you
get to New York?”
"Couple of times a year. But I don’t eat in tea
rooms.”
"W hy— they’re scattered all over— New York—
Philadelphia — Washington — Baltimore. W e’re
opening two new ones in Richmond next week.
68 GOLDEN RUBBISH
That’s why we were down there— where your
telegram reached us.”
"Tea rooms, tea rooms, everywhere!— but not a
drop to drink!” This from Johnson crassly, need­
ing comedy relief.
"D o you live t’ N ’York?” the printer asked next.
“ Naturally,” said Finch, "being Lou’s right-
hand man.”
“ Struck me,” said the editor, "your lady boss
warn’t over-eager to go up and meet her pa.
’Course he’s dyin’ from the signs. Still, she might
o’ shown grief— ”
"Between ourselves as men” Finch explained
knowingly, "there’s a long-due accounting coming
to that father. Relations between them weren’t
as cordial as they might be. It was Peter’s fault,
mostly. He was always a rip.”
"A what?” exclaimed Potiphar.
"Oh, you mightn’t think it. All the same, he
was. He liked his women wild.”
"T h ’ two had a tiff— is that what you mean?”
"Y o « can call it a tiff. I’d say it’s been a war.
In eight or ten years the two have barely spoken.”
"Whereabouts is his wife?”
"Dead,” responded Finch. "Since Louise was
a girl.”
"They didn’t live t’gether— th’ daughter and
her pa?”
"M y goodness, I’ll say not. Lou’s got her own
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 69
place, down in the city. Her father’s been living
over toward Scranton.”
"A in’t he worth a lot o’ money?”
"Oh— he’s comfortably fixed. But Louise has
got the most. Started in with another girl twelve
years ago, she did. In a house up in Yonkers. Lou
bought out her partner and went in for Art. Her
places were freakish and yet they caught on.”
The minutes ticked away. Somnolent smoke
furls drifted out upon the dark. . . .
"H ow ’d her pa make his money?” Potiphar asked
next.
"Huh— her father’d gone bankrupt if the war
hadn’t saved him. He’s been a horseman in his
day and owned some famous trotters. He manu­
factured harness— till autos came in and ruined
his business. But the world war meant saddles,
all sorts of leather goods. He got rich in ten
months.”
"Profiteering?” growled Hod.
"N o— just war orders,” their informant replied.
"Does his girl get his boodle?” Potiphar felt
giddy with this mighty ocean of dollars swirling
’round him.
"Providing she’ll take it. She’s his only living
relative.”
"They’s a chance she might refuse?”
"Well, don’t be surprised. Being a horseman, old
Peter had his women. None of them stood for a
70 GOLDEN RUBBISH
daughter in the offing. She’s gone on her own and
no thanks to anyone, excepting— er— myself.”
"H ow long you been with her?”
"This will be my fifth year.”
Another spell of smoking . . .
"By th’ way,” exclaimed Potiphar, "did you ever
hear o’ Roblin’s in th’ father’s affairs?”
"Roblings?”
"Did th’ daughter ever mention a chap named
Georgie Roblin’ ?”
"N ot that I recall. What makes you ask?”
CHAPTER III
A T a quarter to twelve the stricken one rallied,
“*
■ that ultimate rally bespeaking the end. The
man’s spirit was battling— to stay till his daughter
knew the burden on his soul. Shut in with him
alone, the daughter kept her vigil.
Twice the doctor came up. Once Potiphar came
with him. Disheveled Daisy Crumpett hovered
in the hall. But little could be done; the ordeal
must be suffered. The Vermonters withdrew and
the fraught night went on.
They had seen a young woman looking stark­
eyed at Extinction. So she appeared, and they left
her to that mystery. . . .
At midnight the father still labored for speech.
He would whisper short statements, then halt in a
choke. The girl endured his aspect, the purpling of
his eyelids, the puckering of his mouth. She sat in
a chair near the bed’s edge and stared. It was
poignantly apparent she had never kept a death
watch.
Across the highroad, the party continued. Co­
quetting flappers and muddy-shoed boys cavorted
to jazz from a static-hoarse radio. A “ Life of the
71
72 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Party” kept bellowing above the tumult: "You
Wanta See Mother When Dad Ain't Around if
You Wanta See Mother at All!” Once came a
crash, as a tray of tea things spilled down a stair-
flight. It was followed by shrieks. Supernal
revelry, dropping tea things down a stairflight.
Blah! Blah! Blah! . . .
All of it drifted across on the nightwind; it
entered through screens where sash curtains wafted.
Would they never cease their racket, crank their
flivvers and go home?
Daisy looked in at a quarter after midnight.
The girl was turned sideways, face down in her
hands. . . .
The high moon outside was no longer coral. A
cool silver dollar, it rode overhead. At intervals
autos honked down the river road, their raucous
pummelings smothered by distance. Shortly after
one o’clock the Twing stramash ended. With the
last machine gone, the district knew quiet. Quiet!
Someone clicked a fence-gate and a startled dog
barked nervously. Then later no sounds but the
zylophones of insects. An ordinary midsummer
night in New England. Yet up in that chamber a
soul was in torment.
The room was in shadow, for the bedlamp was
veiled. The man in that shadow was sinking and
shrinking. His hair matted down in long greasy
strings. The pores of his skin were enlarged and
distorted.
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 73
" — you’ve got to do it, Lou— ” was the burden
of his speech. He said it with his eyes closed, in
rhythm with his breathing.
The girl was curved over, interlaced fingers
clasped across her forehead. Her thumbs stuck
up grotesquely, like a pair of little horns.
" — ’tain’t our money, daughter. Belongs to this
Robling. Maybe I used it to get me a start— may­
be I doubled it— tripled it— no matter! Belongs to
this one-eyed feller— had a baby— wife blistered
him— wandered off somewhere and ended up a
bum. You find him, Louise, no matter what it
costs. Help him come back. Make him take
Matthew’s poke. Give it to him. I gotta see Matt
Robling in just a few minutes. Maybe it’ll help if
I tell him you’ve promised.”
Then again Peter babbled. He spoke of cer­
tain blueprints, a deal for some land. Always he
returned to his paramount obsession.
" — Matt Robling loved his boy. Told me so,
often. Kid might o’ had his dad if it hadn’t been
for— ”
“ Don’t talk about it, father. We don’t know
who’s listening.”
" — you hunt him, Lou— no matter where it
takes you. Do it for me— I’m askin’ you— dyin’.
I’ve been a wicked man, Lou. God’s havin’ His
turn.”
"T ry to get some sleep.”
The man’s jaw went strengthless. His eyes
74 GOLDEN RUBBISH
seemed glued together, that lethal excretion that
glazes the sight. She thought he had gone. Yet
he rallied from the coma.
" — helps— a lot— to know you’ll do it. Helps
— a little— to know you forgive!”
Had she forgiven? . . .
" — you— promise me— Louise?”
Strange are the contracts made with the dying.
The daughter seemed to nod, forehead still bent in
those interlaced hands.
One o’clock. One thirty. The nightwind con­
tinued to waft the curtains inward. The Twing
house over the way was darkened. Up in the
freightyards a bell tolled faintly.
Two o’clock came. Two thirty. The milk train
for Boston went roaring down the valley, the glare
from its firebox tingeing its smoke. That jugger­
naut too was smothered in distance. Over in the
Twing home, a retiring occupant adjusted a win­
dow. Trite peaceful sounds of Vermont summer
night. . . .
Seventeen minutes after three in the morning.
Peter Garland had lived sixty-one years, three
months and eight days. He had loved much. Doubt­
less he had suffered much. His slumber was deep
in the house behind the pine tree.
Miss Louise Garland descended the stairs. She
paused near the bottom. Her features were blood-
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 75
less. Then she sank on the stairs, where the Finch
person found her.
"H e’s really gone, Miss Garland?”
"I need a cigarette.”
"I’m sorry, Miss Garland. I’ve smoked all mine
up.”
"You would!” she retorted. "Go up and get my
bag.”
"You mean— not in the room where— ”
" Get viy bag!”
Finch stumbled up past her. He went up side­
ways— as though watching his retreat, that it did
not close behind him.
Two moths had come in when the screen was
opened. They darted, quivered, wobbled, about
the red newel lamp. One suddenly swerved and
struck the seated woman. Thence it fell to her
lap. Up her bare forearm it later crawled dazedly,
taking off into space without permanent mishap.
The girl sat bowed over, hands clasped before
her. Seated half the night she had been. Yet
what place was there to go?
Finch came down with her handbag. Daisy had
procured it for him, brought it from the chamber
where the light was now garish.
"Miss Garland— Miss Crumpett says, we should
stay here tonight— ”
"Give me a match.”
"O f course, Miss Garland.”
Came the whine of the starter on Sam H od’s
76 GOLDEN RUBBISH
coupe. They knew from the accelerations of its
engine when it backed from the yard and headed
toward town— its weak bobbing lamps shot past
the front door.
Upstairs in the hall the doctor rolled out tanks,
tall blue cylinders with brass cocks atop them. He
stood them by the wall and went down the rear
stairs. Potiphar came through, to reach his front
sitting-room.
"Mr. Buss!” called Louise.
The printer’s eyes were heavy; he was tired to
fatigue. Yet her presence startled him.
"I didn’t know you’d come down,” he began.
"W ill the doctor send an undertaker— or must
Adolphus get one?”
" ’Dolphus?” puzzled Potiphar.
"Mr. Finch,” the girl explained.
"T h’ doctor’ll ’tend t’ th’ undertaker, yes— soon’s
he makes out his certificate.”
"May I speak with you— alone?”
"For th’ land’s sake, why not?”
"Dolly, get out. I don’t care where you go.
Find a bed and jump in it, or try the nearest river.
Don’t let me see you till sometime tomorrow.”
"Certainly, Miss Garland. I’ll ride back with
the doctor, up to the hotel.”
Adolphus departed. For a self-acclaimed co­
director over two million dollars, he moved with
queer alacrity. And the girl on the stairs sur­
veyed the tired printer; from head to foot she
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 77
viewed him, her first opportunity to do it
thoroughly. Yet the aspect of shock never left her
strong countenance.
Despite his fatigue, the printer was gentle. Un­
mindful of her scrutiny, he swung the front door
and closed it on the night, then he too sat down
— on the seat of the halltree.
"D id your pa go easy, Miss Louise?” he asked.
"I don’t know, Mr. Buss. He’s the first person
I’ve ever watched ‘go’— as you call it. He might
have gone easy. He might have gone hard.” She
tapped a cigarette and put it in her lips. Then
her thumb pushed the end of a small box of
matches.
"You mean— you never see anybody die before,
daughter?”
Louise shook her head. She scraped a match on
the side of the box. The smoke helped her poise.
"I’ve seen plenty in my time after they were
cold. Dad’s been the first that I’ve watched in the
process. It was— what I call— uncanny. Oh I
know that’s banal! Death’s nothing else but.
What I mean to say is, one minute he was with me
talking business affairs. The next I was looking
at so much lifeless lard.”
Lard! Old Potiphar was shocked. Was she
calloused, this girl or was it a pose? Or was she
using irony as a mantle for her grief?
"All th’ same, that’s how ’tis,” he responded un­
easily.
78 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"This business of being a Conscious Entity one
moment, capable of seeing, feeling, functioning—
and absolutely Nothing the next— gets hold of
me hard. Too hard. I agree with old Schopan-
haeur, that the greatest joke of life is nothing else
than living
The smoke swathed her face. The troubled
printer waited . . .
"For seventy years,” Louise cried raggedly, "we
suffer and contrive, and struggle and aspire. Sud­
denly we get our feet wet, and take cold, and have
congestion of the lungs. A muscle stops throb­
bing, something called a 'heart’. The attainments
of a lifetime are swept into discard— smeared away
in one night. The waste of it! The inane, use­
less nonsense!”
"Lookin’ at it one way, yes, Miss Garland.”
"Looking at it the hard-headed commonsense
way— devoid of fancy and mystic drivel! The
waste of it, I tell you!— spending fifty to ninety
years creating an identity, a career, a character,
and at the apex of development tossing the whole
on a lethal scrapheap. Take my father for instance.
God knows he wasn’t much. Still, he was a man.
He’d gotten through boyhood, come through ado­
lescence, fought through young manhood— built
a business— made some money. Finally he arrives
at a few brief years of respite. Just when he’s about
to enjoy them, what happens? What is he this
minute? Well, go upstairs and look.”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 79
"You don’t think, Miss Louise, that death’s th’
end o’ everything!”
"Oh don’t feed me any pabulum about a Harp
and Crown hereafter. I’m not in the mood, des­
pite all your kindness. Death’s the end of every­
thing as far as we can see.”
"Y ou’re just scairt, Miss Louise— ’way down t’
your heels.”
"Disgusted would be better. Life is so futile.
I don’t except myself. I’m no different than my
father. I got somehow through childhood, I came
through adolescence. I fought my way into a
business of my own— built it to some size— expect
to build it bigger. And tomorrow, next week,
next month, next year, I may swallow a germ, or
walk before a taxi, and I’ll be the same myself—
just so much lifeless lard. The allusion isn’t pleas­
ant. But neither is the prospect. What of my
character, my business, my achievements? I tell
you I’m sick. W e’re all such fools to do it— keep
on— living— battling— ”
"You think death’s th’ end of everything?”
The printer seemed insistent of a Yes or No
reply. She looked at him levelly.
"If you claim that it isn’t, where’s my father
right this moment?”
The printer was distressed, but not by his weari­
ness. At length he said huskily:
"Mebbe more alive than he ever was on earth.”
80 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Maybe is right! It’s nothing we can prove—
just a spiritual assumption born of our despair.”
"I’ve proved it, Miss Louise, t’ my own satisfac­
tion.”
"N o one’s proven it to mine!”
"N o one’s bound t’ do that. W e’ve got t’ run
down such things for ourselves. How much have
you tried?”
"When the dead come back and talk to us with­
out seance hocus-pocus, when they tell us where
they’ve gone and how they like the climate, when
they give us evidence of survival as reasonable as
life— mortal life— ”
"Then you’ll believe— is that what you mean?”
"Well, is that so irrational?”
"And how do you know they ain’t done it, Miss
Louise?”
"They’ve not done it to me.”
"N o, and if you kept doors locked t’ your house,
and never answered th’ tellyphone, and never went
out nowheres among folks, you might say they
didn’t exist ’cause they never looked you up.”
She stared at him dismayed. "D on’t tell me
you’re a Spiritualist!”
The printer shook his head. "N o, Miss Louise.
I’m— only a Christian.”
"I don’t know what you mean. All the Christ­
ians I’ve ever met were just as terrified about their
status after death as the atheists. Some of them
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 81
more. In all human history there’s never been a
single person come back, of authentic record, to
prove we survive when that heart-muscle stops.”
“ Th’ Master come back. Lots o’ folks saw Him.
They even felt His hands and His body. They
talked with Him. Forty days or thereabouts, He
stayed— ”
"That’s a presumption of theology and I’m talk­
ing science. Besides, the One you mention wasn’t
human like us mortals. Why, you even lack
proof He ever existed!”
"D o I?” whispered Potiphar.
"A t least you’ve never seen H im !”
"A in’t I?” asked the other. "H ow do you
know?”
For the first time Louise flushed. She finished
her queer-scented Russian cigarette. And the
printer said gently:
"Y ou’re like lots o’ folks, daughter. Just ’cause
things ain’t happened t’ you, you’re ready t’ claim
they ain’t happened t’ anyone. And funny part is,
folks never do get proofs when they’re all het up
t’ fight ’em.”
"I’m a business woman, Mr. Buss. I deal in facts
— facts as I encounter them. All my life long I’ve
been treating with Realities. If they’ve made me a
Materialist, how can I help it?”
"You ain’t very old, that’s all, Miss Louise.”
"I’ll be thirty-four in March!”
82 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"I didn’t mean— ”
"I know you’re twice as old— perhaps older than
my father. Just how old are you?”
"Somethin’ like twenty thousand years, if you
want th’ real truth.”
"What do you mean by that?”
"See, you don’t understand,” the printer said
compassionately, "no more’n you 'get’ death.
You’re a poor scairt baby, no more’n a cupple
thousand years old, prob’ly. You’ve seed a man
cast off a useless body, havin’ done with it, and
you don’t know how t’ take it.”
"What do you mean, I’m probably not more
than two thousands years old?” She looked at him
nervously. Was he cracked, this old Samaritan?
She saw him shrug his shoulders. He did not look
crazy.
" ’Tain’t th’ right time t’ tell you t’night.
You’re like a lot o’ young folks— you won’t b’lieve
nothin’ but commonplace things— things you know
by your senses. You let life deaden you, sort of.
It takes a miracle t’ make you look around you.
And even when you see one, you refuse t’ admit
it.”
"I never saw a miracle! Or anything approach­
ing one.”
"What say? You never see a miracle? Then
what’s happened t’night— that’s left you so upset?
What’s happenin’ now— you and me sittin’ here by
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 83
these stairs, talkin’ t’ each other? Explain your
senses! Ain’t each one a miracle?”
"Physics can explain the mechanics of speech.
Natural laws aren’t miracles.”
"Yes they be, daughter! Miracles that folks has
got so used to, they don’t think of ’em no longer
as such.”
"Well, physics can’t explain the mechanics of
survival. If my father’s alive right this moment,
why doesn’t he just talk and say so? I want that
sort of proof. I’m hard-boiled, I tell you— ”
"There’s folks,” said Potiphar sadly, "who think
theirselves so almighty important that unless a
thing’s accomplished at their command they’ll have
nothin’ more t’ do with it. Don’t tell me you’re
one. It’s childish, Miss Louise.”
The girl bit her lip. . . .
"I know I’ve lived thirty-four years and built
up a business that employs a thousand people. In
that time I’ve never witnessed a single happening
that couldn’t be explained by the tenets of phy­
sics!”
She seemed to expect Potiphar to contradict,
argue, expound, exhort. He merely picked his
palms.
"I’m sorry for you,” he told her finally. " ’Course,
I don’t know what your life’s been. They’s usually
reasons for folks holdin’ views. All I can say is,
p’raps ’fore you leave I can help you see things
diff’rent. When’ll you hold th’ funeral?”
84 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"What funeral? Father’s? Who’dcom
eto it?”
The daughter laughed queerly. "I’ll have Dolly
Finchtake thebody downtoShawsville andput it
in the ground. You see,” shedefended, "you may
think m
ecruel orlacking inrespect. But I’mtrue
to my convictions.”
"No, I don’t see,” the printer protested.
"Father’s perished. That’s my present belief.
Aside fromhis neglect since I was achild, holding
paganistic cerem
onies over his husk issuperstitious
bother. He mayormaynot besom
ewhereinspirit.
I’ve never seenaspirit. Until I do, until som
eone
com
es alongandproves to my overwhelming satis­
faction there’s such a thing as survival—and not
by table tipping, either—this proposition that we
go on existing when our bodies are lifeless, that
there's literal im m ortality in an actual place, is
a lot of mystic rubbish. Ten thousand tim
es ten
thousand may subscribe to it. There may be liv­
ing people who have known it by experience. I
hold to my prem
ise. To m
e it’s mystic rubbish.”
The old printer’svoice held astartling richness.
"But a sort o’ Golden Rubbish all th’ sam
e, M
iss
Louise!”
"Perhaps so,” she agreed. "Its quality’snot the
point.”
"You’ll—you’llhaveaprayersaidfor him
, won’t
you?”
"A prayer? Well—m
aybe. That’s not im­
portant, either.”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 85
A tiny tear welled in Potiphar’s eye. . . .
" I ’m sorry if you don’t like me,” the girl went
on hastily. "A lot of people don’t. But then,
there’s an equally sizable number who don’t like
superstition either. I’m only the product of life as
I’ve found it. I’m not an atheist. There may be a
God— though I doubt if He’s the thing the Salva­
tion Army thinks. Call me an agnostic. An
honest agnostic. But remember, I’ve not the tem­
perament that tolerates phenomena. I’ve fought
pretty much of a lone fight since I was twelve. I
haven’t had time for embroidery or— mysticism.”
"Y ou’re a poor scairt baby, I say— who’s seed a
man pass on and don’t know how t’ take it. Most
folks like you are. Scairt that’s all. ’Cause they
don’t understand.”
"Well, I’m not keeping you from bed because
I’m after sympathy— although you’re a dear and
I’m treating you abominally. And neither right
now does the After Life bother me; not so much as
something else. Immortality— where my father’s
gone— whether he’s alive or whether he’s perished
— can wait for the present. What I want to know
is, who’s this fellow George Robling?”
The printer glanced up suddenly.
"Land’s sakes— don’t you know?”
"O f course I don’t know. I’ve only just heard
such a person exists. He worked on your paper
86 GOLDEN RUBBISH
twenty years ago, didn’t he?— a derelict, dad said,
who let a woman wreck him.”
"But he loved her a lot,” the loyal printer argued.
"Oh never mind that. Women don’t wreck men
who are worth their powder and shot. What I
want to know specifically— how old a man would
this Robling be at present?”
Potiphar blinked stupidly, his weariness return­
ing
"Le’see, I come t’ Paris in Nineteen-Hundred-
Six. Georgie showed up a cupple years later. That’d
make him thirty-nine. He was nineteen when I
knowed him.”
“ A man nearly forty years old!” The woman’s
voice held fright. "Seven years my senior!”
"W hat’s troublin’ you, daughter? ’Bout Georgie,
I mean?”
"Thirty years ago, in Alaska, my father got into
a nasty jam with this George Robling’s father. The
two had been partners. When my father came out,
he had Matthew Robling’s poke. That’s all I can
say of what happened in the Klondyke.”
"I’ve sort o’ suspected,” the printer said softly.
"M y father 'stepped-up’ that poke to a for­
tune. When he arrived at those years when life
lost its kick, he got thinking of the Roblings and
specifically the son. His conscience got so bad it
compelled restitution.”
"And your dyin’ daddy asked you— ?”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 87
" — to hunt down this George and return him his
patrimony.”
"Well, it’s natcheral you should.”
"Natural? Fiddlesticks! It’s none of my fracas.
I’ve had nothing in common with my father but
my name. Still, that’s not the point. Finding this
Robling, giving him money— lawyers could do
that. It’s the rest of the brevet that makes me see
red.”
Again the woman laughed— that hurt, nervous
laugh.
"Life’s funny, funny! After I’ve minded my
own business, looked after myself, built my own
life, arrived at the point where it meant a little fun
— this sort of thing happens! I’m called to get be­
hind a masculine failure and salvage what’s left of
him to save the family honor!”
"W hat’s wrong ’bout that? I should think you’d
be glad— ”
"Glad! Glad of what, for heaven’s sake?”
"That you can help Georgie— that you can help
anyone.”
"W hy should I help anyone? Who the devil’s
helped me? For twenty-one years I’ve fought my
own fight. I’ve asked odds of no one. I’ve come
out on top— ”
"But don’t you see, all th’ more reason— ”
"N o, I don’t see! Excuse my bad temper but
again I’m facing facts. Ever since girlhood, life’s
88 GOLDEN RUBBISH
had a nasty trick of trying to dump things off on
my shoulders. Because I’ve scratched back I’ve got
where I am. This one-eyed Robling is nothing to
me— no more than that man who’s lying dead up­
stairs. And so I resent this brash imposition. I
haven’t time or temperament to be any man’s
nurse— ”
"Has your pa left a will?”
"Oh yes, there’s a will. I get half of his wealth.
This Robling gets the other. Providing that he
does!”
"You mean, you’d try t’ stop him?”
"That’s why I’m wrathy— at least one of the
reasons. I can’t contest that will without its com­
ing out— father’s mess in the Klondyke back in
Eighteen-Ninety-Eight.”
"I meant, I don’t see why you don’t want
Georgie t’ get what’s his right. Don’t you want
t’ be square?’ ’
"Surely I do— square to myself! My father
brought me into this spit-and-claw world and then
blithely left me to shift for myself. All right, I
took that challenge. And it’s taught me certain
things. Chief among them is, to look out for my­
self because no one else will. Klondyke mess or
no, you can bet I mean to do it. And any old
time I let five hundred thousand dollars slip through
my fingers to the lap of a gutter-snipe— ”
"Did you let your pa die, athinkin’ you’d
promised him?”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 89
"And what if I did? I suppose it’s your conten­
tion his ghost will come to haunt me?”
"N o, I was just tryin’ t’ figger out how a wo-
man’d got t’ be your successful and— and warn’t
no more careful ’bout keepin’ her word!”
CHAPTER IV
FRONT PAGE story of old Peter’s demise ap­
peared in "The Telegraph” the following
afternoon, but concerning his daughter it offered
small comment. She was the founder and operator
of a chain of successful restaurants; she was often
"written up” in the achievement magazines and
women’s clubs besought her as a speaker on Fem­
inism. So much was known before "The Tele­
graph” was published.
That she would remain in Vermont a few days
however, "to conclude certain matters engaging
Mr. Garland when stricken by his illness,” was
virgin information which the town seized on
eagerly. But what matters? W hy had the towns­
folk not heard of them before? Should people who
paid fifty cents a month for a so-called evening
paper, patiently tolerate such paucity of detail?
If ever a community thrived on a pincushion in
the week which ensued, minding someone else’s
business, that community was Paris and the some­
one else "Lou” Garland. The celebrity’s sojourn
caused more commotion than an epidemic of de­
mises— a girl in her thirties who had made a million
dollars, two millions, perhaps half a dozen? Why
not?
90
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 91
Yet insult piled on journalistic injury.
The town learned further, though not through
the paper, that after the body had been duly
"shipped south” the celebrity was visiting in the
house down the river-road— Potiphar Buss’s home,
"that ol’ coot on th’ Tellygraph” . . .
W hy Potiphar Buss? Was the printer a relative?
And what sort of daughter shipped her father’s
body somewhere for burial while she stayed be­
hind in callous indifference? Had the man a wife
somewhere with whom the daughter was at odds
or did the cryptic "business” mean postponement of
his funeral?
Potiphar announced that his fair guest was "pros­
trated.” The townsfolk looked smug. To be pros­
trated you must "adhere to bed” with pains shoot­
ing through you, hot-water bags around you,
nostrums on the table and window curtains
lowered. Most emphatic of all, you must indicate
a sufferance for neighborhood compassion. Miss
Louise Garland was not confined to bed; she was
not inclined to received the curious and assist them
in fixing the number of her "millions”— quite the
contrary. For three afternoons following Peter’s
demise, the neighbors saw her reading in Potiphar’s
lawn-swing; for three successive nights she was met
by sundry motorists, strolling bareheaded under
evening’s first stars; and she even sent out a curt
"not at home” to Mrs. Brisco Busby, social march­
ioness and leader of The Fortnightly, when that
92 GOLDEN RUBBISH
pompous matron drove up in her limousine and in­
vited the notable to see the town with Quality.
Behavior such as this was beyond the Impossible.
Something should be done. The whole valley
fretted.
Then the fourth afternoon of the guest’s baffling
sojourn, Daisy Crumpett— who had developed an
equally monstrous reticence in the fifty-first year
of her orgiastic garrulity— sought her employer at
his place of occupation.
"They’s goin’s on!” she confided worriedly.
"What kind?” exclaimed Potiphar, pausing in
his work.
"Tw o men have come to see your Miss Garland.
An’ she practick’lly commanded me to go to
Calvary lawn-party an’ eat two dollars’ worth o’
ice cream. See, here’s the money— I think she
wanted me out o’ the way.”
"I should say she did, permanent! What sort
o’ men be they?”
"One’s a tall, swell-lookin’ feller, youngish sort
of— the other’s a funny ol’ sawed-off with powder
on his face.”
"Did she mention their names?”
"Yeah, but I’ve forgot ’em. An’ she told me a
whopper— she says the funny ol’ sawed-off was a
senator, a senator fr’m Washington!”
"A senator? Golly! What made you think he
warn’t?”
"H e wore a derby hat! Senators don’t wear
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 93
derby hats— it’s against the law, ain’t it? But that
ain’t all . . . just ’fore they showed up she tol’
me in an off-hand way she was thinkin’ to kidnap
you.”
"Kidnap me! For th’ land’s sakes, what for?”
"She’s took a sick’nin’ likin’ to you, Pott Buss.
You better go careful. Don’t you forget she
smokes cigarettes.”
"Oh rats, Daisy! Chase yourself ’long t’ th’
sociable. But mind you keep your mouth shut an’
don’t you let folks pump you— no one works
pumps without somethin’ gettin’ wet.”
"You better go home, Pott Buss— she’s down
there alone with a whole two men.”
Five-thirty came and the old man complied. In
front of his domicile a luxurious car was parked—
a long, black, glistening touring-car with negro-
boy chauffeur.
Potiphar’ssitting-room where Louise had received
her callers opened off the hall along the housefront
at the right. It had an elusive melody permeating
its antiques like an old familiar tune played upon a
’cello. Black walnut rockers displayed knitted
"tidies” and a worn horsehair sofa reared its scroll
against a wall. A steep cottage organ with Gothic
spires filled the space between front windows; in
the center stood a table with turkey-red cloth.
Steel engravings of Civil War battles, framed mot­
toes worked in plush, art calendars and "catch-alls”
94 GOLDEN RUBBISH
bedecked the faded walls and in front of the mantel
was a pot-bellied stove. A woolen carpet covered
the floor, its worn patches hidden by hand-braided
rugs.
The keynote of the room was a ponderous Bible
lying open beneath the hanging-lamp with the
old printer’s spectacles reposing on the Psalms.
A t each end of the mantel were smaller twin lamps
with a circlet of prisms around each china globe.
Pots o f geraniums filled the front windows and has­
socks for the feet could be found beneath the chairs.
The owner of these premises entered his kit­
chen. A connecting dining-room, opening on the
back, carried front-room voices through two un­
closed doors.
" — all right,” a man was saying so that Potiphar
heard, "have your own way— you probably will,
anyhow. But remember what I’m telling you: if
Cartwright goes to the Federal Attorney, someone
in this outfit is going to have his hair cut— so he
won’t need a comb.” And footfalls were audible,
o f a nervous man pacing.
"W e may be investigated, yes,” said Louise.
"But that doesn’t mean conviction.”
"Caesar’s Ghost, woman!— don’t you know what
you’re flirting with?”
"I know what Bob Ackermann’s flirting with,
and the prospect isn’t pleasant.”
"He had access to your money. He swung the
whole deal with your name behind it.”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 95
"And assuming he went to Washington tomor­
row and fatally shot the President, I suppose I’d
be hung because I sit with him on certain business
boards?”
Another male voice intruded: “ You’re sure,
Louise, there’s nothing in writing between you and
Bob?”
"D o you think I’m a fool? If I wanted to
jeopardize myself, I’d use finer technique than
bribing an underling. But I’m not quite so stupid.
I can make enough money remaining on the level.”
"H ow about those vouchers drawn to 'legal ex­
penses’ ? We never got the money. That’ll look
mighty queer.”
"Those vouchers are part of our corporate rec­
ords. Besides, how could the government prove
that some law firm, somewhere, didn’t get the
money?”
"If we didn’t tell what law firm, we might be
adjudged in contempt of court.”
"Yes,” agreed the older voice, "better to get the
dam’ vouchers out of the records and tear them up
ahead of time.”
"W ouldn’t that seem rather bad, if our books
were subpoenaed? . . . to have vouchers missing
yet the figures duly audited? No, let’s not call
attention to the documents so. Better to wait and
appear to act frankly.”
"But I can’t afford to wait! I’ve got a whole-
96 GOLDEN RUBBISH
some fear of government prosecution, even if you
haven’t.”
“ I’ve got plenty of respect for our well-known
Uncle Sam, but it’s chagrin that overwhelms me—
that such a thing has been 'put over,’ so to speak,
a criminal maneuver in one of my companies with­
out my suspecting till it’s too late to stop it.”
"I’m afraid of that Ackermann. He isn’t to be
trusted. I said so from the start. Now I think it’s
proved.”
“ You’ve never liked Bob since you saw him as
my escort at Mrs. Glair’s dinner— why won’t you
be honest?”
"What do you mean? You’re implying I’m
jealous?”
“ Aren’t you?” laughed Louise. “ I shrink from
imagining what a Hollywood scenarist would do
with the situation you precipitated after the
dancing.”
“ I’ve apologized for that. I’d taken too much
wine.”
“ Yes,” the girl agreed, “ and for all we know,
Bob may have been under a similar influence when
he got us in this mess. Van here is about the only
man o f my acquaintance who holds himself aloof
from such indiscretions. I marvel how he does it.”
"Be serious, Lou,” the younger voice begged.
"Senator Frye has good license to be worried.”
"Serious? You think I’m not serious, in for
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 97
eighty thousand dollars and maybe a mess with the
federal authorities? But I won’t be stampeded, if
that’s what you’d like.”
“ Somewhere there’s a fish-hook!” the older voice
ranted. “ That fool should be treading softly,
making himself as inconspicuous as possible, not
showing up before Cartwright’s directors on the
strength of owning ten shares of stock. He had no
right there anyhow, aside from his job as your
general manager.”
"I agree with you, Fred, that it sounds indiscreet.
But I want confirmation that he’d work with such
crudeness.”
"He got the bald idea across to Cartwright that
if he wanted more success in government bidding,
he’d better hook up closer with Garland Fruit
Products. That could have but one significance,
with me a heavy stockholder. I’d dump the dam’
shares, if no one would notice.”
“ If a report of that session got around to the
Senator, Lou, it’s probably reached others,” — this
from the younger man, not hiding his alarm.
Louise Garland’s voice held a trenchant irony.
“ Listen, both of you!” she ordered. “ If our es­
teemed but loathed competitors are spreading the
report that Garland Fruit Products is using co­
ercion to absorb competition, our strategy is si­
lence! Do the two of you get that? Nothing’s
happened yet— excepting an impression on the
98 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Cartwrights that somehow or other we’ve a drag
with the government. Take a grip on your nerves
and act like two men!”
“ At least you owe it to Senator Frye to hurry
back down to the City and find out what Bob’s
game is— ”
“ I’ll attend to Bob Ackermann, don’t either of
you fret. But instead of the two of you going
off like dry rockets, you’d better use your time
piling brush for a backfire. And doing it in silence!
Instead of rushing off up here— ”
"Think of my prestige!” the older voice cried
shrilly. “ The minute it’s known how Ackermann
reached— ”
“ I wouldn’t speak names if I were you, Fred.
The only crime you’ve committed is owning a
thousand shares of Garland Fruit Products which,
miracle or no, you came by quite honestly.”
“ The country won’t believe it!”
“ No? After a few turns at your job you’re sus­
pected of everything from the League of Nations
failure to the cause for fallen arches. Well, the
country’s losing no sleep yet over scandal not yet
happened. You’re whelping before you’re stepped
on and that behavior’s fatal. Stiffen your verte­
brae. Give this thing the laugh— ”
“ The best defence is an offensive, Louise!” This
from the younger man in nervous appeal.
"The best defence against any charge is silence!
I heard one of the ablest attorneys in America say
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 99
once that three-quarters of the fools languishing
in jails and penitentiaries got in their dilemmas
through the wagging of their tongues. Well, in
this case the group of us have lock-jaw. The law
holds us innocent till someone proves us guilty.”
"There are plenty of persons ready to do the
last!”
"I challenge that, Van. I demand to be shown.”
"But with fifty thousand of mother’s money
involved— to say nothing of bribery— ”
"Hush! . . . what’s that? . . . I’m sure I heard a
noise.”
A moment of silence. Then a man’s stealthy
voice—
"There’s someone in your kitchen!”
"It’s me,” announced Potiphar— through the
two opened doors. A floorboard out back had
creaked beneath his tread. . .
"Come in, Mr. Buss,” Louise called, rising. She
was calm and cool eyed, disclosing no upset at
what he must have heard.
"I was just seein’ t’ my supper,” the printer
apologized. Through the dining-room he scuffed,
lowering his spectacles and peering above them.
"This is Mr. Buss, gentlemen. Mr. Buss . . .
this is Senator Frye from Washington . . . and
Basil Van Dyke, an attorney from New York.”
Potiphar shook hands and said two pleezter-
meechers.
100 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"W e were— ha-ha— motoring up through Ver­
mont,” declared Senator Frye. "W e called in—
ha-ha— to see Miss Garland— ”
" — and console her at losing her father,” said
Van Dyke.
"Ha-ha! Just so, just so!” said the Senator. He
flicked his neat whiskers, then rocked on toes and
heels with hands behind his coat-tails.
He was a short, square little person with under­
sized hands and oversized feet. They anchored him
to the ground, those feet, making him vaguely of
the earth, earthy. He had quick, squirrel-like eyes
and a mouth whose contour was screened by a trim
beard. In peculiar mannerism he flicked this trim
beard as though keeping it clear from a snarl in
his cravat. His iron-grey hair held a permanent
wave, as the lapel of his cut-away held a carnation.
He had a freshly-powdered, bandbox aspect, re­
sponsible for Daisy’s allusion to cosmetics. "Old
Coat-Tails” they called him on Capitol Hill, though
the printer learned this later.
The other man was tall, supple, about thirty-five
years old. His forehead was high with the hair
combed straight backward. Thin hair, jet black,
it was— like his eyebrows and moustaches. The
printer glanced twice at these upper-lip adorn­
ments. They were straight as black wire and
curled to needle sharpness. A gray, double-breasted,
basketweave suit, the latest cut in collars, socks
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 101
with white clocks and gun-metal oxfords, he wore
with the ease of the business aristocrat.
"Unique country home you have here,” he said,
addressing Potiphar who came only to his shoulder.
"I envy Miss Garland her brief vacation, in it, after
the sorrow of losing her father.”
"Yes, he— he perished on these premises,” was
all that the printer could call up at the moment.
"W e ought to be going,” the Senator galvanized.
"You don’t have t’ hurry ’way on account o’ me.
If you wanta see Miss Garland you can stay here all
evenin’.”
"W e’ll have ourselves driven to the hotel up in
town. I hope you have a good one.”
"W e might have a better. Th’ Whitney House,
they calls it. Pat Whitney runs it. He’s a tight
one, Pat Whitney. He wets all his stove-wood—
t’ make it burn slower.”
"Then it’s fortunate we’ve come up here in the
summertime— when a fire’s not of consequence.”
"They tell a fair yarn ’bout Pat,” the printer
offered, seizing on anecdote to leaven his diffidence.
"Drummer spilt cream on his pants once, eatin’ his
breakfast t’ Whitney’s hotel. Ruined his suit, or
that’s what he claimed. Took it t’ court when
he and Pat squabbled. Pat won his case, though.
Got off scot free— when he proved t’ th’ jury ’twas
skimmed milk he served and not cream at all!”
The laughter of his auditors disclosed their re-
102 GOLDEN RUBBISH
lief— that whatever of their converse the man had
overheard, it had made no impression that showed
in his manner.
"Suppose,” said Basil, turning to Louise, "we
finish our discussion tomorrow as you said.”
"It’s the better way,” she answered. Her ex­
pression held significance . . . and they moved
toward the hall.
"W e got beds here aplenty,” Potiphar assured
them. "You could stay here if you wanted. I
ain’t never slept no senators on these premises but
I once took in a congressman who was shot in the
head.”
"Is that a local practice?” Senator Frye ex­
claimed.
"Congressman Blake ’twas, who’d been huntin’
on th’ mountain. He was never th’ same man after­
wards. But he went back t’ Washington.”
Louise remained twenty minutes with her visit­
ors continuing the discussion at the door of their
machine. At length she reentered.
"What are you trying to do?” she demanded.
"Get me my supper,” the printer responded.
"Go in and sit down. I’ll get your supper.”
"Y ou’ll get me my supper! You know how t’
cook?”
"You forget it’s assumed that I’ve made money
in the restaurant business. Go in and read your
paper.”
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 103
"I never read my paper. Land’s sakes, I work
on it!”
But Louise had her way. She pinned one of
Daisy’s aprons about her printed-chiffon frock.
Later she sank down across the table-corner and
watched the man’s jaws in amused fascination;
they munched like a rabbit’s atop his fringed nap­
kin.
"I never et such vittles!” the little printer gasped.
"Ham an’ eggs, ain’t they? Jus’ ol’ fashioned ham
an’ eggs!— but what’s all this white stuff?”
"A new way of fixing the egg,” Louise answered.
"Land’s sakes!— t’ think yoti could cook a man’s
supper! You don’t seem like a woman, not a
cookin’ woman, bein’ all mixed up in businesses
like you are.”
"N o?”
" — yet you don’t seem like a man, either. You’re
betwixt an’ between, sort of— if you get what I
mean.”
"A feminine paradox because I’m domestic?”
"W ell— you got too many brains t’ be a woman.
On th’ other hand, when it comes t’ usin’ them
brains t’ see things higher’n cookin’ an’ dollars— ”
"I’m an aggravating numbskull?”
"N o, you’re a myst’ry!” And Potiphar finished
the viands on his plate. "Say, how many businesses
you got?” he cried suddenly. "Seems t’ me them
fellers acted worried, didn’t they? . . . ’bout some­
thin’ ’sides restaurants?”
104 GOLDEN RUBBISH
The woman lost her smile. She seemed slightly-
vexed. . . .
"I’m having a complication, Mr. Buss, in a fruit­
preserving corporation in which I got involved.
My manager bid on government contracts. Other
firms are vindictive because he got the business.”
"You got some sort o’ factory in addition t’
your lunch-rooms?”
"Three plants are owned by the company, and a
bottling works in Yonkers.”
"H ow ’d you get 'involved’ as you call it?” A
paternal interest prompted the catechism.
"I made an investment in a canning industry and
found it was mismanaged. To protect my holdings
I had to take control. It’s a separate enterprise.
I’m only its president.”
"O nly!” echoed Potiphar.
"The directors’ chairmanship is a more vital
office. Not to mention its General Management.”
"It must be swell, bein’ presidents and such. I
was doorman t’ a lodge once,— that’s th’ highest
office I ever held. It got too blamed hard. Had
t’ give it up.”
"Yes?”
"Yeah, every time a fight started I had t’ be
bouncer. I lost my front teeth and broke two left
ribs. ’Course you don’t run no chance o’ havin’
your face pushed in, when you’re officer t’ a
business.”
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 105
"But you often get walked on. That I can as­
sure you.”
"Yeah, I daresay. Seems funny though, you
bein’ a woman and up t’ your neck in corporations
and such. Ain’t many go in for it.”
"I mightn’t have gone in for it either, if Life
hadn’t forced it. Then again . . . I suppose . . .
there’s a lot of father in me.”
"Natcherly,” said Potiphar. Then a moment
later: "That senator feller, he’s in your business
too?”
"H e owns some securities,” the woman answered
dryly.
"H ow ’d you ever land him?”
"W hen I took over the canning concern I found
it in trouble . . . with the government, I mean.
We needed a . . . legitimate private lobby, if you
know what that is . . . a friend at court, you
might call it, to help us clean things up.”
"So you got yourself a senator! Don’t senators
come high?”
Louise stood up, both hands holding plates. Her
cool-eyed smile returned. "There are times, Mr.
Buss, when being a woman has . . . certain com­
pensations!”
She turned and went kitchenward. And Poti­
phar grinned. He thought she had winked . . .
In his favorite spring rocker, with collar off, vest
unfastened, shoeless toe-joints creaking comfort-
106 GOLDEN RUBBISH
ably, he sloughed down later in evening quiet.
His pipe was drawing smoothly, his arms were
folded, his little abdomen was in pleasing prom­
inence. Breezes of another summer’s night,
incense freighted, wafted through the house;
moths tapped at the screens; across the low
ceiling crawled drab groggy flies. One of Daisy's
many cats mewed for a time at the side kitchen-
door but later went elsewhere at receiving no at­
tention. And in another rocker across the corner
of the table holding that opened Bible, the city
woman sat with a frown in her eyes. She had
brought cigarettes and now lighted one absently.
"Great stuff, tobaccy smoke,” the printer said
pensively. "Lots o’ troubles go up in it.”
"Yes,” Louise nodded.
The hanging-lamp’s mellowness lighted her in
profile and the frock of blue chiffon made sharp
contrast with her flesh. A strong, shapely leg was
thrust forward and a lean French-heel made con­
tact with a hassock. It rocked her gently while
she smoked, as men smoke, without haste, letting
the fumes bathe her copper-gold head.
"I can’t stay here longer, Mr. Buss,” she went
on. "I’m motoring back to New York in the
morning with Senator Frye and Basil Van Dyke.”
"W ell— it’s been mighty fine t’ have you visit
me. Ain’t many come here t’ see Potiphar Buss.”
"D on’t your relatives visit you?”
"N ot in flesh,” the printer whispered. . . .
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 107
"I’ve been thinking about— things like that—
things you mentioned just after dad’s death. You
hit me rather hard, about keeping my word. You
hit me hard too, in some of your views about his
survival. First I should say, I told dad what I did
— gave him the promise— more to ease his distress
than because it spelled sense. We don’t argue with
the dying, Mr. Buss, not because they’re dying
but because there’s the chance that it hastens the
end. W e’re— afraid of committing a sort of mur­
der, so to speak.”
The printer rocked gently in the patent spring
rocker. He gave the impression of massaging his
shoulder-blades.
"Mr. Buss, I haven’t the time to go chasing off
on the trail of any derelict. My affairs are too
important.”
"I can see how you might think so.”
"But they really are. Thousands of dollars are
involved, each day I stay away from my business.”
"Some folks do have th’ knack o’ thinkin’ o’ th’
money end. I never could see it. But then, if I
could, I might be rich too.”
"Detectives, Mr. Buss, can run down this Rob-
ling. If my father’d employed them, he’d been
alive today. Still, that’s not the point.”
"H e prob’ly felt ’twas a personal obligation.
Doin’ it himself give him certain satisfaction.”
"Y ou’ve said it exactly. A personal obligation.
Personal with my father! This idea that the sins
108 GOLDEN RUBBISH
of the fathers can be visited on the children went
to limbo with witches and infant damnation. I’m
no more held to finding this man and working his
rehabilitation than I’m held for being born of my
father in the first place. W e’ve got to think clearly
on these matters, Mr. Buss. Four-fifths of all the
upset in life is caused by people thinking they’re
responsible for others.”
"You don’t think they are?”
"Certainly they’re not. Each one of us in life
is responsible for exactly one soul— that’s lodged
within ourselves. And the average person has quite
enough distress, accounting for that and suffering
for its errors.”
"You admit we got souls then? T ’other night
you tried t’ argue— ”
"I don’t admit we’ve got souls as you conceive
them: I spoke symbolically. What I’m telling you
is, this mess was my father’s. And again thinking
clearly, when my father perished as a living mortal,
his messes perished with him.”
"Hardly th’ results o’ them messes, Miss Lou.
Th’ money you say he took from Georgie’s father,
that ain’t perished, has it?”
"I’m coming to it presently. First I’m disposing
of certain moral aspects of a situation not of my
selection. I resent and refute that anything com­
mitted by my father as a youth can have its de­
nouement in the fortunes of his daughter. I’m
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 109
held to nothing as a common-law principle. On
the other hand, my father, having thrust me into
life— ”
"Done what? Real sure you didn’t come o’
your own accord Miss Lou?”
"O f my own accord! What bizarre idea are
you playing with now?”
The printer shrugged his shoulders. "Go on,”
he said gently.
"D o you think, if Ed had any choice about my
role in life, Ed let myself be born of an Alaskan
dance-hall woman— ?”
" Was you?” cried Potiphar.
" — the unwanted brat of a might-have-been
Sourdough and a girl in a honky-tonk— brought
back to the States as a Cosmic Encumbrance— left
to grow up as Kismet took caprice? Do you dare
to maintain, if Ed had the slightest election, Ed
have handed myself such a weird deal as that?”
The printer stared, thinking.
"Sure,” he said finally. "Matter o’ fact, that’s
exactly what you did!”
Louise stopped her rocking. Terror seemed to
slip across her eyes for an instant. As quickly it
was gone and her nervous laugh sounded.
"That’s novel, Mr. Buss. But I didn’t, I assure
you. Granted it were possible, I hope I’d show
more brains.”
"Choose yourself a nice, comfortable, uphols-
110 GOLDEN RUBBISH
tered berth I s’pose— in some Lap o’ Luxury where
you wouldn’t learn nothin’? You’d select such soft
snap as evidence o’ brains?”
"God knows where you’ve come by some of your
strange notions! . . yet commonsense dictates that
permitted such a choice I’d hardly have specified
the hardships of my girlhood. They were too, too
cruel. They did too much damage.”
"Made you strong, didn’t they?— so you’re run-
nin’ big companies at thirty-three years old?”
The girl became silent, thinking uneasily.
"But how about happiness?” she went on
finally. "H ow about mental tranquillity? You
think I rejoice in this never-ending strain?”
"Pshaw, you’re just tired for a time, that’s all.
An’ you argue from that, you’d like t’ be a Nobody
— a nameless flabby Nobody.”
"Well, I’m not allowing sentimentality to un­
dermine the structure I’ve been rearing, whether
I chose my role or not. I’m not at all flabby in
regard to this legacy!”
"Call it sentimentality, do you, standin’ by a
promise you made your pa, dyin’ ?”
Louise colored dully. The iron dimple grew in
the corner of her mouth.
"You’re the first real person I’ve met in recent
years— but our outlook’s different: we were born
to separate creeds.”
"Naw— I’m jus’ older. An’ I’ve knocked ’round
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 111
a piece an’ had some adventures with humans an’
with God.”
"Well, it’s made you a philosopher at least while
I’m only a— a fighting misanthropy, if that doesn’t
sound inane. Maybe I’ve got a lot to learn about
myself, but sentiment comes hard— ”
"I knowed a feller once who made them sort o’
statements. Went up an’ down through life arguin’
how hard-boiled he was, an’ how mighty little use
he really had f ’r sentiment. Fin’lly he was ship­
wrecked somewheres off Hatteras. Drifted f’r days
he did, with his water gone bad an’ nothin’ f’r com­
pany but a little terrier dog.”
"W ell?” asked, Louise, at an overlong pause.
Potiphar chuckled. "Revenue cutter rescued
him— found him near dead with tongue hangin’
out, swollen black an’ blue. First thing they did
was lower him some water, an’ th’ selfsame galoot
who’d been spendin’ half his life arguin’ t’ folks
his heart was made o’ brass, give th’ little dog water
’fore he’d drink some himself. Ain’t like my
friend, be you, Miss Lou?”
"I may be,” came the answer.
It discomfited the printer, her whimsical can­
dor. He went on lamely: "T h’ Chinese has a pro­
verb, daughter— 'When th’ grief o’ th’ soul’s too
heavy f ’r utt’rance, it may a little be eased by
speech.’ I was young when I learnt it. It helps
lots o’ heartache.”
"W ho said anything about heartache? Besides,
112 GOLDEN RUBBISH
I’ve learned to keep my own counsel. I’m— I’m
too busy to have heartache!”
"Yes, that’s th’ sad part— it shows ’round your
mouth.”
"Does it?”
"I don’t mean that sassy. I want you should
know.”
"There’s a lot of difference between heartache
and— lack of mental calm.”
"You’re all wrong with folks, daughter. I’ve
seed it from th’ first. I don’t know whether your
girlhood started it— I sort o’ wished you’d tell me
— but you lack understanding bringin’ peace t’ th’
soul.”
"Mr. Buss, I despise people!— average people—
because they’re so average/”
"Despise ’em!” echoed Potiphar.
"That’s a wicked thing to say. It reeks of con­
ceit. But the stupidity of the ordinary person fills
me with contempt. I want you to get me straight
— why I feel as I do— ”
"Marvel t’ me is, feelin’ that way, you’ve done all
you have!”
"From the time I was a little girl, forced to find
ways to get things accomplished, doing work be­
yond my strength, straightening out problems for
far older people— I’ve had capricious contempt for
the average human dunderhead, blundering through
existence. For that’s what he is. And that’s what
he’s doing!”
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 113
"I wish,” said Potiphar, "you’d tell me ’bout your
girlhood. I’d like t’ know ’bout you; mebbe I
could help. How old was you, daughter, when you
up an’ lost your ma? I— I got reasons for askin’,”
the old printer coaxed.
The girl’s face darkened. "I never knew my
mother,” she answered with reluctance.
"Never knew your ma?”
"Am ong my earliest recollections was being held
in a woman’s lap one summer afternoon out in
western Indiana and seeing a cortege climb a coun­
try hill. And another woman, a morbid woman,
told me my mother was in the glass wagon.”
"What was it she died of?”
"Pursuing her vocation with too much enthu­
siasm. You see, father had left her at arriving in
the States. I was nearly fourteen the first time I
saw him— to know him for my father. The people
who’d raised me got a line on him somehow: they
made him come back and relieve them of their
'burden’.”
The distress of throwing off her reserve, ranting
biographically, was obvious to the printer. And
yet she must do it; somehow he must make her.
He ventured persuasively—
"Relatives, was they?— th’ folks you was left
with?”
"N o, people named Beers: I don’t know why
they took me, but they kept me twelve years. Then
father came back, and saw me, and cried: 'The hell
114 GOLDEN RUBBISH
this is my brat!’ I was scrawney and awkward.
My nickname was Stilts.”
"Tell me all ’bout it. We got plenty time. This
Beers fambly now— how was it they treated you?”
"If you want the drab story, I’ll give you the
high lights. There were Pa and Ma Beers and three
older girls. They were hideously poor and Ma
Beers did washing: far into the night I had to turn
the wringer till I sank to the floor from the pain
in my legs. All the same, it was Ma Beers’ de­
mentia that beclouded my childhood. She had
hideous expedients for relieving her repressions.
Once I had six chicks given me in payment for a
service done a neighbor. A family by the same
name in the district had cheated Ma Beers fifty
cents on a wash-bill. She 'got justice’ by seizing
my piping baby chicks in their box of cotton wool
and severing their heads with a razor-sharp knife.
Again, she exterminated a litter of newly born
kittens by dropping the fumbling mewling things
on the back-veranda flooring, then squashing each
one with her great heavy boot-heels. I had to
watch it. She was crazy, of course. But— 1 had
to watch it!”
An old clock ticked thoughtfully in dining-room
darkness. Someone passed in the road, the scuff
of their footfalls sounding plainly in the silence.
"Father came and got me,” the woman re­
counted, "and parked me in a train seat for that
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 115
tedious eastern trip. He rode in the smoker, com­
ing back meal-times to toss me a sandwich. Yet
the novelty of the ride took the sting from my lone­
liness and we got to Philadelphia and he put me in
a school. A 'private school’ it was— in name— run
by a woman shaped like a tub. She was so horribly
fat that a circus should have had her. In fact, a
circus did have her— though she little suspected—
right there in her home, which made me speak
sarcastically about the privacy I met with.”
“ Jus’ whatta you mean?”
"A score of girls were boarded with her, all in
my dilemma, and she taught them what she knew.
But all those girls learned didn’t come from Madam
Bliss. They crawled in and out of the windows
like flies as soon as the lights were extinguished at
night— to meet boys, of course— neighborhood boys
— any sort of loafers providing they were male.
One girl, Inez I’ll call her, became enamoured of a
plumber— ”
“ You met ’em like th’ others?”
“ Do you think I had any reasons for playing
Little Angel in that mob of she-hoodlums? But
the turmoil that resulted when matters went
wrong, with Inez I mean, her confinement and
funeral, branded me with a dread for romantic
love till well into womanhood.”
"Well, that was all right, warn’t it— seein’ you
needed some sort o’ protection?”
116 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"I left the place finally,” Louise went on wearily,
"because dad’s business was slipping and no money
came for board. I decided I’d go out to Shawsville
and have a talk with him, really try to get ac­
quainted . . . so a girl advanced some money and
I packed up my clothes. I reached Shawsville in
the evening and went to dad’s factory. I didn’t
know his address— the address of his house— but I
hoped to find a watchman or someone who would
give it. A sullen young loafer did that all right,
when the watchman I found acted strangely eva­
sive. Across the town this fellow led me, to indi­
cate finally a house behind some trees. At first it
looked unoccupied but I made out a sign on reach­
ing its steps. Madam Somebody-or-Other was a
palmist on the premises.”
"Mistake, warn’t it?” The printer stopped rock­
ing and was listening wide-eyed. "Your pa lived
with a fortune-teller?”
Again Louise spoke with sardonic hurt.
"W ait! . . I rang the bell, and rang it, and rang
it— till the door was opened stealthily. A woman
was behind it in tawdry dishabille. I looked at
her surprised. And she too was surprised— believe
me she was! Bluntly I asked if my father could be
found there: I spoke his name loudly in adolescent
nervousness. It brought giggles from the stairs
at the back of the hall. I looked beyond the woman
and saw half a dozen girls clad in sleazy slips . . .
I got back to the street with the same qualm grip-
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 117
ping me that Ed felt over Inez . . . I never waited
to encounter my father— ”
"Was he there, d’you think— or had th’ boy
spoofed you?”
"N o, the boy hadn’t spoofed me . . . I stum­
bled around that strange town looking in toward
the comfortably lighted houses till whole avenues
were darkened. Along toward morning I was ill
all alone, down in a fence corner. But I managed
to recover and buy myself a breakfast. Then I
faced life— and planned what to do.”
"I know,” whispered Potiphar. "Mebbe I’m man
but I’ve faced such facks m’self.”
"I got into Scranton— walking the distance—
and found myself a job. In a restaurant it was,
owned by a Dutchman, a young Dutchman, with
an old ugly wife. When she wasn’t about, he had a
weakness for the waitresses. She walked in one
night and caught him pawing me. I had a few dol­
lars by then, however. The next place I found
was a job in a laundry.”
"I sure admire your grit— ”
"Grit? Oh fiddlesticks,— it was self-preserva­
tion. A man named Penny ran the laundry— a
one-armed old codger who’d lately lost his wife.
He put me in the office. That’s where I learned
my proficiency with money— that I had certain
gifts to make dollars do tricks. Penny got giddy
when he suddenly saw his profits. One day he
118 GOLDEN RUBBISH
grabbed me and insisted I marry him. It was ludi­
crously awkward; he was older than father.”
"I s’pose you’ve had lots o’ offers t’ marry. I
wonder you ain’t done it.”
“ I’ve come too near it, too many times. To
continue, however . . . when I laughed at old
Penny he broke down and sobbed. Sobbed! I’d
never seen a man sob and it frightened me to
death. That night he hung himself— in his bed­
room— in a closet.”
“ What!”
"I could go on telling you about job after job
— a whole magazine of true confession stories, most
of them dramatic because my life’s been little else.
What would be the use? I could tell you about an
experience in a Pittsburgh burlesque where I earned
easy money by showing men my legs— ”
“ You been on th’ stage?”
" — I could tell you about working in a pawn­
shop, working in a bank. I met a young lawyer
and expected to marry him. Drama again! An­
other woman shot him, a week before the wed­
ding. I got bruised in a train-wreck and was paid
a thousand dollars. I put it in a tea-room and be­
came my own mistress. Eleven years ago, that
was— and since then I’ve prospered. But I’m not
Lou Garland of the W reatJ
oand Tea Cup chain by
wearing my heart between my shoulder and my el­
bow !” She declared this last defiantly, as though
arguing with herself.
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 119
"H ow ’bout your daddy, when you started t’
prosper?”
"Yes, what about him? When I went up into
your south bedroom last Tuesday night, it was the
first time Ed seen him since Nineteen-Twenty-
Three. I was badly cramped for funds— acquiring
that cannery— and I thought Ed try him out. I
met him by appointment, in New York it was,
and asked him for a loan . . . I knew he had
plenty and could easily spare it. He parried me
however, describing a breach of promise suit with
which he was threatened: some racy jezebel had
mittened onto him and he wanted me to see her
ambulance-chasing lawyer. I laughed in his face
and went off to see Basil.”
"Basil?”
"Basil Van Dyke, who was here this afternoon
— he’s the son of Joel Van Dyke, the chemist, and
his mother’s a Carberry and scandalously wealthy.
He promised to get me a loan— he did get me a
loan— on a half-understanding Ed later be his wife.
That was five years ago, and stalling him along has
scarcely been a picnic.”
"You don’t want t’ marry him?”
"Oh, call it I’m indifferent. Anyhow, you see
why dad’s death didn’t crush me— why I wouldn’t
be hypocritical enough to give him a funeral, weep
over him, act mawkishly compassionate and hope
he’d survived. As for letting his money go to
120 GOLDEN RUBBISH
somebody else— no, no, Mr. Buss . . . it’s my time
to collect!”
A pucker appeared in Potiphar’s forehead. Sub­
sequently needing more tooacco, he crossed to the
hall for a packet in his coat. Returning, he stood
thoughtfully a moment by the organ, breaking the
stamp and uncreasing the tin-foil. Louise crunched
the end of her cigarette in a saucer at her elbow and
fitted a fresh one into a slender black holder.
"What I can’t get,” the printer said finally, "is
why, havin’ went through so much, you can’t split
with a feller who’s had his knocks too? Plenty
hard-poundin’ should leave people soft.”
"Because he’s a stranger and none of my busi­
ness!— to start sharing with all similar unfor­
tunates in America, I’d liquidate my holdings and
go in for philanthropy. You see, Mr. Buss, it’s a
law of economics— business is one thing, charity’s
another; the moment you mix them you’re court­
ing calamity.”
"But you promised,” cried the printer. "You
can’t get around that fack. You promised!”
"M y reply to that is : it takes two to make a
bargain. When one party dies, the bargain is dis­
solved. You can’t have a contract with a memory
in the abstract, not a legal covenant.”
"But your pa ain’t a memory!”
"That’s metaphysics, mysticism again, over which
I can’t enthuse. If you’re right, if father’s still
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 121
alive, if he knows obligations contracted in flesh,
let him finish his errand and find Robling for him­
self.”
" ’Tain’t impossible he will, if you don’t keep
your word.”
"Mr. Buss, you’re so— droll.”
"S’pose you knowed for a fack that your daddy
ain’t perished, how’d you feel then ’bout short-
suitin’ Georgie?”
"W hat the legal status of a legacy may be under
cosmic survival is something I can’t answer, but
after the blatant recital I’ve just made you I should
think you’d understand that salvaging a derelict is
a farce to begin with. I mean for Lou Garland.
Let alone the question of money— which was only
one-half of the covenant that troubles us— who am
I, pray, to regenerate a failure?”
"Seems t’ me, from your ’blatant recital’ as you
call it, that you’ve learnt a few ropes.”
"I haven’t the time. I haven’t the inclination.
I haven’t the patience. I haven’t the incentive.
The whole thing’s preposterous and I simply can’t
be bothered.”
"But gosh-almighty, honey, ain’t you got no
love in your heart for nobody?”
"If I did have the belated impulse to clean the
choked fountains of inhibited altruism, I’m telling
you that no man who’d let a woman wreck him
would be the motivation. If you think I’m hard-
ribbed, charge it to my father.”
122 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"N o,” said the printer, resitting in the rocker.
"Your father ain’t t’ blame. You got things all
wrong.”
"You think so?” asked Louise. Her mouth was
twitching queerly,
"Every boy and girl has a grievance ’gainst their
folks. It’s th’ way o’ all flesh. N o man and wo­
man ever raised a mutual youngster that sooner or
later didn’t get a peeve, that things might o’ been
diff’rent or might o’ been happier. I’ve felt th’
same m’self. Long time ago, in Seventy-Five, years
’fore you was thought of, I got sore at my folks and
run off from home. My father’d sold a cow I
thought was half mine. Later I learnt th’ reason
why he did it— t’ get me from a scrape— yet ’cause
of a heifer I hated him for years. Lookin’ back
now, I see he done his best— all things considered
— ’cordin’ t’ his light and th’ standards o’ th’ times.
Most parents do, though we’re old afore we see it
— or know what life’s about.”
"M y father didn’t do his best! Why, he didn’t
do anything!”
The printer’s voice grew husky. . . .
"Trouble is, Miss Louise, we don’t know th’ ins
and outs o’ folk’s lives, that’s made ’em what we
find ’em. And that goes for parents, ’cause after
all, they’re human. Not a single person was ever
born who did a wicked deed, that he didn’t hold
he had good, sufficient reasons. Sixty-seven years
I been findin’ my way ’round this present Vale o’
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 123
Tears and I ain’t met no bad folks— just them as
got a rotten deal somewheres and took out their
heartbreak strikin’ back wrongly. Your pa prob’ly
got his rotten breaks, too— which put in his system
th’ carelessness you speak of.”
"Carelessness! CarelessnessJ”
"Chief trouble with this old world, honey, is its
lack o’ understandin’. Every male and female,
good, bad or indiff’rent, is simply th’ result o’ all
th’ things they been through. Not in one life only
— in many lives, I’m thinkin’. I don’t care if you
have made a million dollars runnin’ lunch-rooms,
if you ain’t got that straight you’re still a young
girl.”
"The 'millions’ I’ve made are grotesquely exag­
gerated. I’ve not made one million dollars yet—
clear!— or anything like it.”
"Folks knows in their hearts th’ loads they’ve had
t’ carry, th’ plans that’s gone wrong, th’ injustices
they’ve suffered. They can’t alius tell it so’s th’
world makes allowance. But they don’t want
blame, or jail, or headlines in th’ papers: they just
want a square deal, that’s all— and sympathy— and
love. A lot o’ love, daughter. You think folks is
stupid. I just call ’em tired. Come right down t’
it, what’s men and women but a lot o’ growed
children, crazy with life’s fixes, doin’ th’ best they
know how with th’ handicaps they’re under, sobbin’
for th’ arms that once rocked ’em t’ sleep?”
Louise bit her lip. She turned her face aside. . . .
124 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"I ain’t got no blame for any soul on earth,”
Potiphar Buss wheezed earnestly, "no matter what
it does. Seems sometimes I’d like t’ stretch out my
arms and gather th’ whole human race right into
my boozum. ’Tain’t much as boozums go. Still,
that’s how I feel. I know how Jesus must o’ felt
when He wanted t’ be a hen.”
"W hat!”
"— when Lie looked down on Jerusalem, I mean,
and says He wisht He could gather th’ place up, and
all th’ folks in it, and hide ’em like chicks under th’
shelter o’ His wings. I’m a mushy ol’ fool. I
sometimes takes notions. But I’ve went through a
lot and I know folks’ insides.”
"I’m a business woman. And as a business wo­
man— ”
"— I’m thinkin’ that’s why He’s had all sorts o’
persons willin’ t’ die for Him these last two thou­
sand years. He jus’ sympathized! And so I bet a
cookie if we really knowed th’ truth ’bout your
pa— could o’ followed him ’round through his life
from th’ first— we’d o’ seen th’ reasons why you
didn’t figger so much in his affairs.”
"I’m not so good a person— as you are— Mr.
Buss— ”
"You ain’t so old as I be, that’s all. But some­
day you will be and your soul ’ll be soft.”
"Yet thousands of elderly people don’t— ”
"I admit th’ world’s funny. Takes all sorts o’
suckers t’ make up th’ tax-list.” The printer lit
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 125
his pipe. "You can’t give a feller kindness by givin’
him age. All th’ same, real love for th’ human race
is a mighty pleasant feelin’ when it gets to your
gizzard. Queer part o’ it is, if it once moves in on
you lots o’ things happen. You suddenly find you
realize, for one thing, that dead folks ain't perished.
And when you get that good, life takes a new
meanin’.”
The city woman stared. "Efow do you mean—
you realize— the dead haven’t— perished?”
"N o one knows what love is. As a word it’s
worn out, we use it for so much. A mother thinks
she feels it when she’ll fight for her young. A
feller calls it love when he hankers for a girl. Th’
Good Book tells us that God felt it towards a world
gone skewed, and let His Son come here— t’ show
us th’ way t’ conquer our cussedness. Mebbe in a
way it’s all th’ same stuff. But when you get over
thinkin’ ’bout yourself, and let it really warm th’
cockles o’ your heart, it opens strange senses and
gives you queer powers.”
"W hat powers, Mr. Buss?”— The girl’s face
looked frightened.
"Dunno’s I could tell you. If you was born
blind— and most of us are— I couldn’t describe you
th’ color o’ red. But things happen. You see traits
in folks you never see before. Perty soon you
realize they’s other things you’re seein’— not only
seein’ but feelin’ as well. Presences, you might say.
People too fine t’ be looked at with eyes. ’Twas
126 GOLDEN RUBBISH
love fetched th’ Carpenter back, warn’t it— t’ th’
twelve that was grievin’ in th’ closed Upper Room?
That ain’t no parable, Him returnin’ like He did,
. . . and ’twas love bridged th’ gap, though we
don’t know just how. What I’m tellin’ you is,
when you got a genuine feelin’ t’ put your arms
’round everybody and let ’em cry on your shoulder,
they’s puzzles explained that scares selfish folks
stiff.”
"I see. You contend— we acquire— super­
senses?”
"N o, not acquire. N o one acquires what they
already got!”
CHAPTER V
OUISE left Vermont the following morning.
A volcanic sun was erupting gold recklessly
over Haystack Mountain’s summit, streams of
bright lava were pouring down valleys and a faint
tinge of fall hazed the country horizons, when
the regal car halted at Potiphar’s gate and the wo­
man came out in the hat with the veils. A sad
little printer followed with her luggage.
"Sorry you’re not going with us, Mr. Buss,” Van
Dyke greeted him politely. He was clad like the
Senator in motoring coat.
"Oh, they’re all alike, places. I been Here, I
been There. Now I’ve took root an’ places comes
"Good-bye, Mr. Buss,” said his guest from the
tonneau, extending her hand after tying her veils.
"G oo’bye, Miss Louise . . . you’re gonna have a
wonderful day for auttymobile ridin’. Remember
what I told you ’bout cornin’ back up. When you
get full o’ snarls— ”
"Yes, yes, I know! It’s been a strange contact
— perhaps not without significance.”
"Nothin’ happens in this world without that,
t’ me!”
127
128 GOLDEN RUBBISH
daughter. You remember I’ve told you. When
you’ve got old as me, you’ll take it for granted.”
"Mr. Buss— Potiphar!— I’m sorry I’m going.”
And Louise pressed his hand. "That’s not a mere
politeness— ”
"I know, sure! But if it’s on th’ Books for us t’
come t’gether agin, we’ll come, don’t you worry.”
Robes were adjusted, gears clacked, the heavy
machine turned into the road. From her place
between Basil and the Senator, Louise turned about
and waved her white handkerchief.
The printer waved back— a nondescript ban­
dana—
A long time he stood waving. He did not seem
to realize that the car had turned the curve. At
a quarter to eight he arrived at his work.
"H ow much did she give you, Pott?” the editor
demanded.
"H ow much did who give what?”
"Lou Garland— compensation for the upset she
caused to your house— you know darned well
what!”
"Between fifteen an’ twenty thousan’. I ain’t
counted it yet— mebbe fifty— seventy-five— you
never can tell, when you do things for heiresses.”
"That’s a lotta limburger!” cried Joe Hicks, the
pressboy. "It’s his way o’ tellin’ us he never got a
cent.”
“ You oughta sue her!” the office-staff agreed.
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 129
"N aw — I don’t go in for lawyers. I cotton t’
folks who needs some encouragement.”
“ But think o’ the chance you had to sting her,
Pott!” argued Kenyon, the foreman. “ You could
have asked practi’clly any price for lettin’ her old
man croak on your premises. And you go and
muff it! I s’pose you’ll have over that drule about
Love— ”
"Ed ask plenty for lettin’ you croak on my
premises, but quality folks gets special bargain
prices.”
The day wore on. The week wore on. The o f­
fice forgot its kindly indignation and Potiphar
Buss resumed his drab labors. Ben Williams’ cloth­
ing ad, the daily gist of publicity for the Modern
Bargain Store, the Red Front Grocery, the Bon
Ton Emporium, and “ them Jews down West Main
Street”— he set morning on morning in the same
quaint typography, varied only by items and prices.
And in mellow summer sunset he trudged up South
Maple Street, crossed Walnut at the top, went
down the other side toward those wide river-mea­
dows and the home behind the pine tree.
On the second Saturday in September, how­
ever, he had been at home an hour when a boy on a
bicycle halted at his gate: young “ Slim” Seavers
who worked at the postoffice. Slim had a letter
with lengthy blue stamp. Special Delivery for
Potiphar Btiss! He was cleaning a stovepipe when
Daisy announced it. The postoffice boy heard a
130 GOLDEN RUBBISH
bump and a shriek, the bump being Potiphar tip­
ping from his ladder and the shriek being Daisy’s
— when he picked himself up and reached for the
tablecloth . . . to wipe his black paws.
He got the missive open, and at once a slip fell
out of the sheets— a long greyish slip with two
crinkled edges. Daisy recovered it.
"It’s a check, Pott Buss!— a real check for
money! Look what she’s sent you!”
"Pshaw!” cried the printer. "She’s went and
spoiled everything.” Into the sitting-room he
scuffed and procured the spectacles laying on the
Psalms.
An instant later he appeared as one demented.
His entrance into "The Telegraph” office that
Saturday evening was a classic in dynamics. He
wore his coat but his hat was on backward. Soot
from the stovepipe daubed his splayed nose and
the trip into town had been made in his slipper-
feet.
"I’m goin’ t’ Chicawgo!” he cackled to Sam
Hod. "Th’ Garland girl’s found Georgie and wants
that 1 should help her.”
The printer thrust two heavily embossed, closely
typed pages into the puzzled editor’s hands and
pushed him toward the cubby that he called his pri­
vate office. Four equally startled cronies, talking
state politics with Hod, were left to conjecture and
a crassly closed door. Seated before the cluttered
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 131
exchange table, alternately reading and cogitating,
once feeling for a match and lighting his half-
smoked cigar without taking his eyes from the lines
the newspaper owner apprized himself as follows:
N ew Y ork City,
September 12th.
D e a r Po t ip h a r Bu s s :
It may gratify you to know that a line of in­
quiry which I launched on returning to this city,
regarding the present location and status of Mr.
George Robling, has resulted in information which
seems to be pertinent. Advices received from
Chicago state that a person of such name is em­
ployed in the offices of a construction corporation
in that city, obviously in a menial capacity, but
that further identification waits on the presence of
those more vitally interested.
Robling is, of course, a not uncommon name. If
the national census could be searched I have no
doubt that scores and even hundreds of "George
Roblings” could be met with. I am led to believe
that this may be the specific George Robling with
whom you were once acquainted, for two reasons.
First: Recalling the packet of old letters which
you showed me during my recent visit as having
been written twenty years ago to Mr. Robling by
his abandoned girl-wife, I had one of my associates
trace the latter through her divorce data. Thus
Mr. Robling’s former stepmother-in-law was lo­
cated and interviewed. She not only confirmed the
details with which you supplied my father, but dis­
closed that divorce papers were served on Mr.
Robling in Detroit.
132 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Second: Having sent a Mr. Perry to Detroit
to investigate certain addresses furnished by the
ex-wife’s stepmother, I am certain he would not be
wiring me to meet him in Chicago unless he were
reasonably assured he had found the right person.
As explained to you in your home, I have no in­
terest in Mr. Robling, his present location, or his
status, excepting that he is a beneficiary under a
legal instrument which I propose to have set aside
and the first point to be determined under such
action is the fact of his existence and legal resi­
dence.
As you appeared greatly exercised over his for­
tunes, however, displaying sincere feeling over the
unsatisfactory termination of his contact with you,
and as I am your debtor for kindnesses shown my
father and myself for which you stubbornly re­
fused payment, I am moved to make you a business
proposal.
If you will come to New York at your early
convenience, I will arrange my affairs so that we
may make a brief business trip to Chicago together
and interview the person Mr. Perry has traced. If
the proof is irrefutable that he is the George
Robling my father desired to benefit, I will desist
from any action and "rehabilitate” the unfortu­
nate on the following basis:
If he will agree not to contest my father’s will,
or insist on his bequest to my detriment when I
contest it, I bind myself to amicably settle on him
a sum of money representing the original amount
which came into my father’s possession from his
father in Alaska, in 1898, but without interim in­
terest or increment.
Such offer on my part, however, is emphatically
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 133
premised on an additional qualification to which
you must subscribe, namely, that if there appears
to be necessity for any further “ rehabilitation”
over and above the restitution of this patrimony,
that you personally undertake to supply such
service, completely releasing me from any such
obligation and further guaranteeing not to inform
Mr. Robling of my father’s requests of such nature
and intent.
You, and not I, seem to be the one temperament­
ally fitted to perform such function, and in view
of all the factors, past, present and future, I as­
sume your cooperation without further corre­
spondence. I am enclosing you a check for $500
for expenses, made payable to your order. You
need feel no compunction against accepting it, as
I can assure you the amount will eventually be
charged against the administrative expenses of my
father’s estate.
May I add that I very much anticipate the
journey to Chicago in your company as offering an
opportunity to perfect the friendship begun under
recent distressing circumstances in Vermont.
Also I’m confessing that I want to hear more of
your views about the cosmos.
Please wire me when I may expect you.
Most respectfully yours,
L o u ise G a r l a n d .
“ H ’m. . . she writes a fair letter,” said Sam
Hod smugly. He folded the pages and handed
them back.
“ I could catch th’ train t’morrer night, couldn’t
I, Sam’el?”
134 GOLDEN RUBBISH
The editor impaled the printer with his glance.
"And I you told me when I gave you this job that
you’d take root and stick no matter what hap­
pened?”
The little man’s joyousness froze on his coun­
tenance.
"But Sam’el— I stuck twenty years. And I
ain’t givin’ up— it’s like a vacation. I wanta see
Georgie!”
Potiphar’s loyalty was nothing to jest with. The
proprietor sobered . . .
"I was only spoofing, Pott. I’m tickled plumb
stiff she’s made the trip possible though I can’t
say I’m pleased at making you the patsy.”
"She ain’t makin’ me no patsy, Sam’el.”
"She’s making it a condition that you pull her
chestnuts from the fire. Boiled right down, she’s
the daughter of a thief graciously agreeing to give
back the loot if no one will squawk and if someone
like you smooshes everything over.”
"She’s a business woman, Sam’el. She looks at
things diff’rent.”
"I’ll say she’s a business woman. And too cold-
souled for comfort. But all the same, she’s pretty.
And that makes me think: you can’t bust around
the country with handsome young ladies, looking
like something that come from a rummage-sale.”
"You mean— my clothes?”
“ I’ll cash that check for you. The first thing
you do is visit Ben Williams. And don’t buy any
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 135
more of those sidewalk dusting ulsters. Tog your­
self out snappy— so Robling doesn’t think he’s
meeting Father Time.”
"Then I can’t go till Monday night. Ben W il­
liams’ store ain’t open on Sunday.”
"Send her a wire you’ll be with her Tuesday
noon. Take the trip on her money. Enjoy a vaca­
tion. But you listen to me when it comes to
George Robling. Don’t be a fool. That woman’s
rich, according as I see it, getting other people to
discharge her obligations. She dodges trouble na­
turally and calls the dodging Business.”
"Such obligations— helpin’ her— helpin’ Georgie
— is only privileges, Sam’el. W hy th’ devil am I
livin’ ?”
"Privileges my foot! You’re getting to be a
soft-headed old buzzard who’d give away his skin
if anyone could use it.”
"Well, I’ve done that too in m’ time, Sam Hod.
Not all o’ it, o’ course, or I’d look summat diff’rent.
Patches, you might say— ”
"A ll right, all right. We won’t argue that now.
But chase yourself over to Ben Williams’ store the
first thing Monday and get what’s left of it covered
with spry garments. For the honor of 'The Tele­
graph’ you’ve got to look shipshape.”
"They’s a whole day in between. H ow’ll I ever
get through Sunday?”
He managed it, however.
When Benjamin Williams came down to open his
136 GOLDEN RUBBISH
clothing store on Monday, Potiphar Buss was seated
in its entrance. But Williams being subsequently
summoned to the bank, he left his quaint customer
to his youthful clerk, Spinney. And by some weird
atavism maintaining from Father Adam— or tak­
ing his employer’s advice too literally— on digging
down through the stock with this Spinney, Poti­
phar came on one suit that no floods of dissuasion
could keep him from acquiring and draping on his
person. By its custom designer it was known as a
"Pinch-Back” . . . and the printer wanted that
suit specifically. If Spinney wouldn’t sell it he
would lose a cash patron.
Potiphar Buss arrayed in a Pinch-Back! A col­
legiate Pinch-Back! It had to be let out generously
in seams with which only a male is acquainted and
taken up frightfully where seams are unusual. These
changes complete, he worried a lot— that somehow
he failed to appear as those sleek young vacuums in
Ben Williams’ fashion-plates. Still the raiment was
bought and the world must be tolerant. An over­
coat too, was determined on finally— a raglan over­
coat— and concerning a hat young Spinney was
consistent; he sold Potiphar a soft green Fedora
with a bow at the back and a sparrow’s wing
feather thrust in one side. Clad in such ensemble,
the printer sallied forth. . . .
He made his first bid for approval at the office.
Jane Winbolt, bookkeeper, caught sight of him
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 137
coming. She stiffened and stayed so, an apple-
blossom waxworks. Joe Hicks, the pressboy, was
next to perceive him. Joe’s neck seemed to
stretch as he swallowed his tobacco. George Ken­
yon, foreman, came hurrying in— to drop his damp
proofs and grope for something steadying, which
chanced to be the stove and luckily fireless. Two
or three callers turned and saw Potiphar. One of
them asked brassily: "What th’ divil be you adver­
tisin’ ?”
Sam felt a silence falling on his business. He
thrust out his head from his nearby private office,
spilling paste on his pants without knowing that
he did so.
"H ow do you like ’em?” the printer asked ner­
vously. He came in to Sam and stalked for inspec­
tion.
Sam lit his pipe before daring to answer. "D e­
pends on what you aim to do in ’em, Pott. If you
expected to turn community horse-frightener— ”
"I’m goin’ to wear ’em t’ Noo-York. You can’t
mean they ain’t a fit.”
"Oh, they’re a f t all right— but not the kind
that has to do with clothing.”
"You m-m-mean you don’t like ’em? I thought
you said t’ get somethin’ classy.”
"Yes, but— ”
"Spinney wanted t’ sell me tan shoes but I
drawed th’ line at that. They warn’t quite dig-
138 GOLDEN RUBBISH
nified in a man o’ my years. Clothes ain’t what
they once was, Sam’el. Take my ol’ green ulster.
There was a garmint!”
"I’d rather that you— er— knocked ’round town
a bit today, Potiphar. Come in later and I’ll help
you with advice.”
A t half after one he was back in the plant.
"Sam’el, be frank!” he implored his employer.
"W hat’s wrong with me, anyhow? People stops
sudden-like when they sees me on the sidewalk—
and— and— three dogs all barked at me t’ once up
beyond th’ Baptist Church.”
"Dogs barked at you, eh? I suppose they’re not
educated to what the Well Dressed Man Should
Wear. Tell me, what are you squirming about?”
"I dunno. But if these pants looks as funny as
they feels, I ain’t so sure I’m a respecktable citizen.”
"Potiphar, you can’t go traveling in an outfit
like that. Supposing the train ran off the track!”
"But I gotta wear it somehow, Sam’el. My
sleeper’s bought and there ain’t no time for altera­
tions to another.”
The editor was thoughtful when the printer had
departed. "Oh well,” he told Kenyon, "maybe
Providence had a hand in selecting that suit. When
Lou Garland sees it, she’ll show him what she is/”
Louise beheld Potiphar at nine the next morning.
For reasons known only to herself, she had come
to the Terminal to greet the man personally.
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 139
Through the train-gate he trudged, confused by
the crowcfs, toting the telescope bag with the
straps— and though she discerned him, recogni­
tion was tardy. Not until he jabbed her playfully
with the faded fat umbrella did she grasp what
caprice had inflicted upon them.
"Mr. Buss!” she cried blankly. "What have
they done to you?” Then she noted the ache in
the tin-colored eyes. "Have you— bought some
new clothes?”
"Thirty-nine dollars, everything cost me. I just
had t’ do it. Th’ others looked shabby.”
The oncoming crowd shoved them out of its
current.
"But— the trouble is— they’re not the kind of
clothes— suited to your— temperament.”
"Spinney claimed they looked swell. And I— I
waited all Sunday t’ buy ’em, too!”
People were staring. Some of them were grin­
ning. It was characteristic of the smartly tailored
woman that none of them existed. . . .
"You dear old soul!” she cried impulsively. "You
come along with me and the two of us will shop.”
She got him to a cab.
"A in’t you busy, Miss Louise? It’s mighty kind
o’ you t’ meet me t’ th’ depot with all you have t’
do.”
"I’ve decided I’d rather make you happy, Mr.
Buss, than transact all the business there is in Man­
hattan.”
140 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"What!”
"Y ou’ve got to have clothes that make you feel
more comfortable.”
"You— you heard any more ’bout Georgie, Miss
Louise?”
"Oh— him!” Instantly the altruism, faint, al­
most imperceptible, vanished from her coun­
tenance. "N ot that I care to discuss,” she re­
sponded.
Up from the Terminal tunnel their cab shot, and
into Forty-third Street. Louise gave the driver
the address of an exclusive men’s furnishing store
in upper Madison Avenue. They rode in silence for
the first few minutes. N ot even in the traffic halts
did Potiphar show interest in the city scenes about
him. Suddenly he chuckled.
"I was thinkin’ ’bout Paris,” he explained, in
answer to her query. " ’Specially George Kenyon.
He and Sam Hod see me off last night. And I won
me five dollars.”
"You won five dollars how?”
"Oh— I ain’t got it yet. I’ll get it when I tell
’em. George Kenyon bet me five that when you
see my clothes you’d ’low you didn’t know me.”
"W hy should I do that?”
"They got you all wrong up home t’ Paris.
There’s folks there who claim 'that if anybody
stuck a knife into you, you’d bleed lemon-juice’
— but I held out diff’rent. And I’ve won me five
dollars. Wait till I tell ’em what you said— that
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 141
you’d rather fix me up than do all th’ business
they is t’ N oo-York!”
In a poignant type of glee, the man drew forth
his corncob. Ten minutes later the patrons and
clerks of a de luxe establishment were startled by
the entrance of an egg-shaped little man, with
skull entirely nude, proceeding toward the Suit
Department in the raiment of a saxophonist. And
a trenchant cobpipe laid a smoke-screen behind
him. . . .
CHAPTER V I
“ Q O I’d bleed lemon juice, would I— if some-
^ body thrust a knife in my body?”
Their cab, another cab, turned out of Madison
Avenue fifty minutes later, went eastward on
Fifty-Seventh Street and northward on Park Ave­
nue. And Potiphar Buss was exceedingly troubled.
"Because I put up my own fight,” Louise said
harshly, "refuse to let life whip me, take the world
as I find it and try to outsmart it, because I hunt
ways to succeed where others have failed and go
my own way regardless of convention— ”
"Kenyon didn’t know you very well, Miss Louise.
He couldn’t in four days.”
" — most of all, because I seek no man’s shoulder
to weep on, in the little-girl manner so appealing
to your sex, I’m a bloodless monstrosity that should
somehow be destroyed.”
"N o, no, Miss Louise. ’Tain’t that way at all!”
The woman laughed suddenly.
"On the contrary, I’m telling you, Potiphar
Buss. Having all the ingredients for a first-class
meglomaniac in my system, why not give them
exercise? Surely you’d not deny me that poor
compensation?”
142
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 143
The printer desisted from craning at buildings.
He glanced at his companion in ill-concealed anx­
iety. . . .
"Besides,” Louise persisted, "if you won’t in­
dulge me, soon you’ll be telling me I lack a sense of
humor. That would be the crowning touch— the
cotip de grace of your solicitude— telling me,
Potiphar, that I lack a sense of humor.”
"I ain’t never said you lack a sense o’ humor.”
"But we should be very careful on that point,
Potiphar, and have it distinctly understood between
us: Do I, or do I not, lack a sense of humor? Up
in Vermont you gathered that I did— now tell me
truthfully.”
Her manner was hectic. Never had the printer
seen that iron dimple deeper. She held her chin
high and gazed with a queer mirthless preoccupa­
tion at the city’s madding jangle.
"Well, you— you took things perty serious,
though I grant you ’twas natcheral, with your pa’s
death an’ all. Er— by th’ way, Miss Lou— you fixed
that mess up yet, th’ mess them two fellers come t’
see you ’bout t’ my place?”
The woman started slightly.
"You overheard— and remembered?” she ex­
claimed.
"Most o’ it, Miss Lou. I didn’t mean t’ do it.”
"Forget it at once. It had no significance.”
" ’Twas perty serious— seemed like t’ them.”
"Y ou’re a baffling person, Potiphar Buss. You
144 GOLDEN RUBBISH
appear so— naive— and yet there’s little gets by
you, is there?”
"Well, how’d they come out, th’ Senator’s
troubles?”
"Sometimes I believe you receive things telepathi-
cally. If you must have the truth— I’m not figur­
ing over-much at my office this week because of
persons I don’t wish to encounter.”
"Perlice ain’t after you, be they, Miss Louise?”
The printer’s face whitened.
"N o,” laughed the woman. "I might handle the
police.”
"Where’s your office at?”
"In lower Broadway. Near City Hall. You’ve
been in New York before, I believe?”
"Pshaw— I worked here twenty years ’fore th’
Spanish War. Where we goin’ now?”
"I’m taking you home— till your clothes are
delivered.”
"When we startin’ t’ Chicawgo?”
"O n the eight o’clock train.”
"Tonight?”
She nodded. "This is where I live. W e’ll stay
here for lunch.”
"I was hopin’ I could eat in one o’ your lunch­
rooms.”
"Please not today. None of my managers must
know I’m in Manhattan.”
The cab had halted before a narrow slice of
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 145
residence— a quaint little dwelling three stories in
height with a front of pink sandstone wedged be­
tween granite. The printer alighted and Louise
paid the fare.
"You got a whole house all t’ yourself, Miss
Louise?”
"Let’s not loiter on this walk!”
Louise produced her keys, waiting for no servant.
She appeared relieved when the street doors were
closed and the house like a sanctuary reared its
walls about them. The hall they had entered was
level with the sidewalk. On its left were broad
stairs that mounted to a living-room. A cloistered
place it was, dark-toned and secluded, light coming
in through stained glass at the west.
"M y, this is swell!” the printer gasped artlessly.
"But it seems sort o’ lonesome— like livin’ in a
church.”
He saw paneled wainscoting surmounted by oil
paintings. At the north was a fireplace, its pon­
derous mantel on a level with his head. Heavy
chairs and divans, quaint screens and taborets, a
black grand piano with scroll cover lifted— all
contrasted sharply with a mammoth polar rug.
Louise pulled on lamps that deepened the effect.
"M y stars! This is an awful big place for just
one woman,” gasped the printer.
Louise smiled absently. She took off her hat.
A negress appeared from the door at the back.
"Mr. Buss, this is Margaret . . . Margaret’s my
146 GOLDEN RUBBISH
housekeeper, cook, and all-around bodyguard—
when I’m at home.”
Potiphar gaped, and so did the black girl.
As a bodyguard— for whatever reason she might
have been necessary— Margaret possessed due physi­
cal equipment. Six-feet-two in height she stood,
“ cyprus black as e’er was crow,” a stalwart Amazon
of amazing comeliness, under whose arm the Ver­
monter might walk and not upset the hat with the
feather. Nevertheless, he did not experiment.
Margaret the Magnificent might not have under­
stood.
“ Howja do,” said the guest. He pulled off the
hat and was quaintly appalled.
The ebony Juno was likewise astounded: Poti-
phar’s cranium might have been a soothsayer’s gaz­
ing crystal, such was her bewitchment at its refrac­
tive nudity. The jazz artist’s clothes caused
stupefaction also. Louise said to Margaret—
“ Mr. Buss is the gentleman I spoke of, . . . in
whose home I visited, up in Vermont.”
"Yes’sam, Mis’ Louise,” and Margaret came from
her trance with an effort. “ Ah’m glad yo’ got here
all right, sah,” was her form of acknowledging the
unusual introduction. Her smile became as friend­
ly as her voice was melodious.
"Yeah, I— I fin’lly made it.”
The printer’s tone implied that for weeks,
months, years, he had wrestled with demons of cir-
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 147
cumstance bent on holding him a prisoner in New
England. Yet he kept a weather eye on Margaret
as though hesitant at lingering in her statuesque
vicinity. Thus did he occasion a somewhat awk­
ward incident. The negress approaching to take
his hat and bag— and perchance to disarm him of
the corpulent umbrella— the man misinterpreted.
He almost sat down in the cavernous fireplace.
They rescued him with laughter, from which
Margaret sobered quickly. She addressed her mis­
tress.
"Dolly Finch been tryin’ get yo’ all ovah
N ’York,” she declared. "H e call up fo’ times since
yo’ leff hyar dis mawnin’. He tell me Ah fib when
Ah say yo’ ain’t home.”
"Did he mention what he wanted?”
"Yes’sam. Ol’ Mis’ Van Dyke come see yo’ frum
Phillydelphy. She down to yo’ office, layin’ square
duck eggs. That what Dolly Finch say. She gotta
misery ’cos she spat wif Misto’ Basil.”
Louise bit her lip. "All right, Margaret. How
long ago did Mr. Finch call?”
"Ten, fifteen minutes. He say ol’ Mis’ Van Dyke
come back affer lunch. If she doan fin’ yo’ dar, she
gwine smash things up!”
The mistress tossed her gloves on a table with
annoyance. "Call him back, Margaret. Say I’ll
be down between two and three o’clock.”
"Yes’sam, Mis’ Louise.”
148 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"N ow come abovestairs, Potiphar, and I’ll show
you where to change when your clothes are de­
livered.”
Up another short flight the three of them went,
Margaret in the rear carrying the bag. She might
have carried Potiphar as easily, which apparently
accounted for his clutch on the umbrella. They
entered a chamber that looked down on the Ave­
nue: a room done in old rose and ivory with ma­
hogany twin beds which startled the printer.
"Y ou don’t hanker t’ meet th’ lady t’ your of­
fice?” he asked, when the maid had descended to
call Adolphus Finch.
" If she’s here from Philadelphia I’ll not dodge
her deliberately. But I’d hoped to get away with­
out meeting her this week.”
"She related t’ that feller that come t’ my
house?”
"Yes, she’s his mother. This is the bathroom,
Potiphar— see, here’s the light-switch. You’ll
have time for a bath between now and luncheon.”
"But I had my bath ’fore leavin’ Vermont—
Daisy made me take one. That woman t’ your
office, she’s makin’ you trouble?”
Louise tried to smile. "She’s the sharpest old
Battle-Axe, Potiphar, that ever took literally that
epigram of Roosevelt’s: 'Hard hitting’s the best
parry.’ They call her 'Rule-or-Ruin Charlotte’ !”
"But she won’t keep us fr’m goin’ t’ Chicawgo?
What is it she’s after?”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 149
"Something, I daresay, to do with her son.”
"Can’t that young feller run his own business?”
"You don’t know his mother. I didn’t, either,
till Basil got that loan.”
"She won’t try t’ hold you here in N ’York?”
"She’ll try anything once, that pleases her
whim.”
"I wisht I could go ’long with you. I’d like t’
see your office.”
"That old despot has been trying for weeks to
corner me alone. But she hasn’t done it yet with­
out a witness or a foil. W hy do you think I set
the appointment between two and three o’clock?”
"Tony sort, is she?”
"She likes to think she’s tony. But between the
two of us, it’s from his father’s side that Basil gets
his quality. He comes from Van Dykes that were
settlers of New Amsterdam.”
"H ’m !”
" 'Rule-or-Ruin Charlotte’ can be small-towny
as . . . I mean, every once in a while Mrs. Van
Dyke forgets that her forebears never settled any­
thing of more consequence than a mining-camp
fracas, and reverts to type in a manner most pro­
voking. You’ll see what I mean when you meet
the lady personally.”
Basil’s mother, the printer was to learn, had been
a Carberry— a Golden-West dynasty whose wealth
came from lead. Joel, his father, had schooled him-
150 GOLDEN RUBBISH
self in medicine. Repaying funds borrowed for his
education by working as doctor in a Pittsburgh
industry, Miss Charlotte Carberry had met and
approved of him. Ostensibly they loved. De­
cidedly they married. Joel had been twelve years
her senior at the time of those nuptials and accord­
ing to the mathematical principle evolved from
that circumstance, had remained twelve years her
senior throughout every year since. At precisely
what stage he had relinquished medicine for chem­
istry, twice being decorated by the American In­
stitute, had remained as indeterminate as to how
this strange pair should have merged in one flesh.
Pittsburgh as well as Idaho was fecund with anec­
dote concerning Charlotte’s young womanhood.
Born of prospecting parents in the era of bonanzas,
she had scarcely worn shoes till her father made
his strike and she came east to school. There she
had rescued Joel from brawlers who had stopped
him in a slum, leaping from her carriage and wield­
ing a horsewhip. Whereupon, fearing to repulse
so drastic an Amazon, the hapless physician had
submitted to her amours. Thus went the story.
Basil had been born of a nouveau riche mother and
an elderly father who kept to his crucibles.
In her sixtieth year "Rule-or-Ruin Charlotte”
was still known for her queerness, being a painfully
gaunt czarina given to freakish styles and manners
and the nettling implication that without the Car-
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 151
berry anthology, the American Saga would be
trash. As for Joel’s genealogy, the less said the
better— in doughty Charlotte’s presence. After all,
what was it that one’s forebears had merely come
from somewhere and settled in Manhattan? Didn’t
everybody’s forebears immigrate on principle?
What comparisons could be drawn with an an­
cestry that had conquered deserts, fought Indians,
appalled bad men, and created a fortune that lent
money to Europe?
Louise and Potiphar, confronting this gorgon at
precisely two-thirty, beheld an elderly woman as
erect as an arrow— and barbed accordingly—
pompous in black silk and a queerly beaded hat,
with a fatuous Pekinese in the curve of one arm
and a sharpness to her glance that gave hot polloi
the fidgets.
"H ’m !” she said combatively. She was vexed at
seeing Potiphar and her bother toned the confer­
ence.
"Y ou wished to consult me, Mrs. Van Dyke?”
Louise was calmly courteous, her voice convey­
ing that no matter what candor the visitor indulged
in, she meant to keep her temper.
"Consult you? H ’m! I merely came over to
find out if the report was true . . . that subway
motormen did their work in soiled gloves.”
Charlotte’s voice held a whimsical insolence— as
her dished-in face wore an ugly smile.
152 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Your interest in public hygiene does you
credit,” laughed Louise. "W on’t you sit down?”
"Thank you, young woman. I scarcely expected
to meet with such civility.”
"You compliment me, madam.”
"Well, it’s not intentional.”
The caller selected a chair, set her dog on the
floor, gave a sharp projective pat to its furry little
rump and straightened very straight. She inspected
the appointments.
The executive offices of The Garland Corporation
occupied the entire third floor of a declasse build­
ing that looked eastward toward Park Row. Pur­
chasing, auditing and employment departments
were grouped in big rooms along a high corridor.
The owner’s private office in the rear southwest
corner offered more cloistered atmosphere: its
wiotif was Spanish, its flooring was tiled, the win­
dows were draped in salmon velour. More oil
paintings, indistinguishable in half-light, set off the
pastel walls and iron candelabra illumined fumed
walnut. The desk in the center was exquisite with
carvings. A strange composition it was, to dis­
cover in an antiquated business structure. No
noises intruded back here, no hurrying of employes,
no tapping of typewriters. Even the roar from
Broadway was hushed. Mrs. Van Dyke at length
inspected Potiphar.
By a private side-door he had entered with
Louise, directly from the corridor, while "Rule-or-
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 153
Ruin Charlotte” waited in the ante-room. Clad in
a wholly different costume the printer was now— a
sober suit of black appropriate to his years and a
soft-collared shirt with polka-dot tie. The hat in
his hands was not mawkish with a feather; the
shoes upon his feet were not astragals for columns.
"I beg your pardon,” Louise said suddenly.
"Mrs. Van Dyke, permit me to introduce Mr.
Potiphar Buss. He’s visiting me from Vermont
this week. My father died in his home up in
Paris.”
"Glad t’ know you, ma’am,” said Potiphar.
"Are you? Just why?”
Old Charlotte, it seemed, was spoiling for a
brawl. But though Potiphar blinked, she failed
to abash him.
"I was thinkin’,” he grinned, "that I knowed a
woman once who might o’ been your sister. Abbie
Cramp her name was. She come fr’m Foxboro
Center. Earnt a good livin’, Abbie did, cleanin’
bugs fr’m folks’s houses.”
"W hat!”
"You never had a cockroach chaser for a sister,
did you?”
"N o,” returned Charlotte, not batting an eye­
lash, "but I once had a gardener who might have
been your brother. The resemblance is uncanny.”
"So?”
"He was such a dam’ thief we had to discharge
154 GOLDEN RUBBISH
him. The last we heard of him, he was hung in
Oklahoma— I think for stealing horses.”
"Well, if he looked like me he prob’ly knowed
his ropes. He must hey, t’ get hung.”
"But apparently, sir, they hung the wrong
brother.” She turned and faced Louise. “ I’ll talk
to you alone,” she said, like a threat.
"Potiphar Buss is quite harmless, I assure you.”
"Yes— so are idiots. That’s no reason, however,
they belong in business conferences.”
Louise had seated herself in the chair behind her
desk.
"But you wouldn’t ask me to turn a country
guest out into Broadway with the five o’clock
traffic to confuse and endanger him?”
"O n the contrary: I’d highly recommend that
excellent expedient— tending, let’s say, toward his
permanent extinction.”
"I don’t like crowds,” Potiphar contributed.
"They rile me somehow, like ol’ women an’ fire­
works.”
"Put it, Mrs. Van Dyke, that Mr. Buss’s pres­
ence is inoffensive strategy: he’ll keep us from
taking ourselves too seriously.”
Dull color crept up the visitor’s throat. And
the ugly amusement remained in her eyes . . .
"Well, young lady, during the past fortnight
I’ve sent you three letters, two wires, and a message
through Basil, requesting you to see me at my home
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 155
in Philadelphia. W hy haven’t you responded?”
"I answered your letters, Mrs. Van Dyke.”
“ Oh— you answered my letters? You informed
me in so many words that despite my loan you
didn’t consider me of sufficient consequence— ”
“ Not exactly that. It breaks up a day to go to
Philadelphia. You’ll concede, I’m sure, that with
all the interests demanding my time— not to men­
tion the upset of burying my father— it mightn’t
be convenient to answer such a summons.”
“ You’ve been in Philadelphia three times since I
wrote my first letter— don’t ask me how I know.
As for burying your father, all the upset that cost
you was a four-day vacation, lolling in Vermont.
Adolphus Finch did your dirty work for you, . . .
I’m not using slang.”
“ It seems to give you pleasure, doesn’t it, Mrs.
Van Dyke, to make our relations as strained as
possible whether contacts occur by arrangement or
otherwise?”
Louise’s desk was barren of appointments ex­
cepting a great russet blotter, a scarlet quill pen in
a marble standard, a French style telephone and a
tray holding clips. She had selected one of these
clips. Her expressive fingers refashioned the wire.
“ You deliberately ignored me,” Charlotte in­
sisted.
“ And I repeat, that for five or six years I’ve
recognized that we can’t come together without
our temperaments clashing.”
156 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Perhaps. What of it? They’re going to clash
some more.”
"That’s most regrettable,” Louise said softly.
The printer was surprised that her voice could hold
such tact.
"You heard me say, you deliberately ignored me.
Well, that’s your business; I’m not here in pique.
It’s a much graver matter that’s brought me to
New York and unless you’re positive this man can
keep his mouth shut, you’d better pack him out.”
"Mr. Buss is in my confidence— very much in
my confidence.”
"The choice is yours, so . . . first I’ll recapitu­
late. I have your permission, or shall I do it any­
how?”
"You have my permission certainly, madam.”
"Um-m, . . . very good!”
Charlotte hitched in her chair, sitting forward
on its edge; at times she tapped her toe on the red-
and-black tiling. All too seldom did she encounter
persons who would thus cross rapiers with her. She
was secretly eager to try her mental steel.
The visiting printer sucked an empty corncob.
Fascinated though he was by this tussle o f wills,
the sniffing Pekinese came in for his petting. He
reached down presently— and the little animal
settled in his lap, blinking damply but contentedly
as the old man stroked its ears. Charlotte cleared
her throat.
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 157
"Five years ago last May, young woman, and
three days before I sailed for Spain, my son took
me to look at a stretch of Jersey-shore property
which he said could be bought for fifty thousand
dollars. An automobile tire company was nego­
tiating for it; by trading at once I might clear a
smart profit. I gave Basil authority to liquidate
certain industrials I was holding at the time and
use the money to put the deal through. Then I
sailed for abroad. I expected, of course, that the
matter was settled.”
"W e’ve discussed this before, Mrs. Van Dyke.
I’m familiar with the details.”
"It won’t hurt you at all to hear them again!
So . . . returning home I made a discovery. Basil
had sold my stocks as directed. Instead of buying
that land, however, he had brazenly committed a
callow indiscretion. He had loaned the whole fifty
thousand dollars to a Garland Fruit Products com­
pany, and the money had gone to keep someone
from jail. That’s where my fifty thousand went:
to pay up incorrect or defaulted taxes. To miti­
gate a felony!”
"The company was in a hapless dilemma, I’ll ad­
mit. But I doubt if fifty thousand dollars, coming
at a psychological time, ever bought more.”
"It didn’t buy anything. It went to pay up
taxes.”
"Still, paying them up and using an additional
158 GOLDEN RUBBISH
thirty thousand of my own money, won control of
the stock. Your son approved. You should have
been delighted.”
" 'Delighted’ is too mild a term to describe my
feelings, young woman. I was . . . overwhelmed.
Quite overwhelmed. But it happened as explana­
tions followed, that my son disclosed the extent of
his romantic interest in a female person heading
that coup— a person with little to recommend her
but her courage, ingenuity and astounding audac­
ity— ”
"Thank you, Mrs. Van Dyke. Thank you very
much!”
"N ot at all, young woman, . . . now I am not,
and have never been, one of those mothers who
try to thwart the stupidities of their offspring in
affairs of the heart. My son was of age; he had
been given opportunities to meet all female types
and form his opinion of their marital endowments.
So I made no rumpus over the theft— ”
"T heft!”
"Exactly— theftl I made no rumpus over the
theft, carrying it as a loan to my son till the boy’s
infatuation should have run its silly course. Be­
tween five and six years ago, that was. Since which
time I have waited with composure.”
“ Waited for what? I simply won’t credit that
Van sent you to see me in the role of . . . maternal
John Alden.”
"Indeed he did not!”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 159
"Your interest has been paid punctually, madam.
There was no explicit covenant that I show your
son partiality for his aid in my financing. W hy
are you disturbed?”
"W ait! My son, as a fledgling attorney eager to
bring business into his firm without family assist­
ance, felt reasonable pride at being retained as
counsel for your companies. On that score his
parents have offered no criticism. But they have
been concerned, mightily, at meeting the audacious
female person, to discover that she was not favor­
ing the boy for his professional abilities or romantic
inclinations.”
"N o?”
"N o, she was using him as cold-bloodedly as any
siren of fiction for his social connections, his po­
litical affiliations, his access to wealth. In other
words, not to put too fine a point upon it, she was
pulling his leg.”
Louise waited quietly, offering no comment.
"N ow Nature has happily endowed me with a
certain sagacity in such matters, young woman. I
have the knack of being a business person myself at
times. Nothing could be more instructive for my
son than letting him follow the course he had
charted— learning from experience that sex as an
asset is not always forecloseable. I wasn’t aware,
however, that his education was going to depart so
far from the conventional curriculum as to com­
promise his family.”
160 GOLDEN RUBBISH
“ Do what?” cried Louise.
“ Ah, you show interest! That is sagacity on
your part, young woman— acumen I respect. You
realize, I hope, that a man of my son’s background
would be more or less close-mouthed about his
affairs. Certainly as attorney he would keep his
clients’ secrets. I want you to know that in all the
time since, Basil has not recounted a single word
to his father or mother concerning the progress of
his so-called romance, nor has he made references
to your commercial activities.”
“ That would be quite consistent with his char­
acter, Mrs. Van Dyke. Your son is a thorough­
bred— we’ll not disagree there.”
"W e have been passive spectators, his father and
I, marveling none the less at the lad’s freakish
patience. A week ago Thursday, however, I re­
ceived a phone call from one of our attorneys, at
our home in Philadelphia. He solicited an inter­
view, asking to bring along a man whose errand
would be disclosed as our conference proceeded. I
gave the permission and the pair of them came
out.”
Charlotte hitched her chair closer to the desk
and stretched a forearm on it. One finger thumped
the desktop.
“ I was questioned,” she emphasized, "about
Basil’s connection with Freddie Frye’s law firm. I
was questioned about my holdings, if any, in the
Garland enterprises— a lot of other matters. But
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 161
especially I was questioned as to whether or not a
man named Pettersleigh had ever met Basil for
business at our home. Ah, . . . you acquire a
pallor, young woman. You should take more out­
door exercise. Your habits are too sedentary for
one of your vitality.”
"Please continue, madam. I find this most en­
lightening.”
"Excellent, young woman. I rather thought
you would. Now . . . I mightn’t have given a
second thought to the conference, my attorney
implying that the stranger was checking on cer­
tain tax returns, had I not chanced to be in Wash­
ington later, having luncheon at the Willard with
Freddie Frye’s daughter. You know her, I think.”
"Mrs. Glair, madam, is one of my stockholders.
A very heavy stockholder.”
"W hat?” exclaimed Charlotte. It seemed to dis­
turb her.
"Yes, Mrs. Glair would be financially affected
by anything happening to my . . . enterprises,”
Louise said intuitively.
"Well, while we were eating, this Jones person
entered— at least that’s what I called him— the
man, you understand, that my attorney brought
to see me.”
"And you made mention of him,” Louise fin­
ished whimsically, "and discovered to your con­
sternation that you’d been interviewed by some­
one connected with the federal attorney’s office!”
162 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Again the Gorgon stared.
"Correct— er— in substance,” she faltered. "But
the interesting part comes presently. Curious to
know if Basil could have gotten himself involved
in any legal mess, I summoned him home and ques­
tioned him sharply. Something was wrong: I
saw it at once. I finally wormed out of him that
he was throwing all his social, political and finan­
cial resources into a battle— a silent battle— to save
you and your associates from a criminal indict­
ment!”
Charlotte paused for effect. Louise shrugged
her shoulders.
"Someone was paid money,” the caller went on,
"for the figures on certain food bids to be disclosed
to the manager of your canning company. Before
contracts were awarded! . . . that you might bid
lower and undersell competitors.”
"I’ve been very much chagrined— ”
"Well, Joel and I had conferences with counsel.
In view of all the circumstances, especially the
dilemma into which our son’s romantic absurdities
have plunged him, we . . . reached a decision.”
The Gorgon hitched closer. "W e agreed that it
would be an excellent idea for you to surrender
your positions in your two corporations for the
present and permit them to be officered by more
competent persons.” Whereat Charlotte leaned
backward, awaiting reaction.
Nothing followed but silence. Louise shaped
BREAD O N STRANGE W ATERS 163
the paper-clip, studying it with interest. She
viewed it from one angle, then from another.
"I see,” she said finally.
"I’m glad you do,” said Charlotte.
The Gorgon glanced across, noted her little dog’s
comfort in Potiphar’s lap, and arose from her
chair. She procured the beast by yanking, slapped
it sharply twice as she dangled it before her, and
collapsed it in her own lap without audible com­
ment. Louise cleared her throat.
"And all sorts of horrid things happen, I sup­
pose, if I don’t see my way toward accepting your
. . . proposal?”
"Y ou’ll see it, never fear,” and the woman’s lips
were grim. "Shocked by such disclosures,” she re­
sumed, "Joel and I hired certain— er— investiga­
tory agencies to delve deeper into details. They
were very efficient. Within three days we knew
that the Cartwright Soup Company had become
suspicious concerning the loss of government con­
tracts and submitted those suspicions to the fed­
eral district attorney. The man who came to see
me was employed in checking evidence.”
"What a miserable trick your attorney played
on you!”
" — and along with such checking, two sugges­
tive things happened: first, the Pettersleigh person,
who had been in the strategic position to cause
such a leak, slipped out of Washington by airplane
164 GOLDEN RUBBISH
and has not been heard of since; second, a few days
after your return from Vermont, one Robert
Ackermann was relieved from his duties as your
manager and departed for Europe. He is now in
England, where he may be . . . detained.”
"Did your 'investigatory agencies’ learn who
charted the airplane for Pettersleigh?”
"N o, but they found out that Ackermann
hadn’t received his passport without official influ­
ence for speed in his behalf. And the price of
that speed was the surrender of some mighty inter­
esting vouchers from the files of the Garland can­
ning companyl”
"So that’s where those vouchers went? Bob
Ackermann stole them!”
"They showed,” continued Charlotte, "that just
before the date of the successful Garland bid, a
mysterious sum of money had been drawn against
'legal expenses’ without such sums being received
by your attorneys. The mosaic of evidence fits
together perfectly.”
"You know the location of those documents at
present?”
"Ah, now we get along! Joel and I thought it
discreet, in case our son was being compromised—
not to mention the jeopardy of my hundred thou­
sand dollars— ”
"I owe you fifty thousand dollars, Mrs. Van
Dyke, not a penny more!”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 165
"You forget, young woman, I include the sum
paid Senator Frye for his cannery company hold­
ings. Forty-two thousand, I gave him!”
"Y ou’ve— taken over— the Senator’s stock?”
"W ith a scandal in prospect, Fred had to get
clear.”
"Yet why should you have invested so heavily?”
"H ow else might those vouchers have become
my property?”
"So you’ve got them? But how did Little Coat-
Tails get them before you?”
"Your manager, you’ll recall had to have his
passport quickly.”
"I . . . see,” said Louise. A flush replaced her
pallor.
"Joel and I decided, as I started to tell you, that
as you were involving our only son Basil, we
were the appropriate avenues for those documents
to pass through, into the hands of the proper
authorities. All the same, because of our son’s—
er— sentimentality— where you were concerned, it
seemed only right before taking any action that we
give you the chance to save yourself harmless.”
The younger woman’s eyes were riveted on her
work. She bent and rebent the wire, pulling it,
pressing it. Finally she spoke.
“ And Basil’s aware of this ultimatum?”
"W e’ll leave Basil out of this. It’ll do you no
good, employing him further.”
166 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"But you’re not answering my question, Mrs.
Van Dyke. Basil is my counsel, . . . in a manner
of speaking.”
"Y ou’ll discover, I think, that he’ll ask to with­
draw.”
"Then the pressure on him will be worse than
on me.”
“ That’s none of your business!”
Silence came again. The printer wheezed
audibly.
"And how long,” the girl asked thoughtfully,
"may I consider this, madam?” Her iron dimple was
never more notable.
"I wish to go home on the five o’clock train.”
“This afternoon? You expect me to abandon
two firms I’ve been several years building, by
exerting such duress between luncheon and
dinner?”
"Merely a readjustment, young woman— a tem­
porary readjustment for the good of all parties.”
"W hom do you think capable of taking my
place?”
"That would be decided by two boards of
directors.”
"But I have controlling stock interest in those
two companies. Both boards of directors will do
as I direct!”
"W hich brings up a second little matter that
eventually must be discussed. November first is
another due-date on your note. It goes without
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 167
saying that more renewals are impossible. So to
save you the distress of liquidating your assets, I’m
willing to make you an easy alternative.”
"You mean . . . magnanimity of some sort?”
"H ’m! Not so much as I might have shown had
you come to Philadelphia to have this business over.
Still, the term’s fair. My proposal is this: I bought
Frye’s stock at eighty-eight— a holdup figure, but
I had to have those vouchers. I’ll accept a thou­
sand shares out of your holdings in each company,
at fifty, and return you your note with Paid writ­
ten on it.”
"A ll of which you insist upon,” the younger
woman smiled, "or you’ll visit the United States
District Attorney?”
“ Visit him? No. The United States District
Attorney is more considerate of elderly people than
you are, young woman. He kindly supplied me
with an escort for this visit.”
"Escort?”
"If you’ll ask your Vermont horsethief to open
the door, you’ll see an interesting gentleman sitting
outside who’ll be only too glad to take back to his
superior certain papers I may give him.”
"The vouchers 3
mu specified?”
"Evidence that will indict you, I think, for vio­
lation of Section Thirty-nine of the Federal Crimi­
nal Code. As yet he knows nothing of why he was
asked here. I told him I might help him, perhaps,
in his sleuthing.”
168 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Potiphar Buss, would you kindly favor us?”
"D o . . . what?”
"Open the door. It’s the thrill of a lifetime.
I’ve never confronted a federal detective.”
The printer complied. A ponderous, elderly
man was reading a paper on the ante-room bench.
He had a vest-chain on his glasses and shoes with
thick soles. He crunched the paper, glanced up,
and started to remove the glasses when the door
closed as quickly.
"I see,” said Louise.
"I’m glad you do,” said Charlotte.
Potiphar’s face held a ghastly pallor: his skin
showed red lines like the silk threads in banknotes.
Madam Van Dyke flicked imaginary dust-specks
from her forearms and reslapped her dog when it
turned in her lap.
"You figure, I suppose,” Louise thought aloud,
"that rather than suffer the unpleasant notoriety of
arrest and trial, I’ll present you with control in
two profitable businesses— confirming rumors I’ve
heard of similar acquisition by you of several other
companies?”
Charlotte tilted her chin, an over-sharp chin on
an undershot jaw.
"Y ou’re not the only specimen of your sex with
a flare for business, young woman. You see, I’m
not forgetting your strategy in acquiring control
of those canneries to begin with.”
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 169
"But,” smiled Louise, "you overlook, madam,
that Business like Politics is the science of the
possible. I got away with my coup, as the slang
phrase has it.”
Charlotte stirred angrily. Again she cuffed her
dog.
"And that’s an insinuation I won’t get away with
miner
"I don’t see how you can.”
"Miss Lou,” gasped the printer, "what you need’s
a good lawyer. Now up t’ Paris there’s Len
Brickhart— ”
"I know plenty of good lawyers, Potiphar. In
fact, it’s been a lawyer of gratifying abilities who’s
made it possible for me to listen to Madam Van
Dyke with a certain whimsy now.”
"Whimsy!” snapped Charlotte. "It doesn’t
dawn on you that in this game of— of— ”
"Clubs?” suggested Louise.
"Excellent. I thought you might have the
audacity to say Hearts. It doesn’t dawn on you
that in this game of Clubs I may hold the face
cards?”
"Are you sure, my dear madam, that you hold
all the aces?”
"If you hold aces, play them!”
"That’s exactly what I’m doing.”
Louise tossed the altered paper-clip in the tray
near her pen. She leaned backward thoughtfully,
pulled open a drawer and took out cigarettes. She
170 GOLDEN RUBBISH
lighted one of these, to Charlotte’s discomfiture,
picked a shred of tobacco from her under lip and
regarded her caller in humorous appraisal.
"You believe you have me jockeyed into a dis­
astrous position— am I right in that, madam?”
"I’ve known for some time you were out of your
depth. In a business way, I mean. More compe­
tent hands should control your companies. When
you have to stoop to criminal practices— ”
"Well, supposing we determine just how unfit I
am.” She reached for her telephone. "Get me
Basil Van Dyke,” she ordered her operator. "Try
the offices of Frye, Cogswell, Perry & Van Dyke.
If you don’t find him there, send out a riot call.”
Charlotte tapped her toe.
"Come, come, young woman. W e’re only wast­
ing time.”
"O n the contrary, madam, we’re expending it
quite cleverly.”
"W e’re wasting it, I say, because your phone call
is useless. My son is absent from the city today.
O f course I saw to that.”
"Did you?”
"You don’t think I failed to perceive what a
disturbing factor he might be in this transaction?”
"And when, may I ask, did you see your son
last?”
"I made quite certain, by a ’phone call from
Philadelphia last night, that Basil was leaving for
Boston this morning.”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 171
"But what you don’t know is: that Basil called
me afterward, because your query worried him.”
"W hat!”
"I suggested he linger in town for the present.
You might be coming over to— capitalize his ab­
sence.”
Charlotte stare was glassy.
"Someone should congratulate you,” was the
comment she contrived.
"Thanks,” said Louise. "Many people do. You
have to think far, to head a modern business.”
The caller’s voice altered. "I’m warning you,
young woman, you’re snarling this thing worse!”
"O n the contrary, madam, I’m cleaning it up.”
"Explain yourself, please!”
"Well. . . . for instance, . . . it would look
rather disastrous for the one you’re affecting to
protect, if the federal attorney learned the identity
of the person who chartered the airplane for Pet-
tersleigh. Must I speak that person’s name?”
The women locked glances.
Charlotte’s voice came hoarsely. "So— that’s—
it, is it?” . Then raucously: "Your strategy at
cards is inherited, they tell em!”
"Yes, my father met my mother across a game
of poker.”
"I see,” said old Charlotte.
"Fine!” said Louise.
It was difficult to determine which startled Basil
172 GOLDEN RUBBISH
most: the sight of his mother, or Potiphar’s ex­
pression. After a fifteen-minute trip downtown in
the subway, the young attorney laid hat, stick and
gloves on a small side-table and whetted his lips as
he took his mother’s hand. The dog pranced before
him, yipping to be noticed. He gave it a pat—
worried eyes on Louise.
“ You remember Mr. Buss, don’t you?” the
younger woman asked. She had arisen at her desk.
“ Yes, . . . certainly! . . . how do you do?”
Basil greeted.
"I’m sort o’ sick,” the printer said truthfully.
“ What’s wrong, mother? I hardly expected to
see you here today.”
Louise’s tone was suave. "Your mother was
bringing a lot of concealed weapons, Van. If one of
them exploded, her son might get shot.”
“ I . . . don’t understand.”
"N o, but you will. Sit down and we’ll tell you.”
Basil was gracious, virile, gallant sans affectation,
as he bent to the hand Louise had extended. It was
Potiphar’s chance to study him in close-up: the
visit in Vermont had been too brief and vague.
Never had the young man’s head appeared more
sleekly barbered or his needle moustaches waxed to
sharper points. His dark eyes were shadowed; his
jaws were blue shaven. A double-breasted blue
suit tailored his physique, with a touch of swank
added by grayish-white gaiters. He had a poised
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 173
boyish wholesomeness that made the printer like
him . . .
"W e’re in a devil of a jam, Van,” said Louise,
sitting down. "Your mother’s all hot and
bothered.”
"Yes?”
"She thinks something’s wrong with our slow­
coach romance.” The girl’s careless banter con­
founded both men.
Old Charlotte kept silent. Back in her chair she
relaxed, elbows on its arms, lower lip pressed be­
tween vertical forefingers. She studied Louise
through hard, narrowed lids.
"But nothing’s wrong with that unless it’s gone
so, suddenly!”
"Make your mother believe it. She’s come here to­
day with a lot of ugly threats. If she can’t take
over enough stock to give her control in my com­
panies, she’ll have me locked away in some vile
place with bars.”
Basil smiled nervously. He pulled a chair up,
his mother at his right hand, the printer at his left.
"What do you know about Fred Frye selling
your mother his cannery stock?” Louise demanded
next.
"H e did it— yes.”
"H ow long have you known it?”
"For nearly a week.”
"W hy haven’t you told me?”
174 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"I rather thought you’d know it. You’d have
to, of course, to sign new certificates.”
"They haven’t come in for transfer as yet. And
what do you know about Little Coat-Tails getting
those missing vouchers from Bob?”
"I learned of it, naturally. But— I thought you
had enough to distress you at present. Besides, I
could handle him.”
"Oh? Is that so? And you did it so efficiently
that your mother up and bought them!” The girl
was facetious: her voice held no rancor.
"W hy yes— certainly. It was part of the plan,
mother cooperating— ”
"Basil,” ordered Charlotte, " shut your callow
mouth!”
"But mother,” he protested, "under these cir­
cumstances— ”
"I thought you were going to Boston today?”
"It wasn’t essential. And now that you’ve come
over— ”
"W hat’s that to do with you?”
"Well, Louise thought— ”
"Louise thinks too much! And you’re not an
attorney. You’re a chestnut-raking dunderhead—
a lickspittle errand boy— who lets a woman dupe
him and calls it Romance.”
"Mother!”
"What can the government do to us, Van,”
Louise interposed, "assuming your mother surren­
ders her documents?”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 175
Basil asked his mother’s permission to light a
cigarette, was refused it— that Charlotte might
show her maternal authority— put his case in his
pocket and managed a smile.
"Well, nothing can stop him— the federal dis­
trict attorney I mean— from asking for warrants if
he thinks he’s got a case.”
"You mean we’ll be arrested? What comes after
that?”
"The federal grand jury will be asked to indict
us.”
"Assuming we’re indicted can we get release on
bond?”
"Yes,” Basil nodded.
"H ow big a bond?”
"Five thousand each, . . . somewhere around
that figure.”
"N o more than that? Will the case be tried in
Washington?”
"N o, here in New York— the southern federal
district.”
"And supposing we’re convicted, how big a fine
might a federal judge assess?”
"Three times the amount of the malfeasance,
Lou— so the statute reads— and three years in A t­
lanta.”
''And three years? We go to jail anyhow?”
"Yes, if we’re convicted. As principals, however.
If we’re only accessories to the fact, we’re given
half the penalties. I’ve told you this before.”
176 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"True, but I wanted your mother to hear it.”
"Mother gave me to understand,” the son said
courteously, though his tone was rueful, "that no
action would be taken— she would trade for those
vouchers merely to return them.”
"Then you ought to know details of her latest
ultimatum.”
Louise rehearsed those details and Basil’s eyes
darkened.
"Mother,” he declared "this seems rather beast­
l y - ”
"D o I understand, sir, you’re criticizing me?”
And old Charlotte galvanized.
"But I thought we’d agreed— ?”
"I’ve suddenly learned things. This woman’s
coming into money— sizable money— from her
father’s estate.”
"Assuredly. What of it?”
"And you call yourself a lawyer. Don’t you
grasp, you poor dolt, how vulnerable that leaves
you?”
"Vulnerable, mother?”
"She can pay off our loan and tell us to hoof it!”
"But Louise is too honorable. That, too, must
be thought of.”
"Honorable, faugh1 For five or six years she’s
made you a cat’s-paw. She’s gotten you snarled in
her affairs for no reason but strategy— believing
we’ll protect her. Well, she’ll mighty soon find
out!”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 177
"I can’t accept that, mother,” Basil said quietly.
"N o, you’re like your father: think the whole
world’s lily-white because you’re white yourself.
But I know a thing or two . . . I wasn’t born
yesterday, . . . I can see through this jezebel as
though she were glass. She’ll come to my terms
or suffer her punishment. When I tell her to wait
on me in Philadelphia she’ll wait on me, or I’ll know
the reason why.”
"But, mother, just because you resent— ”
"Never mind what I resent. She can’t bully me
as she’s bullyragged my son. I’m boss of this
family. My money’s behind it.” Charlotte turned
toward Louise. "You can’t pay off my loan
and brag around afterward how neatly you duped
us!”
"Yet you can’t lay yourself open to a conspiracy
suit, mother,” the attorney protested.
"I’m not afraid of suits: I’ve fought them all
my life. I suppose it’s conspiracy to work your
opponent into a neat business corner and . . . then
put on the screws?”
"It can be, decidedly, under certain conditions.”
"You listen to me! Five years ago I came home
from Spain to find that fifty thousand dollars had
been maliciously stolen for this insolent woman’s
company— ”
"Must we go into all that again, mother?” The
young man’s voice was patient. "The tire com-
178 GOLDEN RUBBISH
pany’s deal had completely fallen through. Your
funds were lying idle. It was perfectly legitimate
to put them to work.”
"Fifty thousand dollars,” Charlotte ranted on,
"sunk in a business where I didn’t have control!
But that isn’t all. For every day since I’ve had to
stand by and smart beneath her insolence. I send
her word to come and see me. Well, does she do it?
I tell her I wish to talk with her in privacy. Do
we have it? Look at what listens!” She pointed
at Potiphar and the little man jumped.
"But, mother, you can’t— ”
"I can do anything, young man, until somebody
stops me. And now— when I finally get her into a
place where some swift, sharp trading can be
forced— when the tables are turned— when I’m on
the point of fixing things so we can take over her
companies and alter their records so you can’t be
incriminated— you have to stay in town and come
to her support!”
"So that’s how the land lays?” Louise exclaimed
softly. "Y ou’d falsify our records further— ”
"What I do when in control is none of your
affair. But cleverer persons than you have tried to
outsmart me— the government included. Go learn
how they fared.”
Basil’s face grew strong. "But mother,” he said
quietly, "it doesn’t seem to occur to you that I
mayn’t care to be cleared by any such practices.”
"What?”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 179
"T w o wrongs don’t make a right. Gaining con­
trol of those vouchers to return them is quite a
different thing from deliberately wresting control
of a corporation in order to change its books.”
Charlotte regarded her son a long moment.
"I declare,” she said caustically, "I don’t under­
stand you. Your father’s plenty queer on what
constitutes 'culture.’ N ow it seems we’re the
parents of a sanctimonious ninny!”
"You really don’t believe that, mother.”
"If it wasn’t the truth I wouldn’t express it!”
"Very well, mother,” and Basil bowed slightly,
with a finely tempered flush.
" I f my son had the brains the Almighty gave
geese,” the Gorgon ranted on, "he’d long ago have
seen through the woman who’s wrecking him— ”
"Wrecking?”
"W ho was it got that aeroplane for Pettersleigh?
She says it was you. Were you that big a fool?”
"I had to take somewhat drastic measures,
mother, to avert a situation that might have been
disastrous.”
"She’s right then. By your own admission! And
you come here prating to me about the ethics of
destroying corporate records!”
Basil made no answer.
"If my son had the brains the Almighty gave
geese,” Charlotte continued, "he’d long ago have
recognized that this insolent female is a sort of
business Lorelei. She doesn’t give a rap for my son
180 GOLDEN RUBBISH
as a man. She cares even less for my son as a law­
yer. But because he’s a Carberry, with all the
social and financial advantages— ”
"Granting for purposes of argument that what
you say is true, mother, where you seem to err, is
in thinking that it matters.”
"W hat?”
"Somehow . . . forcing Pettersleigh to surren­
der his position and get out of the country before
I made it hot for him, offering him an avenue
that swallowed him permanently, shapes up to me
as a sort of leniency— something quite different
than altering and fabricating records that— ”
"All the same, you’ll admit as a lawyer that
spiriting witnesses away in a criminal case is a
crime in itself?”
"Ethically, yes!” The son’s eyes were troubled.
"Very good. H ’m! And now what’s this drivel
about my garbling its significance— erring, as you
put it, in thinking that it matters?”
"The point you’ve been unable to get from the
first is . . . assuming I’m playing this role for
profit.”
"Profit?” echoed Charlotte. "And why not
profit?”
"I mean . . . you seem to think, mother, that
because I love Louise— and I ask her pardon for
mentioning it so publically— she should imme­
diately relinquish all her business and social inter­
ests, give up her career, cease being a constructive
BREAD ON STRANGE W ATERS 181
individualist, and devote herself solely to Basil
Van Dyke.”
"She could do many worse things, from the way
she’s been acting!”
"Romance, you lead me to believe, mother,
shapes up to you as the insistence on a man’s part
that a woman renounce her personal integrality
and enter on the role of complementing menial.
And that, on any man’s part, is insufferable big­
otry.”
"Oh, is it?”
"Em sure, were I a woman, I could never care
for a man who asked me to surrender my natural
individualism because of his egotism, . . . his con­
ceited caprice.”
"Well, I may be old-fashioned, but women in
my day were quite content to do it— women in
love! It was proof of their affection.”
"But don’t you see, mother, I haven’t the
audacity to assume that Louise is in love with me.
I’ve never asked her expression on the point and
she’s never volunteered it.”
"You bet she’s never volunteered it. But didn’t
you understand if you got her that loan she’d
marry you sometime?”
"I could hardly expect it, could I, till my ex­
ploits in law surpassed hers in business?”
"Y ou’re evading my question.”
"M y regard for Louise, mother, is founded upon
a wholesome respect for what we might term her
182 GOLDEN RUBBISH
character-integrity— what she’s overcome, what
she’s made of herself, what she’s further capable of
attaining— providing no under-executive, befud­
dled by wine, intrudes on a board of competitors
and makes proposals without her knowledge that
threaten catastrophe.”
Charlotte tried to get it. She merely sat
blinking.
"But Lord o’ love, boy! . . . where’s your com­
pensation? Men don’t love women without ex­
pecting something from them. What’s this girl
giving you?”
Basil cogitated. "A concrete statement would
be awkward,” he declared.
"You can’t be cohabitating with her,” was Char­
lotte’s crass reflection, "because she’s not the type.
Throw her into one of Charlie Schwab’s blast fur­
naces and her temperature’s so cold that she’d put
out the fire. I’ve watched her six years. She’s the
kind that thinks youngsters are brought by a stork
— for all she cares physically. She’s not giving you
companionship. 'Where’s your compensation}”
Louise at her desk had turned granite white.
Basil shifted uneasily. He turned toward the
printer. Good-naturedly he asked—
"Tell me, Mr. Buss, have you ever been in love?”
“ I»?” exclaimed Potiphar. "I ain’t never been
out!”
"W ill you confirm my contention that . . . . a
man may be amply compensated in his relations
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 183
with a lady by the quiet gratification that he’s giv­
ing her something he senses she needs?”
"But that’s just what makes love!” the little man
cried. "It’s findin’ someone, so t’ speak, we can
spend ourselves on.”
"You qualify as an expert on love?” was the
Gorgon’s sour demand.
"I’m perfeck’ly willin’ t’ act as your instructor,
ma’am, if that’s what you’re after.”
"What I’m after,” snapped Charlotte, "is an
answer to my question: what’s your compensation,
being this girl’s cat’s-paw?” She glowered at her
son.
"Mr. Buss has said it. I find a strange satis­
faction in backing Louise, helping her to express
herself, to work out her destiny. Incidentally, her
ultimate destiny, as I sense it, isn’t running restau­
rants or directing corporations. I think she’s em­
barked on a career far greater than we dream. All
this business stramash,” he added, "is merely edu­
cational. She’ll leave it behind her when she’s
grown further, . . . spiritually.”
"Grown further what}”
" — and so long as I derive an elusive satisfaction
out of aiding her to do it, why need anyone be
exercised?”
Basil spoke with bluntness. His tone to his
mother was respectful enough but his voice gripped
like iron— a hand of iron gloved with rich velvet.
And Charlotte was checkmate. His mettle per-
184 GOLDEN RUBBISH
turbed her. She did not know this son who re­
ferred to spiritual values: it showed in her ex­
pression. Lamely she cried—
"But there’s something you don’t know!”
"There’s a lot I don’t know,” and Basil laughed
lightly, relaxing his tension.
"She’s going to Chicago to meet another man!
. . . a man she’s got to marry or her legacy is
void.”
Louise straightened angrily. "Madam, that’s ab­
surd!”
"Oh, no, it’s not absurd. I’ve paid out good
money to learn what’s afoot.”
"Then for once in your life you’ve been taken
in.”
"N o Carberry is ever taken in, young woman,
— not permanently taken in. You dare to deny
you’re meeting a man named Robling in Chicago,
to comply with the terms of your late father’s
will?”
"I’m meeting several men in Chicago, probably
— but marrying any one of them is farthest from
my thoughts. Besides, Basil knows of my errand
in Chicago. If you don’t believe it, ask him.”
"W ell?” demanded Charlotte.
"Louise is quite right,” the son assured his
mother.
"And you’re sitting like a dolt and making no
remonstrance?”
"Remonstrance! W hy remonstrance? Even
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 185
were your assumption correct, mother, I hope you
don’t think I’d try to dissuade her— against marry­
ing, I mean, if she found herself in love?”
Again the room held silence. And the old lady
grunted.
"I don’t get it,” she cried finally. "N o, I don’t
get it. You say that you love her, yet you wouldn’t
bat an eyelash if she married someone else!”
"Without trying to be gummy, mother, put it
that my regard for Louise is such,— and the
spiritual problem she presents is such,— that
I’d get more satisfaction out of seeing her happy
than from arrogantly clutching her life for my­
self.”
"I think you’re a fool! The woman’s got you
mesmerized. Men don’t love women unless they
respond. You might as well go up to the Metro­
politan Museum and love some marble statue.”
Again Basil smiled. "As a matter of fact,
mother, I do love several of them,” he rejoined.
"Well, if I was this female I’d be rather ashamed
of it— being classed, so to speak, with dummies
chipped from stone.”
"I didn’t say, mother, that I loved her in the
same way.”
"That’s what you’ve implied.”
"Esthetics may enter it, yes, I grant you. But—
well, perhaps I perceive what even Lou does not:
that the day’s going to come when she’ll tire rather
tragically of all this stress and burden. She’s going
186 GOLDEN RUBBISH
to reach some hour when Business— Money—
Power— will all seem rather shoddy. I’m thinking
the moment will arrive when she’ll want an old
friend, a tried and proven friend, on whom to rely.
I’m living in anticipation that when it arrives I’ll
be somewhere about— that she’ll think of me kind­
ly and . . . let me offer help.”
"Even,” snapped Charlotte, "if she’s married to
another?”
"W hom she marries doesn’t matter: it will only
be an incident.”
Potiphar studied the lawyer in profile. He knew
that no stripling in his thirties was answering Char­
lotte. He glanced at the mother, centuries younger
than her son. He glanced at Louise and saw that her
face was hectic. The girl looked up once from the
wire she still patterned; her eyes held the same fleet­
ing terror they had showed for an instant on
Potiphar’s stairflight . . .
"You ought to be a minister,” Charlotte Van
Dyke ridiculed, "and wear one of those silly pan­
cake hats— ”
"Louise,” went on the son, "has shown too much
capability in the few years she’s been living to allow
us to accept that heading a business is all she’s to do.
What she’s to do I’ve no right to suggest. But it
should be something big. Yes, bigger than being
the mere wife of any man. She’s like a lot of per­
sons in life, however, who must climb the ladder of
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 187
materialism, so to speak, to reach the heights of true
earthly perception— yes, even more . . . expression!
I’ve been watching her five years. I feel that I’m
correct. Whether she marries me, or Robling, or
any man, or doesn’t marry at all, when she’s put all
this shoddy commercial accomplishment behind her
then will come her real flowering into power. I’m
interested and gratified to contribute to that hap­
pening. You mightn’t call it Love, but it’s better
than passion.”
"Y ou’re out of my depth,” the mother said
brassily. "For all I know, too, you’re out of your
own. All the love between man and woman that I
take seriously is an experiment in curiosity for
which beds were invented.”
"Mother! PleaseJ”
Charlotte got to her feet. "All the same, if your
monstrous neophyte has been smart enough to in­
volve you in this mess— so you chartered an air­
plane and abetted her malfeasance— I’m keen
enough to grasp that I’m stopped for the present.
For the present, I say. I came here for a purpose
and I mean to see it through. The time’ll come
soon when the tables will be turned.”
The two men arose as she tucked away her dog.
"I’m going back home,” added Charlotte at the
door, "to talk with my husband and discuss things
with my lawyers. If there’s any known method to
smash this grotesque amour— if there’s any way on
188 GOLDEN RUBBISH
earth I can discipline this hoyden without damag­
ing my son— I promise you faithfully both shall
be found.”
"Mother, you can’t mean— ”
"I mean just what you’re hearing! She may
typify all the 'spiritual climbers’ to be found on the
planet, but it ceases to be an issue between this
woman and my son: it becomes an issue now be­
tween her and his mother. This is only an armis­
tice,” Charlotte cried darkly.
"I understand,” Louise said coolly, " — to bury
our dead!”
"N o, to get some new playing-cards without
dog-eared corners. You needn’t see me to the sta­
tion,” Charlotte told her son, who had flushed at
her allusion. "I can find my way ’round. You go
back to your office and tell Frye I want to see him.”
Chin high, she went out.
Basil smiled at Louise in chagrin and apology.
He picked up hat and stick. Hastily he said—
"I’m hoping to see you again before you leave.
N ow I’d better follow mother. That federal sleuth
may need some cajoling.”
Louise was left with Potiphar.
"W ell?” she laughed grimly, still seated at her
desk.
Potiphar relaxed. His bandana came out and he
mopped his moist forehead.
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 189
"Seems, Miss Lou, that you’ve had a tight squeak
— or somethin’ mighty like it.”
"N o tighter than usual. Living in the midst of
alarms— or under a volcano— it’s the Bed of Pro­
crustes that an executive must lie in.”
"I begin t’ b’lieve it!”
The girl was silent, cogitating. She turned and
dropped clips in a nearby wastebasket: clips she
had ruined. Resting elbows on her blotter, she
interlaced her fingers across her high forehead. Her
two thumbs stuck up, again resembling horns.
"Potiphar,” she cried, "what's it all about}”
"W hat’s what about, Miss Lou?”
"The things that Basil’s just said in this room.
The things you said to me up in Vermont. Why
am I suddenly running up against traits in those
about me that . . . confound and confuse me?”
Potiphar frowned. From corner to corner he
studied his bandana . . .
"His mother was right,” Louise confirmed angri­
ly. "Men don't love women without expecting
something from them. What’s Basil’s game? What
is it he’s after?”
"But he told you, Miss Lou! ’Tain’t necessary
to— ”
"O h fiddlesticks Potiphar! Love between men
and women is founded squarely on what Charlotte
said. Or are you so old you’ve forgotten the sensa­
tion?”
"N o, I ain’t forgot,” the printer smiled lamely.
190 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"W e don’t need to have any inhibitions between
us, Potiphar. At least I haven’t any, as old Char­
lotte said.”
"I’m ’fraid, Miss Louise, t’aint nothin’ you’ll get
by havin’ it preached at you. You got t’ go an’
live it.”
"W ith your Georgie, I suppose? How delight­
fully romantic!”
The printer made no comment.
"If you want the blunt truth about that sort of
thing, Potiphar, let me tell you frankly, . . . I
wouldn’t be unjust enough— to Robling— to Basil
— to any man— to myself— to experiment, as Char­
lotte put it, in marital intimacies. You see I can’t
trust myself. I don’t know what might happen.”
"I dunno’s I ever met a girl,” Potiphar said ab­
sently, "so scairt o’ life as you be.”
"Well, I’m rather hard-ribbed— ”
"N o, no, you ain’t, daughter. You’ve said that
afore when I’ve hankered t’ correct you. You ain’t
hard-ribbed at all. If you really was hard, you’d
never think t’ mention it. You’re like Ben
Williams, up home t’ Paris, alius fixin’ a new sign
up somewheres in his store: N o Checks Cashed.
He does it ’cause he knows he would cash folks’
checks if any o’ them arst him.”
Louise dropped one hand and fingered her quill-
pen.
"Well, if you’re right,” she said after a moment,
“ then it behooves me to be doubly cautious. If I’m
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 191
really a sentimentalist but refusing to admit it, I
suppose the glorious career Basil mentioned will
end on a chicken-farm, over on Long Island. All
independent women nourish that complex, though
why on Long Island is something I can’t fathom.”
"You ain’t really loved a feller— I can see that
plain enough. N o matter how near you come t’
marriage like you told me up home, you ain’t never
loved a feller. And I’m thinkin’ when you do— ”
"Oh tommyrot, Potiphar! Let’s go to Chicago!”
CHAPTER VII
"O U T Potiphar was troubled.
When they went home for dinner, he forgot
to be awed by the ebony Juno. He gave nervous
fits and starts as he ate with Louise in the elegant
rear dining-room. When the telephone rang, his
fork clattered floorward.
"It’s Misto’ Van Dyke,” the negress reported.
"H e say he jus’ put he ma on de train fo’ Phully-
delphy. He want to talk wiff yo’.”
"Did you tell him I was here?”
"N o m’am.”
"Well, to save him coming up here, tell him I
left word with you I’d see him near train-time in
the Pennsylvania station— the eight o’clock train-
gate.”
"But Miss Lou,” protested Potiphar, "we’re goin’
t’ Chicawgo by th’ N ’York Central, ain’t we?”
"Surely— that’s why I’m sending Basil to some
other Terminal.”
The printer dropped his glance. He munched
at his food . . .
"Y ou’ve got to get used to that sort of thing.
It’s all in my day.”
192
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 193
The guest made no comment. And Louise
colored slightly.
"D on’t be so troubled, my funny old friend.
You’re only having a look at the machinery that
makes the business clock tick.”
"I ain’t troubled for m’self.”
"D on’t be exercised for me. All fortunes are
made by this sort of subterfuge— the same kinds
of strategy— much the same duelling as you’ve seen
this afternoon.”
"Um -m ,” said the printer.
"I know the Rotary Club of Paris, Vermont,
asks visiting executives to give talks on business
ethics. Beautiful pagans break out in the nation’s
magazines on the brotherly love that’s behind
modern commerce. Now and then a Rockefeller
makes a fine gesture, kicking out an underling too
big for his shoes. But business, as Eve said, is the
science of the Possible. What you get away with,
is all that really counts.”
"Mebbe, . . . if you think so.”
"Suppose I hadn’t been clever enough two weeks
ago to snarl Basil up in Ackermann’s blunder—
where would I find myself, this large September
evening? Madam Van Dyke would have me out
o f my companies so quick I’d be dizzy. She’d cut
my throat as joyously as Ma Beers cut the throats
of those chicks, in my girlhood.”
"Possibly, possibly!” And Potiphar munched.
"T o hold your place today, you’ve got to out-
194 GOLDEN RUBBISH
smart everyone! You’ve got to plan further, think
faster, act with more skill than all those around
you, or the pack that runs with you will tear you
to shreds.”
"What int’rests me, then, is why you don’t like
it, . . . why you’re discontented, sort o’, . . . why
they’s a scairt look at times accrost your eyes.”
"If I have my moods of discontent, Potiphar,
they come from what economists would call the
Law of Parsimony. The human system is essen­
tially lazy; Nature resents expending any more
force for a result than is absolutely necessary.
You’re given to the same sort of law, being content
to live up in Vermont, aiming no higher than
working on a paper. To hold our places and out­
smart others means killing vigilance. And that
takes energy. And Nature’s niggardly. It’s the
strain we resent: the necessity for struggling.”
"All o’ which is th’ silliest flapdoodle I’ve ever
heard in speech!”
"Flapdoodle, is it?”
"Daughter, you’re so ign’rant it tears at my
heart!”
Only his sincerity kept them from a quarrel.
Louise went abovestairs and came down dressed
for traveling.
They departed for Chicago.
With red caps paid, valises stored away, hats and
coats removed and tickets accounted for, they
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 195
watched the hastening passengers with eyes that
failed to see them. When the long python of
coaches commenced to roll forward, without jar­
ring, out of the tunnels, past 125th Street, a sud­
den queer fury assailed Louise Garland. She had
no zest to go on this journey. The city was sud­
denly dear to her as the crash of the Harlem River
bridge sounded beneath the coach-trucks.
Yet the train clipped up past Yonkers and
Tarrytown. They saw the lights of the lawn-
mower sign across the Hudson at Newburgh. The
train made more noise with a steam locomotive; on
into York State night it hurtled, searchlights on
the Albany boats occasionally combing the river’s
shores about them. Till the train slowed for
Poughkeepsie, old Potiphar was silent.
'W h at’s the matter?” Louise asked finally.
"I was thinkin’, that’s all. ’Tain’t really im­
portant.”
"Thinking of what?”
"Well, . . . th’ hurt in that young feller’s heart
when th’ train left that other station an’ he real­
ized he’d missed you.”
"Y ou’re moist-eyed over that?”
"I been in them places. I know what it’s like.”
"Well, the thing to do— when a man finds a
woman isn’t responding— is to drop her from his
life and hunt out someone else.”
" ’Tain’t alius possible. I know that, in addi­
tion.”
196 GOLDEN RUBBISH
She stared at him curiously. "I marvel you’ve
got through life, Potiphar Buss, with such a con­
tinual tax on your sympathies.”
“ Well, sympathy’s funny. You get it by spend-
in’ it, if you know what I mean.”
"Y ou’re talking like Basil again,” she laughed
nervously.
"Well, he sees life perty straight.”
This silenced Louise for the halt at Poughkeep­
sie. Passengers about them were going to bed.
They had taken a section on account of Potiphar
and had to move twice before the porter had it
ready.
"H e’s uncanny at times,” the girl remarked, pre­
occupied.
"W ho is?” asked Potiphar, wishing he could
smoke.
"Basil. He seems so very old.”
"H e is old, Miss Lou. Old in his soul. I could
tell by his actions— his willin’ness t’ give.”
"His willingness to what?”
“ It’s th’ sign o’ an old, old soul, Miss Lou— bein’
willin’ t’ give— bein’ eager t’ serve. It’s th’ young
souls that’s selfish: like small greedy children. Old
souls know that givin’s receivin’. It’s its own com­
pensation— a spiritual compensation. It’s what th’
Master meant when He says: He who loses his life
shall find it.”
"The Man of Galilee is very close to you, isn’t
He, Potiphar Buss?”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 197
The little printer nodded. "Only . . . I don’t
think o’ Him as th’ Man o’ Galilee. He’s too alive
for that!”
"Alive?” The girl’s voice was hoarse.
"It sort o’— antiquated Him— if you know what
I mean— callin’ Him th’ Man o’ Galilee— makes
Him out as a musty person who lived ’way back
at th’ dawn o’ hist’ry.”
"You said something, Potiphar, about— knowing
Him— from personal contact. Did you mean a
literal contact?”
The printer dropped his gaze. When he looked
up, he was smiling. Smiling beautifully.
"Well, He’s mighty alive, Miss Lou— just you
take my word for that. An’ some day folks that
run big businesses like you, is goin’ t’ know that
He’s a greater teacher o’ th’ future than He is o’
th’ past or th’ present.”
Silence for a time. Then—
"W ouldn’t it be a ghastly joke on some of us,
Potiphar Buss, if you were actually correct!”
"A ghastly joke, how?”
"Think what would be coming to some of us in
the Day of Judgment— the way we have to ignore
His precepts to hold our own in day to day busi­
ness.”
"I see. You hold He’s a sort o’ perliceman, . . .
what?”
"That’s what the Bible implies in its essence.”
198 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Speakin’ real plainly, how much have you read
it?”
" Far more than you’ll credit, my funny philos­
opher!”
"W hat?”
"D on’t think I’m so vile. Don’t think I’m so
stupid. Oh, Potiphar Buss, I’ve had my heart ago­
nies too— searching for the cue as to what life’s
about.” She turned away her face and stared out
at the dark . . .
"A n ’ yet you’re agnostic— ” The printer stopped
suddenly.
Both of them listened. Someone was calling
Louise Garland’s name.
"Yes?” she responded. "W hat is it— a tele­
gram?”
"Taken on at Poughkeepsie, ma’am,” reported
the trainman. He gave her the envelope and con­
tinued through the coaches.
"M y Lord!” cried Louise, unfolding the en­
closure.
"W hat’s th’ matter, Miss Lou? No one ain’t . . .
dead?”
"N o such good luck. Great heavens, what a
fix!”
"Read it,” begged Potiphar, "I ain’t got my
specks.”
"It’s from Basil— oh, damn!— 'Found wire from
Perry at office after starting mother homeward.
Robling left for Los Angeles at noon today and
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 199
Perry now en route back to New York on Cen­
tury. Tried to halt you before you left city but
Margaret made error naming your terminal. If
you decide to go on to Chicago ask details about
Robling at one three seven South State Street, third
floor. Do not worry over mother. Have talked
grudge out of her at least for present. Deepest
love and apology for upset this must cause you.
Basil.’ ”
Louise crushed the message in her lap with both
hands.
"Georgie’s gone t’ Californie!” Potiphar gasped
weakly. "H e . . . he must o’ lost his job agin.”
"O r maybe he’s gotten an inkling of my trip
through Perry and deliberately sidestepped me.”
"W ho’s this Perry?”
"One of the partners in Basil’s law firm. He
was going to Detroit on other business and agreed
to hunt Robling from the clues I gave him.”
The train hurtled on and on through the night.
It seemed like a juggernaut that had somehow en­
trapped them and was ruthlessly making away with
them now.
"I feel,” said Potiphar forlornly, "like th’ Jewish
feller in th’ story.”
"What story?” asked Louise. She was staring
ahead of her, dynamically thinking.
"A in’t you heard that yarn? Emigrant feller,
he looked like. Long beard an’ everything— bun­
dles all about him. Folks in th’ same car with him
200 GOLDEN RUBBISH
heard him groanin’ an’ groanin’, all day long, till
everybody pitied him. Thought he must be travel-
in’ t’ bury someone somewheres. Night come an’
he went t’ sleep. Next day he was up agin’ an’
groanin’ still more. Next noontime a travelin’
man couldn’t stand it no longer. 'What’s th’ mat­
ter?’ says he. 'W hy all th’ sorrow?’ An’ th’ Jew­
ish feller rocked hisself and moaned: 'Yoi, yoi! . . .
three days already an’ I’m on th’ wrong train!’ ”
Louise laughed despite herself. It broke her
angry tension.
"Potiphar Buss, shall we turn back at Albany?”
"But if Georgie’s gone west, we’d have t’ cross
this whole country t’ see him.”
"It looks that way, doesn’t it?”
"I’d— jus’ as soon— make a trip t’ California”
Yet even as he spoke it, the printer seemed awed.
"You would?”
"Ain’t nothin’ t’ stop me. I alius did hanker t’
see th’ west coast.”
"I’ll tell you what we’ll do,” Louise proposed
finally, "we’ll keep on to Chicago and learn Rob-
ling’s status. Then you go on after him and I’ll go
back to business. Perhaps after all, this is happen­
ing for the best.”
"I’ll do it,” said Potiphar several minutes later,
"if what you learn ’bout Georgie t’ Chicawgo
don’t hold ’nough int’rest t’ make you go with
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 201
"Agreed,” returned Louise. Then as though re­
lieved— "N ow suppose we go to bed?”
Potiphar slept fitfully. He awakened next
morning to the city roar of Buffalo. It was rain­
ing, they discovered— one of those gray, murky
days that presage early autumn, with foliage droop­
ing groggily and all the world depressed. Across
Indiana by one o’clock they headed, due in Chicago
at four that afternoon. Across endless miles of
farm lands the great Pullmans roared, through
resonant bridges, past vaporous woodlands, leaving
behind them hamlet after hamlet.
Queer tawdry little hamlets most o f them were,
unfenced, unpainted, dropped in America’s fecund
immensity. Spur tracks came first, and long aisles
of freight-cars, then shacks became houses that
lined into streets. Crossings flipped by with zebra-
gates lowered, automobile traffic halted, the whin­
ing ding-dong of signal bells functioning— Main
Street after Main Street— hundreds of Main Streets
— stores, restaurants, garages, cigarette lithographs
on billboards, white globuled lights that reached
into distance. Then more batteries of houses: big
angular houses that elbowed for space, small furtive
houses that hid behind trees, fat humorous houses,
houses with ricketts. Six out of ten had stripped
motor-cars abandoned in corners of chip-cluttered
yards, a few waterlogged hens, the debris o f a gar-
202 GOLDEN RUBBISH
den. Then out sped the train to vast open country,
and wide fields of grain with the stubble still fresh.
Sometimes their train would halt in a town and
Louise would watch the shoddy platform loungers,
taxicabs drawn up for passengers that came not,
nondescript dogs that wagged tails at strangers.
She looked into rooms of nearby track domiciles
and wondered after the people calling them Home
— what their problems, worries, feuds might be—
which houses held happiness, which roofs covered
sorrow. As if she were not acquainted with exist­
ence in such structures! . . .
Again and again she found herself speculating
on the man George Robling who had spent his life
wandering over spacious America. She considered
him rubbing shoulders with persons he knew not,
adjusting himself to new jobs and lodgings, recall­
ing the East as she thought of Manhattan— always
going on— somehow existing. It finally broke
through to her that no matter what he might turn
out to be, she too had known a similar Odyssey.
It startled her at first: this heritage in common.
In approaching Chicago they ran from the rain
belt. The smoke of crude industry hung above
the vista, but a mellow sun shone wondrously as
they clicked along Lake Michigan. It beautified
the sand-dunes, tingeing foundry stacks and water-
tanks with aurioles of gold. At ten minutes to
four Louise addressed Potiphar.
"W ell,” she said, "we’re here!”
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 203
"Yeah, Miss Louise— an’ arrivin’ in sunshine.
Like th’ Journey o’ Life,” the printer responded.
"Y ou’d philosophize at your own funeral,
wouldn’t you? Most people hold that the Journey
you mention ends in just the opposite.”
"N o,” he cried huskily, "sunshine! . . . bright,
glorious sunshine; . . . I’ve seed it lots o’ times.”
"Forget philosophy, Potiphar. Keep your mind
on your wallet.” She meant it as a pleasantry.
As soon as it was spoken she knew it was crass.
Their train drew under the long shed and
stopped. Congestion prevailed about vestibule lug­
gage. Then the din and grime of America’s crud­
est and most typical city throbbed and sifted about
them. Chicago!
Potiphar hadn’t been there since the Fair in ’93,
but Louise recalled its atmosphere from many busi­
ness visits: a smoky maelstrom of stockyards and
gangsters, of black belching founderies and inter­
minable bridges, of shrill traffic whistles echoing
upward through the Loop. As their cab went
bumping over greasy cobbles toward their speci­
fied hotel, Louise sensed how gruff, vigorous, dy­
namic, was this City of Winds.
They arrived at their hotel.
"It’s only four-thirty,” Louise declared later, re­
joining her companion in a corner of the lobby.
"I find that it’s possible to get accommodations on
the Limited for eight o’clock tonight. Instead of
204 GOLDEN RUBBISH
taking rooms here, therefore, supposing I hurry
over to State Street. A ten-minute interview with
the right persons will determine, I think, what my
course is to be.”
"I’ll sit here an’ smoke,” Potophar assented. "I’ll
read all th’ advertisin’ folders ’bout Californie.”
He seemed eager to get at them.
Louise left the printer and went into the street.
A trim, well-turned-out, energetic aspect she pre­
sented as she wove her way toward the specified
address. She had chosen a tailored suit of green­
ish tweed for this adventure, with olive-colored hat
and black fox neckpiece. She got into State Street
and looked for her number.
A slender skyscraper of freshly quarried marble
was the building she sought, its fine Gothic pin­
nacles still catching the sunlight. Windows were
fighting on its serried floors, however, for early
autumn twilight was shortening the days. Louise
pushed her way through the out-pouring occu­
pants.
"The offices of what firm are on the third floor,
please?” she asked the elevator starter.
"The Trans-West Construction Corporation,
madam.”
"A construction corporation!”
"Owners of the building. Car Seven, madam.
Let the lady out on Number Three, Tom. Going
u p ?”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 205
The car lifted its load with the lightness of air.
Louise stepped immediately into a spacious room of
sturdy white pillars and quartered oak appoint­
ments. An arear of reception space was fenced off
by railings, stuffed divans set about, the walls were
hung with etchings— buildings apparently that the
firm had constructed. A regiment of typists was
clearing the desks; clerks bearing books were head­
ing for the vaults. Down the carpet at the right
was a desk marked Information. A youth lolled
behind it, a silk-shirted youth with patent-leather
hair.
"I’m wondering if you’d assist me, please?” said
Louise, coming up. "I’m looking for a person
who is, or was, employed here. Mr. George Robling
is his name,” she added, "and I’m seeking particu­
lars about him to aid in the settlement of an east­
ern estate.”
"W hat’s your name?” asked the other. He drew
a pad toward him and pulled out a pencil.
"Louise Garland. I’ve just gotten in from New
York City. I’ll talk to anyone who can furnish
me with details as I’d like to start back to Man­
hattan tonight.”
"Have a chair, please. I guess Miss Duncan
could fix you up, if she hasn’t gone home. Wait
and I’ll see.”
The youth came back presently with a small,
comely woman about forty years old. She was clad
206 GOLDEN RUBBISH
in a businesslike shirtwaist built snugly at her
throat, a skirt of blue serge and pumps with square
heels. A white "transformation” gave her head a
silvery aspect and her short tilted nose was weighted
by glasses— heavy bar glasses from which dangled
a ribbon.
"You wanted to see Mr. Robling?” she sug­
gested. “ I’m sorry he’s not here. He’s left for
California.”
"Yes, so I understand. But if you could give me
some details about him— ”
"Aren’t you Peter Garland’s daughter?”
"Yes,” gasped Louise, "how did you— ”
"Oh, Mr. Robling thought that sooner or later
you’d come looking him up,” and Miss Duncan
smiled amusedly, taking off her glasses.
"Then despite my instructions, Mr. Perry must
have told him. About myself, I mean.”
"Mr. Perry had several talks with Mr. Robling,
the last one no later than night before last.”
Louise bit her lip. "Then Mr. Robling sus­
pected I might be coming west, and went farther
west in order to . . . avoid me?”
"N ot at all, Miss Garland. He had his business
to attend to. Your comings and goings were not
of his concern.”
Miss Duncan waited. She had a chin like old
Charlotte’s and tilted it slightly. Her eyes were
hazel-green, set too close together, and she carried
herself erectly— almost combatively— with the airs
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 207
of a grand dame. She was a grand dame, in minia­
ture, tailored for business, forced to work in an
office.
"Can you tell me,” asked Louise, "whether or
not Mr. Perry definitely established that Mr. Rob-
ling was the person who once worked on a news­
paper in Paris, Vermont?”
"I can establish that for you— on the 'Paris Daily
Telegraph’ it was, owned by a man named Samuel
Hod. Perhaps it were better if you talked with
Mr. World.”
"W ho’s Mr. World?”
"The company’s president. I think he had in­
structions what to tell you if you came here.”
"This is a . . . construction company?”
"W e project, construct and finance skyscrapers
all over the west. Here’s Mr. World now. I’ll let
you talk to him.”
A tall, big bodied, elderly man in expansive tan
vest had come up behind the railing. His bald head
was blotched; his watery eyes were pleasant but
shrewd. He carried his glasses hooked on one ear.
"Sybil!” he summoned, taking a straight­
stemmed briar from his teeth.
Miss Duncan turned. "This is Peter Garland’s
daughter,” she said in explanation. Her voice held
annoyance . . .
The head of the concern advanced through the
gate. His sleeves were up-rolled on huge hairy
forearms. He looked down on Louise as though
208 GOLDEN RUBBISH
his glasses were in place and he must peer above
them; he was taller than Louise by nearly a head,
even as Louise was taller than Miss Duncan.
"H ow do you do, Miss Garland?” he nodded.
"I’m Mr. World. We . . . rather expected you.”
"So I gather,” said Louise, eyeing World coolly.
Yet she offered him her hand.
World "had a way with the ladies,” she sus­
pected— or at least he implied it.
"Mr. Robling has gone to the Coast,” he la­
mented.
"That’s very unfortunate, in a manner of speak­
ing. But perhaps you could give me the details
I’m after.”
"Certainly, certainly. Mr. Robling asked me— ”
"H e’s still employed here then?”
"Oh, yes, he’s . . . employed here. W on’t you
step in my office?”
"I won’t be detaining you?”
World took out a watch that was crusted with
diamonds. "It isn’t five o’clock and I don’t leave
till six.”
He stepped toward the railing and held the gate
open . . .
It was a quarter after seven when Louise re­
appeared— in the Boulevard hotel where Potiphar
still waited.
"You made out all right?” the little printer
cried. "What we goin’ t’ do?”
BREAD ON STRANGE WATERS 209
"W e’re going to the Coast on the eight o’clock
Limited.”
"W e’re goin’ t’ th’ Coast? You’re goin’, too?”
"Decidedly, I’m going.” And Louise swallowed
dryly.
"What you so white for? What you found
out?”
"Plenty, my funny philosopher, plenty! W e’ll
send our bags to the station by a porter. W e’ll
follow afoot. Through State Street. I want to
show you something.”
"Ain’t we got t’ see t’ tickets?”
"I’ve already seen to tickets. And we’ll snatch
a bite of dinner at the station or on the train.”
The luggage was despatched and Potiphar went
out in Louise Garland’s wake. Ten minutes of
walking— silent walking on the girl’s part— got
them to State Street. This time she crossed over
along its west side. Finally she halted.
"W hat’s it all about?” the printer begged, be­
fuddled. "Where is it you’re fetchin’ me?”
"Potiphar Buss, look over the way!”
Traffic barked around them and taxicabs darted.
Policemen’s whistles screamed; newsboys bellowed
papers. Above all the bedlam the exquisite pile
towered which Louise had lately visited. Like a
vertical symphony of frozen music it was flood­
lighted now, far up to its pinnacles. Over its en­
trance were artful bronze letters: the printer re­
quired no spectacles to read—
210 GOLDEN RUBBISH
ROBLING BUILDING
"W hy, that’s . . . Georgie’s name!” Potiphar
gasped weakly.
Louise let him have it then. "Yes,” she agreed,
"and your protege not only financed and built it,
but he’s Chairman of the Board and chief stock­
holder in a company that owns half a dozen like
it!”
''That— buildin’s— Georgie’s?”
"So I’ve discovered. Do you wonder, my phil­
osopher, that I’m going to Los Angeles?”
"But why ain’t you known that— that— ?”
"Mr. Perry, I suppose, conspired to surprise me.”
Mist filmed over their eyes at its beauty.
Thirty-five stories of immutable marble prodded
the smoke, the clouds, and the stars. Finer in that
moment than Louise had thought it could be, it
thrust up from the city, a Victory Song in stone.
"Miss Lou . . . somehow . . . I’ve got t’ sit
down!”
Louise did not heed when he utilized the curb­
ing. She was thinking . . . thinking . . .
"Miss Lou, Miss Lou! How could it o’ hap­
pened?”
"I don’t grasp it myself. But I mean to find
out.”
She was thinking of the man whose acumen had
constructed it, lying half-blind in a cold country
house, as the printer had recounted it, demanding
BREAD O N STRANGE WATERS 211
why Life was so cruel to those with high ambitions.
How many similar skyscrapers, she wondered, mak­
ing the cloud-line of a hundred Yankee cities, owed
their existence to young men who at some time or
other had floundered in a morass, tottered on the
brink of earthly oblivion— to stagger back, face
about, go on somehow in snarling defiance at in­
human heartbreak, building similar monuments on
debis of illusions? Such achievement was celestial.
It must be celestial.
Celestial! W hy should that analogy sing in her
brain?
She turned and looked down at the little man
seated— the puckered-mouthed printer whose
doughty legs had failed him.
His savings it had been, given in love, that pro­
vided that youth with escape from his morass—
given him two good eyes to find his way about this
Land of Opportunity and erect this great shaft to
Indomitable Courage. Little rotund Potiphar
Buss, rumpled and shabby and bald as an egg, was
equally responsible for this towering anthem of
iridescent stone, housing its hundreds of workers
by day, lifting its turrets by night toward the A l­
mighty. A pure white column to humble altruism
it was— a mute memorial to unsung compassion, a
heart worth more than coronets, a simple faith that
did naught but sympathize!
PART THREE
THE AWAKENING
213
CHAPTER I
rT 'H E R E is something equally heroic, something
inexpressibly poignant, about a great train
leaving Chicago by night— when it has for its route
the farflung Southwest: the prairies, the moun­
tains, the mesas, the deserts. The midland metropo­
lis typifies virile, ingenious, exhaustless America,
the handiwork of man, the epitome of brawn—
modern society in the crucible of commerce. But
the Southwest typifies rudimentary Nature, cra­
dled in Force and matured in Change— the handi­
work of God, the epitome of Genesis.
From the man-made canyons of brick and ce­
ment that train emerges dauntlessly— to canyons
of scoria, granite and basalt— frcm deserts of bill­
boards to deserts of mesquite— from the slag-heaps
of foundries to those of volcanoes— away through
the night with a continent sleeping. There is some­
thing audacious about it, yet something sublime—
the insolence of mortals who sleep on a Jugger­
naut— the glory of achievement a railroad pro­
claims.
The girl and the printer remained on the obser­
vation platform till the city ran out and Illinois
215
216 GOLDEN RUBBISH
opened. How could they sleep after what they
had discovered?
"What I can’t make out,” the man kept repeat­
ing, "is why Georgie never writ me ’bout such
change in his fortunes— why Vermont’s never
heard o’ what ’tis he’s done?”
"Aren’t there chapters in life too painful to
open? I have them in mine; you have them in
yours.” The girl’s voice was tender despite the
noisy wheels. "Mr. World said he rarely referred
to his early days in Paris. He forgot them deliber­
ately when he started life over.”
"But why should he start? That’s th’ puzzlin’
thing.”
"I’m hoping we’ll learn when we get to the
Coast.”
"Miss Lou, what’s come over you? I swear, you
ain’t th’ same person you was this afternoon.”
"D on’t try to talk, Potiphar. It takes too much
effort.”
"You ain’t told me everything said t’ you, then!”
"Wait til tomorrow . . . the next day . . . till
I have time to think. Call it for the present that
. . . the Robling Building . . . the sight of it . . .
has had a queer effect. Something . . . swept over
me, Potiphar, as you sat down on the curbing, . . .
something I’ve never had happen . . . in my life.”
He tried to draw her out, but she would not be
drawn.
Southward in darkness their Section gathered
THE AW AKENING 217
speed. One had gone ahead; another came behind.
So they would travel for three days and nights:
twelve minutes apart never meeting tragically.
As they turned the first curve the station lights
vanished. They made their way out of a city of
shadows— crude, tawdry, work-scarred shadows—
over resonant culverts that rumbled with their ton­
nage. Signal lights whipped by and grew small in
the rear; the lanterns of yard-men glistened on
rails; the track fires of tramps became pin-points
in distance and the backwash of air held cinders
and coal soot.
Onward and outward they took on more speed.
Vast skeletons of bridges loomed ghostly in boat-
flares. Chemical odors, sewer gas, the fetid smells
from warehouses, the bilge reek from rivers that
might have held corpses, at length grew less nause­
ous. A furnace-red nimbus soon hung on the
north— the glow of a holocaust across dark open
country. Over multiple switches the train picked
its way, growing ever more self-confident, clicking
an errorless track into starlight.
"It’s wonderful, ain’t it?” Potiphar whispered.
He leaned close to his companion. "I swear . . .
a railroad alius grips hold o’ me. So much coopera­
tion! . . . thousands o’ persons all bent t’ one ob­
ject, . . . seein’ that folks who’s travelin’ are
safely took care of, every minute o’ th’ journey,
though they don’t know each other and ’ll never
find out.”
218 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Yes,” Louise nodded.
"Animals don’t do team-work like that. Ani­
mals don’t care what becomes o’ one another. I
guess it must be th’ God in humankind, seekin’ ex­
pression in mutual service.”
"But drawing good wages for it!” Louise argued
practically.
"Sure!” agreed the printer. "But just another
example o’ receivin’ by givin’.”
Far up ahead their great locomotive leaned on
the curves like an arrogant minotaur. Its lungs
burst with power. Fires played on its smoke. And
behind flowed the coaches, docile, obedient. Ahead
in its cab, too, a wizened little man— a man with
kindly eyes and grizzled moustaches— held a thou­
sand lives in his keeping till dawn, seeing only sema­
phores, hearing only small sinister noises, sleepless
himself that others might slumber.
Smaller cities sped past— Lamont, Lockport,
Joliet— and houses with occupants going to bed.
Long aisles of street lights glinted sharply on as­
phalt. Lone motors sped along those streets, carry­
ing persons who must be forever nameless, darting
through underpasses as though casting themselves
beneath the Juggernaut. Potiphar yawned. Finally
he nodded . . .
"W e’d better go in,” Louise said maternally.
He had a bad time keeping his feet until they
reached their Pullman. When Louise returned in
THE AW AKENING 219
dressing-gown with hair down, she found him sit­
ting on the edge of his berth. Coat and vest were
removed and he clutched his belt, puzzled.
"W hat’s the matter?” she asked softly.
“ H ow ’s a man gonna take off his pants when he’s
sittin’ on ’em?”
"H ow did you manage last night?” she laughed.
"By heck, I kept ’em on! S’pose they was a
wreck? . . . how’d I know m’self, undressed?” . . .
They awakened next morning in Kansas City.
Then came the wheat-belt.
The printer spent most of that day on the
platform. The bigness and flatness of the prairie
country awed him. It was a state where intoxi­
cated aviators could not even hurt themselves.
They covered distances of such immensity that the
hours of the day all looked alike— a sear, leafless
country, brown as a cigar.
"I read a piece once,” the printer cried wryly,
" ’bout 'What’s th’ Matter with Kansas?’ I’d say
it’s got so much quantity they ain’t no room for
quality. It’s th’ sort o’ country you travel ’cross
when you ain’t th’ least notion o’ ever cornin’
back.”
Their ears grew accustomed to monotonous
noises: the droning click of wheels on rails, the
hollow roar of bridges, the long-drawn wails of the
laboring locomotive. Sometimes, afar on the
prairie, the train would halt unexplainably and
220 GOLDEN RUBBISH
quiet would ensue— quiet broken only by idle con­
versation, gentle whirring of electric fans, the fluff
o f porter’s whisk on carpets.
Smells maintaining nowhere but in a Pullman
were part of that novel journey for the printer:
soft coal, hot oil, musty blankets and carpets, the
pungent reek of orange peel. As each midday ap­
proached the scent of cooked fowl drifted back
from the diner.
"W e went across the corner of Colorado in the
night,” the printer later wrote back to Sam Hod.
"I was thankful we skipped that distance by sleep­
ing. The first fellow who flew across America
must have broke a lot of speed laws, even for the
sky.”
The second day found them afar in New Mexico
— with excited passengers exclaiming at rock
shapes.
"It’s too crazy t’ keep track of,” the printer de­
clared. "Even th’ Creator’s forgot what He
chucked here. He’s used it for a dump— for all
He had left over when He finished with th’ uni­
verse.”
A country of dried mud opened to them— In­
dian trading posts, water-tanks like mammoth red
ashcans on stilts, puebloes with fences made of reed
saplings. Trees showed along water-courses, their
branches swirled upward as though twisted and
held by a vortex of wind.
“Indians!” cried Potiphar— and half the coach
THE AW AKENING 221
smiled. The train, it appeared, was in sudden risk
of scalpings.
Late afternoon brought a void of aridity: of lava
and mesquite, of yucca and thorn. Eastern Arizona
defied the geologist. Unburied roots lay scattered
about like the whitened bones of plant-life that
had perished in agony.
Sunset that night was the stuff dreams are made
of . . .
The far mountains mellowed; pink, burnt
orange and old rose brushed them— their valleys a
swirling mantle of mauve. They altered as one
watched. Then all too soon the color show was
over: the stars appeared— great ochre blobs of
liquid incandescence. A cold wind swept the
greasewood. The Milky Way came into its own.
God was up there. How beautiful, vast, terrific,
was the world which He had made!
But the Great Divide was behind them at last
and the Golden State was far-flung around them.
At Barstow, Potiphar saw his first palm tree.
"You yell to me right off, first time you see
oranges,” he made Louise promise. And he con­
tented himself with the assumption that imme­
diately those fruits appeared the girl would leap
electrically, shouting, "Oranges! Oranges/”
"A n ’ t’ think all this country’s been out here all
th’ time I been alive back east,” he lamented. "N o
wonder Californie does so much braggin’. She’s
so far fr’m all th’ rest o’ Americky it’s like callin’
222 GOLDEN RUBBISH
folks names when you know they can’t chase you.”
Down from Summit and Victoryville they rolled
through Cajon Pass— to a flood of golden sunlight
that enfolded them like love. San Bernardino at
last— Pomona— San Dimas— Azusa. And Potiphar
saw orange trees . . .
"You got th’ address where Georgie’s stoppin’,
ain’t you?” he asked Louise.
"I have his ’phone number. I’m going out to the
Ambassador Hotel and call him from there.”
"What you goin’ t’ say t’ him? How’ll you ex­
plain us?”
"I haven’t the faintest idea,” the girl admitted.
They approached Pasadena as one-thirty ar­
rived— Lamanda Park— the westerly curve along
Orange Grove Avenue. Across Colorado Street
they rolled, to a tired halt at the Pasadena station.
The train which had been a glory sight pulling
from Chicago, had fulfilled its mission and accom­
plished its task. A ten-minute pause at Pasadena,
friends greeting friends, negroes scrambling for
luggage— then the six further miles down into Los
Angeles.
Potiphar Buss had crossed a continent.
"Miss Lou!” he cried excitedly, " — look at them
rows o’ auttymobiles— an’ more in th’ streets—
thousan’s— millions! They have flivvers ’way out
here, too. It’s jus’ like Paris, Vermontl”
Los Angeles!
THE AW AKENING 223
They took a cab out Wilshire Boulevard. Leav­
ing the skyscrapers of the downtown district, they
wove through a city of yellow brick buildings,
clean asphalt, ringing traffic bells, corner drug
stores and open-air markets. The principal mer­
chandise in those markets seemed oranges. It was
a metropolis of myriad filling stations, mid-west
farmers, real estate emblazonments, militant steam-
shovels all gouging ochre dirt. The printer had
confused impressions of scarlet-diamond boulevard
signs all ordering “Stop”— of unhurried energy
under sun-flooded sky— of motor cars that glis­
tened— of ten thousand bungalows smothered in
flowers. A clean-washed city of stucco and palm-
fronds! Milwaukee set down in a tropical garden!
The hotel they entered, sprawled over an acre.
To the west and the north, blue mountains stood
sentinel. Allotted two chambers with sitting-room
connecting, the printer insisted that they ’phone
"George” at once.
"You jus’ get th’ number,” he told the girl ex­
citedly, "an’ lemme do th’ talkin’ !”
"But Potiphar,” she ordered, "you must first
promise something. You must agree not to say
anything about father’s mission or death, or the
reasons for our trip, until I’ve done so first.”
"N ot if you don’t want I should, Miss Louise.”
"Let me give my version of why it is we’ve come
here— after we’ve learned how much Robling
knows— after I’ve seen the type of man he is.”
224 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Again the printer promised and she dialed for
her number.
"Yes?” a woman’s voice responded.
"Is Mr. Robling there, please?”
"W ho wishes to speak to Mr. Robling?”
Despite her heart-constriction, Louise was aston­
ished. Where had she heard that woman’s voice
before?
"Is this . . . Miss Duncan?”
"Yes— it’s Miss Duncan.”
"This is Miss Garland. Why, you must have
come out on the same train that we did— ”
"W e?”
"Mr. Buss and I— unless you came by airplane.”
"I did come by plane. I do it almost weekly.”
"Oh! . . . well, . . . if Mr. Robling’s available
will you kindly inform him his old friend would
speak to him. Mr. Buss is here with me.”
Louise arose and gave Potiphar the instrument.
She did it with vexation. So the grand dame secre­
tary was out here to be dealt with? . . .
"Hello?” cried Potiphar. "Hello? . . . is this
you, Georgie? This is P-P-Potiphar B-Buss!” Beads
of sweat dampened the excited printer’s forehead;
his blue-veined hands were trembling as in ague.
"W hat say? . . . yeah, all th’ way ’cross Americky
t’ see you, Georgie, . . . why ain’t you never let me
know— what say? . . . you did! . . . well, well, life’s
funny, ain’t it? . . . your voice sounds changed,
Georgie. I s’pose you’ve changed too. What say?
THE AW AKENING 225
. . . yeah, Diplomats’ Hotel. Swell rooms. Three
of ’em. An’ a bathroom we can use any time o’
day we want.”
At last he hooked the receiver and turned.
"H e’ll be right over, he says, Miss Lou. An’ we
made a mistake takin’ these rooms. He claims he
wants us out t’ his house.”
"Did he say where he lived?”
"Yeah, he told me. On a mountaintop some-
wheres.”
"O n a . . . mountaintop!”
"H e says he felt I was turnin’ up this fall—
that’s sort o’ queer, ain’t it? You claimed you
didn’t mention me t’ them folks in his office.”
"I told you the truth. I never said a word.”
"Well, he’s been expectin’ us— ”
"But I never even intimated I was coming to
the Coast. I haven’t even told my people in New
York!”
"A ll the same, Miss Lou, he knows all about us.
Guess I’ll go down an’ wait in th’ lobby.”
"N o, you’d better stay here. There’s the chance
you might miss him. I want you around when we
come face to face.”
In the next twenty minutes Louise fumbled
badly. Her hair would not dress; her bags were
in confusion. She felt like a school-girl awaiting
the arrival of a sophomore lover and was angry
with herself.
Soon she heard the ’phone ring. Potiphar re-
226 GOLDEN RUBBISH
sponded. Almost at once he pounded on her door.
"Miss Lou, Miss Lou! He’s downstairs— my
Georgie! I answered th’ tellyphone an’ told him t’
come up.”
"You admit him, Potiphar. I’ll join you in a
moment.”
More minutes ticked away. Elevator gates
clicked. Then knocks on a door. Sharp exclama­
tions. A rich voice cried thickly—
"Potiphar! Potiphar! . . . you dear old Laza­
rus, . . . raised from the dead!”
Heart throttling raggedly, Louise left her room.
She effected it carelessly. Who was this Robling
that she should be so exercised?
She was conscious of a man by the table at her
left. She heard Potiphar’s voice—
"Miss Lou, this is Georgie!”
"H ow do you do, Mr. Robling?”
Louise started forward, raising her glance. Her
eyes met the "stranger’s” . . .
She halted and froze.
"H ow do you do, Miss Garland?” that rich voice
responded. "Some time has elapsed since the two
of us last met!”
CHAPTER II
“ 'V T O U ’RE— George— Robling?”
"For the time that remains,” he responded
amiably. But something in his glance filled Louise
with disquiet. She should have been annoyed by
his sapient scrutiny. Instead, she was inveigled.
Potiphar Buss was likewise perturbed. His gaze
was for the man but his speech for Louise.
"You know Georgie?” he gasped when he could
talk.
"You recall I spoke of a person— who guided me
to a house in Shawsville the night I sought my
father?”
"Him!” cried the printer. "But you said he was
a loafer!”
"And so he was,” their caller asserted, “ though
the term is inadequate.”
"I declare, I need my specks— not t’ help my
eyesight. W ho’d ever dreamt that feller was you?”
"Crediting the obvious may sometimes be a privi­
lege.” Their artless consternation made Robling
smile broadly. "After all, why not? W on’t the
Cosmic Lodestone have its little miracle?”
The Cosmic Lodestone! What did he mean?
Louise felt abashed. Abashed and dismayed. She
227
228 GOLDEN RUBBISH
had always recalled her guide of that evening as
slight and bow-shoulder, taciturn and sullen. His
complexion had been pallid; he had whimpered
when he spoke. Seventeen years later, face to face
again, she found him a stalwart, self-confident
Personage. His backbone had straightened, his eyes
twinkled genially. And the strain had dissolved
from his weather-bronzed countenance; it no
longer showed lines, though it showed something
else; a sturdy tranquillity that perplexed and dis­
mayed her.
"Y ou’ve changed,” she remarked. She knew it
was trite, but her mind was chaotic.
"Say rather, awakened,” he qualified gently.
"And might I add, Miss Garland, that I’ve con­
stantly regretted the vindictive thing I did. I’d
gone back to Shawsville for a talk with your father.
When he wouldn’t let me have it, I’d loitered at his
plant. I’d worked for a time on the paper in
Shawsville, so I knew the reputation of the place
to which I took you. I meant to hurt your father,
though later I realized I’d done you a service.”
"Service!”
"You perceive it, I think, from the trend of
what’s resulted.”
"Well, you’re forgiven— not that it’s of con­
sequence.”
"Thank you, Miss Garland. That makes the
readjustment.”
She had not meant to pardon him, but something
THE AW AKENING 229
in his character disarmed her of pique. Confused
though she was, she recalled a line of Kipling’s:
" — his was a face for a woman to dream about; for
a man to try to carve on a pipe-head afterward.”
Yet more than his features disorganized her
thoughts. He seemed to project a trenchant equa­
nimity— something she felt— something that was
physical as well as mental. It awed as it thrilled
her. Few men she had encountered were possessed
of that ability. She responded to it willingly and
wondered that she did so. "W ell buttressed” he
was, of a height with herself, easy in his carriage,
nonchalant yet kindly. His temples showed frost­
bite; his lips came together with a trace of pla­
cidity. He disclosed what Basil lacked: a spiritual
composure which conflict awards— inhuman con­
flict— the crucible of poise. Not that Van Dyke
was deficient in poise. But Robling had attained
what Basil had inherited. And it made him the
stronger. Louise sensed that strength and her own
paid it homage.
"W hy don’t we sit down?” she suggested in her
fluster.
Robling laid a hat of white felt on the table.
Coatless he had come there, in soft-collared shirt
and white flannel trousers. The only color about
him was a tie of cool blue that hung down his shirt-
front.
They drew up three chairs.
Could this be the hapless lad who had stolen a
230 GOLDEN RUBBISH
payroll to save his baby’s life? Yes, she could credit
it. The years had matured him and given him
comity. It was his contrast with the picture she
had sketched of him, that she resented— the picture
of a gruff, self-assertive male who had flattened ob­
struction by the force of his temperament and
sabered his way from defeat to dominion. In­
stead he must have won by intellect and kindli­
ness. Yes, and something else— something she did not
like to admit— something that altered her attitude
radically— something she labeled for the present as
Magnetism.
But what was the cause of his startling rena­
scence?
"O f course,” he said presently, "condolences on
the change in the status of your father have no
meaning. But his Setting Forth from Potiphar’s
house was ironical, wasn’t it? — in view of the
search he was making for me.”
She glanced at him startled. "You know about
that?”
"H ow could I help it?”
"Mr. Perry told you?”
"N o, that wasn’t necessary.”
Along with his compatibility, she suddenly per­
ceived that his eyes held surprise, not mental sur­
prise like hers and old Potiphar’s, rather a physical
astonishment growing deeper on his face.
Although his gaze held, it seemed to look beyond
her— or slightly above her— as though attracted
THE AW AKENING 231
by her hat. She was wearing no hat and soon felt
embarrassed. What could he be studying: some
rumple of her hair? But whatever it was, it altered
his attitude. Instead of reserve he showed her
camaraderie, as though he had perceived an em­
blem in her headdress suggestively marking her
as in caste with himself. But what caste? W hy
should he deport himself with this cryptic cordial­
ity and why should it affect her?
For she in her turn was obliged to reciprocate.
She felt an elation provokingly pleasant— physical,
and mental, and deeper than both. She had heard
of love at first meeting, the shibboleth of typists,
waitresses and salesgirls, and explained it as flower­
ing of autosuggestion. Now she wasn’t so sure.
Affinity too, was an overworked term. She ex­
plained it as license. But confronting George Rob-
ling upset all her assumptions. She saw it was pos­
sible for the right type of man to walk through her
defenses as though they were cardboard; she would
utter no protest if he tore off her armor and ex­
posed her to wolves.
"I feel,” she said nervously, "as though I’d been
hoaxed— worse than by your prank in Shawsville.”
"Hoaxed?” he asked.
"I went to Chicago looking for a printer, a man
who worked for wages. The disclosures that re­
sulted were a series of shocks.”
"Yet you knew what to do when you found out
the truth!”
232 GOLDEN RUBBISH
“ You’re most entertaining. But I can’t under­
stand why no word reached me of your altered for­
tunes— why my father never knew— ?”
“ Yeah,” put in the printer, "it sort o’ hurts me,
Georgie, that you never wrote an’ told me how well
you’d made out.”
"That,” responded Robling, pulling his eyes from
Louise with an effort, “ is all bound up in a general
bale of explanations which require sorting out.”
“ How so?” asked Potiphar.
“ Because they concern crises and changes in my
life that aren’t generally credited. So I keep the
bale in storage.”
"But Georgie, I should think— ?”
"You say you’re surprised to find me what I am?
Well, I’m surprised too. I’m surprised that noting
what I do in connection with you both, you should
think it unusual to find me of affluence.”
“ That’s befuddling,” said Louise.
"Well, what I mean is this: I’ve had reasons for
knowing that you’d come out to see me in due
Cycle of Event. T o write and tell you what was
happening would usurp the function of the Cosmic
Lodestone— altering careers that were not for my
directing— precipitating futures that would have
free play in Time. What was to be, would be!
I think we have evidence.”
Louise chanced to be looking toward the printer
at the moment. And a startling expression came
THE AW AKENING 233
into his face. One minute it had been anxious, even
doleful: at Robling’s declaration it energized with
interest. The tin-colored eyes became riveted on
Robling, the puckered mouth dropped open, over
Potiphar’s countenance came astonished cognition.
Cognition of what? Significance stalked be­
hind George Robling’s words that could only be
grasped by fellow initiates. But there again, mys­
tery: initiates in what? Along with slight anger
the woman felt panic. It seemed as though she too
recognized something, yet it could not break
through into cerebral consciousness.
After Basil’s veiled speeches back in New York,
had she made this wild excursion to encounter
more exasperating interclusions in the attitudes of
those whom she met in California? She had the
chagrined, hapless feeling that had come to her in
girlhood: when once she had marveled that a room­
ful of men had arisen at her entrance, to remain
on their feet until she was seated. A bit of social
comity, that, of which for a time she had not been
aware. Growing older, learning etiquette by pain­
ful humiliations, blind fury often siezed her at
being thus hampered. Self-pity was in it, some
diffidence, the functioning of the same inferiority
complex that had wrought her attainments. But
knowing its factors did not lessen her distress.
Were there other comities, other usages, other
practices and acceptances, of which she was igno-
234 GOLDEN RUBBISH
rant even now in middle womanhood? Potiphar’s
attitude toward his protege altered from that in­
cident and was not the same again. In God’s name,
what had happened?
The printer’s brown cob was belching vile fumes.
Whimsically he asked—
"H ow long you been in Chicago, Georgie?”
"Since I came to myself on returning from war.”
"You went t’ th’ war?”
"Um -m — I sometimes believe the war came to
me.”
“ You got through it all right?”
"Well, I’m still lugging around a chunk of shrap­
nel that I know I’ve got in me each day it rains.”
"You was shot, Georgie? Where?”
"In the Saint Mihiel salient. I saw enough war
to last me a lifetime lying with four other fellows in
a cellar-sized shell hole for three days and nights. I
saw other things, too!”
"I meant t’ ask, Georgie, where was you wounded
— what part o’ your body?”
"Where wasn’t I wounded? The doctors picked
out all the pieces they dared. Seven in my legs had
stopped me in that fight. The one in my lungs
they decided to leave.”
"Your lungs!”
"Oh, it’s long become encapsulated, though I’m
forced to avoid any violent exercise.”
"A n ’ you come back fr’m war an’ commenced
buildin’ skyscrapers? Where’d you get th’ boodle?”
THE AW AKENING 235
"Money’s the easiest thing in the world to get,
Potiphar, when you know its true function. I got
my etheric principles right and capital followed as
a matter of course.”
" Etheric principles!” Louise Garland frowned.
"The structures I’ve built,” Robling explained,
are known as Cooperative. Firms buy portions of
them as permanent office homes, instead of leasing,
owning their section like any other realty.”
"Cooperative!” echoed Potiphar. He fondled
the word.
"But it’s all behind me now— the construction—
the money making period. I’ll describe to you later
how I’ve funded my interests. I’ll have to, of
course, with Miss Garland involved.”
"I?” Louise galvanized.
"W hy yes— don’t you know?”
"Know what, for pity’s sake?”
"The reasons underlying your trip and your
presence here?”
"I came out here to consult you in regard to my
father’s legacy left us in common— not that I meant
to mention it so soon. What else am I concerned
in?”
Robling debated.
"This really isn’t the place or time to tell you,
Miss Garland. You see— I thought— from that
light about your head— ”
" What light about my head?”
"Y ou’re not aware of it?” Her behavior puz-
236 GOLDEN RUBBISH
zled him. "H ow could it be there if your errand
were so trivial— ?”
"M y errand is anything but trivial to me. And
what sort of light do you see about my head?”
"W hy— the Light of your Identity? Don’t you
understand?”
"Indeed I do not. I’m amazed by such refer­
ence.”
"Y ou’re not even grounded in your cosmic
fundamentals? You mean I must instruct you?”
''Apparently— yes.’’
"But such explanations need time to present
them. Aren’t you aware of the province of Light?”
"What province of Light?”
"The projection of Reality— the structure of
the universe.”
"The structure of the universe is something I
don’t bother with. And the only Reality I know is
making two dollars out of one hundred cents. You
ought to concur, after what you’ve accomplished.”
"But I haven’t accomplished anything, Miss Gar­
land. I’ve simply acquiesced to the Principles of
Love.”
"Love!” cried Louise. What maudlinity was this?
"Certainly, Love. Oh I don’t mean romance,
nor do I mean affection— ”
"Altruism, then?”
"N o, not altruism. Rather, the virile phenome­
non that’s the essence of Power.”
THE AW AKENING 237
"The only Love I know about— that’s the es­
sence of Power— is the greed of the race for bank­
notes and influence.”
"N o, you’re quite wrong. That’s a force so
destructive that it’s often catastrophic. I’ll ex­
plain to you later.” He was pensive a moment,
then he turned to the printer. "H ow can ac­
complishment be attained without a knowledge of
First Principles? Do you get it, Potiphar?”
The printer was troubled. "Blindness, Georgie,
ain’t alius lack o’ sight. What we call blindness
can be lack o’ perception. I’ve studied Miss Lou
an’ I know she’s got eyes. She simply refuses t’
credit what she sees.”
"Sight, or perception,” Louise said with vigor,
"is a matter of discerning the factors of success.
Beyond that, I’m bored. Logic as logic is some­
thing for poets— idealists— people who live for hob­
bies and 'isms’ while I’m a materialist whose re­
ligion is W ork.”
Robling seemed amused. "Yes?” he said indul­
gently.
Louise changed the subject before she lost her
temper. "Mr. World said you’d given up active
supervision of your company because of failing
health. I didn’t tell Potiphar, thinking it might
worry him. What did he mean— that you’d per­
manently retired?”
"N o,” Robling answered. "Merely changed my
objective. As for my health, old Ben meant my
238 GOLDEN RUBBISH
wound. The climate of Chicago aggravates the
trouble in my lungs.”
"Georgie,” broke in Potiphar, "what become o’
your wife?”
"She’s here on the Coast. She married a banker
and they live in Los Angeles. Her husband and I
are very good friends.”
"Pshaw, you can’t mean it!”
"It amuses me constantly,” Robling declared,
"that two people must keep up a manufactured
hatred simply because their marriage went amiss.
Nellie doesn’t know why we married as we did, but
sooner or later its significance will reach her. She’ll
know in the end that Marriage is of spirit. Any­
thing else is a physical make-shift.”
"You ever married a second time, Georgie?”
"N o,” said the other, "the Plan had it other­
wise.”
"Well, how ’bout your infant?— warn’t his name
Donald?”
"Donald got his Transfer a year ago, Potiphar.
He flew over, so t’ speak, while learning to be a
pilot.”
Potiphar gasped.
"You don’t mean you lost him!”
The father’s voice held whimsy: "I suppose flying
with a mechanical contrivance irked him, Poti­
phar. He found he might dispense with it. Any­
how, he did!”
THE AW AKENING 239
“ Where is it you live when you’re here t’ th’
Coast?”
“ You’re referring to my house? Up on that
mountain you can see beyond those trees. Sup­
posing we go there,” he suddenly energized. “ Stay­
ing at a hotel while you’re here in California is not
to be thought of. You must cancel these rooms and
come out as my guests.”
A person is of importance in exact ratio to the
distance that one will travel to confront him— as
Romance may be the extent of one’s ignorance
about another. Peter Garland’s daughter had tra­
versed a continent. She had made a mental sketch
of a man in Chicago— while viewing his master­
piece— and named it George Robling. Coordinat­
ing that portrait with actuality might be as vexa­
tious as she was finding it novel, but returning to
Manhattan till she had probed and dismissed the
enigma of his metamorphosis was quite as absurd
as it had seemed in the east.
"Y ou’re proposing something that makes me
very happy. I’m sure Potiphar too wants to see
your mountain home,”— and Louise dropped her
glance at the approval on their faces.
Downstairs they went, some thirty minutes later,
and Robling led the way to a heavy sports-roadster.
The russet-brown car had a hood that meant power.
With their bags in the rumble-seat they purred
240 GOLDEN RUBBISH
down the grade and veered to the left into Beverly
Drive.
Westward to Vine Street and through the heart
of Hollywood they drove, the printer boggle-eyed
at the motion-picture studios. Out Sunset Boule­
vard they traveled, pausing only for semaphores,
tooling the traffic with expert precision. Louise
ventured once as they left Gardner Junction—
"D o you drive your ’plane also?”
“ No,” answered Robling, "I’m arriving at the
Ferry by quite a different route.”
Before entering Beverly Hills they turned sharply
to the right. Up a mountain grade they started,
steadily climbing curve after curve.
And the world fell away. The vista grew stupen­
dous.
"M y stars,” cried the printer, "be we headin’ for
heaven?”
"W hy not?” laughed the man.
Higher they mounted and the air became purer.
It grew thinner likewise, and bubbled at their ear­
drums. Set back on embankments or cupped in
ravines were patrician residences; deploying on open
scarps they saw Hollywood, Beverly Hills, the Los
Angeles valley plain from the City Hall campanile
to Santa Monica, spread on the floor of a purple-
rimmed world. Afar on the west lay the shimmer­
ing Pacific.
"Glory!” gasped Potiphar.
"It is!” affirmed Louise.
THE AW AKENING 241
Their car gained the summit far up in the heights.
Along a plateau they presently sped, up into a bowl
that opened southwestward. On the left-hand side
of this bowl, up against another summit, they ar­
rived at an estate— an acre of lawn with an Eliza­
bethan house— walls smothered in vines. Such
vines! They seemed to grow everywhere: over
the trellises and up along the roofs— Japanese hop
and vagrant wisteria, red flowering cypress and
Cecil Brunner roses— scarcely a surface but what
had its variety. Into a private driveway they
turned and the roadster rolled up to a wrought-
iron gate.
A door with hammered hinges swung back as
they alighted. A woman confronted them.
"Miss Garland,” said Robling, "this is Miss Sarah
Twitch.”
Louise nodded, smiling. But Potiphar blinked.
Again came disconcertion at something odd in ser­
vants.
"I guess you got me stopped, Georgie,” the
printer chuckled presently. "I thought Daisy was
cute, but your housekeeper’s cuter.”
Four feet in height was Miss Sarah Twitch, a
compact little person with compact little man­
ner. Like most stunted folk her age was indefi­
nite. She was clad in a dress that was riotous with
flowers, with a scarf about her shoulders that was
nearly a shawl. The antithesis of Margaret in every
way she was, emphatically in color, being pasty
242 GOLDEN RUBBISH
white of face excepting in the nose. That was
quite small and red, not unlike a crap-apple.
"Fm glad you’ve both got here,” she declared to
the guests. "I dunno when anybody’s come to this
house who’s meant so much to Georgie.”
She turned and led them in. Down two broad
steps from the hallway she went, to pause at a
divan as though showing the room.
It merited showing— a spacious, low-studded,
dimly-lit library, its walls black with books, its
floors soft with rugs. A luxurious retreat it seemed,
after the glare of the tropic sunlight, gold frames
and white marble gleaming in its coolness and its
great southern window the show place of the
Height.
A second woman descended the staircase: Miss
Sybil Duncan. She came down slowly with head
carried high, like a small-kingdom queen concerned
about her homage. She was clad in a sleeveless
frock of brown chiffon with a cable of beads that
clicked as she moved.
Louise had met Sybil the men quickly saw. But
Potiphar Buss required presentation.
"Y ou’re staying at the Ambassador?” Miss Dun­
can inquired.
"So we had planned,” Louise answered pleasant­
ly, "till your employer informed us we had to
come here.”
"Here?” exclaimed Sybil. She turned and faced
Robling as though he had erred . . .
CHAPTER III
JAPANESE boy unloaded their bags. The
guests went above stairs where spacious
chambers welcomed them.
Potiphar and Robling remained to talk privately.
The library was empty when Louise came down
first. About the western side of the house a wall
enclosed a garden, spreading out from a patio
roofed by a pepper tree. A fountain in a fish-basin
made a pleasant centerpiece in an upward sweep of
turf that was dotted with shrubs. Louise had
reached the fountain when she saw the pert secre­
tary. Miss Duncan clipped roses that climbed a
low wall.
"H ow strange,” remarked Louise, "that a house
of such charm could be built on this height.”
"It’s a tribute to his genius,” answered Sybil,
meaning Robling, "though few people know it.
You expect to remain very long on the Coast?”
"I’m going back shortly. My business com­
mands it.”
"Yes, I’ve heard of your places. Their success
has often puzzled me. 1 think they’re quite or­
dinary.”
243
244 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"That’s lamentable, Miss Duncan. To be a real
success then in your estimation, I’ll have to go
back to my chicken-farm project.”
"Y ou’ve really run a chicken-farm?”
"N o, I’m saving that farm for my Indian
Summer.”
"H ow very too-bad it’s coming so quickly. Then
you don’t expect to be married at all?”
"It hadn’t occurred to me,” and Louise laughed
brusquely to cover her pique. "You see, it’s most
difficult to make progress in romance and try to
run a business.”
"Y ou’re right in a degree. It depends on one’s
equipment.”
"Well, mine has been faulty— till I got here on
the Coast.”
Miss Duncan started. "What do you mean?”
"Nothing,” said Louise. "Nothing and every­
thing! What pretty little roses! How regrettable
to kill them.”
"Y ou’ve made an assertion I think you should
explain.”
"W hy should I explain it? You can’t possibly
be interested.”
Sybil Duncan flushed. "But for a person of
your handicaps— ”
"Handicaps! Um-m, . . . you think I’ve got
handicaps?”
"Haven’t you?” asked Sybil. She jabbed at the
roses.
THE AW AKENING 245
"Yours being incomparable to mine, I assume you
should know.”
"I haven’t many handicaps that matter to men.
But women are usually so biased, you see. They
can’t help resenting it when other women score.”
"O r is it pity for other women who try to score
and fail?”
"When their vision is faulty they often show that
weakness.”
"I admit we make mistakes in some of our per­
ceptions. But isn’t it fortunate that men are so
stupid— else how could we continue deceiving them
so neatly?”
Sybil was furious. "Then you can’t have met
many clever ones,” she said.
"N o, perhaps not. Which is doubtless the rea­
son that I’ve accomplished what I have.”
"Then you really shouldn’t stop. A person of
your handicaps must let well enough alone.”
"M y handicaps worry you?”
"N o, not at all. I’m rather glad you have them.
You mustn’t think, however, that they’re general
with your sex.”
“ You charm me, Miss Duncan— you’re so very
astute.”
"I’m happy to hear you say it.”
"But are obvious handicaps worth giving much
thought? If poor man perceives them, he knows
what to avoid.”
Sybil was concerned that perhaps she had been
246 GOLDEN RUBBISH
worsted. She went on cutting flowers. And Louise
watched her thoughtfully. For the first time Peter
Garland’s daughter perceived a certain voluptuous­
ness about Sybil Duncan’s body— and the fact that
her head was too small and round.
"D on’t you find it thrilling,” Louise tried anew,
"making the flight between Chicago and the Coast?
Aren’t you afraid that some day you’ll crash?”
"I’ve crashed many times, though not in an air­
plane. I’m superior to tragedies.”
The statement was inane and the secretary knew
it. But Louise only smiled. Sybil added quickly—
"Thrills of an airplane flight don’t begin to com­
pare with other thrills, Miss Garland.”
"Romantic thrills, for instance?”
"N o— spiritual thrills. Perhaps, however, you
don’t know what I mean?”
That shot hit its mark. "You got that from Mr.
Robling, it seems. I perceive you have a weakness
for following him blindly.”
"You can’t always tell when things are original?”
"On the contrary— yes!”
"Perhaps you should ask him, since you’re here
as his guest.”
"That reminds me . . . are you?”
"I don’t understand you.”
"I merely wondered if all the women who came
here were treated as guests.”
"You have an idea that some of them aren’t?”
"It occurred to me to note that some seem more
THE AW AKENING 247
favored. Or rather, let’s say, are allowed greater
privileges.”
"You resent it that some get attention you
covet?”
"N ot covet. Enjoy! How is it accomplished—
I ask for information?”
"Some get their gifts for their capacity to use
them. But I marvel, Miss Garland, that you come
to me for cues.”
"H ’m! . . . does Mr. Robling fly? Does he often
make the air trip?”
"When it’s convenient he does it for enjoyment.
He thinks flying’s next to godliness. I got that
from him, please be advised!”
"And that’s why you don’t like it?”
"W ho said I didn’t like it? Miss Garland, don’t
be rude.”
" A m i ? I’m sorry.”
"I try to show Mr. Robling that his life’s too
valuable to risk in a monoplane-------”
"And is Mr. Robling happy in having you as
mentor?”
"H e’s made no complaint.”
"Well, some men are fastidious— keeping from
others their debts of self-expression.”
"Their debts of what?”
"Their private obligations, contracted— we’ll put
it— in delicate circumstances.”
"You think I’ve been in . . . delicate circum­
stances . . . with Mr. Robling?”
248 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"You said you were clever. I took you at your
word.”
Sybil dropped her roses. They spilled upon the
grass.
"I’ll have you know— I’ve done nothing with
Mr. Robling— that anyone can criticize— ”
"Then you’re not clever. Instead you’re merely
cute.”
"Oh— so I’m cute?”
"It takes brains of a sort, to be the thing I men­
tioned.”
"Does it, Miss Garland? You speak from ex­
perience?”
"Maybe I do, and maybe I don’t.”
"But you have the capacity for it, it seems.”
"If you’re so decorous, how do you know?”
"I don’t think this sort of thing is getting us any­
where.”
"N or I. Don’t you see, I’m just testing you
out.”
"W hy is it necessary?”
"T o see how much competition I’ve got, in case
I decide to take up your challenge.”
Sybil felt panic. What had she done? She tossed
her small head and retorted in disdain—
"I’ll have you understand that Mr. Robling and
I enjoy a perfect friendship— unsullied, Miss Gar­
land, by any sort of license.”
"Then the man has my sympathy and you’re
clever after all!”
THE AW AKENING 249
It jolted Sybil, that. She looked her perplexity.
"Because,” explained Louise, "it takes even more
brains to revel in the joys of dancing and never be
required to compensate the piper.”
"Truly, Miss Garland, your candor is appalling.”
"Yes, I seem to have a knack for exclaiming at
the obvious. But tell me, my dear, how have you
tolerated your position with him to date— pro­
lific with enticements but deficient in duress?”
"Duress!” cried Sybil. She tried to seem hor­
rified.
"Certainly if you could have forced it, you’d
long since have made him marry you. I would, in
your place.”
"W e don’t subject our loved ones to infamies,
when we really love them. But is quarreling neces­
sary because we’re alone?”
“ I’m fencing, not quarreling. Don’t you enjoy
it?”
"N ot when the rapiers are apt to draw blood.
Blood isn’t pleasant.”
“ But isn’t it the blood that gives fencing its zest?”
Then as Sybil made no comment, stooping for her
roses: "You see, I’m used to fencing. I have to
be skillful or find myself scarred. You live with
Mr. Robling?”
"I stay at his house when he needs me on the
Coast here.”
"And isn’t it insufferable, keeping to one room?”
"Miss Garland, you’re insulting!”
250 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"W hy should we be prudish? N o man’s about
to hear us.”
"It’s a question of decency,” Sybil said stiffly.
"And decency is what?”
"Are you fencing again?”
"N o, merely questioning.”
"Decency’s the capacity for doing what we
like so long as we do it cleanly. That didn’t come
from Mr. Robling, Miss Garland!”
"N o, from the dictionary— nothing but words
— it doesn’t mean a thing.” Louise closed one eye.
"I was thinking,” she said, "o f certain— possibili­
ties.”
"Possibilities for what?”
"You want to stop fencing?”
"I think I do, yes.”
"W ell— possibilities for trapping a man when he
doesn’t want trapping.”
"W hat’s that to do with decency?”
"Nothing, Miss Duncan. Nothing whatever.
All the same, I was thinking.”
"Yes, and seeing there’s no man about, I’ve
thought of it myself.”
"Um -m ! So I surmised. But you’re lacking in
courage.”
"W hat?” cried the other.
"Aren’t you?” asked Louise.
"If you think I’d take advantage of Mr. Rob­
ling— ”
"You dare claim you wouldn’t?”
THE AW AKENING 251
"I hope I’m too decent.”
"There you go again! You’re not decent, you’re
hopeless.”
"Are you always so frank?”
"W hat’s frankness, Miss Duncan, but facing life’s
facts. You want Mr. Robling— don’t think I can’t
see it— and maybe I want him: I haven’t yet said.
But one of us may get him, and wouldn’t it be
funny if I were that person?”
"You might as well know that Mr. Robling
won’t marry any woman unless she forces him to
do it.”
"There’s an idea. But just what’s the matter?”
"Since his first wife divorced him, he’s had no
use for marriage.”
"But that doesn’t mean— women!”
"What makes you think so?”
"I know from my feelings. N o woman-hater
could have the effect on me that your employer’s
had this day.”
"Oh— he’s had— an effect— ?”
" — which is neither here nor there. What about
your statement? W hy won’t he marry?”
"H e’s— somehow— above it.”
"Above it? That’s absurd.”
"N o, it’s not absurd. He thinks women are—
well— something of a nuisance.”
"Then you’re wiser than I thought. Or per­
chance a hopeless bungler.”
252 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"I don’t live in New York. If I did, I might
know— ”
"D o you want to fence some more?”
"I prefer that we didn’t. I only meant— ”
"D on’t try to mean anything, my dear Miss Dun­
can. Say what you think and laugh at what hap­
pens. Now about our victim. If he doesn’t want
to marry, he must have some reason. Because
you can’t grasp it, doesn’t mean he’s invulnerable.”
"H e thinks women are divided into two classes:
earthly women and— and— a sort of angel wo­
men— ”
"Well, isn’t he right?”
"But not as you think. He believes— having had
an experience with one earthly woman, he— won’t
be truly married till— after he— dies. Did you
notice how he looked at me when I referred to
your stopping here? Did you know what it
meant?”
“ That you were shockingly impolite, if you
don’t mind the truth. What do you think it
meant?”
"H e was comparing the two of us— for a pur­
pose. He knows what he wants but— doesn’t ex­
pect to find it. You won’t stay around here long,
I guess, without realizing that Mr. Robling is—
what might be called eccentric.”
"Eccentric! I haven’t noted anything eccentric
about him. Eccentric just how?”
Louise had seated herself on the end of a settle in
THE AW AKENING 253
the shadow of the wall. Sybil sank down on its
opposite end.
"H e sees things,” she said— with sudden amuse­
ment— as a mother might tell a neighbor of the
antics of a son.
"Sees things!”
" — and hears things. And says he has visions.
People come to him for counsel— spiritual counsel
of a sort— ”
Sybil left her sentence dangling in air. She studied
her shoe-point. And Louise grew uneasy. W hy
did she always feel disquiet of heart when spiritual
references were made in conversations?
"I don’t think I get you,” she said in vernacular.
"That’s a— concession.”
"N o— naturally you wouldn’t. But George
Robling’s regarded as somewhat peculiar. You too
will discover it.”
"H e’s something of a Spiritualist?”
"Goodness, no! you immediately jump to the
conclusion that everybody else does! He’s got no
interest in Spiritualism— he says that it’s childish.”
"What is his religion?”
"H e’s got no religion. He’s practically an atheist.
An atheist,” repeated Sybil, "in that he doesn’t be­
lieve in God like most of us. He thinks God is
Thought. Nothing but ThoughtJ”
Something stirred in Louise. But Sybil hurried
on—
"H e thinks there’s no such thing as Matter.
254 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Fancy that! The world has its basis in nothing
but Energy. You and I aren’t sitting on a marble
bench: we’re sitting on Energy! I don’t under­
stand it. It’s out of my depth and I’m not ashamed
to say so.”
"H ow long has he held such views, Miss Dun­
can?”
"Since coming back from war. He returned a
different person.”
"You knew him then, did you, before he went
to war?”
"Yes,” nodded Sybil. She bit her lip quickly.
"W e were— better friends then than we’ve— ever
been— since.”
Silence came for a time. Birds darted over­
head, a truant breeze played about the garden,
from deep in the house came the strains of faint
music: someone had evidently turned on a radio.
"H e goes about appraising people,” Sybil tattled
on, "not as you and I might, by what they say or
do, but— by something he thinks he sees about
their heads.”
“What?”
"A sort of aureol of light— I learned it from
writings he’d forgot to lock away. I gathered that
the Chosen People in this world had some sort of
halo playing about their heads. They could be
trusted. The rest were just trash.”
"Trash!”
"Well, not exactly trash, but not for close friend-
THE AW AKENING 255
ship. He’d written a paper of some sort upon
it. He writes many papers too deep to understand.”
"He went to war, you say, and was changed
when he returned?”
“ Yes,” Sybil nodded, "there were those who
scarcely knew him. Some of those who’d been
closest to him were almost ready to believe that
he’d died in the war— that the man who came back
in George Robling’s body wasn’t our George at all!
O f course, it’s absurd.”
“ I . . . wonder?” Louise whispered.
Sybil turned sharply.
"D on’t tell me you hold the same crazy views!”
"W hy should I hold them?”
"Well, you’re successful like he is, running big
affairs. Maybe you got your help— your inspira­
tion—your counsel— from the same airy sources?”
"D on’t be sarcastic. Not on that subject.”
Sybil seemed upset, even more than by their
fencing. She studied her toe; she studied the gar­
den; she looked toward the house where the sun
beat with vigor. She was suddenly candid.
"I’ve got reasons,” she protested. “ He scares us
to death, the way he often acts.”
"H ow does he act?”
"Well, no one’s seen him angry— not once in the
time since those Big Nights in France. It’s too
weird to be normal.”
"You call that abnormal?”
" — and sometimes— at night in his room— Sarah
256 GOLDEN RUBBISH
and I have both heard him talking— discussing
things in whole conversations as though he were
arguing over a ’phone, though his room has no in­
strument. At other times it seems that he listens
— while someone instructs him— not there in flesh.”
" Not there in flesh?”
"It worries us to death. What’ll he do next?
People in that state jump out of windows— kill
others in their sleep— ”
"Oh nonsense, Miss Duncan! He isn’t so bad,
with that calmness in his eye.”
"H e has those times, I tell you, and they mean
him no good.”
"I’d say from appearances they’ve made him a
success.”
"N o, not at all. That came from something else.”
"W on’t you tell me what— if you want to be so
kind?”
"N o, I will not. I’ve said enough already. But
I’m giving you warning, be sure of what confronts
you. Take it from me, . . . George’s not like the
rest of us mortals. He’s got his own code and ideas
about Creation. As for marrying a second time,
he considers it absurd.”
"Then why are you concerned, if he doesn’t
mean to marry?”
"I . . . understand him,” Sybil contended.
"W hich seems to be more nonsense. You just
said his views were over your head.”
THE AW AKENING 257
"Well, if he needs any kind of a wife, it’s a wo­
man like myself who can hold him to realities. If
he married a person too much like he is, they’d
both of them fizz up like a couple of rockets.”
"I’ve heard women say the same things be­
fore— when they’ve yearned to tack on to some
rocket’s tail.”
"That’s quite enough, Miss Garland. But re­
member I’ve warned you— ”
"You started the insults by remarking on my
tea-rooms. If you feel yourself beaten, why not
show some sportsmanship? Tell me, what about
Mr. Robling’s business? Is he quitting it all with
his life but half lived?”
Sybil shook out her roses on the bench and sorted
them carefully according to their stems.
"I’ve told you aplenty . . . as a confidential
secretary!”
"W hich means,” said Louise, "that you really
don’t know.”
"I think I know my role.”
"W ell then, it’s obvious that you don’t know the
lines to discourage my interest. I’m going to know
this man better—
-intimately— he seems to invite
it— he intrigues me as no one has done in my life.”
She paused for Sybil to make comment. But the
other’s mouth was firm— firm like old Charlotte’s.
"Maybe it’s Love,” Louise went on bluntly, "but
I know it’s not hate. This man has accomplished:
258 GOLDEN RUBBISH
he’s reaped from Experience. Under his poise lies
a secret worth probing. I mean to find it if it costs
me my business.”
"It may cost you more,” Sybil cried tartly.
"All right, I’ll pay it; the secret will be worth
it! But I buried my father some four weeks ago,
and the printer who’s with me gave me some jolts
— told me some things that hit me in shocks. They
left me with hunger that calls for strong food. I
don’t mean occult things. I don’t mean religious.
I don’t know what I mean, for they’re deeper than
both!”
"You really don’t mean there are things you
don’t know!”
"I want to find out what the future holds for
me. I want to find out why I am what I am.
I . . . need a sort of oculist to prescribe for my
vision. Perhaps he’s George Robling— that re­
mains to be determined. Now then, here comes
Potiphar Buss. So let’s call it a fight and stand to
our guns— stand to our guns till the battle is won.”
"Or rather,” said Sybil, "change rapiers for
sabres?”
"You’re the judge of that, if weapons are pro­
pitious.”
Potiphar had discarded his coat, changed into
slippers and kindled his cob. He watched Sybil
Duncan enter the house.
"Have you been learning things as I have, Poti-
TH E AW AKENING 259
phar?” and Louise made a gesture for him to sit
down.
"She ain’t doin’ him no good!” the old printer
glowered.
"Sybil you mean? Doing George Robling no
good?”
"She’s a almost-bald nuisance, or that’s what I
gathered.”
"H ow is she a nuisance?”
"What Georgie sees in her is more’n I get. She
must have a hook in him or he’d up an’ kick her
out.”
"Y ou’ve been discussing her with George?”
"W e mentioned her, yeah. An’ he says, 'She’d be
in a much better way if ’twasn’t f ’r me.’ He
seemed t’ be worried.”
"What did he mean?”
"I says, 'W hy don’t you pack her ’bout her
business?’ An’ he says in answer, 'What’s written
is written!’ Them’s his very words.”
"W hat’s written is written?”
"I wisht I was as keen in some subjecks as I’ve
found Georgie is. I guess I’m too much o’ a
hardened old sinner.”
"I doubt if you’re the sinner, Potiphar.”
"Well, I’ve served my time in th’ matter o’
Sin. I’m glad t’ go back an’ make a fresh start.”
"Potiphar Buss, you’d try a saint’s patience! Will
you stop talking riddles and answer what I asked
you?”
260 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"What was it you arst me?”
"Have you been learning things about George
Robling the same as I have?— the peculiar beliefs
that have made him what he is?”
"Has th’ White Head been gabbin’?”
"W e’d not talked two minutes before we started
to squabble.”
"Tell me what she said. N o use t’ repeat what
you’ve already learnt.”
Louise rehearsed the episode. And Potiphar sat
thinking.
"They’s questions, Miss Lou, that some o f us
can’t answer. I said t’ you once that if you was
born blind, stone blind, I’d never be able t’ describe
t’ you Red. I’ve had a little light on some o’ life’s
mysteries, a candle-light sort o’, an’ it’s helped me
make th’ Journey. But Georgie’s had a bonfire
— a Bonfire on a Mountain— ”
"What have you learned?”
"Well, Georgie’s what some folks’d call a Mystic.
Which explains not a thing. He’s gone through
some terrific experience I’d say, that’s born him
all over— he ain’t no more th’ lad I helped t’ Paris
than I’m a Pink Esquimo. He’s made discoveries in
th’ Eternal, you might call it, an’ they furnished
him knowledge that ain’t found in books. Don’t
arsk me how it’s happened: he ain’t told me that.”
"Whatever has happened, it’s made him deadly
interesting. I wish you’d find out. I feel a kind of
challenge.”
THE AW AKENING 261
The afternoon wore on— an hour of confusions
— and Louise was entranced by the vista that
opened. She questioned the printer; she questioned
herself. Over and over she voiced the query: How
could a nondescript printer-boy have ascended to
such heights before he reached forty? She tried to
argue that Experience had schooled him. She knew
she was mistaken. She herself had attended that
school yet she was not prating of unearthly capa­
bilities. She tried to get Potiphar to confine him­
self to Logic— Facts— the tenets of realities. She
only started wandering in mazes of philosophy.
"O h well, what’s the use?” she finally surren­
dered. "I think I’ll have a headache if this sort of
thing keeps up.”
The printer straightened up, declaring some­
what raggedly—
"T h ’ Master once says: 'If you don’t know ’bout
earthly things, how th’ Sam-Scratch am I gonna
tell you ’bout heavenly things?’ That’s equal t’
saying: 'If you think everything outside o’ three
meals a day, an’ th’ ball scores, an’ who’s runnin’
for dog-catcher, is a lot o’ mystic rubbish— that’s
what you called it!— you’re only goin’ t’ be allowed
three meals a day, an’ read nothin’ beyond ball
scores, an’ live a dog-catcher’s life. I never dreamt
there was so much beauty in th’ world till I come t’
Californie. That’s not sayin’ ’twarn’t here all th’
time. But I had t’ come an’ get it, if you know
what I mean!”
262 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Potiphar, Potiphar!— I wish— you’d instruct
me!”
"I been tryin’ t’ instruct you, Miss Lou. I been
tryin’ it hard, since you up an’ lost your father.
Trouble is, you want t’ be boss o’ a business an’ yet
go t’ kindergarten, an’ th’ two don’t just jibe.”
"Go to kindergarten!”
"For that’s where you must start. You got t’
go back an’ be a girl agin, Miss Lou. You got t’
unlearn some thirty years o’ nonsense.”
"What kind of nonsense?”
"Business nonsense. Social nonsense. Nonsense
’bout politics, religion, ethicks. You got t’ go back
an’ be simple— simple in your heart. Then p’raps
you’ll see . . . Him!”
"But why the necessity for such naivete?”
"It’s th’ way o’ th’ world. N o one knows why.
Unless— unless— well, you can’t appreciate a beau­
tiful symphony, can you, Miss Lou, if you sit all
through it frettin’ ’bout your pocketbook?”
"But you don’t need to be a child, Potiphar, to
appreciate a symphony. What normal child does?”
"N o. All th’ same, unless you know your musi­
cal A -B-C’s, no matter what th’ piece is, it’s just a
lot o’ racket.”
She looked at him appealingly, eyelids showing
moisture.
"Yet how discern melody in the din I’ve always
known?”
TH E AW AKENING 263
"You ain’t lived in jail. You could alius go
away.”
"I have gone away. It seems I’ve gone nearly
four thousand miles away— ”
"Miles ain’t enough. You got t’ go nineteen hun­
dred an’ twenty-eight years back, too!”
"That’s a sort of retrograde, isn’t it, Potiphar?”
"Retrograde nothin’ ! It’s returnin’ t’ First Prin­
ciples.”
"Your metaphor’s cloudy. But I’m willing to
be taught.”
"Teachin’ you, preachin’ at you, won’t get you
nowheres. You got t’ go back an’ be born all over
— live it by knowin’— ”
"I c-can’t do it, Potiphar. I— don’t know the
way!”
"You just be willin’ an’ th’ way’ll be showed you.
Ain’t a person on earth can’t profit from that!”
The printer’s voice mellowed. "W hat’s more— you
ain’t got t’ do it— all by your lonesome. They’s
— an awful tender Pair o’ Hands— waitin’ t’ up­
hold you an’ point out th’ Path.”
"Oh that they were literal Hands, Potiphar
Buss!”
"That’s just what I’m sayin’. They are lit’ral
Hands!”
CHAPTER IV
HER quandary grew worse when Potiphar had
left her.
A literal Pair o f Hands! Their reality implied an
equally literal owner— a concrete personality like
Potiphar Buss, Basil Van Dyke, this man of strange
rumblings whom she found herself visiting— some­
one who had knowledge of her daily activities,
heard her diatribes and petulancies, directed her un-
foldment like a wise old professor.
She could not admit such an awesome actuality.
A form of terror smote her, that if such a One
existed old scores might arise which she must settle
with Him— infamies committed in spiritual in­
fancy. Then again, if an actual, literal Christ was
in existence, where did He keep Himself— in some
grandiose heaven that one must die to reach? She
had a presentiment such a heaven was absurd. Yet
if not in that heaven, then He must be on earth.
But how? In what shape? What profited Truth if
His celestial ego came and went unseen of men
when His physical projection would overcome the
universe and effect the Millennium in mundane af­
fairs?
Emotion overcame her at the prospect o f such
264
THE AW AKENING 265
presence. And yet she felt ecstasy— a wild satis­
faction. She wanted to weep without knowing
just why. But o f this she was certain: She was
being called to something— something so much vas­
ter and more vital than salvaging a derelict that any
comparison partook of the ludicrous. The Call
had begun with the passing of her father but long
before that she had heard it in her spirit. She had
heard it every time that a mightier chance for
activity offered; she had heard it on occasions when
she knew great resentments, frettings at subordi­
nates, chidings of herself for merely garnering dol­
lars. The essence of a Summons Stupendous was
manifesting— how could she ignore it? The mosaic
of circumstance was forming a pattern. The pat­
tern was lighting with the radiance of a Vision.
To discern its high meaning meant a Heart Un­
afraid. And she must evolve it. W hy else had
this happened?
Her queries came tumbling. W hy was she re­
ceiving this anointing, so to speak, wrenching her
from her business affairs, setting her down on the
edge of the Pacific four thousand miles from the
scene of her activities? Who had been her father?
Who was Potiphar Buss with his contentions and
decoyments, his pratings and behaviorisms, his allu­
sions to Spirit as practices in Matter? Why did
he not tell her in so many words— like a corporate
report for a Board of Directors— all that he meant
by communions with the Master, his sidelights on
266 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Identity, his enoblement of Mysticism? W hy treat
her like an infant in divine fundamentals and re­
buke her at once for too brazen maturity? More
than all else, if spiritual essences were the substance
of mortality, why need they be mentioned in vapor­
ous innuendoes? What bafflements and exaspera­
tions might easily be avoided if she could only
sieze Truth in one potent package, breaking its
seals at her indolent desire, wondering at its con­
tents as one unwraps a gift!
She turned it all over, the intolerable riddle, and
found that her hunger was increasing with her
wonderings.
She knew that her life was a compote of Mys­
teries, even as her heart— even as every woman’s
heart— was a jewel-chest for Truth. And yet she
had a physical organism too, capable of sitting on
a bench, directing a business, undergoing child­
birth. But what to do to marry flesh with Spirit?
Where get the tool to pry the coffer open? Why,
in the thirty-fourth year of her age, should en­
lightenment be descried as a sun behind a cloud?
The answers were of moment yet they begged the
creeds of reason: food for the soul yet as night­
shade for the brain. She sought a cue first from her
father’s trangressions, the decrees of his wealth, her
role in its fecundities. She thought of her lover,
Basil the inscrutable, and her thought of him stirred
something that made the cloud less fearsome. Yet
Basil was behind her, or so she supposed . . .
TH E AW AKENING 267
The enigma’s fine savor held honey and aloes.
Something wondrously potent, something fraught
with dynamics on a vaster plane than Logic, some­
thing compounded of Light in its effulgence and
Thought in its enticement, gripped her like a cour­
ier invited by Desire— a messenger of transport
from the hinterland of Knowledge— wanting to
caress her, to lie with her in ecstasy on a bed of the
Eternal. But what might be their offspring; chil­
dren of translucence or monsters of mistakes? How
could she say in her bigoted spinsterhood?
She felt like a deer pursued by fierce hounds,
wanting to pause by a stream of clear water. Her
soul felt an ache to keep some sort o f tryst.
So the afternoon passed and the world below
quieted. She left the stone seat and moved about
the garden, quite empty now where the first dews
were falling. Something awaited her, she knew,
with mystery in its heart yet with light upon its
countenance. The future was a riddle but its answer
was forthcoming. When it came it would be sweet,
though would Robling be its counterpart?
Time had to determine. She relinquished her
stake to the parle pours of circumstance.
Robling’s house, she perceived, was built like an
L, the wing in its rear running back toward the
mountain. The house faced the south with veran­
das on the west: double-decked verandas, the upper
one unroofed and turning the elbow out along the
268 GOLDEN RUBBISH
wing. A luxurious pepper tree grew in this corner
and the grounds on three sides were enclosed by
a wall.
The chamber allotted her looked down on the
garden from the main upper corner. The room’s
walls were stuccoed, with windows hung in chintz,
and a door opened out on the upper piazza. The
bed was so placed that a generous section of this
piazza was visible around the elbow of the wing
where the pepper tree screened it.
The saffron day ended with the sun behind the
summit. Quickly it was dark. This lack of twi­
light startled her and likewise the coolness. Lights
came on in rows across the far valley; the house
lighted also. She did not meet Robling as she went
up to dress. He had gone into town, Sarah Twitch
told her. Miss Duncan too, appeared to have van­
ished.
A curious lethargy laved Louise’s body while she
dressed— laved more than her body— as though
something in the atmosphere touched to her soul,
a faint exquisite Something that was scented with
roses. She spent a longer time than usual making her
toilet, surprised at the rouge her spent face re­
quired. Someone, under Sarah’s direction, had taken
the creases from the frocks she had unpacked. She
chose a black faille for that potent first evening.
But before she had finished, her qualms were re­
newed.
What was she there for? What really would
THE AW AKENING 269
come of the whole wild adventure? Had she
crossed a continent, abandoned her business, to
discuss with a man their legacy in common? Had
she come there to bargain and try to buy him off
— to satisfy her whim regarding his character and
try to determine the secret of his affluence? Or
was she in a plight, come there to make a spectacle
of herself, to show herself up for a gypsy of the
heart? W hy the pallor of her cheeks that made
her rouge ghastly? Why the glitter in her eyes—
these frettings with her hair?
Many times she sickened and supposed it to be
physical. She sought the upper balcony and found
the night’s stars. Clean and high and cool they
were, yet like coryphees of insects— clustering
midges on the ceiling of earth— enduring their vigi­
lance to gain through to heaven. How could she
face Robling with disgust in her heart? How
would he interpret the pronouncements of her
glances? For she knew he would get them. What
man could miss them?
Was all of this Suggestion— the speakings of her
spirit? Was she caught in a web of circumstance,
nervously trying to play out her role? Or had she
arrived at that situation where the wrenchings of
romance were not to be gainsaid? She wondered
at herself as though she were a stranger: a stranger
to her instincts, her plagues and her forebodings.
But the mountain night steadied her, though it
left her queerly tender.
270 GOLDEN RUBBISH
When dinner was announced she felt herself pre­
pared.
Sybil was similarly consecrated— when they
gathered in the dining-room. Sybil wore white, a
recalcitrant white, meaning by her costume to con­
trast with Louise. Her hair was done proudly, to
add to her stature, a different "transformation”
from that affected in the daytime. Robling was in
dinner clothes, Potiphar in shirtsleeves— though he
promptly sought his coat when he noted their de­
corum.
Their host, they percieved, was altered in aspect.
White linen and black broadcloth lent him a som­
breness that on the whole was pleasing, for under
this sobriety was a mine of geniality. His temples
seemed powdered; his eyes were translucent— how
strange that a cataract had once shaded one of
them! He offered brief greetings as his guests came
together, not missing however, the reserve between
the women. Louise caught his glance as Sarah
Twitch placed them. He was studying her ap­
provingly: of that she was certain.
And another thing she knew: the dinner held
vitalities. So important were they, that the food
served was secondary. She sensed their truths im­
pended by disclosures, but not their extent or bear­
ing on her sojourn. It was all a tasty mystery—
making a puzzle, so to speak, each segment of which
offered splendid entertainment. She hoped that no
THE AW AKENING 271
reference would be made to her spinsterhood, and
yet, inversely she would welcome that allusion
— if it offered a chance for discrediting Sybil.
For Sybil must be discredited. On that she was
determined.
Robling at one end of his table had Louise at
his right and Sybil on his left. Even this placing
held opportune significance. Sybil found the con­
trast intended by her frock. She was vexed, it was
plain, that she had so blundered but Robling was
amused and took small care to hide it. Beyond
Sybil sat Potiphar. Little Miss Twitch ate with
them, it developed, reserving the chair that was
opposite the printer’s. The young Japanese at­
tended to the serving; they spoke to him as Nikko
and remarked on his performance.
Two items were of note, commencing that re­
past. Louise was perplexed by a sixth chair at the
table: a beautiful piece at the head of that board.
It had a concurrent regality, a silent imperiousness,
to its carvings and tapestries, commanding that as­
semblage and yet remaining empty. Louise was
wondering if it were placed so in memory of Donald
when silence came suggestively. What was the
matter? Even Nikko had paused by the door to
the pantries.
George bowed his head . . .
Long, long it had been— since Louise had been
present where a meal was thus dignified. No words.
Merely silence. And her thoughts misbehaved.
272 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Something came to her like Memory: a fragment of
a rite that had naught to do with language. And
as graphically she had a second forfeiture of spirit­
ual aloofness.
"W ho’s th’ chair for, Georgie? Potiphar made
comment. "Is somebody cornin’ who ain’t got
here yet?”
"N o,” replied Robling, his tone strangely mel­
low. "The Someone who occupies that chair is
here already, Potiphar.”
N o more than this. Yet Potiphar flushed, even
weazoned old baldpate who was rarely so visited.
"I’m . . . sorry, Georgie. I arsk your pardon.”
"W hy ask mine?” the other said goodnaturedly.
It energized Louise. She interposed quickly—
"H ow comes it that everyone in this house seems
to have a facility for being . . . pleasant? The
minute I stepped on these premises I felt an in­
fluence that couldn’t be averted.”
"Your idea of pleasantness, Miss Garland, is the
highest form of compliment you could pay my
house.”
"I don’t mean it as a comity.”
"Certainly you don’t. That’s why I’m gratified.”
The meal got under way.
"Georgie,” said Potiphar, "you’ve got me won-
d’rin’. You just ain’t yourself— not th’ feller I
knowed. Seems like you’ve had somethin’ happen
that ain’t in no books. Can’t you tell us what?
Miss Lou wants t’ learn.”
THE AW AKENING 273
"You misinterpret, Potiphar!” Louise exclaimed,
nettled.
W hy did the old rapscallion have to plunge them
into a fresh metaphysical discussion before they
had even commenced their eating? It seemed
like too much descanting for one day; at least the
first day and before they were acclimated.
"Well, Yd like t’ know, then.”
Robling smiled openly. "N o, Miss Garland—
Potiphar doesn’t misinterpret and in your heart you
know it.” His voice took the edge from any dis­
courtesy.
"A t least, Mr. Robling, your personal affairs are
not of my concern.”
"That remains to be seen. Pardon my bold­
ness, but— many of your reactions are inviting my
interest. You have an attitude of waiting, . . . I
hope you’ll indulge me.”
"Indulge you? O f course.”
"Very good, then. While we’re waiting for Nik-
ko I’ll make myself clearer. You came here for a
purpose, didn’t you, Miss Garland? You under­
stood I might be persuaded to release my stake in
your father’s legacy, for your business requires
more money to run it. But now that you’ve come
here— ”
"Mr. Robling— please!”
"Be assured, Miss Garland, that nothing said at
this table will become public property.”
274 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"But regarding my business, aren’t you assum­
ing?”
"Quite the opposite, Miss Garland. I’m going on
a premise. But speaking of assumptions— I’ve rea­
sons for suspecting you’re not known to yourself.
You’re someone else entirely from the person you’ve
accepted. But you haven’t yet grasped it. Many
o f us may live in that predicament constantly— dif­
ferent souls wholly than mankind accepts us.”
"I’m afraid I don’t follow— excuse my inter­
ruption.”
"They’re pardonable, Miss Garland, in disclosures
o f such moment. But hear me out. You have a
tendency to protest self-evident truths in order to
prove their inherent legality— using the term in
its literal sense. You have a weakness for taking
things given you and denying their existense even as
you take them— professing to be one thing and be­
ing quite another. I hope I don’t offend you.”
"H ow do you know so much about me? May
I ask who told you?”
"Our Unseen Guest,” said Robling simply.
Something like an arrow, a lethal arrow, pierced
the troubled girl’s heart. She was hot, she was
cold, she was ill, she was demented. Then at once
she was sane— a terrible sanity.
"Go on, Mr. Robling,” she begged, steady­
voiced.
"I perceive you got it. You got it splendidly,
Miss Garland. And came through like a thor-
THE AW AKENING 275
oughbred. Which you are, my dear, make no mis­
take about it. I pay you no compliment.”
"Please continue, I askecbyou.”
"Well, as I was saying— you have a propensity
for believing yourself one person while all the time
you’re quite another— a popular failing which com­
plicates all living. Your thoughts are chaotic, Miss
Garland. I’m trying to help you— because that’s
why you’re here.”
"I’m here to be helped?”
"Y ou’ve come here, Miss Garland, to learn your
identity, your true errand in life, your work and
destination— ”
"You mean I’m possessed of a dual identity?”
"Dual comes from duo, meaning two. And our
identities are multiple— if you get what I mean— ”
"N o, I don’t get it.”
" — which is just why you’re sent here. The
Forces decreed it— Forces who’ve had you in their
care every moment since your birth; Forces that
have never relaxed their vigilance for the fraction
of a second; Forces that humankind might dogma­
tically term your Guardian Angels— ”
"There are such things as guardian angels?”
"Please don’t be facetious— it’s a manner of
sacrilege. There are Guardian Angels of the most
enduring vigilence, else you would long ago have
been abandoned to your . . . degenerations. For
you’ve had them as I’ve had them— as every per­
son is bound to have them who comes upward to
276 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Reality by the avenue of the senses. You have a
propensity for disregarding obvious truths and
clinging to erroneous impressions. W on’t you please
hear me?”
"O f course,” Louise apologized. If Sybil Dun­
can were only not listening! . . .
"Well, to resume. You’ve come to earth for a
delicate mission— no ordinary mission— we’ll go in­
to it later. You’ve come to accomplish an extraor­
dinary work, and have done it to date through
celestial agencies— their conduct of your affairs,
let’s say— and now you approach a Commencement
of endeavor, since all that’s gone before has been
clever preparation. I hope you follow me.”
"I’m trying, Mr. Robling.”
"N ow, Miss Garland, let me go toward my point
in a manner like this: Why do you imagine you’re
Miss Louise Garland, at thirty-three or four the
proprietor of two great corporations whose suc­
cess has been extraordinary?”
He waited a moment but Louise did not com­
ment.
"You think because of your inherent sagacity?
May I remind you that there are scores— hundreds
— thousands— of persons equally as smart, perhaps
smarter, who’ve not been called to head corpora­
tions, make big wealth, direct hundreds of others.
W hy has it happened that you, however, have ar­
rived at your status along your specific route?”
THE AW AKENING 277
Again Robling paused. The room was very
quiet.
"I’m sure I’ve wondered myself, Mr. Robling.”
"Yes, and I wondered once, in my own case also.
Make no mistake about that, Miss Garland. Now
listen to this: You marveled today when I spoke
about Light. You marveled, I think, that I stared
at your head as though I saw something that plea­
santly thrilled me. Well, assuredly I did. I was
watching your aureole. It’s particularly beautiful.”
"I’ve got an aureole! . . . that you can really
"Nearly everybody has one. That’s what I’ve
been told.”
"You think— ?”
"N ow then, why do you suppose certain persons
come into life with stronger light playing about
their heads than is seen about the heads of others
— light that can only be distinguished by those who
have reached that stage of growth where all senses
are awakened?”
Nikko brought the bouillon, which delayed any
answering. Not until the Japanese boy had with­
drawn for the entree did Louise venture nervously:
"And you can discern such light about people’s
heads, Mr. Robling?”
"I wished you’d call me George,” the man re­
quested kindly. "And allow me in turn to call
you Louise. People’s last names are so very in­
significant. Last names, you see, are but passing
278 GOLDEN RUBBISH
designations. They identify, we’ll put it, our most
recent descent into the Vale of Experience. But
our first names— so aptly called our Christian
names— may designate us through many such ex­
cursions and are utilized with permanance by the
Forces of the Spirit.”
"O f course I’ll call you George. I’ll consider it a
privilege.”
"Thank you, Miss Louise. Where was I? Oh yes!
. . . W hy do you think that such a halo sur­
rounds the heads of certain folks though they’re
born into life without knowledge of their import,
what they have to do, where the Road leads?”
"I haven’t a notion, never having known that
any but Christ and the angels possessed them.”
"That’s because our Master is so beautifully
strong. But angels are lacking them except as ar­
tists’ designations. Angels are all light. Light is
their substance. But to answer my question. What
would the world be, unless some of us had volun­
teered for this magnificent work among baffled men
and women?”
"What work?” Louise whispered.
Robling was silent. His face seemed transfigured.
Softly he murmured—
"W e come and go to help them! We give them
the benefit of all we’ve experienced behind the
White Veil! We hope to lead them out of the Ignor­
ances of Mortality and show them the scrolls of ir­
idescent Knowledge. I’m not a Theosophist! I’m
THE AW AKENING 279
not a Spiritualist or Scientist. I’m one of the band
that simply knows the Master— one who has the
mission to tell men that He is! Oh the beauty of
that privilege! For it has its own reward.”
Louise was dumbfounded. Here was a man who
went further than Potiphar, further than Basil.
He dared to declaim— openly, unashamedly, as
other men referred to a political alignment— that he
had contact with the Messiah— a living Messiah!
— that he knew Him from some sublimated as­
sociation having as its basis the projection of Truth
— that the Master was real and the earth His abid­
ing-place— that men and women doubters were
slated for benefits in that He existed and had such
interpreters. What a colossal piece of insolence
or a harkening to Splendor! Truly such candor
was beyond understanding.
But was it candor merely? What if he were
right? What if she were sitting at the table of
some personage from realms of Supernal Harmony
who had utilized George Robling’s body, energized
it, rehabilitated it, made it an organ for virile ex­
pounding, and was merely confiding his celestial
identity? If the Master Himself had walked about
Galilee for a month and a fraction following His
sacrifice, unrecognized even by his nearest friends
and relatives, why mightn’t one credit a lesser trans­
migration?
Here was a boy who had worked as a printer.
Here was a father who had stolen for his infant
280 GOLDEN RUBBISH
son and asked no more of life than a Chance. Here
was a husband spurned of his wife— a soldier at
the wars— a captain of business. In a high house he
sat with fine things about him. And yet he talked
of an alliance with the Teacher of the Ages, he
spoke as a sage who had visited with Trinity. More
than all else, he tried to inform her that she too was
concerned in the program of the Infinite. What
had he said about her aureole?— that it was most
exquisite? W hy had she that radiance bespeaking
Divinity without the least knowledge of it till
that day? Yes, she was stupefied. And not a little
frightened.
"Your assertions, George Robling, make me feel
queer. And you scare me when you tell me that I
may have some role in the Messiah’s Second Com­
ing.”
"Second Coming!” smiled Robling. "N o one can
return who’s never been away.”
She considered this. "But certainly you’ll sub­
scribe that He isn’t apparent as He once was in
Palestine.”
"I wouldn’t say that unless I were sure of it.”
The girl glanced at Potiphar. The printer was
staring at their host in transfixion, forgetting to
eat, forgetting his environment, forgetting his
identity— all but the discourse. Had he not said
exactly those words a few weeks before, back in
Vermont? And if these two, on opposite sides of
America, years and stations apart, made such state-
THE AW AKENING 281
ments, mightn’t scores, hundreds, even thousands
of others up and down the earth, have cause for
expressing a similar sentiment? O f course they
wouldn’t boast of it up and down the sidewalks.
But couldn’t it happen? Mightn’t there be souls
here and there so noble of quality, so kindly of
tenor, so beautiful of substance, that in terrible
privacy they knew the Intercessor? She choked
as she faced it, and tears filmed her vision.
"You can’t credit, I suppose,” George Robling
went on, "that in a practical modern year of
tabloids and air-flights, oil scandals and talking
movies, the King of the Nations can be other than
a Fancy— a religious Ideal from the morning mists
of Error?”
"It isn’t that, but— ”
Well, I can’t blame you, any more than He does.
But Life in its essence still catalogs its wonders;
it still projects its miracles the same as back in Gali­
lee. Which is the greater miracle: that the in­
jection of chemical powers into water made wine
at Cana— or that by merely turning a button in
New York you can hear a symphony playing in
London? Which is most stupendous: that psychic
perceptions told the Galilean fishermen where to
let down their nets— or that we should let down
nets into a world of spiritual distraction and raise
the multitude to conceptions of pure living?”
"W hy don’t you ask the man in the street? He’d
give you an answer quite as valuable as mine.”
282 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Taking it all in all, Miss Louise, I think he’d
give a better. Because his would be honest while
yours would be Pose.”
"That’s rather frank, George Robling.”
"Is it any less frank than the way you spoke to
Sybil? Oh don’t blame Sybil. She hasn’t been
tattling.”
*'You— you overheard then?”
"I overheard perhaps— but not as an eavesdrop­
per. However, let that pass. Potiphar, you’ve had
some perceptions not to be scoffed at. W hy haven’t
you done more to help Miss Louise?”
"I’ve . . . tried, Georgie. But I felt she warn’t
ready.”
"H ’m! You say you’ve tried. Why haven’t you
succeeded? I think I’ll answer for you as a help to
Miss Louise. You’ve had a propensity for letting
the truly vital things be mixed to their hurt with
Sentimentality. You’ve been too soft a vessel,
Potiphar, to hold strong concepts so that others
could go to you and imbibe them to their profit.
Miss Louise, on the other hand, has been so hard a
vessel that no one could approach her without suf­
fering abrasions. Between the two of you lies the
happy medium of Perfect Service. Let’s not get
into that. W e’ll return to it later. I want to dis­
cuss this question of auras.”
"I’m not so much interested,” Louise said rag­
gedly, "in the fact of auras, as . . . how you first
came by your knowledge that we had them.”
THE AW AKENING 283
“ Precisely. And that’s the aid I’m trying to sup­
ply.”
“ And isn’t it logical that none of us can be a ves­
sel for Truth without some idea of what Truth
comprises? There are scores of definitions. Every
enthusiast, every fanatic, I’ve ever encountered—
and plenty have hounded me begging for funds—
has been absolutely certain he had the definition.
The poor word’s worn threadbare.”
“ The Truth,” said George carefully, as Nikko
served the fowl, “ is as abstruse as it is simple. It
consists of just this: A literal interpretation of
divine essences flowing in and through our lives— a
physical manifestation, we’ll say, of precepts and
concepts that religionists and faddists convert into
Dogma. That’s the truth, Louise, and presently
I’ll prove it.”
"A physical manifestation!” the thinking girl
echoed.
"Exactly. And by that I don’t mean ghostly rap-
pings, psychic visitations, the curdling groans of
phantoms, all the horror-ridden charlatanry that
makes manifesting hideous. I mean the sweet, pure,
undefiled Spirituality for which our Master was
the silver-tongued instrument. For aside from all
argument, wasn’t He the Great Mentor that ex­
pounded the Law?”
“ I’ve got to confess,” Louise said ruefully, “ that
I’m not overly intimate with the Entity you men­
tion, excepting perhaps in conventional aspects.”
284 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"That, Miss Louise, is a libel on yourself. You
wouldn’t be sitting in that chair this instant, the
woman that you are with your gifts and capabil­
ities, if you didn’t have a vibrant, workable, splen­
dorful acqtiaintance with the One who loves you
■most]”
"I’d . . . have to think that over!” the girl
answered weakly.
"W hy else have you come here, to arrive at this
moment? Why should your father have died on
his errand? Why at the home of Potiphar Buss?
W hy need you have responded to Potiphar’s tele­
gram— to be with your father and give him your
promise— ?”
" Y ou— know— about— that?”
"D on’t look so at Potiphar. He, too, hasn’t tat­
tled— ”
"You know what my father did to yours in the
Klondyke?”
"Certainly I know it. I’ve known it ten years.”
"Mr. Robling, you’re recounting things that no
one living knows, but the persons involved. Who
told you of that episode up in Alaska?”
"Y ou’ll understand later. Other things must
come first. Why have you finally arrived in this
room for this discourse? By chance, you imagine?
There is no such thing! Because you were moti­
vated by the Forces of Good, industriously labor­
ing to perfect your career!”
THE AW AKENING 28?
It was all far above her. Yet was it above her?
She gave thought to George Robling as something
else again: a truant personality in boyhood, stead­
fastly working to attain unto Light. And he had
attained to it. Into it he had stepped in the fullness
of maturity and now she had met him aglow with
its beauty.
"Y ou’ll agree,” he said later, as they waited for
dessert, "that life holds certain riddles which ter­
rify the ignorant. You’ll perceive, I think, that
all up the ages have been those who arose to power
and place in society, enlightening the ignorant or
guiding them, with no clearly-cut reasons for that
election to posterity. They’ve come equally from
hovels and palaces, from hamlets and cities, from
stations that were humble and others almost in­
solent in the social dexterities. You’ll admit they’ve
arisen? Then why, may I ask? W hy but for the
purpose of accomplishing some specific task, that
the race might benefit?”
What was coming now, the essence of his preach­
ment? They had to wait, however, till Nikko had
withdrawn.
"Always,” went on Robling, "if you’ll examine
into the careers of those mentors, you’ll note that
they came at a psychologically perfect time— Men
and Women o f the Moment, society terms them
— by really stepping forth as in answer to a sum­
mons. Humankind acknowledges the fact of the
summonsing but refutes its true origin. And why,
286 GOLDEN RUBBISH
again? Because humankind refuses to admit Truth
as I defined it for you. Hear me, Miss Louise!— all
of you hear me!— humankind has an obsession for
greeting its saviors with hands outstretched eagerly,
but hoisting them on crosses when their messages
grow profound.”
They waited, listening thoughtfully.
"W e have then, a condition in society where
certain of its elements seek Truth only to destroy
it. But that makes small difference. Truth is sent
and it works its mission— the race is benefited and
goes on in such benefit— followed by another riddle.
H ow comes it that certain men and women know of
themselves when to appear at the proper moment
to do maximum good? W hy do certain souls leap
ahead of their brethren, radiantly leading as princes
of the spirit? Let’s be frank in our apprizements.
W hy do certain men and women announce them­
selves in the world’s tense moments as augurers and
prophets, assailers and instructors, Moving Fingers
writing on the banquet walls of decaying civili­
zations?”
"Because they hear Someone?” Louise Garland
ventured. She asked it on a hazard.
"Exactly!” cried Robling. " Because the Master
calls them! . . . not always, however, as religion­
ists assume.”
"You mean conversion, Georgie?” the printer
asked faintly.
THE AW AKENING 287
"I’d say,” put in Sybil, "it’s beyond all of us and
we ought to listen while our betters inform us.”
"D on’t dodge the issue, Sybil,” her employer re­
buked.
"But I’m meeting it,” she argued.
Robling was thoughtful. However, he con­
tinued—
"Certain persons are called by the Master— the
keystone and crown of the whole earthly structure
— who has never left this world since His resurrec­
tion, not for an instant!— who simply changed His
rituals o f performance, that the light of His radi­
ance might be seen through finer senses. But we
won’t go into that. Certain persons are called by
Him, I say. And what happens? How, I mean, is
the Calling done?”
"W e’re listening,” Sybil prompted. She seemed
to appropriate George and exhibit him.
"They’re called,” George continued, "by a most
peculiar Summons that has to do with Physics.”
"D on’t you mean psychics?” Louise corrected.
"N o, I mean Physics— Physics in this sense: that
Light of every description is the basis of Matter
and things appertaining to Matter are treated by
science in concepts of Physics.”
"H ow are you speaking o f Light— symboli­
cally?”
"Literally,” George answered. "Light is a move­
ment of Eternal Benefaction whether you see it
288 GOLDEN RUBBISH
coming from the sun or breaking in your brain as
conscious understanding. A sun-beam or an idea—
they’re both the same substance. Light is the
power of the Godhead, vitalizing creation wherever
there is need. But its province is Physics.”
"Go on,” begged Louise. She was trying to
follow him, trying it desperately.
"Physics,” he responded, "includes phenomena
on the spiritual plane then, as well as the physical.
Because it’s the Science of Vitalities! . . . not the
play of grown-up boys amid Leyden jars and levers.
Physics is the handwritings of Eternal Beneficence
recording for men an increasing revealment.”
"But coming back to aureoles— ”
"Yes, coming back to aureoles . . . The Call
arrives, let’s admit, by Physics. That means, it
comes to certain persons through the functioning
of Light. It comes by an abrupt consciousness that
about their heads clings a warming aura which gra­
dually interpenetrates their conscious understand­
ing. All of which is nonsense to those not ready
to receive it but readily discernible to those of
proper age.”
"And I’m reaching that period?”
"Please wait, Miss Louise. The Call comes, I say,
through a functioning in Physics, the perfect play
of Light— literal Light. I might say in passing that
the day is at hand when Science will discover that
the life germ itself is implanted in the incubus of
THE AW AKENING 289
every living creature by interpenetration of the
ovule by cosmic Light— ”
"Have you mentioned that to scientists?”
"Yes, but they’re suspecting it. We who have
a mission feel a change in composition. We know
that we’re different. We awaken to the fact that
Thoughts are speaking to us that are not of our
coinage— that ideas are coming to us as though
we’d tapped into some river of knowledge. From
them come urges to follow vocations. It’s all the
divine voice of a literal Christ, telling tis our roles
and that it’s time to play them! Do all of you get
that?”
Louise glanced at Potiphar. His eyes were brim­
ming tears . . .
"The fact,” went on Robling, "that all upward
through history persons have arisen to the insight
of conscience, intellectuality, social and religious
abuses, the heart cries of their fellows to have
mysteries expounded, should be fairly good proof
that Chance is no factor in producing such
phenomena— ”
"I’ve always thought them the workings of an
inferiority complex energized by unhappy environ­
ment,” Louise argued.
"Was it an inferiority complex that made Chris­
topher Columbus discover a continent? What of
men like Washington who lead a group of strug­
gling revolutionists to found a new nation con­
ceived in liberty of doctrine? What of men like
290 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Michael Angelo who bring to humankind inspira­
tion through Art?”
"They’re unique, I’ll admit.”
"What of immortalities like the Master Himself
who appear to found vast structures of worship?
Would you term them unique?”
"I suppose,” said Louise, "there’s design in it
somewhere. But what if there is, if we’re not aware
of it?”
"That’s just what I’m trying to tell you, Miss
Louise: the Voice of the Master makes us aware of
it. It shows us the Design like a splendorful tapes­
try. Nowhere can you find it written that races
or individuals must languish in ignorance. Truth,
Knowledge, Elucidation, is as free as Salvation. Be­
cause it is Salvation! Can’t you perceive it?”
All of them were neglecting their pastries, the
printer for one had not touched his at all. "I s’pose,
Georgie,” he said, "that’s th’ meanin’ o’ Seek an’ Ye
Shall Find: Knock an’ It Shall Be Opened?”
"O f course it is, Potiphar! Mankind is here on the
earth, a created species, for no other reason than to
Seek, and Knock and acquire Education. It’s his
province and his destiny. That’s why so many
poor souls wallow in a Slough of Despondency.
They think the earth’s a variety of paradise where
everything should be perfect and when trouble
comes they arraign the Creator. I heard a man
who’d lost his wife say the other day that he’d
thrown all his belief in God and immortality out
THE AW AKENING 291
of the window of his life because 'God had taken’
the woman he worshipped. God hadn’t taken her
anymore than I’d taken her. That man had to
learn to walk of himself without his wife to lean
on: that’s what he needed to teach him self-reliance.
For the earth is a school, it isn’t a campus. Now
where was I? Let’s see . . . ?”
"You were discussing how the great souls of his­
tory had come and seen and conquered-------”
"Oh yes— but come and seen and conquered
what?”
"Ign’rance, Georgie?”
"More than that, Potiphar: superstition, poverty,
the cloyings of pride and the clutchings of greed.
They’ve come manifesting in earthly organisms to
save humankind for a beauteous purpose. But what
purpose? W hy save the race at all? And from
what? The hell of Dante?— there is no such absurd­
ity. Say rather, the Path of Increasing Error lead­
ing far, far down to identity extinction.”
"Extinction!” Louise echoed.
"The Judgment Day of ten thousand sunrises.
Oh if Man could only understand that God doesn’t
judge him— that he judges himself and selects his
own sentence!”
"That’s novel,” said Louise.
"But the truest part of Truth.”
"W hich doesn’t leave much room for a Divine
Intercessor.”
"O n the contrary, Louise— the Terrible Con-
292 GOLDEN RUBBISH
trary! Only we mustn’t think of that Intercessor
as counsel for the defense, arguing for souls in some
celestial courtroom. He intercedes to save Man
from himself by being the Ideal through which
captives liberate themselves. They avoid eternal
penalties by correcting their behavior. The inter­
cession, as it were, takes place before the judging.”
George ate awhile in silence, his profile downcast.
And his woman-guest beside him was assailed by
strange weakness. Not for her host, for vaguely he
alarmed her. Rather at her future, her proneness
to blunder, striving to climb with no rungs to her
ladder.
"History, my friends,” their informant con­
cluded, "is replete with examples of men and wo­
men born in earth’s slums, whether city or country.
Upward they’ve struggled through poverty and
heartbreak. They’ve come to know the gratifica­
tions of attainment and the beauties of victory over
disease, animal appetites, the hordes that bow to
Mammon. They’ve climbed up and out of degrad­
ing circumstance and found the high paths on
Plateaus of Opportunity— to serve their fellows—
to respond to the fiats of their Commanding Officer
who is conducting His campaign in this generation
against error of perception of spiritual truth. And
wherever those folk have missed those High Paths,
they’ve encountered an insufferable personal dis­
satisfaction. Wherever they’ve ignored the tocsin
of their destinies, or refused to bend eagerly to the
THE AW AKENING 293
work for which they volunteered before coming in­
to flesh, they’re hounded by packs of angers and
alarms. They don’t always grasp just why they’re
tormented. But something’s all wrong and inwardly
they know it. Success has brought no happiness.
Its strain has worked rebellion. And what is their
rebellion? Whence comes their resentment?” He
looked toward Louise.
"A score of causes might contribute to it,” she
defended.
"Contribute to it, yes. But the basic principle
underlying their revolt is the divinity within them
impelling them to realize that they made a Pact
with Him before coming into life! There’s no
escaping from it. They can’t run away for there’s
nowhere to run. And failing to harken, calamity
gets them, for the overthrow the balance of
Things as They are Written.”
"Y ou’re insinuating that I made a pact with
Him?” Louise exclaimed amazed. "What for? To
do what?”
"Y ou’ll recognize it presently: there’s no way to
help it. You’ll awake to your promise— your com­
pact with your Chief. And no man or woman,
no matter who or where, but hears that Call plainly
when the moment is propitious. N o matter how
humble, no matter how ignorant— each and every
one of them has a carefully-mapped-out destiny—
that in turn is aligned with the Proposal Eternal:
that the race shall be elevated though it requires a
294 GOLDEN RUBBISH
trillion existences to make each one of them a
musician in the Orchestra of the Spheres.”
It was quiet about that table when Robling had
finished.
"Y ou’re— very sure then,” Louise whispered
faintly, "o f survival— after death?”
"M y dear Miss Louise, you’ve probably died a
hundred physical deaths, yet this present night
finds you a guest at my board.”
"I . . . never heard anything like this before.
Is it some new kind of religious belief?”
"It’s older than the mountain on which we’re
now sitting. Nothing once created can ever be
destroyed! It may alter its form but extinction is
impossible, except it’s self-wrought. That’s the
Crux of the Cosmos, . . . the Golgotha of Mor­
tality! "What was it the Master kept repeating to
the multitude: 'Except ye become as little children,
ye cannot enter the Kingdom of Light’ ! That has
a double meaning. Some harassed souls have to be­
come literal children a thousand times before
they’re equipped to go to the Godhead.”
George pushed back his chair and threw down
his napkin.
To what had she listened? Louise felt distress.
She resented certain things which Robling had
expounded. She thought for a time she resented
George Robling. She did not interpret the cause
THE AW AKENING 295
of that resentment: that it had its basis mostly in
fright— which in turn had its basis in spiritual
ignorance. Some superstition was in it too— and
the fact that these vitalities had been cast at her
so suddenly.
But more than all else, she was balked by that
Pact. What Pact? Where and when had she made
it? What could it encompass?
She had heard of this Arbiter o f spiritual con­
fusions, seen replicas of His torment on crucifixes,
known of His words when statesmen— so called—
would align Him with their theories. She had ob­
served Humanity’s reverence for Him, the hold He
had gained on popular credulity. All this and more.
In her heart of hearts she knew that He was. But
how, or where, or what had become of Him since
the time of his Palestinian apprehension for the
race, was a page from a breviary not for explana­
tion on the mortal side of death.
She was curious, yes— as all men are curious. But
to think of Him as a personage still, who might en­
ter a room, sit in a chair, fondle a child, or rebuke
with a horsewhip a Wall Street speculator who had
tricked men of their savings, was something so ter­
rific that her mortal brain revolted.
It would alter her life if she admitted Him as a
concrete entity— someone who might actually be
confronted in some far lonely place, or brought in­
to contact with her problems of the present. How
296 GOLDEN RUBBISH
could she succeed in the commercial conflict if
always she were handicapped by His milk-and-
water precepts? It abashed and appalled her. She
wanted to flee.
Had she made this western trip then, as some sort
of blind religious pilgrimage? If Robling were
wrong, however . . . if the Mentor of the Cen­
tury were little more than a fairy caliph stalk­
ing the pages o f religious romance, why her queer
upset at mention of a Pact? W hy mention a Pact?
W hy not any of a score of interlocking relation­
ships equally as vital but far less distressing in ef­
fect on her affairs?
This was her problem and the crux of her dilem­
ma. Whatever lay around the road-bend of cir­
cumstance, nevertheless one beacon shone clearly:
the matters of doubt with which she had labored
— which had even gone so far as making her re­
fuse a funeral to her father— were as challenging
obstacles set along the trek of an earthly Crusade,
meaning to free a Holy Sepulchre of changing
ideals from infidel hosts of personal preferences.
That she must admit and no argument about it.
Well, she made that admission and it brought
her some comfort. But that was not the end: it was
only the beginning.
She toyed with her napkin and sought relief in
humor. "Hard-Boiled Louise,” as many people
knew her, sitting on a Hollywood mountaintop and
growing upset over stupid metaphysics— what a
THE AW AKENING 297
spectacle to laugh at! She did laugh. Nervously.
Yet her laugh held no mirth.
Was she sacrificing her cool-brained balance that
had always been her armor, for this fancy ethical
knowledge? Was this man’s benignant and pro­
lific mentality persuading her into the quicksands
of Mysticism and labeling his beguilement the
heartcry of the Spirit? On the other hand, what
extraneous senses might she have lying dormant,
proving his solutions to her doubtings, answering
queries that all men asked when corpses stretched
before them?
Once in Montana a native had called her atten­
tion to a splendid eagle afar on a crag. Twenty
miles distant, he had told her the bird was, and she
had taxed her vision striving to discern him. Lo,
the eagle had been there, for he later took wing.
But had he been of fault for her failure of vision?
Then that other anecdote coming out of Africa:
of the cruelly tortured missionary made to recant
that in England were dogs that protected weak
sheep. Were those negroes to blame for their bar­
barous incredulity, holding that dogs were the
scourges of their flocks? When he told them of
sleds employed on Arctic wastes, was the tortured
one a fool in that somewhere was traction that
moved without wheels? Because one was ignorant,
did that deny Knowledge? And yet she needed
help, a pitiful lot of it, before her plight could be
deciphered.
298 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Robling as a character defied her analysis: that
she now perceived. He had coffers of Wisdom in
maturity’s treasure-house, kept in abeyance for the
buying of souls. Continuing the metaphor inter­
rogatively, was he seeking to acquire her as he had
purchased others: Sybil in point, for some coppers
of vibrations? Did he threaten abduction if Louise
was not for sale?
It awed as it intrigued her.
Sybil as a sister in banditage, perhaps had sensed
the price that he might offer for another. But
though cheaply bought herself, did Sybil know
something more vital in the circumstance: that
Robling as a buyer might not descend to bargain­
ing? He procured for a Croesus, this baffling lord
chamberlain. Or rather, his searchings were as
one who hunts rare pearls to match them of Flesh
for the neck of a Beloved. Her Pact, if there was
one and he had a hand in it, carried the essence of
displaying to him her values, a vestal volunteering
for a place in that exhibit.
Potiphar knew it, had gotten it at once— hence
his expression down at the Ambassador. But Poti­
phar discerned an item in addition: Louise was not
like Sybil, a concubine by temperament. A vestal
votary, possibly. But not for a harem of mortal
satisfactions.
She had to be seized by abductors of Princesses.
Her seduction must be wrought by amours of
Destiny.
THE AWAKENING 299
The meal she had dreaded was over, regardless.
The demerited Sybil was first to arise. She went
toward the library where coffee would be served.
"I think,” Louise faltered, "I’ll . . . ask to be
excused. I may join you later.”
"I understand,” Robling said, smiling, as a wise
old professor might condone with a colleague
younger in his tutoring.
She started for her room.
In the hall she faced Sybil.
"W ell?” said the secretary.
"W ell?” Louise answered.
"D o you know any more than you did this after­
noon?”
CHAPTER V
Q YBIL was matched in love of Robling by some-
^ thing equally as potent in her life: a desire to
serve him that was nearly a mania. The girl was
not shallow; instead she had a devil— a demon of
mutiny that caromed within her heart whenever
danger threatened to him whom she adored.
Born of poor but respectable parents in a small
midwestern city, she was made to fetch and carry
till her family’s burdens irked her. Out of the
ruck of it, this had resulted: she knew in her soul
that life was a riddle, that her role in it was vague,
that its tumults could be cruel, that calamities were
real, and that whenever people proposed projects
to her, they had their basis in vehement Greed.
Sybil had begun working for Robling under con­
ditions and perceptions that shaped up to her as
monstrous. Her father had departed and her
mother had been ailing. Brothers and sisters had
gone their several ways. She had known poverty,
hunger, illness and heartbreak. She admitted that
her mother had due need of sympathy but some­
thing within the daughter was prone to give too
much. What more natural, with them needing
funds in common, than for the daughter to enter
300
THE AW AKENING 301
on some career in business. She had gone to
Chicago.
On arriving in Chicago she had found employ­
ment readily. Not till she came to a place where
she realized the value of physical endowments in a
woman’s progress did she gain to a place of com­
fort in sustainment. Her brothers as men had
shown small thought for women: her sisters were
the type who cared for themselves. Adrift Sybil
was, in a manner of speaking, and she took the days
lazily, not concerned with her future.
Never was it whispered that she was immoral.
She was on the whole complaisant, taking her game
without minding the fowler, lacking in courage for
open indiscretion. She had some bad complexes
which misfortune abetted. She visioned herself
in risque situations. She saw herself constantly
dwelling in harems. Dreams and delusions added
to her troubles till she came to the moment when
her wits needed whetting.
She met up with Robling.
She met him in an office where the man came
for work. Wanting to learn draftsmanship he was,
being tired of the printer’s trade. He was poor
then— a nondescript— wifeless and morose. Sybil
took him home to the place where she boarded.
She got him a chamber and became his foster-
mother.
Being his Aspasia was something beyond her—
or rather, it appalled her because of inhibitions. Be-
302 GOLDEN RUBBISH
sides, he was indifferent. She gave of herself in
other ways, however. She attended to his clothes
and bought him small dainties. When his socks
needed darning, she accomplished it somehow— for
a needle confused her— she always pricked her fin­
gers . . .
They knew but one night of self-provocation.
Robling had been drinking and his reason was be­
fogged. She got him home somehow and into his
bed. There she tried to undress him. She managed
it badly. She turned down his light but he wanted
her to stay. She stayed not unwillingly. She got
her kimono and kicked off her shoes. The night
went on and on . . . with the door bolted on the
inside . . . the chamber lamp extinguished . . .
Gray morning dawned, to find the man angered.
He did not revile her; he saved that for himself.
Sybil, on the other hand, did not insist he marry
her. But she could not meet his eyes for almost a
fortnight.
Then came Armageddon.
On the eve of his departure, she made him a pro­
posal. He needed a loved one at home to remember,
"to cheer and sustain him” was her manner of
phrasing it. If he returned, then would be time to
reconsider their relations. If he died in France—
well, she would "have her memories.” And she
wanted her "memories.” They thrilled as they in­
vited her. She offered vague talkings about
"strengthening his courage.” Just how his spirit
THE AW AKENING 303
would be strengthened by a splurge in indiscretion,
she did not reason out. She wasn’t good at reason­
ing.
Robling, however, had laughed somewhat wryly.
She had not attained to a "transformation” in
those days and her hair was dispirited— a brand of
straw yellow. It often came down and made her
look wanton. It was down at the moment.
"Y ou’re a good pal, Syb,” he had said in man’s
callousness, "but the risks I’m confronting make me
want to keep clean. As for you, you’re a kid.
You’ll always be, I’m thinking.”
"You weren’t so particular that night you were
drunk.”
"Being drunk is one thing. Deliberately playing
hijinks is something not so . . . joyful.”
"You think I’m plain bad?”
"Y ou’re the opposite of bad, that’s why you’re
so naive.”
"I . . . see. You don’t want me.”
"I’ll always want you, Syb— in a manner of
speaking. But I’m thinking of your future. Other
men might come and some things in life should be
treated like razors: the path to an artery starts
with a scratch.”
Next day he entrained.
During the war she had "kept herself inviolate”
— the term was her own— and sidestepped tempta­
tions that were secretly welcomed. Men "leered”
at her on trolleys, she said, and "followed” her when
304 GOLDEN RUBBISH
the city’s streets were darkened. She called herself
"insulted” a dozen times a week. When Robling re­
turned, his eyes showed compassion.
"Poor kid!” was his greeting, "so you’ve had your
war, too?”
"Well, I’ve won it,” she answered. "N ow why
need we wait?”
"W ait?” He seemed puzzled. Her loyalty dis­
mayed him.
"You owe it to me,” she quavered just once.
He debated this point. How much did he owe
her?
"Perhaps,” he said kindly. "But the cards aren’t
that way. I’m going into business— a firm of my
own.”
She saw he was changed and laid it to his injuries.
Having heart for those injuries she went on with
her spinsterhood.
"What sort of business?” She bit back emotion.
"A n idea, Sybil, that hit me in France. Build­
ing skyscrapers on cooperative basis.”
"Skyscrapers? Goodness, where’ll you get the
money?”
"The money will come. You see if it doesn’t.”
The money had come, uncanny of delivery. It
seemed as though he had acquired a second sight in
France to read the future rightly.
So it had gone and Sybil was still with him. She
had conquered stenography purposely to be his sec-
THE AW AKENING 305
retary. She had seen him succeed with frantic mis­
givings— and she kept near him constantly, missing
no chance to proclaim her affection. Thus the years
had passed— twelve of them— with George Robling
growing in maturity and affluence. She too had
matured, at least in her body. She spryed herself in
dress, she bought a "transformation.” But al­
ways in her heart she was the adolescent bride.
Always she saw herself performing her surrender
— and at times she bit her fingers in the pain of self-
indulgence. Self-indulgence, that is, in a sense
of the proprieties.
Small wonder then, she resented Louise. The sup­
ple, forceful, keen-witted girl with her nonchalant
gaze and double-edged tongue— ten years the
younger and athrob with vitality— was someone
to be dreaded aside from her prestige. Sybil felt in­
stinctively that action was necessary. Robling
"owed it” to her— to award her long loyalty. She
had a presentiment that such action should be
forced. How could he deny her? She rumpled her
bed as she thought of technique.
Robling was hers. On that point she was firm.
If loyalty were wasted, what then of compromise?
For a long time she lay— with Louise on the oppo­
site side of the wall— and imagined a melodramatic
sequence in which she crept stealthily to George
Robling’s room and held a bright knife at the point
of his throat.
306 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Make your choice or die!” she cried in ulti-
matim. Thereat she sobbed, and sobbing she slum­
bered . . .
She had been in the library after dinner that
night, however, when Potiphar came in with Rob-
ling behind him.
"Georgie,” said the printer, "you got t’ give full
credit t’ Miss Lou. You sprung a lot on her she
didn’t understand, but she didn’t fight you much
— not as I expected.”
"I know, Potiphar.”
"A n ’ she ain’t gone abovestairs ’cause she’s got a
headache. Not a headache in her head.”
"I’m aware of that as well.”
"She had a hard time back east with her folks;
her pa warn’t so careful how he treated her in girl­
hood. She makes me think o’ that piece I read in a
paper— ’bout th’ mother with six kids who buried
all but one. That one fell sick an’ she got down an’
prayed. 'Take th’ last one, Lord,’ says she. An’
th’ neighbors was scandalized. They called her
right wicked. An’ th’ mother says, 'No, when this
last one’s took, I’ll know how t’ be happy.’ ”
"Food for thought, Potiphar, but what’s the ap­
plication?”
The printer smiled dubiously, fingering his pipe.
"Miss Lou’s mothered plenty o’ . . . ideals . . .
that have died on her, Georgie— so many, in fack,
that she can’t find their graves. But they’sone ideal
THE AW AKENING 307
left that she’s still got t’ bury— that folks are about
her t’ make her important. When that’s fin’lly
over, she’ll be a real female.”
"Potiphar, you’re wrong for once in your life.
That’s not an ideal. It’s a type of self-pity.”
“ Well, mebbe, mebbe.”
"Louise has her cue for her role in creation, but
only she can take it. That’s a strange thing Poti­
phar. All the world’s a stage but even the play’s
directors have a part in the performance.”
“ Georgie,” cried Potiphar, "just when did you
take yours? What was it waked you up an’ . . .
showed you your . . . destiny?”
Robling was thoughtful. He picked up a cala­
bash pipe and filled it.
“ Yes, when did I?” he answered, cogitating.
"Miss Sybil here mentioned you sort o’ seemed
changed when you come back fr’m war. Was you
shell-shocked or somethin’?”
"N o, not exactly ^//-shocked.”
Robling lighted the pipe and sat down.
"You see, Potiphar, . . . many things happen
throughout a man’s life that lead him to think he
may have a . . . destiny. Some men get it in
boyhood. Some wait for marriage to bring it out
inversely. Others . . . well, it takes something
like a ministration of divinity to make us aware of
it.”
"I— I don’t choose t’ get you.”
“ Sybil,” asked Robling, "isn’t there something
308 GOLDEN RUBBISH
you can do elsewhere while Mr. Buss and I discuss
our . . . adventures?” His voice was quite kindly.
"Perhaps so,” said Sybil. But she sent the old
printer a glance of revolt. Tears were in her eyes
too, but anger in her glance. Who were these
people to have prior claim on Robling? She went
up the stairs and was not seen thereafter.
"I feel sorry for Sybil,” her employer said softly.
"What you got her for, Georgie? She ain’t quite
th’ type I’d expect t’ find you livin’ with— seein’
you ain’t married.”
"Living with her, Potiphar?”
"Y ou’re doin’ that, ain’t you?”
Robling laughed amusedly. Then as quickly he
sobered. "N o,” he responded, "she’s living in my
house. There’s quite a bit of difference. All the
same, . . I think a lot of Sybil. She’s true blue
in her heart, though I grant you it’s a small one.”
"I didn’t mean nonsense or— anything soiled.
You havin’ th’ tough break your first wife give
you— ”
"I’m not exercised, Pott, at your innuendo. It’s
something else than that.”
"What else, Georgie? I arsk you as a father.”
"Sybil never will awaken. She lacks the . . .
ingredients. Do you know what I mean? I refer
to this life. When she wants a thing she gets it.
That classifies her cosmically.”
"She ain’t got you yet,” the little printer argued.
"N o, perhaps not. I was speaking of Policy.
THE AW AKENING 309
And she won’t get me, Pott. I’m . . . too close
to the end.”
" You’re what?”
Silence came fraughtly . . .
"Georgie— you can’t be— tellin’ me— ”
"Oh that’s all right, Potiphar. Let’s confine our­
selves to Sybil. She’s a bundle of nerves— a bundle
of repressions— a very young soul that hasn’t made
much progress. Her development lacks force. But
aside from all that, there’s the question of identities.
She isn’t my caste, if you get what I mean.”
"N o, I don’t get it.”
"Well, put it this way: She and I play different
parts in the drama of creation. She’s one of the
coryphees, learning her steps. I’m backing the
show but with no eye for chorus girls.”
"She’s . . . anything but a chorus girl, Georgie.”
"Her legs may be hidden by hoop-skirts, Poti­
phar. But figuratively speaking they’re not so un­
sightly.”
Potiphar was pensive.
"Sybil needs helping,” Robling went on, " — a
frightful lot of helping. I feel that she should get
it. She tries to dance to discords and her ballet
work is faulty. Unless you work to rhythm your
steps will be grotesque— that’s a platitude, I think.”
"She seems to love you,” the printer maintained.
"Vibrations, Potiphar, shouldn’t be indicted.
Strike certain chords on a piano and a dozen
stringed instruments will thrill in response. That’s
310 GOLDEN RUBBISH
not saying they’re pianos or that pianos as me­
chanisms should thereby hold conceit. It’s a na­
tural requisite of the laws controlling harmony.”
Potiphar nodded . . .
"What I’m telling you,” Robling added, "is that
here and there are persons aware of their destinies
and exactly why they have them. Others are
traveling let’s say, for the Journey— they can
loiter and learn and nothing much happens.”
Neither man heard the soft step on the stair.
Louise was coming down, pausing to discover if
she were intruding.
"Well, that fetches us t’ my first question,
Georgie. What was it revealed you warn’t . . .
like th’ rest o’ us?”
Robling blew pipesmoke out in a funnel. At
length he cleared his voice.
"Potiphar,” he said, "I had an experience, lying
in that shell-hole.”
"What shell-hole, Georgie?”
“ You know what shell-hole. I told you about
it in your room this afternoon. For three days
and nights the Big Push kept up. I was shot in the
foot, the leg and the chest. Then a shell dug a hole
as though for my protection. I actually believe
that it was for my protection. But the battle was
hot and I had to have shelter. I got to it somehow
and slept like a dead man. Yes, I did. Regardless
of the tumult I slept like a baby.”
"W hy didn’t you bleed t’ death?”
THE AW AKENING 311
"Ive told you the answer: because I had a mis­
sion. I rather think it’s been proven. When I
came from my exhaustion, I found it was night.
But the whizz-bangs were banging and the star
shells were exploding, lighting the terrain with
the brilliance of daylight. The vicinity was chaos.
Many sights greeted me not mentioned in des­
patches.”
"What sort o’ sights, Georgie?”
"Well, out of my pit-wall a human hand was
thrusting. I crawled up and touched it and it
pulled from the gravel— ”
"But why touch it, Georgie?”
"O n the chance it belonged to someone who was
smothering. Then I heard groans. Out in the
open, four bodies were sprawled. I went out and
got them— ”
"Wounded like you was— shot through th’ lungs
— you brought in four men?”
"One at a time, Potiphar. It took me half an
hour.”
“ Where’d you get th’ strength?”
“ I got it, Pott, from a source I can’t talk about.
But worming my way through that ghastly debris
I— I— saw— or rather, I met— well, the battlefields
of Europe were resplendant with tales of Visita­
tions, Potiphar. And Help was abroad on that bat­
tlefield that night— Help for what I tried when
Help was needed sorely. Someone-------gave me a
hand— with those four buddies— Potiphar. Don’t
312 GOLDEN RUBBISH
ask me how ’twas done, but we managed it to­
gether.”
“Someone!”
"Someone, Potiphar, Whom shrapnel couldn’t
mangle. Need I say more? I don’t ask that you
believe it.”
"Georgie!”
"Get that rightly, Potiphar. But the extraor­
dinary aftermath was: each one of the four lived to
come home and accomplish an equally extraor­
dinary service for Whoever gave me aid in doing
what I did. If I told you their names it would
stun you, old friend.”
Potiphar’s eyes were like drill holes in his skull.
His breathing was belaboured, as though his lungs
hurt him.
"You had personal help, Georgie, from— ”
"You didn’t hear me mention any names. But
I know things, Potiphar, that no man or men may
question with impunity. When men ask of Life if
there’s a Personified Beneficence, mark them as souls
who’ve lived to themselves. Many a Legion mem­
ber right here in America this evening knows that
all wars aren’t fought on a battlefield. Some wars
are fought in the abject depths of a man’s riven
spirit, seeking to credit the presentments of events
under gun-fire.”
Potiphar Buss was a small, hairless waxworks.
"The truth of Immortality, Potiphar, is epi­
tomized in lodestone. It magnetizes steel and does
THE AW AKENING 313
other strange things. There’s another type of lode-
stone not taken from quarries. It’s cut from the
hearts of men with sealed lips.”
This was deep, deep— but the printer got it.
"When a man makes a graven image and bows
down to it, he attracts about him worshippers of
similar inclusions— especially the image of Selfish­
ness, Potiphar. But worshipping Truth, he opens the
universe— and likewise the fountains of Eternal
Benefaction. His soul is a shrine where the vestal
fire is Love. Give him a loaf and he shares it with
his brother. Give him a life and in sharing, he pre­
serves it. That’s all that I can tell you. The rest is
not for record.”
Louise came down the stairs. To go back was
petty and marked her for an eavesdropper.
"Mr. Robling,” she said, "I heard you. I’m . . .
sorry.”
George got to his feet.
"Y ou’re sorry for what? I don’t understand.”
"Y ou said something to Potiphar that perhaps
may change my life.” The woman’s face was
hectic.
"Then why should you feel sorry?”
"I’m pilfering something, by staying in this
house.”
"Pilfering, Miss Garland?”
"Once when I was a little girl, I stole some sweets
belonging to a playmate. I thought myself clever,
314 GOLDEN RUBBISH
the way that I did it. But when I came to eat them,
they made me ghastly ill. I suffered several days
yet no one knew the reason.”
"W ell?”
"Had I earned my own candy it would never
have happened. Always I’ve believed it. I . . .
believe it even now.”
The three of them sat down.
"Mr. Robling,” she continued, "if you had your
life to go back and live over again, would you let
yourself be born a hapless, humble nondescript?”
Robling frowned slightly— that Louise should
ask the question. " I f I had my life to go back and
live over again,” he answered slowly, "I’d have my­
self born whatever I was meant for.”
"Y ou’re begging my question.”
"O n the contrary, Miss Louise, I’m answering it
most bluntly. I know what you mean— I get it
by thought.”
"You— get it— by— thought!”
"Life,” said Robling thoughtfully, "is only a
sojourn, a visit, in a room. That room may be in
a hovel or it may be in a palace. Going in and out
o f a room doesn’t alter our characters. When I’ve
said that, I’ve given you the Decalog. We come and
we go— and we profit as we may. We come and
we go— and we serve as we will. Sorrow and joy
are the appointments of that room. And when we
go out, this is all we recall of it— all that we recall
o f any room: the way it was lighted! No more
THE AW AKENING 315
and no less. Think of that well, and remember
I’ve said it.”
"Y ou’re very wise, aren’t you?” the woman said
faintly.
"N o, merely honest,” the other responded.
"Honest! What’s honesty?”
"The capacity, Miss Louise, for accurate think­
ing— and speaking what we’ve thought— or act­
ing it as necessary.”
"D on’t you mean candor?”
"N o— candor is the vessel into which we dump
our complexes.”
A bell rang somewhere deeper in the house. Nik-
ko appeared and went to the front door.
"Does a Miss Louise Garland live here?” they
heard someone ask. "Telegram for her— Western
Union.”
"A telegram for me!” the woman cried amazed.
Nikko brought the book and she signed for it
blankly. She told the boy to wait. How could
anyone know she had come to this house? She
tore open the envelop.
"N o bad news?” asked Robling.
"I— can’t— say. Maybe!”
This was the message—
Chicago, Sept 20.
Flying Los Angeles Jack Trent’s plane Stop Ar­
riving Clover Field two o’clock Sunday Stop Im­
portant business bearing on Ackermann Stop
316 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Don’t want to worry you but give no interviews
to papers Stop Love till I see you
BASIL V A N DYKE
"I’m glad,” said Robling, staring at his calabash.
"You’re glad of what?”
"That Van is headed west.”
"H ow do you know? Who told you? And
why call him Van? You can’t possibly know
Basil!”
"N ot know him? W hy not? My dear Louise,
don’t try to question the Cosmic Lodestone. The
End will be the End. What’s written is Written!”
CHAPTER YI
‘ ‘ T FEEL that I’m boring you,” Robling apolo-
gized. "There’s always a saturation point in
this sort of thing.”
"Y ou’re far from boring,” Louise assured him.
"But on one like yourself, addressed by fancies
of a wholly new order, the effect must be fatigue.
Which usually results in malicious skepticism.”
"Fancies!” she echoed. "You call them that?”
"Isn’t that what you think them? You’ve
termed yourself a Materialist.”
"I only do that because I’ve never encountered
anyone capable of convincing me there’s more
profit in being a metaphysician.”
"A n ’ you’ve got t’ remember you’ve started
somethin’, Georgie,” the printer interposed, "when
you sit a dozen feet fr’m a woman and practick’ly
tell her what she’s got in a tellygram.”
"Granted,” Robling laughed. "But consider my
angle. I mustn’t be didactic.”
"Y ou’re not didactic,” Louise corrected, "you’re
uncomfortably mystic. Tell me . . . in the case
of this wire . . . do you come by your knowledge
by some antic of Thought?”
317
318 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Thinking, Isubmit, isn’t what folks assum
e. It
isn’t pensive imagining; neither is it reasoning.
True reasoning would be objective creating, and
Man as a phenom
enon isn’t a creator so much as
aninstrument, anexpedient, amortal transformer
for transcendent currents.”
"Many of the world’s greatest thinkers might
hurl bottles at you for that!”
"What I m
ean is this: Thinking, by and large,
isareceivingof billionsuponbillionsof sublim
ated
light granules from the sun of Universal Intelli­
gence, impacting onbraincells, dem
anding ahous­
ing, seeking conversion into the proper vibratory
velocity for practical employment—not unlike the
processof anelectric current in acommonTrans­
former. Great Thinkers aremerely easy receivers;
their perceptions are sensitized to tune in on the
Absolute.”
"The Absolute!”
"Well, the accumulated storage of all the phases
of Truth that have been converted into human
ideas and served the race at the behest of Love
—servedit, Im
ean, inthesenseof endowingit with
m
ethods for survival and spiritual enoblem
ent.”
"All of which is applicable just how, in your
reading of my telegram
? Som
e sort of M
ental
Telepathy?”
"Yes and no,” he responded. "The soul to soul
transm
ission of ideas as in Telepathy is inten-
THE AWAKENING 319
tional, puissant, anattuning of equipm
ents. What
happenedinyour casewasthis: a
syou ranthrough
yourm
essageIfelt them
ental impact of athought-
projection—that an airplane with two persons in
its cabin was winging toward us som
ewhere.
Andalongwiththat premonitionwent thenam
eof
a m
an, Basil Van Dyke, fairly throbbing at m
e,
one idea superim
posed over the other. It was rea­
sonable to conclude therefore, that his arrival was
im
minent.”
"Reasonable perhaps,” Louise said nervously,
"but Istill don’t graspwhythoseim
pressionsshould
reach you contiguously with my reading of the
telegram
. Why not before?”
"Because you gave agalvanismto those im
pres­
sionsby thesuddenstressof your alarmandworry,
stepping themup, as it were, diffusing themradi­
antly so I could discern them—elem
ental radio in
perfect expression. Remember Im
ake no claimto
having read your wire literally, else why should I
askif it heldbadnews?”
The girl was uncertain. She stared at the sheet
still dam
pfromtheletter-press. Finally sheasked:
"And do you get any . . . mental im
pressions
. . . explaining Basil’s errand . . . what partic­
ular emergency is bringing himby plane?”
"I think Van’sbringing you news of extraordi­
nary tenor. I get the presentim
ent it has som
e­
thing to do with saving you from trouble.”
320 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"How and when did you two get acquainted?”
"Van will tell you that, as circumstances order
it. But don’t you see faintly what I first tried to
showyou—that asplendorful m
osaic isfalling into
pattern?”
Louise glanced at Potiphar. The printer was
doleful.
"I wish, Georgie,” said he, "that I’d paid m
ore
attentiont’ cultivatin’ thempowers. They’dsaved
m
e lots o’ scrapes.”
"They’re not 'powers’, Potiphar—unless you’re
alsowilling to consider your five physical senses as
'powers’. They’re as natural as feeling, or cir­
culation of the blood. Humankind must be pa­
tiently instructed out of its obsession that there
are any such things as supernatural phenom
ena.
How stupid to say that anything is above Nature,
or opposed to it, simply because it’s not fully un­
derstood—that the mental senses belong in aworld
of disem
bodied spirits—that anything above the
Physical Ordinary is charlatanry, old wives’ whis­
perings or som
e sort of witchcraft. The m
ost pe­
culiar people I know in this country are the
Spiritualists, who give a religious slant to endow­
m
entsthat belongtotherace asnaturally asknow­
ing how to walk or appreciating music.”
"I’mgladtohearyousaythat,” Louiseapproved.
"Of courseitsnatural togive areligious cloak to
things that awe until they’re understood. The
savage trips over atree root and immediatelywor-
THE AWAKENING 321
ships the god in the tree that m
ust have'had the
power to cast himon his face. The sam
e thing’s
in process today among all those cult faddists
who’vebeencastontheirfacesbymentalornatural
phenom
ena—that only need analysis and practice
to m
ake common goods. But you can’t m
ake
adepts out of neophytes in a day, and the sam
e
thing goes for the whole human race. Even as an
infant you had to acquire skill in using your five
physical senses or you got som
e bad bum
ps. An
infant might aswell call anadult supernatural be­
cause an adult isskilled in his faculties.”
"Then you contend, as I get it, that there are
mental senses as well as physical senses?”
"Exactly—but thosesublim
ated perceptions, for
the m
an in the street, have becom
e so em
balm
ed
underlayersof hate, greed, appetitesandlusts, that
only in exceptional cases do they function. And
instead of realizing that every m
an has a duty to
himself to cultivate them
, humankind looks upon
the exceptional case and cries: 'Here’s a faddist, a
crank, whowould try to have usthink hehas con­
tacts with Beyond!’ And they consign himto the
stake of facetious castigation. Som
etim
es they do
worse. I sawanewspaper account of anoccultists’
convention the other day so derisive that it was
pitiful—not that the occultists needed any sym­
pathy but that a great newspaper should assum
e
sogullibly that they were fakirs or crackbrains be­
cause their doctrines partook of the weird.”
322 GOLDEN RUBBISH
“All the sam
e, claiming to get in talkable touch
with departed personalities—as m
ost occult stu­
dents do whom I’ve m
et— is weird.”
“No m
ore weird than being here in Beverly
Hills and getting in 'talkable touch’ with som
eone
inNewYork by telephone. You could communi­
cateintelligently andestablishtheir existencewith­
out seeing or touching them
, or thinking it neces­
sary for scientists to check up on them
. Further­
m
ore, wouldn’t it be absurd to start a cult or de­
nomination because the m
echanics of telephony
aren’t generally understood?”
“But they are understood!”
“I subm
it there isn’t one telephone user in ten
thousand who knows how a voice is transferred
across a wire. You see, Death isn’t a change in
identity, my dear. It’sachange inthe velocity of
mortal environment. The best analogy I knowof
is atm ospheres”
W
hereuponhetriedto explainthescienceof vi­
bration. But a blurred phantasm
agora of sights,
sounds, preachm
ents and cosm
ic heraldry, grew in
Louise’s brain and finally she stopped him
. She
excusedherself for bed. Torelieveherhead’sstrum­
ming shewent out onher balcony.
The night air was cool and brought back her
balance. The plainwasnowradiant, spreadingbe­
lowher. Vast sm
earsof iridescent sparkles greeted
her: an infinite jewel-chest of scintillating dia-
THE AWAKENING 323
m
onds. Yet evenasshewatched, thesim
ilealtered.
She saw the valley too as a meshwork of frantic
fireflies caught under agauze of etheric dark.
Bright, tawdry glintings, som
e of themwere—
or delicate tracings across m
iles of incandescence.
Yet produced by man’s cleverness, the handiwork
of Science. Still, that was not all; she perceived
som
ethingm
oreinthat copious effulgence. Lam
ps
of Eternal Beneficence were burning across the
earth’s face too, calling man’s attention to the
curdle of his blindnessuntil Light were given him
.
Why, she thought suddenly, should light have
been produced—any kind of light? Take the sun
fromthe sky, make of mansom
ething that moved
without visual perception, andhowcould Creation
serve a practical purpose—any purpose whatever?
Hadthateaglebeenreal forherbeforeshediscerned
him
? W
ere unseenthings of import on any plane
of being? What mystery was greater, what en­
dowment m
ore com
m
iserate? Whence arrived
Light and without it what was? Thoughts and
projections, how else could they function? When
mankind had excavated and unburied the Eternal,
what wouldheuncover but theflicker of acandle?
Robling’smentionof Light initsm
ood fructify­
ing ovules was apparent then, terrifically, though
he spoke fromawisdomnot yet released . . .
She undressed herself finally and got into bed.
Her brainwas instupor andimm
ediatelysheslept.
Latershewonderedthat thisshouldhavehappened.
324 GOLDEN RUBBISH
She ought to have lain awake meditating, laying
her plans, considering the trend of the evening’s
revelations. But Nature had its inning and left
her to the morrow.
Yet not quite the morrow.
Between half-past two and three o’clock it was,
that she came back to consciousness with light in
her room
. It frightened her vaguely at first till
shesawit was moonlight. The m
oonhadcom
eup
late, playing havoc with the stars. The clear Cali­
fornia night, rarified of texture when viewed at
that height, heldacrystallinebeautythat was m
ade
up of tears. Emotion was in it: the flavor of the
jeons. A mocking-bird cawed som
ewhere. The
Eternal hadavoice.
She found herself restless, once she had aroused.
Presentlycam
ewonderings, marchinginphalanxes.
Ten m
inutes, fifteen, half an hour she lay so—
fearsomely thinking of George Robling’s courage.
She thought of that courage as a factor in her
future. How couldsheavoidit?
The night m
adeher sensitive.
Trooping, trooping, the inquiries cam
e—who
shemight have beenin former spans of conscious­
ness—where the Pact was m
ade that augured of
her future—whence the sweet awe in the hint of
His reality.
Shewonderedif her father could be seeing Him
with eyes.
Her father! W
as he alive then, astwo had now
THE AWAKENING 325
assured her?—yes, even three, for Basil though a
lover hadnot condoned her blasphem
ies. She gave
thought to her father in som
e altered status: the
wrongshemight havedone, denyinghimafuneral.
Theologians, fundam
entalists, dogmatic sentim
en­
talists, would have him depicted in som
e faraway
paradise, clothedinwhitesmockwithalyrebeneath
his elbow—or soshe assum
ed. That, or consigned
to lugubrious catacombs where the Three M
ouths
of Cerebus howled him awake.
"Where -were the dead? What was their con­
dition,
?
If shehad lived before, it m
ust have beensom
e­
where. Assuming aPact, wherehadit beenm
ade?
If everysquarem
ile of the globe hadbeencharted,
if philosophers and scientists had explored the sea
of Space, where was this "heaven” as a spot on a
m
ap? What was it shehadheard far back in girl­
hood—that the kingdom of heaven was within
one’sownself? What could that m
ean? A pleas­
urableem
otion? Noentitiescoulddwell inapleas­
urable em
otion. The place must have locality.
Life must knowrealism
.
Then cam
e the Queerness that markedthe night
epochally.
Shehadclosedhereyelidsinlanguor, thinkingof
her father. Suddenly she perceived the moon­
light on her retina, the vestige of the im
press left
fromstaringat thewindow. Theoblongseem
edto
326 GOLDEN RUBBISH
grow, as light is known in dream
s. And in that
soft effulgenceshe perceived her father’s figure!
Not grotesque, not fantastic, not a phantom
,
surrounded by no vagaries, dressedmuch the sam
e
as he always dressed in life, Peter Garland moved
toward her and as he moved, he sm
iled. Sm
iled!
No care was on his countenance. His eyes were
not bloodshot. There were no cruel lines fromhis
eaglebeaknosedowntowardthecornersof amouth
like atrap. He was beautifully sublim
ated in ad­
dress and aspect, appearing to walk as one strolls
for pleasure. Closer and closer he cam
e, and she
watchedhimasinm
esm
erism
.
Shewasnot unconscious. Sheknewshewas not
dream
ing. Yet what she was seeing was beyond
her com
prehension. A sort of Beautiful Thought
of Peter Garland, clothed inthe garm
ents of visual
reality, was there inher roomand functioning be­
fore her: it had walked from soft moonlight on
intoherbrain. Sheknewit washer father because
of his behavior. He made a quaint gesture of
friendly recognition! She might have drawn a
hundred portraits of him in fancy, moving or
otherwise, and never bethought herself to mark
himby that sign.
What could she do but credit her senses? For
he was of her senses, though her eyelids were fas­
tened. Sheconfronted her father asshehad never
known him
, a sm
ile on his countenance, a beauty
THE AWAKENING 327,
to his person. He moved with strange grace: his
clothes had lost their rum
ple. He was not one on
whomDeathhadrushedasacalamity: hisbeingwas
ennobled, he knew his attainm
ents.
Shesawhimsoclearly, her im
pulsewas totouch
him
. And yet som
ething about the whole trans­
vision, som
ething about his aspect and m
ovem
ents,
gave her the notion that he was moving as in a
mirror! Clear, natural, human, he waited before
her but across this mortality was aglass-like trans-
lucence.
She rem
em
bered none the less, when she cam
e
to recall the experience later, that it did not seem
at all unnatural for him to be there so—even as
them
ostgrotesquedreamisclothedintheplausible.
She wondered how long he was going to rem
ain
there and if he would speak to her. Certainly he
hadnointent to rebuke her. Neither washe dole­
ful that hewas inone place, she in another. Both
were in order. Both were Reality.
“ I think you’ll find, Lou,” he said presently,
"that the things that are troubling you have been
m
ade by yourself.”
That was all hesaid. Sheheardhimand yet she
didn’t hear him
. He spoke with a voice, and yet
. . . it was the sort of voice that speaks in whis­
pers of reason, that dictates com
ings andgoings by
hunches and prem
onitions, that seem
s terribly in­
timate—like the beat of one’sheart.
328 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Then he turned and walked away—before he
gotheranswer—beforeitoccurredtohertomarvel
at his address. The "dream” of concretely seeing
him did not end like m
ost dream
s, quickly, kalei-
doscopically. Peter Garland went sauntering off,
leisurely, com
posedly, turning back once and sm
il­
ing inam
usem
ent. A m usem ent at w hat? But the
soft light was deadening. Finally it vanished.
She dreaded to open her eyelids for a m
om
ent.
And when she bethought to ask herself why, she
discovered that her body was drugged with an
ecstacy. It would presently beprofaned when she
gazeduponher cham
ber. Yet whenshehad done,
cam
e another weird revealm
ent.
Herdespicablehatredforherfatherhadvanished
—vanished in those m
om
ents as though magic had
wrought it.
She loved her father dearly! That complex of
hergirlhoodhadgone asby abduction. She felt an
abandon to forces of affection, toleration, under­
standing, com
passion.
Peter Garland was no longer an Alaskan adven­
turer who had wronged her through parenthood.
He was som
eone who had aided her to som
ething,
opened a door as a gentleman’s gesture. She was
deeply in his debt and the knowledge m
ade her
contrite.
Contrite! That was the word to describe her
whole unfoldment. She was knowing the future
THE AWAKENING 329
interm
s of the past. The knowledge appalled her
—andher senseof obligation.
She sat up inbed a
sthough rising to m
eet it.
The cham
ber about her partookof strong peace.
CHAPTER VII
QHE awakenednext morning to atruce with her
^ pragm
atism
s. The sunshine aroused her to a
chamber in a palace: a fairy room swimming in
am
ber and opal. It touched her electrically. She
thrilled to its resonance.
Thenight cam
ebacktoher; theeveningbygone.
Her father’s admonition was still strong upon
her. A sense of his presence still lingered in her
brain. From som
ewhere, som
ehow, he had m
ade
himself apparent. But not as an old-fashioned
phantomof fog. No fearsom
erappingsandgroan-
ings proclaim
ed him
. The m
ost vehem
ent skeptic
could not contradict the beauty and whimsy cast
about his coming and the m
anner of the m
iracle
that had set with the m
oon. She knew she m
ust
have other stronger and m
ore dramatic venturings
before shecould hope to take Robling at his word.
Yet all the sam
e she knew that Hate had told a
falsehood.
She knew that her father was dwelling in Light!
After atim
e she got up and dressed. While she
was bathing, a mirror reflected her; she caught
sight of her body asGalateaAwakened. A roseate
conceptionof surpassing vigor shebeheldit, som
e-
THE AWAKENING 331
thing to be used for a glorious abiding-place . . .
A strange self-assurance played vaguely in the
depths of her, aprim
ordial exquisiteness, the com­
mencement of Awareness. It wanted to lift her
above shoddy business and m
ake her to feel that
Life was anendowment, som
ething given in privi­
lege, theCall toanattainment. Thecleanoutdoors
sang. The Height was analtar.
She alm
ost knew H
appiness.
Was it em
otion, or glimmering alteration? W
as
Love coming radiantly, or M
oham
m
ed to amoun­
tain? Whenm
enhadaproblemconfrontingthem
inphysics they awaiteditsproof inpertinent Fact.
Whenwomenwere baffledby thewonders of Mys­
ticism, what could they do but watch for a Sign?
But how could she watch with such light upon
this sum
m
it? . . . how rem
ain mute with such
m
usic seeking voice?
Shesensedthenewdayasaclearingconsecration.
W
as George Robling right? W
as she part of
the Substance that gave the morning splendor?
Did they breathe in Space together like ripples of
God’slaughter? Verily it seem
ed so. Suns might
com
eandgo; evening’sstarsextinguish. But Light
was life transfigured and what it touched it glori­
fied. She was getting a knowledge of hinterland
Reality—aqueer gift for her, HighPriestessof Re-
vilement. Light andLife wereone andafter them
the Decalog. This m
ust be the Trinity men had
cast out.
332 GOLDEN RUBBISH
She encountered George Robling walking the
garden. Potiphar was with him
. Again he wore
flannels and was smoking his pipe.
"Good morning,” he greeted her. "What abe­
ginning for a day!”
"Perfect as a morning,” Louise responded, "but
considering the day, I’mnot quite socertain.”
"May I ask how you slept?”
"It m
akes m
e nervous to talk with you,” she
bantered. “I’ll worry henceforth lest you’re read­
ing my brain.”
"But that’s only possible in the event that you
cooperate.”
“Well, . . . Imight cooperateandnot be aware
of it. Howareyou, Potiphar?”
"Didn’t sleep good,” the printer com
plained.
"Dreamt like Sam-Scratch—visited with your
dad!”
"How’s M
iss Sybil this morning?” Louise asked
Robling quickly.
"She sleeps late on Sundays. She hasn’t com
e
down yet.”
"It is Sunday, isn’t it?”
"Can’t you tell fr’m th’ sunshine?” the printer
asked tartly.
Robling looked at his wrist-watch. "Let m
e
adviseyou, if youexpect togoover toClover Field
to m
eet Van, not to be too late in starting,” he
said. "As yet, of course, you’vegot plentyof tim
e.
But our Sabbath traffic is very congested.”
THE AWAKENING 333
"Oh yes—where is Clover Field and how do I
get out there?”
"Between Santa M
onica and Culver City, a
goodlydistance. I’dbedelightedtodriveyouover,
but under thecircumstances I’ll haveNikko doit.”
"Under what circumstances?” Instinctively she
knew, but wanted to hear himsay it.
"I’m assum
ing, naturally, that you haven’t a
Californian driver’s license.”
"Oh,” laughedLouise . . . Shewasvaguely dis­
appointed . . . They breakfasted together in the
patio’scoolness. Thrice before departing she tried
to corral Potiphar and seek his counsel about the
vision of the night. He gave her no chance.
Noon cam
e apace and she started for the Field.
Of her ride there with Nikko, Louise recalled
little. Sights and scenes flowed past her: motor
carsandbillboards,beach-boundexcursionists, mar­
kets doing business. How irreverent it was, this
glistening Sabbath tumult!—she wished she might
flee to som
e wilderness and think. Then came the
Field with banners on its airdrom
es. Its vibrant
aircraft snarled. The dust was yellow veiling.
Basil winged down in a great silver dragonfly.
A moving jot first appeared high above eastern
m
ountains, growing constantly plainer, brightly
arm
oredwith sunlight. Closer cam
e thetransport,
till it swirledabovetheirheads. It wasbeauteously
heroic. She watched it descend with her heart in
334 GOLDEN RUBBISH
her throat. So mighty it was. So self-confident.
Its three points touched earth and it taxied in an
arc.
She recognized Basil the moment he stepped
down. He was handedasuitcase. He set it onthe
turf and untied his helm
et.
"Van!” she called as he cam
e along the ropes.
He stopped and scanned the faces.
"Louise!” he cried, am
azed.
Tired he was, disheveled and worried. He was
clad in brown corduroy and needed a shave. For
alm
ost the first tim
e since shehad known him
, his
m
oustaches were ragged—not curled to needle
points.
"I’msupposedtotake you to George Robling’s,”
she told him
. To kiss himwas instinctive, yet she
held herself incheck.
"I suppose Robling’s told you that I know him
rather well?”
"Your wire disclosed it. Tell m
e—what’s
happened?”
"ItemOne: Ackermann’stipped over the apple­
cart. ItemTwo: Irealizedthesignificanceof your
beingout here, andknewI’dbeneededbeforeyour
visit ended.”
"What’sAckermann done?”
"He cam
ebackW
ednesday andwent straight to
W
ashington. His wife m
ade himdo it.”
" W ife ! Bob Ackermann’s? Since when was he
married?”
THE AWAKENING 335
"He m
arried a woman he m
et aboard ship—an
Englishwoman---- on his way across to Europe.
AsIunderstandit, hespenthisbridalnight confess­
inghis m
alfeasance. She was rather conscientious.
Shesaid,if theauthoritieswantedhimfor anything,
he’d have to go back. But she’d return with him
andhelp himfight it through.”
"The . . . fools!”
"Let’sget out of this crowd. Did you com
e in
a car?”
"Yes— a roadster with a chauffeur is parked
along the street. What about this 'Item Two’—
that you might be needed—?”
"I’mexpecting indictments fromRobert’s'con­
fession’ . . . which of course may m
ean arrest.
And inviewof som
ematters inwhich George and
I are interested—”
"You’ve got a lot of explaining to do, young
m
an, why you never let m
e know that the two
of you were friends.”
"Lou dear, I couldn’t. I wasn’t permitted.”
"Who wouldn’t permit you?”
"It concerns som
ething so alien to your ma­
terialistic philosophy that—that—oh thunder!
M
other sends you her regards and likewise her
apologies. She’s arranged our bail money in case
athird party’s required to go our bond.”
"Your mother . . . sends apologies . . . to m e?”
"Something’s gotten through to mother you
mightn’t understand.”
336 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Van, you’re hiding som
ething! You know
mighty well you’re not here merely to look after
m
e in case of my arrest.”
"Well—m
other—had a heart attack—after a
talk with Ackermann’swife. It m
ade her less dras­
tic in som
e of her relationships.” They arrived at
the roadster parked beneath the trees. "Change
into the rumble seat,” Basil told Nikko. "I’ll take
the chance of driving without alicense. Tell m
e,
Louise, isM
r. Buss with you?”
"Yes—how did you know we were here on the
Coast?”
"They saidinChicagothat Georgehadcom
eout
here. And a ’phone call to Vermont proved the
printer was still merry-making. I put the two to­
gether and took to the air.”
"Did you have a good flight?”
"Fair,” Basil answered. He started the roadster.
"Driving a ship is like a great many other things
in life: it doesn’t take nerve so much as it takes
nerves.”
"You didyour share of the piloting?”
" 'Doing my share of the piloting’ seem
s to be
my role. Not,” he added quickly, "that I m
eanto
complain. On the whole it’s aprivilege.”
"So . . . something’schangedyour mother?”
"Won’t you let that wait until after I’ve had
lunch?”
She glanced at him uneasily as the roadster
flashed along.
THE AWAKENING 337
It was difficult to credit that he wasn’t Rob-
ling, hehandledthewheel withsuchdexterousnon­
chalance. But it wasn’t his skill as a driver that
unnerved her. She was thinking of Basil in term
s
of last night . . .
Did shelovethismanbesideher, thisstaidyoung
patrician who turned up magically whenever she
was threatened? She felt a queer choke at what
herepresented—whatherlifemighthavebeenthese
last few years without him
. Vaguely she wanted
himm
orethensheadm
itted. Hehadanappeal for
her that was not exactly physical, and yet som
e­
thing about him passed that analysis. Often she
felt that if he dared to grow boisterous, seize her
by force, bendher, break her—shewould suffer to
be broken. But the bud of their rom
ance hadstill
to com
e to flower. She com
pared himwith Rob-
ling and regretted his arrival. Again fright con­
trolled her, though she did not nam
e it rightly.
Another fragment of the jig-saw, that held en­
ticement in putting into pattern.
He spoke to her suddenly as though he too read
her brain.
"What do you think of Robling?” he asked.
"I don’t know what to think. How well do
you know him?”
"Howwell doesanybodyknowhim
? He’senig­
matic, but he’sm
ore. He’sthesort who’dgodown
intohispocket for hislast half-dollar togive abeg-
338 GOLDEN RUBBISH
gar and then preach the beggar aserm
onon Love.
Classify that!”
"Why a serm
on on Love right after he’d prac­
ticed it?”
"On the chance that the beggar needed food for
hissoul aswell ashisstomach.”
"Then he’s preachy to everyone?”
"On the contrary, no. That’swhy he’sariddle.
I m
et him at a Chicago houseparty about seven
years ago—and throughout the whole tim
e he
scarcelytalkedto anyone. I was the exception.”
"Whowasgivingtheparty,” Louiseaskedsarcas­
tically, "anyoneelseIknow?”
"ProfessorArthur’swife—you’veheardm
espeak
of him
—the philologist—I took ancient languages
under himat Princeton.”
"But why should you attend a week-end at his
hom
e?”
"I kept up the contact after I graduated. He
had a sister I thought pretty fine—that was long
before she m
arried, and we becam
e acquainted.
Anyhow, Roblingwasthere. I’veknownhimever
since.”
"All of whichisstretchingthelong armof coin­
cidencerather far, Van.”
"On the contrary, Lou. There’s none in it at
all. If I hadn’t met Robling at Arthur’s, I might
never have knownyou.”
"What!”
"I first m
ade contact with Arthur as astudent;
THE AWAKENING 339
ancient languages always held a strange fascina­
tionform
e, anyhow. ThenRoblingsoughtArthur
as afactor in his project—”
"What project?”
"George hasn’t told you?”
"All that I know, is that he’s retired from his
business.”
"Yes, he went into business to get him
self the
funds.”
"Funds! Funds for what? The man’sworth a
couple of m
illion dollars, according to som
e hints
he let drop to M
r. Buss.”
"He’d have to tell you—it’s not my preroga­
tive.”
"He’sim
pliedthat Ihave arole inhis'project.’ ”
"Yes. And he’scorrect.”
"How long have you known it?”
"Ever since I’ve known George.”
"That long!”
Basil was silent, debating a decision. Finally he
reached it. "Louise,” he asked whimsically, "has it
never occurred to you how strangely we got ac­
quainted?”
What could he be m
eaning? She braced herself
for shock.
"We m
etbecauseyourepresentedtheBeerstribe,
wasn’t it? . . . trying to sue my father for my
board.”
"And it never struck you asodd that I, afledg­
linglawclerkinNewYorkshouldhavefoundsuch
340 GOLDEN RUBBISH
clients in western Indiana? I guess the time for
confession has com
e. It was all a blind, Louise.
The suit didn’t fall through. There was never any
suit. Iwas—tracingyou—learningaboutyou—on
com
m
issionfromGeorgeRobling!”
Louisehadher shock, andas quickly got over it.
"Indeed, Van! That’s . . . interesting.”
"Yes, it’sm
ostinteresting. BecauseGeorgeRob­
ling had acquired som
e weird information about a
dram
ainthe Klondyke—inwhichyour father had
—had—”
"Killed his father, Basil. Go ahead and say it.
But why, if there were witnesses, shouldn’t they
have m
ade trouble for Dad—blackmailed him or
something?”
"There weren’t any witnesses, that’s just the
point.”
Againher qualmof panic. "No witnesses?” she
echoed. "Then howhad Robling known?”
"I gathered, Louise, . . . he’d communicated
withhisfather som
ehowandgottenall the details.”
Theydroveam
ileinsilence.
"I’mbeginning to credit it,” Louise finally said.
It was Basil’s turn for jolting. "You!” he ex­
claim
ed.
"I have reason to believe I saw my own father
last night, Basil—or a reflection of him som
ehow
—ashehappenstobeat present.”
"You m
ean----you saw—his ghost?”
THE AWAKENING 341
“No, not aghost. Ghosts aretoo clammy. But
som
ehow . . . Igot areflection of my father. He
spoke to m
e plainly. He said I was to blam
e for
exactly what I was—words to that effect. Basil,
doyou understand anything about the Fourth Di­
m
ension?”
"You think you sawyour father in another di­
m
ension?”
“I sawsom
ething, Basil,” and she gave him full
details.
“Ask Georgetoexplainit,” VanDyke saidcryp­
tically.
"Then it boils down to this: there’s no coinci­
dence whatever in your knowing Robling. You
went to ahouse party at the hom
e of one of your
professors and met him
. He retained you to look
m
eup andget details about m
e. Yet youstuck in
my affairs!”
“I had to, Louise. It was part of the Plan.”
“ B u t what plan, Basil? This mystery is mad­
dening.”
“We’reallsnarleduptogether, Lou. Georgetried
to tell m
e from . . certain revelations. I pooh-
poohedit then. I’vesincebecom
econvinced. Now
perhapsyouseewhyIactedtheDumbSim
oninlet­
tingPerrychasearoundthecountry andhunt your
man as though I didn’t know him.”
"I understand nothing of the sort. And you
haven’t yet answeredhowyoustayedinmyaffairs.”
“Well, in getting information about you for
342 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Robling, I learned about your girlhood. That
arousedmyinterest: thatyou’dwonabovesom
uch.
I fell in love with you, Lou—first because I liked
you personally—second because—because—”
"Well, go ahead. What?”
"Louise, I’ve been waiting for som
ething to de­
velop. Remember the talk we both had with
m
other—inyour office, Im
ean, whenM
r. Busswas
present?”
"You think I’ve forgotten it?”
"You rem
em
ber I hinted about a bigger som
e­
thing for you than merely running corporations?
I—I had knowledge—I was convinced—I had rea­
sons—”
"What onearth’sthe matter? You never stum­
bled andstam
m
ered like this before.”
"You asked m
e about mother, and why she’d
changed. You asked m
e why I’d com
e out here,
forsom
egreaterreasonthanattendingtoyour bail.
Louise, as the years have gone on since I’ve known
you, I’ve becom
e more and m
ore convinced that
all of us are snarled up together for a Big Work
som
ewhere. Well, I think the time’sripewhenit’s
going to be disclosed. I’m partly out here to see
about your bond. But m
ore than that, I’ve com
e
out herebecauseof adreamm
other had—or that’s
what her physicians called it—last W
ednesday
night.”
"A dream!” criedLouise. "What sort of dream
?”
"Don’t think m
e cracked, but . . . what you
THE AWAKENING 343
said about seeing your father doesn’t startle m
e at
all. M other saw your father too, though she never
knew him personally!”
If anyone but Basil hadsaidsuch athing, Louise
would have been facetious. Instead, she sat trans­
fixed, staringat thehood.
"You asked m
e if I knew anything about the
Fourth Dim
ension. I believe it’s a type of Inter­
penetration, Louise. What Im
eanisthis: anyhigh
school boy knows that Light is a rate of etheric
vibration. Light of lowvelocity isRed. Stepping
up the wave-length, you go through the spectrum
till you arrive at the ultra-violet rays of very high
velocity. Very good. Now then, Lou, you know,
I think, that it’s quite possible to cast a beamof
redlight throughspaceandyet intheveryheart of
it alsothrow aviolet beam
, we’ll say.”
"Of course,” sheassented.
"Then by that process, what are you doing?
You’re sending one form of Light of very high
velocity through another form of very low velo­
city, without thetwoconflicting intheleast. And
yet consideredinspacethey’re onelight ray, aren’t
they?”
"Certainly,” she nodded.
"And you could go on putting ultra-violet rays
without number inthat sam
e beam
, couldn’t you?
Well, that’s my exposition of a literal heaven!”
"What?” shecried blankly.
"Followit through. Scientistsandchem
istshave
344 GOLDEN RUBBISH
proven that Matter is only Energy. Break down
any substance into atom
s and m
olecules and you
arriveat thegranule—theelectric granule. Which
is what? The socalled electrons revolving in dif­
ferent orbits about different form
s of acore called
protons. These com
binations m
ake M
aterials as
we know them
: the wood in this steering-wheel,
the glass in this windshield, the flesh upon your
hand. Now then, if the form of energy that’s
Light can penetrate and interpenetrate to infinity
—according to my allusion to Red and Violet—
why can’t you have Matter of different velocities
interpenetrating without one velocity upsetting
another?”
"It’s rather deep, Van, but I think I follow
you.”
"Why then, Louise, fromthe Vibratory Theory
of all Substance, can’t you have two worlds—one
interpenetrating the other—indeed, why can’t you
have anynumberofworldsinterpenetratingonean­
othertoinfinity andyet all inthesam
eareaknown
as Space? I’m not saying that’s the Fourth Di­
m
ension. I’monly giving you ahypothesis where­
by phenom
enalike thoseyouandm
other witnessed
might beplausible. Laying facetiousness aside and
considering Matter fromthe physicist’sstandpoint
—why can’t you have awhole m
aterial city, com­
plete in every detail even to billboards and filling
stations, existing in concrete fact within the sam
e
spacetakenup by this city of Los Angeles?”
THE AWAKENING 34S
She gave this idea the consideration it m
erited.
"But if it’sthere, Van, why can’t we seeor col­
lide with it?”
"For the sam
e reason that the violet light rays
don’t collide with the red. Being finer, they go
betw een the red rays—if that’s an exposition. As
forthefinercitynot beingperceivedvisually, that’s
becausewe lackthefinesseof perceptionto accom­
plish it. For several generations Science has laid
down as a Law of Physics that two bodies cannot
occupy the sam
e space at the sam
e tim
e. Well,
Economics laid down another law, that the way to
realize profit was to buy in the cheapest market
and sell in the dearest—only Henry Ford cam
e
along and stood that 'law’ on its head, rolling up
the greatest m
odern fortune by doing exactly the
opposite. Som
e day physicists may discover not
alone that two bodies can occupy the sam
e space
at the sam
e tim
e, but that perhaps, since size and
num
bers are only relative, hundreds of thousands
of interpenetrating bodies can do it: world within
worldof m
oreandm
oredelicatevibrationandper­
ception. Personally, I believe that Death is noth­
ing but the permanent change from an environ­
ment of one velocity to that of afiner—a change
out of the Red-ray formof sluggishvibration to a
higher velocity meaning a m
ore exquisite type of
existence. Up through the spectrum, let’s put it,
till we finally get into the ultra-violet velocities of
the Holy of Holies.”
346 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"You m
ean heaven as an actual place is . . .
som
ehow . . . within us?”
"Didn’t Christ say so? How else could he have
meant it andhadit spell sense?”
"You said you thought Death was nothing but
'a permanent change.’ That im
plies the possibility
of sim
ilar change but temporary, doesn’t it?”
"Of course it does. And it’s constantly occur­
ring, only people dislike to talk about it for fear
of being called cracked. I have reason to believe
therearepersonswho gothrough the deathchange
alm
ost every night that they fall to sleep. One
of the biggest discoveries that physiologists have
yet tom
ake isthat a human body can go on living
withotit a so-called human soul being inside it!”
"That’s rather terrifying, Van. I believe I’m
right insaying that Science accepts the quitting of
the body by the spirit as death.”
"WhenScienceknowsthetruefacts aboutDeath
it will also know the true secret of Life—and be
abletocreateandcontrol it. Ihaven’t tim
enowto
gointothat. I’msimplysayingthat nowandthen
our sluggish physical senses get aglim
pse of affairs
in these finer interpenetrating velocities and we
have what is vulgarly known as Phenom
ena—the
'supernatural’ of the ignorant and superstitious.
You ask m
e, W
here are the dead? I answer you,
Right here with us where they’ve always been, so
to speak, insofar asLocality in Space isconcerned,
THE AWAKENING 347
but dwelling in m
ore delicate atm
ospheres accord­
ing to the fineness of their faculties and the sensi­
tiveness of their organism
s.”
"I still don’t get why we can’t see and contact
themat random!”
"Can you see the spokes of a moving car-wheel
after its speedpasses acertain rate of revolution?”
"N-No, butif youtry towalkthroughthemyou
find out they’re there—som
etim
es tragically.”
"Granted—because the m
aterial of the spokes is
of m
orecompact substance thanyour body is, let’s
say. If your bodywerem
oresolidthewheel would
be dem
olished. But suppose the wheel were of
water or gas? The physics of it is faulty, but the
metaphor can stand.”
"I’mnot good at logicizing abstractly, Van. My
brainistoopractical—I’mat hom
einrealities.”
"All right, take another exam
ple: You’ve got a
goldfish swimming in water in your conservatory.
Inhissluggishwatery elem
ent forwhichhisorgan­
ismis adapted, he sees and lives and functions as a
fish. But take him out and lay him on a chair-
seat. He’sinthe sam
econservatory; not a feature
of the environment hasbeenaltered. But he can’t
seeormoveor'breathe’inthem
orerarifiedelem
ent
knownasair andafter aperiodof torture he'dies.’
That is, his physical organism imm
ediately starts
undergoing a change that no longer m
anifests in
the form we know as a goldfish. I submit that
while in his watery elem
ent, if the goldfish could
348 GOLDEN RUBBISH
logicize, he’d say his brother goldfish was cracked
to suggest there was such a thing as Air or that
thevaporous form
s of humanbeings theyseemov­
ing outside the globe’sglass might be quite asnor­
mal and'natural’ asfish. Don’t youpercievewhat
I’mtrying to register?”
"I seethesenseof it,” sheconceded.
"Or takeanotherillustration,” saidBasil. "Com­
pare life onthisphysical planto the dinin aboiler
factory. Into the factory com
es a violinist who
playsanobbligato. Thefactthattheboiler-factory
noise drowns the sweet, rare strains of the m
usic,
doesn’t m
eanthat the m
usic isn’t there, interpene­
trating the uglier, coarser racket. If there’s a
sudden cessation of the racket, the m
usic becom
es
at once apparent. But better thanthat, you know
and I know that there are boiler-factory workers
who becom
e so accustom
ed to such tumult that
they can discern the m
usic, as though the coarser
crashing didn’t exist. Well, com
pare this latter
class of adepts in physical hearing to the class of
persons the ordinary boilerm
akers of earth disdain­
fully termM
ystics, and you’ve got an alm
ost per­
fect sim
ile.”
"GeorgeRobling was trying to tell m
emuch the
sam
e thing last night, but my drowsiness stopped
him
. Didyou get it fromhim?”
"No. I don’t knowwhere I got it. I’ve always
hadit, Lou. At tim
esI’mpersuadedthat Ibrought
the realization of it into Life with me.”
THE AWAKENING 349
"Why have you never talked to m
e like this be­
fore? You know how the fundamentals of such
m
atters perplexed m
e.”
"By thesam
etoken, Iknewthat whenyour time
was ripe, you’d com
e into knowledge of it in cir­
cum
stance. That’s Life!. Reaching the stage of
spiritual evolution where we’re eagerly susceptible
to transcendant knowledge.”
They drove another half-mile in silence. Then
Louise said whimsically—
"It’s funny that no such sensible, scientific ex­
planationhascom
edowntousintheBible. After
all, it doesn’t m
ake heaven any less beautiful to
knowthat it’sright hereinterpenetratingus,instead
of off on som
e distant planet.”
"My dear girl, while I concede there’s the old
saying that the devil can quote Scripture for his
purpose, all the sam
e the Bible is so loaded with
proofsof suchanhypothesisthat unscientific theo­
logians can’t seethe forest for the trees!”
CHAPTER VIII
^T'HE car climbed the mountain and arrived on
the plateau. Potiphar Buss was waiting at
the gate. He shook hands with Basil.
"Georgie sayst’ tell youhewas calledt’ LosAn­
geles t’ see a feller,” he announced. "A m
achine
com
ean’ got himjus’ after you left.”
Sarah appeared and confirm
ed this information.
"Lawyer Bensing wanted to seehim,” she speci­
fied. "Mr. Bensing’sstartin’ forTexasinthemorn­
ingandwantedtogooversom
epaperswithGeorge.
He saysM
r. VanDyke was tohavethenorthroom
—andhe’dtry to get back for Sabbath night sup­
per.”
"Excellent!” said Basil. "And M
r. Van Dyke
will occupy the north room with great diligence
assoonashe’shadlunch with M
iss Louise Garland
—begging, of course, M
iss Garland’s indulgence.
He hasn’t hadhis eyes closedsinceyesterday dawn.
A nap will be welcome before meeting his host.”
"I’ll fetch atray for botho’ you right off,” the
dwarf saidmaternally, and trundled away.
They talked business while they ate—Potiphar
smokinginanearbyrocker with theold, oldaspect
350
THE AWAKENING 351
of m
assaging his shoulder-blades. Basil reported
on the W reath and T ea-C up business. He des­
cribed his meeting with the newM
rs. Ackermann.
"Eve got to go up and lie down, Lou,” the law­
yer said finally. "Staying awake is a m
ild form
of torture.”
Nikkocam
efortheirtraysandshowedhimtohis
room
.
The breeze through the patio was delightfully
cool: nowandthenit whisperedinthegreatdroop­
ing pepper tree. The sabbath afternoon was ex­
quisitely quiet, exquisitely harm
onious, up on this
Height. All the love inNature im
bued the house,
the grounds, the summit; it was m
ost extraordin­
ary. Louise had felt it one entering the house; she
felt it now doubly, enfolding the garden. The
fountain gurgled pleasantly. The sunny sky was
languid. Sheneglectedtomarvel at what Basilhad
told her. Logic seem
ed dulled. But the peace of
the Height could not be neglected. Potiphar suc­
cumbedandsoonhewassnoring . . .
Louise relaxed too. Once she heard voices out
in the road. She paid no attention. Visitors,
strangers, were outside her m
ood. She attempted
to concentrate on what lay in the future, but her
body was calm
ed and benum
bed by the silence.
The m
inutes ticked away. They becam
e a half-
hour.
For the first tim
e inyears, em
otionwas wedging
its point in her m
ood. And she thought she des-
352 GOLDEN RUBBISH
pised it. It partook of instability, an evidence of
weakness—em
otion, that is, assentim
ent in action.
Shecouldhate, hate royally, but hatred was anat­
tribute inaclasswith em
otion, not oneof its com­
pounds. It was coming to her now that possibly
em
otion could be an accom
plishm
ent, som
ething
for attainment, a phase of spirituality. And that
too appalled her, it bespoke so very m
uch.
Why hadn’t she kissed Basil when she met him
at the airdrom
e? The im
pulsehadbeenstrong: he
had seem
ed to expect it. But no, she had stifled
that urge mechanically. Robling couldn’t have
beenthereason; noloyaltywasinit forherhom
age
to another. Rather shehadconsistently sm
othered
its enticem
ents in order to effect a Spartanesque
pose. Andwhat wasit gettingher? Why shouldn’t
she have long ago alienated Basil—the only true
friend of her loveless maturity? It cam
e to her
likewise that this Spartanesque pose might be
naught but self-indulgence, a furtive bid for pity
which she secretly supplied.
She considered Van Dyke in term
s of George
Robling: howqueerly alikethey were intheir tem­
peram
ents. Not until Basil had alluded to Rob-
ling’s philosophy in som
e of its phases, did she
recognize nakedly her own audacious prom
ptings.
Shewantedtoattainto aplacebesidethesem
enbe­
causeof what theywere, aformof em
olum
ent, sel­
fishnessram
pant. Sheburnedwithlazysham
e. To
love either m
an dem
anded no sacrifice: she could
THE AWAKENING 353
give nothingtothem
. Strangethat she, m
aterialist,
shouldhunger after sacrifice. Yet that hungerwas
beginning.
What might a psychoanalyst conclude respect­
ing her? If shewere acharacter inanovel instead
of aflesh-and-bloodbusinesswomanwhohadm
ade
a nam
e for herself in M
anhattan at thirty-three,
would readers adm
ire, despise, or tolerate her? If
she wrought no loving respect or adm
iration in
those about her, what was her life as an enduring
accomplishment?
Shethought sheheardhernam
e called.
"Yes?” sheresponded, surprised at the sum
m
ons.
She sat forward, listening. Who would address
her by her first nam
e but Basil? W
as Sybil Dun­
canstill upstairs abed, worseperhaps, andhadlittle
Sarah sum
m
oned her in the distress of som
e em
er­
gency? Louisewent inside.
Nikko, it appeared, was helping awomanwhom
Louise had not seen until that mom
ent, washing
dishes in the pantry. He said he had not called.
Louise clim
bed the stairs. Someone had called her.
She met Sarah at the top. Sarah seem
ed puzzled.
" ’Twarn’t Mr. Van Dyke,” she contended. "I
just took insom
etowels andfound himfast asleep.
Maybe ’twas Sybil. She’s been abed all day.”
"Whichisherroom
? Wouldshem
indif Ilooked
in?”
"The one beyond your’n. Go right ahead.”
Louise went down the hall. She tapped on the
354 GOLDEN RUBBISH
door and later turned the knob. Sybil was lying
undressedinthebed, onearmbeneathherhead, the
other along the coverlet. Without wig or cos­
m
etics, her years were apparent.
"You calledm
e, M
issDuncan?” Louise askedher
kindly.
Sybil rolledherhead. "Why shouldI call you?”
"Somebody called m
e: I heard them from the
patio.”
"Maybe you’re hearing things, sam
e as George
Robling.”
Louise felt annoyed. Then she was frightened.
"Do you m
ind if I stay a moment?” she begged.
"No, stay if you like. Nothing really matters.”
Louise drewachair up close to the bed. "How
are you feeling?” was her nervous inquiry.
"I’mbetter,” said Sybil. "That doesn’t matter,
either.”
"Your dinner last night distressed you, did it?”
"No, it wasn’t my dinner!”
"M
issDuncan, tell m
ehonestly, isthere anything
I might be doing here—to help anyone—anything
that needs—?”
"Yes,” criedtheother. "Go backtoNewYork!”
"But I didn’t m
ean—”
"I know what you m
eant. Go back to New
York! Between you and what you stand for, his
career is being wrecked. If you weren’t quite
soinsolent you’deasilyperceive it.”
"Don’t let’squarrel, M
issDuncan. If goingback
THE AWAKENING 355
to New York really solved anything, I’d start this
afternoon.”
"Well, one thing that would fix, would be his
proposal to go som
ewhere and dig dirt!”
"Do what?”
"Dig dirt. Excavate. On the other side of the
earth. He thinks that’s his m
ission and I have to
stand for it!”
"What onearth are you telling m
e? You m
ean
thisliquidating of his interests hassom
ething to do
with . . . archeology?”
"If that’swhat you call it. He hasn’t told you
yet?”
"No, hehasn’t toldm
e. And themystery’sm
ad­
dening, since he says I’mapart of it.”
"Well, I’ll tell youwhat you’repart of, andper­
haps you’ll watch your step. Tie thinks that you,
with your grasp on big business, are going to take
charge of his crazy expedition. It needs a strong
capableexecutive andfinancier—”
"I’ll head an expedition! . . . to go som
ewhere
andexcavate?”
Sybil inher m
ood, unleashedher repressions.
"He talks as though he knew his life was clos­
ing soon—that’swhat m
akes m
e so frantic. With
themakingof hisfortunetofinancetheproject, his
part is com
pleted. Two other people---- one of
them a woman who’s had practical experience in
organizing, feeding people, directing their labors
—are supposed to carry on—”
356 GOLDEN RUBBISH
" T w o other people!”
"One of them’s a lawyer. Who he is, I don’t
care. He’s supposed to really head the project,
while the womandoes the work—”
"That’sveryinteresting! . . . assum
ingthat she
does.”
"These things aren’t important. The only thing
that’s important is George’s business, his career,
climbing up and up, making a truly great man of
himself, andthen . . . marrying m e!” The secre­
tary’svoice broke. "He . . . owes it to me,” she
addedm
iserably. "Haven’t I given up everything
for him
? Haven’t I stayed an . . . old m
aid?
Whowantsm
enow?”
"Taking that viewpoint,” Louise said stiffly,
"whyshouldRoblingwant you, either?” Shehadn’t
meant to say it but Sybil offended her. Sybil of­
fended her in the eye, the com
m
onsense, the exec­
utive faculties, and last but not least, the heart.
Sybil cam
ewideawake. Shesatupinbed.
lrY o n won’t get him!” she screeched. Her eyes
were greenpoison. "I’mdivinely appointedtorun
George Robling’slife. I’m
—I’m
—”
"My dear M
iss Duncan, will you kindly control
yourself?”
"No, I won’t control myself. I’ll have him
, I
say. I’ll have him if I have to kill myself to get
him
---- killhimandm
etoo! Iwon’t let himgoon
this crazy expedition. What do I care whether or
not people ever find out about Jesus Christ?
THE AWAKENING 357
Who’s Jesus Christ to m
e? Let Him stay buried
andall Hisproofswithhim
. GeorgeRobling’smy
own, andI’llnot becheated!”
Sybil was irrational and her blasphem
ies proved
it. She kicked her heels; she clawed at the bed­
clothes.
"My dear—” beganLouise.
"Don’t you'dear’me!” Sybil criedmadly. "You
get back to New York and run your old . . .
hash-joints. That’swhereyoubelong, not herewith
am
anwhoowesm
e hislife.”
"He owesyouhislife?”
"He owesm
eeverythinghe’sgot. Who’swatched
him
, andtendedhim
, andhelpedhim
, andencour­
aged him
? Who kept the light of her chastity
burning whilst hewas at war—”
"M
iss Duncan—please!—don’t be ridiculous.”
"You dare tell m
e not to be ridiculous? Who
are you, anyhow? What have you ever done for
any m
an? Who have you ever thought of but
yourself? What are you now but a brazen-faced
thief? If you diedtomorrow, who’dcom
e to your
funeral andreallyweeptears? Getout of myroom
,
you red-headed poacher. Go back to your sand­
wiches and let decent girls alone!”
And Sybil hurled apillow that struck avase of
flowers. It toppledwithacrashandwatersplashed
the rug.
"Nowsee w hat you've done!” Sybil criedinfury.
"I swear, youhearme!—if youeverstepfoot inmy
358 GOLDEN RUBBISH
room again, I’ll get my revolver and shoot you
throughtheheart!”
Louisewithdrewreluctantly, for theorder of the
household.
"Imagine any m
an marrying a woman with
adispositionlikethat,” sherem
arked to Sarahnear
thepatiodoor.
"She’s got a devil, Sybil has, an’ prides herself
on it,” the housekeeper responded.
"M
issTwitch, what doyouknowaboutM
r. Rob-
lingorganizingsom
esortof expeditiontoaforeign
country?”
Sarahbeggedtheissue. "If she’donlystopgivin’
him trouble he mightn’t be plannin’ t’ go off to
Europe. All shecanthinkof ismarryin’,marryin’.
Lookam
e. I ain’t ever m
arried and I’ve got along
fine. And why should he do it—marry her, I
m
ean? I tell you, if I was to be arst, I’dpack her
out tomorrer andchuck her clothes after her.”
"It’s in Europe then, is it, that M
r. Robling’s
excavating?”
"You’dbetter askhim
. Shejust m
akes herself a
nuisance firin’ things ’round I have to pick up.
She tried to jump off the balcony one night. If
Nikko hadn’t caught her, she’d broken her neck.”
The afternoon waned. And Basil still slept.
Louise walked the garden. She strolled about the
Height. Again and again she sought to get order
inher strumming, throbbing head. She rarely had
THE AWAKENING 359
aheadacheandwhenshedid, it m
addenedher. She
walkedoffonascarpandsatdownabovetheworld.
Viewed fromthe perspective, what alot of ants
m
en were. How preposterous to think that any
divine arbiter of the universe, no matter in what
aspect of heaven, could possibly be interested in
the insect life that was the Sabbath traffic spread
out beneath her. What aconceited lot were these
human beings! That brought thoughts of The
Valiant One, who had taken upon Himself the
physical form of one of the "ants” and wrought
such havoc in their ethics nineteen hundred years
bygone. Which unerringly brought thoughts of
what Sybil had disclosed: "What do I care for
Jesus Christ? Let Him stay buried and all His
proofswithHim!” Thewomanwhocriedthemof
course could be pardoned. That wasn’t the point.
Something impended not knowable by words.
Shegotbacktothehouseasthelam
pswerelight­
ing. Potiphar Buss had gone to his room
; Basil
had not yet awakened; Robling was still down
inLosAngeles. Withthewonder of all thesepyra­
miding revelations still strong within her, Louise
went abovestairs and into her cham
ber. She sat
down at her dressing-table to arrange her m
ussed
hair for the evening that was com
ing.
Looking at the reflection returned by her mir­
ror brought thoughts of Robling’s talk concern­
ing her aureole. Did she really have one or had
he talked nonsense?
360 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Gradually, gradually, she saw herself strangely.
She perceived the wall opposite making her
background. Grayish white it was, an unbroken
panel. Staring transfixed, with her head outlined
against it, shenoted aphenom
enon. Her headw
as
defined in a way that perturbed her. Her strong
copper tresses stood out against pastel, and encir­
cling about them was a faint fringe of opal.
What was it? Not exactly new. She had wit­
nessed it before. But always she had taken it for
a fantasy of vision, the contrast of colors colliding
on her retina. Now she discerned it as another
possibility. Could thisbethe Light of whichRob-
ling had spoken? W
as this the corona which he
could seenakedly?
She looked and it was gone. She looked and
sawit clearly. Faint, faint it was at tim
es. Then
it showed so sharply that her hair seem
ed afire—
aflam
ewith warmpearl.
Her awakening was a fact dem
anding much
proof. If no other objects evinced that hilation,
then her sight might be trusted. So sheheld up a
sm
all emptyvasenear hershoulder. Andher heart
sankwithinher. It never occurredtoher that dif­
ferent degrees of the corona’s luminosity might
represent standards. She only knew that she saw
the phenom
enon about the vessel.
So, after all, her vision had tricked her. She sat
the vase back and dropped her head forward.
And as she sat so, m
ore understanding reached
THE AWAKENING 361
her. She didnot knowwhence it cam
e. No con­
cretevoice spoketoher. But upthroughthedepths
of her being, not unlike the speaking of Intuition
that is every woman’s heritage because fem
inine
organism
s are m
ore finely attuned to the Absolute
thanm
asculine, anexplanationcam
e asafull-born
Im
pression:
Yes, vaseswere alive—all Substance was alive!—
else what was that aura? Out of the Eternal
cam
e Light making substance, refracting onether,
meeting it creating. In such creating cam
e ele­
m
ental radiance. It warmed midget granules and
spunthemintoEnergy. Energy deployed andcom­
pleted the m
iracle. Refraction was substance,
though not confined to shapings. Yet all was ap­
parent to eyes of the Spirit.
She listened to m
ore.
What shehadseenwas ether rebounding, fusing
and glowing—substance transfigured. What she
was hearing was the clear voice of Truth, explain­
ing a phase of raw ether functioning, explaining
it by Thought which transcended syllables. And
she felt a weird prickling surcharging her body.
She sensed in those m
om
ents that once again her
father moved near her; never had she known him
so, tofeel him
. Shekept her headbowed, enjoying
the sensation.
Som
ething indeed, was reaching inside her. A
hand seem
ed to m
ove and caress her torn spirit.
Not aphysical hand. Noghostlyvisitation. Som
e-
362 GOLDEN RUBBISH
thing infinitely gentle, as im
palpable as warmth.
She knew that she felt it, and was contrite in the
contact.
M
en hadknown m
iracles before, she was aware.
Yet m
iracles of substance: signs on the horizons.
Here was am
iracle that evinced itself inether, the
movings of a fotce that had naught to do with
language.
Sheraisedher headfinally, surprised at its light­
ness. Yet she suffered fromno vertigo. She gave
thought, conscious thought, to her ethereal pre­
sentim
ents.
All things were alive in the vast heart of Light
—created through it, m
ade of its substance—the
vase, the mirror, the wall behind her, the house on
the mountain, that mountain itself! Titanic, stu­
pendous, reared the Energy Colossus. The conti­
nent, the planet, throbbed in its m
agnitude. A
thousand trillion suns had the strength of a m
us­
tard seed.
And she m
ust be part of it, the incarnate apex.
M
ore significant happenings m
ust com
e about to
prove it. But her visionhadnot tricked her. The
cosm
os held no m
ockeries.
After a time she looked at her watch.
She frowned in stupefaction. She had com
e
into her cham
ber amom
ent before with the hands
of thewatch showing aquarter to six. The watch
still ticked faithfullybut itshandshadbeenm
oved.
THE AWAKENING 363
They offeredthetim
e astwenty m
inutes after nine
o’clock. Three hours and thirty-five m
inutes was
m
issing fromthat dial!
She sprang to her feet and went into the hall.
Across from Sybil’s door an upper room was
lighted. Light cam
eout obliquely andglistenedon
waxed flooring. Voices she heard: George Rob-
ling’s, Potiphar’s. Then she heard Basil’s, in soft
ejaculation. She tapped on the panel.
"Comein,” Roblingcalled, thoughalm
ostatonce
he opened the door.
"I—I m
ust have fallen asleep—or som
ething.
What tim
e is it, please?”
"Twenty-one m
inutes past nine,” Robling an­
swered. "Sarah said she went up to call you to
supper but found you bowed over your dressing
table, dozing. I toldhernot to disturbyou.”
"I had—the queerest—experience. It seem
ed
asthoughsom
eone—lecturedm
e—about thishouse
—thismountain— beingalive! IsupposeI’mover­
wrought. Do you m
ind if I stay, or is this session
private?”
"Basil and I have completed our business. You
maywant tolearnof it. Of courseyoumaystay.”
She glanced across at Basil andwas taken aback.
She turned her gaze on Potiphar and felt a qualm
of terror. Basil’s face was ghastly; his eyes held
aglitter. Again the old printer was asm
all, hair-
364 GOLDEN RUBBISH
less waxworks. The picture they m
ade had an
Eden M
usee gruesom
eness—a weird unreality in
which only George was natural.
"Has som
ething happened?” she faltered, ad­
vancing.
Basil arousedhim
self, pushingbackhischair. He
got to his feet in m
echanical politeness. Potiphar
got up and brushed past her clum
sily.
The roomin which she found themhad the as­
pect of an office. It was spacious and pleasant,
lookingnorthwardtowardthecity. A greatcarved
deskwasitsprinciple adornm
ent.
She saw other things later: stenographic equip­
ment, dictaphones, an electrical typewriter. The
chairs were of leather. The place held curios and
ob)ets d’art such as a m
an of affluence might
gather about him in a cloistered retreat. Behind
the chair in which Basil had been sitting was an
alcove with acouch. The air was blue with pipe-
sm
oke.
"Louise,” said Van Dyke in a throaty whisper,
"suppose you and I go outside and wander around
abit. I m
ust talk with you privately.”
She knew fromlong association that when Basil
spoke so, the need was urgent—expensively ur­
gent. Sheturned andlooked at Robling.
She sawhe was sm
iling . . .
A week, amonth, ayear thereafter, she rem
em
­
beredthat sm
ileonGeorgeRobling’sface. All the
beautyandwisdomof hischaracter was init. But
THE AWAKENING 365
she saw som
ething m
ore. She saw a wistfulness,
apoignancy, thesort of sm
ilethat prevails between
friends at railroad stations, on steam
ship docks, in
the vestibules of hospitals. It gave her adesperate
feeling, as though she m
ust do som
ething for him
without knowing just what.
"You’ll excuse us, George?” asked Basil.
"Better take the docum
ents with you, Van,”
theothersaid, nodding. And hehandedBasil som
e
blue-backed contracts heavy with seals.
"We’ll . . . see you later?” Louise suggested.
"I have som
e writing to do,” George answered.
"But . . . oh yes, . . . you’ll see m
e later!”
ShefollowedBasil intothehall.
CHAPTER IX
“ A REyouhungry?” heasked.
^ "Never m
ind my hunger. W
here m
ust
we go?”
"How about the garden? We can talk undis­
turbed. I’ll get you a wrap.”
"Let m
e get it. I can do it quicker. But is it
quite all right to leave M
r. Robling?”
"Why doyou askthat?”
"Because the three of you frighten m
e. Ever
since I got here, my visit has been a series of pro­
voking disquiets.”
"Robling’s all right for the present, I hope!
Hurrywithyourwrap. I’ll explaininthegarden.”
"I knowyou’renotyourself, Van. You’rekeep­
ing som
ething fromm
e. You’ve doneit ever since
you got here—you’ve been doing it for weeks,
m
onths, years—”
"I knowwhat’safoot. I’ve got the whole story.
Let’s get out of the house where I can tell you
everything.”
She went into her room
. Then they started
downstairs.
"Louise,” beganBasil, whentheysat inthe dark­
ness on the bench beyond the fountain, "did som
e
366
THE AWAKENING 367
woman on these prem
ises that I haven’t met yet,
m
ake vague references today to you about an ex­
cavating project in which Robling—?”
"Yes, Sybil Duncan. She’s supposed to be his
secretary. I thought I heard a voice, as though
som
eone were calling m
e. I went up to her room
andfoundher abed—”
"You heard a voice! Calling y o u !”
"Yes, and I responded, to quarrel with Sybil.
Before I got out, she’d sm
ashed a vase and
threatened m
e. She said if I ever set foot in her
room again, she’d get her revolver and shoot m
e
through the heart.”
"So! . . . she’s got a revolver? Tell m
e what
happened. Be careful of details.”
Louiserehearsedtheepisode. Van Dyke sm
oked
cigarettes. He consum
ed half a dozen, lighting
one from the other. Louise finished her recount
by asking—
"Has he given you the details of his excavating
project, Van? Inwhat country isit?”
"Palestine, Louise. Near the city of Caper­
naum
. Louise, tell m
e—have you ever chanced to
encounter any article in newspapers or m
agazines
concerning the tons of undeciphered papyri that
arereposingat present inthe BritishM
useum?”
"Papyri? What’sthat? . . . som
esortof paper,
isn’t it?”
"Yes,” Basil answered, "the kind used by the
ancients, invented in Egypt, on which official
368 GOLDEN RUBBISH
records were transcribed after clay tablets were no
longer the vogue. Robling tells m
e tonight there
areseveral tonsof theminexistence, recoveredfrom
tom
bs and other excavations in Asia M
inor. And
this is their significance: they contain expositions
andinterpretations of earlyChristiandoctrine that
may stand the world on its head when they’re fin­
ally deciphered.”
"Stand the world on itshead? How could they
do that?”
"Because irrefutable facts might com
e to light,
Louise, that would change the whole Christian
faith—at least so alter the interpretations of it
which modern church people hold, that in a week
or a month all the dogm
a in the sects and creeds
might suddenly be cast in one grand bonfire and
Christianityhavesuchapurgingthatsocietywould
be shaken to its very foundations.”
"You’re very trying, Basil. Instead of solving
the riddle of this manwe’revisiting, you’re m
erely
adding to it.”
"I’m trying to m
ake it clear, my dear. But
. . . so much must be told . . . where can I
start?”
"Don’t you think you might start with Rob­
ling? Why ishe interested in 'standing society on
its head’ by any deciphering of early Christian
m
anuscripts? And why should it be concern of
ours? We’re business people, not archaeologists or
Biblical scholars.”
THE AWAKENING 369
“Louise, . . . we’ve got a m
ission . . . to as­
sistinthisNewRevelation, thispurgingof creeds.”
“Have you gone insane?”
"Indeed, Ihavenot. A longtim
eagoIwondered
why I 'went in’ for ancient languages at college.
Now I see it plainly. I’m elected to m
ake what
Robling’sbegun as my big life-work—”
"You are insane!”
“Louise, please hear m
e. For years you’ve won­
dered at your facility in organization. For years
you’ve wondered at the fate which gave you your
girlhood, trained you so peculiarly, brought you
up unmarried to the present month and year.
Won’t you concede that perhaps som
e vast ideal
hasbeenshapingyour career, casting you for som
e
mammoth international labor that may leave its
mark on a hundred generations? Wouldn’t you
feel elated to know that for a fact?”
"I’msureI don’t know. Plentyhashappened to
m
ethispastmonthtom
akem
erealizethat perhaps
there’s m
ore behind Life than I’ve dream
ed. But
this business of going off som
ewhere and digging
into the records of the past in order to clarify
church dogm
a . . . it’s a trifle bizarre, Basil. It
lacks commonsense.”
"But supposing, Louise, that GeorgeRoblinghad
privately put scholars to work at his own expense
on the papyri I m
entioned, and discovered scien­
tific, historical indications of the M
aster’sexistence
and secrets of His power that would rebuild the
370 GOLDEN RUBBISH
whole world’sfaithon anewbasis—could you and
I give ourselves to any greater life-labor than aug­
menting his discoveries?”
"You thinkthat Roblingaim
stodosom
ethingof
the sort? To m
e it introduces an elem
ent of dis­
turbance into society that, granted it might be
brought about, would appall m
e.”
"On the contrary—suppose it ended the distur­
bances in society and introduced an era of har­
mony and peace. Not in one country. Not in
ten countries. In the whole mundane universe!”
"The troublewith m
e is, Van, that being abusi­
ness woman, I find it difficult to wax enthusiastic
over such prosey Biblical topics. As a matter of
fact, there isn’t one person in fifty who gives a
rap whether aliteral Christ lived or not—the m
an
inthe street, I m
ean—how He didHis m
iracles or
how He died, what Scripture says or doesn’t—”
"You think so? You’re not aware that church
enrollm
ent this past year exceeds insheer num
bers
any year since Paul started writing his epistles
throughout M
esapotam
ia? You’re not aware that
thesalesof theBiblesurpassedanyothersinglebook
on any subject published, by nearly a m
illion
copies? You don’t recognize that never since
learningwas current am
ongtherank andfile, have
questions of creed and dogm
a been so fiercely as­
sailed and debated?”
"Speaking asabusiness woman of m
odern M
an-
THE AWAKENING 371
hattan, no!—I see no particular signs of it, the
Renaissance that so thrills you.”
"You saythat, andyet you’vedoneyour ownas­
sailingsofiercely that when your own father cam
e
to die, you sawno merit in giving hima funeral.”
"Let’snot discuss that now.”
"But it’spertinent to things that havehappened
—and others about to happen—that increasingly
upset you. Look at it this way: Suppose irrefu­
table proof was forthcoming that the early theolo­
gianshadinterpreted all wrong that dogmatic pre­
m
ise that the M
aster had appointed Peter and his
apostolic successors to be the head of His church
on earth: what do you think would happento the
Roman question? Suppose proofs were forth­
coming that the M
aster’s m
iracles were done by a
m
ental comm
andoverLight, andthat FleshasSub­
stance was som
ething wholly different from what
eventhephysicistshold:what wouldhappentothe
followersof ChristianScience? Supposethat proofs
were forthcoming that the M
aster and the Twelve
were right hereonearthgoing inandout of living
bodies, or materializing as circumstance required
so that they took the forms of great m
odern
thinkers and intellectual leaders: what would hap­
pen, do you think, to the Theosophists and Spirit­
ualists? I tell you, Louise, it’sbecauseof thetheolo­
gical m
uddles that exist today that society happens
tobe com
posedasit is. The validity andaccuracy
372 GOLDEN RUBBISH
of early Christian doctrine strikes at the very
heart of your ordinary, twentieth century work­
day, backinNewYork. It’sresponsible for Ameri­
ca’sforeign policy, the size of the incom
e tax you
pay, whether you can open your shops and keep
them open without being looted. Every under­
takers’ establishm
ent on every street corner is a
mutetestimonytotheGreat Mysteryout of which
com
es the essence of every faith.”
Louise was silent a m
om
ent, considering.
"To say,” went on Basil, "that people aren’t in­
terested in religion is to insult your own intelli­
gence. You can loot a country and take every
man’swife away from himand in tim
e he’ll for­
give you. You can sack a city and beggar every
inhabitant and the wound will be forgotten with­
inasingle generation. But you can’t take aman’s
creed away from him without risking your life
and the lives of your children to the seventh gen­
eration.”
"All right. Granted for themoment. Let’sget
back to Robling.”
“Good! Let’s get back to him
. What do you
think of him
—I m
ean as aman?”
"Frankly, Van, I’m baffled. He upsets every
lawof humannature andcommonsense. Potiphar
Buss knew him as a ragged printerboy with one
eye half blinded. Seventeen years later he com
es
on that nondescript again and confronts a meta­
m
orphosis—a rich, successful, erudite personage
THE AWAKENING 373
withafundof knowledgethat seem
ssupra-hum
an.
Remember that I too met George Robling as a
loafer in Shawsville. He was no m
ore like this
host of ours than night is like day.”
"And you haven’t the slightest explanation of
what happened?”
"He explainedit to Potiphar that he’dhad som
e
weird experience on a French battlefield: he tried
to convince the old fellow that either Christ or
anangel aidedhimindragging four wounded m
en
into a shell-hole. And when he cam
e back from
that, heseem
edadifferent person. Sybil evenwent
so far as to say that there were tim
es when his
friends thought he wasn’t the fellow who went
overseas.”
"Well, Louise, supposing he wasn’t ?”
"I don’t understand you,” the girl said faintly.
"Oh yes you do, my dear. You don’t want to
adm
it it. Louise, I’mtelling you we’re confront­
ingtheUnknowable. We’refacing aproblemthat
has been the basis for m
ore religious hocus-pocus
down the years than any other phenom
enon in
nature. Forces are at work beyond the grasp of
all of us. We’re up against the Cosm
os, though
the word isoverworked.”
She debated this in silence. "What forces?” she
whispered.
"The Colossal Galvanismbehind all mortal life,
Lou dear—infinite of detail, gigantic of concep-
374 GOLDEN RUBBISH
tion, the forces that hold us as individuals in our
truerelationtotherest of theuniverse. They have
thepower tobalkorenhanceevery act of life from
the creationof adynasty to the fall of asparrow.”
He spoke with strange poise.
"God, you m
ean, Basil?”
"The termmay be used. I think it inadequate.
God isn’t knowable. But the forces are. And
they have us in hand! Louise, where could man­
kindhavegottentheobsessionthat allm
iraclescam
e
to anend with the opening of the early Christian
dispensation? People back in Palestine nineteen
centuries ago weren’t one whit different as m
en
and women from those we find today. Life was
the sam
e—the sam
e custom
s and language—all
that was lacking was present-day science. Why is
it thatm
illionsof sincerechurchpeoplewill readily
credit that Christ fed the Five Thousand, that an
angel rolled the stone away from the entrance to
His tom
b—all the other Biblical wonders—and
yet riseup fiercely if one dares to claimthat equal
phenom
ena could take place right now?”
"I’msureI don’t know.”
"Well, Louise, all I cansayisthis: Taking Christ
from men’s hearts is a popular clackery. To
cem
ent Him there forever isworthy of our lives!”
"Basil, you unnerve m
e! How can we cem
ent
Christ inmen’shearts forever? I’ve always under­
stoodHe didn’t need cementing. Christ was there
already.”
THE AWAKENING 375
"If Christ were truly there, would we have had
the great world war? The Christ of Capernaum
—afleshlyChrist—wasonly apreface tothevaster
thing coming. The Spiritual Christ—a vibrant,
living entity—may now be revealed as m
en have
never knownHim. I’mnot talking religion. I’m
talking actualities. New Gospels—may bewritten
—in the next fifty years!”
"We’re going to have the Judgment Day?
That’s Adventism, isn’t it?”
"It’s no Second Coming as our church friends
conceive it. I’m telling you, Louise—we should
consider it a privilege that we can be involved—
that we canbeinstrum
ents—that we canproclaim
Him as a historical person—”
"A historical person! Isn’t He that?”
"I m
ean, in secular history. You know, don’t
you, Lou, that there’s no record in contempor­
aneousRomanreportsthat theM
asterwasreal, like
Herod or Pilate?”
"No, I didn’t know it.”
"Well, for nineteen hundred years we’ve had
that mystery with us. We’ve seen the effects of
Christ’slife all about us, and yet—tracing back—
He turns to a myth. That couldn’t just happen.
There were reasons in fact.”
"What reasons?” she asked. ''W asn’t He real?”
"Of course He was real! No mythical char­
acter couldleavesuchanim
pressonhuman affairs.
But—the Faith of mankind m
ust endure of itself.
376 GOLDEN RUBBISH
It m
ust have asitsbasisaBeautiful Ideal; to found
it on a person would m
ake it political. Therein
has been its power, and why it’s been different.
Sothoserecordswere suppressed, that m
enintheir
Faith should go forward of them
selves.”
"But who suppressed them?” she wondered like
achild.
"Agencies, Louise, that dogm
a doesn’t credit—
so that after nineteen centuries, when that Faith
needed buttressing, when a great new cycle was
about to open in human affairs, the thunderbolt
of revelation should rive civilization, concretely
affirm
ing not only the M
aster’sliteral identity but
going still further and establishing His reign. For
it’s coming, Louise, and the end is . . . not yet.”
" Y o u telling m
e this! Are you starting som
e
new creed?”
“Starting one? No. I’mscooping in all creeds.
Louise, you hear m
e, . . . we’re going to see the
Manof Galilee againin away that mankind hasn’t
dared to suspect! Not in literal earthquakes or
rivers of fire. Not in tumults of altruism
s quick­
ening society. Far greater than these and yet
divine in munificence. I’ve reason to believe He’s
coming in a way that no sect has conceived since
Paul sawhisvisionon the road to Dam
ascus. Not
born into any living body as Theosophists suspect.
Not descending fromthe heavens in panic-making
phenom
ena. B u t confronting society in a miracle
o f L ig h t!”
THE AWAKENING 377
"A m
iracle . . . of . . . Light!”
"Don’t ask m
e to explain it. You’ll be told
of yourself.”
It was silent in the garden. The stars were like
watchwords hung in the sky. The very house be­
fore them seem
ed listening and concurring. The
girl turnedstrangely cold.
"Robling hastoldyou this? And we . . . have
som
ethingtodoaboutit . . . byexcavatingsom
e­
where?”
"Robling, Loudear, has am
assedagreat fortune.
The extent of it has startled m
e. Not until to­
night didIgraspwhathe’sdone—doneintenyears.
For this is the queer part, Lou: This evening is
exactly ten years ago to the night and the hour,
that George performed those rescues in ashell-hole
in France.”
She considered this. "You think it holds signi­
ficance?”
"I think that nomanof ordinary clay, ordinary
acumen, ordinary opportunities, could even do
what he’sdone in ten years. He’sam
assed a great
fortune. And for what purpose, Lou? To prepare
humankind for agreat phenom
enonthat’sahead—
that’ll change the face of the nations andcomplete
a cycle begun of an evening nineteen centuries
ago when a queer light played above a stable in
Bethlehem
, a light that the ignorant of that gen­
eration took to be a star.”
378 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Still . . . I don’t see . . ”
“To am
assthat fortune, Lou, andcreate aFoun­
dation for a purpose, was his job on earth. But
like M
oses, it’s not his prerogative—for som
e rea­
sons we don’t know, and may never know—to
enter intotheProm
isedLandof applying that for­
tune for the purposes toward which he built it.
He’s—well, his work is finished. We pick it up
from there. I’ve accepted a com
m
ission tonight,
Lou. I’mconvincedinmysoul it’stheGreat Com­
m
issionI cam
e into life to execute. And that goes
for you aswell.”
"Basil—you’re implying—that George Robling
isn’t like ordinary m
ortals—that he’s—he’s—”
"Hear m
e, Louise. And believe I’mnot crazy.
GeorgeRoblingisoneof theElect, createdandsent
to earth for a purpose. That purpose is intricate,
but . . . it’s to show m
en their destiny. He’s
one of acompany of volunteering souls who com
e
into life to m
ake the race better but denied their
own awareness till they’re ripened in their roles.
Ripened, that is,incontrol of theircharacters. Not
even an angel could function in flesh until he w
as
facile in physical experience. In the first place,
he’d scare folks—”
"You m
ean George Robling is not like the rest
of us? . . . He’s som
e sort of Christ? . . . don’t
tell m
e that!”
"He’s no m
ore the Christ than any soul any-
THE AWAKENING 379
where who gives up his selfishness to do good unto
others. But in the essence of his creation, . . .
he’s different from m
ortals—”
"Different from m
ortals! You m
ean . . . he’s
what the poetscall anAngel Unawares?”
"Well, and why not? How do we know there
aren’t hundreds—thousands—of angels function­
ingunawares inhum
anbodiesright hereinAmeri­
ca—right hereonearth—this very night andhour?
Because they manifest in ordinary human bodies,
talk like hum
an beings, live in ordinary houses,
wear ordinary clothes—does that m
ean the spirit
within them mayn’t be of Higher Order? You
know I’m not superstitious. And yet in som
e
m
atters I’m the m
ost fundamental of the Funda­
m
entalists.”
"Of coursewecan’t proveit mayn’t beso. Still,
I can’t understand—”
"Louise, IknowthingsI can’t tell youoranyone.
Ever since boyhood, I’ve known things I couldn’t
speak. But you, the woman I love, are the person
for my confidences, insofar as I can give them
.
Hear m
e when I say—and don’t think I’m irra­
tional—that in our subsconscious m
inds, you and
I know who George Robling is! I’ll go one step
further. I’ll sayI believe that we too arem
em
bers
of that Goodly Company who have found himin
earth-life, though he’s the m
ore awakened!”
"Basil, are you crazy? It’s one thing to have a
380 GOLDEN RUBBISH
strangerlike Robling spinsuchtheories—Sybil said
he was eccentric. But it’s quite another thing to
hear you talking so.”
“I’ve got areasonfor sothinking. Life, Louise,
is a projection by groups. We com
e into it to­
gether, friends of long standing, for we couldn’t
have a world that was m
ade up of strangers—it
wouldn’t function socially—we’d be like the rep­
tiles, strict individualists. And so-called social
groups com
e not alone from people who vi­
brate, let’ssay, atthesam
evelocity, but fromlong-
built-up acquaintanceships. It takes many cycles
to cement souls as friends, for friendships are pre­
m
ised on mutual experiences—with Love as their
lubricant as well as their adhesive. When M
an
reaches the place where the group takes inthe uni­
verse, we’ll cease to inhabit Earth and go into
God.”
"George spokeof apact—”
"Yes, and I think this is the essence of it—that
we’retocarryonthetorchthat Roblinghaslighted
andthrownus—that he’sstartedsom
ethinggreater
thansociety dream
s andwe’re his supporters, com
e
into life to finish—”
"You talk, Basil, as though som
ething was going
to happento George Robling!”
"I think thework issobigthat it can’t bepredi­
cated onthe life of any one individual. So there’s
a group of us, here to insure the ultimate attain­
ment. M
encom
eintolife tolearnspiritual aware-
THE AWAKENING 381
nessbut social solidarity. Som
eof us am
ong them
try to teachthemto attainboth. When our paths
cross unexplainably, we cry: 'It’s a sm
all world,
after all!’ What we really m
ean is: the Lodestone
within us bringing us together, though it reaches
and pulls fromthe ends of the earth.”
"So that’s what George m
eant by his reference
to lodestone!”
"You can’t make head and tail to life, Lou, un­
less you accept it as a series of existences. That’s
not Theosophy, though Theosophy believes it.
It’s not Transmigration, either, so offensive—and
rightly—to so many real thinkers. Only as we
see Life in its full panoram
a, eighty to a hundred
thousand years long for each of us instead of the
conventional seventy years in each experience,
doesit ceasetoholdtheunsolublem
ysteriesof dog­
m
atism
. Lookatasectionof it,onlyalittleearthly
experience of seventy years, and right away you’re
balked. You can’t even explain how half a dozen
children of one family, born of the sam
e parents
under identical conditions, all have different char­
acters, unless you adm
it prenatal existences that
have each contributed som
ething toward making
those characters what they disclose them
selves to
be. How otherwise explain child prodigies, artis­
tic precocities, the bent which certain souls have
toward the creative or mechanical?”
"Science explains it as a transm
ission of hered­
itary traits, I’ve always thought. Anyhow, what
382 GOLDEN RUBBISH
difference does it m
ake? Why fill your head up
with all that sort of tosh when after all, the fact
rem
ains that we’re live m
en and women with a
fortune tom
akeor we landinthepoorhouse?”
"So it was tosh, was it, that denied your father
funeral services?”
"Oh for pity’ssake, stop harping on that!”
"Self-preservation, Louise, isthefirst lawof Na­
ture. Do you m
ean to tell m
e it’s the only law
which has no practical use in the universe? You
can’t have Law without having Purpose. That’s
only logic.”
"I don’t get your application.”
"Your horror of death—your own or anybody
else’s—is only a phase of self-preservation. So
long as people are born into flesh and com
e to the
moment when the fleshly organismfails themand
becom
es a disintegrating corpse, you’ll have these
questions of dogm
a, creed, superstition, mysticism
—andontheotherhand, pureandundefiledspirit­
uality—hecklingthe race.”
"All right, Van. But how long have you and
George Robling had these . . . interests . . . in
common?”
"I knew alm
ost from the moment of m
eeting
Robling, that I’dknown himbefore, that a group
was makingup—or perhaps I shouldput it: reach­
ing one another’ssides. But we’ve got to rem
em
­
ber that man is an individualist; you can’t m
ake
THE AWAKENING 383
him group conscious in one year or one life. As
a matter of fact, you can’t m
ake him over: he
m
ust dothat for him
self. And we who teachhim
m
ust exercise patience. And Patience, I submit,
com
m
ences with ourselves.”
"But Basil—if you think we belong to George’s
group—a Mentor Group let’s call it—and have
m
ade aPact to do this sort of thing—why haven’t
weknownaboutit earlyinourlives? Take George
for instance—”
"Yes, take him
. That’s excellent. Take a
thousandM
entors like him
. If they showedthem­
selvessociallyasforeigntoothers, they’dencounter
opposition—they’dbebooedat, persecuted, accused
of insanity. The creeds might revile them
, their
fam
ilies disown them, at least m
en would say
they were founding a new church. Or perhaps
somethingworse. They’dbecalledcrooks, cranks,
psychic fanatics; find them
selves haled before
councils and courts. Instead, they are born quite
ordinaryyoungsters. Theym
akethem
istakesthat
all m
enm
akeinyouth, havemisfortunes andm
ala­
dies. Som
etim
es they’re permitted to engage in
business to sharpen their faculties—learn leader­
ship and tact— b u t not told o f their identities till
the tim e comes fo r functioning—”
He stopped his strange speech. The house-door
had opened and closed with a slam
. Footsteps
came swiftly: the harsh rasp of panting. It was
384 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Potiphar Buss. He sprawled on them headlong.
"Upstairs! . . . Gebrgie! . . . a Big Light!
. . . com
e quick!”
He caught themandclung on. They could not
see his face: the night held only starlight. Yet
Potiphar behaved as though stricken by stroke.
"Robling’shurt or something?” They sprang to
their feet.
"Lights went out suddenly! . . . I com
e out t’
seewhy! Then I looked inGeorgie’sroom
—I saw
—I saw—”
“Yes, yes! Sawwhat?”
"A BigLight, Itell you—”
A cry sounded houseward, interrupting the
printer. Som
eone was calling from the balcony
piazza. It seem
edtobeSarah, inarticulateof speech.
But why couldn’t they see her? What had hap­
pened to the lights?
Louise and Basil left Potiphar behind them
. In
beneath the pepper tree they hurried, across the
patio, through solariumandlibrary, the printer in
their wake spilling over furniture.
The house was a crypt. Even the night lam
ps
had queerly been extinguished—as though a fuse
had "blown” in the basem
ent. Basil struck a
match. The three discerned the stairs.
"Let m
e take your hand!” Basil cried curtly.
He helpedLouiseupthestaircase. But suddenly
they stopped. Arriving at the angle of the "land-
THE AWAKENING 385
ing” both of thembegan feeling som
ething: som
e­
thing that arrestedthemfromgoing further. The
girl describedit later asthesam
evibratorybehavior
of air that is felt from an organ when abass pipe
isplaying, thoughit cam
ewithout soundanddefied
their analysis.
"What isit?” shewhispered.
But shegot no answer. Som
ewhere avoice was
speaking—over their heads—
"Men have a humor to know the Unknowable.
There is no Unknowable. All is of instruction.
That which is given partakes of Cosmic Light.
Archangel and angel, seraphim and mortal— each
has his part in the Drama of the Aeons.”
Basil clutched Louise. Louise clung to Basil.
They dared not go further. The richness, the
purity, the clarity, of that voice was potently
terrifying. And an invisible strand seem
ed flung
across those stairs in the dark, keeping them from
going up, fromintruding until the speaker—who­
ever it might be—had finished.
The voice continued onward, growing stronger
involume—
" Night calls to night: the swirling stars sing.
Stmrise mounts on sunrise: the day has an anthem.
Nowhere is blindness but for those who will not
see.. But greater than night shall be the Great
386 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Blindness.. Greater than sunrise shall be the In­
struction.”
A pause cam
e. Their hearts bumped their ribs.
W
as som
e sort of Abou Ben Adam visitation tak­
ing place in that house on the mountaintop, or
was the voice Robling’sin super-conscious ecstasy?
The voice continued presently, like the reading of
a psalm
—
"That which is spoken is divine in its essence.
That which is Inferred is splendorous in concept.
Man goes to his Long Home— have the poets not
written it? And have they penned in blindness?
The Light is eternal that glows upon the hills. The
day is transfigured that comes with the Sun. Allow
those to speak ivho be given authority. By their
words ye shall know them.. Great shall be the
Knowing!”
The vibration kept up. The resonance turned
prophetic—
" Out of the Infinite comes a clear Voice! Out
of the Absolute comes a high Miracle! Out of the
heart of humanity arises the one who shall lead all
the Sheep. Man has a humor to know the Eternal.
Why does he pause? Why will he demonstrate?
When the world’s night be gone, where shall go
the Blindness? When the ivorld’s sun be risen,
THE AWAKENING 387
where shall go the Darkness? Let the words of the
Eternal come as a blessing. Let the night of vast
Ignorance melt into morning. Let the high day of
Knowledge approach as a season having in its
heart the fecundity of Nature!’’
The voice seem
ed to sink and they thought it
hadended. Still they couldnot move, to climb up
that stairflight. Robling—a stranger—whoever
was speaking in that upper-floor study—suddenly
resum
ed with sublim
e exultation—
"This be the Blessing— this be the Prophecy: Mil­
lions shall be called. One shall be chosen! Thou­
sands shall manifest. One shall be leader! Serving
the race comes the Band of the Inspired. Serving
humanity comes the Group of the Anointed.
Selah! Selah! Selah!”
They waited for m
ore. The seconds ticked
away. A moment. Two m
inutes. Presentlythey
realized that the throbbing was quieting. Fin­
ally cam
e the end of the vocal phenom
enon—
"Nobly have you toiled, beatitifully performed.
Other laborers till the vineyard; other workers
reap the harvest. Now the sun sinks on your Day
in that vineyard. Night draws apace. But the
morning comes surely. This be the summons sent
from afar. Light and Life Eternal, these be thy
388 GOLDEN RUBBISH
resting place.” Then after a pause with a strong
draft stirring: "Selah! Selah! Selab!”
The strange breeze passed. All settled to quiet
on the floor above their heads. Whatever the ex­
planation, the phenom
enon had an aftermath.
Louise felt intoxicated: her legs were queerly
strengthless andyet shedid not fall.
"Basil, help m
e! What’s the matter with m
e?
And that Voice, . . . it was sofearfully familiar!
. . . it m
ust have beenRobling’s. And yet . . .”
A gaspcam
e fromsom
ewhere, the suggestionof
am
oan.
Up thestairs they crept then, as though perm
is­
sionhadbeenaccordedthem
. Basil foundthelight
switch and snapped its button downward. It
clickedwithnoresult. The fuseswere blown. He
fumbledform
atches. A sm
allflam
egrewbrighter.
"Look!” criedLouise.
Near the threshold of Robling’s study Sybil
Duncan lay prostrate. She was clad innegligee.
Clutchedinonehandwasablue-steel automatic!
CHAPTER X
TABLE inthat hallwayheldabrasscandela­
brum. Sixcandleswereinit andBasil dabbed
their wicks.
"She’s alive,” he declared, bending over Sybil,
"andseem
stobeunhurt.”
"Basil!—wait!—I feel sopeculiar.”
"Sit down here by this girl. I must look inside
the study.”
Into it he went, the candles held high. The
printer was behind him
.
Across at the desk they sawRobling fallen for­
ward. His nose was m
isshapen where it pressed
uponhisblotter. One armdangled down; its fin­
gers held apen.. Basil touched his shoulder.
"He too is alive,” he told the scared printer.
"Thank th’ lord f’r that!”
"Hold his head, Potiphar, till he com
es back to
consciousness. I want to attend to that girl inthe
TheyleanedRoblingbackward. Nikkoappeared,
his yellow face pasty. He cam
e up the stairs car­
rying another candle—asquat, thick-set taper that
spilledtallowonhishands.
"Please to tell m
e what happen?” he ventured.
389
390 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"We don’t knowourselves yet,” Basil responded.
He lifted Sybil’sbody. "Som
eone get the house­
keeper. Look in that cham
ber that opens on the
balcony.”
Nikko complied andBasil turned with Sybil.
"Lay her on the couch here,” Louise directed.
Sarahappeared, supportedbyNikko. Shehalted
by thedoor-frame.
"What happened, M
iss Twitch?” Basil addressed
her.
Sarah had difficulty working her tongue. "I
saw . . . a cloud o’ fire!” she finally informed
them
.
"A cloud!” exclaimed three voices.
"Well . . . it seem
ed to be a cloud. I was
b-back in Nikko’s room afixin’ of a screen. The
lights went out sudden-like . . . an’ I started for
this hallway to get myself a candle. We keep
candles handy to put in new fuses—”
"If you’ve got any new fuses on the prem
ises,
Nikko had better hurry down and restore all the
lights.”
"Sarah have down-cellar key,” the Japanese ex­
plained. "I com
e get it, thank you.”
Thekeywashandedover. "Goon, M
issTwitch,”
Basil said, turning.
"Well . . . I com
e back along the corridor an’
. . . turned ’round the corner. An’ there was
Georgie’s room . . . as though lighted by an arc
lamp.”
THE AWAKENING 391
"That’sright!” affirm
edPotiphar. "I seeittoo!”
"After thelightswereout?”
"That’swhy I was scairt.”
"What else did you see beside the strange radi­
ance?”
" ’Twarn’t radiant!” cried Potiphar. " ’Twas
colored like pearl—with shoots o’ blue in it—or
they might o’ been green. But that’s all I see,
’ceptin’ that Georgie was queerly lighted—he had
anawful look onhis face—asurprised sort o’ look
—an’ thenhe jus’ crumpled. I could see through
th’ door-crack.”
Basil had lifted Sybil and put her on the couch.
Carefully he untwisted the gun from her fingers.
It’sbarrel was cold.
"She never had the chance to fire it,” he said.
"Mebbe,” whisperedPotiphar, "that’swhysom
e­
thin’ happened. She was going in to kill him!”
They turnedback to Robling. He still lay flac­
cid, his head against Potiphar.
"Look! . . . he’d been writing something!”
Louise exclaim
ed. She picked up the pad that
seem
ed to hold a m
essage. Basil bent close; they
read it together—flawless of diction—exquisite of
penm
anship—
"Tell mankind . . . that which cometh hath in
it themercyof Eternal W
isdom: that manbecom­
ingtotheendof acycle: that that whichradiateth
from the Mercy Seat be stupendous of grandeur
392 GOLDEN RUBBISH
andbeauteous of power. Tell himthat he cometh
to theGodhead. Tell himthat I A m —that I raise
himfromavalleyandsethimonaheight. Saythat
forces of everlasting com
passion com
e as a shower
to water thirsty earth: that I amthe rainbowthat
hath beauty in the heavens. Say that his species
cometh to a crossroads. It approacheth a junc­
tionwithEternity ontheonesideandNight upon
the other. And out of the Darkness crieth a
Voice: "We are those who chose wrongly and go
downward into sleep.” Out of the Radiance
ringeth ananthem
: 'We be the host who harkened
to the Vision and m
ade ourselves palaces not
wrought of m
arble.’ ”
Louise glanced at Robling after reading this
aloud. He seem
ed to be a living dead m
an. A
weird group it was, candle-lighted, about his inert
body.
"There’smore!” criedBasil huskily.
Louise read the rem
ainder—
"Listen, My beloved. Harken to My voice.
Tell m
enthat that which cometh, Cometh! Verily
theDarknesscriethwithawail. Verily theheavens
answer with ahymn. Cometh the morning to the
whole human race; cometh the midday with sun
overhead; cometh the even when flocks seek their
folds; com
eth the starlight when night is m
ade
radiant. But greater than these cometh the Still,
Sm
all Voice of a Child saying: fT hat w hich is
THE AWAKENING 393
written is Written! That which is of record can­
not be Erased!’ ”
Louise swallowed painfully. The room
, the
house, seem
ed eerily consecrated. Potiphar spoke.
"Look—Georgie’scornin’ ’round!”
Louiselaidthepadbesideher onthe desk. Rob-
lingwas quivering, gasping, jerking. He tooswal­
lowed painfully and they saw his eyes open.
"Ugh!” hecriedgutturally. The candles caught
his gaze.
Basil stroked his shoulder.
"You’ve had som
e sort of a seizure, old m
an.
Feeling any better?”
The seated man shook him
self—and the pen he
hadbeenholding, clackedonthefloor. Hewhetted
hislips asthough to purge themof badtaste. His
glance went to Basil.
"I—don’t think—I understand. W
here the
devil amI ? What areyoudoinghere?”
His listeners were shocked—not so much by
his address but at som
ething in his voice.
It wasn’t Robling’svoice! It was throaty, rau­
cous.
"Don’t youknowwhereyouare?” Basillaughed
nervously.
"Do you think if I knew, I’d ask you the ques­
tion?” Helooked at Louiseandhis forehead-scowl
deepened. "Is this your house?” he dem
anded,
short-tem
pered.
394 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"Mine!” cried Louise. "Of course not. It’s
yours.”
In the candles’ flickering dim
ness, "Robling”
glanced about the room
. From appointment to
appointment he peered—and once he sm
eared his
wrist acrosshism
oist forehead. His face was pasty
white. At length he saw Sybil, stretched on the
sofa.
"Who’s that?” he cried, startled.
"That’syour secretary—Sybil Duncan.”
"Sybil! .Sybil D u n can ?”
But weakness overcame him and he closed his
eyes again. The boggle-eyed printer held his head
once m
ore. Not for long, however.
"What’s . . . she doing here? How’d she get
here?”
"The evidence,” said Basil, "points to the fact
that shegot agunandwasstalkingyou inajealous
rage. And so. . . shewas halted.”
"Halted? Halted how?”
Horror was in their faces as they looked at one
another.
"Come on!” ordered "Robling”, his voice grow­
ing petulant. "Stop gawking and answer! This
is . . . a fine way to treat a fellow . .
"We was visitin’ you, Georgie,” the printer ex­
plained. "Don’t you rem
em
ber? We spent th’
evenin’ here with you an’ you m
ade your fortune
over t’ Basil—”
"Shush/” criedBasil angrily.
THE AWAKENING 395
"What’sthat? Fortune? You’re crazy asloons
—I ain’t got no fortune—all I want is Sybil—”
He m
adeto ariseagainbut once m
ore fell back­
ward. Then thelights cam
e onsuddenly, flooding
the study.
" W O W !” gasped "George” sharply. "What­
everdidthat?”
“Your Japanese boy must have found the bad
fuse,” Basil answered thoughtfully, staring at the
other. All of themwerestaring . . .
The seated man had thrown up a forearm to
cover his eyes. Now slowly, as one who fears to
reveal his identity, he lowered it slightly.
Louise gave astart and shrank against Basil. It
was thefirst tim
e inher life that shehadsosought
protection—fromBasil—fromany m
an. And Van
Dyke held her close.
The eyes looking at them craftily above that
upraised arm
, could not be George Robling’s.
From face to face they glanced. Then the seated
man laughed—and his mirth held abandon. He
dropped the arm away.
They got their second shock.
“Robling” was old; dramatically old. Through
Louise’sconsciousness went sim
iles with stories she
had read in girlhood: "Dr. Jekyll and M
r. Hyde”
—Ryder Haggard’s "She”—and the horror of it
fascinatedher. The man’sface heldlines, his neck
hadshrunkenslightly,hisshouldersslum
pedloosely.
Seatedbefore themwassom
eonewho sought som
e-
396 GOLDEN RUBBISH
thing of them—a nondescript, a tramp, the husk
of the man they had com
e there to visit. All the
former George Robling’s personality—benignant,
commanding—seem
ed to have vanished; even his
headbeset his shoulders crookedly.
"We . . . ought to call . . . a doctor,” Sarah
whispered fearfully.
Basilwassuddenlyincontrol of themall. Never
sinceshehadknown himhadLouise perceivedhim
in the role he now played. Softly he said, so that
"Robling” could not hear:
"No physiciancould do any good inthe casewe
have before us. Doctors are infants at this sort
of thing.”
"But—”
"This fellow’s quite norm
al. Humor him and
study him.” To their subject he said: "You know
Sybil ratherwell, don’t you?”
“SureI knowSybil!” The other’seyesglittered.
"I’m goin’ to marry her. If you don’t believe it,
askher. I’ve beenwatchin’ her for years—I know
what she needs.”
"Yes, andI’mequallysurethat M
issDuncanwill
beeagertomarryyou. Isuggest,however, thatyou
take ashort nap.”
"I’ve . . . I’ve got to seeSyb!”
"Robling” got up then. Unsteadily he man­
aged it. Fromchair to chair he guided him
self, as
am
anafterillnesswobbleswhenhewalks. Andthe
others shrank back. He arrived before the couch.
THE AWAKENING 397
"Um-m,” he rem
arked. He feasted his eyes.
Sybil hadslippedintoanold-rosekimonotosteal
from her room
, thrusting nude feet into Turkish
bath slippers. These had dropped off as Basil had
lifted her. She lay now inert, graphic of contour,
her bosomgaping open.
"Um-m!” repeated he who stared dojvn upon
her.
"Van, . . . it’s revolting! . . . take m
e out
quickly!” and Louisem
ade aneffort to get toward
the door.
CHAPTER XI
HEY gathered in the library below—Louise—
Basil—Potiphar—after Van Dyke had car­
ried Sybil into her own chamber where Sarah at­
tended her.
"George Robling” had been persuaded to lie
downinanother roomwhere he quickly fell into a
type of drugged slum
ber, sleeping as newly born
infants sleep, the com
a of fatigue. The horror of
som
ething lay on all of them. Louise was still
shuddering.
"Basil!” she cried. "Put your arm
s around m
e
—hold m
e—it’sall too awesom
eto put into words.
Did you see the way he looked at Sybil? The
manwhosm
iledatuswhenweleft himto godown
to the garden, never would have done that.”
"No,” agreed Basil, "he never would have done
"Basil, muchasI dislikeSybil insom
eways, she’s
awomanlikemyself. I can’t leaveher inthe sam
e
"Let’slook at it this way, Louise: that after all
which Sybil contributed to Robling’s success, she
deservedthesort of reward that shecould best ap-
house with—with—”
398
THE AWAKENING 399
preciate. Well, she’s got it. Whatever, or who­
ever, the entity may be that seem
s to have taken
possession of George Robling’s body, we have no
m
eansof knowing. Howit was accom
plished, also
isbeyondus. But psychiatry isprofuse with cases
of obsessionsanddual personalities, andif we want
Biblical affirm
ationswe’vegot themanyaccountsof
the 'devils’ cast out by the M
aster—m
ost notably
the herd of swine that received themand ran into
the sea. This transmigration has both a scientific
and a religious basis. In Sybil’s case, I think she’s
been saved the sorrow of Robling’s physical death
by having som
elesser personalitytake possessionof
Robling’s body and serve her as a husband. Of
course I’m not certain. I submit my hypothesis
for what you think it’sworth.”
"But . . . the things hemay doto her!”
"The girl is free, white and twenty-one—as the
slangphrasehasit. If her 'employer’ suddenlyde­
velops traits that are not to her liking or safety,
she can always part company with him
. From
what I knewof her back inChicago before all this
happened, however, she’s the type that’ll welcome
a little mauling—providing the 'right man’ does
it.”
Louise cried presently: "But that Voice, Basil!
. . . was it Robling’s, doyou think?”
"My dear girl, I know no m
ore than you or
Potiphar—about what to conclude. All I’maware
of, are certain possibilities that persons unread or
400 GOLDEN RUBBISH
uneducated in such natural phenom
ena con­
stantlyscoffat. If allyouwishisapersonal opinion,
I’ll answer that I believe Robling’sphysical equip­
menthasbeenutilizedconsistentlyasaninstrumen­
tality ever since the night inFrance when he gave
himself overutterlytoAltruismandSacrifice. An
augmentation, we might call it, to his own fine
character, possibly a literal presentation of what
the M
aster m
eant when he said: 'A bide ye in Me
and I in you rmtil I com e again.' M
ost people have
taken that instruction symbolically. Perhaps it
wasn’t meant as asymbol as all. Perhaps there’s a
way by which inrare casesChrist asaspiritual en­
tity may actually share our bodies with us for the
accom
plishm
ent of specific good works.”
They considered this in its terrific potency.
"How . . . can we ever explain things?” Poti-
phar Buss lam
ented.
"We’re not called to explain anything, Poti-
phar. No one would believe us, sowhy shouldwe
try? The M
an in the Street will hold that be­
cause such dem
onstrations aren’t part of his gross
daily life, they’re the vaporings and illusions of
cranks. So let’s not be queer. We’ll keep it to
ourselvesandgoonabout our business.”
"What if George’s friends notice a change in
him?”
"They will, never fear. But such 'changes’ are
com
m
on. The asylum
s of the country are choked
withsim
ilar cases—becausehumanity inits present
THE AWAKENING 401
stage of enlightenment doesn’t credit the separate­
ness of physical life and spiritual existence, having
no way of proving it beyond resultant behavior.”
"But it’sapretty strong dose to swallow, Van,”
Louise protested, "that a living body can be ten­
anted by m
ore thanone soul in the course of that
body’s existence. M
ost people know that when
the spirit leaves abody, that’sDeath.”
"When humanity gets over its m
ass terror and
begins to take natural research a little less faceti­
ously and m
ore scientifically, much may be dis­
covered and proven that now is 'irresponsible
mysticism.’ ”
"Basil, what’ll we do now? I don’t know what
ails m
e. Som
ehow . . . I’m not myself.”
For the second tim
e he was holding her close—
embracing her—with her forehead pillowed in the
curveof hisneck. For thefirst tim
einsevenyears
—for the first time in all her life—Louise felt im­
pulses bursting bonds which threatened to engulf
her. They were m
ore than passions. She felt
deadly ecstasies—such as she had never thought
possibleinanyman’sarm
s—that m
aderecollection
of herbusiness, herprestige, hercommercial aspira­
tions, tar andashes for the mom
ent—ecstasies that
turned her whole body to wine.
"Over aperiodof time,” Basilanswered, "wemay
find quite natural explanations for what’s taken
placeheretonight. Firstthelight fuseswereblown
out—and we know that is only brought about by
402 GOLDEN RUBBISH
the application of electric current too heavy for
themto withstand. Well, an 'overload’ may have
com
e coincidentally through the wires, or som
e
extraneous currents may have played within this
house tonight—as lightning bolts also have ruined
fuses—”
"But Iseeafizzywhitelight, M
isterBasil!” Poti-
pharargued. "Th’ housekeeperseeit too!”
"Tomorrow we might find a short circuit of
som
ekind in Robling’sstudy—or Sybil in starting
for George’s roomto shoot himmay have tripped
over wires— we don’t knowyet till we’ve fully in­
vestigated. As for theVoice, theremay be aradio
inGeorge’sstudywe’renot yet awareof, andwhat
we heard was a snatch of broadcasting—”
"That queer throbbing, however,” Louise pro­
tested. "There was som
ething in the air about us
concretely disturbing it!”
"Our m
aterialistic friendslearningof thisnight’s
happenings canbe counted onto dishup som
e ex­
planation or other—and in justice to ourselves,
we should give them credence. I agree with you
that it’seasierto accept the explanationof avisita­
tion of celestial agencies, but we ought to be
careful not to hoax ourselves. The Work is too
important.”
"I could credit anysort of 'rational’ explanation
of what’s happened, Basil, but it’ll take a lot of
'rational explaining’ to account for this altered
THE AWAKENING 403
feelingthat’sinm
e—asthoughsom
ethinghadbeen
awakenedinmyinnerm
ost self that’ll never return
to . . . sleep.”
Basil glanced down in her eyes and sm
iled.
Strange, strange it was for Louise to be defending
the supernatural phases of the episode. For even
Louise’sphysical appearancelooked altered, though
howcould she appreciate it.
"Basil . . . I can’t gob-back . . . andbesatis­
fied with prosey business . . . not after this sort
of thing’shappened. It’ll distract m
e for the rest
of my natural life!”
"You’re not going back dear—not to be as you
were. Ihaven’ttoldyoueverything. We werein­
terrupted out in the garden, rem
em
ber.”
"What elseis there to tell?”
"Upstairs tonight, just before you entered
George’sstudy, Roblinghadconcludedwithm
ethe
m
ost important business transaction of his life. I
think he had a premonition of what was to hap­
pen. Sohewent intothecity thisafternoontoob­
tain the papers his lawyer had been weeks in
drawing. We executedthemtonight, despiteit be­
ingSunday, datingthemyesterday. I acceptedthe
com
m
ission which he fully explained. You and
Potiphar coming here, followed by myself, was a
Signheunderstood. He . . . appointedm
etrustee
of his fortune, Louise, to be expended asthe docu­
m
ents he read us, directed.”
404 GOLDEN RUBBISH
"What docum
ents? What’sin them?”
Gradually Basil soothedher, quieting the quiver­
ing of her beautiful body. She was suddenly very
lovableinthisnewroleof suppliant—m
ore appeal­
ing than the m
an had supposed that she could be.
He continued talking as to a child, for verily—
withoutknowingit asyet—theheartof thewoman
was becoming strangely child-like.
"Suppose we sit down, Lou dear—the three of
us. It may take som
e time to m
ake everything
clear. Then we’ll all pack our things andmove to
a hotel.”
"Tonight?”
"We’ll avoidmuchdistressif we’reabsent inthe
morning. Sybil will bem
istresshere. We m
ust let
heradjustherselfwithout em
barrassm
ent fromus.”
Gently he released her. In a heavy chair he sank,
pulling the cord of a nearby reading-lamp. And
Louise did a queer thing—for Louise. She pro­
cured acushion fromthe divan, dropped it on the
floor by his feet, sank upon it, and leaned against
his knees . . .
Potiphar Busspulledanotherchairup close. And
from a pocket on one hip Basil took som
e papers.
They werebound inbluecovering andwere heavy
with seals.
"First,” he offered, "let m
e read you the con­
cluding paragraphs of our Instructions. W
hether
or not Robling wrote them, is not for us to say.
THE AWAKENING 40S
We must take them as we find them
—for what
they’re worth—then later we’ll discuss them.”
He shuffledthroughthepagesandfinallycleared
histhroat—
" . . . out of the North shall come a Great
Tempest. Out of the Soil shall grow agreat Seed.
Out of the heart of humanity shall com
e one who
shall lead all the Sheep. Who ishe? W
here ishe?
For Captain of the Forces is he—a common m
an
who now walks in darkness of a sort, even the
blindnessof histrue indentity. He shall com
e at a
tim
e which m
en shall forever afterward term the
Great Speaking. He shall stand before thenations
and weld them into one. That is the Prophecy.
That isthe Blessing. And whenhe com
es, all m
en
shall pay himhom
age, for he will lead with awis­
dom not born of woman. Harken to his voice,
you hosts of Mortality. Give heed to his counsel,
for he com
es before a Holy One, and after H im
interprets. That istheM
essagethatcom
eswiththe
Sun. That is the Sun! When the Voice of Ama-
geddon speaks, then shall be knowledge.”
Basil paused and glanced at their faces.
"It’s a whole lot like th’ words we heard fr’m
th’ landin’,” whispered Potiphar.
"It’s even m
ore so in the rest of it,” Basil an­
swered, "because the phraseology shifts to the
solem
n form of expression. Listen!—
406 GOLDEN RUBBISH
“. . . Lift up your heads, Ye everlasting Gates,
and be Ye lifted up, Ye everlasting Doors, for the
King of Glory knocketh! When He that cometh,
Cometh, then shall be no tumult. When He that
speaketh, Speaketh, then shall be no error. All
things arerecorded. All things arepotent. When
Hethat cometh, Cometh, thenshall benoerror for
he speaketh with authority and the hosts of earth
give audience. Selah! Selah! Selah! . . . Rich
unto the Morning shall be the world’s sun­
light. Fine untogoldshall be the world’streasure.
Out of Capernaum in Galilee cometh the Pre­
face! Harken, ye nations, and bow to your leader­
ship!”
"Is that all?” asked Louise. And Basil nodded:
"What’sit all about? It’sall Greek to m
e.”
Basil laidthe papersonanearby taboret.
"Well—Louise—Potiphar—all I can give you is
myowninterpretation. Potipharheardwhat Rob-
ling told us the first of the evening and may have
his own conclusions. But speaking for myself,
. . . not m
eaningto be any alarm
ist, . . . I think
that humanity stands onthe brink of analteration
in society infinitely m
ore significant than the late
worldwar. You saidinthe gardenahalf-hour ago,
Louise, that theM
aninthe Street wasn’t interested
in Scriptural origins or the validity of what oc­
curred in Palestine nineteen centuries ago. But
eversincemankindacquired aFaith intheEternal,
THE AWAKENING 407
he’s been interestd in what Life m
eans, where he
cam
e from, whither he’s going, and what happens
to himinfleshbetween the Birth and Death mile­
posts. Up to a hundred years ago he looked to
Mysticism to tell him
. During the past century
he’sbesought the various Sciences. Now that the
whole globe has been discovered and charted, now
that all peoples are known for what they are, now
that inventionhasbrought international communi­
cation as well as international conflict too terrible
to contemplate, the moment is at hand for a new
dispensation. I’m audacious enough to maintain
that we’re instrum
ents of it. I think you’ll agree
that som ething is afoot.”
"I’ll agreethat weseemtohavebeenplungedin­
to a series of happenings that can’t be explained.
But it’s all so preposterous that we should be in­
strumental—”
"Som
eone, som
ewhere, must be the instrum
ents.
Why not ourselves as well as persons in a far­
away country?”
"But theserevelations—if wewant totermthem
that—startedinwithanexcavatingproject, shifted
tovague innuendoes about Christ’ssecondcoming,
andnowveertoequallym
ysteriousreferencesabout
som
e common man som
ewhere who shall lead the
nations into som
e sort of union. It’s all so con­
fusing. Why not keep to one prem
ise—?”
"Becauseasort of programisinvolved, Loudear.
Idon’t claimtohaveaccurateenlightenment. You
408 GOLDEN RUBBISH
cantakemy opinionfor what it’sworth. But I’ve
toldyoualreadythat I’venever acceptedthat after
His Transfiguration the M
aster departed for som
e
grandiose heaven afar on another planet. I
thinkHe’sbeenhereonthisliteral earthinastatus
no m
ore visible to mortal eyes than the so-called
'dead’ are visible to mortal eyes. But society has
approached a graduation in its evolution where a
finer jurisdictionisnecessary—ajurisdictionwhich
Man of himself cannot supply to himself and for
him
self. Therefore I believewe’re onthe brink of
newrevelations, nowm
anifestations, new miracles,
if you will, when we’re going a whole century for­
ward in spiritual enlightenment, in a handful of
years.”
"You frightenm
e, Basil. You’ll frightenhuman­
kind everywhere, with that sort of talk. No one
wants a Second Coming of Christ, down deep in
their hearts. They’re plenty willing to let society
m
ake progress of itself, without m
iraculous en­
lightenment.”
"Yes, and no one wanted the late World W
ar.
All thesam
e, it cam
eandwassuffered. Andout of
it hascom
e m
ore ethical andinternational progress
than the race has m
ade in the past fifty centuries.
No userunning fromthe Inevitable, Louise. Let’s
try tounderstandit, thenitwon’t terrifyus. How­
ever, I haven’t said that Christ was coming as the
Adventists hold. I saidm
ost emphatically that His
reappearance will com
e by a m
anner and m
ethod
THE AWAKENING 409
which no creed, no religion, no systemof philoso­
phy nowexistent, hastheslightest concept of. I’m
not quarrelling with the creeds. I’m counselling
them.”
"Suppose they don’t want counselling. They’ll
resent it, naturally, else they wouldn’t be creeds.”
"But I’mnot startinganym
issionarym
ovem
ent.
I’mnot trying to convince themof anything, sell
themany newidearegardless of hownovel maybe
the m
iraculous events ahead. I’msimply submit­
ting to you andto themwhat Potiphar and I have
learned from George Robling. If he hasn’t had
light of som
ekind, Louise, tell m
ehowthe phrase­
ologyof hiswritings cam
e about, tosaynothing of
what w e heardwithourears.”
Louiseshrugged her shoulders. Basil went on—
"Circumstances andeventsm
ust causethecreeds
to ponder. And according to Robling, one of the
first thingstohappenisthe executionof this exca­
vation project on Robling’s three m
illions.”
" Three m illions! He’s given you that much?”
"Yes,” responded Basil, "that out of the Pal­
estinianrevelationsof thenext fewyearsmaycom
e
irrefutable proof of Christ’s historical reality,
coupled with interpretations of His original doc­
trinesthat will stupefy andbalkfurther dissensions
am
ong theologians. Think what it will m
ean to
Catholicism, som
e of the mighty ram
ifications of
Protestantism
, M
oham
edism
, evenBuddhism
, toget
an irrefutable interpretation of the M
aster’s doc-
410 GOLDEN RUBBISH
trines. Think what it m
eans to Jewry, for in­
stance, to know that for nineteen hundred years
it has repudiated its M
essiah. Of course I’m
givingyou this incrudeportions—them
ainidea—
insteadof reading this volum
inous document—”
"But won’t you be inviting a social cataclysm
to unearth these proofs and knock the dogmatic
props fromunder present religious structures?”
"Can’t you understand, Lou dear, that the only
dogmatic props we’ll knock away will be those of
self-evidentError? Beneathreligionwe’ll drivethe
mightybastionsof Truth—andAccuracyof Spirit­
ual Conception—that will endure to the end of
man’s days on this planet. I pay the leaders of
the creeds no compliment when I say that their
very devoutness will make them the first to ac­
knowledge error, when the burden of proof be­
com
es overwhelming. It’s their absolute convic­
tion of their concepts of Right as being errorless,
that m
akes them so powerful as leaders at
present.”
"But if these proofs are to be discovered inPal­
estine, why the necessity for a Second Coming?
And who’s this m
ysterious commoner who’s to
'lead all the Sheep?’ ”
Basil consideredam
om
ent. Finally hesaid—
"The com
m
oner, Louise, Ihavereasontobelieve,
is the reborn soul of one of the M
aster’s Disciples,
come into flesh in this present generation to take
THE AWAKENING 411
charge of humanity in the confusion which m
ust
result when for a temporary period the creeds are
underm
ined. A flash of his own identity will be
given him
. He will awaken to his brevet. With
thevoiceof onehavingauthoritybecauseheknows
his true personality, he will call the peoples of the
earthtoorderanddeclaretothemtheProgramun­
der way. And whenhe isdoubted, when he is as­
sailed, whenthewolves inthe great religious struc­
tureswouldtearhimto pieces becausehe threatens
themwithexposure, then I believe the Man of Gali­
lee trill show Himself, in one great, terrific mani­
festation of Light, over and done with almost as
soon as it is produced, but stupefying into utter
prostration those clackers and sophists who declare
He is a Myth and His spokesman a charlatan!
What’s clearer than that?”
Silence followed in that library. Louise stared,
bright-eyed.
"And you m-mean . . . that we . . . it’s our
partof theProgram . . . totakeGeorgeRobling’s
money . . . go to Palestine . . . and uncover
these proofs that bring all that about?”
"What else can we think? We’ve got the evi­
dence of our senses that our lives have been pat­
terned to equip us for such work. We’ve got the
actuality of George Robling’sthree million dollars
left in my hands absolutely. We’ve got the speci-
412 GOLDEN RUBBISH
fic instructionsinthesedocum
entswheretogoand
what tolook for, inour digging. How get around
all these especially after the natural phenom
ena
that’s transpired in this house this recent hour?”
"I . . . don’t . . . know!”
"We’re not assailing anything. We’re not chal­
lenging anything. We’re to do certain things and
let events dictate their fiats to society. What isto
be, will be. You or I can’t change it.”
"B-Basil, . . . who do you think the man is,
. . . the com
m
oner, . . . the one you say may be
theM
aster’sdiscipleliving som
ewhereright nowas
anordinaryman?”
"I haven’t the slightest idea, Louise. No m
ore
than have you. But I’mas sure that the M
oment
isgoingtobringhimforthasI’msurethat atotally
newformof societyistomaintainonthis earthby
theyear Two Thousand. He will be one who will
com
e unannounced. He will have his own cogni­
tion when the tim
e com
es for action. Aside from
that, however, our guesses are alike. Any one of a
hundred million m
ales in America, Europe, Asia,
maybethat Disciple. We canonlywait andsee—
and m
eanwhile do our part of the Programin the
way we have beenadvised.”
"Basil, I’m thunderstruck. I’m completely
turnedover. Howcanall this possiblybehappen­
ing to one who’s always term
ed anything but the
m
aterialism
s of life a lot of Rubbish? I . . . I
feel . . . I’m rebuked.”
THE AWAKENING 413
"Th’ M
aster never rebukes anyone, M
iss Lou,”
theprinter put in. "He may go ’way fr’maDoor
when He knocks an’ th’ Door ain’t opened. But
He don’t get sm
all ’bout it an’ refuse t’ knock
agin.”
CHAPTER XII
T T 7 "H A T could she believe?
™* Little sleeping was done in the house on
the mountaintop that night. For they did not
go down to the Los Angeles hotel. Too much im­
pended with the coming o f daylight. Further­
more, Louise could not be persuaded to abandon
Sybil to the metamorphosed George Robling till
the girl understood exactly what had happened.
Louise lay with her hands behind her head for a
long, long time, not daring to extinguish her lights,
giving thought to Basil’s statements in terms of
world events, the horrifying thing that had hap­
pened to Robling’s person, the unexplainable Mes­
sages and Prophecies given them. And thinking,
she slumbered . . .
It was a fitfull, hectic slumber. What troubled
her now was not the lights she had left burning in
her chamber but a Greater Illumination growing
brighter and brighter in her spirit. Once she
dreamed.
She dreamed of walking unhampered by clothing
of any sort through a desert place, straight into
sunlight that thrilled as it warmed her— elixir in
her body, ecstasy in every physical movement— her
414
THE AW AKENING 415
pace increasing till she found herself no longer tak­
ing strides but moving as though she had lost con­
tact with earth. The sensation was delirious. Even
the sun into which she walked grew vaster of size,
mightier of power to galvanize and ennoble her.
Yet she did not feel heat beyond that first warmth.
Rather its brightness seemed like rhythm— tre­
mendous Music— harmony supernal.
She awoke with a feeling that someone was near
her. Uncountable numbers of persons were near
her. She was no longer an abandoned child or a
lone business strategist. Hordes and hordes of the
friendliest persons, associates and relatives, engulfed
her like a sea. She came wide awake and sat up in
bed. The time was six o’clock. Dawn was prying
beneath her window-shades.
She did not feel confused. She was not bothered.
Earthly problems were no longer antagonisms; life
was no longer a challenge. All that seemed childish.
The essence of intoxication she had felt the night
before while listening to those sublime statements
on George Robling’s stairs was coming afresh with
the new day, with the sensation of wafting faster
and faster into tremendous sunlight. It gave a
clarity to her thoughts that startled her. Her head
seemed light. Her body felt translucent. She could
not account for it.
She did not try to account for it. It was no
more dramatic than this: that into her heart flooded
cloud on cloud of soft, silvery Peace. She loved
416 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Basil. She loved him physically, mentally and spirit­
ually. She saw him now as more than a rich
woman’s son, favored since birth and surrounded
by privilege. She sensed him as a companion with
whom she had set out on an Errand back in a dif­
ferent kind of morning though no less bright than
the one now coming swiftly. Just across the hall
she knew him to be sleeping, yet it was as natural
for him to be there as she now found it natural to
love him.
For Potiphar too, she felt an odd affection. She
thought of old Charlotte, Basil’s mother, and dis­
covered that her animus was dead for the Gorgon
likewise. She finally made herself a promise.
The revelations of the day before were all too
stupendous for her to grasp at once. Weeks, per­
haps months, must go by before she could credit
the significance of them. She had a long, long way
to explore— indeed, all Life must be a sort of in­
creasing exploration— before she could be certain
that what she had been told was a prophecy of Fact.
But this she said contritely—
"If events show me the way to steer out from
my complication with the Government, and some­
one will make me an offer for my holdings, I’ll
accept it as proof that all I’ve learned is bona fide.”
She vowed that to herself— to whom she never
had broken a promise. For she wanted to believe
that what she had learned was bona fide.
She could not sleep longer. She arose, snapped off
THE AW AKENING 417
the lights and ran up the curtains. The Los Angeles
valley was clean-washed in mist. Over the Sierra
Madras the bright sun was coming. What a day
in which to start eastward on an airflight. She
noticed the world for the first time as something
of joyous beauty— joyous beauty— joyous in that
for the first time all her instincts and endeavors
were aligned in a trend that satisfied her spirit.
To go to Palestine with Basil, to assume charge of
a three-million-dollar excavating project, with all
its vicissitudes and thrills, to direct and manipulate
its million details, to the end and aim that a great
social cataclysm could be interpreted for the coming
generations, suddenly shaped to her as divine in its
proscription. What greater labor could she em­
ploy herself with, to enhance her prestige or bring
her renown? But entirely aside from that earthly
reward, what more subtle contribution could she
make to Eternity? She felt like the chiming o f bells.
And the East grew brighter and the valley came
awake . . .
She wondered after George Robling, where his
spirit might be this exquisite Monday morning—
that spirit which had discussed her Pact with her
at the dinner table only two nights before. That
brought thoughts of her father. Thoughts of her
father brought the realization that her promise to
old Peter was still unfulfilled.
But how might it ever be fulfilled, now that
George Robling had gone also into Light? After
418 GOLDEN RUBBISH
what had transpired, did old Peter himself demand
it be fulfilled? Strange to relate, she believed that
he did. This thing she could do: the real George
Robling had made over nearly three millions in
money and securities to Basil. Whether it would
result in the founding of some new creed, the ef­
frontery of existing religions, a challenging of the
present social system, the success or failure of the
bizarre program which Robling seemed to have be­
queathed to them, the fact remained that Sybil and
her lover must be now nearly penniless. Since
Basil had gained so enormously, why shouldn’t
Louise forestall complications that might arise in
that quarter— till the sense or delusion of Robling’s
revelations was proven, anyhow— by relinquish­
ing to "Robling” one-half her father’s fortune?
Yes, she would do it if for no other reason than
to explore the validity of the former Robling’s con­
tentions and retain the Peace which had come to
her so beautifully. Deciding this, she felt an en­
hancement of her Joyousness. Then Potiphar was
rapping frantically on her door, imploring her to
open it and hear him.
What new thing had happened? W hy should he
be wanting her at such an hour of morning?
"Miss Lou, . . . Basil’s in Georgie’s library talk­
ing over th’ long distance tellyphone with Philly-
delphy. He sent me t’ fetch you.”
Louise adjusted her hair, twisted the girdle of her
THE AW AKENING 419
negligee the tighter and followed the printer be-
lowstairs. Basil, in a corner alcove, was applying
himself to the instrument.
"Yes ?” he was saying. "What? . . . yes, I get
that. What? . . . Ackermann’s voluntarily ex­
onerated us? . . . who am I talking with? . . .
is this you, Fred? . . . Fred Frye? . . . go ahead!
. . . he’s thrown himself on the mercy of the
Federal authorities and will bear the brunt of the
prosecution? What’s made him do that?”
Basil listened several moments without inter­
rupting. He turned and saw Louise. Clasping
his palm over the transmitter, he said in a startled
aside. "It’s four hours earlier in Washington than
it is here in California and Monday morning has
brought action on those indictments . . . Yes?” he
called quickly, turning back to the telephone.
"Mother’s what? . . . offered to pay Louise how
much? . . . seven hundred and fifty thousand?
. . . Good Lord!”
More listening. And Louise came close, sinking
by his side. Basil took the receiver partially from
his ear that she too might hear what was coming
across the miles.
"Your mother,” she heard the voice of Old Coat-
Tails declare, "thinks this whole business better be
washed up by you and Louise getting out of the
country and spending a couple of years in Europe.
I’m inclined to agree with her. She’s found that the
Thomas Restaurant Chain will be glad to take over
420 GOLDEN RUBBISH
Lou’s interests and she’ll handle the deal and give
us the profits, if any. If Lou’s out there with you,
try and get her to see sense. This sort of solution
may not come again— ”
"All right, Fred. Anything else?”
"Yes, your mother’s had another of her spells.
She lay in a sort of coma for three hours Saturday
night with a couple of doctors working over her.
Yet she seems to come out of them without the
slightest after-effects. They don’t understand it.
Anyhow, you’d better get back east as quickly as
you can make it.”
"All right. Tell mother that Louise and I will
start back with Jack Trent between now and noon.
And I think she’ll accept— Louise, I mean. Things
have happened out here that make it advisible.”
"Fine!” came Frye’s answer. "When will you
arrive here?”
"W e ought to make it by tomorrow night, bar­
ring mishaps. But I don’t look for mishaps. Give
Mother our regards and tell her that Louise and I
will be married within the fortnight.”
He hooked the receiver and turned to the girl.
"Aren’t you presuming a bit, Basil?” she de­
manded.
"A m I, Louise?”
The girl’s face was crimson.
"So I’m to be bought after all?” she retorted.
"For three-quarters of a million dollars! That’s
THE AW AKENING 421
a rather steep price to give for an orphaned girl.
It . . . it makes me wonder . . . if she’s really
worth it.”
" Louiser
She was thoughtful a moment. All the difficulties
in her predicament seemed ironing away— more of
the "supernatural phenomena” that might never
be explained. Yet she remembered her promise to
herself . . .
She faced him eye to eye. Both had arisen.
"Suppose I were willing to be so huckstered?”
she demanded.
"Are you, Louise?”
She drew a long breath. All the events since the
death of her father passed kaleidoscopically before
her. She tilted her chin.
"If you want me on those conditions,” she said
steadily, "I ami”
"Louise! My dearest!”
"I . . . I feel that I want to go on this Flight
with you, Basil. Not merely an airplane flight.
Rather . . . a Journey . . . on Wings of the
Spirit! Oh Basil!”
His arms were about her. He was holding her
tightly.
" — into the Sunrise, it will be, dearest. Don’t
forget that!”
"I’m not forgetting. On the contrary, I’m re­
membering. Basil, Basil! . . . suppose it’s all true!
Suppose that what we’ve learned on this adventure
422 GOLDEN RUBBISH
is actually to come to pass— what a wondrous Vista
opens!”
"There’s only one way to prove it— whether it’s
bona fide or whether it’sa hoax— that’s to let events
happen but be careful not to obstruct them.”
"I’ll make one admittance, Basil— I’m convinced,
at least, that what the world calls Mysticism may be
the profoundest Truth, though not yet revealed be­
cause mankind isn’t ready. I’m ready to retract
that happenings are rubbish— even Golden Rub­
bish, as Potiphar qualified them— merely because
they can’t be normally explained. Oh Basil, Basil!
It’ll be the greatest and most splendid gamble that
I ever undertook— running down these prophecies
and finding out results.”
Potiphar Buss beamed on them in embrace.
"I still hold it’s jus’ th’ Literal Hands guidin’ you,
Miss Lou,” he offered. "If my life ain’t been worth
anything else, it’s helped you two folks t’ find your
own Happiness.”
He saw Basil kiss the girl in his arms.
"Into Sunlight!” Basil said softly.
"Into the World’s Sunrise, let’s put it for the
present, Basil!”
" — into the World’s Sunrise,” he confirmed, . . .
"on Wings!”
Potiphar Buss went upstairs to pack.
THE END
