{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__stocker___imprisoned_splendour.pdf","mytitle":"Imprisoned Splendour","mylang":"de"}
THE
IMPRISONED
SPLENDOUR
ASPECTS AND APPLICATIONS
OF THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY
by
R. DIMSDALE STOCKER ·
INTRODUCTION
by
BRIGGS DAVENPORT
ELMER S. PRATHER
PUBLISHl!R
BRUSSELS BELGIUM
1929
COPYRIGHT 1929 BY E. S. PRATHER
All rights reserved.
CONTENTS
Page
Chap. I. The Myth of Laziness 13
II. Life, Leisure and Drudgery 23
III. Social Discipline and Relax-
ation 39
IV. The Right to be Happy 69
v. Our Baulked Dispositions . 95
VI. Wishing and its Relation to
Dreams 109
VII. Mirth, Morals and the Un-
consc10us. 125
VIII. Dreams and their Significance 137
IX. The Fear Impulse 153
x. Re-Incarnation : A psycholo- "'
gical interpretation . 165
•
•
INTRODUCTION
IN this series of essays will be found what
may be called an assessment of the nature
and the right functioning of the abstract quali-
ties of man. This implies, of course, a wide and
profound scope of observation, an intense
employment of logical induction and an
exhaustive analysis of metaphysical, instinctive
and educational tendencies. This field offers
immense possibilities of philosophical instruc-
tion : a multitude of luminous guide-posts for
the various stages of life-development and for
lighting the wayfarer in the fascinating scrutiny
of psychical problems. To elucidate so great a
subject was a daring project which might well
give pause to the most thorough investigator, the
most powerful thinker. Mr. R. Dimsdale Stocker
has brought remarkable penetration of mind and
conscientiousness of intellectual habit to the task.
The central theme is the inadequate, often
7
INTRODUCTION
erroneous use and treatment of the inner endow-
ments, which, if allowed their true worth, are
the greatest, most effulgent glory of our race.
That these are too often or even constantly
kept from their normal functioning is a
psychical tragedy. Hence the highly signifi-
cant title tbat Mr. Stocker has chosen for his
book.
Self-repression in the artificial mode of life
which man has imposed upon himself is the
secret of much if not all that is abnormal and
disastrous in his behaviour. To begin with, in
his modern civilized state he has a pernicious
fear of what he terms IDLENESS, and he enjoys
but little of what can be -
discerningly regarded
as LEISURE. Man is not by nature an idler,
and true leisure does not spell idleness. True
leisure, employed to a good purpose, as true
leisure can only be, is needed for the proper
rounding out of human existence. Mr. Stocker
boldly declares that there is no~ enough of this
kind of idleness in the world. He may be said
to place himself, in the chapter on the "Myth
of Laziness" , on the plane of the higher and
8
INTRODUCTION
wiser Socialism, which is as far removed from
the demagogic, political socialism of the day
as noon is from midnight. And with entire
justice he says that the fair distribution of
toil, giving a larger share of leisure to all
the intrinsic producers of wealth, would be
a solution of the problem of labour and its
rewards.
The existing social order has led to the exag-
gerated acceptance of certain moral illusions.
Work, for instance, has come to be looked upon
as "too pathetically tragic". "Far too few of
us", says the author, "get enough of leisure to
be certain of precisely how much it is worth".
A so-called "Leisure class" is an evil because
by its existence is implied that of another but
vastly more numerous class whose true leisure,
relatively, if there be such, is almost impercep-
tible. But no mere quantitative solution can be
had of this problem : the solution must be
qualitative, and that, Mr. Stocker implies, is
feasible. The whole prevalent conception of
human life must be revolutionized from within.
Class interests must be ~ubordinated to the
9
INTRODUCTION
general welfare, and this through the closer
"equalization of means and opportunity".
The strain and tension of "balked desires",
thwarted in their natural prompting, are the cause
of the rebellion of the SUBCONSCIOUS NATURE,
leading, when they are once released, to in-
numerable social offences. The moral advance
ofthe world has not corresponded to the advance
of material civilization. The rightful instincts
have been too much subjected to the facti-
tious necessity of disciplining Self beyond the
dictate of Reason. "Godliness and nature, by
being sharply contrasted, have been viewed
as in incessant and eternal conflict". "To
reinstate the instincts," adds Mr. Stocker,
"and to accord them the dignity which
belongs to them must certainly be regarded
as one of the signal achievements of modern
psychology...
"Every natural instinct that is appropriate to
man is essential to his existence, "and when its
legitimate exercise is balked or denied deplorable
results ensue. "Nature refuses to be expelled :
she will not; and the only safe course to adopt
10
INTRODUCTION
is the DIRECTION of the forces that are implanted
in man."
Mr. Stocker's study' of the faculty of WISHING
in its relation to DREAMS leads him to exceedingly
interesting conclusions. He regards the wish as
the "unit of psychology" and its repression as
the cause of important mental phenomena. He
finds ground here for the statement that "What
we do is traceable in the first instance less to
what we think than what we are... Our _
spon-
taneous actions, which have been elaborated by
the subterranean operations of the instincts, are
the essential test of our natures."
In DREAMS the Subconscious Mind has liberal
play, and the author believes that we may then
be "more truly ourselves than when we are
subjected by the sway of the artificial person-
ality that society has created for us".
The tracing of MIRTH and JESTING and the
EFFORT TO EVADE AUTHORITY to repressed desires
or wishes is a more curious process than most of
those leading to psychological enlightenment.
These effects are like the exploding of pent-up
energy, and reveal the real Self.
11
INTRODUCTION
The "Seven Ages" into which, according to
Shakespeare's sylvan philosopher, human life is
divided, may be likened from the psychological
point of view to so many re-births. This is the
author's conception of INCARNATION, each age,
or each act in the drama of life, being a step
towards the final willing and even joyful
surrender of the spirit and of our choicest gifts
to the Indefinable Whol@, -into the embrace
of the Infinite - the merging of Self "in the as
yet unmanifested splendours of the Universe".
BRIGGS DAVENPORT.
12
CHAPTER I
THE MYTH OF LAZINESS
For the most part the problem of inaction is
neglected, or dismissed altogether. "Idleness"
has so long been a term of reproach that those
of us who prefer to indulge in that habit pretend
hypocritically that we are busy about nothing,
rather than own up to our weakness. So im-
pressed is western civilization with the supposed
need for hustle, rush and other kinds of move-
ment that we take it for granted that we must
be "up and doing" at any price. To enjoy
our leisure too well, or to make the best of
opportunities for relaxation, would be, in our
perverted estimation, to incur the contempt of
our species. Even in religion, the contemplative
life is regarded as reactionary and unpractical.
Milton's celebrated line : " They also serve
who only stand and wait ", would have little
acceptance, it would seem, if taken seriously, in
this our age. That conception somehow fails to
have anticipated the trend of the modern mind.
Yet in spite of our incomprehension of the
gospel of inaction, stress has been laid from time
to time upon what is termed a "wise passiv-
13
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
ity ". Mr. John A. Hobson, for instance, m
his recent book, "Work and Wealth", re-
minds us that " we should not be so terribly
afraid of idleness, after all ". The world, he
seems to think, has cultivated the active mood
to a somewhat dangerous extent; and it is time
that once in a while we allow ourselves breath-
ing space. The fact however remains that we
are afraid of idleness. Our watchword is the
" practical ", and, unless we are " on the go "
all the time, we are persuaded that we are losing
everything - time, money, and all other items
of " practical " value. Nowadays, of course,
the world is too intelligent to evince interest in
other matters. Things that cannot be measured
or weighed it refuses to consider. The " soul ",
for instance, it now regards as only of theore-
tical importance. What is the soul? asks the
modern man. Or, How should I stand to lose
it, seeing that I have never possessed it? And
in that last sense of the word he is right. The
modern man has never possessed his soul. But
his soullessness bears a more intimate relation
to his theory of life than he chooses to admit.
He is soulless simply because he is in bondage.
He does not know this : he believes himself to
be free. · BlJ.t he is deluded ; and his delusion
is the delusion of movement.
The times move, and so does he - as much in
14
THE MYTH OF LAZINESS
unison With the times as he can or thinks he
can. There is great " progress " in the world.
It is productive of machines. He must make
this progress his own - at least he must be a
part of it ; he must unceasingly obey its impulse.
He must not only make machinery : he must be
a machine himself. He has almost come to
persuade himself that the primal curse, pro-
nounced in Eden, is a blessing. Reconciled to
the theory of the " dignity of labour ", he has
not only ceased to regard rebellion to the origi-
nally ordained state of happy obedience as a
sin : he has forgotten what such happiness might
mean. After all, thinks the modern man, drud-
gery is inevitable, and hence must be divinely
intended. He must exist ; in order to exist in
the civilized state, he must have money, and to
get money he must toil. By such process of
logic he concludes that action of whatever kind
is the only condition oflife.
There he is wrong. Life, in the fully rounded
sense, upon such terms, is impossible. He has
not time to see that. He is too desperately
busy. He works, works, works. Why does he
work? Not always to please himself : by no
means. He works because he " must ". He
fancies that thus he is living according to the
universal law - the law of sacrifice. In this he
is mistaken. Were he conscious of the posses-
15
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
sion of a soul or of anything not ·strictly mate-
rial that is worth the sacrifice, the case might
be different. But he is not conscious of a soul,
nor in fact 0f anything of a transcendent order
that belongs to him. Hence he is no better
than a slave- : in point of fact his servitude is
worse than that of most slaves.
No profounaer delusion exists for the ordinary
man of to-day than in regard to his right to
leisure. What might properly be his leisure,
if wisely put to use, is really so strenuously
employed as to negative entirely what should
be its normal significance. To spend one's time
as one may wish, apart from the thousand and
one recreations or amusements that are avail-
able, is to incur the criticism and aversion of
one's fellows. Let a man prefer to loaf i.n com-
pany with his own thoughts rather than to play
golf or bridge, or let him take up science or
literature or art rather than motoring or some
other prevalent fad, and somebody is sure to
exclaim : "Well, really, you must have more
time on your hands than you know what to do
with! If only you knew what-work is you would
not bother with such things! " So obsessed is
the man of to-day with the notion th(lt "work"
is essential, that it must necessarily be something
that " goes against the grain " and is bought
and paid for, that to identify pleasure with any
16
THE MYTH OF LAZINESS
activity that is pursued for its own sake is for
him out of the question!
Our social system is the cause of this condi-
tion of mind. That system rests upon a gigantic
fallacy, to wit : that man is by nature an idler.
Only give him half a chance, it seems to say,
and he would instantly refuse to do anything
at all! Were we not urged by the sheer needs
of the body to win our daily bread, we should
be content, it is argued, to spend our days flat
on our backs until we perished. But this
assumption, although based upon tradition and
hearsay, those chief sources of popular wisdom,
is in defiance of facts. Even Dr. Watts knew
better. He asserted in his well-known hymn
that " Satan finds mischief for idle hands to
do ". He was a true · psychologist. Under
normal conditions men are invariably bl.lsy
enough -:- even when they refuse to work for a
living. Beggars, for example, who would scorn
to put in a day of real work, are not idlers by
any means. Their professional pride is great.
A certain beggar known to me personally was
an amazingly active man. He sold papers - or
people believed he did. He always carried one
or two papers under his arm. He also gave
racing tips. His fault, whatever it might be,
was certainly not idleness! He was never idle.
To dodge the attention of the police must
17
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
alone have taken a good third of his time. His
failing was a very common one: that of mis-
directed effort. His case was typical. Thousands
of men who have a reputation for idleness have
never known the advantage of that luxury.
There is not enough idleness in the world.
I shall be reminded by my critics, of course,
that work is " the great thir;i.g " : that not only
is it useful and indispensable, but that it is also
of service to use in the formation of habits.
This may be granted. To ensure the welfare
of society it is desirable that certain acts should
be performed. The value, ofcourse, ofa certain
amount of prescribed behaviour goes without /
saying. We cannot, it is clear, afford to wait
until men are " in the mood " to undertake
such service as may be essential to the com-
munity. For instance, I, for one, would be
unwilling to take the kind and generous dispo-
sition of my milkman for granted; nor am I
_
so sure that, if I trusted myself to his tender
mercies without some corresponding pecuniary
inducement on my part, he would be encouraged
to deliver my milk punctually at my door at
6 A. M. On the other hand, while in a certain
degree such discipline as our economic and
industrial system imposes may be necessary for
the engendering and cultivation of utilitarian
impulses, it by no means follows that the contin-
18
THE MYTH OF LAZINESS
ual, unceasing repetition of the habitual acts
due to this cause is an unqualified blessing to
the individual. As Professor Hobson has said :
·" Everybody wants leisure for his soul to move ·
about in and to grow, not by some closely
prescribed plan of education, but by free
experimentation of its secret powers. A very
slender harvest of happy thoughts and feelings
will justify much apparent idleness. "
The sway of the merely habitual is often
tyrannical. To be in subjection to such
tyranny is to forfeit initiative, spontaneity and
volition. A tale is told of a man who, being
invited to dine out, went to his bedroom t-0 don
his evening attire. Instead of doing so, however,
being unaccustomed to depart from his nightly
habit, he undressed and got into bed. With
implicit reliance upon the habitual we cannot
hope to adjust ourselves to novel situations;
and consequently imitation and the force of
example cannot be depended upon to produce
the fundamental effects upon character which
are desirable for individual growth and develop-
ment. In so far as they are "creatures ofhabit",
men ARE inferior. And this inferiority is
convincingly demonstrated by the supremacy of
drudgery and routine in our social arrangements.
Such arrangements, however conducive to public
convenience, inevitably deaden the soul.
19
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
But is it not better, asks some one, that men
should be condemned to work rather than that
they should waste their lives ?
The reply is this : Work, under existing condi-
tions, tends more often than not to deprive men
of what is best in life, in other words, of the
TRULy NORMAL LIFE. 'We cannot, therefore,
waste what we have not. It will be .time enough
to complain of the misuse of leisure when
enough of leisure is available to the orc:linary
man to make its misuse a possibility.
As it is, the evil effects of drudgery are our
snare. And these are not entirely external. If
men could be made into machines the result
would be otg,erwise. But they cannot. They
have deeper needs. Man has a right to self-
direction, joy and personal liberty. Drudgery
ignores this right. It tends to make him hard,
dull, prosaic and matter of fact. Man at his
best, instinctively rebels against this. He wants
leisure : he craves the opportunity to see visions
and dream dreams. He wants time that he
can call his own. He wants what he is not
conscious of possessing - a soul.
So potent is the mood of idleness upon man
that, when he thinks, he al!Ilost curses his lot.
But he prefers not to complain. So he does
not think. Instead he tries to forget. In the
heart of battle, at the music-hall, with the lure
_.
20
THE MYTH OF LAZINESS
of alcohol, by any means of distraction that
offers, he seeks to lessen his tribulation.
Man is his own enemy, the victim of his own
theories. His delusions derive from the conspir-
acy to which every man is an accomplice.
He affects to think that life must consist of
things which have bulk, weight and motion;
that force and matter can be the only things
that signify. It follows logically that he shuns
the ideal of idleness. In his anxiety to create
he has forgotten that he needs to be re-created,
and that, if he would be re-created, he must
prize the privilege of re-creation. He has despis-
ed this need of nature. He has professed to
believe that the atmosphere of leisure is not
for him. He has failed to recognize or has
denied the appeal of stillness and tranquility.
Unlike Walt Whitman, who fain would "loaf
and invite my soul ", in looking to the "main
chance" he has missed the main thing.
Thus far the trend of civilization has been
mainly in ·the direction of imposing the work-
mood upon man. And now it is dawning upon
him that it is not enough that the poor should
toil and sweat : the well-to-do also should have
their share of drudgery. If work were better
distributed, this, no doubt, would be well. But
the chief object in making more men work
would be to enable all men to play. In other
21
THE IMPRISONED . SPLENDOUR
words, unless by a fair ·apportionment of toil, we
obtain for all classes a larger measure of leisure,
the labour problem will never be solved. At it is,
rich and poor alike are the victims of an iden-
tical idea. External action is in their estimation
the be-all and end-all oflife. But external action,
without internal progress, must ever produce
only "Dead-Sea fruit". The right to work,
without the corresponding enjoyment of leisure,
can never ensure a satisfactory social equilibrium.
But here is the point : Is such an equilibrium
our goal ? and Shall this goal consist in the
mechanical conception of life, which robs us of
every spiritual impulse and reduces life to a
meaningless waste ? Or shall it not rather lie in
a frank recognition and consequent satisfaction
of the claims of the spirit - the humanization
of the true ideal of manhood and womanhood?
We cannot, it is true, afford to ignore the
material factors of life. Industry, economics,
politics, education, and every other incidental
of the environment are of inestimable impor-
tance. But that their importance may be
properly effective we must keep them in their
place. Their place is below, not abo:ve us. Only
by subordinating them to our spiritual welfare
can we become their master - the master of
things; and unless we are master of things we
ourselves are but slaves.
22
CHAPTER II
LIFE,
LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
Work, as a rule, has been advocated on principle:
as an antidote to man's alleged inveterate propen-
sity to slothfulness. And it was on this principle,
that what was least natural to man must
therefore be most wholesome for him, that
Carlyle pronounced his famous benediction
upon toil.
Well may we admire the eloquence evinced
in such an eulogy. At the same time, it is
more than doubtful whether, at any rate to
the toilers themselves, it can ever be completely
convincing. It is all very well, no doubt, in
one's armchair, at a safe distance from the
office, the factory, the mine or the workshop,
to extol the energy and enterprise and industry
which are essential to the performance of
necessary work. Such work needs to be done;
and that somebody can be found to do it- even
when the motives by which he may be actuated
are merely those which prompt hiin to get a
livelihood - may very well evoke our gratitude
23
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
and thankfulness. But people are beginning to
think. The illusions that we have consecrated
with a view to securing obedience and submission
to the existing order, are one by one becoming
threadbare; and few nowadays are prepared to
endorse the sentiment of Carlyle's enthusiastic
deliverance without reservation.
If play is still regarded as too trivial a matter
to be taken seriously, work is coming to be
looked upon as too pathetically tragic a thing,
in many cases, to be tolerated at all. The lot
ofthe toiling masses, it is true, may occasionally
be viewed in too sentimental a light and such
sentiment, we may feel, is mawkish and un-
wholesome. Nonetheless, th e contemplation of
millions of men and women who spend their
entire life in one vast unceasing round of drud-
gery, prompts the social conscience, from time
to time, to utter a word of protest. So that we
are constantly asking ourselves " How will it be
possible to lighten the burden of these people,
and by wh~t means shall we so organise employ-
ment as to enable them to participate in the
institution of leisure?"
In leisure, therefore, we have what is funda-
mentally a moral problem. This, however, is
abundantly evident from a survey of religion.
Chiefest among the values conserved by religion
is the conception of heaven, the beatific hereafter
24
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
wherein man may be permitted to claim exemp-
tion from the ills of earth, pre-eminent among
which is that of enforced-toil. But significant as
this is, it is nevertheless clear that leisure consti-
tutes a problem no less acute than that of labour
itself. And any consideration of this question
raises the point, how is leisure to be secured, and
when it is secured, how are we to dispose of it?
As to the first point it may be said that few have
realised seriously that leisure is something which
it is in man's power to control, while fewer still
have grasped that it should be regarded in the
light of a commodity, like wealth, land or health
to be universally owned, distributed and enjoyed.
Rather is it customary to view leisure as a
privilege : a monopoly, belonging by right
to the fortunate few, whose status an<;!
means entitle them to its exclusive possession
and enjoyment.
Now, on what grounds, let us ask, can such a
conception of leisure be maintained and defend-
ed? or how is it possible to justify any theory of
leisure which would regard it as a class institu-
tion? First, then, it may be replied, leisure is good
because, while it may be abused it is conducive
to much that is beautiful, elegant and excellent.
A man who literally does nothing with his time,
it is true, is a poor argument for leisure. But,
on the other hand, if nobody had any time at
25
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
his disposal for doing nothing, that would be an
even worse argument for the work-principle.
Leisure, in short, so far as it is distrusted is dis-
trusted mainly because it is viewed with a cove-
tous eye. Leisure is not bad : but far too few
of us get enough of it to be certain precisely
how much it is worth. So on the fox-and-grapes
principle, we visit it with ignominy and reproach. _
That, however, is proof ofinsincerity rather than
of sagacity. Without leisure, even as it is, all
would be condemned to toil : whereas, even as
it is, only a very large proportion of the popu-
lation need slave. The rest, though in a minor-
ity, are at least exempt from such an evil, and
are free to devote themselves, as they may
choose, to art, science, literature, invention,
politics, travel, hospital nursing, philanthropy,
and so forth. None of these pursuits, it is true
"pays", in the strictly commercial sense of the
word; but one and all of them, to be under-
taken at all, call for a liberal allowance of
" spare time". Such pursuits, it is true, may
be regarded, and very properly so, as fitting
vocations for the "well to do". Nevertheless,
each one of them, in its own particular fashion,
contributes to the general richness and fulness -
of life. If we are to have grace, refinement,
culture and appreciation for the things of the
mind and the amenities of life, to .say nothing
26
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
of social enthusiasm and nobility of soul,
we must somehow provide the necessary lei-
sure for some person or persons by means of
which they shall be free to follow their true
individual inclinations irrespective of the soul-
deadening and sordid considerations which must
necessarily play so extensive a part in the exis-
tence of the average wage earner.
So far so good, and even as it is, the war
has demonstrated that if only the opportunity
presents itself, the heart, if not the head, may
be depended upon to respond. By thus claiming
an absolute value for leisure, however, regardless
of its application to the individual life, it will
be observed that by far the most important
aspect of the problem is ignored. This being
the essentially personal advantage of leisure to
the community.
To the convenient plea that a leisure class is
in the interest of social welfare, exception may be
taken principally for t~e following reasons :
1. That the mere existence of a leisure class
as such is no necessary guarantee of ensuring the
widespread distribution of the advantages which
are alleged to accrue through such leisure, and
that as a matter of fact,
2. The maintenance of such a class inev~tabJy
i;nvolves, as a corollary, the existence of a class
27
..
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
of toilers, who, ~inus economic freedom, are
compelled to support them as well as themsel-
ves, and forego the very things for which their
labour is requisi!ioned.
Here we may realize, perhaps, that the con-
nection between leisure and lab9ur is somewhat
more intimate than we have been apt to im-
agine; and if so, what we must-see is, that in
leisure we have one of those fundamental
problems whose solution must tax our entire
social energies to the utmost. Why, let us ask,
is the concentration of leisure_in the hands of
the few socially disastrous? . The reason is evi-
dent: it i§ because ofthe inequitable systemwhich
admits of the maldistribution of the means of
enjoyment. Now, these, which are a social
creation, should be enjoyed- not only by the
few, but by all. Moreover, their production
should be entrusted, as far as possible, to the
community as a,....whole. Such being the case,
under a co-operative, rather than a competitive
industrial system, all would have the time, as
well as the opportunity and inclination, for parti-
cipating in the advantages. As it is, however,
the fruits of toil which are consumed by the
leisured.classes are "good" only in an exceed-
ingly restricted ~ense, and -because they enable
the well-to-do few to escape the iniquitiously
sordid lot of the poverty stricken majority.
28
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
From the point of view of the masses, procured
as they are at such terr~fic sacrifice, they are
utterly bad.
The plea for a leisured class, then, considered
with regard to society as a whole, is a plea for
the rankest anarchy; what it involves being no-
thing less than free permission to the favourably
circumstanced few to exploit the unfortunately-
situated many for their private advantage. Such
a plea, obviously, means power, but power
divorced from responsibility. And this fact, in
itself, is sufficient to condemn the theory under
consideration.
There are, however, many kindly and well
intentioned people, who even yet believe it to
be possible, by moral suasion, to readjust our
social arrangements by appealing to the moral
sentiments of the well-to-do classes. But such
a notion, while it may proceed from a touching
faith in man's goodness, does little credit to the
intelligence of its advocates. In the first place
the very conditions under which a leisure class is
maintained are against its chances of enabling
it to realise its obligations. Its ideals, to begin
with, are exclusive rather than comprehensive;
and while they may comprise many elements
of genuine value and importance, their remote-
ness from the practical situation which calls for
consideration, must inevitably preclude any
29
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
extensive enterprise in the direction suggested.
In any real or broad sense, the leisured class is
not social : for " Society" indeed, with a capital
letter, it may care ve,ry much, but of the concrete
and actual state .ofaffairs beyond "Society" it is
for the most part supremely ignorant. Nor
has it the imagination which would enable it
to conceive truly of the circumstances beyond
its immediate vicinity. As much may be
gathered from the efforts which are constantly
being made by persons belonging to the leisured
class. Of the talents of such persons indeed
we need have no doubt. From their ·ranks
many authors of distinction have been drawn, as
well as innumerable clerics, lawyers, politicians,
etc. The labours of such men, however, it
must be confessed, do not seldom fail to satisfy
us. When such a man turns author, for
example, what evidence, as a rule, do his
works afford us of his qualifications to enlighten
us on life?
That he is clever is frequently true : but that
his ability is no less frequently equalled by his
amazing prejudice and class consciousness is
more evident still. Of how many popular
writers who might come within this category can
it be said that they have a message for us ?
And of how many more can we not say that
their interest, what little of it there is, is
GO
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
academic or exotic ? And so of our politicians.
Though they may be actuated by what they
believe to be public spirit, of what avail is it to
them to legislate on behalf of the people, see-
ing that they have never . come into contact
with a single individual outside their own
precious circle ? Of course, our politicians
" know us " - from their own standpoint -
as they see us - in our working clothes or our
Sunday attire ! But what, so long as they fail
to mix with us as one of themselves, can they
be said to know in any real sense about us ?
What wonder, then, that so much of our
legislation should prove abortive ? Such
considerations as these lead us to Professor
Robson's conclusion that " the total severance
of class life from mass life disables our leisured
class from a true handling of the ground issues
of life in any of its great departments "; which
fact, though greatly to be regretted, is distinctly
favourable to the assumption that any appeal
made merely to the " upper class ", however
noble it may appear either to them or to
ourselves, is unlikely to avail in achieving the
looked for results.
Socially considered, then, the defects of leisure,
as a class monopoly, are too obvious to call for
detailed treatment. It may, however, be objected
that such an institution, in spite of its existing
31
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
drawbacks, must have served a purpose, · and
that its survival is intelligible only on the
assumption that, at one time at any rate, its
possession was, upon the whole, advantageous
to the amenities of social life. Let us proceed
to consider this matter.
By way of preliminary, I may remark, the
origin of leisure is very ably dealt with by
Mr. T. Veblen, in his work, "A theory of the
leisure class " ; and in order to understand the
problem in its historical aspect, we cannot
do better than proceed to summarise some
of Mr. Veblen's statements. Briefly, what he
maintains is, that the leisure class took its rise
in very primitive times, but that it is best de-
veloped in the higher stages of barbaric culture.
To realise man's earliest modes of leisure we
cannot afford to overlook the conditions under
which man lived or the avocations which were
congenial to him. These, as Veblen shows,
were exemplified in warfare and the chase. By
means of fighting and hunting man first of all
secured the chance to distinguish himself, and
the trophies which he won through his predatory
exploits constituted his original claim to
recognition and - honour. Might was right.
And those hunters and warriors who could kill
and capture to the greatest advantage became
the acknowledged chiefs. In process of time,
32
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
as social development proceeded, some modi-
fications took place. Instead ·of indiscriminate
slaughter of the weak by the strong, slavery was
introduced; and by this means, those who could
most successfully subjugate the least resisting of
the males, and the women, rose in the general
estimation. These men, as the lords of the
conquered, by their magnanimity and power,
gradually obtained enhanced prestige, until at
length they became the ruling caste. As time
went on, further modifications were needed.
The conception of personal power itself under-
went a change, so that instead of physical
strength, skill and cunning sufficing to obtain
the mastery, intelligence and law-making were
developed. These necessarily involved a higher
order of men, and it was to these that war,
government, religion and sport were entrusted.
Hence the rise of a mode of life in which leisure
was adapted to play the leading part.
Meantime the industrial arts were introduced.
These, however, were entrusted exclusively to
those who occupied a subordinate position or
who were in a state of slavery. Those in a
superior situation, of course, were in a position
to refuse work ; and work, in virtue of the
servitude of those engaged in it, was regarded
as appropriate only to slaves. On the other
hand those who owned the slaves and all that
33
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
slavery could produce, tended to acquire increased
authority, prestige and power.
Throughout his exposition of the subject,
there is one point that Mr. Veblen renders
remarkably clear, and it is of exceptional
importance. The leisure class took its rise not
in idleness, but in ownership. In other words
leisure as such is not synonymous with the
exemption from toil, but with the emancipation
from economic slavery. The powerful and lusty
held sway and dominated their fellows and were
able to command a spacious existence, not
because they were inherently addicted to
parasitic vices, which must necessarily have
proved inimical to society, but because they
were in the privileged position of having the
right to hold and administer property. As
Veblen adds, property is still the basis of con-
ventional esteem; and to have any standing in
the world, one must at least be able to command
such commodities as shall conduce to a decent
if not luxurious existence.
No greater travesty of Veblen's interpretation
of the leisure class could possibly be witnessed
than the conventional conception of a life of
leisure under modern civilised conditions. With
the vast and unexampled concentration of wealth
in the hands of the few and the sloth and pari-
sitism that have been fostered by the more
34
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
sinister side of " capitalism ", no limit has been
placed upon the vulgar and ostentatious parade
of luxury and extravagance that have been
flaunted before us today. Thousands who, until
a generation or two ago, were content to live
quietly have been drawn in the "social vortex",
and have in consequence devoted most of their
time and effort to " keeping up an appearance ";
i. e. living beyond their means. Instead of
production by all for all, consumption by the
fortunately favoured few at the expense of the
necessitous many, has come to be regarded by
a large section of the community as the only
possible or tolerable thing for man. Riches,
instead of being regarded as the means of life,
have been mistaken for life itself. While
expenditure unregulated by any appeal to the
sense of social utility, has been applied to the
satisfaction of artificially stim11lated and often
imaginary wants. Accordingly we have wit-
nessed the vogue of the most insupportable
triviality : social functions, motor expeditions,
restaurant-entertaining upon the most lavish
scale, night clubs, jazz dancing and so forth,
have vied with each other to provide an
antidote to the ennui and boredom that must
otherwise have ensued. Small wonder if those
in revolt against the most sordid aspects ofwage-
slavery and the other abuses of industrialism,
35
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
which co-exist with these features of contempor-
ary life, should sometimes seem bent, when
challenging the claims of the " idle rich ", on
inciting the workers to revolt.
But if the leisure class is a failure- and that it
is we need not doubt - it is far otherwise with
leisure itself. Leisure, real genuine leisure still
needs, as it always has needed, a place in our social
economy. Nor can there· be too much of
it, provided only that it is more equitably
distributed and shared. Here, however, lies
our problem.
From our previous considerations it will be
apparent that, while the few, from the point of
view of the community as a whole, are in a good
position to enjoy an abundance of leisure, to the
grievous disadvantage of the rest, the vast
majority are absolutely deprived from particip-
ating in such leisure. This fact seems to suggest
that no mere curtailment of the privileges of
what is after all a very small minority can hope
to meet the emergency. We cannot actually
confiscate the hours of leisure ofany considerable
number of well-to-do idle people, and . bestow
them upon a large number of overworked
industrialists. If only, we sometimes think,
some of the work which is now performed by
the working class could be given to the members
of the leisured class; and if only some of the
36
LIFE, LEISURE AND DRUDGERY
leisure which is so recklessly squandered by the
leisured class could be given to the workers
what a salutary change we should effect ! But
no mere mechanical re-distribution of goods,
services or time could of itself effect the
necessary re-adjustment. No mere quantitative
solution of the question can possibly enable us
to introduce such modifications into our
industrial and social order as shall tend to
guarantee to all the conditions of a decent and
adequate existence. Our ideal, it must frankly
be seen, involves a qualitative solution, so that
unless we revolutionise our whole life-conception
from within, we need hope to secure no per-
manent benefit. On the face of it, the actual
aggregate amount of leisure, in terms of hours,
enjoyed by the comparatively well-to-do, if
actually distributed among the less fortunate
would not go round. Nor would the accession
of a million or so well-to-do people to the ranks
of labour itself appreciably reduce the exertions
of the present toilers. The sought-for change,
evidently, must be brought about by more
intelligent means.
In conclusion, it may be pointed out that,
while no merely mechanical readjustment can
prove effectual, the problem of leisure bears the
most intimate relation to that of labour. Not
until there is greater equalisation of means and
37
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
opportunity, and not before class interests are
subordinated to the general welfare, can we
hope for a solution of the matter. When, and
only when, leisure, like wealth, is owned by the
community ~ when men are no longer
exploited and enslaved by the selfishness of the
few for the folly of the many, will dn,idgery
disappear and relaxationbeaccessible tothe many.
38
CHAPTER III
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE
AND RELAXATION
The exclusive identification ofour most imper-
ative necessities with the laborious and strenuous
ideal, is, as we have already seen, both arbitrary
and fallacious. The things that matter most to
us are not by any means invariably those which
the accredited moralists have upheld for our
admiring wonder. And certainly something may
be said for the wilful perversity of man which
has instinctively impelled him to protest against
what was alleged to be "good for him". In
truth, while, in sanctifying work, we have made
the best of a bad job, in refusing to accept toil
as the be-all and end-all of life, we have pro-
claimed our right to participate in the essential
blessings which should be the prerogative of every
child of man.
The attitude towards this question has, for
some time past, signified something of a revolt.
In the craving which exists on all sides to-day
for increased freedom, change, variety and joy,
we have a significant re-action against, not only
39
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
the more deplorable features of present-day
existence, but the whole moral economy of the
past. Man, we are convinced, was not created
to be the slave that circumstances have made
him. The soul-deadening effect of dreary mono-
tony and unrelieved routine can have no eleva-
ting effect upon his life and character. And, in
consequence, we are prepared to recognise the
claims which are advanced on behalf of legisla-
tion and social organisation that, while it would
not lose sight of all-round efficiency, would still
provide for the satisfaction of man's primitive
needs. One of the most convincing illustrations
of the need for such provision was witnessed
· at the outbreak of the world war. Many a man
who had previously contented himself with fol-
lowing the daily round of a life passed in the
factory, shop or office, positively gave a sigh of
relief. The war would at least put an end to
that for a time for him! Accordingly we found
numbers of men who were only too glad to jump
at the chance of quitting civil life for the army.
Here at least was an excuse for casting aside
the dreary, drab existence that had been passed
in the unending grind for bread and butter.
Upon the subsequent disillusionment of these
men it is unnecessary to dwell ; that is a
matter of recent history. On the other hand,
the alacrity with which these men respond-
40
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
ed to the national appeal, under the old
voluntary system, was the source of dismay to
many people, who saw in it nothing but the
unseemly interruption of the work habit. To
these persons, civilization bore no essential refer-
ence to the inner needs of man, but was to be
simply an interminable process of probation in
the office, factory, emporium, school and labo-
ratory. Fortunately, these theorists were not to
have the last word. Altough their vision omitted
the obvious brutalities entailed in warfare, it no
less excluded all reference to the fundamental
instincts of human life, including the impulse
to serve, to strive, and to exercise voluntary
responsibility. Hence, in failing to reckon suf-
ficiently with the evergrowing distaste for the
effete conditions imposed by modern life upon
man, these "progressivists" were positively instru-
mental in precipitating the calamity which
befell us.
Of all the disorders which have been inherent
in our social system, none has been more
radically symptomatic than that which has
failed to take account of and to satisfy those
instincts and impulses whose exercise is requisite
to the normal condition of man.
Prior to the war, every town dweller realised
this. High pressure and tension were the order
of the day. And this was visible no less in our
41
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
work than in our popular type of recreation.
Sensationalism flourished ; and the vogue of
such forms of amusement as the "tango" and
other such extraordinary means of spectacular
entertainment, variety displays, the cinema,
football contests and the like bore witness to
the unsatisified cravings of their millions of
patrons. Our leisure was perilously strenuous.
It gave evidence offatigue and exhaustion.
To the average moralist, of course, all this
was exceedingly deplorable. Unaccustomed to
the task of serious investigation, he speedily
became impatient, and warned us that man had
become decadent and corrupt. In reality, it
was the moralist who was at fault. The dis-
quieting symptoms were due to the frantic and
widespread efforts which were being made to
escape from a too tense and serious mode of life.
In great part, this fact was becoming apparent
to the man-in-the-street who, having become
out of patience .with the alleged pronenesses of
mankind to evil was in open rebellion against
the current explanations which were vouchsafed
him. Mankind, he maintained, was the victim
of "conditions" and at the root of the trouble
lay economic disorders to which it was possible
to trace all such symptoms as the moralists
professed to be able to diagnose. What wontj.er,
seeing that the great majority of men were
42
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
exploited by a system in which only the few
flourished, they should seize every opportunity
which presented itself of escaping from their
sordid surroundings? As a matter of fact, the
explanation, no less than the diagnosis, was
superficial in the extreme. The phenomenon
in question constituted not only a protest against
evil economic conditions, but also a revolt
against a mode of life in general that we
have since realised was inimical to human
welfare.
In the craze for the sensational, and the vogue
for the spectacular, therefore, we may see a
PSYCHOLOGICAL implication. And this we may
define as the morbid rebellion of the instincts
against the impracticable course which had
been followed in stimulating the mind at the
expense of the body. This, as I say, has been
better realised since, the situation which was
createQ. by the state ofaffairs that existed in r gI 4.
On the other hand, civilization, it must be
admitted, has something to be said in its favour.
To begin with, it has certainly proved instru-
mental in developing the capacity for voluntary
attention. It has stimulated thought; adapted
man for undertaking laborious tasks : guided
his capacity for analysis, and augmented his
power for concentration. The effects, however,
of civilization have not unhappily ended with
43
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
these desirable results : but have produced in
addition a somewhat alarming state of tension
and strain. Upon this point many of our more
philosophic psychologists have of late seen fit
to dwell. And, as typical of their attitude, I
may profitably cite the following passage from
"The great society" of Mr Graham Wallas :
"We cannot in St. Paul' s sense "mortify "
our dispositions. If they are not stimulated,
they do not therefore die, nor is the human being
what he would be if they had never existed.
If we leave unstimulated, or, to use a shorter
term, if we "baulk" any one of our main dis-
positions, curiosity, property, trial and error,
sex, and the rest, we produce in ourselves a
state of nervous strain. It may be desirable
in any particular case of conduct that we
should do so, but we ought to know what we
are doing. The baulking of each disposition
produces its own type of strain ; but the dis-
tinctions between the types are, so far, unnamed
and unrecognised, and a trained psychologist
would do a real service to civilized life if he
would carefully observe them. One peculiarity
of the state of "baulked disposition" is that it
is extremely difficult for the sufferer to find his
way out of it. The stimulus must come from
outside. When once he is "dull" or "flat" or
"sick of things" or whatever the name may be
44 -
-SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
which he gives to his feelings, he cannot, unless
he is a man of quite exceptional resource and
nervous elasticity, invent anything to do which
will "stimulate him".
Our age, it is clear, has done not a little to
give rise to the accumulated sense of strain and
tension of which Mr. Wallas here speaks; and,
in consequence, it is responsible for much of
the lack of peace, poise, and harmony that we
witness. But this, very evidently, though not
unrelated to our economic ills, goes far deeper.
Whatever be the causes, however, the efforts are
witnessed in the thousand and one nervous
affections, rapid and extreme fatigue of the
higher brain centres, and the corresponding
demand for increased relaxation.
Such phenomena, though morbid, are not
unnatural, and _
constitute merely a species of
subconcious rebellion on the part of the instincts
which are denied full and free expression against
the exacting demands of society. This up to
a point is inevitable : and its due recogni-
tion by every member of society is manifestly
compatible with the well-being of the commun-
ity as a whole. Beyond that point, however,
the usages and restrictions which are imposed
upon the individual cannot but have a delete-
rious effect. _And this fact is instinctively reali-
sed when advantage is taken of an opportunity
45
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
to protest against such hampering restrictions.
In all forms of · "unconventional" behaviour,
whether it be an outbreak of temper, or a fit of
intemperance, or some form of creative effort
akin to the exercise of the imagination, as it is
in art, we see the expression of these desires
where thwarting has led to a mode of gratifica-
tion outside the prescribed limits.
Nor is it without reason that, with the
average man, the protest should take the form
either of a debauch or outburst of temper, since
the facilities for satisfying one's instincts by
means of alcohol or retaliation are so enor-
mously more accessible than those which would
afford other and better means of gratification.
Man's consciousness of his needs, after all, is so
much stronger th-an his ·intelligence to gratify
them wisely, that, in nine cases out of ten, he
naturally takes what he believes to be the shorter
cut to his destination. The man, who, before
beer became a beverage only for millionaires,
insisted that the best way out of Manchester
was a shillingsworth of liquor, was at least
aware of the naked truth. He was conscious
at any rate of a baulked desire which led him
to seek something better than the squaller and
dirt of a manufacturing city. The beer gave
him temporary relief. But had he approached
a moralist of the conventional orderit is doubtful
46
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
whether he would have got even as much as
that.
For the moralist in his anxiety to win us to
his theories has been painfully addicted to the
pitiful practice of dodging facts. Excepting
for a theory of the original depravity of man
he has abstained altogether from investigating
the nature of man. That man was fearfully
and miraculously prone to seek consolation in
"pleasure" and that such "pleasure" meant
immoderate indulgence in strong drink, sensual
vice and other unlawful practices, our moralists
have taken for granted. And that concessions
to the frailty of human nature must be made,
our legislators also, following them, have believed.
As a natural consequence, instead of making
better provision for the baulked dispositions
which society has engendered, we have let
things go from bad to worse, and then
complained because, for all our civilization, no
corresponding moral advance has been accom-
plished. Such advance, I may as well say, in
view of the fact that we have allowed our
resources for gratifying man's thwarted impulses
to be commercialised, must certainly have
proved nothing short of a miracle.
Our "moral tradition", then, having blinded
us to the facts, must certainly be regarded as
immoral. Not only has it encouraged the
47
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Puritanic prejudice which has precluded a
sympathetic comprehension of the needs of
mankind; it has hypocritically led us to tolerate
only the coarser modes ofgratifying those needs.
Of these modes, we may make mention of the
public house, the turf, and the cinema. That
neither one nor all of these is in itself inconsistent
with human welfare, I need not observe. At
the same time, who doubts that the interests
that are served by the promotion of these
objects are commercial and that, such being
the case, the true welfare of those to whorn
they ostensibly minister is only a secondary
consideration? Much virtuous indignation, from
time to time, is expended upon those who spend
their time and money in frequenting the picture
palace, the public house, the race course and
similar resorts; and many of the objections
which are brought against them in their existing
form are doubtless valid enough. At the same
time, who doubts that such institutions do supply
a very real want of man's nature - a want
that at present no moral system in existence has
been able to satisfy ? -
If we are to set up as innovators, therefore,
we must begin not by reforming others, but by
informing ourselves. . And this is why I must
now take the liberty of proceeding to discuss the
various types of relaxation appropriate to man.
48
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
And first of all let me speak of play.
But what is play ? This is an important
question, and one that has suitably enough
engaged the attention of many serious and
learned persons. We have Herbert Spencer's
theory, for instance. Whether Spencer even as
a child ever played like ordinary children may
be open to question. But however that may
be, his views are sufficiently diverting to call
for notice. According to Spencer, play com-
prises those activities which do not immediately
subserve the vital processes; they are due, he
says, to surplus vigour. We play "to let off
steam" as it were. Now this theory sounds
very plausible no doubt; and some people who
are brimful of life and spirits will naturally be
inclined to endorse the assertion of so learned a
man. But that will be simply because they
will wish to go ori with their play and spare
their brain all critical effort. In point of fact,
Spencer's theory is sheer nonsense. Play is no
by-product of a healthy organism. It is on the
contrary its supreme concern. On Spencer's
theory, however, play only comes in to use up
the energy the rest of which is to be consumed
with work.
We are built, he says in effect, to labour.
But why do children play? And why does every-
body else who is occupied in a congenial pursuit
49
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
play? Spencer did not know nor will his theory
help us to account for these facts. Play, not
work, is what comes most natural to us.
Another theory of play is that advanced by
Groos. In Groos' judgment play serves an
educational purpose; and children, like animals,
play in order to prepare themselves for their
vocation in later life. But to see an intention
like this in play is to miss its essential signific-
ance. The child does not play merely because
it is young and because its immature instincts
predispose it to activities which are to subserve
other purposes in after life. It simply enjoys
a period of infancy to which play is appro-
priate.
·Upon the whole, the most tenable view of
play is that given by Dr. G. Stanley Hall, who,
in his volumes, "Adolescence" observes that play
is " the motor habits and spirit of the past
of the race, persisting in the present, as rudi-
mentary functions sometimes of and always akin
to rudimentary organs". Thus, we do not, as
Groos asserts, rehearse in play-activities those
modes of behaviour which are useful to us in
after life : we rather revert in the play habit to
altogether more primitive activities. Play, there-
fore, as Dr. Hall remarks, never practises the
phyletically new. Children when playing do not
exercise the faculties which are called out in
50
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
later life and which would enable them to fit
themselves for the serious duties of life. Even the
child with its doll is not, as Groos would lead us
to suppose, graduating in Nature's school for
mothercraft; for motherhood involves the exer-
cise of faculties which are entirely beyond the
play-habit and which no play-habit as such can
stimulate or engender. What we see exhibited
in all such recreations is the exercise of atavistic
and rudimentary functions, which as Hall tells
us will in many cases " abort before maturity, but
which live themselves out in play like the tad-
pole's tail, that must be both developed and used
as a stimulus to the growth of legs which will
otherwise never mature. "
"The young", writes Hall, " grow up in the
same forms of motor activity as old generations
that have long preceded them, only to a limited
extent, and if the form ofevery human occupation
were to change to-day, play would be unaffected
save in some of its superficial imitative forms.
It would develop the motor capacities, impulses
and fundamental forms of our past heritage, and
their transformi tion into later acquired adult
forms is progressively later. In play every mood
and movement is instinct with heredity.
Thus we rehearse the activities of our ancestors,
how far back we know not and repeat their
work in summative and adumbrated ways. It
51
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
is reminiscent, albeit unconsciously, of our line
ofdescent and each is the key to the other. The
psycho-motive impulses that prompt it are the
forms in which our forebears have transmitted to
us their habitual activities. Thus stage by stage
we re-enact their lives. " ·
This goes a long way to account for play. To
begin with, it suggests a solution to the question,
why is play pleasant? Play is pleasant simply
because, when we play, we satisfy impulses that
are natural to us : we follow instincts which
have perpetuated the race-life, and in doing so,
exercise those primitive functions which are
indissolubly interwoven with our fundamental
existence. The form which play usually takes
exemplifies this.
When playing children instinctively run, romp,
leap, jump, climb, wrestle, swim, make bon-fires,
gather fruit and flowers, throw missiles, etc.
All such activities are of exceedingly primitive
origin. They simply recapitulate the activities
of the childhood of the race. Man from the
earliest ages was accustomed to resort to such
modes of behaviour ; when he found himself in
the midst of the unruly forces of Nature,
surrounded by wild-beasts, homeless, and without
the means of subsistence, he instinctively acted
upon such impulses as enabled him to escape
from his foe, take shelter, climb trees and dwell
52
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
in caves and go in search of food. These
activities were not of a laborious nature. Man
pursued when hunger compelled him to do so.
He took refuge in flight, from a sense of
security which the exercise of his locomotive
apparatus gave him. And so of the child.
When it plays it reverts to habits of racial origin
and significance. The child's love of climbing,
for instance, is merely due to the survival of
the self-same instinct which led its ancestors to
seek safety in the trees. Its notorious addiction
to the fascination of puddles and fire., may no
less be due to the impulses which led primitive
man to coerce the unruly elements into doing
his bidding.
Such considerations as these, which demons-
trate the racial origin of play-activities, suggest
to us that the functions of which we are speaking
are un-intellectual. Play, involving as it does
well-worn brain-tracts is, therefore, the result,
not of mental power, properly so-called, but of
certain organic necessities of our nature. For
this reason, it stands in direct contrast to the
exercise of those volitional and intelligent opera-
tions which entail sustained attention, concen-
tration, abstraction and analysis. Play is needed
principallyfor the reason that it is pre-intellectual.
The mental powers which develop latest in
evolutionary life, are highly subject to fatigue.
53
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Hence any prolonged strain to which they may
be put, would speedily produce exhaustion and
nervous debility unless means were resorted to,
to establish equilibrium. Play furnishes us
with such a means, and through such purposeless
activities permits of recuperation. Play instead
ofproducing further fatigue, acts as a restorative.
This involves a psychological reason. It is
because play provides for the exercise of simple,
primitive activities. These correspond to a
mode of release from the rigid inhibition
induced by social pressure. In play, we simply
return to the childhood ·of the race. Of this
fact, it is true, we are individually unconscious,
but all spontaneous diversions of the kind are
intelligible on the hypothesis. Thus, children,
when playing, invariably show their preference
for some simple object, such as a stick or a
spade. No child, if left to itself, selects the
expensive mechanical toys which appeal to the
adult. The explanation is perfectly simple : the
child, when · unsophisticated, is more clearly
aware of its primitive needs, and such needs
prompt it to choose such playthings as afford
the freest scope for the exercise of its instincts.
The doll and the knife, therefore, are admirably
suited, in the child's estimation, to its needs.
In point of fact they answer to two latent
race-memones.
54
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
From this it is easy to see why the child is
attracted, like elder persons in their play-
moods, by the thrilling and sensational. The
thrilling and sensational are the old and ele-
mental. In warfare and in racing, and under the
spell of the sporting and adventurous instincts,
the human race started on its pilgrimage.
And it is to the arousal of these impulses that
the fascination of such pursuits may be attribu-
ted. It may seem somewhat paradoxical, but it
i,s true, nevertheless, that witnessing a sensational
event, reading a thrilling romance, or taking part
in an exciting game of chance, may have the
effect of tranquillising a person. This would be
unintelligible were it not for the obvious fact
that, when participating in such recreations, we
are working the older, more basilar and more
primitive parts of the brain. In doing so we
thereby inhibit the superior and more recently
acquired powers, which have the chance of
becoming rested.
Man's need of exercise, therefore, is funda-
mental and so true is this that man rests, not
when he abstains from every activity, but when
he rings the changes upon his various modes of
activity. Modern man has complained of the
toilso:rneness and fatigue of having so much of
his daily life confined in an office, seated upon
a stool. All things considered it is marvellous
55
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
that he should have adapted himself to such an
unnatural posture as he has. But modern man's
complaint, that it is sitting that is responsible for
his fatigue, is only half a truth : it is because he
refrains from using his legs. Originally, man
used his feet to a far greater extent than at
present. And this demand of his nature, though
seriously interrupted by the conditions under
which he lives, and the multiplication ofmechan-
ical contrivances which obviate the necessity
of his walking, has not been eradicated. Man,
in short, modern man, when he sits for any
length of time, becomes fatigued, not because he
happens to have been sitting, but because his
right to use his legs has been ignored. In
consequence of which he is a victim of a
"baulking" of his nature.
This will enable us to realise the extraordi-
nary exhilaration which attends such pursuits
as golf. Men seek, and find, relief in golf not
alone because they escape from the physical
stuffiness of their office and business-life into
the fresh air ; but also because, through the
exercise and muscular effort which such games
involve, they are temporarily released from the -
clutch of conventional existence. And this is
fatiguing, not because it is essentially subversive
of their natural inclinations, but because, at
best, it imposes such inhibitions as are calcul-
56
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
ated to produce tension and strain. Thus the
need for periodic relief becomes, under civilized
conditions, imperative. And hence it is that,
not only in play, but in many other ways,
relaxation has been prescribed.
One such means is religion. Ultimately, all
religious exercises, are so many devices for
"letting go". Religion, to prove effectual, should
sustain us. Music again, constitutes a marvel-
lous restorative in cases of emotional and nervous
strain. Yet another means is sleep, in which
according to Freud, the dreams play an enor-
mously efficacious role. As for dreaming,
according to Freud, so far from its tending to
disturb the sleeper, it positively facilitates his
rest. Its function, he tells us, is that of grati-
fying the wishes which are withheld from us in
our waking state. We dream in order that our
wishes may be fulfilled. Our dreams provide
us with a realisation of our wishes. An illus-
tration may prove helpful. A certain frienq of
the writer's, happened to be away from home.
He was not well off and his wife was obliged to
write to him for money. Unfortunately he was
not in a position to comply with her request.
·But on going to sleep he had a dream in which
he was taking a walk and picking up half-pen-
nies everywhere. ·
The dream, of course, came in response to
57
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
the husband's desire to be in the position to
send his wife the money. Freud's theory of
psychology is based entirely upon the existence
of such repressed wishes. We are all, he says,
victims of desires which we have to repress.
Some of these desires are " evil " : other wishes
are the forlorn hopes which we refuse to brood
over. We brush them aside; and think that,
by an effort of the will, we have made an end
of them. In reality, weh ave only BURIED THEM
ALIVE; in our subconscious life, they still lead
a half-animate existence, and struggle and strive
for expression. Fits of rage and weeping, which
are often due to no assignable cause, are due
to suppressed desires which slumber in the
subconscious depths of our nature. And until
these are squarely admitted and faced, or until
they yield to psycho-analytic treatment, we are
liable to suffer from the effects consequent upon
their repression. Not without reason has religion
recommended confession on the part of those
who, but for some sympathetic ear into which
to pour their troubles, would be compelled
to become a prey to their baulked wishes and
unrealized ideals.
Among the many available modes of relief
from such tension, however, none is more
effectual than laughter. Laughter has long been
defended as one of the most important factors
58
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
in health; as a nerve tonic, it has found innu-
merable advocates. Yet laughter is frequently
frowned upon as improper. To be "correct",
we are often obliged to preserve a sober and
grave demeanour; whereas a hearty laugh would
be of incalculable benefit. For laughter, like
no other act, brings relief.
Laughter, in a wholly unique manner, frees
us from strain. Many a difficult situation may
be saved if only it is met by a good laugh.
To laugh means to get the better of things.
We laugh not only at the comical : we make
things comical by laughing at them. In tragedy,
the will is over-powered : in comedy, man is
more than a match for circumstances. He bobs
up smiling every time. Laughter is the breath
oflife. People will sometimes laugh under peculiar
conditions : they may have run to catch a bus,
and only just caught it. Down they will sit,
laughing. The situation, of course, is not in
the least funny except to the onlooker; and even
he may be at a loss to account for such mirth.
The explanation, of course, lies in the sense of
relief at having accomplished a feat little short
of impossible !
Laughter it is evident possesses a psychological
significance. This is clear from the fact that it
implicates the muscles of the diaphragm and
chest, as well as those of the face. The exercise
59
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
of these muscles brings a sense of relief from
inner tension and constraint. Hence the exhi-
larating effects of any comical situation or
personality. It appeals not exclusively, if at
all, to the intellectual faculties : but produces a
bodily reaction which is followed by a sense of
liberation and comfort.
When we consider the deadly seriousness of
modern life, and the exacting demands which
are made upon us by the proprieties and
conventions of society with a view to inhibiting
the spontaneous expression of our constitutional
impulses, the significance of the occasions of
laughter will be realized. Not alone in Germany,
but wherever civilization has extended its sway,
life' inevitably tends to assume a sedate and
sober aspect; in consequence of which we may
say, in the words of an eminent authority, that
all such civilizing influences involve the progres-
sive renunciation of our natural instincts.
All group life, in point of fact, is exposed to
the same drawb~cks, inasmuch as it calls for
restraint, repression and self denial on the part
of its members. In one way, no doubt, this is
immensely advantageous; since, b_utfor the claims
of society, the individual would remain destitute
ofthose qualities which are exclusively conferred
upon him by contact with his fellows. Beyond
a certain point, however, social pressure is little
60
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
short ofdisastrous. Hence, the subordination of
the individual, which may exhibit itself either in
acts of violence, excentricity, or outbursts of
laughter, which, inconvenient they may appear,
are blessings in disguise. In his heart of hearts,
every man cherishes a grudge against the con-
ventions and usages of polite society, by means
of which he is kept in his place. Law and order,
though necessary from the point of view of-the
majority, are invariably irksome to the minority,
who instinctively rebel against the supremacy of
such institutions.
Accordingly, all lapses, irregularities and
deviations from the accepted ways of doing
things produce mirthful reactions upon us. Some-
body, instead of walking with his accl!stomed
dignity, effects a hop, skip and a jump; or
someone, in defiance of custom, adopts exagger-
ated gestures, either unconsciously or with a
view to arouse merriment: we instantly indulge
in laughter. The vogue of Charlie Chaplin
appears to be attributable to no other cause
than our secret satisfaction at the temporary
suspension of the customary and habitual.
Charlie may be nonsensical, but he is not sense-
less. Only things are senseless, and every man
has a right to protest against their tyrannical
monotony.
Law and order -may be perfectly tolerable in
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
their place; but when they prevent manhood
from finding its legitimate sphere they ·become
a nuisance. Hence, our delight at the-escapades
of Charlie. He is a veritable law unto himself:
and so much so, that we cannot help feeling
that we should like his chance for having our
fling - even at the risk ofincurring a minimum
of inconvenience. His is a sort of vicarious
enjoyment, in which we are the willing partici-
pants. Charlie, for all his folly, is never quite
so stupid and absurd as the things and persons
he refuses to take seriously. Comedy and tra-
gedy blend in his exploits; but comedy predo-
minates, as it should; and he comes up smiling
in the end.
It is not however, only by bodily contortions
that mirthful relaxation is manifested. Lapses
in speech also may accomplish similar results.
And in this connection, we may readily appre-
ciate the potent appeal of PROFANITY. Whence
proceeds the fascination ofthe profane? Clearly,
it is due to the attempt to effect one's escape
from the trammels of propriety, decorum and
conventionality. In our inmost selves we all
despise the taboos which the exigencies of "law
and order " have prescribed for us-. And in
our efforts to get the better of these, the indul-
gence in a profane expression brings with it a
sense of intense relief. It supplies, therefore, a
62
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
mode of release from tension, and affords us a
vent for emotions that " polite society " is
unwilling to countenance. Many expressions
that are used in swearing are clearly traceable
to a reaction against the influence of social
taboos. They refer, for the most part, either to
very primitive instincts or to " sacred" objects.
As to the religious association of the oath, it
may be pointed out that it was originally used
to give force to a statement. SociolOgically,
veracity is not an early virtue, but to reinforce
an assertion by mentioning the name of a sacred
being, was calculated to impress one's hearers.
Perhaps, however, the social antipathy which is
provoked by the profane, is principally attri-
butable to the survival ofthe superstitious dread
in which the spoken word of a malignant-
minded person is frequently held among primi-
tive mankind. On this point the following
passage, from " Alpha and Omega ", by
Miss Jane Harrison, is illuminating :
"A savage has an enemy, he wants to hurt him,
so he makes a rude image ofhis enemy and sticks
pins into it. Here, we are sometimes told, the
savage acts in obedience to a false law of anal-
ogy; he argues, "As I stick pins into this image,
so may sharp things be stuck into my enemy,
and he be hurt". The real explanation is far
simpler. The savag~ cannot get at his enemy,
6,
3
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
who is remote and anyhow reluctant, so he gets
his psychological relief by sticking pins into the
image : he does so for the sheer joy of the thing.
Such embryonic joy is not dead to-day. We get
a letter that hurts us : instinctively we tear it up.
There is more in this than obedience to a law
of false analogy. The mere tearing of it up
makes us feel better ".
The subjective delight, however, at another's
.expense, has unquestionably been connected,
and is still unthinkingly ~connected, with the
malign influeQce once supposed to derive from
such procedures. Hence, one may conclude, the
ban upon the cut.Se.
The significance, however, which Miss Har-
rison sees in the Sl:lbjective satisfaction afforded
by the indulgence in this practice, is amply borne
out by an appeal to the situations in which pro-
fane expressions are resorted to. For example,
in his work, THE PSYCHOLOGY OF RELAXATION,
Pro£ G. T. ,W. Patrick, speaks of the case of
" a German peasant, who left the train for a
moment at a small station orr his journey", and
who "returned just in time to see the doors of
the cars shut~ by the guard". What followed?
Just this : as soon as he realized that he had been
left behind, he stopped wit h an expression of
dismay, and then with a tremendous force
pronounced the word " SAKRAMENT ". The
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
explanation which Pro£ Patrick provides is as
follows:
"The "sAKRAMENT" which the peasant uttered
completes in acertain sorry fashion the activity
which should have been completed by his en-
tering the carriage. The emotion, his disap-
pointment and chagrin, are psychical states which
accompany the attempts at readjustment or
inhibition, and are to a certain extent allayed '
by the oath. As a means of restoring disturbed
balance and of relieving inner tension, profanity
thus has a CATHARSIS effect similar to that of
laughter and play and may thus appear as a
form of relaxation. This" . effect is probably
further increased by the elemental characteristic
of profanity itsel£ The individual revels in an
outburst of primitive language giving him a
certain sense of release and escape from the
constant inhibitions which society demands".
From profanity, we may pass on to
the subject of alcohol. Of its universal appeal,
nobody can remain in doubt. But to what is
such an appeal due ? By some, this has been
ascribed to the inherent depravity of man : by
others, it has been regarded as due rather to
human ignorance, or as a substitute for good
cooking. Careful inquiry, however, goes to
show that neither assumption is correct.
65
THE. IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
It may perhaps be as well, in the first place,
to observe that innumerable misconceptions
upon the value of alcohol have been prevalent
and still exist. It has been regarded, for exam-
ple, as a food substitute, and civilized man has
frequently taken it under the impression that
it would answer the same purpose as solid
food. While, however, it may appear to
offer similar advantages, the results attending
the administration of alcohol lend no support to
this assumption. Nor is alcohol a stimulant.
Its tendency is to depress. But this is not to say
that alcohol produces no definite effect. On the
contrary, it deadens pain, relieves care, and
produces a general sense of ease, well-being and
contentment.
Alcohol is desired, therefore, not because it
produces (as is so often imagined) states of
consciousness of higher intensity : but precisely
because it lowers such tension. Its result is to
produce a temporary paralysis of the higher
brain centres. And this has the EFFECT of
stimulation. But such stimulation is only
apparent and illusory. Alcohol, then, it may
be said, supplies an undeniable need; but this
often at too great a cost. The resort to
alcoholic " stimulation " is disastrous especially
owing to its after-effects : the following ine-
vitable reaction causing a morbid or unhealthy
66
SOCIAL DISCIPLINE AND RELAXATION
state both of the physical and psychical
orgarusm.
This, however, is not to say that the person
who seeks relief in alcohol is a natural pervert
or degenerate. Far otherwise. Nor must we
regard alcohol save as one of the least innocuous
safety-valves that society has provided for the
relief of man. There are innumerable such
safety-valves : and among them we may include
sport, art, and certain varieties of " religion ".
But, demoralising as such agencies may be, it
is, after all, highly questionable whether the
excessive indulgence in either drink or any
form of pleasure is more to be regretted than
the monotony, routine and drudgery that lead
to it. In any case; the only safe remedy for
the abuse of such expedients is a more intelli-
gent apprehension of the true function and
value of relaxation.
Of all our criminal follies, none has been
fraught with greater evil than our puritanical
neglect of this question. Moral enthusiasm is,
unquestionably, one of the most tremendous of
human powers : but, unless it be directed by
the intellect, its results may be far from
beneficial. To take work in a serious spirit
may be right : but to consider play from a
frivolous standpoint is wrong. " Inspiration ",
not " perspiration ", should be our watchword.
67
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
And for that, our conception of life must
involve a revaluation of existence upon a more
recreative basis. Unless brains are made to tell
where brains are required, they will be applied
in undesirable directions. This is where
" capitalism " scores. Vast enterprises, which
are conducted altogether irrespective of their
moral and social consequences, are promoted,
which, in default of better ones, secure wides-
pread public support. Museums, art galleries
and play grounds may be advocated by the
authorities; but the cinemas, public-houses and
race-course constitute the most formidable
competitors to such institutions ; and this for
the obvious reason that they provide an
atmosphere which, while it may lack elevation,
is neverthless destitute of dullness. In other
words, our organised cultural resources fail, as
yet, to appeal to those cravings which require
to be catered for. To make these attractive,
we must forget the ponderous abstractions which
have regulated our efforts to promote them.
Instead, we must consider the concrete psycho-
logy of human nature. And, until this is made
our paramount problem, no solution of either
labour or recreation can be found.
68
CHAPTER IV
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
Happiness seems to be the most fundamental
craving of human nature. Like the desire for
sunshine and fresh air, or the appetite for food,
happiness, and the wish to realize it, appears to
be a normal condition of life. Without it, none
can be said to live in the true sense of that
word.
When, however, we proceed to·consider the
actual state of average mankind, we discover
that comparatively few are vouchsafed anything
approaching the degree of happiness to which
it would seem they are · entitled. Seldom is
happiness our portion. Rarely, if ever, are
people to be met who would describe themselves
as thoroughly happy. And the more such
people begin to think of their lot, the less likely
are they to express satisfaction with it. Most
of us are more or less dissatisfied and unhappy.
Many men are downright miserable. And the
majority probably are induced to prolong their
existence only on the offchance that the future
may hold better things in store for them. Why
is this?
69
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
In speaking of happiness one should not omit
mention of the claim which man makes to be
happy. Everybody feels that somehow happi-
ness is his due : that he has a right to expect
it. Yet this would appear to be in complete
defiance of experience. Human life in the
aggregate, whatever the facile optimists may
allege, has never yielded an excess of happiness.
Nor have the conclusions of the philosophers
and religiously-minded suggested that happiness
need be looked for - at least upon earth.
Man, it was said of old, is born to trouble :
tribulation is our appointed portion. And this
idea has met with emphatic endorsement at the
hands of some of the most modern of men.
Mr. Shaw, for instance, has not scrupled to
remind us that he has long ago renounced
· happiness as an ideal. In his own words :
"Happiness is not the object of life : life has
no object : it is an end in itself; and courage
consists in the readiness to sacrifice happiness
for an intenser quality of life."
Whether this is indeed a higher ideal than
that of happiness is perhaps a more debatable
problem than Mr. Shaw appears to think.
For, unless one restricts the term to the exclu-
sive enjoyment of sensuous pleasure, it is
manifestly evident that any off-hand assumption
70
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
of this sort is as meaningless as it is arbitrary.
Mr. Shaw, no doubt, like many more, derives
little satisfaction from the prospect of instantly
attaining a condition of existence in which every
immediate wish would be gratified without the
necessity of effort or struggle. But, in saying
this much, does he commit himself to any denial
ofthe self-evident truth that the worth-whileness
oflife consists, in the main, in the preponderance
of pleasurable experiences? Of course he does
not. Clearly, while he professes to abandon the
pursuit of the ideal of happiness, his gift for
paradox has only led him to reconceive of this
ideal, and to picture a form of happiness which
is to afford him an intenser sense of happiness.
We need not, then, take exception to the
popular belief that happiness is a legitimate
object of human life. Nor need we even ques-
tion the soundness of the instinct that has
inspired the superstition that there is a vital
connection between happiness and virtue. Such
a connection, indeed, does exist. This was
especially apparent to the Israelites. To the
Jew, human well-being was attainable on one
condition : the due observance of the Mosaic
law. But this was an attempt to prove that
moral and material well-being were eventually
one and the same thing. Thus, it was held
virtue ensured peace, honour, prosperity and
71
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
length of days : whilst vice entailed misery,
disgrace, and inner discord. Providence showed
his favour by rewarding ~the faithful with
appropriate blessings : these, however, were
received upon earth, and were not reserved for
post-mortem bliss (which was not seriously
· considered by the Jews). Hence the psalmist's
enthusiastic deliverance :
"I have been young and now ·am old ; yet
have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his
seed begging bread."
Such a conception, in spite of its crudity,
must have survived for long ages; for it was not
until the subsequent tribulation of the Israelites,
and when it was discovered that terrestrial
justice was not invariably to be relied upon,
that the doctrine of future rewards and punish-,
ments was introduced. In this respect, ofcourse,
the New Testament, and the teaching deduced
from it, stands in marked contrast to the old.
For, whereas in the latter, wordly prosperity is
regarded as especial proof of divine favour, in
the New Testament the lot of the righteous is
identified with "spiritual" rather than "mun-
dane" things. In the New Testament, it is
clear, the promise is to the sorrowful and
afflicted. These, .the rejected and despised,
need not expect to find the world a comfortable
72
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
abode. Life for the worthy must necessarily
be hard and toilsome. No adequate compen-
sation can be made to the man who has stead-
fastly prepared to live for immortal ends : and,
as a natural consequence, he must abandon
the base estimate of mankind. To say that
Christ deliberately inculcated this, or that he
sought to teach men to despise the world, would
be indeed to subvert the spirit of his genius.
At the same time, it is undoubtedly true that
Christianity has been made responsible for the
sanctification of suffering. Jesus has been hailed,
PAR EXCELLENCE, as "the man of sorrows"; and
life, for his followers, has been regarded as an
inevitable "vale of tears".
That Christianity has tended to spiritualise our
conception of happiness, we need not dispute.
To the Jew it was emphatically a question
primarily of material prosperity. And that
material prosperity does not exhaust our resour-
ces for happiness is too evident to require
demonstration. On the other hand, it may be
questioned whether the "joys" which Christian-
ity has consecrated are calculated to appeal as
forcibly to the average man as has sometimes
been assumed. Thus, the traditional ideal of
Christian happiness has clearly involved the
surrender of all terrestrial enjoyment for the
sake of a "higher" and different idea of happi-
1
7.3
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
ness which it is alleged is conferred by a super-
natural means. The world, and the things of
the world, have been sharply contrasted with
the delights of heaven, and, it has been held,
to seek even a minimum of such satisfaction is
delusive, if not fatal. To say that the modern
Christian does not take such doctrines seriously
is to make no reply to the charge which can be
brought against his faith. Were he a thorough-
going Christian, and not a very average-minded
person, the "Christian" would necessarily find
himself, not only among the ·number of the
dispossessed, the sorrowing and the down-
trodden : he would long ago have refused to
perpetuate his existence at all, and by ,this time
have become extinct.
Whether such "Christianity" has not been
exterminated, in spite of the ineffectual attempts
of the few surviving Christians to rehabilitate
it, is a matter of speculation. But, at least, the
theory which has been associated with it has
survived. And, as a natural consequence, we
still witness much that is morbid, unwholesome
and perverted in the religious aspect of life.
Instead of men realizing that it is, in truth,
their right to be happy, they have only too
often professed, on spiritual grounds, to renounce
their legitimate instincts, and to substitute for
their natural and normal exercise the accept-
74
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
ance of a theory of life which is as artificial
and grotesque as it is demoralising and mis-
representative of their nature.
Instead, therefore, of quibbling over theories,
we may put the case thus : not only is it man's
right to be happy : it is his duty. Were he to
be completely deprived of happiness, all sense
of the worth or significance of existence would
vanish. On the traditional view, to be sure,
happiness is a snare : pain and suffering have
almost universally been held to be the source
of human salvation. Who, however, in his heart,
believes this : or ,who, while he may feel that
the courageous acceptance of a minimum of
suffering is not incompatible with a tolerable
existence, does not resolutely endeavour to elimi-
nate the chance of such suffering ? Who would
voluntarily have undertaken to create a world
so fraught with suffering as the present ? Or
who, realizing how much misery and pain is
entailed in it, would not, does not, seek to re-
create life, and thereby improve upon the scheme
of the creator he has professed to worship?
Such considerations as these involving as they
do the most practical implications, may well be
pondered ere we attempt to perpetuate the
blasphemy that pain rather than joy is worthy
of pursuit.
In proceeding now to prosecute our enqmry,
75
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
and on the threshold of our subject, it becomes
our duty to analyse. What, we ask, is happi-
ness? And here at the outset we encounter a
serious difficulty. Any hard and fast definition
of such a term becomes impossible. Happiness,
like many another thing, involves a tremendous
paradox. We rarely think of it consciously,
unless we happ~n to be miserable ! Happiness,
when it is discussed at $111, has usually been
discussed under the stress of depression and
affliction. This explains whysomuch ofthe world's
philosophy has been pessimistic. Profound think-
ers, it has been asserted, are naturally pessi-
mists. This, however, is not necessarily the case.
Much facile optimism it is ttue may be shallow.
But an impartial survey of the facts and
problems of life is not necessarily conducive to
despair. The case for pessimism, and a strong
case at that, would seem indeed to be sufficiently
made out by an imposing array offacts. Happi-
ly, however, any such case must of necessity
ignore the most impressive of all facts, viz., the
refusal ofman to accept them at their face value.
No such array of facts has sufficed to dispose of
the instinctiye optimism that dwells in the
human heart. JContrary to what has sometimes
been declared, it is our profound conviction that
we should be happy, that we can be happy, and
that we will be happy.
76
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
This fact of itself must constitute the most
emphatic and convincing refutation of the
pessimist's philosophy.
Happiness, it is evident, has a wide signifi-
cance. There is first of all what we may speak
of as the negative form of happiness : the mere
exemption from suffering. Much happiness is
unconscious rather than conscious. Thus, when
we are in perfect health, we are, at least as far
as our physical state goes, in a condition of
happiness.
To be free from pain, anxiety and trouble, is
to experience at least some measure of comfort.
And comfort is an element in the happy life.
Simply to realize- that things are " all right "
with us, is to have eliminated some of the
conditions that would give rise to unhappiness.
The question, however, suggests itself : does
happiness depend upon external conditions, and
if so, to what extent? If what we have just said
is true, manifestly external conditions cannot
altogether be disregarded in our problem. There
is an inseparable connection between us and
our environment; and while it may be true that
the thoroughly happy man may feel himself to
be superior to circumstances, it is infinitely truer
that the average man should realize how much
his happiness is dependent upon the favourable
adjustment to his surroundings. No profounder
77
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
delusion exits than the conception that the realm
of the mind is separate and apart from the
accompanying material economy. Mind and
body form an indissoluble alliance; and while
it may be an exaggeration to contend that the
mental life is the mere by-product of the phys-
ical, it is no less erroneous to maintain that a
state of true contentment can proceed from an
inharmonious condition of the outer man. The
body is of tremendous significance; and com-
plete happiness is impossible unless the organs
and functions are healthy and sound. Hence,
happiness, in the real sense, is impossible to the
anremic, to the martyr to indigestion, or to those
suffering from depressed vitality. Fatigue and
exhaustion, again, exert an unfavourable effect
upon the psychic, as .well as the bodily life.
To enfeeble the capacity for natural enjoyment,
must inevitably diminish happiness. Accord-
ingly, all ~erangements of the nutritive and
respiratory functions must be regarded as obsta-
cles to its attainment. This fact has frequently
been ignored : it was certainly overlooked by the
stoics, who threw the whole weight of emphasis
upon the Mind. With Marcus Aurelius, for
instance, the recipe for happiness consisted in
subjecting ourselves to the exclusive sway of
the sovereign reason. " Look inwards ", he
wrote, " for you have a lasting fountain of
7$
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
happiness at home that will always bubble up if
you will but dig for it ".
To Seneca, again, happiness was dependent
alone upon the practice of virtue : and one of
the highest of virtues was utter indifference to
the accidents oflife - grief, pain, death, poverty,
loss of reputation, etc. While, however, none
of these things, either collectively or singly, need
distress us to the extent that it is sometimes
believed, it is no less evident that one and all
ofthem must tend to reduce the sum of human
enjoyment. Accordingly, the importance of har-
mony, satisfaction, abundant vitality, leisure,
opportunity, etc., must not be under-estimated.
On the other hand, the influence of the mind
upon us is undeniable. And no matter how
fortunately circumstanced a man may be, unless
his mental attitude is favourable, no external
conditions or possessions can render him happy.
" Misfortune ", moreover, may be a fixed idea
with many people who would otherwise enjoy
perfect happiness. They seem to have every-
thing that can fall to the lot of man, yet in
spite of it they remain dissatisfied. Here " sug-
gestion" may prove a potent factor. They are
miserable principally because they fail to realize
that the eventual secret of life consists in the
complete adjustment of every function and
power. A mind that is not fully occupied is
79
- - - -
----- -
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
rarely happy. The man ''Yho has no time to be
miserable is the happiest of men. And, to
reinforce the strenous mood by conscious appeals
to the optimistic. spirit, is one of the surest
methods of realizing happiness. There is more
than a grain of truth in " Christian Science ".
It may be a misnomer, but its votaries are right
in maintaining that the repeated affirmation of
a principle tends to produGe corresponding
results. It does. Nothing enfeebles the will so
completely, or destroys the capacity for happi-
ness so much as dwelling on the depressing side
of life. No doubt, it is there; and even the
denial of a Christian Scientist would be super-
flous were not this the case. At the same time,
by continually recalling this to the mind, by
harping upon it we tend to exaggerate its
importance. A healthy mind is simply a mind
which can resist the untoward decrees of
fate. Instead of succumbing to the worst, it
surmounts it and by the very effort that it makes
to oppose its adversity, it draws increased
strength and confidence. The instinctive desire
which all men have to exclude the painful, is
a healthy symptom. It means that we prefer
to attend to the things which yield us happiness.
Practically speaking, of course, it is impossible
to achieve this. Neverthless, die more we tend
to focus the mind upon the pleasurable objects
80
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
and experiences of life, the better we shall
promote those functions whose exercise is indis-
pensable to vigour and happiness.
Here, however, it becomes necessary to inter-
polate a word or two upon the mistake of
supposing that any static condition of life can
yield true contentment. Our conception of
happiness, especially under civilized conditions,
is only too often a mistaken one. How many
a person imagines that, in order to realize bliss,
he has only to indulge his whims. ·Happiness,
in innumerable instances has come to be iden-
tified with the indefinite multiplication of wants
and the improvement of conditions. That there
is a 'truth in this may be allowed. Civilized
life doubtless involves the multiplication of an
infinite variety of needs that were unknown to
our brute ancestors. The fact, however, remains,
that improved conditions alone cannot guar-
antee the satisfaction which man is prompted
to seek. This was the lesson of Maeterlinck's
THE BLUE BIRD. The story, it will be remem-
bered, was that of two tiny chltdren, who set
out in their dream to discover the Blue Bird of
Happiness. Before doing so, they received a
visit from a benevolent fairy, who, having pre-
sented them with a magic hat to enable them
" to see ", conducted them successively to her
own fairy abode, the Land of Memory, the
81
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Palace of Night, an enchanted forest, the Palace
of Happiness, a graveyard, and the Kingdom
of the Future. Althougb the children are per-
mitted to view the Blue Bird, they never quite
succeed in catching him. And, at length, at
the end of their pilgrimage, ·the extraordinary
biped is discovered to be in their own cottage.
On awaking from his dream, the little boy,
suddenly looking up at his bir~ in its cage,
exclaims : " Hullo, why he' s blue. But its
my little dove. But he' s much bluer than when
I went away. Why that' s the blue bird we
were looking for. We went so far and he was
here all the time ".
The point of the story, of course, lies in the
indisputasle fact, that to be in a position to
realize Happiness, it must dwell within us. By
some, this theory will, however, appear to be
at variance with life, inasmuch as, they will tell
us, a divine dissatisfaction, rather than ease or
contentment, should animate mankind. So con-
vinced was Carlyle of this that he could write,
" Man' s unhappiness, as I construe it, comes
of his greatness; it is because there is an Infi-
nite in him, which with all his cunning he
cannot quite bury under the Finite ". This
spirit of divine discontent, however, is by
no means incompatible with true happiness.
This is beautifully illustrated by a poem of
.82
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
Mr. Trench' s, in which Man is depicted in a
succession of metamorphoses with none of which
he remains satisfied. But in the end, when
Nature addresses him and asks him whether he
does not realize that everyone of his former
states, which contented him only in prospect,
were a delusion, Man replies that :
"Just to have been round and learned the
grammar,
Contents me with my sitting pad and hammer".
While, therefore, Happiness is attainable rather
through an adequate appreciation of the essen-
tial values of life, its achievement is far more a
question of our attitude to life than anything.
Yet, to know this requires such proof as only
wise reflection and mature experience can yield.
We may, it is true, realize joy in all things :
but to experience such joy, we must first have
learned to survey life from a proper angle.
It is regrettable, no doubt, that man should
be so prone to neglect his experience. So much
of the Happiness of life is missed, because, in-
stead of realizing the source of joy in the things
which are with us, we view life either too much
in prospect or in retrospect. As Emerson has
said, man has an inveterate habit of postponing
and remembering ; he lives too much either in
the future or in the past : it is a case of jam
83
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
yesterday or jam tomorrow, but never jam
today ! Many identify this Happiness exclusively
with the things that they have LOST, or WILL
have, or CAN NEVER GET ! These people should
be reminded of the joys which reside in the pre-
sent, and which once overlooked, can never be
recovered.
The quest of Happiness - the search, that is,
after a condition of things which shall produce
an entire transformation . of life, rendering it
immune from the CONTRASTS which are indis-
pensable to a sense ofgreater WELL-BEING, - is,
then, largely illusory. Absolute Happiness, in a
world conditioned by the relative experiences
which are inevitable to growth and knowledge,
is unthinkable. And since this is so, to seek
deliberately for Happiness, instead of accepting
the conditions of life as they are, is to court
failure at the outset. No object upon which the
heart may be set, yields the gratification which
its pursuit may lead us to suppose. Riches, for
example, however eagerly they may be coveted
never give the possessor the sense of satisfaction
for which he yearns.
Yet, if the object fails, it is nevertheless true
that the business of money,..making does bring a
certain measure of satisfaG
tion with it. Fate
seems to decree that most of us shall be kept
poor; and the average man who manages to
84
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
amass a little wealth, not only feels that he has
greater power than his fellows : he also feels that
he has succeeded in cheating destiny. This is as
it should be. All effort in which we rise superior
to circumstances, is pleasurable; and in discharg-
ing our natural functions (the acquisitive instinct
among the rest) we obtain an enhancement of
those energies which contribute to the promotion
of a healthy existence. Nothing is more fatal to
a man than to suffer from the atrophy or mis-
direction of any natural function. To do so can
but have the result ofrobbing life ofits zest and
interest.
It is probably owing to the fact that legitimate
opportunities are denied to so many men for all-
round development, that Happiness is as rare
as it is. No doubt it may be argued that, when
circumstances are against us, we should create
circumstances. That is all very well, but in a
social system such as at present, in which the
vast majority of us are unconsciously, if not con-
sciously implicated in the conspiracy to deprive
mankind of the elementary right to be them-
selves, it is not to be wondered at that so many
should go to the wall. The marvel is that so
many should manage to get as much out of
life as they do. _
Happiness, then, which inheres in the legiti-
mate ·exercise of each natural function and
85
---.-~=
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
power, may be said to proceed from the use -
not the abuse or disuse - of the organism. It
lies, in short, in our INTERESTS and the chance
which these afford us of self-expression. A strik-
ing illustration of the relation. between occup-
ation and Happiness is presented to us by
Mr. Graham Wallas, in his work "THE GREAT
SocIETY ". "When I was iri Boston, U. S. A.,
in 1910 ",writes Mr. Walias, "a lady who col-
lected the stamps which represented the elemen-
tary savings of girls and women in the Boston
laundries and poorer kinds of factories, most
kindly consented, at my request, to ask those of
them whose confidence she had gained whether
they were happy. The answer at the time
surprised me greatly. I expected to hear those
complaints about bad wages, hard conditions
and arbitrary discipline which a body of men
working at the same grade of labour would
certainly have put forward. But it was obvious
that the question, "Are you happy? " meant
to the girls, "are you happier than you would
have been had you stayed at home instead: of
going to work?" Almost everyone of them
answered "Yes". The replies that were elicited
from the girls went to show that the employ-
ment in which they were engaged tended to
" take up the mind ", make them conscious that
" you were of some-use " and relieved the mo-
,86
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
notony and lonelines~ of " home life ". One
"little girl with dyed hair and a good heart",
on being interrogated, replied to the effect that
she enjoyed her work, which "made her feel
that she was worth something". Such answers
need cause us little surprise : for even granting
that industrial conditions entail hardships, it is
no less clear that the activities of an industrial
career are perfectly consistent with the effective
discharge of many functions which are insepar-
able from a healthy existence."
The question, however, may suggest itself:
granting that our practical activities, in the main,
are conducive to......the enjoyment of happiness,
do Happiness and Virtue necessarily coincide ?
Is the pursuit of duty synonymous with Hap-
piness ? or is Happiness itself ultimately a ques-
tion which demands an ethical solution? Here,
it seems, we must proceed with caution. On the
face of it, it by no means follows that goodness
and happiness are invariably associated or
casually related. The moralist's maxim, indeed,
"be good and you will be happy", is not wholly
devoid of truth; for to be conscious that one has
satisfied the claims of one's moral nature, is
certainly an element in happiness. At the same
time, while, theoretically, we cannot ignore the
relation of the moral economy with our problem,
neither can we pretend that Happiness is wholly
87
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
dependent upon morality, nor that a consider-
able amount-of happiness may be enjoyed irres.:
pective of moral considerations. Very often, it
seems, the moralist's assumption is strangely at
variance with experience. Not only are many
persons, of indifferent moral character, far from
being miserable but also some of the loftiest
natures are anything but happy. Probably most
ofus would agree that the pursuit of moral ideals
is seldom rewarded by unalloyed happiness.
Whereas ease and self-complacency usually
bring a certain measure of satisfaction. In one
sense, morality must certainly involve the
repudiation of mere happiness : inasmuch as
self-sacrifice, if it is genuine, can never mean
the exchange of one form~ of happiness for
another. When- a person- performs an act of
self-sacrifice simply with a v:few to increase the
sum total of his happiness, his conduct is
mora1ly worthless. Further, it may be said that
though the performance of duty (since it relieves
us from inward reproach), is a source of
negative happiness, this seldom ensures complete
satisfaction. All virtuous persons are " unprofit-
able servants "; whilst the worst men, if they are
unconscious of the bliss which follows upon
disinterested behaviour, are no less saved the
pangs of conscience or the sting of remorse.
Anyo:µe who realizes what it is to have a
88
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
" conscience " is aware that it constitutes an
element of suffering. If we are out for sheer
unadulterated pleasures, then it is certainly
necessary to renounce conscience : to give way
to the solicitations of the senses and to follow
the path of least resistance. Very possibly, if
any moral person were able to do this, he
would ultimately experience moods of regret.
At the same time, by ignoring the appeal of our
" higher-self" our moral sensibilities become
blunted and deadened. Which fact only goes to
prove that, while certain higher aspects of joy
may be denied us, we are no less deprived of
the pain which their appreciation must involve.
All this, however, is not to say that the
popular belief in virtue as a means of Happiness
- at least of the permanent sort - is a delusion.
Right living, in the main, invariably tends to
augment human welfare : and this inevitably
coincides with Happiness. Industry, purity,
moderation and honesty are morally preferable
to sloth, sensuality, intemperance and dishonesty.
Nor is.their moral worth a mere figure of speech.
Such courses of behaviour ensure appropriate
rewards. In the long run, the worker tends to
be respected while the idler is despised. The
pure and the temperate, who show self- respect,
claim the regard of their fellows. And so of the
honest and trustworthy : he in turn, wins the
89
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
confidence and trust of others. The same with
other virtues and vices. Anger; selfishness and
envy may, it is true, yield a momentary sense of
gratification : but these no less involve the loss
of friends, and provoke animosity and dislike.
It may certainly be agreed that our moral
qualities, for the most part, contribute in a
greater degree to social welfare than to indivi-
dual prosperity. At the same time, since our
life is pre-eminently a social affair, it is all but
impossible to suggest how, save by ethical
means, human welfare in the aggregate can
ultimately be promoted.
One aspect of our problem however still calls
for elucidation. It is the necessity for a
QUALITATIVE estimate of Happiness. Directly
we speak of Happiness w~ are prone to think of
it in quantitative terms. But this is impossible.
Many natural objects that give outward and
visible signs of joy are inferior to man, even the
least happy man, when judged by the qualitative
standard. A case in point is the lark. From its
song, one might easily suppose that the lark was
far superior to ourselves from the standpoint of
happiness. But blithe and joyous as the lark
may be, it is clear that it must remain for all its
rapturous moods, insensible to much that affords
man happiness. Ifthe lark knows nothing of the
toil and care that springs from human grief and
90
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
wretchedness, neither does it realize the deep
sense of serenity and gladness that proceed from
our vision of the ideal; our hopes for better
things; our faith in the grand possibilities of
human perfection.
In the last analysis, all man's bliss and pain
appear to be referable to the selfsame origin : his
sensitiveness. By means of this, and this alone,
our development has been provided for. And
unless this had been so, though we might have
realized intense happiness of a sort, we could
never have discriminated the finer shades of
joy and sorrow. Our sensitiveness, it is true, is
a double-edged weapon. On the one handitisthe
source of undeniable evil and sorrow. But on
the other hand, sensitiveness is the source and
condition of all good including Happiness.
Persons are to be found who, viewing the
welter of human misery, would infinitely prefer
(so they tell us) to have been born to the lot
of a jelly fish. A jelly fish, they fancy, pursues
a life which is at least destitute of trouble. In
all probability, this is so. But we must not
forget that, if the disappointments and dreads
of life are not (quantitatively) compensated by
its hopes and ideals, to be deprived of the
experience of the one is to forego the other.
There are, we hear it said, people who never
seem to suffer. Is their case, however, as enviable
91
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
as we sometimes assume? In all likelihood, it
is not. These people, we may be sure, though
they are spared the worst, can never know the
true value of the best. It is the same with
sympathy. It is a prime cause of sorrow. Yet
who would be without it ? Those, who, having
once sympathised, would shut themselves off
from those who excite their feelings of pity,
shut themselves off no less from the joy which
comes from the effort to alleviate misery and woe.
In concluding our survey of this subject we
cannot perhaps do better than to consider the
means by which it becomes possible to surmount
suffering. It is perhaps impossible to hope to
eliminate completely recurrence of those moods
which, arising from the very sensitiveness which
yields our most exquisite exultation, renders us
liable to despondency and sorrow. While life
las.ts, all are subject to such alternations of
feeling. Yet, if what we have said be true, the
transmutation of sorrow should be possible to all
wno are persuaded that life is worth living.
Let us remember, then, that however disappoint-
ing our experience, and however much inclined
we may be to agree with the pessimists, while
life lasts, and so long as we consent to go on
living, we are PRACTICAL OPTIMISTS. Every
moment that we continue t-0 breathe, each time
our lungs respire, our hearts beat, our limbs
.92
THE RIGHT TO BE HAPPY
move, our functions act, we are giving the lie to
the doctrine of pessimism. In effect, we affirm
that life is worth while : that it i~ better to be
than not to be and that we believe so far in
the purpose of things. To sustain this attitude,
it is doubtful whether a more beautiful and
fitting declaration could be found than is
furnished by some words of Dr. Felix Adler :
" At bottom, the world is to be interpreted
in terms of joy, but of a joy that includes all
the pain, includes it and transforms it, and
transcends it. "
Here, by an act of religious faith, we are
transported into the mood which is begotten of
the intensest conviction that, despite all appear-
ances to the contrary, life is fundamentally
good : and that every effort that we make to
promote all that enhances the worth and
significance of things is destined to yield us an
ultimate and abiding joy. Such a faith may
be beyond the resources of reason. Is it,
however, above the range of experimental
proof?
Such ecstacy is essentially religious. Nay : it
is religion. For Religion rightly interpreted, is
not the consecration ofsuffering : it is rather the
sanctification of the higher joy which may pro-
ceed from such suffering. All our deeper expe-
,,..,___ 93
.•
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
rience yields us perplexity. And, in the central
solitudes of the soul, it is often hard to make a
distinction between suffering and joy. In
each new experience, joy and suffering seem
blended. " Our sincerest laughter with some
pain is fraught." Yet would we be without the
pain ? We would not : else perchance our
very laughter would be denied us. Each bitter
experience, loss, bereavement, disappointment,
suffering may entail grief and heaviness. But
from one and all we may attain a fuller and
deeper sense of the significance of life. Man
has no greater need than to accept the inevit-
able. But the discovery must necessitate that
he shall make his peace with pain. And, having
done so, Happiness may still remain to him.
Pain may be the price that man pays for joy :
but it is worth while, for without it, joy is
impossible / or man and life itself is as nothing.
94
•.
CHAPTER V
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
It is frequently asserted that "mankind is the
same the world over". And with certain reserv-
ations, the statement may be accepted as
substantially true. In one sense especially, is this
so. Wb,ile, to all appearances,no greater diversity,
as regards tastes, sympathies, modes of life, inte-
rests and outlook, can possibly exist than between
the savage and civilised, the resemblance is
greater than their superficial dissimilarity.
But to appreciate this fact, and to realize its
truth, it is necessary to consider some of the
factors which are frequently ignored in the
discussion of human nature. To generalize,
indeed, is common enough. But the generali-
zations which are often indulged in are calculated
to throw little or no light upon the problems
which they are intended to solve.- The term
" human nature ", for instance, is constantly
used as though man were a being possessed of
a sort of deific reason, in virtue of which he
should invariably rise superior to every instinct
upon which the relatively lowly denizens of
the animal kingdom in general are supposec\
95
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
to rely. Human life, it is given out, in so far
as it has succeeded, must be dependent upon
the exercise of the intellect rather than the
instincts; and to replace thQse hy the " higher
faculties " engendered by the brain, is obviously
man's privileged task. While this is half a
truth, it is only half a truth. And to accept it
without examination is to fail altogether to do
justice to the intticacies of human life.
This fact is apparent directly we consider how
largely human life is, and must be, dependent
upon the self-same instincts which reside in the
animal kingdom at large. Although man's
superiority may consist in the possession of a
developed brain and the appropriate intelligence
which it confers, this fact does not in the least
dispose of the underlying dispositions, impulses
and tendencies without which the brain itself
would be useless and uncultivated. The functions
of the brain, it is clear, while they may perform
the duties ofabstract thought, are no less concer-
ned with the regulation of those concrete
activities which are inextricably connected with
our bodily life. Accordingly, as . we cannot
rightly sever mind and body, it is essential to
see how far the body influences the mind, and
in what relation the natural feelings and impulses
stand to the mental life as a whole.
At the outset, we shall be required to make
96
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
a clear, if somewhat arbitrary discrimination,
between what it will be convenient to call
CHARACTER and DISPOSITION. By CHARACTER,
let it be said, we mean that part of us that is
acquired or made by us : all that is the product
of the will. But, besides this, we have also the
involuntary department of our being - that
was born with us : that we did not choose or
create. To this we may fittingly give the name
of DISPOSITION. By disposition, then, we imply
the sum of all the instincts with their specific
impulses and tendencies. And from this dispo-
sition proceed those propensities and inclinations
which prompt us to experience hunger, give
rise to curiosity, or render us prone to fall in
love, etc. Such dispositions are common to
the race. And these, far more than abstract
properties ofthought, fundamentally characterize
and distinguish average human nature.
In speaking of the dominance of instinct in
human nature, we cannot do better than to con-
sider the position which is occupied by these
dispositions in the human economy. And it
may be remarked, at the outset, that the admis-
sion of the instincts is somewhat characteristic
of the modern mode of thought. Generally
speaking, these have been excluded from consi-
deration, or have been, if not eliminated
altogether, relegated to a wholly subordinate
97
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
place. In this respect, our moral and religious
traditions in particular have tended to operate
most aversely, inasmuch as they have opposed
their full play and exercise. Nor has the warfare
on the instincts been restricted to the West.
Whilst, therefore, Monastic Christianity, as well
as Puritanism and Protestantism, did not hesitate
to enforce the ideal of fleshy mortification,
Buddhism, in the East, insisted upon the extinc-
tion of sel£ Stoicism, again, despite its rational
pretensions, also counselled self-repression. And
Kant, for all his revolt against theological
abstractions, undertook to show that a becoming
apprehension of duty must necessarily be in
inverse ratio to the inclinations. Hence the
popular theory of goodness, which in effect has
been exclusively identified with self-denial.
Thus self-sacrifice, irrespective altogether of the
consequences, has been regarded as meritorious.
Thus have " Godliness " and " Nature ", by
being sharply contrasted, been viewed as in
incessant and eternal conflict.
To reinstate the instincts, and to accord them
the dignity which is due to them, must certainly
be accounted one of the signal achievements of
modern psychology. And this, needless to relate,
must have remained impossible but for the now-
admitted inter-relation of the body and the mind.
Though, it is evident, it would be perilous to
98
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
endorse the unsupported assertion that the mind
is t~e mere by-product of the brain, or that the
bodily states are completely at the mercy of the
mind, it is neverthless clear that the mental and
organic life are mutually dependent upon, and
supplementary to, each other. So much so,
that to deprive human nature of its natural
instincts would be to forfeit all claim to a
complete and effective life. This has been
realized by none better than the po~ts. And
Browning's words may be construed as a pro-
phetic anticipation of the trend of modern
speculation :
"Let us not always say
"Spite of this flesh to-day
I strove, made way, gained ground upon the
As the bird wings and sings, [whole!"
Let us cry, "All good things
Are ours, nor soul helps flesh more, now, than
flesh helps soul ! "
To the average man, nothing would be easier
than to demonstrate the futility of the ascetic
ideal. Briefly, the mistake of opposing the ins-
tincts to the spiritual economy may be stated
thus : (l) that by this deliberate neglect or
suppression, emancipation from their thralldom
is impossible ; (2) to mortify the flesh is by no
means necessarily the same thing as to cultivate
the spirit - and especially so, seeing that, by
99
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
such means, ~an exaggerated importan~e is
attached to the former; (3) self-repression is
apt to limit our notion of good for others, as
well as ourselves. Nature, in short, refuses to
be expelled : she will out. And the only safe
course to adopt is the DIRECTION of the forces
that are implanted in man.
The point then, which must be made, is that
every natural instinct that is appropriate to man
is essential to his existence; and that, when such
instincts are baulked or denied legitimate exer-
cise, deplorable results ensue. All the instincts
which man shares with his fellows, and with
many of the lower animals, are ofservice to him,
and their activity is necessarily accompanied by
a sense of general well-being. Such instincts as
the desire to possess, curiosity, pugnacity, and
the affections, are natural and right to us.
Accordingly, while society may think fit to pres-
cribe certain disciplines whereby such instincts
may be kept within due bon.ds and restrained,
it is manifestly impossible successfully to prohibit
their exercise. Upon the whole, however much
we may feel that prudence and guidance are
called for in connection with the instincts,
it seems doubtful whether greater harm could
sometimes have been produced by yielding
to the solicitations of the instincts than by
having failed to afford them adequate means of
100
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
expression. The popular superstition that Nature
"will out" is only a half truth which attests
the importance of this principle. No man, in-
deed, is compelled by his instincts to rob, murder,
commit adultery, and generally make a nuisance
of himsel£ But the senseless prohibitions and
usages which encumber our civilized conditions
of life render it impossible to provide adequate
channels for instinctive tendencies. According-
ly, as the result, a sense of inner tension and
strain is· created which may give rise to even
worse evils than those which it is sought to
suppress. In this matter, our habitual blindness
has tended to encourage the belief that, if only
severe repressive discipline could be secured all
must be well : that men's character was a ques-
tion of external conformity, and that a sufficient
amount of thwarting of their free, spontaneous
action could be relied upon as a remedy. A
sufficiently impressive refutation of this baseless
delusion is afforded by the condition of Ger-
many during the war; her wanton excuses being
doubtless attributable to the reaction which
has followed in the wake of the long period
of repression and discipline prior to the war.
Prussia's theory, however, though held in an
exaggerated form, has been in some measure
typical of the world. It was the culmination of
a policy, that is to say, which has been implicit
101
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
in the whole system ofso-called civilization. That
it has at length been challenged, merely goes to
show that it is, in the long run, incompatible
with our more humane aspirations. But popular
belief has invariably upheld the view that prac-
tical wisdom was at variance with mutual trust
of mankind. Man, we have held, is by nature
prone to evil : brutal, selfish and in need of
severe repressive discipline. And, for the most
part, conformity to the established institutions of
society has been observed and justified on the
ground that natural, free and spontaneous
action would result in anarchy and chaos. A
standing illustration of this prepossession may
be seen in the attitude to the institution of
"property". Property, it is declared, must be
protected, and unless men's interests were pro-
teded, at much cost and inconvenience, by a
system of law, you would undermine the whole
foundations of society. The assumption, clearly,
is in great part a psychological one, and it may be
added, exceedingly unpsychological at that. It
reposes upon ·the belief that man is by nature
covetous and selfseeking. Everybody, in short,
is a potential thief, whose acquisitive faculties
require to be kept in check by the safeguards
which are tolerated for that purpose. Hence
" Capitalism " is justified not, indeed, because
the comparatively few rich persons whom it suits
102
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
are loved; but rather because it constitutes a
device whereby the greater many are providen-
tially deprived from participating in what could
only prove to be a snare and a hindrance to
them.
Seldom or never are our economic arrange-
ments regarded with reference to our true
psychological necessities : nor, for the most part,
is the satifaction ofthe acquisitive instinct view-
ed as legitimate in itself. By our attitude, it
is true, we have tended to evolve a theory of
" thrift ", which has been in the nature of
a grudging concession to the acquisitive instinct.
But even this has failed us to-day. Thrift,
whatever its value in the eyes of ethical peda-
gogues, possesses a doubtful efficacy under
modern conditions : practical experience is the
best educator; and the growth of economic
dissatisfaction and envy of the lot of the rich,
following upon the servile respect of the poor
for their masters, has had a dinstinctly prejudi-
cial effect upon the prospects of the existing
order. This, of course, is only one of the
numerous ways in which the hitherto prevailing
system has been threatened.
The point of the challenge which has thus
been flung out consists in the invariable reaction
against arrangements which have only tended
to produce a type of strain that has been
.103
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
wholly inconsistent with social welfare. Poverty,
when it is voluntarily undertaken~ if not a
specially sanctified notion to the modern mind,
is not destitute of merit. It is better, morally,
to choose to be poor, than to be rich and have
no free will in the matter. But if to have
riches thrust upon one and to be too weak-
minded not to refuse them is bad, to be
obliged to give up hope of getting something
which one has never had a chance of getting is
infinitely worse. In short, all involuntary
behaviour, sacrifice included, must be relegated
to the scrap heap of oblivion, if we are to
have a moral condition of human affairs.
"Baulking", however, is not confined to the
poor, nor is the strain consequent upon repres-
sion exclusively concerned with our e~onomic
instincts. We have a disposition which craves
not only to possess, but also to strive. This is
why, even supposing every man were allowed
to have as much money as he could possibly
desire, it need not be feared that the millenium
would be brought within measurable reach of
mankind. Many a wealthy man, as well as the
poor, has his burden. But this in the case of
the rich, is more likely to assume the form of
boredom or ENNUI. Why do the rich so often
get "fed up" with life? Why does wealth never
satisfy a man? Why, in short, if we gave men
104
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
everything they wanted, could we always depend
upon them to remain still unsatisfied ? The
reason is that there exists in everyone an element
of pugnacity, which, however much restrained,
seeks to discharge itself in DOING rather than in
having. Many people get all that they want :
but their prosperity, instead of contenting them,
leads only to restlessness and disappointment.
It is precisely the very people whom we think
"ought to be content" who are most generally
the reverse. The reason is evident : Nature sets
up a fierce protest against the ease and sloth
which hold sway over their lives. They accord-
ingly become irritable, moody and subject to
fits of rage. When society is reconstructed upon
a sound psychological basis, the instinct which
prompts these persons to vent their thwarted
pugnacity upon their neighbours, will be recog-
nised, and then it will have such chances afford-
ed it as at present fail to exist, save when war
breaks out.
Another instinct which is apt to remain in a
state of abeyance is fear. Its original use was
that of preserving life from danger. Under
civilized conditions, however, the opportunities
for its display have greatly diminished.
True as this is however, we must not conclude
that, because the situations which were favour- ·
able to the manifestation of fear have all but
,
105
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
ceased to exist, the disposition to fear has been ·
lost. It has not. Fear asserts itself in all kinds
of subterranean ways. Hence, the craving to get
a periodical " thrill " : to indulge in the
sensations of the scenic railway, to watch the
exploits of gymnasts and animal tamers : to
participate in football, Alpine climbing, and
other pursuits that involve risk to life and limb.
In its more mental form, fear prompts us to
read a " shilling shocker ", or to visit the
chamber of horrors at Madame Tussaud's. We
like now and then to feel our _
flesh creep : we
want to be m(:!.de to shudder. All these facts
point to the survival of an instinct for which
accommodation must be found. One of the
reasons for the appeal of war appears to lie in
the scope which it affords for the sense of
danger. We demand security, but the sort of
security which is won at the sacrifice of a safety
which we have not procured for ourselves.
Hence the quest for adventure. No mere
sheltered existence is adequate to sustain us :
we crave variety, change, and an outlet for
those activities which alone are the means of
securing us adequate protection.
Such applications as these will go far in the
direction of demonstrating the contention that,
in the future organisation of society, provision
must be made for the psychological necessities
106
OUR BAULKED DISPOSITIONS
of man. Hitherto no such considerations have
weighed with us, and as a consequence, after
protracted periods of apparent quiescence and
order, tumultuous outbursts of frenzy and
passion have taken place and have threatened
to overthrow the whole course of civilization.
That this has been impossible goes without
saying; but that such moods have had the
deplorable effect of dissipating our mental and
moral energies is all too clear. Wars, commo-
tions, revolutions, and the like, which have
been piously taken for granted, have undoubt-
edly acted as so many vents for suppressed
desires for which the existing order has failed
to cater. Accordingly, under certain aspects,
they may be construed as disguised blessings.
But nowadays nobody dreams that such violent
expedients are either consistent with social
welfare in the long run or ought to be resorted
to if they can be avoided. Consequently our
only remedy is to realize the necessity of
providing for the normal discharge and regul-
ated exercise of all those instincts which are
·legitimate for man. Certain of these instincts
we have already considered, but others may be
named. The sexual impulse is one of these.
None of the instincts has been banned with
more disastrous results. Its very recognition,
save under the most questionable circumstances,
107
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
has been forbidden. Its gratification accord-
ingly has been largely depenqent on illicit
means. As this topic will furnish the material
for a portion of a succeeding chapter, we need
not enter more fully into the question he.re.
But the need to realize frankly its surpassing
importance is evident directly we disabuse our
minds of delusions which are fostered by our
sentimental ignorance and self complacency.
The point throughout to bear in mind is,
that what produces strain is not so much what
one does as what one is prevented from doing.
A man tires not from pursuing certain activities,
but from neglecting_to pursue other activities.
Man is not a machine; and if he elects to treat
himself as a machine, the nature that is in him
rebels. Hence the need of recreation : it rests
us because it gives us a chance of exercising
parts of our nature that are ordinarily subjected
to restraint and inhibition. To liberate these
is the secret, the whole secret, of emancipation.
Nothing less than the reorganisation of society
upon psychological principles, which will afford
our suppressed dispositions a chance to function,
can possibly effect the individual and social
improvement that is needed. For only when
life becomes the genuine expression of our
spontaneous and untrammel!ed natures can its
living prove worth man's while.
108
CHAPTER VI
WISHING AND ITS RELATION
TO DREAMS
Wishes, for the most part, have been regarded -
as vain things. " If wishes were horses ", runs
the proverb, "beggars would ride ". Admitting,
however, that much of the wishing that people
permit themselves is of little practical value
either to themselves or others, the fact remains
that humanity has never eradicated the habit
of wishing. Nor, apparently, however slender
the prospects of fulfilment of its wishes may
seem, would it willingly forego the privilege.
Why do we wish? It may be asked. What
makes us yearn, crave, desire the things that
seem to be beyond our grasp? To solve this
question would be to settle once and for all a very
profound problem of psychology. To attempt
this is obviously impossible; But we may do well
to. review the question in the light of modern
science.
And, at the outset, let us realize the new
departures for which modern psychology is res-
ponsible. It has superseded the older methods.
109
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
To " know thyself" is excellent.: but, whatever
our " ego " may be, it is surely not a fixed
thing, but an expanding, developing life; and
hence all static conceptions of mankind must
perforce be abandoned in favour of a more
dynamic view. Man is as he BEHAVES : and as
he behaves, so he comes to know himself. This
self-evident proposition constitutes the key to
our problem.
It is, then, with the volitional factor in life
that we are more especially concerned. Our
" characters " comprise an assemblage of ten-
dencies, which the will translates into purposes,
according to desire, circumstance and opportu-
nity. These tendencies become organized for
manifestation in action, upon the formation of
purposes and the birth of impulses, correlatives
of them and of the will. Thus it may be said
figuratively
1
that we are what we purpose and
what we do : no more, no less. Our Will is
ourself : life is simply the volitional element of
our complex being wishing itself in action.
The unit for psychology, is thus the WISH.
The mainspring of our action consists in those
desires which, lying deeper- than the intellect,
impart the interest, purpose and zest to life.
If man' s distinctive power lies in his capacity
to look before and after, most of his satisfaction
comes from his expectancy, his joy in realizing
110
WISHING AND ITS RELATION TO DREAMS
what, by means of his reason, his imagination,
and circumstances, he identifies with the future.
For a definition of the wish, we may accept,
therefore, those tendencies, desires and impulses
to act, in virtue of which a man is a living
organism. Deprive man of the power to wish
and you reduce him to a mere mechanical con-
trivance, which, destitute of inclination, prefer-
ence or interest, would be without every dis-
tinctively human attribute.
To obviate the possibility of misconception,
however, let it be remarked that the wish need
not necessarily be identified with mere whim or
caprice. Any mode of behaviour or mental
attitude which is due to the co-ordi:p.ated acti-
vities of the self constitutes the basis of the wish.
As for our " self", it may be defined, for all
practical purposes, as a psycho-physiological
product. We do not consist of OURSELF PLUS
our BODY. We are so many SYSTEMATISED
ACTIVITIES, comprised in the entire mechanism
of our organised nervous apparatus. The self
is thus the reaction to specific modes of be-
haviour each of which relates us with its appro-
priate environment, between which and our
uncbnscious life we are perpetually seeking to
establish adjustment.
But here it becomes necessary to realize that,
whereas " Human Nature" comprises that vast
111
------------
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
assemblage of instincts which are fundamentally
volitional in their origin, such purposes are found
at all levels of consciousness. Thus we find,
(A) those which are actually present, in the form
ofattention, and which we would like to acknow-
ledge; (B) those which are co-conscious, less
prominent, but still admitted; and (C) those
which are unconscious._
This is easily understood. Our psychical econo-
my is generally assumed to comprise a dual
aspect : a s_ub-concious as well as a conscious
department. And while, by means of the con-
scious side of us expression is afforded for our
normal activities, the subconscious elements also
influence our nature enotmously. Nor is the
conscious life, though of supreme importance, as
vast and varied in its nature. In the subcon-
scious lies all our most incl-usive and intimate life:
the things we feel and fail to manifest outwardly:
our desires, hopes, fears, aspirations, ideals -
all these and much more are hidden within this
" buried life ".- Nor is the subconscious inferior.
Its MEMORY is PERFECT: all that was, is, and will
be, lies potentially in its recesses. And, under
the operation of hypnotism it is possible to
revive those experiences which have passed
beyond the recall of the waking self.
To understand the fundamental nature of the
112
WISHING AND ITS RELATION TO DREAMS
wish, therefore, it will be conv<:;nient to distin-
guish between two opposed attitudes :
(1) the wishes that are executed and
(2) the wishes which are latent and suppressed.
And having done so it is necessary to explain
that it is more especially with the latter, which
bear exceptional significance, that it is proposed
to deal. These are of importance more parti-
cularly inasmuch as they throw a flood of light
on the problem of our practical conduct. And
the investigations of Freud go to demonstrate
that it is only by considering these that it is
possible to give an adequate interpretation of
psychology. The principle upon which this
theory is based is simply this : that those wishes
or impulses whose expression is achieved tend to
promote the normal operations of our psychical
life, entailing as they do, a sense of freedom
and exemption from all sense of remorse, regret,
and division; whereas, the wishes which are
repressed produce the contrary effect, and are
the cause of dissociation and mental instability.
Our problem, therefore, resolves itself into
this : How we may avoid REPRESSION - i.e.,
such conditions as give rise to dissociation and
mental instability, and by what means may legi-
timate opportunity be afforded for the free expres-
sion of those wishes which, either in their existing
.113
- THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
condition or in a transformed state, may crave
fulfilment? To render this branch of our inquiry
profitable, we may turn to the practical appli-
cation of the theories based upon this principle.
These may be illustrated by reference to the
phenomena of dreams, the vagaries of me-
mory, wit manifestations, etc. All of these
are due ultimately to the self-same cause, viz :
the conflict of Wishes.
At the outset, however, the question is sug-
gested, why do our wishes frequently remain
latent, and what is it gives rise ta the conflict
to which such phenomena may be traceable ?
The reply is, THE INFLUENCE WHICH IS EXERTED
BY SOCIAL PRESSURE.
Society, civilized as well as primitive, while
susceptible of such development as is calculated
to secure the progressive emancipation of its
members, is never compatible with absolute
freedom. And every institution whose ostensible
object is to secure such emancipation, is the
means of engendering corresponding inhibitions
which impose themselves upon the psychical
development of mankind. These inhibitions, or
taboos, while inevitable from the collective
standpoint, and essential to ensure those courses
of behaviour which are prescribed in the interest
of the group, no less involve a conflict between
the social group and the individuals that comprise
114
'
WISHING AND ITS RELATION TO DREAMS
it. This clash arises in the following manner :
There is, first of all, the compulsory element,
which exacts comformity to those usages which
are compatible with the general requirements :
and this, which is favoured by our moral,
educational, religious and political conventions,
and motivated by gregariousness, dread of
punishment and ostracism and loss of approval,
induces us to conform. On the other hand,
and since none of us is completely assimilated
to the existing institutions of society, we find
also the innate tendency to gratify impulses
whose unchecked manifestations are contrary to
the prescribed sanctions and ordinances.
Hence our problem centres in those psychical
phenomena, which, ·though obscure in many
ways, possess primarily an individual significance.
And first among these we may include the ele-
ment of THE DREAM. When al}d why do we
dream? And what significance has dreaming?
The same authority tells us that we dream
simply in obedience to a psychical necessity of
our life : because we cannot help it. Our dreams
are the embodiment of our repressed wishes -
veiled and undetected though those may be.
In our dreams emerge those unsatisfied cravings
of our nature which are denied and ignored in
waking life. The dream is a compromise. It
affords us an opportunity of doing that which
115
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
we want to do deep down in our nature, but
which, owing to t4e exigencies of circumstances,
we are prevented from cloing. The Dreams of
children -often plainly illustrate this. The in-
vestigations which psycho-analysis has rendered
possible, go to establish one fact beyond dispute.
It is this : that all wishes subserve definite ends.
They cannot be completely eradicated or
destroyed. If they are thwarted they tend to find
another path. Nature cannot be cheated, and
while we may deceive ourselves, the fundamental
nature of the volitional factor in human life will,
in the long run, assert itself.
Dreaming, therefore, possesses a very serious
significance for us. For, however senseless,
absurd and grotesque our dreams may appear
to us, it is plain that they do not occur at
random : that they are not strictly speaking
uncaused, but that they are traceable for their
origin to tendencies by no means remotely con-
nected with our waking state. There is, in short,
a method in our nocturnal madness ; and this
method is the result of those dispositions of the
Will which we have more often than not left
out of our reckonings.
One fact of interest that may be mentioned
is that, contrary to the popular notion, all
dreams are of direct, as well as indirect utility :
they do not wake us, but rather facilitate sleep.
116
WISHING AND ITS RELATION TO DREAMS
A common example of this would be the dream
of thirst. In our sleep we DREAM that we are
DRINKING. Why ? Because, being thirsty we wish
to drink, and being tired we also wish to remain
asleep. Accordingly we dream that we are
drinking, which provides for the satisfaction of
both desires. Another similar case would be
that of a person who is sleeping soundly at
whose bedroom door somebody knocks in order
to arouse him. The sleeper, half awakened,
replies " all right ", and then turns over and
dozes off again. Having.done which he proceeds
to dream that he has already got up, breakfasted
and departed to his office for the day. Such a
dream accompanies the feeling that there need
be no further necessity for physical exertion ;
for ifin one's sleep one seems to have responded
to the summons of one's caller, why need one
bother to get up ? Thus the dream is the
means of accomplishing one's wish in the easiest
and least laborious manner.
What distinguishes our waking state from our
condition during sleep is simply this, that the
former is modified and controlled by the organ-
ized rational intelligence. This exerts a sort
of censorship over our unconscious self, whose
operations however are always striving to
influence our behaviour. But our conscious
self, it must be remembered, is only a fraction
117
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
of our total self. The field of attention is
invariably narrow and restricted, consequently
we are never entirely comprised in those habi-
tual and deliberately initiated activities which
appear most characteristic of us. Our per-
sonalities are verily multiple, and this is owing
to the existence of a variety of latent and
often unacknowledged wishes which, ordinarily
held in check, are yet ready at the least
suggestion to bound to the surface of our
mental life. What our dreams disclose, there-
fore, is what lies smouldering within us.
Their significance, it is true, frequently escapes
us. But this is simply because we refuse
to admit their intention and are too sophisti-
cated to face the facts which they reveal.
Even the dream itself is an artifice : in it we
resort subconsciously to the expedient of imagery
or symbolism whereby we clothe or mask the
purposes for which it exists. Thus the real
meaning of innumerable dreams is totally unin-
telligible until we are in a positfon to investigate
them by the principle of psycho-analysis.
Many dreams are typical. In them we find
the free play of the instincts, appropriately
veiled, however, in order to provide a plausible
pretext for their liberation. The large part
which is played by the erotic impulse in
dreams is especially noted by Freud; but it
118
WISHINGANnlTS RELATION TO DREAMS
must be observed that ·all the great funda-
mental instincts of life -- fear, pugnacity, hunger,
etc., are conspicuous in such phenomena.
Besides dreams, there are other means by
which we betray ourselves. One such mode is
that of Humour and Wit. Humour frequently
constitutes a means of "letting the cat out ofthe
bag". The cat in this case is the suppressed
wish, the bag being the confinement imposed
upon it by the censor. By Wit we cheat the
vigilance of the censor, who like most officials,
is dull-witted and stupid. Jokes therefore are
so many vehicles of suppressed wishes, and
laughter which usually accompanies them, is a
relief both in a physical and mental respect.
By means of mirth we provide a mode of release
for those repressed instincts which would other-
wise find no vent for themselves. All jokes, it
should be observed, if they are to prove effective,
require to be fired off in the company of those
having the requisite complex. When a joke
misses fire, it is owing either to the fact that
the listeners are destitute of this, or that the
censorship imposed upon them is too complete
to permit of the discharge of the instincts which
are appealed to. For the most part, however,
certain special complexes can be relied on ;
hence the popularity of the comic press and the
music-hall comedian, whose jests are invariably
119
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
restricted to certain well-worn themes. Almost
without exception such jokes revolve round the
"Old Adam" within us, who, either by his
defiance of the proprieties, or by his protest
against the observances of society, provides a
way of escape from the tension of convention.
Yet other means by which we "give ourselves
away " may be enumerated. Our gestures, for
example, even the most trivial, may be of enor-
mous significance. From a handshake it is
possible to draw some surprisingly important
conclusions. To grasp another's hand and to
have at the same time an unfriendly intention is
beyond human power, for subconsciously every
bodily movement interprets the psychical condi-
tion with which it is associated.
Still other illustrations of the potency of the
subconcious are found in the hundred and one
haphazard gestures that we make every day of
our lives and which appear to be altogether
destitute of meaning. For instance a slip ofthe
tongue teems with the most intimate significance.
WE DO NOT FORGET UNLESS THERE IS A REA-
SON FOR OUR DOING so. Altough we may be
utterly unconscious of the fact, our speech-blun-
ders are prompted by motives. Many such mis-
takes, as where one word is substituted for
another, are due to wholly personal reasons.
If this theory be reliable, we should tend to
120
WISHING AND ITS RELATION TO DREAMS
forget any name which is fraught with unplea-
sant associations. This ·is achieved, of course,
not by any deliberate effort of the will, but by
the play of those motives which operate beyond
the sphere of our conscious experience. Auto-
matically, as it were, the offending name, by
reason of its unpleasant associations, is banished
from the mind, which obstinately refuses to
release it from its prison, with the result th.at
another, probably similar to it, is substituted.
Sometimes, mistakes in speech betray the
addiction of the speaker to a particular habit.
Such a case is afforded by a young woman of a
tyrannical disposition, whose husband having
been ill, had consulted a doctor as to his diet.
Her remark was, "The doctor said that diet has
nothing to do with his ailment, and that he can
eat and drink what I want".
Other examples of what is stated above illus-
trate this theory which, by reason of its far-
reaching implications, is fraught with such
enormous psychological significance. Thus, the
most casual remark or act may betray a wholly
unsuspected disposition or tendency. A case in
point is that of a woman who wrote to her sister,
congratulating her on the occasion of removing
to a new and commodious residence. A friend,
however, observed that, instead of addressing it
correctly, the writer put an address upon the
121
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
envelope which was that of the sister when first
she had married. Upon being asked why she
had done this, she admitted that she begrudged
her sister her new abode, and wished her back
in the rooms which she had occupied recently.
"It is a pity one is so mean in such matters",
she added.
Even so apparently trivial an occurence as the
mislaying of an article may betray the existence
of a suppressed intention. In effect, in some
such cases, WE WILL TO FORGET. Thus, a case
is cited by Brill in which a man was urged
quite against his wishes to attend a social
function. In response to his wife's desire, he
began to take his dress suit from the trunk, when
it struck him that he had not shaved. After
accomplishing this necessary operation, he went
back for his clothes to the trunk, which how-
ever he found to be locked. A diligent search
was made for the key, but nowhere could it
be discovered, and, it being Sunday evening,
and as no locksmith was available, the pair had
to abandon their intention and stop at home.
Next morning the trunk was opened, and lo and
behold ! inside it was the key. In a fit of
" absent mindedness" the husband had evidently
dropped the key inside and sprung the lock,
which proceeding, while he alleged it to be
entirely unconscious and devoid ofintention, was
.122
WISHING AND ITS RELATION TO DREAMS
obviously due to the disinclination on his part
to attend the social function.
Instances of the sort may be multiplied AD
INFINITUM. Why for example should it prove
more usual to "mislay" bills rather than cheques
or even receipts? Obviously, sins ofomission are
not unmotivated, nor are our (apparently) least
systematic modes of behaviour unrelated to a
deep-laid psychological system whose MODUS
OPERANDI must be sought in those organized
groups of fundamental interests the spontaneous
reactions of which so frequently elude the
resources of the conscious mind.
For the general reader, of course, such resear-
ches and the conclusions at which they enable
us to arrive, must possess primarily a speculative
significance. Upon inquiry, however, it will be
found that they can lay claim to a practical as
well as theoretical value. Once we grasp the
all-essential principle that the root of personal
character lies in volition and impulse and the
instinctive reactions on the part of those tenden-
cies which are implanted within us and which
only conscious and deliberate inhibition can
modify and control, we are in a position to
realize the force of our contention.
WHAT WE Do, then, is traceable in the first
instance less to what we "think" than to what
we ARE. Thought, it is true, may react upon
123
p
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
and modify conduct. At the same time, our
spontaneous actions which have been elaborated
by the subterran~an operations of the instincts,
are the essential test _
of our natures. Hence by
watching our acts and by observing our actual
behaviour, we shall be in a far better position to
form an adequate conception of ourselves than
by any process of mere introspection. Even the
least of our deeds betrays us. But this fact need
not mean that we should become fatalists. For
by learning what we may expect of ourselves and
by intelligently anticipating the direction in
which we are likely to be prompted to behave,
we may so regulate our conduct, by imposing
upon it the authoritative direction of experience
and insight, as to ensure the harmonious develop-
ment of our nature, whereby every tendency,
by being understood and accorded its legitimate
sphere ofinfluence, is subordinated to those pur-
poses and ideals which comprise the ultimate
element in personality.
•
124
CHAPTER VII
MIRTH, MORALS,
AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
Through Civilisation and by means of the
manifold technical resources and acquisitions
that have accrued to him by the evolution of
human faculty, man has already achieved the
partial conquest ofn(!ture. And as a consequence
of this, two outstanding facts confront us. On
the one hand we observe the ever-increasing
control of the factor of environment; whilst on
the other, we see the effects of a corresponding
reaction upon man, which has resulted in a
heightening of self-consciousness. Accompanying
these phenomena, physical and psychical, we
witness the gradually-emerging process of social
development, which, despite innumerable ob-
stacles in the path of its achievement, is
approaching unprecedented complexity and
perfection.
To speak of such achievement as though it
constituted an overwhelming gain for man, and
as though it were unattended by disadvantag€s,
would be manifestly to exaggerate its effects.
125
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
All such progress must involve effort, and the
expenditure of effort no less entails the inevit-
able postponement if not the sacrifice of
immediate interests, and this, however necessary
and desirable it rriay be from the collective
standpoint, must no less exact renunciation on
the part of the individual which is calculated
to involve the denial of many of his funda-
mental instincts and needs. It has indeed often
been suggested that the revolution in human
conditions has been accompanied by a more or
less complete transformation in human nature
itself, and that whereas in its unruly youth
mankind was only too prone to yield to its
undisciplined instincts, it has at length reached
a state of moral and mental maturity. All
appeals to facts however are at variance with
such an assumption. For not only in the least
civilized forms of society are modes of discipline
prescribed for man whereby his latent savagery
may be limited and restrained, but also at all
stages of subsequent evolution we discover, as
well as the " artificial personality " which
conformity to social pressure and usage has
produced, ample evidence of the existence of
the " Old Adam ".
If then we ask, has the nature of man under-
gone any appreciable change, we must reply
that this is, to say the least, doubtful. Without
126
MIRTH, MORALS AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
attempting to suggest that civilized man is only
savage man plus the veneer of hypocrisy, a
position which only sheer cynicism could
maintain, we must nevertheless remark that far
too little has been made, by our idealists and
educationists, ofthe potent unconscious elements·
in human life and character. When it is
realized that, while we embody the present and
contain the germ of the future, we no less
epitomise the entire racial past, the factor of
which we are speaking cannot · escape our
notice. Nor can we wonder if, under the rigid
conditions which have prevailed under the
stress of social necessity, those impulses which
have been held in check should manifest
themselves by means which, though little
suspected, prove that such instincts cannot be
eradicated as easily as is frequently assumed.
Ample proof of this is afforded by the
researches of psyclw-analysts, with many of
whose theories we have already concerned our-
selves. The relation however between wit and
humour and the subconscious still remains to
be considered, and it is with this aspect of the
subject that it is now proposed to deal. Why
then do we laugh ? What is revealed by the
mirthful propensity ? What purpose is served
in the expression of humour ? An answer to
these questions is easily given : wit and humour
. .
127
-
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
are due to the .,.operation of instincts which
exist below the level of the conscious mind.
Mirth, according to Freud, is simply a mode of
release : a means of "letting the cat out of the
bag", the "cat" being, as we have already
seen, the suppressed wish or latent volition,
and the "bag", the confinement imposed by
the censor (in the shape of the social will or
force of custom).
By wit then we may understand the free play
of certain tendencies which, under ordinary
conditions, are repressed by the requirements
of social convention, but which, given favour-
able opportunity, come to the surface in the
form of jokes. All such manifestations, it is
interesting to note, are motivated by a
comparatively few yet fundamental interests of
life. These are found to centre especially in
the affectional nature, pugnacity, fear, etc.
When analysed, the themes of wit are confined
to an exceedingly restricted range, as the
ever popular jokes at the expense of the mother-
in-law, conjugal infidelity, and inebriety go to
show. In all such cases the function of wit is
that of gratifying certain cravings of human
nature in spite of the hindrances to their
actual realization : to elude such hindrances and
to render the source of pleasure, otherwise
inaccessible, possible.
.128
MIRTH, MORALS AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
To appreciate the theory, we must bear in
mind that, while the censorship exerted by the
conscious mind of the average person is
sufficiently vigilant to appear to conform to the
requirements of respectability and propriety, it
is, nevertheless, easily hoodwinked. Moreover,
by the devices provided by wit, sayings which
pass muster and are allowed to be uttered,
possess the two-fold purpose of partly deceiving
the conscious mind, and in so doing, releasing
the instinct which strives, under cover of the
DOUBLE ENTENDRE, to affect its escape. An
illustration (given by Mr. Edwin Holt) will
serve to make this clear. Here the subject is
of a religious character - all such themes
being severely barred by the censor of average
mankind. A man once observed that "the
Rev. Mr ----'s prayer yesterday was the most
eloquent prayer that has ever been presented
before a Boston audience ". In reality, the
statement amounts to the rankest blasphemy,
inasmuch as it alleges that the preacher was
more concerned about his audience than the
Almighty. It however passes the censor
because (1) it ostensibly involves praise of the
reverend gentleman's effort, and (2) the EAR
substitutes for PRAYER the word ." SERMON"
to which it is habitually accustomed. Hence
although the remark is in every way the reverse
129
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
ofcomplimentary, it is so happily adapted to the
attitude of the average person that it fails to
give offence. In the guise of high praise, we
infer A SUPPRESSED ATTITUDE OF HATRED.
The censor is invariably conventionally-
minded. But it is the form, rather than the
spirit, which concerns him. He disapproves of
all primary pleasure. Direct and flippant
allusions to " indelicate " or " sacred " subjects
exasperate him beyond endurance. Yet he is
marvellously tolerant of lapses from decorum
if only they are wrapped up sufficiently care-
fully. Why is this ? Why will he pass in the
shape of jests things which he would never
tolerate if they were presented seriously ?
Mainly because he is too slow-witted to detect
the implication of a joke. His standpoint is
external, and he sees only the obvious and
literal meaning. The reason for this may be
stated thus : the standards of propriety of a
community are invariably below the level of
its intelligence, and the intelligence of the censor
is merely the semblance of intelligence which
suffices to preserve the appearance 9f decorum.
By means of wit, therefore, a path is found
whereby the propensities are discharged over
which the " sense of decency " ordinarily
imposes rigorous supervision. Thus the object of
all jesting lies in providing the play-instinct with
130
MIRTH, MORALS AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
a means of manifestation, and this is accom-
plished indirectly, i. e., by appeasing the reason,
which would otherwise stifle such satisfaction.
And now a word as to the meaninglessness
of jokes. All jokes are in reality senseless : we
do not really know why they make us laugh.
In all joking we find either absurd combinations
of words or ridiculous jumbles of ideas. But
such jokes are a challenge, and we are forced
to MAKE sense of them. Here the ingenuity of
the wit process comes into play. The superfi-
cial sense of wit is intended only to guard the
pleasure against rational suppression. All mirth
is the liberation of pleasure from suppressed
sources. The jest makes possible·what the reason
forbids.
Between wit and the phenomena of the dream
Freud has discovered a direct analogy inasmuch
as both are due to SUPPRESSED WISHES. y OU
cannot, by burying a wish, kill it; sooner or
later it is certain to effect an outlet for itsel£
Hence like the dream, wit is an effort on the
part of some unrealized wish at self-m:;i.nifestation.
Among the factors of wit we may observe
brevity, condensation, and substituted form-
ations ofwords. As an illustration the following
may be cited. A friend who is in the habit of
attending meetings of a certain Ethical Society,
facetiously alluded to it as the "Lethical Meet-
1131
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
ing". Wherein does the wit of this remark lie ?
On analysis we notice that the word "!ethical"
is a term formed of the fusion of two words,
LETHAL and ETHICAL. The point however is
clear only when we bear in mind that it involves
a veiled comparison of the Ethical Meeting to
a lethal chamber, which by no means incorrectly
characterizes the mental condition of those who
are in the habit of attending it. Thus the word
LETHICAL, which bears an obvious similarity to
ETHICAL, carries with it a hidden meaning but
reveals a subordinate sense. 'Additional exam-
ples of concealed meanings might easily be given,
and once more we may refer to the pages of
Freud. One story illustrative of this principle
which he relates is as follows. Two Jews happen-
ed to meet near a bathing establishment.
Says one to the other,"Have you taken a bath?"
"How is that?" comes the_reply, "Is one miss-
ing ?" Here the comicality of the situation
turns upon the reply of the second Jew, who
instead of answering the question in the obvious
way (r) ignores the idea of BATHING and (2)
interprets it in a purely acquisitive sense : the
notion of cleanliness is made subordinate to
the sense of possession.
Among the most pronounced tendencies that
are visible in wit we may observe the obscene,
the hostile, and the flippant. As to the first,
132
MIRTH, MORALS AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
the "smutty joke", its irresistible appeal is
apparent from the fact of its indissoluble con-
nection with certain primitive functions, which,
whilst subject to the severest taboo, are never-
theless of universal importance. Sly allusions
to these therefore, providing a mode of release,
furnish a means whereby the vigilance of .the
censor is outwitted and the instinct of curiosity
receives gratification. As regards the manifes-
tation of the hostile impulse, it may perhaps
be argued that jokes in which somebody is
supposed to get the better of somebody else are
invariably popular - so much so indeed, and
so potent is this instinct, that it is questionable
whether the majority of jokes are not inspired
to some extent by combativeness. Thomas
Hobbes indeed was inclined to trace laughter
to a sense of "sudden glory", proceeding from
a consciousness ofpower. Man, it would appear,
is the only animal capable of laughter, and
man's risible faculties were probably roused in
the first place when he was victorious. Says
Lloyd Morgan, "Derisive laughter may have
had its origin in the exultation of the savage
over his vanquished foe". In any case, the
habitual repression of the pugnacious instinct
under civilized conditions would tend to suggest
that a mode of release was required in order
that it might at least manifest itself in a rela-
133
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
tively inoffensive manner. This would be pro-
vided by the sort of mirth which results in
"chipping", teasing, and practicaljoking. Accord-
ingly, humour of this description is rarely or
never consistent with the spirit enjoined in the
teaching of the Sermon on the Mount.
Another factor in such manifestations is
the escape from the restraint of Authority.
This also may be explained by reference to the
principles which we have already considered.
In society, respect for law and order constitutes
one of the supreme considerations; but whereas
this is so and the claims of group-life neces-
sarily involve the subordination of many of
our constitutional impulses to a sense of the
general welfare, such conformity involves no
little injurious repression and strain upon the
individual. In much of the wit therefore
which is exercised at the expense of those
who occupy official positions and who are
accordingly held up to ridicule and contempt,
we temporarily effect an escape from those pres-
sures whose unrelieved uniformity would thwart
our individual expression. In our attempt to
make fun of the ponderous solemnity which
possesses so irresistible a fascination for the
mirthful impulse, we, in effect, "put down the
mighty from their seat" and by dethroning
them, as it were, secure a means of relief from
134
MIRTH, MORALS AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
their tyranny. Wit may therefore become the
most powerful ally of rebellion. All that is
mechanical, rigid, inflexible, formal and stereo-
typed tends to become absurd ; and, as Bergson
has shown, it is all that we contrast with life and
which conspires to obstruct the free-play of the
spiritual and life-enhancing that is ultimately
provocative of mirth.
Thus the jest may become a most potent
vehicle of truth. Many a truth, we are remind-
ed, is uttered in je.st : in jesting indeed many a
man may v0ice a truth almost without knowing
it - frequently with the most amusing effect.
In so doing, one may easily experience a decided
sense of relief, for not only is the act of escaping
from the rigour of social dissimulation liberating
in its psychical effects, but the physical action
consequent upon the indulgence in laughter also
is calculated to promote the vital processes in
sucP. a way as to secure a healthy equilibrium
alike for body and mind.
Thus wit becomes one of our greatest assets.
By its means we reveal stupidity, override con-
ventions, and unmask the follies of custom. The
surest way of ending any abuse or misdemeanour
is to hold it up to ridicule. As we tend to
despise the objects of our mirth, what we have
once laugh~d at we shall be unlikely to adopt.
No force either in public or private life is greater
1J5
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
or more salutary in its effects than humour. No
freedom can exist without it, and so long as it
remains with us complete servitude is impossible.
The spirit of England is displayed in nothing so
much as its fondness for the comic. The serious-
mindedness of Germany up to the time of the
war was her greatest peril. Our Press, it is some-
times said, has forfeited its right to freedom. Be
that as it may, so long as PUNCH is left to us,
we may still boast that we are a nation of free
men. For it is by humour, by the spirit ofmirth,
that we reveal our truest selves ; and our love of
the nonsensical, in-holding cheap the ponderous
gravity that we profess to respect in our trivial
daily life, is the surest means of delivering us
from those obsessions which would otherwise en-
snare us, and wrest from us our very sanity itself.
CHAPTER VIII
DREAMS
AND- THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
In his brillant and illuminating essay,
"DREAMS," Professor Bergson has written :
"A dream is this : I perceive objects and there
is nothing there. I see men; I seem to speak
to them and I hear what they answer; there is
no one there and I have not spoken. It is all
AS IF real things and real persons were there;
then on waking all has disappeared, both persons
and things. How does this happen? "
Proceeding, Bergson asks further whether it
is correct to assume that there is literally no-
thing there, or whether the delusive images of
the dream-state are originated exclusively by the
subjective fancies which haunt us during sleep?
Is there, he seems to say, no ordered sequence
in these nocturnal experiences ? Are they wholly
devoid of meaning? Are they completely out of
relation to our normal and waking psychical
condition?
:
137
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
For all persons, it is safe to say, this question
possesses some degree of interest. All are in
the habit of dreaming - sometimes, at least.
In the ordinary course of events, sleep occupies
a good third of our existence, and on awaking
we are frequently conscious not merely of the
suspension of our normal consciousness, but of
an interval during our slumbers in which our
mind has been the reverse of inactive. For the
most part, it is true, such occurrences fail to leave
any marked · irupression behind them. Some-
times, to be sure, we remember these, but
usually we dismiss them from our thoughts. But
why do we do this? The reason appears to be
that, in most cases, dreams are too absurd and
grotesque to be worth recalling - they seem to
bear no connection with the events of our every-
day life. And in consequence we find our-
selves disposed to waste no time on them. Is this
attitude justified however? Is the dream-state
totally destitute of psychological significance?
Before replying to these questions let us satisfy
ourselves as to the condition attending the act
of dreaming. " The dream ", says Hoffding,
" is one intermediate stage between the purely
unconscious and conscious state. " It is usual,
he tells us, to contrast the sleeping and waking
DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
states as opposites, but in reality there are many
shades of transition from sleeping to waking. We
often speak indeed of " dreamless sleep ", in
which the slumbers of the sleeper are so pro-
found that we are inclined to imagine his con-
dition to be one of complete unconsciousness,
and we are sometimes informed that the period
in which we dream is confined to the moment
immediately preceding our awakening. Proba-
bly, however, this assumption is unfounded.
It may well be that in reality total loss of con-
sciousness, if it occurs, is of exceedingly brief
duration.
As for dreaming, it may be accounted for on
two widely diverse hypotheses, as follows :
(I) THE " SPIRITUALISTIC " THEORY, according
to which the phenomena are attributable to the
temporary liberation of the " soul " from its
bodily imprisonment. In this case a distinct and
separate existence of the soul is postulated and
its connection with the physical nature and senses
is regarded as merely accidental and as tending
to obstrm:t rather than interpret its essential
nature. Through its release, therefore, from its
tenement of clay, the soul, it is claimed, comes
139
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
in contact with a higher order of " reality "
- psychic, astral, or spiritual, the remembrance
of which on awaking constitutes the dream.
This view is of extreme antiquity, and was espe-
cially favoured in pre-scientifiic ages, when it
was assumed that r~velation was possible by
means of the dream state. Many Biblical allu-
sions to dre_aming appear -to be in harmony
with this theory~ which in a somewhat modified
form and readapted to the scientific spirit of the
times, has been _
adopted by modern theosophists
and others.
(2) THE ,, MATERIALISTIC " THEORY, which,
instead of referring the dream to psychic action,
prefers to attribute it to phypical and external
causes. From this standpoint the dream
is wholly useless and meaningless and is
frequently regarded as symptomatic of morbid
tendencies.
Without necessarily subscribing to either of
these views, we may content ourselves by observ-
ing that the dream constitutes a projection of
the dreamer' s own psychical life, and that while
it would seem unwarranted to claim for it a
wholly external origin, it is neverthless evident
140
DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
that the mechanism of the brain and nervous
system is indispensable to its production. And
not only so : many elements of the dream are
furnished by the materials of the waking life.
Its imagery, though frequently distorted and
fantastic, is borrowed in the main from actual
experience, and though we may often appear
to have dreamed of persons whom we have
never seen and localities which we have never
visited, we nevertheless identify the phenomena
of dreams as " people " and " places " etc.,
and unless the prototypes of such phenomena
had existed in real life it is more than doubtful
whether we should have discovered them during
sleep. Further, while during sleep we appear
to be oblivious of everything about us, it is
proved that in reality our consciousness is never
completely in abeyance. Our self-consciousness
it is· true may have lapsed, but our " uncon-
scious self" is still functioning. Nor are our
senses completely quiescent, since impressions
are perpetually reaching us by way of one or
another sense-avenue and through the exercise
of the respiratory and digestive apparatus.
Though the intensity of such impressions is
diminished during rest, we are never completely
isolated from the outer world.
141
~---
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
This fact is well realized by Bergson, from
whose essay, "DREAMS", I quote the following :
" The eyes, when closed, still distinguish light
from shade, and even, to a certain extent, differ-
ent lights frorri one another. These sensations
of light, emanating from without, are at the
bottom of many of our dreams. A candle
abruptly lighted in the room, for example,
suggests to the sleeper, if his slumber is not too
deep, a dream dominated by the image of fire,
the idea of a burning building ".
Besides the subconscious activity of the visual
sense, that of the tactual, olfactory, aural and
gustatory organs is equally possible. For instance,
if, during sleep, the bedclothes happen to slip to
the floor, and the weather happens to be cold,
ten chances to one we shall dream of partici-
pating in an expedition to the polar regions. _
This
is due to the fact that, having experienced the
sensations of cold, a train of imagery associated
with such sensations is spontaneously aroused in
the brain, which fulfills the twofold purpose of
providing a plausible explanation of the occur-
rence and sparing the sleeper .the trouble of
awakening from his slumber. Professor Hoffding
142
DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
tells us of a man who dreamed that he was
walking on the crater of Mount Etna. The
explanation was nothing but that of con-
tact with a hot-water bottle. "Often", says
Hoffding, " a most complicated event is con-
structed to explain some quite simple impression,
as when the falling of a curtain and the ap-
pearance of light in the room calls up a dream
of the Day of Judgment depicted with a host
of details". Very evidently, the dramatisation
of the dream will depend to a great extent upon
the imaginative resources of the dreamer. We
must not, however, fail to note that, whilst this
is so, explanations which would be rejected as
absurd in the waking state will not only be
entertained in sleep, but will be accepted as
entirely probable and normal. The man, for
instance, whose dream is due, let us suppose,
to some slight nocturnal disturbance such as a
thunder storm, which, instead of awakening
him, affords him a vivid presentation of the
end of the world, would probably-laugh when,
in the morning, he proceeded to relate and
reflect upon his experiences of the night. This
fact, of course, is attributable to the close
approximation of the dream-condition and the
state of mind in which hypnosis is induced.
14.3
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Since in sleep the dreamer is, for the most part,
at the exclusive mercy of one or other of the
senses and is deprived of the means of checking
by his reason the impressions with which he is
thus furnished, he is compelled to resort to
whatever explanation may be afforded him by
the imagery which links itself with the sort of
impression that may be ·aroused.
Thus the dream-state may be said to differ
from the waking principally owingto the following
causes :
(I) It occurs through the intervention of a
relatively restricted operation of the senses;
(2) It exhibits the absence of all ordered
sequence in the trains of imagery which are
presented to the mind of the sleeper.
In the lack of all consecutive and sustained
attention and interest, indeed, we have the clue
to the dream state. During the ascendancy of
the dream, the sleeper is inevitably at the mercy
of whatever sensations and feelings may assail
him; and being deprived of both judgment and
volition, is utterly unable to invest his experience
with the least adequate sense of PROPORTION.
144
-
DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
Whatever may be felt is accordingly apprehended
as real, and the spontaneous reaction which is
accomplished in consciousness is consequently
accepted as valid beyond the least shadow of
doubt.
Having dealt with the two prime factors in the
production of dreams, which as has been shown,
consist in the external stimulus and the vast
reservoir of memories wherewith such experiences
are accounted for, it now remains for us to
consider another aspect of the problem. Assum-
ing that the phenomena in question may be
elucidated in the manner that we have already
described, the further point that remains to be
considered is this : granting that dreams defy
the resources of ordinary logic and that they
reveal such incoherence and lack of consistency
as to render them incomprehensible from the
standpoint of the reason, are we therefore at
liberty to conclude that they are wholly destitute
of all serious significance? Or can we, in other
words, regard their apparent absurdity as due
merely to the operations of a disordered and
capricious mind that works in defiance of law ?
To maintain this, would surely be impossible. To
argue that, because superficially the dream is
devoid of int~lligibility, it is therefore without
145
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
meaning, would be in effect to regard the dream-
consciousness as uncaused and this, it is evident,
would be tantamount to declaring that dream-
phenomena lie beyond the scope of scientific
inquiry. Any such assumption, it is clear, is
wholly at variance with any valid psychological
conception, and all that remains to be decided
is, how we are to interpret the dream-con-
sciousness and what is the precise significance
that we may assign to it.
Let us, then, having once for all disabused our
mind of the intellectualist fallacy, proceed to
consider the problem from the standpoint of the
most recent investigators. This will enable us
to regard the dream as due to a specific origin
which we must seek in the instincts. When we
dream we inevitably betray the presence of those
wishes and impulses which, lying beneath the
surface of the primary consciousness or waking
state and inhibited by the pressure of the rational
mind, surge up and take possession of us during
the interval of sleep. Accordingly, while we
appear to witness a distinct breach between the
waking state and dream-consciousness, in reality
the most indissoluble connection is apparent; so
that we may legitimately regard the dream-
existence as nothing other than the sequel of the
146
DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
waking life. The dream in short, as Freud tells
us, is the means whereby we obtain the gratifi-
cation of those desires which remain in abeyance
during waking life. "The dream gives us what
the day withheld ". Hence the function of
dreaming is none other than that of fulfilling
the wishes which may be normal to us.
This perhaps is best realized in the case of
children. A child let us say, has been told that
he must not play with snails in the garden. He
is put to bed and dreams that he is in the land
of unlimited snails which he is carefully col-
lecting in his little pail. Or he is absorbed in
his games and is made to go out for a walk.
During the night the child probably resumes
his activities among his toys : in dreamland he
visits a region which affords him surpassing
facilities for play. In this way his wishes, which
have been checked during the day, are fulfilled
in his dreams.
Many examples show that, whereas the wish
by which the dream may be motivated is simple,
the imagery by which expression is given to it
is often of the most complicated kind. Our
dreams, it would seem, instead of being pro-
duced with a view to enlightening us as to their
source, are rather elaborate attempts on the part
147
/
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
of our subconsciousness to conceal from our
waking mind the insistent attempts which our
repressed instincts make in the course of our
dream to urge their claim upon our notice. In
consequence, unless the most careful consider-
ation is bestowed upon the analysis of dream-
imagery, one may easily remain oblivious of the
profound significance of dream-phenomena.
One such case is related as follows : A man
had for several days and nights watched by the
bedside of his dyingchild, who at length expired;
whereupon the father retired to an adjoining
room, leaving the door ajar, the corpse meantime
being surrounded by lighted candles and watch-
ed by an old man. Falling asleep, the father
dreamed that his child stood near to the bed,
clasping its arms and calling out reproachfully
" Father, don't you see I'm burning ? "
On awakening, the man found the bed in
flames. This dream it is evident was started by
the luminous sensation which produced the
same effect upon the sleeper as if he had been
awake. But the underlying motive of the dream
was due to two things : (r) the subconscious
·dread of the aged guardian of the child's body
that he was unequal to the task which his vigil
involved, and (2) the supreme desire to see the
!l48-
\ DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
child alive. Had it not been for the latter
impulse, indeed, the dream would not have
proceeded as far as to have introduced the dead
child; the sleeper would have responded merely
to the fire suggestion ; whereas as it was, this
became the pretext for recalling the child to life.
Such a dream as this will suffice to illustrate
the course which must be followed in dream
interpretation.
But clearly, if this method is to be successfully
applied a careful° examination of the preceding
states of mind and feeling must be made. To
be in a position to approach the dream for
the purpose of psycho-analysis we must be
prepared to realize the tremendous influence
of the _
elemental instincts in all such pheno-
mena. When we remember the extraordinary
power which these exercise throughout our
entire life, and that whatever restraint we are
able to place upon them is owing in the main
to the existence of those inhibitions and taboos
which have been devised in order to meet our
social requirements, the whole problem becomes
simplified. When left to ourselves or during
sleep, we are at liberty to give play to our more
intimate and personal desires and feeling : the
things we long for we need no longer refrain
149
-.
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
from : the release from a condition of stress and
tension supervenes and we are instantly capable
of yielding in an imaginative way to our wishes.
In doing so, however, since our mind is socially
conditioned, we betray not only our primeval
impulses, but the acquired art of dissimulation;
so that, unless we review the circumstances
which have led up to the dream it is ten
chances to one that we shall fail to fathom its
mysteries. So accustomed is the conscious mind
to interpret its "instinctive" motives with refer.
ence to social aims that, unless the essential
nature of the instincts be realized, it is almost
inevitable that the construction which will be
placed upon the dream will be remote from the
truth. Once, however, we grasp the principle
that the dream is the vehicle of self.revelation,
we shall be in a position to make our researches
ofboth interest and profit. "The dream", says
Freud, " creates a form of psychical relief for
the wish which is either suppressed or formed
by the aid of repression, inasmuch as it presents
it as realized... In sleeping, we make use ofthe
dream to dismiss the external stimulus... The
dreams which come with a loud noise just before
waking, have all attempted to cover the stimulus
to waking, by some other explanation, and then
150
DREAMS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
to prolong the sleep for a little while " . Illusion
is the simplest artifice whereby through the
action of the dream, sleep may here be prolonged.
A simple illustration of this would be the dream
in which we are quenching our thirst.
· We see, then, that, contrary to the popular
assumption, the dream state in reality involves
no rupture with the waking condition. In our
dreams, while we possibly become more truly
ourselves than is the case when we are subjected
to the sway of the "artificial personality" that so-
ciety has helped to create for us, we are in no wise
essentially different beings from what we are on
other occasions. At least, the intervention of the
supernatural entirely breaks down when we come
to investigate the question. As we think and are
by nature and habit, so we tend to become in
the dream realm. Much, it is true, other
than we seem we discover ourselves to be
under such conditions; but this is owing to
the previous partial and inadequate conception
that we have probably formed ofourselves. Let
us but dispel the illusion that we have so jeal-
ously cherished, and let us but realize that our
self-knowledge is at best but fragmentary and
incomplete, and we shall discover that dreams
may possess a genuine significance. There is no
151
..
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
one but is in a position to contribute something
to this important branch of psychology. And it
may be that the little that we bring will shed a
flood of light, not only on our dream-state, but
also on our waking condition. For it is there that
the problem centres and its solution must be
sought.
'152
CHAPTER IX
THE FEAR IMPULSE
In his " TEXT BooK OF PsYCHOLOGY ''
'
William James writes :
" The progress from brute to man is
characterized by nothing so much as by the
decrease in frequency of proper occasions for
fear. In civilized life, in particular, it has at
last become possible for large numbers of people
to pass from the cradle to the grave without
ever having had a pang of fear. Many of us
need an attack of mental disease to teach us
the meaning of the word. Hence the possibility
of so much blind optimistic philosophy and
religion. The atrocities of life become "like a
tale of little meaning though the words are
strong"; we doubt ifanything like us ever really
was within the tiger's jaws, and conclude that
the horrors we hear of are but a sort of painted
tapestry for the chambers in which we lie so
comfortably at peace with ourselves and with the
world."
153
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Unfortunately the decease of Professor James
took place some time prior to the outbreak of
the world war : otherwise, he might have seen
the necessity for modifying this passage. But in
truth while in normal times fear and the
necessity for it seem to be reduced to a minimum,
the instinct itself not only persists but is appealed
to in innumerable ways. We have only to cite
the State for example : though in ordinary
circumstances the average citizen behaves him-
self and pays his rates and taxes as a matter of
course, he need not look very far to assure him-
self that any failure on his part to comply with
the :recognised requirements would be met with
by the appeal to fear. The policerpan may be a
civil enough fellow; but civilized life is still
desperately uncivil. And behind the policeman
lie -the policecourt and the prison. Anybody
who is acquainted with these institutions will be
in a position to reaFze that fear rather than love
is relied upon ultimately in the administration of
law and order. Whether fear should thus
be relied upon we need not delay to consider,
nor need we defend the arguments advanced
on its behalf. The fact remains that fear
survives.
Religion moreover is largely if not predomi-
154
THE FEAR IMPULSE
nantly the offspring of fear. Is it not still DREAD
OF THE UNKNOWN that keeps men in bondage to
orthodox beliefs and that renders them impervious
to the " impious " suggestion that their faith is
but superstition? To say that religion ofthe "old
type " is passing and that " modern faith " is
inspired less by fear than by the appeal to human
love, in no wise invalidates this contention ; for
though doubtless the highest order of religious
feeling tends more and more to emphasise the
efficacy ofethical emotion to the eternal discredit
of supernaturalism, existing institutions are
supported and maintained mainlyif not exclusive-
ly by the precise dread and awe which it is
the object ofrationalism to oppose and overcome.
Very naturally and with the most praiseworthy
logic therefore the more conservatively-minded
religious man regards the advance of rationalism
as the most serious foe with which religion has
to contend.
The reflections which are recalled by such
facts, so far from suggesting that fear has ceased
to play anything but a subordinate part in
human affairs, only go to show that it continues
to exercise the most potent influence upon
mankind. And so much so indeed that we may
well ask whether it is not one of those instincts
155
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
which however we may rationalize human nature
are destined to exert a lasting influence.
Before passing on to discuss fear in relation to
man we may do well to remind ourselves that it
constitutes one of those deep-rooted instincts
that are appropriate to most if not all sentient
creatures. Man bemg the product of an
interminable past, is the inheritor of the impulses
which distinguished his 5rute ancestors, and of
these none is greater_or more universal than
fear. Theunfamiliar, the vast, the sublime, the
terrific, fill us with dread. Let a sudden noise
fall upon the ear and we are instantly startled.
A storm produces restlessness. Children are
often nervous of.dogs, cats, black objects, and the
dark. Let the man of the strongest nerves visit
a lonely wood at night-time and he becomes
conscious of a sense of dread. These facts are
not without psychological warrant, for it was
under similar conditions that our savage
ancestors met wild beasts and other foes. A -
certain form of this fear is known by the term
" Agarophobia ", which means the terror ofopen
spaces. To what is it attributable ? Doubtless
to the resurrection ofan ancestral impulse which
led primitive men to seek cover from danger.
The cat's aversion from exposing itself to view is
156
THE FEAR IMPULSE
well known. And in this respect the human
species strangely resembles the cat. Our ·dread
seems to be little else than the revival of
the cat's desire to seek shelter from its possible
assailants.
If we ask what fear is, the reply may be given
that it is the impulse which prompts to the
avoidance of danger. But this definition it is
clear does not commit us to the conclusion that
fear is itself capable of forming any adequate
judgment as to whether the object of such fear
is inimical or otherwise. Yet it is nonetheless
evident that unless this impulse had existed and
spontaneous flight had enabled a creature to
effect its escape, many species that have survived
would have been exterminated. Fear has un-
doubtedly possessed survival value, and by means
of it escape from innumerable sources of danger
has been facilitated.
B:it fear is by no means a mere feeling, and
we must guard against the temptation of over
intellectualization. It rather constitutes a mode
of behaviour, an impulse which involves specific
organic reactions. This can be seen by watching
any animal under its influence. Let a creature
be terrified in any way and it is once prompted
to exert its locomotory apparatus to the utmost.
157
-
-
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Under the feeling of fear, it is often possible to
exhibit feats of almost sup:s.rhuman power, as for
instance in leaping.
Here the question arises as to how far the mind
can be said to influence the body and vice versa.
Is fear in reality a mental process, or is it rather
a psychical state that is induced by a bodily .
condition? Probably it would be true to say
that while fear is a psychological fact, it is one
of those psychical facts which implicate our
physiological life to a far greater extent than we
commonly suppose, and that although we tend
to act as we do because we feel " afraid ", the
sensation offear is greatly reinforced by its bodily
concomitants. " Without the bodily states
following on the perception", writes James, "the
latter would be purely cognitive in form; pale,
colourless, destitute of emotional warmth ".
As for the manifestations of fear, Professor
Shand observes that these may take either one
of the following forms : the creature may take
flight, it may shrink back, remain motio;nless,
seek a hiding place, cling for protection to
another creature, or utter cries for help. These
manifestations, as he shows, involve different sets
of nerves and muscles and constitute so many
different systems. But the point to be.observed
158
THE FEAR IMPULSE
is, that fear thus regarded constitutes an organ-
ized set of reactions which qualifies the creature
which exhibits it to behave in specific ways.
Each of these without question has tended to
subserve certain utilitarian ends. For instance,
as has been said, the impulse to run away is
obviously a reaction calculated to facilitate
escape. Motionlessness again, as ·when one is
paralysed through fear, was probably due orig-
inally to an instinctive act which tended to
prompt the creature to lie still and thereby elude
detection, or even simulate the appearance of
death. The cry of terror was unquestionably a
call for aid. In all such cases therefore, we see
the biological value of fear, and unless it had
been experienced and induced its apropriate
reactions the chances of survival must have
been remote.
These considerations however, which so far as
the animals are concerned are too obvious to
call for detailed comment, appear less applicable
to man. Man, it is true inherits fear, but
whereas this is so, it by no means necessarily
follows that the things of which man is most
afraid are invariably those which are most
harmful to him. Far otherwise. A case is afford-
ed by a thunderstorm, in which the peal of the
159
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
thunder is often far more terrifying to the nerves
than the lightning flash. Excessive fear again,
such as is produced by a scare of fire, instead of
prompting us u to cut and run" may occasion a
temporary suspension of the locomotory powers.
Further, the ascent of a high building may result
in dizziness even when there is no danger.
Another instance is the dread of the supernatu-
ral, although we are fully aware that there is no
such thing. These facts and many more sug-
gest the frequent futility of fear; so much
so indeed that we are tempted to ask whether
fear is not one of the factors in our
psychological equipment that has outlasted its
uses - that it is atavistic and should if possible
be eradicated.
While however, in view of this, the desire to
eliminate fear seems to be sufficiently legitimate,
the practical chance of doing so is problematical
in the extreme. So much so indeed, that the
only thing open for us appears to be boldly to
confront it and meet it in the most intelligent
manner. We may, it is true, achieve this in fact
by withholding certain stimuli to which the sens-
ation of fear reacts, though this it is evident does
not destroy fear. In point of fact, in common
with other emotions, when fear is left unstimul-
160
THE FEAR IMPULSE
ated we merely get a state ofbaulked disposition,
with its attendant strain. Fear, as we have
already seen, is exceedingly influential in the
social economy of everyday life. Being one of
the principal agents of social discipline it tends
to inhibit actions which unless checked might
easily threaten social permanence and stability.
To do right under compulsion or threat of
punishment may argue a .relative lowness of
motive ; at the same time so long as base motives
persist recourse to fear is inevitable. By fear
_many egoistic impulses are restrained : fear not
alone ofcorporal punishment, but also ofridicule
and censure tending to keep us within the limits
prescribed by society. Law and government,
as we have already remarked, are clearly
supported by fear.
However regrettable this may be, the fact
remains that until people can be depended on to
respond to the appeal of love, fear must remain
in the background. Nor need we doubt that by
its means much serviceable conduct is secured.
This is well put by Emerson :
"How much, preventing God, how much I owe,
To the defences Thou hast round me set:
Example, custom, fear, occasion slow, -
Those scorned bondmen were my parapet."
161
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Although, given the requisite degree of intelli-
gence, the necessity for fear should be small, so
long as man remains subject to the sway of his
animal impulses he must be liable to experience
terror and dread. For fear we must bear in
mind is educative, inasmuch as it is the means of
arresting the attention. A thing to which we
ordinarily pay no heed and remain indifferent,
may, by its effect upon our fear instinct, make a
deep and lasting impression upon our mind.
One ofthe most significant lessons of the war has
been that of teaching us how much it is possible
to accomplish by reducing the population to a
state of terror and helplessness. However much
we may sympathize with the pitiable impotence
of the mass of humanity, we may well ask our-
selves whether unless it were for fear, their
plight would not be even more disastrous.
As it is, taking the present state of the world
as our guide, we may well believe that for many
years to come fear will still fulfill a function in
human affairs. Accordingly, our problem is not
so much how we may proceed to banish fear as
how we may best direct it to subserve our highest
welfare. Ifit can be shown that many of the
things of which we have hitherto stood in dread
need no longer be feared, it is true notwithstand-
162
THE FEAR IMPULSE
ing thatt here is still ample reason for fearing
many other things, the danger of which we have
never suspected. Of these poverty, disease,
tyranny, and ignorance may be cited as of
especial urgency. Man may legitimately and
profitably fear lest he incur economic want,
ill-health, servitude, or other such evils. But the
fear instinct if it is to prove ofvalue to him, must
be so exercised as to adapt man to respond not
in the old reflex ways, but through the instru-
mentality of his mental powers. Particularly is
this true in the social sphere. And it may be
observed that unless the fear impulse motivates
the brain, no amount of knowledge is likely to
avail. No mere facts without the sense of the
necessity which compels us to utilize them can
possibly suffice for our needs.
We may have outgrown our dread of the
personal devil, but there are still things remaining
with us that require to be shunned : apathy, self-
conceit, obtuseness, tyranny, and vulgar opinion.
It is true that, in order to overcome these, we
should not run away from them; but to fight them
and to get the better of them we have need of
courage, and true courage proceeds not from
recklessness and indifference to danger, but from
prudence, carefulness and forethought. And
163
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
these, no less than cowardice, are rooted in the
fear impulse, which intelligently directed must
still occupy a position of honour in human life.
BENEDETTO CROCE.
164
CHAPTER x
RE-INCARNATION
A PSYCHOLOGICAL
INTERPRETATION
When Emerson wrote, in his essay on
"Worship",
"Higher than the question of our duration is the
question of our deserving. Immortality will
come to such as are fit for it, and he who would
be a great soul in the future must be a great
soul now",
he had in mind something far beyond the con-
ception of personal survival. That problem,
indeed, which possesses such an irresistible fasci-
nation for the speculative mind, is not devoid of
interest or significance: and for those. who are
sufficiently curious about such matters, investi-
gation along the lines of psychical research may
afford suggestive possibilities. For the more
exclusively practical, however, the solution of
life's mysteries centres in the application of the
"faith that is ·born of Ethics", and the entire
sufficiency of the moral sentiment itself.
165
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
In the words of Emerson :
"Of immortality, the soul, when well employed,
is incurious. It is so well, that it is sure it will
be well. It asks no questions of the Supreme
Power".
Protracted reflection upon this problem, must
have convinced many truthseekers of the pro-
found wisdom which is embodied in such a
declaration. The meaning of life is not to be
sought in remote or contingent conditions : its
eternal "depth and strength" must somehow be
inherent in the present, and be now and here.
Nor can the spiritual significance of our exis-
tence be enhanced merely by the prospect of
the POST MORTEM perpetuation of our personality
in another world. That, to be sure, may be
provided for. But, finally, in any event, our
conception of life must reduce itselfto a question
of Values; and these values will be inextricably
interwoven with the fabric and tissue of our
terrestrial experience and substance. Whatever
WORTH life may possess for us therefore, must
inevitably proceed from precisely those aims,
purposes and· ideals which inspire us to act,
achieve and to be in the living present. Here,
then, or nowhere, in this ACTUAL, men are
called upon to realize the Life of the Spirit.
But this conception itself, which is grounded
166
RE-INCARNATION
and rooted in the unassailable conviction that
here, upon this earth, man is predestined to an
immortal consciousness, is necessarily progressive
and subject to development. The "thousand
and one goals" q.pon which men have set their.
G!.ffections, which have limited the range of
human vision and precluded the apprehension
of the way that leadeth to Life, must needs be
transcended. For that way, if it is to be
entered upon, ealls for nothing less than
incessant and utter surrender : the renunciation
of all that men may hitherto have identified
with themselves.
It was with this thought in mind that Mat-
thew Arnold penned the lines,
"The will to neither strive nor cry,
The power to feel with others give I
Calm, calm me more, nor let me die
Before I have begun to live",
"Ye must be born again", said Jesus, when a
certain master in Israel approached him by
night. "Except a man be born again, he cannot
see the Kingdom of God". But Nicodemus was
incredulous. "How can a man be born when
he is old ? Can he enter the second time into
his mother's womb and be born?" To this irrele-
vant question Jesus makes answer, "Marvel
not that I said unto thee ye must be born again.
167
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
The wind blowed where it listeth and thou
hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell
whence it cometh nor whither it goeth : so is
everyone that is born of the Spirit".
Jesus and Nicodemus were obviously speaking
different languages. Each was on a different
"thought-plane", as it were. To the literal
unimaginative intellect, this sublime disclosure
of Spiritual wisdom was unintelligible. Yet, in
the light of modern psychology, the truth that
Jesus affirmed becomes entirely plain and evident.
"Re-birth," or re-generation, is one of the
Eternal Verities that have invariably been pre-
figured and symbolized in the great myths and
religions of the world. In the Phcenix, for
example, we find the idea presented to us in the
shape of a fabulous bird, alleged to have resem-
bled an eagle, with resplendent red and gold
plumage, which, having lived 500 years or so in
the Arabian Desert, burnt itself on a funeral
pile and afterwards rose, from the ashes of its
former self, rejuvenated. A very similar idea is
embodied in the rituals of primitive peoples,
whose "initiations" provide their believers with
a vivid dramatic representation of burial and
subsequent resurrection. The more philosophic
religions too have presented the same conception
in "Re-Incarnation" : the doctrine that our
present terrestrial. existence is but one among
168
RE-INCARNATION
many successive corporeal manifestations of the
indwelling, immortal Spirit. ''Re-Incarnation"
has, of recent years, made an ever-increasing
appeal to the occidental mind; and this may be
accounted for mainly owing- to the decisive
reaction that has set in against the individualistic
superstition of an antiquated theology, that had
been content to regard each "soul" as a separate
and distinct creation of an omnipotent external
will, and had taught that man's nature and
destiny were arbitrarily determined by extrinsic
and adventitious means. The significance of
the idea, it should be mentioned, consists not so
much in its attempt to provide an unending life
for the individual, 9-S that its deeper implications
suggest that every "personal" expression of life
takes its rise, develops and finally merges in what
is one continuous and sequential process.
But apart from the hypothesis to which the
popular interpretation appears to commit us,
Re-birth is susceptible ofpsychological treatment.
Whether or no this present self is a phase of a
former one : or whether, at death, this -phase
will subsequently be refashioned into another, in
which the continuity ofthe Ego will be preserved
everlastingly, may appear doubtful to many.
What is certain, is, that, here and now, life is a
process ofcontinuous and sequential unfoldment,
whereby our inner mental, moral and emotional
169
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
nature is incessantly passing through successive
series ofmetamorphoses. These transformations
proceed in a orderly manner, and are accompa-
nied normally by appropriate changes. When
Shakespeare exclaims
"All the world's a stage,
And all the men and women merely players,
They have their exits and their entrances ;
And one man in his time plays many parts,
His acts being seven ages",
he appears to be alluding to a psychological
scheme for which the biological provisions of
Nature afford adequate preparation.
Roughly, these stages might, perhaps, be said
to correspond to Infancy, Childhood, Puberty,
Adolescence, Youth, Adult life and Old Age,
respectively. As a rule, these stages are associ-
ated in our minds merely with certain physiologi-
cal changes which are incidental to existence ;
viz. Growth, Maturity and the decline of
physical power. In point of fact, however, they
are concerned with far profounder processes,
corresponding as they do to the evolution of suc-
cessive stages ofexperience and development.
In the Individual, we have what is to all intents
and purposes a recapitulation of race-history.
.Hence every normally constituted being passes
through a series of Life-cycles which successively
170
RE-INCARNATION
provide for his ensuing growth and development.
Thus, each phase which distinguishes his evolution,
being natural and inevitable, should be allowed
to make its ·own specific contribution, when,
having been incorporated in his make-up, it gives
place to the next stage upon which the indivi-
dual is required to enter. This process will be
intelligible if we consider these phases in the
following manner.
First of all, then, we encounter the period of
Infancy, the phase which is appropriate to baby-
hood; the stage that provides for the experiences
typified in our legends and myths by the
"Golden Age".
.What "re-incarnates" first in the newly-born
babe ? The " Pleasure Principle " : those
impulses and tendencies, transmitted by heredity,
that provide for self-gratification and enjoyment.
At this stage of our career, the nutritional
functions predominate, and existence is concerned
principally with promoting the interests which
are responsible for our physical nature. The
world of infancy is a very little place, and is
controlled in the main by deep-seated instincts
that preside over self-preservation and self-
enlargement. The whole universe for us is then
organized round our own personality as its centre,
and we are conscious of little save in an
instinctive way, and when it interferes with our
171
THE IMPRISONED- SPLENDOUR
enjoyment. Having emerged from its pre-natal
condition, in which it secured every possible
blessing without the least necessity for making
conscious effort of any kind, the infant reaches
a stage when it endeavours to prolong its
Paradisal existence, and when it accordingly
makes unlimited demands without in the least
realizing that its state of per.fection is in reality
that of the unregenerate man. This phase often
persists long into after life and bears the closest
analogy to th~ which distinguishes the evolution
of the primitive. To it we may refer the beliefs
which repose upon the assumptions that have led
both the savage and the civiliJed to a "magical"
or "supernatural" conception of life. In infancy,
the rational mind is as yet in abeyance ; every
wish, in so far as it is gratified, is gratified by
means which lie beyond our cognizance or
conscious control. Everything is done for us,
and in order to get what we desire we emit a cry
which usually summons those who supply our
want.
But this stage cannot be prolonged indefinitely,
and between the ages of three and five years,
self-consciousness dawns. Life is a process of
un-selfing, and now arrives the period when the
child begins to adjust itself to the practical
situations of life. Now comes in the influence of
the parents, guardians and nurses, and during .
172
RE-INCARNATION
the interval in which it is subjected to their
control, the child is driven forth from its former
- Eden. But its " omnipotent ego " is still strong,
and, in order that it may be afforded opportuni-
ties of still keeping in touch with its primal
needs, its resorts to play. The child revels in its
imagination, and this is possible because it is
permitted to exercise certain instinctive tenden-
cies which, as yet without conscious direction,
enable it to indulge in certain " phantasies ".
These form the foundation of those fictitious
personalities which constitute it the little actor
that every child should be. Through its attempts
at mimicry, it acquires the free-play for those
tendencies which will later be available for the
more serious business of life. Among such
tendencies we find curiosity and pugnacity. The
child invariably exhibits inter.est in certain actual
persons and things and its phantasies commonly
centre in some character or situation that
happens to fire its imagination. In the case of
boys, this phantasy may proceed from the
pugnacious or hunting impulse, which may
result in military or piratical aspirations; or it
may be seized by a frenzied ambition to become
a fireman or the driver ofa motor bus, in which
case it will have projected itself by way of its
danger or constructive instincts, into such situa-
tions. Later on we shall find the parental
173
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
instinct asserting itself, and this will lead the
child to play at mothers and fathers or to show
a love for dolls as well as manifest affection for
pets. As the child grows older, the acquisitive
impulse comes into play, and this may be shown
by the desire to collect and possess - either
stamps, tram tickets or "fag cards". Later still,
and between the seventh anq fourteenth years,
the gregarious tendency is usually displayed,
when the "gang spirit 'J--comes in, games are
played, and loyalty is revealed.
The next stage is that which is reached at
puberty and adolescence. And now we find a
return upon the self. From r5 to r8, and some-
times long afterwards, the adolescent becomes
aware of the growing needs of his or her inner
nature. New energies and emotions come into
play, and though the origin of these is not
understood, a vague sense of yearning for some'."
thing that remains unattained and unrealized,
enters. Psychologists have noted that at this
period religion frequently becomes a dominant
idea, and that many young people undergo
" conversion ". In any case, they fl.re liable
to experience a sense of their own imperfection
and unworthiness, and, in virtue of the birth
within them of a new insight, seek a fresh ideal
for themselves. This is the age of Romance, as
well as stress and conflict; and the normal
174
RE-INCARNATION
·course is to direct the energies to some person of ·
the opposite sex who will so engage the emotions
as to transfer the interest from a merely sub-
jective and ego-centric standpoint to one which
will provide for the subsequent development of
character.
Youth follows, during which there should be
further adaptations to the practical require-
ments of life. Idealism should now give place
to a more realistic outlook; yet the contribution
of adolescence should have prevented this from
becoming sordid or utilitarian. Fresh interests
should crop up; and with the assumption of
responsibility, the character should undergo
development.
With maturity, the powers having being exer-
cised, we are brought to a still fuller state of
development, And by this time, adequate pro-
vision should have been made for the final
phase, which is only too often believed to signa-
lise the approach of inevitable decrepitude
and decay.
But old age, while it may deprive us of many
of the joys which are appropriate to the pre-
ceding stages, should conduct us to a period in
which, by reason of our having lived out each
phase as it arose, with our eye upon what was
to follow, we should be fully equipped to enjoy
much which still remains for us, " The last of
175
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
life, for which the first was made ". The idea,
however, that advanced life can, excepting in
certain rare cases, bring us such blessings, is
usually denied. Readers of\Vordsworth's "Ode"
will recall the poet' s pathetic reference to the
vanished splendours of early childhood : how, as
the youth grows up, the vision of Life, instead of
leading him onward, recedes into the background
of life - becoming a hallowed memory, until at
length the man is left to brood on so much as
he can remember of its departed glories. The
suggestion that is thus conveyed to us is that
ultimately all that we have to look forward to
is the unsubstantial dream of what " remairis
behind", in the land of memory. That the
" philosophi_
c mood" is indeed consistent with
the happy memories of a well-spent youth, is
undeniable. But are we really to infer that a
life that is passed in a wisely-ordered series of
adjustments to natural, biological and psycholo-
gical necessities, is merely an experience which
finally dissolves in a sense of something that has
vanished, like a tale that has been told? Old age
has constantly been found to find its delight in
dwelling thus passively upon what went before,
and has all too seldom been credited with the
power to make any positive contribution to life.
But in spite of his apparent despair of the
possibilities ofcontinuous and progressive develop-
176
RE-INCARNATION
ment, Wordsworth, it will be remembered,
suddenly gives utterance to the exultant excla-
mation :
"0 joy! that in our members
Is something that doth live! "
And he intuitively perceives that, while life
may not give us all that we have desired,
"Our souls have sight of that immortal sea
which brought us hither".
From which declaration we may infer that he
held that man was not a piece of clockwork,
wound up to go for three score years and ten,
and then finally reduced to a phantom; but
rather that he is the incarnation oftheinexhausti-
ble, quenchless Spirit of Life, which, at each
stage of his career, will replenish him from its
own boundless resources.
Modern psychology furnishes us with an inter-
pretation to . this conception of life. And what
it tells us is, that life itself is a process of change,
in which we encounter a transition from the
Pleasure principle to that of Reality. And what
is Pleasure? Certainly not a state ofmere happi-
ness. And what of Reality? Assuredly it is
not a mere condition of disillusion and empti-
ness. We oscillate, in short, between two poles :
177
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
that of our primal desires, and that of Truth.
The one provides us with our wishes; the other
compels us to come to terms with what actually
is. Desire prompts to action, but brings pain;
pain, as far as possible, we avoid, and in order
to do this, take refuge in phantasy.
But our phantasies are regressive. They hold
us back. The origin of phantasy appears to be
the failure on our part to adjust ourselves to a
world which seems to be at variance with our
wishes. Truth is never palatable ; facts are
always inconvenient. We therefore, shun them.
And we fancy that, by shutting them oµt, by
substituting our phantasies for them, we can have
what we want. For a time no doubt we can,
or so it appears.
Thus, our world is, in most respects, an
excessively infantile place, and it is full of people
who, as yet, are totally unprepared to confront
anything in the shape of Reality. Truth to tell,
they have never been brought up to do so. Our
institutions, for the most part, have developed
under the tradition of influences which, instead
of appealing to the individual responsibility of
their members, have fostered a delusive sense of
security. Church, State, School, and Home,
have all tended to keep us, one and all, in a
backward condition which has thwarted the legi-
timate exercise of those tendencies whose pro-
17_8
RE-INCARNATION
gressive evolution alone must have provided for
the experimental and dynamic growth of the
individual.
Especially has this been apparent hitherto in
the relations that have subsisted between parent
and chlld. In our domestic regime, though
young and old may have been accustomed to
meet upon a friendly footing, little imagination
has been exercised on the part of the mother or
father to anticipate the future Man or Woman
in t)le offspring. Nor has the older generation
itself exhibited any proof ofits right to claim the
position accorded it. During the war, perhaps
better than at any other time, we realized how
hopelessly inadequate had been the upbringingof
those to whom "the rising generation" had been
taught to look. · And who, since then, has felt
that he could afford to rely on the alleged wisdom
and guidance of the Past? Unless our inspira-
tion and guidance are destined to come from our
own exertion and experience, we may well prove
apprehensive of the future.
Fortunately, however, ever-increasing stress is
coming to be laid where it is most needed, and
people are beginning to realize that a fresh start
has to be made with EVERY INDIVIDUAL, who if
he is to be in a position to profit by the mistakes
of his ancestors, must be prepared to undertake
the serious business of life by adopting as
179
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
responsible an attitude as possible at the outset.
And this must inevitably mean that he must
make up his mind to relinquish all his illusions
in advance. Thus the consoling belief that he
can remain, or afford to remain, in the infantile
or adolescent sta ge of growth to the day of his
death, is one of those fondly-cherished dreams
that he will be called upon to abandon.
Many still refuse to "grow up". And some of
the tragic results of this infantile state of mind,
in its re-action upon the individual, are vividly
set forth in the poem, "Mrs. Effingham's Swan
Song", by Muriel Stuart :
"I am growing old: I have kept youth too long,
But I dare not let them know it now.
I have done the heart of youth a grievous wrong,
Danced it to dust and drugged it with the rose,
Forced its reluctant lips to one more vow.
I have denied the lawful grey,
So kind, so wise, to settle in my hair.
"I am afraid to grow old now even if I would.
I have fought too well, too long, and what was once
A foolish trick to make the rose more strangely gay
Is now a close-locked mortal conflict of brain and
[blood.-
A feud too old to settle or renounce".
180
RE-INCARNATION
The poem is true to , life. Whenever the
passage from one phase of life to another is
ignored, or resisted, a state of conflict is bound
to ensue. Let the young athlete go on playing
at football until the time arrives when he is no
longer able to continue, and unless he has
made conscious provision for his potential
growth, what happens ? Or suppose . the
business man at 70, having made his fortune,
decides upon retiring, without however having
in the meantime cultivated a single hobby -
gardening, reading or even bowls - what is
likely to occur ? Break-down. In the same
way if the woman of fifty still dresses and
behaves as she did when she was a " flapper "
of 18, and having repressed her maternal and
mental needs becomes a mass of neurotic
egotism, who can wonder at it? In all these
cases, we observe the same identical arrest of
development which is opposed to the full
discharge of the biological and psychological
functions. Nature rebels. But such rebellion is
the outcome of our own folly and ignorance.
It is this that we must rectify.
The law of Re-birth, then, must win practical
acceptances. Periodically, we must survey and
revise our mode of life. But at each new phase
what we observe is that the source of salvation
lies in the capacity which we inherit for cultiv-
181
•
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
ating fresh interests. And, ultimately, when we
approach the final stage, we find that, having
lived through the preliminary stages, that which
awaits us in the form of intellectual vigour,
instead of reducing us to mere shadows of our
former selves, introduces us to what may become
a period of creative energy. In his play "Back
to Methuselah", Mr Shaw makes one of his
"ancients" say "Infant : one moment of the
ecstacy of life as we live it would strike you
dead", " No one ever dies of old age ", wrote
Richard Jefferies. " No one single person ever
dies of old age, or of natural causes, for there is
no such thing as a natural cause of death. They
die- of disease or weakness which is the result
of disease either in themselves or in their
ancestors. No such thing as old age is known
to us. We do not even know what old
age would beJike, because no one ever lives
to it". ·
Our problem therefore is how we may so live
our alotted span, whatever it may be, as to learn
to surrender each phase through which we may
have passed at the right time, in order that we
may thereby facillitate our entrance upon the
next. Nor is it the future that we have reason
to fear. Death does not stand awaiting us, ready
to cut short our life before we have finished our
course. For, as life finally derives its value from
182
RE-INCARNATION
the purpose to which we may ultimately commit
ourselves, so it acquires its power from the realm
ofour psychological being. Truly, many prolong
their days through learning to regulate their lives
in accordance with a principle which reveals to
them the supreme truth that the highest and
fullest life depends upon the acceptance of those
aims and ideals which find their realization in
self-surrender. The only fatality that can befall
us is that which proceeds from resisting the on-
coming of the Life-cycles. And none knows this
better than those, who, though they may be aged
in years, have yet managed, as so many do, to
preserve the spirit of Eternal Youth within
them.
It is therefore by facing the Infinite Future
with hope, courage and faith, that man prevails :
and though, in the natural order ofthings, it may
be ordained for us that the body may need to be
disc;:arded when it has served its purpose, having
once learned the secret ofSurrender, this act may
well become a voluntary one. If, instead of
identifying ourselves with the necessarily transi-
tory stages which provide for the ever-deve-
loping and increasing life of which our corporeal
selfis but the vehicle and manifestation, we keep
our mind steadfastly set upon the Process : if, in
glad anticipation of new revelations of Truth,
Wisdom and Goodness that await us, we can so
183.
THE IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
merge ourselves in the as - yet unmanifested
splendours of the Universe, then we shall indeed
joyfully surrender even our_ choicest gifts to the
Whole : the devotion, the thankfulness ,and the
love, by which we have been the privileged
participants in the Eternal Plan.
" There is no need to oppose a eulogy of Life
with a eulogy of Death, since the eulogy of Life
-is also a eulogy of Death, for how could we live,
if we did not die at ~very instant ? "
184
·.
•
•
...
Imprimerie _
Louis Desmet-Verteneuil
Bruxelles
