{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__lewis___mystical_life_of_jesus.pdf","mytitle":"Mystical Life Of Jesus","mylang":"de"}
ZI)C
jflptftical JLife
of 3Testi££
<•£,?
H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R .C .. Ph.D .
I m i ' I K A i ok o i m i R o s i c m U' i an- O k i j i r o r N u r m i A m e r i c a ,
F e i i o v v o f i i i e E s s e n e A s i i r a m a i s - I n d i a , a \ o A m e r i c a s
I i a m oi h i e <• \V. H. M o v a s i f n x i\ m i in-: i
RoSlCRUfi IAN LlHRAR«l
V o l u m e N o . 3
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
THE ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
P r i n t i s g a n d P u b l i s h i n g D e i -a r t m * v i
A M O R C C o i i.f uF.
F i r s t E d i t i o n
C o r V K i G H T , 1 9 2 9
bv A M O R C
All R igh ts Reserved.
iRosirrunan f*ublications m all fands
tin• restrained from translations of
this book without permission from
the publishers./
Printed in the V . S A.
R o s k k i r[Av P r kss, S a \ J o s e , C a i .u .
DEDICATION
ZEo tfje
C b e b a l t e r s o f t f je
in the large party o f
men and women from all
parts o f N orth A m erica who a c ­
com panied my family and m yself in
our long an d tedious journey through
Palestine. E gypt. Italy. Turkey, G reece, Swit
erland, Fran ce. G erm any, and England, in
search o f H o ly Shrines and the verifi­
cation o f the facts known to us
through our years o f joint
study and research,
THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED
as a Souvenir o f our H oly
Mission and our Illumi­
nation in the year
1929.
V olum e
Volum e
Volume
V olum e
Volum e
Volum e
Volume
V olum e
Volum e
V olum e
T h e R o s i c r u c i a n L i b r a r y
V V V
I. R o sicrucian Questions ami A n sw e rs and C omplete
H istory of the O rder.
I I . R o sicrucian Prin ciples for the H om e and business.
I I I . t h e M y stical l i f e o f Jesus.
IV . T h e Secret D octrines of Jesus.
( I n preparation .)
V. " I nto T h e e I ( . r a n t . "
(S ecret T e a c h i n g s of T h i b e t.)
V I. V T h o u s a n d Y e a r s of Y esterd ays.
( A Revelation of R ein c a rn a tio n .)
V II . >elf M astery and Fate.
( A V ocational ( I n i d e . )
( I n preparation .)
V I I I . R o sicrucian M a n u a l.
I X . R o sicrucian P r a je r s .
I In preparation .)
X . Rosicrucian H ealin g .
( I n preparation.)
{O ther volum es w ill be ad d ed from tim e to time.
Il'ritr lor com plete tatah g u e.)
CONTENTS
V
PAfiF
I n t r o d u c t i o n ................................................................................... 17
I The Mystery of the Essenes . . . 23
II The Neighbors of J e s u s ........................ 43
III The Parents of J e s u s ............................. 53
IV The Immaculate Conception of Avatars 73
V The Mvstical Birth of Jesus . . . 97
VI The Birthplace and the Magi . . . 113
V II The Birth Date of the Holy Child . 127
V III The Boyhood of J e s u s .............................. 141
IX Jesus Enters the Priesthood . . . . 159
X Jesus Enters the Secret Priesthood . . 177
XI Jesus Attains M astership........................ 191
XII Jesus Attains C h risth o o d ........................ 203
XIII The Mystic Beginning of Christ’s
Mission ............................................... 213
X IV His Real Doctrines and Miracles . . 223
X V The Truth About the Crucifixion . . 241
X V I The Secret Facts of the Resurrection . 269
X V II The Unknown Life of Jesus . . . 283
■ M
A S c e n e i n A n c i e n t G a l i l e e , t h e G e n t i l e C o m m u n i t y
i n W h i c h M a r y a n d J o s e p h L iv e d
Mm
m
C
a
k
m
f
.
i
.
i
m
j
m
n
\
1
o
.
v
\
s
j
j
:
k
j
k
s
IN T R O D U C T IO N
It is a fact that very often truth is far more
interesting than fiction. It is particularly so in regard
to the life of Jesus. Perhaps it is due to the Cosmic
Cycle through which man is passing, or perhaps it is
due solely to man's intellectual development, but man
has become more interested in the life of the Great
Redeemer than in any other period of civilization
since the dawn of Christianity.
In my contact with seekers for spiritual truths,
covering twenty-five years, I have found that inevit­
ably the student of mysticism, metaphysics, psychol­
ogy, and occultism, is drawn to a more minute and
analytical study of the life and teachings of the
Christ, Jesus. His whole career, His doctrines, para­
bles. miracles, and illuminating inferences, gradually
fascinate and attune the spiritual side of each mysti­
cal student, and he becomes restless until he fathoms
the very apparent mysteries of His life.
W hy there should be any mysteries in the life of
Jesus is revealed in chapters of this book. After
many years of careful study and research, even to
the extent of visiting the Holy and mystical places
of Europe, Palestine, and Egypt, I am still unpre­
pared to say whether the Holy Fathers who author-
17
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ized the incomplete, partially erroneous, and greatly
veiled life of Jesus as it appears in the Christian
Bibles, were justified in their actions or not. Certain
it is, not all are prepared even today to comprehend,
nor apprehend, the mystical significance of most of
the mysteries associated with pristine Christianity.
That there are thousands, perhaps several millions,
now ready for the truth is undeniable; but even so,
it is but a small fraction of those who have accepted
and found Peace and Salvation through the offerings
of the Christian Church.
To those who in orthodox sincerity will reject
much that is presented in this book, I can say only:
“Hold fast to that which is good!” If your faith,
your knowledge, and your conviction in regard to
Christian matters serves you well, and there is no
inner urge to look beyond the veil, then do not do so.
Permit nothing to weaken or lessen your adoration
and worship of Him who is your Saviour and your
Lord.
To those who believe that a more intimate know­
ledge of Jesus, the Son of God, the Master, the
Avatar, and the Mystic, will endear Him to your
hearts; and to those who feel that the inner-self needs
more light on the mysteries of His mission, I present
the Chapters of "The Mystical Life of Jesus" as
18
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
a comprehensive survey of things long held in seclu­
sion by a few, but now deserving of wider acquain­
tance.
The story of the life and mission of Jesus as pre­
sented in this book makes no sectarian appeal. I
know, as a fact, that the Jesus revealed herein is
acceptable to as many Jews as Gentiles, to as many
Roman Catholics as Protestants; and in these days
of religious controversy and profound concern re­
garding the growth of the numberless thousands who
do not attend any Church and who seem to be
losing their interest in religious matters, I am happy
to say that I know that thousands will find in this
book a key to their problem and incentive to re-read
the Christian Bible and reconsider their rejection of
the Church.
I said I know these things. Through my official
capacity I am in daily touch with many thousands of
such persons in North America, and thousands in
other lands. In my public lectures throughout the
United States for twelve years, in personal inter­
views with the spiritually restless among the populace,
and in journeys to foreign lands, I have seen the
effect of these truths. Parts of the chapters in this
book have been used in public discourses, some of
the interesting facts have been used in private les­
sons, and others have been presented in personal
19
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
conversations. The result has always been an awak­
ening of interest in the life and teachings of Jesus,
and generally a happy realization that Jesus and His
Doctrines were wholly acceptable in the newer reve­
lations.
In the past few years, certain pamphlets have ap­
peared claiming to contain hidden facts regarding
the life of Jesus. In most cases these stories con­
tained such improbabilities or inconsistencies as to
condemn them as fabrications. Several of the most
popular of these have claimed that they were the
result of a discovery of some rare manuscript or
record hitherto hidden in a secluded monastery. The
real origin of all that was dependable in such pam­
phlets was the uncovering of certain Holy books of
the ancients as did contain casual references to inci­
dents in the life of Jesus rejected by the Holy
Fathers when the first versions of the Bible were
authentically compiled.
The facts contained in this book are not drawn
from any newly discovered manuscripts, writings, or
records. In fact, it cannot be said that the facts
contained herein are new to either the Holy Fathers
of the early Christian Church, to the most profound
and analytical writers of spiritual subjects, or to the
most advanced of mystics in many lands.
20
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The Rosicrucian archives in foreign lands, em­
bracing the records of the Essenes, the Nazarines,
and the Nazarites, as well as the complete records
of the Great W hite Brotherhood in Tibet, India, and
Egypt, have always been sources of knowledge for
the worthy inquirer into the history of all Avatars
and especially into the history of Jesus. It is from
this dependable source that all the facts contained
in this book have been drawn— not at one time and
not without years of labor and indefatigable study
and service.
Wherever possible, verification or substantiation
has been secured from the writings and records of
the early Church Fathers, historians, or archivists.
Extracts have also been taken from the writings of
Jews, and even from the so-called heathens, when­
ever possible. Such citations are plainly indicated.
I wish to take this opportunity to thank all those
who in past years have carefully examined portions
of my writings on this subject and have called my
attention to additional points which should be cov­
ered. I wish also to thank those members in my
tour to the Near East during the months of January,
February, and March of this year who acted as my
companions in my special researches, and aided my
Secretary and myself to secure the information
needed to give a personal verification to the important
21
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
statements contained in this book. It was a glorious
work and I hope that each of these many companions
will find some reward for his efforts in the book which
I have dedicated to them.
H. SP E N C E R L E W IS .
Egyptian Temple,
Rosicrucian Park,
San Jose, California.
April 15, 1929.
C H A PTER I
V
E F O R E one can properly understand and
appreciate the history and real story of the
birth and work of the Master Jesus, one
must have an understanding of the existing
organizations and schools which contributed
to the preparation for His coming.
W ithin the last hundred years, a great many nota­
tions in sacred literature have been discovered rela­
ting to the Essene Brotherhood and the activities of
this organization in Palestine just prior to and during
the lifetime of the Master Jesus. Many of these
notations have verified the references to the Essenes
by such eminent historians as Philo and Josephus,
and have explained many of the mysterious refer­
ences found in the sacred writings of the Hebrews
as translated in the Christian Bible.
The possible relationship of the Essene Brother­
hood to the early Christian activities has not only
aroused the interest of hundreds of eminent church­
men and Biblical authorities, but it has caused one
question to be asked by thousands of students of
mystical literature: "W h y has the history or story
of the Essenes been withheld from general know­
ledge?”
THE MYSTERY OF THE ESSENES
23
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The answer to this question is simply that there
was a desire on the part of those who knew the
story to keep the Essene Brotherhood shrouded in
mystery for the purpose of protecting its work and
teachings from being publicy discussed and event­
ually criticized and scoffed at by those students or
professors of orthodox Christianity who have labored
so diligently in the past to make even a greater
mystery of Christ and Christianity.
The Rosicrucian records have always been replete
with satisfactory and extensive details of the history
and activities of the Essene Brotherhood, and no
initiate of the Rosicrucian Order, or, in fact, no pro­
found student of the ancient mysteries who became
worthy of contact with the ancient records was ever
left in ignorance regarding the Essenes. There is no
reason why the veil should not be drawn aside, and
some of the facts regarding the Essenes revealed
to the world today because of the advancement
that has been made in the study of occult literature,
and the broad minded view that is taken by the
average educated student of spiritual and mystical
subjects. It is for this reason that I feel justified in
giving the following facts in regard to the Essenes.
In the first place, it probably will be sufficient in
this brief outline of their organization to say that the
Essenes were a branch of the illuminated brother-
24
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
hood or Great W hite Lodge, which had its birth
in the country of Egypt during the years preceding
Amenhotep tne Fourth, Pharaoh of Egypt, and the
great founder of the first monotheistic religion, who
supported and encouraged the existence of a secret
brotherhood to teach the mystic truths of life.
The several mystic schools of Egypt, which were
united under one head constituting the Great W hite
Brotherhood, assumed different names in different
parts of the world, in accordance with the language
of each country, and the peculiarities of the general
religious or spiritual thought of the people. W e find
that at Alexandria, the members of the Brotherhood
there assumed the name of Essenes. Scientists have
speculated considerably in regard to the origin of
this word and its real meaning. So many unsatis­
factory speculations upon its root have been offered
in the past that there is still considerable doubt, in
the minds of most authorities, regarding it. The word
truly comes from the Egyptian word Kashai, which
means "secret.” And there is the Jewish word of
similar sound, chsahi, meaning “secret" or “silent;”
and this word would naturally be translated into
essaios or “Essene” denoting "secret or "mystic.”
Even Josephus found that the Egyptian symbols of
light and truth are represented by the word choshen,
which transliterates into the Greek as "Essen.”
25
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Historical references have also been found wherein
the priests of the ancient temple of Ephesus bore the
name of Essene. A branch of the organization,
established by the Greeks, translated the word
Essene as being derived from the Syrian word asaya,
meaning "physician,” into the Greek word thera-
peutes having the same meaning.
The Rosicrucian records clearly state that the orig­
inal word was meant to imply a secret brotherhood,
and while most of the members became physicians
and healers, the organization was devoted to many
other humanitarian practices besides the art of heal­
ing, and not all of its members were physicians in any
sense.
The spread of the organization into the many lands
near Egypt was slow and natural, in accordance with
the awakening consciousness of the people; and we
find that the Essene Brotherhood became a very
definite branch of the Great W hite Brotherhood,
representing the outer activities of the G. W . B.
which was primarily a school of learning and instruc­
tion. Thus, for several centuries before the dawn of
the Christian Era, the Essene Brotherhood, as an
active band of workers, maintained two principal
centers, one in Egypt on the banks of Lake Maoris,
where the great Master M oria-El the Illustrious was
born in his first known reincarnation, educated, pre-
26
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
pared for his gerat mission and established the prin­
ciple and law of baptism as a spiritual step in the
process of initiatition. The other principal center of
the Essene Brotherhood was first established in Pal­
estine, at Engaddi near the Dead Sea.
Going through the Rosicrucian records pertaining
to the Essenes, I find thousands of notations regard­
ing these two branches, and from them I have selec­
ted the following statements as being the most inter­
esting and most definite in their connection with the
mystical life of Jesus.
The branch in Palestine had to contend with the
despotism of the rulers of that country and the jeal­
ousy of the priesthood. These conditions forced the
Essenes in Palestine to hold themselves in greater
silence and solitude than they had been accustomed
to in Egypt. Before they moved from their small
buildings and sacred enclosure at Engaddi, to the
ancient buildings on Mount Carmel, their principal
activity seemed to be the translation of ancient manu­
scripts and the preservation of such traditions and
records as constituted the foundation of their teach­
ings.
It is recorded that when the time came for them to
move from Engaddi to Mount Carmel, their greatest
problem was the secret movement of these manu­
scripts and records. Fortunately for us, they suc-
27
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
cecded in preserving the rarest of the manuscripts
that came out of Egypt, and in other ways preserved
the ancient, traditional stories and teachings. It is
from these that we derive most of our knowledge
regarding both the Essenes and the Great W hite
Brotherhood. A picture of how they lived, and what
they believed and taught, undoubtedly constitutes a
story of intense interest to all modern students of
mysticism and sacred literature.
Every member of the Essenes in Egypt or Pales­
tine, or of the Therapeuti, as they were called in
other lands, had to be a pure blooded descendant
of the Aryan race. This point is very important in
connection with the facts that will be revealed re­
garding the birth and life of the Master Jesus. Like­
wise, they were students of the Avesta writings, and
adhered to the principles taught therein, which laid
great stress upon a healthy body and a powerful
mind. Before any qualified Aryan could become an
Adept in the Essene Brotherhood, he had to be
prepared in childhood under certain teachers and
instructors, raised with a healthy body, and had to
be able to exercise certain mental powers under test.
Every adult applicant who was allowed to partake
of the daily meal in the Brotherhood building, was
assigned at the time of his initiation to a definite
mission in life, and this mission had to be adhered to
28
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
regardless of all obstacles, and all temptations, even
to the sacrifice of his life. Some chose to be physi­
cians or healers, others artisans, teachers, mission­
aries, translators, scribes, and so forth. W hatever
worldly things they possessed at the time of their
initiation had to be donated to the common fund,
from which all drew only as was needed. And the
simple life they led, free from any indulgence in
the pleasures common to the public, made it unneces­
sary for them to draw upon these funds except in
rare instances.
Immediately upon initiation, each member adopted
a robe of white composed of one piece of material,
and he wore sandals only in such weather or at
such times as was absolutely necessary. Their attire
was so distinct or unique that among the populace
they were known as the Brethren in W hite Clothing.
The term Essene was not popularly known, and only
the learned knew of it. This accounts for the lack of
references to the Essenes in most of the popular
histories or writings of the time.
They lived in well kept buildings, usually within
a sacred or well protected enclosure, in community
fashion. All of their affairs were regulated by a
committee or council of judges or councillors, one
hundred in number, who met once a week to regulate
the activities of the organization and to hear the re-
29
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ports of the workers in the field. All disagreements,
all complaints, all tests and trials were heard by this
council, and one of the regulations indicates that they
were always cautious in expressing opinions of one
another, or of those outside of the organization, and
they were not critical of the lives or affairs of the
people they were trying to reform or assist. They
also adhered strictly to one of their laws: "Judge not
— lest ye be judged also.”
It is possible to set forth here their definite articles
of faith as recorded in ancient, secret writings. W hile
these articles of faith appear in slightly different
words in the various branches of the Essene organi­
zation, they are undoubtedly based upon the articles
of faith adopted by the Great W hite Brotherhood
at the time of the establishment of the Essene organi­
zation.
Number One: God is principle: His attributes
manifest only through matter to the outer man. God
is not person, nor does He appear to the outer man
in any form of cloud or glory. (Note the similarity
of this article to the statement in John IV :24: “God
is a Spirit, and they who worship Him must worship
Him in Spirit and in Truth.")
Number Two: The power and glory of God's
dominion neither increases nor diminishes by man's
30
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
belief or disbelief; and God does not set aside His
laws to please mankind.
Number Three: The ego in man is of God, and
at one with God, and is consequently immortal and
everlasting.
Number Four: The forms of man and woman are
manifestations of the truth of God, but God is not
manifest in the form of man or woman as a being.
Number Five: M an’s body is the temple in which
the soul resides, and from the windows of which
we view God's creations and evolutions.
Number Six: At transition or separation of the
soul and body, the soul enters that secret state where
none of the conditions of the earth have any charms,
but the soft breezes and great power of the Holy
Ghost bring comfort and solace to the weary or the
anxious who are awaiting future action. Those who
fail, however, to exercise the blessings and gifts of
God. and who follow the dictates of the tempter and
of the false prophets and the ensnaring doctrines of
the wicked, remain in the bosom of the earth until
they are freed from the binding powers of material­
ism, purified, and assigned to the secret kingdom.
(This explains the ancient, mystical term of "earth-
bound," referring to those who are still enslaved to
material temptations for a time after transition.)
31
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Number Seven: Keeping holy the one sacred day
of the week that the soul may commune in spirit
and ascend to contact with God, resting from all
labors, and discriminating in all actions.
Number Eight: T o keep silent in disputes, to
close the eyes before evil, and to stop the ears before
blasphemers. (This is the origin of the Oriental law,
"to speak no evil, to see no evil, and to hear no
evil.")
Number Nine: To preserve the sacred doctrines
from the profane, never to speak of them to those
who are not ready or qualified to understand, and
be prepared always to reveal to the world that know­
ledge which will enable them to rise to greater
heights.
Number Ten: To remain steadfast in all friend­
ships and all brotherly relations, even unto death;
in all positions of trust never to abuse the power or
privilege granted; and in all human relationships to
be kind and forgiving, even to the enemies of the
faith.
Every department of the organization was super­
vised by stewards, who were in charge of the mater­
ial things turned into the general fund by every mem­
ber. This general fund was called the poor fund.
and was used to relieve the sufferings of the poor in
every land. This point reminds us of the statement
32
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
in Matthew X IX :21: "Sell all thou hast, give it to the
poor, and follow M e.”
Hospices were established by the Essenes in var­
ious communities for the care of the sick and the
poor, especially during epidemics of famine or dis­
ease. These places were called Bethseida. W e find
in this feature of their work the origin of the hospices
and hospitals which became well known some cen­
turies later. A special staff of workers were con­
nected with these places and were called Hospitalers.
Herein we find the origin of another branch of the
Brotherhood which later became a more or less sep­
arate organization. The Essenes also established res­
cue homes in various communities and at the entrance
to most cities had a place called a Gate, where
strangers or those in need of something to eat or
guidance would be cared for temporarily. Recent
discoveries in Jerusalem have revealed the existence
of a Gate known as the Essene Gate.
The Essenes disliked life in cities, and established
themselves in communities of small villages outside
of the walls or limits of practically every city where
they existed. In such communities each member had
his own little house and garden, and those who did
not marry lived in a community house. Marriage was
not forbidden among the Essenes, as is commonly
believed, but their ideals regarding marriage were
33
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
very high, and only those who were well mated and
whose mating was approved by the higher officials
were permitted to marry.
Women were permitted to become associate mem­
bers of the Brotherhood, and in only a few cases
were they allowed to even enter the early grades of
study of the work. This was not because there was
any belief among the Essenes that women were in­
ferior to men in either spiritual or mental capacity,
but because the Essene branch of the Great W hite
Brotherhood was strickly an organization of men, to
carry on a man's work throughout each community.
But sisters, mothers, and daughters of the men in
each Essene community were permitted to be a part
of the community and become associate members.
Those of the women who were not married, and who
did not care to marry, often adopted orphan children
as their own, and in this way carried on a form of
humanitarian work for the organization.
In their more private affairs, we find that there
were no servants, for servitude was considered un­
lawful, and each household had to be cared for by
the members of the household. Some of the rules
and regulations recorded in the Rosicrucian records
would indicate that their ideas regarding servants
and servitude were quite fanatical according to our
modern point of view. W e must remember that in
34
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the days when these rules were adopted, most ser­
vants in every wealthy household, or the servants
of a King or potentate of any kind, were like slaves,
and, of course, among the Essenes every man and
woman was a free being, and slavery or serfdom of
any kind was absolutely prohibited. In each com­
munity everyone took part in any work that pertained
to the entire community, and all had a certain amount
of menial work to do. The new initiates had to work
in the fields, and at certain times serve at the com­
munity tables or in the kitchen and at the tables of
the rescue houses.
As with many other branches of the Great W hite
Brotherhood, the Essenes never entered into con­
tracts or agreements which required oaths or any
form of writing. It became notorious with them that
their word was equal to any agreement or contract
in writing. They had a definite set of rules and regu­
lations for their lives, which were well known by all
those with whom they had any dealing, and the high­
est potentates of the land knew that the Essenes could
not be bound by any oaths, but were highly respon­
sible when they gave their word in any promise.
Even Josephus, in writing about the Essenes in 146
B. C., stated that the Essenes were exempted from
the necessity of taking the oath of allegiance to
Herod. Most certainly they would make no promise
35
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
in the name of God, nor swear to anything in the
name of God, for to them as with the Jews who in­
herited the idea from them, the name of God was to
be mentioned only in a sacred manner in their
temples, and at all other times the name of God was
unpronounceable. In any disagreement with stran­
gers, the Essenes would pay any price demanded or
make any sacrifice requested rather than to enter
into any argument or have any strained relationships.
It was for this reason that the Essenes were thought
well of by the Pharisees, and other sects in Palestine,
although these other sects severely criticized the
religious practices of the Essenes.
Speaking of oaths, however, I am permitted to give
herewith the official oath which was taken by the
initiates, and which was the only oath they ever
admitted. It was given upon their own honor, at the
time of entering the final degree of initiation, or what
we would call the fourth degree of their advance­
ment into the organization. The oath is as follows:
"I promise herewith, in the presence of my elders,
and the Brothers of the Order, ever to exercise true
humbleness before God and manifest justice toward
all men: to do no harm, either of my own volition or
at the command of others, to any living creature: to
always abhor wickedness, and assist in righteousness
and justice; to show fidelity to all men, particularly
36
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
to those who may be my superiors in counsel; and
when placed in authority, I shall never abuse the
privileges or power temporarily given unto me, nor
attempt to belittle others by a worldly display of my
mental or physical prowess; truth shall ever have my
adoration and I shall shun those who find pleasure
in falsehood; I will keep my hands clean from theft,
and keep my soul free from the contamination of
worldly gain; my passions I will restrain, and never
indulge in anger nor any outward display of unkind
emotions; I shall never reveal the secret doctrines of
our Brotherhood, even at the hazard of life, except
to those who are worthy of them; I shall never com­
municate the doctrines in any form, but the one form
in which received; I shall not add to nor subtract
from the teachings, but shall ever attempt to preserve
them in their pristine purity, and will defend the in­
tegrity of the books and records of our Order, the
names of the Masters, Legislators, and my elders."
After the initiate had reached what we might call
the fourth degree and had taken the foregoing obli­
gation, he was admitted to the common table to par­
take of the one great symbolical meal of the day,
at which time meditation and contemplation, as well
as discussion of the problems of the work, formed
part of the period.
37
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
It is interesting to note that all the food used by
the Essenes was prepared according to the rules and
regulations stated in the old documents, in a scien­
tific but simple manner, and while vegetables and
especially many forms of raw foods were used, it
is not true that all flesh foods were forbidden. There
was never any form of over-eating or banqueting,
and certainly the rules of moderation in all things
pertained to eating and drinking as well, hence there
was no gluttony or intoxication.
The Essenes seldom took part in public discussions,
and never participated in discussions of religion or
politics. They were most often silent when others
spoke, and silence seemed to be their motto. They
were well trained in the use of the voice and in
making incantations, and knew the value of vowel
sounds to such a degree that by training they be­
came very soft spoken, even in ordinary conversation.
Because of this they were often known as the soft-
speaking men.
It is but natural that the Essenes would have de­
veloped not only magnetic personalities, accompanied
by clean bodies, clean raiment, and clean habits, but
they developed such beautiful auras that on many
occasions these auras became visible to the profane,
and especially mystified the Jews who were unfamil­
iar with the development of a mystical nature, even
38
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
though their own religion and traditions contained
many wonderful mystical laws which they failed to
put into practical application.
It was customary for all Essenes to wash their
hands and feet upon entering their own homes or
the home of anyone else, and to cleanse their hands
and feet before any ceremony or before each daily
prayer. In their individual homes the Essenes spent
much time before the altar in their sanctums, or in the
study of the rare manuscripts and books which were
circulated among them according to their degree of
advancement. They were particularly well versed
in astrology, elementary astronomy, natural history,
geometry, elementary chemistry and alchemy, com­
parative religions, mysticism, and natural law.
Those who were the physicians in the organization
were evidently a curiosity to the peoples of Palestine
who were accustomed to the healing methods of that
land, which included the exercising of charms, in­
cantations in high pitched voices, the reciting of
weird formulas, the striking of crude musical instru­
ments, and the use of strong drugs. The Essenes
spoke softly to their patients, and used certain vowel
sounds without any evidence of a formula, and often
performed the greatest cures by the simple laying
on of hands or by instructing the patient to retire
39
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
to the silence of his home and sleep while the cure
was conducted in a psychic manner.
All Essene Brothers or associate women promised
to educate their children in the teachings and prin­
ciples which constituted the foundation of the Essene
belief, and to raise such children within the scope
of the organization until the child’s twelfth year,
when it was accepted on probation, which lasted until
the twenty-first year, at which time the males were
admitted to the first degree, and generally reached
the fourth degree about the thirtieth year. The fe­
males were admitted on their twenty-first birthday
to associate membership, and remained in that the
rest of their lives, if they proved worthy by the
manner of their living.
Only an occasional Essene was permitted to preach
to the public or perform public miracles, and then
never as a matter of demonstration, but solely as a
matter or service. Those in the Essene Brotherhood
who lived the greatest number of incarnations and
were therefore the most highly evolved, were selected
as their leaders, and from among these, one was
selected each cycle to go out into the world and
organize the work in a new land.
The Essenes looked forward to the coming of a
great Saviour who would be born within the fold
of their organization, and who would be a reincar-
40
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
nation of the greatest of their past leaders. Through
their highly evolved knowledge and intimate psychic
contact with the Cosmic, they were well informed of
coming events, and the literature of the Essene
Brotherhood and the literature of many countries
contains references to the Prophets among the Es­
senes. Menahim was one of their Prophets who
became famous through the prophecy that Herod
would reign.
There seemed to be a regulation or an unwritten
law among the Essenes that none of their members
should be engaged in a daily task that was destruc­
tive, but always constructive; therefore we find that
the list of prominent Essenes included weavers, car­
penters, vine planters, gardeners, merchants, and
those contributing to the good and welfare of the
public. There never were any in the organization
who were gunsmiths, slaughterers of cattle, nor en­
gaged in any practice or business that destroyed the
least of any living thing.
It must be very apparent to my readers that the
Essene Brotherhood would appear to have been one
of the sects of Palestine and would have been, there­
fore, classified as such by the Jews and by the gov­
ernmental authorities. For this reason we often read
in newly discovered records a reference to the Essenes
as one of the sects in Palestine. It would be natural
41
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
for the Jews to consider the Essenes as a religious
organization, instead of a fraternal or mystical one,
and certainly an organization opposed to the Jewish
doctrine and practices. Under these conditions it
would be natural for the Essenes to establish their
homes in certain communities where others of the
same organization lived, and where they could have
that form of neighborly companionship which
strengthened their interests.
These Essenes were not Jews by birth, by blood,
or by religion, and were often referred to as Gentiles.
and we find them classified as Gentiles in many of the
sacred writings, even in the Christian Bible.
C H A PTER 11
T H E N E IG H BO R S O F JE SU S
V
O further understand the greatness of the
advent of the Master Jesus, one should
know something of the people and the
conditions of the country in which He was
born, and with which He had to contend at
the beginning of His mission.
In the first place, Palestine was not one nation of
one language, with interests that held one people in
common bonds, but a land of many nations, of many
languages, and many diverse interests. It was a
country of mixed and hostile peoples, whose inter­
ests were not only diverse, but so divided and so
opposed that peace and harmony among them was
impossible. Those of the Jewish faith were not all
Hebrews, and those who were Hebrews were He­
brews through the beginning of a new race which
had its origin at the time of the Exodus out of
Egypt. Among these Hebrews were many in whose
veins was Aryan blood by intermarriage; therefore,
there were various castes. Hence among the He­
brews, as among those of the Jewish faith, there
were those who would not recognize others in the
43
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF jESUS
same faith, and who believed that God had or­
dained the distinctions which they established.
In the midst of these people there were the
heathens, whose temples were rapidly rising, and
whose rites and customs were becoming very pre­
valent. To the northeast there were the Nomads,
wild people living without restraint or regulation;
but the vast majority of the people throughout the
northeast were Syrians. Grecians, and heathens. To
the east and to the west of Palestine, the Egyptian,
Phoenician, and Grecian rites contended for mastery,
and in the very heart of Palestine itself the Greek
language was dominant and the Grecian rites pre­
vailed.
In the northeastern section, known as Upper Gali­
lee. lived people who were known as Gentiles. Tiber­
ius itself was wholly un-Jewish. Gaza had its own
deity. Joppa was influenced by a heathen religion
according to the Jews. Caesarea was essentially a
heathen city, and to the Jews was the symbol of
Rome— the Rome of Edom, and was therefore to
be destroyed; for Caesarea and Jerusalem, from the
viewpoint of the Jews, could never exist at the same
time.
The educated classes throughout Palestine spoke
Greek. The language of the tribes of Israel had un­
dergone a great change, and the ancient Hebrew
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
language, as it was called, had given place to the
Aramaean dialect, except in the academies and theo­
logical schools.
The rabbis of the Jewish religion considered that
the only real and true land of Israel was that portion
immediately south of Antioch. Yet, strange to say,
it was here that the first Gentile church was organ­
ized and where we find the first Christian disciples.
Palestine, and especially Jerusalem, was most cer­
tainly a heathen district just before the coming of
the Master Jesus. W hile it is true that the Jewish
religion was well established, it most certainly did
not include the multitudes, and it did not include
all of the highest rank and power.
Judaism itself was quite a problem at this time.
The Pharisees and Sadducees were the two other
largest sects, if we may be permitted to consider
the Essenes as a sect from the Jewish point of view;
but the former two held opposite principles and hated
each other, while the Essenes, of course, could not
be a part of either of them.
There was one common emotion which bound all
these people of Palestine in one universal feeling.
The high and the low, the learned and the unlearned,
the rich and the poor, the heathen, the Jew, the
common person or the ruling ones, united in their
intense dislike for the Gentiles.
45
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
In the financial world the Hebrews represented
the wealth and influence of the nation; for all money
transactions and great trade dealings were in their
hands. Merchandise from the Far East came through
Palestine by means of Arab caravans and through
the Phoenician ports, where fleets of ships owned by
the Jews and operated by Gentile sailors were ever
ready to convey the wares to other parts of the
world. The Jews as traders and bankers were keenly
alive to the value of this situation; and through their
financial influence had a considerable power in the
political world also. They were able to obtain secrets
of state, and to secure positions in the civil and mili­
tary service of the other Gentile nations as permitted
them to manipulate the intricacies of diplomacy so
as to further the interests of the Hebrews.
It must be remembered that the orthodox Jews or
Hebrews were intensely Hebraic. To their own they
were very hospitable, a trait which they considered
a great virtue, and to strangers, especially to the
Gentiles, they manifested the very opposite in all
actions.
The people living in Jersusalem, which was the
most advanced habitation in Palestine, had special
agents in, and corresponded with, the important parts
of the world; and letters were carried from Jerusalem
to many other cities by messengers and by peddlers.
46
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The wealthy Jews gave great fortunes for the sup­
port and defense of the Jewish faith, and such dona­
tions were always looked upon as investments which
would bring great returns. The Hebrews had their
own rulers in most cities, and were allowed to have
the same status as the Romans, or the rights of
Asiatic citizens, and the special privileges which they
demanded because of having been instructed by their
God to enjoy such privileges as God's chosen people.
Having the status of Romans entitled them to a civil
government of their own, independent of the rule
of the tribunals in the cities in which they lived. They
enjoyed such unlimited religious liberties and exacted
such religious privileges as they denied to natives in
their own lands who were not of their faith.
The ruling class of the Hebrews made itself ob­
noxious to the other citizens in each section of the
land by closing their stores on the Sabbath and going
about idly in gorgeous attire, with a marked display
of contempt and abhorrence of everything around
them. It was their desire to convert, secretly, to
Judaism the wives and female relatives of all men
of power, influence, and wealth, because through such
converts they would influence the men in regard to
the interests of Israel, and it was freely predicted
that the ultimate aim of the proselyting was to wipe
the Gentiles out of Palestine.
47
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
In the Synagogues, which represented the meeting
places of the ruling class of the Hebrews, the separa­
tion of the classes was strickly observed, and the
women were considered as unprepared for a position
in the church. W e see the attitude toward women
in many passages of the Jewish liturgy used in the
Synagogues, where thanksgiving is expressed in the
following words: "Blessed art thou, Lord and God.
that thou hast not made me a woman.” W omen were
considered as having no soul, and no degree of
spirituality that could be developed, and therefore
incapable of ever becoming angelic. It is always
interesting to those of the W estern world today in
traveling through the Oriental countries to find that
all the statues of angels are of the masculine sex.
This idea of a soulless woman is retained in all
Latin languages; for we find that the word “angel"
is always of the masculine sex. No rabbi would
permit himself to be closeted with a woman in re­
ligious discussion, nor deal with a woman in regard
to spiritual matters.
Secretly and silently, the Jews or the orthodox
of Israel resented the fact that the sceptor of power
had been taken away from Judea, and the chosen
people of God subjected to the government of Rome.
This was a humiliation which the Jews hoped to see
undone. Israel hoped that the day would come when
• 48
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
her people would rise in power, and when their
"King of Glory" would appear and re-establish the
power and kingdom of Israel again.
And thus Israel waited. In silence and with sup­
pressed emotion, the faithful anticipated the coming
of the great day.
In my recent journey through Egypt, I felt the
same suppressed emotion on the part of the Egyp­
tians. As they moved about in silence with cold,
emotionless expressions on their faces, and refrained
from speaking of the days that were, and the days
that would come, one could sense that inwardly
there was a great fire burning which wanted only
the signal to burst into a conflagration that would
sweep throughout the whole country. The Egyptians,
too, are waiting now for the day to come when the
great power and illumination that resides within their
traditions and their secret archives will make them
the potent power of their land. Just as one could
easily sense the possibility of a great conflagration
in that land, so one may understand and appreciate
the condition that existed in Palestine at the time
of the birth of the Master Jesus. Uneasiness had
seized the people; for they had felt the yoke upon
their necks and they realized that they were being
held in bondage and could stand it but a short time
longer.
49
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
In a social way, vice and degrading practices had
become popular with the mass, and the moral stan­
dard was like unto licentiousness. Intrigue and crime
were found even in the courts of law. The governing
power was divided between the two classes, the
nobility and the priesthood. The nobility sought
only gratification of the baser senses, trying to keep
within the law only so far as it permitted them to
gain their selfish ends. Most of them professed to
be of the sect of Sadducees. On the other hand, the
priestly element, or the Pharisees, known as the
“pure, separate ones," were constantly warring in
their determined effort to secure power and force
strict adherence to the letter of their laws. The
Sadducees were their enemies, especially when the
latter were favored in any way with rank or posi­
tion.
The masses were downtrodden, and held in ignor­
ance of the true conditions; but they believed that
there was a possibility of rising above their environ­
ment through the coming of a great leader. It is no
wonder that these persons, mostly unlearned and in­
experienced in the things of life, united with any
movement which promised them r’eedom from their
bondage or an opportunity to rise to heights which
they sensed in their dream world. Thus, in many
ways these uncultured and uneducated ones followed
50
TH E M Y STIC A L L IF E O F JESU S
*
leaders and principles which left them in serious
situations and sorely disappointed. It was the great
hope that the coming of the expected Messiah would
change all of the sorrowful conditions, and bring
about a solidification and unification of the people
of Israel. How this was to come about, no one knew;
and only the pretenders who headed the false move­
ments attempted to explain.
The House of David, out of which the true leader
of the people of Israel should come, had long since
passed into the hands of strangers. The high priest­
hood, out of which a great Messiah might come, was
only Jewish by profession, being politically Roman
and Greek in culture, and by birth anything but of
the great House of David. Therefore, the great
Deliverer who would lead them out of bondage as
Moses had done, could not come through the lineage
of those who were at present at the head of the
nation, nor could He come through those who were
of the priesthood.
One phrase remained in the consciousness of the
people: “From among thy brethren I shall raise one
who shall guide my people!”
SI
C H A PTER III
T H E P A R E N T S O F JE SU S
V
O proper consideration can be given to the
birth and childhood of Jesus without first
becoming acquainted with the parents of
Jesus, and their relationship to the mystical
facts involved. Therefore, let me state the
first important facts, as proved by our records, and
then submit the evidence pertaining thereto.
Jesus was born of Gentile parents through whose
veins flowed Aryan blood, and in whose hearts and
minds had been implanted the teachings of the Es­
sene Brotherhood, as well as the more secret teach­
ings of the Great W hite Brotherhood. This is the
simple, definite statement found throughout the Rosi­
crucian records.
In the Christian Bible, in the Talmud, and in many
reliable works, we find verification of these state­
ments. The parents of Jesus lived in Galilee. There
is no possible dispute on this point, and they were
therefore Galileans in the full meaning of the term.
So our first consideration should be of Galilee and the
Galileans.
In St. Matthew IV : 15, we read: “Galilee of the
Gentiles." Strange as it may seem, the average
53
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Bible student gives little thought to this expression,
and loses sight of its very important significance.
Jesus Himself was called the Galilean. For this
reason, we must look upon Jesus as having been
classified by His own people or by the people of
Palestine at least, as one who was different from
them. This warrants us in investigating the real
situation, and discovering why the Galileans were
Gentiles, and why Gentiles lived in Galilee.
In Maccabees 1:14-23, we read that messengers
from Galilee, with torn clothing and in great anguish,
came to Judas Maccabaeus and reported that "they
of Ptolemais and of Tyrus and Sidon, and all Galilee
of the Gentiles, are assembled against us to consume
us." And Judas told Simon, his brother, to choose
certain men to go to Galilee and rescue the Jews
who were in Galilee, that they might not be perse­
cuted by the Gentiles. Simon took three thousand
men into Galilee where he fought many battles with
the “heathens,” and the Jews living in Galilee with
their wives and children were brought safely into
Judea.
Here we see at once an intimation of the condi­
tions that existed in part of Palestine, and how the
orthodox Jews looked upon the Galileans as being
not only Gentiles, and of a different religion and race,
but as enemies to their best interests.
54
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The transfer of the Jews living in Galilee referred
to above was made in 164 B. C. At about the same
time, Judas Maccabaeus rescued his brothers who
lived among the "heathens" in the north of the coun­
try (and east of the Jordan) and brought them all to
Jerusalem.
According to this account, and many others, there
were Jews in Galilee long after the year 164 B. C.
Thereafter, Galilee continued as a nation of Gentiles
or "heathens" until the year 103 B. C., when Aris-
tobulus, grandson of Simon, and first king of the
Jews, forced all those living in Galilee to adopt cir­
cumcision and the Mosaic law.
W e will see by this that the Gentiles living in
Galilee, which included the parents of Jesus, were
Aryans by blood, Gentiles by natural religious
classification, mystics by philosophical thought, and
Jews by forced adoption. In other words, the Gen­
tiles of Galilee after 103 B. C. were forced to adopt
circumcision and respect the Mosaic law, and in ac­
cordance with this law all children at a certain age
had to accept the Jewish faith in a formal way by
appearing at the Synagogue for probationary admis­
sion to the church. If this combination of circum­
stances and conditions will be kept in mind by my
reader, it will enable him to understand the many
strange statements that appear in sacred literature.
55
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
In the cuneiform inscriptions of Tiglathpileser,
there is reference to the conquest of Galilee, but
it is generally misunderstood, as are many of the
other statements regarding Galilee, because few know
that Galilee is also referred to as the land of Hamath.
The same name, Hamath, is used in the Old Testa­
ment, but it seems that modern students of the ancient
writings did not recognize in this word Hamath the
name of the ancient capital of Galilee. However,
let it be known now that Hamath is the famous
hot springs, half an hour south of Tiberius, on the
W estern shore of the Sea of Galilee.
Often in the Old Testament one may read of the
“entrance to Hamath” and it always refers to part
of the northern boundary of Palestine. It is the W ady
Alhammans, near Magdala, three miles northwest
of Tiberius, where Mary Magdalene was born. In
other parts of the Bible we read that the king of
Hamath, who sent his son to salute David, was a
Galilean; Solomon's storehouse or granaries which he
built in Hamath were situated near the Sea of
Galilee.
The true spelling of the name is Hammoth, or
Hammath. the Assyrian form being Hammati, which
means “hot springs." Many other quotations could
be used to show that Hamath was in Galilee. And
we will find by other references that a great many
56
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Assyrians were sent to Hamath as colonists, and
further reference reveals that these Assyrians were
all Aryans. Even Sargon II tells how he deported
the Median chief with kinsmen to Hamath.
It was because of this settlement of Aryans in the
vicinity of Galilee, and the resulting race of Aryans
in that community, that the Aryans of Egypt who
were members of the Great W hite Brotherhood and
of the Essene organization, directed their people to
go to northern Palestine, and live on the shores of
Galilee and associate with people of their own race.
There are so many historical notations in Egyptian
records, and especially in the ancient records of the
Great W hite Brotherhood, to show that there was
close communion and intercourse between the Aryans
of Galilee and the Aryans of Egypt.
Our records also show that at the time of the birth
of Jesus, the Galileans spoke a language which was
not Hebrew. The fact has been known among stu­
dents of sacred literature for several centuries that
the Master Jesus spoke another language besides
Hebrew, and there are indications that He spoke
several languages. These indications have greatly
puzzled the students of sacred literature, and much
speculation has existed among authorities in regard
to this matter. The common agreement among these
authorities is that Jesus presented most of His par-
57
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ables and teachings to the populace in the Aramaic
language, and they also believe that He used some
other language that was not Hebrew. Our records
clearly show that He used Greek and Aramaic in
His general discourses and conversations, and used
only Hebrew when He was speaking to those who
did not understand the other languages. Most of
His beautifully poetic parables and discourses were
in either the Aramaic or the Greek language. W e
will discuss, later, the manner in which Jesus became
educated in the Greek language. W e will find the
use of these foreign phrases in the words of Jesus,
in such verses of the Bible as Mark V :41, Mark V II:
34, Mark X IV :36, and in many other places.
The Galilean dialect was a constant source of jest
for the Jews. Peter was also of Galilee and of the
Gentile race, and we find in Matthew X X V I:73, that
some said to Peter, "Surely thou also are one of them;
thy speech bewrayeth thee.” There are many historical
notes that show that the Jews recognized the Gali­
leans by the fact that these Gentiles could not dis­
tinguish the various Semitic gutterals.
The foregoing are but a few of the hundreds of
facts which might be submitted to show that the
parents of Jesus were Gentiles, and of a different
tongue than the Jews. This makes us question at
once the genealogy which is so exhaustively presen-
58
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ted in the Bible in an attempt to show that Jesus
was a descendant of the House of David. This gene­
alogy in the Bible is presented in two places by two
different authors, and the generations in each table
do not agree. But aside from this discrepancy, the
genealogy is only an attempt on the part of later
admirers and followers of Jesus to make it appear
that He was of the House of David, as hoped and
prayed for by the Jews. It must be borne in mind
that at no time did Jesus Himself, during His life­
time, refer to His ancestors or forebears, or intimate
to the Jews that He was the Messiah of the House
of David that they had anticipated. And we find
nothing in any historical records of a contemporary
nature, or among the authentic Jewish records, to
show that during the lifetime of Jesus or even during
the first hundred or more years after His time, that
the Jews or anyone else believed that He was of the
House of David. Just when the genealogy attemp­
ting to show such a connection was prepared and
introduced in the sacred writings is not known, but
it is most certainly a very late addition to the wri­
tings.
Now we must deal with another phase of the his­
tory of the parents and of Jesus Himself. In much of
the Christian literature, Jesus is referred to as the
Nazarene, and it is commonly believed that this
59
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
means to indicate that Jesus was born, or spent most
of His lifetime, in Nazareth. It is strange how stu­
dents of Biblical literature, and especially those who
have written so exhaustively on the life of Jesus,
and who have presented in their teachings and
preachments the picturesque details of His life, have
never given proper thought to the title Nazarene, or
investigated its real meaning. It is assumed by all
of these authorities, writers, and teachers that if
Jesus was a Nazarene, He must have been of a city
called Nazareth, and since He and His parents lived
in Galilee, the city of Nazareth must have been in
that locality. On the basis of such reasoning, it is
generally proclaimed that Nazareth was the home
town of the parents of Jesus, and that Nazareth in
Galilee was the place where Jesus spent His child­
hood.
I have been just recently in Nazareth and made
exhaustive inquiries, for the purpose of verifying the
statements contained in the Rosicrucian records,
and probably most of my readers will be surprised
to learn that at the time Jesus was born, there was
no city or town in the whole of Galilee known as
Nazareth, and that the city in Galilee which now
bears that name is not only a city of more recent
years, but was named and came into existence be­
cause of the demand on the part of investigators to
60
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
find some place that would answer to the name of
Nazareth in Galilee.
First of all, we must make plain that the title
Nazarene did not imply that the person who bore
that title was of a city called Nazareth. The title
Nazarene was given by the Jews to those strange
people outside of their own religion who seemed to
belong to some secret sect or cult that had existed in
Northern Palestine for many centuries, and we find in
the Christian Bible that even John the baptist was
called the Nazarene. W e also find many other ref­
erences to persons who were known as Nazarenes.
In Acts X X IV :5, we find some man being con­
demned as a mover of sedition among the Jews
throughout the world, and called a "ringleader of
the sect of the Nazarenes." Whenever the Jews came
in contact with one in their country who had a dif­
ferent religion, and especially a mystical understand­
ing of the things of life, and who was living in
accordance with some code of philosophical or moral
ethics that was different from those of the Jews, he
was called a Nazarene for the want of a better name.
There was a definite sect called the Nazarenes.
and we find them referred to in the Jewish records
as a sect of primitive Christians, or in other words
those who were essentially prepared for and ready
to accept the Christian doctrines. In fact, the Jewish
61
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
encyclopedias and authorities seem to agree that the
term Nazarene embraced all those Christians who
had originally been born Jews, and who neither
would nor could give up their original mode of life,
but who attempted to adjust the new doctrines with
the old. The Jewish encyclopedias also state that it
is quite evident that the Nazarenes and the Essenes
had many characteristics in common, and were there­
fore of a mystical tendency. In fact, the Essenes and
the Nazarenes were called heretics by the learned
Jews, but there is this difference or distinction in
the use of the two terms: The Essenes were not as
well known to the populace of Palestine as were the
Nazarenes, and seldom was a man called an Essene
unless the person was well informed and knew the
difference between the Essenes and the Nazarenes;
whereas many Essenes and even those of other sects
who lived a peculiar life or who did not accept the
Jewish religion were called Nazarenes.
Jerome, the famous Biblical authority, refers to
the fact that in his day there still existed among the
Jews, in all the synagogues of the East, a heresy con­
demned by the Pharisees, and the followers of it
were called Nazarenes. He said that they believed
that Christ, the Son of God, was born of the Virgin
Mary, and they held Christ to be the one who suf­
fered under Pontius Pilate and ascended to Heaven.
62
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
But, said Jerome, while they pretend to be both Jews
and Christians, they were neither.
Turning to the highest Roman Catholic authori­
ties, we find that the title Nazarene, as applied to
Christ, occurs only once in the Douai version of the
Bible, and this authority states that the term “Jesus
Nazarenus" is uniformally translated “Jesus of N a­
zareth," but this is a mistake in translation, for it
should read, "Jesus the Nazarene.” Nowhere in the
Old Testament do we find the word Nazareth as
referring to a city existing anywhere in Palestine
but we do find in the New Testament references to
Jesus returning to a city called Nazareth. These
references are a result of translating the phrase,
"Jesus returning to the Nazarenes” to read, “Jesus
returning to Nazareth.” The interesting point here
is emphasized by the Roman Catholic authorities, for
they show that whereas Jesus was commonly re­
ferred to as the Nazarene, He was not of that sect
at all.
Taking the Jewish and Roman Catholic records
together, and comparing them with the information
contained in our own records, we find that the Naza­
renes constituted a sect of Jews who, while attemp­
ting to adhere to the ancient Jewish teachings, did
believe in the coming of a Messiah who would be
born in an unusual manner, and who would become
63
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
a Saviour of their race. After the ministry of Jesus
began, these Nazarenes accepted Jesus as the M es­
siah, and even accepted the doctrines He taught
while still trying to adhere to many of the funda­
mentals of their Jew'sh religion. The Jewish records
state that the Nazarenes rejected Paul the Apostle
of the Gentiles, and that some of the Nazarenes ex­
alted Jesus only as a just man.
There was another term for such heretics among
the Jews, and this was "Nazarite.” According to
the Jewish authorities, the term Nazarite was applied
to those who lived apart or separate from the Jewish
race, because of some distinctive religious, moral, or
ethical belief. The Jewish records state that such
persons were often those who would not take wine
or drink anything made from grapes, or those who
would not cut a hair of their heads, or who would
not touch the dead during any funeral ceremony.
These same records state that the history or origin
of Nazariteship in ancient Israel is obscure. They
state that Samson was a Nazarite, as was his mother;
and that Samuel's mother promised to dedicate him
to the sect of Nazarites. The Jewish records state
also that it was common for parents to dedicate
their minor children to the Nazarite sect, and they
distinctly say that there are references to the fact
that Jesus was said to have been dedicated to the
64
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Nazarites while still in the womb. The Jewish rec •
ords say that St. Luke 1:15, refers to this dedication.
Helena, the Queen, and Miryam of Palmyra, are
mentioned as Nazarites in the Jewish records, and
many other persons famous in sacred literature were
known to be Nazarites.
That the terms Nazarite and Nazarene had naught
to do with a city or town called Nazareth is plainly
indicated in many historical records. W e have said
that the present town of Nazareth in Galilee received
its name because a place had to be found that would
fit the common understanding in regard to the village
in which the parents of Jesus lived, and where He
spent His boyhood. During the first few centuries
after Christ, when the Christian doctrines were in the
making and the Holy Fathers of the Roman Catholic
church and religious students in general were search­
ing for every historical site connected with the life of
Jesus, each spot, place, and incident in the career
of this great man was eagerly tabulated and glorified.
M y recent visit through Palestine made plain to me
that this desire to find historical, sacred, sites and
glorify them, has not ended, and will probably con­
tinue for hundreds of years. The absurdity of most
of this becomes apparent when even the casual tour­
ist discovers that three, four, and five, different places
are pointed out to him as being the same spot where
65
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
some particular incident in the life of Jesus occured.
In searching for a place that would answer to the
name of Nazareth in Galilee, great difficulty was ex­
perienced, since no such city was mentioned in the
Old Testament, and none of the ancient maps of the
time of Christ revealed such a site. A very small
settlement, however, called "en-Nasira" was found
far from the Sea of Galilee, and this was immediately
re-named “Nazareth" and associated with the early
life of the boy Jesus. This discovery of the town
of en-Nasira was made in the third century after
Christ, and since then has been known as the town
of Nazareth, but even today it is lacking in any of
the evidences which would warrant the use of that
name. In Mark V I:I, 2, the statements are made that
Jesus went back to His own country and His disciples
followed Him, and when the Sabbath day was come.
He began to teach in the Synagogue. In the fourth
verse of that chapter, Jesus referred to the fact that
He was a prophet in His own country, among His
own kin. and in His own house. These statements
have always been taken to refer to Nazareth, the
town in which many Biblical students believe Jesus
was born and in which he spent His boyhood. Now,
if Jesus did return to His home town, and did preach
in a Synagogue to great multitudes, it could not have
been at en-Nasira. or the so-called town of Nazareth;
66
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
for even in the second and third centuries after the
birth of Jesus, en-Nasira or Nazareth had no Syna­
gogue and was not large enough to have any building
in which multitudes could have listened to Jesus, nor
were there multitudes in thar vicinity to hear Him.
So the references in Mark to His home town could
not refer to en-Nasira. En-Nasira was only a set­
tlement around a spring which was at that time called
the "spring of the guard house,” but I find that now
in recent years it has been changed and is called
“St. M ary’s W ell.” This change of name and the
giving of a religious significance to some unimportant
site in Palestine, is typical of the changes that are
being rapidly made in that country for the benefit
of tourists.
Turning to the old Jewish records, we find these
state that only in the books of the New Testament
written long after the lifetime of Jesus, is the town
of Nazareth mentioned as a village in Galilee, and
that such a place is not mentioned in the Old Testa­
ment, in the historical writings of Josephus, nor in the
Talmud. During the lifetime of Jesus, the town of
Jophia was the important city in the locality of
Galilee, and was the one which attracted all tourists
and is referred to most often in historical writings.
In the Roman Catholic records, and in their ency­
clopedias, we find that the town of en-Nasira was
67
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
known as a strictly Jewish village up to the time of
Constantine, and is referred to as one being inhabited
wholly by Jews. Therefore, this little village sur­
rounding a well could not have been the center of
the Gentile population of Galilee. At the present
time, there is a small church or chapel in Nazareth
which I visited and which is supposed to stand above
the grotto in which M ary and Joseph lived at the
time that the archangel announced to M ary the
forthcoming birth of the incarnation of the Logos.
All of the foregoing facts point out very clearly
that Mary and Joseph and the child born to them
were considered, along with many others in their
locality, as N azarenes, Nazarites, or people of a non-
Jewish, mystical sect. And the many other references
to this sect clearly show that it was one which held
such religious and mystical views as permitted the
acceptance of the fundamentals of the Christian doc­
trine. Taking this into consideration, we have at once
an interesting picture of the conditions existing in
and around Palestine just prior to the Christian Era.
W e have, first of all, a large number of men and
women, even children, who were either Jewish by
birth, Gentile by birth, or of various races and bloods,
but who had refused to adopt wholly or completely
the Mosaic law, and were Jewish only because the
laws of the land forced them to adopt circumcision.
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
to appear in the Synagogue when twelve years of
age, and to be enrolled as Jews. Yet these persons
were mystically inclined in their beliefs, and followed
the Jewish teachings only so far as they revealed
God and God’s laws and served them in their study
of Divine principles. They were prepared by some
school or some system which made them ready to
accept the higher mystical teachings as they were
revealed from time to time by the progressive minds
or by the teachings of Avatars.
On the other hand, there was the one definite
organization of mystics known as the Essenes. which
conducted many forms of humanitarian activities,
including hospices, rescue homes, and places for the
care of the poor and needy. The Essenes had their
northern center in Galilee, among the Aryans, be­
cause they had been directed to this locality by the
center of their organization in Egypt, known as the
Great W hite Brotherhood. The Essenes were not
popularly known, were quiet and unostentatious in
their activities, and were distinguished by the popu­
lace only by their white raiment. The Nazarites. the
Nazarenes. and the Essenes mingled freely and un­
doubtedly sought to carry on their independent ac­
tivities without interference one with the other, and
they unquestionably had many ideals and purposes
in common. But the Nazarites and Nazarenes were
69
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
popularly recognized and known to the populace,
and for this reason all who did not accept the Jewish
faith, or who were heretical in their Jewish beliefs,
were classified as Nazarenes and Nazarites, not as
Essenes.
In and around the shores of the Sea of Galilee,
lived these people— mostly Gentiles of Aryan blood
of the several sects, Nazarenes, Nazarites, and Es­
senes. They, too, were looking for the coming of
the great Master, the great Avatar, the great M es­
siah, who would not only redeem Palestine but the
whole of the world, and bring contentment to Israel
and all peoples. These mystics contemplated, with
true understanding, the reincarnation of one of their
own great Masters. W e must bear in mind that the
belief in reincarnation was not only an established
belief among these mystics, who were classified as
heretics and as Gentiles, but also among the most
orthodox of the Jewish people at that time. This
accounts for the many references in sacred literature,
and even in the Christian Bible, to a great man, a
great teacher, as having been someone else at some
other time; for they believed that the greatest among
them were great because of previous preparation,
previous existence, and previous attainments. Natur­
ally they looked for the new great Master, the new
redeemer of the world, to come out of the past in a
70
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
new body and as a well prepared, highly attained,
individual.
The Rosicrucian records show that not only did
each of the homes of these Essenes and Nazarenes
and Nazarites have a sanctum, in which daily prayers
and solemn meditations were held, but many hours
of each day and evening were given to mystical prac­
tices and the development of a spiritual power within
their beings, which made possible the many miracles
they performed and the great work which they did
among the poor and needy.
They were well advanced in the understanding of
most of the mystical laws which the Rosicrucians and
other mystics of the world today study and practice,
and they knew the potent power of certain spiritual
laws when applied specifically for any definite pur­
pose. To them, such miracles as Incarnations of a
highly Divine nature, and the coming of a great
leader in their midst, through uncontaminated ma­
terial laws, were not impossible, nor improbable, and
they lived a life typical of that which the mystics of
today believe is lived by the masters in Thibet and in
parts of India and Egypt.
Joseph was not only a devout Essene, and a car­
penter by trade, in keeping with the rules of the
organization, but Mary, his wife, was an associate
member of the organization. Yet both of them had
71
been forced to accept the Jewish church and had
identified themselves in a purely formal way with the
faith in accordance with the law of the land.
W ith these facts in mind, let us now approach the
interesting subject of the birth of Jesus.
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
7
2
C H A PTER IV
T H E IM M A C U LA TE C O N C EP TIO N O F
A V A T A R S
V
H IS incident in the life of Avatars is one that
is very difficult to approach and more diffi­
cult to present to those who have not at­
tained that high degree of mystical under­
standing and awakening which would bring
naturally to the student a spiritual understanding of
the conception and birth of Avatars.
I realize fully that the standard Christian story of
the Immaculate Conception of Jesus is one that is not
accepted by those who reject any of the Christian
doctrines. In fact, the authorized Christian version
of the Immaculate Conception is a very difficult one
for the uninitiated and undeveloped mystic to com­
prehend, and certainly appears to be an impossible
story to those who are of an analytical mind, and who
do not comprehend any of the mystical laws and
principles as taught by the ancient Masters.
Perhaps I will do better than others who have
attempted, in the past, to reduce the mystical phase ot
the birth of Jesus to a semi-mystical presentation, and
perhaps I may fail altogether. I am not limited by
any creeds or dogmas which require that I shall
73
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
adhere to a standardized version; and if I fail to make
my reader comprehend or perhaps apprehend the
real mystery of the Immaculate Conception, it will be
because I have been limited solely by an inadequate
vocabulary to express in general terms that which
every mystic understands inwardly, and because of
the inability of some of my readers to read between
the lines of my statements and realize what I cannot
reduce to such crude things as printed words.
First of all, it should be understood by those who
approach this great mystery with an opened and
unbiased mind, that Jesus was not the first great
Master, Avatar, or Son o f God, to be "born of a
virgin." The authorized Christian version of the Im ­
maculate Conception and birth of Jesus presents the
story as though it were unique and exclusively a
Christian manifestation. If nowhere else in the his­
tory of God’s messengers on earth, or tne working
out of God’s plans for the redemption of man in all
ages and cycles, there had ever been a similar inci­
dent or a similar manifestation of the great mystic
powers of the universe, operating as an unusual
manifestation of God’s omnipotent ways, then the
mystery of the conception and birth of this great
man would be more difficult to explain and more diffi­
cult to comprehend.
74
To the mvstics of the Orient in all lands and of
all ages, the great mystery of the Immaculate Con­
ception and spiritual birth of a Son of God is ac­
cepted not only as a possibility but as a fact natural
to the life o f every great Avatar. Christians or stu­
dents of Christian literature who aiz accustomed in
America to hear the mystery of the Immaculate Con­
ception referred to as one of the problems of faith,
and one of the doctrinal points upon which the faith
of thousands of Christians is broken, are surprised
When they tour through foreign lands to find that
even those who are not Christians and who are of
the Mohammedan, Hindu, Buddhistic, or heathen
faiths, find no difficulty in accepting the story of an
Immaculate, spiritual, conception and birth, and be­
lieve that this one feature of the life of the Master
Jesus is the only one which is consistent with the
claim that Jesus was the great Redeemer and Savi­
our of the world. In fact, during my recent trip
through lands which brought me in contact with
persons of Oriental faiths, I found most of them who
were not Christians expressing themselves on this
subject in this wise: "If you Christians believe that
Jesus was a Son of God, or the Divinely Appointed
M essenger to redeem any part of the world through
the message He had to give, then you must believe
that He was divinely conceived and born, for there
75
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
can be no question of such distinctive birth if He was
a Divine Messenger.” W hen I explained to some
of them that there were so-called Christians or stu­
dents of the Christian doctrine who could not accept
the idea of Divine Conception and birth, but who
still believed that Jesus was a great Master, a Di­
vinely Appointed Messenger, a true Son of God.
and an Avatar of unusual authority from on high,
these Orientals merely smiled and said that such a
viewpoint was an absurdity, for no man, according
to their viewpoint, humanly conceived and born,
could attain any degree of Divine Authority which
would make him the Christ of his time.
Thus we see that the great problem resolves itself
into a problem not of the fact of the Immaculate
Conception or the Divine Sonship of Jesus, but a
problem of human comprehension on the part of the
consciousness in the Occidental world as compared
with the consciousness we find in the Oriental world.
In other words, we are face to face with the fact that
not the validity of the claim of Immaculate Concep­
tion and birth of Jesus should be given serious
thought by students of sniritual mysticism in the
W estern world, but the lack of understanding and
comprehension on the part of those millions who
have not yet attained the proper degree of spiritual
76
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
understanding regarding the spiritual laws operating
in such important events.
The Oriental of any of the various faiths points
out to us of the Occidental world the fact that we
are attempting to struggle with a principle in the
spiritual world with which we are least acquainted,
and for a comprehension of which we are least pre­
pared. The mystics of all lands agree that until
man is prepared, through spiritual development and
comprehension of the higher laws, to understand eas­
ily and in its sublime fullness, the actuality of spirit­
ual conception and Divine Birth, he is not ready in
any sense to understand the teachings and the true
message brought to this world by any of the great
Avatars, especially that of the last and greatest of
them all, Jesus the Christ.
This does not mean that it is impossible for the
sincere student of Christian doctrines to comprehend
at least the mystical laws involved in the possibility
of an Immaculate Conception and Divine Birth, but it
does mean that such a student must try to see and
comprehend the mysticism that is fundamental in all
of the Christian doctrines. The Rosicrucians hold
the same viewpoint that the Orientals hold in this
regard, namely, that the orthodox Christianity in
the W estern W orld today too greatly slights the
mysticism and mystical principles which are funda-
77
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
mental to Christianity and which constituted the pris­
tine Christianity of ancient times. In other words, too
much thought is given to the literal meaning of words,
and the material interpretation of all of the principles
involved in Christianity, which leaves almost a total
neglect of the pure mysticism that makes possible a
real understanding or spiritual comprehension of
Christianity in its original form.
Added to this is the reluctance on the part of the
Occidental world to accept as facts and actual possi­
bilities the so-called miracles of the Bible. I do not
agree with such authorities as the late William Jen­
nings Bryan and others who have claimed that the
scientific trend of our thinking and our highly scien­
tific education in the Occidental world has tended to
blind us to the spiritual truths in the Bible or in all
sacred literature. I do not believe that materialistic
science is any way responsible for the Occidental's
inability to understand the higher spiritual statements
found in the sacred writings of the Bible, or the
other books of other creeds. I believe that this in­
ability on the part of the minds of the W estern world
is due to the unawakened status of the spiritual side
of our natures and the absence, except in the various
occult and metaphysical schools of the W estern
world, of such general teachings along spiritual lines
as would properly prepare us for an understanding
78
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
of that which is accepted readily and understood
thoroughly by the Oriental mind.
I have said that we should bear in mind that Jesus
was not the first of the great teachers who came as
messengers of God to be born of a virgin, or to have
been conceived by Divine Principle. A few refer­
ences to similar incidents in the past may help my
reader to understand what is meant by this statement.
It is a fact that Divine Births and Divine Concep­
tions were so currently accepted among the ancients
that whenever they heard of one who had greatly
distinguished himself in the affairs of men, they im­
mediately classified such a person as having been
born of supernatural lineage. In even the heathen
religions, various gods were declared to have de­
scended from Heaven and made incarnate in man.
The learned Thomas Maurice, in his unusual book
called Indian Antiquities, goes so far as to state that
“in every age and in almost every religion of the
Asiatic world, there seems uniformly to have flour­
ished an immemorial tradition that one god had, from
all eternity, begotten another god."
I may add that our own records of ancient tradi­
tions and sacred writings contain many references
to religious movements in antiquity, in which the
great leader was claimed to be “God's Begotten
Son.”
79
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
India had a number of Avatars or Divine Messen­
gers who were Incarnated through Divine Concep­
tion, and two of them bore the name of "Chrishna,"
or "Chrishna the Saviour.” Now Chrishna was born
of a chaste virgin called Devaki, who, on account of
her purity, was selected to become the mother of
God. In this instance, we find a very ancient story
of a virgin giving birth to an immaculately conceived
messenger of God.
Buddha was considered and believed by all his
followers to have been begotten of G od and born of
a virgin whose name was Maya or Mary. In the
ancient stories of the birth of Buddha, as understood
by all the Orientals and found in their sacred writ­
ings long before the Christian Era, we read how the
Divine power, called the Holy Ghost, descended
upon the virgin Maya. In the ancient Chinese ver­
sion of the story, the Holy Ghost is callcd Shing-
Shirt.
The Siamese, likewise, had a god and saviour
who was virgin-born, and whom they called Codom.
In this ancient story, the beautiful young virgin had
been informed in advance that she was to become
the mother of a great messenger of God, and one day
while in her usual period of meditation and prayer,
she was impregnated by Divine sunbeams. W hen the
80
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
boy was bom, he grew up in a remarkable manner,
became a protege of wisdom, and performed miracles.
W hen the first Europeans visited Cape Comorin,
the most southerly extremity of the peninsula of Hin­
dustan, they were surprised to find the natives, who
had never made contact with the white races of
Europe before, worshipping a Lord and Saviour who
had been Divinely Conceived and born of a virgin.
W hen the first Jesuit missionaries visited China,
they wrote in their reports that they were appalled
at finding in the heathen religion of that country a
story of a redeeming master who had been born of
a virgin and Divinely conceived. This god was said
to have been born 3468 years B. C. Lao-Tsze, the
famous Chinese God, was claimed to have been born
of a virgin, black in complexion, and described as
marvelous and as beautiful as Jasper.
In Egypt, long before the dawn of Christianity,
and long before any of the writers of the present
Christian Bible were born, or any of its doctrines con­
ceived of as Christian, the Egyptian people had sev­
eral messengers of God who were born of virgins
through Divine Conception. Horus was known to
all the ancient Egyptians as having been born of the
virgin Isis, and his conception and birth was con­
sidered one of the three great mysteries or mystical
doctrines of the Egyptian religion. To them, every
81
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
T h e serpent w as used as a m ystical symbol in the early sacred
w ritings of various schools of religion, and very often used as
an emblem of the “W ord ” or “Logos.” In this sense it becam e
the symbol of the tem pter in the fa ll of m an. T h e serpent was
also the emblem of the Holy Ghost, or the Pow er that im preg­
nated the life in the virgin. In this sense it was the incarnation
of the “Logos.” T h e emblem shown above represents the serpent
as found engraved or carved on m any ancient monuments to rep­
resent the “Logos.” T h e Ophites also venerated this same symbol
as an emblem of Jesu s the Christ.
82
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
incident in connection with the conception and birth
of Horus was pictured, sculptured, adored, and wor­
shipped as are the incidents of the conception and
birth of Jesus among the Christians today. Another
Egyptian god called Ra was born of a virgin. I have
seen on one of the ancient walls of a temple along
the Nile, a beautifully carved picture representing
the god Thoth— the messenger of God— telling the
maiden, Queen Mautmes, that she is to give birth to
a Divine Son of God. who will be the king and
Redeemer of her people.
Turning to Persia, we find that Zoroaster was the
first of the world redeemers acknowledged to have
been born in innocence through the Immaculate Con­
ception of a virgin. Ancient carvings and pictures
of this great messenger show him surrounded by an
aura of light that filled the humble place of his birth.
Cyrus, king of Persia, was also believed to have been
of Divine origin, and in the records of his time, he
was referred to as the Christ or the annointed of
God. and was considered as God's messenger.
Even Plato, who was born in Athens, 429 B. C.,
was believed by the populace to have been a Divine
Son of God by a pure virgin called Perictione. It is
recorded in the ancient records that the father of
Plato, who was known as Aris, had been admonished
in a spiritual dream to hold pure and sacred the
83
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
person of his wife, until after the Divine Conception
and birth of the child that was to come, and that this
child's conception would be by Divine means.
Appolonius, who was still living and performing
great miracles and teaching in various lands during
the early part of the life of Jesus, was also bom of a
virgin mother, according to the stories that were
recorded of him during and shortly after his time.
According to these stories, the mother of Appolonius
in B. C. 41 was informed by a god in a dream that
she would give birth to a great messenger of God
who would be known as Appolonious.
Speaking of famous miracle workers and teachers
who left behind them unquestioned records of great
work in behalf of mankind, we find that Pythagoras,
who was bom about 570 B. C., had Divine honors
paid to him through and after his lifetime. According
to the sacred writings about him, his mother con­
ceived him through a spectre or the Holy Ghost,
which appeared to her. His father, or foster-father,
was also informed through a vision that his wife was
to bring forth a son through Divine Conception, and
that the son would become a benefactor to mankind.
The story of Aesculapius is very interesting. He
became a great performer of miracles, a messenger
with a Divine message for all mankind, and was con­
sidered a true Sort o f God. W hen the Messenians
84
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
sought to learn of the birth of Aesculapius, they con­
sulted the oracle at Delphi, and were informed that
an invisible God or Holy Ghost of the Divine King­
dom was his father, that Coronis was his earthly
mother, and that he was born at Epidaurus. Accord­
ing to the story, when Coronis experienced the sacred
event of Divine Conception, she sought to conceal
her pregnancy from her father because she did not
believe that she could make worldly men understand
the strange occurrence. So she went in hiding at
Epidaurus, where the child was delivered months
later in a lowly and humble goat stable, on a moun­
tainside. A herder of goats, by name Aristhenes,
going in search of a goat and a dog missing from his
fold, discovered the young child in the stable and
would have carried him home, had he not seen,
when approaching the child, its head encircled with
fiery rays which told him that the child was a Divine
Being. His report of the finding of the child spread
throughout the land, and the people from all quarters
flocked to the stable to pay homage to the Son of
God, and brought valuable presents which they laid
at the feet of the infant. The child was not only
honored as a god in Phoenicia and Egypt, but the
worship of him passed into Greece and Rome.
Even on this side of the great ocean, the tribes of
North and South America had gods that were sup-
85
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
posed to have been Divinely born. Long before the
landing of Columbus, the inhabitants of ancient M ex­
ico worshipped a saviour and world redeemer whom
they called Quetzalcoatle, who was born of a pure
virgin according to the traditions which the holy
fathers, who came with Columbus, discovered in the
ancient writings carved on the walls of the temples.
According to the story then long established, a mes­
senger from Heaven had announced to his mother
that she would bear a son by Divine Conception,
and that he would be the saviour of the world. There
was an established Mexican hieroglyphic which con­
veyed the story of the Divine Conception and birth
of this Mexican god.
The Mayas of Yucatan also had a virgin-born god.
corresponding with Quetzalcoatle, whose name was
Zama; and he was termed "the only begotten son of
the Supreme God."
In Nicaragua, Peru, Guatemala, and other coun­
tries. there were other Divinely Conceived and
uniquely born gods.
I think I have shown, in just these few out of the
many hundreds of well recorded instances, that
among the Orientals, and especially among those
peoples whose religion had a well developed mystical
basis, the idea of Immaculate Conception or Divine
86
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Birth was not an improbability, but a well accepted
possibility.
It has been said by many of the critics of the story
of the Immaculate Conception of Jesus, that if Jesus
had been conceived and born as stated in the Christ­
ian records, it is strange that none of the contempor­
ary writers, none of His disciples, not even Jesus
Himself, ever referred to this fact during His life­
time, and that only many years after His passing did
the story of His Immaculate Conception and birth
become established. This sort of argument would be
sound and reasonable only if the Immaculate Con­
ception and birth was unique with Jesus, or in other
words, if He had been the first and only great mes­
senger of God to have been considered of Divine
origin and b'rth. But if we consider that it was com­
mon belief among all the peoples of the Oriental
lands and of Egypt and Palestine, that every great
messenger, every Avatar, every Son of God ordained
by Divine decree to raise the status of the peoples
of his time was born of Divine Conception, then we
can understand why in the case of Jesus, neither His
disciples nor the writers of history considered the
event of such outstanding importance as to write
about it, enthuse over it, or make of it the unusual
miracle that the Christian church makes of it today.
87
In tracing back the very complete records of the
ancient pre-Christian Avatars and Sons of God
that greatly influenced the development of civi­
lization, we find in the Rosicrucian records and in
some other writings that are fragmentary, that the
disciples and followers of each of these Avatars or
messengers devoted more time and thought to the
recording of the sayings, teachings, and demonstra­
tions of the Avatars than to the recording of the
events connected with their births and transitions.
Even in the score or more cases where the Immacu­
late Conception and Divine Birth of these pre-
Christian Avatars in various lands is recorded, the
statements are brief, concise, and very often merely
incidental to the story being told. The facts of the
Immaculate Conception and birth are disposed of
hurriedly as though they were of secondary import­
ance, and to be taken for granted by the reader of
the life of each of these Avatars. In no case do we
find that the disciples and followers of the Avatars
considered the Immaculate Conception and birth as a
feature for adoration and worship, as we find in
the case of the Christian teachings today. Very
often the statement in regard to these miraculous
births were made as briefly as we, at the present
time, refer to the fact that some great man was
born on such and such a date, with the assumption
88
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
that every person is born, and must be born at some
place in a manner in keeping with his race and the
conditions of the country in which the event occurred.
I am sure that when these facts are taken into con­
sideration, those who have heretofore been puzzled
because so few historical references can be found in
ancient writings regarding the Divine Conception
and birth of Jesus, will realize that they have been
seeking for something that, from the Oriental point
of view, was not the outstanding or important event
of His life. It is a fact that among the Orientals the
life and teachings and practical demonstration of the
teachings on the part of these Avatars were consid­
ered all that was important about them, and the inci­
dents of birth and location of birth, and of their ulti­
mate passing, were- points to be considered only by
those intimately associated with the Avatars, and
were recorded merely for the purpose of completing
the record.
The next important point to have in mind is the
fact that the reason for the general acceptance by
mystics of the fact of Divine Conception lies in the
common belief among the mystics and Oriental philo­
sophers that the power of thought or the power of a
mental or audible word is capable of impregnating
matter and bringing lifeless matter into consciousness.
If we try to assume that the impregnation of matter
89
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
in a mystical manner like this is an unusual miracle
of doubtful nature, never having been proved, and
not acceptable except on the basis of unfounded faith,
then we must also assume that all the fundamental
teachings of the mystics of the Orient, and all of the
claims made in occult and mystical literature by com­
petent teachers and by men whose fame and integrity
have been well established, are false, unfounded, un­
reliable, and unworthy of our consideration. And if
we assume this, then there is little hope for us in the
teachings that come from the Orient, and little reason
for us to believe in the superior power and hidden,
secret, principles of Divine energy.
The mystics of all ages have claimed, and through
the so-called miracles have proved to themselves,
that certain latent, potent, principles can be invoked
by man and are applied by God in the creative pro­
cesses of the universe. The very creation of the
world itself is considered by all the mystics of the
Orient as the first great demonstration of the potency
of the Logos, or the power of the W ord breathed
into space where no life existed, resulting in immedi­
ate impregnation and the manifestation of living mat­
ter. The mystics of the Orient rightfully contend
that in the beginning, all non-living matter was im­
pregnated with life by a Divine process, without the
application of material laws. No other conception is
90
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
possible to their understanding nor acceptable to
them. And if the first great impregnation of life in
this manner is accepted, why should there be any
question of lesser demonstrations in the case of an
individual being, or the impregnation of a single
cell of life?
Mystics of all times have demonstrated that even
the spoken word composed of a properly intoned
vowel uttered by man has the power to disturb the
status of matter, and to set it into vibration or to
change its elementary nature or its chemical compo­
sition. In demonstration of this, mystics of the Orient
and some highly evolved ones of the Occident have
learned how to utter a sound or to produce a sound
upon a violin string or other musical insrument which
would cause a manifestation in matter. It is common
with the Rosicrucians and with mystics of other
schools who have learned how, and who have de­
veloped to the proper degree of perfection ill these
things, to utter vowel sounds or, by mental concen­
tration, direct invisible, potent energies to such focal
points as would cause a manifestation in non-living
and living matter. And it is the aim and ambition of
millions of students of mystical law to attain that de­
gree of perfection where they can perform seen ing
miracles of this kind. T o these mystics and to the
rational mind comprehending the laws involved, it
91
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
would seem that if man is capable of applying these
mystical principles in such a manner as this, it cer­
tainly would not be improbable, let alone impossible,
for the Mind of God to have directed certain powers
to impregnate matter and bring about not only the
Immaculate Conception, with which we are dealing
in this chapter of the book, but many other similar
manifestations of an unusual nature.
Therefore, the Rosicrucian of evolved understand­
ing and the mystic of spiritual attainment, readily
and understandingly accept the Immaculate Concep­
tion of Jesus, and see in it no violation of natural or
spiritual law, nor any exception to truly scientific
principles.
Those who cannot accept the Immaculate Con­
ception and Divine Birth of the Master Jesus are
probably laboring under the limiting comprehension
of materialistic consideration, and have not attained
a spiritual development in their evolution which
makes possible the comprehension and apprehension
of the higher laws.
There is but one point upon which the Rosicru-
cians and the mystics of the Orient disagree with the
Fundamentalist or strictly orthodox of the Christian
church, and this is in the uniqueness of the Concep­
tion and birth of the Master Jesus. The Christian
doctrines teach that Jesus was the only begotten
92
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Son of God, and the only instance where the W ord
was made flesh, and where God sent upon the earth
a Divine Son to redeem the world. The Rosicrucians
understand that Jesus was not the first and only, but
the last and greatest of all the messengers of God
conceived in this manner and born on earth.
This brings us to another point of consideration
before presenting the ancient, mystical, story of the
birth of Jesus. In a previous chapter, I stated that
the Essenes, the Nazarenes, and the mystics of Pal­
estine, anticipated the coming of a great Master who
would be the incarnation of one of the former great
leaders. I also stated that it was the common belief
among the Jews that the Messiah which they ex­
pected would likewise be the incarnation of one of
their former deliverers. In these statements you will
note the belief on the part of the people of the Orient
not only in the fact of reincarnation, which was an
established belief throughout the entire Oriental
world and which is today a positive principle in
the religious and philosophical thought of more than
three-quarters of the earth's population, questioned
only by part of the people in the W estern world,
but the Orientals also knew, through previous ex­
periences, that the great Avatars and messengers of
God which came to them from time to time as the
evolution of the races required, were the reincarna-
93
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
tion of previous great souls on earth, who had at­
tained in each incarnation a higher and still higher
degree of spiritual perfection and mastership. They
knew that as each Avatar was reincarnated and at­
tained his highest place on earth through Immaculate
Conception and Divine Appointment, it would be the
last incarnation for him, and that never again would
he appear on earth. Just when each one of these mes­
sengers would appear in his last and final incarna­
tion it was impossible for them to tell, but since all
incarnations were progressive, and since each mes­
senger was greater and more advanced than the pre­
ceding one, the Essenes, the Nazarenes, and even
the Jews of Palestine, anticipated that the messenger
who would come to them would be greater than any
who had preceded him, and would probably be the
reincarnation of one of the greatest of those who had
served them in the past. It was natural for the Jews
to feel that such a messenger or Messiah would be
the reincarnation of one of their previous deliverers,
perhaps Moses, and most certainly of the House of
David. On the other hand, the Essenes and those of
the Aryan race believed (and based their belief upon
a better understanding of the mystical laws than the
Jews possessed) that the new great Master and re­
deemer for the world would be of the Aryan race,
in the form of a reincarnation of one of the great
94
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Masters who had served the world in other lands,
and who would not be limited to the tribes of Israel.
For this reason, the Essenes in Palestine and in
Egypt and other locations fully anticipated that from
their own race and from among the members of
their own organization, would come the next great
Master, because the Essenes represented at this time
the group of highest evolved and most spiritually
trained beings on earth.
95
C H A PTER V
V
E F O R E giving the account of the birth of
Jesus as it is recorded in the ancient Rosi-
crucian records, I wish to call to the atten­
tion of my reader the following important
points.
At the time of the birth of Jesus, the Essene Broth­
erhood as a part of the Great W hite Brotherhood
was not only well established in various parts of
Egypt and Palestine with its largest center of mem­
bers in Egypt located at Alexandria, and its very
large community district in Galilee, but the organiza­
tion maintained a great secret temple at Heliopolis
in Egypt where the Supreme officers met and where
the highest ceremonies of the organization were held.
This temple was often referred to in ancient records
as the temple of Helios, or the “temple of the sun."
In Palestine, a smaller temple for the sacred cere­
monies of the Essenes in and around Jerusalem was
located, close to one of the Jerusalem gates. It was
in this temple in Jerusalem that officers of the Essene
Brotherhood in Palestine assembled for their high
ceremonies.
THE MYSTICAL BIRTH OF JESUS
97
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
Perhaps it is necessary to explain at this point,
also, that in all the ancient temples of the Great
W hite Brotherhood, including those of the Essenes,
the young daughters of the highest members of the
organization served as virgins or as Vestals for cer­
tain periods of their lives, and were under the guard­
ianship of the organization. In all the Rosicrucian
branches throughout the world today, including those
in North America, there are several Vestals asso­
ciated with each Temple or Lodge representing the
spiritual consciousness of the Cosmic. These girls are
always daughters of parents who have been in the
organization for some time and are highly respected
and aided in every way to high attainments in all the
ethical, cultural, and educational principles of the
land.
W ith these points in mind, I now present what
is probably the oldest and most complete story of
the Immaculate Conception and Divine Birth of the
Master Jesus, as it has been recorded and preserved
in the archives of the Rosicrucian organization in
Egypt, India, and Thibet. I have had to slightly con­
dense the story for presentation in this book, in order
that the entire volume might not become too large,
but I have not eliminated any essential detail nor
altered any of the important mystical phrases.
98
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The following story is the one that is generally
accepted with perfect understanding by the mystics
of the Great W hite Brotherhood, and I trust that the
mystics of the W estern W orld will find in it a perfect
explanation of this greatest of all mystical mysteries.
------------------o------------------
In the days of the mystic sects and sacred cults of
the Great W hite Brotherhood of the Orient, there
was one Joachim who was High Priest in the Holy
Temple of Helios at the outer gates of Jerusalem.
He was a devout follower of the sacred rituals and
had pledged to give all that was his to the great work.
And when the time came that his wife, Anna, was
to have a child they agreed that if it should be a girl,
and she should show in her infancy that she was
Divinely ordained, she should become a dove in the
Holy Temple and remain a Virgin of the Sacred
Sanctum. And in the ninth month Anna bore a child,
and it was a girl as the astrologers (M agi) of the
Temple had predicted. W hen the days were accom­
plished, Anna purified herself, and gave the child
the breast, and called its name Mary because the sun
at birth was in the sign of Libra.
And when the child was six months old it was
taken by the parents to the Temple that the child
might be examined and that which it carried from
its last life revealed in the presence of the Priests and
99
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the Magi. The child was placed in the Sanctum upon
its own feet, with its face toward the East, while the
mother sat upon a white cloth at the foot of the
Vestal Fire. The baby was urged to walk and it did
walk. The Priests and Magi noticed that the child
took seven steps and then knelt upon its knees before
its mother in the Sanctum. And as the Magi chanted,
the mother lifted up her child and cried aloud to
the heavens: "A s the Lord my God liveth, thou
shalt not walk upon this earth until I give thee to
the Temple of the Lord." And the Priests glorified
in the fulfillment of the prophecy that Joachim, their
High Priest, should give to the Temple a virgin.
The mother was good with her promise. She made
a sanctuary in her home and placed a cloth from the
Temple of Helios upon the floor on which the child
Mary should walk and set foot not upon the earth
until the day of her deliverance to the Temple. The
mother suffered nothing common or unclean to pass
by her child and called the undefiled Virgins of the
Priests of the Temples to lead her about the impro­
vised Sanctuary and to carry her into the rose gar­
dens when the sun was mellow.
The child's first birthday came and there was
a sacred feast at the home of Joachim and Anna,
and all the Priests and Scribes and Magi of the Tem­
ples of the Brotherhood were present. Joachim
100
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
brought the child Mary from the sanctuary to the
Priests, and she was sprinkled with undefiled water,
and the petals of the rose, and the Magi proclaimed
her officially named Mary, the Dove of Helios. The
Priests blessed her and prayed to God, saying: "O
God of our Hearts, bless this child and make her
name, as the Magi have just proclaimed it to be, a
name to be eternally named in all generations of the
sons of God.” And all present said. "So be it, So
be it. Amen!" Her mother then took the Dove to
the Sanctuary to give it breast and she sang a song
to God, saying: "I sing thee a song, O holy child,
a song unto God, for He hath given me the fruit
of righteousness. Harken, ye Scribes of the Twelve
Kingdoms of our land, for the Holy Dove is with
me and God abideth with us.” And when the feast
was ended they went away rejoicing, each of the
twelve Scribes to bring the great tidings to their
Twelve Temples of the Twelve Kingdoms.
The months passed and the child became two
years old and there was another birthday feast. And
Joachim said, “Let us carry Mary to the Temple, that
we may render the vow which we promised, lest per­
chance God refuse us the privilege and our gift
become unacceptable." But Anna, its mother said:
"Seest not that Mary is wise and strong for her
years and blessed with an understanding not of this
101
life but of that which she carried with her to the
mouth of my womb when she was born? In another
year she will be stronger and of wisdom sufficient
to permit her to journey to the Temple alone without
her father and mother as in the past.” And Joachim
agreed. And when the child became three years of
age and was exceedingly bright with inner under­
standing, Joachim called the Priests and Scribes of
the Twelve Kingdoms and invited the undefiled V ir­
gins of the Priests to escort Mary to the Temple.
The Virgins came with the sacred lamps burning
with joy at the gift of God to the Temple. But
Mary refused escort and was carried only by her
Mother to the Temple gate, that her feet might not
touch the earth. The Virgins were within the
Temple chanting and incensing the Sanctum when
Mary was received at the outer portal by the Priests
of Helios. The child was then taken into the Temple
and placed on the third step leading to the Altar
while the Sacred Fire burned and the Priest prayed
to God, saying: "God hath magnified his purposes
and His name to all generations and through this
child God will manifest His redemption to the chil­
dren of this land." And he blessed the child and she
danced with joy and walked from the Altar into the
Sanctum and knelt before the Shekinah.
102
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
As the parents made toward the door of the
Temple they turned and saw that the child asked not
to go. And as the Virgins and Priests and the
Scribes and Magi walked to the W est of the Temple
they cast rose leaves upon the kneeling child. The
parPT>ts marveled at the child's desire to remain alone
in the great Temple. W hen they had departed and
the child was alone, Mary saw her own child body
floating as a Dove in the air and from out of the
space above the Shekinah there appeared a hand as
though of an angel giving Mary as she floated, a
morsel of food, and a voice, as if from the angel
said: "Behold, this is to be thy food henceforth, for
no longer shalt thou find milk at thy mother's breast,
for thou hast sucked that which God hath provided
and now thou shalt eat only that which thy kin shall
serve thee.”
At the time Mary became twelve years of age she
was made womanly with functions which gave sign
and symbol that her day had come to fulfill the vow
of her parents. A council was held of the Priests and
the Magi, who said: "Behold, Mary the Dove is
become twelve years old and she giveth sign that her
day to either dwell within the Temple or be given
in marriage has come. Shall we take her now or
wait the allotted time of twelve years and eleven
months?” And the Magi replied: "G o before the
103
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Altar and ask God to show that which is right and
whatever God shall manifest to thee, that also will
we do." And Joachim, as High Priest, entered the
Sanctum and placed upon his official garment the
triangular breast plate, and prayed for illumination.
And a form appeared to him, saying: "Joachim, Joa­
chim, go forth and summon the widowers of the
Brotherhood who hath homes and let them take a
sacred staff apiece, and Mary shall be given to be
cared for to him to whom God shall show a sign."
And Joachim reported that which was given to him
and the Scribes were informed to bring forth the
widowers of their Kingdoms.
Now there was one, by name Joseph, who was of
the Essene community at Galilee, and who was a
devout Brother of the Temple of his Kingdom; and
when he heard that all the widowers were summoned
to Helios, he laid down his axe and tools with which
he was building a house, and hastened to meet the
others. W hen all the widowers were assembled
before the Temple of Helios, the High Priest selected
144 sacred staffs and purified them before the Altar
and gave each of the widowers a staff. But there
was no sign given by which Joachim could tell the
answer to the selection the voice promised. Joseph
was the last to receive a staff and as he lifted it in
sacred salutation to the High Priest, behold a white
104
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
dove went out of the rod and hovered over the head
of Joseph. And the High Priest said to Joseph:
"Thou hast been alloted to receive the Virgin which
hath been given to Helios, to keep with thyself in
thy home." But Joseph refused, saying he knew not
what was intended by the gathering and that he had
two sons and he was old, and the Virgin appeared
to be a young girl not yet thirteen as was the law.
The High Priest admonished Joseph, reminding him
what God did to Dathan, and Abiram, and Korah,
how the earth opened and they were swallowed up
because of their gainsaying. And Joseph feared, and
offered to take the Virgin and to keep with himself
the Dove of Helios. And he said to Mary: "Behold,
I have received thee from the Temple of God. and I
will leave thee in my house and go to finish my
building and will come to thee." And thusly came
Mary to live with Joseph, the widower and builder,
as the Virgin of the Brotherhood.
And there came a time when the council of the
Priests of Helios was called to make plans for the
making of a new curtain for the Temple. And the
Priests said, let us call the undefiled Virgins of our
Brethren and also our Dove of the Temple. And
when the call was answered there were seven virgins.
And Mary was sent for as the Dove of the Temple.
W hen they were within the Temple, the High Priest
105
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
ordered that lots should be cast to see who should
spin the gold for the curtain and who should spin
the green, the scarlet, the purple, the blue, and the
fine linen and silk. And the true purple and scarlet
fell to the lot of Mary, their Dove. And she took
the materials and went away to her home.
As she worked upon her spinning there appeared
to her a figure of a great Master who said: "Fear
not! I come to bring thee a message of great joy,
Mary, Holy Virgin and Sacred Dove of Helios, for
thy day hath come to fulfill the prophecy of the
Magi. Thou hath found favor with God and thy
Brethren, and now thou shalt conceive from the
word of God.” And when Mary heard this she dis­
puted, saying: "Shall I conceive from the word of
God? And yet shall I bear as every woman bear-
eth?" And the voice of the figure said: "N ot in the
manner of thy understanding shalt thou conceive, but
in the manner of thy understanding shalt thou bear.
For though the lips of man may kiss thee as the
hands of the High Priest hath blessed thee, so shalt
the seed of man be thy heritage; but the word of
God shall be breathed upon thee and its power shall
make thee holy and bless the seed that it may be of
God. W herefore, also, that Holy life which shall be
born of thee shall be called the Son of God, and he
shall attain the name Jesus because he shall be the
106
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
G od in man and will become the God with men.”
And Mary answered: "It shall be according to the
word of God!”
M ary wrought the purple and the scarlet and
took it to the High Priest. He spoke to Mary and
told her he had been informed that her day had come
to conceive and he blessed her and rejoiced with her,
and told her that her name would be holy in all the
generations of the earth. Mary went away, in time
of preparation, to her cousin Elizabeth, and stayed
there until her condition was so manifest that she
again sought the privacy of her home sanctuary.
Her sixth month came and Joseph returned from
his housebuilding and found Mary was with child
and he was surprised and sorrowful. He smote his
face and threw himself upon the sackcloth of the
sanctuary and wept bitterly, saying: "W ith what face
shall I look to my God? for I receive a Virgin, and
the Dove of our Temple, and have not guarded over
her and she has been defiled my man! W ho hath
done this thing in my home? Is not the history of
Adam repeated in me?" And Joseph arose from his
sackcloth and called Mary and said to her: "W h y
hast thou who walked the seven steps and was raised
to the third step of the Holy of Holies in our Temple,
permitted man to defile thee? Didst thou not receive
food from the hands of an angel as a token that thou
107
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
wast not to accept from the profane that which
would feed thy earthly desires?" And she wept bit­
terly that Joseph did not know and that he should
mistrust her, and she cried: "I am pure and know no
man!" And Joseph was filled with awe and chal­
lenged her words, saying: "W hence then is it that
thou art thus?" And she said with sweetness of
voice: "As our God liveth I know not how this came
but through the word! As I slept H e came unto me
with pureness of spirit, freed from the mortal body,
and whereas He breathed not the breath of lust but
spake with the breath the word of God, I conceived
in fact as God first conceived in thought; and as the
thought preceded the creation of the world, so with
me the most holy of all W ords, preceded the quick­
ening that came upon me.”
And Joseph was afraid lest those who knew not
of the laws of God would misunderstand and mis­
judge, and he was in a quandry. But in the night
there came to him the voice of the Master, saying:
“Be not afraid, for that which she hath conceived
is of the Holy Spirit, and she shall bear a son and
the Heavenly Hosts shalt call his name Jesus because
the Holy Spirit, through the word of God, shall be
in him."
And there came, later, a Scribe to the home of
Joseph to inquire about his absence from a meeting
108
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
of the Brotherhood and the Scribe saw that Mary
was with child and he went forthwith to the High
Priest and was ready to attest that Mary had been
defiled. And the High Priest sent for Joseph and
Mary and gave them hearing and listened knowingly
to Mary's declaration of innocence and purity and
then reasoned with the Scribe. The Magi consulted
and it was decided that the test should be given
whereby their auras would manifest the color of sin,
if sin there be upon them. And each was given a
drink from the vessel containing the radiant water
and they were placed in the dark and naught but
pureness of Light came from them and no sin was
made manifest. And the High Priest said: "If the
God of our Temple manifests not thy sins through
his laws, then I cannot judge you." And he dis­
missed them as pure in heart and clean in body.
The day came when Joseph found it necessary to
journey with Mary to avoid the censor because of
his predicament and M ary’s strange experience. And
they came to a cave where they rested at Mary's
request for she believed her hour at hand. Joseph
sought aid and met a woman who came to the cave
and met Mary and heard the strange story and be­
lieved it not. And in all directions Joseph saw that
the heavens and the earth and the distant people
upon it were silent and motionless and he knew that
109
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the presence of God was upon the face of the earth
and that some miracle was about to be wrought.
W hile he and the woman waited in the cave, a great
Light came into the darkness and repelled them and
it hovered over Mary. And the Light became smaller
in size and more dense in whiteness until it enveloped
Mary and then slowly reduced to naught. And as
Joseph and the woman watched in the silence the
Light was gone and there came the cry of a baby's
voice and an angel appeared and said unto them:
"A t this hour, in humility of spirit, and with pureness
of mind, to a Virgin in the Temple, there is now
born the Son O F God, conceived by the Holy Spirit
through the word of God, and his name will become
Jesus, for that is the name of God into which the
fire of spirit and the power of the word is given.
But I warn thee not to tell to the profane that which
has happened, for they will believe thee not but will
say that unto a Virgin some mortal man hath given
child: and they will curse thee as a defiler of thy
trust."
Joseph and Mary made ready to depart from
the cave where they had been some time and were
met by the Magi who came, saying: "W here is the
great King whose star in the heavens declares his
birth? This hour should see him and his parents upon
the highway for his hour of birth is passed." And
110
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Joseph said: "I come unto Judea with the Son of
God, not the King, for his Kingdom is not of the
land but of the hearts of men.”
And when Herod heard that a great King was
born who fulfilled the strange predictions of the
prophets, he made inquiries and was troubled. And
when the Magi of the Brotherhood heard what
Herod threatened, they warned Joseph, while bless­
ing M ary and giving to her of their script, fold,
frankincense, and myrrh. And Joseph and Mary pro­
ceeded on their way by another road.
Ill
C H A PTER VI
V
T may not be generally relized that there is a
very interesting story in connection with the
birthplace of the Holy Child, and that for
many centuries the exact location of the
place of birth has been an important point of
discussion, and is even disputed at the present time
among the highest authorities.
W e note in the Christian Gospel of Matthew the
inference that Jesus was born in a house in Bethle­
hem. The words of Matthew are:
"Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea,
in the days of Herod the king, behold there came
wise men from the East to Jerusalem, saying, "W here
is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen
his star in the East, and are come to worship him
. . . And when they were come into the house, they
saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell
down and worshipped him."
No comments are made in the usual Christian
Bibles in regard to the Matthew statement that Mary
and the child were in a house, and this difference of
location usually passes unnoticed. W e must bear in
mind that the writer of the Book of St. Luke dis-
113
THE BIRTHPLACE AND THE MAGI
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
tinctly implies that the child was born in a stable, in
the following words:
"And she brought forth her first-born son and
wrapped him in swaddling-clothes and laid him in a
manger; because there was no room for them in the
inn.”
Just why the almost universal impression exists
that Jesus was born in a manger when there are only
two distinct statements in that regard will be ex­
plained in a moment. The fact of the matter is that
in the early Christian days there was a third version
of the place of birth that was exceedingly popular
and based upon information not generally revealed in
the present-day Christian stories.
W e find, for instance, that Eusebius, the first ec­
clesiastical historian, who played an important part in
the council of Nice, in 327 A. D„ when most of the
important traditions of the Christian church were dis­
cussed and decided, brought the matter of the birth­
place of Jesus before the council for a positive deci­
sion, and in his discussions he said little about a house
or a manger being the reputed birthplace of the holy
child, but said that the youthful Jesus was born in a
cave instead. And he referred to the fact that at the
time of Constantine a magnificent temple had been
erected on the site of the cave, so that Christians
might worship the place where the Saviour was born.
114
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
In the apocryphal gospel called Protevangelion, writ­
ten by James, a brother of Jesus, we find reference
to the cave again in the following words:
"But on a sudden the cloud became a great light
in the cave, so their eyes could not bear it."
O f the prominent Fathers of the Holy Christian
church in the early days, we find that Tertullian (A.
D. 200), Jerome (A. D. 375), and others said that
Jesus was born in a cave, and all the heathens of
Palestine point to the cave in their land to this very
day as the birthplace of the Christian child.
W e find also that Cannon Farrar said: "That the
actual place of Christ's birth was a cave, is a very
ancient tradition, and this cave used to be shown as
the scene of the event, even so early as the time of
Justin Martyr in A. D. 150.”
Now the facts of the matter are that Matthew
was nearly correct when he said that Jesus was born
in a house, for the cave in which the child was born
was more than an empty excavation under a rock, or
a hollow place in the mountainside. The Rosicrucian
records and the Essene records have always con­
tained the statement that the child of Mary and Jos­
eph was born in an Essene grotto on the highway
near Bethlehem.
I have previously referred to the fact that the
Essenes possessed certain rescue houses and hospices
115
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
in various parts of Palestine, and three of these
were grottos. Usually such grottos were partly
natural and partly artificial, and we know that grot'
tos of this kind were quite common throughout Pal­
estine and adjoining lands, for in the early Christian
days it was found safer and better to build grottos
than large structures above ground when the purpose
of such places was protection, isolation and safety.
The number of grottos still existing in Palestine al­
ways surprises the investigating tourist, and many of
them are large enough to contain from ten to twenty
rooms of a fair size, free from moisture, dampness,
heat or cold.
The Essenes made their three grottos very large,
very convenient in location, and well protected from
casual observation and attack by Bedouins or tribes­
men. Such grottos were located from twenty to
sixty feet below the earth's surface, with rooms that
were approached by well-cut stone stairways de­
scending at a wide angle and well-lighted by aper­
tures in the side of the rock or rocks that protected
the entrance way. Some of the rooms were carefully
hewn out of solid rock while others were partly nat­
ural in their formation. In most cases, the surface of
the rock walls of the rooms was covered with a mud
cement over which decorations or paint of some kind
were applied in an artistic manner. Oil lamps, hung
116
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
from the ceilings or set in niches in the walls, fur­
nished ample illumination, and small apertures be­
tween the rooms, or rising upward into transversed
channels provided a proper circulation of air. Seats,
or the foundations for lounges were cut in the sides
of some of the walls, or were formed of rocks in the
center or end of the rooms. There was always a well
close to each of these places, and provision was made
in each room for a large jar of fresh water. The floor
of these rooms was usually finished with partly
smoothed stones, much like flagging, and only in one
or two of the smaller rooms used for storage, or some
other purpose, was the floor left with its ground
finish.
These grottos were usually furnished with con­
venient places for sleeping, eating, rest, recreation,
and the care of the sick. In every way the appoint­
ments and equipment within these grottos was equal
to that found in the mud, stone, or clay structures
that were built above ground, and a grotto home, or
hospice, was not considered less costly or less ele­
gant than one that was built above the surface.
It was in the Essene grotto near Bethlehem that
Joseph and M ary went for the birth of the child. A
few references in the ancient Essene and Rosicrucian
records regarding the event would indicate that it
had been quite common for the women of the Essene
117
organization to go to one of the Essene hospices for
the delivery of their children, for a number of these
places were prepared to take care of the sick, the in­
jured, and the needy, like a hospital, and it was tradi­
tional among the Essenes as it is today among the
Jewish people, to give considerable thought and to
provide unusual facilities for their women at the time
of delivery. W e might almost say that some of these
early hospices were the originals for the present day
lying-in hospitals so well established in various parts
of the world.
I recently visited this Essene grotto near Bethle­
hem, and carefully investigated the size, shape, and
arrangement of the rooms, and I cannot see how
any one of the millions of persons who have seen the
birthplace of the Holy Child, can believe that there
ever was any justification in calling it a manger. The
large reception room in the center of the grotto sur­
rounded by many private rooms, immediately indi­
cates that it was either a very large home, much
larger than any homes commonly found in Palestine,
or a public place of some kind. The stone stairway
descending to the rooms would certainly suggest that
the place could not have been used as a stable, and
when one sees the careful carving of the stones, the
decorations still visible in many places, the care
with which the floors were finished and the arrange-
118
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ment of the rooms leading off from the central room,
one is impressed at once with the fact that this was
undoubtedly a very well planned and cared for hos­
pice of some kind. Even today, the rooms are dry
enough, warm enough, and comfortable enough for
pleasant living, and when one sees the crude struc­
tures above ground that are usually provided for
cattle (when any structures are provided at all) it is
quite evident that no one would have gone to such
trouble and expense for the sake of providing a stable
for cattle.
At one of the famous Christian councils held by
the early church fathers, when so many of the doc­
trines, teachings, and disputed points of tradition
were being discussed and definitely settled, it was
finally voted that the best way to end all of the argu­
ment about the birthplace of Jesus was to arbitrarily
determine that a manger was the nature of the enclo­
sure in which He was born. This arbitrary decision
settled the matter for all time, so far as the Holy
Church was concerned, and regardless of the many
authentic records that still exist, it is probable that
the story of the birth occurring in a lowly manger
will remain a part of the Christian traditions.
One other important point in connection with the
place of birth and the event of the birth of the Holy
Child is likewise interesting. This pertains to the visit
119
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
of the M agi and the homage they paid to the Holy
Child. According to the authorized Christian ver­
sions, the three M agi were led by a great star which
caused them to journey "from the East” to the very
locality in which the child was born. And they car­
ried with them treasures and gifts of gold, frankin­
cense, and myrrh.
The story of the star appearing in the heavens at
this particular time has always been a fascinating
one, and is also one that skeptics or doubters of the
Christian traditions have looked upon as a fantastic
element, introduced in the account merely to make
it picturesque. But long ago scientific astronomers,
who looked into this matter with their charts of the
periodicity of famous comets and moving bodies like
unto stars, discovered that at or about the time of the
birth of the Holy Infant, there was a great star or
heavenly body that was making its rapid movement
across the heavens above these lands. Not only did
this discovery, which has been substantiated by many
scientists for many years, tend to verify the story of
a symbol that could have led the Magi in their jour­
ney, but the many ancient traditions regarding similar
stories reveal the fact that it was a common belief
among the Magi, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and
the mystics of the Oriental countries, that whenever
a great comet appeared in the sky and moved across
120
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the heavens, a leader or great Avatar was about to
be born who would prove himself to be a Saviour or
Redeemer. So well established was this belief, and
so many interesting mystical points are involved in
it, that I believe it worth while to take a little time at
this point to speak of these matters.
It is true that in the story told in the Book of Luke,
the writer says nothing about M agi from the “East,”
but says that shepherds came and worshipped the
young child, and that these shepherds had been keep­
ing their flocks by night, and that the angel of the
Lord appeared before them saying, "Behold, I bring
you good tidings oE great joy— for unto you is born
this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is
Christ the Lord.”
That statement in the Book of Luke was evidently
written for the purpose of trying to explain the an­
cient belief that when a great star appeared moving
across the heavens, it was a message from God that a
Saviour was born, and the writer of Luke reduces
the idea to a definite statement made by the Lord to
the shepherds in the field.
In investigating the origin of this belief, we find
from the old Essene and Rosicrucian records that
when the Divine child called Chrishna was born, a
great star in the heavens proclaimed the fact, and
Chrishna was immediately adored and honored by the
121
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
M agi, who brought gifts unto him. The old records
state that the gifts consisted of sandalwood and per­
fumes.
At the time of the birth of Buddha, a great moving
star in the heavens proclaimed his divinity, and the
wise men again visited the place of birth and paid
homage and presented gifts.
The birth of Confucius in 551 B. C. was heralded
by a great star moving across the heavens which
was observed by the wise men, who found the loca­
tion of the great child through the movement of the
star, and who went to the place of birth and paid
homage. W e find the same story in regard to Mith­
ras, the Persian Saviour, Socrates, Aesculapius, Bac­
chus, Romulus, and a host of others.
W e must remember that astrology was the one
highly developed science among the M agi and mys­
tics of the Oriental lands, and that out of this sci­
ence grew the present day science of astronomy. It
may be inappropriate, but I cannot fail to take this
opportunity of stating that the ancient practice or
art of astrology was more highly developed than it
is today and did not deal with the petty things of
luck and misfortune with which our present day as­
trology deals, and which so shamefully blasphemes
an ancient and honorable mystical science.
122
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The M agi referred to in the Bible were not just
astrologers, or mediocre philosophers, who might
have also been shepherds in the field, or ordinary
persons of every day affairs, but were the learned
instructors and high representatives of the great
academies and mystery schools of the Orient. The
title of Magus was granted only to one who had at­
tained the very high degree of initiation in the mys­
tery schools, and who had proved himself a master
of the arts and sciences, and who was a highly
evolved mystic in every sense. The Magi were con­
sulted by the kings, potentates, and learned people
of all lands, not only in regard to matters of astrology
or astronomy, but in regard to history, medicine, nat­
ural law, spiritual law, and hundreds of other sub­
jects which required profound thinking and unusual
learning to explain or comprehend. They were the
great oracles for the learned. They even occupied
the position of the highest advisors in courts and
councils of last appeal in disputes of many kinds.
That a few of these M agi should have observed
the symbolic star and noted its significance was but
natural in their time. But we must not presume that
their observance of the star occurred only a few
hours before the birth of the Holy Child, and that
they hurriedly left their sanctums or their places of
occupation and journeyed rapidly across lands to the
123
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
birthplace. According to the ancient records at our
disposal, we find that as in all other cases, where the
symbolic star had been noticed, the movement of
this particular star had been observed for many
months prior to the birth of the Holy Infant. For
several weeks prior to the birth, close and careful
tabulations had been made regarding the movement
of the star, and the probable time of its ultimate sig­
nificance. And those who had been selected by the
mystery schools to journey to the place of birth and
represent the Essene Brotherhood and the Great
W hite Brotherhood had started on their way to Pal­
estine several weeks prior to the time of the birth.
W e find from the records, also, that these Magi
knew the story of the selection of M ary as the pre­
ordained mother of the Holy Child, the location of
the home of M ary and Joseph in Palestine, and the
arrangements that Mary should go to the grotto hos­
pice of the Brotherhood near Bethlehem for the de­
livery of her child. And the record states that Mary
was at the hospice three days before the child was
born, awaiting the important hour. The M agi were
in the vicinity of Bethlehem, also awaiting the hour.
And when the star appeared in the heavens at its
highest point and then began its sudden and rapid
descent toward the horizon, the M agi knew that the
day and hour had come. And they had but to jour-
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ney a short distance to the grotto to see the child
that had been expected. They brought not only the
things that are itemized in the Christian account, but
greetings from the highest officials of the Great
W hite Brotherhood, jewels of a symbolic nature
for the mother and father, and a rosary containing
a rare emblem for the Infant to wear about its neck,
that it might ever after be identified as the antici­
pated Son of God.
The Magi, after having officially visited the child
and formally presented their gifts and greetings,
journeyed on to Mount Carmel and there made a
report of the birth, and left official instructions for
the keepers of the monastery and school at Carmel
in regard to the education and care of the chiid
throughout its infancy ana childhood. Then these
Magi went on to Egypt and made their report to the
High Priests and the supreme officers of the Broth­
erhood.
125
C H A PTER VII
T H E BIR TH D A T E O F T H E H O LY CH ILD
V
H ER E has always been considerable dis­
pute regarding the year 'in which Jesus was
born, and it is not my purpose to participate
in this discussion at this time. The fact of
the matter is that the actual year, according
to the various calendars then existing and now exist­
ing is of little consequence, for a definite year in
one calendar would be a different year in another
calendar. And it would be very difficult for the aver­
age person to work out a calendar which would en­
able him to correctly figure the true year of birth.
That the writers of the Books of the Bible were
confused in regard to the actual year is very appar­
ent after even a casual examination of their state­
ments. For instance, in the Book of Matthew, we
are informed that Jesus was born in the days of
Herod, the king, and the writer of the Book of Luke
states that Jesus was born when Cyrenius was gov­
ernor of Syria or later. These two facts immediately
offer opportunity for serious discussion, for Cyre­
nius was not governor of Syria until some ten years
or more after the time of Herod. Even the matter of
the taxing referred to in the stories indicates that a
127
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
different year is referred to than is commonly ac­
cepted as the year of the birth of Jesus.
The very inceresting point in regard to the time of
birth, however, pertains to the day of the month and
the month itself.
For many centuries after the life of Jesus, the
Holy Fathers of the early Christian church, and the
eminent ecclesiastical authorities were unable to de­
cide as to the birth date of Jesus. Among the early
Christians, the anniversary of the Nativity was cele­
brated with a great festival in May, sometimes in
April, and on other occasions in January. Some of
the earliest traditions in the Christian church defi­
nitely stated that the 20th of May was the correct
date, while some of the Holy Fathers insisted that
the 19th or 20th of April was the true and correct
date. Even up until the fifth century after the life of
Jesus, the matter was still in dispute, but in that cen­
tury, the community at Rome held one of its famous
Councils and made a definite decision and selected
the 25th, or midnight of the 24th of December, as the
true time. And in this decision we find a very beau­
tiful and important mystical story.
It must be understood by my readers that the many
facts revealed in this book which are different from
the authorized Christian versions of the life of Jesus
are not facts which were concealed during the early
128
Christian days, but were known to all o f the Holy
Fathers of the Christian church and to the high ec­
clesiastical authorities who gathered in Councils from
time to time and established the doctrines, traditions,
and forms of ceremony to be officially a part of the
Christian theology. W hat motives these early au­
thorities and Holy Fathers had for disregarding facts
known to them, and for withholding from the mass
certain facts of intense interest to us at the present
time, and in changing other facts to symbolical false­
hoods, must be left to the intuition of my readers. The
popular statement that "the end justifies the means”
was unquestionably one of the thoughts in their
minds. W e find in the writings of these early author­
ities a statement made many times that certain
changes and inventions which they established in
connection with the traditions of the life of Jesus
were "theological necessities." In other words, in
order to utilize many of the ancient mystical cere­
monies which the Holy Fathers derived from the
temples of Egypt, and from the doctrines and prac­
tices of the Essenes and the Great W hite Brother­
hood, they had to invent certain points and princi­
ples in connection with the life and work of Jesus,
in order to make these ceremonies adaptable and con­
sistent. And in order to establish a new theology and
many new doctrines, they had to ignore and set aside
129
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
many facts which would have been inconsistent with
their decisions.
W hen, however, it came to some important points
that had to be definitely decided, they were forced
to rely upon the ancient principles and doctrines that
had been established, and were known to be true
spiritual laws so that they would have some founda­
tion upon which to base their decisions. The decision
that midnight of the 24th of December was the actual
birth time of Jesus, was one such case, and the reason
for this is intensely interesting from a mystical point
of view. This decision, however, conflicted with one
of the points in the traditional story of His birth,
namely, the story that at the time of the birth shep­
herds were in the field caring for their flocks. It has
always been said by those who knew the conditions
in Palestine at that time that during the latter part
of December is not a season when shepherds are in
the fields caring for their flocks at night, or at any
other hour of the day, and that this incident was
introduced in the story when the belief was common
that Jesus was born in the month of April or May.
However, the great fact which the Holy Fathers
had to take into consideration in reaching their de­
cision was that throughout all the centuries preced­
ing, all the other great Avatars who had been born
of virgins, who were Sons of God, and who were
130
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
known as Redeemers or Saviours, had been born
on or about the 25th of December. The other fact
that they could not fail to consider was that there was
a spiritual law or a Cosmic law for the birth of these
great men on the 25th of December, and that no
Redeemer of the world could have been bom at any
other time.
W e must bear in mind that the birth of a great
Avatar or a Son of G od among men is not a simple
incident in the scheme of things, nor a casual accident
o f conditions. The birth of an Avatar is the result
of certain laws preordained and established in the
Cosmic scheme, and coincident with a series of events
leading up to and culminating in the Divine Birth.
The Cosmic birth of Jesus, as of every other Avatar,
is an interesting story in itself, and has no place in
this chapter, but in order that my reader may be
familiar with the manifestations of this great Cosmic
law, I will present the following facts from the his­
torical records of the Great W hite Brotherhood.
In the first place, there is a correspondence be­
tween the Spiritual law, Cosmic law, and Mundane
law, pertaining to a universal condition manifesting
about the 23rd, 24th, or 25th of each December. It
is at this time that a Cosmic change occurs called the
Birth of the G od Sol, and this event was always cele­
brated by the ancients as The Accouchement o f the
131
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Queen of Heaven, or the Celestial Virgin of the
Sphere.
In India this period was one of great rejoicing
everywhere. Many centuries before the Christian
era, this period in December was celebrated as a
religious festival, at which time the people decorated
their homes with garlands and they were prolific in
their gifts and presents to friends and relatives. So
far back in antiquity can this religious festival in
December be traced that its origin is lost in obscurity.
In China also, long before the Christian period, the
people recognized this period of the winter solstice
as a holy time, and on December 24th or 25th, they
closed all their shops, their courts, and their places
of business activities. Among the ancient Persians,
their most splendid ceremonials were in honor of
Mithras, whose birthday was recorded as having oc­
curred on the 25th of December.
Among the ancient Egyptians for many centuries,
the 25th of December was celebrated as the birthday
of several of their gods. W e find this referred to in
all of the histories of the religions of ancient peoples,
as for instance in the book entitled "Religion of the
Ancient Greeks,” by De Septehenes, who says: "The
ancient Egyptians fixed the pregnancy of Isis (the
Queen of Heaven and the virgin mother of the Sav­
iour Horus) on the last days of March- and towards
132
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the end of December they placed the commemoration
of her delivery."
In some cases the celebration of the birth dates of
some of these ancient gods was changed by high
proclamation, just as the birth date of Jesus was
changed from May to December. The birth date
celebration of Chrishna is now held in July or Aug­
ust.
In Bonwick's “Egyptian Belief” we find a verifica­
tion of what is contained in the Rosicrucian records.
He says in regard to Horus: ‘He is the great god—
loved of Heaven. His birth was one of the greatest
mysteries of the Egyptian religion. Pictures repre­
senting it appeared on the walls of temples. One
passed through the holy adytum to the still more
sacred quarter of the temple known as the birthplace
of Horus. He was presumably the child of deity. At
Christmas time, or that answering to our festival, his
image was brought out of that sanctuary with pecul­
iar ceremonies, as the image of the infant Bambino
is still brought out and exhibited in Rome.”
It is interesting to note here that the word "Bam­
bino" is now a sacred word among the f o r e i g n
Christians, and is a term used for representations of
the infant Christ Jesus in swaddling clothes. It is
customary in Rome to bring out to public view early
on Christmas morning, an image of the Bambino
133
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
T h e C hristian figure of the Bam bino, or the Christ child.
I t is this form carved in m arble or stone that is exposed in
the churches on C hristm as m orning and kept on view from
C hristm as to Epiphany. It is claim ed that Saint Francis of Assisi
w as the originator of this statue in the thirteenth century, but
research has revealed th at a sim ilar statue of a H oly Child was
exhibited on Christm as D ay in m any lands before the C hristian
E ra.
134
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
carried with great ceremony for the public to salute
and greet, in honor of the original birthday. This
little incident of Roman Christian ceremony is just a
continuation of the ancient customs established in the
mystic lands by the Great W hite Brotherhood.
Osiris, son of the holy virgin, or Neith, was born
on the 25th of December; and the Greeks celebrated
this day as the birthday of Hercules.
Bacchus and Adonis were also born on the 25th
of December. Tertullian, Jerome, and other Fathers
of the early Christian Church who labored so dili­
gently in the formation of Christian doctrines, cere­
monies, and creeds, inform us in their early writings
that the ceremony of the celebration of the birthday
of Adonis on the 25th of December, took place in a
cave and that the cave in which they celebrated this
mystery was in Bethlehem, and was in fact the same
cave in which the child Jesus was born. This is but
another verification of the fact that the Essene grotto
in which the Holy Child of Mary and Joseph was
born had been used for the celebration of previous
Avatars, such as Adonis. That is why the M agi
knew where to find the new Avatar on His birthday.
The fact that the 25th of December was celebrated
generally as a day associated with the birth of Sol.
or the Cosmic birthday of certain laws and principles
manifested by the Sun, is shown in many ancient
135
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
records of the early Christian celebrations in Rome.
W e can turn to the writings of the Rev. Gross, who
has written very thoroughly and authentically in
regard to these matters, and read as follows: “In
Rome, before the time of Christ, a festival was ob­
served on the 25th of December, under the name of
Natalis Solis Invicti (birthday of Sol, the Invincible).
It was a day of universal rejoicings illustrated by il­
luminations and public games. All public business
was suspended, declarations of war and criminal ex­
ecutions were postponed, friends made presents to
one another, and the slaves were indulged with great
liberties.”
It is interesting to note, also, that among the an­
cient Germans centuries before the birth of Christ,
these people celebrated annually at the time of the
winter solstice an ancient, sacred period which they
called their Yule-feast. On this occasion all agree­
ments were renewed, the gods were consulted as to
the future, sacrifices were made to the various gods,
and the poeple indulged in jovial hospitality. O f this
ancient ceremony the word Yule still survives as the
old name for Christmas, and the ancient custom of
burning the Yule log on Christmas Eve is still the
usual practice. It is interesting to note also that the
word Yule in French is called Noel, which is the
equivalent to the Hebrew or Chaldee word Nule.
136
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Among the ancient Scandinavians there was a yearly
celebration at the winter solstice that was observed
as the mother-night, and the feast was called Jal. It
was in honor of Freyr, the Holy Son of the supreme
god and goddess. The celebration included all sorts
of demonstrations of joy and happiness, and the giv­
ing of gifts.
In Great Britain and Ireland the Druids celebrated
the 25th of December as a holy day, and burned
great fires and lights on the tops of hills. And even
in ancient Mexico, the last week of December was
celebrated as a sacred feast, in honor of the birth of
a god.
The use of evergreens and mistletoe at Christmas
time is derived from ancient practices, and Tertullian,
the Holy Father to whom I have referred previously,
writing from a distant land to his holy brethren at
home, described this custom of December 25th and
the use of evergreens and mistletoe, and said that it
was "rank idolatry.” He went on to describe how
they decked their doors "with garlands of flowers
and evergreens.”
From the foregoing we see that when the Great
W hite Brotherhood in Egypt set down in its records
the statement that the day and hour o f the winter
solstice was the Cosmic period for the births of Ava­
tars, as observed in all the ancient notations, it was
137
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
not ordaining a time or arbitrarily establishing by
decree a period for the celebration of the birthdays,
but was merely proclaiming what it had observed and
proceeded to state how the Cosmic law had made
itself manifest. Just why Avatars should be bom in
the winter solstice and why so many of the great
leaders of men were actually born at such a time, is
a matter that deals with the principles of reincarna­
tion, Cosmic cycles of existence, and Cosmic laws,
relative to the periodicity of the stages of advancing
civilization. Such points as these have no place in
the present volume.
O f course, those who are interested in the pro­
found mystical principles and spiritual laws of the
universe, and who are anxious to know just how
these affect every man and woman in their personal
development and their attunement with the Cosmic
Consciousness, will make contact with some school
or system which deals with these subjects thoroughly,
conscientiously, and without bias or prejudice. N at­
urally such information is never sold and never put
into book form for public sale at any price. For this
reason the seekers will vainly search among book
stores or in the offerings of private publishers or com­
mercial movements for the information desired. Only
such organizations as the Rosicrucians, for instance,
or branches of the Great W hite Brotherhood operat-
138
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ing in foreign lands, will give the seeker this infor­
mation without price in a private, persona] way, and
with no other motive than the benefit that each indi­
vidual will derive from the instruction if he or she is
found worthy to have such knowledge.
139
CHAPTER VIII
T H E BO Y H O O D O F JE S U S
V
E find two periods in the authorized Chris­
tian version of the life of Jesus which are
passed over without comment and with­
out detail. These are the years constituting
His childhood and up to and including His
appearance before the learned men in the Synagogue,
and the period from that time until the beginning of
His mission in the Holy Land as an adult.
The silence in Christian literature regarding these
two periods has unquestionably been responsible for
a great many discussions that have led to severe criti­
cism of the entire story of His life. Aside from the
orthodox version of His birth, which so many reject
because they do not understand it, the two gaps in
the story of His life referred to above have consti­
tuted excellent reasons for the rejection of the story
of the remainder of His life. Those who cannot ac­
cept the Immaculate Conception and Divine Birth of
Jesus do not hesitate to point out the two gaps in the
early part of His life as proof that the real story of
the life of Jesus has never been told.
The highest critics of the authorized version of the
life of Jesus point out with some justification that if
141
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the Biblical accounts did not go into such great detail
and put such great stress upon the events of His
conception and birth, the absence of details regarding
His childhood and youth would be immaterial, and
would cast no reflection upon the entire story of the
latter part of His life. But when every important
and casual event leading up to His birth, and the
events of the birth itself, are recorded by so many
witnesses, and glorified in such detail, there appears
to be some significance in the silence regarding His
youth. Surely those who felt it their duty to gather,
record, and preserve the essential and non-essential
points regarding the birth, and all that led up to it,
must have had access to the facts pertaining to His
childhood, and these facts must have been more defi­
nitely recorded and better known to a larger number
of persons than the events pertaining to the Concep­
tion and birth of Jesus. W h y then the silence and
the complete absence of those details which would
have been highly interesting and extremely illuminat­
ing to those who would adore the man and seek to
worship every phase of His life?
Be it known, therefore, that the facts regarding
the childhood and youth of Jesus are not lacking and
are not absent in those records which were kept and
are still preserved by those groups of persons and
organiz?*;ons which have not been influenced by the
142
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
rulings of religious councils or the dictates of synods,
and who do not find in those facts any event or any
incident belittling to the greatness and supreme mas­
tership of Jesus the Christ.
I am aware that some of the facts pertaining to the
childhood and youth of Jesus have become public
in various lands at various times, and that some of
these facts have found their way into the mystical
writings of the Occidental world. But the complete
story and the most important details have been with­
held by those organizations who know them well in
the belief that until the W estern world was ready to
understand them in their richness and illuminating
significance, it would be better to withhold them.
There is no reason why these facts should not be re­
vealed at this time, and I am glad to say that the
authorities who have the records in their archives
and with whom I have recently held consultations in
this regard, agree that the present restlessness
throughout the W estern world in regard to religious
matters, and especially the desire on the part of so
many millions of persons for a more complete outline
of the life of Jesus, warrants the publication of the
facts now given for the first time in W estern sacred
literature.
That Jesus must have had some unusual prepara­
tion and very thorough education is quite apparent
143
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
to any student of Christian doctrines, and to every
analyst of the life of this great man. The mere fact
that at an early age He could astound the learned
men of His country by His ability to answer and ask
profound questions, proves that during the first ten or
more years of His life, He was carefully educated
and carefully trained. W e may assume with perfect
reason and logic that as a Son of God or a messenger
of God, He was inspired continuously, and could
find in His immediate contact with the Consciousness
of God the illuminating thoughts which He ex­
pressed. But with the same reasonable logic, we must
believe that He had to receive that education and
training in the mundane schools of this world, which
would make it possible for Him to express those ideas
and those thoughts in the words and tongue, in the
images and pictures, understood by the multitude.
The greatest of the masters in art have undoubt'
edly painted their masterpieces under inspiration.
Nevertheless, each of these masters had to be trained
in the technique of expressing that inspiration in a
medium that would convey the thought, the ideal,
the picture from one mind to another. The greatest
of the composers have unquestionably written under
inspiration, and by their own admission found that
the most beautiful passages in their music came to
them as from Heaven, but, nevertheless, these men
144
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
had to be trained in the technique of expressing that
which was inspired within their souls.
No matter how completely and perfectly Jesus may
have been in spiritual contact with the Cosmic Mind
and with the Consciousness of God, He had to have
that training, that education and that practice in the
use of words and in the expression of thought which
enabled Him to say the most beautiful things in the
most beautiful language ever spoken my man. W e
cannot conceive of an uneducated, untrained, unpre­
pared instrument speaking such thoughts and doing
such things as He did, even under the most perfect
inspirational contact, without preparation and train­
ing.
The argument that any such training and prepara­
tion in mundane schools and at the hands of earthly
advisors, instructors, and guardians, would weaken
the claim of Divine preparation and unique Sonship,
is absolutely absurd. Have we any reason to believe
that the mother of Jesus did not teach the little child
to walk, or to eat? Or shall we assume that these
things were Divinely inspired in Him, and that from
the moment of birth such things were known to Him?
After all, is not the matter of walking upright, in­
stead of crawling about, a matter of earthly wisdom
and regulation, and not a rule of the Cosmic or an
establishment of God, which God would inspire in
145
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the minds or consciousness of all beings? Is not the
use of certain words, of certain languages, and the
grouping of these words into grammatical phrases,
a result of man's regulations and rules rather than
Cosmic laws and principles. If these things are
earthly products, then they must be acquired at the
hands of men on earth, and must be taught by men.
Most certainly Jesus was taught to speak the He­
brew, and the Greek languages, for we cannot con­
ceive God having inspired the knowledge of these
languages in the consciousness of Jesus without
earthly education; for why should these three lan­
guages have been selected by God as the modes of
expression on the part of one who was to be a Re­
deemer of all peoples in all lands, with many tongues?
If Jesus was taught how to speak, and taught several
languages, and the ability to interpret the inspiration
of His soul into sounds and words that would con­
vey a meaning to man. there is no reason to believe
that He was not taught other things necessary to
carry out His great mission in life. All this is for the
purpose of presenting the logic and reasonableness
of His education, and not for the purpose of attempt­
ing to prove that He must have had such education.
There are ample records to show how and where
He was educated, and these we will deal with at
this time.
146
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
In the first placc, I have already shown that Jesus
was born in the family of two devout Essenes and in
a community of Essenes. This in itself was sufficient
to guarantee to the young child the very highest
education obtainable in any land at that time. Not
only were the preparatory schools conducted by the
Essenes sufficient to give every child an excellent
education at the hands of teachers and masters who
had been trained in many lands and raised to the
highest degree of ethical and literary attainments, but
the associations and connections which the Essenes
maintained with their other branches in foreign lands
guaranteed a very liberal education to this special
Son of God, and this special charge of the Essene
Brotherhood.
W e are told in the accounts of His birth how the
Magi of the East, who were the learned wise men of
the mystery temples and the chief instructors of the
highest principles of education, came to the birthplace
of Jesus to pay homage to Him, as the preordained
Avatar of the new cycle. This acknowledgment on
the part of the great Magi indicates that the little
child was anticipated and expected by the Brother­
hood and by the Great W^hite Lodge in all lands, and
would be guided and protected throughout His life.
To assume that these Magi paid such homage and
adoration to one whom they knew to be the great and
147
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
expected leader of humanity, and then never show
any further interest in His education, development,
and training, and play no part in the development of
His life, is to assume something that would be more
of a mystery than any other phase of the life of Jesus
as it appears in the authorized Christian version.
I have said that at the time of the birth of Jesus,
the Essenes constituted a large community in Gamee,
and that they had hospices and refuge houses in vari­
ous parts of Palestine for the care of the poor and
needy. They also maintained the Supreme Temple
in distant Egypt and minor temples in Palestine and
other places. I must point out now one other fact
that has been held in secrecy for many centuries, and
which will probably explain many strange references
in the sacred literature of the Christians and other
sects.
The Nazarenes, the Nazarites, and the Essenes
had united their interests in regard to one essential
work, and it was this that is referred to by many
authorities in religious and sacred histories and en­
cyclopedias as being one of the common interests
which bound the Nazarenes, the Nazarites, and the
Essenes. This work was the maintenance of a great
school, college, and monastery on M o u n t Carmel.
The introduction of this historical place into the life
of Jesus may seem surprising to a great many of my
148
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
readers, and for this reason a brief resume of the
history of Mount Carmel may be not only appropri­
ate, but of value to those who wish to make further
research in this regard.
Just when the Mount of Carmel became the secret,
sacred place for the maintenance of an isolated, pro­
tected school of mystics, and of the Great W hite
Brotherhood, is not definitely known. The earliest
historical incidents of a religious nature connected
with Mount Carmel are those associated with the life
of Elijah and his son. The ancient Jewish docu­
ments, as well as many of the writings preserved by
the Roman Catholic Church, which in later years be­
came greatly interested in the Mount of Carmel,
show that from the earliest known period of the his­
tory of this Mount, there was located there a taber­
nacle, monastery, or temple of some kind, and that
when Elijah went to this mountain to carry out the
many marvelous things recorded of him, he found a
temple and an altar there. W e also know, from ref­
erences in various records, that many of the great
masters of the Great W hite Brotherhood spent part
of their lives on this mountain in the temple or mon­
astery. Even Pythagoras spent part of his life there,
and in the history of his life this retreat of Mount
Carmel is referred to as "sacred above all mountains
and forbidden of access to the vulgar." W e find even
149
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
in the Roman Catholic records, which have traced the
history of Mount Carmel very carefully, reference to
the fact that "in ancient times the sacredness of Car­
mel seems to have been known to other nations be­
sides Israel, thus in the list of places conquered by
the Egyptian King. Thothmes the Third, there is a
probable reference at Number 48 to the 'Holy Head­
land' of Carmel." Those who are students of Rosi-
crucian history know that Thothmes the Third was
one of the great founders of the e a r l y mystery
schools of Egypt, and a leader in the movement that
became the Great W hite Brotherhood. The Rosicru-
cian records also point out that Thot aies the Third
in the year 1449 B. C., conquered Carmel and re­
leased it to those who sought to maintain in this
out-of-the-way place a school and monastery for the
mystery teachings.
Now it is well known that Elijah was a Nazarite
and an Essene, and that both the Jewish and Roman
Catholic records refer to him as such. This one fact
alone would be sufficient to indicate the nature of the
demonstrations which Elijah performed on Mount
Carmel and the nature of the monastery and temple
maintained on the summit of the mountain.
In many of the old stichometrical lists and writ­
ings and papers of the ancient ecclesiastical writers,
mention appeared of an apocryphal "Apocalypse of
ISO
Elias," from which some citations are said to be
found in Corinthians (I) 11:9, and elsewhere in the
Bible. This old book or Apocalypse of Elias was
known to the mystics of the Great W hite Brother­
hood and is known to all of the Oriental Rosicrucians
as a very sacred record of the early history and
teachings of the Essenes and the Nazarenes. In the
early Christian centuries and during the lifetime of
the Master Jesus, the Apocalypse of Elias was well
known and used in the sacred classes of the most
advanced members of the organization. But like
many other very valuable and illuminating records of
early periods dealing with the more secret teachings,
it was withdrawn from public use and became "lost.”
However, in 1893, Maspero, the famous historical
writer connected with the Rosicrucian Order of
Egypt, found a Coptic translation of it in one of the
Brotherhood's monasteries in Upper Egypt. Since
then several other translations in other languages
have been discovered in the archives of the Great
W hite Brotherhood, and parts of these have been
used in the recently issued higher teachings of the
Rosicrucians. brom this Apocalypse of Elias and from
the other Rosicrucian records, we learn much about
the establishment of the monasteries and schools at
Carmrl, which were known as "the school of the
prophets" or "the school of the Essenes.”
151
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
As years passed by, the attendance at the school
and monastery at Carmel became so large that a
community was established there, composed of those
who were students, and they adopted a distinct form
of dress and remained within the monastery grounds
throughout their entire lives except for the periods
that they went forth to other lands as missionaries.
It was here that many of the most ancient manu­
scripts were translated and illuminated on parchment
and sent to the various archives of the Great W hite
Brotherhood throughout the world. A wonderful li­
brary was also maintained at Carmel for many cen­
turies. Members of this community were present at
Saint Peter's first sermon on Pentecost, and they built
a chapel in honor of this occasion. Many other his­
torical structures existed there, such as El-Khadr, the
school of the prophets, El-Muhraka, the traditional
spot of Elias' sacrifice, Elias' Grotto and the monas­
tery itself.
About four hundred years after the Christian per­
iod, the monastery and school at Mount Carmel were
abandoned as the principal place of education for
the Great W hite Brotherhood, and the wonderful
library and the thousands of manuscripts and records
were transferred to the secret monastery at Thibet,
where these things are now preserved, and where the
greatest school of mysticism and sacred literature in
152
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the world is maintained. Some centuries after this
abandonment, an Order of a monkish nature was
established in Carmel, and the members of this or­
ganization claimed to be descendants of those of the
original organization, but likewise claimed to be
Roman Catholic in faith. This contention caused
much dispute for several centuries and was finally
settled when Pope Innocent X II in 1698 decided that
the claim of direct succession was not correct, and
that the new organization had no connection with the
early Carmelite Brotherhood. Out of this decision
grew the present organization known as the Carmel­
ites, or W hite Friars as they are called in England,
which is a Roman Catholic organization popularly
known as the Carmelite Order. And today in the
midst of the ruins of the ancient Essene structure can
be seen the Roman Catholic convent of the Carmelite
organization.
According to the Rosicrucian records, we find that
in the sixth year of His life, the youthful Jesus was
placed in the school at Carmel and began his prepa­
ration and training as a Son of God and an Avatar.
There is no question about the authenticity of this
statement. It is recorded in too many places and in
too many different ways, and verified by so many
later incidents in His life, that any question of this
fact cannot be reasonably raised. The records fur-
133
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ther intimate that while He was an apt and perhaps
unusually bright student, He was given every special
advantage that the entire organization, not only in
Palestine, but in Egypt as well, could give to one that
was known to be their special charge and the great­
est among them. It is also recorded that young Jesus
was not entered in the school under the name of
Jesus, but under the name of Joseph, and this pre­
sents another interesting fact for those who desire
the most intimate details of His life.
It is commonly believed by Biblical students that
the name of Jesus was given to the child at the time
of His circumcision, in accordance with the custom
of the land. This is based upon the fact that He was
called Jesus later in His life, and that before His
birth it was said that His name would be or should
be Jesus. The Gospel of St. Luke tells us the familiar
story of how an angel appeared to M ary and told
her that the unborn child would be called Jesus. But
this statement and that in St. Matthew are really
prophecies. They say simply that Mary shall bring
forth a child who shall be known as Jesus. In the
historical record presented in Chapter V of this book,
we find that Mary was told that the “holy life which
shall be born of thee, shall be called the Son of God,
and He shall attain the name Jesus.”
154
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Nowhere in the Christian Bible do we find the
statement that He should be christened Jesus at the
time of the circumcison, but we do find reference to
such naming at His circumcision in the Gospels of
the Infancy of Jesus. But these statements were
added to these Gospels on the presumption that the
name He bore later in life was the name that was
given to Him at circumcision. The Gospels were writ­
ten long after the lifetime of Jesus, and contained
similar assumptions and inferences without founda­
tion. From the time that the disciples knew Jesus
or came in contact with Him, until the close of His
life, He was known as Jesus and bore that name.
And since they never knew Him or contacted Him
before He bore that name, they had no reason to be­
lieve that He ever had any other name. The fact that
such a name was predicted for Him and that He
eventually attained such a name, causes us to inves­
tigate the meaning of the name Jesus.
W e know that the word "Christ” comes from the
Greek word “Christos" which means “Messiah.” W e
find that the word "Christos" was introduced to
other nations when the Septuagint was prepared
about 100 B. C., and that it was used to translate
the word "Mashiach which means "the annointed
one,” or, in its more complete form, "Meschiach,”
meaning "Jahveh's Annointed.” The word or title
155
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
"Christos” had been used in the mystery schools and
in the Orient for the name and title of many of the
former Avatars, even Cyrus is called "Christos,"
and in the Psalms C V:15, the plural form "Christoi"
is used to apply to the patriarchs. In the Old Testa­
ment, the word "Christos" is limited to mean a Jew­
ish king, except in the case of Cyrus and the patri­
archs, which exceptions prove that it could mean a
man great in more ways than one.
Going back to the Septuagint, we find that the
Greek word "Christos” originally came from the
name of one of the Egyptian deities. There was old
Hermes, whose name has been corrupted or trans­
lated into “Haram of Tyre,” who built the temple
without noise of axe or hammer. The Latin form of
this name is Mercury, while the Greek form is Her­
mes, and the .Egyptian form was Tachut. Now in
Hebrew, the word "Tachut," which is called "Thoth”
occasionally in Greek, means "under” and "be­
neath." Thoth was the Lord or God of Maa, or the
Egyptian Maa or Maat, meaning "truth.” And Maa
kHeru, meaning "true words” is the basis from which
came the Greek form "M erkury” or "M ercury."
The Egyptian letter or dipthong "kH ” is a highly
aspired H and by the Greeks is usually transcribed
as X , and vice versa. The value of the Greek X is
usually transcribed as “ch.” The kHeru of the
156
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Egyptians would be, therefore, “cheru” or “C h-R."
These latter letters form the famous "X P ,” or the
cryptogram of the early Christians, which I person­
ally saw and traced on several of the stones of the
tombs in the Catacombs of Rome. It is generally ac­
cepted in all Christian historical records that this
“X P ” referred to Christ, and in the Greek Gospel of
John, Jesus is called the Logos, which is a word hav­
ing a similar meaning. Therefore, we see that the
term "Christ" was a title to be specifically applied to
and attained by one who had been especially born
and deified as a messenger of God.
Now the word "Jesus” presents the same under­
standing. The old Hebrew form of the word as
found in the Old Testament is Joshua, or Jeshua,
and was often rendered as Jesu. The Greek form of
the name is responsible for the final s. Originally,
the Hebrew form of Jeshua meant “helped of Yah-
veh,” while the later Hebrew form meant “to deliver”
or "to save.” Therefore, Jesus came to be known
as meaning "saviour.”
In the Synoptic Gospels we do not find the disci­
ples at first calling their master by the name of Jesus,
but they did call Him "Rabbi” meaning "teacher"
and “Adthonai” meaning "master,” and other titles
of respect and love.
157
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The record of His entrance into the school at Car­
mel shows that He was entered as Joseph, the son
of Mary and Joseph, and the reincarnation of Z o­
roaster, the "Son of God.” W hen and how He
attained the name of Jesus is explained in another
part of this work. r
. . 4
C H A PTER IX
JE SU S E N T E R S T H E P R IE ST H O O D
V
H E one definite comment made on the early-
life of Jesus in the popular stories of His
life, especially those of churchly origin, tells
about the wonderful impression which the
child made upon the learned Doctors and
Masters at the time of His visit to Jerusalem in His
thirteenth year. Even among the most advanced of
Christian theologians and in nearly all of the exten­
sive histories of His life, the real facts pertaining
to this visit to Jerusalem are misunderstood or mis­
represented through a lack of knowledge of what ac­
tually occurred.
I have already said that Jesus and His parents
lived as Gentiles in the Gentile section of Palestine
but had to obey the Jewish customs and regulations
of the land. One of these regulations was that in ac­
cordance with strict Jewish law, it devolved upon
each boy in his thirteenth year to attend one of the
feasts at Jerusalem. He had to appear officially
under certain conditions and at a certain place for
a definite ceremony, and then become what was called
a Son of the Commandment," or "of the Torah."
159
The usual time for such a visit was on the Hrst
Pascha Feast after the boy had passed his twelfth
birthday. And according to the story, the parents of
Jesus took Him with their other children in the com­
pany of other Nazarenes to Jerusalem. The text of
the Christian version seems to indicate that it was
"their wont to go” up to the temple. This is evidently
a mistake on the part of the writers or translators,
because as Gentiles, the parents of Jesus were not
accustomed to attending all of the feasts and cere­
monies of the Jewish church, for the law did not re­
quire that of any but those who were strictly ortho­
dox and whole-heartedly affiliated with the Jewish re­
ligion. Since Jesus was the first born of the children
in the family, and, therefore, the oldest, He was the
only one of the children of Mary and Joseph who
had attained the age when such visits were compul­
sory, and so this must have been their first obedience
to this law of the land. I find that even some of the
highest critics of Christian literature agree that the
phrase “it was their wont" to go, should be read in
that sense which puts the participle in the present
tense and not in the aorist. Hence we understand
how glad Mary and Joseph were to avail themselves
of this opportunity to visit the Holy Sanctuary in
Jerusalem, and bring their wonderful child before
160
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
those officials who would conduct a formal examina­
tion.
This Paschal Feast in Jerusalem was held in the
spring and Caponius was acting as Procurator, and
Annas ruled in the temple as High Priest. Out of
Galilee walked this holy family, accompanied by a
host of other Gentiles, Nazarenes, Nazarites, Es-
senes, and some Jews, chanting as they went, and
making of the event a gala occasion. The ranks of
these travelers were swelled by other festive bands
who united in chanting the Psalms of Ascent to the
accompaniment of the flute, and unquestionably dis­
cussing the spiritual principles involved in the cere­
monies to be held. It was a long journey as we would
view it in these days. Recently I made the trip in a
very fast automobile from Nazareth to Jerusalem, and
found that it required the better part of a day to do
it. All through the beautiful s e c t i o n of Palestine
which these pilgrims had to traverse, composed of
hills and valleys, magnificently tinted with the beau­
tiful green of that country and spotted with flowers,
one could still see the ancient trail of foot-paths that
led up over the hills and down into the valleys in
almost a straight line from Nazareth to Jerusalem and
over which the pilgrims walked in their journeys to
and fro. Even today the natives of that country walk
these same paths or ride on their donkeys garbed as
161
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
in the times of Christ, presenting a picture that car­
ries one back hundreds of years.
W hen the tired pilgrims finally reached the gates
of Jerusalem, the problem of being housed and cared
for must have been a serious matter, for the Feast
brought nearly the entire population of Palestine into
the environs of Jerusalem for three or four days. The
Essenes, Nazarites, and Nazarenes were fortunate
inasmuch as at the city gate, and in places nearby,
there were special houses and structures owned by
the Essenes and Nazarenes for the care of their own
people and for pilgrims and strangers who needed
their care.
The scene must have been a glorious one for the
youthful child, making perhaps the first long trip in
His life. The school at Carmel is but a short distance
from Nazareth as compared with the long distance
that stretches between Nazareth and Jerusalem, and
we may easily realize how impressed the child must
have been with the sight of so many pilgrims, the
chanting, the music of the flute, the wayside prayers,
the excitement, and finally the greetings and prepa­
rations at the city gate.
So little has been told about the Temple and San­
ctuary where Jesus attended the Feast that perhaps
a few words about this place will be of interest to my
reader. As the pilgrims reached the place of the
162
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Temple, they found it necessary to ascend a mount
crested by beautiful buildings symetrically propor­
tioned and gigantic enough to hold within its walls
not fewer than two hundred thousand persons. The
mount on which the structures stood rose abruptly
from out of the valley, much like an island that rises
out of the sea. And around it, in the greens of the
valley, were a mass of walls, palaces, houses, and
streets reflecting the bright sunlight from the snowy
marble and glittering gold. About one thousand
square feet of the mount was occupied by the Sanctu­
ary and Temple. At the northwestern angle and con­
nected with the main structure was the Castle of An­
tonia held by the Roman garrison. The lofty walls
were pierced by massive gates. One unused gate
known as the Tedi was on the north; on the east was
the Susa gate which opened on the arched roadway
to the Mount of Olives. There were also the two
Huldah gates, which led by tunnels from the priest-
suburb Ophel into the outer court, and on the west
were four other gates.
W ithin the gates the court was surrounded by
double colonnades with benches here and there for
those who resorted to prayer, or for conferences.
The southern double colonnades, with a wide space
between, were the most magnificent. The eastern
colonnade was the most venerable, and was known
163
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
as the ancient "Solomon’s Porch." Entering the court
from the bridge under the tower of John, the pilgrim
would pass along the southern colonnade to the east­
ern extremity over wnich rose a tower known as the
Pinnacle, and referred to in the history of the Temp­
tation. From this lofty pinnacle, the priests each
morning watched and announced the sunrise, and
four hundred and fifty feet beneath this tower
yawned the Kedron valley. W ithin these colonnaded
areas were the meeting places of the first and lowest
of the three Sanhedrins, known as the Temple; and
the second or intermediate court of appeal usually
held in what was called the Court of the Priests; and
the highest of the courts known as the Great Sanhe-
drin, which was often referred to as the "hall of
hewn square stones.”
Passing out of the colonnades and porches, one
would enter the court of the Gentiles, or what the
Jews called the Mount of the House, which was the
widest on the west side. This was called the chol,
or profane place to which the Gentiles retired during
the Feasts, and it was here also that the market place
was located for the sale of various needful articles,
along with the money changers. Beyond this Gentile
section was a wall which marked a space beyond
which no Gentile or no person not strictly orthodox
might proceed. Thus, the Gentiles, which included
164
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the Essenes, Nazarites, the Nazarenes, and those
who had not adopted the Jewish faith completely, had
to assemble in a special place set aside for them.
The Sanctuary itself was on a higher terrace than
the Court of the Priests. Twelve steps led up to its
porch, and here in separate chambers all that was
necessary for the sacrificial services was kept. A
two-leaved gate opened into the Sanctuary which was
divided into two parts. The holy place had the
golden candlestick in the south, and the table of the
Shewbread in the north, with the golden altar of
incense between them. The mystical Veil referred to
so often in the ceremonies of the mystery temples of
Egypt, from which the Veil in the Jewish sanctuary
was derived, concealed the entrance to the Most
Holy-Place, which was an empty place in the temple
containing nothing but the piece of rock, the Ebhen
Shelhiyah, or foundation stone, which, according to
tradition, covered the mouth of the pit, and on which
the world was founded.
These few details cannot give an adequate idea
of the vastness of the temple buildings, for all around
the sanctuary and colonnaded courts were various
chambers and outbuildings which served different
purposes connected with the services.
It was in the Gentile section of the entire enclo­
sure that Joseph and His parents along with the
165
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
others of their class assembled. It was only neces­
sary for the Gentiles to be present for the first two
days of the Feast. On the third day thereafter were
held the special ceremonies for the strictly orthodox,
and for the rest of those in attendance, the third
and following days were so-called "half-holy days"
when it was lawful for all in attendance to return
home if need be. It was here that Joseph was brought
before the learned doctors immediately after the cere­
mony for examination and questioning. Undoubtedly
there were many other children of His age present on
this occasion, and undoubtedly the questioning was
the same for all of them, but we are told that the
answers which Joseph gave provoked intense inter­
est in Him, and that after the usual questions had
been asked of all the children, and the parents and
children had proceeded on their way, young Joseph
was retained for further questioning and a special
examination.
W e are told in old records that it was customary
on the last days of the Feast, and when the actual
Feast itself had been celebrated and the usual cere­
monies completed, for the doctors of the Temple-
Sanhedrin to come out upon the terrace of the temple
and there to preach or discuss certain doctrines and
conduct a forum, or ask questions of those in whom
they were especially interested. It was in such an
166
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
audience as this, out in the terrace and informally
conducted, that Joseph was found after His parents
had started on their way home with their other chil­
dren and missed Him, according to the Christian ver­
sion of the story.
As I have intimated, there was nothing extraordi­
nary about the fact that one or more children had
been retained by the doctors for special examination.
Many writers of the life of Jesus, and many Christ­
ian authorities who have analyzed this incident in
His life, have attempted to speculate upon the nature
of the questions and answers which brought Jesus to
the attention of these doctors. Some of them seemed
to have come to the conclusion that Jesus was taking
part in one of the usual scientific classes designated
as Kallah. at which time not only the doctors but the
most analytical of the Jewish scholars discussed the
doctrines, practices, customs, and habits of the Jewish
church. Such sessions required considerable prepara­
tion on the part of the lecturing Rabbis or doctors,
and considerable Talmudic knowledge on the part
of the attendants.
Many of these discussions dealt with the establish­
ment of new rules and regulations, and the authorita­
tive interpretation of Jewish rules. For instance, the
great Hillel took part in a discussion in this court
regarding the propriety of offering the Passover on
167
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the Sabbath, and by his great logic proved that it
was appropriate to do so, and was honored for his
services in this regard. It is hardly to be believed that
the youthful Joseph could or would participate in
such discussions as were common to the Kallah, even
if the learned doctors had considered Him old enough
or wise enough to be present. Furthermore, the fact
that Joseph was a Gentile and not of the strictly
orthodox faith would have prevented Him from par­
ticipating in this class. And there is another consid­
eration: these classes were held in the last month of
summer (Elul) before the feast of the new year, and
in the last winter month (Adar) immediately before
the feast of the Passover, but it was in the spring
that Joseph attended the Paschal Feast.
Another speculation on the part of some theologi­
cal writers is to the effect that perhaps the parents of
Joseph realizing that the boy was about to enter into
a new cycle of His life, informed Him regarding His
Divine Birth and Sonship and that He in turn pre­
sented these facts to the learned doctors at the tem­
ple and discussed the important principles involved.
This explanation is more unsound than any other, for
the simple reason that the young man was on His
way to the temple in obedience to a law which defi­
nitely outlined the procedure and the purpose of the
occasion, and it would have availed Him nothing to
168
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
have argued in behalf of His special appointment
from on high. It is very doubtful, indeed, if the doc­
tors assembled at the court would have permitted
Him to make any plea or explanation in behalf of
His own Divine place in life, and certainly would
not have set aside their other tasks to listen to any
such unique presentation.
But we can thoroughly understand just what did
happen when we examine the facts in the case, and
re-enact the entire scene. The youths of Palestine
were called upon to come to the temple in their thir­
teenth year in order to partake of the Paschal Feast,
and thereby acknowledge obedience to the Jewish
religious law. It was a purely formal registration
intended to supply the church with a complete list of
those who had attained that age where they could
be counted as of the faith or out of it. It was natural,
therefore, that before being permitted to partake of
the Feast, every young man was questioned in a
categorical manner, being asked a list of questions,
which would reveal the religious faith and ideas of
each applicant for participation in the Feast. These
questions had been asked for many years, and con­
sidered a standard catechism. The catechism for
Gentiles was different from that used for those who
were strictly orthodox, and born in the faith. In
other words, the questions asked of those who were
169
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
assembled in the Gentile section of the court were
quite different from those asked of the youths as­
sembled in the orthodox section.
Our records indicate that Joseph had been some­
what prepared by His education at Carmel and by
His contact with the orthodox Jews to answer the
questions that would be asked of a Gentile registrant
at the Feast. It was with a belief that only such
questions would be asked of Him as were asked of
other youths, and that He would answer them in
proper manner, that made the parents leave their
child alone in the class for youths while they went
into an adjoining building where adult Gentiles
were given a different examination, preparatory to
participating formally in the Paschal Feast. It was
probably the plan that after young Joseph had fin­
ished His examination and had entered the Sanctuary
along with the other youths in the Gentile class.
He would meet His parents out in the general court
and proceed with them on their return to Nazareth.
According to the story, the parents proceeded
homeward with their other children, and with a large
band of others who were returning to Galilee, and
it was not until they were halfway home that they
discovered that young Joseph was not in the large
party of pilgrims. The fact that His absence was
not noticed during the first part of the trip plainly
170
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
indicates that young Joseph was relied upon to take
care of Himself and to look after His own interests,
and that the parents were more concerned with the
care of the younger members of the family.
That young Joseph was well educated, unusually
alert of mind, and in every sense well prepared to
take care of Himself is not only indicated by this in­
cident but by what actually happened in Jerusalem.
It is recorded that during the forma] examination,
and while young Joseph was answering the categori­
cal questions put to all of the youths, He gave expla­
nations in regard to some doctrinal points that in­
volved a new angle, a broader insight, and a higher
idealism regarding the mystical side of the theological
points than any of the children being examined. This
so surprised the learned doctors that they asked
young Joseph to remain after the class had completed
its work, and after they had all partaken of the
Paschal Feast. He was then called before a group
of the learned men of the Great Sanhedrin and fur­
ther questioned, and then requested to remain within
the temple grounds until the following day, when
He would be interviewed by a court composed of the
highest officials, High Priests, and learned teachers.
It was here that young Joseph was found on the
third day.
171
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
According to the records, I find that young Jos­
eph did not put any particular emphasis upon His
Divine appointment as a M essenger of God, nor refer
in any particular manner to the preordained mission
of His life. He did reveal the fact that He was a
special student of the Essenes at Mount Carmel,
and that it was His intention to carry out the plans
of the Brotherhood and visit the higher schools of
instruction in foreign lands, including the academy
and mystery school at Heliopolis. W hat this may
have indicated to the minds of the learned Jewish
doctors is not definitely stated. One question put to
young Joseph does indicate that they immediately
suspected Him of being a selected leader for the fu­
ture work of His Brotherhood. However, this in it­
self would not have aroused any curiosity or par­
ticular interest on the part of these doctors, and
evidently it did not antagonize them, inasmuch as
they did not express any idea regarding young Jos­
eph's apparent refusal to do otherwise than accept
merely the formal commandment making Him an
adopted Jew of the country.
Their surprise and keen interest centered around
the unusual insight that young Joseph had regarding
religious, theological, and mystical principles, and His
very clear exposition of spiritual laws. For this rea­
son they were amazed at His “combinative insight”
172
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
or unusual spiritual intelligence and "discerning an­
swers.” If young Joseph had revealed to these doc­
tors some of the principles taught by the Essenes,
and was the apt student which the Brotherhood rec­
ords in its reports, then He must have astounded
these doctors who were learned only in the tradi­
tional teachings of their own faith, and unaccustomed
to the newer and higher ideas taught in the Brother­
hood schools.
Young Joseph did reveal, however, in very positive
terms, that in a few months He would finish the pre­
liminary courses of instruction at the school at Car­
mel, and that in accordance with the rules and regu­
lations of the organization. He would leave Galilee
early in the fall to go to the schools in foreign lands,
and that He would not return to Palestine for many
years. Thus He explained His reasons for not doing
more than formally obeying the command to appear
for registration, and could not promise to attend the
Synagogues regularly, and become a true disciple oJ
the Jewish faith. The fact that He had been circum­
cised made Him potentially a Jew so far as funda­
mental preparation for admission into the Jewish faith
as a Gentile was concerned, and there was no way
by which the Jewish church could force this young
man, or any other of the Gentile youths, to become
an orthodox follower of the Jewish religion.
173
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
Young Joseph was not the first ambitious youth of
that country who had gone to Egypt and other lands
to acquire a higher education or to make more suc­
cessful contacts with the larger things of life, and
the fact of His determination to travel for the better­
ment ot His education did not cause any surprise in
the minds of these doctors. However, His entire at­
titude and the free and easy manner in which He
spoke of His plans did surprise these men who were
accustomed to having the youths of the land show
them greater consideration and less independence.
And so when the parents of young Joseph found
Him sitting in the midst of a group of learned men,
and succeeded in calling Him aside and reminding
Him of their concern and sorrow when they missed
Him, He may have made the reply which Christian
literature has made very famous, and which our rec­
ords do not reveal at all. But if He did say that He
had been very busy attending to His Father’s busi­
ness, we can understand that He was referring to
the entire scheme of His life. Certainly He must
have felt that He was about His Father’s business
when He was making plain to His inquisitors the
nature of His beliefs and convictions, the reason for
His contemplated journeys to other lands, and His
inability to become a devout attendant at the Syna­
gogues in Palestine.
174
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
After young Joseph and His parents returned to
their home village, He was sent again to the school
on Mount Carmel, there to live and finish His term
of preliminary instruction.
CHAPTER X
JE SU S E N T E R S T H E S E C R E T P R IE ST H O O D
V
IT T L E is intimated in the Christian Gospels
about the life of Jesus between the time of
His appearance before the learned doctors
in Jerusalem and the beginning of His mis­
sion in Palestine. In fact, the first revelation
regarding the preparation of Jesus for His work as
a Son of God is in connection with His Baptism at
the river Jordan. W e are told that at this time Jesus
came out of Galilee and permitted Himself to be
known to the public.
Certainly the Baptism of Jesus could not have
been the beginning of His prepartion for the ministry;
and most certainly more preparation than this was
required to carry on the work which He efficiently
conducted for so many years.
I have intimated in previous parts of this book why
it is unreasonable to believe that Jesus required no
preparation for His ministry, and I have tried to show
that His whole life demonstrated deep study, careful
preparation, and unusual guidance during His youth.
W e now approach a period in His life that is not
only interesting because it is generally unknown to
177
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the students of Christian doctrines, but it is highly
significant in the light of the work which He accom­
plished during His lifetime.
According to the Essene records, young Joseph
completed His official schooling early in the fall,
when He was still in His thirteenth year. W ith all
of His precociousness and brilliant mind, He was not
permitted to shorten the usual period of study and
preparation in the School of the Prophets at Carmel.
Therefore, we must presume that He was given care­
ful attention and tutored by those who added such
special subjects to His instructions as would have
kept Him engaged in His attainment of knowledge
until the prescribed time had come for His transfer
to other teachers and other schools.
The records also outline very clearly and definitely
the incidents of His life from the Hme of the transfer
from Carmel until He was ready for His great mis­
sion. The minute details of these incidents in His
life are too exhaustive, and very often unimportant
to present en toto in a book of this size and char­
acter, but the essential points and the interesting inci­
dents may be outlined as follows:
According to the instructions sent to the school at
Carmel from the Supreme Temple at Heliopolis, the
young Avatar was to complete His education by a
thorough study of the ancient religions and teachings
178
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
of the various sects and creeds most influential in
the development of civilization. In other words, He
was to become familiar with the tenets of the so-
called heathen religions before taking up the study
of the development of the pagan beliefs and rites into
the higher principles and creeds taught in the mystery
schools of Egypt, and promulgated by the Great
W hite Brotherhood.
In modern times, the student in preparing for the
ministry must become familiar with comparative re­
ligions, but He is able to do this in one great uni­
versity, where the sacred books and writings of the
ancient religions are expounded, analyzed, and care­
fully digested before the modern forms of theology
are undertaken. The modern student does not have
to leave his own land and journey into distant places
in order to contact and become acquainted with the
ancicnt religions or schools of ethics.
In the time of which I am writing, however, it was
considered absolutely necessary for the student of
religion or philosophy to journey to the very seat of
each of these ancient religions, where he might have
access to the only copies of the authentic versions
of each religion and an opportunity to live among the
peoples, of these religions, and become intimately ac­
quainted with the rituals, rites, and practices of the
tenets. Many of the great Avatars in the past had
179
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
journeyed to distant places for this purpose, and it
was in this way that the knowledge of the various
ancient teachings had become so universally dis­
seminated.
So young Joseph was placed in the charge of two
Magi, who came to Carmel for the purpose of con­
ducting the youth to His first distant school and place
of experience. The records show that Joseph was
permitted to spend about a week with His parents in
Galilee, while the Magi made their preparations and
held various consultations with the officials at the
Carmel school. They also instructed the parents of
Joseph as to what they should expect and what they
should do in His absence. The records further state
that when Joseph and the M agi started from Galilee,
a special ceremony of the Essenes was held in one of
their small assembly places, and that without attract­
ing unnecessary attention, the M agi and the boy pro­
ceeded with a numbers of others, who were going a
short distance of the way, in caravan form, by the
shortest route for Jagannath. This city was located
on the east coast of India, and its present day name
is Puri. It had been the center of pure Buddhism
for many centuries; and on a mountain near the out­
lying districts of the town there was a monastery or
school containing many of the ancient Buddhistic
writings and the most learned instructors of Buddha’s
180
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
doctrines. It required nearly a year for the Magi,
young Joseph, and others, who joined the caravan
en route, to reach this point in India, and during that
time the M agi continued to instruct Joseph. During
their many trials and tribulations they pointed out to
Him the sufferings of humanity, the weaknesses and
strength of the people's ideals, and the popular fall­
acies of the day.
According to the records, young Joseph remained
a little over a year in this monastery school, and
became thoroughly familiar with the ancient teach­
ings and the evolved rituals of the Buddhist faith.
The principal teacher of young Joseph at this time
was one known as Lamaas, to whom young Joseph
took such a great liking that later in His Life He sent
for Lamaas to come and unite with the Essene Broth­
erhood in Palestine.
W hen it came time for young Joseph to leave the
monastery at Jagannath, visits were made to the
valley of the Ganges with a several month's stop
at Benares. W e must bear in mind that the great
monastery and world headquarters of the Great
W hite Brotherhood had not yet been established at
Lassa, in Tibet; for if it had been Joseph and His
M agi would have undoubtedly proceeded to this
place and remained there for a considerable time. In
Benares, young Joseph had an opportunity to pursue
181
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the studies of ethics, natural law, language, and simi­
lar subjects constituting the offerings of several of
the great schools there which were renowned for
their culture and learning. It was while here that
young Joseph become greatly interested in the Hindu
method of healing, and took a short course in the
Hindu principles under Udraka, who was reputed
to be the greatest of the Hindu healers.
After a visit to other parts of India, merely for
the purpose of contacting the art. law, and culture
of the peoples, Joseph returned again to the monas­
tery at Jagannath, where He remained for two more
years. His advancement in the subjects being taught
was such that He was appointed a teacher in a
small town called K'atak, and this gave Him His first
opportunity to become familiar with the art of teach­
ing or instructing by the use of parables or stories.
As a result of His contact with eminent teachers
and learned men in Benares, young Joseph was vis­
ited by a high priest from Lahore. It appears from
the records that He had already introduced new
ideas and truly mystical principles in His discourses
and instructions to children, and these appealed to
the most learned of His hearers, but aroused the an­
tagonism of the unlearned and strictly orthodox
Hindus. Therefore, early in His life He learned what
it meant to have enemies and followers. The high
182
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
priest from Lahore tried to persuade young Joseph
to slightly change His teachings and at the same
time cease His journeys among the lower castes and
common people. Here was Joseph's first temptation
to hold Himself aloof from the common touch and
to change His attitude so as to appeal to the aristoc­
racy and the influential. However, young Joseph re­
fused to listen to the petitions of the high priest, and
even refused to accept gifts that were offered.
It was while He was thus drinking of the bitter
draughts of life, that Joseph received the sad news
that His father in Galilee had passed on, and that
His mother was grieving, and none were able to com­
fort her. Messengers informed Him that no word
had come from Him, and that His mother was unable
to learn of His whereabouts; and even though in­
formed by the Essenes that silence on the part of
young Joseph had been predicted, and that He was
safe, she could not be consoled. It was at this time
that younq Joseph expressed Himself for the first
time in definite words, which were recorded, and
which are still preserved. According to the several
translations of the message which He sent by the
Essene messengers to His mother, it read as follows:
Beloved mother: Be not grieved, for all is well
for father as with you. He has completed his present
work here on earth, and has done so nobly. None
183
in any walk of life can charge him with deceit, dis­
honesty, nor wrong intention. In his period of life
here he has completed many great tasks and is gone
from our midst truly prepared to solve the problems
that await him in the future. Our God, the Father
of all of us, is with him now as He was with him
heretofore, but even now the Heavenly Hosts guard
his footsteps and protect him on his way. Therefore,
why should you weep and suffer? Tears will not
conquer your grief, and your sorrow cannot be
vanquished by any emotion of your heart or mind.
Let your soul be busy in meditation and contact with
him who is gone, and if thou art not idle, there will
be no time for grief. W hen grief throbs through the
heart, and anguish causes you pain, permit yourself
to rise to higher planes and indulge in the ministry
of love. Your ministry has always been that of love,
and in the Brotherhood thou canst find many oppor­
tunities to answer the call of the world for more love.
Therefore, let the past remain the past. Rise above
the cares of earthly things and give your life to those
who still live with us here on earth. W hen your life
is done, you will find it again in the morning sun, or
even in the evening dew, as in the song of birds, the
perfume of the flowers, and the mystic light of the
stars at night. For it will not be long before your
problems and toils here on earth will be solved also,
184
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
and when all is counted and arranged, you will be
ready for greater fields of effort and prepared to
solve the greater problems of the soul. Try then to
be content until I come to you soon and bring to you
richer gifts than any that you have ever seen, and
greater than those made of gold or precious stones.
I am sure that my brothers will care for you and
supply your needs, and I am always with you in
mind and spirit. Your son, Joseph.”
This letter and other writings, written during the
years which followed and which have been carefully
preserved and recorded, plainly indicate the rapid
development of His mind, and the marvelous com­
prehension He had of Cosmic laws and principles.
It is stated in some ancient records that after Jos­
eph had completed the studies of the Buddhistic
teachings and the Hindu doctrines in India, He jour­
neyed to Lassa in Tibet; but this is not correct. W hile
still in India, a messenger came to Joseph with some
manuscripts from a Buddhist Temple in Lassa, sent
by Meng-ste, who was considered the greatest of all
the Buddhist sages. For a considerable period mes­
sengers from Lassa brought manuscripts to young
Joseph, and it was this intercourse and the effects it
had upon His life that became the basis for the belief
that He had journeyed to Lassa, personally. How­
ever, when Joseph was ready to leave Jagannath, His
185
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
journey took Him westward toward Persia, where,
in the city of Persepolis, arrangements had been made
for His further studies. This was one of the ancient
cities of the kings, and the center of the learned M agi
of that country who were known as Hor, Lun, and
Mer. One of these Magi, a very old man, was one
of the three who had visited the infant at the time
of His birth in the Essene Grotto, and had brought
to Him gifts from the monastery of Persia.
Great homage was paid to Joseph by these Magi,
and by the priests of the temple. Other wise men
from various sections of Persia came to Persepolis,
and remained there as instructors and students dur­
ing the time of Joseph's education, for it is recorded
that at the close of each day when the instructors
had finished the day's lessons they asked Joseph to
become their teacher, and inform them of the higher
principles which He seemed to comprehend through
inspiration.
It was here that Joseph finally made plain to the
elders that the greatest instruction He had to give
was that which He had obtained in the silence after
meditating upon some important law given to Him
in the course of His reading and studying. Thus, Jos­
eph established a system of Entering the Silence
which became an important feature in later mystical
methods. It was in this city, also, that Joseph de-
186
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
monstrated considerable healing power, and after
months of analysis of the power within His being,
and a careful study of the principles involved, He
revealed to His elders His belief that the faith or
mental attitude and attunement on the part of the
patient had a considerable effect upon the results.
This laid the foundation for the later teaching of
the secret conclaves of the Disciples of Jesus— inner
or psychic attunement and mental preparation are
necessary in all forms of spiritual healing.
After a year spent in Persia. Joseph and His guides
proceeded to the Euohrates. Here He contacted the
greatest sages of Assyria, and Magi from other lands
who came to see Him and hear Him speak; for He
had already attracted great attention as an inter­
preter of the spiritual laws in a more understandable,
mystical manner. Joseph spent a considerable time in
the cities and towns of Chaldee, and in the lands
between the Tigris and the Euphrates. His healing
powers and methods were becoming so rapidly per­
fected that it is recorded that multitudes were bene­
fited by His methods in these lands; and it was about
this time that the Magi who were His guides in­
formed Him that the development of the ability to
heal would be one of the tests in His final examina­
tion of preparedness for His ultimate mission.
187
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
From this country Joseph and the guides journeyed
through the ruined Babylon, and spent some time in
examining the fallen temples, ruined gates, and
empty palaces. It was here that He became familiar
with the trials and tribulations of the early tribes of
Israel when they were held in captivity in Babylon,
and He saw where Daniel and the Hebrew children
had their great tests. He was unquestionably im­
pressed with the sins of pagans and the error of
ancient beliefs.
Then Joseph and His guides journeyed to Greece,
where He came in contact with some of the Athenian
philosophers and was under the personal direction
and care of Apollo, who opened up the ancient rec­
ords of Grecian lore for Joseph. In this country Jos­
eph attracted unusual attention among the wise and
the Magi, and they implored Him to remain a long
time; but His itinerary had been definitely decided
upon, and in a few months He sailed from Grecian
shores for Alexandria.
He stayed for but a short time at Alexandria, just
long enough to be entertained by the special mes­
sengers who went there to greet Him, and to visit
some of the ancient shrines. He was taken immedi­
ately, thereafter, to the city of Heliopolis and settled
in a private home, arranged for Him, having several
men servants, a beautiful garden, and a personal at-
188
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
tendant whose records as a scribe would place him
today in the category of a personal secretary.
Very shortly after His arrival in Heliopolis, Jesus
was approached by representatives of the pagan
priesthood of Egypt, who had heard of His teachings
and His demonstrations of mystical power and dis­
approved of them. Once again He learned to drink
of the bitters of life through many trials and tribula­
tions which would have tempted the average person
to accede to the advice of the priesthood and resort
to hypocrisy and deceit in regard to His purposes
and intentions.
It was at this point in His life that Joseph began
His preparatory initiations for the entrance into the
higher grades of the Great W hite Brotherhood, and
I will treat of these in my next chapter, for the details
are worthy of complete presentation.
189
CHAPTER XI
JE SU S A T T A IN S M A ST E R SH IP
V
N order to understand the advancement of
Jesus through the various grades of the
priesthood leading to mastership, it is neces­
sary to explain the operation of the Great
W hite Brotherhood in which He became an
initiate.
The Great W hite Brotherhood referred to so often
in the preceding chapters was a non-sectarian or­
ganization formed in a primitive way by the ances­
tors of Amnhotep IV , Pharoah of Egypt, who be­
came better known in philosophical literature as
Akhnaton. W e are not sure in regard to which of
these ancestors was the first to proclaim the founda­
tion of the Brotherhood, but we do know that Thoth-
mes III established many of the important rules and
regulations for the conduct of the Brotherhood, and
that these regulations were in effect for many cen­
turies. In one of the Rosicrucian records, we find
that at the close of his reign as Pharoah of Egypt
in 1447 B. C., there were thirty-nine men and women
constituting the high council of the secret Brother­
hood. The council meetings were held in one of the
191
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
halls of the temple at Karnak in Luxor where Thoth-
mes III had erected two obelisks on which were
carved the famous cartouche which became the seal
of the Brotherhood and which is used in Egypt and
America today as the seal of the organization known
as the Rosicrucian Order. In establishing this car­
touche as the seal of the organization, we find the
following words written in the record in regard to its
use: “In testimony of the great work of our teacher
(M aster) to be forever a mark of honor and loyalty."
The son and grandson of Thothmes III sponsored
the continuation of the secret Brotherhood, and per­
mitted it to increase in size and activity. In 1378
B. C., was born Amenhotep IV , the great grand-son
of Thothmes III, and he became the great reorganizer
and founder of the present rules and regulations of
the world-wide organization known as the Great
W hite Brotherhood, which developed out of the se­
cret Brotherhood established in ancient times.
The original plan of the secret Brotherhood was
to bring the wisest men and women in Egypt to­
gether, and especially the most advanced of the
Magi, for the purpose of discussing, analyzing, re­
cording. and preserving the great knowledge that
constituted the light of the world. Egypt had become
the center of the world's culture and scientific knowl­
edge, as is attested by the remarkable attainments
192
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
made by her people under the leadership of the wise
men in the sciences generally. T o Egypt went stu­
dents from all parts of the world, to obtain the high­
est education and to contact the mystery schools as
they were called, under the direction of this secret
Brotherhood.
Amenhotep IV was the reincarnation of one of
the previous great Avatars and became what histor­
ians call the world s first great citizen. He, too, had
a great message for the world, and during his short
lifetime accomplished more for the advancement of
philosophy, religion, and ethics than any man preced­
ing him. It was he who began a very strenuous
attack upon the heathen priesthoods of Egypt which
held the masses in slavery, and it was he who es­
tablished the world’s first monotheistic religion, for
Amenhotep declared that there were not many gods,
but only One, "the ever living, sole God.” In his doc­
trines, which he introduced into the Great W hite
Brotherhood, he laid the foundation for the present-
day monotheism and for most of the doctrines and
creeds used in the Christian and Hebrew religions.
It was while Amenhotep IV was Pharoah that
the children of Israel dwelt in Egypt and the lead­
ers of those tribes became initiates of the Great
W hite Brotherhood, and it was at this time that
Moses, as one of the initiates, became acquainted
193
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
with the fundamentals of the religion which he after­
wards modified to present to those who followed him
out of Egypt into Palestine. It was also to Amenho-
tep IV that Moses made his appeal for aid in taking
the tribes of Israel out of Egypt, and it was through
the aid thus given by Amenhotep and by the Great
W hite Brotherhood in secrecy that the tribes of
Israel evaded the heathen priesthood and had a safe
journey.
As stated in an earlier part of this book, branches
of the Great W hite Brotherhood were established
under various names in many parts of the world dur­
ing the first ten centuries before Christ. The original
body of members in Egypt became the international
council or supreme body maintaining the name of
the Great W hite Brotherhood and eventually adopt­
ing the rose cross emblem as their esoteric symbol.
But the branches established in various parts of the
world were permitted to adopt such names as were
significant in the various languages, or symbolical
to the peoples with which they had to deal. Thus it
was that a large branch formed at Heliopolis adopted
the name of the Essenes, which name was later used
by the followers in the northern part of Palestine;
whereas in Greece the name of "Therapeuti” was
used, and other names in other places. All these
branches, however, used the same seals and symbols,
194
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
adhered to the same general rules and regulations,
and paid allegiance to the supreme body known as
the Great W hite Brotherhood in Egypt.
Out of the monasteries, schools, and temples of
the Great W hite Brotherhood, and its branches, came
most of the famous philosophers, teachers, priests,
and Avatars of the future, and today we find that in
the branches of the organization known as the Rosi­
crucian Order, which name has become practically
the exclusive worldly name for the organization,
there are students in preparation for the ministry, for
positions as teachers and professors in colleges, those
who are to become eminent physicians in various
schools of therapeutics, including medicine and sur­
gery, and those who are also preparing for research
work in the various fields of science. In the member­
ship, we also find the hundreds of thousands of men
and women who are students of the teachings of the
Rosicrucian Order, because of the personal benefit
they derive, and the assistance the organization gives
them through private teachings and instruction for
the betterment of their living, the attainment of per­
sonal evolutior, and the awakening of those latent or
dormant faculties which enable them to achieve the
highest degree of success and happiness in their
individual careers.
195
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Therefore, it was but natural that the new great
Avatar should be one of this organization, as had
been most of the Avatars in preceding centuries. It
was also perfectly logical and reasonable for this
young Son o f G od to have His footsteps directed
toward the great schools and teachers of the Brother­
hood in Egypt, where He might complete His prepa­
rations and receive His final instructions before en­
tering upon His divine mission.
But before any initiate of the Great W hite Broth­
erhood could go out into the world and proclaim the
doctrines and teachings which would enlighten civi­
lization and bring about the gradual evolution of hu­
manity, he had to be tested and tried in such ways
as would not only prove to the entire organization
his worthiness to be their high representative, but
would make him familiar with the tests and trials that
would inevitably face him during his mission.
Thus we find Joseph now at the threshold of His
final preparation, and ready for the symbolical tests
and initiations leading to the degree and attainment
of mastership which would qualify Him to go out
into the world and fulfill the mission for which He
had been Cosmically and Divinely ordained.
The story of the Great W hite Brotherhood and
its activities and achievements is more completely
outlined in another volume entitled, “The Complete
196
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
and Authentic History of the Rosicrucian Order,"
and in this history the story of the attainment of
mastership by other Avatars of lesser prominence is
told. W e are now concerned only with the attain­
ment of mastership by the greatest of all these Ava­
tars.
W hen Jesus was ready for His entrance into the
supreme college and monastery of the Brotherhood
at Heliopolis, He found that the first requirement
called for three months of meditation, prayer, and
study in the quiet of His own home, during which
time many of the eminent masters of the Brotherhood
would contact Him in the Cosmic or psychic sense,
through mental processes.
The records show that He was surrounded, as we
have stated, with every comfort and convenience,
and that for His study He was given many of the
rarest manuscripts containing the texts of ancient
doctrines and creeds. Then came the first of the
tests. It is stated that one night at the midnight
hour, a door in His chambers was opened, and a
priest in oriental garb came to Joseph and pleaded
with Him that He abandon His intention of staying
in Egypt and receiving the authority of the Great
W hite Brotherhood, because His mission and plans
were antagonistic to the priesthood of Egypt, and
the priesthood was plotting to take His life, or to
197
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
imprison Him. This priest offered various methods
whereby Joseph might secretly and easily leave
Egypt and return safely to Palestine. Young Joseph
had seen many evidences of the enmity which His
presence in Egypt had aroused, and as I have said
before. He was again drinking of the bitter cup. For
this reason the pleadings and offerings of the priest
were certainly tempting. But young Joseph abso­
lutely refused to abandon His plans or to change His
decision. Joseph summed up His argument with the
statement that "I shall not bargain with deceit, nor
sell my soul for the safety of my body. I shall deceive
no one. and I will be no partner of hyprocisy. Re­
turn to your people, and tell them that I shall remain
true to God and to myself.”
His decision was reported to the high authorities
of the Brotherhood, and Joseph was commanded to
appear before them. Then the Hierophant placed his
hand on Joseph's head and gave Him a scroll on
which was written just one word, "Sincerity." Jos­
eph knew that this had been a test of His sincerity
and that He had yielded not to temptation.
Some weeks later another messenger called upon
Joseph in His home, and presented a very interesting
story This messenger claimed that He had at one
time been in the same position as Joseph, and had
suffered all the trials and enmity of priesthood of
198
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF }ESUS
Egypt while he remained steadfast in his determina­
tion to become a master. He claimed that he had
attained high degrees in the organization, and had
finally been admitted to their great ceremonies and
to their secret conclaves, and ;hat then he had found
that all of the work was corruption, and that their
rites were sacrificial, in which innocent children,
women, men, and animals were burned as offerings
to false gods, and that he had finally escaped and
now urged Joseph to think well of the future and
to stop before it was too late. W hen Joseph ques­
tioned him as to how he had gained access to His
chamber, the man replied that as a trusted priest of
the Brotherhood he knew of passageways and doors
which permitted him to enter any of the structures
of the organization. Joseph then accused the man of
being a traitor and said that He would refuse to lis­
ten to one whose hands were not clean, and who
could not show a higher purpose than he had shown.
The man disappeared, and again Joseph was brought
before the Hierophant who once more placed his
hand upon His head and handed a scroll to Him
which contained but one word, "Justice.” And Jos­
eph learned that this was another test and that He
had passed it successfully.
About a month later, another priest approached
Him one afternoon, when He was in the midst of
199
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
meditation in the quietness of His sanctum. This
priest began to comment on the grandeur and rich­
ness of the rooms in which Joseph dwelt, and he
called the attention of Joseph to the fact that the
great Brotherhood in Egypt had undoubtedly pro­
vided these luxurious surroundings for Joseph be­
cause to them Joseph was the greatest of them all, and
that the healing Joseph had accomplished in foreign
lands, the wonderful interpretation He had given in
answers to questions asked in India and Persia had
proved that He was the greatest philosopher, the
greatest mystic, and the greatest teacher in all the
world.
Therefore, he urged that Joseph not submit to the
dictates of the Brotherhood, but go out into the
world at once and organize a priesthood of His own
which would overthrow all others, and bring tri­
umphant victory to Him personally. It is recorded
that this man made eloquent pleas to young Joseph
and pointed out to Him the rosy path to fame and
popular acclaim, bringing to Him wealth, honor, and
unlimited power. The man left the presence of Joseph
at the psychological moment of his beautiful presen­
tation, and for many days Joseph wrestled with the
ideas that had been implanted in His mind, but al­
ways there came from within the voice of the Divine
Self pointing out clearly the duty for which He had
200
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
been Cosmically ordained. Finally Joseph sent a
message to the man and stated that He was thankful
for the contest that had raged within Him and for
the victory which had come to the better self, and
that He wanted not glory, fame, nor wealth, but
only an opportunity to serve and to keep the faith
while life was in His body.
And once again He was called before the Hiero­
phant, and this time a scroll was handed to Him
upon which was written the one word, "Faith.” And
Joseph learned that this was another test of His
faith and that He had passed it successfully.
Thus Joseph completed the first of the three pre­
liminary degrees of initiation, which were really de­
grees of test and trial, before being admitted into
the important Fourth Degree of the Brotherhood.
Having passed these tests, and further examinations
which were brought before the conclave of High
Priests, He was finally honored with the title of
M aster and admitted into the highest circle as a duly
prepared and qualified M aster of the Great W hite
Brotherhood. This title of M aster was always used
by the Essenes in speaking of Jesus throughout His
entire ministry, when the conversations dealt with
His public affairs or the reference was made in gen­
eral conversation aside from any of His special ac­
tivities as a Divine Son o f God. The title of M aster
201
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
was also used by many of the Jews who greatly ad­
mired Jesus for His work among them, and especially
for the valuable instruction which He gave; and it
was always reverently used by those who understood
its real meaning, just as it is reverently used by the
Rosicrucians today when they speak of the Great
M aster Jesus.
202
CHAPTER XII
JE S U S A T T A IN S C H R ISTH O O D
V
A V IN G attained the degree of Mastership
in the Great W hite Brotherhood placed Jos­
eph among the most learned of the High
Priests and second only to the Hierophant
of the organization. This entitled Him to
attend the highest conclaves, to have access to the
most sacred and sublime ceremonies, to indulge in the
transcendental experiences at certain Cosmic periods
of the year, and to attune Himself by the highest
spiritual laws with the Consciousness of God.
It may be argued that since Jesus was Divinely
ordained, Divinely conceived, and Divinely born, and
predetermined to be the Son of G od and the Saviour
of the world, that no earthly power and certainly no
earthly Council could either grant or fail to grant
Him the privilege of such attunement with the Con­
sciousness of God. This is unquestionably true, and
nowhere in the records with which I am dealing, and
nowhere in the present-day teachings of the Rosicru-
cians, is it intimated that if Jesus had not passed
through the preparation and experiences outlined by
the Great W hite Brotherhood, He would have been
203
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
unable to attune Himself just as completely with the
Divine Consciousness, or become conscious of the
Godhood or Christhood within Him. From the very
hour of His birth all of the Magi, wise men, High
Priests, and most learned advisors of the Brother­
hood were His inferiors in Divine attunement and
soul preparation for the great mission. And it was no
presumption on the part of these great men to per­
form ther time-honored duty of accepting Joseph as
a Neophyte and giving Him every one of the tests
and trials and offering Him every opportunity for
development as had been offered to the greatest
among them. Nor did Joseph, Himself, consider the
attitude assumed by the Brotherhood in treating Him
as a Neophyte, and as one who had to be prepared,
a failure of recognition, on their part, of His superior
position among them. W e shall see later on that
even after Joseph had completed all the preparation
that the Brotherhood prescribed for Him, and had
acknowledged Him ready for His mission in life. He
voluntarily offered Himself for a final act of prepara­
tion in the knowledge that all these things were nec­
essary for the work He desired to accomplish, and
which had been Cosmically planned for Him.
Naturally, I wish it were possible for me to outline
here the further initiations, ceremonies, and steps of
preparation through which Joseph passed during the
204
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
years in which He remained in Egypt. These things
are never revealed to those who are not high initiates
of the Brotherhood; and Jesus Himself, during his
entire mission, revealed them to no one but His Apos­
tles whom He carefully selected and whom He con­
stituted as His sacred council, and initiated as He had
been initiated. I hardly think that any of my readers
expect these things to be published in any book of
this kind, nor in any book for the general public; and
I am sure that the most learned and reasonable of
my readers would doubt the authenticity of any
printed record which claimed to contain such details.
It is possible, however, to speak of the last and
final stage of His preparation for the ministry, which
was held in the chambers of the Great Pyramid now
known as the pyramid of Cheops.
Much has been said in various books and magazine
articles in recent years about the chambers and secret
rooms of the Great Pyramid, and space in this vol­
ume does not permit of even a brief explanation of
the intricate arrangement of the passageways and
ancient chambers that are within and beneath this
great structure. The average tourist to Egypt sees
the several pyramids that are grouped almost as a
unit just outside of Cairo and close to the famous
Sphinx. These tourists are generally told that the
Pyramid was built as a tomb, and that it is a solid
205
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
T h is symbol is called in C hristian m ysticism the “M onogram
of C hrist.” It is often used also as a symbol of C hristianity. T h e
author of this book traced this monogram on the faces of a num­
ber of the tombs in the Catacom bs at Rome, and in some of the
ancient carvings of Egypt. E arly C hristian m issionaries were
believed it indicated the presence of earlier C hristian m issionar­
ies. T h e symbol w as in use long before C hristianity adopted it.
It was the original monogram of O siris. T h e sacred banner of
Constantine called the “Labarum ” on w hich w as placed the sign
by w hich he was to conquer was inscribed by the sacred rruno-
gram shown above. It w as also the m ystical sign of Ju p iter
Ammon. T h e monogram had a m ystical origin in the mystery
teachings of the Brotherhood in Egypt, and it has been found
engraved on a medal of Ptolem y, K in g of Cyrene. An identical
m onogram was also found on the coins of Herod the G reat, is­
sued before the C hristian E ra. Th<- Rom an Catholic Encyclopedia
claim s that the X and the P are the first two letters of a Greek
word m eaning “ C hrist.” T h is authority also adm its that the
m onogram was used in pre-C hristian periods as a m ystical em­
blem . T h e monogram composed of X . P. N. is another symbol
of the title, “ Our Lord Jesus C hrist."
m isled by the discovery of this symbol in foreign lands, and
206
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
structure built over a burial chamber. Even the most
ingenuous of the guides that cscort the tourists to the
Pyramid refuses to admit that there are secret cham­
bers and cercmonial rooms within this unique build­
ing. But, during my recent visit to the Pyramid and
while in the company of several high officers of the
Rosicrucian Order of Egypt and a number of officers
of the Order in America, we were permitted to enter
these secret rooms and to verify the facts contained
in our records.
It may be surprising to my readers to know that in
the ancient times, or in the times with which we are
dealing, the entrance way to the principal ceremonial
rooms of the Pyramid was not through any doorway
in the Pyramid itself, but through a secret passage­
way built between the two huge paws of the Sph'nx.
These paws rest upon a high foundation wall, form­
ing two sides of a court in front of the Sphinx, in
the center of which stood an altar. Back of this
altar, still partly in ruins, and just beneath the breast
of the Sphinx, was the secret doorway, well guarded,
opening only by application of certain secret con­
trivances which only a few knew, which led to the
long subterranean passageways under the Sphinx,
under the sands, and the foundation walls of the
Pyramid, and to the great reception hall far below
the surface surrounding the Pyramid. It was to the
207
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
outer court in front of the Sphinx that the Neophytes
who were well prepared and deemed worthy of the
secret of the entrance way to the Pyramids were
brought and given their first induction into the mys­
teries of the higher degrees. Such ceremonies usu­
ally occurred at midnight, when the Neophytes and
the few who conducted the outer-court ceremony
wended their way separately to this sacred spot,
guarded and protected by trusted brethren who re­
mained at distant points from the Sphinx and the
Pyramid as watchers and sentinels. Only those who
had ever actually passed through the ceremony
within the Pyramid knew of the secret entrance way
and the existence of the rooms and passageways.
Joseph was brought before this outer court of the
Sphinx and clothed in purple robes during the pre­
liminary ceremony held there at midnight. At the
completion of the ceremony, He was escorted through
the subterranean passageway to the reception room
beneath the Pyramid. After further ceremony here in
this room, the sublime ceremony of being raised to
the highest pinnacle of initiation began. This was
performed by escorting Joseph up various inclines to
the several different levels within the Pyramid, on
each of which was a small chamber. After having
reached the highest of these chambers, practically in
the center of the Pyramid, the final ceremony took
208
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
T h e symbol shown above is often called the Crucified Serpent.
W e find in m any ancient records a cross of this kind w ith either
a dove, a rose, the sun, or the serpent on it. T h e serpentine
crucifix represented in the ancient symbolism the sun after it had
lost its power. In some m ystical w ritings it w as used as an
emblem o f the crucifixion of the C hrist to indicate that through
such crucifixion the Son had lost H is D ivine Pow er.
209
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
place. During this the royal diadem was placed upon
the head of Joseph, indicating that He was no longer
a Neophyte, nor even a peer among the Masters of
the Brotherhood, but the greatest of them all. For
over an hour a pontifical ceremony was conducted,
culminating in a period of silence and meditation
while Joseph knelt before the altar. Then a great
light filled the chamber, which was otherwise lighted
only by candles and three torches. A white dove de­
scended in the light and rested on the head of Joseph
while the Hierophant rose, and various bells in the
chambers beneath began pealing the great announce­
ment to the world. A slight figure rising behind the
Hierophant like an angelic being, commanded Joseph
to rise while the voice of this being proclaimed: This
is Jesus the Christ; arise!” And all within the cham­
ber united in saying "Amen."
The foregoing is but a very brief, greatly con­
densed outline of the final ceremony. The complete
details present one of the most picturesque and elab­
orate settings every recorded in the secret writings
of the Brotherhood, and it is known that no such
ceremony has ever occurred since then.
As the ceremony ended the officers and members of
the High Council present surrounded Joseph, who
had now attained the name Jesus and had been ac­
knowledged the Christ, and paid homage to Him and
210
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
proclaimed Him the incarnation of the W ord, or ‘‘the
Living Logos." Then followed the ceremonial march
to the chambers below, where the first of the Lord's
Suppers was held as a smybolical feast.
Messengers were sent the next day, in all direc­
tions from Egypt to every land in which branches of
the Brotherhood were located, to proclaim the com­
ing of the Saviour and the announcement of His
mission of redemption. Among these was one John
from the Essene Brotherhood in Palestine, who had
been a student at the schools in Egypt preparing for
his mission in life. He was known to be the reincar­
nation of Elijah, and he was sent to Palestine, the
land in which as Elijah he had once before served as
an Avatar and had attended the monastery at Car­
mel. It was his mission, like that of the other mes­
sengers sent to other lands, to proclaim the coming
of the Christ.
And so all the peoples who were ready for the
coming of the Lord were duly notified, and the great
work of Jesus the Christ began.
211
CH A PTER X III
T H E M Y S T IC BEG IN N IN G O F C H R IS T S
M ISSIO N
V
HEN John reached Palestine he appeared in
public in the most humble clothing and with
great humility. His work was to announce
among the lowly and the humble in spirit the
coming of the great Redeemer. He presented
an entirely new idea inasmuch as he preached the
doctrine of baptism for redemption or regeneration.
It may not be out of place here to state that Bap­
tism or the immersion in water and the use of water
for purification in a symbolical or Cosmic sense, was
introduced into the rites and ceremonies of the Great
W hite Brotherhood in Egypt by one who was known
as El-M oria. He was one of the great Avatars in
the early d a y s of the Brotherhood, and learned
through meditation and Cosmic Illumination that
water would cleanse in a Cosmic sense as well as in
a physical sense. It was through his learned discus­
sions before the High Council of the Brotherhood in
this regard that pools of purified water were intro­
duced in front of every altar in the mystery temples
of Egypt and other lands. And it was this same great
213
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Avatar who first introduced public Baptism for spiri­
tual regeneration by holding such ceremonies at Lake
Moeris, in the Fayuum district of Egypt, around
which centered one of the earliest of the advanced
civilizations of Egypt.
Recently I made a trip to this place in company
with the others of our Brotherhood, and there saw
the beautiful lake which is still a mystery to those
who have tried to discover the source of its beautiful
water, far from the Nile and in the very heart of
desert lands. Here many of us re-enacted in the ut­
most sublimity the early form of Baptism, and sym­
bolically celebrated the ancient rite. According to
the records of the Rosicrucian Brotherhood, this is
the first time that scores of men and women united
in one reverential party participated in this ceremon­
ial rite since the days before Christ, and of course
it was the first time in the history of the world that
such a group of persons from America ever received
Baptism at the shore of Lake Moeris. For hundreds
of years this beautiful lake has been unvisited by
European or American tourists, and for a thousand
years its history and its connection with the Christian
rite of Baptism has remained unknown except to
those in the Rosicrucian Order and those in the high
branches of the Brotherhood in Tibet, India, and
Egypt.
214
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
John was looked upon by the Jewish people as one
of the sturdy race of Judah. Coming from the wilder­
ness into their midst in pious clothing, they looked
upon him as an ascetic. His camel's hair cloak was a
symbol of penitence, and his words were those of
an ancient prophet. John picked out the banks of
the Jordan as his special territory for the work he
wished to do. Appealing, as he intended, to the lowly
and the humble, he attracted the attention of multi­
tudes, which seemed to drink in his words and find
hope in his proclamations. In selecting the valley of
the Jordan he had chosen a place that seemed to be
separated from the rest of the world, and filled with
terrifying contrasts to the rest of Palestine. Around
about was the rough land of volcanic formation and
volcanic destruction. In fact, the part of the shores
selected by John was known as the Sea of Solitude,
but it was here that the Essenes had originally held
such wonderful ceremonies and had established one
of their first communities. It was truly Holy ground
to John.
John's message was that which most of the Jews
had hoped to hear in their lifetime— the coming of
the Messiah. But he warned them that they must
prepare for His coming and prepare for it in a true
spirit of repentance. His earnestness and the power
with which He proclaimed that only the repentant,
215
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the purified, and those who were purged of all sin
would see the Messiah, shocked the holy ones and
antagonized the strictly orthodox.
From all parts of Palestine came those who wanted
to hear the message of John, and witness his strange
ceremonies in the waters of the river. And about this
time word came from other lands that other prophets
were foretelling the coming of the Messiah. And
over and over was repeated the ancient prophecy that
out of the land of Egypt would come the Son of God.
Camps were built around the lake where earnest
souls remained for weeks, many of them hoping that
the Messiah would appear in the midst of the thou­
sands who gathered there on feast days. A number
asked permission to form a group to take up the work
of John and to serve under him in the beginning of a
holy war. Rumors of this plan reached the rulers
of Palestine and the priests at Jerusalem began to
feel uneasy at the excitement of the populace. Other
conditions in Palestine seemed to indicate that a great
crisis was at hand. Tiberias, now seventy-four years
of age, was indulging in such debauchery at Capri
as was rapidly hastening his transition. Pontius Pil­
ate was continuing his persecution of the Jews and
becoming more furious.
It was in the midst of these conditions that Jesus
the Christ quietly and without recognition returned
216
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
to Galilee and greeted His mother, brothers, and sis­
ters in their little home, and awaited patiently the
hour when the first message was to be given. T o
Jesus came the reports of the work being done by
John, and how John was insisting that all who were
worthy of regeneration and redemption must be Bap­
tized by water. Finally Jesus decided that He should
set the great example among the Gentiles of Galilee,
and proceed to the Jordan and submit Himself to
John's Baptism. And so it was that Jesus entered
the throngs of those standing by the shore of the
Jordan listening to the preachments of John. Here
He heard the voice of John thundering, “Repent ye;
prepare ye the way of the Lord, make His path
straight.” And as he baptised each applicant, he
made his famous prophecy of the coming of the Mes­
siah, saying: “I baptize you with water only, but
He will baptize you with fire.”
Jesus stepped forward and He and John faced each
other for the first time since they had met in one of
the conclaves in Egypt. Instantly John knew that He
was in the presence of the Christ, and he folded his
arms across his chest with the right hand over his
heart, and the left hand over his right breast, making
the salutation common among the Essenes, and Jesus
replied by making a similar sign. W ords passed be­
tween John and Jesus which have been variously
217
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
lits
A nother monogram for C hrist is that form ed of three letters,
supposed to be the first two and last letters of the Greek word
for “Jesus,” but the last letter w as finally changed to the Latin
letter “S” so that the I. H . S. stood for “Jesus, Hominum, S alv a­
tor”— “Jesus, the Saviour of M an .” T h e letters w ere also used
to m ean "In Hoc Salus” and “In Hoc Signo,” m eaning “In this
Cross, is Salvation,” or “ By T hiB Sign, Conquer.” T h e I and
J in the early L atin language w ere identical in form , and in the
early m onogram s composed of the letters I. H . S., the m ark of
abbreviation was put above the letters. T h ese abbreviation
m arks w ere later misunderstood or so crudely carved that they
w ere considered to be a cross over the H, and in this wise a new
m onogram wa6 evolved appearing as shown above, with the cross
resting on the letter H . T h is monogram is now the official
C hristian emblem as adopted by the Jesuits.
218
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
recorded, but which constituted the formal recogni­
tion on the part of John that was due the great M as­
ter before him. Then Jesus stepped into the water
and submitted voluntarily to the baptism. As stated
in the preceding chapter, this act clearly shows that
Jesus recognized the necessity of formal preparation
and ceremonial procedure, even though He knew of
the Divine, Cosmic, appointment of His Messiahship.
It is one of the important doctrines of the Great
W hite Brotherhood that spiritual illumination and
Cosmic Consciousness enter the being of man only
after He is ready. There is an ancient belief based
upon the mystic teachings of the Orient that when
each individual is ready for the coming of the M as­
ter, who is to guide and instruct him in the higher
things of life, the M aster will appear. But the em­
phasis here should be placed upon readiness, which
includes worthiness and sincerity of purpose. Unless
one is truly ready and properly prepared by instruc­
tion, guidance, and the help that lies in the processes
based upon spiritual laws, no Master will appear, no
bursting of inner Cosmic Consciousness will become
manifest, and no great Illumination of transcen­
dental light will come. Worthiness must be attained,
preparedness made manifest, and readiness earned
by voluntary effort.
219
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Just as John was sent ahead to prepare the way,
just as the great Avatars of the past found it neces­
sary to preach and teach in order to prepare the
many for spiritual regeneration, and just as Jesus
taught His disciples and hosts of others that they
might mentally comprehend and spiritually appre­
hend the laws and principles leading to spiritual
awakening, so have the teachers and Masters in the
mystery schools of the Brotherhood in all lands main­
tained the systems of instruction and methods of
preparation that have proved to be adequate and
efficient. The seeker for Divine effulgence and Cos­
mic Consciousness who attempts to await the coming
of the Master and the brightness of Illumination
without study and preparation, and without associa­
tion with those who are likewise qualified to aid and
assist, delays the coming of the great day and often
closes the door to the coming of the Master. It is in
this fact that we find warrant for the establishment
of the churches and for the maintenance of the secret
brotherhoods and societies devoted to the spiritual
preparation of man.
And so Jesus entered the water and immersed His
body in it, while John stood by ready to give His
humble benediction. As Jesus rose erect in the water,
and before John could speak, a great light came down
from the heavens that surrounded Jesus and re-
220
THE MYSTICAL LlbE OF JESUS
mained with Him as a magnificent, blinding aura of
iridescent illumination. John stepped back, more in
fear of the brilliancy of the light than through aston­
ishment, and the multitudes stood aghast, speechless,
and spellbound by the sight before their eyes. Then
from out of the heavens there descended a great,
white, luminous dove, as bright as molten silver,
and as magnificent as the spiritual light which sur­
rounded the body of Christ. The dove lighted upon
the shoulder ot Jesus, and while all stood silent
and motionless, a voice came from the center of their
attention, melodious but resounding like a trumpet
call, proclaiming: "This is my beloved Son!” And
John knew, as did the other Essenes who were as­
sembled there, that the Holy Ghost had descended
upon Jesus as it had descended upon Mary, and had
created in Him a new being— the Divine being of
Christhood and Sonship with God— as it had created
in M ary a new being and a Sonship of God.
221
CHAPTER XIV
H IS REA L D O C T R IN E S AN D M IR A C LES
V
H E whole public life of Jesus, from the time
of His baptism up to and including the cru­
cifixion, was an outer, objective manifesta­
tion of the series of initiations through which
He had passed secretly— and more or less
subjectively— during His years of preparation. This
important fact is often overlooked by those who are
analytical students of His mission and life work, and
is certainly slighted in emphasis by those who attempt
to interpret His doctrines, teachings, activities, suffer­
ings, trials, victories, and defeats.
I have intimated in many places, in the preceding
chapters, that the fundamental mysticism of Chris­
tianity has been unwarrantedly neglected by modern
Christianity and churchanity, but is being re-intro­
duced into Christianity by the foremost theologians
and clergymen. At a recent conclave of one of the
high Protestant churches of America and England,
the statement was made by one of the foremost ec­
clesiastical authorities that the salvation of the
Christian church today depended upon the proper
emphasis of the mystical foundation of Christianity.
223
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Pristine Christianity was intended to carry on the
teachings and doctrines revealed by Jesus the Christ,
and these were highly mystical though reduced to
worldly parables. The Apostles of Jesus, who were
carefully selected by Him because of their previous
experience in life and their worthiness, were carefully
initiated by Him and spiritually developed during the
secret conclaves which He held, and which never be­
came a part of the public records of His life. The
work that these Apostles carried on. and which was
later taken up by the Holy Fathers of the Christian
church, was dual in nature. There was the secret or
inner circle of students of Christianity, who were
gradually developed in the mystical principles invol­
ved in the doctrines revealed by Jesus; and there was
the outer circle which heard only the parables and
preachments given to the multitudes by Jesus and
amplified by His followers.
For many centuries after the life of Jesus the early
Christine Church was more of a secret mystery
school than a public place or system of general re­
ligious worship. It was not until the conclaves of the
Holy Fathers in the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh
centuries, that the present-day system of churchanity.
separate from mystical Christianity, was adopted.
And even so, the few in every land who were deemed
worthy and properly qualified were permitted to en-
224
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ter the little known inner circle and bask in the bril­
liant light of transcendental illumination. That the
outer circle, with its churchanity, had a glorious work
to do is unquestionable, and I do not mean to criticize
the plans which permitted the outer work to grow
with greater strength or to a more enlarged form than
the work of the inner circle. Even today the propor­
tion of those who are ready to enter the inner circle
is so small as compared with those who are only par­
tially ready for the broader and more general work
of the outer circle, that it often seems like a hopeless
task to make the inner circle sufficiently large enough
to carry on the great work that must be carried on
to retain the mystical elements of Christianity for
future development. I cannot agree altogether with
those who criticize the church and claim that system
and organization have eaten away the h e a r t of
Christianity, or that outer pomp and ceremony, struc­
ture, and operations, have denied any place at all
to the mystical work of the inner chamber. Spiritual
development is a matter of evolution, and propressive
evolution is rapid only with the few. The greatest
work must be among the masses in order that the
occasional one in every thousand of persons may find
the Path that leads to the inner circle.
Before Jesus could begin His great work in life,
and before He could lay the foundation of this work
225
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
by the establishment of His personal school and per­
sonal council, composed of selected Neophytes who
would be His trusted Apostles, He had to face once
again the tests and trials of higher initiation. This
time, however, He would not approach these things
as a N eophyte, but as the ordained Christ. And since
His work would be in the objective world, so would
His tests, trials, and initiatory experiences be of the
objective world. For this reason, we see why it was
that the first incident of His public career was His
retirement into the silence for meditation.
In a previous part of this book I have referred to
this principle of entering the silence and have com­
mented upon the benefits of silent meditation. In the
Books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke of the Christian
Bible, we find reference to Jesus entering the silence,
or going into the wildnerness, whereas nothing is
said of it in the Book of John. John was the most
mystical of the writers of the New Testament, and
His gospel emphasizes more of the mystical principles
of Christianity than any of the others. His reason
for skipping over the incidents of Jesus' meditation
in the wilderness is probably because of its personal
nature, and because it had no bearing upon the work
of Jesus with the public.
Throughout the Christian Bible we find so many
references in both the Old and New Testaments re-
226
garding those who went up on a mountain for illumi­
nation or for intimate contact with God or God's
Consciousness. The proof that these references to
mountains of inspiration or mountains of illumina­
tion have not been considered in their true mystical
light is found in the fact that expeditions composed
of scientists and ecclesiastical authorities have sought
for many of these “mountains'' in the Holy Land, and
have labored diligently to select the proper one to fit
the various incidents described in the Bible. In many
cases, the "mountains'' selected have proved to be
mere hills, much like thousands of others to be found
in such a rolling country; and surprise has been ex­
pressed by a great many that such places should have
been called "mountains" at all. The truth of the mat­
ter is that going up onto a mountain for illumination
is a symbolical, mystical, statement, indicating no ac­
tual, physical mountain, and referring to no physi­
cal height at all. W e are surprised to find that the
ancients who lived in lands where there no mountains
or even large hills, referred, in their writings, to the
illuminations which they received upon mountain
tops. Even some of the early Christians in Egypt
spoke of the illumination which came to them out in
the desert on the mountain top. Going up onto a
mountain meant, in the mystical terminology of the
Great W hite Brotherhood and in all of the mystical
227
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
writings of the Avatars and Masters of the past, the
raising of one's inner spiritual self to a great height
where Cosmic contact, or Cosmic Consciousness, was
definite and complete. W e find that all such experi­
ences in the Old Testament including the one regard­
ing Moses and the spiritual contact He made with
God, were for the purpose of attaining spiritual illu­
mination or the development and test of some spirit­
ual principle. Logically, the very opposite of this
expression was also true. ^Vhenever one of the great
mystics or Masters of the past had to contact or come
in contest with one of the earthly, non-spiritual
phases of life and wrestle with a problem that was
purely worldly, he went into the valleys or into the
wilderness, and not to the mountain top.
Thus we see why the first incident of the life of
Jesus, w h i c h concerned objective principles and
earthly trials and tribulations, took Him into the des­
ert wilderness instead of onto a mountain top. W e
read in the Christian writings that He spent forty
days and forty nights in this wilderness. During this
time He fasted and hungered, and in other ways
suffered the conditions of the body and flesh.
It is interesting to note that the numbers seven and
forty are the numbers mostly used in mystical litera­
ture, because they have a mystical significance. I
will not take the time to recall, to my readers, the
228
number of times the number seven is used in the Old
and New Testament, beginning with the creation of
the world and the number of days in the week, and
the fact that the seventh day was made the Holy
day; for I am sure that a few minutes reflection will
bring to mind many such uses of this symbolical
number. The number forty is used so many times
that its significance becomes apparent, even to the
casual student of the Bible. It is found very fre­
quently in the most ancient of sacred writings in
many lands. The Egyptians claimed that the body
was not completely freed of the soul until after forty
days of preparation. Moses abstained from bread
and water for forty days and forty nights, during
his period of Cosmic contact. Moses was on the
mount for forty days and forty nights; and was on
Mount Sinai the second time for forty days and forty
nights. The men who went to Canaan were forty
days in their spiritual journey. It was prophesied that
no foot of man nor beast would pass through Egypt
for forty years. Elijah was forty days and forty
nights on Mount Horab, and was the same number of
days and nights at Mount Carmel. The children of
Israel were in the hands of the Philistines for forty
years; and for forty years, the children of Israel ate
manna. The people of Ninevah had to repent for
forty days. W e find that Saul, David, Solomon, and
229
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Joash reigned as kings For forty years. So we should
not be surprised to find that Jesus went into the
wilderness for forty days and forty nights.
W e must also remember that both Moses and Eli­
jah began their public ministrations by fasting for
forty days and forty nights, and preparing for their
first acts. In the case of Jesus, however. His first acts
were to be those dealing with material, earthly af­
fairs, while with Moses and Elijah they were to be
of a spiritual nature, dealing with spiritual problems.
Hence, Jesus went into the lowlands of a wilderness
while Moses and Elijah went up on the mountain top.
W e find from the Christian accounts of the experi­
ences of Jesus during His forty days in the wilder­
ness that it was a period of temptation, and the story
being told symbolically, the temptations of the earth
are personified as coming from the person of Satan.
The temptations, however, through which Jesus had
to pass were symbolical of those presented to Him
during His initiation in Egypt, when He was being
prepared for the ministry. According to the old rec­
ords Jesus Himself meditated upon what form of
temptations the world would present to Him during
His ministry, and one by one these temptations were
stated by Himself as though being spoken by the
"tempter.” Then He reviewed the nature of the
temptation, analyzed it carefully, and formulated
230
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
what answer He would be able to give and what atti­
tude He would be able to maintain throughout His
life, if ever brought face to face with such tempta­
tions. Therefore, the entire process was one of self­
examination; and it is recorded that the ultimate re­
sult of the self-examination, and a consideration of
the conditions that Jesus would have to face brought
Him to the point where He realized that He would
come to the final close of His career during a public
attack upon His methods and life, culminating in His
crucifixion. Therefore, we understand why Jesus
made prophetic reference, a number of times, to the
sad close of His life, and why He anticipated and
was more or less prepared for what actually occurred.
In truth, He knew that He would not be the first of
the Avatars who had been crucified, and who had
been accused wrongly by the very people who would
have benefited the most from the instructions and
teachings offered.
In fact, we find that as soon as Jesus had com­
pleted His forty days of meditation and self-exami­
nation, and had outlined His plans for His ministry,
He learned that John, who had Baptized Him, was
already in prison because of his missionary work.
So we know that Jesus was aware of the fate that
awaited Him, and yet it did not deter Him nor dis-
231
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
courage Him, for all these things were tests of His
sincerity.
So Jesus began to preach the doctrine of repent­
ance. This doctrine was not unique with Jesus, but
it was a new form of preachment for the public in
Palestine. El-M oria in Egypi, centuries before, had
introduced the doctrine of regeneration as the reward
of repentance, and it had been a doctrine with the
Great W hite Brotherhood in all lands; but Jesus ad­
ded an inspired hope to the hearts and minds of all—
"the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand!"
Analyzing all of the doctrines introduced by Jesus,
we find that each and every one of them had a mys­
tical principle as its basis, and these mystical prin­
ciples were natural, spiritual laws. Comparing the
pristine doctrines of Christ and the general tone of
His message, to the present-day Christian doctrines
and messages, we find an outstanding difference.
Jesus preached a message of hope which might be
expressed in these words: "Believe in me and my
teachings, love and act in love toward all, and let
hope be the soul of your deeds, for beyond this pres­
ent existence there is a more perfect life to come. I
know this for I have come therefrom, and thither I
will lead you. Aspiration alone will not serve you.
T o attain the more perfect life of the future, you must
begin by realizing it now, first by finding it within
232
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
yourselves, in the Kingdom of Heaven that is within,
then afterwards finding it in humanity through the
acts of love and charity." The present-day doctrines
preach a mesage of despair which must be phrased
briefly in these words: “Ye are all sons of evil, born
in sin and living in sin, and in sin shalt ye die. The
Kingdom of Heaven is far from thee, and can never
be attained except ye are born again and through
regeneration become purified and saved from the sms
which ye have inherited.”
W e can understand, then, why the multitudes of
Palestine followed Him and found peace and re­
newed life in His words. Nowhere in the records
of the Brotherhood do we find that the miracles of
Jesus nor the wonderful demonstrations of healing
which He performed attracted as much attention or
brought as much hope and happiness into the lives of
the public as did His message. And those of the
Brotherhood who are well acquainted with the prin­
ciples involved, rightfully feel that the present-day
emphasis upon the miraculous healing of Jesus is a
mistake, for in His time these things were but mere
incidents and not the objective of His mission, nor
the paramount benefit which He bestowed. His cor­
dial message of “Come unto me, ye that are heavy­
laden, and I will give you rest,” was one which meant
more to the multitudes than the raising of the dead
233
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
or the healing of the sick. Think again of the con­
tentions, the struggles, the bitter disappointments, the
blasted hopes, and the peaceful aspirations of the
people of Palestine at this time, and you will realize
what such a message meant to them.
Jesus' famous sermon on the Mount presents an
image of the Kingdom of Heaven which He was al­
ready bringing into consciousness in the hearts of
the people. Did He require them to do great fasting,
make unusual sacrifices, or suffer public penance?
None of these were recommended by Jesus, he merely
said that all should lift up their eyes and attune their
spirits with the new Kingdom. "Blessed are the poor
in spirit; for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven,” was
the consolation that He offered to the downtrodden,
and those who were forlorn and in despair. His pres­
entation of the four Beatitudes: the marvelous power
of humility, sorrow for others, the inner goodness of
the heart, and hunger and thirst after righteousness
were the mystical doctrines or spiritual principles
which He taught as being the W ay to the Kingdom
of Heaven. And like the sound of a mystic, silver,
bell in the temples of old. resounded the pure pristine
principle of "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they
shall see God!"
Even His doctrine of regeneration called for no
material, physical sacrifice as demanded by others
234
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
who had left the multitudes in despondency. "Except
a man be born again, He cannot see the Kingdom of
God,” meant no difficult thing for those who under­
stood the spiritual, mystical, laws involved; for Jesus
explained, "Verily I say unto thee, except a man be
born of water and of the spirit. He cannot enter into
the "Kingdom of God." These words are recorded in
the Book of John; for John was careful to preserve
the mystical statements of Jesus, knowing the im­
portance of this part of the Divine messages. Regen­
eration by water, rebirth through Baptism, and awak­
ening of the Divine Consciousness within through
the Holy Spirit, was the W ay to the new Kingdom.
In the Great W hite Brotherhood and in the Rosi-
crucian Brotherhood of today all of the doctrines,
teachings, thoughts for meditation, and principles for
experience are intended to enable the student to
awaken that inner consciousness and permit the Holy
Spirit to bring about that attunement which leads to
the finding of the Holy Kingdom. W ith the coming
of Cosmic Consciousness, through the awakening of
the Holy Spirit, comes illumination of the mind, peace
to the soul and body, power to the mental faculties,
intuition, the healing touch, the ability to master and
accomplish, and the prowess to overcome the earthly,
material obstacles to success and happiness. These
are the offerings of the Brotherhood in all lands, and
235
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
freely are they offered and freely must they be ac­
cepted, in sincerity and with an open mind. No ma­
terial price can be placed upon these things, nor can
they be commercialized in books and public manu­
scripts. For ages have the Rosicrucians preserved
these teachings and carried on with the Divine prin­
ciples without bias, without price, or prejudice. To
the few who are worthy, these things are accessible.
To those who are curious and demand a sign or a
symbol, nothing is shown and nothing is given.
The miracles performed by Jesus were never super­
natural in the sense that they extended beyond the
limitations of natural law, or found their manifesta­
tion through a unique application of an unusual law.
To the mystics of old and to Jesus, the Master of
these things, all laws were Divine laws, all principles
were Godly, and there w is nothing supernatural,
nothing superdivine, unique, or extraordinary, in
what He did. His power to perform miracles was
dual: mental apprehension and comprehension of the
laws involved, with the ability to properly apply
them and direct their operation; and the Divine
within Him which enabled Him to efficiently direct
the creative processes of the God Consciousness in
His soul. Half of His power was a Divine gift born
in Him, the other half a power developed through
study, training, and experience. To some degree all
236
men and women are born with the Divine power to
perform, and to some degree all men and women may
attain the mental mastership necessary for the appli­
cation of the Divine power. Jesus Himself is the au­
thority for the statement that others could do the
things which He did— even greater things. Great
Avatars before Him had performed similar miracles,
and even today there are those who heal and who
raise those who are literally dead, through the Divine
power that is God's greatest gift to man. Jesus did
not teach that so-called death or transition was some­
thing which might be stayed, continually prevented,
or completely eliminated from the life of man, but
that it was an inevitable event in the life of all beings.
In this we see a distinct contradiction of the unsound
and unnatural doctrine that transition may be avoided
and life made continuous in one body. “There is no
death!" is true of the real part of man, and of the physi­
cal part as well; but Jesus and His Disciples taught
that there is a change in all material things and that
transition of the soul and body are manifestations of
the spiritual law. However, disease and suffering are
abnormal and preventable, and this Jesus demon­
strated. Also, He taught how to live that the physi­
cal body might be free of suffering, and the mind
free of the tortures of sin. The Rosicrucians of today
teach how man may live in harmony with natural
237
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
law, and avoid the sufferings of the flesh and the sins
of the body, so that man may dwell in peace and
happiness until the hour of transition comes.
It is easily understood that the teachings and dem­
onstrations of Jesus antagonized those of the ortho­
dox faith. Jesus was a modernist in every sense of
the word, and He came into the land of fundamen­
talists with doctrines and demonstrations of doctrines,
which were contrary to all that had been taught to
and believed by the multitudes.
In my recent journey through Palestine I noted the
contest between the various sects, and especially the
determination of the strictly orthodox to adhere to
the ancient customs and rites of their forefathers. It
was quite evident that if Jesus came to Jerusalem to­
day and preached once again as He did before, and
made demonstrations of the truth of His teachings.
He would be crucified again by incarceration, by re­
jection on the part of the strictly orthodox, and by
ridicule on the part of the skeptics and doubters.
Undoubtedly the same would result if He came to
the W estern W orld and right into the midst of
those who are at present discussing the evolution of
man’s thinking, and the advancement of His compre­
hension, which effects a change in his beliefs and
faiths.
238
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
During the period of the public ministry of Jesus,
He passed through the four ancient, traditional
stages of initiation as outlined centuries before by
Pythagoras, which were: The first degree or prepa­
ration, culminating in the sermon on the Mount; the
second degree or purification represented by the
miraculous h e a l i n g s and the demonstrations of
Christian mystical therapeutics; the third degree or
illumination manifested by the raising of Lazarus:
and the fourth degree or spiritual vision manifested
by the transfiguration.
How these events and stages of His mission cul­
minated, and what they meant to this great Master,
I will present in the next and following chapters
239
CHAPTER XV
V
ITH IN recent years, one or two pamphlets
have appeared presenting what claims to be
a story of the crucifixion as recorded by an
eye witness. The story told therein is very
short and merely throws some light of a
questionable nature on a few points of the story of
the crucifixion. The statements in that pamphlet
which were worthy of consideration were taken from
several reliable sources, and fictitiously enlarged by
an unknown author who was merely making his ap­
peal to those who desire a surprising story.
The true story of the crucifixion is recorded in a
number of ancient writings, all of which are very
dependable and consistent in their outline of the in­
cidents. Even Judas left a brief outline of his con­
nection with the affair, and what he noted of it. His
story merely substantiates some of the points con­
tained in the other records. The principal and most
complete outlines of the story are contained in the
three manuscripts written by different scribes and
preserved in the monasteries of Tibet, Egypt, and
India.
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE CRUCIFIXION
241
It is generally believed by Biblical students that
the only record or story of the crucifixion is that con­
tained in the Christian Gospels, and critics of the
Christian doctrines and Biblical stories have often ar­
gued that they did not believe the story at all be­
cause they could find no verification or substantia­
tion of it in other records, or in the writings of con­
temporary historians. These persons seem to forget
that at the time of the crucifixion the event was one
of paramount importance to the followers of Jesus,
and to the several sects, the members of which were
associated with the work being done by Jesus and
His Apostles. The event was of little importance
from a national point of view, and from the point of
view of the orthodox Jews and the powers at Rome.
For this reason, contemporary historians, writing of
the broader and larger events of the day, did not look
upon the crucifixion of a religious leader as an event
of such national importance or such worldly consid­
eration as to warrant a place in their writings. From
our present-day point of view, the crucifixion appears
as one of the most important events in the history of
civilization; but that is because time has given us the
proper perspective and the results of the crucifixion
have enlarged tnemselves into a world-wide effect
that is still vital to the lives of men and women.
Many events in recent years have passed by hardly
242
THE MYSTICAL LIFE,OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
noticed in the historical records, and have since be­
come of extreme importance. The assassination of
one man in one country in Europe, some years ago,
might have passed by with little comment in the
newspapers, and certainly without any comment at
all in the history of the nation, if the future develop­
ments associated with that event, or gradually result­
ing from it, had not quickly given it a place of world­
wide importance, connected with one of the greatest
wars in the history of mankind.
In the case of the crucifixion of Jesus, the real im­
portance of the event and the greater effect of it
evolved very slowly, and only after many centuries
had passed. Those who wrote about it while it was
still fresh in their minds dealt with it, not as an event
of world-wide importance, or as an event that needed
to be set forth in minute detail, but as an event that
had its categorical place in the scheme of things as­
sociated with the purely religious activities of their
sect; and for this reason they recorded only those
points which had a religious or spiritual significance,
according to the individual writer's personal opinion.
Hence the difference in presentation of the story, and
the difference in emphasis of the various points in­
volved. This explains the lack of details in the Gos­
pels.
243
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
However, in the records of the writers who in­
tended to preserve the complete story in the archives
of the Great W hite Brotherhood, and its associated
organizations, the matter was viewed as one that had
an important connection with the series of events that
had occurred in the history of the Great W hite
Brotherhood in ages past. The writers presented evi­
dence of the relationship of this event with similar
events substantiating the doctrinal teachings and tra­
ditions of the Cosmic and spiritual laws as made
manifest in the lives of every great Avatar, and every
great leader of man’s evolution. In the opinion of
these writers, many incidents connected with the cru­
cifixion were of extreme importance and were care­
fully recorded, while the same incidents were passed
over as inconsequential by the writers of the records
published in the Christian Bible.
Another reason for a considerable difference be­
tween the story as told by the Gospel writers and
the story told by the scribes for the Great W hite
Brotherhood, lies in the fact that the writers of the
Christian Gospels were writing for the purpose of
establishing and maintaining certain doctrines and
principles which were becoming the foundation of a
new religious sect. Therefore, they had to adhere to
the traditional story of the crucifixion, as it had been
officially outlined by the Apostles and presented as
244
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
T h e emblem shown above is one of the oldest of the popular
m ystical signs, and has been m istakenly attributed to the A m eri­
can Ind ians because it w as found freely used in some of their
m ystical decorations. Recent research found it engraved among
the very old symbols of the M ayans in Y ucatan, where it was
probably in use hundreds of years before the C hristian E ra. It
has also been found as one of the signs in the ancient Buddhist
Zodiacs, and is a symbol in the Asoka inscriptions. I t was the
sectarian m arks of the Ja in s and the distinctive badge of the sect
of X a ca Japonicus. T h e earliest form of the cross found in the
C hristian catacom bs is in this form . T h is symbol is one of the
most sacred in use in the m onasteries of T ib e t by the G reat
W h ite Brotherhood. In C hristian symbolism this cross is sup­
posed to represent two capital Gam m as, crossed, and is used as
the sign o f “faith in the crucified.”
245
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the theological basis for the Christian foundation.
Every incident of the crucifixion inconsistent with
these theological principles and foundation traditions
had to be eliminated from their stories, not for the
purpose of deception, but in order that those unpre­
pared and unready for the complete story would not
be confused, or their attention distracted from the
principal elements, by the presentation of mystical
elements reserved only for the inner circle and the
more advanced followers.
From this the reader will understand that the com­
plete story and the real facts of the crucifixion were
accessible to and known by the Holy fathers who
established the early Christian church in the fourth
to seventh century A. D. In fact, these Holy Fathers
had easier access to these records and to many others
now lost or hidden, than we of the present time, de­
spite any connections we may have with the greatest
and most complete existing library of secret manu­
scripts.
W e know that the Holy Fathers of the early
church had access to these secret records, because in
the council meetings oE the early Christian church,
and in the discussions that took place between the
highest authorities of the early church, reference was
made to certain portions of manuscripts and official
records dealing with the crucifixion and other inci-
246
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
dents of the life of Jesus, which are now concealed or
which have been destroyed. That many such rec­
ords were destroyed is proved by the fact that at cer­
tain times in the past these various councils of the
early church authorized the destruction of certain
manuscripts which were discussed by them, because
they decided that the existence of such records might
embarrass them in the future. The official records of
many of these Councils contain long and lively dis­
cussions regarding these manuscripts and their con­
tents; and we find that a number of eminent authori­
ties in the early church seceded from the Councils
and brought the wrath of the early church upon their
heads by their refusal to agree to the destruction of
these important manuscripts and the plan to conceal
facts which were known.
In previous chapters of this book I have referred
to the statements of some of the Holy Fathers, which
showed how familiar they were with the secret or
hidden details of the life of Jesus. Unquestionably
many of these important records and manuscripts are
preserved in the Vatican at Rome, today, for it was
the ambition of the Holy Fathers during the seventh
to twelfth centuries to procure and take away from
public or even private study, all books and manu­
scripts in the rare collections in Oriental lands which
might contain statements differing from those estab-
247
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
lished by them as the official traditions and doctrines
of their church. W e know, for instance, of one inci­
dent which took place during the Crusades to the
Holy Land, at which time one magnificent library
containing twenty thousand rare manuscripts of his­
torical importance, dealing mostly with religious mat­
ters, and especially with the affairs preceding and
during the lifetime of Jesus, was destroyed completely
— reduced to ashes after a selected few of the manu­
scripts were forwarded to Rome.
Fortunately for us, some very important manu­
scripts h?ve survived all of the destructive processes,
and it is from these that many incidents regarding the
life of Jesus have been extracted for this book. The
incidents of the crucifixion, taken from these records,
are especially illuminating, and because they are too
long to be placed in any one volume, I find it neces­
sary merely to select at the present time the high­
lights from these records, and piece them together in
the following paragraphs.
First of all, we find that the crucifixion of Jesus
did not come about at the hands of the Jews, as a
protest against His teachings or as a punishment for
His attempted leadership. The idea that the Jews
persecuted and eventually crucified Jesus is a view­
point adopted by the Holy Fathers of the early
Christian church, because it was consistent with the
248
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
theological principles they wished to establish, and
consistent with the traditions they wished to make
the basis of their doctrines.
It is generally contended by Christian authorities
that Jesus was an outcast among the Jews except for
the few hundreds or thousands who constituted His
followers; but there is no foundation for this idea
in any of the incidents of His life, nor in the facts as
we find them. W hile it is true that the Jews did not
consider Jesus a Jew, but a Gentile, and many of
them ridiculed the idea that anyone from Galilee or
anyone who was believed to be a Nazarite could do
anything that was good, nevertheless they would not
have crucified Him because He was a foreigner, nor
even if they had considered Him an "upstart” in their
midst. The idea that He was destroying their religion
or wrecking their church is not supported by any of
the real facts. Jesus, Himself, said, on more than
one occasion, that He came not to destroy the law or
the words of the prophets, nor to belittle the prophets
and pull them down from the high place they held
among the Jews, but to fulfil the predictions of the
prophets, and to support the laws they had estab­
lished.
It has also been said that Jesus attempted to turn
the faith of the Jews from their one God toward an­
other, or a trinity o/ God, and for this reason brought
249
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
condemnation upon His work. W e find no founda­
tion for this belief either; and when He, Himself, was
asked as to what was the first commandment, He
answered: ‘‘Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is
One, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all
thy heart and all thy soul and all thy might.” Cer­
tainly that was consistent with the Jewish religious
viewpoint, and could not have been antagonistic.
W hile it is true that He did criticize a few of the
practices in the Synagogue, and did attempt to direct
the thoughts of the people to higher ideals, this in
itself would not have warranted the Jews to crucify
Jesus, nor to do more than simply ignore Him.
Jesus was no more radical than Isaiah had been,
and no more liberal in His orthodoxy than Micah.
He did not attempt to establish a new sect or a new
church of any kind, despite the statements of many
Christians who think that Jesus, Himself, established
the first Christian church and started the first Christ­
ian movement toward the foundation of a separate
and individual sect. But even if He had done so, this
would have been no new thing in that land, for
among the Jews were various sects, some very old,
and some very new, such as the Pharisees, Saddu-
cees, Essenes, Nazarites, Nazarenes, Kuthites, Boe-
thusians, and many others. And yet not one of the
founders of these various sects was ever punished by
250
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
death. Jesus may have proclaimed Himself as a M es­
siah, much to the disgust of the strictly orthodox, but
according to Jewish custom any member of the House
of Judah might have believed it without being killed
by the Jews for such a belief. He may have referred
to Himself, although we have no record of it, as the
‘‘unique and only begotten Son of God,” but we
doubt that the simple claim of being the ‘‘Son of
God” would have antagonized them in any way; for
every Jew believed that God was his "Father” and
always prayed to God as his Heavenly Father, and
referred to himself as the child of God. Such a con­
ception of the Deity was common in Israel.
The one outstanding point in connection with the
crucifixion of Jesus is the use of the cross. That one
thing tells the story that Rome had ordered His
death, and that it was a Roman punishment and not
a Jewish one, for the Jews would have stoned Him,
in their usual manner, had they desired to get rid
of this man for any reason. The fact that His death
was ordered in the Roman manner, and at the hands
of those officially delegated to carry out the death
sentence in a legal manner, indicates that the whole
affair was not one of mob violence or religious perse­
cution on the part of the Jews, but a sentence offi­
cially proclaimed at Rome.
251
THE MYSTICAL LIFE. OF JESUS
W e must remember that more important than the
claim of the Apostles or the Disciples of Jesus that
He was a Messiah, and the Son of God, was the title
being bestowed upon Him by the enthusiastic fol­
lowers, who idolized Him, and, without discrimina­
tion or discretion, proclaimed Him "King of the
Jews.” This was a serious thing, and the real reason
for His crucifixion.
T he Jews were anxious to have a leader, whether
he was the true Messiah or one anticipating or rep­
resenting a Messiah to come. And if this self-ap­
pointed or truly ordained leader brought them a mes­
sage of peace and happiness, and performed miracles
of healing, he would have been tolerated by the ma­
jority of the Jews if not by all of them. The rest­
lessness among the Jews in Palestine and their hopes
and plans to be freed from the yoke of Rome had
caused Rome considerable anxiety in the past. Every­
where the spies of the Roman government were
watching for the possible uprising of a rebellion, and
the selection of a leader that might start another war;
and when the whisperings and even the open profes­
sions of the enthusiastic followers of Jesus proclaimed
Him the "King of the Jews” it was a matter serious
enough to be immediately reported to Rome and be
given official attention. Jesus was undoubtedly feared
by Rome, according to many ancient records that deal
252
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
with just this phase of the matter. His simple teach­
ings were surely opposed to those taught as the offi­
cial doctrines of the Romans. His preachments tended
toward holy socialism, and the tyrannical imperialism
of Rome could never harmonize with such teachings
as this. The only offence that can be attributed to
Jesus throughout His whole career was a political
offence from the Roman point of view. The Roman
standing army in Israel and the spies maintained by
the Romans made it possible for that government to
take stringent measures whenever there seemed to be
a traitor in their midst or a possible uprising.
Caiaphas would appear to have been a spy for
the Roman government if we are to judge by the se­
cret reports that he made to Rome regarding the ac­
tivities of Jesus. On the other hand, he may have
been merely a personal enemy, for he certainly did
do everything possible to keep Rome informed about
Jesus and to make it difficult for Jesus to continue His
work. Even though Caiaphas was an eminent leader
of the Sanhedrin he did not represent this body in
the reports he made, nor in the attitude he assumed.
It is even indicated that Caiaphas went so far as to
present large sums of money for the purpose of pro­
curing evidence and making sure that a warrant
would be issued by Rome for the arrest and trial of
253
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
Jesus. So we find in this man a greater enemy to
Jesus and His work than Judas.
It appears from some of the ancient records that
most of the contentions and revolts that became quite
popular in Palestine at about this time were purposely
attributed to Jesus, or more precisely to His follow­
ers. Gradually Rome became convinced that it could
end the enormous expense to which it had been
placed in constantly investigating and watching the
Christ movement in Jerusalem, and cut short the
troubles it had experienced in dealing with these mat­
ters by removing the leader of the so-called new po­
litical [action. Therefore, by the time Jesus entered
Jerusalem for the purpose of carrying on the culmi­
nating phases of His work after a long and success­
ful tour in the outlying sections, a warrant for His
arrest was already in the hands of officials in Jeru­
salem. Owing to the fact that He arrived at the ap­
proaching festival period, it was deemed advisable
not to interfere with the quietude and sacred peace­
fulness of the Jewish Feast Days. Caiaphas antici­
pated an uprising when the hour for the arrest came,
and such an event would have been disastrous to
the traditions of the church, and would have upset
the celebration of the Feast pilgrims, and incidentally
would have detracted from the very large financial
254
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
harvest which always resulted when there were so
many thousands of pilgrims in Jerusalem.
There are a number of references, in the ancient
records, showing that an assassination of Jesus had
not only been thought of, but had been planned by
some of the hirelings of both the religious fanatics of
Jerusalem and the local Roman authorities. It was
decided, however, that such an act would be blamed
upon the Jews rather than the Romans, because the
Romans had every reason and every power to pro­
ceed openly and have Jesus condemned as a political
trouble maker.
The story of Judas as presented in the Christian
version is a garbled one, modified in order to illus­
trate the fact that among the followers of Jesus, as
with every great leader or Avatar in the past, there
was one who represented the evil forces and princi­
ples of the world, and who typified the untrustworthy
element met with in all phases of life. The facts of
the story are that the officials appointed to arrest
Jesus realized that if they attempted to arrest Him
in public while He was preaching or performing His
miracles, they would have to contend with a mob sit­
uation resulting in the use of arms and force, the
destruction of life and property, and the creation of
a condition not desired by either the Roman or Jew­
ish people. Therefore, it was decided to arrest Jesus
255
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
in private, when He was outside of the city and ac­
companied by but a few of His followers. Someone
was needed, however, who could identify him at a
distance in the white raiment which so many of the
Essenes wore. Judas was willing to serve in this
case for the bribe that was offered him, and in truth
he did typify the element in life which the story in
the Christian Bible presents.
That Jesus knew of the coming events and that
treachery and false reports were about to end His
career, is evidenced not only in the Christian stories
but in many of the private records. The soldiers
representing the Roman government followed the di­
rections of Judas, and found Jesus in His usual en­
vironment in the Garden of Gethsemane where He
was wont to hold secret consultations with Nicode-
mus, Mathaeli, Philopoldi, and Yousef of Arimathea.
W hile the soldiers were arresting Jesus, Yousef of
Arimathea made off hastily to inform others of what
had occurred, and to make immediate plans to aid
Jesus. Pilate was consulted and he agreed to delay
matters till after the Feast days. He feared there
had been some illegal trickery or action in what had
occurred, that criticisms would result, and that his
own position was in jeopardy. Reading between the
lines of the various ancient stories, we cannot feel
that Pilate was moved by any inner or outer senti-
256
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ment in his dealings with Jesus that was impersonal
or unselfish.
The warrant called for immediate trial, and Pilate
found reason legally to delay matters without antag­
onizing the Roman authorities, and yet serve his own
purpose. There were those who called upon Pilate
representing themselves as Jews, and others repre­
senting themselves as supporters of the Roman gov­
ernment, who demanded that the order of the Em­
peror's prefect be carried out at once. The warrant
was of a nature that called for the death sentence if
the person arrested was found guilty as charged. It
is recorded that the decisions of the minor judges
and witnesses were reported to Pilate that very night,
but there was not found in these decisions that testi­
mony which Pilate believed was sufficient for him to
permit immediate execution. In some of the Christian
stories there is an intimation that some persons in
Pilate’s household were followers of Jesus. W e find
no reason for this statement except that Pilate him­
self had had some absent healing conducted by Jesus,
1 which had resulted in the cure of a diseased hand.
But if all those who had been healed or helped by
Jesus had been true followers of Him, there would
have been such a multitude of followers in Jerusalem
that no one would have even dared to plan the cruci­
fixion, let alone carry it out. It is not uncommon for
257
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Avatars to have the very arm that was once para­
lyzed and cured become the arm and the hand that
smites them first. Pilate was pleading for delay, but
pressure was being brought to bear and he yielded.
The attempt to transfer the case to Galilee, because
Jesus was not a Jew, and therefore bring it under the
direction of Herod, who was attending the Feast in
Jerusalem, also failed. Herod, himself, was not in
such a position of stability and so free of criticism
that he dared to take part in an affair that he knew
was a more serious matter than appeared on the sur­
face. The intriguers, in the meantime, feared that
Jesus might slip out of their clutches, but no attempt
was made by His followers to do otherwise than de­
mand fair trial and sufficient delay to enable them
to prepare their defense. Jesus, Himself, seemed to
be unconcerned regarding the controversy among the
higher magistrates, for it is recorded that during
these very bitter hours He continued to give treat­
ments, teach, and carry on with a peaceful mind.
W e must think of the majesty of such a mind that
was able to do this knowing, as Jesus knew, what was
really in store for Him. The followers of Jesus who
were attempting to prepare some defence tor Him,
or to secure riis freedom, recalled the fact that it was
customary on the occasion of such Feasts to give
life and liberty to some criminal, and this point was
258
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
presented before the officials with the request that
the multitude preferred Jesus as the one who should
be the receiver of such a Feast gift. Even this plan
failed. Finally, Pilate turned Jesus over to the mob
of accusers and personal enemies, and the process of
scourging began as a preliminary to the crucifixion.
The manner in which the leaders of the mob exerted
themselves at this time, as recorded in all the records,
shows that the greatest enmity and ill feeling was felt
on the part of a few of the Jews who were personal
enemies.
However, the Apostles and the brethren of the Es-
senes silently were carrying on their plans and ap­
pealing to higher authorities to save the life of their
Master. Those who knew what was being done in
the form of appealing to the Emperor for a reconsid­
eration, and appealing to other authorities for inter­
vention, could not understand why these things did
not come to an issue more quickly; and according to
the records, a great many of the followers of Jesus
thought that more trickery was being perpetrated,
while those who knew realized that Jesus had ad­
vised them of the real nature of the crucifixion, and
how it would terminate, and what it meant to the
great work of the secret organization. Therefore,
there were two groups who watched the develop­
ments: one moved by anxiety lest each hour would
259
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
produce no cffect that would stay the proceedings,
and the other group that knew intuitively, and per­
haps from secret information given them, that all
would not end as the others believed.
Nearly a week had elapsed since the warrant had
been issued and hour by hour passed until finally
the body of Jesus was raised on the cross on Gol­
gotha, a little hill just outside of the city walls that
was so round and suggestive of the shape of a skull
that it was called Golgotha. Here other condemned
men had been crucified, as had been the custom of
the Romans for many years. The cross had always
been a device for Roman crucifixion and persecution,
and an emblem, to the Essenes, of man's suffering,
tests, and trials; but the raising of this particular cross
with its precious burden, became at once a new sym­
bol to the Brethren of W hite Clothing and the secret
Brotherhood, and from that hour the cross had a
new meaning in spiritual and mystical thought. The
Jewish factions which had gathered round about to
witness the raising of the cross, dispersed to prepare
for the approach of the Sabbath, and only the Gen­
tiles and the brethren of the secret organizations re­
mained there to watch and protect the body of their
Master.
Considerable comment has been made in recent
years, and perhaps in many of the years gone by,
260
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
concerning the words spoken by Jesus while on the
cross. Those who have tried to argue that Jesus was
not the great Master and Son o f G od as claimed by
the Apostles and the Disciples, refer to the words
in the Book of St. Mark X V :34, which are given
there, in one of the languages which Jesus spoke as
‘‘Eloi, Eloi, lama, sabachthani?" which is translated
in the Bible as meaning. "M y God, M y God, why
hast thou forsaken me?" The Book of Matthew gives
practically the same wording. However, the four
books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John agree in
saying that immediately after speaking these words,
Jesus yielded up the Ghost, or gave up the Ghost.
These words spoken by Jesus, and the statement
that He gave up the Ghost are highly significant in
a mystical sense. It was the Holy Ghost which Jesus
yielded up at that moment, and this was the same
Holy Ghost that came into the womb of M ary and
manifested the creative power of the Logos; and the
same Holy Ghost that descended upon Jesus at the
time of His baptism, and which infused Him with
the authority and power to be the living representa­
tive of the Logos on earth. At the time of yielding
up the Holy Ghost, while on the cross, Jesus per­
mitted the special power and authority to return to
the Cosmic Consciousness and leave Him as one who
had completed His mission and was no longer the liv-
261
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ing power of the Logos on earth. This is why Luke
expresses the incident by having Jesus say, "Father,
unto thy hands I commend my spirit,” and John
wrote that Jesus said, “It is finished."
Every mystic will understand that these references
to giving up the Holy Ghost cannot possibly refer
to the giving up of life, vitality, or vital conscious­
ness. Those who have attempted, since the fifth cen­
tury A. D., to advance the idea that Jesus actually
died while still on the cross, or that His transition
occurred at that time, attempt to use the term "giving
up the Holy Ghost" as meaning giving up life and
consciousness. If the Holy Ghost is to be considered
in this particular instance as meaning vitality, life,
and animation, then we must be consistent and inter­
pret the term in the same way in every instance
where it has been used in connection with the life of
Jesus. Can we say, then, that when Jesus was Bap­
tized, and the Holy Ghost descended upon Him, that
it was life, vitality, and consciousness, and that this
was the beginning of His existence as a living being?
It is quite evident by the whole story of the Baptism
in the Christian Gospels that the descent of the Holy
Ghost was the Holy authority and Divine power
coming into the body of Jesus, or into His conscious­
ness, completing His preparation and perfection of
development as a Divine Son of God, an Avatar, and
262
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the living Christ. It was the reversal of this process—
the Holy Ghost and the Christhood withdrawing into
the spirit and consciousness of God; which occurred
on the cross as the culmination of His brief mission
and the end of His official Christhood.
W e realize, now, that the words, "Eloi, Eloi, lama,
sabachthani?” could not mean "M y God, M y God,
why hast thou forsaken me?" and that there is either
some hidden meaning in this expression or the words
have been misinterpreted. Going to our ancient rec­
ords and the original versions and transcriptions that
are recorded in reliable archives, we find that the
words written there are "Heloi, Heloi, lama, sabach-
thani?” W e find, then, that what Jesus said was,
‘‘M y Temple of Helois, My Brethren of Helois, why
hast thou forsaken me?” and that He was referring
to the Brethren of the Temple at Helois where He
had been initiated. They were expected to prevent
any unnecessary suffering and be ready to render any
aid that was necessary. Just at this time, in the midst
of His intense suffering, Jesus was not aware of all
that was being done for Him, and probably looked
upon the absence of so many of the brethren as a
lack of attention at a crucial moment. It was at this
moment that Jesus entered into the stage of transi­
tion from Divine M aster to human Master, and the
transition had its culmination in the Ascension as de-
263
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
scribed in the next chapter. W e see, therefore, that
the problem regarding His last words on the cross
resolves itself into a further indication of His real
majesty and Divine attunement.
Just as the sun was casting its last rays over the
horizon, and the sky seemed to be darkening more
rapidly and threatening a storm, which appeared
highly significant to the faithful ones, a commotion
was occurring in the palace of Pilate; for a herald
had arrived with a document bearing the private seal
of Tiberias, and all were anxious to know its con­
tents. This document instructed Pilate to cancel the
warrant and to stay all proceedings until a complete
investigation could be made by Cyrenius. In the
meantime, Jesus was to be set at liberty until a full
report could be made.
Pilate immediately sent a messenger to those who
were in charge of the crucifixion stating what had
occurred, and instructing that no further persecu­
tion or torture of the body was to be permitted. In
fact his instructions stated that if there was any life
still in the body of Jesus, it was to be taken down
from the cross and sent to a hospice to be cared for.
This was the news anticipated by Nicodemus, M a-
thaeli, and Yousef of Arimathea, and of course it was
unpleasant news to the intriguers, and especially the
Covenanters.
264
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The storm soon broke and delayed the removal of
the body of Jesus for a few hours, but in that time
food and drink were given Him, and support was
placed under His body to prevent it from pulling too
greatly upon the nails which tortured His flesh. The
few faithful ones noted with great anxiety that a
somber stillness and a numbness was passing over
the body, and that gradually Jesus lost consciousness.
At the earliest possible moment, when the storm
quieted, torches were brought and an examination of
the body revealed that Jesus was not dead. The blood
flowing from the wounds proved that the body was
not lifeless, and so the cross was immediately taken
down and the body removed from it. The body was
then taken to a burial vault owned by Yousef of
Arimathea, which had been built for the care of his
family; and being a wealthy man it was an elaborate
and well constructed burial place. The body was
placed in a special part of the tomb which had been
pre-arranged for its reception, and physicians con­
nected with the Essene Brotherhood were at hand to
render every possible assistance in caring for the
wounds.
The Essenes had secured permission for the use of
this tomb as a burial place for Jesus, and the authori­
ties had granted this permission in the belief that it
was to be the permanent tomb of Jesus. Therefore,
265
shortly after the body was placed in the tomb, some
outer guards belonging to the Brotherhood an­
nounced the coming of the officials who were to in­
spect the tomb and approve of the burial. Jesus had
just attained complete consciousness and His wounds
had been dressed sufficiently for the Essenes to wrap
the body in clean white clothes, in preparation for a
short sleep, when the officials reached the tomb.
These officials were permitted to watch the closing
of the tomb and affix their seals upon the stones and
the door which closed it securely. Apparently every­
thing of an official nature to make the tomb a per­
manent burial place had been done according to law,
and yet according to our records, much was left un­
done because the Essenes had made sure that the
officials did not go too far in the process of sealing
and closing every means of entrance and exit. The
description of the tomb in the records from which I
quote is not complete enough for us to thoroughly
understand its form or structure, and we are not sure
whether there were two doorways or only one. It
appears, however, from all records, that a great stone
was used to close up the doorway after the doors
had been shut, for the purpose of hiding the doorway
so that the burial place, which was in the side of a
rock, would not be too apparent or attract too much
attention. It is also recorded that Nicodemus was
266
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF )ESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
fearful that some trick might be played, as he real­
ized there were those who knew of the trickery on
the part of Caiaphas, and that the resentment of the
followers of Jesus might take the form of some plan
to thwart the law. So he demanded that the sep­
ulchre be watched, for the satisfaction of Caiaphas
and the law.
Late in the night, the storm which had only par­
tially ceased, raged fiercely again throughout the
whole valleys of Judea, and thunder and lightning
echoed and flashed in the mountains roundabout.
According to the records, it was an unusually severe
storm and it cleared the streets of Jerusalem and the
roads just outside of the walls of all pilgrims, and
even forced some of the guards and soldiers under
cover.
267
CH A PTER X V I
T H E S E C R E T F A C T S O F T H E
R E SU R R E C T IO N
V
U S T before sunrise, Yousef of Arimathea
and other Essenes who had been hiding
nearby approached the tomb when the
guards were trying to protect themselves
from the rain under the shelter of some cattle
houses slightly distant. Using the means they had
previously provided, and taking advantage of the
laxity of the officials in sealing the doorway prop­
erly, they caused this great stone to be thrown over,
and the doorway to be opened. W hen they entered
the tomb, they found Jesus resting easily, and rapidly
regaining strength and vitality. After an hour the
storm ceased sufficiently for the Essenes to escort
Him from the tomb.
Jesus had used every one of the powers coming
into His being through the perfect attunement He
had with the Cosmic, to restore strength and con­
sciousness to every part of His body and to all of
His highly developed faculties. Therefore, it was
possible for the Essenes to place His body upon a
colt and cover Him with some heavy garments while
269
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
they led the colt and its precious burden through
the mild rain and deep darkness to a secluded place
belonging to the Brotherhood, not far from the walls
of the city.
In the Book of John in the Holy Bible, we have
one of the interesting facts concerning the crucifixion
which appears in the ancient records from which I
am quoting, and which incident is often overlooked
by the most critical of the Bible students. It is that
although it was a common practice to break the bones
in the body of every crucified person, and to cause
these bodies to hang upon the cross for several days
b o that there would be no possibility of the body re­
maining alive, nevertheless the body of Jesus was
taken down without the bones being broken, even
though the soldiers broke the bones of the two crimi­
nals that were upon the cross close by. This was not
an oversight on the part of the soldiers by any means,
for not only did they fulfill the law by breaking the
bones of the two criminals, but they had been so
accustomed to this procedure for many years that
we cannot believe that after having performed their
duty with the other two, they would forget the prac­
tice, momentarily, in the case of the third body upon
the cross. The ancient records, to which I have been
referring, state that when the soldiers were notified
that the body must be taken down immediately be-
270
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
cause a release had come, and that everything must
be done to permit Jesus to regain His consciousness
and strength if He had not passed through transition,
they realized that they were not to injure, torture, or
in any way affect the ease and comfort of Jesus, but
to relieve Him as quickly as possible from the agony
in which they found Him.
It may be interesting to call attention to the fact
that nowhere in the Gospels of Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John is the statement made that Jesus died
on the cross or that He was dead when they removed
Him from the cross and placed Him in the tomb.
I know that in the Aposdes' Creed, used in the aver­
age Christian church, the statements therein refer to
the fact that Jesus suffered and died on the cross, and
it is commonly believed that the statements in this
A posdes’ Creed were taken from the statements made
by the different Apostles. The truth of the matter is
that the present-day A posdes’ Creed went through a
number of changes in the centuries after the cruci­
fixion, at the various high Councils of the Holy
Church, and that the first drafts of the creed, which
I have before me, are considerably different from
those later adopted. In the third of the five drafts
of this creed, we find the statement that Jesus was
“fastened to a cross. He rose the third day.” In the
first and original draft, the statement is that Jesus
271
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
was crucified under Pontius Pilate and "on the third
day brought to life from the dead.” In the last draft,
the wording was changed to read, "suffered under
Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried.”
The statement, in the early draft of the creed, that
Jesus rose from the dead should be associated with
the wording in Luke X X IV : 5, wherein the question
is asked of those who were seeking for Jesus, “W hy
seek ye the living among the dead?” W e must bear
in mind that Jesus was placed in a tomb that was
intended for the dead, and in an environment in­
tended exclusively for the dead, and surrounded by
the so-called dead. In other words, the question
might be re-worded as follows: “If you are looking
for Jesus, the ever-living Son of God, why do you
come to a cemetery and peer into tombs and sep­
ulchres looking for Him? W hy do you expect to find
a living person where only the dead may be found?”
The early drafts of the Apostles' Creed clearly show
that the idea meant to be conveyed was that after
the crucifixion, Jesus was temporarily placed in a
tomb among the dead, and that He quickly rose from
that place and out of that environment, and returned
again to His place among the living.
There is absolutely no intimation in the early drafts
of that creed nor in any of the discussions which
occurred in the high councils of the church when
272
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
the creed passed through its many changes in the
different centuries, that Jesus was believed to have
died on the cross, or in the tomb immediately after
the crucifixion. The creed was composed so long
after the days of the Apostles and the writing of the
Books of the Bible that it had to be invented and
created like the many newer doctrines of Christian­
ity. In the Roman Catholic encyclopedia we find
admission that many of the highest authorities state
that the creed can be traced back to no earlier period
than the second half of the fifth century A. D.; and
there is the further admission that the idea that the
Apostles composed the creed on the day of the Pente­
cost is merely a legend, dating back to the sixth cen­
tury. W e read also this interesting statement in the
Roman Catholic encyclopedia: "Modern apologists
in defending the claim to Apostolicity (of the Apos­
tles’ Creed) extend it only to the old Roman form,
and are somewhat hampered by the objection that if
the Roman form had been really held to be the in­
spired utterance of the Apostles, it would not have
been modified at pleasure by various local churches,
and in particular would never have been entirely sap-
planted by our existing form.”
According to the Rosicrucian and other ancient
records, various persons came, after the Sabbath was
over, to the tomb to see the body of Jesus, and to
273
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
bring spices and clean linens and other things as was
their custom in the case of any one who had passed
away; but they found the tomb open, and Jesus gone.
The storm and lightning, and perhaps a mild form
of earthquake had left much ruin and havoc in the
cemetery, and a number of tombstones were thrown
over and a number of sepulchres were opened by
stones rolling away or sliding down from their proper
position.
The soldiers who were supposed to be on guard to
watch and protect the body of Jesus, but who had
slipped away into some sheltered place, were on
hand bright and early to meet those who came to the
tomb of Jesus, and they had a very ready explana­
tion for what had occurred. They did not admit
their own neglect, which would have caused them to
be severely punished and imprisoned, but stated that
during the height of the storm all of the tombs were
opened by some miraculous power and that a great
blinding light came down and surrounded the tomb
of Jesus, and in this light they saw mysterious figures
which escored Jesus, who had returned to life. This
story did not appear to the soldiers to be much dif­
ferent from hundreds of other stories being told
about Jesus and His miracles, and about the manifes­
tation of God’s wrath, and God's love, in connection
274
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
with many unusual things during the preceding nine
years.
The public, and especially the followers of Jesus,
were ready to accept the story that the soldiers told.
Since Pilate realized that the body of Jesus had been
saved and that the stories were only an explanation
to satisfy the curious, and since Rome had authorized
the release of Jesus, and, therefore, cared little re­
garding His present whereabouts, no investigation
was conducted, and the story of the soldiers and the
followers became the accepted explanation.
The other incidents regarding the Resurrection, as
told in the Christian Bible and in other sacred writ­
ings, may or may not be true in their minute details,
for they are based upon testimony of various persons,
and are somewhat conflicting. Only one fact of in­
terest is noted in the Rosicrucian records regarding
the tomb of Jesus, and this is to the effect that during
the first years after the Resurrection, the tomb of
Yousef of Arimathea was used as a Shrine by the
Brotherhood, and by thousands who were followers
of Jesus; the tomb was in a badly damaged condition,
partly split open by a huge crack in the rock which
sheltered it, and a crack in some of the stone mas­
onry that supported one side of it; the tomb had
every appearance of having been struck by lightning
during the terrible storm. If the storm did such dam-
275
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
age as this to the Holy Sepulchre, and to the other
tombs and burial places in the vicinity, we can easily
understand why the soldiers conceived the story that
they told, and why it was so readily accepted.
As quickly as possible the Essenes escorted and
conveyed Jesus to a home of one of their brethren in
Galilee. It was their intention to have Jesus rest and
recuperate, and then escort Him to a place of secrecy
and isolation for a time.
Jesus had recovered very rapidly so that He was
able to walk part of the way on His journey. He was
met by a few who knew Him and who were surprised
to find Him still living. W e have many traditional
stories regarding His contact with His Disciples and
others during the time of His recuperation.
The appearance of Jesus in the midst of His Dis­
ciples on various occasions during His period of re­
cuperation constitutes, in several cases, a mystical
demonstration of the ability of the Master to project
His personality and consciousness to places distant
from His physical body. Such demonstrations of the
higher spiritual laws as this were common not only to
Jesus, but many of the eminent Avatars of the past,
and in fact some of His Apostles and Disciples and
many of the brethren of the Great W hite Brother­
hood made themselves visible to others at distant
points very often. W e find in the present-day teach-
276
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
ings of the Rosicrucians, in various lands, the simple
laws which help men and women to attain that high
degree of psychic development which enables them
at will to project the psychic or soul consciousness
to a distant point and become visible and even sensi­
ble to the higher faculties of persons who are likewise
developed to the proper degree of receptivity.
The time was coming, however, for Jesus to close
His public missionary work quite definitely, and enter
that stage of silent activity into which all great Ava­
tars of the past have entered, and which is always
the goal of every messenger of the Great W hite
Brotherhood. Jesus was devoting most of His time to
teaching His Disciples the doctrines and principles
which they should present in their work with the
public, and preparing them for the missionary work
they would have to continue after His retirement.
The great change that had come about in the per­
sonal appearance of Jesus after the ascendancy of
the Holy Ghost from His consciousness while He
was on the cross, caused a great many, who had
been familiar with His physical appearance and spir­
itual aura, to fail to recognize Him when they saw
Him clothed in different raiment and appearing as a
simple Essene during His days at Galilee. The Dis­
ciples knew that a still greater event in His life was
imminent, and of course the eminent officers of the
277
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Brotherhood were already preparing for the final
manifestation of His Divine place among men. For
forty days Jesus continued His close association with
His Disciples and Apostles, and we find that this
forty-day period is significant again and coincides
with the other forty-day periods mentioned in another
part of this book. During these forty days, Jesus at­
tended several of the suppers or Symbolical Feasts
which were typical of the Essenes, and which later
became one of the forms of ceremony in the Christian
church. One of these, the so-called last supper be­
came important in Christian doctrines of Jesus’ life;
but there were many other such Feasts thereafter in
privacy not revealed in the Christian records, prob­
ably because they were not significant or attended
by as large a number of His Disciples as the one
referred to.
So. on the fortieth day the Apostles assembled,
in accordance with instructions, on a mountain top
outside of the city of Jerusalem, where they would
be separated from the multitude and out of sight of
any passersby. It was just at sunset that Jesus came
into their midst and arranged them before Him in
a group forming a semi-circle, facing the setting sun.
He stood before them so that as they faced Him they
saw His magnificent figure outlined as a silhouette
against the red and gold of the sky. He proceeded
278
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
to explain to them the purpose of this unusual secret
session, and the real work that was to be accom­
plished by them in the future. According to the rec­
ords, He first announced that not one of them was
to leave the circle or depart from the mountain top
until he had received from His Father in Heaven the
Holy Ghost and the Divine authority to carry on His
work as His Official Apostle. In other words. He an­
nounced that Apostolic power was about to come to
them from a Divine source, and that they must not
break the spell of Cosmic attunement which He was
about to establish until each one had experienced the
influx of the Holy Ghost. In the light of what ac­
tually occurred, we can easily realize how important
it was for Jesus to command them to remain where
they were and not depart too quickly; for He knew
that there would come a moment when each would
believe that the strange session had ended and that
there was no further need for remaining on the
mountain top.
Naturally, the Apostles asked questions, and it ap­
pears that they sought to determine what form of
activity they should adopt and just how their work
would affect the establishment of the Kingdom of
Heaven which Jesus had announced as imminent. But
Jesus replied by rebuking them for their inquisitive­
ness at that moment, and assured them that in due
279
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
season all would be explained to them. He further
stated that after the Holy Ghost had come upon
them, and they went out in the world to carry on
their individual missions, they would be represent­
ing the great work in all parts of the world. W ith
further instructions regarding their first acts after
they departed from the mount, Jesus directed each
one to rise from his sitting position and fold his arms
across the chest in the form of the Essene salutation.
Then, stepping some paces away from them, but di­
rectly in a line between them and the last edge of the
setting sun. He lifted His hands and arms toward
Heaven and prayed. W hile the Apostles watched
and listened, a great light surrounded Jesus, and a
mist formed over His head and gradually enveloped
Him.
W hen the mist lifted, and ascended toward the
sky again, they saw that Jesus was gone, and was
no longer before them. In their astonishment they
looked toward one another as though each expected
the other to make some explanation, and a few of
them were about to move from their assigned posi­
tion when one of them spoke and said, "Hold, for
were we not warned to remain as we were until the
coming of the Holy Ghost?” Realizing that the time
for departure had not yet come, they remained
standing, and in a few minutes there appeared before
280
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
them two figures as faintly visible as though they
were of a violet light. One of these figures addressed
the standing Apostles, saying, "Gaze no longer into
the mists in which your Master has ascended, for as
He left you, so shall He come to you again and
again; for His earthly mission is accomplished and
He shall dwell in your hearts and in the hearts of
those who love Him, and will henceforth direct the
mission of His life through His messengers of fight.
Receive ye, therefore, from your Father which art in
Heaven the Holy Ghost and the W ord, and by these
ye shall have the power to teach and to demonstrate
the spiritual laws of the Kingdom of Heaven, and
the key to the portals of the future.” Then the fig­
ures disappeared as if dissolving before their eyes,
and the Apostles knew that they had been glorified
by their Father in Heaven, and had received the
Holy Ghost.
In quietness and peace the Apostles journeyed to
their homes in Galilee to dwell among their brethren
of the Brotherhood. That night Jesus appeared
among the High Priests in the monastery at Carmel,
and retired to the rooms that had been set aside for
Him as His sanctum; and the door of His public life
was closed to mankind.
281
C H A PTER X V II
V
C C O RD IN G to the stories in the Christian
Bible, the life of Jesus the Christ ends or
culminates with the Ascension. Various
other sacred books, originally forming the
library of sacred writings from which the
present Books of the Bible were selected, contained
accounts and incidents of the Life of Jesus not pre­
sented in the selected ones, and for this reason they
were rejected. These rejected Books of the Bible
constitute a separate volume, and are used today by
a great many ecclesiastical authorities because of the
interesting lights they throw upon many other im­
portant incidents of the life of J e s u s and His
Apostles.
The Ascension, as described in the previous chap­
ter of this book, was wholly a mystical and psychic
event, and there is nothing in the original accounts of
it to warrant the belief that Jesus arose physically or
in His physical body in a cloud into the Heavens.
The words of Jesus that He would go unto His
Father, or return to His Father in Heaven, most cer­
tainly did not mean to indicate that His physical body
283
THE UNKNOWN LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
would rise, nor did He intend to intimate precisely
when or ho tv this return of His spiritual being would
occur. This important event in the life of Jesus must
be viewed in the mystical and spiritual sense, the same
as His statements regarding the necessity for being
born again in order to enter the Kingdom of Heaven.
He distinctly explained that in the case of rebirth
through Repentance, He did not refer to a rebirth of
the physical body during the earthly lifetime of any
individual. The idea of the Ascension has, however,
become misunderstood as a spiritual doctrine, and
has developed into a belief in the resurrection and
ascension of the physical body; this misunderstand­
ing, encouraged by theological support, is responsible
for the rejection of many of the Christian doctrines
on the part of those who cannot conceive of these
things in a physical and material sense.
The description of the Ascension, as given in the
Books of Mark and Luke are slightly different, for in
one we read that Jesus was received up into Heaven,
and in the other we read that He was carried up into
Heaven. In the Book of Acts, the wording is that He
was taken up to Heaven and a cloud received Him
out of sight. In carefully analyzing these three ac­
counts we note that the cloud which surrounded Him
and "received Him out of their sight” has a spiritual
significance which all students of mysticism will ap-
284
predate. Among the works of the Masters of Tibet,
Egypt, and India today, and even in the work of
Masters of the Brotherhood in the W estern W orld,
the formation of clouds or bodies of mist which can
be callcd out of the invisible to surround a person,
and thus shut them out of the sight of others, is a
demonstration often performed to prove the operation
of many Cosmic and spiritual laws. It is not my
intention to intimate that the cloud which descended
upon Jesus and shut Him out of the sight of the
Disciples or Apostles was of the same nature as that
mystic cloud which the Masters today draw around
them when they wish to gradually fade out of sight
and disappear temporarily. I believe that the disap­
pearance of Jesus was unique and has not been dup­
licated by any of the great Masters or Avatars since
His time; but I wish to call attention to the fact that
disappearing in this sense or in this manner should
not carry with it the idea that because the cloud or
mist arose after Jesus had disappeared, that Jesus
Himself, either physically or spiritually, arose with
the clouds into the Heavens. W riters of the Gospels
in the Christian Bible watched the cloud arise, and
they recorded the incident as though they believed
Jesus arose with the cloud. Not being able to see
Him after the cloud started to rise, it was natural
for them to assume that He was in the cloud.
28S
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
W e find, in going over the ancient records, that
Chrishna, who was crucified and saved from the
dead, was also credited by his followers with having
ascended into Heaven. The ancient description says
that at the time of the ascension a great light envel­
oped him, and he disappeared in the light. They also
assumed that Chrishna returned with the light as it
rose from the earth and returned to Heaven. The rec­
ords also show that Buddha's last appearance was on
the top of a rock on a mountain in the presence of
his followers, when a great light surrounded him and
he also disappeared in the light. Buddha's followers
claimed that he rose to the celestial regions; and for
several centuries after this occurrence, impressions in
the rock were shown to pilgrims as being those of
the feet of Buddha where he stood when the ascen­
sion occurred. Zoroaster, another one of the great
Avatars, was also credited in all the pre-Christian
accounts with having ascended to Heaven at the end
of his earthly career. The Egyptians celebrated the
resurrection and ascension of Adonis, for many cen­
turies preceding the Christian era. In fact, the festi­
vals in honor of the resurrection and ascension of
Adonis were observed in Alexandria. Egypt, the very
cradle of Christianity, in the time of St. Cyrio, bishop
of Alexandria, in A. D. 412, and at Antioch, the
ancient capitol of the Greek kings of Syria, during
286
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
the time of Emperor Julian, A. D. 361-363. Even the
children of Israel worshipped Adonis under the Jew­
ish designation of Tammuz, and there was an altar
in his name in the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem.
Several of the Psalms of David were parts of the
liturgical service employed in the worship of Tam-
muz. especially the 110th Psalm. On this point. Dr.
Parkhurst. the eminent Jewish authority, says in his
book called "The Hebrew Lexicon": "I find myself
obliged to refer to Tammuz, as well as the Greek and
Roman Hercules, to that class of idols which were
originally designed to represent the promised Sav­
iour (Christ Jesus) the desire of all nations. His
other name, Adonis, is almost the very Hebrew word
'our Lord,' a well known title of Christ."
At least twenty other ancient Avatars and gods of
the people are credited in the ancient writings with
having arisen from among the dead (not out of death)
and having ascended into Heaven as the closing in­
cident of their public careers. It is to be noted that
in most cases there is no intimation that the disap­
pearance of an Avatar from public sight, and the
ascension of his spirit to the invisible realm, meant
a bodily ascension into the heavens, or a secession of
physical existence on the earth plane. W e .note that
in the ancient teachings regarding the great Avatars,
the emphasis was always put upon the fact that the
287
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
Divine spirit or spiritual light of the Avatar returned
to God or to the celestial regions, and the light of
the world went out. These ancient peoples, whom
Christianity called "pagans," had no idea of intimat­
ing that the physical body rose or disappeared, ex­
cept that it remained out of the sight of the public.
Contrary to this, we have the gradual development,
in the Christian doctrines, of the idea of the resur­
rection and the ascension of the body in a physical
form. Such an idea was not in the original and early
Christian doctrines, but was added in the later cen­
turies, when so many other Christian doctrines were
invented or made theologically neccssary, as ex­
plained in an earlier part of this book. This change
of interpretation of the resurrection and ascension
has caused much of the argument in modern times
against the acceptance of the Christian doctrines in
their entirety.
The disappearance of Jesus from public sight, clos­
ing His public work and public mission, was not the
end of His existence on the earth plane in the physi­
cal body. This is definitely stated in so many ancient
and reliable records that it is surprising that the Holy
Fathers of the Christian church attempted to make
His ascension a physical fact, and proclaim it the
end of His earthly career. In many of the discussions
of the Council of the church in the first centuries
288
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OP JESUS
after Christ, there were [rank admissions on the part
of the greatest of the authorities that Jesus lived to
be fifty, sixty, and even seventy years of age. In
some of these early discussions, the matter of Apos­
tolic succession was taken up and seriously analyzed
for many years; and during those discussions much
evidence in the way of writings and word-of-mouth
traditions was submitted to show that after the As­
cension Jesus had labored with His Apostles. It was
not until the doctrine of the Resurrection of the body
and the Ascension of the body in a physical sense
appeared to be an important theological necessity that
these early church Fathers decided, in their high
Councils, to eliminate all references to the activities
of Jesus after the Ascension, and make the Ascension
appear to be the culmination of His physical exist­
ence.
The ancient records of the Great W hite Brother­
hood and other records in the Rosicrucian archives
clearly show that after Jesus retired to the monastery
at Carmel He lived for many years, and carried on
secret sessions with His Apostles and devoted Him­
self, through meditation and prayer, to the formula­
tion of doctrines and teachings which His Apostles
should give to the world.
The original twelve Apostles of Jesus were all
Gentiles and selected from among those who were
289
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
living in Galilee. Perhaps it has never occurred to
the average Christian student to look into the lives
of the Apostles and note that all of them were living
in Galilee at the time of their selection to form the
private council of the Christ movement. O f the
twelve, all but two, Lebbeus and Judas, were of
Aryan blood and were members of the Essene Broth­
erhood. Lebbeus and Judas were of the Jewish race
but had adopted the Gentile religion by becoming
heretics and abandoning much of the Jewish doc­
trines. After the passing of Judas, and others, the
vacancies in the Council of twelve Apostles were
filled by other Gentiles of the Essene Brotherhood
selected by the Council itself.
This Council of Apostles met at the monastery,
and the members practically lived in the environs of
the monastery because of the daily sessions that were
held in what might be called the Apostolic school or
college. It was this college or school that was the
basis for the later establishment of a similar college in
the Roman church.
According to the records, Jesus appeared but once
a week before the Apostles, and this was always on
a Sabbath when a ceremony of a mysterious nature
was held, and all indulged in a Symbolic Feast. Dur­
ing the other days of the week, sessions were held
for the purpose of instructing the Apostles in their
290
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
work, and these were presided over by the several
High Priests of the monastery.
It is this phase of the work of Jesus with His
Apostles that constitutes the great unknown period
of His life. Only a few outstanding facts are given
in the records regarding the closing years of His life
and His association with the Apostles. W e find that
about ten days after the retirement of Jesus from
public life His Apostles were assembled at a place
in Jerusalem for the purpose of establishing the first
congregation of the movement which was to be or­
ganized and known as the Christine Church.
Jesus, Himself, had no part in the foundation of
this movement; for it appears in the records that the
Apostles anticipated only a public assembly for the
purpose of continuing the Christ teachings; but so
large a congregation assembled, and the power of
the Holy Spirit became so manifest, that the enthu­
siasm of the men and women and the prayers and
cries of the repenting ones attracted the attention of
scoffers and others. Therefore, it was found advis­
able to organize the work of the Apostles into a defi­
nite movement, having a definite name and a regular
place for meeting. There is nothing in the records to
show that Jesus agreed to this plan, or gave it any
consideration, since His contact with the public was
ended and His interests were solely in instructing
291
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
and guiding the Apostles in their own personal de­
velopment and comprehension of His teachings, so
that they might be proficient in their work. Ever
since the occasion of the Ascension, when the Holy
Ghost came upon the Apostles and granted to them
the same authority to carry on His work, as He had
carried it on, Jesus considered the Apostles His suc­
cessors as public messengers. W hatever plans they
made to facilitate and improve their work with the
public seems to have received no comment from Jesus,
so far as we can find in any of the records.
After a year had passed the movement of the
Christine Church developed to such an extent that it
was organized in a wider sense so as to include an
inner circle, devoted exclusively to the preservation
of the Christ teachings and the maintenance of cer­
tain traditions and symbols. It was at this time that
the cross, as a Christian symbol, was adopted; but
strange to say, it was not adopted with a crucified
body upon it, but a rose.
The Essene Brotherhood, as a part of the Great
W hite Brotherhood, had always used the cross as a
symbol. This device originated as a mystical or eso­
teric symbol, in the days of Amenhotep IV , Pharaoh
of Egypt, who used the cross in his mystery school
as an emblem of the body of man with arms out­
stretched, representing the physical man with his su[-
292
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
T h e rose w as also placed upon a cross as a symbol of the
crucifixion, like unto the dove, the sun, and the serpent. T h e
crucified rose becam e the official symbol of the Rosicrucians, but
w as used by the various branches of the Essene and G reat W hite
Brotherhood before its official adoption as a universal emblem.
T h e emblem of the early T em plars w as a red rose on a cross,
adopted by them because of its use by the Essenes. In some of
the early m ystical m anuscripts, we find this rose referred to as
the N auruts, N atsir, or rose of Isuren, of T am u l, or Sharon, or
the W ater Rose, the Lily, Padm a, Pena, Lotus— crucified in the
heavens fo r the salvation of m an. Jesus the C hrist w as called
T h e Rose, and T h e Rose of Sharon, or of Isuren. In this we see
the relationship of the Rosicrucian emblem to early C hristian
mysticism.
293
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF ]ESUS
ferings and trials of earthly life. The cross at that
time had not been used for the purpose of crucifixion,
but was used in the mystical sense because man's
body with arms outstretched suggested it, especially
when facing the sun at sunrise in making the usual
mystical, morning salutations; for at such a time the
shadow of man’s body thrown upon the sand was
in the form of a cross. And the fact that this shadow
was but a passing thing, an unreal thing, and merely
of temporary existence, suggested itself as emblem­
atic of man’s physical body and physical existence.
In many of the ancient writings of the mystery
schools of Egypt, and even in some of the hiero­
glyphic writings on the walls of these mystery
schools, the cross was carved or painted in connec­
tion with esoteric principles.
At a time between the adoption of the cross as a
symbol of man’s physical body and the formation of
the Christine church, a rose was added to the cross
as a second element in the mystical symbol. The rose
was likened unto the soul in man, because of its grad­
ual unfoldment, beautiful perfume, and richness of
color and manifestation at maturity. By adding the
rose to the cross, the esoteric meaning of the com­
bined symbol was that the “soul of man evolves and
becomes rich in experience and manifestation through
the sufferings, trials, tribulations, and incidents of the
294
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
physical body and physical existence.” Thus the
rose and the cross became an emblem of soul evolu­
tion through human, physical experience. W e can.
see in this mystical symbology a beautiful reason for
the combination of the rose and cross as the emblem
for the Christine Church. Later in the history of
Christianity, Jesus, Himself, was called "the Rose,”
the ‘‘Rose of Sharon," the "Beautiful Rose," and the
"Holy Rose;” and the rose on the cross was inter­
preted by many to represent the soul of Jesus on the
cross in all of its beauty and maturity, uncrucified.
It was not until many centuries later that the Holy
Fathers of the church, in their high Councils, estab­
lished the cross with the crucified body upon it as an
emblem of the Christine movement.
The inner circle of the Christine Church also
formed itself into a militant organization for the pres­
ervation of its sacred symbol, the cross, and later
adopted a name which, translated into Latin, would
read Militia Crucifera Evangelica. This militant or­
ganization, which was to include those who would
be selected in every country to represent it and carry
on its activities, was to protect its sacred emblem
from being adopted by other unauthorized organi­
zations, and especially to protect it from being mis­
used and misrepresented in matters that were not
truly according to the Christ principles. This mili-
295
tant organization finally included the Hospitalers and
the Knights of the Cross, and similar organizations,
which were carrying on humanitarian activities in the
name of the cross and in the name of the Christ prin­
ciples. For many centuries the organization remained
a very secret and little known body of several hun­
dred men, controlling and directing the activities of
a number of other allied organizations; and during
the time of the Crusades for the redemption of the
Holy Land from the control of infidels and pagans,
the Militia directed and controlled the important ac­
tivities of the armies. It is interesting to note, also,
that after many centuries had passed the organiza­
tion suddenly became a non-sectarian body of de­
fenders of the Cross, through a convention called at
Luneberg, in Hanover, on July 27th, 1586, and which
was sponsored by Henry IV , King of France, Queen
Elizabeth of England, the King of Denmark, and the
potentates of many lands. At this convention the
ancient records of the organization were revealed,
and the doctrines of the organization and of the Es­
sene Brotherhood and the Great W hite Brotherhood
were reviewed and adopted as the rules and regula­
tions, teachings, and practices of the Militia. All
these things were then compiled in one great book
of almost two thousand pages, which was completed
in the year 1604 and officially called the Naometria.
296
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
The Militia became an important organization in the
prevention of further wars and forms of persecution
in the name of religion. Membership in the Militia
eventually became an honor resulting from unusual
and distinguished service rendered in behalf of the
pure symbolism of the cross, and in behalf of man's
mystical and religious development.
After the formation of the inner circle by the
Apostles in Palestine, members thereof were dele­
gated to go to various lands and spread the work of
the newly formed church. Peter was sent into Jeru­
salem, Antioch, and Rome. The elder St. James
worked also in Jerusalem. St. John, after some mis­
sionary work in Jerusalem, centered his activities in
the establishment of a church at Ephesus. St. Paul
aided, first at Antioch, and then at Iconium, Lystra,
Derbe, Troas, Philippi, Thessalonica, Berea, Athens,
Corinthe, and other cities. The other Apostles lab­
ored first as assistants in the new churches, and then
went off to other lands; and thus the Christine
Church had its foundation among the most advanced
nations.
In the meantime Jesus outlined and perfected the
doctrines and teachings which He had received
through inspiration during the days of His Christ-
hood, and in the confinement of His sanctum outlined
297
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
these teachings to the High Priests and the Apostles
who came to see Him from time to time.
Most of these doctrines and teachings were pre­
served by the Apostles and especially by the High
Priests of the Brotherhood, and from these preserved
writings the Brotherhood has extracted many of the
teachings which it now uses throughout the world.
An outline of the secret teachings of Jesus, as re­
vealed in His public and private sessions with His
Apostles, Disciples, and officers of the Brotherhood,
constitutes a wonderful volume of the principles of
metaphysics and spiritual law. Perhaps these will
be given to the public in time, for they would prove
of inestimable value to the student of Christianity
and to the student of mysticism.
The ultimate passing or transition of the great
M aster Jesus is recorded in the ancient records as
having occurred peacefully and in the presence of
the brethren of the Brotherhood in the monastery
at Carmel. His body remained in a tomb on the
mount for several centuries; but it was finally re­
moved to a secret sepulchre guarded and protected
by His brothers.
Thus endeth the story of the Great Initiate— the
M essiah and the Son of G od— the A M EN of the
world, Lord and Redeemer.
298
OTHER BOOKS
IN T H E
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRAPvY
V V V
T h e attention of readers is called to the various volumes in the
Rosicrucian library now ready as well as to those w hich are in
preparation.
VOLUME I I
R o s i c r u c i a n P r i n c i p l e s
F o r t h e H o m e a n d B u s i n e s s
T h is volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian
teachings as are applicable to the solution of the everyday prob­
lems of life in business and in the affairs of the home. It deals
exhaustively w ith the prevention of ill health, the curing of many
of the common ailments, and the attainm ent of peace and happi­
ness as w ell as the building up of the affairs of life that deal with
financial conditions. T h e book is filled w ith hundreds of practical
points dealing especially with the problems of the average busi­
ness man or person in business employ. It points out the w rong
and right w ay for the use of m etaphysical and m ystical principles
in attracting business, increasing one’s income, prom oting business
propositions, starting and bringing into realization new plans and
ideas, and the attainm ent of the highest am bitions in life.
299
‘^Rosicrucian Principles for the Hom e and Business” is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its second edition, hav­
ing had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not only
am ong mem bers of the organization, who have voluntarily stated
that they have greatly improved their lives through the application
o f its suggestions, but among thousands of persons outside of the
organization. It has also been endorsed by business organizations
and business authorities.
T h e book is of standard size, w ell printed, bound in silk cloth,
and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.25.
V O L U M E V I
A T h o u s a n d Y e a r s o f Y e s t e r d a y s
H ere is a book that is not only in its second edition, but has
been translated into six foreign languages, and has had the widest
reading of any m etaphysical or m ystical book published in recent
years. I t contains not only an interesting presentation of the
highlights of the Rosicrucian principles, but the most convincing
and attractiv e presentation of the doctrines of reincarnation ever
published. T h e book is, in fact, so fascin ating that the average
reader does not lay it aside until he has finished reading it at
one sitting, and later he reads it over m any times.
“ A Thousand Y ears of Yesterdays” is printed on fine paper,
and bound w ith a flexible cover. P rice, postage prepaid, 85c.
V O L U M E V
U n t o T h e e I G r a n t
T h is book is in its third edition, and is considered one of the
rarest m asterpieces of m ystical literature ever issued in the
E nglish language. T h e original m anuscript w as found in m onas­
teries o f T h ib et, and deals w ith the secret, sacred teachings of the
300
M asters of the G reat W h ite Brotherhood. T h e m anuscript was
published w ith the perm ission of the Em peror of C hina and the
C hief of the T h ib etan monasteries. T h e story of the finding of
this m anuscript and the explorer’s expedition into T h ib et forms
the fascinating introduction of the book, and is itself worth the
price of the book. T h e rem ainder of the volume is divided into
tw elve books, each containing from three to seven interesting
chapters dealing with man, his problems, his adversities, w eak­
nesses, strengths, abilities, and his origin, destiny, and powers.
T h e book is attractively printed and bound w ith a flexible
cover in leatherette. Price, postage prepaid, $1.50.
V O L U M E V III
R o s i c r u c i a n M a n u a l
T h is is a large book containing not only extracts from the
Constitution o f the O rder of Rosicrucians, but a complete outline
and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and term inology of
the R osicrucians, w ith diagram s and explanations of the symbols
used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects taught, a diction­
ary of the terms, a complete presentation of the principles of
Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of im portant
characters connected w ith the work.
T h e “R osicrucian M an u al” is of large size, w ell printed, beau­
tifu lly bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. T h e third
edition has been enlarged and im proved in m any w ays. Price,
postage prepaid, $2.40.
V O L U M E I
R o s i c r u c i a n Q u e s t i o n s a n d A n s w e r s
w i t h H i s t o r y o f t h e O r d e r
T h is volume w ill be ready after the 15th of Ju ly, 1929. It con­
tains the first complete, authentic history of the Rosicrucian O rder
301
from ancient times to the present day. T h e history is divided
into tw o sections, dealing w ith the traditional facts and the es­
tablished historical facts, and is replete w ith interesting stories
of romance, mystery, and fascinating incidents.
T h e book also contains answers to hundreds of questions
d ealing w ith the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes
of the R osicrucian fraternity. It is nicely illustrated, printed on
fine paper, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold, Price,
postage prepaid, $2.90.
T H E A B O V E B O O K S CA N B E O R D E R E D D IR E C T L Y
B Y M A IL B Y S E N D IN G M O N E Y O R D E R O R
R E G IS T E R E D L E T T E R C O N T A IN IN G
R E M IT T A N C E T O
AM ORC SUPPLY BUREAU
R o s ic r u c ia n P a r k ' - - Sa n J o s e , C a l if o r n ia
(F ree literature about the Rosicrucian O rganization or regarding
any o f these books m ay be had upon request. A ddress: Public
L ibrarian , A M O RC C ollege, Rosicrucian P ark, San Jose, C alif.)
302
