{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__lewis___rosicrucian_principles_for_home_and_business.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Principles For Home And Business","mylang":"de"}
® 0
^Ro sic r u c ia n
PRINCIPLES
jf
FO R THE HOME
AND BU SIN ESS
*B y T > r . c3 i. .S p e n ce r L e w is
P U B L I S H E D B Y
A M O R C
SAN JOSE, CALIF.
Q o ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- — • ° ©
•
0
0
C O P YR IG H T 1929
C
By A M ORC
P R IN T E D IN T H E U . 8 . A .
R O S I C R U C I A N P R E S S
S A N J O S E . C A L I F O R N I A
DEDICATED
^ ©® ©
to the student o f all natural and
spiritual laws who remembers
that the Qreat ^Master
Jesus taught the first
lessons in the art of
living a practical
and useful life
among
men
(Co n t e n t s
<
0
Page
Introduction ............................................................ 7
Introducing the Author......................................... 11
Chapter I.
The Truth About Affirmations......................... 15
Chapter II.
The Cosmic and You............................................ 23
Chapter III.
Mental Alchemy ................................................... 32
Chapter IV.
Commanding Cosmic Help................................ 52
Chapter V .
Securing M on ey..................................................... 69
Chapter V I.
The Attainment of W ealth................................ 91
Chapter VII.
Seeking Employment ............................................103
Chapter V III.
Impressing Others ................................................ 121
Chapter IX.
An Unusual Help in Need.................................. 136
Chapter X.
The Law of Compensation..................................150
introduction
" <
0
Soon after the re-establishment of the Rosi­
crucian Order in America for its present cycle,
hundreds of the members petitioned the Su­
preme Officers for special information relative
to the application of the Rosicrucian principles
to business affairs.
Rosicrucianism, as presented by the A M O RC
in America and other lands today, is a practical
philosophy, a science o f dem onstrable laws. The
Rosicrucians were always practical men and
women, laboring with nature's laws for the sole
purpose of improving their own, and others'
/ lives here on earth, now. Hence the Rosicru­
cians had naught to do with speculative philo­
sophies, hypothetical problems, and fantastic
theories. They worked in their laboratories,
solving the chemical and physical mysteries of
the material world as well as concentrating in
their sanctums on the development of their per­
sonal, latent, dormant faculties.
According to the Rosicrucian standard of liv­
ing, each man and woman should attempt, by
7
Rosicrucian Principles
every means that are ethical, moral and Cosmi-
cally approved, to succeed in life, enjoy health,
happiness, the material luxuries, and the com­
forts of physical existence as well as seek to
attain spiritual Peace and attunement. In fact
the Rosicrucians have ever held that to truly
fulfill the mission of our existence here on earth,
and thereby carry out the Divine W ill, no man
and no woman should slight or negate the ma­
terial or worldly obligations which are bounden
upon all of us, but m aster them, meet them, and
make an eminent success of our earthly careers.
This, says the Rosicrucians, will bring us more
truly in contact with the universal laws of na­
ture and attune us more consciously with the
universal scheme of things than living a life of
speculative abstraction or spiritual monasticism.
Every one of the great masters of the Great
W hite Brotherhood has devoted the greater
part of his earthly life to the application of his
knowledge for the alleviation of suffering, the
advancement of learning, the promulgation of
science, and the achievement of worldly happi­
ness and prosperity. Each has contributed to
these elements of our life by and through inti­
mate contact with the problems of our existence
and association with men and women struggling
to live an exemplary life of a "light on earth.”
F o r the H om e and Business
None ever lost the human touch, the compan­
ionship with his earthly brethren, nor the op­
portunity to work out, in a material way, the
solution to man’s actual physical problems.
It is but natural, therefore, that students of
the Rosicrucian teachings would become imbued
with this practical standard of living, and seek
more information relating to the solution of their
personal problems. The organization expected,
and even anticipated this, and glories in the fact
that with all the schools of speculative, abstract,
unpractical philosophies operating today, the
Rosicrucian Order once again shows its unique
and distinct place in the lives of humans by
meeting a demand more important and more
jiseful in the pursuit of health, happiness, and
Peace than any other.
Among the most important problems facing
men and women today are those which relate
to success or prosperity in the business world.
Success in such matters does not always mean
the attainment of great wealth, although this is
neither impossible or undesirable; nor do success
and prosperity in business include a selfish heart
and a greedy motive.
Most men and women in the business world
today— especially those who are of the type and
mind to become students of the Rosicrucian
9
Rosicrucian Principles
teachings— are in business because they enjoy
its activities, seeking to contribute to the world's
progression, and desiring to meet their obliga­
tions, fulfilling their duties, carrying on what
seems to be their mission in life, and enjoying
sufficient prosperity to be able to help others as
well as help themselves. Surely, no higher mo­
tives can actuate any being in any endeavor
or aspiration.
These persons deserve to succeed, for their
success and prosperity in the business world will
help business generally and will bring happiness
and Peace to others. For this reason the Rosi­
crucian Order realizes its own duty and obliga­
tion, and is happy to aid and guide, to the best
of its ability, its members and friends in attain­
ing success in business matters.
T o carry on such aid in a practical manner,
it was found necessary to establish a “Business
Advisory Bureau-' of a national and interna­
tional character. W ith men and women well
trained in the special application of Rosicrucian
principles to business problems serving in this
Bureau, it has been possible to advise and aid
thousands who have attested to their increasing
success, and affirmed their debt of gratitude to
A M O RC .
10
F or the H om e and Business
Introducing the cAuthor
\
<
o
>
Many years ago the Imperator of the
A M O RC for North America was selected by
prominent business men in New York and ocher
cities as their advisor in special matters. His
unusual ability to sense conditions intuitively,
his ready contact with the minds of others and
with the universal mind of the mass, plus his
strange ability to direct, or engineer, the suc­
cessful issue of the most involved and difficult
plans, attracted the attention of many men of
laj>ge affairs. He soon became the "silent part­
ner” in many corporations and organizations,
accepting only donations toward the great work
of A M O RC as his compensation. In whatever
city he traveled in behalf of the work of
A M O RC he was sought by business men and
women for short consultations, and it became
notable that whenever Dr. H. Spencer Lewis
gave his approval to a plan and said that he
would use his “methods” to bring the matter to
a conclusion, there was eminent success.
After a number of Better Business Bureaus,
Boards of Trade, Business Guilds, Clubs and
Societies had invited Dr. Lewis to speak at their
11
Rosicrucian Principles
weekly or monthly sessions, he was importuned
to prepare a series of weekly talks to be deliv­
ered to one of the largest classes of business
men and women ever called together to hear a
man speak on the mystical principles involved
in good business." These lectures enabled the
attendants to achieve such unusual success in
their personal affairs that the reports of the re­
sults spread from city to city, from one business
man to another.
Many hundreds of requests have been re­
ceived weekly from all parts of the United
States asking that the original lectures given by
Dr. Lewis be reproduced. Business magazines
offered to publish them serially, and book pub­
lishers likewise offered good sums for the ex­
clusive right to commercialize them.
It was decided, however, by the Imperator
himself, that the plan suggested by the Supreme
Secretary was more in keeping with the ideals
of A M O RC and that instead of permitting any
publishers to issue and sell these lecture lessons
at a great profit as a commercial venture, the
“Business Advisory Bureau" of A M O R C
should issue the matter in a small book to sell
at a nominal price with a nominal profit, which
profit could be used by A M O RC in its various
welfare activities.
12
F o r the H om e and Business
The present book is the result of this decision.
The original lectures given by Dr. Lewis have
been augmented, revised and extended. None
of the secret teachings of the Rosicrucian Order
are presented in their fullness, but every mysti­
cal way is utilized. Therefore this book can
be used by members of the Order or their
friends.
W e would remind each reader of this book
that the complete teachings and full work of
A M O RC are not represented by the few laws
and principles applied in the lectures given in
the following chapters. In fact, the principles
andHformulas used for the lessons in this book
wer&'extibcted from the hundreds of lessons of
the A M O RC which deal with scores of other
vital matters, such as the development of latent
abilities, the awakening of dormant talents, and
the building up of such functions as intuition,
mental creation, healing powers, Cosmic attune-
ment, prophecy, and other powers which enable
men and women to master their lives and suc­
ceed in being healthy, prosperous and happy.
Such complete instruction is given freely to
those who are members of the organization, but
cannot be published in books for public circu­
lation.
13
Rosicrucian Principles
An interesting book, “The Light of Egypt,"
will be mailed to any person who is not familiar
with the purposes and activities of the Rosicru­
cian Order in America and other lands. There
is no fee or obligation required to secure a copy
of this book, except that the inquirer be sincere
in his or her desire to live a better life and help
others live a life of more abundance.
To our members we offer the present book as
an auxiliary to their studies, containing the spe­
cially helpful principles assembled in a handy
form for ready reference. Letters of comment
will be greatly appreciated by
The Supreme Secretary.
A M O RC , the Rosicrucian Order,
Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California
14
F o r the H om e and Business
C H A P T E R O N E
T H E T R U T H A B O U T A F F IR M A T IO N S
/ ^ *H E late French psychologist, Coue, did
C0 not introduce anything new into the Amer­
ican popular misunderstanding of psychological
principles when he promulgated his prettily
worded affirmation, “Every day in every way I
am getting better and better.”
In the Occidental world generally, the value
or usefulness of affirmations to affect one's phy­
sical, mental, or material conditions, has been
greatly misunderstood, and the same may be
said of the real fundamentals of applied psy­
chology.
The Orientalist, long familiar with the mysti­
cal laws of life, is quite aware of the fact that
the mere affirmation of wealth or health will
not bring these desirable things into an envir­
onment where they do not exist. The real mys­
tics of every land, and especially those who
have been thoroughly trained in the Rosicru­
cian principles, know that certain affirmations
under certain conditions have some value and
a real place in the scheme of things, but they
15
Rosicrucian Principles
also know that an untrue or unsound affirmation
is not only valueless, but really detrimental.
How can the affirmation: “I am in perfect
health and in complete attunement with God,”
have any effect upon the physical condition
of a person who, at the very moment of making
the affirmation, is suffering from pain, due to
some diseased or abnormal condition?
Pain, as we shall see later on in another
chapter, is not something that should be affirmed
out of existence as a condition unwarranted by
nature and unauthorized by God. It is one
of God's own creations and a perfectly natural
thing when the body is diseased, or in some ab­
normal physical or mental condition. Pain al­
ways has a cause for its existence, and a
reason for its manifestation. The cause may
be unnatural; it generally is unnecessary. But
pain as a result of disease is perfectly logical,
natural, and a Divinely authorized principle.
T o affirm, therefore, that one has no pain when
pain is quite manifest, is attempting to deny
the existence of something that not only logi­
cally exists, but which has a good purpose for
its existence, and a motive which will serve us
and help us if we but realize it. Therefore, not
pain, but the cause of the pain should be con­
16
F o r the H om e and Business
sidered as the undesirable condition to be
relieved.
But disease or any abnormal condition of the
mind or body cannot be relieved by affirming
its non-existence.
Poverty and failure in business and material
affairs cannot be altered by the affirmation that
these conditions do not exist, and are only
imaginary things, to be swept out of the con­
sciousness and cleansed out of the mind by a
denial that they are there.
For a man or woman who seeks relief from
debt and solicits the Cosmic aid in having an
abundant supply of necessities, to affirm that
“Iyam not in debt, and I have the richness of
the Cosmic at my disposal," is merely to attempt
to stultify the consciousness of the existing con­
ditions, and to so charm the objective mind by
a false picture of imaginary conditions that, for
the time being, all effort to relieve the situation
in the proper way is cast aside, and in an atti­
tude of self-induced hysteria, believe that all is
well and that there is no need for effort or even
thought in any other direction.
The man or woman who has become an ad­
dict to the drug habit, and who shuts out the
worries, trials, and problems of the hour by the
induction of sleep or the stimulus of a flighty
17
Rosicrucian Principles
imagination, with all of the glorious pictures of
wealth and contentment, is no less a victim to
a false practice than the one who affirms the
non-existence of real conditions and proclaims
the actual existence of imaginary bounties.
As may be judged by the foregoing remarks,
the mystic who is really familiar with the laws
of Nature and the operation of the Cosmic
methods, knows that his dominion over his af­
fairs and the use of his will to regulate his
conditions, must be directed toward changing
causes of conditions rather than denying the
manifestations of the causes.
The misunderstanding regarding affirmations
came about through the miscomprehension of
the Oriental and mystical conception of the fun­
damental laws of psychological consciousness.
The real mystic knows that it is wrong and
unsound to outwardly or inwardly admit the
existence of a condition which is not real. He
will not admit that he must continue to suffer
pain or suffer from disease or suffer from pov­
erty or the lack of necessities. He will even go
so far as to deny these things the power to
enslave him. He is quite positive in his nega­
tion of the omnipotent power assigned to ma­
terial things of this earth life to control his liv-
18
F o r the H om e and Business
ing and to limit the enjoyment of the Cosmic
blessings.
But the mystic denies these things and rules
them out of his life, not by affirming that the
manifestations do not exist, but by affirming that
these things shall not continue to be and are not
what they seem to be, and must submit to his
will.
. ‘ In later chapters, we shall see that just as
pain is a natural result from a cause, so poverty
and a lack of the necessary things or even the
luxuries of life is a result of a cause, and the
cause must be affected.
W hen one suffers from the agonizing pain
*©ftoothache, it is indeed foolhardy and entirely
inconsistent with Cosmic and natural law to
affirm: “I have no toothache, and am at peace
with the universe." Such an affirmation neither
affects the toothache as a pain, the cause of
the toothache and its pain, nor anything else
connected therewith. Nor does it bring about
any substantiating proof that the sufferer is, at
the time, at peace with the universe. The prac­
tical mystic, who does not dwell in the clouds of
hypothetical postulations and ethereal specula­
tions based upon theories discovered by eminent
founders of new schools of psychology, knows
that he must direct the use of his will power,
19
Rosicrucian Principles
and the magnificent creative forces of his mind,
to the immediate alteration of the condition
which is the real cause of the pain in the tooth;
and thereby relieve the pain without giving it
any undue considerations in a negative sense.
The mystic thus informed stops his suffering
and brings it to an end, and quickly demon­
strates that he can be “at peace with the uni­
verse,” and truly is “a child of God’s love” by
re-establishing the harmonium in his body
through the removal of the cause of disease
and suffering.
The man or woman who is without the im­
mediate necessities to meet a material emergency
of either a financial or any other form, will find
that the affirmation of ‘‘I need have no concern
for the abundant supply is mine,” brings no
relief and simply inhibits as well as prohibits
such action on the part of the individual as
would actually bring about the desired relief.
In the following chapters of this book, which
are really specific and practical lessons in the
application of certain mystical laws, the proper
use of the proper affirmations will be explained.
It is the purpose of this preliminary lesson to
remove from your mind the misunderstanding
and the misconception that may exist regarding
affirmations as generally promulgated by popular
20
F o r the H om e and Business
lecturers, who are generally less informed re­
garding the mystical laws of the universe than
they are about the superstitious beliefs of a mul­
titude of persons, who think that a few lessons
in psychology will furnish the key to the master­
ship of all of life’s problems.
Therefore, whatever you may have read or
learned about affirmations should be set aside
if you would succeed with the instructions given
in these lessons. If you have become so fond
of the use of affirmations through an intimate
acquaintance with them, and because of their
alluring attractiveness you cannot reject all that
you have read and learned about them, at least
takj^ these pretty beliefs of yours and wrap
tfiem up for the time being; place them in
your treasure chest among the family heirlooms
and rare possessions of this material world, un­
til such time as you have become familiar and
well acquainted with the newer ideas contained
in this book. Then, after you are as intimate
with these new principles as you are with the
others, you may occupy a rainy Sunday by tak­
ing the old ones from their hiding places and
comparing them with the newer ones, and de­
cide for yourself which you shall make your
real jewels and your ornaments of life. But
until you are as well acquainted with the use of
21
Rosicrucian Principles
the new tools as you are with the old ones, and
until you have given the newer principles as
much time to prove their efficacy and demon­
strate their power as you have given the older
ones in your hopes and frustrated realizations,
you are not competent to judge which will serve
you best, and you will not be fair to yourself
in rejecting what is now offered to you.
Therefore, proceed with these new ideas with
an open mind, and give them an opportunity to
register their logical basis and appeal to your
common sense without bias or prejudice, and
you will soon find that you have contacted a
new world of possibilities and a new life of
realities.
V V V
22
F o r the H om e and Business
C H A P T E R T W O
T H E C O SM IC AN D Y O U
£p^*>HERE are two very universal ideas asso-
v_y ciated with the practical application of
psychology and metaphysics in the Occidental
world which are generally associated with af­
firmations, and with conscious or subconscious
ideas held by those who are seeking the bless­
ings of the Cosmic.
One of the ideas is that each one of us “is
at one with God," or “a child of God’s perfect
manifestation.” The other idea is that “the
abundant supply of the Cosmos is at our dis­
posal,” or “the blessings of God are mine.”
W ith both or either one of these ideas as a
fundamental belief, it is natural for a man or
woman to feel that suffering and pain, disease
and ill health, poverty or the lack of the neces­
sities in life, are not only essentially wrong but
due entirely to some trick of the mortal mind or
some lack of realization of Divine or Cosmic
contact.
If it were true that ill health and suffering or
disease were the result of some mental trick of
23
Rosicrucian Principles
the mortal mind, or some aberration of the mor­
tal mind’s memory of its Divine attunement,
then we would all be justified in believing that
it would be necessary only to untrick the mind,
or to establish a conscious realization of Divine
attunement in order to cleanse the body or the
consciousness of all suffering, disease and pain.
In other words, if all pain and suffering were
the result of some false reasoning on the part
of the mind, and both the cause and the mani­
festation of disease and pain were the reactions
of a false belief within the mortal mind alone,
then it would be logical to conclude that the
cleansing of the mind's conceptions and the
repeated affirmation that disease and pain do
not exist will alter the conditions and leave one
free of all suffering.
But such is not the case, fortunately. I say
fortunately, even though on the face of the mat­
ter it would seem that it would be a very fortu­
nate thing if all disease and suffering were the
result of mere mistaken beliefs in the mortal
mind, for they would seemingly leave healing
and health easily attained. But it is fortunate
that such is not the case, for it would eventually
demonstrate the superior possibilities of the do­
minion of mortal mind over the will of man, or
24
F or the H om e and Business
over the fundamental and natural laws of the
universe.
And man is ever and anon subject to natural
laws and spiritual laws, all of which are laws
of God.
Man cannot change, regulate, or modify, least
of all negate and set aside any of the natural
laws or any of the spiritual laws. He must
abide by them! But he has the will, and with it
the privilege and power of using natural law,
and spiritual law, to regulate his life. He must
abide by these laws, and he may co-operate with
them or run counter to them. Nevertheless he
is ever affected by them, and his hope and sal­
vation from disease, pain and suffering, poverty
and discomfort, lie in co-operating with natural
and spiritual laws and applying them to his own
advancement and perfection, rather than run­
ning counter to them.
Disease and suffering, poverty and discom­
fort, are invariably the result of the violation of
natural or spiritual laws. The sufferer, or the
victim of circumstances, may not always be the
one who has violated the law, for it is true that
“unto the third and fourth generation will the
law make itself manifest.” But regardless of
the cause and regardless of who violated the
laws, the sufferer therefrom and the victim
25
Rosicrucian Principles
thereof has it within his or her power to adjust
the conditions by directing, in his or her behalf,
the operation of other natural and spiritual laws,
and living in harmony with them.
It is perfectly true that as human beings we
are the highest expression of God's creation. It
is also true that being created in His spiritual
image, we are children of His Consciousness
and an intimate part of His own being. There­
fore, it is more than a mere logical conclusion
that we are children of love, perfectly created,
and having within us the creative powers and
the essential goodness and Divinity of God’s
own Consciousness. But this alone is not suffi­
cient to prevent the development of disease
within our bodies, nor to keep us continually
healthy and happy, regardless of our own vol­
untary actions and our methods of living and
thinking. Man may create a perfect piece of
machinery, and if it is misused, or if it is allowed
to be neglected or injured, it will cease to be
the perfect thing it was or could be.
It is useless to argue the point as to whether
God also created evil and disease, suffering,
pain, and poverty, as the opposites of all that is
good. The fact is that such things do exist, and
what we should be concerned with in any prac­
tical study of metaphysics or ontology is the
26
F or the H om e and Business
cause of their existence in our own affairs, in
our own environment, or within our own body.
Regardless of whether God created the dark
night as well as the bright day, we know that
the night is caused by the absence of light. And
we know likewise that light will dispel the dark­
ness. W e know these things because they are
demonstrations of natural law, and spiritual law.
And we have come to realize that to affirm in
the darkness that there is no darkness, results in
no effulgence of light. The mystic may have
his symbolical interpretation of light and may
have his metaphysical understanding of dark­
ness, but he does not allow his symbolical light
to become a material thing, nor his metaphysical
darkness to become such an equivocal thing that
in the midst of actual darkness he affirms the
existence of light, and denies the existence of
its opposite. He knows that there is but one
thing that will dispel darkness, and that is light.
And he knows that there is but one thing that
will affirm the light, and that is the actual light
itself.
Such it is that a practical mystic, trained in
the Rosicrucian principles, is aware of the fact
that all disease and suffering have resulted from
the violation of natural laws, or the failure to
27
Rosicrucian Principles
abide by natural laws through a voluntary dis­
obedience of their authority.
T o return to the familiar toothache, we may
say that the tooth aches because of some cause
within the tooth. The cause is a diseased con­
dition of the tooth or the gums surrounding the
tooth. This diseased condition is a result of the
violation of some law of nature. The violation
was not a metaphysical one, nor a mystical one,
nor a mere trick of the mortal mind in believing
that it had violated some law.
It is difficult for man to imagine that which
he has never experienced nor realized. The
mind that has never realized the agony of a
toothache cannot conceive or imagine it, and
produce through its imagination a synthetic
demonstration. The mortal mind can be con­
scious of a toothache only through having the
experience. The mortal mind may give false
eminence to the toothache, or may attribute to
it a mistaken sense of authority, and it may even
credit the toothache with the right to enslave
its victim. But it cannot create that toothache,
nor can it negate it out of existence. The ache
is a pain, and the pain is the result of a cause,
and mortal mind cannot create the cause nor can
it remove the cause.
28
F or the H om e and Business
As we have said in the previous chapter, the
Oriental mystic has used affirmations and his
will power to prevent the mortal mind from giv­
ing undue power and authority to the ache or
its cause to enslave him. He has learned how
to negate the mortal mind's acceptance of a
false belief in the power of pain to enslave him,
but he has never prostituted his correct under­
standing of the use of such a negative affirma­
tion to the imbecilic practice of positively affirm­
ing the non-existence of the pain itself.
The Rosicrucian, as a practical mystic, with
his feet firmly on the ground during his
earthly existence, and ever conscious of the
material laws as well as the spiritual laws, used
his will in directing the natural creative forces
within his body, and throughout the universe,
to remove the cause of the pain and cure the
toothache by curing the condition which re­
sulted from the violation of some natural law.
As we have intimated, this is practical mys­
ticism. It is reasonable, rational, and sound in
every way. It neither denies the existence of
God and His means and methods, nor does it
aggrandize the material part of man and make
him superior to the spiritual part of his being.
The abundant supply does exist, not only in
the Cosmic but throughout all of nature. God
29
Rosicrucian Principles
has provided bountifully for all the needs and
most of the luxuries required or desired by every
human being. These constitute the rich bless­
ings which God promised His creatures and
which he has so beautifully d e m o n s t r a t e d
throughout all the ages.
W hatever may be lacking in your life, what­
ever may be wanting among your needs, exists
for you to possess and to have, and to hold, so
long as you use them rightfully. W hat you
lack is not in your possession or at your disposal
because you have not attuned yourself to it,
or have not attracted it to yourself. Affirming
that you have it when you do not have it, will
not attract it nor manifest it. Nor will the
belief that since you do not have it, you cannot
have it, affect the fact that you still may have it
if you earn it, deserve it, or attract it and bring
it into your consciousness.
All things that man may require are his es­
sentially and potentially, but they may not be
his actually, because of some principle, some
law exercised by him or denied by him which
withholds the realization of the things that he
lacks.
T o affirm, therefore, that since we are per­
fectly created and perfect in the image of God,
we shall have no disease, regardless of how we
30
F o r the H om e and Business
think, live, or act, is as inconsistent as saying
that regardless of the fact that it is the middle
of the night, and by natural and Divine law,
the sun does not shine, still the sun will shine
because we affirm that the sun exists and the
darkness is not.
And to affirm that because there is an abun­
dant supply for all, and essentially every bless­
ing and bounty of God at our disposal, we
therefore have everything, and lack nothing,
while at the time we are objectively conscious of
our needs, is simply proclaiming a falsehood
and hoping that our own predicament will be
magically changed by a formula that is as un­
scientific and unsound metaphysically as any­
thing can be.
Therefore, in a practical way I shall attempt
to show you how we may attract and bring
into our existence the things which we lack,
and which our Divine perfection and the abun­
dant supply have established for us.
V V V
31
Rosicrucian Principles
C H A P T E R T H R E E
M E N TA L A LC H EM Y
/(^\NE of the most popular beliefs in the Occi-
dental world regarding the application of
psychological principles to our every day affairs
is in connection with the so-called “art of con­
centration.”
It is generally believed, by those who have
heard the public lecturers propound the simple­
ness of modern psychology, that through con­
centration upon a specific need some magic
processes are set into action, which bring into
materialization the thing desired. It matters lit­
tle what the thing may be, nor when nor how
we concentrate it, for according to the various
lecturers and teachers of this “art,” there are as
many methods as there are teachers who offer
their personal instruction.
One public lecturer, renowned for her years
of devotion to the expounding of the simple for­
mulates of psychological magic, frankly admits
that after investigating her own private for­
mula for many years, and examining the reports
of her thousands of paying students, she can
guarantee her concentration method to be sixty-
32
F o r the H om e and Business
five per cent efficient! It would seem that if
there is any psychological, metaphysical, or
mystical law involved in the ‘‘art of concentra­
tion,” one hundred per cent efficiency should be
guaranteed as the standard.
Thirty-five per cent admittedly fail, according
to this one lecturer. M y own investigations,
and the reports I have received from perhaps
fifty thousand persons who have tried all of the
personally discovered and unique systems of
concentration taught in the “Fifty Dollars for
Seven Lessons” assemblies conducted by these
itinerant teachers, have shown that ten per cent
of the tests of such methods produce results
which may be either desirable or attributible to
the practice.
Yet it cannot be denied that there is an art in
concentrating, and that this art can be used to
bring into our lives the things which we desire
or which we need. There is a method known
to the Rosicrucians which is easily guaranteed
to be one hundred per cent efficient, if used as
directed, but of this I may speak later. The
point I wish to make is that there is nothing
wrong with the principle of concentration, but
there is much wrong with the system for its use,
as presented by those who foster the false be­
liefs in the minds of the public that it is a simple
33
Rosicrucian Principles
process, requiring no other consideration than
that he who would concentrate wishes for some­
thing and desires to turn the wish into materiali­
zation.
It is an easily demonstrable fact that of the
many things we need in our lives, or wish for
the most, those things upon which we concen­
trate our attention and our thoughts most con­
tinuously and sincerely are apt to be brought
into realization. It would be a trite thing to say
that through concentration upon a desire, we
tend to bring it into realization.. But the fact
remains that there is a considerable difference
between centering our conscious thoughts upon
one great desire and keeping it foremost in our
consciousness, and the so-called secret methods
of concentrating on each and every little thing
that appears upon our prospective horizon as a
necessity or a desirability.
W ithout doubt, we are more apt to bring into
our lives that thing upon which we devote most
of our attention, or to which we give the utmost
thought. W hen we become obsessed with a
wish, a hope, or a desire, to such an extent that
it blots out all other temptations and puts far
into the background all other seeming needs or
wants, we are very likely to make every one
of our acts contribute toward the fulfillment or
34
F o r the H om e and Business
realization of the wish, and give every possible
effort toward a contributing factor in its ma­
terialization.
I have found, through conversations with
hundreds of individuals who have been espec­
ially selected to discuss with me their wants, be­
cause of their importance or their seriousness
in the scheme of things, that there has been an
entire absence on the part of tne individual to
truly concentrate in the proper manner upon
the thing desired.
Let me illustrate my point with a typical ex­
ample. A young man was brought to me by
his father, who was a very successful banker
and general business man. The son was twenty-
four years of age, and for five years had been
employed in the bookkeeping and record office
of one of the largest lumber companies in the
W est. The father had wanted the boy to start
at the bottom of whatever industry or profession
he chose, and had been quite satisfied with the
youth's connection with the lumber company
when he first secured the position. But both
the son and father were now restless because
there seemed to be no special opportunity for
advancement with the lumber concern, and the
boy did not care to go into the banking business
or in any other business in fact, but had what
35
Rosicrucian Principles
he called a great hope. He hoped to become a
good architect, with a big practice, and with the
opportunity to create wonderful buildings and
beautiful homes. The father agreed that the
boy s ambition was noble, and had offered to
pay the boy’s way through one of the univer­
sities if he wished to take the complete course in
architecture. But the boy had refused this offer,
insisting that he would not have his education
paid for nor accept any further money from his
father, but would work his way through life.
I believe that secretly this proud attitude on the
part of the boy pleased the father, but the prob­
lem was this: How was the boy to become an
architect?
The boy admitted that he had held this desire
and wish to become an architect for many years.
He said it was his dream, and his hope. He
had always heard that if one held fast to a
belief, a hope, or an ambition, or had maintained
that wish steadfastly for a number of years,
that it would lead the person on some path
toward the goal desired. Yet here he was, doing
the same work in the same way, day after day,
with no indication that his great dream was to
be fulfilled.
I asked the boy if he had concentrated upon
this great hope or dream, and he enthusiasti­
36
F o r the H om e and Business
cally replied that it was the only thing he con­
centrated upon day and night. He had no
other particular ambition, he said, and had laid
aside all social desires as dependent upon his
success in attaining his great hope.
Careful questioning revealed that his idea of
concentration was much like that of the tramp
who sits upon the park bench and looks across
the lawns toward the home of the wealthy man,
and wishes that he could be inside at the dining
table to enjoy the excellent meal and the com­
fort of the fireplace, and he wishes and wishes
and wishes. Unquestionably every time the
tramp is hungry he wishes he had a meal, and
every time he sees others in comfort and luxury
while he is cold and uncomfortable he wishes
he had the pleasures of life which others enjoy.
These wishes of his receive considerable con­
centration at those times when he is most im­
pressed with his poverty and discomfort. But
can one say that such intermittent wishing, or
the holding of one consistent desire, constitutes
the art of concentrating?
The young man referred to above admitted
that in the lumber company’s office where he
worked, he often met, almost daily, other archi­
tects who came there to secure important data
or to discuss their plans with the executives of
37
Rosicrucian Principles
the company. He was constantly brought into
intimate contact with builders and contractors,
and he met a great many persons who discussed
in his presence the many problems of archi­
tecture and building. Careful questioning re­
vealed that he had not concentrated enough on
his great dream to have made the dream an ob­
sessional desire. The dream had not become
so dominating a factor in all of his thinking and
acting as to have lead him into conversations
with other architects as to how he might ad­
vance himself from his present position, to that
of a student of architecture, without going to
college. He had not even been tempted by his
hope or his dream to visit architects at their
homes, or their offices, and watch them at work.
He had not been urged by his dream or his hope
to borrow any of their books, or preliminary
guides to the art of architecture. He had not
even expressed his dream or his hope to anyone
else, but his parents and one or two friends.
And even his employer did not know that he
was anxious to become an architect, nor did the
draftsman of the lumber concern have even a
suspicion that this young man was anxious to
take up the study of architecture, and thereby
become a valuable aid to the concern for which
he was working. Concentration, indeed!
38
F o r the H om e and Business
There is a considerable difference between
concentrating upon a dream or a hope, and con­
centrating upon the fulfillment thereof.
Had this young man been truly concentrating
on bringing into realization his dream, he would
have talked architecture, thought architecture,
and acted architecture every moment of his life.
He could not have been kept away from the
presence of other architects, nor away from the
drawing boards, book shelves of architects of­
fices, and draftsmen's rooms. Real concentra­
tion on his great hope would have led him
within a year to trying his hand at making
plans and drawings, and he would have un­
doubtedly fallen in with those who would have
advised him and helped him, even while holding
his position and earning an income. Even his
employer admitted later that he would have
gladly permitted him to work in the drafting
room in his spare hours, to learn some of the
practical lessons of the first stages of creative
building.
Let us take another example. A young man,
nineteen years of age, working in a photo­
graphic studio doing the commonplace work at
the average wages, had occasion to see some
special work brought to the studio to be copied,
and its very nature, beauty and rareness at­
39
Rosicrucian Principles
tracted his attention. He found that the pic­
tures brought into the studio to be copied were
the result of a little known process, almost se­
cretly used by a few men in New York City,
who had learned the art in foreign lands and
were capable, not only of making the most at­
tractive and beautiful reproductions of nature
ever exhibited at art galleries, but of earning an
unusual income, enabling them to live well and
enjoy many of the luxuries of life. The young
man became obsessed with the desire to learn
this unusual art, and devote himself to it. The
idea— the hope— the ambition— came into birth
almost spontaneously as he listened to his em­
ployer’s story of the rareness, beauty, and prof­
its connected with this fascinating art. For
many days, the young man dreamed about it,
and gradually his ambition became an all-ab­
sorbing, dominating obsession of his conscious­
ness. In every spare moment he visited art gal­
leries and art stores, seeking to view other speci­
mens of this art. He soon learned that the art
was rare enough and the specimens few and in
great demand. W hile walking or riding through
the parks or busy streets, his eye was ever alert
to the beauties of nature which might be repro­
duced by this unique process. In every maga­
zine and newspaper, he saw pictures or read of
40
F o r the H om e and Business
incidents that would be worthy of reproduction
if he could use the secret process. During the
evenings he spent every possible moment in li­
braries, searching for any possible clue that
might lead him to some description of the secret
methods. He talked about it, he dreamed about
it, he lived his hope. Every conscious moment
was centered upon doing those things, learning
those things, thinking those thoughts, and ar­
ranging those thoughts which would bring him
nearer to his ambition. He was concentrating
in the true sense upon what he wanted, and
there was no mystical, secret principle about his
concentration so far as he knew. He was un­
aware of any psychological principles involved
in his devotion to the one dream of his life. He
did not go to fortune tellers, crystal gazers, palm
readers, or card prophets to find whether he
would ever succeed in materializing his dream.
He had no question in his mind, no doubt in his
consciousness but what he had selected the mis­
sion of his life, and that it would be realized.
Finally his great urge and concentration led him
to locate the man who had brought the first
specimens to the studio. He found reason to
call on him in a business way with other matters
connected with the art, during the hours when
the man would be working at his process. In
41
Rosicrucian Principles
hurried interviews with the man, his eyes regis­
tered everything within sight, with that keen­
ness that comes through real concentration. He
saw labels on bottles, names on instruments,
imprints on catalogues, in the man’s work room.
He hurried to stores, and to factories, and pur­
chased similar instruments, chemicals, and other
things, little by little as his means afforded. He
experimented by following the very brief and
almost enigmatic instructions that accompanied
each thing he bought, and finally, through medi­
tation, concentration, and inspiration, there
seemed to come to him shafts of light in the
form of bits of wisdom that informed him, as if
intuitively, how to experiment, and what to do.
The results were small, crude specimens of pic­
tures which were far from being admirable, but
were nevertheless unique in their process. Fin­
ally he took several of these to the man who
knew the whole art, and the man was so astoun­
ded at the youth's “discovery” of part of the
secret formulas or process of this hidden art that
he unintentionally perhaps, or diplomatically,
told the young man where he had made some
errors, and why his work was not what it should
be. This led to further experiments which pro­
duced better results, and within a few months
the young man had evolved a process of his own
42
F o r the H om e and Business
which produced pictures equal to those of the
eminent artist whose work had inspired him.
W ithin a year his success in this effort was
bringing him an income and a recognition in the
art world, never equalled by any youth in the
past, and within another year, his dream and
hope was being fulfilled abundantly.
Concentration did it! But it was not the
form of concentration that is taught in "Five
Lessons for Five Dollars,” nor learned in a dol­
lar book on “how to concentrate upon the
abundant supply for your needs."
The Rosicrucians know that to truly concen­
trate means to have one absorbing idea at a
time, and to think of it to the exclusion of
everything else, and then let your entire life
for the time being co-operate with your con­
centration to bring into realization the thing
you desire.
This does not mean that to successfully con­
centrate, the dreamer or the thinker must take
himself away from his profession, his business,
his duty, or his obligations, and isolate himself
in a cave or on a mountain top where he can do
nothing else but think and meditate upon his
one desire. That would surely frustrate every
possibility of fulfillment. Nor does it mean that
concentration should be indulged in only when
43
Rosicrucian Principles
the mind is free and the body is at ease before
the fireside in the evening, or upon retiring at
night. It means concentration in every possible
moment of relaxation from the duties at hand.
It means sacrificing every other thought that is
not productive or essential. It means devoting
every spare moment and every moment that is
not absolutely necessary to life and its duties.
It means forsaking the pleasures and tempta­
tions, and the casual things of life, to more pro­
found and more extended thought upon the one
desire. It means time, for it requires time. It
means effort, for it requires mental activity, not
passivity. It means action, for it cannot be as­
sociated with relaxation and dormancy of the
faculties. It requires faith and confidence, for
the elements of doubt and suspicion will frus­
trate every possibility of fulfillment.
As we proceed with these little talks in the
next chapters, the art of proper concentration
will be made plain and more practical.
One of the most important principles, how­
ever, which must be understood and brought
into use before concentration becomes useful, is
that of mental alchemy. The Rosicrucians of
the past were well known as alchemists pre­
eminently. Not only have they been accused of
having succeeded in making pure gold out of
44
F o r the H om e and Business
gross metals and thereby bringing into realiza­
tion one of their fond dreams, but it has been
conceded that the Rosicrucian art, with its un­
usual teachings and knowledge, enables its stu­
dents and adepts alchemically to bring into ma-
terilization everything that they could mentally
conceive of and create in imagination.
Thus they were proficient in the art of mental
alchemy as well as in the alchemy of the cru­
cible and physical alchemy.
Man alone, of all other creatures, has within
his being the creative powers which are a part
of the God Consciousness, uniquely endowed
in man. He has the rare privilege and ability
to mentally conceive and create that which he
desires to create eventually in material form.
In this process of mentally conceiving and men­
tally creating, man is the equal in some degree
of God Himself, since it is a God given privi­
lege for man to use the creative powers which
brought into existence in this universe all that is.
But the art of mentally creating is little un­
derstood in the Occidental world, and is prac­
ticed almost exclusively by those adepts who are
often considered to be the white magicians of
this earth.
I say they are considered the white magicians,
for their magic is white magic, free from evil.
45
Rosicrucian Principles
and free from any destructive nature, for the
power which they use is part of the creative
power of the God Consciousness, and this crea­
tive power is incapable of creating that which
is evil, or that which is destructive.
The undeveloped and unevolved mind of man
may conceive of evil and of things destructive,
but man cannot mentally create them with that
power which will bring them into materializa­
tion in the mystical manner by which good and
constructive things will come into material form
when properly created in the mind.
W hen man conceives of that which is not
good, and seeks to bring it from his mind into
material form, he must labor with the grossly
material elements and bring them into irrational,
illogical, and unnatural relationship, in order
to make them manifest as evil in the material
realm. But when man conceives of that which
is good, and constructive, he may mentally cre­
ate it by the alchemical processes of his
mind, in attunement with the alchemical pro­
cesses of the Cosmos, and through such attune­
ment the thing he has created will sooner or
later become manifest outwardly through the
creative processes existing through his con­
sciousness and his being.
46
F o r the H om e and Business
It is, therefore, only necessary for one who
seeks an improvement in environment,-a good
element in his needs, or a beneficent item in his
possessions, mentally to create the thing he de­
sires through concentration and mental visuali­
zation. He should do this day by day, hour by
hour, whenever the time permits, until the thing
conceived of and in the process of creation, be­
comes a living, vital, vibrating thing of life in
his own consciousness. It must become so real
that its reality is omnipresent, and so effectual
in its existence that it modifies, controls, directs,
and influences his thinking, his acting, and his
living.
Such a mental creation soon ceases to appear
to be a thing of the mind alone. W hen the eyes
are closed, it is clearly seen; when the mind is
in relaxation it takes possession of his being.
It is ever present in all of its form, color, size,
weight, and power, regardless of its nature. It
is like the unborn in the womb of its parent,
ready for delivery into this material world.
All things which God created were first con­
ceived by God in this manner. All things which
materialize upon the earth as blessings for man
and contributions to his essential needs were
alchemically created in the Cosmic before their
existence was projected into material form on
47
Rosicrucian Principles
this earth plane. Man must therefore exemplify
and emulate the Cosmic processes and the Di­
vine scheme. He cannot materialize into this
world that which he has conceived without the
proper process of maturing development.
In my experience with business men, firms,
boards of directors, and corporations which
have labored falsely and therefore unsuccess­
fully with great plans or important matters, I
have found that that which they desired to
bring about had not been properly conceived in
the first place. Seeds which are lacking in con­
sistent relationship, or which are impotent in
nature, inharmonious in vibration, or the off­
spring of evil parents, cannot be brought to­
gether to effect a perfect conception or to vita­
lize an idea. And I have found that even
where the conception was complete and more
or less perfect in every requisite, there had been
no period for proper gestation, and no logical,
natural course of development to bring the con­
ception into a living vibrant form for final ex­
pression.
It is fortunate, indeed, for man that all of
his passing conceptions and that all of his men­
tal images do not take form and parade about
him to enslave his being and clutter the world
with the morphidites of misconceptions. It is
48
F o r the H om e and Business
fortunate that only those things can come into
being, into concrete and material realization,
which have been carefully synthesized and de­
veloped in the crucible of the mental laboratory
of man's Divine consciousness. But because
there is this element of time, and this necessity
for proper development and maturity, man be­
comes impatient and seeks shorter methods and
easier ways to bring his dreams and his desires
into fulfillment. In this he most surely fails,
and through such failure loses faith and con­
fidence and dethrones the creative power within
him as a pretender.
It is not a difficult thing for the human mind
to visualize in all of its details, that which the
mind can conceive as a thing desired. It must
be done through the concentration of the objec­
tive faculties, and the use of the will power
directed from the outer self inwardly, as though
there were within the human consciousness a
sanctum for the preparation and creation of all
things desired by man. Little by little, part by
part, element by element, the thing must be put
together in its visualized form, and after each
addition or each stage of development, it must
be examined, tested, and tried to discover if any
element has been overlooked, any part neg­
lected, or any adjustment or associations of
49
Rosicrucian Principles
parts and elements wrongly made. As one
would build a house by constructing the walls,
brick by brick, so each part of the thing desired
must be mentally created and visualized, until
it is ready to burst forth in its completed state
and stand in the consciousness of the creator as
a thing actually existing and in his possession.
So much for mental alchemy— the art of men­
tally creating and visualizing the thing desired.
Nothing pertaining to the desire must be over­
looked. One must keep in mind the usefulness
of the thing desired. One must avoid attempt­
ing to create that which has no practical use
and which will bring neither profit nor benefit
to anyone. The dangers from its misuse must
be considered and provided against during the
process of creating. Its benefit to others must
be included, and it must be so created that it
cannot fail to be useful to others, and to be of
benefit generally to humanity. It must be so
created or of such a nature that when it comes
into final manifestation objectively, it will be­
come no charge upon the happiness, peace,
health, and contentment of others, nor carry
with it the sacrifices and sorrow of others. It
must be desired with as little selfishness as is
consistent with the need of the thing. Its pos­
session must be inspired by no motive associated
50
F o r the H om e and Business
with revenge or anger, hatred or jealousy, pride
or arrogance. Its development and growing
reality in the consciousness of its creator should
continually inculcate a sense of humility and
humbleness, for as it comes into form, the mag­
nificence of the creative powers of man should
make the creator of each thing realize his obli­
gations to God and his attunement with God’s
kingdom.
If all of these things are considered, and made
a part of the process, then truly one may feel
that success and satisfying realization are immi­
nent and assured.
V V V
51
Rosicrucian Principles
C H A P T E R F O U R
C O M M A N D IN G C O SM IC H ELP
o ^ H E real mystic knows that he must work
through the Cosmic and with Cosmic law
in order to bring about the realization of his
conceived and visualized dreams and plans. He
never forgets the Cosmic law, and he never fails
to take the Cosmic into partnership in all his
plans and desires.
But there is a great difference between com ­
manding Cosmic help and dem anding Cosmic
help. One may command Cosmic help through
one's worthiness, sincerity, loyalty, and devo­
tion to Cosmic ideals, but one can never de­
mand anything from the Cosmic, for the atti­
tude of demanding would immediately preclude
any consideration on the part of the Cosmic for
the wishes and desires of the petitioner.
Still, we read in many popular forms of ap­
plied psychology, and even in much of the so-
called mystical literature of the day, how one
may demand of the Cosmic or through the Cos­
mic, the realization, mediate and immediate, of
those things greatly desired. Such an idea is
52
F or the H om e and Business
responsible for the many failures that thousands
have had in trying to bring about concrete
demonstrations of mystical processes.
Before giving you the definite methods for
bringing about certain hopes and ambitions in
your life, I wish to complete these preliminary
lessons by devoting the next few pages to a
proper explanation as to how you may secure
the co-operation of the Cosmic, and how you
may avoid interfering with the Cosmic methods
of co-operation.
W hen one seeks the co-operation of the Cos­
mic in bringing about a realization of some plan,
one assumes that the Cosmic can help, and since
it knows how to help, and is unlimited in its
means and methods, it would be almost futile
to ask the Cosmic to help in many of the prob­
lems which man has to solve. It is natural to
think that no man or woman will appeal to the
Cosmic for help in regard to a proposition or
plan which can be easily worked out by the
man or woman, independent of the Cosmic.
Surely we do not appeal to the Cosmic for help
every moment of the day in mastering the minor
or routine things of life. W e have learned what
our own possibilities as an individual are, be­
cause of the Cosmic creative powers resident
within us, and most of our daily tasks and pass­
53
Rosicrucian Principles
ing problems are solved or mastered without
appeal to the Cosmic. This is precisely as it
should be, and as God and the Cosmic intended
it to be. W e appeal only to the Cosmic when
our plans seem to meet insurmountable obsta­
cles, or when our own efforts and endeavors
have been frustrated, and the efforts and en­
deavors of others around us seem to be of no
avail. The mystic knows that he should not
bring to the Cosmic— which is the court of last
appeal in a mystical sense— any problem which
can be solved without its help.
W e must not forget the ancient injunction
that by the sweat of our brow shall we labor
and produce the necessary things of life. He
who labors diligently and persistently in an
effort to produce and bring about the things he
needs in life, meets with the greatest success,
while he who dreams and plans and expects the
Cosmic to labor for him in the fulfillment of the
things he dreams, is doomed to failure. Yet that
is precisely the situation in this country today
as a result of the mistaken information that has
been taught and disseminated by so-called prac­
tical psychologists and New Thought teachers.
As stated above, Cosmic help can be secured
and should be secured at such times when the
individual is incapable of coping with the situa­
54
F or the H om e and Business
tion, and the situation is one which is beyond
human control, or of such a general nature
or intense nature that too many problems or
points are involved for one mind to master.
Assuming, therefore, that the Cosmic can
help through unlimited means and methods at
its disposal, we must realize at once that any
attempt to tell the Cosmic how to bring about
the desires or plans uppermost in our minds, is
not only an imposition on the intelligence and
universal wisdom of the Cosmic, but it is one of
the most frequent and positive reasons for the
negative results that are so universally attained.
Let me state this point again, in another way,
so as to give it the utmost emphasis. Since the
Cosmic has unlimited ways and means of carry­
ing out anything that it decides to do or wishes
to do or agrees to do, it is inconsistent and in­
jurious to the success of the plans to tell the
Cosmic how to work out the solution. How­
ever, this is precisely what thousands are doing
in every attempt they make to secure Cosmic
co-operation, and I hope that this particular les­
son from me will prevent any from ever for­
getting the fundamental principles explained at
this time.
Now let me take an example of the wrong
method, and see if you can grasp the point in
55
Rosicrucian Principles
a manner that will register definitely for a
long time on your mind. Let us assume that a
man has a piece of property which he is anxious
to release. He does not wish to carry the taxes
and insurance any longer, and prefers to have
the cash so that he may use it right away to
buy railroad tickets for himself and family, and
start for the W est. Here he wishes to establish
his home and secure a new position in order
to start life over again under better conditions
and in a better part of the country. He has
tried every known method to sell his piece of
property. He has tried real estate agents, real
estate brokers, newspaper advertising, and per­
sonal solicitation. After many months, he has
lined up a few prospective buyers, but after all
is said and done, the total result of his efforts
consists of a prospective sale to one of three per­
sons. One of these persons would pay him the
money immediately if he could get his case
settled in court, which would bring him enough
money to buy the property, but the case is in
the hands of a referee who delays in rendering
his decision. Prospect number two would buy
the property immediately, except for the fact
that his business is in the hands of a receiver
and he is waiting for cash to come as a result
of a settlement among creditors and others.
56
F or the H om e and Business
Prospect number three is a young man who
wants to buy the property to begin the life of
farming, but his father is in Europe, and will
not return for several months, and the son is
waiting for the father to send him money by
mail or cable, but does not seem to be able to
get it. Now then, our man who wants to sell
the property and go W est to live feels that he
should appeal to the Cosmic for help. He pro­
ceeds to concentrate on the Cosmic and to visu­
alize what he would like to have made manifest.
He follows the typical system outlined in mod­
ern psychology courses, and so he sits down
and projects to the Cosmic Mind his requests
and demands, about as follows: He says to
the Cosmic, “Now I want to sell my property,
so that I can go W est and buy a home and start
life over again, and I cannot sell my property
unless one of these three prospects secures his
money. Therefore, please help the man to have
the referee make a favorable decision, or the
receiver to bring about a settlement of that
man’s business, or the father in Europe to send
money to his son.’’ Then, our concentrating
friend proceeds to concentrate upon and visual­
ize the referee working over the legal papers
and reaching a decision to release the money
that the one prospect needs. Then he visualizes
57
Rosicrucian Principles
the receiver working over his papers and com­
ing to a favorable decision for prospect number
two. Then he visualizes the father in Europe
reading the boy’s letters and deciding to send
the boy the money. After doing all this, and
spending half an hour or an hour in concentra­
tion and visualization, he feels quite sure that
he has made perfectly plain to the Cosmic just
what he wants. And he waits day after day
for the Cosmic to manifest itself and no mani­
festation occurs. Naturally he wishes to know
what is wrong.
Now let us look at this man's problem and see
if he has been doing the right thing or not. In
the first place, when this man consulted me—
and I have selected this case from an actual
occurrence — he i m p r e s s e d upon me very
strongly the fact that his great desire was to
sell his piece of property to one of these three
prospects so that he could get the money and
start for the W est.
That was the uppermost thought in his mind
in all of his concentrations, and in all of his
appeals to the Cosmic. And yet I am sure that
each one of you will agree with me right now
when I say to you that after all is said and
done, what the man wanted least of all was to
sell his property and get the money. In fact,
58
F or the H om e and Business
the sale of his property and the securing of
money was not the vital issue or the real thing
that he desired the most. W hat the man really
wanted was to get out into the W est and start
life over again. I convinced him of this by say­
ing to him, “Suppose you did not sell your prop­
erty, but had an offer from a firm in California
to come out to that state and manage one of its
big factories, and this offer was accompanied
by a promise to pay all your travelling expenses,
and aid you in locating in a nice home. Would
you accept that offer?” He immediately replied,
"That is the very thing I want, and I would
gladly accept the offer.” So you see, the real
desire of this man’s dreams or hopes was not
to sell the piece of property. From his limited,
material, earthly viewpoint, there was only one
way by which he could get out W est and start
life over again, and that was by selling his prop­
erty and using the money to carry out his plans.
He never, for one moment, thought of the pos­
sibility that the Cosmic might have other ways
of bringing about a fulfillment of his desires.
In other words, his desire was to get out W est
and he had sat down and reasoned it out, and
figured it out from his point of view and had
decided, arbitrarily and finally, that there was
only one way for him to master his problem.
59
Rosicrucian Principles
which was by selling his property. Then he
proceeded in all the rest of his thinking, plan­
ning, and concentrating, to use his arbitrary de­
cision, his final conclusion, his reason and judg­
ment, as being the ultimate, the perfect, the only
way to bring about a realization. Having once
decided this way, he proceeded then to tell the
Cosmic that it should or must accept his decis­
ion, his plan, his solution, and work it out for
him. Certainly that is an imposition upon the
Cosmic, and at the same time it was the worst
thing he could do to bring about the realization
he expected.
In other words, the man was appealing to the
Cosmic to sell his property, instead of appeal­
ing to the Cosmic to help him get out W est and
start a new life. Or, in another way, we may
say that he was saying to the Cosmic, “I want
your help in bringing about a realization of my
plans, but listen, Cosmic. I have decided how
it should be done and how it can come about,
and how you should assist. I am going to tell
you just what I want you to do, and I want
my plans fulfilled in just this way and no other.
I do not want you to drop any money out of the
sky into my lap. I do not want you to have
any money come to me through a will or
through a gift, or through any other channel,
60
F o r the H om e and Business
but through the sale of my property. 1 do not
want you to send me railroad tickets through
some firm that would like to have me come
W est. I do not want you to give me the railroad
tickets through some banking institution that
would help me to get out W est. I do not want
you to have a representative of a western com­
pany call on me and offer to pay my expenses,
but I want you to give me the money solely
through the sale of my property. I do not want
you to have any company offer me a position
or a home in the W est. I want to go out there
with my family, and hunt a position, find one
in my own way, and bring about that end of
the plan through my own efforts. I do not want
you to do anything unique or original that I
have not thought of, but simply follow out my
instructions and then I will know that the Cos­
mic is my partner.”
Now I will leave it to the common sense of
my reader as to whether or not such reasoning
and such appealing to the Cosmic is apt to bring
the desired results or not. The proof of my
contention lies in the fact that after I had talked
to this man and pointed out the limitations that
he was putting around the solution of his prob­
lem, and the dictatorial attitude he had taken
toward the Cosmic, he went home and pro­
61
Rosicrucian Principles
ceeded to concentrate in the proper manner, and
succeeded in having his hopes fulfilled abun­
dantly. He concentrated on the following pic­
ture: He saw himself and wife traveling, not
particularly by train or by automobile or in any
definite form, to the W est. He pictured himself
meeting a group of men who offered him a good
position. He saw his wife and himself entering
into a cozy home, without attempting to visu­
alize that home with a porch or without a porch,
two stories high, or one story high, painted red
or painted green, with big yards or little yards,
but just a home, comfortable and in accordance
with what he actually needed. This is all that
he had in mind when he concentrated, and ap­
pealed to the Cosmic. He was absolutely in­
different as to whether he bought the tickets or
some one else bought the tickets; whether he
went this week or next week, or what part of
the state of California he reached or what kind
of a position it was that was offered to him. All
of these minor details and ways and means he
left entirely to the Cosmic.
W hat was the result? One of his friends who
had casually written to an acquaintance in the
W est about this man's desires, received a letter
stating that there was an opening in a new shoe
factory to be established in the W est, and since
62
F o r the H om e and Business
this man had been a former superintendent of a
shoe factory, there was a possibility of a posi­
tion for him. This letter from the W est was
shown to the man who was concentrating, and
he wrote direct to the new factory in Califor­
nia and was offered the position, plus an ad­
vancement of his salary sufficient to bring him
and his family to the W est. In twelve days he
was on the train westward bound. Precisely
three weeks after he had reached the W est and
was settled in his new home and new position,
a real estate firm in New York notified him that
a large corporation heretofore unconsidered as
a prospect for the buying of the property had
made a very large offer for his property, and
that the offer had come "out of the blue.” Hence
our man found himself comfortably and happily
settled in a new home, in a new position, and in
a new part of the country, plus a nice sum of
money which he could put away in a savings
bank and hold for a rainy day. All of his
dreams and hopes had been fulfilled, and even
more, and yet not one detail of the realization
was anything like he had been concentrating
upon in his original attempts to demand of the
Cosmic its co-operation.
In another illustration: A widow sought a
definite means to earn an income in order to
63
Rosicrucian Principles
support her fourteen-year-old son so that he
might continue at school, go on through high
school, and prepare himself to support his
mother and keep up the home. Before appeal­
ing to the Cosmic for help, she also reasoned
as to the proper way of bringing about her
hopes, and she decided after talking with a
number of other women, that there was only
one thing she could do to earn an income, and
that was to make paper flowers and have her
son either peddle them or deliver them to some
stores or novelty shops in various parts of the
city where she lived. She had reached this con­
clusion by analyzing herself and determining,
as she explained to me, that since she had no
business training, knew nothing of stenography
or typing, and was not an artist or musician,
there was no other way for her to earn an
income. In other words, after fifteen or twenty
minutes' self analysis, she was fully convinced
that she knew all about herself, knew all she
could possibly do in this world to contribute
to its needs or to produce anything of useful­
ness. I may say, in passing, that that is one
of the big mistakes a great many persons make
in connection with their personal problems.
They attempt to decide what possibilities they
have in this world. They believe themselves to
64
F or the H om e and Business
be the best judges, even better than the Cosmic
or God Himself. And whatever conclusions
they may reach regarding their capabilities and
limitations is always ultimate, final, supreme and
quite definite. It never dawns upon the minds
of these persons that there may be a higher and
better judge, or there may be an intelligence
that knows better than any living being just
what they can do in life. It never seems to
come to the minds of these persons that each
one of us has a certain mission to fulfill in life,
that in order to fulfill this mission there are
various means by which it may be brought
about, and that God or the Cosmic may know
more about this than we do.
However, the widow referred to proceeded
to concentrate day after day for several weeks,
asking the Cosmic to help her boy dispose of
these paper flowers, which were very poor in
quality and unattractive in finish through lack
of experience. The poor boy was neglecting
his studies and tiring out his young body trying
to sell these flowers from place to place. He
had very little success, and as the family funds
became exhausted, and the cold weather threat­
ened many days of suffering and privation, the
widow came to me in desperation and explained
her problem. She wanted to know how to get
65
Rosicrucian Principles
the Cosmic to help her sell flowers! All she
could think of was the sale of flowers, and
the continuance of her efforts to make and dis­
pose of them.
W hen I asked her why she wanted to sell
flowers, she said it was because she wanted to
earn an income. W hen I asked her why she
wanted to earn an income, she said it was so
she could maintain her home and let the boy
go to school. W hen I asked her why she
wanted to maintain the home and let the boy
go to school, she said it was because she wanted
him to complete his education and be able to
go into business and then support her. So we
see that after all, her real problem was not that
of selling flowers, but of keeping her boy at
school while she had a place to live. But that
was not the picture she had presented to the
Cosmic. That was not the picture she had con­
centrated upon. She had been asking the Cos­
mic to help her bring about the ultimate desires
of her heart, but at the same time she had been
telling the Cosmic that it could only be done
through selling flowers. Since the Cosmic prob­
ably did not agree with that plan or that de­
cision, it did not co-operate. It had ways and
means of its own of bringing about her desires,
but since the widow had limited the Cosmic's
66
F or the H om e and Business
co-operation to the method of selling flowers, the
Cosmic offered no other form of help.
After explaining to this good woman how to
concentrate upon the real desire of her heart,
and how to refrain from thinking about the
method the Cosmic should use in working out
her problem, it was brought to a manifestation
in one week, and this is what happened: An­
other family living in a very fine home, a half
mile away from her, engaged her as house­
keeper with the understanding that the boy
could live in the home as companion to another
boy, the only child that lived in the big house.
The son continued at school, and the widow
continued to live more comfortably, freer from
worries, and doing more constructive work for
the two boys, and the couple who had engaged
her, than she could have done for anyone
through the making of paper flowers. The so­
lution of her problem was one that she had
never conceived of, and one which had never
been suggested to her.
These two illustrations should make it plain
to you what I mean by concentrating on the
"^ultimate desire of your dreams, the eventual
hope in your plans, without limiting the Cosmic
to ways and means of bringing it about.
67
In all of the explanations given in the follow­
ing pages, for seeking Cosmic help, it should
be kept in mind that the fundamental principle
outlined in this lesson should be carefully
followed.
Rosicrucian Principles
V V V
68
F o r the H om e and Business
C H A P T E R F IV E
SEC U R IN G M O N E Y
<rT)ERH APS one of the two most often de-
A sired gifts from the Cosmic is that of
money — actual cash. The other is health.
It is strange indeed that in the ultimate analy­
sis of most of the cases where petitioners are
asking the Cosmic for money we discover that
it is not the actual cash in dollars and cents, or
gold or silver that is desired, but the credit.
There is a considerable difference between se­
curing credit in order to enable one to purchase,
buy, or secure certain necessities, and the pos­
session of the actual cash in material form for
the same purpose. And from the Cosmic point
of view, there is also a considerable difference.
W e would hardly think that anyone believes
that the Cosmic conducts a bank and has in its
vaults gold and silver, copper and nickel, as
well as paper, in the form of coins and bills of
all denominations, and of all countries. It would
seem that only the child mind would conceive
of the Cosmic being able to deposit into the
hands of a petitioner, like hailstones from the
sky, actual money. The moment one realizes
69
Rosicrucian Principles
that the Cosmic cannot deliver into our posses­
sion actual cash, but must bring this about
through various earthly channels, we see at
once that it may be that the Cosmic can aid us
in our financial needs in a manner quite distinct
from delivering the material form of coin to us.
Those who have read the preceding chapter
will realize that in a great many cases those
who are seeking or asking for money through
any occult, mystical, or psychological process
may not be asking for what they really need
at all. I may decide that I need a new hat. and
decide at the same time that I will buy it at a
certain store for a certain price. In order to
do this I must have the actual cash in my hand.
Therefore, I proceed to concentrate upon the
Cosmic to give me five dollars, seven dollars, or
ten dollars, according to the price of the hat.
My whole concentration is upon the amount of
money that I believe I need. The purchase of
the hat or the necessity for having the hat is a
secondary consideration. If I proceeded prop­
erly, the hat would be the primary considera­
tion, and whether I purchased it with actual
cash, secured it on credit, or had it donated to
me by a friend would be immaterial. I would
be glad to leave the arrangement to the Cosmic,
feeling quite satisfied if the Cosmic saw to it
70
F o r the H om e and Business
that I got the hat. All this providing, of course,
that I was unable to earn the money and secure
the hat by the sweat of the brow, as the Cosmic
and all natural law intended I should.
However, there are instances where the ne­
cessity for money in some form, or for credit
to an equivalent amount, is the paramount de­
sire, and these occasions require as much seri­
ous consideration on the part of the mystic as
any other necessity or desire of a legitimate
nature.
From the Cosmic point of view, the use of
money as it is used today is fundamentally
wrong, and is a method or means arbitrarily
established by man for the purpose of getting
around and avoiding most of the ethical prin­
ciples established by the Cosmic. I will touch
on this subject in another part of these lessons,
but it should be kept in mind that the Cosmic
generally is not in sympathy with the use of
money, and whenever and wherever it can
bring about the desired results without recourse
to the use of money, it will do so. Therefore,
we will presume that the petitioner who is seek­
ing for money with the help of the Cosmic will
have reached the conclusion that he must have
money only after analyzing his necessities very
carefully, and knowing very positively that
71
I
Rosicrucian Principles
nothing else but money in some form, or the
equivalent credit, will serve his purpose.
Now there are two ways by which the aver­
age petitioner expects the Cosmic to help him
receive his money. The first way is in asking
the Cosmic to help him borrow what he needs
from some one who he believes is capable in a
financial way to lend him the amount; the other
way is in asking the Cosmic to help him collect
either an amount that is justly coming to him,
or which he expects through the settlement of
some estate, will, legal paper, or other form of
benevolence.
W e must take each of these by itself, and
consider the proper methods whereby mental
or mystical laws can be used to help bring about
the desired results.
W hen money is owed to you, and you cannot
collect it because of the indifference or the tem­
porary inability or stubbornness on the part of
the person who should pay it, then you may
rightfully and ethically ask the Cosmic to help
you secure what is justly yours. I must warn
you, however, that if there is even a fair reason
for the debtor to hold back the payment while
some investigation is made, or while an adjust­
ment is made, or until you comply with some
just conditions, then you cannot expect that the
72
F o r the H om e and Business
Cosmic is going to aid you by setting aside
the rights and interests of the person who owes
you the money, and force that person to make
an immediate settlement with you against his
own best interests. It has been found in many
cases that where Mr. Jones owed a bill of one
thousand dollars to Mr. Smith, and Mr. Smith
was asking the Cosmic to force Mr. Jones to
pay the money right away, that M r. Jones was
holding up the payment of the thousand dollars
because Mr. Smith had not fully complied with
the conditions that brought about the thousand
dollar obligation. It might also have been that
M r. Smith was not willing to concede some
point or to agree to some just and proper point
previously arranged or that Mr. Smith was
perhaps attempting to secure the money in a
shorter period than had been agreed upon. In
such cases, the Cosmic will not act any differ­
ently than the judge in any court would act if
he knew both sides of the case. The Cosmic
will insist upon being fair to everyone, and it is
simply impossible for any petitioner to come to
the Cosmic with his requests and desires, think­
ing that he can hold back some facts about the
matter and fool the Cosmic into granting him
immediately, and without investigation, his spe­
cial wishes. If you will stop a moment you will
73
Rosicrucian Principles
realize that the Cosmic if it has any mystical,
universal mind and power at all, is just as fa­
miliar with the reasons, demands, and rights
of the person who owes the money, as with
the person who desires the money. So we have
found that the petitioner seeking the payment
of money which he claims is owing to him, must
come to the Cosmic as he must come to a court
of law, with “clean hands.”
But if the money is justly due you, and there
is no reason for its nonpayment except the in­
difference or stubbornness or forgetfulness of
the person who can and should pay it, then you
may concentrate upon the Cosmic, and with pa­
tience, petition the Cosmic to intercede for you
and see that your just debt is paid.
As to what method to use in concentrating for
such a purpose, I will have more to say in a
few minutes.
In asking the Cosmic, on the other hand, to
bring money to you that you believe is coming
to you, or should come to you through an estate,
a court settlement, a will, a legacy, or a dona­
tion of some kind, we find that here again the
petitioner must be sure that he is justified in
assuming and believing that the money is to be
given to him and will be given to him by the
giver’s own volition, but that the whole affair
74
F o r the H om e and Business
has been delayed through forgetfulness, inde­
cision, or something of that kind. Now we see
in this latter case, an analogy with that of the
former case. The petitioner must again come
into court with "clean hands.” He must be
receptive, and ready to receive the money that
he desires. It must be free from entanglements
that are unethical, and it must not be money
that will bring the petitioner pleasure alone, and
bring sorrow, suffering, and regrets to others,
for in such a case the Cosmic will not think of
lending its aid or giving its aid to the carrying
out of a wish or a gift or a help of any kind that
will make just one or two happy, while it makes
many others sad and unhappy.
O f course there are those cases where people
petition the Cosmic for some money to meet an
emergency, when they have no definite idea
where the money may come from, because no
one owes them any particular amount, and they
do not expect any money through a legacy or
a donation of any kind. Such a situation is a
very difficult one in which to give advice and
suggestions of any kind. In a great many cases
of this kind, the person soliciting the money is
not warranted in expecting any from any source,
and certainly is not warranted in asking the
Cosmic to create an immediate situation wherein
(
Rosicrucian Principles
the petitioner is suddenly made the benefactor
of Cosmic gifts which have not been earned or
arranged or donated in any way.
Speaking in a general sense, the securing
of money through Cosmic aid reduces itself
to a form of concentration that is simple and
effective. After having determined that the ac­
tual money is what is needed, and not the things
which are to be purchased with it, then the peti­
tioner should decide what is the precise amount,
or the smallest possible amount which will meet
the conditions. Not too much or more than is
necessary should be asked for. On the other
hand, sufficient should be included in the asking
to take care of the immediate, as well as the
mediate, needs. This amount of money should
be visualized in its figures, and not in its form.
In other words, the money should not be visu­
alized as gold or silver, or bills, or in any par­
ticular denomination or form of currency. If
one thousand dollars is desired, the figure or
amount of one thousand dollars should be con­
centrated upon, regardless of whether that one
thousand dollars will eventually show itself in
the form of a check, a draft, a money order,
actual cash, or a liberty bond. And every morn­
ing, every noon, and every night, at a time just
receding the meal, the person desiring the
76
F o r the H om e and Business
money should attune himself through relaxa­
tion and concentration with the Cosmic and
Universal Mind, and hold in his mind, at the
same time, the thought and impression of the
amount of money that he or she needs. After
doing this for a few minutes and either opening
or closing the eyes, the person should dismiss
the matter by the simple statement of "This I
ask of the Cosmic!" And then go about the busi­
ness of the day, unconcerned about the coming
of the money or the method by which the Cos­
mic will answer your petition. Doing this for
four or five days will unquestionably bring some
result in the process leading to the realization
of the amount of money desired. In addition,
if this amount of money is justly owed to you
by some one person, you should concentrate on
that person in connection with the thousand
dollars, and hold the picture of that person in
your mind, along with the amount of money, so
that the Cosmic will get direct from you an
impression of the person who should pay the
money to you. Again I must warn you about
the necessity of being sure that the money is
justly owed you at the moment, and that the
delay in receiving it is not a just delay, and also
that you are entitled to its immediate payment
without further delay. O f course, after what
77
I
Rosicrucian Principles
I have said in the preceding chapter, you will
not attempt to visualize as to how the Cosmic
will make the person pay you, or just what hour
it shall be handed to you, or brought to you, or
placed to your credit, or otherwise made avail­
able. Such concentration upon the amount of
money, and the person who owes it, three
times a day for a number of days, will undoubt­
edly help to bring about an attitude on the part
of the person who owes the money leading to
action and eventual realization of your desires.
In the case where money is desired from an
estate or from some person who is settling an
estate, and where there is a delay or a hesi­
tancy, or a possible frustration through so-called
legal “red tape," you must be sure that there is
no just reason for the delay, and that you are
fully entitled to have the Cosmic come to your
rescue and make immediate settlement. If you
are sure of this point, then you may again visu­
alize the amount of money desired, and with
that visualization, keep in mind the person or
the condition surrounding the delay, with the
idea that the Cosmic will contact the right per­
son or persons and set into action the process
which will lead to the proper settlement.
It has been found that in those cases where a
referee or a judge, or any other individual is
78
F o r the H om e and Business
attempting to make up his mind and decide
whether to do a thing or not to do a thing, or
whether to grant a request to one person or to
another, that if the Cosmic is appealed to to
bring about a decision favorable to the peti­
tioner, the Cosmic does affect the hesitating
mind of the referee, judge, or other person, and
causes him to suddenly make a decision in favor
of the person who is concentrating on the Cos­
mic for co-operation. I have known, personally,
of many cases where judgments or decisions
have been held up for months, and in some cases
years, because a certain person could not come
to a definite decision and was hesitating until a
proper decision could be reached. A few days’
concentration, however, upon this person and
upon the necessity for immediate decision, has
caused the person to suddenly come to a conclu­
sion that he has delayed too long, and now must
render a favorable decision to one of the parties
concerned. In several cases, an investigation
afterwards or an interview with the one who
made the decision, revealed that during one of
the evening hours, while in relaxation, he sud­
denly had an impression that he must come to
a certain conclusion that appeared to him to be
absolutely fair and just.
79
Rosicrucian Principles
You can rest assured that when the Cosmic
takes up your case and impresses someone who
has the right to decide with the necessity of
making a decision in your favor, it is because the
Cosmic knows that such a decision is just and
correct. In other words, the Cosmic will not
make a judge or referee or anyone else decide
in your favor just because you petitioned the
Cosmic to do so, and the other party did not
make such a petition. W e see by this that if
both persons concerned in such a matter were
to petition the Cosmic, and each asked for a
favorable decision, that the Cosmic would have
to decide and impress the hesitating judge with
what is his duty, and what is proper in the
points in question.
As to borrowing money, many other things
must be taken into consideration. The Cosmic
is not loathe to aid in the matter of borrow­
ing, providing the motive back of the desire to
borrow is right, and the person who wants to
borrow has proved to the Cosmic and to others
that he is one who keeps his word and repays
whatever he promises to repay. Again we real­
ize that the Cosmic will not aid in any injustice
or in any matter that will be unfair or injurious
to another person. If, therefore, you are at­
tempting to borrow money without having any
80
F o r the H om e and Business
real necessity for the money, or if a real neces­
sity exists without having any idea as to where
or how or when you will be able to secure suffi­
cient money to repay what you borrow, you can
rest assured that the Cosmic is not going to aid
you in the matter. If, on the other hand, in
your previous transactions of small or large
amounts, you have always repaid what you
borrowed, always given back what has been
loaned to you, always met your just obligations
with every endeavor to fulfill what you have
promised to do, then you may be sure that the
Cosmic will aid you if there is a real need for
the money you are seeking. You cannot go to
the Cosmic with a vague hope that the bor­
rowed money will be repaid some time in some
way, or with the idea that when it comes time
for you to pay the money back to the person
you have borrowed it from, you will appeal
again to the Cosmic to deliver some more money
to you in order that you may square your left
hand, while you get ready to hold out your
right hand for something more.
In seeking the aid of the Cosmic in borrow­
ing money, it is presumed that you have in mind
some person or place from which to borrow the
money, that this person or place can loan it to
you without injury to itself, and that you will
81
Rosicrucian Principles
make it a regular business transaction, clean-
cut, and of the proper ethical form. W ith these
points being true, you may then visualize the
amount of money and the person and place from
which you desire to borrow it. W ith concen­
trating upon such visualization three times a
day you may count upon the Cosmic’s help, pro­
vided, of course, you have made the regular
earthly, physical, material appeal to the person
or place, in addition to concentrating upon the
Cosmic. It is not to be presumed that you may
want to borrow some money from Mr. Smith
and without ever letting Mr. Smith know you
want the money, proceed to concentrate upon
the Cosmic and ask the Cosmic to urge Mr.
Smith to walk to your house and hand you the
money, as though he were being forced to do
it by the Cosmic. In all cases of borrowing, it
is proper that you should make your appeal
and request to the persons first, in a regular
way,, and acquaint them with the knowledge
that you wish to borrow from them.
In attempting to borrow money from anyone,
it is always advisable to use the utmost frank­
ness and be extremely specific. To go to any
man or woman, or institution like a bank or loan
association, and ask for money of an indefinite
amount, and in a way that shows that you are
82
F o r the H om e and Business
not familiar with what you want, and why you
want it, will surely bring a negative result. And
to be evasive in your answers will likewise jeop­
ardize your success with any person or institu­
tion, just as it would with the Cosmic.
It is understood, of course, that the borrow­
ing of money has become a very ethical process
in the world today, and many institutions and
persons earn more money by loaning money.
Our banks in America and elsewhere would
cease to exist, and would go out of business if
they did not loan money, as well as receive
money from persons who put it on deposit in
their care. A bank's only real excuse for exist­
ing is to receive money from depositors, and
loan and invest that money in many ways, so
that it will earn an income and produce more
money. Many persons have money which they
are willing and ready to loan under certain con­
ditions, and such persons demand the utmost
frankness and security.
In talking to the manager of one of the largest
loan associations in America, he frankly told me
that in their institution, where millions of dollars
are loaned through their various branches every
month, seventy-five per cent of the money is
loaned, not on security, on notes, or on written
paper, but on character. He said that while in­
83
Rosicrucian Principles
terviewing persons who wish to borrow money
from them, and while having the questionnaire
or question-sheet filled out, the manager who is
doing the interviewing at each one of these
branches studies the person who is applying for
the loan and reaches a decision in most cases
from this study of character, and the money is
loaned on the strength of the person's apparent
stability and integrity. O f course, they also se­
cure signatures and notes in the form of secur­
ity, as a means of legal protection, but this
manager frankly told me that such papers usu­
ally prove of no value whatsoever if there is no
character or integrity back of the person doing
the borrowing. W ith this loan association, and
with individuals all over the world, the hesitat­
ing, evasive borrower is given a negative answer
in the mind of the person who has the money
to loan, long before he speaks a word. The
shifting eye, the hesitating voice, the indefinite
mind, are earmarks of irresponsibility. W hen a
person is quite positive and definite about why
he wants the borrowed money, what he intends
to do with it, and when he expects to pay it
back, he finds a ready listener and ready money
at his disposal. Most loan associations, banks,
and persons who make a business of loaning
money, are interested not only in the character
84
F o r the H om e and Business
of the borrower, but in the purpose for which
the money is being borrowed. You can well
imagine that neither bank nor individual would
loan money to another, when that person says
he wants to use it for gambling or betting at
the race track, or for some other wild, illegal,
or irregular form of speculation. Nor will such
an organization loan money to a man in very
moderate circumstances who wants the money
to buy an automobile for pleasure. If that same
man could show, however, that he needed the
money to buy a small automobile truck in order
to increase his business, or efficiently carry on
his business, the money would be loaned for
that specific purpose. Everyone who has money
to loan would hesitate to loan it to another to
buy luxuries instead of necessities, and even
household furniture, radios and pianos, are not
included among the necessities. Clothing, food,
the payment of rent, doctors’ bills, the purchase
of material for business, the investment of
money into a growing and successful business
proposition, the buying of railroad tickets to go
to some point for business purposes, the buying
of a home that is in a good location and is a
good real estate investment, or other real estate
purposes, are generally considered good motives
for borrowing. To borrow money to educate a
85
Rosicrucian Principles
son or daughter, when there is reason to be­
lieve that the parents will benefit by such educa­
tion, and will be able to pay back the money, is
sometimes considered a good investment, but
to borrow money in order to enjoy a pleasure
trip to Egypt would be considered a risk, and
at the same time show that the person asking
for the money has little or no sense of business
values and money values.
Every firm or individual who loans money
expects interest at the legal rate, or sometimes
a little higher. Very few persons are willing
to take their money out of the bank where it is
earning four or five per cent, and loan it to some­
one on the promise of securing six per cent. The
risk of loaning their money, plus the trouble in
collecting it, and the delays in having the in­
stallments met promptly so that they would bear
the proper amount of interest, would more than
offset the benefit of an additional one per cent
or two per cent that they would secure from the
borrower instead of from the bank. So you
must be prepared, in many cases, to pay more
than the usual rate of interest if you expect
anyone to take a risk of this kind.
You need not feel that you are hurting your
integrity or your standing in a social or business
way by borrowing money, for many of the
F or the H om e and Business
larger firms, the most successful business insti­
tutions, and the most prosperous individuals,
find it necessary to borrow money from their
banks or from other persons at times, in order
to increase their business or carry on a special
deal in an emergency. W hat will hurt you
more than borrowing money is failure to keep
your promises regarding the payments on the
return of it. W hat will injure your prospects
of securing borrowed money more than any­
thing else is the record of the manner in which
you have lived and spent money when you have
had it. A person who has had plenty of money,
or sufficient money, at one time or another, and
has squandered it and has used it for drinking,
and for habits that are not wholesome, or for
purposes that are not ethical, cannot expect
to have others loan him more money. All these
things are taken into consideration by the Cos­
mic, as well as by the mortal mind of man.
Therefore, in asking the Cosmic’s co-operation,
you must be absolutely sure that you are ap­
pealing with “clean hands.” And you must
have made your solicitations to the persons or
institution in the usual way, before you ask the
Cosmic to help bring it about. The Cosmic is
not going to conduct a telegraph office or a
telegraphic system, and communicate with banks
87
\
Rosicrucian Principles
all over the country and tell them you want
some money, and that one of them should loan
it to you. But the Cosmic will help, if you are
worthy and deserving of the loan, to impress
upon the minds of the persons who can make
the loan that you are worthy, and that the loan
should be made, and will even go to the extent
of urging them to make the loan more quickly
or with less delay than usual.
In securing money for business purposes, al­
ways be sure that your business is one that is
really paying, or capable of being made into a
paying business. Dreams and speculative propo­
sitions are neither supported by the Cosmic nor
financed by financiers. I have had men come
to me years ago with ideas for the building of
aeroplanes that were simply so ridiculous that
one could hardly keep from laughing, and yet
they expected someone to loan them thousands
of dollars to build what was only a dream in
their minds. If you have not made aeroplanes or
worked on them, or have not done any flying
in them, you have no right to think that you
have a new idea about them, and that the idea
should be financed by someone else. On the
other hand, if you have aided in the manufac­
ture of aeroplanes for a number of years, and
have had considerable experience in flying them,
88
F or the H om e and Business
and have discovered through experimentation,
building of models, and testing, that you have
a better idea about aeroplanes than others, you
can rest assured that there will be many who
can help you finance it. If you are a black­
smith, and have succeeded in being a good
blacksmith, but now have an idea that you
would like to open a drug store, because you
believe there is more money in it, do not expect
anyone to agree with you in your decision and
put up the money to start you in the drug store
business, unless it is someone who does not
care what happens to his money, or what kind
of experience you get out of it. But if you have
been a good druggist and you wish to move
into a new section and open a better drug store,
where there is little competition, and every pos­
sibility of succeeding, you will find there are
others ready to help you in the plan.
You cannot expect, either, to raise money to
find sunken fortunes or missing gold. Undoubt­
edly thousands of ships have sunk in the sea in
the past centuries, containing jewels and gold
worth fabulous fortunes. Undoubtedly these
fortunes at the bottom of the seas, and not far
from shore lines, could be salvaged, so far as the
value of the things are concerned. But despite
the fact that dozens of companies have been in­
89
Rosicrucian Principles
corporated and formed to salvage these for­
tunes, and people have risked their money in
investing in such salvage schemes, not one of
them has ever succeeded in securing enough
gold from the interior of some of these sunken
ships to pay back the money they have bor­
rowed, or have secured on investments. If you
have some such wild ideas as these, do not ex­
pect any person of sound mind and sound busi­
ness principles to finance the scheme for you.
If you want to buy a farm and a nice little home
on it, you will find someone who will help you
with it, providing you can show you are a
farmer, and not a bookkeeper. On the other
hand, if you are a good bookkeeper or an ac­
countant, or a dressmaker, or a watchmaker,
you can secure money to help you improve the
work you are in, providing you are honest, skill­
ful and dependable. And the Cosmic will help
you in all these legitimate propositions, and si­
lently smile with negative action on the schem­
ing ideas of the impractical dreamer.
V V V
90
F o r the H om e and Business
C H A P T E R S IX
T H E A T T A IN M E N T O F W E A L T H
/ Q O N TEN TED in life, indeed, is the person
^ who has no desire for the attainment of
wealth. Few there are who do not have this
desire to some extent, or who do not express it
in some form.
Fortunately all of us do not measure wealth
by the same standard, nor do we desire richness
in the same measure. Regardless of what we
may possess, or what may be our privilege to
enjoy, most of us seek some things in abun­
dance, and that abundance may be our wealth.
Before taking up several points of a practical
process, which will enable us to bring wealth
into our possession, let us consider what con­
stitutes wealth for the average human being. It
may be trite to say that one man’s wealth may
be another man's burden, or that what one
person cherishes as a rare and costly gift may
be of no value to another. But it is true, never­
theless, and there seems to be but one material
thing which, by common acceptance by per­
sons of all minds, constitutes wealth— and that
91
\
Rosicrucian Principles
is money. However, there is one immaterial
possession or blessing which most of us enjoy,
and which, by common consent also, is consid­
ered as the equal of wealth in any form — and
that is health.
The power of money in the world today is
unquestionably a curse with those who do not
know its real place in the scheme of things, and
who cannot relegate it to its proper place.
In a preceding chapter, I said I would speak
about money, and this is my opportunity. If
there were no money in the world, or no ma­
terial thing that represented wealth, or had the
power of fictitious valuation, health and the
freedom of existence would constitute the real
wealth of every human being.
In the proper scheme of things, man should
labor to assist in producing and materialize the
created things of the world’s requirements.
There should be no other motive for his daily
labor, no other incentive for his dreaming and
planning, than to assist in the carrying out of
God’s constructive work. He should feel that
he will share equally in the world’s blessings,
with all beings. He should know that of what
he assists in producing, a portion will be en­
joyed by him, and a portion enjoyed by his
children, who are too young or incapable of
92
F or the H om e and Business
assisting in producing. He should know that
unless he contributes to the universal effort, and
takes his proper place in the creative world, he
cannot hope to enjoy the blessings of the uni­
verse, nor indulge in the beneficent joys result­
ing from the labors of others.
This is no socialistic plea, nor doctrine of
politics. It is merely the mystical viewpoint of
life as it should be. But man has learned that
he may enjoy life’s blessings and indulge in the
necessities as he understands them, by buying
them with fictitious symbols which have the
power to secure those things which have not
been earned nor paid for. Thus, one man may
labor, diligently, and even to great extreme, to
sustain life in his own body and to provide the
bare necessities for his wife and children, while
another man may labor not at all, nor produce,
nor even plan nor create, but live a life of lazi­
ness and indolence; and yet, through an inher­
ited possession or unfair scheming, is able to
buy with the gold that which he has not mined
from the earth, or with metals that he has not
labored to extract, or jewels that he has not
physically produced, such luxuries, privileges,
and such abundant supplies as permit him to
flaunt his extravagant wealth, while others cry
for the things that he casts aside.
93
Rosicrucian Principles
It is unquestionably true that the average
man or woman who finds life devoid of the
necessities or luxuries, and whose longing is for
wealth in some form, is a victim of the man-
made process of rewarding labor with money,
or compensating effort with symbols of ficti­
tious value. If money were not the thing with
which the necessities and even the luxuries of
life could be secured, then few indeed would
be without that which they need the most. It is
neither the sluggard nor indolent man, nor the
man who need not work or labor, who most
generally petitions the Cosmic or prays to the
God of all beings to aid him in attaining wealth.
It is the man who is laboring industriously, con­
sistently, and fairly; it is the man — and
woman — who is devoting most of the daytime
hours to laboring by the sweat of the brow, and
by the torment of the body; it is the one who is
striving in every honorable way and against
seeming insurmountable obstacles, to earn and
deserve the necessities of life. He it is who finds
the battle against poverty and sorrow a most
difficult one, and who, without losing faith or
hope, and without giving up in his tiresome ef­
forts, appeals to the Cosmic and to the higher
laws of the universe, for aid and assistance in
securing for himself and those dependent upon
94
F or the H om e and Business
him, that which will bring them joy with their
health, and happiness with their necessities.
Such a man seeks to attain wealth, and his
wealth is a wealth that is deserved, and his de­
sires and petitions should be answered.
Among the practical considerations which we
must analyze at this time are the facts that ma­
terial wealth does not always bring into our lives
the real wealth we seek, and that very often
we unconsciously associate the money standard
with our thoughts of our needs.
In speaking with hundreds of men and
women, who believed that the attainment of
wealth was their real ambition, we have found
that in nearly every case, money was desired
in order to secure or purchase or even attract,
other things which it was believed could not be
secured or attracted except through the power
of money. In the preceding chapter, I have
tried to show that petitioning for money in most
cases was not the right way to bring about the
ultimate desires within one's heart. I would like
to show at this time, however, that the petition­
ing for wealth — abundant wealth — may be a
proper procedure, and that the desire for this
may be a proper thought.
Among my intimate associates in the business
world, is that master of finance and big business,
95
Rosicrucian Principles
M r. James Stillwell, who built more railroads
in America than any other living being, and
whose power on W all Street at one time was
so great that his voice on the convention floor
at the time of the selection of a national candi­
date for presidency turned the tide of big busi­
ness in its ramifications toward political goals.
I have had the pleasure of being the advisor
to Mr| Stillwell in many and great business
propositions. Some of these were cast aside in
their early considerations, often upon my own
private recommendation, while others were de­
veloped and enlarged into successful national
operations, solely through the personal effort it
was my pleasure to institute. Mr. Stillwell was
a man of remarkable mental and psychic devel­
opment, and I am glad to note that in recent
months he has published in some national maga­
zines, articles reviewing his mental and psycho­
logical contests with big business deals and the
victories that have come into his life, many a
time through the application of the mystical
laws which were demonstrated to him in the
secret sessions we held while I was his silent
partner during the course of a number of years.
Mr. Stillwell’s idea of wealth, however, was
not that wealth which gradually accumulated
for him in the vaults of W all Street, or even in
96
F o r the H om e and Business
the holdings in international marts. His idea
of great wealth was the wealth of character, and
of mental power. He considered that there was
no power in the world as strong, as mighty, as
indefatigable in its processes of overcoming the
obstacles of life as the creative- power of mind.
His daily petition to the universal Mind and
Consciousness was a prayer for the continuance
of health and especially of that power which
was developing in his mental faculties.
On many occasions, when M r. Stillwell has
telephoned me late in the night to go to his
private office in New York, he has greeted me
with a joyous grip and a hearty smile, and the
exuberant claim that “I am truly wealthy to­
night, for I have a great idea!" And as we
would discuss his idea, I could not help but note
that he enjoyed the idea which he held. He
cherished it like a fond child, not because he
could see that the idea would some day produce
money for himself and others, but because the
idea was a thing alive with possibilities, and
because it could be visualized and matured and
eventually materialized into a vibrating, mag­
netic demonstration of mental laws. There was
not always a selfish interest in these ideas of
his, for I have spent long hours with him dis­
cussing an idea which both of us realized we
97
Rosicrucian Principles
would have to pass on to another to turn into
commercial form, for neither one of us would
have the time nor the interest in developing the
idea along business channels. But we could
see in the idea a germ, and we could see this
germ conscious and active with life and possi­
bility, and often such ideas were passed over to
his associates, some of whom were connected
with the Standard Oil Company, or with other
large industries whose executives we were ac­
quainted with, and whose planners and builders
were also men who appreciated the value of
ideas, and had the true standard of wealth in
their consciousness.
The man today who has a good idea, a
workable idea, and a creative mind in which
that idea can be fostered and visualized, is a
man that has wealth, extreme wealth, potent
wealth. The man who has money, who has
jewels, who has gold and silver in sufficiency or
in abundance, but who has not the creative
power to use such wealth, is not rich but poor
indeed.
In petitioning the Cosmic, or in using the
psychological processes to bring wealth into
one's personal environment, the less thought
given to wealth as represented by money or gold
or silver, the more quickly will the petitioner
98
F o r the H om e and Business
attract to himself the ways and means of at­
taining that which will really constitute his
wealth in this life.
First of all, those who believe they are de­
prived of life’s necessities, or think that they
lack the abundance which should be theirs,
should seek to build up the greatest wealth and
blessing that is within their reach, and that is
health. Perfect health, with the harmonious
functioning of all the inner faculties, co-operat­
ing with the functioning faculties of the con­
sciousness outside of man, is one of the greatest
blessings that man may possess. W hen such
health is in the body, the mind is keen and alert,
the creative powers of the Divine Mind working
through the mortal mind are active, and pro­
ductive. Man is then able to direct and control
the obstacles that stand between him and the
attainment of his desires. He is able to appeal
to the minds of others without doubt and with­
out hesitancy. He is truly a master of his life,
and the captain of his ship, and it is just as
possible for him to steer his ship of fate and his
life of destiny toward the goal of his dreams,
and toward the pot at the end of his rainbow,
as it is for the experienced navigator to scien­
tifically bring his ship to the distant point on
any horizon.
99
Rosicrucian Principles
The next great blessing is that of receptivity.
To receive, one must give. And as we give, we
receive. It is the law of compensation. No man
as yet has successfully avoided this law, nor
found a way to contest and negate it. M an’s
mind must become receptive to the intuitional
impressions sent forth by the Cosmic, it must
become receptive to the still small voice within
that seeks to guide and direct in all of his ac­
tions, in all of his thinking and planning. Man
must become receptive to the inspirational urges
of the universal Mind. He must become recep­
tive to the cries and the needs, the desires and
the wishes, of the mass mind of humanity, so
that he may hear the pleas of the individuals,
and the hopes of the groups of men and women
who are sending out into universal space their
creative ideas, seeking assistance in their ful­
fillment and materialization. The receptive mind
must be able to sense what another needs, as
well as what is needed by the self. The recep­
tive mind must be attuned to the divine Con­
sciousness, that it may have the unlimited wis­
dom, the infinite knowledge, and the universal
apprehension of things as they really are. To
be receptive, one must be productive. One must
contribute in order to expect anything in return.
100
F o r the H om e and Business
Life will give back precisely what one puts into
it, and in a greater measure.'
Let he who seeks great wealth beware of
seeking gold, unless it be to materialize it into
the beautiful things of life, symbolized by the
very nature of the metal. Let he who would
be wealthy guard himself against seeking for
money. For money may come into the hand
and pass out again without ever leaving its im­
press of joy, or a realization of the dreams that
sought its coming.
In the home and in the business, let each
man and each woman daily, nightly, or at every
possible opportunity, petition the Cosmic for
wealth of health, the wealth of mind power, the
wealth of joy in living, the wealth of content­
ment that comes from adjusting ourselves to the
conditions that surround us, and then slowly
improve them. T o the wealth of happiness
that exists in our lives if we will but discover it;
to the wealth of peace that the universe affords
all its beings; to the wealth of life itself that
permits us to know that we are, and that we are
who we are — such petitions for wealth like
this, followed by prayers of thankfulness for
what we have, will daily attune the individual
to the abundant wealth of the universe, and
each will soon find that affluence and prosper­
Rosicrucian Principles
ity, that health and happiness, and that material
blessings and spiritual benedictions, are flowing
freely and bountifully into the filling cup of life.
Then each one of us will know what really
constitutes wealth, and what is meant by the
mystic when he seeks the attainment of wealth.
V V V
102
F o r the H om e and Business
C H A P T E R S E V E N
SE E K IN G E M P L O Y M E N T
E must not overlook the fact that not all
who seek aid in business matters are seek­
ing for money, for speculation, or investment,
nor even any specific thing in life's journey.
Many ask only for an opportunity to serve and
earn all of the necessities of life, plus a few of
its luxuries.
In other words, not all are looking for large
sums of money, or for homes, or the fulfillment
of great dreams. Perhaps most of those who
appeal to our bureau for help are those who are
seeking to secure better positions in the business
world, or for opportunities whereby they may
improve their employment.
Since women have entered the business world,
conditions are considerably different than they
were a few years ago. There was a time when
the employment of a woman in any part of a
business institution was considered as an indi­
cation that the employer was seeking to secure
services at a lower standard of wage, than that
demanded by a man. This was because the aver­
103
Rosicrucian Principles
age woman in the business world was receiving
a salary much smaller than could be offered to a
man of the same age in the same capacity. This
situation placed a handicap in some respects in
the path of the man who was well qualified to
fill a good position, but who had to demand
higher wages because of family and other finan­
cial obligations. In other words, the race be­
tween men and women for positions in the busi­
ness world was not a fair one, for the woman
had the advantage of being able to offer her
services at a lower scale. This put competition
between men and women on a basis of salary
difference. Today, however, the average woman
in the business world is receiving the same sal­
ary as the man, and very few business men
think of employing anyone in any important
position because of any economy in the matter
of salary. The outstanding qualification is tend­
ing to be that of experience and capability. And
in the matter of capability, woman is rapidly
proving herself to be the equal of many men,
in many capacities. Therefore, the contest be­
tween men and women today in seeking positions
is a contest of qualification, not one of salary.
I know thousands of business men who
frankly say that when they have a vacancy
which calls for a capable person to fill, they
104
F o r the H om e and Business
care little whether the successful applicant is a
man or a woman, and usually the matter of sal­
ary is settled in the mind of the employer before
he decides upon the applicant. And he does
not think of offering a lower salary to the appli­
cant because she happens to be a woman.
I know there are men who will disagree with
me because they feel that often they have been
removed from a position to be supplanted by a
woman, or have been unsuccessful in securing
a position, because the successful applicant was
a woman, and in each instance they have felt
that the woman's only advantage to the em­
ployer was that of salary. If you are a man,
and you hold such ideas as these, you are preju­
dicing your mind, and you are building up the
first great psychological obstacle to your suc­
cess in securing a new position, or in securing
promotion in your present position.
Too many employees today fail to realize
that the business world now demands efficiency.
Capability is the standard by which every suc­
cessful business guages its employees. I am
not speaking of new and inexperienced employ­
ers, who are starting in business for the first
time and employing help for the first time in
their lives. Such inexperienced persons may
assume that female help can be secured at a
105
Rosicrucian Principles
lower scale of wages, with the same efficiency
as male help at a higher scale, and they may
proceed on this basis to make selections and
show favoritism toward female applicants. But
such business men will learn sooner or later
that they receive in return just such efficiency
and capability as they pay for, and that it is a
serious mistake to use the standard of wages
between the sexes as a basis for selection.
In every successful business, selections for
new positions or for promotions are made on
the basis of experience and special capability.
And if you want to be successful in your busi­
ness career, you will avoid seeking positions
with new firms and with inexperienced employ­
ers who do not have such a standard for the
selection of employees.
O f course there are certain qualifications pos­
sessed by women which men do not possess,
and men undoubtedly possess other qualifica­
tions which women do not possess. W e were
accustomed to think that women or young la­
dies made the very best secretaries and steno­
graphers, but this, too, has been found to be
an arbitrary decision, not based upon any fact
so far as capability is concerned. And we have
been accustomed to think that in certain lines of
business, or in certain departments of a big
106
F o r the H om e and Business
business, women were out of place. All this
has been changed in recent years, and I can as­
sure you that it is not uncommon for one to
find in some of the largest institutions, corpora­
tions, and nation-wide business propositions,
women holding executive or other positions that
one would naturally expect to find filled by
men.
It is, therefore, quite evident that when a man
or woman seeks a new position, or promotion in
any business, the idea that the difference in
sex makes any difference in capability or in the
employer's mind, should be immediately dis­
missed; and the seeker for employment should
at once begin to analyze himself and his capa­
bilities with no other thought in mind than that
he must discover, or she must discover, how
well qualified he or she is as an individual to
fill the position being sought.
All of these remarks are preliminary to some
of the important things I would impress upon
the mind of the seeker for employment. In in­
terviewing hundreds of persons each year who
are seeking new positions or better positions,
and who tell me of their failure to secure what
they seek, I find that they generally have a
tendency to blame their failure upon certain
107
Rosicrucian Principles
preconceived ideas or false beliefs which they
have established in their minds.
Foremost among the false beliefs is the idea
that pull,” or personal influence of some kind,
is a very important factor. I have found from
my own experience, and in conversation with
many thousands of big business men, that the
only way in which they have ever noticed that
pull or influence brought someone into their
employ was through the assistance of another
in letting someone else know that there was a
vacancy. In other words, assuming that Mr.
Jones was contemplating engaging a new secre­
tary or a new department manager, and that he
expressed this contemplation to some friend, if
that friend knew of a very capable and efficient
person and told him to call on M r. Jones, and
ask for the position, and if he seemed to be as
capable as Mr. Jones expected his new em­
ployee to be, the probability is that he would
secure the position. And in this way it might
be said that some "pull” or influence enabled
the employee to secure a very fine position. But
you will note that I have distinctly said that if
the employee was as capable and efficient as
the employer expected, then the employee
would secure the position. I know that busi­
ness men will not engage an employee of infer­
108
F o r the H om e and Business
ior qualification or capabilities just because that
person comes well recommemnded from some
friend, or has some "pull” or influence with
some acquaintance, with the employer, or with
the business concern. In fact, I know of thou­
sands of instances where influence and so-called
"pull” have tried to place an unqualified or
partially qualified person in an important posi­
tion, but when the employer interviewed the ap­
plicant, and found him unworthy of the position,
the influence of friend or family, or even the
political or financial "pull’’ of important mem­
bers of the firm have failed to secure the posi­
tion for that applicant.
O f course it is but natural for an employee to
think that he is as well qualified for many posi­
tions as those who are in employ with him in
any business concern, and it is natural also for
him to feel that when one of them is promoted
over his head that some influence has been
brought to bear in making the selection. Natural
though that feeling may be, it is generally wrong,
and the employee who has failed to be pro­
moted, or who has failed to secure an expected
position, and who blames his failure on influence
and "pull,” is generally doing himself an injus­
tice, as well as doing an injustice to the success­
ful applicant.
109
Rosicrucian Principles
The moment we attribute our failure in secur­
ing anything in life to the exterior influences
which we imagine exist, we shut the door
against self analysis and fail to learn a very
valuable lesson.
The man, or woman, who fails in securing a
desired position, or a desired favor at the hands
of another, should turn that failure into a very
valuable stepping stone to rise higher. He, or
she, should immediately proceed to find why the
other person succeeded and why he, or she,
failed, and if this examination and analysis is
properly conducted and conscientiously carried
on, it will probably enable the successful appli­
cant to discover how he, or she, may improve
himself and make himself ready for a more
successful attempt.
The average business firm in America today
promotes its employees from the lower ranks to
the higher ranks, as each employee demonstrates
his mastership in his present position, and his
possible capability for a higher one. But there
are limits to such promotions in many lines of
business. There is often a point in the ladder of
promotion for every employee when he cannot
be promoted higher than he is, regardless of his
present efficiency and capability, and regardless
of the fact that there are openings for employees
110
r
F o r the H om e and Business
higher up in the business. Therefore, when an
employee finds that he has reached a point in
the business where he is situated where he can
no longer secure promotion, and finds others
brought in from the outside to fill positions
above him that he thinks he can fill, he should
not attribute the engagement of others as due
to influence, nor even feel that his failure to be
promoted is an indication of incapability on his
part. He should try to have a frank talk with
his employer and discover whether he has
reached the height of his efficiency with that
firm, or whether he has failed in showing spe­
cial capability for promotion.
The one thing that warrants employers in
promoting employees is the spirit of service. The
man who gives just that much time and labor
and thought to his work that he is paid for, is
sure to find at the end of the year that he is
being paid only for what he is giving. The em­
ployee who feels that he is engaged and paid
for doing eight hours work a day, and that the
giving of a ninth hour should be compensated
for as extra labor, is one who will find eventu­
ally that promotions do not come his way, and
even increases in salary are delayed or refused.
On the other hand, the employee who tries to
show that he is anxious to help in every depart­
111
Rosicrucian Principles
ment of the business, and specialize in none,
and willing to hurry through his assigned work
in order to make his willingness to work in
other departments quite evident to his employer,
is apt to make the employer feel that the em­
ployee is not giving as elaborate and careful
attention to his assigned work as he should.
I have actually seen employees who were
busy helping in so many departments, and try­
ing to make themselves useful in more ways
than they were engaged to be, lose their posi­
tions in a few months because the employer
felt that they were not limiting their think­
ing and their industry to the assigned work,
and therefore were neglecting it in some
phase, or failing to find in their particular work
the possibilities of enlargements and extra
efforts that were close at hand.
But it is natural that an employer will appre­
ciate every special effort, and every extended
endeavor that an employee puts into the busi­
ness, regardless of the time clock or the salary
being paid.
I have heard so many employees say that if
their employer would give them a little interest
in the business, or even a fractional percentage
of the profits being accrued, they would be will­
ing to put some personal interest in the work at
112
F o r the H om e and Business
hand. The trouble with this argument is that
if the employee thought it was possible for him
to put some personal interest into the business,
to such an extent that he would do his work
better or more rapidly, or more completely,
then he should have put that interest into his
work long before he expected the employer to
compensate him for it by giving him a share of
the profits. Let an employer discover in his
own peculiar way that you have more than
merely a salary interest in his business, and he
will gladly see to it that you are compensated
accordingly. The demonstration must begin on
your part, and not on the part of the employer.
Another one of the things which is respon­
sible for many employees losing their positions,
or failing to be promoted, is the lack of loyalty
to the employer or the institution wherein he is
employed. Taking time off to seek better posi­
tions, or stealing occasional minutes to interview
someone about a position in another firm, or
ways and means for securing promotion, have
caused more employees to lose their positions
than any other simple thing. An employer has
a right to believe that you should be so loyal to
your position and your employer that while you
are working for him and with him, you have
no thoughts regarding your own personal in­
113
Rosicrucian Principles
terest, your own personal affairs, or your own
personal dreams. To discover an employee
seeking another position outside of the firm is a
signal to any employer to release that employee
and secure another one. The employer does
not want to be caught off guard by having you
suddenly resign and leave your position unfilled,
and your work unattended to. If he believes
that you are seeking another position or seeking
to make some change, even within his own busi­
ness, he is apt to feel that you are undependable
and not loyal.
For the same reason, thousands of persons
seeking employment fail to secure desirable po­
sitions for which they may be well qualified in
a mental or physical way. Such persons frankly
tell their prospective employers that they have
worked for a number of different firms, but have
left each one because they wanted to improve
themselves or secure a better position. This
confession to an employer means that the appli­
cant is not dependable, and that to engage him
today may mean losing him a month from now.
And if there is any one thing that harasses,
bothers, annoys, and infuriates an employer of
help, it is to constantly seek new employees,
interview them, and have them trained in their
positions.
F o r the H om e and Business
On the other hand, the employee who thinks
that he will take advantage of this fact and
demand that he be promoted or given an in­
crease in salary so as to avoid vacating his po­
sition and causing the employer the trouble of
seeking a new employee, is proceeding very
foolishly, and against his own best interests.
Any employer would rather go through all of
the tiresome procedure of seeking and inter­
viewing new applicants, and having them
broken into new positions, than to be subjected
to such coercion.
From a mystical or Cosmic point of view, loy­
alty to your employer is the keynote to success
for those who are employed, and such loyalty
is not only of the physical body, but of the
mind and heart. And it is not something that
exists only during eight hours of presence in an
office or building, but is twenty-four hours long
each day.
Every employer knows that an employee in
his business may be worth more to his competi­
tor or to someone else in a smaller line of busi­
ness, who needs a similar person, than the em­
ployee is to him. And when the employee de­
cides that he has an opportunity to use his
experience to secure another position with a
competitve firm, he is being disloyal to his pres­
115
Rosicrucian Principles
ent employer and disloyal to himself. The
chances are that the new employer will remem­
ber that he left a trusting employer to come to
him, and he will be wary of the employee's
faithfulness. Cosmically speaking, the inexperi­
enced employee who does this sort of thing is
bringing a Karmic condition upon himself which
will bring him failure and discontent for a
long time.
Let me cite a practical illustration of Cosmic
Karma in this regard. An employee, just gradu­
ated from a business course, applies for a posi­
tion as clerk in a corporation. The employer
needs another worker, and engages the appli­
cant and proceeds to use his own time and the
time of a number of other employees to train
and educate the new employee so that he will
become efficient and worthy. The employer is
paying the employee a nominal salary to start
with, and the chances are that in ninety-nine
cases out of one hundred, he receives more sal­
ary each week for the first six months he is in
his position, than he earns. And according to
the law of averages in every business, the new
employee is probably receiving seventy-five per
cent more salary than he is actually worth, when
it is taken into consideration that the employ­
er's time and the time of a number of other
116
F or the H om e and Business
employees must be used to help him understand
and master his duties. The employer, however,
counts on the future months and years of that
employee to earn for him that which he has not
earned during the first six months, and to make
up for the money he has received during the
six months of preparation. But after the first
six months are past, the employee who thinks
he has earned every cent he has received de­
mands an increase in salary. The employer
realizes that instead of now having an oppor­
tunity of making up for the overpayment that
has been given to the employee during the pre­
ceding six months, he must face the situa­
tion of paying more money and continuing to
lose money, or lose the employee and engage
another one. In the employee’s mind, however,
there is this one thought: that he can now go
into the office of some other concern, and with
the six months' experience he has had, at the
expense of the other firm, he is ready to receive
a slightly higher salary in his new position. In
other words, he is ready to take advantage of
the experience he has had at someone else’s
expense, and turn it to profit for himself, un­
grateful and unmindful of the obligation he
owes his present employer. Being refused an
117
Rosicrucian Principles
increase in salary, he leaves his present em­
ployer and goes to another concern.
A record carefully kept of a thousand em­
ployees doing this sort of thing has shown that
at the end of a year, these employees were again
out of positions, and in two years their changes
in positions, with periods of unemployment,
showed that they had earned less in the two
years through their many changes than if they
had remained in their first position, and had
secured a raise at the end of the first year. Fur­
thermore, their continual changing of positions
has given them a record which no employer
values, and they soon find themselves among
the army of unemployed, and disgruntled, dis­
content and suspicious of the entire employment
system.
In seeking a position, therefore, be sure that
you are well qualified, that you are ready to
give it your loyalty and entire support, and
that you are willing to work and labor with the
concern for such a length of time as will enable
it to secure from your services such reward
as will make increases profitable to them and
to you.
If you are seeking promotion in your present
concern or position, you will be sure of securing
it if you give less thought to the promotion or
118
F or the H om e and Business
to the possibility that lies before you, and more
thought during your business hours to the work
you have at hand.
Let your thinking about your advancements
or changes in position occur during your hours
of relaxation while you are at home, and rather
than concentrate upon your employer’s mind
with all kinds of silly demands that he grant
your recent request, concentrate your mind for
a moment or two on yourself, and see if you
can find how you can go into your present posi­
tion the next morning and do your work a little
better, or improve the affairs of your business
for your employer and thereby attract his mind
to your desires.
In appealing to the Cosmic, or through any
mystical laws, for advancement, promotion, or
the securing of a new position, be sure that you
have in mind a definite position along a definite
line of effort of which you are capable, and in
which you can demonstrate efficiency.
In interviewing an employer regarding a
change or a new position, follow the sugges­
tions given in the next chapter about interview­
ing and selling, for you must sell yourself. But
in addition to following those suggestions, be
sure that you make it plain to your employer
that you are not offering him just your eight
119
Rosicrucian Principles
hours of physical labor each day, but you are
offering him your very best mental services,
your loyalty, your interest and that degree of
efficiency which he may expect.
W ith all of these suggestions in mind, and
with the advice given in the future chapters, you
should be able to make your life as an employee
just as successful and profitable to you as any
business in which you might engage yourself
and become an employer.
V V V
120
F o r the H om e and Business
C H A P T E R E IG H T
IM P R E SSIN G O T H E R S
H E R E are certain psychological principles
which may be used and applied very effi­
ciently, even by those who have not taken a
thorough course in the subject of psychology, or
who have not had long experience with the
intricate principles involved.
The most definite use of these psychological
principles is in connection with that of impress­
ing the mind of another person, and the art of
making the proper impression is very important
with those who are attempting to convey a mes­
sage of a very definite nature.
Now whether you are trying to sell some
merchandise to a person, or sell yourself, it is
absolutely necessary that you create in the mind
of your prospective buyer a duplicate of the pic­
ture that you have in your mind. Really it is
the art of thought transference, but instead of
being by the process of mental telepathy exclu­
sively, you have the additional advantage of
using words and using some other psychological
laws which I will explain.
121
Rosicrucian Principles
W ith some persons, the most difficult thing
in the world is to talk to another and talk so
impressively or so efficiently that the right mes­
sage is conveyed. Many persons find it more
ccnvenient and certainly more efficient to write
letters than to talk, and I have known hundreds
of successful salesmen who did all of their sell­
ing by correspondence, and who were eminently
successful. However, the moment they faced a
prospective buyer and attempted to say in words
What they had been accustomed to saying in
letters, they became self-conscious, wobbly in
their concentration, and weak in their impres­
siveness.
If you are one of those persons who can
write a strong letter and present your proposi­
tion by mail better than you can in person, you
certainly have an advantage and I question
whether it will pay you to attempt to change
your methods. But if you are in a position
where you must face your prospective buyer, or
where personal interviews are absolutely neces­
sary, then there are certain principles which you
can use which will make your work more sure
of results.
As I have said above, whether you are selling
merchandise or applying for a position, or seek­
ing favors or benefits o f any kind, you are either
122
F or the H om e and Business
selling some material things or selling yourself.
And in either case, you must create in the mind
of your prospective buyer or the person you are
interviewing, that sort of impression and that
sort of picture which you have in your own
mind.
Now you cannot send a telegram by walking
into a telegraph office and telling the clerk that
you want to say something, but do not know
what it is you wish to say. Neither can you
convey an impression from your mind to an­
other if you do not have a clear picture in your
mind to begin with. That which you wish to
have your prospective buyer build up in his
mind, must be so concrete and definite in your
own that you never have to hesitate a moment
in the process of transferring the impression
from your own mind to his mind.
On the other hand, you cannot send a tele­
gram of congratulations to anyone by walking
into the office and filing with the clerk a tele­
gram of sympathy and sorrow. You cannot
convey to the mind of another person an im­
pression of positive affirmation and of whole­
hearted conviction, if in your own mind the
impression you have there is weak or negative,
or the opposite of what you wish to convey.
123
Rosicrucian Principles
In other words, you cannot face your inter­
viewer and glibly talk, positively, about the
goodness and merits of something you wish to
sell, while in your own mind there is a doubt
about the goodness of the thing, and a convic­
tion that the thing has no merit. You can train
your lips to speak a lie, and you can glibly jug­
gle your words so that you are conveying a
double meaning, but you cannot trick your mind
into forgetting the facts it knows and creating
momentarily a false picture in agreement with
the false words you are speaking.
The average business man who is accustomed
to dealing with salesmen or interviewing persons
who wish to seek favors, benefits, or assistance,
has become keenly sensitive to the vibrating im­
pressions from the mind of the speaker, and I
wish to tell you frankly that I know of thou­
sands of such business men who secretly admit
that they seldom pay as much attention to the
words being spoken by their interviewer as they
do to the thought impressions they are receiving
in between his words.
I know from my own experience, and from
the experience of many business men who have
discussed this matter with me, that very often
the business man reaches a conclusion as to
what he is going to do long before the salesman
124
F or the H om e and Business
or the interviewer is half through his talking.
Often after the first half dozen words are
spoken by the salesman or the interviewer, the
business man who is listening has received direct
from the mind of the talker an impression that
all is not as it seems, and that the man is at­
tempting to fool him, or trick or deceive him,
by his talking. Under such circumstances, the
business man immediately decides that he will
not buy and will not grant the requests being
asked, and nothing that the salesman or the in­
terviewer says changes that impression. The
very opposite of this is true. The average very
busy man in big business will often interrupt a
salesman or an interviewer by saying: “Alright,
I will accept,” or "I agree” or “I will grant what
you wish.” It would appear that he has made
up his mind before the interviewer or talker has
half explained his proposition. Others who wit­
ness such things as this think it is due to the
fact that the business man has some hunch or
some intuitive way of deciding what he should
do. This is not true, however. He has simply
received from the interviewer’s mind an impres­
sion that reached him before the interviewer had
spoken a half dozen words. Busy business men
have little time for long discussions and long
interviews. If they can get the impression from
125
Rosicrucian Principles
the salesman’s mind mentally, in a moment, they
would rather have it that way than wait a half
hour to get it through a long series of complex
statements and descriptive explanations.
From all of this you will see that the sales­
man who attempts, nowadays, to sell something
that has no real merit, or in which he has little
faith or confidence himself, is lost unless he is
going to try and sell it to ignorant, uncultured,
and inexperienced buyers, and even there he
may fail because it must be remembered that a
lack of education and a lack of culture does not
prevent the human mind from being very sensi­
tive to mental impressions. The average street
hound has little culture and no education, but it
is mighty sensitive in reading the auras and
mental impressions of the persons who pass it
by. The salesman, or anyone else who thinks
that he can take advantage of uneducated per­
sons and untutored and unlettered minds to
work a trick upon their inner intelligence, is
very apt to be fooled.
In trying to sell yourself to a prospective
buyer, whether it be seeking a promotion in
business, a new position, or some special service
you wish to render, remember that your own
real opinion of yourself and of your service
counts far more than the beautiful description
126
F o r the H om e and Business
that you will give with words, or which may be
glowingly stated in a number of testimonial let­
ters you ask him to read. If you doubt your
own ability to fill the position you are seeking,
if you have the least doubt in your mind about
your efficiency or capability for the service you
wish to render, do not think that you can buf­
falo your business man by egotistical statements
nicely worded. Glowing promises mean very
little to the business man. He naturally assumes
that everyone who wants to work for him or
serve him is going to try and do his best. The
mere fact that you say you will do your best
means nothing. He wants to know what your
best really is, and if you have any doubt back
in your mind as to how good that best is, he is
going to discover it very soon.
Many persons are full of promises in their
interviews, and then they are about as dry as
the Sahara desert when it comes to making
good those promises. The most promising thing
I ever heard of was a Mississippi steamboat
that had a twenty-two-inch whistle, and a six­
teen-inch steam boiler, and when it was ready to
start away from the dock, it blew its whistle
with such strong promising tones that it ex­
hausted its steam and moved backward.
127
Rosicrucian Principles
So the first thing to do is to have the proper
determination in your mind, and a very com­
plete, definite picture of the real service you
wish to render, or the true value of the goods
or things you wish to sell. If you are attempting
to sell merchandise, whether it be stocks and
bonds or articles of commerce, be sure you are
so familiar with what you are selling that not
only can you answer glibly any question that
is asked, but you can close your eyes and in a
moment see an entire picture of the article from
the time it started in its process of manufacture
from the raw materials, to the last moment of
its delivery.
Unless you are as familiar with that which
you are offering someone else as you are with
the part in your hair and the wax on your mus­
tache, do not think that you have a clear con­
ception of the goods at all. All the while that
you are talking to your prospective buyer, he
will be getting from your mind the precise pic­
ture you have in your mind, and if it is about
as blurred as the moving pictures in a ten-cent
moving picture house, he will get the same sort
of reactions, regardless of the nice captions and
glowing billboards that you paint for him to
look at. Telling your prospective buyer all
about what you have to offer, and at the same
128
F or the H om e and Business
time having a poor picture in your mind, is like
taking your buyer in front of a moving picture
house and pointing out to him the attractive
billboards, with all their glowing colors and
screaming statements. He will tell you that the
show on the inside is the thing he wants to see;
therefore, your picture on the inside of your­
self should be more definite and more clear-cut
than you or any poet or literary master could
ever picture in words.
The next important point is to convey to your
prospective buyer the fact that you are stead­
fast, honest, straightforward and businesslike.
Not only should your conversation be brief,
your statements definite and to the point, and
your whole attitude that of positiveness and
sureness, but your every glance and movement
should indicate a sureness and conviction that
is unmistakable.
Business men do not like to have salesmen or
interviewers assume an attitude of humiliation,
or even of humility. They do not like the one
who apologizes for taking his time to explain
what he has to offer. If you are doubtful as to
whether what you have to offer is of value to
the man or not, do not go and see him until you
are sure that it is of value. If you have the slight­
est feeling that you are taking upa businessman's
129
Rosicrucian Principles
time without profit to him, then do not go near
him. Unless you feel in the bottom of your
heart, and in the top of your head, that your
time in his presence will result in profit to him
and benefit to his business, as well as any profit
to yourself, do not go near him. Apologizing
for your intrusion, or for the time you take, is
merely another way of saying to your prospec­
tive buyer that you do not believe you are going
to show him any profit in what you are present­
ing, and that after all he is going to be the loser
if he buys or if he does not, and you may just
as well save your time and his at the beginning.
O f course, if you are asking merely for a
favor, whether all the profit is for yourself and
none at all for the other fellow, you may prop­
erly explain that you regret that you are taking
some of his valuable time in such a selfish man­
ner. But if you have something really of merit
to offer in the way of merchandise or your own
personal services, and you believe what you
have to offer is of benefit or value to the other
fellow, do not apologize for taking his time.
Every business man is thankful to have a meri­
torious proposition brought to his attention, and
every business man makes it his business to see
and interview real live salesmen or persons who
have something definite to say.
F or the H om e and Business
One of the sure signs of weakness in char­
acter and inefficiency in mental ability is the
shifting eye. You will notice that the average
big business man has his desk so placed in his
office that the interviewer who calls to see him
faces the light, while the business man has his
back to the light, and has his face in the shadow.
This is so that the business man can quickly
watch and study the changing expression of the
person who is talking to him, and so that the
person who is talking to him cannot see the
changing expression on his face. The business
man has a right to such an opportunity to ex­
amine the character and the expressions of the
person who talks to him. You have no right to
look upon it as being placed at a disadvantage,
for if you are wise and good, you will take ad­
vantage of the situation and face the light as
well as face his critical scrutiny, and fear noth­
ing. In fact, you will make your face and your
eyes serve your purpose, as I will explain in a
few moments.
O f course it is understood that you will never
go in the presence of another person seeking
favors, benefits, or aid, or attempting to sell or
promote any idea, if you are slovenly dressed,
careless in your appearance, foul of breath, and
inconsiderate and uncordial in your attitude.
131
Rosicrucian Principles
Approaching your prospective buyer, you
should have the positive affirmation in your
mind that you are going to succeed, not by
overpowering him, not by hypnotizing him, and
not by having the Cosmic superinduce a state
of mental coma wherein he knows nothing, says
nothing, thinks nothing, but what you describe
in words. The Cosmic, through no law or prin­
ciple of nature, will aid in such a method to
bring about results. If you want to throw your
prospective buyer into a state of mental aberra­
tion, you will have to do it by the charm of
your personality and the goodness and great­
ness of your proposition.
But there is one method, however, whereby
you can keep your listener, whoever he may be,
from letting his mind wander while you are
speaking, and coming to a conclusion too
quickly. It is a method used by the most suc­
cessful salesmen throughout the world, and by
diplomats, detectives, judges of the court, crimi­
nologists, psychologists and mystics. It is a
method whereby you can stand before your
prospective buyer or any other person and say
what you have to say providing it is the truth,
and make him realize it is the truth and cause
him to judge your statements and your mental
pictures correctly.
132
F o r the H om e and Business
The method is simply this: The moment you
begin speaking to the person you wish to con­
vince, be sure and concentrate your two eyes
all the time you are speaking on the center of
his nose just between the eyebrows. That point
of the nose is called the root of the nose, and
if you will concentrate your gaze upon that, you
will be concentrating upon the root of his atten­
tion. You will find that he will gaze back into
your eyes, and he will feel the steadfast, per­
manent, convincing glance and mental attitude
on your part. If you have to close your eyes
or change your gaze from that position while
talking to him, do not drop your eyes and look
down to the floor or down to your lap or your
hands or anything that is lower than the level
of his face, but rather, shift your eyes or your
glance sideways to something in the room that
is on the level with his face. You can rest your
eyes for a moment this way, and then bring
them back to a definite view upon the root of
his nose. Do not atempt to stare with wide
open eyes, as though you were trying to play
the part of Svengali and turn him into a beau­
tiful singer. He will become suspicious of your
motives, and you will lose out instantly. Let
your eyes have just a perfectly natural look,
but merely center them on the root of his nose
133
Rosicrucian Principles
instead of looking at his watch chain or the
papers on his desk, or at your own hands or
feet. Every downward glance on your part
weakens your impression. Do not attempt to
get close to your man, but stay at a respectable
distance. Talk softly and in a monotone. Do
not try to give emphasis to certain words by
pronouncing them loudly, for that will shock
the mind of the listener and upset the rhythm
of his thinking. Do not lean on his desk, put
your hat on his inkwell, or put your shoes on
the rungs of his chair. Do not get familiar, inti­
mate, or personal. If you know the person in a
friendly way, reserve your personal, friendly
talks for hours after business. Make your con­
versation brief and to the point.
If, when all this is done, the prospective
buyer suggests postponing a decision, do not at­
tempt to urge him to immediate decision. He
will become suspicious. Rome was not built in
a day, and whether he buys something from
you or not, today or tomorrow will not ruin or
wreck his business. If the service or the thing
you have to offer is any good at all, it will be
just as good tomorrow as it is today. If you
are fearful that it wont last more than twenty-
four hours, and may get weak if he does not
accept it right away, you will convince him that
134
F or the H om e and Business
he will gain more by rejecting it than by
accepting it.
Even in public speaking, and in dealing in
business matters or in personal matters, be sure
and always gaze at the person you are talking
to with your eyes centered as instructed above.
This will gain for you a mental impression of a
strong, magnetic personality, and it will keep
your listener from wandering away mentally in
a field of speculation, and will hold him fast to
your line of thought.
A thousand men have told me of a thousand
instances where this formula saved the day. It
may not be mystical, it may not even be psy­
chological, but it works.
V V V
135
Rosicrucian Principles
C H A P T E R N IN E
AN U N U SU A L H ELP IN N EED
(The following matter was presented origi­
nally as a lecture to a special assembly of busi­
ness men. They became so enthused over the
possibilities of the process explained herein that
for many months after the delivery of the lec­
ture, hundreds of prominent business men in
the city where the lecture was given went about
their affairs using the peculiar aid explained
herein, much to the amusement of their friends,
but to the astonishment of those who found it
efficient and of unusual benefit. Many business
men are today using this process, and without
any attempt to understand how or why it works,
they acknowledge that Dr. Lewis revealed a
truly worthwhile principle to them.— Editor.)
/ Q N E mY good friends and a member of
our organization. Miss Springer, who is
one of America’s prominent novelists and au­
thors, wrote a very fetching story one time en­
titled “A Plea for Hyprocrisy.” She very cap­
ably outlined the benefit that all of us derive
136
F or the H om e and Business
from some mild forms of amusing hypocrisy in
our lives. I feel that before my readers are
through with this chapter in my book they
will feel that I have written something that
should be entitled “A Plea for Superstition.”
It is strange how many superstitious beliefs
most of us really have, and how greatly we are
affected by them. You have heard of the sane,
conservative, dignified business man who
laughed at the superstitious belief of his wife,
regarding the raising of an umbrella in his office,
and yet when he went out on the street he went
out of his way to avoid walking under a ladder.
In my contact with business men in all of the
industries, trades, arts, and professions, I have
found that nearly every one of them has some
sort of superstitious belief, which they indig­
nantly refuse to have labelled as superstition,
and they deny that it is merely a belief. Most of
them take great pains and considerable time to
explain to me that the strange little conviction
that is in their mind is based not upon faith but
upon practical experiences, and therefore is
neither a belief nor a superstition.
They try to tell us that sailors are the most
superstitious persons in the world, but I want
to find a business man who is always ready and
willing to start a new proposition or make a
137
Rosicrucian Principles
big investment on a day that happens to be
Friday, the thirteenth; and I would like to find
the business man who is willing to always be
the thirteenth director in a new company; or
the man or woman, in business, who is willing
to hand over his money in a new investment
just after a black cat has crossed his path.
These persons will stand on the street corner
for ten minutes or more, looking for a white
horse right after they have seen a red-headed
man, and yet deny that they have any super­
stitious beliefs.
However all this may be, the fact of the mat­
ter is that most of the superstitious beliefs which
have come down through the ages and still grip
us with their possibilities and hold us with their
potential powers, are those which are actually
based upon some scientific principle. I will grant
you that walking under a ladder is a risky thing
at any time, especially if the ladder is not well
grounded, and there is a man with a paint pot
somewhere above. But there are many other
superstitious beliefs or practices which deal with
vital principles not so obviously connected with
serious possibilities.
W e hear men and women who are dealing
with the important material things of life speak­
ing of such conditions as luck and chance.
138
F or the H om e and Business
W hile they may not go so far as to walk around
their chair four times just after a new deal of
the cards, or slap the top of their head three
times after they have placed a marker on the
board at the side of the roulette wheel, still
they are prone to do other things which they
believe will assure their success in the under­
taking at hand.
Recently, the president of one of the largest
coal combines in America came from Chicago
to have a business consultation with me in San
Jose. Whenever he finds that talking to me,
from New York, Pittsburgh, Chicago or Salt
Lake, on the telephone is too slow, he drops in
to see me. During his last conversation, he told
me how a president of one of the banks with
which he does business in Chicago carries a
lucky coin in his pocket, and takes hold of it and
grips it tightly whenever he is dealing with an
important matter, because he has found that
“the vibrations from this coin bring him luck.”
The coal magnate smiled at the story he was
telling, and then he presented me with a paper
weight of a novel design for my desk, which
was a duplicate of the one he had on his desk
in his office in Chicago. He said it was the
symbolic design of a large banking institution
in New York, and that his paper weight was a
139
Rosicrucian Principles
reminder to him to consult them in regard to
extraordinary matters because he found he had
better luck in dealing with that firm than with
any other. O f course he had no superstitution
at all!
Now the truth of the matter is that there is
one strange practice used by so-called mystics,
especially by business men and women who
have heard of it, who have tried it in a half­
hearted way, and found reason to pin their faith
to the principle involved. I am going to explain
it to you, and I suppose that the result will be
that one hundred or more of you will go about
your business affairs from now on doing this
strange little thing, much to the amazement of
your partners, and let us say to the consterna­
tion of your business enemies.
Perhaps you have heard of the peculiar trick
of crossing your fingers," and keeping them
crossed while you are awaiting the result of
some plan or the decision of some person who
holds the key to your immediate problem. Per­
haps you have thought that crossing your fin­
gers or keeping them crossed was a superstitious
practice, and perhaps it really is, I do not know,
but I do know that it works. And I have found
a very satisfactory explanation for the practice,
and whether you accept my explanation or not,
140
F o r the H om e and Business
you are at perfect liberty to try the formula and
cross your fingers whenever you wish, and keep
them crossed as long as you like. If this prac­
tice does not bring the unusual results that
others have secured, you are again at liberty
to condemn the thing as a foolish superstition.
On the other hand, if you secure unusual re­
sults, you are at liberty to attribute the success
to the little superstitious practice.
I have found that when a man or woman has
visualized and built up in the mind a plan, a
desire, or something of a picture representing
what they want from someone else, that the
most difficult thing is to keep that picture in
mind and have it radiate in the form of mental
vibrations to the mind of the other person with­
out interruption and without interference. I
am speaking now about the man or woman who
is about to interview another person, or has
just completed such an interview, seeking
or suggesting that certain things be done
which can be done by the person being
interviewed, but which may not be done be­
cause of interference, forgetfulness, or some
other interruption preventing the plan from be­
ing carried out. Take, for instance, the man
who goes to his banker and explains to him his
need of a loan. He uses every convincing ar­
141
Rosicrucian Principles
gument to show the banker that the loan is not
only needed, but is a safe and businesslike prop­
osition. The banker listens carefully and makes
certain notations, but defers giving a definite
answer until the next day. The man who wants
the loan realizes that after he leaves the bank­
er’s presence, other problems and matters may
arise, and the banker may come out of the spell
which he, the business man, has worked upon
him through his good arguments and his presen­
tation of facts. A business man in this situation
always feels that if there was some way
whereby he could hold the banker’s mind in the
same receptive and favorable condition that it
was during the interview, there would be no
question about a favorable decision a few hours
or a few days later. The problem is how to
keep the banker’s mind inhibited with the pic­
ture which the business man created there.
Or, take the example of a man or woman
talking to a prospective buyer of a piece of
property. The seller does his level best to cre­
ate in the mind of the prospective buyer an
excellent picture of the property and a favor­
able impression. The buyer decides to give his
answer a few days later. The problem here,
again, is to prevent the picture from fading out
of the mind of the prospective buyer, and to
142
F oe the H om e and Business
keep the favorable impression constantly alive
and vibrating.
Or, take the man or woman who interviews a
prospective employer. After partially convinc­
ing the employer, the employee is told that final
decision will be made a few days later. Other
applicants are to be interviewed. A confusion
of pictures and facts will be built up in the em­
ployer's mind, and it will be difficult for him to
recall clearly the next day the fine, definite pic­
ture which the applicant of today created in his
mind. The problem here is for the applicant to
keep his impression in the mind of the employer
until a decision is made.
How is one person to so inhibit the mind of
another that the thoughts, ideas, pictures, facts,
and impressions implanted in the mind, will stay
there, and keep revealing themselves like a mov­
ing picture to his consciousness, until he cannot
eliminate them except by acting upon them and
bringing the matter to a conclusion? All of you
will agree with me that if there is a method for
doing such a thing as this, it would not only be
a legitimate thing to do, without violating any
of the ethical laws of business, or the standards
of the Cosmic principles, but it would also be
an invaluable aid to all men and women.
143
Rosicrucian Principles
Now crossing the fingers will do this very
thing. I have found it to work in many cases,
and I daily hear from those who have had it
recommemnded to them by some acquaintance,
and have found it successful in the first trial.
W hatever faith you may put in the explanation
I am going to give you, may or may not have
a bearing upon its successful operation when
you use it, but at least you may try it without
jeopardizing any of your interests and without
injury to your dignity and pride.
W e know from psychological laws and prin­
ciples, as well as from mystical practices, that
the second and third finger on each hand are
the terminals of certain nerves which have to
do with the centers of visualization in the mind,
and the radiation of psychic waves in the pro­
cess of telepathy. W e know that these two
fingers on each hand play an important part in
so-called magnetic healing, or contact treatment
work where the hands come in contact with the
nerve centers of other bodies. W e know that
all through history those two fingers, with the
addition of the thumb, have been used symboli­
cally as the fingers from which there are potent
radiations, often believed to be spiritual radia­
tions, but now known to be magnetic or of the
nature of the mental essence.
F o r the H om e and Business
A few years ago, an eminent scientist in
Europe discovered that by pinching certain
parts of the fingers, the outward flow of this
same energy could be short circuited for the
relief of pain in various parts of the body. It
was later found that all that was really done
was to affect the mental activity of the con­
sciousness. I could point out many other rea­
sons to show that there is a relationship between
the first and second finger of each hand, and the
peculiar mental and psychic functions of the
human mind. But in this talk I am not dealing
with metaphysics or with other matters that are
wholly within the realm of the scientific teach­
ings of the Rosicrucian Order. I am dealing
solely with the application of some principles
to business affairs.
Now, according to the explanation that I have
worked out, and which has been accepted by
hundreds of persons who have delved deeply
into the possibilities of this explanation, I am
convinced that whenever one of us has built up
in our minds a definite picture or idea, thought
or impression, which we are conveying to an­
other mind, that if as soon as we have completed
the picture or impression in our mind and have
expressed it to the mind of another, we cross
the first and second finger of either hand or
145
Rosicrucian Principles
both hands, for a half hour or so, that the im­
pression thus created in our mind is caused to
radiate in the form of telepathic waves from
our mind to the mind of the person to whom we
have just been speaking, and whose personality
we associate with the impression we have in
our minds.
I have found by test that if at certain hours
during the day I think of the man that I inter­
viewed yesterday, once more build up the pic­
ture that I had presented to him in words, and
then cross my fingers and hold that impression
in my mind for ten minutes, that during those
minutes the man once again recalls the impres­
sion I put into his mind, and thinks of me and
the picture or story that I left with him. A
great number of experiments of this kind were
conducted by myself and others for the purpose
of testing the principle involved, and as I have
said before, there are hundreds of business men
who are using this method many times a day,
and who do not hesitate to claim that the final
results prove its efficiency. In many cases they
have been able to ask the other fellow at just
what hour or minute he had the recurring im­
pressions, and they have found these periods
to check with the periods during which the fin­
gers were crossed.
146
F o r the H om e and Business
I remember one case very distinctly, which I
think illustrates the whole principle involved.
One afternoon, about 2:30, a man who had been
instructed in this process rushed to a banker
to present a proposition calling for a loan. He
found that he could have only a three-minute
interview with the president of the bank, for the
president was about to step into his automobile,
go to the railroad station, and take a train for
a northern city. He promised the client that he
would decide the matter upon his return to the
city three days later. The client returned to his
office after the interview, and every half hour he
sat in a relaxed condition, crossed his fingers
for two minutes, and thought of the banker,
while he built up again in his own mind the
picture and story that he had given to the
banker in words. That night, at eleven o’clock,
the client received a telegram sent from a rail­
road station many miles distant, which read as
follows: “Have thought of your proposition
many times during afternoon and evening, and
have decided to grant your request and am wir­
ing my bank accordingly.” W hen the banker
returned to the city, he was questioned by the
client and admitted that he had sent the tele­
gram in order to bring the matter to a conclu­
sion. He wanted to get it out of his mind be­
147
Rosicrucian Principles
cause he had been unable to think of any other
matter during the afternoon and evening, and
had to clear his mind of this recurring proposi­
tion in order to work out other problems per­
taining to the matter which was taking him to a
northern city.
It may seem foolish to some of you to stop
in the midst of your affairs many times a day,
and in silence cross your fingers, and it may
even seem like a waste of time. But if you had
a big proposition pending, or an important mat­
ter hanging fire, you would not think it foolish
if it was feasible to call the other fellow on the
phone every half hour and remind him of your
proposition. Such a method would probably
annoy the other fellow and jeopardize your in­
terests. Crossing your fingers has the advan­
tage of diplomacy, for the other fellow may
not be aware of your process, and it has the
additional advantage of secrecy, for you can
cross your fingers behind your back without re­
vealing to anyone around you what you are
doing, whereas telephoning is not always a
private matter.
If you have followed all of the suggestions I
have given in my previous talks, you will un­
doubtedly find that crossing your fingers or
keeping them crossed "just for luck" will prove
148
F o r the H om e and Business
to be one of the luckiest things you can do
in bringing your affairs to a satisfactory con­
clusion.
Thus I make a plea for one form of supersti­
tion at least. And so far as I am personally
concerned, I care little whether some practices
are superstitious or not, so long as they work
and produce results, and I have an explanation
as to how they work that enables me to apply
the process intelligently and understandingly.
After all, that is as much as we can say about
many things in life, and especially in connection
with business and social affairs as we meet them
in our commercial and home activities.
V V V
149
Rosicrucian Principles
C H A P T E R T E N
T H E L A W O F C O M P EN SA TIO N
^P^TV/'AN has attempted in many ways to
^ emulate or reduce to material form the
Cosmic law of compensation, and while he has
made a miserable failure of it in most ways,
however, the spiritualist business man or the
mystical worker in the field of business has suc­
ceeded in establishing in his own life and in
the rules of his affairs, some principles which
are truly representative of the Cosmic laws of
compensation.
As I have said in preceding parts of this book,
money as a means for rewarding and compen­
sating men and women for their efforts is a false
practice, and an arbitrary one, created by man
without having the least relationship to the
ideals of the Cosmic law.
It is fortunate, however, that while man on
the one hand attempts to compensate those who
serve him, and those who contribute to his
needs, by paying them money, the Cosmic law
of compensation also operates to bring to each
one of us a true compensation for what we have
150
F o r the H om e and Business
done. And in each element wherein man's
method of compensation fails to reward or pun­
ish, adequately, for each good or evil deed, the
Cosmic law properly, efficiently, and sufficiently
compensates and makes full adjustment.
Man may scheme and plan to prevent the
Cosmic law of compensation from operating in
his individual case, and he may try to stay the
great Cosmic laws from adequately adjusting
the compensation for his acts. He may even
succeed for a time in escaping what he believes
is imminent, but it is a fact that no one has
ever successfully avoided, evaded or escaped
the operation of the Cosmic law completely and
continuously. Men and women may cheat one
another of their just rewards, and men and in­
stitutes may fail wilfully or unconsciously to
make proper compensation to men and women,
but the Cosmic law never fails. It is immutable,
of course, but it is also fair, just, and really
worthy of our admiration when once we under­
stand the principles of Cosmic compensation.
In business, the employer representing a
great institution or a great corporation, or the
employee representing himself as a mere human
cog in the industrial machinery, must learn that
injustice, unfair dealing, evil doing, and evil
thinking will bring into operation the law of
151
Rosicrucian Principles
compensation as established in the Cosmic, and
that there is no escape from the operation of
this law. The employer or the employee who
plans to take advantage of the faith, trust, and
hope of another human being, or of a collection
of human beings, that represent a city, a nation
or a continent, must expect the lav/ of com­
pensation to operate sooner or later, and bring
punishment to the mind and interests of the per­
son who has planned the injustice.
It may be said that the law of compensation
does not always bring an immediate manifesta­
tion of its operation, and that under the condi­
tions in which we live man cannot always wait
until the close of his life to enjoy the rewards
of this Cosmic law, but must seek immediate
rewards of a very definite nature each day and
each week of his life. There is no warrant for
the belief that the law of compensation defers
its reward until the close of life. I believe this
common misunderstanding is due to the preach­
ments of certain religious doctrines that refer
to the ultimate rewards that all good men and
women will receive in the future state; but so
far as the Cosmic law is concerned, it makes
compensation adequately and properly in such
ways and at such times as will render the most
help and benefit to the deserving one.
152
F or the H om e and Business
W ith many business men and women with
whom I have come in contact, the faith and
trust in the operation of the law of compensa­
tion is equal to the faith or trust that many per­
sons put into a superstition. Just as I have met
rational business men who hesitate to pass under
a ladder because of a conviction that within a
few hours or at the very next turn of their ac­
tivities some dire disaster would befall them, I
have met many other men and women who be­
lieve most implicitly that whenever they do a
kindness or an unselfish act for some one else
or contribute in any way to the health and
happiness of others, they can expect some
reward or some Cosmic blessing, suddenly and
uniquely, at almost the following hour. They
had learned from experience that the Cosmic
brings its reward not only suddenly, but at a
most propitious moment, and that by helping
others or giving in whatever way they could
to the needs and happiness of another, they
were accruing a certain amount of Cosmic bless­
ing or help that would come to them just when
they needed it, and as they needed it.
I do not mean to say that such persons con­
stantly had in mind the reward or return of their
blessings whenever they planned to do some­
thing for someone else. I have noticed from
153
Rosicrucian Principles
many reports, and from intimate contact with
those who followed such principles in their lives,
that most of the unselfish or kindly acts per­
formed by these persons were unplanned and
wholly spontaneous, and that it was only as
they were performing the act or immediately
thereafter, that the thought came to them that
in compensation for their rashness or liberality
there would be the proper return. It is but na­
tural for anyone to promptly question the logic
of a spontaneous act or sudden urge, and to
wonder whether it is worth while, diplomatic or
reasonable. It is at such moments of considera­
tion of the spontaneous act that these persons
generally conclude that even though it was sud­
den and probably urged by an emotional im­
pulse, the Cosmic was conscious of the urge,
and the whole-hearted response to it, and would
compensate accordingly.
Let me illustrate how such cooperation with
Cosmic law can really become a valuable asset
in one’s life. For a number of years I was
closely associated with, and advisor to Mr. W il­
liam Woodbury, who was one of New York’s
wealthy men given to a study of human needs.
His business affairs with which I was connected
were of such a nature as to permit him to have
ample time for personal matters, and provided
154
F or the H om e and Business
him with an income sufficient to allow him to
indulge in any of the costly hobbies and prac­
tices which often become the ruination of many
wealthy men. Mr. Woodbury, however, de­
cided that he would get more pleasure out of
life if he could evolve some plan of helping the
worthy and needy who wanted to help them­
selves. He had no faith in organized charity,
and did not believe that any form of charity
helped the real man who had a real need.
Finally a plan was evolved whereby Mr.
Woodbury set aside a million dollars in a bank
in New York for the special purpose of help­
ing others. He informed various business and
charitable organizations that if they contacted
any man, with a legitimate plan, who was anx­
ious to go into business for himself to send such
a man to see him. Mr. W oodbury opened a
special office in a private residence in a secluded
part of New York City, and there, each morn­
ing, we interviewed applicants for help. Briefly
outlined, his plan was to find such men as were
competent in some definite line of business or
trade, who had many years of experience in
that particular line, and who were anxious
to discontinue being an employee and go into
business for themselves. If such persons were
well qualified in a moral and ethical way, as
155
Rosicrucian Principles
for instance, not addicted to drinking, gambling,
or other extravagant indulgences, and were
healthy and of an age which would permit the
starting into business and the building up of a
good following, he would loan them anywhere
from five thousand to twenty-five thousand dol­
lars, and in some cases even more. The money
was loaned to such men without security, and
with no other pledge or promise than their per­
sonal word, and with no agreement as to the
return of the money except that it should be
returned from the legitimate profits of their
businesses, and in such payments as they found
were possible, convenient, and not injurious to
the progress of their business, and without any
interest of any kind.
Inside of a year practically the whole of the
million dollars had been loaned in this manner,
and during the following year it was a pleasure
to see that ninety-eight per cent of those who
had secured the money were making various re­
turns in accordance with the profits of their
business, and in no wise attempting to defraud
M r. Woodbury. After four years of operation
of the plan, Mr. Woodbury found that quite
a few had returned not only the original amounts
which they had borrowed, but had donated to
the fund liberal amounts to help others, and that
156
F o r the H om e and Business
on the basis on which it was working, his orig­
inal million dollars would be returned with a
very much larger increase than if he had loaned
it at six per cent. In fact, a report from Mr.
Woodbury, to me, in 1924, showed that in ten
years previous, his million dollars had been re­
turned and a large additional fund accumulated;
and he had proved his original contention that
human nature could be trusted, and that the
average man, if placed upon his word of honor,
would not take advantage of any plan that was
truly conceived to be non-commercial and one
hundred percent altruistic. Only a little over
two per cent of the persons he had tried to help
had taken advantage of the situation and had
either absconded or in other ways defrauded
him; but he took no means to punish them or
even search for them.
The most important discovery made by Mr.
Woodbury in connection with his humanitarian
plan, however, was that soon after he inaug­
urated it, his other business affairs began to
prosper far beyond his anticipation, and many
persons who owed him large sums of money
began to make payments, and in other ways
he found that the Cosmic law of compensation
was beginning to reward him for his efforts in
behalf of others. He finally organized an insti­
157
Rosicrucian Principles
tution of helpfulness for business men, and up
to the very last hour that it existed before being
completely abandoned in order to carry on other
activities, it was one of the outstanding demon­
strations of Cosmic law. It is unfortunate that
M r. Woodbury is no longer in America to carry
on these forms of help, but there are undoubted­
ly others in this country, and other countries,
who have been doing and possibly are doing
what Mr. Woodbury has done.
Another illustration is that of the work of
Mr. Dodge, the New York financier, with whom
I was associated as advisor and consultant in
new plans for over five years. M r. Dodge was
not only well known throughout many eastern
cities as a promoter of big corporations and in­
terested only in big business in every sense, but
he was one of the most liberal workers in behalf
of the unfortunate men of the East, that I ever
met. From one end of New York City to another
Mr. Dodge was kno*vn in the principal hotels
restaurants, clothing stores and real estate offices.
W hen an unfortunate of either sex appeared at
a restaurant or a hotel and asked for a room or
a meal, and had a note written on the back of
a card signed by M r. Dodge, he or she was
given every possible help. And a note written
by Mr. Dodge has given to many men and
158
F or the H om e and Business
women a receipt for a month’s rent for their
apartment or home, or some necessary furniture,
groceries, or clothing.
It used to be a pleasure to go along with Mr.
Dodge, in his automobile, once a month, to these
principal stores, and listen to the reports and
note the pleasure M r. Dodge had in handing
out his personal checks to pay for the things
others had received. W hat he had learned and
what I knew of his business affairs, proved the
soundness of his activities. There never was
one of his big business propositions that did not
pay and prove an eminent success. W hether in
the W all Street district, when several large
financial institutions were amalgamated under
his plan, whether it was on the upper streets of
Manhattan, when two large systems of chain
drug stores were united into one of the largest
drug corporations in the country under a plan
outlined by him, or whatever it might be, he
seemed to have what others called "luck.” And
every person who had money for investment
sought an opportunity to have an interest in
any proposition that Mr. Dodge sanctioned or
sponsored. He knew that he had Cosmic co­
operation and support, because he believed him­
self to be one of the many silent and secret
workers in behalf of the Cosmic to help his
159
Rosicrucian Principles
fellow men. And it used to be a pleasant thing
with him to tell a few others, quite confiden­
tially, that he himself was incorporated, and that
his firm consisted of the Cosmic Hosts and him.
W ith such a partnership, no man could fail in
business.
And take the case of Sam Small, the president
of the Board of Directors of one of the large
cereal companies of America. M r. Small was at
one time an abandoned waif and had to fight
his way through life, but he never forgot, in his
days of wealth and prosperity, the sufferings of
the waifs of the street. It was indeed a pleasure
for anyone to accompany him in his automobile
several nights before Christmas each year, in
whatever city he happened to be, and watch him
go into the byways of congested districts among
the poor, and pick up boys and girls and take
them to clothing stores and buy them the shoes,
stockings, and overcoats which they needed, and
send them home with baskets of groceries or
buy them toys. Hundreds of them in many cities
were helped in this manner, each Christmas,
without ostentation, and with no other motive
than the soul pleasure he derived from it, and
the idea that some divine law had raised him
from poverty as a waif to great wealth for the
purpose of enabling him to carry out the Cosmic
160
F or the H om e and Business
principles. He could not conceive of the pos­
sibility of his wealth having come to him for
his own selfish use or the use of his immediate
family exclusively, and he had the true idea
of being a steward of divine funds. And yet
as fast as Mr. Small expended his funds in this
manner, his income was increased and increased
until he finally became the head of many big
companies.
Mr. Small and many others would frankly
tell you that at times, when they first felt the
urge to give to others and to help others, they
often had to debate whether the few dollars
they possessed should be rashly or spontaneous­
ly divided and given away, or held in reserve
for a possible rainy day. Many times the money
in hand represented just a safe margin for emer­
gencies in their business affairs, and in some
cases the plan for helpfulness called for the
expenditure of every available dollar, and the
jeopardizing of personal interests at the time.
Yet there was always the conviction, based upon
previous experience, that if even the last penny
is given away freely and without reluctance,
and with that spontaneity of good will, that
the Cosmic always uses, there would come a
proper reward in the form of some adjustment
161
Rosicrucian Principles
of financial affairs that would remove any pos­
sibility of disastrous results to the giver.
And so my plea to you must be, that regard­
less of the station in life you occupy, or the
situation of your business and financial affairs,
you must not permit your own needs, and es­
pecially your contemplated needs, to interfere
with the liberality of your charity or the broad­
ness of your helpfullness. It is a positive fact,
that as you act spontaneously and freely, and
without hesitation or long deliberation, in the
giving to someone else of that which you can
gjve but which you could use yourself, so you
hnd the Cosmic spontaneously and liberally
coming to your aid at the proper time, and with
the same lack of hesitancy which you manifes­
ted.
It is safe to say that the average person of
Health and business capabilities who finds him­
self or herself out of employment, out of funds
and out of contact with any who can help or
tide over the serious situation, is a person who
has failed m the past to give liberally and
spontaneously when th e Cosmic urge came from
within. Too many persons appeal to the Cosmic
or to the laws of psychology and mysticism for
aid in their predicament, who cannot show that
at any time in the past have they co-operated
162
F or the H om e and Business
with the Cosmic in liberally helping others. To
merely give advice lo others who seek it, or to
simply give a meal to one who begs at the door
or to drop a few coins in the Salvation Arm)
pot, or to donate some old clothing to the or­
phan asylum is not carrying out the greater
work of the Cosmic. Those who suddenly feel
that there is something they can do for someone,
something they can give, even though it hurts in
a financial or material way, or something that
they can do even though it is inconvenient, un­
pleasant, tiresome, and costly, and without hesi­
tation, without reluctance, whole-heartedly sub­
mit to the urge, are the ones who are truly co­
operating with the Cosmic, and find not event­
ually, not in the days of the last judgment in
the world beyond, but in the days here and now
that at every crisis and in every need the Cos­
mic comes to their help abundantly.
It behooves everyone, therefore, who has
read this book through with the hope of find­
ing in it some help in the solving of their per­
sonal problems, to ask themselves this question:
“W hat have I done for others?” And perhaps
this additional question: "W hat have I contri­
buted to the Cosmic supply that I may now
appeal to its teller and withdraw from the uni­
versal supply?” If you can find no positive,
163
Rosicrucian Principles
affirmative answer to your questions, and you
believe, even half reluctantly, that you have been
deficient in your co-operation with the Cosmic
in this regard, it will be well for you to immedi­
ately consider how you may proceed at once
to help some others while you are seeking help
for yourself. Before you expect any return
through Cosmic or mystic laws, be sure that you
have done your utmost to help someone else,
not only because of the reward that will come
to you, but because it is your duty, as it is the
duty of every human being, to be an earthly
instrument in the carrying out of the Cosmic
scheme of things. And as long as you are out
of attunement with the Cosmic plans, and not
a part of the army of Cosmic workers, you can­
not expect the Cosmic laws to help you and be
unmindful of your neglect.
Perhaps your very situation today, in whole
or in part, and perhaps the problems which
you now face, and from which you have sought
relief or now seek relief, are a result of your
failure to co-operate with the law of compensa­
tion in the past, and therefore your present pre­
dicament is a part of your karma. If this is so—
and no one else but you can tell that— it is
164
F or the H om e and Business
certain that you must adjust the conditions first
with the Cosmic law, and with the Cosmic
Hosts, and then with man on earth.
T H E EN D
Rosicrucian Principles
R O SIC R U C IA N O R D ER
A M O R C
P U R P O SE S AN D W O R K O F
T H E O R D E R
£^ ^ H E Order is primarily a Humanitarian
V -' Movement, making for greater Health,
Happiness and Peace in the earthly lives of all
Mankind. Note particularly that we say in the
earthly lives of men, for we have naught to do
with any doctrine devoted to the interests of
individuals living in an unknown, future state.
The W ork of Rosicrucians is to be done here
and now; not that we have neither hope nor
expectation of another life after this, but we
know that the happiness of the future depends
upon what we do today for others as well as for
ourselves.
Secondly, our purposes are to enable men
and women to live clean, normal, natural lives,
as Nature intended, enjoying all the privileges
of Nature, and all benefits and gifts equally with
all of Mankind; and to be free from the shackles
of superstition, the limits of ignorance, and the
sufferings of avoidable karma.
166
F or the H om e and Business
The W ork of the Order— using the word
“W ork" in an official sense— consists of teach­
ing, studying, and testing such Laws of God
and Nature as make our Members Masters in
the Holy Temple (the physical body), and
W orkers in the Divine Laboratory (Nature’s
domains). This is to enable the Brothers and
Sisters to render m ore efficient help to those
who do not know, and who need or require
help and assistance.
Therefore, the Order is a School, a College,
a Fraternity, with a laboratory. The Members
are students and workers. The graduates are
unselfish servants of God to Mankind, effi­
ciently educated, trained and experienced, at­
tuned with the mighty forces of the Cosmic or
Divine Mind, and Masters of matter, space, and
time. This makes them essentially Mystics,
Adepts, and Magi— creators of their own Des­
tiny.
There are no other benefits or rights. All
Members are pledged to give unselfish Service,
without other hope or expectation of remunera­
tion than to Evolve the Self and prepare it for
a greater W ork.
For those who are unable to attend a local
temple or lodge because of personal reasons or
because of the fact that there might not be any
167
Rosicrucian Principles
in their immediate community, the National
membership offers a personal, home study
means. Instructions are sent in weekly lectures
and lessons, especially prepared, and contain a
summary of the Rosicrucian principles with a
wealth of personal experiments, exercises and
tests, such as will make each member highly pro­
ficient in the attainment of certain degrees of
mastership. The lectures are under the direc­
tion of the Imperator’s staff. These correspond­
ence lessons and lectures compose three grades.
Each grade has its own initiation ritual to be
performed by the member at his home in his
own sanctum. Such rituals are not the elaborate
rituals used in the temple lodges, but are of
practical benefit to the student.
V V V
168
T H E R O SIC R U C IA N M AN UAL
A uthorized by the lm perator
This Manual has been demanded for years,
urged and awaited. Now it is ready. The first
and only Rosicrucian Manual, containing mat­
ter suggested by the masters, officers, and mem­
bers of the various lodges.
W H A T IT C O N T A IN S :
It is divided into a number of parts, each
complete and invaluable as a guide and refer­
ence work. The following is a partial list of
the contents:
Complete explanation of all the terms, signs
and symbols used in various parts of the teach­
ings. A complete working manual of all the
rules and regulations of the Order. Extracts
from the Constitution. Description of Temples,
Lodges and other parts of our assembly places,
with laws pertaining to convocation and sym­
bolical ceremonies. A synopsis of the subjects
covered in all the lectures of both the National
Lodge correspondence work and the Temple
Lectures of the higher grades. Charts, dia­
grams, and illustrations of the various lectures
requiring such helps. The laws of Crystallo­
graphy, Magnetism, Formation of Atoms and
Molecules, illustrated and explained. Dalton's
169
experiments and alchemical and chemical laws
illustrated and explained. A complete Rosicru­
cian Dictionary of the terms used in all lectures.
Ancient and modern symbols explained and il­
lustrated. A special article fully explaining the
origin of the Great W hite Lodge and its exist­
ence, and how to attain Psychic Illumination,
written for this Manual by the Imperator. The
Rosicrucian Code of Life, with the thirty laws
and regulations. Short biographical sketches of
Rosicrucians. Instructive articles on such sub­
jects as N U M ER O LO G Y and the law of
Numbers. A number of portraits of prominent
Rosicrucians, including Master K-H, the illus­
trious (with hitherto secret facts about his ac­
tivities). Questions often asked, with official
Answers.
P R IC E : The book is strongly bound with
attractive cloth binding over the heavy covers,
and stamped in gold. Single copies of the book
by mail, anywhere in the U. S. A., $2.30. In
Canada or foreign countries, by mail, $2.40.
V V V
170
