{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__guthrie___temple_gates_ajar.pdf","mytitle":"Temple Gates Ajar","mylang":"de"}
r .
I ■ - - r \ ' *
INDEX to the Collected Works of
KENNETH SYLVAN LAUNFAL GUTHRIE
Volume One: Popular and Religious
* I. TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
AN ANTHOLOGY OF EXPERIMENTAL RELIGION
1. Biography of Dr. Kenneth Sylvan Guthrie. 2. Six Instructions, Introductory to
jectlve Religious Experiences. 3. The Spiritual Message of Literature, Epitomized. 4. Shake
speare and Bacon Unmasked. 5. Of the Presence of God. 6. Of Communion with God
7. The World’s Repository of Religious Experiences. 8. Brotherhood of Mutual Prayer
Intercessory Membership Instructions.
II. THE PAGAN BIBLE, or ANGELS ANCIENT AND MODERN
AN ENGLISHED GRAECO-ROMAN ANTHOLOGY ON THE SOUL AND ITS HELPERS
Bible and Zoroastrians, 2; Homer, Vision of Ulysses, 2; Hesiod, Works and Days, 2
Kebes, The Picture, 3; Prodicus, Choice of Hercules, 13; Plato, Vision of Er, 15; Cicero
Dream of Scipio, 17; Virgil, Vision of Aeneas, 18; Plutarch, Genius of Socrates, 18; Plutarch
Dream of Timarchus, 20; Plutarch, Vision of Thespesius, 23: Plutarch, Story of Sylla, 24
Epictetus, Morals, 25; Anuleius, Genius of Socrates, 25; Maximus of Tyre, Socrates’s Gooc
Genius, 36: Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, 42; Zosimus, Divine Transformations, 42; Plotinus
Enneads, 42; Synesius, On Providence, 44; Proclus, On Providential Angels, 49; Dionysiu:
the Areopaglte, Celestial Hierarchies, 50.
III. WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
A ROMANTIC STORY ILLUSTRATING THE INEVITABLENESS OF FAITH
TWENTY-FIVE FASCINATING CHAPTERS ON FAITH AS THE PANACEA OF LIFE
As the Cure of Fear, Despair, Ineffectiveness, Worldly Anxieties, Remorse, Provincialism
Capriciousness, Crime, Ill-Health, Materialism, and Dualism, and as the Key to Initiation, ant
Reminiscence.
IV. SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
SUGGESTIVE OF INNER ACHIEVEMENT
1. Friendship’s Salvation, (Friendship), Page 43; 2. The Thread of the Labyrinth, (Pra
46; 3. The Shipwreck, (Immortality), 53; 4. Pools Fear to Tread, (Inspiration), 54; 5. Thi
Banisters to Heaven, (Vows), 57; 6. St. Nicholas’s Surprises, (Gifts), 61.
V. RITUALS FOR COMMON WORSHIP
1. Common Prayer, or Angelic Supplication. 2. Pilgrimage Ritual. 3. New Moon Ritual
4. Full Moon Ritual.
VI. CHARACTER STUDIES AND OUTLINES
1. Original Research in the 12 Character Classes; 2. Character of Qualities Questionnaire
3. Statistical Study of Each of the 12 Character Classes.
VII. WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE
STUDIES DEMONSTRATING WESTERN EGYPTIAN TRADITION TO BE INDEPENDENT Of
ORIENTAL HINDU DECEPTIVE PROPAGANDA
1. Jambllchus, the Egyptian Transmitter; 2. Thomas Lake Harris, Inspirational Illuminator
3. Mabel Collins, Initiator into the World Temple; 4. Anna Bonus Kingsford, Interpretative
Revelations; 5. Qulmby, American Mentalism, 6. John Hamlin Dewey, Christian Theosophy; 7
W. J. Colville, Modern Western Mystery Rituals; 8. Frantz Hartmann, German Rosicruclanlsm
Volume Two: Mystical and Occult
I. TEMPLE DOORS OPENED
AN ANTHOLOGY OF ADVANCED EXPERIMENTAL RELIGION
1. Religious Experiences Account, Page 2. 2. Eight Esoteric Instructions in Organic
Experiential Religion, 19. 3. The Conservation of your Vitality Explained Physically, Morallj
and Spiritually, 43. 4. Temple Travel, 56. 5. The American Lodge, 60; Brotherhood ol
Mutual Prayer, Progressive Membership, 63.
II. TEMPLE STORIES
STORIES OF THE PROGRESSING SOUL
I. HURRAH FOR GOD.
1. Hercules Up To Date, Page 1. 2. The Magic Spectacles, 4. 3. The Lost Word, 7
4. The Philosopher’s Stone, 11. 5. The Amazon’s Victory, 14.
II. THE REUNITING PILGRIMAGE, A Biblical Story of Reincarnation.
III. THE LIFE OF APOLLONIUS OF TYANA, Abridged from Philostratus.
IV. PERRONIK THE INNOCENT, Rendered from the French of Souvestre.
III. STUDIES IN BIBLICAL THEOLOGY, POPULAR EXPLANATIONS
I. SALVATION IN PLAIN ENGLISH, English Meaning of the Creed.
II. LINGUISTIC PROGRESS THE ROOT OF THEOLOGY, Religion of the Dictionary.
III. DISGUISES OF UNIVERSAL RELIGION.
IV. CULMINATION OF BIBLICAL VALUES.
IV. TEMPLE PLAYLETS AND RITUALS
PLAYLETS ILLUSTRATING SPIRITUAL METHODS
1. Vampire of Heaven (Breathing), Page 2. 2. Sippers of the Grail, (Eating), 6
3. The Entwined Pillars (Marriage), 14. 4. The Marriage of the Senses, 18. 5. Fountair
of Youth, (Baptism), 32. 6. The Mannequin’s Transformation (Clothing), 36. 7. Discovering
Headquarters (Existence of Temple), 4. 8. Raising Humanity’s Dome, (World-Temple), 47
V. TEMPLE RITUALS AIDING SPIRITUAL PROGRESS
I. Reincarnation Ritual. II. Monthly Birthday Pilgrimage.
NOTE: These Collected Booklets are Issued in Two Volumes (first. Popular and Religious
second, Mystic and Occult), at S5.00 for both, or $3.00 each. Order direct only t(
Platonlst Press, Teocalli, North Yonkers, N. Y., or Box 31, Leonia, N. J.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—Introduction
EXPERIMENTAL RELIGION of JAMBLICHUS,
? 280 — 333 A.D.
I. BIOGRAPHY
From Eunapius and Suldas we learn he
studied under Anatolius and Porphyry, but
continued to reside in his home town till his
death. He is generally given the title of “the
divine," in the same manner as Plato, “to
whom, as the acute Emperor Julian remarked,
“he was posterior in time only, and not less
in Genius." Discussions of his work may be
found in Vaughan’s Hours with the Mystics,
(Bk. Ill, Ch. IV, p. 100), Whittaker’s Neoplat-
onists, p. 121, and McClintock and Strong
Cyclopedia article.
MESSAGE of JAMBLICHUS
Evidently Jamblichus’s chief significance lay
In furnishing the golden link between God and
Man’s world, till then childishly ignored or
neglected. Secondly, God must be utilized for
man’s development, final happiness, and the
“ salvation of the world," which are Jamblich­
us’s objects. Third, this can be achieved only
through experientialism: rites and prayers.
This is called “theurgy," the sole path to
exaltation, the heaven-given method by which
the wise and holy may achieve, knowledge,
power and happiness. In other words, the
philosopher must become a priest, or vehicle
Of the divinity.
ADVANCE OVER PORPHYRY
Masquerading as the Egyptian priest Abam-
raon (which acknowledges the primacy of the
Egyptian religion), Jamblichus answers point
by point each of his teacher Porphyry’s ob­
jections to mystic rites, in his “ De Mysteriis,"
In which he vindicates the Mysteries of the
Egyptians, Chaldeans and Assyrians.
ADVANCE OVER PLOTINUS
INTELLIGENT CHOICE OF GOVERNORS
What is the use of this Knowledge of the
principles, or orders of existence of the Uni­
verse? As if we desire to progress, we are
inevitably led by some principle or other
higher than ourselves, it lies in our discretion
intelligently to choose which shall be our
director, and to adapt the ritual methods best
suited to that special “governor". This is
explained in the following poem.
JAMBLICHUS’S “MASTERS" Guide,
Since man, if he would grow, must have some
Which ‘master’ he shall have, can he decide?
“This will depend," says he, “on your deserts:
“ 'Tis your own prayer that hell to heaven
converts!"
PSYCHOLOGICAL SECRET
Freud’s Psychoanalysis seems to be no more
th...i a modern interpretation of Jamblichus’s
foundation. Taking as elements the human
passions, such as anger, they can be rescued
from crime-expression only by the pacifica­
tion of an upward conversion, to participa­
tion in divinity. How may this conversion be
effected? By the vicarious experience of
iwatching dramas or participating in rituals;
by dreams and prayers. The sanative instruc­
tion of sympathetic observation of tragedies
is limited to externalities, while the more
direct internal achievements can be imaged
only in sacred spectacles, ceremonies and di­
rect tests. They are then remedies leading
to liberation, by sympathy acquiring higher
courses of life and energies, leading to be­
coming super-men. The best means then to
achieve any spiritual gift is to practice it in
a “theurgic” ritual; every rite, therefore is a
school of miracles, or is a potential miracle,
or “enthusiasm," or “ entheasm."
DREAMS AS LINK WITH DIVINITY
By accusing Plotinus of being theoretical,
Jamblichus’s advance was twofold: first, theo­
logical, in subdividing the Trinity unto sub­
ordinate triads, — intellectual, intelligible, and
mental, each hierarchically transmitting the
divine power to man and the world, forming
an “ennead," or nine-group. The psycholog­
ical advance was in rescuing the ecstasy from
Plotinus’s epileptic attacks, by underlaying it
with a psychological explanation, method and
results.
BACK TO PYTHAGORAS
Having thus refuted Plotinus’s theoretical-
epilepsy, established universal linking, stupidity
and futility of reconciling two middle-men,
Plato and Aristotle, Jamblichus points back­
ward to their acknowledged source, Pytha­
goras (in his “Protrepticus"). Here are re­
vealed the allegorical Pythagorean secrets,
which to Jamblichus seem to endorse his own
message: “ Passion-conversion for the salva­
tion of the Universe!"
JAMBL1CHAN DIVINE HIERARCHY
While our modern Spiritualists lump all be­
ings beyond in one class, Jamblichus was care­
ful to perpetuate the old Greek Hesiod distinc­
tion between Gods, Daemons or Guardians,
Heroes or Demi-Gods, and incorporeal Souls.
The Oods manifest uniformly. The Daemons,
who are terrible, variously. Archangels are
both awful and mild, while the Angels are
gracious. Gods confer health and achieve­
ments. Principalities confer temporal ad­
vantages. Archangels and Angels give only
subordinate endowments. Heroes stimulate to
noble actions. Pure souls have encouraging
salutary Influence.
While dreams (as in the Bible) are the most
direct means of communication between div­
inity and man, they are not voluntary, alas.
They may be sought by sleeping in temples,
however. Dreams may be predictive (of
which Jamblichus gathers historical cases), or
curative (as in Aesculapius temple-sleep), or
revelative (as in Mysteries). The explanation
is that, “by abstraction from control by the
lower self, as in sleep, the soul’s nobler part
is thus united to the higher nature, and be­
comes a participant in the wisdom and fore­
knowledge of the Gods."
PRAYER AS MOTIVE
Invocation consists of translating the emo­
tions, or passion-material into the higher
word-form, demanding intellectual analysis
and formulation, producing illumination. So
prayer effects the contact, supplications (emo­
tionalized mental objects) by intimate con­
verse lead to their object, similitude with the
divine perfection later achieved. While rituals
are dependent on cooperations of other people
prayer is available by all even in private;
hence it is the most accessible remedy, a con­
verter.
FOUNDER. OF EXPERIENTIALISM
Recapitulating Jamblichus’s message, it will
be seen that he laid the psychological founda­
tion for the Egyptian tradition of experiential
religion, by Hartmann (in his Pronaos of the
Temple) traced from Hermetism through Neo­
platonism, to Medieval Philosophy as sum­
marized by Cornelius Agrippa, the Adepts
(Flamel, St. Germain, Cagllostro), the Rosi-
crucian documents, Boehme and Paracelsus to
Guthrie's Catholic Theosophlc Rosicrucianism.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—1
INSPIRATIONAL ILLUMINATION
of Thomas Lake Harris
(My. 15, 1823—Mch. 23, 190fc)
I. AS SEER
While Swedenborg in Sweden and England,
and Andrew Jackson Davis in Poughkeepsie
were great seers, they are of no special interest
as they confined themselves to giving out their
own revelations, without devoting themselves
to induce the same ability in others. While
Thomas Lake Harris was accused of being jeal­
ous of the psychic gifts of some of his diciplcs,
he nevertheless established a Brotherhood of
the New Life for the very object of training
aspirants to receive interior illuminations.
That he himself was a great seer is ac­
knowledged; he visited all the various parts of
the Universe, in the Arcana of Christianity,
(1857), The Great Republic (the sun); Epic
of the Starry Heavens (the planets).
In the Wisdom of the Adepts (1884) he
describes the formative history of the human
race, and the development of prehistoric
adepts; of whom the chief was Jesus—Yessa or
Chr stus—Christa, who, as divine, incarnated
as man. He was also a great poet, in trances
receiving long epics, such as The Republic of
the Sun, A Lyric of the Golden Age, A Lyric of
the Morning Land, A Voice from Heaven, The
Luminous Life, and The Holy City. They have
not received the poetic appreciation they de­
serve because most poets, and therefore the
influential critics are idlers or materialists, and
do not evert want to know of Harris’s poetic
work.
II. BIOGRAPHY
Born in England, at five years of age he was
taken to America and fell under the domination
of a Calvinist mother-in-law from whom at nine
years of age he succeeded in escaping by earn­
ing his living.
At sixteen he was converted in a Baptist con­
venticle. In 1844 he became a N. Y. Uni-
versalist preacher; he studied under A. J.
Davis; then, Swedenborg’s writings. In 1810
he experienced ‘internal respiration’ and foun­
ded the Mountain Cove Community, then, in
1860, the Brotherhood of the New Life, which
moved from Wassaic, N. Y., to Broeton, and
then, in 1875, to Santa Rosa, California. When
Fountaingrove burned down he abandoned the
place to a Japanese colony and travelled to
N. Y., Scotland, and back to N. Y.
His most famous disciple was Laurence Oli-
phant, who later left him and developed his
own doctrine, Symptomneumata.
III. MISTAKES
We may save misfortunes by listing several
mistakes of his, which the reader should avoid.
1. He expected not to die, but be translated.
2. He expected a great cataclysm which
never came off, except perhaps on the spir­
itual side.
3. He taught a doctrine of ‘spiritual coun­
terparts’ which seem to have been no more
than spiritualistic obsession, because the ex­
periences produced cold, and fatigue, and in­
stead of being progressive, tended to disappear,
besides giving rise to domestic troubles.
4. His explanation of evil’s rise being due
to an Arch-adept on the lost planet Oriana is
fanciful.
IV. DOCTRINE
1. He states that his doctrine is an occult
Christo-centric science, which accepts as its
principle that Christ is not dogma, but Spirit
and Life; that Christianity is not hierarchical,
but humanitary; not repressive, but evolution­
ary; that its object is the reconstruction of the
planet in the form of its divine genius; the
restoration of an orb that was forced out of
the line of march by disturbing forces, into
‘the grand processional order of the universe.’
In other words, a distinctively Christian The­
osophy.
2. The Mahatmic term ‘astral body’ is by
Harris preferably called by the German name,
of ‘geist’—the double, the shadow form, the
memory form, or astral image.
3. He was a Theo-socialist, and contended
that ‘internal respiration’ could not be achieved
except in ‘insociated’ or colony life; in a
church.
4. His best, noblest and divinest teaching
is that of internal respiration (God’s Breath in
Man, and Humanity (1892); Internal Respira­
tion, or, the Plenary Gift of the Holy Spirit
(1895). It is in short ‘practising inspiration,’
and releases us from dependence on Buddhist
propaganda for yoga breathings by furnishing
us a Christian science thereof, (as is distinctly
noted p. 2 of I R), which gives experiences,
methods and results.
5. He always spoke of Jesus as Jesus-Yessa,
and of Christ as Christus-Christa, as the per­
sonal manifestation of our Twain-One heavenly
Father-Mother. Though invisible to natural
sight, the Lady Yessa, His counterpart, was
involved in the body of the Lord Jesus, either
being incomplete without the other—the Lord
Two-in-One.
6. Following Hesiod, he taught the Golden,
Silver, Copper and Iron ages, preparatory to
the engulfment of Atlantis. Tnen threatened
the attack of the black magicians, on the black
satellite Oriana, which was repelled by the
incarnation of the Supreme Him-Herself as
Jesus of Nazareth.
V. BENEFITS
The Internal Respirational Benefits are men­
tioned discursively: 1, thought reading (29);
perception of word (30); in the fourth degree,
seeing of fairies (31,51); reinvigoration (33);
circle wheel drill of internal current (36,37);
projection of inner body (3G); warmth in body
parts (38), poetry-inspiration (48); renewed
youth (52); transports or thrills (52); looking
for a change (53); music heard (57); remove
all disease and sorrow (60); feeling of com­
pleteness (61); the change as ‘chemicalization’
(62); refreshment (67); a continued conscious­
ness (68); but it is impossible alone; no con­
gregation is a church of Christ till it becomes
an interwoven fraternity (73). Consecrate your­
self therefore to the Service of Christ in the
bosom of humanity (70), and become one of
many pillars in the Social and Fraternal Tem­
ple of our God (71). He warns of hypnotic
counterfeits (71) and despair (72). It is the
breath of the Redeemer (74); therefore a strict­
ly Christian society.
While this internal respiration was origina­
ted by Swedenborg (‘I was introduced by the
Lord into interior respirations as a medium of
intercourse with spirits and angels’), Harris
recommended its practice by everybody, ma­
king unnecessary the Hindu breathing and lay­
ing the foundation of the first step of occult­
ism, illumination by the White Light.
VI. CONCLUSION
Harris can best be studied in W. P. Swain-
son’s TLH and his Occult Teaching, London,
1922 (from John Watkins, 21 Cecil Court,
Charing Cross Road, WC 2, London). He was
a great poet, inspired to write sublime celestial
epics, such as the ‘Lyric of the Golden Age,’
and the ‘New Republic.’ Illuminating is his
lecture on The Historical Jesus Christ.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—2
INITIATION INTO THE WORLD-
TEMPLE
of MABEL COLLINS (Mrs. Keningdale Cook,
1851-Mch. 31, 1927)
BIOGRAPHY
Her life falls into three periods.
I. Her father, Mortimer Collins, was author
of ‘Transmigration,’ and she married Kening­
dale Cook. She fell under the influence of the
Hermetic (Egypto-Greek) Master Hilarion Smer-
dis, and from him received three treasures:
two stories opposing magic (Idyll of White
Lotus, 1885); and ‘Blossoms and Fruit’ 1885);
an initiation into the World-temple, (When the
Sun moves Northward, li/1^) and a monitor on
personal religion (Light on the Path, 1885).
II. She became a victim of an attack on
this Hilarion Smerdis’s Egypto-Greek occultism
by a pseudo-Buddhist Propaganda under the
direction of Mahatma Morya, which advertised
pseudo-Hindu religious terms, and captured
both the Egypto-Greek occultism and the Chris­
tian term Theosophy, under the leadership of
Madame Blavatsky. The day after Mabel Col­
lins’s initiation into the Theosophical Esoteric
Section, she left it, and told what she thought
of it in ‘Morial the Mahatma’ (which edition is
now unobtainable; for what reason?)
She reaffirmed her standpoint by commen­
taries on her earlier works: Light on the Path,
she explained by A Cry from Afar ( ? ), Our
Glorious Future ( ? ), Love’s Chaplet (1905)
and the Awakening (1906). The White Lotus
Idyll was explained in the Story of Sensa
(1913). Of original reaffirmations of her Egypto-
Greek occultism we have Green Leaves (1895),
The Story of the Year (1895): Pleasure and
Pain (1896); The Scroll of the Disembodied Man
(1904): Love’s Chaplet (1905); Fragments of
Thougnt and Life (1908); One Life, One Law,—
Thou Shalt Not Kill (1909); The Builders
(1910); The Transparent Jewel (1912); Illu­
sions (1912?).
III. As her independence (inevitable in a
thinker and writer), deprived her of the now
organized Alahatmic backing, which for a short
time had given her publicity, and as apparently
Master Hilarion Smerdis had been captured and
recognized (when Madam Blavatsky repudiated
Mabel Collins, she had also denied the adept-
ship of Hilarion Smerdis) by the Mahatmists,
(Dr. Dower, leader of the Halcyon ‘Artisan’
‘Temple of the People’ continuously publishes
messages from both Morya and Hilarion Smer­
dis together, and Alice Bailey recognizes them
both), Hilarion Smerdis’s medium Collins was
abandoned. In 1913 she fell into straitened
circumstances, and conducted a book shop in
Cheltenham, found religious fellowship in the
Catholic Church (Roman branch, Smythe), and
devoted the rest of her life to humanitarian
compassion for animals, her surviving portrait
showing her holding her little dog, working
publicly for Anti-Vivisectionists, whose Review
for March 1927, London, published the only
obituary notice, with picture. In this period
she continued her interest in magic against
spiritualism in The Locked Room (1920), The
Crucible (1914), etc.
II. CRITICISM
1. The Light on the Path is valued by
hypocrites chiefly because it enables them to
deceive themselves into thinking they arc living
an interior life, without affecting their outer
conduct of life! It is cheap to write contra­
dictories such as, ‘go quickly but go slowly,’
2. Black magic is a subject which, like pitch,
defiles him who opposes it. It can best be
opposed by ignoring it. As, however, ‘white’
is a concept inseparable from ‘black,’ we shall
have to drop ‘white magic’ and ‘white Brother­
hood’ also. The best is to work for ‘spiritual
achievement,’ and Helpers of Humanity which
simply ignores its opposite. Mabel Collins be­
came a martyr to the devil she had raised by
her feud with ‘black magic,’ giving it the best
possible advertisement.
3. Her ‘When the Sun Moves Northwards’
Temple Ritual Calendar is good and suggestive;
but as its crowning festival is the Birthday of
Buddha, which is meaningless to Western Peo­
ple (who are clear-sighted enough to refuse
to aim at annihilation, which is the dictionary
meaning of ‘Nirvana’), it has had to be rear­
ranged as in ‘Temple Gates Opened.’
III. CHIEF DOCTRINES
She taught the existence of an ‘ethereal
world’ above this one, in which reside Masters
of wisdom, and holy beings. The foundations
of their shrines and temples are on undisturbed
rocks, and the building-stones are acts and
deeds of faith by the ‘Builders,’ or the con­
structive devout. Every act of doubt, denial or
iconoclasm threatens to destroy this spiritual
foundation. So there is an ethereal Egypt
hovering over the real Egypt.
IV. APPRECIATION
So bare a review of Mabel Collins’ life and
work, and sharp criticism would seem comic
without an appreciation of her exclusive mes­
sage, the unveiling of initiation.
Her special preciousness consists in her evi­
dently genuine palpitating initiatory experi­
ences, and unique accounts of the World-Tem­
ple ritual. In this her work ranks with Ezekiel
and the Revelations. No wonder that the Bud­
dhist Mahatmic Propaganda, which has before
and since been sterile of all genuine experience
and revelations, tried to capture and appropri­
ate her! When they failed in this, their bar­
barity towards her revealed their real nature.
Like other saviors, she had to become a martyr.
V. CONCLUSION
Apparently betrayed or abandoned by
by Master Hilarion Smerdis, excommunicated by
the Mahatmists, left to her own resources, she
closed her humble life nobly, a martyr to de­
votion to humanity and God, an uncanonized
saint. It is the duty and privilege of all her
fellow humanitarians and religionists to pray
for her, and make known her life and works,
which is the best possible substitute for Mahat­
mic Buddhist propaganda, as she drew her
occultism from a source independent of them,
and she did not hesitate to leave them when
her conscience impelled her to accuse them of
black magic. Her significance is revelation of
initiation into the World-Temple. This object
is so supreme that preservation of her works
becomes a world cause. This writer will ren­
der his rare copies of them accessible by pla­
cing them in the New York Public Library.
Some benefactor of humanity might well cheap­
ly republish in a small volume, small print and
large page-form, all her very short occult
works. It would be a service to Hermctism,
or Egypto-Greek occultism, and protest against
the pseudo-Buddhist invasion of the West,—
our motto should be, ‘Western Thought for
Western People.’
Mabel Collins’s resultant message is: “Every
prayerful act of faith is the creation and build­
ing in of one stone in the Temple in which you
are to be initiated.’’
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—3
INTERPRETATIVE REVELATION
of
ANNA BONUS KINGSFORD (1846-Feb. 22, 1888)
I. MESSAGE
October 23, 1921 (and 1928), Madam Blavat-
sky who had once appointed Anna Kingsford
president of the British Section of the so-called
Thcosophical Mahatmic Society, through Dr.
and Mrs. F. Homer Curtis, leaders of the Order
of Christian Mystics, of Washington, D. C.,
sent a message to her Besant-strayed followers
imploring them to return to spiritual interpreta­
tion of Christianity,—which was exactly Anna
B. Kingsford's mission.
II. BIOGRAPHY
She was the daughter of the Shrewsbury
vicar of Atcham, wnere she was born. She
studied medicine in Paris. She was ap-
Creached by Lawrence Oliphant for Thomas
ake Harris; also by W. G. Colville. She re­
turned home but often visited Paris and Switz­
erland. She collaborated with Dr. Edward
Maitland who survived her, and saw to the pub­
lication of her literary remainders. She mar­
ried the rector of Pontesbury, Salop. The col­
laboration began by a visit to her in February.
1874; the Thcosophical Society was formed in
N. Y., September 8, 1875, so that this ante­
dated them. In 1883 she was elected President
of the British Society; but being antagonized
for her Christian language, in 1884 withdrew
to form the Hermetic Society which lasted till
1886, when her health gave way.
She practised and taught Vegetarianism for
its sensitizing influence on the higher planes of
the consciousness. She did all she could for
the woman’s Rights’ Movement. Like Mabel
Collins, she devoted herself to the Anti-Vivi­
section cause, and demanded God’s judgment
on the cruel Claude Bernard, who died sudden­
ly. Ralph Shirley describes her in “Occultists
and Mystics of All Ages.’
Her mystic proclivities must have been devel­
oped, during her stay in Paris, by intercourse
with the Baron Giuseppe Spedalieri, the friend,
disciple and literary heir of the Abbe Constant,
Eliphas Levi. In 1901 Maitland formed the
Esoteric Christian Union, and for it published
the Bible’s Own Account of Itself, The New
Gospel of Interpretation, and a Message to
Earth, containing Forty Days’ Communications
from friends beyond.
Ill DREAMING
Hers was a natal endowment developed by
fourteen years’ abstinence from flesh food, and
a disciplinary experience and manner of life.
She was a great dreamer, usually in the last
morning sleep; also chiefly in high and dry
climes, at home partially losing that faculty.
The result was her charming book ‘Dreams and
Dream Stories.’
These visions assumed a more direct re­
ligious aspect as revelations with the beginning
of the ‘Perfect Way.’ On June 4, 1878, she had
a dream communication which was an answer
to Maitland’s prayer for help in completing
his attempt at a Biblical interpretation. She
got help from Swedenborg and William Lilly,
Pallas, Hermes and her Genius; and they de­
livered in London nine parlor-lectures, as pre­
paration for their publication in 1882, and re­
vision in 1887, with a third in 1890.
While both authors considered the doctrines
of greatest value, the illuminations on which
they rested seem the most important; and
these were gathered in ‘Clothed with the Sun,’
published after her demise.
Those which to us arc most interesting arc
not her ‘Restoration of a hymn to the Planet
God,’ or ‘The Book of Venus,’ to the Elemen­
tal Divinities,’ etc., but her revelation as to
the actual Jesus (33), his previous lives (34),
Paul and the disciples (3o), and the Origin
and Composition of the Gospels (32),—which
she thinks were written up in the Alexandrian
Library.
She ‘learnt the intention and recognized the
necessity of restoring the Greek presentment
of the Sacred Mysteries, in explanation of the
Hebrew, and in correction of the ecclesiastical
presentment of Christianity.’ (D. & DS. 54).
IV. THE PERFECT WAY
They considered it neither an invention or
compilation, but a discovery and recovery, un­
sealing the Bibles of the West,—a recovery of
the Gnosis of the Church, its esoteric Christian­
ity. It has three principles: that the dogma’
,
and symbols of Christianity are substantially
identical with those of other and earlier reli­
gious systems; 2, The true plane of religiou i
oelief lies not in the sepulchre of historical tra­
dition, but in man’s own mind, and heart;
3, That thus interpreted, Christian doctrine with
scientific exacLtnde represents the facts of
man’s spiritual history.
Its index shows l, Replacing the desired
perfect thought-system by one founded on ex­
istence; 2, The Soul’s Substance of Existence;
3, The Various Orders of Spirits, ar.d How to
Discern Them; 4, The Atonement; 5, Nature
and Constitution of the Ego; 6, 7, The Fall;
0, The Redemption; 9, God as the Lord, or the
Divine Image.
V. HERMETISM
When Anna Kingsford’s Christian Theosophy
drove her from the Presidentship of the British
Thcosophical Society, she was compelled to
find another basis for the sources of her
Christian work. Her education supplied her
with Greek associations; but whence came
they? Of course from Egypt,—Hermes’ books
oeing a Greek version of Egyptian mysteries.
So she translated into English the Hermetic
books, the Poemandres and the Virgin of the
World, to which, as a Preface, she prefixed
the Manifesto of Hcrmetism,—Egypt as chal­
lenge to pseudo Buddhistic Mahatmism. Her
conclusions are that the Hermetic books are a
survival of ancient Egypt; that their doctrine
coincides with esoteric Christianity; because
3, Christianity represents a development from,
and re-formulation of this long pre-existent
Egyptian doctrine.
VI. ASTROLOGY THEOLOGIZED
Now this Hermetist mystic exaltation im­
pinges upon the Middle Age; and so she took
valentine Weigelius’s ‘Astrology Theologized,’
reprinted its English translation, and wrote a
long illustrated Introduction in which she ex­
tended her system of interpretation from Chris­
tianity and the Egyptian tradition to the medi­
aeval astrology. ‘Thus is the Soul of the
astrological man ‘theologized’, divinized and
affirmed in the Likeness of God,’—a method of
deliverance from being the toy of fate and
circumstance, where the elemental powers have
such complete sway over him that urgencies
monopolize his existence.
VII. TAUGHT REINCARNATION TO
THEOSOPHY
The Thcosophical Society was founded Sept.
8, 1875, so that for 7 years it opposed Reincar­
nation, for it was on July 3, 1882 (Shirley,
OaMoAA, p. 162) that Anna Kingsford wrote
to Lady Caithvess a letter recording a violent
argument with him, in which he quoted from
Isis Unveiled (involving Helen Blavatsky)
against it; but he soon turned for it, in a let­
ter to Edward Maitland. Since then it has been
claimed as a distinctly ‘TheosophicaT teaching.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—4
AMERICAN MENTALISM
of
PHINEAS PARKHURST QUIMBY
(Feb. 16, 1802—Jan. 26, 1866)
I. BIOGRAPHY
Born In Lebanon, N. H., of a blacksmith,
his family moved to Belfast, Me., where they
remained except for his 1859 professional
career in Portland. First, he was an inventor,
and was argumentative, and studied the 1836
mesmerism of Charles Poyan. His chief sub­
ject was a Lucius Burkmar, with whom he
traveled, giving demonstrations, in 1842. The
phenomena were by him attributed first to ani­
mal magnetism, later to electricity, then to
‘mental suggestion.’ A disease compelled him
to apply his knowledge to healing, success in
which convinced him that mind was (spiritual)
matter, and could be changed. Helping others,
he mesmerically gave diagnoses through his
subject. Finally he dispensed with him, through
reliance on his own intuitions. For healings
came to him: Julius Dresser in 1860, Mrs.
Eddy in 1862. Anetta Dresser in 1862, and Mr.
Evans in 1863, (who interpreted Dr. Quimby’s
wisdom,) reinforced by the accumulated learn­
ing of the centuries. His work was saved for
humanity by Horatio Dresser.
II. CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Why did he call his discovery a ‘science’?
‘The effect of a science because I know how
I do them.’ So he developed ‘the science of
life and happiness,’ or, ‘the science of health.’
This composition ‘is as much of a science as to
know how to decompose a piece of metal.’
Evans teaches ‘the science of oblivescence, or
the Art of Forgetting a Malady.’ Quimby illus­
trated his ‘Science’ of health by the Christian
stories, which turned it into ‘Christian Science.’
He used this word twice, following Cowles in
1840, Adam in 1850, and Dcletsche. Mrs. Ed­
dy’s false claims are destroyed in the May
1899 Arena.
III. ANALYSIS
Stafford phrases Quimby’s innovation as ‘the
application of the unreality of matter to heal­
ing.' Dresser says: ‘The novelty consists in the
?ossession of a concrete, practical method such
hat each man is put on his own resources.’
Evans (187) quotes Plato that redemption is
a concretization of man’s original spiritual ele­
ment into a divinely illuminated germ of light
and life.’ In religious dialect, Evans describes
it as ‘faith in a good God.’
IV. CONVERSATION
Quimby said: ‘the explanation is the cure.’
It consisted of a conversation with the pa­
tient’s consciousness (which would affect his
sub-consciousness), closing sometimes with a
‘placebo’ manipulation.
After giving the patient a detailed account of
what his troubles were, he would converse with
him, and explain to him the causes of his troub­
les, and thus change the patient’s mind, dis­
abuse it of its errors, and in its place establish
the truth; which ‘explanation’ was the cure.
This conversation was just as effective when
done silently, or at a distance. He describes
this conversation thus:
Ideas are matter condensed into a solid cal­
led disease, which like a book contains all its
author’s wisdom. So I read the contents of
the book to the patient, and show that it is
false. As the truth changes his mind, he sees
through the error of disease, matter is dis­
persed, he is freed of opinions, and happiness
is restored.’
V. PATIENT’S TRANQUILIZATION
Dr. Quimby antagonized the physicians by
opposing their medicines. “Disease can be
cured on but one principle. ’’ “I manufacture
health.” He did not antagonize the patient
by ‘lying’ about his symptoms. While teach­
ing that disease was an error of the (sub-con­
scious) mind, and therefore not (ideally) real,
he frankly admitted ‘pain was not imagination,’
but as real as can be a dream. Disease is not
a truth, but is acknowledged as a (progressive)
description. If the patient needed it, he re­
lated the water-glass poison-trick successfully
used with mesmeric subjects. He reasoned
with him scientifically, and by quotations from
the scriptures, till he quieted him into recep­
tivity.
VI. PHILOSOPHY
In 1862 Dr. Quimby said: ‘My mode is en­
tirely original,’—he had developed his own phil­
osophy, that ‘man was a progressive being so
that mind was spiritual matter and could be
changed,’ that we were made up of truth and
error; that disease was an error, or belief, and
that the truth or Explanation was the cure.
Health is the truth. He called the (sub-con­
sciousness’s) phenomena ‘spiritual matter’
which might be in error, forgetful of the soul’s
normative power, while the external conscious­
ness rightly acknowledged phenomena of dis­
ease.
Few beasts are diseased because their nor­
mative faculty is not disturbed by human rea­
sonings, to cure whose divagations man has to
resori to purposive, ‘scientific’ mental applica­
tions. Henry Wood objectified the suggestion
into a ‘mental picture,’ or motto for auto­
suggestion. Chas. M. Barrows progressed to
‘Suggestion Instead of Medicine,’ and Dr. Hack
Tuke studied The Influence of the Mind on the
Body, for non-partisan evidence. This was
applied practically by Coue. This caused psy­
chology under Prof. James, to produce prag­
matism and ‘Varieties of Religious Belief/ and
finally Mr. Evan’s empirical idealism, a reli­
gious faith in God’s curing.
VII. FOUNDATION
But why should God cure man? ‘God wants
us to be in good health’; it is ‘natural’; it is
‘truth.’ Such evasions are unscientific: and
Quimby himself had made his discovery by ob­
serving the subconsciousness’s normative in­
fluence and powers. This then is the psycho­
logical foundation, which can be studied (for
people intelligent enough to need or demand
or appreciate a demonstration) in Hudson’s
Law of Psychic Phenomena. This is the work­
ing cause of cure of all ‘(tin-) Christian Sci­
ence,’ New Thought, Metaphysics, and Abstract
‘Science of Being’ or ‘Mental Science,’ which
is as impotent as it is most removed from its
working principle.
VIII. DIVINER OUTLOOK
But we must point out that beyond physical
health there are objectives nobler, more social,
and diviner. In this connection we might men­
tion Prentice Mulford (Thoughts are Things),
who commercialized Emerson, Quimby and Oc­
cultism; Holcombe who never lost sight of the
divine life, and Ursula Gestefeld, who tried
to hold to Quimby modernized. To all this
Dr. Dewey added initiatory achievement. This
bare American Mentalism was most notably
applied in story form by Stocking in his great
American novel, Carmen Ariza.
WESTERN THOUGHT EOR WESTERN PEOPLE—5
CHRISTIAN THEOSOPHY
Of
Dr. J O H N H A M L I N D E W E Y
Oct. 13, 1828-1908?
I. BIOGRAPHY
He seems to have been an allopathic physi­
cian in Cincinnati, where he met with Dr. J. D.
Buck’s Nature and Aims of Theosophy and was
a critic of Mahatmistic Bddhsit propaganda in
U. S. By several prayer-cures he was prob­
ably by his lovely wife converted to New Tes­
tament Occultism, claiming the genuine Chris­
tian succession of the term ‘Theosophy.’ He
published and taught at 111 W. 68th St., New
York City, celebrating his 80th birth-day in
1908.
II. WORKS
1. The Way, the Truth and the Life, a hand­
book of Christian Theosophy, Healing and Psv-
chic Culture; a New Education based on the
Ideal and Method of the Christ (1888).
2. The Pathway of the Spirit, a Guide to
Inspiration, Illumination, and Divine Realization
on Earth.
3. New Testament Occultism. 4. Healing and
Psychic Culture. 5. Introduction to the Theos­
ophy of the Christ. 6. Christian Theosophy
Defined. 7. Scientific Basis of Mental Healnig.
8. Divinity of Humanity. 9. Spiritual Gifts.
10. The Law of the Perfect Life. 11. The Open
Door, or The Secret of Jesus. 12. The Dawn­
ing Day. 13. The Genesis and Exodus of the
Human Spirit.
III. OCCULT PHENOMENA
As would be natural.from his origin, he be­
gan by laying chief stress on physical healing,
for which he published his wife’s formula (V
V
.
T. L. 180; 159). But he broadened out into
further ‘gifts of the spirit.’ He gives a for­
mula for ‘introversion* or mental travel (W.
T. L., 285), warning of dangers of revery and
somnolence (289). He calls it ‘integral edu­
cation' (236) by which the mind, without losing
hold of the normal consciousness, is taught to
function at will on the three planes of body
(the 5 senses); the mind (the sixth sense, in­
cluding all psychic phenomena, such as clair-
audience, clairvoyance and clairsentience) and
vegetation influence (306); and psychometry
(225), or the spirit (the seventh or divine
sense, the biblical miracles). His normal seer-
ship includes (317) body-healing, mental illu­
mination, attainment of needed information,
or blessing on others in body, spirit or estate.
His most valuable collections are in his ap­
pendices. In that to the N.T.O. he gives a
systematic biblical occult methods and results
outlined, and the most thorough account (from
the Arena) of the Hindu magic tricks ever pre­
sented. In the appendix to the W.T. & L. he
gives a precious Buck Theosophic quotation,
phenomena recorded by Emily Faithful, London,
1864, of the French William Robert Bertolaccl,
whose family was initiated into the divincst
achievements by ‘pious thought-concentration.’
Then an account Dr. Wm. B. Fahnestock’s
Statuvolism, or Artificial Somnabulism, ena­
bling one to accomplish somnabulic phenomena
in the normal condition. Last an account from
Emma Hardinge Britten of a British noble­
man’s family who in their private Oratory had
direct connection with the World-God or Spi-
ritus Mundi,—the Holy Spirit.
IV. DEFICIENCIES
It is to be deplored (and after his death ob­
livion punished) his holy practice of refraining
from mentioning names, or leaving records (his
biography and picture seem to have disap­
peared). This was the punishment inevitably
indlssociable from the holy plane, on which he
and his lady conducted their work.
V. OPPOSITION
He was opposed to two movements: the
pseudo Buddhist Theosophy, and Spiritualism.
Against the first, which in his days had just
emerged from its spiritualistic phase, he no­
ticed that their adepts claimed secrecy, in con­
tradistinction to the Christ’s dispensing with
secret lodge initiations, and Christ both prom­
ised and effected much more than they even
claimed to do for their followers. 2, Against
the Spiritualists he urged not only the de­
moralizing danger of yielding to undefined and
irresponsible controls, but also that it tolerated
the utmost practical atheism, irreligion and
rank materialism (320). 3, Against the mod­
ern organized Christian Church he urges that it
has become so absorbed in its frantic efforts
(31) to save souls from the consequences of sin
in another world as to neglect the supreme task
of preventing sin in this world, blinded as it is
by misconceptions of traditional theology and
internecine warfare. Its only salvation was the
preservation of the Bible.
VI. DOCTRINES
1, Faith. Why should God heal and answer
prayer? ‘Because God and his universe arc
pledged to the fulfilment of every legitimate
desire and good possible to man.’ 2, There
are two methods of healing (WTL 291): the
lower mental action which is the least efficient;
and that from the psychic plane of inward con­
centration, reached by training in the art of
introversion, when self-healing becomes a sim­
ple matter of will, and that of others ap­
proaches, in the seventh sense-realm, Biblical
miracles. 3, Christ was the living example
and illustration of Theosophy, and his school
the royal gateway to divine wisdom and su­
premacy. 4, Spiritual gifts follow, but do not
precede the Kingdom of heaven and righteous­
ness (2231, and 5, Control of the attention by
which introversion-process one transfers the
seat of the mind’s activities from the front
to the back brain, without suspending external
consciousness.
VII. SUMMARY
Important merits of Dr. Dewey’s work are:
1. Rescuing the Christian term Theosophy
from monopolization by secret Buddhist Mahat­
mistic propaganda. (It is due to Porphyry,
Clement Alexandrine, Eusebius, Leontius arid
Boehme.)
2. Opening the full occult field for all pro­
fessing Christians.
3. Redeeming Christianity from hypocritical
evisceration by profcssionalists.
4. Rescuing spiritual healing from godless,
black magic money-getting mental scientists
Dr. Dewey always held to the term ‘prayer-
cure.’
5. His work was always unworldly and holy,
and indeed suffered in propaganda thereby. It
did not desire self-advertisement, and invites
not so much continuation as imitation. From
Dr. Curtiss’s Order of Christian Mystics an­
nouncement of Mme. Blavatsky’s conversion to
Christianity it would seem as if Dr. Dewey was
fully vindicated.
WESTERN THOUGHTS FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—6
MODERN WESTERN MYSTERY
RITUALS
of W. J. COLVILLE
[(Sept. 5, 1859-Dec. 15, 1916)
I. BIOGRAPHY
Of French (mother, de Mordaunt) and Italian
parentage, born on ocean, bred in London, on
May 24, 1874, he heard a lecture by Cora L.
V. Richmond in Brighton, which inspired him
so much that he asserted he also could speak;
which he did with such success that a religious
periodical took him up and advertised him.
Then he visited the United States, where he
always was the guest of Mr. Henry Steigner,
of Hyperion House, N. Y. Cy. He traveled in
Australia, and died in San Francisco. Every
Christmas a message is received from him by
Mr. Henry Steigner, who still speaks of him
in the present tense.
II. TOTEMS
In his ‘New Zealand Episode’ Saved bv a
Panther, published by the Arena of Oct. 1902,
he explained his fondness for felines, after
whom he named all the chief characters of his
novels; and he always wore some cat-charm.
Parrots also appear in his novels frequently.
III. BIBLIOGRAPHY
A list of his books could hardly be complete,
so numerous and scattered are they. However,
a condensed library of his would include, nov­
els, Dashed Against the Rocks, Onesirnus Tem­
pleton, With One Accord, and Throne of Eden;
of teachings, Mystic Light Essays, Glints of
Wisdom, Religion of Tomorrow, and over 35
more.
IV. ANTHOLOGIST
He taught Lucretia Mott’s noble motto, Truth
for Authority, not Authority for Truth. He
was an omnivorous reader, and gained signifi­
cance as interpreter. All during his life he
loaned ‘Hudson’s Law of Psychic Phenomena’
to outsiders, as best introduction to the spiritu­
al world. His own teaching of auras popular­
ized Leadbeater’s book. He acted as anthol­
ogist or summer up of his age of scientists.
As a result of this reading he reveals many
odd and otherwise inaccessible bits of knowl­
edge, such as the names of the occult teachers
of Marie Corelli, Count Mattei of Bologna, and
of Bulwer Lytton; Chauncey Hare Townsend.
From Marcus Aurelius’s reflection that our
thoughts dye our garments, Colville advises us
to choose them well. He was fond of Lucy
Larcom’s motto, “Never, walking heavenward,
can we walk alone!’’
V. TEACHINGS
Leaving aside the healing doctrines which
are quite general, he advocates the higher
spiritualism, and the genuine theosophy. There
is no virtue in ugliness. There is a circle of
the true church of the spirit, a church above a
church reached by a ladder of light; a church
within a church. The “higher carelessness,”
burning as a lamp living on the Universe; di­
vine ordination to a super persona! God; being
a janitor to heaven and treating or consecra­
ting sanctuaries.
He popularizes Leadbeater’s auras, Prentice
Mulford’s (whom he does not name) mind as a
magnet, and dreaming true; mineralogy, and
vowel-significance; Mnrcus Aurelius’s garment­
dying, and Flammarion’s trips to Mars. He is
interested in Atlantis (WOA, 142). He teaches
Seven Planes (WOA. 197) and the White City
in Heaven (DAR, 208).
VI. HIGHER SPIRITUALISM AND
THEOSOPHICAL RESEARCH
The “higher spiritualism” consists not in the
cant and absurd pretensions of the medium’s
descending to them, In a carnalization of the
spirit, but in their rising to a super-conscious-
‘.less, expression on a plane higher than that
of gross matter.
As to ‘true Theosophy/ it consists not in
seeing nothing good outside of Hinduism, but
In knowing how to go into the silence at will,
and find the true perpetual light. In the ‘Brom-
leykites’ he ridicules the Mahatmists who con­
sider meat-eating a sin only if they pay for it.
As misinterpreted by occidental aspirants to
Oriental wisdom, ‘Karma’ seems both mu­
table and immutable, to be conquered or eva­
ded, insulting spiritualism as dealing with dis­
carded astrals, shells and other concoctions of
orientalized hysteria. This writer suggests the
Western unspoiled word Nemesis to represent
whatever residuum of value there is in karma.
Colville advises a society for Theosophical
RESEARCH. He is also opposed to a self-ad­
vertising ‘White Brotherhood’ of alleged adepts
(DAR, 114).
VII. MYSTIC ORGANIZATIONS
Colville’s chief constructive doctrine is organ­
ization of the religious in the world (like
Garver’s Brother of the Third Degree) into
mystery-orders. In Onesirnus Templeton we
have a United States version of Corelli’s ‘Ro­
mance of Two Worlds,’ we have a French
Heliobas called Dr. Montmartre, a ‘God of
Norse mythology, dressed by a London tailor,
and holding command over a Russian army,’
and they form the Order ‘La Stella Israfel.’—
In ‘Dashed Against the Rocks’ we have Aldeb-
ture, a spiritual World’s Fair, and the Brothers
baran’s scientific occultism, a Zodiacal Legisla-
and Sisters of the Perpetual Light.—In ‘With
One Accord’ we have the Order of the 777, and
the Brothers of the 9th Estate, the 999 who
send a missionary to Hindustan, and which
are mentioned by Mrs. Peeke. But in the
‘Throne of Eden’ we find the Egypto-Greek
Anastasian Order, with lodges all over the
world, at every one of whose meetings was ef­
fected a cure of some desperately sick person.
This is the crown of Colville’s religion.
VIII. CONCLUSION
Some rich lover of spiritual progress might
confer on humanity a blessing in reprinting, in
a single volume, large size, and small type,
Colville’s Spiritual Novels. They are already
scarce, ana difficult to gather, and valuable
in their objectification of Egypto-Greek occul­
tism. To them should be added Mrs. Peeke’s
Zenia the Vestal.
IX. INTERPRETATIONS
He interprets ‘He giveth to his beloved sleep’
as ‘He giveth to his beloved while sleeping,'—
namely true dreams, such as illuminated Joseph
(DAR 158). In his trip to Mars (DAR, 145;
WOA, 81), he pictures an international Zodi­
acal legislature, and a real religion uniting
creed and practice; the true Gnostic feels God
is a reality.
He gives an interesting reincarnational rem­
iniscence, (DAR 200) which explains, heartens,
and inspires.
Earth is a school of love for the reuniting
of Plato’s sundered dual souls (DAR, 126).
His interpretation of the Lord’s Prayer is,
‘Our Father-Mother, who art in all the heav­
ens, thy name is hallowed throughout the Uni­
verse; thy kingdom is established in all the
expressions of thy love and wisdom. Thy will
is done in all the celestial spheres, and done
also by reflection in all states terrestrial; Thou
givest all thy children day by day their daily
sustenance; thou leadest not into temptation,
but deliverest us from all error; thou forgivest
us our debts as we forgive our debtors; thine
alone is sovereignty, dominion, and glory eter­
nally, Amen!
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLR—7
G E R MA N R O S I C R U C 1 A N I S M
of DR. FRANZ HARTMANN
1838—1912
I. BIOGRAPHY
According to a biography in the Occult Re­
view for January 1908, he was a native of
Austria, early emigrated to the United States,
where he studied and practiced medicine in
the Middle West and Southwest. Here he be­
came familiar with the early phases of the
Theosophical Movement, and was invited to
visit and assist Mrne. Blavatsky at Adhyar,
in India, during the most constructive and
critical periods of her activity there. When
the crash came, he returned to Europe, espe­
cially in Germany, where among some artisans,
weavers, in Goslar, he found a group of oc­
cultists who were too modest to advertise
themselves as Rosicrucians, but who continued
the German Rosicrucian tradition. From that
time Hartmann devoted himself to its promo­
tion in Europe.
HARTMANN’S SIGNIFICANCE
His chief significance is threefold. He re­
vamped the occultism of Paracelsus, Boehme,
and Jesus (in, The Life of Jehoshua, the Pro­
phet of Nazareth), and Agrippa’s methods of
Prediction (in The Principles of Astrological
Geomancy). Then, he revamped German Rosi-
crucianism in The Secret Symbols of the Rosi­
crucians, a translation of one half of the an­
cient German work. (In the N. Y. City Li­
brary it is indexed under “Cosmology.” )
Then he thinly veiled his own initiation in
“An Adventure among the Rosicrucians”
(Boston, 1893). He attempted to condense
Rosicrucianism in “In the Pronaos of the
Temple of Wisdom, containing the History of
the True and the False Rosicrucians, with an
Introduction Into the mysteries of the Hermetic
Philosophy (Boston, 1890),” which proves that
he considered German Rosicrucianism to be a
descendant of the Egyptian Mysteries.
Third, he attempted to set forth his own
views in “Among the Gnomes, an Occult Tale
of Adventures in the Untersberg (a mountain
in the Bavarian Tyrol, overlooking the famous
Koenigsee). Also in “Magic White and Black”,
of which over 300 editions appeared. He did
valuable work for cremation of corpses in
“Buried Alive,” (Boston, 1895) in which he
details 108 cases known to him personally.
Valuable continuation of this effort is to be
found in Rawson’s “Life Understood.”
ROSICRUCIAN ANCESTRY IN EGYPT
The special value of Hartmann’s work is
that he not only rejects Tibetanism, but he
makes it unnecessary, by demonstrating that
German Rosicrucianism, through Cornelius
Agrippa’s summary of Medieval Mysticism, is
derived from “The Hermetic Philosophers,”
Neoplatonists, Ammonius Saccas, Plotinus,
Porphyry, Jamblichus, Proclus and Hierocles.
(This is done in Chapters 2 and 3 of “In
the Pronaos of Wisdom.” )
REJECTION OF BLAVATSKYISM
Hartmann’s chief significance is that he stud­
ied Blavatskyism at first hand and rejected it
in favor of the German Rosicrucianism, from
which both Rudolf Steiner’s Anthroposophy and
Max Heindel’s Cosmoconceptionism are derived.
As to Mme. Blavatsky herself, he believed
In her sincerity. He says: “H. P. B. appeared
as a great spirit, a sage and initiate, inhabit­
ing the body of a grown-up capricious child,
very amiable on the whole, but also at times
i*ery irascible, ambitious, of an impetuous
temper, but easily led, and caring nothing for
conventionalities of any kind. She did not
claim to be an adept, but only a conscious
instrument of an intelligent power higher than
her own personality. She used to say, “My
learning is my Master’s. 1 am nothing but a
reflector of some one else’s luminous light.”
As to these “Masters” he says, “I am con­
vinced that such Masters exist. I have been
present on certain occasions when the Master
appeared to her, and she spoke with him. I
could not see him with mjf “ves, but I felt his
presence, with indescribable bliss.”
As to Blavatskyism, Hartmann says: “I found
that it is far more important to find the real
Master and Guide within one’s own soul, than
to seek to gratify one’s curiosity to know all
about the Masters in Thibet, and that It as
far more valuable to help to create a heaven
within one’s own mind, than to be informed
of what is said to have taken place at the
time when our world was created, or how the
■old Lemurians and Atlanteans lived, however
interesting and amusing and even instructive
such information may be.”
This story represents the adventures of a
“Theosophical Don Quixote” who seeks for
wisdom everywhere except in the right place.
He joins a “Society for the distribution of
Wisdom,” in the East, but finds nothing but
folly. Finally, in the last chapter, he discov­
ers that true wisdom cannot be found any­
where except by attainment of the Knowledge
of the Self. Hartmann did not hate the Blav-
atskyists; he claimed he was not in the least
interested in the affairs of that society, and
he did not wish this book to appear as mere
satire or burlesque upon it, but a forcible Il­
lustration of well-known and undeniable truths,
garbed in a story of fascinating interest, which
should be enjoyed by all. The book empha/-
sizes the folly of studying the operations of
the Holy Ghost without first developing with­
in oneself its senses, by which alone It may
be apprehended.
HARTMANN’S SECRET FIRE
In his dedication to the “ Pronaos to the
Temple” Hartmann advises the “Discovery of
the True Cross by Entering into the Light
through the Power of Fire.” This “sweat
fire” of the Alchemists is illustrated by the
Tibetan Kundalini, the serpentine or annular
working power in the body of the ascetic. In
the “Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians” It Is
recommended that the student of Alchemy
should seek it, as indispensable to all alchem­
ic operations.
“The potentialities in nature are aroused by
the action of the secret fire, assisted by the
elementary fire. Only those who have gained
the power to control their own self will be
told how that power can be aroused in man.
That is why the secrets of Alchemy are not
divulged to the curious,” but veiled under
chemical procedures. — This secret fire Is In­
visible, and is contained within all things. It
is the most potential and powerful fire, with
which the external visible fire cannot be com­
pared. It is the fire with which Moses burned
the golden calf, that which Jeremiah hid away,
and which seventy years after was found by
the Knowing ones, but which, by that time had
become a thick water (petroleum? 2 Macc. II.
19-22) which Nehemiah used to make a blaze
on the altar sacrifices. This “secret fire” Is
the “White Light” which can be inspired, and
constitutes the practice of the Transfiguration.
T emple D oors Ajar
cAn <fAnthology of Experiential eligioru
Em bracing
Biography of T
)
r
.Kenneth Sylvan G u th rie................................................................ 2
Six Instructions Introductory to Objective Religious Experiences..................... 3
The Spiritual Message of Literature Epitom ized...........................■
........................ 17
Shakespeare and Bacon I'nmasked ............................................................................. 22
Of the Presence of God .................................................................................................... 27
Of Communion with G o d .................................................................................................. 53
World’s Repository of R eligious E x p erien ces......................................................... 61
Brotherhood of Mutual Prayer; Intercessory M em bership Instructions. . . . 61
By KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
A.ftl. (Harvard and Sewanee); Pli.D. (Columbia and Tulane); M.I). (Pennsylvania);
Professor in Extension, University of the South, Sewnneo.
In te rn a tio n a l C o p y rig h t S ecured by
PLATONIST PRESS, Teocalli, 1177 Warburion Avenue
North Yonkers, N. Y., U. S. A.
LIBRARY EDITION OF UNIFORM VOLUMES, at One Dollar each
By KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
1. TEMPLE GATES AJAR, or Introductory Religious Instructions, with complet­
ing Corroborative Outlines of all other great Kenneth Guthrie Religious Works.
2. PAGAN BIBLE, or Angel Belief as Inheritance from Greco-Romans.
3. What Happened to Kitchener, A Story of his Conversion to Faith Unescapable.
4. Modern Mysteries, Mystical Playlets of Outer and Inner Experiential Religion.
5. Rosicrucian Mysteries, Dramatization of the Original Rosicrucian Documents.
6. Shakespearean Mystical Playlets, Condensed, Spiritualized: Hamlet, Tempest, etc.
7. Popular Illustrated History of Neoplatonism, comprehensive details.
8. Approaches to the Mysteries of All Nations, complete outline.
By THOMAS KIP TllRVEY, Jr.
1. TEMPLE GATES OPENED, Religious Experiences, Vitality-Conservation,
Temple-Travel. 2. OCCULT STORIES, Hurrah for God! Reuniting Pilgrimage,
Perronik, Appollonius of Tyana. 3. DISCOVERIES AND INSIGHTS, Essays
Theological, Literary and of Character-Study. 4. MANUAL OF CHARACTER-
STUDY, Zodiak as Key and Fruit of Biography, Drama and Literature.
BOOKS by KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
A ROMANCE OF TWO CENTURIES, an Utopia of A.D. 2025 ...................$2.00
VOTIVE GARLANDS, Collected Poems, with Frontispiece, in Gift-form.... 2.00
MITHRAIC MYSTERIES, Restored and Modernized, with Exercises; Illustr. 3.00
ANGELIC MYSTERIES, Nine Angel-Degrees of Initiation; Illustrated .......... 3.00
SPIRITUAL MESSAGE of LITERATURE, 1st Text-book of Comp. Literature 2.00
PROGRESSIVE COMPLETE EDUCATION, or Marriage as the Supreme
School of Life. TEACHER’S PROBLEMS, and How to Solve them: a
Historical Compendium of Method ..........................................................each 1.50
INACCESSIVE NEOPLATONIST CLASSICS IN COMPLETE TRANSLATION
Plotinus, Complete, Cl. $12.00, Pp. $9.00 Numenius, Text, Transl., Outline. . 2.00
Pythagoras, Source-Book, Map . . . 2.00 Zoroaster, Text, Translation . .Pp. 3.00
Proclus, Life, Works, Cl. 4.00, Pp. 3.00 Zoroaster, Translation only .......... 1.50
TEXT-BOOK OUTLINES OF NEOPLATONISTS
Plotinus, Life, Times, Philosophy.. 2.00 Apollonius of Tyana, see‘Occult Stories'.
Philo Judaeus, Message of ............ 2.00 Philosophers, see Temple Gates Ajar'.
Career of Dr. Kenneth Sylvan Guthrie
He was born in Scotland's ‘Bonny Dundee' on July 22, 1871 of an interesting
ancestry, whose spiritual heritage determined his career.
His maternal grandmother, ‘Frances Wright' of Dundee first achieved a literary
prominence by writing a dozen dramas of which ‘Altorf’ was produced in Philadelphia,
and published. Then she felt the call to ascertain truth, and in 1802 visited the then
young United States, recording her impressions in her ‘Views of Manners and Society
in America.’ In this investigation her conscience was outraged by two abuses which
in characteristic fashion she immediately set out to rectify. As to slavery, she secured
from the State of Tennessee a grant of 2400 acres, on the Wolf River, 18 miles E of
Memphis, named ‘Nashoba,’ on which she educated slaves, and freed them in Hayti.
As to the subjection of Woman, she was the real pioneer of the Woman’s Rights
movement, and is so recognized in "Appleton’s Encyclopedia.' This naturally led to
her last phase, a sociologic one, which led her to visit the colony of Robert Dale
Owen in New Harmony, Ind.
Here she met and married Casimir Silvain Phiquepal d’Arusmont, a noble French
emigre from Agen, who brought over with him a number of French youths to educate,
on .the way stopping in Philadelphia with Col. McClure. He was a philosopher and
scientist, and invented the since then so popular tonic sol-fa system. The married
pair then went to Paris where was born their daughter Frances Sylva. But Frances
Wright returned to the United States to her lecturing, and published her still con­
tinually reprinted ‘A Few Days in Athens.’ She then practised law in Cincinnati,
where she died, resting in Spring Grove Cemetery.
To these five phases of thought was added the note of religious devotion by
Frances Sylva, who was converted in Notre Dame by Lacordaire, and devoted her
sons to the sacred ministry, and that in the Episcopal Church, as the only sufficiently
liberal one.
Being born too late in his family's fortunes to be ‘given’ an education, he ‘earned’
one, taking his M.A. in 1890 and Theology at Sewanee; his Ph.D. in 1893 at Tulane;
A.M. Harvard, 1894; M.D., with, three gold medals, 1904; Marburg and Jena, 1911;
Ph.D. Columbia, 1915; Professor in Extension, Sewanee, in 1912.
His mother’s devotional interest fructified in his ‘Communion with God,’ ‘Presence
of God,’ ‘Ladder of God’ and ‘Why You Want to Become a Churchman.’
His grandfather’s philosophical and educational interests resulted in his monumental
opening to the world in translations Plotinus, Numenius, Pythagoras, Proclus and
Zoroaster; Teachers’ Problems and How to Solve Them.
A combination of both these interests resulted in ‘Angels, Ancient & Modern’; the
‘Mithraic Mysteries,’ ‘the Angelic Mysteries of the Nine Heavens,’ etc.
His grandmother’s literary taste produced the ‘Spiritual Message of Literature/
‘Collected Poems,’ ‘Perronik.’
Her guest for truth originated his ‘Message of the Master,’ ‘How the Master Saved
the World,’ ‘Studies in Comparative Religion,' his ‘New Testament Translation.’
Her crusades against abuses continued in his ‘Dawn of Liberty,’ ‘A Bunch of
Thistles.’
Her sociologic ideals matured in his ‘Complete Progressive Education/ ‘A Romance
of Two Centuries,’ etc.
But the very unusual breadth of his conflicting interests checkmated his career, so
far as worldly advancement. Little understood or recognized, he had to find consola­
tion in earning his living honestly by teaching a language to children, by pouring out
his religious experiences to the few who visited his semi-deserted East Side church,
and in putting the accumulated results of his studies in such shape that, ‘to the greater
glory of God,’ they may be of service to humanity, if possible thro’ his children
(Sylvia Camilla, Sept. 1, 1916; and Kenneth Launfal, Jan. 19, 1918).
His has been a drawn battle over-delayed by self-support.
I. Friendship.
The first element of a genuine religion is one which has been rarely so recognized,
—namely, friendship. But it is evident that if ‘religion’ means to reunite, the scattered
people we contact form the first problem of union. Usually friendship has been con'
sidered as a counsel of perfection or a personal fancy; and such scorn of it has
favored the prevalence of a wrong notion, that religion flourishes best in solitude, such
as among the Trappists. But physiology teaches social touch in our ears, voice, back,
and sex, all of which postulate life among others. Psychology shows that thought
depends on speech, so that a Trappist is bound to degenerate, and that a friend is
destined to improve. Therefore religion is impossible except as ‘contact with God
among men.’ Philosophy, poetry and religion had taught as much. The American
poet sings of a Heaven-gate which ‘opens to none alone.’ Aristotle had defined
friendship as one soul in two bodies, so that a single soul is only a fragment of a
larger whole, and can find its true completion only in a hunt for union with some
other soul. This friend-chase is therefore not merely a fancy or instinct, but a
necessity of life. Religion has revealed heaven as a social gathering, and has dis­
closed heavenly mysteries, or initiation as a marriage of souls. So the wrong notion
of a solitary religion is not to be blamed on any but cowards, shirkers, unfortunates,
or ecclesiastics scheming for power and influence.
2. HISTORY OF FRIENDSHIP
The history of friendship is respectable. It has numberless advocates of philos­
ophers, Pythagoras taught it as the essence of the Supreme, and his disciples Damon
and Pythias gave rise to the worldwide order, the Knights of Pythias. .Plato, in
his Lysis and Banquet taught what gave rise to ‘Platonic Friendship’; to it Aristotle
devoted several books of his Ethics. Epictetus dreams of it. Cicero interpreted all
this in his ‘De Amicitia’. The Bible mentions David and Jonathan, and the writer
of Ecclesiastes and Proverbs, expatiate upon it. Then Jesus wishes his disciples to
look on him as their friend; he is to be man’s divine lover, the Bridegroom. Clement
of Alexandria said that the true Gnostic’s purpose in life was to be a happy, blessed
and kingly friend of God. About 1339 A.D, Tauler, the saintly apostle of Germany,
was supported by the ‘Friends of God’. Then we have great essays from Bacon,
Montaigne and Emerson. Of recent ones we have Kenneth Sylvan Guthrie’s ‘Friend­
ship, Human and Divine’; Hugh Black’s ‘Friendship’, David Grayson’s ‘Adventures
in Friendship’, and many others. As to the poets we have Petrarch’s Sonnets to
Laura, Mrs. Browning’s Sonnets to a Portuguese Nun, Bayard Taylor’s odes from
a husband to his wife, Milton’s lament over Lycidas, and Tennyson’s In Memoriam
over Clough. Rudyard Kipling’s ‘Soldiers Three’ echo Dumas’s ‘Three Musgueteers’.
Whitman sings of Comradeship. Classic pairs of friends were Hercules and Hylas;
Theseus and Pirithous, for whom he went to Hell; Pylades and Orestes, Titus and
Gesippus, and the ‘heavenly twins' Castor and Pollux! More modem ones are
Jowett and Dean Stanley; and the wide vogue of the really expensive modern frat­
ernal orders is a commentary on the cash value which the world places on it.
3. MEETING-VALUE OF FRIENDSHIP
Paul exhorts that we should not neglect assembling. The Pentecostal spirit-
effusion was the result of the Apostles remaining gathered in prayer. There are
two kinds of Presences: that which comes to a person alone, and that Social
Presence which comes only to a meeting. On the lowest grounds, only in a meet­
ing does a man receive communications from his friend’s guardian angel. Again
there is a new note in the union of two prayers, a concord; a pair are more than
two. That is why there is magical power ill friendship; a friend is the best kind of
magic mirror, an ‘alterego’, or enlarged self. As with colors none would be visible
without contrast, so alone none can gain a sane perspective of himself. Moreover
as sanity consists of proper functioning in Society, and as insanity consists of one’s
universe becoming individual, no one can be sure of his sanity until he succeeds
in friendship. *.
4. USES OF FRIENDSHIP
Friendship is needed to enjoy nature; who could enjoy a moonlight walk alone?
Bacon defines its fruits as peace in the affections, support of the judgment, and aid
in all actions and occasions. It is the condition of invention and discovery; why
one finds oneself so brilliant •in company. It overcomes fear, anxiety, terror of
death, and supplies joy and cheer. It transforms necessary drudgery into civilizing
cultural inspirations. It makes healers out of our companions. It consoles, in a
world in which increasing suicide and criminality show the danger of despair. It
is the only safe and proper confessional. It teaches the hospitality by which men
have entertained angels unawares. Friends are the Guardians of our best selves, and
the teachers of constancy. They are the only possible truth-tellers, for few are able
to learn from an enemy’s tirades. The necessary hunt for friends seasons our ex­
cursions and spices our business. It is a divine Adventure which transforms our
earning a living into divine adventures with every one we meet, and with whom
we are compelled to enter into relations. As we cannot get friends without be­
coming friends, our hunt for friends entails a mellowing, a receptiveness which pre­
pares us for improvement and education; just as iron cannot be shaped until it is
heated. Therefore no religion (which is reunion to God) is possible until friendship
has heated both severed ends.
5. KINDS OF FRIENDSHIP
There are all kinds of friendship, in an ascending scale: pleasure, intimacy, busi­
ness, social, reasonable and virtuous. The Pythagorean Hippodamus defined it as
that founded on pleasures of animals, gifts of men, and the philosopher’s knowledge
of the gods. Frequently one has to begin friendship on the lower levels, in order
to have the chance to develop it on the higher.
6. ' CULTURE OF FRIENDSHIP
If friendship is the first step of religion, religion's elementary school is the culture
of friendship. It is one thing to make a friend, but another to keep him. This will
imply little acts of considerateness, patience, forbearance, faithfulness, loyalty.
Friendship cannot be permanent unless it becomes spiritual; its culture must be
transformed into consecration; in other words, act as stepping-stone to the more definite
developments of religion.
7. FRIENDSHIP AS TEACHER
One can take a horse to water, but one cannot make him to drink. So one cannot
learn unless from a teacher who is friendly. In France there is a proverb that to
know all is to forgive all: that is the secret spring of friendship’s pedagogical power.
One can never know children unless one loves them first. ‘‘Many of the chambers
of the house of life are forever locked to us, until love gives us the key.” The
world may accuse us of idealizing a friend, explaining it as love’s proverbial blind­
ness; but it is love only that sees, appreciates, and wins the secret. Young women’s
friendship is the greatest source of young men’s improvement,—an exclusive one
indeed, for they would not make it otherwise, not even for their parents.
8. MIRACLE OF FRIENDSHIP
Now considering Friendship as the beginning of religio* (which explains why
St. James says that no one can say he loves God if he does not love his brother)
we must look on friendship as something divine, or a miracle. It must be looked on
as some secret appointment of heaven, a prelude of heavenly harmonies, a beginning
of a heavenly friendship. There is about it a fatality. Frequently it is not we that
make the choice, but the choice that makes us. Some men have a genius for frienship,
and it is the development of true wisdom to be carried out of oneself in the purifying
passion of unselfishness. Friendship then is a sacrament, and the friend its performing
priest. Resuming, friendship is the first step of religion, its gate; and no one who is
not a friend can be truly religious. The message of this meditation is enforced by
dramatization in Dr. Kenneth Guthrie’s playet ‘Damon and Pythias’.
II. Immortality.
1. IMMORTALITY
Religion, meaning re-union, firstly joins separate individuals in friendship; and
secondly bridges the gap caused by death. This immortality is the object of all
extant religions. The word has of course been used by many different schools in
different senses. First is the quibble of the Harrisonian Positivists, survival of the
material elements, which is of no interest to the personality. Then the Neo Hegelian
quibble about its consisting of present Knowledge of God. Third the insane boastful
lies, they should never die, of poets like Whitman and new thought self-advertisers
like Brown and Rawson. Fourth are poetical legends of retirement-survival of such
heroes as Arthur, Barbarossa or Napoleon. Next come the oft-disappointed threats
of a ‘return' connected with cataclysms and the end of the world. Then come the
varying theological accounts and theories of the various churches, to which how­
ever we should add the Universalistic opiate that all will be saved anyhow, which
destroys all incentive to achievement. .This Universalistic idea is questioned by
those Episcopalians who teach a ‘conditional’ immortality; which is varyingly rep­
resented as depending on orthodoxy or mere ‘Knowledge of God.’ While this theory
is transformed into experimental experience by the evidence gathered by the Society
for Psychical Research, for the survival of the mind after the body’s death, yet
all they have proved is something temporary and selective, though they generally
assume something universal and permanent. Another and more respable, historic,
poetic and philosophic theory is that of Reincarnation, as modemly set forth by E.
D. Walker, and recorded in the ‘World’s Archives of Religious Experiences,’ which
support the Biblical references, and those of the Pythagoras, Plato, Proclus, Basilides,
sfiid the poets of all ages and times. This theory is the most reasonable explanation
of the inadequacies, injustices and mysteries of this life, being in effect a .true judg­
ment whose basis is not only doing to others as you would be done by, but, ‘what
you do to others, you are doing to yourself’. But all it does is to enforce general
justice in dealing with others, and give the consolation of explaining mysteries.
There is nothing in it to aid us in our present life’s opportunity for experimental
progress. But is there or could there be anything better? Of course it is here that
will come our friend the Buddhist with his poetic, sweetish chloroform of ‘Nirvana’,
the actual dictionary meaning of which word is ‘extinction’; so that if that Buddhist
tells you it means bliss-ful survival, you have a right to answer him that either
he is deceiving you, or should use another word; but if he does so, he is no longer
a Buddhist. We must add that this Buddhist identification of death with extinction
is a resignation that is very alluring and poetic, but diametrically opposed to our
idea of immortality, conscious and progressive.
2. ELEMENTS OF AN IDEAL IMMORTALITY
If there is or could be anything better than the traditional theories of immortality,
we must discover it by studying the foundations of an ideal definition of immortality,
and make a review of the undeniable facts of life which such a conception would
have to fit. First, is the inescapable fact of the dissolution of the physical body.
Granting that certain patriarchs like Enoch, Elijah, and recent theosophical ‘masters’
have been translated, the cases are too rare and unauthenticated to be worth con­
sideration. Cornaro’s methods to prolong life, and the falling death-rate are all
excellent steps in human evolution, but they are only postponements of the inevitable.
Tertullian’s theory that the teeth were the seeds of the resurrection of the flesh is
ludicrous enough to be its own refutation, as is emphasised in the ‘City of God’ by
St. Augustine, who as a doctor of the Church is inerrant. Only ostriches would pro­
pitiate or seek to avoid danger by hiding their heads in the sand. Second, all we
know of moralization is connected with the body, as an instrument of self-control
and sanctification. Heaven may be very pleasant, and hell very disagreeable, but
neither allow for conversion, and purgatory is no more than a doctrine or poetic
theory. Therefore it would seem that an immortality that was educative (the only
kind that interests us) would be limited to life before body-dissolution. Third, if
immortality is to be actual it must belong to the present, which alone is certain. ‘A
bird in the hand is worth two in the bush’. As God is just, he would not expect
us to stake our salvation on something (post-mortem conditions) concerning which
we know little or nothing. ‘After death’ m ay ‘come the judgment', but the dif­
ficulty is to convince the godless. We shall never be more than we can become
before death. Angelus Silesius says; ‘Who gains not his Kingdom here, will never
be a king beyond’. Fourth, we should do away with the mistaken idea of a magical
salvation at death. For this there is neither shred of evidence, nor even of orthodox
doctrine. Nor is there any logic in it. What we do know of the universe is the
law of Conservation, of Causation, of Sufficient Reason. The clock of the physical
universe is running down, not up. Drifting does not go up-stream. Falling is not
upward; gravitation is not heavenwards. If the spirit survives, it will remain the
same as here. The unclean will be unclean still; the wise will remain wise. Mur­
derers and angels will not exchange places. Matthew Arnold’s ‘East London’ de­
serves to be quoted entire. Foiled by our fellow-men, oppressed, out-worn, We
leave the brutal world to take its way; And, Patience, in another life, we say, ‘The
world shall be thrust down, and we up-borne’. And will not then the immortal armies
scorn The world’s poor, routed leavings? And will they Who failed under the
heat of this life’s day Support the fervors of the heavenly morn? Nay, the energy
of life may be Kept on beyond the grave, but not begun; And he who flags not in
the earthly strife, From strength to strength advancing, only he, His soul well-knit
and all his battles done. Mounts, and that hardly, to eternal life. A fifth condition of
immortality would be proper choice of occupation. At death the violinist must leave
behind him his violin; the pianist his piano; the painter his brush; the weaver his
loom; the printer his press. If then he has devoted his whole life and energy to
this, must he not When at death forced to move on, leave his very life behind him,
and in effect become an ‘earth-bound’ spirit? To avoid this he would have to con­
centrate his energies on the training of those parts of his nature (his subconsciousness
and normal consciousness) which he may reasonably hope to take along with him.
To this reattaches itself the choice of education in subjects in which a man is weakest,
rather than exclusively in those in which, being most successful, he is most likely
to earn much money which he would have to leave behind at death.
3. IMMORTALITY—METHODS
Having shown the vanity of the traditional theories of immortality, and studied
the conditions within which alone a genuine immortality could be apprehended, we
have set the frame within which to paint its picture. This however we must reserve
for some more fitting occasion; and in the meanwhile we invite each reader to fill
in the blank to suit his own fancy; he at least will be satisfied, and will condescend­
ingly ignore the writer’s. But he may be willing to accept a few general suggestions
as to the methods favorable to the production of the picture. First the kind of life
which alone could produce or promote immortality must be a productive or educative
existence; not one of accumulation or creation, of technical skill or sports. Second,
an immortalizing life is bound to be a conserving one; devoted to recognition of
opportunities and exploitation of possibilities. His vitality will be his capital; his
time his most precious resource. He will seek to diminish all of the various destruc­
tive processes, and increase all the human organism’s constructive tendencies. He
will be a conservator of his speech-force, for talking is a leak of the soul; and his
creative forces he will devote entirely to the immortalizing developments. The de­
tails of this suggestion will be found in a pamphlet on ‘The Conservation of Your
Vitality, Explained Physically, Mentally and Spiritually*. Third, the immortalizer
will train his own outer mind, subconsciousness as well as his body. Fourth, the
‘immortalizer’ will, of the Two Ways, the passive or the active, always choose the
initiative, and thus become a partner with the divinity or a play-fellow with the
Immortals in the great adventure of the salvation of humanity. Fifth, the immortalizer
will never suicide, and will discourage it under all circumstances, .No conceivable
misfortunes are either beyond the power of God to use for the Soul’s welfare, or
worse than the value of incarnate existence. God seems so much more anxious
than we are to keep us in this world, that life must be infinitely more precious than
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
is dreamed of by the wisest of us, who are always thoughtlessly ready to spill the
cup of wine in which has been dissolved the pearl of God’s providential ipurpose,
Sixth, the Immortalizer will be definite, accurate, keeping records of experiences,
diaries, monthly and yearly summaries of life-career. At the same time, just as the
hopelessly wounded on the battle-field beg to be put out of misery, so it may be
a matter of mercy to hasten the disgusting processes of decay in corpses by crema­
tion, and by sterilization of foods and clothing. The immortalizer must be brave
enough to destroy the lower forms of life to give progress to the higher. Eight, the
immortalizer will consort with the immortals of literature, history, art, poetry, religion
and magic, and will thus paint his own portrait in the Planet’s Hall of Records. The
message of this meditation is dramatized in the playlet ‘The Shipwreck’.
III. Mentalization and Healing.
MENTALIZATION
Religion being reunion, its first step is reunion with our neighbors in friendship.
The second is reunion with the life beyond death, or immortality. Of this the three
chief steps are reunion of the personality, or mentalization; and reunion with the
divine, or consecration; followed by study of its method of Prayer, and its results
or Fruits of the Spirit, or Sanctification. Mentalization will be discussed under the
following headings: Psychology, Soul or Subconsciousness, Body Control, Healing,
Subconsciousness Training, Mental Training, Freedom of Thought, Continued Con­
sciousness, and Present Immortality.
1. PSYCHOLOGY
We only need enough psychology to understand what we are doing. The body
consists of the skeleton, the flesh, and the directing nerve ganglia or minimal con­
sciousness. This is that which, having been assumed at birth, is dropped at death.
The spirit or super-consciousness consists of the divine part, and the individuality.
Now by incarnation this ‘spirit’ is grown around by the former, and thus develops
the ‘soul’, which consists of the subconsciousness (credulous, with far-sighted senses,
affections and passions) and consciousness (mind or reason). Though all persons
contain body and soul, the body is usually predominant,the soul being, especially
in childhood, quiescent. The body grows of itself, butthe soul needs conscious
development. The body grows by drifting, the soul by effort.
As to passions, they are divine, and without them aman would beworthless:
the difference between Faust and Mephistopheles. But not till they are wholly con­
trolled by reason do they become reasonable; till when they are confessedly ‘un­
reasonable’. So it is ‘reasonable’ to be rational. This was well brought out in Dr.
Kenneth S. Guthrie’s booklet ‘Faith and Reason', the consideration that started him
on his costly voyage after conformity of the outer to -the inner religious life.
Now as to this clear differentiation or contrast may be emphasized by comparing
the shameless satyr Walt Whitman, who openly trumpets his writings’ chief
message as their animality, and who glories in approaching dissolution, with Matthew
Arnold, the classic apostle of culture, who indicates immortality as the goal of self­
conquest. There we have the carnal life wherein, however refined, cultured or
luxurious it may be, in eating, dressing, sleeping, loving persons or animals, dealing
with the world, working and in amusements, it is the blooming of the automatic
lower nature, or passions that are followed; reason only helping, not leading. On
the contrary, the spiritual life is any life, however hard or lonely, wherein, in eating,
drinking, dressing, loving or dealing with persons or animals, it is the reason, in its
highest manifestation as conscience, that alone guides, controls and transfigures each
automatic instinctive movement, each affection, each passion. Let us not misunder­
stand the passions.
2. THE SUB-CONSCIOUSNESS
Hudson’s Law of Psychic Phenomena shows how the sub-consciousness is in
control of the body, directing growth, preserving health, and repairing injuries. It
is far-sighted and far-hearing. But it is credulous, and will believe any thought
suggested to it. On the contrary, the reason has no direct control over the body,
and is neither far-sighted nor far-hearing; but it can reason out a problem, plan an
intelligent course, and allow the individuality to decide. The struggle of life is for
the consciousness to control and be divinized by the sub-consciousness’s ‘supernatural’
gifts; and through mastery to produce such calmness that the super-conscious in­
dividuality can descend into the consciousness and hold its thread even while the
subconsciousness and body are asleep. This is the process of mentalization under­
lying the achievement of continued consciousness.
3. BODY CONTROL
Now in most people the body is uncontrolled. You see men playing with pencils,
fingering their faces, biting their nails, walking up and down, twitching, swaying and
so forth. It is the subconsciousness, independent of the consciousness, agitating the
body. Now this interferes with the proper working of the mind, and may lead the
personality to passional crimes, such as theft and murder. Therefore the body must
be conquered, if for nothing but decency, as girls must overcome nail-biting. Passions,
however evil, can be converted to goodness by reduction to control, by being ration­
alized, or made reasonable. How to accomplish this? First by ‘will-tasks’. What
they are is of little moment so long as obedience is enforced. As will-power is
strengthened by every victory, and weakened by every failure, it is well to begin
by childishly simple commands, such as walking around the room, or uttering some
poem, or keeping still for so long, that are sure to be obeyed. 2. Then comes
fasting, keeping awake, or lying down. We are even told of a Pythagorean seven-
year’s talking-fast, which however seems mythical or partial. 3. Then one can
sit still, and send the thought into each part of the body till it obeys; or, ‘thinking
in it.’ This is a practical application of what is called ‘ideo-motor’ action. 4.
Stoicism (which should not go beyond the limit of the body’s best interests) is
necessary, and recommends any kind of body tamers among which the best is the
rationally cold daily bath of fhe English gentleman.
4. HEALING
The best kind of body-control is self-healing. We will do well to avoid certain
common errors. It is not a manifestation of power of mind over matter, but of
consciousness over subordinate conscious direction of matter. It is a plain lie to
deny reality to the body; but we should insist that every physical cell is only the
expression of subordinate directing mind. The consciousness must act on the sub­
consciousness so that the latter will act on the subordinate ganglia-consciousness.
So vital physical processes are essentially mental processes, and these can be in­
fluenced. 1. We should first fix in the mind the ideal mental image of the normal
functioning of the body-organs. This picture should be focussed on the subcon­
sciousness with confident expectation of the picture’s materialization, so energetic
that the ganglionic sub-consciousnesses reproduce those pictures in material, physical
form, so that the ideal becomes real. 2. Practice will soon reduce this at first slow
process to a short-cut method of talking to any particular organ as one would to a
child, explaining the importance of its normal functioning, and firmly but kindly
demanding it should proceed to act in that manner. 3. Another method is, just before
sleeping, to ‘charge’ the subconsciousness with such an auto-suggestion, so that it
may work during sleep. 4. One could also use physiological charts of the normal
body-processes to photograph the desired result upon the mind’s sensitive plate.
Whichever method is adopted, the result of health will have to be achieved before
body-control can be said to have been established.
5. SUB-CONSCIOUSNESS TRAINING
While body-control and healing demand service by the sub-consciousness
mediately, this faculty should be trained directly to feats of sub-conscious ‘rumina­
tion’, such as writing a poem, or essay, solving a problem, or in accomplishing
thought-transference or telepathy. Its farsight, far-hearing and sub-sensitiveness
should be regularly, systematically and by record practised in prognostications of
events for each day of the coming week. All this should not be done blindly, as a
duty, but intelligently for achievement of skill and satisfactory results.
6. MENTAL CONTROL
Confusion of self and body can after all be cleared up with fair ease, but many
people live all their lives without distinguishing their consciousness (reason, logic-
machine) from their individuality; and this distinction is necessary before they can
achieve control of their mind. To begin with, this is preliminary to body-control,
since, as a result of monism, body and mind, interacting, quiet or excite each other.
Indeed, body-control-efforts imply mental control, but only secondarily; and this
should be untertaken primarily. The intellect must be disciplined until the inner-
self, the spirit, can pick up and lay down any thought at any time, just as the hand
would pick up or lay down a book. Many human beings are little more than
bundles of ideas, instead of forming coherent thought-systems. Souls should train
themselves to become worthy of their destinies of being assistant judges on the Great
Day. 1. One method is to take some memory-system, such as Loisette’s, and do
some definite memorization each day. 2. Another method is to gather a number
(say a dozen) of memory gems and recite them forward or backward daily. 3.
Another method is to follow a systematic reading plan, gathering one memorizable
thought therefrom daily.
7. FREEDOM OF THOUGHT
One result of reducing the consciousness to control will inevitably be the clearing
out of prejudices and the changing of opinions. Evidently the thought-machine is
not controlled until it responds to the least guidance of the inner light or Spirit.
Mental control implies freedom of thought, and those whose thoughts are chained
neither will succeed nor will long keep up the struggle for thought-control. Of
course, many deceive themselves by saying, “Dear God, lead me, guide me, teach
me; but remember, thy guidance must be orthodox, or I will none of it!” Such
guidance is useless, hypocritical and prejudicial, for it will be useless except as it
confirms a man’s prejudices, and sanctions his passions. Since morality means the
supremacy of the conscience, without freedom of thought absolute morality is im­
possible.
8. CONTINUED CONSCIOUSNESS
The next achievement of the Immortalizer is continued or eternal consciousness.
Many fail to realize that we spend one third of our lives in sleep, so that this must
also be ‘mentalized’; for the sleep-mentality will both act and react on the waking
consciousness. Moreover conservation of both crude and refined vitality is impos­
sible without unsleeping watchfulness. Also the approach of parasites cannot be
prevented unless the sentinel is on post. By such mental control during waking
hours, sleeping control will improve; but the latter must be achieved directly by
charging the subconsciousness and by the individuality’s self-hypnotization the last
thing before body-sleep-collapse, with the result that the thread of individual con­
sciousness will be continued, and in eternal consciousness all attackers will be seen
and easily repelled.
9. PRESENT IMMORTALITY
While this continued consciousness should be practised during sleep, success
therein will gradually lead to a permanent lucidity Which will hold good even when
the body sinks deeper in trance, or even finally in death. This prepares a mental
independence of the body which is the beginning of immortality. This assured
independent survival of the normal consciousness constitutes eternity. Unless im­
mortal consciousness be attained before the-body’s dissolution, all probabilities would
indicate that just as here, over there souls will periodically sleep. Whether beyond
will occur further opportunities of earning immortality (which would seem to de­
mand another physical body), we know not, nor dare risk salvation on such a
chance. Here, today, we are sure of the opportunity; the only cost is the least bit
of careful persistent effort. Who is fool enough not to capture the Pearl of Great
Price? The message of this meditation is dramatized in the playlet "Fools Fear to
Tread.”
IV. Consecration. *
*
Religion being reunion, its first step is reunion with our neighbors in friendship.
The second is reunion with the life beyond death, or immortality. Of this the three
chief steps are reunion of the personality, or mentalization; reunion with the cosmic
reservoir of power, or spiritualization; and reunion with the divine, or consecration.
This consecration will be discussed under the following heads: Development of Con­
secration; Use of Consecration; Conditions of Guidance; Significance of Name; the
Everlasting Covenant; Acceptance; Challenge; Conversation; Persistence; Warning.
1. DEVELOPMENT OF CONSECRATION
While the writer himself started his career from the logical starting point of
consecration, this is here put only near the end. Why? Because the majority of
readers who will start to read this booklet will probably start from the selfish
standpoint of “all of self, and none of Thee.” It docs not really matter what is
their original belief, so long as they get started on Friendship; and perhaps before
they finished that, they may have unconsciously progressed to the stand-point of
“some of self and some of Thee.” After deciding .to be reunited to the life after
death, they may perhaps be willing for ‘less of self, and more of Thee’. Then
progressing to reunion with their own psychological elements of which the highest
is the divine, they will probably be ready for "none of self, and all of Thee,” as
the fiery inner light bums out from them the last vestiges of self-regarding dross.
Then they will accept consecration as the logical description of their new attitude.
2. USE OF CONSECRATION
But even if they are ready to accept consecration, they will welcome a state­
ment of its purposes, and advantages and necessity. Its purpose is to branch off
from the black magic of ‘success treatments’, so popular in America, which are the
next logical development after the achievement of health-demonstration by mental­
ization, if unconsecrated. This is the gist of Jesus’ temptation by Satan, to give
him all the Kingdoms of the World, which he who accepts becomes worldly, and
ceases to progress to other-worldliness, or unworldliness, and becomes satisfied with
himself. Consecration’s advantage is that it enables the man to step forward to service
to the race and his own higher self. Consecration’s necessity, however, is that if a
man uses the mental powers he has developed for his own advantage, he will inevit­
ably oppose those who are working for the race and their higher development, and
become an opponent instead of a helper of humanity. Here then is the branching off
of the Two Ways, at which, as Prodicus tells us, Hercules decided to serve humanity,
even if as a slave; and of which we also hear in the Gospel, the ‘Narrow Way’;
—‘strait is the gate, and few there be that find it’,—the other crowded way being
easy and broad, but it leads into the quagmire of self-destruction.
3. CONDITIONS OF GUIDANCE
A man may have guidance, and protection from spiritual misfortune to his soul,
at a price,—that of consecration. The prevalence of despair, testified to by the
rising rate of suicide and crime, show that men blame God for not providing for
them. But is it not illogical to expect Him to protect them when they are ‘going
it alone’, doing what they want, when and as they want, probably doing their
spiritual progress as much harm as possible? God does not owe them a living, on
their own terms. But He does owe them one on His terms, and these are the Con­
secration Vow mentioned below. But none can deceive God by hypocritical church
membership, or lip-service. While this is better than open opposition, and will be
so rewarded by perhaps the privilege of chastening trials, nevertheless our Silent
Partner is not blind, or more stupid than are we ourselves.
4. SIGNIFICANCE OF NAME
Why is the Covenant called ‘everlasting’? Because the Arms whose support it
invokes are everlasting, and it is only fair, decent and honest to pay a price
equivalent to the benefit desired. The Covenant does no more than express the
conditions of natural and moral law which are as everlasting as Nature, Man and
God. While these remain as they are, their interrelations must necessarily also
remain the same.
5. THE EVERLASTING COVENANT
Of course there is no patented form of the Covenant, and any other words to
the same effect are admissible. But for convenience here is a good form to recite,
or, better, to write out: "I hereby devote, consecrate, and sacrifice everything I
am, have, and hope to be and have, to Thee, O Divine Father, to be used for Thy
purposes, both here and beyond, now and forever. I reserve nothing. I will obey
immediately, if the Still Small Voice will guide me. I am weary of myself, and of
my human purposes! Do Thy will in me, so I may be conformed to the eternal
purposes. Use me as a hand to do Thy will; I only ask to remain Thine for
evermore! Amen!
6. ACCEPTANCE
This must be repeated continually, until the soul receives from within assurance
that her self-dedication has been accepted. Then will come joy, and Christian’s
pack of cares will roll off his back, and down into the road-side ditch. This as­
surance comes with automatic certainty to all whose heart is right, and who persist
long enough. Depend on it that if the answer does not come, the heart is not right.
As God is perfect, the trouble cannot lie with Him. Probably the soul is deceiving
itself, as may occur for years at a time. God never enforces consecration, but
accepts it when offered, nor ever leaves any in the lurch. It is man’s part to
practice self-scrutiny, but in answer to prayer God will enlighten the conscience of
the sincere. But even after that it would be well to hold a monthly house-cleaning
on the recurring birth-date to make sure no new temptation has crept in.
7. CHALLENGE
Next to the Consecration-act comes the Challenge. As the piano-student, when
beginning, pays attention to each separate finger, but after proficiency only guides
the automatic hand, so he who once has achieved the guidance sufficiently to be
quite sure of it, should proceed on the assumption that all he does is right until he
is stopped by the Voice (Socrates’ genius only warned him what to avoid). Again,
it is sometimes necessary to choose for one self his own course, according to his
own best light. Then he should act confidently, to God issuing a challenge such
as, ‘Dear Father, I am doing the best I can. If Thou desirest, Thou canst inform
me of Thy advice; but to me, seeking, no word has come. If I err, it is Thy fault.
I shall never regret this step. If the result is spiritually disastrous, I shall accuse
Thee on the Day of Judgment, and expect miraculous redemption. Amen.’ Thus
souls learn self-reliance, initiative and wisdom.
8. CONVERSATION
Next to the Challenge comes the Conversation. To all who fulfil its conditions,
the Guidance comes; although to some more easily, to others less. Yet it is generally
necessary to practise hearing the Voice. There are two methods. One is purposely
to watch one’s intuitions of conscience, and the manner of their coming before we
do, say, think, hear, read, write, visit, agree, dissent, or leave. The second is the
Intimate Conversation, ‘practising’ the Fatherhood of God, having a talk with Him
in childlike devotion, such as was found in Samuel Morris, (Prince Kaboo) by
Rev. T. C. Reade, Taylor University, Upland, Ind., or in Kenneth Guthrie’s ‘Com­
munion with God’ and ‘Presence of God’. This conversation might be called the
‘Divine Friendship’, (unpartisan religious devotion relieved of the revolting, bloodi­
ness of Thomas A. Kempis’ ‘Imitation.’
9. PERSISTENCE
Of course, besides sincerity, initiative, and friendship, there is also need of
persistence, and insistence, as exemplified in the story of Jacob wrestling with the
angel at the brook Jabbok, wrestling fruitlessly till he was lamed, till dawn broke,
but then blessed forevermore. The Kingdom of Heaven is taken by force, and
sulfereth violence.
10. WARNING
Of course this Consecration, being the parting of the ways between friendship
of Mammon and God, will ultimately entail loss of worldly friendships, though
these will later be compensated for by new and more inspiring relations. The as­
pirant should be prepared for this trial, and not wonder at the comparative loneliness
on which he will enter, even in the midst of the paths of the world. “Few there
be that find it”, we are told in the Gospels. Even Plato had said, Many are the
aspirants, but few the torch-bearers. Many desire Heaven ‘in addition to’ the
world, and they are willing to pay high pew-rents to secure this; those are the
supports of the fashionable churches. But ‘instead of’ the world? Ah, that is
another story! Demas went back! Reader, will you? Beware lest, after you have
gone back, and then seek to return, you find the Door shut! The gist of this
Meditation has been dramatized in the playlet, "The Banisters of Heaven”.
V. Prayer.
Preliminarily we may answer the common objection, ‘I do not believe in prayer:”
—Prayer is not a theory or dogma, but a practice. The question is, not, IS prayer
true? but, Does prayer work? Does it ‘change things’? Does it ‘get things from
God’? And we recommend it because from experience we can unhesitatingly say,
Yes. Religion or ‘reunion’ reconnects with our neighbor ourselves and God. But
the latter consecration needs the method of prayer, and the objective explanation
of the Fruits of the Spirit, or Sanctification.
1. COMMUNION
Communion begins with conversation, as has already been mentioned. The
matter of the books is not so important as this their manner of intimate religious
conference, and the child-faith winning sustained and elevating responses from the
Unseen. This primary opening into the Inner Universe (the ‘door in Heaven') won,
the Soul need never again be lonely, or desparate.
2. PRACTICE OF THE PRESENCE
The next logical step or development beyond communion is realization of the
Presence of God. The ‘Of Communion with God’s’ unpartisan mysticism objectified
into Presence feeling is best represented by Brother Lawrence’s, or Herman Nicholas’s
“Practice of the Presence of God”. This however lacks the dramatic conversational
touch, and is limited to the traditional pietistic sphere. Dr. Kenneth S. Guthrie
added this conversational touch and both comparative religion’s sanifying interna­
tionalism, and initiatory experiences in his ‘Of the Presence of God’, which is rec­
ommended to those trying to take the second step into the Unseen World. Here
follows a short abstract.
(A) How is the Presence discovered? Without God this world is at best a
lonely place; and this loneliness is God’s most precious gift if it woos or drives man
to seek the Continual Presence of the Heavenly Friend. (B) The History of the
Presence-recognition is rooted in the well-nigh universal recognition of the Father­
hood of God. Next come the universal legends of Divinities being entertained by
men. First the Bible, in both Testaments, Old and New: the angel-guests of Abraham
and Lot, the angel-promises to the parents of Samuel, John, and Jesus; the Emaus
hospitality, Jesus visiting the Apostles huddled in the upper room, Peter by the
seashore, and when fleeing Rome; Paul Damascus-bound, and the Danielic Three in
the Furnace. Second in ethnic legends of St. Christopher, St. Jerome’s Bethlehem
hospital, the Grail-cycle, and the Sicilian King Robert. Then follow detailed lists of
international prophecies of Savior’s coming (7 cases), being miraculously conceived
(8), having virgin mothers (9), being visited by angels, shepherds or Magi (6);
being called a lamb (5), being threatened by hostile rulers (11), undergoing cruci­
fixion (35), descending into hell (9), recorded in scriptures (13), being worshipped
in oracular shrines (13). Next we study the Nature of the Presence. It is a
Matter of Direct Experience; of which many Forms are known to all. It is necessarv,
because it alone can keep the soul up to its higher levels, its ‘Better Self’. Of
it there are several experienceable kinds,—the individual and the congregational.
What practices or methods to achieve it are there? First, it cannot be achieved
by dodging duty. It dwells in the realm of mind, and should be sought from motives
of both fear (of the Recording Angel) and interest (achieving nobility). God
really longs to be the Guest of man, and must be prepared for more, and not less,
than some beloved or revered guest, for whom would be prepared a sanctuary, a
definite appointment, and a worthy welcome, a chair at table, in company, a place
on the hat rack, a motto on the wall, and home harmony; but all this sincerity would
become a hyprocrisy, without love. The book closes with a vision of the World-
sanctuary.
3. BOOKS ON PRAYER
After Communion and Presence, comes Prayer. Unfortunately our scientific ten­
dencies have misled us into the wrong and impossible question of what prayer is,
(the best is Fosdick’s Meaning of Prayer, and Macmillan’s Patterson’s ‘Power of
Prayer’) instead of practical accounts of what prayer has done, and therefore will
do. Important books on the subject are Paris’s Book of Answered Prayer, the
Moody Library’s ‘I Cried and He Answered’, and the Work of Prayer thro’ George
Mueller; Hallimond’s ‘Miracle of Answered Prayer’, ‘Wireless Messages’ by Broad-
hurst, Patton’s ‘Prayer and its Remarkable Answers’, ‘Getting Things from God’,
by Blanchard; ‘Wonders of Prayer’, by Whittle; ‘Touching Incidents’, by Shaw;
Kinsley’s ‘Science and Prayer’, and others. The Bible of course is full of cases
of answered prayer; notably Jacob’s, Abraham’s, Hezekiah’s, and Elijah's. These
books are overwhelmingly convincing that prayer is still today the chief world-
regenerative force. Dr. Kenneth S. Guthrie preached a great cycle of sermons here­
on, of which the first-fruits was a pamphlet entitled ‘Prayer; Proofs, Flaws, Ob­
jections: A Guide for a Quiet Day, for Private Devotions and for Instruction of
the Young’. What is prayer’s nature? Controlled thought-power: which seems
as incredible as the marvels of atmospheric electricity or waterfalls, until properly
harnessed, as is ideo-motor action, when compressed into "prevailing prayer”. That
there is Unanswered Prayer is undeniable; what are its causes? Instability, conflicting
requests, unwisdom, sndefiniteness, forgetfulness, thoughtlessness, and insufficiency.
Some common objections are, ‘ I do not know how to pray, I have nothing to pray
for, I have no leisure to pray, (as a matter of fact, we do pray all the time, but
we must direct our desires into the effective channels); Prayer is a privilege; and I
have duties enough to attend to. How will I know my prayer is heard? ’I must
postpone prayer till some more convenient time; I do not believe in prayer;—all
these can be convincingly answered. So prayer is the Key of heaven, the solver
of all problems, Tennyson’s golden chain binding the world to God’s feet, the
transformer of crosses, the anchor in the storms of life.
4. INTERCESSION
Of course prayer for self is the earliest form of prayer; but as selfish it must,
if it progress, go on to prayer for others, or intercession. It is through this exercise
that a soul becomes a factor to be reckoned with in the administration of this
world, or in other words, it arrogates ‘authority’. Through this a man may become
a savior, and thus this form of exercise is man’s supreme privilege,—one that is
inalienable. Even Jesus Christ is represented as engaging in intercessory prayer
since his resurrection, so that those who imitate him thereby associate themselves
with him, and share his functions and rewards. Every serious intercessor will have
a prayer-list, and persist in it until each item is successively and systematically
removed by success.
5. PRAISE
Prayer that is “prevailing” intensifies faith to that degree that it becomes efficient,
which is measured by its expression as praise. Prayer is only the negative side of
which praise is the positive. But what is the need of any positive side? A side that
is merely negative cannot be managed, be utilized, or lead to some further develop­
ment. Therefore the boldest form of prayer is to thank in advance, and put God
into the position of impossibility of refusing,—as did St. Paul when imprisoned.
Also if we praise we make ourselves decidedly less nuisances to God than when
we turn to him only for favors wanted. Moreover our own dignity is enhanced by
showing ourselves capable of gratitude. Also it shows that we have mastered the
mysteries of trials, and understand the more ultimate plans of Providence, and we
associate ourselves with the functions of the higher ranks of angels. Also the joy
of praise intensifies the psychological effect of any principle we need to objectify.
6. ADORATION
Still higher than mere praise is adoration, which implies that on our praise has
dawned some revelation of God, which then we may adore. A good example of
adoration is the Church Sanctus, the Te Deum, and the Creeds which thus become
means of incarnating that divine revelation into ourselves. Adoration is a com­
pliment to ourselves, in as much as it is proof that we have received a revelation;
and the people who neither understand it, nor desire to adore, merely confess that
they are destitute of any ideal higher than their own present achievement. It is
here that artists lead the way to sainthood; for, entirely apart from religious dogma
or claims, they keep alive an ecstatic aspiration foreign to the successful business
man, and which, in the midst of a most mercenary civilization demonstrates to the
unsanctified the existence of ideal standards.
7. METHOD OF PRAYER
Systematic prayer will therefore not restrict itself to any single form of exercise.
It will always combine some petition, some intercession, some praise and adoration,
which indeed are the component parts of any well-balanced church service. The
threefold silence of Molinos’s and St. Teresa’s fourfold method of prayer is only a
sort of a psychological analysis, and not a practical path. The completest method
of prayer is the nine-fold Angelic Hierarchy, of which each rank represents a
systematic successive step of unfoldment. Climbing the golden ladder of heaven
each form of prayer constitutes communion with or assimilation to that degree of
angelic nature; and the regular progress upwards constitutes a gradual initiation into
their functions, nature and rewards.
8. NINE-FOLD ANGELIC HIERARCHY
L The angels proper are guardians, guides, instructors. 2. The archangels
undertake and execute special tasks, which involve struggle and frank opposition
to evil, 3. The principalities achieve successful administrations of ventures social
or economic. 4. The powers undertake the healing of self and of others. 5. The
interceding angels thereby achieve authority, and capture that title. 6. The dom­
inations praise God as the result of faith; for no faith is effective until it bursts
into expression of praise. 7. The result of praise is the vision of laws and their
adoption and utilization. 8. The laws of God form the foundation of four-fold
kind of initiation or achievement, represented by the four Cherubic Beings, the ox
who ruminates memories of past-existences; the lion of desire for initiation; the
eagle of vision of the world-sanctuary, and the man of vision of Helpers and
Watchers. Apparently this degree of Prayer constitutes the Practice of the Presence
of God. Finally come the Seraphs who burn by inspiring the intellectual light
of God, until they become transfigured, as was Jesus. While this method seems
very complete, it may be remarked that any object of nature or fact of Science is
in its way a method of prayer; there is nothing that can separate us from God,
inasmuch as every form of activity can and ought to be sacramentalized by prayer­
fulness or consecration to God. The gist of this meditation has been dramatized in
the playlet, ‘The Thread of the Labyrinth’.
VI. Sanctification.
Religion as reunion led us from Friendship successively to immortality, mentaliza-
tion, spiritualization, and consecration. But shall we stop here,—pay the price, but
never collect the goods? That would be foolish; so we advise those who have con­
secrated themselves to proceed through regeneration to sanctification, or beatitude.
This latter subject is so broad, wide and deep that nothing can be attempted but
outlines, suggestions and intimations. “I give you the end of a golden strings only
wind it into a ball; it will lead you in at Heaven’s Gate built in Jerusalem’s wall!"
Some misguided, ignorant religionists may object to the intellectualizations of this
chapter as foreign to ‘religion’ proper, but while they, the mindless can be saved by
‘religion’ alone, those who have a mind need sanctified intellectuality,
1. HELPERS
Summarizing as it does all prehistoric religions, the Bible gives us much about
Watchers, Helpers, and Angels. Kenneth Guthrie’s Pagan Bible summarizes all the
Greek world’s foundation for all we know of them. The Theosophists prefer the
word 'Masters’, but that term is unfortunate in several respects. But the Helpers
whom the aspirant should expect to see are such as have gained the ability to appear
not only in the dark of seance-rooms but the full sun-light of noon. Among them
will be his Heavenly Friend.
2. GENIUSES OR DAEMONS
It is here, that belongs Dr. Kenneth S. Guthrie’s book, “The Pagan Bible, or,
Angels Ancient and Modern, an Anthology on the Soul and its Helpers”, according to
the Ancients Zoroaster, Homer, Hesiod, Cebes, Plato, Cicero and Virgil, and the more
Moderns Plutarch, Apuleius, Maximus of Tyre, Plotinus, Synesius, Zosimus, Proclus,
and Dionysius the Areopagite. These writers were the direct sources of what we
modems know about angels; and it may be summarized in a reference to the most fa­
mous example, the ‘Genius of Socrates’, who warned him of anything he should avoid.
3. ORDERS
The largest fraternal orders are necessarily the least esoteric. Unfortunately
all Rosicrucian groups oppose each other even more than they oppose outsiders; and
Theosophy also is split into innumerable sects. The Martinists are the most
hopeful. So-called ‘White Lodges’ unfortunately imply struggle against often im­
aginary ‘Black Lodges’, a convenient way of insulting any opponent. The student
should read Heckethorn’s ‘History of the Secret Societies of All Ages’. ‘The
Exoteric Manual of the Brotherhood of the Eternal Covenant’ will afford a suggestive
outline. May the aspirant have the good fortune to remain unentangled and loyal
to the Supreme Council of World-Angels.
4. THE DIVINE LOCKSMITH
One of the best illustrations of the gist and process of the spiritual struggle is
the parable of the Divine Locksmith. The Lock is the whole of the natural, physical,
mental and spiritual laws,—God’s Will. The external nature can enter the Temple
only by means of the Key, the soul, which is yet blank. The problem is, how to
file the Key to the absolutely exact shape that alone will throw the lock. If there
be the slightest trouble, it lies with the shape of the Key. The Spirit will give
suggestions, if the Key is really being filed. All depends on that. At times heat,
even if of no more than a match, may have to be applied, to make the iron mal­
leable, so it will not break under the necessary hammer blows,—or Michael Angelo’s
chisel strokes that let the angel out. Success will be demonstrated by the lock
turning, and the Door opening.
5. HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY
The aspirant should be proficient in the whole of the world’s History so as to
be able to pass some judgments. He should specially have in his study the bio­
graphies of the greatest heroes, martyrs, saints, not to forget the Bible, so that, as
said Pelagius, he may be incited to emulate them in his own life, by seeing the
heights of which human nature is capable,
6. PHILOSOPHY
The aspirant will need a grounding in philosophy. Seelye’s ‘History of Philos­
ophy’ will be found an easy and comprehensive introduction. But the aspirant will
find Platonism the most useful Key to the universe: he should acquaint himself first­
hand with Pythagoras, Plato, Numenius, Plotimus, Proclus, Porphyry,—all of which
Dr..Guthrie has published. Other valuable books are Vaughan’s Hours with the
Mystics, Evelyn Underhill’s Mysticism, James’ Varieties of Religious Experiences,
and the writings of A. E. Waite, and Dr. Kenneth S. Guthrie’s ‘Religious Experiences’.
7. POETRY AND LITERATURE
The poets have for many ages been the only truth-tellers left. It must be ac-
knowledged that many of them have been triflers; but it remains that Shelley dared
to utter the most incredible mass of truths right under the noses of the worst Philis­
tines of the ages. Kenneth Guthrie’s “Spiritual Message of Literature”, which is
accessible even in Epitome form, gives the first complete review of the whole world’s
progressive literature with practical reading lists of the most reliable and precious
works on general culture. Here may be read Dr. Kenneth S. Guthrie’s ‘Votive
Garlands’, his collected poems.
8. FICTION
Occult fiction is the sugar-coating of much useful medicine, and is a means of
approaching prospects who could never be reached in any other way. Recently it
has multiplied beyond belief; but the reader will be grateful to be reminded of the
standard works; Bulwer's Zanoni; Garver’s Brother of the Third Degree; Peeke’s
Zenia the Vestal; Sands’ Spiridion; Chamisso’s Peter Schlemiehl; Marie Corelli’s
Romance of Two Worlds and Life Everlasting. Completer lists are accessible else­
where. Dr. Kenneth S. Guthrie wrote five short occult stories entitled ‘Hurrah for
God’, which are as fascinating as they are instructive; also his romantic ‘The Re­
uniting Pilgrimage’ or Long-lost Second Book of Acts, which in biblical language
summarizes the arguments for the world-old doctrine of reincarnation; also his
"Perronik”, the Breton original Grail legend, whose site he discovered and repro­
duced. Also his ‘What Happened to Kitchener’, a story showing how, why and
where Faith is inevitable, and essential to life and progress.
9. UTOPIAS
The spiritual habit of finding the gist of everything (the basis of the international
symbol-languages) produces Wells’ ‘prophetic’ curiosity as to the future, which re­
sults in ‘Utopias’. The aspirant finds in them joy and inspiration. He will begin no
doubt with More’s Utopia, Bacon’s New Atlantis, Bellamy’s Looking Backward,
Wells’ Utopia, and many others he will find in Public Libraries. Dr. Kenneth S.
Guthrie has written a “Romance of Two Centuries”, which points the direction in
which human evolution must inevitably progress.
10. ALLEGORIES
Allegories or parables are still the best means of reaching the masses. The
standard ones will be found described in Kenneth Guthrie’s “Spiritual Message of
Literature”. A modern Allegory will be found at the end of 'The Initiate’, and in
many of Macdonald’s best works. In a certain sense the whole universe is only a
visible allegory of the sacramental development of the Soul. Some of Dr. Kenneth
S. Guthrie’s allegories will be found in his ‘Hurrah for God!’
11. THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE
One important step forwards is the acquirement of the international symbol
language used by the Angels in communicating with man in dreams and intuitions.
Founded on the Alexandrian Clement's and Origen’s language of correspondences
(revamped by Swedenborg), there are accessible short vocabularies such as that
in one of Kenneth Guthrie’s ‘Regeneration Books’, and elsewhere. The need for such
a dictionary is proved by the wide circulation of unreliable and unauthorized Dream
Books. Each man, in the last analysis, must make his own. Esperanto being a
Polish conglomeration of gutturals is not as hopeful as the Latin racial Ido, as a
possible exoteric auxiliary language.
12. WALK WITH GOD
What is Walk with God, if not childlike devotion? Humility is no degradation,
but a complimentary recognition of the possession of ideals, and improvability. Let
us hold fast to the golden Key of prayer, and remember that loving devotion may
save the day under the temptations that are inevitable for those who progress. May
we never, by self-satisfaction, be halted in our career towards transfiguration, beat­
ification and aureolizatiou,—till we behold the aurora borealis of the hosts of God’s
Helpers, and we see the rainbow of God’s presence, at whose foot we will find the
pot of gold,—the purpose of this macrocosmic process, this evolution of God, this
divinization of Man,—as said St. Athanasius, that we may become gods walking
about in the flesh. This meditation has been dramatized into a playlet calk “St.
Nicholas’s Surprises”.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
VII. Completing Corroborative Outlines
The above six instructions have very carefully summarized the chief elements of
the start of a religious life. .From here on the sincere student must pick his own way
until he has achieved sufficient interior experience to justify his throwing to the
winds all his prejudices, and entering the more serious ‘Temple Gates Opened.’ But
the interval between books varies with the student's earnestness and aptness. How­
ever, he may be protected from wandering or excursion by careful reading of
recommended corroborative books; such as ‘The Spiritual Message of Literature,*
Pythagoras, Numenius, Plotinus and Proclus; A Romance of Two Centuries; of
Mysteries, the Mithraic, the Angelic, the Rosicrucian and the Maleus, the Pagan Bible,
What Happened to Kitchener, and Votive Garlands, Outlines of some of these books
follow in the order of mention.
EPITOME OF SPIRITUAL MESSAGE OF LITERATURE
WHY SUCH A BOOK IS NEEDED
What is the need of a book entitled ‘The Spiritual Message of Literature?’ Be­
cause many people do not either think, know or realize that there is any spiritual
message in literature. The most naive, unreflective people accept all of life prima-
facie as divided into various compartments. To many it is news that religion is more
than a Sunday showing-off entertainment. It would be well therefore to bring before
them in easily understandable form the religion of literature, and the literature of
religion.
THE NECESSITY OF COMPARING LITERATURES
Comparison is the root of all learning, suggestion, insight, and improvement. The
writer, though all his life he had studied music, for the first time understood how to
criticize music when, at a German Saengerfest in Philadelphia, he heard the same
song sung successively by a dozen different male choruses. He who knows only one
language, does not understand language as such, All our social evils survive simply
for lack of proper social inter-relations. The Salvation Army has established bureaus
for consultation with intending suicides; no misfortune is really so great that it does
not admit of relief, if we could only get into touch with well-intentioned holders of
resources. Thought itself is a social product; and over-individuality is only a polite
name for insanity, provincialism, obstinacy, and stupidity. Solitary confinement is
the supreme punishment.
If then unification is the supreme good, all that stands in its way is of evil;
namely, ignorance or personalities. Separate languages are inevitable; each has its
own “bouquet” and contributes an unreplaceable element to spirituality. The evil
is not preference for one’s own language, but ignorance of others. To gather the
significance of even our own literature, therefore, we must discover its true function
in the universal organism. If we only realize it, our best thoughts are the efflorescence
of civilizations we affect to despise and ignore; and unless we understand the elements
of thought with which we deal, we lose the racial aroma, the predestination which
makes of our own life a note in the hymn of destiny. How quickly we would run
away from a man who would be eternally twanging at a single harp-string! But
when supported by a chord, even a single note may alternately plead, as a mediant;
attack as a dominant; or triumph as a tonic. The differing colors, gathered, form
white light, something sublimer than any of them. With all the strings of the harp,
the harpist can improvise heart-moving symphonic achievements. Our modern lit­
erature, unanalyzed, is a personal pastime; appreciated in the light of its origins,
it is the latest revelation of the evolving divinity.
THE TW O KINDS OF LITERARY SOURCES
Running through every human life are the twin relations of individual and the
group to which he belongs. So we have the pupil and the class; the priest and the
church; the toiler and the trade. Their ideas are not always identical. There is
often friction; in ancient times called heresy, nowadays it is disharmony. Therefore
if we are to listen to the different voices of literature, we shall have to listen both
to racial and to individual solutions of the problems of destiny.
In the past, of course, the racial element was the most noticeable; in modern times,
the individual; and yet it could easily be demonstrated that neither could exist without
the other, any more than the flower without the root, or even the root without the
flower.
Indeed, what we are pleased to call the more original individual messages con-
sist really of hybridization of racial characteristics; like Matthew Arnold, who
brought to the English language French pellucidity and charm.
Originality, indeed, is only grasp of better sources. What Macrobius did to
Virgil, what the Higher Critic has done to the Pentateuch, could be done to every
great writer, who, indeed is great chiefly because he was so receptive to the in­
fluences and sources of his times that he adequately represents them. Goethe frankly
acknowledged pillaging; but what a pillaging it was! And if Goethe had not studied
sufficient foreign literatures, he would not have had anything to pillage. The more
original therefore a genius you want to be, the wider will have to be your erudition.
The saner judgment you wish to pass, the more comparative must it be. The more
individual you wish to become, the more sanely must you discriminate the streams
of racial inspiration, and the more judicious must be your combination thereof.
WHAT IS LITERATURE?
Before beginning our search for the messages of races and of individuals, we must
ask ourselves, What is literature? This has been defined as memorability; for which
there may be many individual causes, none alone being sufficient to measure up to,
or secure immortality. For instance, felicity of diction; importance of message;
emotion; and first of all, beauty. We hear sometimes of the religion of literature,
and the literature of religion; but after all, literature is religion of the right kind,
and religion is the right kind of literature. These miserable divisions between re­
ligion, literature, science, poetry, and art are only fetishes for the short-sighted; of
course very useful to calculate with; especially useful in heresy-trials; but who
would care to be a Torquemada? Besides, they are useful to earn salaries with;
to raise meetings to hysteric generosity, to sell books, or even to make armies kill
each other; but to satisfy each soul’s desire for truth, justice, humanity, wisdom, no!
The larger truth, the higher truth, these are irreducible margins, which presentiment
tells us are the basis of universal brotherhood. We are all longing for a single, all-
comprehending heaven, where all those distinctions will be transformed into the many-
sided service of the Supreme life. Wagner’s opera, a union of music, poetry and
action adumbrated this yearning for unification. Someday there will be a "United
States of Europe,” and later an intercontinental co-operation foreshadowed by the
postal system, and the Hague Palace of Peace.
So if we prefer to use a new term to indicate the unity of all these various
terms, we may, as most convenient, fix on the term “prophecy,” to represent the gist
or significance, or spiritual message of aspiration, of which we are especially to
study the literary expressions,
THE RACIAL MESSAGES
The message of the Hindus is manifold. In common with many undisciplined
people, many of their literary expressions represent a quality of which the best in­
terpretation is generosity. The political states support whole classes of religious de­
votees. It is the land of classic friendships. Here the widow burns herself on her
husband’s pyre, and wives seek out additional wives for their husbands. Readiness
to forgive, as shown by Rama, is not far removed from this. Moral desert, spiritual
culture, and deification are in addition higher developments thereof. Compassion is
the chief historic dogma of Buddhism. The northern branch of their race, the Per­
sians express its more intellectual aspect by fidelity, truth-telling, and marital faith­
fulness. The Arabians express its more militant aspect in their Mohammedan resig­
nation to the will of God.
When we turn to the Chino-Japanese world, we find an entirely different category
of religious conceptions. The Chinese teach us moderation, duty and righteousness,
and character, as well as fidelity to the family as the social unit. The Japanese
owed their superiority to the Chinese because of their imitativeness, for all that is
great in their civilization is originally Chinese. But what matters that to us, as long
as they artistically, gracefully, and charmingly selected the best? In Japan first did
art become self-conscious, for all they are is owed to the way in which they spoiled
the Chinese.
The Semitic world is an entirely different group. The Egyptians were obsessed
by the idea of Judgment, as shown in their Book of the Dead, which represented the
soul going towards sunset, passing through Judgment, and thereafter being "mani­
fested to light” with the sunrise, in another world. In other words, they taught
the world immortality. What is represented to us by the word "intellectual culture”
appears for the first time among the Assyrio-Babylonians, who wrote myths about
creation, and taught what we might best call "communion with the Divinity,” such
as we find it later in the Hebrew Psalms. Although the Zoroastrians in a certain
sense belong to the Hindu group, yet their political establishment in this valley, and
consequent influence on the Hebrews when in captivity, forces us to class them
here; for the last gift to the world of this wonderful valley of the Euphrates, were
the Zoroastrian conceptions of purity, an angelic hierarchy, a future savior, a mil-
lenium of restoration, and the divine fire.
The Greek world’s influence upon the world has not, in the past, been overrated;
but, the general state of ignorance of other civilizations has caused it to eclipse
our debts to other races and civilizations. We must however give this Greek civil­
ization its due place in our "spiritual inheritance." From Greece came the con­
ception of heroic magnanimity, social success, and the healthy objectivity so well
represented in their bible, the poetry of Homer. Last, but not least, was their wor­
ship of classic beauty.
To surviving aborigines such as the American Indians we can trace the poetic
expression for love of flowers, and genial mildness.
To the Northern sources, from Iceland, Norway, and adjacent countries we may
trace the bardic ideals, and the expression of Manliness, something which could not
come from any of the southern civilizations, among whom slavery was an institution.
SEMI-RACIAL VOICES
Having thus mentioned the chief racial contributions to our spiritual heritage, we
may now turn to the semi-racial ones which come to us in the shape of legends.
These are not racial, for many of them wander around the globe in the supremest
disregard of frontiers and nationality. They appear as epics, and in later days
dramas or poems by great authors, who endeavored to interpret them spiritually.
The legend of Job, as it appears in the Bible, enforces moral trial, disinterested
love, confidence in the inner light, and scientific humility, or trust in God.
The Hindu Haritschandra legend teaches the sacredness of a promise, duty as
taking precedence of love, and magnanimity or generosity.
The Greek Prometheus legend teaches the contradiction between mind and passion;
the supremacy of the rational over the irrational nature; the avoidance of fate by
intelligent mechanical contrivances; and the divinity of Man as contrasted with dog­
matic heaven and hells, Shelley’s continuation thereof teaches the lesson of pain,
which is forgiveness; the search of the intellect after truth; the destruction of the
tyranny of custom, and the attainment of a moral character.
Plato's Republic teaches scientific government, as against the practical corruption
of brute force, or, science versus custom.
^ante’s Divine Comedy sets forth moral culture as salvation.
Calderon’s Prodigious Magician shows that the failure of every other natural
method of progress proves the veridicity of the Christian religion.
The Faust legend, in Goethe’s hand, teaches divine discontent.
The Golden Legend,. popularized by Longfellow, sets forth the beauty of self-
sacrifice, but also the duty to refuse it.
The Holy Grail legends teach a Quest after the divine on earth, and that without
purity none may find it.
The Wandering Jew legends, as expressed by Quinet, teach that the effort of life
is to procure culture for our descendants.
Hardy’s “Dynasts” reads into the Napoleonic legendary crises the paroxysms of
an unconscious Will, of which men are but the deceived puppets.
Moody’s “Masque of Judgment” serves up, in modern form, the old millenial
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
world-crises, in the form that passion is good while controlled, but that its evil lies
in its moments of rebellion.
Wilbrandt’s Master of Palmyra expresses in modern form the universal idea of
re-incarnation, and its possible explanation of the injustices of life, and the ultimate
achievement of perfect moral character.
Flaubert, in his “Temptation of St. Anthony’’ adapted that age-long legend to
portray the moral progress of a soul through physical needs, sectarianism, philosophy,
national ideals, and pantheism, to scientific research as the herald of a new age.
INDIVIDUAL VOICES
Those who have attempted to invent the scaffolding on which to drape their
characteristic message were able to accomplish far more purposive results, but, of
course, their creations suffered in picturesque objectivity, which, after all, is the basis
of literary immortality. Among them, we may listen to
Kebes, the disciple of Sokrates, when he paints a Greek Pilgrim’s Progress, in his
“Picture,’’ teaching intellectual culture, virtue, happiness, and sobriety.
Bunyan, following in his foot-steps, adapted it to the Christian religion, and its
practical life.
St. Augustine, when he dreams of the cosmic progress of a newer civilization.
Spenser, when he objectifies for us the beauty of the virtues of holiness.
Byron, when, in “Manfred,” he exhibits the dangers of failure in moral matters,
even after the substantial victory is won.
Krasinsky, in his "Infernal Comedy,” shows that poetic humanitarian dreams lead
only to bloody revolutions, to misfortunes of those we love, and to blindness of one’s
own powers. Democracy is disgusting; aristocracy is effete and treacherous. Nothing
remains but the Christian religion.
Madach’s “Tragedy of Humanity” illustrates the tendency of religious obscurant­
ism to ruin knowledge and culture, the suicidal results of blind credulity.
Ibsen, in pointing out the inevitable suicidal results of over-logical consecration
to unearthly ideals, such as those of Brand.
Victor Hugo, who, in his “Dieu,” symbolizes tbe stages of mind of man, and
shows that only under rationalism, the proper use of reason, can man be fully
himself.
Tolstoi, who in his “Power of Darkness” illustrates the power of guilt to condemn
man to greater guilt; and that the only way out is open confession.
Compoamor, in his “Universal Drama,” illustrates the tortuous agony of expiation
of crime, that guilt clings to us in unimagined conditions until transformed into moral
achievement.
George Bernard Shaw’s Back to Methuselah invents a mythical growing longevity
as trimmed with witty brilliants and scientific discoveries. But as to him God has
become theorized, He is discarded along with useless doctrines, and leaves the pur­
pose of the whole world-process the same as Faust’s: pointless curiosity and restless­
ness, as opposed to stagnation. But what is the use of such change if it does not
ultimate in some supreme desirable goal? It entirely lacks the redemptive urge.
CONSENSUS OF PROPHETS
We have just studied the messages of those poets who took the trouble to in­
carnate their intentions into coherent, and dramatic works of art. But the first step
of prophecy is mere bardism, or troubadour-effusions, or lyric poetry. So manifold,
so disconnected, so transitory are these, that few if any have suspected that they
could ever have a consistent significance. Still, this could be guessed from the fact
that lyric effusions are after all judged by universal standards such as beauty, emo­
tional power, imaginativeness, sincerity, and the like. We may therefore assume
that it may be possible sometime, as indeed is done in the standard anthologies, to
classify and systematize the lyric poetry of the world, and ultimately come to some
definite significance thereof. It is admitted that its bulk, its continual accessions, its
fluctuating standards of criticism, will ever make a final conclusion merely provisional,
and valid only for the seeker himself; but nevertheless every intelligent man will
make his own deductions, according to his lights, atid to the extent of his erudition.
In Dr. Guthrie’s "Spiritual Message of Literature,” such an international quest
is conducted, with the following result:
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
The basic lyric aspiration consists of consecration of self to some object or
another. Passion is attractive primarily for its keen appreciation of beauty. But
pain inevitably arises, and teaches its lesson of law-abidingness. This constitutes a
rational control of the passions, a rationalization of life, eventuating in purity of
heart. This leads to impartial love, whose education results in cosmopolitanism.
Idolatry is a half-way station on the way to devotion to the divine.
We have now arrived at consideration of our human potentialities, which might
be summarized by the single word “conservation,”
Constructivism, instead of destructivism, is at the root of this; in religious dialect,
"edification.” This leads necessarily to discipline, which can be effected only by
labor. Thus is developed character, which is best shown by responsibility. Only
watchfulness to avoid failure permits us to achieve our ideals.
Having thus created the individual, we are ready to examine the contents of his
ideals, which might be termed a “higher pantheism,” or, in a single word, “attain­
ment.” God then is universally recognized as being immanent in the world, and
the next higher view is his immanence in the self. This is practically objectified by
the ancient maxim, “Know Thyself.” This really constitutes our divine destiny,
which, when carried out or achieved, appears as self-dependence. But if we are
evolving, it is evident that divine discontent is the ultimate revelation of the divinity;
for even the divinity must still be progressing, or he would not be perfect, one
element of which conception must surely be progress.
While this is the true basis of life, poetry has loved to clothe it in a religious
mysticism, whose gateway was initiation. This tells us in poetic words that the
root of all gross polytheism really was a sense of the human progress towards
divinity; whose highest definition has ever been some sort of love, which may well
be associated with wisdom. The union of both, applied to our problems, is the
religious dialect for progress, namely, salvation.
This is the spiritual message of universal literature; and, in his book of that title,
Dr. Kenneth Guthrie has attempted to give the quotations justifying it, and presenting
sufficient of the details of the underlying dramas, legends, and racial contributions
thereto to enable the general reader to gain a very substantive appreciation thereof.
It contains quotations from, and accounts of many literary works generally unknown,
but which, in the future, will be better known on our side of the Atlantic.
It also contains precise information about all the great epics of the world and
lists of books for systematic reading in literature and religion.
BACONIANISM’S FOUR REASONS
A FT E R S U N R IS E CLUB D E B A T E , F E B . 1937, R EW R ITTEN MARCH 33, 1938
Closed w a s th e B aeon -Sliakespeare argum ent:
V ictoriously I turned to go aw ay
W hen I by prosperous m ail w a s buttonholed.
In confidential w hisper, he would know
W h at w a s th e root of my great interest.
“ Your oratory suited w ell the crowd,
Hut p rivately to m e th e truth con fess I”
“ I w ear Baconiun lab el," I replied,
R ecause I love th e truth and hate a fra u d !”
“ T w addle!” he w inked, “ W hy pick on Shakes­
peare then?”
“ B ecause, from his great, popularity,
H is plays are open doors to every mind.
W hich then th e search for Truth m ay san ctify.”
i'S p len d id !” lie clapped, “ you are a wondrous
bard,
B ut lay asid e th at popular pretense;
R eveal to m e your m oneyed in ter est!”
“ R ightly you gu essed th a t w hat I said w a s m ask ;
I drop it now, and tell th e sim ple truth.
This controversy in terests m e because
It is an in stance, capable of proof,
W here all th e w orld believes w h a t’sw holly w rong.
Into his bulging cheek he stuck his tongue
“ T hat also is a m ask, so throw it off;
Out w ith the tru th : evasion I d esp ise!”
Humbly I look upon th e ground; then raised
My flashing eye. “ Yes, I acknow ledge th at
There is a deeper reason for my interest'.
I t is th e pal pa blest of instances
Of secret language, hidden in a cod e!”
H e scream ed, and tw isted in a loud guffaw :
“ G lorious! A t quibbles you’re a m aster-hand,
A s salesm an I would recom m end you w e ll!
Y ou’re sane, because you have convinced the
crowd.
A s m an to m an, unveil your real stake!
Y ou’ve naught to lose, and you w ould only rise
In m y esteem in show ing m e your hand.”
W ith fury choked, I threw off all disguise:
“ You stupid grafter, w ho cannot conceive
T h at I would burn w ith indignation a t a fraud,
Of m y B aconianism , learn deepest ground;
I w ork for Bacon, for his Rosy C ross,
I lis w orld-w ide helpers for th e human race,
H is New A tlan tis, th at is yet to b e !”
My baiter stopped: w ithin his eye th ere came
The fu ll suspicion of insanity:
“ So then he’s crazy, a fter a ll!” he, spat.
A nd turned aw ay with m ocking enm ity.
B ut I w as satisfied to carry home
A clearer outlook on m y passion ’s goals;
Shakespeare a s w orld-w ide open sesam e,
P roof that the w orld is wrong dem onstrably,
Good instance of a m ystic secret code,
Am i last, the order of the R osy C ross!
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
SHAKESPEARE AND BACON UNMASKED
1. W OULD YOU KB SA T ISFIE D TO I5E H O A X ED ? N o! T H EN L IS T E N : Tin- ONLY
people w ho m ention au th o rsh ip in connection w ith th e illiterate Stratford street-porter and actor
w ho began life a s an im m oral, poaching butcher-boy, w ho ended as an usurious sot w ho died of
a drunken orgy, and left, a s a second th o u g h t only, th e second-best bed to the w ife w ho bore
h is first child 5 m onths a fter th e m arriage, are th o se w ho have not yet read J a s. Phinney
B axter’s G reatest of L iterary Problem s, or Edwin R eed's Bacon vs. Shakespeare, or V ol. I of
D onnelly’s Great C ryptogram . If your Public Library does not supply them , w rite to the
SH A K ESPEA R E LEN DIN G LIBRARY, at Teocalli, 1177 W arburton A ve., Y onkers, N. Y. U. S.
A. TH E AUTH ORSH IP IM PO SSIBLE FOR TH E STRA TFO RD IAN ? B ecause he w ould have
had to b e a n author BEFO R E STAR TING ; he w a s still butchering in Stratford w hile in d istant
London V enus & A donis w as being published in 1584; w hile H am let w a s being acted in London
in 1585, and in A m sterdam in 1586; IN HIS A BSEN C E, a fter 1610, w ere published 11 new plays;
and A FTER IU S D EA TH in 1616 appeared Henry V III, 1621, C oriolanus & Ju liu s C aesar, 1622,
Tim on, 1628.
SH AK ESPK AREANISM U NK NO W N TO SH A K E SPE A R E . The A ctor never m entioned th e
plays, even in his w ill; never protested w hile th ey w ere being au thoritatively revised in liis
absence. On the contrary, he probably received m oney for fath ering A London Prodigal, A York­
shire Tragedy, Thom as Lord C rom w ell, The Puritan, Locrine, and H eyw ood’s 2 poem s. So he
w a s a PRO FESSIO NAL DUMMY, having nothing to lose in reputation.
SHAK ESPK A R IAN ISM A MODERN D ELU SIO N . — 1. H is contem poraries w ere under no
illu sion s; when he died, no one said a word, in con trast w ith B acon’s glow ing eu logies. M anes.
— 2. He w as attack ed in 1592 by Greene (?) a s im postor, in 1601 by M anningham a s a lewd
deceiver, in 1589 by N ash a s an im postor. T his is th e to ta l d ire c t co n tem poraneous refere n ce,
except 8 anonym ous charges lie w a s m iserly and unreliable. — 8. Ben Jonson, w ho later praised
the A uthor, charged th e A cto r w ith chattering, having little L a tin and less G reek, (?) of being
a P oet Ape, w ho bo u g h t th e rev ersio n of old p lays. — 4. The Stratford ian w a s openly charged
w ith being a literary im postor in Ben Johnson’s E very Man in h is Hum our, 1598; in the Return
from P ern assu s, 1601, in R atsei’s G host, 1605; R osicrucian C onfessio, 1615; G reat A ssizes, 1645;
Sw an of Avon Legend; and in th e 1786 Educated P ig story open claim .
AUTH ORSH IP DOES NOT F IT TH E BU TCH ER D R U N K A R D . The A uthor m u st h ave been
a LING UIST, using th en u n tra n sla te d L atin , G reek, F rench, Italian & Spanish expressions and
p lots; a SCHOLAR of all universal literature; a rem arkable JU R IS T ; a PH ILO SO PH ER , (C ar­
lyle, Em erson, D r. Johnson, Coleridge, H udson); a COURTIER (V enus & A donis, T em pest;)
a LIVING DICTIONARY using 15,000 w ords, and a W A LK ING EN CY C LO PED IA, B aynes, L ow ­
ell, W halley, Gervinus, Stapfer, D ickens, A llibone. N ow th e S tratfordian w as none of all th is,
and it is d isgusting to even mention the fa cts, w hich are how ever m ade com pulsory by th e
childishness of th e trad itionalist. Stratford w a s so vile a place th a t out of 19 alderm en 18
could not w rite. N either could Shakespeare of w hom a ll th a t su rv iv es are 5 illegib le scraw l-
signatures, and W ise has catalogued th e 1906 d iffe re n t w ay s in w hich h is nam e ap pears; nor did
he teach h is ow n children to w rite! Of course, no m anuscripts, no m ention of books, even in
h is w ill, no correspondence except one letter a sk in g h im fo r a lo an ! More repulsive still than
th is IGNORANCE, is his M EA N NESS. Besides the in stan ces m entioned above, it is sim ply un­
thinkable th at A FT E R w riting th at im m ortal sonnet on Mercy from th e M erchant of V en­
ice, a m an should settle down to keeping a law yer lodging in h is house th e better to prosecute
the poor for trifles lent at usury. A s to his INTEM PER AN C E, every visitor to S tratford is
show n the place w here he died of a drunken orgy, th e crab-Uree w here he held a drinking- con­
test, & M ermaid Tavern w here liatibtually he sw illed. So BR U TA L th a t he ju bilated over the
calves he killed (A ubrey).
W H AT! SUC H A BEA ST W R ITE THE IMMORTAL PLA Y S? IM PO SSIBLE! T h at is
w hat said th e poet W H ITTIER : W hoever w rote th e P lay s, I am q u ite su re th e m an S h ak esp eare
n eith er ditl n o r could. Then EM ERSON said: I ca n n o t m a rry th is . . . obscene and p ro fa n e
life . . . to his verse. JOHN BRIGHT the English statesm an said. Any m an w ho believes such
a m an w rote H am let o r L e a r is a fool! Even th e m alicious Stratford ian RIC H A R D GRANT
W H ITE, w ho hounded D elia B acon to death acknow ledged it w ould be a m iracu lo u s m iracle,
w hich, in plain E nglish m eans a m ere m istake.
SO GET ABOARD TH E BAND-W AGON, ALONG W ITH Oliver W endell H olm es, Judge N ath.
H olm es, M ark T w ain, W alt W hitm an, the poet C oleridge, th e philosopher S chliegel, Prince B is­
m arck, Lord Palm erston, Lord H oughton, Editor F u rn ess, and A ppleton M organ, P re s id e n t of
th e N. Y. S h ak esp eare Society!
BACON D E F E N D E D
AGAINST TRADITIO NAL CHARGES BY TH E U N R EFLEC TIN G . — 1. A re h is P salm -versi­
fications POOR? A t least, they have th e m erit of having been m ade direct from th e originals,
and of being better than th ose of M ilton, which have never been allow ed to d etract from his
fam e as a great poet. Indeed, in view of the lim itation s of E nglish rhym es, it is to be doubted
w hether accurate m etrical rhym ed psalm -tran slation s w ill ever be ad visab le; a s appears f ”om
com paring all th ose extant. — 2. D id Pope say th at he w as th e ‘M EA N EST of m a n k in d ? ’ Pope
probably m eant th e HUM BLEST, and we have such uses of th at w ord, which w ould w ell describe
B acon’s reserve and m odesty. Pope m ust have m eant the w ord kindly, inasm uch a s he w a s one
of the leaders in the erection of the W estm inster m onum ent. In th e literal sen se of m eanness,
it would be ludicrously untrue a s, on th e contrary, he w a s so over liberal a s to be rebuked
therefor by both Queen Elizabeth and King Jam es. — 8. Is M acau ley ’s ANIMOSITY again st him
justified? N o; th e (in )-fam ou s E ssa y w as condem ned a s grossly u nfair and incom petent by an
authority no le ss than the learned Lord Acton. — 4. W as B acon SE R V IL E ? He lived in an
age when servility w as essential to survival as courtier or noblem an. W hy, even to-d ay rich
A m erican girls are actu ally m a rry in g for titles th a t are frau d s! — 5. W as B acon CRINGING?
On the contrary, he boldly published letters of ad vice to Elizabeth, E ssex, Jam es and George
V illiers. — 6. D id B acon SE L L H IM SELF? H e thought it better to serve his country w ith and
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
under m en in ferior to him self, than not a t a ll. — 7. W as he a M A N -PLEA SER ? H e pleased
‘g re a t’ m en rath er ill! — 8. W as he C R U E L ? In contrast w ith the brutal Coke, lie w as m erci­
ful to crim inals. All good m en w ere h is friends. H is Prayer sa y s ‘I have hated a ll cruelty and
h ard ness o f h eart.’ The M anes say ‘0 thou w ho w ert so good to all m en liv in g !’ — 0. W as he
U N F A IT H F U L ? H e w as know n a s a ‘friend unalterable to h is frien d s,’ even to th e renegade
Sir Tobie M atthew s. — 10. Did he BETR A Y E ssex? The Queen’s express com m and w a s a super­
seding obligation superior to personal ob ligations. — 11. D id he accept U R IBES? In a surviving
letter h is servan t T lios. B usliell con fesses the servan ts betrayed their innocent m aster in per­
p etuating an im m em orial (and survivin g!) custom . Bacon accepted the blam e, as a scape-goat
for the S tu arts’ unpopularity; but in sisted H E W AS TH E JU ST E ST JU D G E IN EN G LA ND
SIN C E 50 Y EAR S and records show he w a s th e first judge to clear th e court-calendar.
In our S IIA K E S I> K A n F F ?^ M ,fsivI5n A w ® K n S S y f l^ ^ - S m is t r n t o t l th at th e Stratford
butcher could not have w ritten th e im m ortal plays. But if not he, then w ho? FRA NC IS BACON
D ID . W HY SO? 1. H e alone had the ab ility. 2. Sim ilarities to B acon’s published w orks and
unpublished MSS. 8. S im ilarities w ith B acon’s biography, including localities, friends and
events. 4. C ircum stantial evidence alm ost u nassailable. 5, B aton ’s ow n claim s to authorship,
the public ones involuntary, th e purposive ones secret, (i. A cknow ledgm ent of Bacon’s author­
ship by h is contem poraries. 7. M odern acknow ledgm ent by experts am ong whom it w ould be
an honor for any reader to enroll,— E m erson, W hittier, etc. BU T W HY A L L T fflS SECRECY?
W HY SH O U LD IIE N E E D U NM ASK IN G ? S till to-d ay secrecy is em ployed by authors, eccles­
ia stics, p olitician s, b usiness m en, society w om en, teachers and law yers. So th ere is nothing
unusual about it; but Bacon had special reason s. 1. The E lizabethan time*, w ere ‘dark and
p erilou s.’ A ll p olitical preferm ent and incom e-opportunity depended from th e favor of th e K ing
w ho openly flouted the literary, th ere w a s no press or elections to appeal to for support or
vindication, w h ile the theatre-personnel w a s adm ittedly vile. M oreover, Bacon had precisely
to m ak e his living a s a law yer, for 5 years had a ‘long su it’ to E lizab eth , and w hile she private^
ly acknow ledged him as her son, he knew th a t th e school-teacher M arston had had his ears cut
<»ff for public telling she had had tw o sons by L eicester. W hile for years he had to keep him ­
self availab le for the succession , he received no advancem ent from Jam es w ithout the utm ost
subservience. Such grounds for anonym ity of authorship w ere sufficient to convert BosH E.
L aw rence and m any others. M oreover w ith B acon secrecy had become a philosophico-religious
principle: h is ‘A dvancem ent of L earning’ teach es the ‘B iliteral Cypher’ w hich h as been universal­
ly adopted a s the Morse Code; and he considers th e Bible authorizes th e Church’s D iscip lina
A rcani in Proverbs 25.2, It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, and it is the glory of the
king to d iscover it. Therefore, secrecy is not m erely a justifiab le accident, but th e hall-m ark
w ithout w hich no production is genuinely Baconian.
IIE W A S TH E ONLY ONE W ITH T H E A BILITY TO W R ITE TH E PLA Y S from then still
untranslated sources, G reek, L atin , French, Italian and Spanish; he graduated from Cambridge
at 15, travelled all over Europe, lived a t th e C ourt, published the m ost learned treatises, w as
law yer, philosopher, poet, scien tist,— all th e p lays demand.
A LL T H E PLA Y S’ GEOGRAPHIC LOCALIZATIONS A R E BACO NIAN. W hile Stratford
does not appear, w e have 23 m entions of St. A lbans’ including the battle, the contem porary epi­
tap h, and th e fa k e b eggar; a lso Cym beline legends. Bacon alone had visited all the scenes of
H enry V I:30 in London, 3 in St. A lb an s’, 20 in French provinces, 1 in Tem ple, 1 in Parliam ent,
and th e tru e-to -life soldiers could h ave been observed in P aris only. In I.L I. th e scene is at the
N avarre Court w here Bacon h im self had w ooed in vain, and the nam es Biron, Boyet and Dum -
ayn e com e from h is brother A nthony's p ass-p ort. H ere belong Joan o f A rc’s appeal to Bur­
gundy, V en etian scenery w ith Spanish law of M oV, Paduan scenery of ToSh, and the sources
of Othello.
O F BACON’S BIOGRAPHICAL E X P E R IE N C E S TH E PLAY’S R E V E A L 1. The Tudor h is­
to ries w itn ess h is expectations of th e succession , w h ile H am let pictures the agonies o f an un­
acknow ledged son. — 2. Sir N ich olas B acon ’s hanged hog joke, MW W 4.1. 3, C am bridge students*
keeping, not livin g in room s, TA ; silen t foursom e dining and horticulture a t G ray’s Inn. — 4.
Ignorance o f w ater-fow l im possible to a S tratford ian . — 5. W as d ram atic m anager at G ray’s
Inn, and produced CoE 6, MoV reveals h is brother A nthony’s nam e, salvation from a Shylock,
and m ercy-plea B acon w rote for E ssex. — 7. W hen E lizabeth w a s angry about Richard II (m en­
tioned in B acon 's N orthum berland MSS) she sen t directly fo r him . — 8. Bacon revised his
E ssa y s 30 tim es, so he m ight have been th e play-reviser. The Tem pest storm com es from a
secret Privy Council report. W e have his book w ith w itch craft d etails. A bout h is fa ll, w e have
his book w ith w itch craft d etails. A bout h is fa ll, w e have h is being m ade to w a it in Bucking­
ham ’s ante-cham ber, th e number and nam e of th e lords who relieve him o f th e Great Seal, an
irrelevan t self-d efen se, a W olsey p assage traced to one of h is letters, Tim on com plaining of
ingratitude and C aesar of b etrayal. E lizab eth ’s death -details in L ear cam e to him thro her
physician . B erm udas w ere ‘isles of th e d evil’— C aliban.
T H E PLA Y S R EV EA L BACON’S F R IE N D S A N D EN EM IES. H is brother ‘A nthony’ ap­
pears in 12 p lays w ith 2(59 allusion s. The am orous V enus & Adonis, dedicated to Southam pton,
h is fello w G ray’s Inn lodger, w ould never have been licensed by the A rchbishop had he not been
W h itgift, h is Cam bridge tutor. In lla m le t, Polonius w a s Lord B urleigh, L aertes Robert C ecil,
Y’orlck H eyw ood, m ad Ophelia L ady Ann B acon. FalstatT w as Sir John O ldcastle, M alvolio Sir
E dw ard Coke. Pem broke and M ontgom ery to w hom th e F olio w as dedicated w ere liis coloniza­
tion partners.
PA R A LLELLISM S A R E TH E BE ST K IN D OF PROOF; and are used universally, and D on­
nelly, by a quotation from Sir E dw ard Coke, B acon’s rival, h as proved th at they do not exist
everyw here, and are th erefore convincing, w hen R etd g ives 885, and M rs. P ott 4404, and D onnelly
thousands. W e have 98 w ords used now here else than in Bacon and P lays, w h ile th e P la y s in­
troduced 5000 into u sage, except th e Spanish Good daw n! There s a p arallel rare com bination
of reason and intelligence, free use of pleonasm s, o f condensation, of aphorism s, of 03 triplicate
divisions, 12 catalogu es of w ords, of euphony of speech.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
CORROBORATING CIRCUM STANTIAL E V ID E N C E IS T H E STRO NG EST! Of D E F IN IT E
CONNECTIONS betw een th e E lays and B acon’s W orks D onnelly gives 40 id en tical q uotations,
73 opinions and 500 m etaphors; W oodward & W igston g ive IS p arallels from Ilam let and Sonnets.
There are G PA R ADDED M ISTA K ES; A ristotle’s opinion, h ea t expelling lieat, spirits of inani­
m ate nature, spontaneous generation, toad-head stone, liver a s sen su ality-seat. R EPU TED
ERRO RS W HICH RESEARC H T U R N ED INTO R AR E BITS OF K NO W DEDG E im possible to
any but B acon: Joan of A rc’s letter, Julio Rom ano a s sculptor, Sea-port of Bohem ia, Port of
M ilan, G ardens of Adonis, C leopatra’s billiards. SC IEN TIFIC PARA DDE D DISM S: H am let
corpse-preservation, and th e tri-tone, inserted a fter the actor’s death. FA R ADDED C H A NG E
IN SCIEN TIFIC OPINIONS: no sen se w ithout m otion, tides dependent on m oon, earth being
fiery, heliocentric theory. R AR E BITS OF K N O W D ED G E: P lin y q uotation, Pericles heraldry and
N iceta s quotation, Dear & M acbeth d etails, honorificabilitudinitatibus, a vocaublary of 15,000
w ords as again st D ickens’ 8000. CORROBORATIONS: B y H enry V II B acon com pletes th e Shak e-
p eare Tudor h istories; th e W T’s flow er-list parallel; from B acon’s MSS R ichard II & III, the sa lu ­
tation s, the C ouncillor-advice, th e line from D ucrece; a lso th e D uth er-sim ilarities from D onnelly.
PU BD IC CDAIMS TO A UTH O R SH IP being out of th e question, w e m u st content ourselves
w ith COM BINATION AD IN F E R E N C E FROM FA C TS. H is R estoration of K now ledge w a s to
have consisted of 6 books and the indications identify th e H istories, C om edies and T ragedies a s
th e m issing 3. W e have 8 B aconian appeals to p osterity, and 5 claim s he had secret w orks w ith
inferences they w ere dram atic, m erry, poetic, acted; to Tobic M atthew he m entioned JC & M FM ;
lie produced CoE & X H N ; he nam es RUE & III. In T&C p reface he describes h im self as not an
actor, indifferent to m oney rew ards, and of high social rank. Could w e a sk m ore? Subtle
shining secrecies w rit in the m argent of books w a s B acon’s ow n expression to describe h is
SECRET CI,AIM S TO AUTH O R SH IP, w hich are so volum inous and direct th a t they settle th e
question forever, except for th ose w ho are so lazy or cow ardly a s to dodge reading W . Stone-
B ooth ’s book of th at nam e, W . C. A rensberg’s G lyptography of Shakespeare, or D r. P feiffer’s
Concealed M ethods of E xpression in E n glish L iterature in th e 1923 A m erican B aconiana. W e
have thousands of cases w here a t th e beginning and end of the p lays, specially Dove’s L abor
Dost, in E . D urning-D aw rence’s B acon is Shakespeare, w e find acrostics and an agram s claim ing
th e authorship; and th at th is is not im aginary is proved by th e contem porary A rchbishop o f
C anterbury Tennyson w arning that no one could understand I.ord B acon’s cipher correctly w ho
used any other than th e 1023 F olio edition for th e others con fu se th e shape of th e letters ‘in
w hich m uch of the m ystery con sisteth .’ N o wonder th erefore th a t th e cipher story w a s decoded
by D r. Owen and Mrs. G allup, and substantiated by Parker W oodw ard. M rs. N . C. C lark of
Oxford O. strengthened th e B aconian connection w ith th e P la y s by dem onstrating in them th e
application of the D ial described in h is A lphabet of N ature.
BU T W IIY W A S BACON N E V E R RECOGNIZED A S A GREAT POET? H e w a s! Ben
Jonson declared tw ice (once to the ‘author-Sliakespeare,’ and once of the C hancellor B acon,)
th at he had filled all num bers, and equalled or surpassed insolent Greece or haughty Rom e.
W hen he died (?) th e m ost prom inent U niversity m en published a volum e, called the M anes
V erulam ianae, celebrating B acon a s th e supremo poet (in 192G T ercentenary E nglish B aconiana)
and H ilda P feiffer gathered th e evidence in F rancis Bacon a G reat Poet, A m ’n Bacon Soc’y, 15
Gram ercy Park, N . Y. BU T NO ONE B E L IE V E S BACON W ROTE SH A K E SP E A R E ! W rong!
R ead Mr. E dw in Reed’s Some N otew orthy Opinions; or send for Shakespeare U nm asked.
ANNUAL READING SCHEDULE
A s no opinion is entitled to respect unless preceded by a com plete survey, all honest students
Will need som e plan sim ilar to the follow ing ten tative schedule for th e approxim ate w eek-ends:
SH A K ESPEA R E R EAD ING SC H E D U L E
A utum n, COMEDIES. OCTOBER. 1, Tem pest. 2, 2 G entlem en of V erona. 3, M erry W ives of
W indsor. 4, M easure for M easure. NOVEM BER. 1, Comedy of E rrors. 2, M uch Ado about N o­
thing. 3, D ove’s Dabor D ost. 4, M id-Summer N igh t’s D ream . D ec. 1, M erchant of V enice. 2, A s
You D ike It. 3, Tam ing Shrew . 4, A ll’s W ell. 5, 12th N ight. W inter, HISTO R IES. JA N . 1,
W inter’s Tale. 2, King John. 3, E dw ard III and th e B lack Prince. See B. B acon ian a, D ec. ’2G.
4, R ichard III. 4, B acon’s H enry V II. 5, H enry V III Spring, TR A G ED IES. A PR . 1, B acon's
H y 8; Gt. B ritain ; F el & P r Qu E l, Pr of W ales; 2, T roilus and C ressida; 3, C oriolanus. 4, T itus
A ndronicus. MAY, 1, Rom eo & Juliet. 2, Tim on. 3, Ju liu s C aesar, w ith B acon ’s R ife of JC
4, M acbeth. JU N E , 1, H am let. 2, K g Dear. 3, O thello. 4, A nthony & C leopatra. 5, C ym beline.
Summer. JU DY , 1, Pericles. 2, Sonnets. 3, Other Poem s. 4, London Prodigal. AUG. 1, York­
shire Tragedy. 2, Thos I.ord Crom well. 3, P uritan. 4, D ocrine. SE P. 1, Tw o N oble K insm en.
2, Ben Jonson, D iscoveries. 3, Cam den, R em ains. 4, Bacon B iographies by R aw ley, Spedding,
M ontagu, H epworth D ixon; 5, by Sinedley, Parker W oodw ard, B eard, etc. M anes.
FR A N C IS BACON READ ING SC H ED U LE. OCT., R eflections, E ssa y s, E ssa y on D eath ,
D ives of Julius C aesar, and of A ugustus. NOV. H um or, A pothegm s, O rnam enta R ation alia,
C ollections of Sentences, also Prom us le tte r s of A dvice to E lizab eth , E ssex, Jam es and V illiers.
D EC . Sym bology, W isdom of A ncients, Fable of Cupid. JA N . R eligion, M editations, Prayers,
P salm s, C onfes. F aith , H oly W ar, C haracter of X tian . F E B . S tatesm anship, N ew A tlan tis,
S tate of Europe, P lantation of Ireland, W ar w ith Spain, U nion of E ngland & Ireland, True
G reatness of B ritain, H istories, P raises E l., H enry. MARCH, Culture, A dvancem ent of R eam ­
ing of 1G05, and 1G40. A PR . Know ledge, Instauration, Novum Organon, M asculine Birth of Tim e.
MAY, T ranslations, Color of Good and Evil, Thoughts on N ature o f T hings. JU N E , Philosophy,
H elps for Intellectual Powers', In P raise of K now ledge, H istory o f L ife & D eath , A lphabet of
N ature, Intellectual Globe, Interpretation of N ature, H istories of D en sity, H eavin ess, Sym pathy,
S alt Sulphur & M ercury, V alerius Term inus, Filum R abyrinthi, Sequela C hartarum . JU D Y , L et­
ters, as given in M ontagu’s 3 vol. Philadelphia Edition. AUG. O bservations, S ylva Sylvarum .
M edical, Physiological, Sound, Ebb, M inerals etc. S E P . L egal, T racts, C odification, C harges,
1000s of D ecisions, E ssex case, A po'ogy, etc. E d ition s: Spedding, 15 v o l; M ontagu 3 vol; Newnes*
1 vol. Ideal C om m onw ealths; E verym an’s, E ssa y s, Adv. o f R eam . M rs. P ott’s Ed. of Prom us.
M ontagu’s edition is th e m ost practical. N ew A tlan tis in L ittle B lue Books.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
HAMLET AS MANIFESTO OF REFORMATION.
It is literatu re's sub lim est study, N em esis’s clearest allegory, W ho w rote it? A uthorship by
m an uscrip t-less, drunk U surer Excluded by D a te: H e could not have left Stratford till 1586, as
children w ere born in 1585.
CONTEM PORARY HISTORICAL BIOGRAPHIC E V ID EN C E. In 1584 Bacon cau gh t teaching
H am let to p layers: June 1585 w as played a t Oxford before Giordano Bruno w ho philosophized on
th e h ereafter and took refu ge a t W itteniberg. There w as a German edition which resem bled the
1603 quarto, had an allegorical introduction lik e B acon’s W isdom o f A ncients, and m entioned the
nam e o f th e w hite educated horse Signor. It w a s th e year o f D arn ley’s poisoning, attem p ts to
poison E lizabeth by I.opez and Gonza-Io G o-m ez, w hen Bacon a s Parliam en tary com m issioner had
to alter a crim in al’s intercepted letter. Overbury’s murder w as disguised a s foul disease, Jester
T arleton w a s disgraced. B acon’s Paduan letter explains know ledge of blood-circulation. L eices­
te r ’s players play it Oct. in Low C ountries, and again in 1586 by D enm ark king at Antw erp be­
fore C ardinal A lphonso & Spanish Infan t. Speech To be or not to be is popular recitation, says
N ash .
BACON’S OWN CONTEM PORARY CLAIM S. H am -let m eans B acon Jr. altered from D anish
Saxo G ram m aticus A m leth. and 16(H) M oroccan envoy M uley H am et X arife. I t represents him ­
se lf a s unacknow ledged B lack Prince, uncertain w h at course to tak e, w ith a m ission.
PLA Y -CH AR A CTER S FROM BACON’S BIOGRAPHY.—1. Polonlus is Burleigh, nam ed from
W alsin gh am ’s spy Foley, changed from Coram bis in Germ an 1585 edition. Burleigh w as wordy,
refused to change religion, gave h is departing son 10 precepts, and relied on inform ers. 2. L aer­
te s, his son R obert C ecil, w a s also an enem y to B acon. 3. Ophelia is B acon’s cousin L ady Ox­
ford and Lady Ann B acon w ho w en t insane. 4. Y orick w as H eyw ood, jester to H enry V III, who
visited the B acons during F rancis’s childhood; proved by death-date dhange. 5. Player-clow n,
th e indiscreet D ick T arleton. 6. Gonzalo, actu al Elizabeth poison-plotter. 7. Queen Gertrude w as
E lizabeth ignoring the poison-plots, and treatin g son doubtfully. 7. Osric’s Eupheuism .
LITER A R Y FIN G E R PR IN T S POINTING TO BACONIAN AUTH O RSH IP.— 1. L egal profes­
sion alism s, untranslated P ettit case. 2. M edicalism s, Pliny’s ear-poison & hom eopathy. Thro'
F au n t blood circu lation; venous absorption. 3. L in gu istics: To B e speech from Parm enides thro*
E uphues: Polonius precepts from Plutarch & Pythagoras. 4. Science: gravity, flam e, fro st,
corpses. 5. W ord -p arallellism s: Thom pson 31, D onnelly 67, Reed 11, W oodward & W igston 18.
6. P arallel E rrors, 8: cham eleons, p assivity, hum ors, anim al spirits, carrion, excrem ents, sun-
m otion, corpse-preservation. 7. 5 P arallel C orrections, th e high est dem onstration; sen se w ithout
m otion, m oon a s tid e-cau se, sun-m oving, star-fires. Y orick’s burial-date correctly changed from
12 to 23 in th e later edition, see B axter p. 497. 8. A crostic devices, Stone-Booth gives 7, includ­
ing both title-p ages. 9. Purposive m isp agin ation s: 257 on true seal 157. 10. D r. P feiffer show s
m any incontrovertible num erological dem onstrations. 11. Then untranslated sources: Saxo Gram­
m aticus P lot. N orm an P ettit case.
SPIR IT U A L SIG N IFIC A N C E OF T H E PLA Y OUTLINED BY' W igston as progress o f hu­
m anity, K enneth Sylvan G uthrie in H am let U nm asked show s king as Tradition w ho h as m ur­
dered Truth, w hose G host is conscience w ho d rives the suicide-curing H am -let to a U niversal
R eform . But not till he h as successively d efeated w orldliness in Polonius, society in R os. &
G uild., ecclesiasticism in O phelia, finance in Osric & am bition in L aertes can he destroy the
now supportless, undisguised, crim inal Tradition.
TEMPEST AS ALLEGORY OF BACON'S FALL.
SIM ILAR G EN ER A L BIOGRAPHICAL TR AITS, from D onnelly. 1. Prospero born to great­
n ess, ‘prince’, a s B acon born in York H ouse P alace expecting great inheritance. 2. C ast down by
M iranda’s uncle, th a t is, B urleigh. 3. Ruined by ‘secret stud ies,’ ‘bettering m y m ind.' 4. W hen
ruined, ‘ra ts abandon h im .’ 5. M iranda, w onder, like plays, existed before h is fa ll. 6. L ove of
M iranda, p lays, w hose p arentage needed revealin g, saved him in trouble. 7. N am e I'ro-sper-o,
‘for’ Slm ke-sper, 8. A riel, spirit and sin ger, like poetry. 9. D runk C aliban, like drunk actor,
claim s ow nership or authorship. 10. C aliban w a s on th e island before Prospero gave him know l­
edge, so w ith Sli and B ac. 11. The cell of I'r & B a t G ray’s Inn and E aton. 12. ‘Tem pest' used
of B ac.'s exigencies. 13. A riel dism issed as duke resum es power, ju st a s plays cease to appear
as I? assu m es office. 14. A fter drow ning h is book w ill ‘bring out a wonder to content y e;' after
p lays brings out N ovum Organon. 15. ‘A fter som e sw eet m usic,' w a s th e la st of th e p lays, the
T em pest itself.
CONTEM PORARY HISTORICAL BIOGRAPHIC E V ID EN C E. 1. B erm oothes w a s Berm udas
w here in 1610 A dm . Som ers ships w ere w recked w h ile Southam pton’s V irginia colonizing adven­
ture. The secret report to the Privy Council of w hich B acon w a s a m ember m entioned th e very
storm -d etails in th e p lay, w hich em bodies so much of B acon’s m eteorological studies th at it
‘d istin ctly fixes th e au thorsh ip ,’ sa y s J a s Phinney B axter. 2. H e fell in 1621. 3. In F eb. '23
P rince C harles w ent a-w ooin g to M adrid. On the T ham es he had trouble, being arrested a s a
deserter. On h is return in Oct. B acon w rote him the claim below . 4. B acon's Tow er-im prison­
m ent rem inds o f A riel’s. 5. H e w a s relieved of his w ork s' L atin tran slation , autum n '23.
PLA Y -CH AR A CTER S FROM BACON’S BIOGRAPHY. 1. A ntonio w as his brother. 2. Gon­
zalo w a s Gondonmr. Sir Tobie M atthew s gave him books when he w a s sent to th e Tow er, says
Thom pson. 3. C aliban’s plots to brain him w ere Coke’s. 4. Sycorax w as Queen E lizabeth who
preferred Coke. 5. Ferdinand w as th e Spanish king fo r whom w as w ritten A m adis.
BACON’S OW N CONTEMPORARY CLAIM S. 1. T o C harles, th a t lie had finished a piece
th a t ‘began like a fa b le o f poets, but it deserveth a ll in a piece a w orthy adm iration.' 2. To
Gondom ar, a sk in g him to perform a m iracle so a s to b e restored to favor. 3. W rites of being
disappointed in reconciled enem ies and discontented frien ds. 4. In a letter elaborates th e w ind­
in g up th e w atch of his w its, from 1, 2. 5. C ontem porary letters use nautical sim iles, storm s,
ship -w reck s, rescu es, harbors, islan d s. 6. Com pare E very third thought is of m y grave w ith My
nam e and m em ory I leave to foreign nations. 7. In FM Q uE liz he p lainly refers to A m adis epic.
LITERA R Y F IN G E R PR IN T S POINTING TO BACONIAN AUTH ORSH IP. 1. U ntranslated
A m adis de Gaul p lays in an islan d B erm eja, w here by a m iracle a N ecrom ancer m arries his
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
daughter O riana to A m adis: it contains ch aracters of a P erfect K night, a M agician, an E n ­
chantress, and a D w arf. 2. L ike the New A tlan tis begins w ith southern sea-voyage, and h as
U topia. 3. P a r a lle lism s abundant: D onnelly gives 20, R eed 32; som e dup licates. 4. _A crostic
D evices: Stone-Booth gives 13, A rensberg, m any, h ead-piece. D r. P feiffer gives m any in contro­
vertible num erologlcal proofs.
AUTH ORSH IP BY M AN USC RIPT-LESS, drunk U surer E xcluded by D a te; he le ft London in
1010 and died in 1010; play first published in 1023.
SPIR ITU A L SIG NIFIC AN C E OF TH E PLA Y Outlined by W igston, in BSH & R osicrueians
points out full E leusiiuan m ystery-rite; S till in Sh’s M ystery-P lay show s ‘Paphian* rite. Steph­
anos the rejects, princes th e instructed, and Ferdinand the in itiated , w ith Ariel_ a s usher. E rnest
Renan in C aliban aesth etically ridicules all sp iritu ally. K enneth S ylvan G uthrie in h is Tem pest
U nm asked show s Initiation by capture of th e spirit by the chastened soul. 1023 F acsim ile C opies
to be had of W illard Parker, C onslioliocken, Penna.
BACONIAN ORIGIN OF ROSICRUCIANISM AND MASONRY.
D elivered M ay 31, 1920, a t U nion Centre, N. Y. Cy, by D r. K enneth S. Guthrie.
SU IC ID E OF TH E T H R E E O FFIC IA L ROSICRUCIAN DOCUM ENTS. A t C assel in 1G14
appeared together th ree tracts, the U niversal R eform ation, th e F am a F ra tern ita tis and th e Con­
fession , which aroused a w orld-w ide R osicruclan C raze from 1014-1030. They w ere intended a s
a m ystification because 1. Their 120 yea rs’ claim w ould reach to 1494, for th e burial of C hristian
R osenkreuz, w hose grave w a s supposed to contain th e w orks of P aracelsu s, w ho w ould have
been only one year old at th a t tim e. 2. The R osicrueians are called P rotestan ts a century before
th e R eform ation. 3. No such sanctuary could be located, even by C am pis, D escartes, Leibnitz.
GERMAN ORIGIN D ISC R ED ITED . 1. C am panella show ed the D ocum ents w ere tran slation s
from B occalini’s 1012 V enice R agguaglio del P arnasso, He w a s clubbed to death in 1613. 2. Jung
and G uttm an claim s discredited by DeQ uincey. 3. If A ndreas w rote them , he w ould have had to
do so a t 15 years of age, and th e Chym ical M arriage at 10. H e and h is fr im d s Ireneus A gnostus
and A lberti w ere orthodox, and he, a m issionary, satirized R osicrucianism continually.
GERMAN CONNECTIONS E X P L A IN E D . 1. M ichael M aier, 1558-1022, visited Bacon in E n g­
land, and m ight have acted a m issionary to G erm any, although B acon h im self fo r h is brother
A nthony m ay have visited Germ any, 1581-2. see Sinedley. 2. B acon’s C om plete W orks w ere pub­
lished first in Germ any, at F rancfort in 1005, at L eipzig in 1094, but in E ngland not b efore 1730.
3. Other E nglish R osicrueians published in G erm any; a s Fludd a t Gouda, Oppenlieim and F ranc-
fort. A lso connections at Luneburg, Brunsw ick, W olfenbuttel.
BRITISH ROSICRUCIAN BACK -GROUND. M asonry of B ritish ; th e nam e Scottish R ite.
Red C ross K nights in Spenser and 2 N oble K insm en and W alter S cott, a t M elrose and R oslyn
w ith th e St. C lairs, and K ilw inning, and Ben Jon son ’s visit to W m . Drum m ond a t H aw thornden;
th e Scotch St. A ndrew ’s C ross; Kg A rthur’s T ab le at W inchester; F a ir R osam und; E lia s A sh-
m ole’s in itiation ; M ention in Ben Jonson, Burton, Spenser, W alton.
FR A NC IS BACON A S FO U N D ER O F ROSICRUCIANISM . 1. W orld-revolution planned by
15 yr old boy, B acon , Burton and W alton. 2. N am e m entioned a s Secretary in B occalin i’s second,
1701 edition; in first appears a s F . B . M agister, Pietor et A rchitectus. 3. N ich olas Ilayd on re­
published h is N ew A tlan tis as the Land of R osicrueians. 4. The C onfessio m entions a s grea test
im postor a fam ous stage-p layer; and Shakespeare m entions roses 70 tim es. 5. Speckm an an a­
gram s the F a in a ’s last line as claim for F rancis Bacon. G. In G erm any th e R osicrueians are
called Baconians, says Mrs. Pott. 7. In France th e R osierucian record 1G23 and 1G34 is explained
by his P aris visits. 8. In England w e have h is actu al R osie C ross group, including A lex. Pope,
Rowe, Tenison, W ilkins, M ead, Tonson, D ugdale, Burlington, all prom inent. 9. The R osierucian
C raze period 1010-1030 corresponds w ith his a ctivities. 10. R osenkreuz’s grave is E xperim ent
771 of B acon’s N atural H istory. 11. W ater-m arks of paper of h is w ork s a re R osierucian, for
100 yrs. P ott. 12. N um erous num erological claim s: R oyal Society, 1014 G reat A ssizes of P a r­
nassu s, his lordly crew sailin g in ship betw een th e M asonic P illars of H ercules, h is Sons of
Sapience, and th e coincidence of th e R ules of life and dying. 13. T w ickenham Park destined a s
abode o f group o f students. 14. St. A lbans connection o f R osicrueians M andeville an d M atthew
of P aris. 15. Quotation of R ose & G arlic; 49th D eficient is Ireneus’s U nity-degrees.
BACON’S MESSAGE TO OUR TIMES OUTLINED.
D elivered M ay 10, 1920 at St. M ark’s Church, N. Y. Cy. A s th is w ork is unselfish an y offer for
delivery or publication w ill be accepted by Dr. K enneth S. Guthrie. T h is ad dress h a s alread y
occasioned essa y s w ith sim ilar subject and title.
AS RELIG IO US L E A D E R BACON IS R ESPE C T A B L E because 1. h is religious w ork s en title
him to a place by the side of the R eform ers; 2. he tran slated d irectly from th e H ebrew , his
P salm s, better than M ilton; 3. during th e w inter 1010-11 he revised th e A uthorized B ible version,
in w hich he le ft four traces. A s in Ps. 40, also Joel iii, 10 and 1G, by m e discovered and an­
nounced at a January, 1927, B acon m eeting; 4. th e 1079 editor o f h is literary R em ains w as
Tenison, th e then A rchbishop of C anterbury; 5. o f bishops there w ere R aw ley, of R esu scitatio,
& W ilkins of R oyal Society. 0. H is Prayers are specially beautiful an d num erous. H is religion
is com posed of tw o elem ents:
TH E G EN ER AL, TRADITIO NAL ELEM EN TS O F N A TU R A L R ELIG IO N , w hich how ever,
like th e old alphabet letters, he com bined into a new w ord: 1. L ove of P a storal N ature, sym ­
bolized a s P an , or N atural R eligion. 2. Love of F low ers, a s G ray's Inn gardener, floriculturer,
‘Burbank’ pioneer. 3. Courtesy, introduced so cial greetin gs, such a s good m orning, dawning.
4. H um ility, a s in his m any prayers, and serviceab len ess to state needs. 5. E m b lem atic Object
T eaching, in figurative allegorical fab le m ethod. 0. Secrecy or R eserve, a d isciplina arcani,
appealing to posterity. 7. Initiation , or Insinuation, a system atization of com m unications of
higher know ledge. 8. M ysteries, based on Proverbs 25.2, God’s glory is to conceal w h at is m an’s
glory to discover. 9. V ersatility and B alance, like' Leonardo da V inci, G oethe and Swedenborg,
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
opposing: th e efficient but narrow ing cu rse of exclu sive specialization w hich B acon based on truth-
u ttuiiuncnt, brilliance, a rtistiea ln ess, hunm nitarianisin.
BACO N’S PA R TIC U LAR , IN D IV ID U A L , ORIGINAL, E L E M EN TS are 1. Inn ate nobility of
an unacknow ledged prince com pelled to preserve his eligib ility w h ile earning hi , living ami
accom plishing literary m iracles. 2. Ideal of toleran t hum anism versu s idols of tribe, den, m ar­
ket, & th eatre. 3. C osm opolitanism , statesm ansh ip , or architecton ic panoram a of th e world
around him , and a telescopic review o f th e sky above our soul, in h is w orks. 4. Partnership or
P lay-fellow sh ip w ith God, a m ethod recently advertised a s a discovery by D ixon and W ells, from
Seneca. 5. F u sion of R eligion, Science an d P o litics: a triune Truth m ore com plete than the fusion
of R eligion and P atriotism proposed in m y ‘Rom ance of Tw o C enturies,’ and th e inevitable out­
com e o f th e L eague o f N ation s unification. T his suprem e triad is explained a s three w orld-
hvaling p anaceas. (>. F usion of R eligion w ith Society, dem anded by suicide, divorce, shattered
C hristian ity, com m unism and fascism . On a foundation of eugenics it builds a w holesom e re­
ligiou s fam ilial sacram en t of th e N ew A tlan tis F esta l Rite, an ancestor-w orship th at is not re­
actionary but forw ard-looking. 7. F u sion of R eligious E th ics w ith Science, an antidote de­
m anded by m odern scientific crim e and w ar. The N ew A tlan tis Solom on’s H ouse F ath er’s b less­
in g turns scientific research into a sacram en t. 8. A R eform ation of the W hole W ide W orld w as
planned by Bacon a t 15 years of age, so a s to study all know ledge, to assem ble a group of
Invisib le H elpers and a N ew A tlan tis R osie C ross Order, w hich w as to becom e a S tair of
H eaven and Mirror of th e W orld. H e le ft behind one such group, including A l. Pope.
The eventual W orld-R eligion cannot help including som e such elem ents.
SPEAKERS’ STANDARD OUTLINES AND AMMUNITION
A . G E N E R A !.. 1, C oleridge’s Idiot-quotation. 3, Im possibility of A ctor’s A uthorship. 3,
C onnecting link s: N orthum berland MSS, E lizab eth ’s A ccusing Bacon, Ben Jonson’s Expressions.
4, B acon ’s E ducation and P osition, possible. 5, Gap in Bacon’s C areer. In 40 years published
only 2 volum es; in 20 m ore, only 2 larger. E ither indolence or hidden. H is acknow ledgem ent of
m ysteries. 6, M issing L ink: B acon’s Bribe to Jam es, Henry V II, com pleting play—Tudor history.
7, E xh ib it frontispiece to Cam bridge Comedy of Errors.
B. SPEC IA L, (a ), INTRODUCTION: 1, Im possibility of m iracles. 2 , M otives, fou r: see
poem . 3, H andicaps: vastness, length in ess, apparent m uckraking, (b ), COMPARISONS: Wrong
id eas o f both: 1, F am e a t death ; 2. A ctor attack ed , Bacon defended; 3, Im possibilities o f Edu­
cation, an d chronology. 4, D etails, biographic, localization s, sta g ecraft, (c ), PARALLELLISM S,
see Reed, etc. (d ), CONNECTIONS: N orth. MSS, E lizabeth, Jonson, H anged H og, C ryptogram s,
(e ), A G R EEM EN T: Jonson on both, (f), SUM MING UP, Opinions of M organ, F u rn ess, M anes,
G uthrie C ircular, C of E rrors frontispiece.
BOOK I. OF THE PRESENCE OF GOD
CHAPTER I
1. O God, my God, hast Thou forsaken me?
I am so weary of this endless road! In dawn of youth I never tired; but now
I stumble on, and think of when I may find rest. Is there no place of rest for me?
No spot to lay my head?
2.. O God, my God, hast Thou forsaken me?
The road is hard and steep. The hills grow bolder, as it were, and oh, the level
reaches are so rare! Always another valley, and never the summit yet! Forests to
the right, and forests to the left, and never yet one glimpse of that white Temple
far above. The stones—oh, how they hurt! Mud, mud at every step, and yet at
every splash I must proceed, while still the light of day will last.
3. O God, my God, hast Thou forsaken me?
I am alone, alone, no human help in sight—no human hand to touch, no human
eye to meet. The dear ones of my childhood are no more to me. The dearer ones
of home and heart, they too have had to go their way—ah, the narrowness of that
so Narrow Way, only for one at a time!
4. My God, my God, hast Thou forsaken me?
How little use is to me now my learning, gathered with unrewarded tears? Can
it bring them back to me, those tender voices that awoke the beatings of my heart?
And oh, how little use it is to me, that in those by-gone days I heard them by my
side whisper, ‘he will go far’! I had a reputation once; and fame and glory, wealth
and servants too; and women dear, who clung to me, their teacher, nourisher and
friend, their sun, and moon and stars—and now I am alone, alone, and even echo
answers me, alone!
5. O God, my God, hast Thou forsaken me?
Is there no certitude upon this world? Is there no rock to which to anchor? Is
there no sign-post anywhere, and am I then expected ever to reach the Temple far
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
above, with no chance left in choosing out these devious winding paths? Over and
over again have I returned to this same place, and never further from the plain!
Oh if Thou couldst but hear my prayer, if Thou would’st only teach me; only
tell me how and what to do, how gladly would I do it! What shall I do?
6. My Child, sit down, and eat the food the ravens soon shall bring. Then rest,
and when the stars are out, then will I come to thee and instruct thee, and show
thee so plainly the way that thou shalt not err therein.
II. THAT LONELINESS IS GOD’S MOST PRECIOUS GIFT
1. Wake from thy slumbers, Child, and listen thou to Me—be not afraid, it is
only I, thy Father. Remembcrest thou not My Voice while in thy mother’s womb
I visited thee, and gave thee My parting kiss, to thee who for so long hadst played
with fellow-cherubs around the footstool of My throne all unafraid? Wake—is there
not some one slight tone in this My voice that echoes in thy soul?
2. O Voice divine, O voice beloved, O Voice of long ago, O kindred Voice,
O well-remembered Voice of every better thought, why may I see Thy shrouded
form so tall by shimmering light of stars, but why not too thy face all covered with
a shroud? Why may I hear Thy Voice, but may not see thine eyes? Ah, stay near
me until the dawn, that I may see thy face, and know Thee should I ever meet with
Thee again!
3. O hush, my child, this may not be; I come to none, except it be when mid­
night hushes earthly sight, and sin and evil, hate and blight.
I am the Lord of hosts of stars, and I come only when the milky way reveals
my fiery pillar lying east and west against the purple of the interstellar space. I
am the silent voice that comes to silent souls, at silent times!
Not when the voices of the day speed round in mocking mazes do I come—but
when the spheric chanting of the midnight stars has soothed all humans into sleep.
Hadst thou not been alone, and free, I could not thus have come so close to thee.
4. And oh, thou foolishly complaining Child, did I not he*, this very afternoon thy
plaintive cry? It entered Heaven by the Sorrow-Gate, and hovered round the altar
like a mourning dove, nor would it cease from mourning for its loneliness. But I
rejoiced: for then I knew that thou wast quite ready that I should come to thee—and
here am I!
This loneliness, my Child, is rare; and, for its rarity, rare are the times I may
approach so close unto my childrens’ souls that are so bare. Rejoice therefore, that
thou art lonely; and that it was so dark, and now is night; that so I may approach
quite close, and wake thee with my touch.
5. And more, my Child; it was not chance alone that brought about this glad
result. Long since I loved thee; and when amidst thy boon-companions thou sangest
out loud for joy of earthly fellowship, in Heaven was I sad, though angel-hosts
attempted then to cheer Me by their songs. But still My eyes were full of tears,
and heavy My parental heart; until perchance thou wouldst turn and choose the
holier, lonelier road; and then I would rejoice.
Then would I all afresh commend thee to some stronger, more experienced Shining
One to lead thee swiftly into lonelier paths that soon as possible might come the day
that came, and I the sooner come to thee—to thee, to mind thee of the times eternal
thou didst spend in childish glee; to thee, to mind thee of the times thou yet shall
spend in holy worship by My side.
6. Blessed, thou Angel dear of loneliness, blessed be Thou!
Choicest of gifts of life, long planned for by the unseen helpers of recumbent souls;
Blessed the bitter cry of loneliness that brought to me in midnight hour my
Father and my God.
Blessed thou earthly loneliness, that really was the Presence of my God—when
most alone, then least alone.
III. THAT GOD SEEMS SO DISTANT FOR THE SAKE OF MAN’S OWN
PERFECTION
1. All calm and motionless the veiled Form stood, and sacred awe for one long
hour abode upon that whispering pine-tree wood until I said:
O Father, tell Thou unto me why this Thy Presence could not come to me until
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR 29
the shades of night had fall’n from heaven’s rim, and shimmering stars had sung their
mystic midnight hymn.
Hast Thou the heart to stay in Heaven’s halls while thy own children suffer
through the sultry heat and shivering cold, and partings, and injustices, and hunger
too, with sickness manifold? Canst Thou be happy in Thy distant heaven whilst
here we suffer in this garish day? Is it Thy Will, or some predestined law that even
Thou, O God, must faithfully obey, that Thou canst only come to souls at night?
O blessed Presence, oh forgive this my impertinence; but oh, my Father, couldst
Thou not abide with me forevermore?
3. Oh but my heart demands Thee near to me, though in the day Thou should’st
not be more plain than ashen cloud (while in the night Thy pillar-cloud is fire); yet
stay near me, O divine pillar! Lead me, and I will follow patiently, if it seem well
to Thee, through sufferings manifold, but,—leave me not!
Let not the gladdest hours of life (when dawn shoots fire into the souls of men)
become the saddest moment of the day in this, that Thou, my dearest sacredness and
sacredest delight, dost pass away from me, and leavest me to mourn my better self,
that with Thee seems to vanish like the colours with the light!
4. My Child, I will not leave thee when the dawn shall break; no law can force
me from thee; nor, believe it well, no wish of Mine to pass away from thee. What
but thy Father am I then—do I not suffer even more than thou when I, for thy
own sake, abandon thee unto thy lower self?
But lo, my Child, should I be weak enough to listen only to My anxious love
to thee, and comfort thee for every pain while still thou lingerest amidst the lower
valleys of the world, thou never would’st have even a desire to leave them for the
heights of this the Mountain of serene abode, in whose white Temple hang crowns
of immortality for those who have the courage to break in by violence.
How shall I make thee come? Alas! Thy love for thy own neglected better
self is not yet strong enough to drive thee up—nor dare I thee compel, lest harm
befall thy freedom of the will; so must I use thy love for Me to draw thee up to
where thou shalt discover soon thy own divinity.
For thy own sake therefore must I not yield unto the promptings of My love
for thee until thy efforts have deserved that I should come and bless thee to thy face,
as now I do, O Child-to-be-divine!
5. And hence I come to thee at night when thou art more thy better self—thou
restest, 1, from daily toil that takes thy whole attention’s interest; 2, at night
thou art tranquil, and can’st perceive each subtlest spirit-change; and 3, thou art
conscious of tby own past life, its moorings, course, directions and advance. At such
calm moments can I come to thee; and wert thou ever so, I never would be forced
to pass away from thee now that thou hast left so far behind the plains of ease.
6. Remember thou this law that still directs the universe of suns, which moons
and planets still obey in circling courses; “men get the Presence they deserve;” and
since thou hast deserved so much it is I who shall see to it thou shalt deserve still
more; and I will wrestle with thee to the end, oh thou who hast deserved this special
boon by thy sincerity of toil.
7. And if it be thy fault or thy misfortune that in day of happiness, success, or
labour even, such wrong conditions reign that I cannot be seen by thee expect thou
not to see Me but at night—in night of sorrow first, when grief demands with call
imperious My assistance; in night of full despair, when at the last thou mayest be
willing to resign all that thou art and hast, and hopest still to have and be.
IV. THAT THE CONTINUAL PRESENCE CANNOT BE ATTAINED BY
EVADING DUTY
O heavenly Presence, O divine Assistance, O glorious Holiness, and splendid
Prize: Thee will I follow from this moment on. Thou lodestar of my soul, thou pole
of my desires! I vow to follow Thee henceforth through sorrow and through ease,
by day and night, by gloom and light, Thou art my all, my peace.
2. Harken, heavenly Presence! Thou hast told the secret why in the past Thou
couldst only come by night. I love Thee so, I now propose to live in manner such
that Thou shalt stay near me continually.
Since first attention’s interest, and secondly, the calmness of the sense, and thirdly,
grasp of one’s own better life are all required to keep Thee near to me, I will refuse
to do the least small earthly thing with all its so perplexing cares, demanding all the
efforts of my soul in paths that drive Thee from my side.
3. O happy day, and happier discovery, whereby I can and shall attain the
Presence all unruffled of the Holy Ones! Sing with me, planets, circling in your
orbits high! Chant with me, O ye suns of fulgurant blue light—the bliss of victory
is mine, since God, my victory, will bide with me forevermore.
4. Cease, child of my heart! Listen, think, refrain! This cannot be. This were
a short cut, short indeed, unto my steadfast Presence, such as is vouchsafed to bright­
eyed seraphim and keen-reflecting cherubim around my throne.
But ah, it cannot be for thee, whose body yet without the discipline of daily
exercise would sink into the slough of animality. Thou canst not break thy way
through discipline of life, nor canst thou stay half-way upon this mountain-side—
■
thou canst not anywhere abide for fear of avalanches, till the summit of this Mount
is gained, where stands the Temple, in whose sanctuary alone a soul embodied yel
may see the beatific vision face to face.
5. O Father, am I then debarred from having Thee with me? Must still the
fleshly grind debar my soul continually, and keep me still unfit to see Thy Presence
so beloved?
Not so, my Child; there is a Way, a perfect W ay whose name is this, the Middle
Path, keen as a razor’s edge, which whoso finds and keeps shall swiftly climb the
face of these wild steeps, and never fall, and come safe home at last—nay, not at
last, but at once!
This Middle Path, it is to go right out the plain old Duty-Path, but keeping Me
right close to thee by sheer determination and self-discipline; by keeping hold of this
thy better self (to which alone I can or will appear) by
Silent and exclusive interest’s attention fixed on Me, however bright the world
appear; and Calm repression of the senses; and thus will I remain with this thy tran­
quil mood forevermore!
6. But O my Father, why hast Thou again thrown back my soul into the old,
old slough of doubt and fear? This path of Duties! Oh, not that I would a ‘duty’
shirk—but that I knew just which was such!
These earthly duties to the flesh and mammon force me back unto my lower self,
my better self would not survive one moment’s space!
My Child, the path of duties does not mean of duties to the world, the flesh, or
family; but such as thou dost owe to Me alone—as I appear in nature, duties of
hygiene; as I appear in mind, the duty of an education for search of truth; and as I
am the Father universal, duties to thy brethren, such as I exclusively will tell thee
to fulfil, when thou shalt ask what really I would have thee do, not mindless drudgery,
or sin for sake of family! This is the path of duty thou must take; and it shall yield
thee blessedness, and peace, and the continual overshadowing of my Presence
heavenly.
7. O wondrous grace is given unto me, to hold the Lord near me by simply
keeping these conditions two: first by not working quite so hard as to disturb my
centre of desire; and, secondly by keeping calm and still while walking up the Duty-
path; "'t
This is the Middle Road, the Narrow perfect Way; the two-fold cord that binds
the soul unto its guarding angel-guides. ’*
8. O ray that followest me still wherever I wander through the night;—O spark­
ling, following, silver ray that bindest me to that bright star in zenith of the Temple’s
dome, and shinest so constantly;—Though sun rise bright and shine at noon, or sink
in radiant gold; though cloud grow black, or mist confuse,—Still shines that faithful
star;—O faithful star, shine ever still, nor draw thou in thy ray from me;—For sake
of me at least still shine upon, nor leave thou this thy world;—O be thou constant
till this bitter time of flesh-repression have past over;—O lead the way over desert
tracks unto the mystic cave—Where I may find the manger-crib of Christ the sacred
babe!
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
THE HEAVENLY FRIEND
Dear Heavenly Friend, whom angel hosts adore,
Come, dwell with me, nor leave me evermore.
I have made room for Thee, dear Heav’nly Friend,—Within the silence of my sanc­
tuary,—Where Thou may’st dwell, and oft Thyself unbend,— And I may always
find divinity.
Dear Heavenly Friend, whom angel hosts adore.
Come, dwell with me, nor leave me evermore.
Come Thou not only when with tears I pray,—With Thy Most Holy Touch to com­
fort me;—Stand near when earthly duty interferes,—That while I labour I may
gaze at Thee.
Dear Heavenly Friend, whom angel hosts adore,
Come, dwell with me, nor leave me evermore.
When I go out, be Thou Companion mine,—In every conversation, take Thou part*
—Deign Thou to sit with me, and with me dine;—And when I write, inspire with
heav’nly art.
Dear Heavenly Friend, whom angel hosts adore,
Come, dwell with me, nor leave me evermore.
I would be always what I am sometimes,—When Thou art near me, and I taste Thy
grace;—So stay near me through all my earthly times,—That I may steadfastly
behold Thy Face.
Dear Heavenly Friend, whom angel hosts adore,
Come, dwell with me, nor leave me evermore.
BOOK II OF THE HISTORY OF THE PRESENCE
1. THAT GOD IS THE FATHER OF ALL
1. My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in him, for he
hath regarded the lowliness of this his servant. For behold, from henceforth all
generations shall call me blessed, for that He that is mighty hath magnified me; for
He that is secret hath manifested Himself to me; and He that is unapproachable has
shown His secret to me; and holy is His name.
Lord, now lettest Thou thy servant depart in peace, according to Thy word; for
mine eyes have seen Thy salvation, and lo, of all humanity, the Lord has chosen
me his veiled Form to see, and told to me how I might stand while in this earthly
land, where His divine command may ever be known to me.
2. Henceforth with solemn tread shall I, who in the heavenly Presence stood,
proceed upon my destined way. I feel that touch divine upon my forehead glow
and shine with power persistent and unlessening urgency. That sacred chrism shall
Le my virginal rewarding crown.
No more as formerly in thoughtless converse and with even harmless pleasantry
I while away the tedious hours and merry moments of the endless way and greeting
in a genial, whole-souled manner the chance acquaintance of a common rest.
A dignity divine has fallen on my soul. Shall I, whose eyes beheld the dim
Unseen examine curiously the merry message of some jesting friend? Shall I, whose
ears have heard the silent Voice, attend unto the wild forbidden voices of the pas­
sions and desires?
Those silent midnight winds are playing around me still—through the limpid
azure do I yet see those friendly stars. Here am I not at home; it is but a passing
glance that I on this dear earth bestow. Here may I no more rest; I have discovered
that my home, my own long home is far away.
My mind in mood serene communes with Presences sublime, demanding their
advice, that sooner than can be I might attain the crown of my yet uncrowned
royalty. I hasten calmly, and in serenity do speed, with perfect, accurate dispatch
to press on to my goal, the royal chamber in the far, far spiritual place where I must
yet be crowned by Him my own divinity, my Father and my God.
3. My Father waits me with impatient calm, until predestined, chosen and an­
nounced I should arrive, fulfilling the divine decree recorded long before, to which
I answer made, Lo, in the volume of the book is written there of me, ‘To do Thy
will, O God, I come, and go, and shall return, but not alone; having announced unto
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
the waiting world the gospel of the Presence of the heavenly lights, the true Theo-
pliany. Many shall come, at set of day, with me, and wide the gates will have to
open then to admit the many converts I shall bring to Heaven by knowledge of the
heavenly touch.’
4. My Child, what word is this that thou hast said? Because this Presence thou
hast felt to-night is new to thee, dost thou suppose thyself the first or only to whom
I came at dead of night to comfort or to bless? Because all new, to thee, the moving
pillar (cloud by day, and fire by night,) imagine not that it is new unto the world!
Old is the knowledge of My Presence there, and thou thyself hast often heard of if.
But not until thyself didst see the midnight vision couldst thou understand what
meant all this, of which thou oft hast heard unconsciously,—though not thy fault,
since thou wert blind, and sorrow not as yet had peeled the scales from off thine
eyes, and wrenched away the mufflings round thine heart. Dost thou suppose thou
wert the first to feel distress, or that thou wert the first whose cry of sorrow forced
its way unto My throne, and here demanded help from the Unseen? Thou shalt
indeed return, and not alone indeed, but not the only saviour thou; for many saviours
shall with thee crowd round the guiding fiery pillar in the midst of you, and thus
shall enter into perfect rest.
5. But thou art right in this, that thou henceforth shouldst bear a calmer manner
and serener garb. There is a dignity that thou henceforth shouldst wear,—the only
dignity that is divine, and therefore right. For lo, it is i who am the dignity of man;
why should I not, since I too am man’s strength and wisdom, glory and true delight?
6. Now will I show thee that in which thou errdst in that with which thou
foundest fault in lives of other men (that after knowing Me thou feltst how frivolous
they were,) whereas thy very feeling that thou wert the first to feel my Presence
showed that formerly thou thyself hadst been blind, thyself hadst erred by lack of
dignity.
7. For lo, the ground on which thou once didst fall from out thy mother’s womb
was holy ground. The sacred flames played round thy crib, and yet thou criedst
unsatisfied. Firm didst thou strap thy shoes (as early as thou couldst) ignoring that
the ground on which thou stoodst was all afire with Me. And at each parting of the
ways a wall of flame essayed to hold thee back from each deflecting path. But thou
wert blind to it, and deaf unto My pleadings to permit My Presence access to thy
soul until that blessed night of loneliness in which thy sorrow and distress revealed
to thee thy better self; For lo, it is I who am thy better self, and lo, thy better self
is Me, and lo, I am the better self of all. And since thy better self is Me, thy better
self is also that of all, and that of all is thee; and so of all and thee I am the Father,
I, that God at last be all in all.
8. And when thou seest not the better self of all it is because thou canst not
see as yet through thy own better and diviner eyes; And when thou canst not hear
the better voice of all, it is because thyself hast not yet learnt to listen through thy
better and diviner ears. For if thine eyes were open, and thine ears could hear, thou
wouldst from birth have known for certain through thy senses that in every place
where the two or three assemble around the incensed altar-horn, there I stand in the
midst of you; And not in vain did One of and for Me once say, "Lo, I am with you
even to the end—yea, even to the ending of the world!’’
II. THAT IN THE BIBLE DIVINE BEINGS WERE ENTERTAINED BY MEN
1. Now will I shew to thee, my Child, how often it occurred, before thy day,
that I was known to come and dwell with man. I will begin by calling to thy mind
a few occurrences set down at length in sacred writings of the Jews.
2. The plains of Mamre were the place where sitting at the door of his own tent
the aged Abraham beheld three Travelers; and in the heat of that hot day he lifted
up his eyes, and seeing Them, he ran to Them, and bowed himself unto the ground,
and bade Them in. He made some cakes, and slew a calf, and taking milk he set
it out for them beneath a tree, and waited there on Them, rebuking Sarah who
laughed when promised a child, though stricken well with years, while Abraham for
Sodom and Gomorrah pled, from fifty down to ten reducing My demands for right­
eousness. And then the Lord went on His way, while Abraham returning to his tent
in Mamre plains retained My blessing, having entertained My Angels unawares.
And this I did not only to make sure for Abraham the promise, and to test his heart,
but even because I, too, desired the sweet delight of being entertained, a sweet and
gracious bond of hospitality with those whom I had loved from long ago, and who
but lately too had come to love Me much.
3. And lo, I left both Angels Mine proceed alone to gates of Sodom, where Lot
beheld Them, as at even he did sit before the gates; and lest some harm befall Them,
pressed Them that They enter under his own roof. And when at night the evil
Sodomites demanded them, he offered them his daughters both inviolate, if they would
spare those Guests; for which brave deed the Angels spared both him and his whole
house, and rained a fire of brimstone and destruction on the plain. And none were
harmed but his old wife who looking back in sorrow at the place was turned into
a pillar that remains there even unto this day. And this I did to test how far Lot
had the strength to stand against the evil of the Sodomites, and to reward him by
My Presence, for his virtuousness, and make him sure that though the world were
wholly evil, yet the heavenly Presences serene were just as real, yea, more real far
than those of ill; and that with punishment condign the evil shall some day yet be
avenged.
4. And lo, a yet diviner way did I at times employ to show the real habitation
of My Presence in this world. When men and women were beyond the years of
bringing forth, I oft would promise child-birth, as when Sarah laughed at Me; and
others too, like barren Hannah, prayed to Me, and I sent Samuel unto her. And so
unto Manoah did I promise Samson, and thus to Zacharias and Elisabeth I promised
John, who came in his due time. And to the Virgin Mary, virgin though espoused
to Joseph, the arch-angel Gabriel (as in the other cases) announced the birth divine.
So shall it be to thee, my Child, if to the angel Gabriel thou shalt unclose thy fast-
barred soul, thou too in spirit shalt bring forth perchance an Isaac, a Samson or a
Samuel—or even perhaps a Christ, a very Christ in thee! Thou shalt be so illumined
by this birth within that through thy features shall appear the face of Isaac, or Sam­
uel, or Christ, according as thy prayers demanded from the skies.
5. Besides, thou mayest think how too at other times, when Jesus had fulfilled
His sacrifice, and those disciples dear, those two whose home was Emaus, were sad,
and walking over the fields talked together of those things that had occured, behold,
I came to them, and asked what they were speaking of so sadly and despairingly.
Then showed I them how all these things had all to take their course. And at their
invitation I entered in unto them, and sitting down with them at frugal meal, I broke
the bread, and blessed it, gave it them, and disappeared. And thus I cheered their
hearts, and made them sure that God was in His world, and knew the sorrows of
their hearts, and wished to comfort them, as gently and as tenderly as their own
mother.
' 6. And dost thou remember how at even when for fear of those wild Jews the
door was shut upon the huddled flock of dear disciples, Jesus stood amongst them,
blessed them, and invited them to touch the wound-prints in His hands, and thrust
their fingers in His side, to comfort them, and in some manner they could understand
feel sure that though He were removed He was not far from them at any time, from
even Thomas, him who doubted, nor believed until himself had seen and felt the
wounded hands and sides. O happy those who saw and felt; but happier far, my
Child, art thou, if thou wilt even now believe that I am in My world by revelation
of the soul, and not of sense. And yet I did it seeing that those childish, dear
disciples, ignorant and rude could not in other way perceive My tangible and real
Presence in the world.
7. And lo, once more, on summer day, when Peter and his brother, apostles in
the flesh, although not yet in heart,—where lingered traits of their old fisher-life,—
returned to their old craft, in recognition full of that strong loving faith of Peter
the wrong-headed, I stood by the blue crystalline lake of Galilee, and laid upon the
coals two fish, and called to them that Peter’s faith might grow so bold, that while
he did believe on Me, and came to Me, even water might support him as he ran.
And if thy faith shall be as strong as Peter’s, on the troubled waters of this life thou
too shalt walk dry-shod. But if, like Peter also, thou shalt doubt My Presence, also
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
thou shalt sink, although thine eyes yet look at Me, and see Me standing by the
shore; for know, it is not sight, but loving faith that shall enable thee to tread the
waves.
8. And when like that wrong-headed Peter J shall see thee fleeing from the
Narrow Way, afraid of suffering at the hands of men, forgetting it is I, not they,
who then is chastening thee, though it were in the middle of the night, and though
it were in foreign, pagan place like Rome, yet shall I stand in front of thee, and ask
thee whither thou art going by making thee ask Me, “Quo vadis, Domine?”,—"I am
going back to Rome to suffer in the place of thee!”
9. And in the desert this my Presence struck and blinded Paul Damascus-bound
with vision and with voice, “Why hast thou persecuted Me?" Even thou canst be
a Paul if thou wilt give thy life to Me; and struck down to the ground by spirit-
power, thou wilt tell the world the vision of My Presence that thus overmastered
thee.
10. But closest of them all I came unto the Children Three—and why? Because
they needed Me the most. Indeed, how could I stay away? The fiery furnace’s black
smoke could never stifle their appeals for help divine; and as the flames grew clearer
so the Persian king with all his court looked at the praying, singing Children Three,
behold, with them a Fourth, like to the Son of Man, stood there. If with My Chil­
dren, hell is Paradise to Me; and when I am near, My Children’s hell is Paradise
to them. Who therefore dwells in hell, let him but thank himself; for lo, in every “O
my Father” slumbers deep a “Here my Child.”
m. THAT IN THE LATTER DAYS ALSO DIVINE BEINGS WERE
ENTERTAINED BY MAN
1. Not with the apostolic age, did I then cease to show myself to those whose
love demanded closer touch.
2. St, Christopher, that faithful saint, saw me appear but as a little child, and
though no money I possessed, he put me on his shoulders that dry shod I might set
foot upon the further shore. But lo, not I had heart to leave him thus. To make
him know that it was I, I heavier grew, until he felt the truth, that it was not a
little child, but even the whole world he had upon his shoulders there.
3. At other times St. Jerome built for love of Me a hospital in Bethlehem. I
gave him ample means, that he fulfilling his desire might build it large, to leave one
ward untenanted perpetually for Me, that should the Virgin Mary come again, she
should not as of yore in Bethlehem find not one spot to rest herself while bringing
forth the promised baby Hope of all the world. And in thy house of life do thou
likewise leave room for Me, that I may find a spot to rest My weary feet, and thou,
the virgin soul, mayest come and meet Me, and conceiving of My spirit’s inspiration,
bring forth into the world a Christ, My Christ, thy Christ, the long-expected Christ,
Which thou, like every other son of man, before eternities wert destined to bring
forth into the world, for whom the world did wait until even thou shouldst come,
the John of thy own Christ, whom thou must yet incarnate in this world fulfilling
thus thy destiny.
4. In still later times the holy cup, in which the apostolic band partook of the
Last Supper, in the upper room, was by Joseph of Arimathaea taken unto England,
unto Glastonbury, where in later ages this the Holy Grail remained a light and
healing to the paynim world. And then it came to pass that when all faith from
man to man had almost died, and wars grew dark, and all the world seemed lost,
this Holy Grail was kept in Carbonek, the castle by the sea, whose stem approach
two lions watched, where ruled the lame king Joseph, while maidens fair alone dared
hold It in their hands, while singing psalms and hymns perpetually. And they who
heard of It did start in guest of It from Arthur’s Table Round; and though the knights
all took the guest’s thrice-sacred vow, they all returned without the sight of It, but
Launcelot the fickle, round whose noble soul there twined one single sin so strong
he might but see the Grail, before the door was closed, and he shut out forevermore.
But also Bors and Percivale, who defended the Holy Grail for some short space;—
but also Galahad the Pure, who took the Holy Grail back from the dark (and ah!)
the darkening world, back unto Sarras, the far spiritual place, where he alone was
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
chosen king, and after died. The Holy Grail for many years had healed the world,
for whoso tasted of its contents there was healed, and thirsted never again. It was a
holy Presence that assured the magic world of Arthur’s time, that I still dwelt amidst
it, thus giving strength and hope and courage to the weary souls who still believed
on Me, so that for one long thousand years My peace and blessing flowed from over
its brim, O Child, thou mightest have the Holy Grail at thy own home, such as the
Christian Church in eucharistic fervor celebrates, and lo, has celebrated now these
thousand years, to gather round its altars at one common feast the scattered children
of the Lord. Do thou, too, consecrate to Me a Grail whereout thou shalt drink only
at such holy times when gather round thee thy dear brethren in worship sweet. So
shall I be near thee, when thou shalt drink from it, and with thy brethren feel My
Presence near.
5. And many were the legends for a thousand years among the Germans, that
when simple burghers sat at meat I oft would come to them, and eat, and with the
blessing of the bread, that they might know Me; then, depart.
6. Nor did I even permit the haughty king of Sicily, King Robert, to blaspheme
when he found fault with the Magnificat. My Angel took his place upon the throne,
while as a jester well he learned that I reject the proud, and humble souls alone accept.
7. Not even the Jews have quite forgotten Me, their Christ; and lo, these many
thousand years, have opened wide the windows of their dwellings, lest should it
chance to be inclement weather when I come again, I should not then be left in rain
and wind, without a shelter or a sanctuary.
8. And even so the many of the devout as symbol of My Presence in the world,
consider that their chiefs are My vicegerents on this earth, thus bodying forth My
high divinity for those who suffer, or are blind and weak, or hesitating, in their
faith on Me!
IV. THAT THE DIVINE HAS BEEN PRESENT AT ALL TIMES AND
IN ALL RELIGIONS
But not the Jews alone can boast My Presence, though to thee I mentioned
Jewish instances alone, because of thy belief and knowledge of their books. But lo,
My Jewish family was but the smallest and obscurest of My earthly families. A
thousand names and sanctuaries and prophecies have in their turn imaged forth my
Presence. The story of the virgin-birth is so correct that it appeared in every world'
religion in its turn, and so I manifested unto all My divine Presence, for thus the
parable of the birth divine in every human heart was imagined forth in symbol plain
that all who run may read.
1. The prophecies of the coming of a saviour to the world were found in writings
of the prophets of every race and clime—the Hindu, Chinese, and Egyptian, Grecian,
Roman, Mexican, Arabian, and Persian sacred books: Whereby is symboled forth
the yearning all eternal of the human heart for God.
2. And though the names were different, as Chrishna, Chang-Ti or Osiris, Cad­
mus or Quirinus, Quexalcoatl—or at the last even Jesus—it was ever the same
anointed One; Whereby was symboled forth the truth that every man should be
anointed by the Holy Ghost, and he become a Buddha, a Messiah, and a Christ.
3. The saviours generally were all miraculously conceived; a Plato, said to be
Apollo’s child; or Zoroaster, born of ray of wisdom all divine; a Mars and Vulcan
both conceived of Juno, the Olympian queen; of Quexalcoatl born of Suchiquetqual
or of Yu, who was brought forth by some sweet lily and a star; of Gautama, born
of Maya-devi; of Chrishna from Yasodarah, by Narayana; and Jesus by the Holy
Ghost in humble Nazarethan Miriam; Whereby was symboled forth the truth that
sacred, holy and divine is human birth, not born of earthly passion, but of prayer
and infinite desire.
4. The saviours generally had virgin mothers too—so Devald, of Chrishna;
Maya, of the Buddha Gautama; Celestine of Zulis; Chimalman of Quexalcoatl;
Semele of Bacchus; Alkmene, of Herkules; Shing-mon of Yu; Mayence, of Hesus; and
Mary, of Jesus; Whereby was symbolized the truth that only virgin purity can
bring into the world the life divine.
5. The baby saviours of the world were generally visited by angels, shepherds
and by the Magi hoar, as was Confucious, Chrishna and Gautama, Mithra and Pytha­
goras, and Zoroaster, as of Jesus too; Whereby was symboled forth the truth that
angels ever rejoice at the conversion of one sinner to a holier life, and service of
the Gods.
6. And saviours generally are given titles evermore the same. For Chrishna was
the holy lamb, and Quexalcoatl was the ram of God; the Kelts had their one holy
heifer, and Egyptians too their sacred Apis-bulls; as Jesus was the Lamb of God;
Whereby was imaged forth the truth that gentle service is the one ideal quality of
those who would be saviours of the world.
7. And infant saviours generally were threatened by rulers or by hostile powers,
as Bacchus, Hercules, and Romulus, Chrishna and Osiris, Zoroaster, Yu and Rama
Indra, Salvahana, and Jesus last; Whereby was symboled forth the truth that hell
doth ever try to mar the work of God when first it starts; that nevermore will man
make resolutions good without immediate trials and temptations to destroy the work
of God.
8. And Saviours generally must suffer, and be tortured, crucified, and perish in a
‘twilight of the gods’. Such were Chrishna and Gautama, of India, Thammuz of
Phrygia, Wittobagonese, Iao of Nepaul, Hesus of Great Britain, Quexalcoatl of
Mexico, Quirinus of Rome, Prometheus of Greece, Thulis of Egypt, Indra of Thibet,
Alkestos of Greece, Attys of Phrygia, Crite of Chaldea, Bali of Orissa, Mithra of
Persia, Salvahana of Bermuda, Horus and Osiris of Egypt, Odin of Scandinavia,
Zoroaster of Persia, Baal and Taut of Phoenicia, Bali of Afghanistan, Zamolxis of
Thrace, Zoar of the Bonzes, Adad of Assyria, Deva Tat of Siam, Herkules of
Greece, the Mikado of the Shintos, Beddru of Japan, Thor of the Gauls, Cadmus of
Greece, Hil and Feta of the Mandaites, and Gentaut of Mexico. Whereby is sym­
boled forth the truth that he who would live in the spirit must die in the flesh.
9. And saviours generally do go to hell and on the third day rise again, as
Chrishna, Yuddhishthira, Quexalcoatl, Prometheus and Quirinus, Osiris, Attys, Mithra,
Christ; By this was symboled forth the truth that they who die to earth shall live
again to heaven forevermore. All this I said that thou mayest grasp, believe and
realize that this my Presence evermore abode upon this earth, and was beheld by those
whose eyes were pure enough.
3. And lo, not only did My Spirit strive with souls all-chosen and elect who could
attain to be the saviours of their race; nor only in the stories of their lives that might
be told from mouth to mouth; but in the rhapsodies and ravings of the prophets did
I speak as they were moved hy breath divine, collected in the scriptures of the world.
The Vedas hoar of the Hindu world; the Tripitaka of the Buddhists too, the Zend-
Avesta of the Persian world, the Chinese Shi-ldng and Four Books, of Confucius and
Mencius, the Tao-te-king of Lao-tse, the Q’uran of Muhammad too, the Hebrew and
Christian Scriptures canonical and aprocryphal, the Scandinavian Eddas too, the Fin­
nish Kalevala, Egyptian Book of the Dead, and the great Epic of Izdubar of the
Chaldaic world.
4. But lo, this is not all—for those who did not hear of these my saviours and
evangelists, who could not hear the sacred ravings of inspired prophets—lo, for them
have shrines been kept sacred on mountain-tops from everlasting unto now, and always
will be kept. Phoenician shrines were many, on the hills, where Samuel did sacrifice;
Jerusalem for long, Samaria later, and again the newer Jewish rites in the Egyptian
Heliopolis. Famous were the Egyptian shrines at Memphis and Thebes; the Greek
of Zeus at Dodona, Apollo’s at Delphi, like the Vestal fire at Rome—each God in
every nation had his sacred ark like that borne around the Arabian desert, carried all
across the Jordan, lost in battle to the Philistines, and lodged in Dagon’s shrine, and
captured once again by David's might. The Mexicans and Incas had their sacred
temples too, not far unlike the seven-storied pyramids the Babylonians built; the
druid stones at Stonehenge witness still to countless rites of ages almost quite forgot.
From age to age, from clime to clime, the incense of human prayers has risen to the
skies while sacrificial flames have fallen on the altar from the sky not only when
Elijah slew the prophets of Baal, but everywhere. And still the Christian Church
with incense, images, and vestments gorgeous keeps alight the ancient shrines in thou­
sand buildings—everywhere as evermore My Presence dwells in sanctuaries. Who
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
then will say My Presence is not known unto this world? Lo, I am with you, even
to the ending of the world—not only in the public shrines, but private sanctuaries of
many saintly souls. Each house in the wide Roman world possessed an altar for that
family. And mediaeval castles had each its chapel-sanctuary. And even now unseen,
unknown to all but Me, a thousand saints within their closets locked draw down by
prayer and supplication the power divine. And so I have been always present in the
world to those who have been present unto Me; and lo, I came to thee as soon as
ever thou didst come to Me—nay, sooner far; for lo, I sought thee long before. "Draw
nigh to Me, and I too shall return to thee.” And now that thou hast found Me, still
thou shalt find Me everywhere; and when thou stayest near Me; I shall stay with thee.
And as My Presence is the one great fact of history, so shall it ever be, and lo, I am
with even thee unto the ending of the world!
THE SOUL'S APPEAL FOR THE CHRIST’S COMING
Presence, oh Presence, Presence Thou divine,
Loose not Thy grasp! Lest I from Thee decline.
I clasp Thy feet, and bathe them with my tears, O Unseen Presence, Bridegroom
Thou divine; I would detain Thee, lest Thou pass away, Unworthy though I
be to keep Thee mine.
Presence, oh Presence, Presence Thou divine,
Loose not Thy grasp! Lest I from Thee decline.
I am not worthy to be called Thy Bride: My marriage-garment is all soiled and
torn; My face is scarred, my hands are both blood-stained, My heart desires it
never had been born.
Presence, oh Presence, Presence Thou divine.
Loose not Thy grasp! Lest I from Thee decline.
My heart is full of idols of the World, I have, for Thee alone, no sacred place; I
am so wayward that, spite of myself, My heart has fled, while still I Thee
embrace.
Presence, oh Presence, Presence Thou divine,
Loose not Thy grasp! Lest I from Thee decline.
I am not worthy to be touched by Thee, Yet, touch my soul, to hush its wild unrest;
That yet someday Thou lift me from the ground. And call me Thine, and press
me to Thy Breast.
Presence, oh Presence, Presence Thou divine,
Loose not Thy grasp! Lest I from Thee decline.
Long since the Temple Hall is filled with Guests, Waiting, with tears, so long for
me, the Bride; 'And yet, I linger! Stray! And suffer here! My better self dis­
tracted by my pride!
O Bridegroom, fetch me! That I may be Thine,
And with Thee seek the lost, with Thee divine.
BOOK III. OF THE NATURE OF THE PRESENCE.
I. THAT THE PRESENCE OF GOD IS A MATTER OF DIRECT
EXPERIENCE
1. Soon, ah, too soon, the Presence ceased to speak; and when the rays of dawn­
ing light sought each nook and cranny of the sacred wood all vanished but the place
where He had stood. But I could feel distinctly He was near, and unto me His voice
was audible, so that I felt not quite abandoned while still He stood to listen to each
prayer. In slow progression rolled the laggard hours while steep ascents drew my
utmost powers. But cooler winds announced the set of sun, and soon, though none
too soon, the day was done. I ate the food the ravens brought, and lay in restful
slumber till the stars of midnight shone. Nor in my dreams was I quite left alone, but
waking saw the dear Face I had known. Thus did He speak again, with gentler tone,
and drew my heart up unto Him above, while setting forth at length at my request
how He attracts from every man what is his inmost best.
2. In vain, my Child, mightst thou endeavour make unto the blind to show what
they have not yet sight to see. In vain will bushes bum with unconsuming fire while
shepherds’ hearts are stirred by only low curiosity. It is true, "that earth is crammed
with Heaven, and every bush afire with God”; but at the best for those whose spiri-
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
tual sight is yet like puppies’ eyes, shut off by films of earthliness, the Bush is still a
bush, and even Fire is fire—and nowhere is there even a trace of God. Vainly the
sacred thunders peal and crash around the barren crags of Sinai; vainly heaven-hurled
lightnings gleam with mystic origin—when storms are over, it was only rain and
winds and hurtling clouds, while I, their author and their guide, remained unthought
of and forgot. And though I should invent some stronger means than heaven-born
fire to come upon the altar and consume the sacrifice; though I should show My
Presence by some sign more marvellous than unconsuming fire such as alit upon the
Bush in Midian’s waste, it is only fire. Though miracle occur of grace in healing,
vision, or in ecstasy, they still could be explained away as working of some law
not yet quite understood, or by the speedier explanation of mistake.
3. How true this is may best be understood when thou, my Child, considerest
that when Antiochus Epiphanes the king (determined to profane the Sanctuary), en­
tered on horseback the Holy of Holies in temple of the Jews in old Jerusalem, he
found no thing therein but only walls and furniture, nor bright Shekinah on the
Mercy-Seat between the wings of the Cherubim, though when he left again It still
was there, as It had been, and ever still will be. Unto a swine’s fat wit the inmost
sanctuary of Heaven were nothing more than gorgeous sty; and vain the utmost
marvel I could build to make men see what still they cannot see. In vain all this, in
vain much more—in spite of all these crowning glories of the world, which show in
stone the most religious visionary dreams of zealots of a thousand creeds. It is after
all a Babel, left unfinished in the desert sands; and stone for stone it there can all be
found, but not one whit of revelation from it has the human race beheld.
4. In vain to blinded hearts would even words reveal My Presence in its actuality.
Prophets and preachers, poets and bards, since language dawned, have given to the
world good news of Me; and yet how easy was it for carnal men to shrug the shoul­
ders at the madness of the bard! Unpractical the poets, and the prophets poor, cast
out by all those of God’s own poor who with some madness in their hearts were
wild enough to try to actualize a heaven on earth. And failure still has crowned all
efforts to produce a perfect city in the world, Plotinos with his Platonopolis, and
Cicero in his ‘Republic’ blazed the way repeated latterly by Bellamy; but vain, still
vain and laughter from the crowd the only one result. In vain religions have en­
deavoured to show forth My Presence in the purest worship they could dream. The
madness of the prophet is soon made a system of theology, and then embalmed in
rites and functions ecclesiastical; and grievous laws these rites become until some
new reformer throws them down again; his own reforms soon follow the old way of
ritualistic hyprocrisy of form. Vainly did Amen-hotep IV reform the animal zodiacal
religion of the old Egyptian ways. A hundred years, and worship of the sun without
a figure in the temple had become a gorgeous ritualism. Vainly Gautama broke the
bonds of Brahmanistic ritualism. Three Teeth (each one the only real one!) are
worshipped still to-day in Ceylon and Siam; and Buddhist convents with rosaries and
seven-fold eucharistic vestments swarm. Vainly did Chrishna break the formal rites;
a ritualism complete to-day perpetuates his saving life. Vainly did Jesus curse the
form-hypocrisy of Pharisee: its gorgeous splendor far transcends each Jewish rite.
Vainly did, on this very question of the image-worship, Western Christendom secede
from Eastern Church—the statue of old Jupiter now serves as Peter in the Roman
shrine in its basilica. Vainly did Luther, Henry VIII and Calvin break from forms—
the ritualists are everywhere again with organ, vestment, candle, and with censer
swung. Vainly, therefore, can even a religious creed embody for the multitude the
gospel of My Presence, though thousand preachers preach the authentic pure, original,
prophetic word; still it changes with the years, and soon the world is once more
slave to ritual and form. And thus in spite of reformations finally were built the
Pyramids, cemented by a mortar mixed with blood of million slaves; the rock-hewn
temples of Ellora showing forth the infinite achievements of an age that had no iron
tools; the Doric and Ionic and Corinthian temples of the Greeks presented a serene
and chastened revelation of the minds of Gods; the Gothic structures and cathedrals
of the English, French, and German lands that rise in studied, orderly confusing
beauty manifold; the stern Alhambric grandeur of a Moorish race; the eerie minarets
and domes of Mecca's Kaaba-sheltering tent.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR 39
6. O Father, who can then be saved from ignorance and selfishness, if human
nature is so foolish and depraved that neither things, nor even words can long pre­
serve the purity of knowledge of the gospel of Thy Presence so divine? Is this Thy
world then lost? Yea, lost, my Child, as all is lost, was lost, and ever shall be lost
without My help and touch. The actual Presence is a plain experience for each one.
Were I God of dead ones, then indeed might there be need of an embalming, as it
were, of knowledge of My touch. I laugh at creeds, that petrify the knowledge of
a thousand years, supposing they can tell My purposes and will! But I am God of
living souls! a Living God am I, It costs Me naught to touch each several human
being in a special way. It is better that each soul rely on Me alone, who will, when
I consider them deserving it (oh, how I suffer till they do; oh, how I try to make
Myself believe them ready; how it hurts Me when My Righteousness insists that for
their wounds sake, at least, I wait, lest they remain unworthy, all-content with com­
fort of My touch) they will receive My blessing in the way they most deserve, accord­
ing to their power to receive,—to some a theory, to others an influx of power! I am
a Living God, and second-hand religion is an insult to Me. Was I not able to come
down to Samuel, though for a generation precious were my words to Israel? Can I
not wake to fervor and religious zeal a generation at a time, if so I please? This sense
by which My Presence is discerned is present, though quite undeveloped, in most
minds. And though it only needs My waking, still the greater part, (like thou) never
dream of it until I smite them suddenly for their own good. But all possess this un­
developed faculty: so that, as Athanasius said, no one is guiltless of an ignorance of
Me, as each possesses in his own inner self the Road by which he might ascend and
see Me face to face.
7. But oh, my Father, hast Thou then become more heartless than Thou wert
formerly at Sodom? Is there still no other way? Is it quite hopeless to tell of this
Thy Presence to the world? Must each begin again in darkness such as mine? May
those my disappointments and my sufferings not in the least avail to smoothen out
the path of all humanity in some slight way? This news of Thy dear Presence—oh,
this gospel, this evangel new, is that impossible to tell of it, at least? Could I not
blaze the trees so others might come quicker unto Thee, direct and straight, and not,
like I, waste years in wandering around the desert track? O Child, not until now
did I omit to know this need thou mentionest. I waited not for thee to blaze the way.
If thou thyself hadst looked more carefully thou wouldst have found the blazes clear
my angels made for men at starting of the world on spheric path. Then even thou
hadst come along the safer, quicker way, and thou hadst not presumed thou lovedst
Humanity even more than even I, their only Father, Guide and Star. Now will I
show thee what these blazes are—by which thyself mightest have come both swift
and safe.
THE DIVINE VISITOR
I knock and knock; before it be too late O open unto Me thy soul's barred Gate!
I come to thee when morn’s white light is breaking.
Before thou’st turned to labour and to care;
I touch thy forehead, every effort making
To make thee feel I would thy labours share.
I hear Thy knock, and open wide my door. Come, and abide with me forevermore.
I come to thee, when noon’s short rest embracing,
Thy soul is likely to attend My Voice;
In vain I whisper: soon thy steps retracing,
Thou turn’st again to thoughts of thy own choice.
I hear Thy knock, and open wide my door, Come, and abide with me forevermore.
I come to thee when at the supper-table,
And try to speak more loud than appetite;
And yet to hush thy talk I am not able
Unless thy precious freedom I should blight.
I hear Thy knock, and open wide my door. Come, and abide with me forevermore.
I come to thee amidst the midnight stillness
And seek to reach thy slumbering consciousness;
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
Why yield’st thyself unto such mortal illness,
Of deaf and dumb and blind forgetfulness?
I hear Thy knock, and open wide my door, Come, and abide with me forevermore.
II. THAT THERE ARE MANY FORMS OF THE PRESENCE KNOWN
TO ALL
1. O Father, tell me, I pray thee, just what Thy Presence is. I feel Thee near,
but cannot tell just what it is, and how I might to others impart just how to under­
stand that word so dear, so sacred and serene.
2. My Child, it is not hard to understand, nor is it strange. It is something
known so well to every child of man that it were hard to find a thought more com­
mon, or better known. Ah, Child, believe Me, men make great mistakes when they
suppose that I am far away; that greatest mysteries are something strange, or even
too high. All men are parts integral of that Whole, the universe is called, and each
is all; in each is mirrored all, and by each plane of consciousness he may in true
relations too with all them stand. Each bears within himself the rudiments of what
it were to be a God; or even a prophet, poet, painter, mechanician, engineer, or each
form of human active skill. The full attainment’s fruitseems to have fallen from the
sky—seems superhuman, foreign, strange; a gift from some far planet, or dircctest
revelation from above; and yet the rudiments are all within, and needed only to be
recognized, and perfected, and used then to become the ready means whereby the
heavenly pattern, incarnated in this world, from heaven of artist’s brain, and through
His fingers, to the lasting, if exterior, fruit. Nor yet that which seems so difficult to
understand is aught but perfected conjoinment of the simple thought and deed with
which the veriest child delights to play and conjure. And though the feeling of My
Presence be so hard to understand for those whose spiritual sense is closed, its rudi­
ments are but the simplest things, the every-day emotions of their higher life.
3. For who, my Child, has not attained to feel the solemn calm of Nature’s
presence-seal as suddenly upon some mountain-top emerging he beholds vast winding
rivers, plains, and the endless sea? These nature-presences oppress the human
hearts with sheer vastness and sublimity. Who, when thirsty, hot and weary with
the valley’s sultry heat has not felt the Presence of some forest’s holy shade, where
a perpetual breeze fans branches in the air, and giant trunks like hoary priests spread
forth their arms as if at prayer, and grasses sway around each fragrant flower?
Who has not blessed the forests to its face because he felt the still divinity that
lurked within its sylvan sanctuary? No wonder is it that a man there feels the
sacred Presence of this nature-presence. It is the garden of the hosts divine where
in the evening’s cool from heaven steals the Lord Himself, to take his daily ease
amidst His baby-souls (but not less dear) who in their childish way not less do please
than human souls who pray and hope and fear. There go, and if thy soul be not
quite dead thou shalt feel a gentle touch upon thy head. This experience is the
Presence of the place, the simplest form of God’s high Presence. Lo, thou canst
stand there where God Himself has stood, and catch the last slow-dying echoes of
footballs of the Angels who before fled at thy earthly presence.
4. The next great Way for men to come to Me is by the Presence of the starry
host. There is a Presence in the midnight sky which whoso feels will nevermore
deny; a Presence sacred, infinite and free, the Presence of the heavenly Holy Ghost.
Those scintillating stars so still and keen looked down on Abraham and Jesus both.
What secrets they could tell, those silent Eyes that watch the human race from
century to century with sleepless constancy! How solemnly the greater and the
lesser lights, the knotted scarf of worlds hung out in space, in silent seriousness of
purple nights reveal the features of the Almighty’s face! Not only this world does
God’s love redeem from nascent blindness to divinity. Thousands of worlds demand
the Father’s care; each special centre of some heartfelt prayer, each world refulgent
with its special ray, each world acknowledging His love supreme. O falling stars!
O heights of interstellar deeps! God! God! God! is your titanic chant. Sub­
lime your Presence over humans sweeps significant of still diviner depths.
5. These are the two great blazes on the trees of this great forest of the Universe,
which following those who are not perverse may grasp My Presence. But there are
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR 41
further facts of every human life that makes us understand the nature of the feeling
of the Presence. For were this some dark mysterious art, men would have some
excuse to claim exemption from recognizing My strong appeals. First comes that
feeling which steals over the coward frame when left alone in the middle of the night.
Then the human soul, as with a lightning flame, feels overcome with goose-flesh, out
of fright. Then, Oh but the touch of a human hand! Then, Oh the rising of the
sun that makes all men rejoice! Then the dear familiar sight of native land! This
sweet desired touch, or sight, or sound well explains the feeling of My Presence; and
rich is he whose longing most profound is for My comfort, which never fails.
6. Besides, who has not sometimes almost felt the presence of some unknown foe?
Are there not personalities so strong that men feel their presence should they meet
with them? What earth calls character, cannot be weighed or measured; and yet
who doubts its power for weal or woe? What reason can explain why men should
feel afraid, and feel within them all their purpose melt at meeting of some person­
ality? This something which no words will quite express is how a human presence
can impress a human soul; how much the rather then should men not feel Me, who
am more than men?
7. But lo, not only do I dwell with man in symbols faint, and traces indirect; in
shrine and sanctuary of every sect my Presence enters by what rifts it can, and dwells
as long as it is undefiled. In thousand languages a thousand rites in thousand cen­
turies did honour Me in sacrificial incensed jubilee with gorgeous incense and with
flickering lights; or in cathedral many-towered and aisled; or with a simpler ritual
oft adored amidst the simpler and more ignorant tribes with Mexican flower or Druid
oak—ever moved by prayers, as ever unmoved by bribes, still was I present as the
worshipped Lord, still did I answer who did Me invoke. To whomsoever worshipped
earnestly did I grant feeling of my Presence there. I laughed at the reformer’s chisel-
blow; I laughed at the unreformed high mystery, and answered each man just as he
offered prayer, just as each wished, content to have it so.
8. But still more universally did I show high witness of My heavenly Presence.
The sense of beauty was the special grace wherewith I sanctified each earthly place:
in star, in flower, in dawn, or sunset glows, in fragrant perfume of the blushing rose,
in green of leaves, or blue midday skies, in rainbow coloured froth of purple sea, in
song of nightingale and oriole, and pagan splendour of each arctic pole.
9. They speak not truth, who say they know not Me, nor can imagine how My
Presence feels; for every soul has felt the Touch that heals, and known the Truth
that sets the spirit free. In some one symboled form each soul has felt the kind of
feeling which My presence yields, and could have known the fuller power it wields
had he, removing shoes, in reverence knelt. It is not the better self’s ascent to God
that is hard, but human search for his own better self that is rare; there is not yet
even one unanswered prayer, but few the souls who do not prayer discard. That
few find heaven is not for lack of light, but that so few live out what light they have;
it is not My Presence that refused to save, but that so few implore its sight.
III. THAT THE SOUL CANNOT BE ITS BETTER SELF WITHOUT THE
DIVINE PRESENCE
1. Thus spake the Voice in calm convincing tone, and I began to muse over
what He said. I felt it true: it was I who had not read, not God not written, what
I never had known. Then I began to feel how this was best of all attainments that
a man could make: a shield of holiness whose might could break all shafts of ill
aimed at our perfect rest. And thought led on to thought until I saw the wise co­
herence of the plan divine; I felt God's love through righteous justice shine; His
world-arrangement perfect, without flaw. The comfort of God’s Presence I beheld
to be no mere enjoyable delight, nor even a privilege to favoured sight, but that
without which Heaven must be withheld. His Presence is the air that angels breathe,
the drink they quaff, the food they eat, the light they see, the ground beneath their
feet, the fadeless flowers that around their heads they wreathe. And ah, His Presence
is that inner atmosphere which angels winnow with ascendant wings; nor can a man
rise up to heavenly things without His Presence to support Him here. Without His
Presence, ah, without its touch, none would even wish to raise his earth-bound eyes;
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
without His Presence none is good, none wise—none true, nor even remembering
to be such.
2. It is all so plain to me, I wonder now how ever I would fail to understand
God’s Presence is more needful than a hand to those who would live out some holy
vow. The argument is long, but very plain. First, let me see, there is environment.
Then, second, that it rules man’s every bent. Third, man can choose which over
him shall reign. If fourthly, then, we wish to grow divine, we need but choose such
an environment as shall draw forth our own best element, and law alone will thus
our normal selves refine. This is the secret of the inner strength, and this the secret
of the better life: growth regular, like flowers, without strife. All this I now think
over more at length.
3. First the environment. Now life consists of the adjustment of the organism
unto the environment, whose schism the life can but temporarily survive. Cold
chills; heat burns, drouth parches, water drowns, bacilli cause disease unconsciously;
all these are facts that cannot be brushed away by the mere frown of a frivolous
denial. In practice men select environment: what is or is not to their taste, they
leave or eat. And though they are slaves to it (that is, environment of some one
kind), they can elect what they shall serve; and thus can cheat their fate. And
though at times the external cannot be changed at will, yet man can choose between
his own mental realms, his lower and his better selves, which shall become his
normal self, and thus be free—though men should chain his feet unto this sphere
terrene. So men have thought the truth through torture’s storm, refused consent to
immorality; though cast in prison till they should conform, lived Epiktetos-like in
slavery. And such a choice is made in practice too each day by those who do not
realize that this is so; each forms his ‘circle’ true, and makes the moral bed on which
he lies. What is there then to hinder men from choice of God as ‘moulding atmos­
phere’? His better self responding to God’s voice, will thus respond to it with an
attentive ear.
4. This, this is man’s need of God’s strong touch; unto his better self to be held
fast: a saint is he with saints, a God is he with such, a fool when from that Presence
an outcast. That Presence is the spirit’s needed food, the trellis over which grow
the human vines; the church’s eucharistic bread and wine which gives new life to
slightest effort, even the most crude; the staff that gropes our way into the shrine.
Only by habit can the better self grow to be the normal predominant self of every­
day, and so ever conscious of the heavenly realm uninterruptedly.
5. O mystic eucharistic food and drink, O holy Presence, deign to nourish me,
that I remain my better self and think of only this, to draw nigh unto Thee. Well
says the Church, that is God in the eucharist: Thy Presence is as real as the bread
and wine; who seizes that of which it does consist (the Presence) truly lives forever­
more divine. I clutch at Thee, I grasp, I taste, I eat, digesting the Eucharist with strong
desire; Thou art in me, and I am now Thy seat, that I may dwell in Thee, and
Thee inspire. O eat and drink the body of the Lord, O human souls who yet are
blind; consume the power that the Presence affords, that you may be transfigured
and like gold, refined.
6. I need Thee, oh I need Thee, O Presence Thou divine; good genius of my
better self, abide in me as shrine. How can I live without Thee, my truth, my
holiness? How can I pray without Thee, my love, my willingness? How can I
breathe without Thee, O spiritual Light? O come to me, abide with me, O thou
my purer sight! I need Thee every moment, Thou pulse-beat of my heart! Screen
me with Thy serenity, that we may never part!
IV. THAT THERE ARE SEVERAL EXPERIENCEABLE KIINDS OF THE
DIVINE PRESENCE
1. But utter sadness fell upon me soon. Of God’s close touch the glorious
certainty departed from me as the splendid moon sets in darkness before the dawn
of day. No God: no, naught but mountains, valleys, trees! Why hast Thou left
me in this banishment? Did these my thoughts Thy Presence so displease? Could
there have been no gentler chastisement? I thought to honour Thee: and my reward
seems, I have purified myself in vain. What have I done to drive away the Lord?
What may I do to draw Him back again?
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
2. My Child, be comforted, for here am I. Thy musings were acceptable to
Me, nor did I leave because displeased with thee. I left thee to make thee feel
surely and clearly hear that I was nigh, that thou may’st recognize when I am near,
and know the feeling by its opposite, and thus have all the practice requisite. For
know. My Presence is no mental twist, or thought, or an opinion, or a dream. Be
sure it is not sufficient to declare that God, as god, is always everywhere. No doubt
that this is true; but such a scheme of barren thought is good intentions missed. For,
granting it is wholly true, does that move Me? Am I at beck and call of any mind
that deigns to think what is true, like spirit which Aladdin’s lamp held thrall, by
mental rub compelled to interview? It moves me not to hear them talk of Me! And
when they talk of Me, that is all of it, while they are quite content, as they never
knew how real an experience it can be to have my Presence touch the heart, and
mind, and wit; nor would they recognize when I withdrew. With so-called ‘omni­
present immanence’ such as they speak of, they are satisfied, attributing to it in­
telligence and any other thing which in their pride they chance to wish, as worldly
opulence, denying Me (O fearful blasphemy!) a personality when I made theirs!
Who ever found a thought that loose in space was floating round without a Person­
ality, a Thinker, thinking, driving, launching it? A consciousness is single-pointed
life; and should My consciousness so infinite in lucid power alone lack unity, lack
unifying personality? Not less than personality am I; but, as in every atom I am
found, I am the crowning synthesis profound of thousand, million personalities. I
am the most intensely personal of elemental personalities; and they whose aspirations
are content without My highest Self thereby confess they know not Me, whatever
they profess, deluding their own selves with wordy dreams, but worst, deluding souls
who really seek the comfort of My Presence with their schemes till the aspiring
neophyte supposes he has all that can be had, but ceases all further efforts to behold
My face. Blind leaders of the blind, they shall grow weak in aspiration, nor ever
leave their evil!
3. But thou, My Child, it is not thus with thee! Thou feltst My Presence, and
dost know it well. Like faithful sentinel thou feltst immediately the lack of Me, and
My return. Thus thou developdst senses spiritual, endowing thee with heavenly dis­
content without the steadfast comfort of My face, so that this earth will seem but
banishment when I am far, and Heaven, where dwells My Presence, the only place
where ever thou again art satisfied, or canst find peace, or willingly abide.
4. This sort of Presence is the “individual touch.” There is another; when a
congregation of two or three are gathered in My name. Then enter I in might and
glory such, each soul soon kindles inspiration, and on them all alights the Holy
Spirit’s flame. This touch is stronger, and of greater might, and sooner comes to
undeveloped souls;—but still it comes to hearts repentant and alone, whom conse­
crated purity controls,
TH E CRY 03? R EPEN TA N C E
N o t only once, b u t o ft h av e I rejecte d T hee:
C a n st T hou forgive? F o rev erm o re, abide w ith me.
B ecause o f m y sad prayer, Thou cam ’s t to m e; B u t b usiness calls, and straigh t I go m y w ay:
Then, w hen I com e back hom e, Thou’st gone aw ay. And I so tired I e ’en do not m iss Thee.
N o t only once, b u t o ft h av e I rejected T hee:
C a n st T hou forgive? F o rev erm o re , abide w ith me.
B ecause of m y sad prayer, Thou cam ’st to m e: B u t friends call in w hom I m u st entertain. The
w h ile, forsak en . Thou dost leave w ith pain A nd I am cheerful, laughing m errily.
N ot only once, b u t o ft h a v e I rejecte d T hee:
C a n st T hou forgive? F o rev erm o re , abide w ith me.
B ecause o f m y sad prayer. Thou cam ’st to m e: B u t I w a s tired, and laid m e down to sleep, And
still a t d aw n m y slum ber w a s so deep I heard not the last- lingering call from Thee.
N ot only once, b u t o ft h av e I rejecte d T hee:
C a n st T hou forgive? F o rev erm o re , abide w ith me.
Thou cam ’s*, w h ile I w a s yet in m anhood’s prim e, E re I had prayed th a t Thou shouldst com e to
m e; I fe lt Thy Touch, I saw — but said to Thee, ‘W hen I have leisure, com e som e other tim e.’
N ot only once, b u t o ft hav e I rejecte d T hee:
C a n st T hou forgive? F o rev erm o re , abide w ith me.
If Thou should’s t n e’er again m y prayer attend, J u st would I deem m y lot, nor w ould com plain;
Yet, g ive m e one m ore chance, and com e again . A nd I w ill try to serve Thee till the end.
N o t only once, b u t o ft h av e I rejecte d T hee:
C a n st T hou forgive? F o rev erm o re , abide w ith me.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
BOOK IV. OF THE PRACTICES OF THE PRESENCE
I. THAT THE PRESENCE DWELLS IN THE REALM OF MIND
1. My Child, I now am ready to reveal to thee the simple methods by which
each child of man may find and grasp My sacred Presence-robe. Take thee a book,
and write, lest thou forget the simple ways by which a human soul may grasp and
hold the Unseen. And in the dark I saw: for as I wrote, the Presence that stood by
grew bright, and very pitiful and tender grew the Voice. And from His hands
gleamed forth a glorious glow that shone like light of day in even the middle night.
2. My Child, the first great secret of My Presence is this simple thought: I
dwell in mind. I dwell in mind: not in the earth-quake, nor in the rushing wind, nor
belching storms, but in the still small Voice that sounds in thought to thought for
thought. In mental realm dwell I. And he who would obtain access unto My
Presence’s domain of thought must first ascend, and there with heart and mind abide.
And why? Because in realm of sense it is sense alone that tells, and sense alone
cannot perceive a supersensual sight. The holiest shrine is only shelter for a slave,
a stable for a horse, and unto swine a lofty sty; but unto those who, purified and
incensed enter in with worship, lo! it is the Shekinah. It is only to a mind, therefore,
that even if I would, I could appear; and if thou wouldst come into touch with Me,
look in the unseen eternal, and there wilt thou find Me, The spiritual sight will see;
but it must be the inner sight that looks to see the realm unseen. The mind contains
it all: which first must recognize the thought, and then may look into the air and
there behold and recognize my form serene. Who would behold and feel and hear
must then turn off from earthly, sensual things; from passion and emotion, noise and
struggle and with the lifted heart gaze fixedly on Heaven.
3. But not in idleness or in inaction do I ever appear to men. It is not I who
come to men, when they retire into a muffled room, and turn the lights all down;
when they grow passive, mediumistic, losing hold of their own normal selves. Not
so: the lowest spirits thus delight to throw off-guard the watchful, self-controlling
mind, to gain an access to their stored vitality. Believe thou this: like flocks to like;
and men still get the presence they deserve—or, in another form of words, God ever
helps those souls that help themselves. No better presence comes than the condition
of the man who draws it to himself. The man who is his active better self attracts
the heavenly Presences serene; but who is passive, half-unconscious draws around
him brutish souls of brutish persons late deceased. Who would express divinity
should be quite energetic: while the medium quite unconsciously is played upon by
whatsoever spirit may succeed in fighting off the others, and to fasten its own claws
upon the helpless form abandoned by its own. This then is touchstone of My
Presence: he who is engaged in active physical work is sure that it is I who speak;
but those who lie back comfortably are being preyed upon by Shadows who deceive
and steal.
4. Nor need this seem to bar all prayer and meditation—far from it. He who
stands up on his feet, or he who sits erect, the back not resting on a chair, or who
kneels up without a sprawling rest-support, is safe; or he whose earnest prayer draws
tears and moans from writhing soul, may be quite sure that it is I who speak; or,
surer still, who may behold My messengers by light or day, or lamp by night. The
meaning of all this is plain: the human mind’s best self is just the realm in which
I dwell; and when the mind grows faint I pass away; and they who live like animals
in this dear world, they hear of Me at second-hand, but never know the first-hand
mental touch, or proof of My own self.
5. Nor is this mental realm the vehicle merely, or plane on which I dwell. Unless
a man remembers Me, I pass away from him. The memory is not the least of mental
means to call and keep Me near. And this in two particular regards: that I remember,
and that man remembers too. That I remember, in that I continually behold the
secret thoughts of each man’s heart. I stand beside him as he speaks and when
in darkness of his home, and he has locked his door, and thinks his thought of sfiapie,
I stand beside him, hear his thought, and feel the splashing of his soul. That he
remembers, in that when as guest invited I respond, and enter in the human fyeart,
there I remain as long as he remembers Me, and welcomes Me; but when I am for­
gotten, and his love turns off to others, then with tears I pass from h:m again.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR 45
6. Forgive me, Father, that I thus dare speak to Thee: but is it possible that
man should ever forget Thy Presence, after Thou vouchsafedst it? My Child, thyself
hast often done so ere these bitter trials of the stony upward road like iron entered
into thy soul, and by despair and sorrow cut right out of it all longings for the
world, and made thee stable, single-hearted, faithful, calm, sincere and true.
II. THAT GOD IS THE RECORDING ANGEL
L My Child, midnight is noon to Me. In bowels of the earth, on lonely peaks
of Himalaya, in soundless deep of ocean, where the sun-light is not known, where it
is not even a tradition, there am I. Nor bolts nor bars can lock Me out, I pass
through walls, I fall through roofs, I rise from out the grounds. I see each organ
in the body; every drop of blood I love; and have loved, too, since all eternity, and
still shall love forevermore. Each bone I formed with My own hand1while Thou
wert sleeping—every night it was I, unseen, unheard, undreamt of even, who ap­
proached, and curved and drew, and strengthened and made tense the bones within
thy flesh. I wove the weft of every tendon with a cord no one but I can weave,
so strong, so subtle and so beautiful, that none can form it after Me. The delicate
grey stripes of muscle were my task as artist of the universe, and every grain of
fat it is I directed to its special place. Oh, if thou knewest how I laboured over
thy body to perform this magnum opus of an alchemy divine, thou wouldst not
wonder that I can behold thy thoughts even long before thou thinkest them thyself.
I weep when I behold thy efforts to restrain some thought—to keep it from the man
with whom thou speakest, nay, even from thyself; I weep, for it finds clear ex­
pression in the Book of Life in colour red of shame and sin, and peals out loud, so
loud that we in Heaven engaged in listening to human prayers can scarce distinguish
them for all these voices hoarse of passion and of sin! Oh, these forbidden voices!
For thy own sake, O man, refrain, and let me hear thy aspirations’ cry, that I may
answer it with haste and blessedness.
2. And when thou thinkest thou hast cheated some of thy own kin, (thou fool!)
thou seest not that Providence records a like misfortune in thy future years for Io,
it is thou that hast thyself both mulcted and deceived. And when in anger some
hot, bitter word is winged with venom, little dost thou dream I stand unmoved in
bitter grief because the eternal laws of justice with an automatic clutch screw down
a clamp upon thy destiny; and though they work with noiseless swirl, well-oiled by
thine own venom, ah, those screws hold tight, and never loose again until thyself in
future years by teared and sweated labour shalt unturn each turn with long delay
and gaunt despair.
3. Thy usual self would blush, couldst thou behold the scorn of heavenly Justice
when thou dost suppose that in some trick thou hast advanced thy interest, by legal
quibble or by corporate and irresponsible device! When thou hast trapped some
soul in pulling from the fire for thee some chestnuts thou dost wish; when thou hast
silently rejoiced at evil which advanced thy cause, though thou tookst care to do no
thing thyself, the whole black Cloud of hell around thee laughed with wild amuse­
ment at thy foolishness.
4. I speak in sorrow, Child, and not in vengeance or in wrath—it grieves Me
to see aught evil; for I rejoice at holiness and not at sin. But what draws hottest
tears from My dear angels and from Me is when I see thee so intent on stopping
worship at the time exact, nor counting ever how much thou art late, or inattentive
or asleep. As if thy worship was of service unto Me! As if each moment was not
to thy own self’s gain! Oh, if thou lovedst Me as much (I say not more) than earthly
love, thou wouldst not only cease from making sure thou gavest too much time to
Me; but oh, thou couldst not wait until the blessed moment came again when thou
mightst stand within the sanctuary. O Love, Thou art the only magnet of the human
soul! My Child thy love to me is hardly one small spark compared to the eternal
sun-effulgence of My love to thee: and wert thou half as anxious to come near to
Me within the sanctuary as I desire to come to thee, thou wouldst each small spare
moment come again, and kneel and weep for my still touch.
5. So far I have appealed to thee, my Child, by motives first of fear and interest;
let Me now call on nobler motives, which, as such, will be more powerful with thee.
46 TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
Thy better self it is I wish to call into the mastery of thy self. For this thy better
self is not the self of every-day, in which thou lettest thyself loose in every-day
converse. Like animals most men permit themselves to act out all their nature day
by day without a hindering rein. Nay, even brutes at times refuse to eat because
overmastered by some grief! Dogs, cats and pigeons have been known to starve
upon their master’s grave. So thou shouldst also, when I stand near thee, lose all
the minor needs of physical desire, overmastered by the awe and reverence for Me.
So in My Presence thou wouldst be dressed, and on thy best behaviour, letting go
the urgency of many usual things. Thy speech, thy garb, thy manners and thy
thoughts would show restraint, and culture and propriety. So too, when I, who
greater am than any king or emperor, deign visit thee, thou shouldst be self-restrained,
upon thy mettle, as it were, to put thy best foot foremost; not dishonouring My
Presence by too many personalities, nor squabbles, or by pettiness of any kind.
Thou wouldst be serious, too, avoiding laughter loud and vulgar, or indulgences of
self, in eating, drinking, passion, or of laziness. Nor wouldst thou loll around, or
boast, or joke, or mutter at the weather; yea, ashamed to notice trifles such as these
in such a Presence; thou wouldst forget to nag at dear ones, or give rein to mere
curiosity. Thou wouldst bethink thee of thy noblest thoughts and useful knowledge
garnered in thy mind. There would be careful, scrupulous concern for others’ com­
forts, otherwise forgotten in the daily grind, and courteous winning ways. If only
thou didst bethink thee that I stood by thee and saw thee, watched thee, cared for thee,
and longed to make thee feel Me near!
6. For thy own sake therefore, dear Child, I would have thee remember Me, that
I am by thee both by day and night. So shall thou be first just, then loving, then holy,
and at last divine like Me. Remember Me, as if thou wert My bride, and I thy
Lover strong; for Me thou wouldst adorn thyself, and be prepared for Me to take
thee; yea, and bear thee off from all thy old low ways to holiness and dwelling-place
divine.
7. But more, far more, my Child! There were no enemy who could raise fear
in thee, with Me beside thee, powerful as I am. Nor pain at loss, since I am rich!
So have I taken charge of thee, that all thy live-long days thou shouldst not lack
except as might be best for thy own soul's progressive flight to God. Nor grief at
parting, seeing I shall never leave thee—shall remain so near when father, mother,
brethren, dear ones pass away, and friends grow cold and partners scornful, and
when acquaintances suspicious grow (as grow they must)—for who faced death,
except alone? Nor over-passion at thy dearest’s side; for I, thy Lover jealous, claim
thy utmost love, and suffer not a rival for thy heart; though through thy Love for
Me love gentle and unselfish, universal and undying shall flow out to all. So, calm,
unpassionate, ungrieved, unpained, unfeared, and last and greatest, yea, uninterrupted
too (for what could be temptation while it is I who near thee stand, and warn of
sin, and hold thy hand, and guard thy foot?) shall thou remain; and clothed in thy
right mind thou shall be able to conserve each hour’s fruit until thy heaven shall be
full of stores, and thither will thy heart ever turn, and finally prepare thyself (even
while on earth) a seat unchanging amidst the blest on high, and, yet, while on this
earth, a god. All this and more, (if more can be!) from mere remembering I am
near, and standing by thy side.
III. THAT GOD LONGS TO BE THE GUEST OF MAN.
1. So spake the Presence in the silent gloom with calm and gentle tones, and
ceased. Then all the light that streamed from it grew faint and passed away,
and left the sacred Form stand out against the shimmering stars, and for
a while a gentle silence brooded over the world. And while I sat, the words that I
had heard and written sank into my soul, and there I dreamed until thick peace
camped round about me there. And then the form grew bright once more, and that
beloved Voice began again: »
2. My Child, 1 now would tell thee how, in second place, the closeness of My
Presence doth depend upon how men remember Me. I enter in to men, and dwell
with them as Guest if they this little do, that they forget Me not. I ask for little,
seeing that I come not for My interest, but only to make holy and to bless. I ask
for their own better selves’ supremacy; and as they give, I bless; and when they stint,
they take from Me the power to bless them more and more; and he who giveth all
his life to Me, to him I give divinity. I will be clear and plain, and show thee how
I ask no more than earthly guest. Indeed, if men gave unto Me as much continual
love and service as they do unto each other, I would be content (for their own sake!).
But ah, though if at all they should give Me so infinitely more than to a man, yet at
the least they should not give Me less; but they forget, ah, they forget—they think
that it is I whom they forget; but ah, it is their own immortal weal that they forget
and lose!
3. I ask no deep mysterious thing of My blind earthly children dear. It is no
secret, hidden deep in nature’s coffer; nor reserved to some weird shrine by mystic
priesthood’s rite kept close! It is the simple thing to treat Me just as they would
treat some well-loved guest who might abide with them. To any such they give
1, their love, 2, with courtesy inviting and 3, with welcome greet, and lead into 4,
his special room or sanctuary; and give a 5, place all their daily life, 6, nor ever
forget them so that their guest bestows on them 7, his blessing and his peace. Such
are the few requirements I make, which whoso gives, shall even receive the utmost
that I have to give.
4. The first requirement is love. Love is sufficient ground for any noble deed
and effort, hard as it might be. Sometimes a life may be well-lost if love have been
the cause. And even angels reverence the dog who starves upon his master’s grave,
the cat who in his master’s absence pines away, the bird who dies without his mate.
For love continually I leave the place of Paradise and come and dwell with man
whose sin and passion keep Me sad, and full of righteous wrath. Ah, hast thou ever
tried to imagine the Paradise of the blest? To look into the holy faces of a countless
cloud of saints, of angels beaming bright with purity and truth? And then to dwell
in places haunted by wan thoughts of shame unseen to mortal eyes, but offsprings of
their hearts; to see mistakes and wrongs, and violence and hate; to see their future
punishments (which they with careless jibe invoke upon themselves); to know how
wilfully they will fall down from sin to sin; to hear the cries of passion and the
marks of violence; this, this is torture unto Me; and yet, for love’s dear sake, I never
flinch; I bow My head, and enter in where simple human love upon the altar of the
family brings out the incensed fragrance of their simple hearts! And love is some­
thing which no soul might be too poor to lack. The humblest worm its impulse feels,
and I respect that worm thereby enhanced in dignity to rank of soul. The humblest
menial, and the smallest child can give their love to Me, and unto them I come as
gladly as to oldest and most powerful of men. I laugh at money and pity show to
even the best of human thoughts; but love even I respect with awe and reverence, and
answer with divinest blessings and rewards.
5. But love, as such, is not enough; for love may be enclosed in alabaster boxes,
so that not one drop of precious ointment can come forth: it needs the tears of
Magdalen, her wish to offer it to Me, her breaking of the box, so that the ointment
may flow down upon My weary feet. Ah, many are the lips that speak of love,
but few the hearts that burn within until the tears flow forth. There must be wel­
come waiting there for Me: a longing, yearning and desire, a gentle tenderness and
still humility, such as true love imparts to human souls. This welcome must appear
in deeds, in words, in tears, in gifts. Love incarnated, and brought forth to sight,
the seed become a tree, whose branches sway with every wind, whose tender leaves
delight and bless with grateful and protecting shade, whose blooms spread fragrance
first, and then develop into luscious fruit, each kernel of the which can bring forth
thousand trees.
6. Yet no, my Child; not even this sweet welcome is sufficient unto Me. I ask
still more. Why should I not? Would human guest (though knowing he was loved
both inwardly and outwardly) go in unto his friend’s without a special invitation
given? I ask no more than any human guest expects—should I not have, at least,
as much? I knock, I knock, by day and night; but were it right of Me to break
into the door? It is true, I wait not for my Children till they come to Me: I
knock and knock by night and day, desiring shelter and refreshment that might bless
their souls. I knock, I knock by day and night; if they may hear, perchance, and
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
come, and taking pity on my wounded hands and bleeding feet invite Me in for their
own blessing now and evermore. I knock, I knock, by night and day; but they must
bid Me come, just when they wish Me—then only doth my heavenly law open unto
Me a path, and gladly I begin my ever new attempt to save and to redress. I knock
and knock by night and day,
7. And when I am admitted, then, where shall I rest the sole of my sore feet?
Shall I alone not have a spot to call my own? What human guest were not im­
mediately conducted to the best of chambers by the host—(mayhap, had he not
room, he left his own choice chamber for the nonce) the best of chambers, cleaned
and lighted, and with flowers upon the chest? And shall there less be done for Me?
I ask not more; not altar, incense, nay, nor sacrifice; but surely not far less than
human guest might have received! There, in cool and silence of that chamber will
I dwell, untroubled by the drudgery and turmoil of the house. And when my host
shall knock upon the door, behold, there will I be to greet him, and instruct and
bless; and there will always wait until he come to find with Me once more his better
self. Let him make an appointment for the next of times with Me each time he leaves
again, and I shall so arrange the world’s affairs I can be present there to help him
and to bless.
6. But is this all that human guest would have? One room? To be shut off from
sweet amenities of home, those tender words at evening hour of twilight spent around
the hearth? To be shut off from board when each is present with their best apparel,
and with cheeriest news? To be shut off from hall where neighbours come to speak
of common interests? To be shut off from labour earnest and from toil? Ah no; my
dear ones would not have the heart to treat Me thus! They could not be content:
a chair would always stand beside the festive board; in hall and gloaming musing
there would also stand a chair; the tender greeting of farewell and welcome of the
children and toilers would not quite forget even Me. I ask not more than human
guest, at least no less and I will stand for it that blessing shall descend and dwell
within that house.
9. Nor yet shall I be thought of, loved, and worshipped for a day, and then for­
gotten in the rush of work. In uncomplaining silence would I stand around for three
long days; touch hand, or forehead even from time to time in vain attempt to make
them think of Me. I would then knock three times; then silently depart without
reproach, but with forgiving pity in my heart; and if through need the host should
seek Me then he would find yet his room,—but nowhere Me! Would human guest
remain, if quite forgotten, out of mind? Would he not chide, or leave with rancor
in his heart? But I would only pity, and depart with shadows of the next third dawn,
while leaving yet my blessing in my sanctuary.
10. Thus shall there peace abide in that blest house where 1 love, 2 welcome,
3 do invite Me to 4 a sanctuary, and 5 woo Me to take part in their dull daily grind,
nor 6 ever forget Me; there is and there shall be forevermore 7, the very peace cf
heaven. And why? Because where I abide, behold, that spot is Heaven: and there,
there shall be no dark night, for I am light thereof; and there, there shall be no more
tears, for I shall wipe them all away; and there shall dwell in perfect peace a holi­
ness of beauty which can never be described, but must be felt and known and loved,
of which whoso has once even tasted never, never again will he find rest until he find
and drink of it forevermore.
11. Behold, I stand at the door, and knock. Open to Me, my Child: it is at thy
own, own door I knock; it shall be thy own fault if I shall enter not, and entering
bring peace and blessing evermore. Amen!
12. Even so come, O fair Father God!
THE HYMN OF PEACE
Refrain:
Peace, perfect peace, amidst this strife that will not cease:
It is the love of God that brings us perfect peace.
1. God will provide: O holy consolation That like a Dove flits downwards to my
side; In time of stress O teach me resignation, And make me feel the truth Thou
wilt provide.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
2. God will provide the means that will be needed To do the work on which He
may decide; And when I stray, lest I should not have heeded The prayed-for
dangers oh, do not provide!
3. God will provide when earthly bonds are breaking, God will provide in hour of
need a guide; He will call back, when love to Him forsaking, My soul forgets
the peace He did provide.
4. God thus provides the comforting assurance I may the Future’s cares to Him
confide; I fructify with my whole soul’s endurance, Each opportunity He doth
provide.
5. God will provide the needed contemplation To mirror in my soul His stars outside;
Whose splendours hush me into adoration And gratitude for all He may provide.
Into Thy Hand I lay me down so still, I find my only peace upon Thy breast;
Thus hast Thou made me: chasten Thou my will, And thus provide me with Thy
perfect rest.
IV. OF THE DEFINITE THINGS TO BE DONE
1. O well-loved Voice! How gently Thou didst cease! What peace came over
me as once more the silence of the starry night fell on me writing, when the sacred
Glow again grew faint and passed away! And long sank in those words of well-
poised gentleness and peace, until I felt within me such a love for it, that prostrate
I wept, and cried, Speak once more, well-loved Voice, lest it be all a dream, and
I have been deceived—speak Thou again to me. I would not, must not lose Thee;
nay, tell me the least detail of the way Thou wouldst be served and loved, and
worshipped as a human guest, that being at this moment sure of Thee I may with
sane authority proclaim just how Thou would’st be served.
2. My Child, art thou so blind, so deaf? Thy heart so stony yet, that thou
hast not yet understood that I demand no whit in difference or excess beyond what
thou thyself wouldst give unto a well-loved human guest? I am content with just
what thy own heart might give; and wouldst thou know what thou shouldst give to
Me, then do thou think what thou thyself wert thou a guest wouldst wish; that give
to Me! Take paper, write; enumerate them to thyself, that thou be thine own
witness even against thyself, if thou shouldst ever forget to give Me honor due!
Think thou for thine own self! So far that well-loved Voice in calm and earnest,
loving, holy tone; and ceased. Darkness fell again and showed the shimmering stars
that by this time had travelled westward half the vault above.
3. And I saw reason in what the Voice so dear had said. Let me myself make
out a list of such small things as I myself should ever expect as honored guest in
some dear home of childhood’s friend.
1. A formal invitation for a specified time—written neatly, or uttered sweetly,
and forwarded to me in a suitable way. 2. This invitation should not have been
sent on the sly by an individual member of the family, as if ashamed of me; but
boldly, openly, with knowledge of each other member of the family. 3. Punctuality
and neatness in observing the meeting-place; a smile and affectionate leading home.
4. A special room reserved for my use alone, devoted only to me. 5. This room
should be well-swept, all linen clean and flowers on the chest. 6. A cover at every
meal, with greeting at the beginning and the end. 7. A chair at every social reunion.
8. A formal greeting every morning and evening by every member of the family;
continual attention during the day; being invited to take part in every conversation;
being consulted in making plans for outings; being recognized in the working of the
household; instead of coat and hat on the hat-rack, a card, sign, or motto reminding
those who enter of the Presence in the house. 9. Sufficient respect to the guest to
hush, for the time being all family bickerings; so that mutual gentle courtesy will at
least appear. 10. Cleanliness, order and peace,
4. Such is the least I would accept; that is the least I dare present to the Divine.
THE ROCK OF AGES
1. When I consider how my holiest prayer, Scarce burns sufficiently with zeal to
keep My mind from wandering and mine eyes from sleep, Of e’er attaining
aught I would despair,
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
But that I look to Thee, Redeemer mine,
My Strength, my Chastener, my Guide divine.
2. When I consider how my utmost care, Scarce serves to help me keep from losing
hold Of my scant, garnered spiritual gold, Mere thought of progress would
make me despair,
But that I look to Thee, Redeemer mine,
My Strength, my Chastener, my Guide divine.
3. When 1 consider how it seems, whene’er I've made a vow, some unforseen event
Immediately my efforts doth prevent, Of even fairly starting lid despair
But that I look to Thee, Redeemer mine,
My Strength, my Chastener, my Guide divine.
4. On Thee relying, once again in prayer I vow to serve my very highest Light,
With steady, thorough and efficient might, Only because of Thee alone, and
not despair,
In that I look to Thee, Redeemer mine,
My Strength, my Chastener, my Guide divine.
V. THAT EVEN SINCERITY BECOMES HYPOCRISY WITHOUT LOVE
1. Such did I write, and that dear form grew radiantly serene again; and then
I knew that He was pleased with what I purposed and had writ. No harm in more
—the utmost man could do, too little; yet, sufficient this which I for even myself
would wish. And I rejoiced, in (hat I now had found the utmost rule (which I
directly, even from God, received) a law for all the world, a rule divine, which
none could or should add to or are diminish from, as sacred as the bibles of all ages,
nations, times. And here I stopped: for lo, I thought of those old Greek and Hebrew
words, that God should only worshipped be in temple-sanctuaries not made with
hands: that those who worshipped Him must worship Him in spirit and in truth!
And I grew doubtful which were right: the law of old, or this received from God
Himself—and here I paused in doubt, and prayed for light, and called for help from
that dear well-loved Voice.
2. My Child, well is if both for thee and all the world that thou hast prayed
to Me for light; for this same purpose did I flash into thy mind those verses of the
hoary books. For lo, thou hadst not yet quite understood what thou thyself hadst
said. I said to thee that I required from thee just what thou wouldst thyself require:
the Golden Rule. But think thou too that there are other souls than thou in this
dear world of Mine. Some more formality demand, some less; from each according
to their lights I take what they will give, and bless them in the measure they have
sight to see, that they have sense to understand, that they have hearts to love.
With formalists, a formalist am I; with souls iconoclastically inclined I am a spirit
pure and without form. To each I am the best and highest that they know.
3. But, Father, pray explain to me which of these two is dearer unto Thee,
though both accepted by Thy pitiful affection in the measure of their knowledge.
Which, O Father is to Thee acceptable in veriest degree? Speak unto Me, that I
report unto the world, and henceforth doubts and conflicts nevermore wage around
this question: Of ritual or barren worship, which is righter—dearer, closer unto
Thee?
4. My Child, there is no ‘righter’ course; nor any dearer, closer unto Me. Both
Tightest, dearest, closest if instinct with love—that is, sincere devotion, tender as­
piration, and humility. Forms are so little unto Me that even their absence is no
claim of merit in mine eyes. It is not the form that I accept; it is the meaning of
it by the one that offers it to Me. Each form, each barrenness may each be right
or wrong or even indifferent according as the soul means right, means wrong, or
works mechanically by what it says or does, or does not say nor do. I look upon
the heart, not on the outside, as you humans do. I see within, and know the motive
long before. How else could if have been? I understand a million languages (even
that of birds, and animals, and trees and grasses too) because I grasp the meaning;
little do I care which sounds are used to mean what flashes in My mind. So forms
religious are no more than a symbolic language any form of which no two souls
use in exactly the same sense; the very same forms are a different language unto
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
each; nay, even at different epochs unto each soul herself; and each expression do I
understand and weigh on balances of keen discrimination, and reward or punish as
befits.
5. No man ever worshipped Me too much, or with a ritual too extreme, as long
as he at least, was quite sincere. For think how infinitely far above the human
thought I am. My holiness even angels dare not look at, and they veil their eyes,
and bend in adoration and in praise. No man therefore could make for Me a ritual
whose extremity were not still pitifully far below what I deserve. Nor is the rev­
erence which it teaches bad for human souls; far better were it still to err on side
of too great reverence than on the other one of shamelessness, as many do who
know nothing better than they are themselves, nor even admit that there could be,
‘too blind to have desire to see’. The footfalls of the Holy Ones cKe out upon their
heedless ears. For lo, who really is admitted into heavenly places trembles as he
passes through the Gate; not that he knows he ought to tremble, but because at
keenness of the spiritual air such as up there holds sway, the holiest of incarnated
souls feels faint, as if the Spirit’s knife already cut their souls and bodies swift apart.
Therefore who scoffs betrays his ignorance; who knows no reverence shows he never
was yet admitted to behold the unseen, to hear the unheard, and love the yet un­
dreamt of mysteries.
6. And yet, and yet, no man ever worshipped Me with form too scanty and
austere. What care I for the blood of bulls and goats? Are not the cattle on a
thousand mountains mine? And incense, what is that to Me for whom the tropic’s
jasmines bloom in a perpetual wreath? What can my creature give to Me who
made him all he is, and has, and hopes to be and have? His choicest flights of
poetry and song, was it not I, was it not I who first did whisper them behind his
ear? Or will he paint me some Madonna for whose face i did not make the model
first? What then is this insanity of men pretending or attempting to give Me an
offering adequate? O fools and slight who dream of offering to Me somewhat beyond
what I had made and given them before! To cleanse the heart, and not hands is
what I ever require. Sincerity, to say all that you mean, and say all that is necessary,
loving, true: this is the eternal law. Hypocrisy it is to be saintly in exterior but
within to live as the rest. I care for nothing, and no man did worship Me too simply.
7. They both are true, the thoughts of ritualism and simple worship: everywhere
they both appear. The Hebrew scriptures too are full of both: the ritualistic Moses,
and the Prophets more austere; as each one saw it they did make for righteousness,
so was it right at just that time. And now to thee, thyself hast given Me the
standard of thy heart; wherefore according unto it shalt thou be judged: for what
is right to thee, that must thou do, or perish self-condemned for evermore.
8. It is a story old as the whole world, the ever-swinging pendulum of human
life; for men cannot stand still: each new man brings his mite of change or back­
wards or mayhap again the other way, as history has shown took place from the
beginning until now. The old Egyptians hoar began to worship Me in symbol of
Creation’s childish souls of animals: each city with its totem, its protecting deity.
The ritualistic movement grew till on about a thousand years before the Christ
Amenhotep the IV. did introduce the worship of the sun in temple without figure
and without an altar. But soon the fervid worship brought in again a ritual splendid
and more vast. In India the sublime Brahmanic rites developed to such Vedic hier­
archy that Gautama the Buddha in spiritual iconoclastic zeal, made men throw over­
board all else but justice and self-sacrifice, and freed all women too; but now (O
mockery!) the very TOOTH of Buddha (rival teeth of Buddha are worshipped
in Ceylon and Siam!) is with pomp in ritualistic temples yearly worshipped and
adored, while altars, candles, vestments, rosaries, abbots, bishops, monasteries per­
petuate a splendid ritual unrivalled anywhere! So Moses too broke loose from old
Egyptian rites and Apis-vorship (that is, the golden Calf;) on Sinai set forth a
law of righteousness, which priests increased in the tabernacle first, and gorgeous
Solomonic temple later. Then the iconoclastic prophets dared restore to pristine
purity the Jewish worship, and to such effect that a new ritual arose in vast Hcrodian
fane, more ritualistic far than the other ritual of old. The Christian church arose
as protest against Scribe and Pharisee; but soon new ritualism again arose in splen-
52 TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
dour occidental and unmatched. Established by the State it grew still more sublime
in pomp until in long eight hundred years the West broke from the East on this
same question of ‘no images’! And lo, what mockery! The Roman Church shows
yet an ancient statue of great Jupiter in old St. Peter’s Church in Rome and, doing
duty for this salient saint, is kissed by million devotees a year. And when in seven
hundred years the Reformation, born in Germany, once more developed ritual in
English Church, which thus was split in Low and High, which threaten internecine
war again. The very Calvinists again admit the organ, liturgy and coloured glass,
and robe! And in the future it will be the same. From images to bareness, and
back to images; each step retraced a thousand times, inspired by reverence or sin­
cerity; each one supposing he is pushing on some noble work for Me, instinct with
earnestness and zeal. They both were right, just inasmuch as both meant well. It
is all quite useless, but as it might assist thee to more earnest reverence for Me.
9. And so it is very simple at the end. The holiest form is good so long as
love sincere to Me keep it from growing into dead hypocrisy. But when these forms
grow irksome, hew not down the old sweet forms thyself did make; but light them
once again with flame of love, until once more thou feel Me present in the sanctuary.
And when thy love grows cold, like fly-wheel of some engine, go right on, and
seek with tears to soften thy own heart; so shall thou wake again the eucharistic
fervour of thy earliest love, and I will sensibly accept thy sacrifice, and stay with
thee that root and branch, and branch and root we bide together now and evermore.
THE LISTENING SONG
Oh listen, listen, listen—oh listen patiently;
Oh listen to the Voices that seek to reach to thee!
O thou who seekest comfort why listenest thou not—Unto the Voices in thyself—
That thou hast quite forgot?—The Voices of the midnight, they plead, they follow
thee;—In vain! For thou art too engaged—In seeking sympathy.
O thou who lackest wisdom why lookest not within—Why call’st not on thy Inner
Self—To keep thyself from sin?—The Voices of the morning, they plead, they
follow thee;— But while thou look’st for outside help,—Thou fail’st their help to
see.
O thou who seek’st companionship, oh lift thine eyes in prayer—Unto thy unseen
Heavenly Friend—Who, though forgot, is there.—The Voices of the noon-day,
they plead, they follow thee,—While busied with thy loneliness—Thou’rt lost in
misery.
O thou who seek’st instruction in heavenly mystery—Why list’nest not to Voices
sent—From th’ Inmost Sanctuary?—The Voices of the evening, they plead, they
follow thee—In vain attempt to teach to thee—The Path of Destiny!
VL THAT GOD’S OWN TIME IS HERE AND NOW
1. And in the East began to dawn the day. And then the Presence said, My
Child, I now depart in semblance physical such as till now I gave to thee. Climb
thou that Mountain. Far beyond those peaks are deserts wild; but press thou on;
and thou shalt someday find the Place where this thy dream shall be fulfilled, and
later on the first one also shall become a fact. Farewell!
2. And then I knew I was alone, and tears burst forth; for then I knew I should
not hear that Voice—that well-loved Voice, with vision face to face—again on this
our earth. And then I prayed; and when once more the breezes silently played
around me, they whispered in mine ear of holiness and courage, blessedness and
peace.
3. And then One of those voices said to me: Make haste! The road is long
and steep, and short for it this dawning day—it is here and now alone thou canst
progress! There is a Bridge beyond shall fall to-night. See if thou canst attain to
it! For never, never again will such a short path open unto thee. For months
thou shouldst have to wander around the impassable ravine unless to-day thou cross
that Bridge before it fall! Be brave, and angel guides shall minister to thee, nor
leave thy side till safe, safe Home at last!
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
OF COMMUNION WITH GOD
1. F ath er, I tu rn to T hee in th is m ine hour of need. There are th ose w ho seek Thee in
th e m idst o f th eir youth, th eir p urity, their strength, and th eir asp iration s; th ere are w ho
seek The© not for any need of th eirs, selfish ly; w ho seek Thee because Thou art so beautiful,
so pure, so loving. B ut I com e to Thee because Thou art m y la st hope. I w as young, aiul am
old; I w a s pure, and am stain ed ; I w a s strong, and am broken; I w a s hopeful, and am despair­
in g. My only p lea is m y u tter need. Turn T h yself not aw ay from m e. —2. My son, fear not.
T hose w hom I love, I ch asten . There a re w ho seek Me in th e days of their youth and stren g th ;
but youth and strength are no le ss m essengers of M ine to them than w eak ness and sorrow
are to thee. I)id I not love th ee w ith My everlastin g love, I would not seek the© now th at thou
ca n st not repay Me in au ght. B ut to-d ay, in th e hour of th y h um iliation, anguish and sorrow ,
I plead for th y love; and som e day thou too slialt love M e unselfishly, w hen thou slialt have seen
m ore of My beauty, and ta sted m ore of My peace. Open th y m outh w ide th at I m ay fill it;
open th e depths of th y h eart, th at I m ay enlighten them . I w ill never leave thee, nor forsak e
th ee. — 3. Bead me, F ath er, to T h yself; be m y light and m y joy. Tench m e to love Thee and
to yearn for Thee, and it w ill be w ell w ith m e. T each m e to com e closer to Thee, and w hen
I see th e burning bush, I w ill know th a t Thou art near.
BOOK I. OF LOVE
I. TH AT LOVE SH O U LD H E U N IV ER SA L
1. My son, learn love. L earn to love all w h o are in My im age, and w ho are striving to
atta in My lik en ess. B efore M e, th ereis neither ,Jew nor G entile, rich or poor, old or youn
handsom e or ugly, m ale or fem ale; for a ll are equal in My sigh t. B efore M e, th e wicked
cease from troubling, and th e w eary are a t rest. B efore Me, th e prisoners rest together, they
hear not the voice of th e oppressor. The sm all and great are b efore Me, and th e servant is
free from h is m aster. — 2. My love reaches ou t a fter every soul, and all w ho seek M e, find
Me. The only difference in th e dignity of any tw o souls, is th at they are from Me or near
to Me. The a ge of a soul in My sigh t is show n in th e depth of its love, be it old or young
in the years of the w orld. T his is the only d ignity a soul can recognize in another w ithout
hum iliating itse lf; th is is th e foundation of the reverence My children pay to th eir earthly
parents. — 3. B y love I created th e w orld; sin ce that- culm Sabbath-day, love is a key which
w ill unlock its deepest m ysteries. The issu es of th is world are so arranged th at a prayer of
love w ill draw from life its sw eetest harm onies. It is on th is account th at rich and poor,
young and old, learned and ignorant, are equal in My sight. F or, if thou w ouldst know which
of tw o courses is the one I w ould have th ee pursue, thou needcst only to ask thy heart which
is the m ost loving one; and thou slia lt find a t its end My ow n Presence. And as, through My
W ord, I have given to all souls the power of recognizing love, they all, through Him , and in
H im , can find M e, and enjoy My Presence equally. I have no treasu re, no m ystery, for the
rich and the learned, w hich I have not also for the poor and the ignorant; for w ho is so poor
or so ignorant th at In* cannot offer to Me a prayer of love fo r h is richest and m ost learned
brother? — 1. My child, love a ll. T.ove no one soul less than any other; love not a few ; love
a ll, even a s I love all.
II. TH AT W E SHOULD DOVE T H E JU ST A N D U NJU ST
1. I love th e ju st and unjust, for on all I send My rain and My sunshine; for I am good.
B e good too, M y child; love the ju st and th e unjust. —2. F ath er, how can I love th ose who
are w icked? H ow can I love th ose w ho h a te Thee? How can I love those in whom there is
no spark of good? — 3. H ast thou looked carefully? There is no soul so lost, no heart so hard,
th at I have ceased to love, and have ceased to call it into th e desert, th a t I m ight plead w ith it
the cau ses o f its ow n happiness by repentance, aspiration s, higher id eals; there is no soul which
does not, in som e fain t degree, an sw er to My call. To say th at th ere is no spark of good left in
a soul, m eans thou h ast not looked carefully, th a t thou hast not been led by love in the scar cl:.
F or I am w ith a ll, if thou w ilt but look for m e. — 4. Yet, m y child, thou art right. N ever love
aught for itse lf; love it only for the hive which I have given to it; for My beauty im aged in it;
for My light enlightening it. L ove Me in everything and all. If thou lovest a soul’s flesh for the
sake of the flesh, thou can st never hope to see Me. I f thou lovest a soul’s thought and powers,
thou settest up som ething betw een Me and th ee. I am the beginning and end, the source and
m eaning of love. L ove thy fellow -sou ls for th eir goodness, their beauty, and their love. — 5. This
is th e only love, m y child, which never cloys or a g es, and through w hich thou w ilt be able to love
th e w icked, w ho are w eak, for My im age w hich is still in them . D ost thou love the flesh? Thy
love m ust p a ss aw ay w ith it, for the memory fa ils, th e thoughts blur, and the habits change. I
alone, dear son, never change; I alone never fa il. L ove Me in all, am i thy love for them w ill e n ­
dure till the earth crum ble, and the stars darken. Thou w ilt find th at no friendship, no a ssocia­
tion, no union of souls, can la st, 'th at is not founded and perfected in unselfish love for Me. —(>.
And yet, it m ay chance thou w ilt m eet souls in whom thou canst not find an y good a t all. Then,
m y child, thou m ayest know for certain th at thou, and thou alone, art to blam e. Thou can st only
sec th at for w hich thine eyes are fitted; the color-blind can see no colors. Thou can st only rec­
ognize in others qualities th at are inherent in th yself. In the fo rest the* farm er sees firew ood; the
poet visions. If thou can st see no good in others, th ere is no good in th ee; ca st out th e beam from
th in e own eye, and thou w ilt see to tak e out th e m ote th at is in thy brother’s eye. Only the
w icked despair; m y sain ts, w ho are th e jew els of My crown, are filled w ith rapture w ith their
destiny.
III. THAT W E SHOULD LO V E OUR EN EM IES
1. F ath er, how can I love th ose w ho hat© m e? How can I love th ose w ho w ill not give m e
an opportunity of loving them ? H ow can I love an y but th ose w ho let m e love them ? —2. My son,
if thou love them th at love th ee, w lm t thank h ast thou? F or sinners also love those w ho love
th em ! There h as never lived a being th at, even in its low est estate, did not love th ose w ho gave
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
them selves to it. B ut thou, w ho art In M ine own im age, m u st do m ore than th is; thou m u st love
th ose w ho hate thee, w ho persecute thee, w ho u se thee despitefu lly, w ho slan d er thee, w ho scourge
thee, w ho m ock thee, w ho torm ent thee. Then slia lt thou be in My lik en ess. F or, did I not love
th ee w hen thou did st persecute M e, w hen thou didst h ate Me, w hen thou didst u se Me despitefu lly,
w hen thou didst slander Me, w hen thou didst scourge M e, when thou didst m ock Me, w hen thou
didst torm ent Me? —3. I f thou love not thine enem ies, it is plain th at thou art still selfish. If
thou didst not love thine, earth ly self, th ose w ho injure thy earth ly se lf w ould not injure thee.
U nselfishness can have no enem y. — I. P urify th yself a s I am pure. Love th ose w ho h ate th ee;
pray for th ose th at m ock th ee; rejoice in the trium ph of th ose w ho call th em selves th in e enem ies
. . . and then. My child, if thou but look a t thy side, thou slialt see Me fa c e to face. — 5. F ath er,
blessed F ath er, how can I do Thy w ill? D o I not ow e m yself som e self-resp ect? Should I not,
in som e harm less w ay, strive to preserve m yself? for the sake o f th e encouragem ent to injure
others given them by my p assiven ess, should I not teach them respect for th e law ? — (!. P eace,
M y child, be still. W ho deserved to have self-resp ect m ore than th y E lder Brother, th e spotless
P riest a fter th e Order of M clchizedek, th e K ing of R ighteousness? And yet w a s it not H e W ho
turned H is cheek to th e sm iter; W ho uttered no w ord w hen H e could h ave called down a thousand
legions of an gels to beat back the b etrayer; W ho uttered no sound w hen the crow n of thorns w as
driven deep into Ills flesh? W as it not H e W ho uttered no sound w hile H e w a s reviled, scourged,
and crucified? A h, My little child; go to the C ross; there learn obedience to My W ill; there learn
th e depths of love; there learn the blessing freely given to th ose w ho tortured H im , ju st because
11c died of love for them ; because H e died of a broken heart for th em ; ju st because H e sought
their eternal blessedness, and cam e to plead w ith them for their ow n eternal joy. — 7. Go, go
to th e C ross, and learn how the sin less die . . . B ut thou, My child, a rt thou even sin less? H ast
thou as much right to com plain as H e? Go to th e C ross, and pray for love.
IV. THAT LOVE BEG IN S A T HOME
1. Fath er, all th ese th in gs th a t Thou hast*com m anded have I done; w h at lack I yet? — 2. If
thou w ilt be perfect, My child, go, return to the hom e of thy childhood, return to the scene o f thy
daily drudgery; th ere learn to love th y brethren and thy neighbours. Y ea, there h ave arisen pro­
phets and m artyrs, w ho have done w onders in My m im e, w ho h ave failed in th is. It is easy fo r
thee to lavish thy love on the son of the stran ger, w hose h arshness thou h ast never felt; but to
lavish thy love and happiness on th e brother w ho know s he h as a s m uch right to h is peculiarities
as thou h a st to thine; to prophesy before those w ho have know n th ee from a child; th is, th is is
the suprem e test of devotion and love. — 3. Tell Me, 3Iy child, did th y E lder B rother ever stray
from th e Jew s, am ong whom I sent H im ? Did H e not labour a s a carpenter in N azareth for
thirty years? Did lie not spend th e prim e of H is m anhood humbly w orking am ong H is B rethren?
D id He ever com plain or murmur? H e knew He w a s sent to th e lost sheep of the house of Isra el;
for them He laboured; am ong them He died; and am ong them H e arose again , and ascended unto
My right hand. — 4. M y son, the highest duty is a lw a y s the one nearest a t hand. D ost thou ex­
cuse the neglect of th y earthly parents by th e plea th at thou m ust feed th e children begotten o f a
w ilful m arriage, and dost feel th yself called to be a m issionary to the poor? Thou h ast no right
to assum e new duties, w hile th e old ones are still unfulfilled. — 5. Thy word is hard, 0 God in
H eaven. A re not all souls equal in Thy sight? W hat m atters it to w hom I prophesy, so Thy
Word doth prosper? And if I w ait until m y home duties have passed aw a y ; a la s, Lord, I w ill be.
too old to do Thee service; I w ill then be ready to die. I w ill have been u seless to th e w orld, and
useless to T hee! I w ill have w asted m y life. —(>. H ear m y word of love, O restless, troubled soul.
W hen I sent thee forth into th e w orld, I had know n th ee long before. W hy did I send thee into
thy home, and not into another, sending another soul in thy place? B ecause I knew thou neededst
the lesson only th y earthly parents could teach thee; yea, m arvel not, th ose loving parents of thine
have lesson s to teach thee, w ise as thou a rt in th y self-con ceit! And thou, child, hadst lesson s to
teach to them . Therefore both thou and th y earth ly p arents w ill develop m ost rapidly into the
fu ln ess of My light by hum bly and lovingly learning from each other the lesson s I have appointed
you to teach. Lovingly, I said ; for only from those it loves can a soul learn aught. — 7. E ver ask
for My W ill; som etim es it is My W ill thou slialt serve th y earth ly parents. Som etim es th at thou
sh all go out and leave th em ; but unless I send th ee forth thou m ayest know My W ill is th at thou
shouhlst serve thy earthly kin. A nd if it be My W ill th at thou slialt love and hum bly serve th y
earthly parents, w ilt thou not be doing m ore in serving them , than by preaching My W ord, or
w hat thou deem est My W ord, again st My W ill? W liat ca n st thou ever hope to do beyond My W ill?
— 8. N ay, thou can st ever tell a tru e from a fa ls e prophet, by th e love and hum ble respect he
bears to his earth ly parents; for I give not My W ord in to th e hearts of them w ho love not a ll, be­
ginning at hom e.
Y . THAT W E SHOULD LOVE OUR NEIG H BO U R S AS OU R SELV ES
1. Thy w ords are bitter, O M aster! Thou dost dem and m ore from flesh and blood than Thou
hast given to it. Thou dost ask m ore than Thou h ast com m anded; for the N ew Com m andm ent w as
this, and no m ore than th is, “ Love th y neighbour as th y self.” This C om m andm ent have I kept
from my youth up; I have been ju st to a ll; I have done to all a s I w ould they should do unto m e;
w hy dost thou ask m ore than th is? —2. A nsw er m e. M aster, from the depths of Thy w isdom ,
though, as 1 know only too w ell, my w ords are quick and foolish. I said in m y h aste. My Fath er
is unjust. For 1 cannot understand Thy w ays in (lie w orld, F ath er of a ll; I am w eary, I am broken
I am h eart-sick. E nlighten m e w ith Thy w isdom , and in Thy light, shall I see light. —3. F ear
not, little child; I w ill lead thee* into My light. Thou sa y est thou lovest th y neighbour as th yself;
now tell m e, how dost thou love thyself? A nsw er m e, for I w ill convict th ee out o f thine own
mouth. — 4. I love m yself w ith all m y h eart, w ith a ll m y m ind, w ith all m y soul, and w ith all m y
strength. I put m y w hole tru st in m yself, I honour m y nam e, I serve m y self tru ly w ithout com ­
plaining all the days of my life. T love m yself d esperately; all I have w ould I g ive for m y life.
— 5. Then, m y child, if thou w ouldst love thy neighbour a s th yself, thou m ust love him w itlj all
thy heart, th y m ind, thy soul and strength. Thou m ust put th y w hole tru st in him , thou m ust
honour and serve him tru ly w ithout com plaining a ll th e days of th y life. Thou m u st love him des-
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR 55
p erately; a ll th a t thou h a st m u st thou g iv e fo r h is life. This is the love thou shouldst yield to thy
neighbour, m easured by th y love to th y self.— 6. B ut how can I do th is, F ath er? W hat w ill rem ain
to m e? T h ese loves exclude each other. — 7. I know it, O tried and fa ith fu l servan t; 1 know it.
Thou m u st choose betw een th y self and th y b roth er; thou can st not love both. Choose . .. . — 8.
F a th er, is th ere not then a proper love w ith w hich I should love m yself, m y tru e higher self; a
love of m y ow n truth, of m y ow n honour, and of m y own purity? and if it is proper, how can I
yield it to oth ers? My child, if thou loved st th y se lf th us, thou w ouldst th en be m ore selfish than
he w h o loved only h is fleeting p leasu res of a d ay; he w ould be selfish fo r to-d ay; thou w ouldst be
selfish fo r all eternity. My child, h a st thou never heard th at disin terested love is My h ighest
crow n? and disin terested love can only he yielded to others, not to th y self. There is but one d is­
in terested love; and th a t love, w eary sou l, is to M e. Then, for My sak e, sh alt thou love thy neigh-
bopr and fo r th e sake o f th y neighbour thou w ilt love th yself. Is not th is enough? — 1). O let m e
love Thee, m y stren gth , m y light, and m y hope. O let m e love Thee for T h yself, for Thy goodness,
fo r Thy p erfect beauty. O let m e pine fo r Thy silen t Presence in th e m idst o f the angry w orld.
F et the fire o f Thy love fa ll dow n from H eaven upon m y h eart, and burn out all its grossness.
Then sh a ll I jo yfu lly w atch for d eath ; d eath w hich shall free m e from th is d esolate w ilderness
here, and let m e fly a t la st into T hine everla stin g arm s. 0 let m e love. T hee w ith m y w hole des­
tin y. O let m e never, never forget T hee. O God, m y F ath er. — 10. Y ea, M y child, J w ill teach
th ee th is pure, d isinterested love. I w ill teach it th ee by light, and by d ark ness; by joy and pain.
A nd w hen th in e hour of tria l h as com e, then seek not to hide th y tea rs from Me; th ey are pre­
cious in My sigh t, because th ey w ill bring th ee calm . And w hen thou a rt w eary, I w ill give thee,
0 My b est beloved, I w ill give th ee d ream less sleep ; and w hen thou w ak en est again to th e w orld,
thou w ilt And th y h eart filled w ith silen t, u nsp eak ab le peace.
I . TH AT T H E KINGDOM O F GOD IS W ITH IN
1. My God, I h ave sought T hee from th e d ays o f m y childhood, and I have not found Thee yet.
1 have sou gh t Thee by day and by n igh t; but I have not com e a s close a s m y love desires. I have
given up all for Thee. I have abandoned p aren ts, hom e and children; I h ave vowed to leave all
for Thee, and yet, Thou h a st n ot com e n ear. O F ord, I have trusted in T liee; let m e not be con­
founded, an d lo st! — 2. W here art Thou, O God? I w ent to th e W est, and I said : There under
th e settin g sun, w here d ark ness th reaten s, w here m an is m ost in need of th e help of God, there I
w ill find m y F ath er. B u t I found T hee n ot. I w en t to th e great silences o f th e M idnight Sun, but
1 heard not Thy V oice. I sought Thee in th e unknow n regions of the South, w here the foot of m an
had never trod ; but I found no tra ce o f Thee. I w en t to the E a st w hence a ll w isdom h as arisen,
Whence th e W ise M en cam e to bring T hee g ifts ; but I saw no sta r to lead m e to Thy cradle. I
found nought but silence, w ith ou t and w ith in . O Ford, in Thee h ave I tru sted , let m e not be con­
founded, and lost. — 3. M y God, w h ere a rt Thou? H ast Thou abandoned Thy suffering creatures?
A rt Thou d ea f to th e cries th at rise from out our nigh t? I vow ed a v o w ; I entered a m on astery;
but w ith in its gorgeous p recincts I heard only th e p assion s of m en. I sought Thee in the m idst
o f th e how lin g surge o f p assion s in th e w orld; and behold, m y own p assion s began to rage. In
th e desert I sa w no burning bush. I sough t Thee in a bark on the boundless ocean; I heard not
Thy voice in the roar of the. w a ters. I clim bed to th e m ountain-peak; and th ere also I w as alone.
I h ave sough t Thee until m y stren gth and m y youth are gone. O Ford, in T hee have 1 trusted, let
m e not be confounded, and lost. — 4. O Child, thou h ast trusted in M e; thou shalt not be con­
founded, thou ca n st not be lost. F iste n : I w a s w ith th ee in th e hom e of th y childhood a s much
a s I w a s w ith tliee in th e W est, in th e N orth, in th e South and in the E a st, a s m uch as> I w as
w ith th ee in th e m onastery, in th e crow ds, in th e desert, on th e ocean, on the m ountain-peak.'
W hy then did st thou leave th y hom e? F iste n : I w a s w ith th ee there a s m uch a s any w here else;
I w a s w ith in th yself. F isten w ell, th a t thou m ayest not forget th e road ; the K ingdom o f H eaven
is w ith in . I t is w ithin.
II. TH AT PR A Y E R SH O U FD B E M ADE TO N O N E B U T GOD
1. P atien tly w aitin g a t hom e, w ill I seek Thee, m y F igh t and m y Strength. I w ill w orship
Thee w ith m y w hole heart. T o T hee I dedicate m y life. —2. I w ill go into the congregation of
sa in ts and hum bly listen w hen th ey speak o f Thee. I w ill w a it at the doors o f Thy M ighty Ones
by day an d by night, if th ey w ill p erchance th row out som e crum bs o f spiritual advice, th at 1
m ay live, and not die. I w ill reverently listen to the cries of m en if perhaps through them I m ay
receive som e guidance. — 3. I w ill honour them w ho w ill tell m e o f Thee. I w ill serve them w ho
m ak e m uch of Thee. I w ill count m yself a s dust before them w ith w hom Thou art. — 4. My
God, w h a t m ore can I do? H ow can I a b a se m yself still m ore? W ilt not Thou teach m e this?
I am not w orthy th a t Thou shou ldest speak to m e; I w ill sit a t the feet of M oses, and he shall
d eclare T hee unto m e. — 5. M ine ow n child cea se. Thou saddenest Me in saying thou art not
w orth y I should speak to tliee. A m I not thine ow n F ath er, w ho loved thee before thou w ast
created ? S hall I not speak to m ine ow n child? Go, ask thy earth ly fath er w hether it is a light
thing to him th a t his own child should be afra id to speak to him . And I, W ho love th ee w ith
a love stron ger th a n th y self, sh a ll I n ot hold th ee in Mine ow n arm s? Can I perm it th ee to
lie on th e ca reless breast of an earth ly nurse w hen M y heart is yearning to b less thee? — G. Fear
not, little ch ild; look to Me, th y F attier. P ray not to th y fellow -servan ts; kneel not dowm to
them . Com e in to M y sanctuary, an d th ere pray to Me alone, fo r I am longing to gran t thy
p rayers; I am yearning to g ive th ee som e spiritu al gift. I f My sain ts knew how I yearn to
an sw er th eir prayers, if th ey w ill but g ive M e an opportunity of doing so, th ey w ould pray cease­
le ssly , day and night. Com e u nto Mey M y son; I am Avaiting to b less th ee. — 7. Fook up to the
.Sun, M y ch ild. W h at m ortal m an can m onopolize its light and h eat? W hat m an can give thee
th e lig h t th ou ca n st not th y se lf receive from it? Though a thousand eyes look at th e Sun, it is
undivided and p erfect to all. Seek not spiritu al g ifts of other m en, th y fellow -creatu res, unless
w hen I direct. F ook up unto h eaven, th y self. The K ingdom of H eaven is w ithin th yself. — 8. I
have found T hee, I sh all never be sep arated from Thee, m y God. N either heigh t, nor depth, nor
p rin cip alities and pow ers can again hide T hee from m y love. I am one w ith Thee, O God,
though th e u niverse fa il. Speak, Ford, for Thy servan t heareth.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
III. THAT IIE W HO COMES TO H IM SE L F STRA IG H TW AY COMES TO GOD. '
1. Come to thyself, O prodigal Child, and then shalt thou come to Me. —Thy heart will
never find rest in the far country. TI:y heart was so created by Me, that it can never rest until
it lie upon My breast. Come to thyself, O prodigal Child, and then shalt thou come to Me. —
3. The flocks, the camels, and the fine woven garments, the servants and the maidens which
thou tookest with thee into the far country, they were not thy true self. The flocks perished and
the camels were stolen. The fine woven garments were all soiled and torn. Thy servants were
sold, and thy maidens died. Thy true self could not pass away so easily. Come to thyself, O
prodigal Child, and then wilt thou come to Me. —4. The passionate pleasures of the table; the
riots, dances, and feasts of the far country, with its weary lusts and dull stupor; these were
not thy true self. Thou wert created for something nobler than this; for something more divine.
It was not thyself that ricted and feasted; it was only thy self-willed body.^ The Son which I
loved in thee could never have sank so low. Come to thyself, O prodigal Child, and then shalt
thou come to Me. — 5. The weary struggles of mind, the wandering restlessness of doubt; the
utter helplessness that made thee choose to join thyself to the swine-herd, these were not thy
true self. Nor even the thought of returning was thine own highest and truest self, for My
child nerd never leave Me so far as to need to return. Come to thyself, O prodigal Child, and
then shalt thou come to Me. Come to thyself, and thou shalt lie upon My Breast.
IV . TH AT GOD W ILL NOT FO RSAK E H IS OW N.
1. I w ill lead M ine own through th e V alley o f th e Shadow of D eath . I w ill lead My own
to th e cool w ater-sid e, in th e m eadow s of tender g ra ss an d p leasan t shade. I w ill lead M ine
ow n to th eir eternal honour, to th eir eternal perfection, to th eir eternal hom e. Shall I leave
My ow n beloved children to stray? — 2. To those w ho w ill listen to Me, to them w ill I speak,
in th e hour of darkness, w hen reason h as done her utm ost, and th e w hole head is fa in t w ith
anguish, lay down peacefully in fa ith , and th e W ord th at cannot fa il w ill com e. — 3. To th ose
w ho w ait for My W ord, to them shall it come. T hey th a t sa t in darkness h ave seen a great
light; they th at trem bled in anguish, are strong a s th e prophets of old. I cannot fa il th ose who
tru st in Me, M y own children, My ow n offsp rin g.— 4. L isten in silence, and th y teach ers shall
no m ore be removed from th y sigh t. Stretch out th y sa il, th a t th e W ind of th e Spirit m ay w a ft
th y little bark to th e haven w here it would be. To th ose th a t stretch th eir sa ils sh all My
invisible W ind com e. — 5. A nd I M yself w ill steer for them , w hen the clouds have darkened the
stars. W hile th e storm is how ling, I w ill use th e violence of th e w a v es to speed the bark in
th e right direction; for afl th in gs w ork together for good to them w ho love Me. And w hen I
am steering, w ho shall oppose? The hungry w aves lap w ith th eir ton gues and lash w ith th eir
ta ils for th e blood of th e sa ilo rs; but if I be at the stern, th ere is p eace w ith in .— fi. W here 1
lead, there is peace. And shall I not lead Mine ow n? I w ill lead M ine own unharm ed through
th e V alley of th e Shadow of D eath.
V. THAT TH E HUM A N BODY IS A TEM PLE OF T H E HOLY GHOST.
1. The K ingdom of H eaven is w ithin. I abide in th e h eart. T herefore, th e hum an Body is
My Tem ple. R everence th y brother, for I am w ith him . Lot th y brother reverence th ee, for I
am w ith thee. — 2. Free My Tem ple from all im purity, from a ll fleshly lu sts, from a ll unclean­
ness. My Tem ple m ust be clean w ith in and w ithout. Calm all its p assion s by quiet and silence.
Abandon thy selfish desires fo r thine own life and fortu n e, and thou w ilt have lo st an xiety and
fear. — 3. My Tem ple is b ea u tifu l; for w ithin it d w ells My beauty. M y Tem ple m ust not be
despised, or slighted or injured, or allow ed to becom e u seless by d isu se; fo r w ithin it m ust My
Presence dw ell. — 4. My Bride is all glorious w ithin. Her raim en t is o f gold, w rought about
w ith divers colors. Her garm en ts sm ell of m yrrh, a loes, and ca ssia , out o f the ivory p alaces
w herein they have m ade her glad. I shall he m erciful unto her, and b less her, and show her
th e light of My countenance.— 5. My Tem ple is sacred; fo r My P resence dw ells w ith in it. Adorn
it w ith reverence, u se it w ith fea r; for I am w ithin. E ver u se th e body in reference to M e; guard
it from all unholy w ords, from all unholy sigh ts. The. presence of M y Tem ples sanctifies, and
glorifies the E a r th ; as My servan ts said, “ it is not th e place th a t sanctifies the m an, but the
m an th e place.” Sacred are My Tem ples, and him w ho defiles them , him w ill I d estroy; for
the hum an body is My H ouse, th e only true Bethel, th e very g a te of heaven.
V I. THAT TH E SIGN OF TH E P R E SE N C E OF GOD IS PEA C E.
1. Lord, I am not w orthy th a t Thou sliouldst enter in under m y roof. I am a sinful m an;
depart from m e, O Lord. W hat have I to do w ith Thee, O Thou H oly One? N ow let m e d ie;
I am not better than my fa th ers w ere. D epart from m e, O L ord, I am a sinful m an. — 2. V et,
leave m e not, O Lord! Thou art the God of my h ealth , th e light o f m y life. D ep art not from
m e; abandon m e not to m y sin s. G rant m e th is alone, th a t Thou w ilt not w ithdraw from m e
th e love I have to th ee; Grant m e but this, th at T sh all never cease to stru ggle to becom e pure
and loving; G rant m e th is, and only th is, th at I m ay never ce a se to seek Thy fa ce. I ask Thee
not for victory and success; 1 ask Thee only for the strength to stru ggle on. — 3. F ear not, My
son. Shall I not inhabit My Tem ple w ithin Thee, sh all I not seek th e Bride th at is ready for
Me? I sh all be w ith th ee; I shall never leave th ee nor forsak e th ee. I shall fill thy soul w ith
light. — 4. B ut how shall I know , O Lord, th at Thou a rt w ith m e, th a t Thou h ast heard m y
prayer, and art w ithin? — 5. M y son, thou sh alt know it by fa ith , not by physical disturbances
and sign s. .T he m ore p erfect My Tem ple is, th e m ore harm onious it is, th e m ore it obeys all
natural la w s of health. A ll natural la w s are expressions o f My W ill; shall I stu ltify M yself
by interrupting their operations? It is not I who rouse h ysterical convulsions and p hysical m ove­
m ents. I am spirit. I am not flesh. — C. My son, thou sh alt know th at I am near w hen the
rest and quiet of health have given th ee p erfect peace. Thou sh alt know th a t I am near w hen
all is a t rest w ithout and w ith in , w hen sleep h as restored thee from w earin ess and tears have
humbled thy pride. Only w ith spiritual senses m ayest thou behold th e in telligible ligh t; only
with the inner kight m ayest thou behold th e glory over th e M ercy-Seat. — 7. I dw ell ever in
My Tem ple by day and by night, in youth and in age. There, w ith in th y se lf, in silence, m ayest
thou ever find Me, and com m une w ith Me.
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
Y D . TH A T IT IS H IG H TIM E TO A W A K E U P OUT OF SL E E P .
1. A w ak e, aw ak e, thou th a t sleep est, and C hrist w ill g ive th ee light. It is high tim e to
a w a k e out o f th e slu ggish dream o f th e bodily life, and the w ild disorder of th e mind. A w ake
from th y lifelon g dream of sen su al com fort. A w ak e from th e darkness of th e lu sts of th e flesh,
from th e p leasu res o f th e tab le, from th e pride of th e eyes. A w ak e from the troubled nightm are
o f self-con ceit, o f an ger, p assion and h ate; from the terror of gu ilt and the horror of crim e.
— 2. A w ak e, aw ak e, thou th a t sleep est, and C hrist w ill give thee light. A w ak e to th e presence
o f God in th e w orld, in th e heaven above, and in th e ocean beneath, in th e m ountain and in the
valley, in th e fo rest and on th e stream . A w ak e to the D ivine F ire in every bush, and the S till
S m all V oice in every cave. A w ak e to the D ivine L ove th at m ay be found at any place a t any
tim e by th e repentant h eart. A w ak e to th e K ingdom of H eaven th a t is w ith in , to th e Presence
o f th e Lord w ith in H is H oly Tem ple; and th e realm s of life eternal, in w hich w e live and m ove
and h ave our b ein g; w here is th e only tru e hom e of the soul. — 3. A w ake, aw ak e thou that
sleep est, and C hrist w ill g ive th ee light. A w ak e to a contem plation of th e m ansions of heaven,
w here th ere is no nigh t, w h ere th ere are no tears. Consider th e joys of heaven by day and by
nigh t, how w orthy th ey are of our utm ost labour and sorrow , how fleeting are th e th in gs of to­
day. C onsider the joy of being united for ever to God H im se lf; aw ak e to the longing and yearn­
in g fo r the courts of th e M ost H igh God. A w ak e, aw ake, th e night is fa r spent, the day is at
hand. A w ak e, aw ak e thou th at sleepest, and C hrist w ill give thee light. l i e w ill give th ee light.
BOOK III. OF ADORATION.
I. TH A T T H E PA R A B L E OF TH E SOW ER TEA CH ES TH E M EANING OF ADORATION.
1. Lord, I w ould w orship T hee w ith a holier w orship. I would know how to adore Thee,
how to lo se m yself in contem plation o f Thee. I w ould com e to m y self; teach m e, O Lord, for
I am ignorant and w eak . — 2. L isten , m y child, I w ill tell th ee how thou slialt w orship Me. The
sow er w en t forth to sow . H e sow ed h is seed broadcast, over the road, over th e stony ground,
th e thorny p atch , and th e w ell-tilled ground. E veryw here he sowed his seed. B ut th e seed th at
fe ll on th e hard beaten road w a s picked up by th e fo w ls of the a ir straigh tw ay, and lost for­
ever. The seed th a t fe ll on the stony ground struck root, but soon it w ithered aw ay and died.
The seed th at fell on th e thorny patch grewTup, but th e thorns took from it ligh t and air, and
it fain ted , w ithered and died. B ut the seed th a t fell on th e good ground prospered, and bore
som e th irty, som e sixty and som e an hundred-fold. — 3. The sow er sowed his seeds over all kinds
o f ground. On th e good and on th e bad he sow ed it; for I send the sunshine and the rain on
th e ju st and th e u nju st. B road cast did th e sow er sow his seed. The seed w hich fell on the
road and on th e stony ground w as a s good a s th e seed th at fell on the w ell-tilled ground; the
difference w a s n ot in th e seed, but in th e receptivity of the soil. W hy did the seed th at fell on
th e road not prosper? B ecau se the roadw ay w as so hard it would not let th e seed find a rest­
ing place in its breast. W h y did th e seed th a t fell on the w ell-tilled ground bring forth som e
thirty, som e sixty, and som e one hundred-fold? B ecause th e w ell-tilled ground had been so
thoroughly ployed th a t it lost not a sin gle grain. The difference then w a s a difference of re­
ceptivity. — 4. B ut the process of cultivation w a s painful to th e ground. F irst the ox tram pled
a ll th e b eautiful g ra sses o f the field under his foot. H e w as not intelligent enough even to under­
stan d th eir beauty. B u t he tram pled them on the ground none the less. Secondly the iron of
th e p lough-share cu t deep into th e h eart of th e earth . Silently and w ithout a noise the w hole
breaking up of th e earth w a s accom plished. Then th e m erciless iron tore ap art all th e natural
relation s and tie s o f th e ground, and th e secret treasu res of th e earth w ere exposed to the care­
le ss stare of th e sk y am i sun. L a stly th e foreign-looking seed w a s harrow ed in to th e ground,
and forcibly becam e part and parcel of it. H ow th e ground th a t w a s being cultivated m ust have
envied th e stony ground, th a t still boasted o f its gaudy thorns and luxurious bram bles! — 5. But
w hen th e h arvest-tim e w a s com e, w hen th e golden w heat gracefully w aved in th e w ind, then did
th e cultivated ground rejoice th at it suffered all th ose pains, for now it had borne som e thirty,
som e sixty and som e an hundred-fold. — (5. The m ore cultivated the ground had becom e, the
m ore recep tive o f th e seed, w hich w a s sow n equally over all kinds of ground; and th e reason
th e cultivated ground brought forth m ore th an the roadw ay, la y not in th e seed, but in the
receptivity of th e ground. Thus is it, m y child, w ith m an. To all do I give m y lig h t,_but the
reason th at a ll do not b ear fru it lies in th eir ow n hardness o f heart and lack of receptivity. If
thou w ouldst b ear fru it and raise thine head into heaven, then open thine h eart, and w ait not
for the D ivin e Ploughm an W ho, for th e sak e of th ose whom H e afflicts, w ill com e w ith Ilis^ iron
plough to break th e h earts of th e stiffnecked and open th e eyes of the blind; tluit_ even if as
though by fire, th ey shall in spite of th em selves be saved and a t la st rejoice in My light.
n. TH AT SIL E N C E IS TH E DOOR OF ADORATION. r
1. I w ould learn to com e to m yself, O F ath er, teach Thou m e th e w ay . . . The door o f thy
inner se lf is silence, O My child. The threshold of My Tem ple is silence, and w ithin its h alls
dw ells peace. M y livin g tem ples are ever in harm onious rest; nought troubles them , fo r I am
ever w ith them . The light of My peace ever stream s out from their hearts, fo r w ithin is My
Presence, th e fu ln ess of silen t light. — 2. There is a silence of the flesh w hich all th ose who
w ould becom e My living Tem ple m ust learn. W hen My Tem ple in Jerusalem w a s building, there
w a s heard in it neither th e sound of ham m er or of axe; and th e building of My living Temple
tak es place in quiet and peace. I w ill not have to listen to the howling surge o f passions, to
th e ceaseless m oan o f desire, and to the endless noise of anxious fear.— 3. There is a silence
o f thought w hich all th ose w ho w ould becom e My living Tem ple m ust learn. E ach thought
w ak es up desires and p assion s, affections and feelin gs; I w ill have silence o f thought th at the
love of th e w hole being m ay be centered in Me. T hose who love Me have no trouble in silencing
w andering th ough ts. W here th e h eart is, th ere is the mind. L ove Me, and silence of thought
w ill follow . — 4. The K ingdom o f H eaven is W ithin; and the D oor of th e W ithin is th e silencee
of the W ithout. My V oice is ever callin g to My w andering children, but th ey never hear Me,
w hen deafened by th e n oise of th e great W ithout. L earn silence of th e W ithout, and thou w ilt
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
hear th e ever-calling V oice of the W ithin. The K ingdom of H eaven is W ithin, and its D oor Is
Silence.
III. TH AT U TTER ED PR A Y ER IS GOOD; B U T TH AT SIL E N T ADO RATION IS BETTER .
1. My child, I love to hear th ee pray to Me. Tell Me o f all th y sorrow s, of all th y needs,
of all th y desires, of all th y hopes, th y pains, and th y id ea ls: th ey are all d ear to Me. Tell Me
o f all th ose for w hom thou w ouldst have Me gran t th y p rayers; try to w eary Me w ith prayer,
th at I m ay have th e greater opportunity of giving th ee th y h eart’s d esires. — 2. Y et, M y son,
I w ill tell th ee of a still m ore excellent w ay. I w ould have th ee yield th y self to M e in u tter con­
form ity to My w ill; I w ould have thee lie down before M e in silent adoration. I w ill tell thee
w hy I w ould rath er have th ee do th is. — Thou k now est n ot, O child, th at w hich is b est for th y­
se lf. I love th ee too w ell to give th ee a t any tim e anything w hich is not b est fo r th ee. H ence
of all th y uttered prayers, in any case, I only answ er th ose w hich are best for thee. Thou w ilt
attain , therefore, a s m uch of w h at is good for th ee by resigning th y self utterly and unquest ion-
ingly in My hands a s by ask in g for all the d esires of th y soul. Much of th a t for w hich thou
a sk est Me is sin ful, and m uch w hich is not sinful w ill only delay th y h igh est developm ent. C ease
then from askin g Me fo r definite th in gs, if thy heart be strong enough to do so. O ften thou dost
ask m e to free th ee from th e erternal w ant and sorrow and hum iliation w hich I have sen t thee
th at thou m ayest learn from them som e lessons of w hich th y soul is still in need. Shall I hear
th y prayer to thine own hurt, O My blind child, M y beloved,but w andering son? Y ield th y self
silently to My w ill, O My child, and it w ill be w ell w ith thee. — 4. Thou k now est not th a t w hich
is b est for others. H ow dost thou know th at w hat is good for th ee is good fo r th e soul o f thy
brother? H is developm ent m u st needs be different from th in e; how can st thou w arn and advise
Me, W ho know all? H ast thou ever thought, w hen thou prayest th y brother m ay be set free
from th e bonds of som e evil habit, th at thou dost love him at best much le ss than I, W ho am
h is fath er? W ill I not continually seek to lead him to th e light? I f thou sliouldst ask Me to
force him to overcom e h is passions, h is responsibility w ould be forever lo st; and he w ould have
lost m ore th an ever he could otherw ise gain . And yet, pray for him , I love to hear th ee seek
h is good; but w ouldst thou help him m ost, then yield th y self utterly and silen tly to My w ill th at
I m ay u se th y self a s an instrum ent for h is salvation . — 5. U ttered prayer is good. My child,
but silen t adoration is fa r m ore excellent still. W hen thou prayest in form ulated w ords thou
th in k est it is enough to pray ju st so often and ju st so long. Thou w ilt forget th at prayer is
not th e petition of a m om ent, but the attitu d e o f the life, by day and by night, a w a k e and
asleep. Y ield th y self silently to My w ill, O My child, and itw ill be w ell w ith th ee.—• (5. Y ield
th yself to My w ill O son. The prayers of uttered d esires areonly pow erful b efore Mo inasm uch
a s they fu lfill th e conditions o f silent adoration. W h at thou prayest a g ain st My w ill is ever
u seless; and w h ile thou art praying th at My w ill m ight be fulfilled thou m igh test be already
yielding th y self to it in silen t adoration. — 7. P ray, pray, ever pray; fo r prayer is th e only hope
o f any soul; but better than uttered prayer is silen t adoration of My w ill.
IV . TH AT SIL E N T ADORATION IS T H E N A TU R A L R E SU L T OF K N O W LED G E OF GOI)
1. My F ath er, I w ould adore Thee silen tly; but I know not how. I w ill teach th ee. My
child. — 2. I am om niscient. I knew th ee before thou w a st conceived in th y m other’s w om b. I
know a ll th y pow ers and a ll th y needs. I t is u seless to tell Me, to instruct Me a s to th y needs.
I know better than th yself th y tru est and m ost pressing need. I alon e know w h at lesson s I
w ould have th ee learn. I alone know th y needs even before th ey arise. I alon e know w h at w ill
develop th ee soonest. — 3. I am all-loving. I love thee w ith a love infinitely tenderer and purer
than th e love th y earth ly m other bare th ee. I love th ee infinitely m ore than thou lovest Me, or
even than thou lovest th yself. I f I know thou need est bread, w ill I give th ee a stone? If I know
thou needest a fish; w ill I give th ee a serpent? I w a it by day and by night for an opportunity
to fill th ee w ith light and life. — 4. I am om nipotent. A ll resources in heaven and earth are in
My hand. There is nought th at can re sist or not fu lfill My w ill. I protect M ine Own w ith h osts
of invisible an gels. I p erfect th e hearts of Mine Own children as w ill be b est for them . I rule
and guide th e destiny o f th e U niverse. — 5. C ontem plate Me, My child; I am om niscient, I am
all-lovin g, I am om nipotent. A ll th a t thou can st do is to let Me do My w ill in th ee. My servant
A thenagoras said th at the prophets w ere inspired by My H oly Spirit, “ a s a flute-player breathes
in to a flute.” My servan t C lem ent of A lexandria called m an th e organ or instrum ent o f God.
Thus all m en inherit organism s capable o f th is perfection, but th e pipes of th e organ are stopped
up w ith th e dust of the lu sts of th e flesh. T herefore, My child, all th a t thou needest to do is
to clean out th e stopped-up h oles w hich connect thy organism w ith th e ocean of light and life
around and w ith in thee. My H oly Spirit is ever tenderly dw elling w ithin th ee, w aitin g an op­
portunity to breathe through thee, w aitin g to inspire th ee w ith love much m ore than thou seek est
to be inspired by It. — (>. Thus in p erfect love and tru st w ilt thou lie dow n before M e, th at I
m ay ca st out a ll fear and anxiety. H ow can st thou fea r w hen thou k now est I am om niscient, all-
loving and om nipotent? And w hen thou art filled w ith d arkness and fear lift up th in e eyes unto
M e, and peace sh all return to thee. — 7. Thus contem plating Me as om niscient, all-lovin g, and
om nipotent, thou w ilt let Me do My w ill in th ee; and I w ill give thee peace.
V. THAT Sn.ENT ADORATION IS NOT OBEDIENCE TO GOD, BUT
CONFORMITY TO H IS W ILL
1. Speak the w ord, O Lord, and I w ill obey Thee, fo r Thy servan t heareth. W hatsoever
Thy w ords shall be, th a t shall I do; I shall listen for Thy com m and, even if it w ere to m ake m e
foolish in th e sigh t of m y adversaries. I w ill obey a s a little child; I w ill serve Thee a s the
hand serves th e arm ; obedience shall be perfected in me. I w ill ask for no reason fo r Thy com ­
m and; I w ill obey unqucstioningly . . . — 2. C ease, My own son. I asked not fo r obedience; I
asked th ee for conform ity of w ill. Obedience such a s thou offerest Me degrades th y self and Me.
Such unreasoning service th e brute creation, th e w inds, th e w aters and th e earth , afford Me;
but thou art in My im nge, thou art a m an. From th ee I dem and not obedience: I seek for con­
form ity o f thy w ill to Mine. — 3. The power of w ill is th y noblest crow n. I w ould not shatter
it, in order to m ake th ee My slave; thou art not My servan t, thou art My friend, if thou d esirest
to be such. My service is p erfect freedom , and th e perfection of every individuality o f which
TEMPLE DOORS AJAR 59
w ill is an essen tia l p art. I w ould n ot h ave th ee M y slave; I w ould have th ee My friend, con­
form ing th y p erfected w ill to M ine, th a t, in th e strength o f M y w ill, it m ay be strong too.
— 4. A s a m an thou m u st serve M e in p erfect voluntary freedom o f responsible m anhood; th us
sh a lt th ou a tta in M y lik en ess.
V I. TH A T A L L TIM E IS W A ST E D W H IC H IS NOT SPE N T IN ADORATION
1. C om e to M e, m y child, I h ave w aited fo r th ee so long! D ay by day I have stood beside
th ee, hoping to catch a m om ent's ad oration th a t I m ight fill th ee w ith new spiritual strength;
but th ou w a st m ore interested in th y hum an com panions than in M e. M y child, I have w aited
so p atien tly fo r th ee; I have w aited so long! — 2. D ay by day thou h a st eaten and drunk and
d ressed and undressed th y se lf, and attended to th e needs o f th y body in sleep; but never a
m om ent h a st thou given to th e needs o f th y soul. M y child, I h ave w aited so patiently for th ee;
I h ave w a ited so lo n g ! — 3. Com e to M e, M y child, w ho k now est n ot th a t every m om ent spent
o th erw ise th a n in adoration of M e is w asted and lo st forever. I loved thee and brought thee
in to th e w orld th a t thou m igh test com e to ad ore Me, and th a t thou m igh test strengthen thy w ill
by con form ing it to M ine; in doing th is thou w ilt be fu lfilling th e end and purpose of thy life.
C om e to M e, M y ch ild! L et m e no longer knock a t th e door of th y soul in vain ! Open to Me
b efore it be too la te fo r th ee! — 4. Open th y soul to M e each d ay, each hour, and each m om ent.
R ather om it thy^ m eals and th y sleep th an th y season of adoration. L et th is becom e th e natural
a ttitu d e of tliy life ; le t not My com m union w ith th ee be an extraordinary occurrence; rather let
every earth ly 'need be som ething w hich d istra cts th ee only fo r a m om ent from th e natural pro­
stration o f th y soul, p rostrate in ad oration of Me. — 5. Open to M e, My child, before it be too late
fo r th ee . . . My child, I h ave w aited so p atien tly for thee; I have w aited so lon g! — 6. Come to
Me in h ealth and in sick n ess, in joy and in pain. Come to M e w hen thou art good; com e to Mo
w hen thou h ast sinned, and h a st th e greater need of Me. Com e to m e w hen I seem fa r aw ay;
I g ive sp iritu al joys only to th e beginner on th e path: to th ose w ho h ave com e closer to Me I
seem to be fa r a w a y ; but if th ey only knew it, I am closer than ever. Come to m e by day and
by n igh t, in w in ter and sum m er; I am closer to th ee a t night and in danger th an a t any other
tim e s; fo r th e greater need thou h a st o f M e th e closer and th e tenderer am I.
V II. THAT T H E H U M A N SOUL M UST B E SW EPT A N D G A R NISH ED
1. T hou a rt th e tem ple of th e H oly G host, M y child; sw eep it and garnish it, and keep it
clean , sw eet and pure. Thou ca n st not do th a t w ork th yself. I alon e can reach th e recesses of
th y h ea rt and clean se them w ith M y in telligib le light. This w ork I cannot do in one day; I re-
ru ire tim e fo r it. Solom on w a s seven years in building a tem ple o f stone; and sh all I build one
o f flesh and blood in less tim e th an th a t? Com e to m e each day so th a t My w ork m ay progress
in th ee, an d be regular, and p erfect. — 2. I w ill do all the w ork. Thy part is to keep still, and
n ot to ob struct M e in My w ork of purification. H ow ever long My w ork m ay be w ith thee, there
is on ly a certain definite am ount o f it to bo done, w hich w ill be finished in its ow n due tim e, and
can n ot w ell be hastened or draw n out. W hile thou art being purified thou dost not know how
the. process o f purification is goin g on, and often thou w ilt think th a t no progress is being m ade
b ecau se th e w ork is poin tless and u seless. E very hour of adoration w hich thou w ilt give to Me,
w ill count ju st so much in th e finishing o f M y w ork in thee. Thou a rt not doing Me any favour
in perm ittin g Me to p urify and p erfect thee. The favour is from Me to thee. Thou can st not
b oast to M e how m uch thou h a st sacrificed in order to spend an extra hour in prayer. Thou
sh ou ld st be glad enough to h ave an opportunity to be purified by M e; and sliouldst be thankful
th a t I am w illin g to do so. Thou d ost not know enough about th y se lf or thy destined perfection
to d icta te to Me w h at m ethods I sh all pursue in purifying and san ctifyin g thee. My perfecting
th ee is not an end in itself nor is th is process alon e thy destiny. I purify thee th at thou m ightest
p urify an d sa n ctify the liv es o f th ose around thee. T rust Me th a t I w ill do My p art; for I love
th ee w ith an infinite love; a love deeper and higher than th at w ith w hich thou lovest th yself.
— 3. T hen, w hen thou art purified, w hen th y soul is sw ept and garnished, then w ill I com e to
th ee in a ll th e glory of M y B eing, and I w ill d w ell w ith thee, and w e sh all never p art again.
So b e it, O m y F ath er.
BOOK IV. OF PEACE BY HUMILITY
I. TH AT ONLY T H E H U M BLE A R E A T PEA C E
1. I w ould h ave peace. I am w eary o f th e strife of m y passions, and o f th e restlessn ess of
d esire. A bove a ll th in gs, gran t m e Thy peace, O Lord. — 2. Be hum ble, then, M y child. Only
th e hum ble can ever hope to be a t rest. F or w h ile the heart is proud it seek s honour and glory;
and th is lies in the sigh t and adulation of ever-changeful men. W h ile th e heart is proud it is
a t th e m ercy o f a ll w ho p raise or condem n it. W hile th e heart is proud it seeks to retain its
pow er over oth ers; and th is can only ta k e place by conscious self-consideration. — 3. If thou
liv est in th e sig h t of men w ho are ever changing, thou too m ust be forever changing. B u t if thou
liv est in th e sigh t of Me, W ho am ever th e sam e, thou sh alt have peace and quiet and rest. I
ch an ge n ot, neither do I fa il. — 4. I f thou be hum ble, thou w ilt not be alarm ed a t au ght th at
m ay h appen; fo r if it be evil, thou w ilt not be disturbed and if it be good, thou w ilt be exalted.
N one can ever hope to be a t rest until th e h eart be w illing to receive aught th at th e Lord m ay
send, fo r good or for ill. — 5. W hen ad versity com es nigh, then be w illing to receive it; be
w illin g to leave th is earth if it should be My w ill; think of M y love th at is w aitin g for thee
beyond; it is better to be w ith Mo th an in th e desolate world below . — 0. Think not th at hum ­
ility is thinking m eanly o f th yself, or th in k in g of all thy p ast sin s. H um ility is not self-h u m il­
iation and self-slan d er. T h e body and th e m ind thou h ast, I m ade; th ey are beautiful, they are
divine, b ecau se in My im age. — 7. L et th y m eekness proceed from thy u tter devotion to My
w ill. L et th y m eekness proceed from th e unselfish em otions o f divine love o f others, so th at
thou fo rg ette st th y self. L et th y m eekness proceed from tender sym pathy w ith th e sorrow ful and
th e afllicted. T hus shall thy hum ility bring th ee peace.
II. THAT HUM ILITY A FFE C T S E V ER Y D EPA R TM EN T O F L IF E
1. B e hum ble, My child, and th a t w ill bring th ee peace a t th e la st. — 2. B e hum ble w hen
thou tliin k est of thy devotion and love to M e. Pride not th yself on th y goodness, or th y adora-
60 TEMPLE DOORS AJAR
lion o f Me. Pride not th y self on th e w ords of love I h ave spoken to th ee w hen thou w ert in
need. L et My love and favour m ak e thee hum ble! let My tender care m ake thee gen tler and
sw eeter. l?e humble, My child, and th a t w ill bring th ee p eace a t th e last. — 3. The m ore thou
speakcst o f th y pow ers, th e sm aller they m ust becom e. The stron g m an is the silent m an, w ho
does not boast of his resources. Only th e w eak are proud enough to boast of the little th ey
have gained. The strong forget th eir strength in the d esire for greater pow er. Truly p erfect
are th ose w ho have forgotten th eir p erfectness and w ho are u tterly lost in adoration o f My
beauty so, th at th ey m ay becom e even m ore b eautiful. Be hum ble. My child, and th at w ill bring
thee peace a t th e last. — 1. E nvy can And no place in th e b reasts of the hum ble. M oses, the
m eekest of m en, rejoiced w hen he w a s no longer the only prophet in th e cam p of Israel. So
slm lt thou rejoice w hen 1 give M y w ord to others, and reveal My strength in other souls. Thou
shall, rejoice for their sake, th a t th ey m ay rejoice for th in e. lie hum ble. My child, and th at
w ill bring thee peace at the la st. — 5. Be meeC; enough not to d isagree w ith th y brethren. Seek
not th e points in w hich thou d isagreest w ith th em ; concerning w hich ye m ay dispute and learn
to forget the love I have given in to your hearts. It is not w orthy of a soul th at lives w ith Me
to deny hum an assertion s and opinions. B ass them over in silence, and seek how m any points
of agreem ent thou can st discover. H erald the tru th ; but seek not to reform the old; for in the
old bottles there is much good w in e. Be humble. My child, for th at w ill bring thee peace a t the
la st. — <
>
. Be hum ble enough to be saddened by th e evil and sin of thy brethren; and be hum ble
enough to rejoice in their su ccess. If thou can st sa y naugh t that, is good of thy brother, be
silen t; hut w ith joy tell ou t of h is unselfishness and kindness. Speak of the q u alities w hich he
possesses and thou d ost lack : speak, and fear not, th a t th e kingdom of righteousn ess in the
w orld m ay be known. Be hum ble. My child, and th a t w ill bring th ee peace a t the last. — 7. The
sm allest duties, My son, are th ose th a t w ill bring th ee closest to Me. Think not th a t in the
devotion of thy w hole being to Me thou h ast purchased th e right to om it thy sm all d uties. The
nearer thou a rt to Me, the m ore perfectly w ilt thou do th e trivial ta sk s o f hom e. Be hum ble.
My child, and th at w ill bring th ee peace at th e la st. — 8. Seek not to teach thy brother w h at
thou h a st not learned th y self. T ell him not of spiritu al h eigh ts thou th y se lf h ast never seen.
Seek not to heal th y brother of th e d isease th at still clin gs around th ee. Thy word w ill be void
of power until thy life shall show it forth. I know , dear soul, th a t th e sorrow and th e sin of
the w orld lie heavy on thee. Thou longest to speak som e w ord o f healing and strength to the
w eak and th e afflicted. Y et, I bid th ee keep thy peace until thou h ast attain ed . If thou w ouldst
help th y brother, then thou m ust th y self become a s p erfect a s thou can st. Only for th y se lf art
thou responsible; only over th y self h ast thou the pow er of life and death ; only for th yself ca n st
thou vow eternal purity. Be strong, for in thy strength th e u niverse w ill rise; in th y sin the
universe w ill fall. By thy attain m en t all thy w eak brethren w ill h e m ade stronger and m ore
divine. E ach deed of love w ill m ake My courts m ore bright and loving; every w eakness of thine
w ill stir th e fires of m isery of all. B e victor th yself b efore thou preach to others. B e hum ble.
My child, and th a t w ill bring thee peace a t th e la st. — 9. My son, thou m ust be m eek, and
low ly of heart. Thou a r t not th e only soul th at I created in My Im age. To each soul I entrusted
a different m essage; to each I entrusted a different note. Thou can st not then expect th a t th y
brother w ill learn thy m essage, or th at thou shouldst sound h is note. Go, tell to My w andering
children th e word I have given to th ee, and th at is all th at thou can st do; I w ill w ater th e seed
a s is best for a ll. L ook not at th e fa u lts of those w ho do not agree w ith th ee, nor close th in e
eyes to the sin s o f th ose w ho accept thy w ord; be righteous and ju st a s I am righteous and ju st.
Think not th at if thou lovost Me, thou shouldst love My friends and h ate Mine ad versaries. L ove
them too, My son, fo r thou m ust love them th a t h ate Me, a s I hive them . And often thou
thinkest th a t th ose w ho oppose th ee are enem ies to My truth, w hen th ey are My instrum ents to
perfect th ee and purify thy heart. And often thou th in k est th a t m en oppose My truth only be­
cause they oppose thy interpretation of My w ords; be m eek, be hum ble, be ea sily entreated. Be
hum ble. My child, and th at w ill bring th ee peace a t th e la st. — 10. My son, he m eek and low ly
o f heart. L et not revenge or an ger enter into thy sou l; be loving, be easily entreated, and be
kind. Think not o f th yself a s of som e great one, a s som e one sen t to be a leader of th e people,
to gather them under thy guidance. Think not of th y self a s som e great M essiah for w hom the
ag es have been w aitin g long in vain. B e humble and m eek: for a s soon a s thou dost flunk th a t
thou w ert sent into th e w orld to accom plish som e great thing, thou sh ow est thereby thou h ast
already w andered from th e path and art no m ore ab le, even if thou so d esirest, to lead others
on to th e Door o f th e Kingdom o f H eaven. Be hum ble, My child, and th at w ill bring th ee peace
a t th e last.
III. THAT TH E H U M BLE SH A LL IN H E R IT T H E KINGDOM OF PEA C E
1. The Lord is K ing, be th e people never so im patient: H e sitteth betw een the cherubim ,
be the earth never so unquiet. In heaven there is p eace w h ile th e storm s of life are blow ing
keen and hard. In heaven th ere is p eace before th e fa c e o f th e K ing: w ho w ill trouble the K ing­
dom of P eace? — &. To th ose w ho are humble and m eek of h eart shall the. Lord reveal H im self,
sittin g on th e throne of P eace, w hich is founded on Love. The innerm ost se lf is ever b efore the
K ing, and though th e fierce storm s of passions rend th e body, th ere is peace w ithin. Through
th e door of silence shall th e soul be adm itted to return to h erself, to return to the face, o f the
K ing of Peace. — 8. Blessed are th e souls w hose strength is in H im , in w hose heart are H is w ays.
W ho going through the vale of m isery u se it for a w ell; and th e pools are filled w ith w ater.
They w illgo from strength to strength, and unto th e God of gods shall every one of them appear
in Sion. And w hen all things shall be subdued unto th e Son, then shall th e Son also H im self be
sub ject unto H im th a t put all th in gs under H im , . . . T hat God m ay be a ll in all. Am en.
(N O TE:—This w a s the w riter's earliest religious effort. Though, in a certain sen se still
fu lly true, th e absence of com plem entary effectiveness m akes it savor too much o f w hat W ells
ca lls the ‘Pietistic h eresy,' th at ‘A llah is A llah ,’ enervating, d iscouraging from fa ith fu ln ess.
But it is preserved for its attitu d e of warm devotion, w hich leads to, and resu lts from friend­
ship. th e first step of religion. It is a rare fragran t flow er w hich, though a consolation for th e
hopeless invalid, would be inadequate a s steady diet for the able-bodied.)
PYTHAGORAS is a NAME to CONJURE W ITH
B U T W H A T D O Y O U A C T U A L L Y K N O W O F H IM ?
That’s Why You Need Dr Guthrie’s Edition of PYTHAGORAS
1 Why can no man of education afford to neglect Pythagoras? Because he
was the source of all Western philosophy, as acknowledged by even Plato.
2 Did he merely invent his wisdom? There lies his chief value, that he sum­
marized his contemporary culture. As you follow his travels all over the East,
through his eyes you are initiated in all the mysteries of the Syrians, Egyptians,
Babylonians and Persians.
3 Why is he called a Sage? Because he justified, invented and extorted that
term to denote the fusion of a scientist, a statesman, a prophet, and a saint. He
interpreted notable achievements in every domain of science in the light of pres­
ent happiness, the remembrance of past incarnations, and prognostications of the
future; faith in a Friendly Providence, guidance by Numerology, and initiation
into file most sacred mysteries.
4 But is not Pythagoras antiquated, a dead issue, of purely academic
interest? By no means, for one of the largest fraternal orders, the Knights of
Pythias are founded on the legend of his followers Damon & Pinthias, and on his
direct teachings, thus perpetuating his living influence. Moreover the Theosophists
profess to be interested in him.
5 is Dr Guthrie’s Edition uninteresting? On the contrary, it is the only one
containing a specially drawn map, with pictures of himself and of Jamblichus.
6 Why is Dr Guthrie’s book, though properly bound, manifolded, instead
Of Printed? Because he earns his living as a teacher on a small salary, and his
utmost self-sacrifice did not enable him to accomplish more in endowing Human­
ity with so great a treasure. Publishers, of course, are not interested in any non­
paying venture such as this unique treasure was bound to be, so it could be is­
sued only in the most modest manner until is found a critic indignant enough to
furnish tire money to reissue it more worthily.
? Was the treasure precious enough to justify such heroic self-sacrifice
on the part Of Dr Guthrie? Judge for yourself: for two and a half milleniums,
since the fatal day when was burned down the Crotona house which sheltered
Pythagoras’s convention, file whole world was compelled to get along with sup­
erstitious second-hand knowledge about one of its supreme inspirere, all for the
lack of a little effort which he happened to be able to make. Ungrudgingly he paid
the price, asking no more than that the beneficiaries reach out for their prize.
8 Should the reader refuse to take this manifolded edition, and get a
Printed one? No, for the very good reason that there is no other, and there
never will be any other, since publishers are mercenary, and heroes like Doctor
Guthrie are rare. The world is lucky to get so precious a collection as all the
Pythagorean material complete in any form, and that at practically a gift price.
When the present small stock is exhausted, there will be none more at any figure.
9 But there are other better printed editions! Yes, of small isolated sections
such as of one biography, the Golden Verses, or Hierocles’ work, all of which
scraps, together, cost over twice the amount of this unique complete collection.
10 Should the reader wait, and get it later? Dr Guthrie is already old, and is
now generously distributing his treasures. At his death his handiwork, like that of
William Morris, will at once command high prices. So if you ever expect to get
an autographed copy, you had better get it at once directly from him, before it
is too late. Mail your request with three dollars to
Platonist Press, Teocalli, 1177 Warburton Ave, Yonkers, NY
Beings, from whom I was taught to purify after the example of God—this is He,
Who cleanses thee through me—through Whom the Cause and Creator of all
cleansing brought forth His own provident energies from the hidden Abyss, even to
us.” These things, then he taught me, and I impart them to thee. Let it be a part
of thy spiritual and discriminating skill, either that each of the reasons assigned
should be freed from objection, and to honour one before the other as having like-
lihood and good reason, and perhaps the truth: or from yourself, to find out some-
thing more allied to the real truth, or to learn from another; God, of course, giving
the Word, and Angels supplying it; and to reveal to us, the friends of Angels, a
more luminous view, if it should be so, and one to me especially welcome.
BROTHERHOOD OF M UTUAL PRAYER
PROGRESSIVE MEMBERSHIP
The Intercessory Membership of this Brotherhood assures that the applicant is
unselfish, and that he therefore will unfailingly receive testimony of divine approval.
But God is good, and while He desires us to pray for each other, he knows that we
grow older, and must face changes in ourselves, and that we will need wisdom better
to help others. Therefore the stationary rank of intercession for others leads those
who have approved themselves therein to a Progressive School of Inspiration.
The Teachings of this School are divided into twelve lessons, each of which will
take not less than a month to practise. These Lessons are interesting, forming a
series of twelve sketches of a great drama of initiation, the Mithraic Mysteries
modernized for our most recent civilization.
INVITATION
Any approved Intercessor, who has been favorably reported on by interior guid­
ance of the Elder Brothers of the Human Race, in the Unseen, may undertake this
Quest for Wisdom and Holiness all the necessary information for which will be
furnished by the Secretary of the Brotherhood of Mutual Prayer, after the Applicant
has sent in his Application, as found within.
There will be no expenses beyond postage, the Manual, and a deposit of five
dollars which will be returned on the completion of the Instructions, but will be
retained if the candidate ceases to progress. Those who enjoy the work will no doubt
wish to offer free will offerings to pay for the production of the work; the Lord
will no doubt support His work.
APPLICATION FOR PROGRESSIVE MEMBERSHIP IN THE BROTHERHOOD
OF MUTUAL PRAYER
Secretary, Kenneth S. Guthrie, 1177 Warburton Ave., North Yonkers, N. Y.
I, the undersigned desires membership in the Progressive Rank of the Brotherhood
of ‘Mutual Prayer,’ for aid in the interior life, in order to increase my utility to
humanity, here and beyond. I expect promotion only if approved, and I am willing
to abide by the Secretary’s requests, and the rules of the Progressive Rank.
I, the undersigned, desire membership in the Progressive Rank of the Brotherhood
in good condition by mail; and I agree that unless I successfully complete all twelve,
the deposit of $5 is to be retained by the Secretary for expenses of printing, corres­
pondence, and the like. I also agree to pay all postage expenses, both ways, in­
cluding stamps for the forwarding of the next Degree. Unless the Instructions are
returned within one month, the Deposit will be forfeited.
I alsj enclose $2 for the Brotherhood Manual.
Name and Address: .....................................................................................................
CERTIFICATE OF PROGRESSIVE MEMBERSHIP IN THE
BROTHERHOOD OF MUTUAL PRAYER
M ............................................................ ......................................................................
O f .........................................................................................................................
Having complied with the requirements of each step, and having been approved
in each, is hereby acknowledged as a
BROTHERHOOD'S CONFESSOR, MINISTER, HOST, HEIR, HELPER, COM­
FORTER, COMRADE, TEACHER, INTERPRETER, LEADER, FRIEND,
RESTORER, o n .......................... 22, .............................................
Witnessed to before the Brotherhood Consistory of Witnesses, by the Brother­
hood Secretary, .................................................................................................................
BROTHERHOOD PRAYER ®
HOLY FATHER, bless our Brotherhood to us, and us to it. Grant us Thy
Light, that we may walk aright. Let our Consecration Vow bum within us, lest
we forget it. Preserve us from ourselves lest we lose our way in the darkness of
our own desires. Pure, tender and true, grant us to become like Thee divine, both
now and evermore, AMEN.
THE HUMAN COVENANT RELATIONS WHICH INSURE
DIVINE PROTECTION
I hereby devote, consecrate and sacrifice everything that I am, have and hope to
be, to the Father Divine, to be used for His purposes, both here and beyond, now
and forever. I reserve nothing selfish. I will do anything reasonable if the Still
Small Voice should guide me. Weary of my own earthly purposes, I desire to be
conformed to the eternal. Use me as a hand to do Thy will; I only ask to remain
thine for evermore.
PROGRAM AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE MONTHLY MEETING
on the 22nd.
1. Review your diary or experience record since the last 22nd. From last month’s
successes or failures draw conclusions or lessons; note these on a separate list of
such, and write your decisions or plans for the next month (the Mensiversary).
2. On separate lists gather your daily messages received, guidances followed, and
prayers answered; this is called the Monthly Experiences.
3. Read the monthly meditation-topics, instructions, and other calendar-suggestions.
4. It would be lovely if you memorized one of the memory-gems in one of the
memory-gem booklets, price 50 cents each. In one year you would know by heart
one of the sets of 12. The object is not only to provide living ideals, but to provide
against enforced idleness, or the state after death.
5. Put together all your answers to questions and reports of experiments of the
month’s instructions, (if possible on sheets no larger than 5(-2 by 83-2 , for filing), and
with the degree and this booklet for signature, and return postage; then be sure to
register the whole,
6. If you have not quite finished the experiments, and would prefer to wait a
little, remember that there are larger issues involved. Some people would never get
through in any case. Better send the matter in incomplete but punctual, and go
through the whole year on schedule time, ready for the advanced Interior Membership,
than try to be over-perfect in detail and never complete.
7. The special topics of the months are:
1. March 22, Meditation.
2. April 22, Silence.
3. May 22, Self-examination.
4. June 22, Presence,
5. July, 22, Love. 9, Nov. 22, Devotion.
6. Aug. 22, Prayer. 10. Dec. 22, Guidance.
7. Sept. 22, Watching. 11. Jan. 22, Austerity,
8. Oct, 22, Social Service. 12. Feb. 22, Character.
These can be studied up in the Brotherhood Manual.
8. The difference between the former Rank, and this one is that everything must
here be done very definitely, training the will to carry out all detailed plans t''
success.
BROTHERHOOD GLORIA
Glory to God, the High Father, Supreme and Eternal, Glory for ever and ever. Amen!
Glory to God, the Father of Spirits, and Angels of Angels, Glory for ever and ever.
Glory to God, who in love never wearies in Justice, Glory for ever and ever, Amen!
Glory to God in the name of his Christ, our Redeemer, Glory for ever and ever.
Glory to God for His help in attainment of Righteousness: Glory for ever and ever.
Glory to God for the power of thought, and the working of wisdom, Glory for ever.
Glory to God for the length of our lives, and the hope to attain immortality, Glory
for ever and ever, Amen!
Brotherhood Devotions
BROTHERHOOD GREETING
May all the Holy Angels watch over you, and may you watch for the Holy
Angels!
BROTHERHOOD INVOCATION
Thy glory, O God, be the end of all that we say; Let it shine in every deed,
let it kindle the prayers that wc pray; let it bum in our innermost souls till the
shadow of self pass away, and the light of Thy glory, O God, be unveiled in the
dawning of day!
BROTHERHOOD CREED
I BELIEVE in physical health, Cleanliness, Temperance, and in Utter Purity in
thought, word and deed;
AND IN TRUTH, Honesty, Utility and Thought, which discerns the known from
the believed; which speaks plainly, tolerates others, and reforms itself; Which works
for no party, sect, person or salary; Which leads to science, literature and art;
Which works for Wisdom’s end of ends by the golden Path of the Mean.
I BELIEVE IN HOLY LOVE. Father and end of all; Light of light, Fragrance of
fragrance. Beauty of beauty; Who, working both here and beyond, is Justice
inexorable, the Comforter of the afflicted, and the Avenger of evil to thousand genera­
tions; Who leads through Conscience with-in-myself to the Kingdom of Heaven, which
only the Humble shall inherit, and the Holy recognize, and which shall have no end,
forever and ever. Amen!
Various Suggestive Outlines
THE SEVEN DEIFYING PRACTICES
1.
2.
3.
4.
Practice of the Presence of God.
Putting Yourself in Other Peoples’
Shoes.
Sober Realization of the Coming of
Death.
Contemplation of the Joys of Heaven.
5. Tongue-bridling.
6. Compassion for the World’s Suffer­
ing.
7. Self-examination to Avoid Hypo­
crisy.
TWELVE SOUL MEDICINES
1. Providence, Belief in, cures despair.
2. Belief in other existences, quiets re­
criminations.
3. Belief in a Redeemer, gives courage.
4. Belief in the New Jerusalem, cures
materialism.
5. Belief in the Kingdom’s establish­
ment, cheers.
6. Belief in Guidance, illuminates this
muddle.
7. Belief in Judgment, saves from being
cowed.
8. Belief in Sacraments, is the miracle
of refreshment.
9. Belief in Prayer, is Golden Key to
Supplies.
10. Bible-reading gives hope of Truth.
11. Gathering for worship, sanifies.
12. Voice of Conscience, proves Spirit­
ual Existence.
TWELVE MORTAL SINS
1. Caprice 7. Instability
2. Comfort-desire 8. Anger
3. Drudgery 9. Rashness
4. Self-assertiveness 10. Domineering
5. Cowardliness 11. Chaoticalness
6. Fault-finding 12. Restlescnc-S
APPLICATIONS FOR
Name and Address ................................
TWELVE STANDARD MOTIVES
1. Appreciation 7. Spiritual Vision
2. Firmness 8. Utilitarianism
3. Obedience 9. Faithfulness
4. Economy 10. Organizing Power
5. Endurance 11. Kindliness
6. Discernment 12. Laboriousness
INTERIOR MEMBERSHIP
The PAGAN BIBLE
or, ANGELS ANCIENT and MODERN
cAn Snglished QrecO'^Roman Anthology on the Soul
and its helpers
t y
KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
A.M. (H arvard and ftew anee) ; Pli.D . (C olum bia and T u lan e); M.I). (P enn sylvan ia);
P rofessor in E xtension, U niversity o f the South, Sew anee.
In te rn a tio n a l C o p y rig h t S ecured by
PLATONIST PRESS, Teocalli, 1177 Warburton Avenue
N orth Y onkers, N. Y., U , S. A.
INDEX
This book contains what was taught about Angels by
Bible and Zoroastrians ................. on page 2
Homer, Vision of Ulysses, 850 B.C.? ........................................................................ 2
Hesiod, in Works and Days, 750 B.C.? .................................................................... 2
Kebes, in The Picture, 399 B.C............................................................................... : 3
Prodicus, in The Choice of Hercules, 390 B.C............................................................ 13
Plato, in Vision of Er, 429-347 B.C............................................................................. 15
Cicero, in Dream of Scipio, 106-43 B.C...................................................................... 17
Virgil, in Vision of Aeneas, 70-19B.C........................................................................ 18
Plutarch, in Genius of Socrates, 1-66A.D.................................................................. 18
Plutarch, in Dream of Timarchus ............................................................................. 20
Plutarch, in Vision of Thespesius ............................................................................. 23
Plutarch, in Story of Sylla . . . . ! ................................................................................ 24
Epictetus, in Morals, 60 A.D..................................................................... 25
Apuleius, in the Genius of Socrates, 130 A.D............................................................ 25
Maximus of Tyre, in Socrates’ Good Genius, 180 A.D............................................. 36
Marcus Aurelius, in Meditations, 180 A.D.................................................................. 42
Zosimus, in Divine Transformation, 200 A.D............................................................. 42
Plotinus, in his Enneads, 203-262 A.D....................................................................... 42
Synesius, in On Providence, and Hymns, 350 A.D..................................................... 44
Proclus, on Providential Angels, 412-485 A.D............................................................ 49
Dionysius the Areopagite, on Celestial Hierarchies, 500 A.D................................... 50
BIBLICAL A N D ZOROASTRIAN ANGELS
While the Bible assumes the existence and ministry of Angels, it unfortunately
does not contain any systematic but succinct study of the subject such as would fit
into this. But as the scriptures cannot be neglected, we must limit ourselves to a
reminiscent panorama of familiar facts.
First there is the Angel of the Presence who appeared in theophany to Abraham
and Moses; David’s Seraphim, and the Isaiah, Ezekelian and Apocalyptic Cherubim,
and the Pauline Principalities, Powers, Authorities, Dominions and Thrones; the
Archangels Uriel, Raphael who led and healed Tobias, Gabriel who brought messages
to Daniel, Zacharias and Mary; Michael who first led the celestial armies to victory
over Lucifer and the demons, and later became the patron of the Jews. Then there
was the guardian angel of the children Jesus blessed, and of Peter; the ministerers to
Jesus after the temptation, in Gethsemane, and at the tomb, and to Elijah at the
brook Cherith, and to Lazarus after death, taking his soul to Paradise; liberators as
to Peter, defenders as to Dothan and the Three Children in the furnace; messengers
as to Joseph in a dream, the Macedonian to Paul, and to Balaam; destroyers, as to
Sodom and Herod, and the gate-keeper of Paradise; worshippers as at the Nativity
and around the Great White Throne; and thinkers like those who long to look
into the mysteries of human salvation.
Not otherwise is the case of the immortal Avestan pantheon of archangels, which
arose from a combination of tribal cults, later organized and subordinated to a sup­
reme divinity, Ahura-Mazda, the Good, by the genius of Zarathustra, whose sublime
hymns are too incoherent and diffuse to quote. These Amesha-Spentas or Immortal
Holy Ones are six: Vohu-Mano, the Good Mind; Asha Vahishta, the Righteous;
Kshathra Vairya, the Wealthy Warrior; Spenta Armaiti, Gracious Nature; Haurvatat
the genius of Health, and Ameretat, the angel of Immortality. These six make seven,
with Mithra the solar Lord of Truth, whose mystery-rites paved the way for later
ecclesiastical developments.
It has been plausibly urged that the Hebrews were compulsorily educated into
this angelology during the later or Persian period of the Babylonian captivity; and
that on their return home it fructified into the later Hebrew popular belief, doubted
only by the Sadducees, which bloomed in Enochian literature, and ran to seed in
Kabalistic excesses, which manufactured angels wholesale by the mechanical expedient
of adding ‘el’ to any convenient root, thus degrading the noblest conception of the
human mind.
HOMER, Vision of Ulysses, 850 B.C.?
Desirous of finding his way home from Circe’s island, Ulysses was advised to
consult the blind Theban prophet Tiresias in Hades. So he sailed to the lightless
land of the Cimmerians where with his sword he dug a circular trench wherein, after
libations and invocations he shed black sheeps’ blood which attracted1from Erebus
many souls, including his companion Elpenor and his mother Antiklea.
By his sword, however, he kept them off till arrived Tiresias who after drinking
gave the desired advice. Then Ulysses allowed drinking and conversation by Anti­
klea, many other famous Greek women and Agamemnon. Achilles vowed he had
rather be a hired laborer on an earth than king in Hades. Ajax still resenting the
loss of Patroclus’s arms, stalked away, and Ulysses regretted he had won them.
Then Ulysses saw Minos the Judge; Orion hunting in the asphodel-meadow;
Tityus pecked by two vultures; Tantalus standing in a lake he might not drink;
Sisphus pushing up a stone that ever rolled back; then, hunting, passed the Shade
of Hercules, who himself was among the immortals in Olympus.
Then arrived so many horrible clamoring dead that Ulysses feared meeting the
Gorgon; so he ran back to the ship, loosed the hawsers and sailed towards the Dawn.
HESIOD, “Works and Days,” 750 B.C.?
Golden was the first human race, endowed with articulate speech, formed by the
Immortals, dwellers of Olympus. It was in the times of Saturn, when he still reigned
in the heavens. Then human beings lived like divinities, with the heart free from
care, free from work or pain. . . . But when nature had in her bosom received (the
dead) of this race, the great Jupiter made of them beneficent geniuses, who dwell
amidst us, watch over men to protect them, observing their just or criminal actions.
They are surrounded by clouds that hide them from our eyes,'wandering over the
surface of the earth, distributing wealth. Such are the royal functions allotted to
them.
KEBES, The Picture, A.D. 399
THE GATE OF LIFE AND ITS DELUSIONS
Happening one day to be meditatively visiting a Temple of Saturn we reverently
contemplated its votive inscriptions. Prominently affixed to the front of the Temple,
loomed up large a strange pictorial Tablet, containing certain peculiar words, whose
significance we were not able to fathom.
It seemed to represent, not some city or military camp, but a triple ring, formed
by three concentric walled enclosures.
Within the outer circular wall might be seen a crowd of women; while outside,
around the outer Gate, surged a large mob, to whose entering streams a certain old
man seemed, by his gestures, to be uttering some command.
THE MAKER OF THE TABLET
We stood a long while, questioning with each other about the symbology of
the Picture. Then an Old Man who chanced to pass by stopped, and addressed us,
in the following words:
‘O Strangers! Not exceptional is this your experience of uncertainty about this
Picture; for it is a puzzle even to many of the local inhabitants. This votive
symbol does not originate from this locality. A Stranger, full of understanding, and
impressive with wisdom, arrived here long since, following with zeal the rule of life
of Pythagoras or Parmenides in word and deed. It was he who dedicated to Saturn
both Temple and Picture.'
‘So you yourself saw and knew this Man, did you?’ asked I.
‘Yes, indeed! And what is more, I admired him for a long time during my youth.’
‘It was his way to indulge in many serious conversations. Many is the time that
I have heard him expound this symbolic Picture!’
THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX
‘By Jupiter!’ cried I, ‘unless you happen to have a most pressing engagement
elsewhere, do please explain the Picture to us also! I assure you that we are most
anxious to understand the meaning of this symbol!’
‘With pleasure. Strangers!’ said he. ‘But first you must hear that such an ex-
planation is not without its very real dangers.’
‘How so?’ cried we all;
‘Should you,’ said he, ‘understand and assimilate what I should say, you shall
become wise ’
add happy; but if not, you will live badly, having become foolish, un­
fortunate, bitter, and ignorant.
‘For the explanation is not unlike the Sphinx's Riddle, that he propounded to
all men. Whoever solved it was saved; bat destruction by the Sphinx overtook
those who could not. And this was the Sphinx’s question: Within our life, What
is good? What is an evil? What is neither?
‘If anyone does not solve this, the Sphinx destroys him; not all at once, as in
ancient times, but gradually, in his whole life, he perishes away, just like victims
tortured to death.
‘But if' he Understands, he is saved, and attains felicity.
‘Attention, therefore! and make sure you understand!’
THE GATE OF LIFE, THE GOOD GENIUS, AND THE WAY. ”
‘Now, by Hercules! What fires hast thou lit in us, if what thou saidst is. true!’
‘Why, surely!’ said he.
‘Start in to explain immediately, then! For we shall attend to some' purpose,
especially in view of the nature of the retribution/ - '
‘Well,* said the Old Man, pointing with a wand, ‘do you see that outer circular
wall?’
‘Yes, indeed!’
‘First, you must know that the name of this whole place is the Life.
This innumerable multitude surging in front of the Gate, are they who are about
to enter into Life.
‘The Old Man who holds in one hand a scroll, and with the other is pointing
out something is the Good Genius.
‘To those who are entering is he setting forth what they should do when they
shall have entered; and he is pointing out to them which Way they shall have to
walk in if they propose to be saved in the Life.'
LADY DELUSION, AND HER TW O CUPS
‘Which way does he command them to go? And why?’ said I.
‘You see,’ said he, ‘by the side of the Gate by which the Multitude are to enter,
a throne, on which is seated a Woman dressed stylishly—indeed, overdressed, who
holds in her hands as it were some sort of cups—do you see that?'
‘Indeed I do,' responded I; ‘but who is she?'
‘Delusion is her name,’ answered he, ‘for the reason that she deludes and mis­
leads every human being.’
‘But what is her office?’
‘She quenches the thirst of every soul that proceeds into Life, by making it
drink of her very own essence.’
‘And what might her drink be, I wonder?’
‘Error and Ignorance’ said he.
‘Why so?’
‘‘Because they would not enter into the Life, unless they were under that influence.’
‘I wonder whether this Delusion is drunk by all, or only by some?’
‘All drink,’ said he; ‘although there are degrees, some drinking more, others less.
THE COURTESANS WHO TRADE ON THE FATEFUL DRINK
Then, do you not see within the Gate a crowd of Women wearing the motley
garb of Courtesans?’
‘Indeed do I see them!’
‘Well, their names are False Opinion, Desires, and Pleasures. Upon the entering
souls fall these, each of them embracing and leading away a soul.’
'And whither? would I like to know!’
‘Some to be saved, indeed; but others, alas! to be destroyed by Delusion.’
‘O Good Genius of ours, how fateful is that Drink!’
‘Surely, for each of those Courtesans promises to the soul that she has embraced
that she will lead it to the best things and to a life happy and profitable; and she
succeeds for because of that Drink the souls themselves are not able to discover
which is the veritable road in the Life but wander around as you see—for these who
have already entered are cruising around, as if by chance.
THE GODDESS OF LUCK ON HER ROLLING STONE
‘I see them indeed,’ said I.
‘But tell me, who can be that Woman, who seems to be both wild and blind, stand­
ing on a globular-shaped stone?'
‘Her name,’ answered he, ‘is Luck. Not only blind and wild is she, but deaf.’
‘And what might her business be?’
She circulates everywhere,’ said he. From some she takes their substance, and
freely gives it away to others. Then, again, she suddenly withdraws what she has
given, and gives it to others without any plan or steadfastness. So you see that her
symbol fits her perfectly.’
‘Which symbol,’ asked I.
‘Why, the Globular Stone on which she stands.’
‘And what does that betoken, I wonder?’
THE PAGAN BIBLE
‘That Globular Stone signifies that no gift of hers is safe or lasting; for whoso-
ever reposes any confidence in her, is sure to suffer great and right grievous mis­
fortune.’
THE UNREFLECTING, WHO REJOICE OR GRIEVE AT LUCK
But what is the wish and the name of that great Multitude standing around her?’
‘Oh! They are known as the Unreflecting: they who desire whatever Luck
might throw them.’
‘But then, how is it that they do not behave in the same manner? For some
seem to rejoice, while others are agonizing, with hands outstretched?’
‘Well, those who seem to rejoice and laugh are they who have received some­
what from her—and you may be sure that they call her Fortune! On the contrary,
those who seem to weep and stretch out their hands are they from whom she has
taken back what she had given—they call her Misfortune!’
‘And what sort of things does she deal in, that they who receive them laugh,
while they who lose them, weep?’
‘Why, what to the great Multitudes seems Good—of course Wealth; then Glory,
Good Birth, Children, Power, Palaces, and the like.’
‘But such things, are they not really good?’
‘That question, let us postpone!’
‘Willingly,’ said I.
THE FOUR COURTESANS, WHO TURN INTO DRAGONS
Now, as you enter within the Gate, do you see the second circular enclosure,
and without it, certain Women clad like courtesans?’
‘Clearly!’
‘Well, their names are Incontinence, Indulgence, Insatiableness, and Flattery.
‘And why do they stand there?’
‘They are watching for those who may have received anything from the Luck-
Goddess.’
‘And then, what happens?’
‘The Courtesans spring on those souls, embrace them, flatter them, and coax them
not to go away, but to stay for a life of comfort, without effort or misadventure.
Should, however, any soul be by them persuaded to enter into Enjoyment, this
seems a pleasant pastime until he is satiated, but no longer. For whenever he sobers
up, he notices that he has not eaten, but that he has, by her, been ruined, and
maltreated. Wherefore, when he has consumed all the goods he received from
Fortune, he is forced to slave to those Women, to suffer all things, to be dishonored,
and on their account to do many pitiable deeds—such as to steal, to profane Temples,
to perjure himself, to betray, to plunder.
However, whenever he has degraded himself to the point of utter destitution,
then is he handed over to Punishment.
PUNISHMENT, AND HER GHASTLY CREW
‘But who is she?’
‘Do you not see behind them,’ said he, ‘something that looks like a small door,
and a narrow, dank place?’
‘Yes, indeed!’
‘And you notice therein Women—shameful, bedraggled, and ragged?
‘Why yes!'
‘Well, among them, the one who holds the whip is called Punishment; while the
one who holds her head bent over to her knees is Sorrow; and the one who is pulling
her own hair, is Grief.’
‘But what about that Thing standing by them,—
■so repulsive, thin, and naked;
and near to it that other similarly shameful female,—who is she?’
‘Ah,’ said he, ‘that is Lamentation, and his sister is Despair. To these therefore
is the soul handed over, and is punished by association with them. Hence, however,
he is cast into another dwelling, into Unhappiness, where he ekes out his existence
in every misery unless, indeed, to him unexpectedly, Repentance, having planned
it, should meet him.
REPENTANCE, AND HER RIGHT OPINION
‘Well, what happens, should Repentence chance to meet him?’
'She releases him from his evils, and associates with him another Opinion-and-
Desire, who will lead him to genuine Culture—though indeed he might just as well
be misled even then to Sham-Culture.’
‘Well, what happens then?’
‘In the case,’ said he, ‘that he is taken in charge by this Right-Opinion who will
lead him to genuine Culture, he is, on being purified, by Her saved, so that his life
grows blissful and happy;—otherwise, again he wanders, to be deceived by Sham-
Culture.
SHAM-CULTURE
‘By Herkules! what other great danger is here! Pray speak to me more definitely
of Sham-Culture.
‘Well, do you see standing by the Gate of the inner enclosure a Woman seeming
neat and well groomed? Well, she is, by the unreflecting Majority called Culture
—but that is an error, for she is no more than a Sham. Nevertheless, those who are
being saved must, in order to reach genuine Culture, first pass here.’
‘So there is no other way?’
‘No, there is not.’
THE SCIENTISTS WHO PROFESS SHAM-CULTURE
‘And can you tell we who are those men, perambulating within the second en­
closure?’
‘Those,’ said he, ‘are the deluded Votaries of Sham-Culture—honestly, they labor
under the impression that they are, right now, associating with genuine Culture!’
‘/end what might they be called?’
‘Some,’ answered he, ‘are Poets; some, so-called Orators. Some are Reasoners;
others are Musicians, Mathematicians, Geometricians, Astronomers, Critics, Aristip-
pian Pleasure seekers, or Aristotelian Peripatetic scientists!’
MERE SCIENCE DOES NOT SAVE
‘But those Women who seem to circulate among them—indeed, they resemble the
first, among whom was Pleasure, and her companions—who are they?’
‘They are the very same,’ said he.
‘But how did they get in?’
‘By altering their looks; for here they are needy-looking, and not as before.’
‘And have those False-Opinions remained unchanged?’ asked I.
‘That potion which they received from Delusion remains active in them; so also
Ignorance, Senselessness, Prejudice and other Badness. None of this fades out from
them till they leave Sham-Culture, enter on the right road, and drink the purifying
medicaments. Through this purification having sloughed ofE all their evils such as
Prejudice and Ignorance, then, and not before, shall they be saved.
‘Should they, however, elect to remain with Sham-Culture, they shall never be
released; nor shall they be released from a single evil because of any Science.’
THE ROAD UPWARDS TO HAPPINESS
THE STEEP ROAD UP THE ROCK OF CULTURE
‘What then is the Road that leads to genuine Culture’ asked I.
‘Do you see up there,’ said he, a place where no one dwells, and which seems to
be desert?’
‘I do.’
‘Do you not see a small door, a path not much frequented,—only! a few are as­
cending on it, for it is almost impassable, rough and rocky?’
‘Yes indeed,’ said I.
‘And do you not see something like a steep hill, whose only access is a narrow
ascent between precipices?
‘That then is the Road to Culture.’ .L
‘And difficult enough it seems!’
‘But it leads up Culture’s Rock, which is large, high, and inaccessible.
THE TW O GOOD ANGELS WHO ASSIST PILGRIMS UPWARDS
‘Now do you not further see, standing on the Rock, two healthy and well-formed
Women who stretch out their hands invitingly?’
‘Yes; but who are they?’
‘Self-Control and Endurance—two sisters,’
‘But why are they extending their arms so invitingly?’
‘They are exhorting the Pilgrims who reach that place not to despair, but to be
of good courage, inasmuch as they will reach a fair road if only they will be brave
for a little while longer.’
‘Encouragement is good; but what is the use of it? as I see, way up on the Road,
a gap, where there is no road.’
‘Those Women will themselves descend from the Cliff, draw the Pilgrims up to
their present position. Then only will the Women bid the Pilgrims rest; and after
a while will give them Strength and Courage, and promise to introduce them into the
presence of genuine Culture.
‘Then the Women point out to the refreshed Pilgrims the further road which,
there, is fair, level, passable, and free from all evils, as you see.’ ‘Clearly, by
Jupiter!’ ‘Do you not behold, in front of that grove, a place which seems to be
fair, grassy, and illuminated by a white light?’
‘Yes, indeed!’
CULTURE, AND HER TWO DAUGHTERS
‘Now do you perceive in the midst of the meadow another Enclosure, with its
gate?’
‘It is so,—but what is the name of that place?’
‘It is the Dwelling of the Blessed,’ said he. ‘Here abide all the Virtues, and
Happiness.’
‘Is it possible? How beautiful must that Place be!’
‘Now, do you see by the Gate, a Woman, fair and composed, of middle, or rather
of advanced age, clad in a simple, unadorned robe? She stands, not on a globe, but
on a solidly founded cube. With her are standing two other but younger Women
who seem to be her daughters.’
‘So it looks.’
‘Well, the Woman who is standing in the centre is Culture; the others are Truth
and Conviction.'
‘But why does Culture stand on a Cube?’
‘As a sign that, for approaching Pilgrims, the Road to her is certain and safe—
as, indeed, is also the case with her Gifts.’
‘And what might these gifts be?’
‘Courage and Fearlessness!’
‘But what do they consist of?’ asked I.
‘Courage and Fearlessness consist in the realization that ‘naught that ever could
happen to us could prove to be a misfortune.’ ’
PURIFICATION
‘By Herkules!’ said I, ‘what fine gifts! But why does she thus stand outside of
the Circle?’
‘In order to heal the new arrivals,’ said he. ‘She furnishes them the cleansing
medicament; and whenever they have been purified, she introduces them unto the
Virtues.’
‘But how does this happen? I do not understand that.’
‘But you will,’ said he. It is as if an ambitious man should, on becoming sick,
go to a physician, who first removes the cause of the sickness, thereby paving the
way through convalescence to health. Should the sick man, however, not carry
out the prescription, it is no more than fair that he should be abandoned to the
ravages of the disease.’
‘Oh, I understand that,’ said I.
‘Just so acts Culture,’ resumed our Guide. ‘Whenever any Pilgrim reaches her,
she heals him and doses him with her own power, so as first to purify him from
8
all the evils which lodged in him—Ignorance and Error, with which Delusion had
infected the Pilgrim; Arrogance, Lust, Intemperance, Anger, Love-of-Money, and all
the rest of those Evils with which the Pilgrim was affected in the first Enclosure.’
THE CHOIR OF VIRTUES
‘Now when the Pilgrim is cleansed, whither does she send him?
‘In there unto Scientific-Recognition, and unto the other Virtues.'
‘And which are these?’
Said he: ‘Do you not sec within the Gate a choir of Women, who seem to be
attractive, neat, with simple, unadorned robes; see how sweet they look in their
simple garb, and not overdressed as the others were?’
‘I see,’ said I. ‘But what are their names?’
‘The first is Scientific-Recognition; the others are sisters of hers; Fortitude, Right­
eousness, Fairness, Wisdom, Poise, Freedom, Temperance, and Gentleness.’
‘O you kindly Guide of ours, what great things may we hope for!’
‘Surely! But only on condition that you understand what you see, and take
good heed to that which you have heard of me.’
‘But we most surely do!’ cried we all as if with one voice.
‘Then shall you also be saved!’ cried he.
‘Now, when they have received the Pilgrim, whither do they lead him?'
‘To their mother Happiness,’ said he.
'But who and where is she?’
‘Following the Road up yon Mountain which forms the heart of the Enclosures,
you come to the Temple-porch by which sits on a high throne a glorious Woman,
decked nobly, but artlessly, and crowned with a splendid wreath of flowers. Well,
she is Happiness.’
CROWNING OF THE VICTOR OVER THE BESTIAL VICES
‘Now, whenever any one reaches hither, what does she do?’
‘Happiness, with all the other Virtues, crown him as Victor in the greatest
struggles,—namely, against the most terrible Beasts, who before, enslaved, tormented,
mid devoured him. All these now has he overcome and repelled for himself, holding
himself well in hand, so that they, to whom he formerly slaved, now must serve
him.’
‘I am anxious to know the identity of the wild Beasts you mentioned.’
‘Ignorance,’ said he, ‘and Error. Or don’t you consider them wild beasts?’
‘And pretty savage, too!’ agreed I.
‘Then Sorrow, Despair, Love-of-Money, Intemperance and all other Badness. All
these he now rules, instead of, as before, being ruled by them.’
‘O glorious deeds,’ cried I, ‘and splendid victory! But what is the virtue of the
Victor’s crown?’
‘It beatifies with Felicity unspeakable. He who with this Virtue is crowned,
becomes very happy reposing his hopes of getting Happiness and of retaining it
not on others, but on himself.’
THOSE WHO FAIL, AND WHY
HEAVEN CONSISTS IN SAVING HELL
‘Glorious the Victory you wot of! But after the Pilgrim is crowned, what does
he do, and whither does he proceed?'
‘The Virtues who had welcomed him lead him to that place whence he came out,
and point out to him how badly fare they who there exist so wretchedly, as it were,
enduring ship-wreck of their lives, erring and wandering, as if dragged around by
Enemies such as Incontinence, Arrogance, Love-of-Money, Fancies, and other such
Evils.
‘By these Misfortunes they are unable to rescue themselves from this perpetual
tossing by reaching the Mountain of Security.
‘This they suffer only because they are not able to discover the road hither—
for they have forgotten (he Instructions they received from the Good Genius.’
ONLY THOSE WHO ARE IN HEAVEN CAN RECOGNIZE HELL
‘Then,’ said I: 'You seem to speak rightly. But I am not yet quite dear on this
point! namely, Why to the Pilgrim the Virtues point out that Place from which he
came originally.’
Said our Guide: ‘None of these things could the Pilgrim accurately understand or
realize, himself being in doubt because of the Ignorance and Error which he had
imbibed, so that he considered Good That-which-was-not-Good, and Ev ! 1 hat-wldch-
was-nof-Evil. Wherefore, like those who remained there, the Pilgrim eked out a
miserable existence.
‘Now, however, since he has attained to Scientific-Recognition o! \.hat. really is
advantageous, he lives pleasantly, realizing how badly off those others are.’
THE VICTOR FLOURISHES AMONG PASSIONS
‘Well, now that he contemplates all these things, what will he do, and whither
will he wend his way?’
‘Whithersoever he may fancy; for now he is as safe anywhere as if in a Korykian
Cave; fairly and safely will he dwell, whithersoever he may arrive, For just as the
sick welcome the physician, so will all receive him with pleasure and gratitude.’
‘And he fears no more that he shall suffer something from those Women, who,
you say, are really wild Beasts?”
‘No indeed! No more can he be troubled by Grief or Sorrow, by Incontinence or
Love-of-Money, by Need or any other evil—for now he lords it over ali those by
whom he formerly was grieved.
'Just like a serpent-charmer, whose snakes, though they do to death all others but
him, yet him they do not injure, because of an antidote against them which he pos­
sesses;—just like this immune snake-charmer, is the crowned Pilgrim no more grieved
by any of them, being immune because of the antidote which he possesses.’
FEW ARE CHOSEN, SINCE MANY ARE REJECTED
‘To me it scents that you have spoken wcil. But tell me further this: Who arc
they who seem to be descending from the Mountain? For while some of them arc
crowned and are making gestures of joy, others are uncrowned, grieved and distressed;
they seem to be so weary in head and limb as to be in real need of that their support
be certain Women!’
‘The crowned are those who were saved by Culture, and they are rejoicing at
having reached her. The uncrowned, however, are those who were by Culture re­
jected, and are returning to an existence miserable and wretched; or are such as,
while ascending to Endurance, became timorous, and turned back, wandering around
without a path.’
‘And who are the Women supporting them?’
‘Griefs, Sorrows, Faint-heartedness, Obscure-Contempt, and Ignorances.’
THE DOG RETURNS TO HIS VOMIT
‘Why I thought you said that all the Evils accompanied them?’
‘And they all do, by Jupiter! For whenever they return into the first Enclosure
unto Sensuality and Incontinence, they do not accuse themselves—far from it! Straight­
way they speak ill of Culture, and of those who go to her; saying that they are
wretched, miserable, and unhappy; and that on leaving their accustomed manner of
life they live badly, enjoying no good thing—that is, no thing that is accounted good
among themselves.’
‘And what goods may they be referring to?’
‘Why, to Debauchery and Incontinence,’ to speak plainly, ‘for their highest ideal
is to feed like cattle.’
OPINION AND KNOWLEDGE
‘And what about those other Women who descend thence cheerful in mien, and
all wreathed in smiles?’
‘They are Opinions; and whenever they have successfully conducted any Pilgrim
to Culture, and introduced him to the Virtues, they return to lead up others, to whom
they announce the beatificadon of those they had led up before.’
‘But why do not they themselves enter in among the Virtues, and stay?’
‘Because it is not fitting for mere Opinions to enter in unto Scientific Recognition;
their utmost capacity is to introduce a Pilgrim unto Culture. All that they then can
do is to return and bring up others,—just as ships, when unloaded, return to be
loaded again.’
COURAGE 1
‘To me it seems that you have interpreted these things- very well; but there is
one thing which you have not yet made plain to us—namely, What the Good Genius
teaches those who are entering into Life.’
“ To take heart, and be courageous,’’ says he. ‘Wherefore, do ye also take
heart, for I shall interpret all things, and omit nothing.’
‘Well spoken!’ cried I.
Then the Old Man, again stretching forth his hand, said: ‘Look at that Woman
who seems to be blind, standing on a stone globe, whose name, as I told you before,
is Luck.’
‘Well, we see.’
DISTRUST LUCK!
‘The Genius warns souls not to trust Her; nothing received from her should be
considered reliable or safe: nor consider them his own, inasmuch as nothing hinders
her from taking them back, and again giving them away to somebody else—why,
that is a common occurrence. Wherefore, he admonishes, no man should let himself
be moved by her gifts—neither to joy on receiving them, nor to sorrow on losing
them; neither to praise, nor to blame them. For nothing done by her proceeds from
Reflexion; c-dy by chance, and just as things come, as I told you before.
‘Wherefore the Good Genius admonishes men to take no notice of anything she
does, and not to become like wicked bankers, who rejoice whenever they receive
money from some man, and consider it their own; but, as soon as they receive notice
of withdrawal, they become offended, and consider themselves grievously wronged,
not remembering that they received the deposits on this very condition, that the
depositor may withdraw it without difficulty.
‘The Good Genius advises a similar attitude towards the gifts of the Goddess of
Luck; and to remember that is is no more than her nature to take back what she
gave, and again soon to give manifold other gifts, then again to withdraw not only
this that she gave, but also whatever a man may have possessed before. Where'
fore, he admonishes, accept whatever she may give; and as soon as you have pos­
session of it, with it immediately depart to the blessings reliable and enduring.’
THE BEST GIFT IS GOOD JUDGMENT
‘But what may these be?’ asked I.
‘That which is received from Culture.’
‘And what may it be?’
‘The veritable Scientific Recognition of what is advantageous and is a safe, re­
liable, enduring gift,’ said he. ‘To flee to her incontinently is his monition; and
whenever the Pilgrim arrives to those Women who, as I said before, are called
Incontinence and Sensuality, he is not to trust them but to depart from them, and
proceed to Sham-Culture. Here he should remain some little time, collecting from
her Sham-Accomplishments whatever may be suitable for a traveling-ration to sup­
port him until he reach Genuine Culture.
‘Whosoever disobeys this monition, or even only misunderstands it, perishes
away miserably.’
^ THE VALUE OF SCIENCE
DO NOT DESPISE THE GIFT OF TONGUES
‘Now, Strangers, this is the meaning of the Picture. Do not hesitate to ask any
additional questions about it; I shall be pleased to answer.’
‘Well, then I will ask you what sort of accomplishment the Good Genius advises
the Pilgrim to take from Sham-Culture?'
11
‘Whatever a man may think might be of use to him.’
‘And what is your advice in the matter?’
‘The knowledge of languages, first; and then, sufficient of other Sciences to act,
in the words of Plato, as a check-rein from eccentricities—misunderstand me not:
they are not necessary, but advantageous to proceed more efficiently—but, of course,
they are not heipful morally.’
‘So then you declare formally that these Accomplishments do not aid moraliza-
tion?’
‘By sio means; for although a man must improve without them, still they have
their place. For although we may catch the meaning by means of an interpreter,
yet might it not be useless to understand the words themselves, if we care at all for
accuracy. Yet nothing hinders our becoming better without those accomplishments.
SCIENCE IS NO VIRTUE
‘Well, then, according to what you say, the scientists have no advantage over
other men in becoming holier?’
‘What advantage could they have, inasmuch as they are involved in the same
delusion about the nature of Goods, just as the Unscientific, and are yet dominated
by their vices? For nothing hinders a man from knowing languages, and being an
expert in every scientific field, and still being intoxicated and incontinent, fond of
money, unjust, traitorous, and even a fool.’
‘Yes indeed!—one can see many such!’
‘What advantage, then, could these, merely because of their scientific accomplish­
ments, have in the matter of moralization?’
UNREALIZED KNOWLEDGE IS STERILE
‘Certainly not, according to what you say. But why then do they remain within
the Second Enclosure, as if they still wished to approach unto Genuine-Culture?’
‘And of what use to them is that proximity? For how often do you see later
Pilgrims arriving from the First Enclosure with its Incontinence and other evils, and
before them entering in unto Genuine-Culture in the Third Enclosure, leaving those
Scientists behind! Hence, what advantages have they? Are they not rather at the
disadvantage of being less impressionable, and more incorrigible?’
‘How so?’ asked I.
‘Why, because what is known by those who are in the Second Enclosure is
never realized. As long as they hold to the speculative side of Opinion, they cannot
possibly take any practical steps towards Genuine-Culture. Do you not see that,
just as much as the more practical Pilgrim, they have the opportunity of making
use of the Opinions who lead out from the First Enclosure. But are not Opinions
useless without a meeting with Repentance, and without the resulting conviction that
the Culture which they do possess is a sham, and a trap? Being satisfied with their
abode, they never progress to Salvation.
‘And you also, O Strangers, you must practice what I said until you have at­
tained unto its significance. Often, indeed, will you have to study afresh my in­
structions, nor relinquish the sacred Quest, relegating all other matters to secondary
rank. If not, all you hear will remain useless.’
What is Good and Evil?
NEITHER GOOD NOR EVIL ABSOLUTE
‘Indeed we shall do so. But explain us this, how that which men receive from
Luck—namely life, health, wealth, honor, children, victory, and more such, are not
goods; and again, how the absence thereof is not an evil? For what you have said
seems to us to lack common-sense and reliability.’
‘Very well, come on! Give me your views about what I shall ask you.’
‘I shall most certainly do so,’ said I.
‘Well, if a man lives badly, is life to him a good?’
‘It would seem not.’ said I. ‘Rather, an evil.’
‘How then could fife be a good, if, to him, it is an evil?’
'Well, I should say it was an evil to those who live badly, and a good to those
who live well.’
‘So then life might be both an evil and a good?’
‘So I said.’
REAL EVIL IS THE EVIL LIFE
‘Come, do not express opinions so unlikely, for how could aught be at the same
time good and evil? Did you ever hear of anything simultaneously useful and harm'
ful, desired and scorned?’
‘That, really, is unlikely} but if living badly is an evil for the living man, why,
for such a man is life itself not an evil?’
‘Yes,* but life and living badly are not identical}—or do you think so?’
Our Guide answered, ‘Neither do I. The evil lies in living badly, not in life
itself. For were it an evil it would be evil even to such as live righteously, in the
degree that they are alive, if this was an absolute evil.’
‘I agree w'ith you.’
THINGS MORE IMPORTANT THAN LIFE
‘As, therefore, life belongs to both those who live badly, and to those who live
rightly, might it not then be possible that life is neither a Good nor an Evil} just
as cutting and burning in themselves are neither harmful nor sanatory for the sick
•
—it all depends on the time and manner the patient is cut or burned. Is it not thus
also with life?’
*Yes, indeed, so it is.'
‘Now consider the matter thus} What would you prefer, to live shamefully, or
to die honorably, like a man?’
‘I had rather die honorably.’
‘So then even dying can be no evil, as it is often more desirable than living?’
‘So it is.’
‘Should we not also think likewise of health and sickness? For there are cir-
cumstances when health is unbearable.’
‘You speak the truth,’ said I.
IN ITSELF, NO EARTHLY OBJECT IS GOOD OR BAD
‘Well, it seems ,to me that this is the cause of the restlessness and of the harm
of men: they err in honoring Things as good, or scorning Things as evils} to lay
values on Things, and to suppose that through Things one can improve, or for the
sake of Things commit any, even godless actions. This however is the result of
ignorance of what is the real Good, they ignore that no real goods result from evil
means. Hence many are those who have amassed Wealth through evil and shame,
ful deeds—such as treason, robbery, murder, eavesdropping, theft, and other crimes.’
‘So it is.’
WISDOM THE ONLY GOOD
‘If then out of evil means ran arise no good end, as is evident} and if out of evil
deeds can arise wealth, then can Wealth never be an absolutely good end.’
‘An evident consequence!'
‘But then, none can attain unto Righteousness through any evil action) as little
as one can attain Injustice or Foolishness through good deeds. Besides, both op­
posites cannot well coexist in one and the same thing. Wealth, Fame, Victory and
other such external goods do not exclude badness. Consequently these things are
neither goods nor even evils} they are no more than external applications of the
internal principle ‘Wisdom alone is a Good, while Foolishness is the only Evil.’
‘It seems to me that you have proved your point.’
WEALTH IS NOT ALWAYS GOOD
‘Good! Let us consider wealth, in the same manner. Apparently, as is often
seen, there arc persons who possess wealth who live badly and shamefully.’
‘By Jupiter, there are many such! So then wealth does not I*.c!p them to a
righteous life?’
‘Evidently not, for they themselves are evil. ‘Culture, not wealth, gives virtue.’ ’
‘Very probably so—at least, according to your argument,' grudgingly assented I.
‘Surely!’ asseverated he. ‘How could Wealth be an absolute good since it does
not always make for the improvement of its possessors?’
‘Clearly not.’
‘Acknowledge then that Wealth is not all advisable for such as do not know
how to use it!’
‘I must say I think so!’
‘How then should that whose possession is often unbearable be considered an
absolute good?’
‘By no means!’
‘Will not then a man live well as far as he knows how to employ wealth well
and understandingly—and if not badly?’
‘What you say seems to be entirely true.’
PRODICUS, The Choice of Hercules, B.C. 390
When Hercules was advancing front boyhood to manhood, a period during which
the young, becoming their own masters, begin to give an imitation whether they will
enter on life by the path of Virtue or of Vice, he went forth into a solitary place,
and sat down, perplexed as to which of these two paths he should pursue. Two
female figures, of lofty stature, seemed to advance toward him.
The one was of an engaging and graceful mien, gifted by nature with elegance
of form, modesty of look, and sobriety of demeanor, clad in a white robe.
The other was stout and flabby; but she had so artistically improved her com-
plexion as to seem fairer and rosier than she really was. Her gestures were such
as to make her seem taller than her natural height. She knew how to employ her
eyes in affected glances. Her robe was such as to reveal, rather than to hide her
beauty; and when she thought no one else was observing her, she would frequently
look at her own figure, glancing back at her own shadow.
As these two approached nearer to Hercules, the first continued her gracefully
even gait. The latter, however, was so eager to anticipate the former, that she
actually ran up to Hercules, and said,
“Hercules, I see that you are hesitating by what path you shall enter into life.
If you will make a friend of me, I will conduct you by the most delightful and easy
road, and you shall taste every species of pleasure, leading a life free from every
sort of trouble.
"You will not have to take thought for any war or affair of state; you will be
able to spend your time in the consideration of whatever food or delicacy may best
gratify your taste; of music and art, of perfume and softness; of association with
objects of affection, of pleasant sleep, and of how to secure all these enjoyments with
the least expenditure of effort.
“Do not hesitate because of an apprehension of a want of means to secure such
delights. You shall never be urged to toil or suffering, physical or mental, to en­
compass them. What others have to labor to acquire, you will feel free to get
easily, nor will you have to abstain from anything desirable, for my followers are
allowed to help themselves to anything they want from any source whatever.”
On hearing this address, Hercules inquired after the woman’s name. "Happiness
is what I am called by my friends; but my enemies, to disparage me, call me Vice.”
In the meanwhile, the other woman had arrived, and said, "Hercules, I also have
come to address you, because 1 know your parents, and have observed your dis­
position as it revealed itself during the training of your childhood; both of which
have raised hopes for you within my mind. If now you will direct your steps along
the path that leads to my dwelling up yonder, we will both be benefited: you will
become an expert performer of what is honorable and noble, while I will gain greater
fame through your illustrious deeds.
“However, I will not deceive you with any promises of pleasure; I will set before
you things as they really are, and as they have been appointed by the gods: they
grant to mankind nothing that is worth while or preeminent without corresponding
care and labor.
“For example, you will have to worship the gods, if you wish them to be prop­
itious to you. If you desire the love of friends, you will have to pay for it by ser­
vice. You will have to promote the interest of any city whose honors you seek.
If you desire your merit to be admired by all of Greece, you will have to earn that
admiration by furthering the advantage of Greece, If you want the earth to supply
you liberally with fruit, you will have to cultivate it. If you wish to derive profit
from herds of cattle, you will have to tend them properly. If you are eager to make
your fortune, to insure your friends from enslavement, and to subdue your enemies,
you will have to learn the art of war from experts, and practise it successfully. II
you desire bodily health and vigor, you will have to train your body to respond
to your mind by the discipline of exertion and toil. In other words, you will have
to pay for whatever you get.”
Interrupting her, Vice urged, “Hercules, notice how difficult and tedious is the
road by which that woman would lead you to enjoyment. Compare it with the ease
and shortness of my path to perfect happiness!”
“Abandoned creature that you are!” rejoined Virtue, “You know that you do
not possess any real good. Unwilling as you are to do anything for the attainment
of your desires, the pleasures to which you have access are not real. Not even
waiting for the natural appetites of the body, you gorge yourself with dainties before
you are able to digest them. You eat before you are hungry, you drink before you
are thirsty. The only artists you seek are cooks; the only treasures you hoard are
fancy wines. Your only effort is to get things out of season.
“Not even sleep; such as is natural, satisfies you. You expend your ingenuity in
devising soft mattresses, and in putting rockers to your couches. You seek all this
because the sleep you indulge in is not the result of labor, but the pastime of idleness,
sleeping away the most useful part of the day.
“Though you are one of the immortals, the gods have cast you out from their
society. Even the good among mankind despise you. You have never heard the
sweetest of all possible sounds, namely, praise of yourself. You have been deprived
of the sweetest of all sights, for you have never beheld a single meritorious action by
your own hand. Who would believe any promise of yours? Who would assist
you, were you in want of anything?
“What decent person would join your band of revellers? These revellers become
impotent in body, while young; and when old, they become impotent in mind. Their
youth is spent so idly that they become stout; their old age, when indeed they should
achieve repose, is harassed by need and expedients. Of what they have done they
are ashamed; by what they have to do they are disgraced. Having run through all
pleasures possible to them in youth, nothing remains for them in age but afflictions.
“As to me, I am the companion of divinities. I am the associate of virtuous men.
No honorable deed, divine or human, is ever done without me. Most of all by the
deities am I honored. It is the best of all classes by whom I am welcomed; to
artisans, I am a cherished helper; to householders, I am a faithful guardian of their
interests. To servants, I am a friendly comrade. A benign promoter of the labors
of peace, a virile auxiliary in the stress of war, I am to all a faithful friend.
^ “To my friends especially am I gracious. As they refrain from food till drawn
by genuine appetite, they enjoy it to the full. Far sweeter than the sleep of the
idle is theirs; neither do they grieve, if they are deprived of some portion of it, nor
do they neglect any duty for its sake. The young are pleased with the praises of
the old, while the old treasure the honors of the young. Their former actions they
remember with pleasure, their present activities are crowned with success. Through
my influence they are dear to the divinity, beloved by their friends, honored by their
country. At the destined end of their life, they do not lie in oblivion and dishonor,
but flourish forever in the memory of mankind by being celebrated in songs of praise.
“It is by such a course of conduct, O well-born Hercules, that you may secure
the most exalted happiness!”
THE RESULTING LIFE OF HERCULES .
So Hercules chose Virtue, and through all the difficulties of his career, though
often temporarily losing hold of his Guide, nevertheless always found her again. He
achieved Twelve great Labors, which have been handed down to us to excite our
admiration:
He killed the Nemean lion, strangling him With his own hands. The Lernean
hydra had nine heads, but Hercules cut them all off, and he poisoned his arrows in
its bile. The Arcadian stag had golden antlers and brazen feet. He pursued it for
a whole year, and finally, carried it home on his shoulders.
Mount Erymanthus was infested with a boar. Hercules waited till the winter
deprived it of food, stalked it over the snow, and drove it into a net. The stables
of King Augeas held three thousand oxen, and had not been cleaned for thirty years.
Hercules cleansed them in a single day, by leading the rivers Alpheus and Peneus
to flow through them. Mars, the god of war had brought up, in the Stymphalian
sWamp, vultures with brazen claws, wings and beaks, who used their feathers1
as
arrows, and ate human flesh. He frightened them away by a brazen rattle, and killed
them with his poisoned arrows.
The island of Crete was infested with a wild bull. .Hercules cornered it, and
carried it off on his shoulders. King Diomedes fed his mares with human flesh.
Hercules caught them, fed their master to them, after which they became perfectly
tame. Then he overcame Hippolyte, queen of the Amazons, or women-soldiers, and
carried off her girdle.
Next he was forced by Eurystheus to fetch the oxen of Geryon, a monster with
three bodies, and guarded by a two-headed dog. In the course of finding these he
came to the Strait of Gibraltar, on each side of which he erected a pillar so that
that Strait became known as the “Pillars of Hercules.” Next he was sent to fetch
the apples of the Hesperides. Only a certain giant named Atlas could get them, so
Hercules offered to take his place at holding on his back the vault of heaven, which
the giant Atlas (the Atlas Mountains) supported. When Atlas was freed, he fetched
the apples, but refused to undertake that terrible load again; but by a stratagem
Hercules released himself. Cerberus was the three-headed dog who guarded the
fabulous regions of Tartarus, the Greek hell. Hercules brought him up to King
Eurystheus, and took him back. He could not have done this without the active
assistance of two divinities, Ares and Athene.
In spite of his strength, Hercules was unfortunate in love, and he died by the
treachery of a woman he loved. After death he was taken up to heaven, and thus
having been a hero, be became a demi-god, and finally one of the immortals.
It will be seen that most of the Labors of Hercules consisted in what is represented
in modern times by house-work and the getting of provisions. It takes a great deal
of virtue sometimes to do these simple homely duties well and cheerfully.
PLATO, Vision of Er, B.C. 429-347
Plato describes his ideal of a state in his Republic, whose climax is ‘Alcinoous’s
Allegory,’ relating the post-mortem experiences of the Pamphylian Er, son of Ar-
menius; which story ‘can give us salvation by persuading us to live so that we may
pass the river Lethe happily by escaping soul-pollution thro’ 1, belief in soul :m
mortality; 2, equanimity in enduring vicissitudes; 3, perseverence in the upward road;
4, by prudent pursuit of justice; 5, insuring friendship to ourselves and the gods; 6,
both here below and in the future assembly of victors during the journey of a
thousand years.’
Er, dying in battle, was, after twelve days, thrown on a funeral pile to be burned,
when he woke up, and related that after his death he had come to a certain mys­
terious hallowed place where sat Judges between twin earth and opposite twin
heaven-openings. The just were marked on the foreheads and were directed to the
right upwards thro’ the heavens, while the unjust, branded behind with what they
had done, were driven down to the left.
From the right chasm’s millenary punishment ascended, and from the left heaven-
opening’s millenary reward,—the 1000 years resulting from ten-fold retribution for
a standard 100 year life,—descended dusty, weary travelers who, after salutations,
mingled with their friends on a meadow in restful conversation, exchanging news
of their purgatorial journey under the earth, or their rewarding heavenly enjoyments
and spectacles, whose duration had been 1000 years, as being tenfold a standard 100
year human life-time.
Er specifically relates the fate of a Pamphylian tyrant Aridaeus whose atrocities
had been so extraordinary that he would never even come to the satisfaction of
Judgment, as the Gates neither could nor would admit him, while fierce fiery men
bound him hands and feet, flayed him, dragged him over thorns, explained his wicked­
ness to passers-by, and threw him into Tartarus.
After seven days in the meadow the justified traveled for four days to a super-
rainbow-like Pillar that united heaven and earth, and that took a day to approach
sufficiently to see that it was the Belt of the entire Universe who was a Spinner
named Necessity. On her knees lay an adamant distaff covered with the universe-
whirl, which consists of the whirling spheres of the seven planets, within the eighth
sphere of the fixed stars, whose motion is contrary to the interior’s. The second
resembles the fifth, and is brighter than the sixth, the third is white, the fourth
reddish, the seventh brightest, and the eighth transparent.
On each concentric circle sits a siren uttering a voice variegated by modulations,
all 8 together composing one single harmony. On three thrones flanking Necessity
sit her white-robed crowned daughters, Lachesis singing the Past, Clotho the Present,
and Atropos the Future.
Now the justified went to Lachesis, where they were lined up by a Prophet who
from Lachesis’s lap took the life-lots and career-models, climbed a lofty platform and
said, "Souls of a day, here is the beginning of a fresh period of humanity. It is not
the Guardian Genius who is going to select you, but it is you who shall choose
your Guardian Genius. Whoever draws the lowest number, he is entitled first to
choose his career, which however, becomes unescapable. Virtue is voluntary, and
anyone may partake of her in the measure that he honors or dishonors her. The
cause is in him who makes the choice; the Deity is blameless.”
Then the Prophet threw lots to all, and by his number each chose himself his
life-career, ‘There lies the whole danger of man. So it is a man’s chief duty to
become a student and inquirer, expertly intelligent in discerning the goodness or
badness of careers, everywhere using the standard of virtue to appraise the value
of poverty, riches, descent, privacy, public station, strength or weakness; to be able
correctly to compute the destiny-value of a composite life, its significance for be­
coming just; so as to form an opinion adamantine enough to withstand the vicissitudes
of Hades, and avail to choose a middle life, shunning extremes, which yields happi­
ness.’ Then each soul chose according to the habit of his former life: Orpheus
elected to become a swan, Thamyris and Thersites apes, Ajax a lion, Elpeus a laborer,
and Ulysses a backwoodsman.
After their career-choice the souls, in order, went to Lachesis who gave to each
the deity he chose, sending Him along to be his life-guardian and accomplisher of
his undertakings. Then the souls were led to Clotho who by a spindle-revolution
fixed that career’s outline, whereafter Atropos span the details, making the destiny
irreversible. Passing Necessity’s throne, the souls were marched to the desert-plain
of Lethe where they drank the memory-quenching streams of Care-release of whieh
stream whoever drinks too much forgets everything. At midnight there was thunder
and an earthquake, and like stars all the souls were scattered to the places suitable
to their generation.
In this connection it may be well to quote the prayer which closes the Phaedrust
"O beloved Pan and all ye other gods of this place, grant me to become beautiful in
the inner man, and that whatever outward things I may have may be at peace with
those within. May I deem the wise man rich, and may I have a portion of gold
only such as a prudent man can cither bear or employ.”
Socrates was conscious of his demon. ‘There is, by divine allotment a certain
demon that has followed me, beginning from childhood. This occasional voice in­
forms me what project I am to abandon; it never incites me.’
CICERO, Dream of Scipio, B.C. 106-43
At a time when Roman armies had acquired Greece’s most venerable philosophers
as valets (Plato, Diogenes, Epicurus, Epictetus, Zamolxis, Aesop were once slaves),
and when Greece’s most lovely poetesses and brilliant conversationalists were turned
into cringing chambermaids to vulgar and jealous mistresses, no doubt Cicero thought
that he was doing Plato a favor by condescending to exploit his Republic, and
adapting his Vision of Er into the Dream of Scipio.
On a visit to the African prince Massinissa, who had known his grandfather
Africanus, and had held a long conversation about him, Scipio dreamed that Afri-
canus came, greeted him, depicted his future career, and revealed that earth-life is
really death, while earthly death is real life. Why therefore not hasten it by
suicide? Because heaven is closed to deserters from God-assigned life-duty, and
opens only when God releases us from body-imprisonment, during which time we are
care-takers of the earth. Therefore cultivate justice and piety to parents and country,
which is the path to heaven and the assembly of its inhabitants.
This place, “as you have learned from the Greeks,” is the Milky Way. The
universe is God’s temple; it consists of nine concentric spheres. The outermost is
heaven, the residence of the Justified and of God, and is the source of the revolutions
of the 7 planets which revolve in a contrary direction, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun
who is the soul and guide of the world; then Venus, Mercury and the Moon. Above
this everything is eternal, below it everything is transitory, with the central, un­
movable earth as goal of gravitation.
Here Scipio heard the harmony of the spheres, a melody composed in unequal
time, but divided into regular harmonic effect; the highest notes proceeding from the
highest heaven, the lowest from the Moon. As Mercury and Venus sing the same
tone, the 8 spheres’ tones are only 7, which number is the connecting principle of all
things. By imitating this harmony on instruments, learned men open for themselves
a way to return to the heavens, as can be done by cultivating heavenly pursuits.
Most men are deafened by the earth’s sounds just as are the Egyptians dwelling by
the Catadupian Nile-Falls, just as men cannot look directly at the Sun.
Glory is but of little account because the earth is really very small, and its
habitable portions few. The southern part of the globe and its inhabitants have
"no relations with your race,” who are bounded by the Caucasus and the Ganges.
Then come the periodic earth convulsions and conflagrations. Moreover memory
barely spanning an earth-year would never span a "grand year,” the ages required
for all the planets and constellations to return exactly the same place? Even they
who are personally acquainted with you must die and abandon you to oblivion.
As reputation, therefore, is negligible, seek not it, but a true glory, which will
last, and is worth while for its own charms,—Virtue. As, except to musicians, the
path to heaven lies open only to those who have deserved well of their country, we
must ensue that with diligence, not looking on the body, but on the mind as our­
selves. For we are really divine beings; and just as supreme eternal Divinity evinces
consciousness, sensation, memory and foresight in animating and regulating this world,
so must our frail body be animated by an eternal spirit.
Here Cicero borrows from Plato’s Phaedrus an argument for the soul’s immortality
which Macrobius summarizes thus: The soul is self-motive; now self-motion contains
the principle of motion; and as the latter is not created neither can the soul be.
Therefore employ this divine soul of ours in the noblest pursuits, the noblest cares
being those for the safety of your country. The soul that is stirred and agitated
by these will quicker fly to its own Home, its heavenly Mansion: and this flight will
be all the more rapid if even now while imprisoned within the body it sallies abroad
and abstracts itself as much as possible from the body by contemplating these objects
beyond it.
To devote our time to physical pleasure is to violate the laws of God and man.
Such souls, having escaped from their bodies, hover round the earth and do not
return to heaven till they have been tossed about for many ages. Then Scipio awoke.
Macrobius’s commentary hereon is mostly antiquated, but it contains one passage
of crucial importance: the only explanation so far attempted of the influence of the
birth-time on character. The two solstitial points arc gates of the Sun. Cancer’s
is the Gate of Men, and thro’ it souls descend; Capricorn’s is the Gate of the Gods,
thro’ which souls reascend to their seat of immortality among the divinities. This is
quoted directly from Numegenius to whom also we may owe the following explana­
tion. The preincarnate soul intoxicated with the oblivifying liquor of Lethe, flows
down along Zodiac and Milky W ay to the inferior spheres; and as she passes thro’
them she takes along additional body-envelopes from the matter of these luminous
bodies, thereby acquiring the various faculties she is to exercise during the stay
in the body. Thus from Saturn she acquires reasoning and intelligence, from Jupiter
executive force, valor from Mars, from the Sun sensation and imagination, from
Venus the motion of desires, from Mercury the faculty of expression, and from the
Moon the strength necessary to propagate by generation, and make her body grow.
This lunar matter is the sediment of the celestial matters, tho’ the purest form of
animal matter. This is the "universal chain.’’
VIRGIL, Vision of Aeneas, B.C. 70-19
Desirous of knowing the issue of his adventurous efforts, Aeneas visited the
Cumean Sybil who bade him fetch a golden bough that grew on a cypress by the
Avernus mouth. Then in a cave they sacrificed all night, and at dawn the "earth
quaked, the dogs howled, he drew his sword and followed the Sybil.
They enter hell’s Vestibule and see Grief, Cares, Disease, Old Age, Famine,
Poverty, Lethargy, Secret Thoughts of Shame, War, Discord, Vain Dreams, Mon­
sters, Gorgons and Harpies. By a path they descend to Tartarean Achacron whose
ferryman Charon refuses to transport the unburied, but takes them by virtue of the
Golden Bough. Cerberus then being put to sleep with a medicated cake, the
two pass by prematurely deceased infants to the First Gate, whithin which Minos
is justifying those who died from false accusations, and suicides are vainly longing
for their abandoned opportunities, trying to return.
Then they pass by the Abode of Mourning where grieve disappointed lovers, in­
cluding Dido, and slain warrior-heroes. Here the path divides; to the left lies Tar­
tarus, where Furies avenge secret crimes, and a vulture mangles Tityus. But by
the right they enter a peaceful grove by the banks of the Lethe river, inhabited by
a nation of ghosts, like bees.
Here was found his father Anchises who explained that God interpenetrates and
vitalizes the universe as our souls keeps the body alive. Hence arise souls which
tho’ divine are afflicted by evils which must, for a thousand years be purged till the
disappearance of all stains, which leaves pure their celestial reason. Then they have
to prepare for return into bodies by drinking the Lethe’s water of oblivion.
Here Aeneas was introduced to many of his descendants who should achieve
fame, including Numa, Caesar and Augustus. Thus Anchises fired Aeneas’s soul
with love of coming fame, and then informs him how he may shun or surrmount
every toil.
There are two Sleep-gates, of which one is said to be of horn, by which an easy
egress is given to true Visions; the other is of ivory, thro’ which the Infernal Gods
send up false dreams to the upper world. It was thro’ the latter gate of ivory that
Anchises dismissed the visitors to Cumae and the ships.
On his death-bed Virgil tried to destroy the manuscript of this Aenid; which was
probably due to his conscience of having, as Macrobius later circumstantially proved
in his Saturnalia IV, made a happy combination of Homer’s general ideas, mythology
and descriptions with Plato’s philosophy (the 1000 years,) and the diction of Ennius,
and the scenery of Carthage and the Bay of Naples. He succeeded in compounding
a charming result not in spite of but because of his faithfulness to the best he
learned; we do not begrudge his court favor.
PLUTARCH, Genius of Socrates, A.D. 1-66
I. WHO THE GENII ARE
And Simmias said, ‘I think the Genius of Socrates was not a vision of some
kind, but the discernment of a Voice, which reached him in some particular, peculiar
manner; just as in dreams one imagines hearing other people talk, though hearing-
no real voice. Nevertheless one receives sometimes in dreams a real, distinct ex­
perience. This may take place because while one sleeps the body enjoys a total
stillness and rest, while the condition of those who are awake frequently precludes
them from apprehending the motions of the unseen Higher Beings. For not only the
chaos of the passions, but the distractions of very many sorts of business stun us so
thoroughly that we can neither hear the warning of the Gods, nor, if heard, centre
our attention on them. But Socrates, whose pure and passion-free reason had only
so much intimacy with his body as might have been unavoidable, felt every motion
of the spirit, and was immediately sensitive to every impression. And these impres­
sions were not derived from a mere sound but from the signal, so to speak, of a
Genius who, without voice, affected his reason through the object itself. For the
Voice might be compared to a blow given to the Soul through which she is forced
by means of the sense of hearing to take notice of the usual human speech. But
the reason of the Higher Being directs Souls that are fitted for this through the
mere touch of the objects thought of, dispensing entirely with the above-mentioned
psychic blow.
And the human Soul generally obeys these Higher Beings gladly, whether or not
this ‘advance her own desires. In this manner her desires are not antagonized by
contrary passions, permitting herself to be gently and willingly governed as by a
bridle. This need not seem incredible, when it is considered that a puny rudder
turns round the greatest ships of burden, or that the potter’s disks permit fhcmseivcv
easily to be turned around by the hand. Although these instruments have no soul,-
nevertheless they are so well adapted to turn around that on account of their smooth-'
ness they may be set in motion at the very first touch. Likewise the human Soul
may be directed easier than any other instrument because she is held tense as with
ropes by numberless desires. Hence, as soon as anybody’s mental incidence affects
her she receives the impulse to move in the direction of the thought. All the passions
and desires reach far down into the thinking portion of the Soul, so that at the very
first tremor of the thought, they are, as it were, attracted to it, and proceed to in­
nervate and draw the outer man.
This circumstance gives us an insight into the inherent power of thought. Bones
and nerves have not the slightest sensation, not even the moist flesh; and the heavy
body-mass composed of these normally rests inactively quiet. But just let the Soul
lay hold on a thought, and direct her efforts towards it, and lo, in a moment this
heavy mass is energized, makes its tendons tense, and hastens to execute the mission
as with wings. For just as a motive merely thought, without any voice, easily sets
the body in motion, just in the same manner, methinks, it is not impossible that a
human reason might be held by a Higher Reason, a human Soul by a Diviner Soul.
This might take place by a sort of external touch, illustrated by the manner in which
answers and questions intermingle in a conversation, and by the intermingling of light
and reflection. For ultimately we recognize another’s thought by the help of his
voice, just as if we were groping in the dark. But the thoughts of the Genii have a
certain splendor, so to speak, which of itself streams out upon the worthily receptive,
without the intermediation of words or symbols—such symbols as humans are forced
to employ to one another; which are therefore only pictures or silhouettes of the
thoughts. These themselves arc not generally perceived clearly, except of course by
those who possess a certain portion of the Divine Light.
The process by which the Voice itself reaches us may also inspire us with con­
fidence. The voice is, as it were, conducted into the soul of the hearers by the
air that at first is only thrown into vibrations by the single articulate sounds, and
later is transmuted into voice and speech. What wonder then that this air also,
which so easily assumes every form and shape, should in like manner receive the
thoughts of Higher Beings, and expresses the meaning of the thoughts of the Divine
Being or Superior Divine Human Being. The blows and knocks of soldiers who are
d’gging mines may be noticed easily by the reverberation of the brazen shields, be­
cause the sound proceeding upward from the depths is able to throw these into
vibration, although remaining unnoticed in any other manner. This is exactly the
state of affairs with the utterances of the Genii. They elicit no response, nor awake
any sympathetic vibration in any except those few whose nature is a quiet tempera­
ment and a passionless mood, and whom therefore we call properly Holy and Divine
Men.
It is usually supposed that the Genius of a man gives his revelation in sleep
only, and it is usually supposed ridiculous and incredible that He should by the
same process impress those who are in their waking condition, in their full normal
consciousness. Such a supposition would find analagy in an artist who should play
upon a lyre whose strings were loose, but who were unable to perform on one strung
tense, and attuned.
Evidently the real cause of non-reception is the unrest, the inharmoniousness of
the human breast—of all of which our friend Socrates was entirely free. Indeed,
this had already been prophesied of him as a child, in the Oracle received by his
father.
For the Oracle commanded that the father should permit Socrates to carry out
an idea that came into his mind, without forcing him to, or hindering him from
anything. He was to leave him a free rein to his desires, and do for him nothing
more than to make vows in his behalf to Zeus of the Market-places, and to the
Muses; but beyond this to take no anxiety whatever about his son, inasmuch as he
possessed already within himself a path-finder through his life, which was better than
a thousand teachers'.
"This, O my dear Phidolaos, is the opinion I have always held about the Genius
of Socrates, both during his life-time, and since his decease—paying no attention
whatsoever to those who accepted a sneeze, or any such thing as a direct revelation
from the Gods.”
' 2. THE DREAM OF TIMARCHUS
“And yet,” continued Simmias, "as to that which I have heard Timarchus of
Cheronea relate about the matter might easily be considered a fairy-tale, so it may
be better to refrain from saying anything further about it.”
“No, no,” cried Theocritus, “fairy-tales sometimes hit the truth, more than a
little. But, to begin with, tell us who this Timarchus was—I never heard of the
man.”
“No wonder, dear Theocritos,” rejoined Simmius, “for he died a very young
man. Before his death he begged Socrates to have him buried next to his son
Lamprokles, one of his friends and equal-aged companions.
“This Timarchus was a youth of lofty thought who had been but of late initiated
into philosophy. He longed most earnestly to understand the real nature of the
Genius of Socrates.
“And with this purpose in view, without informing any one but me and Kebes,
he descended into the Cave of Trophonius, in the Boeotian city of Lebadaea, after
he had carefully observed all the ceremonies usual in the Temple of this Oracle. He
staid in the Cave two nights and a day. The greater number already mourned him
as dead, when, in the morning, he came out happy and in good spirits. He expressed
gratitude to the Divinities, and after he had torn himself loose from the surrounding
crowds, he related to us many marvels he had seen and heard.
“After he had climbed down to the Oracle, he found himself at first, as he told
us, in a deep darkness. He addressed supplications to the Gods, and for a certain
period of time lay without being exactly conscious, whether he was awake or dream­
ing. It seemed to him, however, that a sort of blow had struck h;s head, through
which the sutures of his cranium relaxed, so as to afford egress to his Soul. She
immediately swung herself upwards, and after having, to her great delight, disported
herself by commingling with the circumambient pure and transparent air, she seemed
to refresh herself from the life-long oppression to which she had been subjected in
the body; and then she began to grow larger, just as a sail filled by the wind.
“Hereupon he heard, passing over his head, a charming rustling sound. Looking
up, he failed to perceive the earth any more, but a multitude of islands, ihaminated
by a serenely radiant effulgence, revolving cyclically in an ocean shimmering with
variegated tints of cerulean blue, thus producing the Aeolian harmony that so de­
lighted Timarchus as to make him understand these were the Isles of the Blest,
“But as he looked beneath himself, he saw a monstrous Abyss, round in form,
as if it had been cut out by the falling of a ball. It was horribly deep, and full of
thick darkness, which whirled around restlessly, seemingly endeavoring to overflow
the crater. Timarchus was almost terrified by the sounds which proceeded thence
—a thousandfold groaning and howling of living beings, a loud moaning of children,
a mingled plaint of men and women, a chaos of screams, which rose up in a horrible
roar from the very entrails of the Abyss.
"After some time, without seeing anybody, Timarchus heard the words ‘Tim-
archus, what desirest thou to know?’ ‘Everything!’ rejoined he quickly. ‘But first,
what is that mass of Stars which are flitting around the Abyss, some dipping into
it, others rising out of it again?’ ‘Then you do not know,’ said the Invisible, ‘that
you are beholding the Genii? Let me explain to you the condition of affairs.
"Every Soul, as such, is partaker of the Divine Reason; and there is not one
of them entirely devoid of Reason or Thought. Only that part of a Soul which
mingles itself with the flesh and the passions suffers a transformation, and degenerates
through appetites or suffering into stupitity. Nevertheless, not every Soul mingles
herself in the same manner. Some of them sink into the body in their totality, and
through passion are entirely corrupted and destroyed during life. Others mingle
themselves only partially, and their purest part remains outside the body, and will
in no wise permit itself to be drawn down into the flesh. It swims on the surface
of the Man, so to speak, touching only his head, acting like an upper anchor for the
portion sunk in the body, and which can act as a platform on which the Soul may
from time to time refresh herself, in the measure that she is docile, and does not
permit herself to be quite overwhelmed by the passions. That part which is sunk
in the body is usually called ‘soul,’ and that part which remains free from danger,
the greater part of men call ‘reason,’ and imagine it inheres in them, just as if the
objects reflect in a mirror inhered in it. But the Wise believe it is located outside
the man, and call it his ‘Genius.’
“Now, as to the stars you see, you must know that those that seem to grow dim
are souls which are just now sinking themselves entirely into the body; those which
are growing brighter again, and shine from above, just as if they were swinging
themselves up from the depths, and are shaking off from themselves a sort of dark
mist like dust, are such souls as are, after death, swimming back out of their bodies.
Finally those which are hovering on high, are Genii of wise and discerning humans.
“Make an effort, and see whether you can become conscious of the tie by which
each of them is united to its Soul.”
"Timarchus, paying closer attention, noticed that the Stars swayed, some more
some less, just as one sees corks swaying on the water-surface, serving as indicators
of the nets beneath. Some, indeed, swayed as much as shuttles do, and could not
make any motion in a straight line on acount of the unequal, self-confused burden
they upheld. The Voice instructed Timarchus on this point:
“Those whose motion is straight and orderly have docile souls, with whom the
sub-rational part has, through nourishment and education, been prevented from be­
coming hard and rough. But those which flit up and down in a disorderly fashion,
behaving as if tugged by a rope are those who have to do with a contrary and
poorly-reared nature. At one time They win the victory, taming the Souls by en­
forcement on them of higher leadings; but soon, sucked back by the old habit of
sinning, the Souls are at once more contrary. For whenever the Genius pulls the
cord with which the animal part of the Soul is, as it were, harnessed, this effects what
is known as the Repentance of Sins, and Sincere Shame concerning the lusts, desires
and motions of the flesh. _
"These are the chastisements by which the nobler part holds the soul in check,
as with a bridle, until by repeated punishments, like a tamed animal, she finally be­
comes so meek as to be obedient to each nod and signal of her Genius without
blows or suffering. But such Souls are brought back to their duty very slowly
and very late; but those which prove docile to their Genius from birth constitute
that class of men known as Soothsayers, whose prayers the Gods respect.
"Of such a kind was the soul of Hermodorus the Klazomenian, which abandoned
the body at will, both by day and night, wandering anywhere, and returning after
having seen and heard all sorts of things, at all distances. This she did continually
until, through treachery of his own wife, his enemies seized his soul-forsaken body,
and burned it together with his house. But this is not quite accurate: the Soul never
entirely abandoned his body; but at times yielding to the Genius, loosened and
lengthened the connecting bond, so that she was enabled to travel around the world
in a manner such as to report all she had seen and heard outside. They however,
who, during sleep, destroyed his body, are yet being punished therefor in Tartarus.
"You will understand all this far more clearly in three months, O youth.
"Now you may return."
“As the Voice ceased, Timarchus intended to turn around, to sec Who had been
conversing with him; but he suddenly felt a racking pain in the head, as if it were
being pressed together violently, and now he no longer saw or heard aught of what
was transpiring around him. Shortly, however, he came to himself, lying near the
entrance of the Cave of Trophonius, just where he had first Iain down.
"This is the Dream of Timarchus. He returned to Athens, and died three months
later, as the Voice had prophesied; but we, marvelling, recounted this Dream to
Sokrates, he chodc with us that we had told him nothing of it during the life-time of
Timarchus, from whom he would have liked to get the details more exactly.”
Hereupon Theanor said, "It se'ems to me that this Story of Timarchus should be
considered sacred, and be preserved unaltered as dedicated to the Divinities; and I
should be much astonished if anybody should doubt what we have heard."
3. ‘THE CARE OF THE GENII’
Now it is not uncommon to speak of the divinity of Nature, and of swans and
serpents, and dogs, and horses; why should we then hesitate to assert that Man is
divine, and may become a favourite of the Divinities, the more especially as it is
granted that the Divinity is the Father of all?
A horse-fancier docs not, merely on account of his being such, extend his care
to all specimens of the genus Horse indiscriminately; he selects the best one obtainable,
separates it from the rest, tends it, cherishes it, and loves it particularly.
Just so do (he Higher Beings deal with us: They impress their mark only on the
best, whom They separate from the common herd, endow with peculiar and more
excellent training, and govern them not indeed with bit and bridle, but by their rea­
son, through certain signs, of which the common herd does not even have the faintest
conception.
Not all dogs know the signals of the hunters; nor indeed all horses know the
signals of the riders; only they who have been properly trained comprehend the task
at the first whistle or chirrup, and gladly carry it out. Even Homer seems to be
acquainted with this difference between men. Some of the soothsayers he calls
augurs, others priests; and of some he thinks that they converse with the Gods, and
prophesy future events; so,
"Yet the decision reached by the Gods
"In council, was perceived in the spirit
"By Helenos, Priam’s son."
Also, “For I have heard
The Voices of the immortal Gods.”
Kings and generals publish their orders by beacons, by the public crier, or by the
sound of trumpets; but to their intimates and friends they announce decisions per­
sonally of mouth.
Just so the Divinity converses personally only with a very few, and that rarely; but
He announces decisions to the crowds by signs and omens, wherefrom has risen the
whole art of augury. So there are never but a very few at any time whom the Div­
inities single out by such favours, and whom it is Their purpose to make blessed and
really divine.
But those souls which have freed themselves from generation, who have no further
commerce with the body, and now enjoy unbounded freedom, these now become Genii,
who. as Hesiod says, care for the weal of Humanity.
Like athletes, who even when forced by age to discontinue training, do not neces­
sarily cease struggling for fame an:l bod’ly perfection, but rather enjoy the spectacle
23
of others exercising, encouraging them, and persistently standing by their side—just
like these athletes is it with those Souls who, after liberation from the battles of this
life, have been, on account of their former virtues, or rather by them, promoted to
the condition and dignity of Genii. Because of this their promotion, They do not
necessarily scorn or ignore the conversations, circumstances and efforts of men;
rather, They show kindliness to all who are struggling after the same end, support
them in their zeal for virtue, and spur them on the more continually by encourage-
inents the closer they seem to be to the goal of their hopes, or, indeed, behold them
already nearly touching it.
For the Genii do not, indiscriminately, accept the charge of anybody. When
persons are swimming in the ocean, far from the land, and are battling with the waves,
by-standers on the shore can do no more than look on silently; but those who are near
the shore can be met in the water by persons running through the surf, to help them
with hand and voice, and restore them to life. My friend, the Genii do likewise.
When they see us dive into the floods of business, seizing hold of one thing after
another as a hope of salvation, they leave us fight it out alone, that we may learn
endurance, and may through our own vim reach port.
When however a soul through many births has endured willingly and successfully
heavy battles, and when, at the end of her course this soul courageously defies danger,
and even in the face of defeat struggles, with extreme exertions, to climb upwards,
then the Divinity does not dislike to see that the soul’s Genius helps her, so the
Genius’s good offices are given full freedom. Each Genius has his own soul, which
he tries to save by encouragements. She, being near him, and hearing him is saved;
but she who docs not, is abandoned to misfortune.
PLUTARCH, Vision of Thespesius, A.D. 1-66
As Plutarch was high-priest of Apollo at Delphi, we may accept this visionary
description of how "the mills of the gods grind slowly, but they grind exceeding
fine” as a publication of the contemporary mysteries, especially as the Orphic mys­
teries are the most reasonable explanation of his Orphic reference.
When young, Thespesius of Soli had been a spendthrift, and he tried to recoup
himself by villany. Accidentally ■
he fell from a height and seemed dead. After
three days he was about to be buried when he awoke, and showed himself to. be
morally reformed. People asked the reason for the change, and he related this:
At first he felt like a pilot violently thrown overboard into the sea. On recovering
breath, one of his soul-eyes opened, he saw immense stars, and found that he could
move around at will. Dead souls floated around like fiery bubbles that burst and
assumed human form. They moved around differently, promiscuously, stupidly, yell­
ing and wailing. He thought his name had been Aridaeus (a Platonic name for an
execrable tyrant), but an old acquaintance announced to him that henceforth it should
be Thespesius (meaning divinely sweet, that God alone can pronounce, ineffable).
It seems he had come h"re only in intellect, having left the rest of his soul as an
anchor in his body; which was demonstrated by his eyelids moving, and by his
casting a shadow, which is not the case with the wholly dead.
He discovered that the Supreme Divinity was Adrasteia, daughter of Zeus and
Necessity, and that no crim'nal could escape. There are also three Officials, named
Vengeance, Justice and Che Furies, who punish progressively. If earthy Vengeance
is not sufficient to purify the sor.l justice strips eff all her garments and exhibits
her secrets to her friends. S~me souls then are revca'ed as brown from covetousness,
red from cruelty, blue with sensuality or violet from malice. Such colors persist so
long as the souls have relapses of passion, and as the souls are gradually chastened
they become bright, while those who do not improve are sucked into the bodies of
animals.
Finally Thespesius drifted into an abyss where he felt powerless. It was like
a beautiful forest, fragrant, pleasurable, intoxicating. It is called the Vale of Oblivion,
wherethro’ Bacchus bore Semele to heaven. Hence Thespesius had to be dragged,
warned that by the pleasure his intellect would be moistened, producing desire for
generation, and consequent reincarnation.
Next Thespesius arrived to a crater into which emptied rivers of different colors
which were mingled by three Genii. It was only as far as here that came Orpheus
when seeking Eurydice; for wrongly did he remember his experiences, and failed
to announce that the Delphian Oracle was common to Night and the Moon, and is
not limited to any one place, but wanders everywhere in dreams and visions.
That was the voice of the Sybil who sang about the Future, as she was being
carried about in the Moon’s orb; and here Thespesius heard confused snatches pro­
phesying his hour of death, Vesuvius erupting, Vespasian sick.
Then Thespesius and his guide found themselves among acquaintances, friends
and kinsfolk of his who were for their sins being tortured to compel them to confess
their inmost secrets. Thespesius wished to escape, but his guide disappeared and
fiends drove him among criminals who having on earth already undergone some
punishment here escaped more lightly. Here several interlaced souls gnawed at each
other. Misers were being punished by being dipped successively in three parallel
lakes of molten gold, lead and iron.
Most pitiable of all were the tortures of those who had apparently escaped Justice
on earth, and the results of whose sins had fallen upon their children and descendants,
because they seemed almost never ending; no sooner had one former victim accused
him, and had him punished, and agreed to his release, but another aggrieved victim
arrived, haled him to Justice, and gloatingly stood by during his renewed tortures,
and so on indefinitely.
Then Thespesius saw the souls whose punishment was to return to earth in
animal bodies, to fit into which their human souls had to be hacked to pieces. So
the matricide Nero was being whittled down to fit into a Pindaric viper, an animal
which reaches light only by biting its way out thro' its mother’s womb; but was
finally let off with the milder doom of becoming a frog, in consideration of his
having spared Greece.
Thespesius wanted to return; but a giantess wanted to help him remember what
he had seen by striking him with a red hot bar. But suddenly he felt himself sucked
up by a violent wind as thro’ a pipe, and lit on his body. So he woke and found
himself near the tomb prepared for him.
This extract is from Plutarch’s treatise. On those who by the Deity are Punished
Late, which with his other Moral Treatises, on Education, on Love, on Virtue and
Vice, on Abundance of Friends, on Unmasking a Flatterer, on Utilizing Enemies,
on Curiosity, on Shyness, on Restraining Anger, on Praise Unenvied, on Exile, and
on Misfortune, shows that the Delphian high-priest of Apollo based his religion on
character.
It was on this foundation of morality that Plutarch revealed Greek mysteries in
his Isis and Osiris, on the Cessation of Oracles, on the Pythian Responses, on the
Lunar Face, on the Delphian Symbolic E. His valedictory is significant: it is on
Superstition, urging the shunning thereof no less than of Atheism in favor of the
Middle Road of True Religion.
So Plutarch stands revealed as not only a moralist and theosophist (a practicer
and teacher of religion,) but a man of common-sense and judgment who shed lustre
on mysteries.
PLUTARCH, Story of Sylla, A.D. 1-66
In the course of a pilgrimage from temple to temple in search of initiations, Sylla
met a Stranger from the North, (perhaps the Druids in Mona?) who said that man
was threefold: his body furnished by the earth, the soul by the moon, and the mind
by the sun. The dropping of the body constitutes the first-death, which leaves a
soul-mind entity which, on the moon, by the “only-begotten” (making single) Perse­
phone, undergoes the second-death, the separation of soul and mind. What is their
fate? If vital enough, souls reincarnate in monsters but are ultimately reabsorbed
by the Moon. The mind, desiring to reach and unite with the solar Image, the
Desirable, Beautiful, Divine and Blissful, becomes the Spectre, the intelligence’s Por­
trait, which abandons the soul after having molded it to its own likeness. The Sun then
reimpregnates it with vital force, producing new souls which glide down to the earth
via solar Atropos, lunar Clotho, and terrestrial Lachesis, who endows with fortune.
After first-death soul-minds are either chastened in sub-lunar purgatory, or rest
in Hades-Meadow. They arrive in the Moon like victors in games, wearing plumed
crowns inscribed “Constancy” for having subdued passions by reason. Then they
become Genii and return to earth to inspire oracles, to direct mystery-initiations, to
punish sinners, and to shine as saviors in battle or at sea. Should even they mis­
behave, they are chastened in the Lunar Face’s chief blotch-abyss ‘Hecate’s Dungeon,’
the others being passages down and (Elysium) up.
EPICTETUS, Morals, A.D. 60
God (Zeus) hath placed by the side of each a man’s own Guardian Spirit, who
is charged to watch over him—a Guardian who sleeps not nor is deceived. For to
what better or more watchful Guardian could He have committed each of us? So
when you have shut the doors and made a darkness within, remember never to say
you are alone; for you are not alone, but God is within, and your Guardian Spirit,
and what light do they need to behold what you do?
APULEIUS, The Genius of Socrates, A.D. 130
1. PLATO’S DIVISION OF NATURE
Considering nature especially in connection with its constituent living beings, Plato
divided it into three parts: the superior, intermediary and inferior divinities. They
differ of course not only by distance of space, but also by excellence of nature; and
this he decides from not one or two, but from many considerations.
2. IMMORTAL DIVINITIES ABIDE IN HEAVEN
For the sake of clearness, Plato begins by a distinction of residence; and, appro­
priately to their majesty, he assigns the heaven to the immortal deities.
3. DIVINITIES PARTLY VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE
These celestial deities are partly observable by our eyes, and partly to be appre­
hended by our intelligence. Thus it is our eyes that behold
You, O brightest lights of the world,
In the skies lead the march of the year.
4. THE SUN AND MOON ARE THE MOST IMPORTANT LUMINARIES
These divinities that we see are however not the only principal ones, such as the
sun, creator of the day, and to the moon, the sun’s rival, and the splendor of the nights,
which appears under the form of a crescent, or half, three quarters, or full; a torch
with varying light, so much more luminous as it grows distant from the sun, and which,
growing, advancing in regular proportions, measures the months by equal waxing and
waning.*
7. THE INVISIBLE DEITIES
There is another class of deities which nature has withheld from our sight, but
which the meditations of intelligence have revealed to us, when we scrutinize them
with the eyes of our mind. Among them are the following twelve, by Ennius in­
geniously enshrined in two verses:
Juno, Vesta, Minerva, Ceres, Diana, Venus and Mars, Mercury, Jove, Neptune,
Vulcan, Apollo. To these shoidd be added others of the same nature, whose names
are long since familiar to us, and whose powers we recognize by the services they
render us in the practice of life, according to their various attributes.
8. THE WORSHIP OF THE VULGAR IS UNWORTHY
By the bye, (he unholy crowds, ignorant of philosophy, of sacredness, of the ra­
tional, of religion and (ruth, outrages the divinities either by too scrupulous a worship,
"The omitted paragraphs are at the end of the book because needless, disturbing
and explicitly parenthetic.
or by an insolent scorn, towards them practising either superstition or disdain, terror
or arrogance. Indeed, all these divinities that reside in the upper celestial regions, far
from all human contact, generality to receive homage, but of an irregular nature; they
are indeed unanimously feared, but with an ignorant terror; they arc indeed denied
by a small number of the impious.
9. PLATO’S DESCRIPTION OF THEIR NATURE
Plato attributes to these divinities natures that are incorporeal and animated, as
much without end as without beginning; as eternal in the past as in the future; es­
sentially foreign to all intercourse with bodies, from their very origin predestined to
supreme felicity, participating in no external good, being good in themselves, and
approaching their objectives by a movement that is easy, simple, free, and without
hindrance.
10. THE SUPREME BEYOND DESCRIPTION
The father of these divinities is the creator and master of all existent nature. Be­
ing beyond the need of suffering or doing anything, he is by no circumstance subjected
to the cares of any duty. But how should I undertake to speak adequately of him,
when Plato, the divinely eloquent, whose profundity of reason equaled that of the
immortals, continually declares that this being alone, by its incredible and inexpressible
grandeur, exceeds the limitations of human language; that there is no discourse capable
of representing him, even though inadequately; and that even the sages can hardly
understand him, when the vigor of their souls has, to the best of their ability, unloosed
them from the body; and even then he appears only at intervals, like the lightning,
whose rapid, sparkling trace has for a moment fulminated across the thickest darkness.
11. MAN’S NATURE IS DEGRADED
I must therefore stop here, where I am not alone in being overwhelmed with weak­
ness, since my master Plato himself was unable to discover any expression worthy
of the grandeur of the subject. I hasten to withdraw before a subject that by so far
exceeds my mediocrity. I shall from heaven draw my thought to the earth, where,
among animals, man holds the first rank. Still the greater part of us, by our lack of
interest in morality, have become so depraved and soiled with errors and such re­
volting crimes, that we have forsworn the natural gentleness characteristic of our na­
ture, to become brutes and maniacs, so that man here below may appear the lowest
of the brutes. But my present object is not to discuss about the errors of humanity
but to proceed to an analysis of his nature.
12. PSYCHOLOGY INDIVIDUAL AND RACIAL
Therefore I begin: men are gifted with reason, and endowed with speech; their soul
is immortal, their body is perishable; their mind is anxious and flighty, their organs
are crude and subject to degeneration. Differing by their customs, they resemble each
other by their errors; they arc bold in undertakings to the point of audacity; they
extend hope to the point of foolhardiness; and ever sustained by assurance, they devote
themselves to useless labors, while being the playthings of inconstant fortune. Mortal
individually, they are immortal racially, which refreshes and reproduces itself. Early
consumed by the passage of time, only late do they achieve wisdom, perishing early,
and complaining incessantly; the earth is their abode.
13. DISTINCTION BETWEEN MEN AND DIVINITIES
We therefore have two species of animated beings; men and divinities; the latter
differing from the former by the elevation of their abode, by the perpetuity of their life,
and the perfection of their nature. No affinity approximates them to us; since their
sublime mansions are separated from our mean regions by an incommensurable distance;
for on one side existence is ever youthful and inexhaustible, on the other fragile and
fugitive; since the spirits of the divinities dominate in the midst of beatitude, while
those of men creep in a vale of miseries.
14. AN IMPASSABLE GAP BETWEEN MAN AND GOD
What then, does nature lack some bond by which it may be related to itself? Has
nature rendered itself sterile by dividing itself, by segregating itself in a nature human,
and one divine? Eor, as Plato again says, no divinity is mingled with men; and the
most obvious proof of their sublimity is that they never degrade themselves by contact
with us. Some of them only are visible to our feeble sight; namely, the stars; and
even about the size and color of these men are not agreed. But as to the other
divinities, it is to the understanding alone that it is given to conceive of them, and
even that slowly. Besides, this should not be a matter of surprise as regards the
immortal divinities, since, even among men, he whom the high favors of fortune
have elevated to that trembling and uncertain post called a throne, allows himself
but rarely to be approached, drives away all witnesses and spends his life as it were
in the sanctuary of his own greatness; for familiarity breeds contempt, and the rare­
ness of intercourse enhances admiration.
15. THIS SUBLIMITY OF DIVINITIES AMOUNTS TO AN ABANDONMENT
OF HUMANITY
Well then, I hear someone object, what recourse have I, according to your opinion?
It is no doubt quite celestial; but almost inhuman, if indeed it be true that the im­
mortal gods w’holly repel men, and that these, relegated on this earth as in a real
gehenna, are deprived of all communication with the inhabitants of heaven; if none
of the divinities watches over human beings, as the shepherd over his flock, or the
stable-man over his horses, as the herdsman over his cattle; if none of them busies
himself with the limiting of the evil, with healing the sick, with alleviating poverty.
No, say you, no divinity intervenes in mundane affairs. To whom then shall I address
my prayers? To whom then shall I make my vows? To whom then shall I slaughter
my sacrifice? Whom then shall I during my whole life invoke, as the support of the
unfortunate, as the protector of the innocent, as the enemy of the perverse? Whom
then shall I, as happens in so many circumstances, cite as the witness of my oaths?
Shall I, as does Virgil’s Ascanius, say,
‘Shall I swear by my head, as did my father before me?’
No doubt, lulus, your father could make use of such attestation in the midst of
Trojans who were of the same race as he, and even perhaps among the Greeks whom
he had learnt to know in the midst of battles. But among the Rutulians, whom on
the contrary you know only so recently, if no one is acquainted with this head, what
divinity will assume responsibility for this head? Will it be your arm and your
spear? Or, like the implacable Mezentius, whose only veneration is addressed to the
weapons he uses, will you say,
‘My only divinity is my right arm, and the weapon I hurl.’
Far from us be divinities so cruel; a hand wearied with slaughter, a spear rusted
with blood are not worthy of veneration. Do not, therefore, swear by such objects;
for an oath is an honor owed to the master of the immortals. For according to the
explanation of Ennius, the Latin word for oath, "jusjurandum,” is derived from
Jupiter’s law, “Jovis jurandum.”
16. PLATO TEACHES THE EXISTENCE OF INTERMEDIARY DIVINITIES
What then is left to do? Should we adopt the ancient Roman custom of swearing
by Jupiter’s rock? Surely, according to Plato’s theories, that no divinity ever com­
municated with a human being, this stone will hear me more easily than Jupiter. But
the mistake is here, and through me it is Plato speaking, here is the point. I do not,
says he, proclaim divinities so distinct and separate from us, that, by my theories, no
wish of ours could ever reach them. I separate them, not from the solicitude, but from
the administration of human affairs. For there exist certain intermediary divine powers
whose abodes are the aerian spaces situated between the vault of heaven and our
humble dwelling place; and it is by their intermediation that our wishes and our deserts
reach the divinities themselves. The Greeks call them ‘daimones,’ (a word that since
then has been Corrupted to signify devils; and which therefore we shall have to re­
produce by the word ‘genius,’ or ‘guardian’).
17. OCCUPATION OF THE GUARDIAN DIVINITIES
Between the dwellers on earth and in heaven they are messengers of prayer and
benefits; carrying hence requests, and bringing hither assistance, acting as ambassadors
and interpreters. It is they also, as thinks Plato in his ‘Banquet,’ who preside over
all revelations, over divers miracles of magicians and over presages of all kinds. Each
one fulfils the special detail to which he has been assigned, such as the composition
of dreams, the arrangement of the entrails of the victims, the flight of ihe birds, the
burden of their song, the inspiration of the diviners, the direction of lightning, or their
shine in the clouds; in short they regulate all that discovers the future; and it is quite
convincing that if this whole class of facts emanates from the will, power and authority
of the celestial divinities, the actual carrying out thereof must be due to the docility,
zeal and service of the guardians. It was therefore by their intermediation, activity
and care that in a dream Hannibal is threatened with the loss of an eye; that the
sight of the entrails of a victim announced to Flaminius the danger of a defeat; and
that the augurs predicted to Navius Attius the miracle of the stone. It 'was also by
them that was revealed to mortals precursory signs of coming royal dignity; like the
eagle who placed a cap on the head of Tarquin, and like the flame that illuminated
the forehead of Servius Tullius. Moreover all the predictions of the augurs, the ex­
piation practised by the Etrurians, the sheep slaughtered by the interpreters of light­
nings, the verses of the Sybils, all these are offices devolving on certain powers in­
termediary between gods and men. For it would not suit the majesty of the celestial
divinities for any of them to take a part in the dreams of Hannibal, should mutilate
the entrails of the victim under the hand of Flaminius, should direct the flight of the
bird consulted by Attius Navius, should versify the prophecies of the Sybil, should
remove Tarquin’s cap, only to return it to him, and should, without burning, illuminate
the forehead of Servius. It is not the business of immortal divinities to descend so
low. These details are the office of intermediary divinities, who in space inhabit the
plains contiguous both to heaven and earth, in the same way as different beings occupy
in nature special habitats; some flying in the air, other walking on earth.
18. WHY SHOULD THE SKY ALONE LACK INHABITANTS?
Indeed, since there are four well-known elements, establishing in nature, as it were,
four grand realms; since there are animals suitable to the earth, others to the water,
and again to the fire,—for, according to Aristotle, within ardent furnaces flutter certain
particular animated beings (named salamanders), possessing wings, passing their whole
existence in the fire, being born, and perishing with it,—since, besides, so many differ­
ent stars, as we have said above, shine above us in the empyrean, namely, in the midst
of the most subtle fire; why alone should air, this fourth element, whose extent is so
vast, alone be void of all living beings? Why should air alotie be devoid of inhabi­
tants? Why should not air produce animals, as fire produces fiery ones, the water,
fluid ones, and the earth, those limited to the ground? It would doubtless be an error
to assign the air as the dwelling of the birds, inasmuch as no bird flies higher than the
peak of Olympus, the highest of the mountains, which, nevertheless, according to
the calculation of the geometricians, is not higher than ten stadia; while there is an
incommensurable extent of air reaching to the first circle of the moon, beyond which
alone, to speak accurately, begins the elementary fire.
19. BIRDS ARE STILL TERRESTRIAL
According to this, what decision shall we arrive at concerning the great extent of
air which is situated between the last regions of the moon and the highest peak of
Olympus? What, could this vast extent be denuded of animals? Should one whole
realm of nature be impotent and sterile? For, if you study the matter, the birds should
properly be considered terrestrial, rather than aerial; it is on the earth that they con­
stantly pass their life, that they take their food, and enjoy sleep; only, when they fly,
they pass through the air nearest to our globe, and besides, when they have wearied
their wings which serve them as oars, the earth becomes for them a welcome harbor.
20. A PRIORI DESRIPTION OF DENIZENS OF THE AIR
If then, driven by manifest logic, we admit the existence of living denizens of the
air, it remains for us to consider what we might suppose their nature to be. They
could not possibly be terrestrial, because their weight would make them sink; they are
not igneous, for heat would volatilize them. We must therefore suppose some inter­
mediary nature, in view of the space they occupy, and the very atmosphere of the
THE PAGAN BIBLE 29
region would determine the character of its denizens. We must therefore imagine and
conceive bodies so constituted as to be neither as gross as those of the earth, nor as
light as those of the sky; bodies which, by certain attributes, differ from the former
and the latter, or from both, according as we would avoid or admit the participation
of both natures. But let us at once acknowledge that the hypothesis which would
admit the mixture would be conceived more readily than the one that would avoid it.
21. THE CLOUDS FURNISH AN ADEQUATE ILLUSTRATION
Consequently, the bodies of these guardian divinities will have to exert some
weight, so as not to gravitate upwards; and also some imponderability, so as not to
be drawn downwards. But, lest after the manner of poets I should indeed seem to be
presenting to you incredible fancies, I shall at once give you an example of this
intermediary equilibrated state. Some adumbration of this subtlety of bodies may be
seen in the formations of clouds. If these were too light, by absolute lack of weight,
they would never, as we often see them, sink beneath the crest of mountains, sur­
rounding the summit of some gigantic peak like a crown or collar. If on the other
hand they were naturally of a density and weight such as that they were not raised
by participation of any principle of buoyancy, they would, of their own weight, fall
like a stone, or a disk of lead, and would break themselves down against the ground.
By far contrary to that, suspended and free in movement, they fly like vessels gov­
erned by winds in the oceans of the airs, and insensibly change their shape as they
draw near or away from us. When pregnant with moisture, they descend, as it were
to be delivered of their burden. So it is the most waterladen that wander nearest
the earth, and whose dark flanks move slowest; while the less loaded flit higher up
in the sky; and like flakes of dazzling fleece they fly with rapidity. Do you not
remember those elegant verses of Lucretius about the thunder.
When the regions of the sky are shaken by the noise of thunder.
It is because the sublimely soaring aetherial clouds
Rush together against the opposing winds.
22. THE BODIES OF THE GUARDIANS ARE FAR MORE SUBTLE
Now if the clouds flit in the sky, arising wholly from the earth, and returning
thither, we must refine this illustration to conceive of the bodies of the guardian
divinities, whose bodies are far less com ct and more subtle; Not like the clouds,
indeed, do they consist of a formless and heavy agglomeration of impure vapors;
being formed of the most subtle, limpid and serene element of the air. It is not
therefore to the first comer that it is given to observe them; only to a divine sense
do they become visible, because they possess none of that material opacity which
intercepts light, which resists vision, and which necessarily while intercepting visual
rays. The tissues of their bodies are so fine, that they escape our observation; so
splendid that they dazzle us; and so transparent that they offer no vibratory resistance.
23. A GOOD EXAMPLE OF THIS IS HOMER’S MINERVA
It is in such a category that we must classify Homer’s Minerva when she inter­
venes among the Greeks to repress the anger of Achilles, at the order of Juno:
Visible for him alone, no one else beholds her.
Such also must have been Virgil’s Juturna, who mingles with numerous warriors
to assist her brother:
In the midst of the soldiers she remained unseen,
and she produces an effect exactly contrary to the soldier of Plautus, who was so
proud of his shield with which
He dazzles the eyes of his proud enemies.
24. DESCRIPTION OF THE POETS FIGMENTS
To avoid_ unnecessary extending of myself on such examples it is generally in
this class of guarding divinities that the poets, who indeed come very near the truth,
invent divinities protective of or inimical to certain mortals, who strive to raise and
assist some, while they persecute and abase others. These divinities are by poets
endowed w:th pity, indignation, sadness, joy, and all the remaining human affections;
and represents them, like us, floating on the tides of a tumultuous imagination over
the abysses of the heart, and the oceans of the soul.
25. NONE OF THESE AFFECTIONS COULD AFFECT HIGHER DIVINITIES
Now these tempests and troubles are banished far from the tranquil sphere oc­
cupied by the heavenly divinities. The denizens of the celestial vaults constantly
maintain their soul in an unchanged state, and enjoy an eternal calm. Never does
joy or sorrow impel their souls to exceed its proper limits; never do they abandon
their invariable, permanent situation by a sudden alteration. They are not exposed
to suffer foreign violences, for nothing is more powerful than a divinity; nor any
spontaneous movement, for nothing is more perfect than a divinity. Could we
predict a perfection of a being who would pass from a former to a more regular
condition? This is the case all the more that no new situation is spontaneously
sought except after dissatisfaction with the earlier; to decide on such a change con­
stitutes a condemnation of the preceding condition.
26. CELESTIAL DIVINITIES ARE IMPASSIBLE
That is why no divinity could experience any temporal affection, whether of hate
or of affection; consequently he would be inaccessible to indignation or pity, to
crises of anguish, to twinges of pain, or transports of delight. Free from all the
passions of the soul, he must never be grieved, nor rejoiced, never experience the
pangs of appetite, nor sudden aversions.
27. SUCH AFFECTIONS WOULD EXACTLY SUIT GUARDIAN DIVINITIES
But these and similar motions would exactly suit the intermediary state of the
guardian divinities, who mediate between the divinities and us, both of the space
they occupy, and the nature of their mind, being like the divinities immortal, and like
us subject to passion.’ Indeed they are accessible to all the affections that excite or
appease our souls; so that anger irritates them, pity moves them; offerings interest
them, prayers soften them; insults exasperate them, and homage disarms them; in one
word, they are subject to all the alterations that modify us ourselves.
28. DEFINITION OF GUARDIAN NATURE
Defining them exactly, we may say that guardian divinities arc animated, reason­
able beings, passive in soul, aerial in body, eternal in duration. Of these five attri­
butes, the three first are shared with us; the fourth is peculiar to them, and the fifth
is by them shared with the immortal divinities, from whom, however, they differ
by passion. Was I not right in calling them passive, because of their being subject
to our human soul-perturbations? This would adequately explain the differing re­
ligious practices, and methods of supplication employed in various liturgies. Among
these deities, some prefer worship by day, or by night; in public or in secret; some
desire that joy, and others that sorrow should inspire their characteristic sacrifices
and ceremonies. Egyptian deities prefer to be honored by groanings; the Greek, by
the choric dances; the Barbarian, by the sound of cymbals, drums, and flutes. Accord­
ing to the difference of climate and nationality, the same difference is observed in
the march of processions, in the silence of mysteries, in the qualifications of priests,
inathc details of sacrifice, in the effigies of the deities, and the offerings presented
to them, in the consecration and situation of their temples, in the color and the
slaughter of their victims. All these details are solemnly regulated according to the
customs of each country; and often by dreams, predictions and oracles the deities
make us conscious of their wrath when by scorn or carelessness we have neglected
some detail of their worship.
29. LIMITATION OF DISCUSSION TO PHILOSOPHICAL EXAMPLES
Numerous examples of this sort occur to me; but they have been so abused and
hackneyed that to attempt a review of them would compel me to omit more than I
would cite. I shall therefore limit myself to the bare mention of such facts, which
though they may not convince unanimously are at least universally familiar. My
discourse had better be in my own language, concerning the different kinds of tutelary
divinities mentioned by the philosophers. Thus I may achieve a clearer and more
complete comprehension of the instinct of presentiment possessed by Socrates, and
of (he divinity that was his friend.
30. MAN’S SOUL ALSO IS DIVINE; SO IS THE GENIUS
In one sense, the human soul, even when imprisoned in the body, is also called
divinity;
O Euryalus, is it the divinities that inspire our minds with such ardor,
Or does every person’s desire become his divinity?
Thus a good desire of the soul is a favorable divinity. It is from this stand-point,
as we have already said, that happy humans are called “eudaimonas,” (‘i.e.,’ good
demons, in Greek); people whose guardian (or, “demon”) is good; that is, whose
soul possesses perfect virtue. In Latin, to make a translation perhaps strained, the
equivalent will be "genius,” because the divinity which it represents, and which is
our soul, while enjoying immortality, is as it were born (Latin, ‘gignitur,’) with man.
Thus the prayers formulated under the name of Genius and Genita seem to explain
the composition of our nature; because under thece two words they seem to resume
our soul and body of which we are the complex.
31. SPIRITS OF THE DEAD ONLY IMPROPERLY DIVINITIES
In a secondary sense, the name of divinities is applied to the human souls which,
after their sojourn upon earth, resign the bonds of the body. Among the ancient
Latins, they were called "Lemures.” From among those who, through receiving the
attention of their posterity, preside over a family as pacific and propicious divinities,
are called ‘family lares;’ while those'who, because of the demerits of their life are
deprived of any happy abode, and who, wandering on chance, are punished with a
sort of exile, those, vain terror of the good, and pest of the evil, are referred to as
‘larves.’ But when one does not know how to distinguish their particular attributes,
and one is uncertain whether they are ‘lares’ or ‘larvas,’ they are referred to generally
as the ‘manes’ divinities. This title of ‘divinities’ is chiefly complimentary; for strictly
this term of divinities is applicable only to those who, after having directed their
conduct by justice and prudence, have later been deified by men, and have been
commemorated and honored with temples and ceremonies, such as Amphiaraus in
Boeotia, Mopsus in Africa, Osiris in Egypt, and many others elsewhere, but every­
where, Aesculapius.
32. HIGHER DIVINITIES NEVER INCARNATED
This general classification of guardians refers to souls that formerly inhabited
human bodies. But there is another less numerous class of guardians, far superior
to the former by the excellence of the:r venerable and saintly nature, who, never
having been subject to the bonds of the body, exercise a definite power and influence.
Among these are Love and Sleep; who possess contrary influence; Love keeping
awake, and Sleep inducing indolence.
33. IT IS AMONG THESE THAT ARE PLATONIC GUARDIANS
It is then from among this higher category that, according to Plato, each man
receives his guardian, witness and judge of his conduct; invisible to all, though ever
present; witnessing not only the actions, but even the thoughts. Then at the end
of life when the soul must return home, this same genius who was constituted the
man’s guardian draws him away, and drags before the judge him of whom he has
been the guardian; there, he assists in his defense; if the accused should speak an
untruth, he refutes it; if he speaks truth, he confirms it. It is on his testimony that
the sentence is based.
34. THESE GUARDIANS ARE OMNISCIENT
Thus, you readers of these theories of the divine Plato, regulate every one of
your actions, and thoughts, on this incontestible principle; in presence of these
guardians men cannot preserve any secret within or outside of their souls; nothing
escapes his curiosity; he beholds everything, he understands everything; like con­
science, he penetrates into (he inmost recesses of the soul.
35. SUCH A GUARDIAN IS WORTHY OF REVERENCE
Yea, it is a veritable guardian, a special superior officer, an intimate observer, a
particular caretaker, an assiduous watcher, a personal witness, an inseparable in­
spector, who blames the evil actions, and approves the good. Apply yourselves suit­
ably to gain knowledge o£ him; study him sincerely, honor him with a pious reverence;
like Socrates, make him the homage of your justice and purity; in your un­
certainties he will help you with his foresight; in your irresolutions he will arm you
in advance with his counsel; he will protect you if you are in peril; he will assist
you if you struggle with poverty. Whether in dreams, or by some sign, perhaps
even under his visible form, at need, he will be able to fend off misfortune, or pre­
pare successes for you; he will be able to raise you from abasement, render firm your
tottering fortune, and correct the evil.
36. NO WONDER SOCRATES RELIED ON HIM IN CRISES
In view of all this, is it any wonder that Socrates, an eminently perfect man, and
declared a sage by Apollo himself, was acquainted with his individual divinity, and
cultivated relations with him? If consequently the latter, having become his guardian,
nay, I had almost said guest-friend and intimate tutelary 'lar,’ warded off from him
all that he should have been spared, took all indispensible precautions for his ad­
vantage; gave him all the warnings he needed; every time, of course, that the counsels
of human wisdom were at fault, and when Socrates needed not additional prudence,
but presages; and when he needed a divine revelation to focus irresolute and wander­
ing thoughts. For there are very many circumstances in which even the sages hasten
to take recourse to diviners and oracles.
37. WISDOM AND DIVINATION COMPLEMENTARY AMONG THE
GREEKS
In Homer, as in a great mirror, you may see a clear distinction between these
two principles of action, divination, and wisdom. When dissension has arisen be­
tween two parties in the whole army, between Agamemnon, the powerful sovereign,
and Achilles, the redoubtable warrior; when the problem was to find a man ap­
preciated for his eloquence, and famous for his wisdom, who might soften the pride
of the son of Atreus, and appease the pride of the son of Peleus, restrain them by
his influence, instruct them by his example, move them by his talk; who then arises
to speak? The orator of Pylos, whose elocution is sweet, whose experience is con­
summate, venerable with white hair; known universally to have a body enfeebled
by age, but a soul vigorous in wisdom, and a mouth from whence distilled conviction.
Likewise, when reverses afflict the army, and the need is to choose emissaries to
penetrate at dead of night into the Trojan camp, do they not choose Ulysses and
Diomedes, as representatives of thought and action, mind and hand, reason and the
sword? On the other hand, when the Greeks, reduced to inaction in the harbor of
Aulis, and besieged by the winds, yield to despair, and hesitate before the difficulties
of the expedition; when, to obtain an easy sailing, and marine calm, and clemency
of the winds, it was necessary to consult the fibres of the victims, to examine the
flight of the birds, and the food of the serpents; then these two enlightened exemplars
of Greek wisdom, the kings of Ithaca and Pylos, both keep silent; and it is Calchas,
the incomparable diviner, who after a momentary observation of the flight of the
birds, the altar, and the three, by his prophetic voice soon achieves the calm of the
tempests, leads the fleet out of the harbor, and predicts a ten years’ siege.
38. IT IS THE SAME IN THE TROJAN ARMY
It is the same in the Trojan army. When circumstances call for the assistance
of divination, silence reigns in this wise senate; none of them dares to advance counsel,
nor Hicetaon, nor Lampo, nor Clytius; all remain mute to listen to the sinister
auguries of Helenus, or the prophecies of Cassandra, fated never to receive credence.
39. IT WAS LIKEWISE WITH SOCRATES
Likewise, Socrates also, in all the circumstances where there was need of con­
sulting guides in.matters beyond the domain of mere prudence, trimmed his course
according to the presages of his guardian, carried out his advice with accuracy, and
thereby was far more acceptable to his guardian. It is true that the guardian almost
always restrained Socrates at the very moment of the action, and never cited him;
but of this the reason may have been that Socrates was an eminently perfect man,
fervent in the discharge of his duties, and that he needed no incitations, but that
rather he sometimes needed to be restrained; when some of his efforts might have
hidden some danger. These warnings suggested deferring the carrying out of similar
projects, which did not preclude his later returning thereto with greater assurance, or
by a different route,
40. SOCRATES DID NOT OBEY BLINDLY
Under these circumstances, he said that he heard,—and these are the very words
of Plato,-—a certain divine voice. Now we must not believe that he attempted
to collect chance presages received from the mouth of the first comer. For one day
when, beyond the city limits, and, without witnesses, he was seated, with Phaedrus,
in the shadow of a thick tree; and he heard this voice, advising him not to cross the
streams of the little river Ilyssus before having, by a retraction, appeased Love, whose
anger he had incurred with an indiscreet sally. Besides, if he had been in the habit
of observing oracles, he would sometime have found some that would have determined
him; as we often see happening to people who, in their superstitious confidence in
presages, permit themselves to be led not by their heart, but by somebody else’s
conversation; men who drag themselves from street to street, forming their opinion
by hearsay, and as it were think by their ears, instead of their intelligence. In any
case, besides, those who listen to the words of interpreters of presages hear a voice
similar to those that have a score of times become audible to their ears; and they
cannot hesitate to believe that it originates from a human mouth. But, on the con­
trary, Socrates declared not that he heard a voice but that he heard a “certain”
voice; by which epithet we must understand that it was not an ordinary voice, that
was human; in which case that epithet would have been needless; and the expression
would have been, "a voice,” or, “somebody’s voice;” as when Terence’s lady-friend
cries,
“Did I not hear the voice of my soldier?”
But when you say, “I heard a certain voice,” the cause is that the speaker does not
know whence it emanated, or when one even doubts really having heard it; or indeed,
one desires to bring out that is was unaccustomed, mysterious, as that one which, in
respect to Socrates, reached him in a divine manner under particularly suitable cir­
cumstances. More: I believe that not merely his ears, but even his eyes revealed to
him by sensible signs the presence of his guardian. For, most often, it was not
a voice, but some divine sign which was said to have obtruded itself upon him; and
this sign may have been the form of his guardian himself, whom Socrates alone per­
ceived, just as Homer’s Achilles alone perceived Minerva.
41. IF ANY PYTHAGOREAN HAD SUCH REVELATION, SOCRATES
DESERVED IT ALL THE MORE
If is possible that much that I have here advanced may be doubted, and that the
form of this guardian who frequently revealed himself to Socrates may seem too
marvelous to obtain credence. But by the serious testimony of Aristotle we learn
that the Pythagoreans were always astonished on meeting someone who claimed never
to have seen any guardians. Now, if every one may have the occasion of contem­
plating their divine image, why should this privilege not have been granted in a
very special manner to Socrates, whose glorious wisdom had rendered him the equal
of any powerful divinity soever? For nothing more resembles, nor more pleases a
divinity, than a mortal whose heart is perfectly pure, and who has risen as far above
his fellow mortals as he is still below the immortal divinities.
42. ENCOURAGEMENT FOR EVERY HUMAN BEING
Why not rather than be sceptics, should we not, from the example of Socrates,
gather motives of encouragement? Why not, under auspicious circumstances, devote
ourselves to the study of a similar philosophy, by fearing to displease these same
divinities? Indeed, I can hardly understand what contrariety in human nature dis­
tracts us from such course; to me inexplicable is the peculiarity; for after all, human
beings all aspire to supreme happiness in the world; and further, they know that we
flourish only by our soul, and that to live happily, we cannot neglect to cultivate
our soul; and yet, they never do so! Now, he who desires piercing sight, must care
for his eyes, the organs of vision; if he would run with agility, he must care for his
feet, on which he runs. A vigorous wrestler must strengthen his arms, by which he
wrestles. So also with all the members; all claim particular care, according to the
service we hope to derive from them. All this being universally granted, I cannot
grasp why men should act so differently, and should neglect to cultivate their soul
by the means of reason. For, after all, the science of living is equally necessary to
all. It is not so with painting and music, talents which may be neglected without
attaching blame to a man’s morality, or considering it shameful or scandalous. I
cannot play the flute as well as Ismenias; but that does not humiliate me. Nor can
I paint like Apelles, or sculpt like Lysippus; but this is no shame to me; and likewise,
with the other arts; we may be inexpert in them, without blushing. But I dare you
to proclaim: “I am inexpert in living; I do not know how to do so as well as Socrates,
as Plato, as Pythagoras; and I am not ashamed not to know how to live.” You
would not be as bold as to advertise that.
43. THE ART OF LIFE IS NEGLECTED THROUGH IGNORANCE
Well, of all surprising things! That of which we would not seem to be ignorant,
we neglect to study; and we both are ashamed of the ignorance, and of the study
of that art! Examine the daily expense account of these men: you will find therein
a mass of outrageous prodigalities, and yet nothing for the culture of themselves,
I mean, the reverence for their guardian, which is none other than the sacred practice
of philosophy. No doubt, they erect opulent country estates; they ornament their city
residences with the most luxurious magnificence; they acquire a numerous crowd of
slaves, but in all of that, in such an affluence of riches, there is still one cause of
shame, namely, the master himself. And the reason is simple enough: while they are
heaping up riches to which they vow passionate devotion, they themselves are wan­
dering around the outskirts thereof, in the deepest barbarism of ignorance.
44. EVEN A HORSE IS BOUGHT FOR HIMSELF, NOT THE TRAPPINGS
Thus, regard these buildings on which they have lavished their patrimony: nothing
is more smiling, nor better built: castles, whose extent shames that of some cities,
houses adorned like temples, slaves numerous and exquisitely groomed, sumptuous
table service; everything is opulent, splendid and ornate, except the master himself.
Like Tantalus, he alone, in the midst of his wealth, is indigent, and poor: of course,
I do not mean that he is snatching fruits that elude him, or that he thirsts for an
escaping wave; but he is starved, he is thirsting for true happiness, namely, for a
calm life, and a happy wisdom. Fool! learn that the wealthy are judged as horseS-"*
are purchased. When we want to buy a horse, we do not consider his harness, we
do not examine the polished ornaments that shine on his collar; we do not gaze at
the plumes waving over his head, we do not examine whether gold, silver or jewelry
hang from his halter, whether his head and chest are caparisoned with objects of
art, whether his bit is engraved, his saddle is purple, or his check-rein gilt. No: all
these fripperies are set aside, and it is the horse himself, the naked horse, his body
alone, and his dispositions that are scrutinized; we examine whether his lines are
elegant, if he is vigorous in paces, and strong to carry; if, above all,
His head is thin, his beily short, his back is rounded;
Whether his sound chest is overlaid by healthy muscles.
Then, if his thighs and his back are well rounded, for he must carry the rider not
only swiftly, but comfortably.
45. A MAN IS JUDGED NOT BY POSSESSIONS, BUT CHARACTER
Well, likewise, when men are to be examined, count for nothing all those ad­
ventitious accessories; go straight to the man, and examine him in a state of poverty,
like my Socrates. Foreign is all (hat is derived from parents and favors of fortune,
advantages that cut no figure in the estimate of my Socrates. Speak not to me of
birth, of forefathers, of ancient genealogy, of riches sufficient to arouse envy; all
that is adventitious. Whose glory is that? Some distant forefather’s, who was such
that his descendants need not blush for him; and also for all the above advantages.
Do you say that a certain man was well born? You are praising his parents. Is
he rich? I have no confidence in luck. As little do I care for the rest of the above
advantages: if he is vigorous, a possible sickness will exhaust him, if he is alert,
he will be overwhelmed by age. If he is handsome, it will not last long. But if you
tell me that he has studied virtue, that he is an expert in it, that he is as wise as
possible, and a good counsellor, now you are praising the man himself! None of
these merits are derived from his parents, they do not depend on chance, nor due
to time, nor favors; they do not depend on a perishable body, they will not change
with age. These are the advantages possessed in their best form by my Socrates,
and that is why he scorned the possession of the others.
46. WHY DO YOU NOT ALSO STUDY WISDOM
Why then should you also not devote yourself, most zealously, to the study of
wisdom? At least, in praises of you, you will not detect anything foreign; and he
who would tout your personality will be contrained to do it in the terms employed
by Accius, in the beginning of his Philoctetes, when praising Ulysses:
Noble and brilliant hero, hailing from an obscure island;
With a heart as generous, as your soul is prudent and certain;
You whose counsels are the salvation of your beloved.
And whose avenging arms destroyed the Trojans;
Son of Laertes!
Only at the end does he name the hero's father; and besides you have just heard
that he addresses to him praises entirely personal; none of them are claimable by
Laertes, Antiopea, or Arcesius. You see it is an eulogy individual to Ulysses. That
is exactly Homer’s object in pointing out in the same Ulysses, attributing to him as
companion inseparable, Prudence, poetically symbolized as Minerva. It was indeed
through her companionship only that he underwent and overcame the worst that
adversity could bring against him. Aided by Prudence, he did indeed wander into
the cave of the Cyclops; but he escaped: he saw the oxen of the Sun, but he ab­
stained from injuring them; he descended into hell, but he reascended. It was again
with the same wise companion that he sailed by the Scylla, without being carried
off by her; he was surrounded in the eddies of Charybdis, without being detained;
he drank of the cup of Circe without undergoing any degrading metamorphosis; he
landed among the Lotos eaters without taking root there; he heard the Sirens, without
approaching them.
PARAGRAPHS OMITTED ABOVE
By the bye, it is a fascinating problem whether, as think the Chaldeans, the light
of the moon is her own property, being on one side luminous, and on the other dark,
so that her difference of form, color and extent would be due to the revolution of
her globe; or whether, herself entirely lacking any brilliancy, her body being opaque
or polished, she absorbs the rays of the sun, as would a mirror, now obliquely, then
directly; as asked Lucretius,
Does her body radiate none but a doubtful glow?
Which of these theories is the more correct? This shall be considered later.
In the meanwhile, both sun and moon are unhesitatingly, by Barbarian and Greek,
recognized as divinities.
5. THE PLANETS AS DIVINITIES
As I said, these are not the only divinities here recognized. There are besides five
stars by the ignorant public said to be wandering, although in their invariable, fixed
and certain orbits they carry out admirably regular revolutions from all eternity.
They do indeed follow different paths; but their swiftness is equal and uniform, they
carry out their progressions, their return, with a marvellous regularity, according
to tbeir orbits’ situation, diameter and obliquity; and these orbits are accurately known
by astronomical experts.
6. CONSTELLATIONS, COMETS, AND OTHER DIVINITIES
Platonists will also add to the number of these visible divinities Arcturus, the
rainy Hyades, and both Bears. Also those shining deities, which, in a clear sky,
adorn and crown the celestial vault; severe in beauty, sombre ornaments of the
twinkling nights, and which, in the language of Ennius, on the shield of the world
represent carvings both varied and admirable,
MAXIMUS of TYRE
What is Socrates’ Good Genius? A.D. 180
1. PHYSICAL METHODS USELESS FOR DIVINATION
People marvel that there should have been a loving guardian divinity, who prog-
nosticated the future, who accompanied everywhere, who was an intimate partaker
in all thoughts, for Socrates, who was so distinguished by personal cleanliness, by
the qualities of the soul, by the austerity of his habits, by the sagacity of his intellect,
by the harmonious charm of his discourse, by his piety towards the Gods, and by
respect for his companions. Why should they? Who ignores that at Delphi any
female chance visitor; at Dodoua, a Thesprotian; in the temple of Jupiter Ammon a
Lybian; at Colophonian Claros an Ionian; at Pataran Xanthus, a Lycian; at Ismenes
town, a Boeotian should daily enjoy the most intimate daily intercourse with the
divinities, and not only what they themselves are to do, or avoid, but also render
oracles, publicly or privately, about the conduct of those in whose behalf they are
consulted? Does the art of the Pythoness, in answering questions, depend on her
being seated on a tripod? Or does the Ionian interpreter of the divinities answer
questions because he draws water from a fountain, and drinks it? Or are the
Thesprotians right in claiming that one learns from the oak tree to read the future
only because of having passed the night on a hard couch, without washing one’s
feet and doing homage to the oak-tree?
2. THE TRUEST ORACLES ARE DIRECT
In the grotto of Trophonius (for this secondary divinity also had his oracle, in
Boeotia, near Lebadaea)1 the consultant of the divinity was garbed in a purple robe,
reaching to the feet. In both hands he took cakes, and, on his belly, was introduced
through a narrow opening, and was drawn out after he had seen and heard certain
objects and words. So he was his own oracle. In Italy, near Naples, by a lake
called (birdless) Aornus,2 was an oracular grotto, whose priests, from their function,
were called “evocators” of souls. The visitant prayed, sacrificed, libated, and
evoked the soul of one of his relatives or friends. In the darkness then appeared a
spectre, difficult to distinguish, but gifted with speech and prediction, who, after
having answered, disappeared. Homer seems to have known this cave, for he led
thither Ulysses,8 though, by poetic license, he removes its site from the sea,
3. WHY THEN SHOULD HOLY MEN NOT BE ORACULAR?
All this is true, some of the oracles surviving, and other having left indubitable
proofs,1 inasmuch as, in harmony with the spirit of the times, oracular consultation
was most popular; after reception of the answer, confidence was there:n reposed; it
was complied with, and rewarded with testimonies of veneration. All this being
granted, why marvel that the divinities would have held worthy of intercourse with
a guardian divinity a man gifted with the most happy nature, whose moral conduct
was the most exemplary, whose philosophy was the truest, and whose scul was the
most perfectly organized? Why disbelieve that this guardian divinity should have
once served him as oracle in all that affected his personal interests, though failing
to assist the Athenians in deliberations concerning the general welfare of Greece,
or the Lacedemonians, pondering over the success of a military expedition; nor of
the athletes going to take part in the Olympian games, anxious to know the identity
of the victor; nor of lawyers in court, anxious to know who would get the decision;
nor of speculators anxious for wealth, prognosticating the success of their specula­
tions; nor of people who undertake various enterprises, without any reasonable ground
of confidence, who, nevertheless continually come to weary the divinities for light.
Perhaps, indeed, Socrates’ guardian divinity, possessing the gift of reading in the
future, would have been capable of answering all such questions! for the most skilful
physician is able to treat the maladies not only of himself, but of others; so also
with builders, shield-makers, and other artisans. But the peculiar prerogative of
Socrates’ was that, being by his intelligence associated with the thoughts of divinities,
and having, as a consequence of this association with them, adapted his personal
interests to the sphere of moral beauty, he showed other men no sentiment of jealousy,
and whenever necessary gave them his aid.
4. DO GUARDIAN DIVINITIES REALLY EXIST?
Granted, therefore, that Socrates, by his virtue, by his morals, by his merit of
his qualities, ^was adjudged worthy of association with a guardian divinity. What
was its nature? This cannot be answered unless we first grant the possibility of the
existence of such beings, just as we do for divinities, men and brutes. To ask the
nature of Socrates’ guardian divinity would be ridiculous if you denied that of similar
beings in general. It would be as if some bushman who had never seen or heard
of a horse, on hearing that the king of Macedonia had Bucephalus, who allowed him
alone to jump on the saddle, and that without flinching5 should ask what was Bu­
cephalus. The answerer of such a question would be unable to depict a special
horse to somebody who had never seen any.
5. HOMER TELLS OF MANY IN IMMEDIATE CONTACT WITH DIVINITY
Doubters of Socrates’ guardian have evidently never read Homer’s mention of
similar beings. Achilles, for instance, in a council of war, became angry with Ag­
amemnon, drew his sword to strike him, but his arm was held back by some divinity,
meaning Minerva0 who ran to the succor of Peleus’ son, when she saw him angry;
she got behind him, and seized him by the hair. Minerva also7 said to Diomedes;
“I have dispelled the mists that dimmed your sight, so that you might easily discern
a man of God.” Again, when Telemachus is about to present himself to a king far
older than himself, before whom he is abashed, and to whom he knows not what to
say, his companion Mentor8 says, “Telemachus, your soul will suggest to you one-
half of what you should say; and a divinity will do as much for the remainder;” and
he adds the reason for this sacred assistance; “for I think you have neither been born,
nor been preserved till the present moment, without the intervention of the divinities.”
Elsewhere, speaking of Achilles;1
1 “The goddess Juno suggested to him this thought.”
Further, about Diomedes;10 “Minerva gave to Diomedes, son of Tydeus, strength
and intrepidity;” also, 11 "Minerva gave to his members, his feet and hands, agility.”
So you see how many people have been in immediate contact with the divinity.
6. NATURE OF THE HOMERIC GUARDIANS
Leaving Socrates aside, what does Homer think of it? Socrates’ guardian divinity
was unique, private, and (not) common. It would dissuade from crossing a river,12
it would advise delays,18 as with the relations with Alcibiades; it would discourage
from a defense that was proposed; again, it did not oppose a death that had been
decided on.14 On the contrary, Homer’s guardian is not limited to a single individual,
or to a single urgency, it is not unique, it does not intervene for trifles. It is at­
tached to several personages, it shows itself in different circumstances, it bears dif­
ferent names, it appears under various forms, and speaks different languages. You
will surely admit the existence of some of these divinities, and that there is some
reality under Minerva, Juno, Apollo, Discord, and the rest of the Homeric divinities.
I am not asking you any such foolish question as to whether you believe that this
Minerva resembles the statue of Phidias, which is no less beautiful than are Homer’s
verses, a maiden of great beauty, with blue eyes, a tall figure, belted with her aegis,
wearing a helmet, holding a lance, armed with a shield; nor if you think Juno re­
sembles the statue of the Argive Polycletus, having white thighs, ivory arms, splendid
eyes, magnificent garments, a royal pose, seated on a golden throne; nor if you believe
that Apollo resembles the Belvidere statue, a glorious youth, without mantle, carrying
a bow, with his feet separated, as in the act of walking. I am not insulting your
intelligence by presuming you fail to see the truth, and to size up correctly what is
meant to be conveyed by the symbol. But I really do ask whether you really think
that all these emblems, all this nomenclature of divinities does not signify the inter­
vention of the power of the divinities who night and day lend their assistance to
privileged human beings. For denial of any such intervention is to declare war on
Homer, to upset all oracles, to disbelieve all presages, to reject the prognostication of
dreams, and to abandon Socrates to himself. But if you admit the reasonableness
and possibility of all this, and yet doubt as regards Socrates, I will challenge you
to state whether you do not consider Socrates worthy of having a guardian divinity,
or if you here consider impossible what you elsewhere admit. As soon as you admit
this possibility, you admit the rights of Socrates, and you will not mulct them of
anything. If then the matter is possible, and if Socrates has any rights to them,
we may, satisfied about Socrates himself, study the general nature of his guardian
divinity.
7. BECAUSE OF ACCIDENTS, VIRTUE NEEDS ASSISTANCE
This will be studied in the next essay, whose contention is that the divinities
have distributed vice and virtue to men, as to athletes the arena, the former as
punishment to preverse inclinations, and devotion to evil; the latter to be the reward
of souls that are honest, of healthy disposition, who distinguish themselves by good
habits, and righteousness. To understand this better let us discuss this problem: that
it is to men of the latter nature that the divinities desire to lend their aid. It is
with them that They desire to consort, vigilantly extending over them their protecting
hand. One they preserve by an omen; another by a prediction; some by dreams,
some by warning (voices), others by sacrificial (presages). For it is impossible,
to the human soul, to subject everything to the crucible of reason, hemmed in as
she is in this second (post-pre-existent) life by numerous and thick clouds, plunged
in the abyss and gulf of terrene evils, by which she is incessantly tormented. Does
there exist a runner swift and sure-footed enough not to fall into a masked excavation,
some hidden ditch, into a trench, into a precipice? Exists there a pilot skilful and
expert enough to make a crossing without undergoing a storm, a tempest, a blizzard,
or a blow? Where will you find the physician masterful enough to be proof against
all maladies, even those that are secret or unexpected, when, following up each other,
as they sometimes do, they disconcert all the combinations and ratiocinations of the
art? Where exists the man virtuous enough, without any false step or stumbling,
to make the voyage of life, subject to a thousand accidents like the body, subject
to a thousand uncertainties, like navigation, encumbered with obstacles, like roads,
without, in the midst of all that, needing a physician, a pilot, or a divinity to serve
as guide? Virtue, no doubt, is something very beautiful, easy to acquire, and of great
efficiency. But it suffers from admixture with an element, evil in itself, somewhat
vague, and inconsistent; named fortune, blind and fugitive, which is virtue’s rival and
competitor; also her antagonist, disturber and tormentor. Just as in the atmosphere,
a cloud, interposing itself beneath the rays of the sun, hides its light, although the
sun, though invisible, preserves all its own splendor; so also virtue, when attacked
by the blows of fortune, truly does preserve all its beauty, but the dark cloud
obscuring it, masks it. Then virtue needs a saviour, a fighter, a divinity to become
its champion and aid.
8. THE SECONDARY DIVINITIES
God himself, therefore, never stirs from the same place, yet while ruling the
heavens, orders and disposes all it contains. There exist, however, secondary im­
mortal natures, called second divinities, arrayed in the space between heaven and
earth. They are substances inferior to God, but superior to man. They are ministers
of the volitions of God, but commanding the wills of men; situated very near God,
but watching over man with the greatest care. Mortal nature would have been
separated from contemplation of and intercourse with celestial things, by the whole
interval that separates from the immortal nature, unless these substances of the second
order, as a harmonic intermediary interposed relations uniting both, serving as points
of contact from both sides, to enable human weakness to reach the divine beauty.
This reminds me of the barbarians who are separated from the Greeks by the non­
use of the (Greek) language. But interpreters, learning both languages, serve for
mutual understanding, and the most familiar communications. Likewise, the second
rank divinities interpose themselves between God and man, being understood by both.
Such are the gods that present themselves to man, who converse with him, who never
abandon him throughout all the vicissitudes of his mortal career, and who administer
succor when it is necessary for them to interfere in human affairs. Besides, these
divinities are very numerous. Hesiod15 says: “On earth are an infinite number of
ministers of Jupiter.” Some undertake the healing of maladies, others reduce the
uncertainties of the perplexed, others reveal hidden things, others aid men in their
labors, or accompany them on journeys. There are some for cities, others for the
country; some for the sea, others for the continent; some are lodged in one being,
others in another; one with Socrates, another with Plato, another with Pythagoras,
one with Zeno, and another with Diogenes. The one is pacific, another philanthropist,
a politician, or a soldier. The natural inclinations of men reveal those of the div­
inities. (One of Penelope’s lovers reproached Antinoous for striking Ulysses be­
cause1''1 of the divinities) “similar to strangers, now under one disguise, now under
another, they go through cities to inspect the good and evil actions of men.” But to
a soul where dwell vice and wickedness come none of the divinities to establish their
dwelling to give it guidance.
NOTES
(1) Pausanias, Boeotics, 39. (2) Aeneid, vi. 238. (3) Strabo, 374. (4) Vandalius,
Oracles. (5) Aulus Gellius, v. 2. (6) Iliad, i. 197. (7) Iliad, v. 127. (8) Odyssey,
iii. 26. (9) Odyssey, iii. 28. (10) Iliad, i. 55. (11) Iliad, v. 1. (12) Phaedrus,
343. (13) First Alcibiades. (14) Apology. (15) Hesiod, Works and Days, 252.
(16) Odyssey, xvii. 485.
The Genius of Socrates, II.
1. NECESSITY OF INTERMEDIATION
Come, let us ask this Guardian (for he is philanthropic, and accustomed to com­
municate through the human organism, just like Ismcnias did through his flute),1 let
us, like Odysseus, in Homer,2 ask, “Are you a divinity, or a mortal?” For if you
are "one of the divinities who inhabit Olympus,” there will be no need of further
discussions, as we know what you think; but if you are one of the mortals who dwell
on earth "are you susceptible to the same impressions as we, of speaking our own
language, subject to our birth and death; or, though bound to earth as your abode,
are you otherwise, in respect of your essence, superior to humans?” For the substance
of the subordinate divinities is not composed of flesh (for we must answer for them,
they command us to do so), nor bones, nor blood, or any of these other elements
capable of being separated, dissolved, melted, and hence, of deliquescing. Of what
then can their nature consist? Let us begin by facing the necessity of the existence
of secondary divinities. Passible natures are contrary to the impassible; the mortal
to the immortal, the irrational to the rational, the insensible to the sentient; the soulless
to the animated. An animated being must, therefore, combine both these qualities;
either the immortal is impassible, or the passible is immortal; or the mortal is passible,
or the sentient is irrational, or the animated is impassible; such is the gradation
of nature. Insensibly it descends, by degrees, and the superior is desirable to the
lower. To abstract any of these intermediaries would be to sap the vitals of nature.
Likewise, in the harmonic series of sounds, the consonance of the two extremities of
the diapason depends on that of the intermediary; in descending from the treble to
the bass both aural and instrumental melodiousness depends on the passing through
the intermediary sounds.
2. INTERMEDIATION NECESSARY BETWEEN GOD AND NATURE
Not otherwise than the order of harmony is that of nature. God is classed as
impassible and immortal substance; the subaltern divinities as substance immortal
but passible; man as both passible and mortal; the brute as irrational and sentient;
and plants as animated and impassible. For the present, however, let us pass by
everything but the secondary divinities, who, as we said, intermediate between God
and man. Come, let us see whether it would be possible to excise them from the
ladder of beings, without destroying its extremities. Is God on one hand immortal,
but on the other impassible? Surely not! He is both immortal and impassible. And
is man on one side mortal, and on the other impassible? No, he is mortal but not
impassible. What then has become of the substance which is simultaneously immortal
and passible? For if there is to exist an analogy between the two extremes of na-
ture, there must necessarily exist some substance related both to God and man, su­
perior to man, but inferior to God. Two things, essentially separate and distinct could
indeed never communicate without some common intermediary to establish contact.
3. NATURAL ANALOGIES OF INTERMEDIATION
I might as well describe a substance, named fire, which is both warm and dry.
Now cold is the contrary of heat. Wetness is the contrary of dryness. Therefore,
we cannot transmute lire into water, nor water into lire. It would be easier to turn
cold into heat, or wet into dry. Such is the mutual opposition established by nature.
But the latter has furnished air, as it were to be a conciliator among them.
From fire it borrows heat; from water, humidity; thus arises approximation and com­
munication, thus occurs the transition and passage from fire to air by heat, and from
air to water by humidity. Another example: the air is warm and humid, while the
earth is cold and dry. Now dryness is the contrary of humidity, as cold is that of
heat. Air would never change into earth, unless nature had between them placed
water, which as it were is their arbiter, which conciliates and unites them, from air
receiving humidity, and from the earth cold. Such is a sufficient illustration of all
similar relations. Each of these things being composed of two contrary elements, we
take from each thing one of its elements, and then add it to the other, we half sep­
arate the one from the other, and approximately the other in the same proportion.
Thus things mutually contrary and incapable of alliances, nevertheless approximate
and combine; as fire and air in regard to heat, as water and earth in respect to cold;
as earth and fire in respect to dryness. Likewise, God contacts the secondary div­
inities in respect to immortality; the secondary divinities contact man by passibility.
Man contacts brutes by similar sensibility; the brute contacts plants because both
possess souls.
4. THE HUMAN ORGANISM ALSO INTERMEDIARY
Considering the economy of the human organism, there also we see that nature
provides nothing sudden; and relies on the aid of intermediaries to operate its com­
binations and results. For instance, the hairs and the nails are softer than the bones,
firmer than the nerves, dryer than the blood, and rougher than the flesh. Evidently
intermediaries are necessary wherever appears order and harmony. They are re­
quisite in vocal music, in the body’s excretions, in colors, in poetic rhythm, in decora­
tions, in passions, in discourses. It must, therefore, be granted. If then God is
impassible and immortal and man mortal and passible there is an unavoidable neces­
sity for the existence of some substance either impassible and mortal, or immortal
and passible. Of this alternative, the first is impossible, as the impassible cannot
exist with the mortal. Necessarily, therefore, there must exist subaltern divinities,
substances both passible and immortal, by immortality contacting God, and contact­
ing man by passibility.
5. EXPLANATION OF THE INTERMEDIATION PROCESS
Now we can explain the simultaneity of the secondary divinities’ passibility and
immortality; the latter of which we will study first. Everything perishable is either
dissolved, as mud by water; broken, as fields by the plow; melted, as wax by the
sun; cut, as a plant by a knife; or transformed, as water into air, and air into fire.
Now if the substance of the secondary divinities is to be immortal, it must be above
dissolution, melting, cutting, breaking, or transformation. Were it subject thereto,
this would be fatal to its immortality; now how could it suffer them, if a divinity of
this sort is nothing but a discarnate soul? For if the body, perishable by nature,
survives only so long as it remains with him, the latter cannot easily be supposed
susceptible to destruction. During their union, it is the body which is sustained, and
the soul that sustains. For if the soul sustained something else, without sustaining
itself, we would have to imagine something that supported it; and it would be absurd
to speak of a soul. While the one is conserved by the other, this sustaining
action must necessarily cease at something which sustains the other, while sustaining
itself. Otherwise there would be no standing-point for a reason, in a progression
reaching infinity. W e must, therefore, imagine the intermediary relation as that of
a vessel launched in the waves, while yet being attached to some rock, by the means
of several ropes, one of which is attached to the other, thus reaching to the rock, a
fixed point, where the connection terminates.
6. POST-INCARNATE SOUL-LIFE
Thus the soul supports the body, which, caught in the tumult of the ocean waves
is incessantly thrown around; the soul receives it as in a harbor, and calms it. But
as soon as the nerves are fatigued, and there is disorder in the vital breath and the
other bonds that served as ropes, by means of which it had till then been supported
by the soul, it perishes and sinks into the depths; while the soul escapes as if by
swimming, because she can support and preserve herself. From that time on the
soul assumes the appellation of a secondary divinity; a substance that inhabits the
ether, whither, on leaving the earth she is transplanted; just as if she passed from
among the barbarians to the society of the Greeks, from a city subject to anarchy,
tyranny and sedition, to another city where flourished peace, order and good govern­
ment. It resembles Homer’s emblematic Vulcan’s golden shield, whereon were rep­
resented two cities, in which were celebrated nothing but marriages and festivals,3
dances, songs and rejoicings; while in the other appear naught but wars, quarrels,
desolations, fights, sorrows, groans and despair. Such is the contrast between
earth and ether. This is a place of peace, where resound none but the
hymns of the secondary divinities, and their divine dances. On the con­
trary, the earth is a chaos of tumults, of noises, of dissensions. When the soul
has been transferred from hither to yon, when she has been delivered from the
body, which she abandons to the earth that will devour it, by the same law and
at the same time she takes her place among the secondary divinities, she beholds,
in all the purity of her eyes her appropriate divine spectacle, without being hindered
by any corporeal vesture, without being dazzled by the colors, or distracted by the
Variety of forms, or any cloud that might dim her vision; she contemplates the
veritable beauty, with her own eyes in bliss. She feels compassion for her former
life, and congratulates herself on that existence on which she is entering. She feels
pity for her kindred souls, who are still living on earth; her philanthropic sentiments
inclines her to reassociate with them and to raise up those who stumble. God, him­
self, commands her to return to the earth, and as it were once more to mingle with
human nature, whatever their luck, their dispositions or occupation; to assist the
“chrestians,” or well-disposed, to avenge the unfortunate, and to punish the evil.
7. EXPERIENCE OF GUARDIAN DIVINITIES
We must not suppose that every secondary divinity is apt for anything. Here
below each of them has his distinct attributes, and particular functions. Herein, no
doubt, resides that passibility wherein these divinities are inferior to the Supreme.
They do not desire to change their inclinations or habits which they exercised here
below.'4 Aesculapius still professes medicine, Hercules still terrifies monsters and
brigands; Bacchus still celebrates his festivities; Amphilochus still predicts the future;
Castor and Pollux still navigate; Minos still renders decisions; Achilles still fights.
In the Black Sea, at the mouth of the Danube is an island where Achilles dwells.3
There he has temples and altars, for none visits the island but to offer sacrifices,
whereafter visitors enter the temple. Several times have sailors there seen a man
resembling a divinity, with blond hair, and military bearing, covered with golden
armor. Others did not see him in any form, but heard warlike hymns. Others saw
and heard him at the same time. If any one on the island happens to fall asleep,
Achilles wakes him, leads him into his tent, and feasts him. Patroclus pours the
wine, Achilles plays the lyre. It is even said that Thetis, and other similar divinities
have been known to assist in this. Likewise, the Trojans claim that Hector may
still be habitually seen around Troy, in a military manner passing through the
country, garbed in brilliant armor. As to myself, I have seen neither Achilles nor
Hector; but I have seen Castor and Pollux, above a vessel like shining stars, directing
it amidst the storm.0 I have also seen Aesculapius, but not in a dream. I have
also, while walking, seen Hercules.
NOTES
(1) Eustathius, in II. 2.9; Diog. Laert. 4.22; 7.125. (2) Od. 6.149; 153. (3)
II. 18.491. (4) Virg. Aen. Priam’s coachman; and heroes in hell. (5) Arrian, Peri-
plus. (6) Seneca, Quaest. Nat. 1.1; Plin. Hist. Nat 37.
MARCUS AURELIUS, Meditation, A.D. 180
Reverence for the Genius consists in keeping it pure from passion and thought­
lessness, and dissatisfaction with what comes from gods and men (2.13). Philosophy
consists in keeping the Genius within a man free from vexation, and angry retribu­
tion, superior to pains and pleasures, not playing a hypocritical part, and doing
nothing without a purpose (2.17). Nothing is better than the Genius which is
planted in thee, which has subjected to itself all thy appetites, and carefully examines
all the impressions, and as Socrates has said, has detached itself from the persuasions
of sense, and has submitted itself to the Gods, and cares for mankind. Give place
to nothing else, which would distract thee from giving precedence to that supreme
good which is thy proper and own possession, in preference to the majority’s adula­
tion, the pleasure of power, the enjoyment of pleasure,—none of which should be
permitted to become rivals to the good which is thine, rationally and politically
(3.7). Defile not the divinity which is implanted in thy breast, nor disturb it by a
crowd of images! Preserve it tranquil, follow it obediently as a god, saying nothing
contrary to the truth, nor doing anything contrary to justice (3.16). It is in my
power never to act contrary to my divinity and my Genius; to this I cannot be
compelled by any! (5.10). I must pass the time still left me before death free from
perturbations, nobly, and obediently to my own Genius within me! (12.3).
ZOSIMUS, Divine Transformation, A.D. 200
He was an Egyptian contemporary of Tertullian whose attacks compelled alle-
gorization.
His allegorical visions centre around a cuplikc altar, approached by fifteen steps
leading from darkness into light. “Consecrated priest by necessity, I the celebrant
become a spirit.” Thus the Existent’s body, undergoing intolerable violence, re­
gurgitates his self-absorbed flesh, effecting the composition of the waters.
The next dream allegorizes the condensation of vapors in the upper recipient
chamber by macceration into the ‘divine wafer.’ Here enter those who wish to
obtain power, and after having fled their bodies, they become spirits and spirit-
guardians. So nature is transformed when, neglecting no method, all things agree
in division and union.
His description of transmutation of metals, vindicated by modern research, be­
cause of its spiritual significance, follows: ‘Continuously build a monolithic white-
lead temple containing a spring of purest sun-sparkling water. Provided with a
sword, explore the direction of the narrow entrance. There dwells the Serpent
Guardian, who must be slain, despoiled, and dismembered. At the temple-entrance
then reunite flesh and bones into a stepping-stone, climbing over which you may
enter and find what you seek: the priest seated by the spring will be no longer brazen,
but silvern, and if you wish, you may soon turn him into gold. Thus in its time
and with method, Virtue achieves Totality.
PLOTINUS, from the Enneads, A.D. 203-262
1. HISTORIC EVIDENCE FOR IMMORTALITY OF SOUL (4.7.15).
This, then, is our answer to those who seek a philosophical demonstration. Those
who are satisfied with the testimony of faith and sense, may be referred to those
extracts from history which furnish numerous proofs thereof. We may also refer
to the oracles given by the divinities who order an appeasement of the souls who
were victims of some injustice, and to honor the dead, and to the rites observed by
all towards those who live no more; which presupposes that their souls are still con­
scious beyond. Even after leaving their bodies, many souls who lived on the earth
have continued to grant benefits to men. By revelation of the future, and rendering
other services, they themselves prove that the other souls cannot have perished.
2. SOULS COLLEAGUES OF THE DIVINITY (4.8.4).
There are individual souls which, in their conversion towards the principle from
which they proceed, aspire to the intelligible world, and which also exercise their
powers on inferior things, just as light, which does not disdain to throw its rays
down to us, though remaining suspended to the sun on high. These souls must re­
main sheltered from all suffering so long as in the intelligible world they remain
together with the universal soul. They must besides, in heaven, share with it the
administration of the world; like kings who, being colleagues of the great King of
the Universe, share the government with him, without themselves descending from
their thrones, without ceasing to occupy a place as elevated as He.
3. THE GUARDIAN DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH RESPONSIBILITY
(3.4.5).
But if, before coming on to the earth the soul chooses her life and her guardian,
how does she still preserve her liberty? Because what is called “choice” designates
in an allegorical manner the character of the soul, and her general disposition every­
where. Again, it is objected that if the character of the soul preponderate, if the
soul be dominated by that part which her former life rendered predominantly active,
it is no longer the body which is her cause of evil; for if the character of the soul
be anterior to her union with the body; if she have the character she has chosen;
if, as said Plato, she do not change her guardian, it is not here below that a man
may become good or evil. The answer to this is, that potentially man is equally
good or evil. By his choice, however, he may actualize one or the other.
4. THE GUARDIAN IS BOTH KINDRED AND STRANGE.
Besides, our guardian is not entirely exterior to us; but, on the other hand, he is
not bound to us, and is not active in us; he is ours in the sense that he has a certain
relation with our souls; he is not ours, in the sense that we are such men, living
such a life under his supervision. This is the meaning of the terms used by Plato
in the Timaeus (C90). If these be taken in the above sense, all explains itself; if
not, Plato contradicts himself.
5. THE GUARDIAN AIDS IN OUR CHOSEN FATE.
One can still understand thus why he says that our guardian helps us to fulfill
the destiny we have chosen. In fact, presiding over our life, he does not permit
us to descend very far below the condition we have chosen. But that which then
is active is the principle below the guardian and which can neither transcend him,
nor equal him; for he could not become different from what he is.
6. JUDGMENT AND EXPIATION BETWEEN INCARNATIONS
Plato says that the guardian leads the soul to the hells, and that he does not
remain attached to the same soul, unless that same soul should again choose the
same condition. What does the guardian do before this choice? Plato teaches us
that he leads the soul to judgment, that after the generation he assumes again the
same form as before; and then as if another existence were then beginning, during
the time between generations, the guardian presides over the chastisements of the
souls, and this period is for them not so much a period of life, as a period of
expiation.
7. EVEN ANIMALS HAVE A GUARDIAN
Do the souls that enter into the bodies of brutes also have a guardian? Yes,
doubtless, but an evil and stupid one.
8. SOULS IN THE HIGHER REGIONS
What is the condition of the souls that have raised themselves on high? Some
are in the sensible world, others are outside of it. The souls that are in the sense-
world dwell in the sun, or in some other planet, or in the firmament, according as
they have more or less developed their reason. We must indeed remember that
our soul contains in herself not only the intelligible world, but also a disposition
conformable to the soul of the world. Now as the latter is spread out in the movable
sphere by her various powers, our soul must possess powers conformable to these,
each of which exercise their proper function. The souls which rise from here below
into the heavens go to inhabit the star which harmonizes with their moral life, and
with the power which they have developed; with their divinity or their guardian.
Then they will have either the same guardian, or the guardian which is superior to
the power which they exert. This matter will have to be considered more minutely.
9. FATE OF THE DIVISIBLE SOUL
As to the souls that have left the sense-world, so long as they remain in the in­
telligible world, they are above the guardian condition, and the fatality of generation.
Souls take thither with them that part of their nature which is desirous of begetting,
and which may reasonably be regarded as the essence which is divisible in the body,
and which multiplies by dividing along with the bodies. Moreover, if a soul divide
herself, it is not in respect to extension, because she is entirely in all the bodies. On
the other hand, the Soul is one; and from a single animal are ceaselessly born many
young. This generative element splits up like the vegetative nature in plants; for this
nature is divisible in the bodies. When this divisible essence dwells in the same
body, it vivifies the body, just as the vegetative power does for plants. When it re­
tires, it has already communicated life, as is seen in cut trees, or in corpses where
putrefaction has caused the birth of several animals from a single one. Besides the
vegetative power of the human soul is assisted by the vegetative power that is
derived from the universal soul, and which here below is the same as on high.
10. FATE CONSISTS IN UNPREDICTABLE CIRCUMSTANCES
If the soul returns here below, she possesses, according to the life which she is
to lead, either the same guardian or another. With her guardian she enters into this
world as if in a skiff. Then she is subjected to the power, by Plato, called the
Spindle of Necessity; and embarking in this world she takes the place assigned to
her by Fortune, Then she is caught by the circular movement of the heavens, whose
action, as if it were the wind, agitates the skiff in which the soul is seated; or rather,
is borne along. Thence are borne varied spectacles, transformations and divers in­
cidents for the soul which is embarked in this skiff; whether because of the agitation
of the sea which bears it, or because of the conduct of the passenger who is sailing
in the bark, and who preserves her freedom of action therein. Indeed, not every
soul placed in the same circumstances makes the same movements, wills the same
volitions, or performs the same actions. For different beings, therefore, the differences
arise from circumstances either similar or different, or even the same may occur
to them under different circumstances. It is this uncertainty that constitutes Provi­
dence.
SYNESIUS, Friend of Hypatia, On Providence, A.D. 350
8. NATURAL REPUGNANCE TO ENFORCING PUNISHMENT
As Osiris (meaning Aurelian) would not allow himself to be persuaded, the
divinities announced to him the calamities to which he would expose himself, the
Egyptians, their neighbors and dependents. “For it would be a mistake to believe,
added they, that these evils will not be serious, and that vigilance alone will be
necessary to prevent or counteract the open or secret machinations of Typhon
(meaning Gainas); he can count on the aid and protection of a powerful race of
jealous demons to whom he resembles, and who have caused his birth as a future
instrument of their malice against men; that is why they brought him into the world,
that they have raised him, that they formed him on their model, so that he might
render them services so great. But they well know that Typhon will not fully realize
their expectations only if they procure for him royal power; for their desires cannot
find fulfilment until he can do all the harm he wishes. As to you, said one of the
divinities, the demons detest you, because you are born for the ruin of their projects,
and for the happiness of humanity; for these maleficent spirits feast upon human
miseries.” They therefore urged Osiris to banish his brother, and to relegate him
to distant countries. But, seeing that, through an excess of gentleness and kindliness
he resisted their advice, they did not hesitate to inform him that although during a
little while he might preserve himself from the machinations of Typhon, he would
ultimately be overwhelmed; that on succumbing, he would involve the ruin of the
entire state, and that under this lovely pretext of fraternal regard he was really
preparing great catastrophes. Osiris however objected, “Do you preserve for me
your favor and assistance, and I will have nothing to fear from the presence of
my brother; the resentment of the demons will not be able to touch me; if you
exercise your will-power, is it not easy for you to remedy the evils caused by lack
of foresight?”
9. ILLUSTRATION OF THE STRING-MANIKIN
His father then spoke: “You are wrong, my son. There are indeed divinities in
our universe, who are active at times, while at others they feed upon intelligible
beauty. There are indeed lower ones, placed in immediate charge of the world, and
from whom depend all the beings down to their last degrees; but they also never
condescend as far down as matter. For these divinities, the world is a spectacle
full of charms; but they find still greater delight in contemplating the source from
which emanates perfect felicity, because within them all is divine; but those of an
inferior order find their real happiness only in returning towards the sovereign divinity.
All the good in the universe does not derive from a single simple cause; the' different
parts of the world are ruled by different divinities, which, with effort distracting
themselves from contemplation for action, exercise the ministry confided to them.
The purest spirits are subject to the immediate supreme essence; then, near and under
them, other intelligences. Thus a whole series of beings is continued to the ex­
tremities of the universe. It is through these intermediaries that Providence acts
in this world; but it does not operate everywhere equally, for this would destroy the
hierarchy of beings. As we descend, things alter, become troubled and corrupted,
ending in nonentity. That is what happens here below; in the last degrees the bodies
that are born and that are exposed to change have but an humble and perishable
existence; at the other extremity the immutable sky is as the visible image of the
soul (?). If these noble beings reside up there,” and Osiris’s father here pointed
upwards at the visible divinities, “it is among ever agitated elements that dwell the
demons, who are a passionate and brutal race. They are insensible to the charms
of the divine order, because they are too distant from the higher regions. The dregs
of existence have no conservatory instincts; they deteriorate, they have no endurance;
their vain efforts at transformation lends them but a semblance of existence. As the
demons, because of their affinity with matter, are limited to the genius for destruction,
there is created a need for the divinity to turn its glance towards the world, to
supply an auspicious impulsion to which the universe obeys for a limited period,
as its effect diminishes by degrees. Observe this toy manikin operated by a string.
Even when you have ceased pulling the string which makes it move it still quivers;
but this motion will not continue, because it does not possess the principle of move­
ment. It movesonly during the continuance of the force that has agitated it: but
this after a little while is exhausted. Such, my dear Osiris, is the condition of the
universe. All that is good is divine, and draws its origin not from this world, but
from elsewhere. That is why excellent souls appear here only rarely; and when
the divinities occupy themselves with human affairs, the cares they undertake are
doubtless contrary to their nature, and inharmonious with their earlier existence. It
is not of action that their felicity consists; for there is more bliss in enjoying the
order established by the sovereign master than in ordering inferior affairs by one­
self. In the first case, thought is turned towards perfect beauty, in the latter it is
turned elsewhere. You are familiar with that lay-figure employed in the mysteries;
it has two pairs of eyes; the lower ones are closed while tbe upper ones are open;
and conversely. This signifies contemplation and action. Now the one, then the
other busies the secondary divinities. Of course they more enjoy the nobler of these
two occupations; they undertake the other only when compelled by necessity. When
necessary, the' divinities operate and save the world; but that it is not their chief
title to excellence. It is not otherwise with men; often they arc busied with dom­
estic occupations; at other, times they devote themselves to philosophy, and it is
then especially that they approach divinity.
10. PROGRESS IS NO SHAM FIGHT
‘‘Consequently understand what I am going to say, without misapprehension. Do
not expect the divinities to aid you uninterruptedly. It is contemplation that is es­
pecially suited to their nature, and they reside in the upper portions of the universe;
they are dwellers of the sky, and at so great a distance from human beings, do not
imagine that they could easily and uninterruptedly descend to the earth. At fixed
epochs, like machinists, they do come down to operate the controlling springs of a
state; lend:ng it a wise direction, and sending, for its governance, souls of their own
family. Due to the admirable designs of their providence, a single man suffices to
effect the happiness of numerous peoples. But as soon as this work is accomplished,
they return to the life that is characteristic of them. As to you, you were sent into
a world which is not yours; you must remember your origin, and not forget that
you have here a mission to fulfil; you should tend towards approaching the divinities,
not tc humiliate them towards you. As a soldier camping on enemy territory, do
you, O son of a celestial race, be on your watch against the demons that besiege
you. You cannot expect anything else but that they, born on the earth, should
threaten and detest him who observes different laws on their native soil. You will
therefore do well to watch attentively by day and night, so that, as you are alone
against numerous enemies, on their ground, far from your home-land, not to let
yourself be overwhelmed. Here below there exists an ancient and sacred race, the
geniuses; full of solicitude for men, they can, under ordinary circumstances, render
services; and if they did not inhabit the earth, the latter would show nothing more
than evil; and wherever they are able to do so, they manifest their beneficent in­
fluence. But when matter has undertaken a struggle with the soul, and attacks her
with the enemies to which it has given birth, it meets with but feeble resistance,
unless the divinities intervene; for one is very strong when one fights on one’s own
domain. The demons wish to subdue everything to their power; and this is their
procedure. There is nobody who does not contain some unreasonable part; and the
great majoritj’ of men parade this part of their nature. Though the sage dissimulates
it, it necessarily persists within him; and this is the ally on whom the demons count
to attack the soul by surprise; they undertake a veritable siege. As charcoal can be
lit by mere contact with the torch, because of their inflammable nature, thus the
demons, who are full of passions, or rather, who are personified passion and agitation,
need do no more than to approach a soul in order to arouse the passion within her,
and to agitate her disorderly inclinations. Their mere proximity troubles. The being
that undergoes an action is assimilated to the actor. The demons excite desire, anger,
and all other evil affections; they steal into the soul by means of these auxiliaries,
which, on feeling their presence, grow bold and rebel against reason; and this struggle
goes on until either the demons subjugate the soul or renounce their effort to enslave
it. What a bitter war! Ever, and everywhere, in numberless ways, they renew
the attack; they deliver unexpected assaults, and they set traps, they stretch nets,
they arouse internecine warfare; and that ends only when they have triumphed, or
despaired of victory. From above the divinities contemplated these glorious battles,
from which you will emerge as victor. May the same good fortune be yours later
on! But I fear that, after having repelled these first dangers, you may succumb to
other perils. When the divine part of the soul, instead of yielding to the passionate
part, has repressed it, and subjected it to her dominion, she must accumulate sufficient
inurement to overcome all attacks; pure and serene, the breath of the demons can
no longer ruffle her. She then presents the characteristics of a divine being that
is really simple; she is on he earth like a celestial tree which owes its fruit not to
the grafts it bears, but which communicates to the graft its own excellence. When
their first efforts have failed, the demons attempt other attacks, to throw and destroy
an adversary who is odious to them. Furious at their defeat, they refuse to permit
that, within their own domain, a stranger should walk around with unabashed brow,
thus attesting to his victory. That he humiliates them is of' the least consequence;
he excites others to shake their dominion; for as soon as the hearts are attracted by
the example of virtue, evil disappears. Thus the demons seek to ruin all, whether
privates or princes, who refuse to obey the laws of matter. But as you are a king,
it will be more easy for you to defend yourself, than it would be for people whose
condition is inferior. When a sovereign has repelled them from his soul, the demons
attack his exterior power, raising up wars, seditions, and all the evils that can distress
a state. But a king can abort these machinations by his vigilance. But when power
and wisdom are united, nothing can resist them; but when separate, power is blind,
and prudence paralyzed; and both are easily conquered.
11. THE ILLUSTRATION OF THE SPHINX
“My son, admire the thought expressed by our forefathers in the sacred images.
We Egyptians attribute to the divine Hermes two faces, both young and old. The
significance of this symbol is that we must join intelligence to vigor, while both
separate are useless. It is this same association of qualities which is represented by
the sacred Sphinx, placed on the threshold of our temples, beast by power, human
by reason. Unguided by wisdom, power grows excited, loses its way, and causes
trouble and disorder; deprived of the help of hands, intelligence is powerless for action.
Rarely are fortune and virtue allied; although they are united in exceptional natures,
such as is yours. You who can what you will should therefore not importune the
divinities to save you by your own powers; it is not suitable to their dignity at
every moment to leave their abode to descend into a foreign and inferior world. We
are lacking in a respect due to them when we neglect to employ our faculties in
maintaining the order and arrangement they have established on this earth; for this
would constrain them to return, before the fixed period, to occupy themselves with
things terrene. When this harmony which is their work is with years enfeebled,
they do come to its rescue; when expiring, they reanimate it; and it is with joy that
they perform this ministry, and assist the universe. When, by the fault of those
who govern trouble and dishonor are seen to rule, they again return, if the states
can be saved by nothing but their intervention. But, whatever be the accident,
things of minor importance do not suffice to bring divinity into play. The man, in
favor of whom one of these blessed spirits will condescend to descend into this world
must be one of exceptional virtue. But when disorder has spread everywhere, when
ruin threatens everything, then they arrive to reintroduce order into human affairs.
Let men therefore not complain of evils that they suffer through their own fault;
let them not accuse the divinity of indifference towards them. Providence exacts
co-operation from man. Why should you be surprised at finding evil in the domain
of evil? Rather marvel that it is not met with always; for good is a stranger who
has lost his way on this earth; it is Providence that has sent it. Yet men can realize
all the conditions of happiness if they know how to act and use all their resources.
Providence does not resemble a mother who is ever anxious and attentive to fend off
everything harmful from her new-born infant; for, although young, the child is still
capable of self-defense. Rather, Providence resembles the mother who gives to her
adolescent son the weapons with which he is to repel danger.
“These are the truths you should ceaselessly meditate; be sure, they are worthy of
universal attention. While believing in Providence, and also helping themselves,
they will unite piety with vigilance, and they will not regard the intervention of
deity incompatible with the exercise of virtue. Farewell! If you are wise, you
will repress your brother’s enterprises; you will anticipate ehe evils which threaten
to descend upon both the Egyptians and yourself; that is in your power; but if you
surrender to indulgence and weakness, you must from heaven expect no more than
a belated assistance.”
HYMN 1. ‘THE WORLD-SOUL.’
Intelligence cares only for the intellectual worlds. She is the source of -he precious
spirit which though remaining indivisible, animates mortal bodies. Though fallen
into matter, the Soul, ever imperishable, is a parcel of its divine authors, feeble
enough a parcel, indeed, but none the less of origin divine. Entire and single in all
places, entirely distributed into the great all, she causes the revolution of the celestial
vault. Presiding over the conservation of this universe, under divers forms she is
present everywhere. A part of this Sold directs the courses of the stars; another
rules the choirs of angels; another bending under the weight of heavy chains has put
on terrestrial form. Separated from her parents, she has drunk sad forgetfulness;
in her senseless preoccupations, she admires this miserable abode, and, in spite of
her divine origin, has no regards for aught but the earth. Still in her veiled eyes
remains some light; in those who have fallen here below remains a force that brings
them back to heaven when, escaping the currents of life, and released from cares,
they entered on the sacred path that leads to the palace of their Father.
Happy he who escaping the bellowings of voracious matter releases himself from
earth and wings a swift flight towards God! Happy he who, after cares and labors,
after such cruel anxieties here below, rushing on in the path of the Soul, has beheld
the depths of the sky resplendent with a light divine. Let us strive that our hearts
may be raised on the wings of celestial desires! Sustain the flight which raises you
towards intellectual things; the Father will reveal himself near you, and extend his
hand to you. A precursory ray will light your path, and will lead you into the
fields of the ideal, to the source of all beauty. Courage, therefore, O soul of mine!
Quench thy thirst at these crystelline springs; pray to the Father; rise towards him,
climb ever. To the earth leave things terrene. Soon united to thy author, and
divine in divinity, thou shalt enjoy supreme felicity!
HYMN 3. 'GOD IS PRAISED BY ALL THE SPIRITS.’
It is thou, O sovereign Master, who is celebrated by all these ministers whose
glances are brilliant, who govern the world, who animate the stars, and around
whom the vast universe moves. It is thou who art lauded by the choir of the blessed,
who in the world, around the world, in the zones, like wise guardians direct the
various parts of the world, at the side of the glorious pilots graduated from the
troups of angels; and the illustrious race of heroes who intervene by secret paths in
the works of mortals, though these themselves be mortal. It is thou who art praised
by both the firm and erect soul, and the soul that bows towards the thick darkness
of earth, and fruitful nature, and all that nature brings forth; for it is from thy
channels that issues and is distributed over the world the vital breath that to it
imparts movement.
* * * Suppliant, I used to lie down on the ground, with my tears I would wet
the ground; I besought the immortal spirits, thy servants, not to permit that I should
have undertaken this journey in vain (when he went as ambassador to the imperial
court in Thrace, for three years).
Give me, thy servant, to be able to stretch out the wings of my intelligence.
May my suppliant soul bear the imprint of thy paternal seal. This will be a scare­
crow to the enemy demons who rush into the abysses of the earth to whisper to
mortals impious thoughts; but it will allow me to be recognized by thy sacred min­
isters who, on the peaks of the universe, hold the key of the gates of the empyrean,
and who will introduce me into the abode of light * * * * the tranquil meadows of
the Father.
HYMN 4. ‘ANGELS LOVE HYMNS, AND CARRY PRAYERS.’
May those who disturb sacred hymns, the demons, friends of darkness, inhabitants
of the tombs, flee from my sacred prayers. But may those blessed ministers of the
celestial creator, who dwell in the depths and on the extremities of the universe, with
good-will listen to my hymns in honor of the Father, and carry him my supplica­
tions. . . .
Thou art the Master of intelligence, and thou dispensest it to divine beings, and to
those mortals who have received some drops of thought. Thou givest the soul to all
those whose life and activities are sustained only by the presence of the soul. . . .
Even the creatures which are not illuminated by the light of the soul depend on
thee; all the intellectless beings draw from thy breast the force which preserves them
from dissolution, and this force thou thyself drawest from the bosom ineffable of thy
Father, the mysterious monad. It is hence that springs the stream of life which,
passing through these intellectual worlds which our thoughts cannot comprehend, is
by thee shed abroad even to the ground. Thus from above descends the source of
goods which is received by this visible world, image of the intellectual.
Thou who art the dispenser of intelligible light, take pity on a suppliant soul!
* * * Give me for friend and companion, O king, the holy angel of sacred strength,
the angel of divine prayer, the amiable dispenser of the goods, the guardian of the
soul, and life, protector of prayers and actions! May he preserve my body pure
from sickness, my spirit from being soiled, and may be induce in my soul the
oblivion of passions.
HYMN 9. ‘ANGELS THE SOUL OF THE STARS.'
When, O king, thou didst ascend to the heavens, the innumerable troup of the
demons distributed in the airs shivered with fear; and the immortal choir of the
sacred stars marveled with awe.
PROCLUS, Providenial Angels, A.D. 412-485
After considering the Gods, let us study the messenger-angels who, if true to their
name, cannot admit any evil. The Gods’ interpreters must share their nature, and
understand them in order to elucidate their divine will to men. Proceeding from that
effulgence which is concealed in the recesses of Deity, and externalizing it, they
themselves must consist of divine light, and be the good that exudes from the un­
fathomable depths of the One. As the unities remain within that ineffable source,
from God’s fountain emanate the occult number, of which proceeding natures the
angelic order is the first. Therefore while they dwell in God’s vestibule they also
unfold their mystic silence. So as to be able to unite Divinity to the lower nature,
the angelic tribe is assimilated to the Gods* from whom it is suspended.
Now as the first of any series bears the image of its First Cause, and as its
characteristic is to be non-receptive to evil, so also must be the angelic nature. This
non-receptiveness obtains throughout the whole realm of nobler natures (angels,
geniuses and heroes,) all which are immaculately intellectual, the geniuses achieving
their intermediacy by combining the Gods’ generafiveness along with (the heroes’)
force.
Now as the geniuses rank below the angelic choir, it may prove interesting to
study their susceptibility to evil. W e hear of the geniuses’ passions; which may
derive from their life-vicissitudes, or be voluntary,—inasmuch as we hear of evil
and wicked geniuses (demons) who defile souls, and through iniquity lead them
down t» matter, down from their celestial journey to the subterranean realm where
they become susceptible to primary evil, and thus may properly be characterized as
good and evil.
Such doctrines are attributed to Plato’s dualism of exemplars in the universe, and
souls which are magnetically attracted thereto; those which reaching evil suffer the
punishment of their crimes.
There is a similar distinction among the denizens of Hades; some congregate
around its entrance, while others are dragged along by fierce and fiery demons who
will lacerate them on thorns and cast them into tie Tartarus. So Porphyry (Ab­
stinence, 2) asks whether the geniuses popularly called evil are such to themselves,
or only to others. The former are geniuses not really, but such only thro’ habit,
proximity and alliance, for essential geniuses remain such perpetually. If however
they are good in themselves, and evil only to others, then are they such only as
teachers who chastise pupils for their own good. For instance, if they keep the
vulgar from entering within the curtains, and from participating in the rites, for the
purpose of protecting the shrines from profanation, it is evidently not they who are
evil, but the vulgar who deserve such prohibitions.
It is indeed entirely proper that mundane geniuses should keep in custody near
the earth vicious souls unworthy of progression to the heavens, which is not evil
inasmuch as they are uniformly acting out their nature.
(The above is condensed from Proclus On Providence, page 95 of Thomas
Taylor’s translation.)
DIONYSIUS the AREOPAGITE, Celestial Hierarchies,
A.D. 500
3. NATURE AND USE OF HIERARCHY
Hierarchy is, in my judgment, a sacred order and science and energy,—assimilated,
as far as permissible, to the likeness of God, and conducted to the illuminations
granted to itself from God, in due order, with a view to divine imitation. Now the
divine attractiveness, as being uncompounded, as good, as source of imitation, is
altogether free from any dissimilarity. But it imparts its own proper light to each
according to their fitness, and perfect in most divine imitation in proportion to the
unvarying likeness of harmony with itself.
The scope, then, of Hierarchy is the assimilation and oneness with God, holding
Him as the leader of all religious science and energy, looking unflinchingly to His
most Divine comeliness, and moulding itself as far as possible, and perfecting its
own followers as Divine images, as mirror luminous and without flaw, receptive of
the primal light and the Divine ray, and devoutly filled with the radiance committed
to itself, but, on the other hand, spreading this radiance ungrudgingly to those after
it, in accordance with the Divinely-fixed regulations. For it is not permitted to the
initiates in Divine things, nor to those who are being religiously initiated, to practise
anything whatever beyond the sacred regulations of their own function. Nor even
must they attempt otherwise, if they desire to attain its deifying splendour, and if
they regard it in a religious light, and mould themselves after the example of each of
the holy minds. He then, who mentions Hierarchy describes a certain, altogether
Holy Order, an image of the Divine Beauty, which performs the mysteries of its own
illumination in due order and with religious science derived from the Hierarch, and
which is assimilated to its own proper author as far as permissible.
For each of those who have been called into the Hierarchy find their perfection
in being carried to the Divine imitation in their own proper degree; and, what is
more Divine than all, as the oracles say, in becoming a fellow-worker with God,
and in shewing the Divine energy dwelling in itself, manifested as far as possible to
others. For it is an Hierarchical regulation that some are purified and that others
purify; that some are enlightened and others enlighten; that some are perfected and
others perfect. So that each one will accomplish the Divine imitation in his own
several manners. The Divine Blessedness, then, to speak after the manner of men,
is unstained by any dissimilarity, but is filled with invisible light—perfect, and
needing no perfection; cleansing, illuminating and perfecting. Yea, rather it is a holy
purification and illumination and perfection—above purification, above light, pre­
eminently perfect, self-perfection, and cause of every Hierarchy, but elevated pre­
eminently above every holy thing. It is necessary then—and I think that those who
are being purified should be entirely perfected, so as to be without stain—that those
who are being illuminated should be filled with the Divine Light, conducted to the
habit and faculty of contemplation in all purity of mind, that those who are being
initiated should be separated from the profane, and become recipients of that science
which makes perfect the holy men who are initiated into the highest mysteries.
Further, that those who purify should impart from their own abundance of purity
their own proper holiness; that those who illuminate, as being luminous intelligences,
whose function it is to receive and to impart light, and who are joyfully filled with
holy gladness, that these should impart in proportion to their own overflowing light,
to those who are worthy of enlightenment. But that those who make perfect, as
being skilled in the impartation of perfection, should perfect those who are being
initiated, through the holy instruction, in the science of holy men who have been
initiated in the higher mysteries. Thus each rank of the Hierarchical Order is led
in its own degree to the Divine co-operation by performing, through grace and God-
given power, those mysteries which are essentially and super-essentially in the
Godhead, and are accomplished by it super-naturally, and are manifested to us
through our Hierarchy for its imitation of the God-loving minds to the highest per­
missible extent.
4. WHAT IS MEANT BY THE APELLATION "ANGEL”?
Now that the nature of the Hierarchy has been, in my judgment, sufficiently
defined, we must next celebrate the angelic Hierarchy, and we must contemplate with
celestial vision its sacred descriptions contained in the oracles, in order that we may
be borne aloft through the mystic representations to their most God-like simplicity,
and may celebrate the Author of all Hierarchical science, with God-becoming rever­
ence and with thanksgivings to the origin of mysteries. First of all, however, let
this truth be spoken—that it was through goodness that the super-essential Godhead,
having fixed the essence of created things, brought them into being. For this is the
peculiar characteristic of the cause of all things, and of goodness surpassing all, to
call created things to participation in itself, as each order of existence was determined
from its own analogy. For all created beings that exist share in a providence, bub­
bling forth from the super-substantial Godhead, Creator of all things. For they
would not be, unless they had participated in the essence and origin of things created.
All things then, without life, participate in it, by their existence. For the Being of
all things is the Godhead, which is above all Being. Things with life participate
in the life-giving power which is itself above all life. Things rational and intellectual
participate in the self-perfect and preeminently perfect wisdom which is above all
reason and mind. It is evident, then, that all those Beings dwell around Him, who
have participated in Him, in many forms. The holy ranks, then, of the heavenly
Beings, share in the participation of the Divine gifts in a higher degree than things
which merely exist, or which lead an irrational life, or which are rational like our­
selves. For by moulding themselves intellectually to the Divine imitation, and look­
ing from the earthly to the Divine likeness, and striving to mould their own spiritual
likeness after its example, they naturally have more ungrudging communications with
it, being near and ever moving upwards, as far as permissible, they elevate them­
selves with the intensity of the Divine unswerving love, and receive the primal il­
luminations without earthly stain and by moulding themselves to these, their whole
life becomes spiritual. These, then, are they who, at first hand and under many
forms, participate in the Divine, and, at first hand, and under many forms, make
known the hidden mysteries of the Godhead. Wherefore, beyond all, they are
deemed pre-eminently worthy of the angelic appellation on the ground that the Divine
illumination comes to them at first hand, and through them there pass to us manifesta­
tions above our capacities.
Thus, then, the Law, as the Word of God affirms, was given to us through the
ministration of Angels; and Angels led our illustrious fathers before the Law,and
after the Law to the Deity, either by leading them to what was to be done,and
separating them from error and an unholy life to the straight way of truth, or by
making known to them sacred ordinances, or hidden visions of celestial mysteries,
or certain Divine predictions through the Prophets. But if anyone should say that
Divine manifestations were made directly and immediately to some holy men, let
him learn, and that distinctly, fromthe most holy oracles, that no one hath seen nor
ever shall see, the hidden nature of God as it is in itself. But Divine manifestations
were made to those holy men as befits revelations of God, that is to say, through
certain holy visions adapted to those who saw them. Now the Word of God, in the
fulness of its wisdom, for the instruction of those who are contemplating the Divine,
naturally names “Divine manifestation,” that special vision which manifests that
Divine image, depicted in itself, as clothing informs things without form; as though
a Divine illumination were made through this to the spectators, and the godly persons
themselves received some religious initiation. But our illustrious fathers were in­
structed in these Divine visions, through the mediation of the heavenly powers. Does
not the teaching given to us in the oracles describe the holy legislation of the Law,
given to Moses, as coming straight from God, in order that it may teach us this
truth, that it is a type of a Divine and holy economy? But the Word of God, in its
wisdom, teaches this also—that it came to us by the mediation of Angels; as though
the Divine regulation were laying down this rule, that through the first, the second
are brought to God. For not only with regard to the superior and inferior minds,
but even amongst those who are of the same rank, this Law has been established
by the supreme Lawgiver—that within each Hierarchy there are first and middle, and
last ranks and powers, and that the more Divine are the instructors and conductors
of the inferior, to the Divine access, and illumination, and participation. But I observe
that Angels first revealed the Divine mystery of the love of Jesus towards man, since
through them the gift of knowledge passed to us. Thus for example, the most Divine
Gabriel instructed Zechariah, the High Priest, that the son who was to be born by
Divine grace, from him, beyond hope, should be a prophet, of the God-incarnate
work of our Jesus to be manifested to the world for its salvation, as becomes the
Divine goodness. But he revealed to Mary, how, in her, should take place the
Divinely-originated mystery of the unutterable God-formation. Yet another Angel
instructed Joseph how in very truth were fulfilled the things Divinely promised to his
ancestor David. Another announced to the shepherds, as being purified by their
separation from the multitude and their quiet life, and with him a multitude of the
heavenly host announced to those on earth that often sung doxology. Let us then
ascend to the highest manifestations of light contained in the oracles, for I perceive
that even Jesus, Himself, the supersubstantial cause of the highest heavenly Beings,
after He had come to our condition without change in Himself, did not over-step the
the good order which becomes mankind, which He, Himself, arranged and took, but
readily subjected Himself to the dispositions of the Father and God, through Angels,
and through their mediation was announced to Joseph the departure of the Son to
Egypt, which had been arranged by the Father, and again the return to Judea from
Egypt. We see Him further, subjecting Himself to the Father’s decrees. But I
forbear to speak, as addressing one who knows the teaching of our Hierarchical trad­
ition concerning the Angel who strengthened Jesus Himself; or that even Jesus Himself,
when He had come to manifest the good work of our salvation, was called Angel
of Great Counsel. For, as He Himself says, after the manner of an angel, "Whatso­
ever He heard from the Father, He declared to us.”
5. FOR WHAT REASON ALL THE HEAVENLY BEINGS ARE CALLED
BY THE COMMON NAMES OF ANGELS
This, then, in our judgment, is the reason for the angelic appellation given in the
oracles. We must now enquire for what reason the theologians call all the heavenly
Beings together, “Angels;” but when they come to a more accurate description of the
celestial orders, they name exclusively as angelic order that which completes the full
tale of the Divine and heavenly hosts. Before this, however, they arrange as the
superior the Orders of Archangels and the Principalities, Authorities and Powers, and
all the Orders that the revealing tradition of the oracles recognize as their superior.
Now, we affirm that throughout every sacred order the superior ranks possess the
the illuminations and powers of the subordinates, but the lowest orders have not
the same powers as those who are above them. The theologians, then, call the most
holy ranks of the highest Beings, “Angels,” for even they make known Divine il­
lumination. But there is no reason to call the lowest order of the celestial minds
Principalities, or Thrones, or Seraphim. For this order does not possess the highest
powers, but, as it were, by its own proper functions conructs our inspired Hierarchs
to the splendour of the Godhead known to itself. Thus, then, the saintly powers of
the Beings above this act as conductors towards the Divine of that order which com­
pletes the angelic Hierachies, Perhaps some may say this also, that all the angelic
appellations are common in so far as all the celestial powers possess, in a less or
greater degree, a fellowship in the likeness of God and in the gift of Light from God.
But, in order that the question may be thoroughly investigated, let us reverently
examine the saintly characteristics assigned to each celestial order in the oracles.
6. WHICH IS THE FIRST ORDER OF THE CELESTIAL BEINGS? WHICH
THE MIDDLE? AND WHICH THE LAST? c
How many, and of what sort arc the Orders of the super-celestial Beings, and
how the Hierarchies are initiated amongst themselves, I affirm the Divine Author of
their initiation alone distinctly knows. Further, that they know their own proper
powers .and illuminations, and their sacred and super-mundane regularity. For it is
impossible that we should know the mysteries of the super-celestial minds, and their
most holy perfections unless, someone might say, so far as the Godhead has revealed
to us through them who know perfectly their own condition. We, then, will utter
nothing as from ourselves, but whatever angelic visions have been gazed upon by
the holy Prophets of God, we, as interpreting these, will set forth as best we can.
The Word of God has designated the whole nine celestial Beings by appellations
which shew their functions. These our Divine Initiator divides into three threefold
orders. He also says that the first is that order which tradition declares to be always
around God, and united closely and immediately to Him before all the rest. For he
says that the teaching of the holy oracles that the Most Holy Thrones and the
many-eyed and many-wingcd ranks named in the Hebrew tongue Cherubim and
Seraphim are established immediately around God, with a nearness superior to all.
This three-fold order, then, our illustrious Guide affirmed to be one, and of equal
rank, and really first, than which there is not another more God-like or immediately
nearer to the earliest illuminations of the Godhead. But he says that the second is
that which is composed of the Authorities, and Lordships, and Powers, and the
third, as being the lowest of the celestial Hierarchies, is the Order of the Angels
and Archangels and Principalities.
7. CONCERNING THE SERAPHIM AND CHERUBIM AND THRONES, AND
CONCERNING THEIR HIERARCHY, WHICH IS FIRST
We, whilst admitting this as the arrangement of the Hierarchies, affirm that every
appellation of the celestial minds denotes the God-like characteristic of each; and
those who know Hebrew affirm that the holy designation of the Seraphim denotes
that they are fiery or burning; but that of Cherubim, a fullness of knowledge and
stream of wisdom. Naturally, then, the first of the heavenly Hierarchies is ministered
to by the most exalted beings, holding, as it does, a rank which is higher than all,
by the fact that it is established immediately around God, and that the first-wrought
Divine manifestations and perfections pass earlier to it, as being nearest. They are
called, then, Burning and Thrones, and Stream of Wisdom—by a name which ex­
plains their God-like dispositions. The appellation of Seraphim plainly teaches their
ever moving around things Divine, and constancy and warmth, and keenness, and
the seething of that persistent, indomitable and inflexible perpetual motion, and that
vigorous transformation of the subordinate, by precept and example, as giving new
life and rekindling them to the same heat; and purifying through fire and burnt offer­
ing, and the light-like and light-shedding characteristic which can never be concealed
or consumed, and remains always the same, which destroys and dispels every kind
of obscure darkness. But the appellation of the Cherubim denotes their knowledge
and their vision of God, and their readiness to receive the highest gift of light, and
their power of contemplating the Divine comeliness in its first revealed power, and
their being filled with the impartation which maketh wise, and their ungrudging com­
munication to those next to them by pouring forth the wisdom given to themselves.
The appellation of the most exalted and pre-eminent Thrones denotes their manifest
exaltation above every grovelling inferiority, and their celestial tendency towards
higher things; and their unanswering separation from all remoteness; and their in­
variable and firmly-fixed settlement around the veritable Highest, with the whole
force of their powers; and their capacity for receiving the approaches of the God­
head, through the absence of all passion and earthly tendency, and their hearing
God, and the ardent expansion for themselves for the Divine receptions. This, then,
is the explanation of their names, so far as we can give it, but we ought to say what
we think their Hierarchy is. For I suppose we have sufficiently shown above that
the purpose of every Hierarchy is an unswerving devotion to the imitation of the
Divine Likeness, and that every Hierarchical function is set apart for the sacred
reception and distribution of an undefiled purification, and Divine Light and perfecting
science.
But now I pray that I may speak worthily of the most exalted minds—how their
Hierarchy is exhibited through the oracles. t*
One must consider, then, that the Hierarchy belongs properly, and is in every
respect like, to the first Beings, who are established after the Godhead, who gave
them Being, and who are marshalled, as it were, in its very vestibule, who surpass
every unseen and seen created power. Now, so far as they are pure, we must
regard them, not as though they have been freed from unholy stains and blemishes.
nor as though (hey were unreceptive to earthly fancies, but as far exalted above all
stain of inferiority and every transient holiness in accordance with the highest degree
of purity—established above the most God-like powers, and clinging unflinchingly
to their own self-moved and same-moved order in their invariable love of God, con­
scious in no respect whatever of any declination to a worse condition, but having
the invariable fixity of their own God-like identity—never liable to fall, and always
unmoved.
Again, so far as they are contemplative, we must not regard them as contemplat­
ing sensible signs intellectually, or as being led to the Divine by the varied texture
of holy representations written for our meditation, but as being filled with all kinds
of unearthly knowledge of higher light, and satiated, as permissible, with the beauti­
fying and princely beauty super-essential and thrice manifested. Thus, deemed
worthy of Communion with Jesus, they do not stamp the deifying similitude in the
bodily forms of divinely-pictured images, but as being in very truth near to Him
in first enjoyment of the knowledge of His deifying illuminations. Further, because
the imitation of God is given to them in the highest possible degree, they participate,
so far as possible, in His God-wrought and philanthropic virtues, in the power of a
first manifestation. But, so far as they are perfected, we must not thing of them as
being illuminated with a sacred subtlety according to analytic science, but as being
filled with a first and pre-eminent deification, as following from the most exalted
science of the Divine operations which Angels can possibly possess. For, not
through other holy Beings, but from the very Godhead, are they directed in spiritual
things, by their elevation to itself immediately, by their power, and order, and rank
surpassing all. They are both planted near the All-Holy without any shadow of
turning, and are conducted for contemplation to the unearthly, immaterial, and
spiritual comeliness so far as possible, and to the reasons which make the Divine
operations, and as being first around God they are instructed from the source of
mystery itself, and supremely directed in Divine mysteries. Thus, then, the theo­
logians distinctly shew that the subordinate Orders of the heavenly Beings are
taught by the superior, in due order, the deifying sciences, and that those who are
higher than all are illuminated from the God-head itself, as far as permissible, in
revelations of the Divine Mysteries. For they introduce some of them as being
religiously instructed by (hose of a higher rank, that He, who was raised to Heaven
as befits man, is the Lord of the heavenly Powers and King of Glory. Others, as
putting the question to Jesus Himself, and as desiring to learn exactly the nature
of His Divine work on our behalf, and Jesus, as instructing them directly, and shew­
ing to them at first hand the work of His goodness out of love to man. “For I, He
says, am pondering over righteousness and judgment of Salvation.' Now I am as­
tonished that even the first of the Beings in Heaven, and so far above all others,
should reverently strive after the Divine illuminations, as though they were inter­
mediate Beings. For they do not ask directly, “Wherefore are the garments red?”
but they first raise the difficulty among themselves, thus shewing that they desire to
learn, and crave the deifying knowledge, but not impeding the Divine illumination
given to them after a Divine procedure. *
The first Hierarchy, then, of the heavenly minds is purified, and enlightened, and
perfected by being religiously directed by the Author of initiation Himself, by its
elevation to Himself immediately, and by being filled, according to its degree, with
the most holy purification of the unapproachable Light of the most perfect source of
initiation, and being sustained by any inferiority and fuli of primal Light, and per­
fected by its participation in first-given knowledge and science. But to sum up, I
may say this, not inappropriately, that the reception of Divine Science is both puri­
fication and enlightenment, and perfecting-purifying, as it were, from ignorance, by
the knowledge of the more perfect revelations imparted to it according to its fitness,
but enlightening by the self-same Divine knowledge, through which it also purifies
that order which did not before contemplate the things which are now made manifest
through the higher illumination; and perfecting further, by the self-same Light the
abiding science of the mysteries made clearly manifest. This, then, according to
my most accurate knowledge, is the first rank of the heavenly Beings which encircle
and stand immediately around God, aiv( without symbol, and without interruption,
dances around His eternal knowledge in the most exalted and ever-moving stability,
viewing with pure eyes many and blessed contemplations, but illuminated with unique
and immediate splendours, filled with a Divine nourishment—numerous indeed in its
first-given profusion, but one in the unvariegated and unifying oneness of the Divine
Food. It is thus deemed worthy of much participation and co-operation with God,
by the assimilation to Him, as far as possible, in excellent habits and energies. They
thus know many Divine things pre-eminently, and participate in Divine science and
knowledge to the utmost. Wherefore the Word of God has'transmitted their hymns
to those on earth, in which are Divinely shewn the excellency of its most exalted
illumination. For some of them, to speak after the manner of men, proclaim as the
“voice of many waters,” "Blessed is the glory of the Lord, from His place.” But
others cry aloud that most august appellation of God, “Holy, Holy, Lord of Sabaoth,”
"The whole earth is full of His glory.” These most excellent hymnologies of the
super-celestial minds, we have already unfolded to the best of our ability in the
Treatise concerning the Divine hymns, and have spoken sufficiently concerning them
in that Treatise, from which, by way of remembrance, it is enough to produce so
much as is necessary to our present purpose, namely, “That the first Order, having
been instructed in theological science from the Divine Goodness itself, as a Hierarchy
reflecting that Goodness, transmitted it to the Order next after itself.” To speak
briefly it teaches this: “That the august Godhead—itself both above praise, and all
praiseworthy—is rightly eulogised by the minds who receive God, so far as He is
permitted to be known and sung. For they, according to the oracles, as images of
God, are the Divine places of the Divine repose. Yea, further, they affirm that He
is alone and One of the three-fold subsistence, sending forth His most kindly fore­
thought to all created things, from the super-celestial minds to the lowest of the earth;
as Prince above principality and cause of all creation, and grasping all things super-
naturally in His resistless embrace.
8. CONCERNING LORDSHIPS AND POWERS AND AUTHORITIES, AND
CONCERNING THEIR MIDDLE HIERARCHY
Let us now pass to the middle order of the heavenly minds, gazing as far as we
may, with celestial vision at those Lordships and the truly terrible visions of the
Divine Authorities and Powers. For each appellation of the minds above us denotes
those characteristics by which they Divinely imitate the Divine Likeness. I think,
then, that the explanatory name of the Holy Lordships denotes a certain unslavish
tendency to higher things, free from all groveling subserviency, which does not sub­
mit in any way whatever to one single imperious force dissimilar to itself, as befits
the freedom of unbending Lordship, superior to every kind of cringing slavery, in­
domitable to every lower tendency, and elevated above dissimilarity, ever seeking
the true Lordship, and source of Lordship; and moulding as an image of goodness,
itself and those after it, to His Lordly Likeness, turning itself wholly to more .of
the things that vainly seem, but to the Lordly Being, and ever sharing in the Lordly
Likeness of God. The appellation of the Holy Powers denotes the possession to the
highest possible extent of a certain masculine and unflinching manliness towards all
those God-like energies within themselves—not feebly weak, for the reception of any
of the Divine illuminations vouchsafed to it—vigorously conducting itself to the
Divine imitation; not forsaking the Godlike movement through its own cowardice, but
unflinchingly looking to the super-essential and powerful making Power; and becoming
an image of this, as far as is permissible, in the likeness of His power, and powerfully
turning itself to this as Source of Power, but issuing forth to those next in degree,
in its gift of Power and in its likeness to God. But the appellation of the Holy
Authorities denotes their being of the same rank as the Divine Lordships and Powers,
their beautiful and unconfused good order with regard to the Divine receptions, and
the marshalling of the celestial and spiritual authority, not using their authoritative
powers imperiously for base purposes, but conducting themselves in the highest pos­
sible degree towards Divine things in due order, and conducting those after them
benignly; and being assimilated, as far as permissible to the Authority giving Source
of Authority, and making this visible, as is possible to Angels, in the well-ordered
regulations of the Authority giving power. The middle order of the heavenly minds,
having these God-like characteristics, is purified and illuminated in the manner de­
scribed through the Divine illuminations vouchsafed to it at second hand, which pass
through the first Hierarchical Order, and through this middle as a secondary mani­
festation. Without dwelling upon that message, which is said to pass through one
angel to another, let us take it as a symbol of a message delivered from afar, and
obscured in its passage so as to become a secondary revelation. For, as men skilled
in our initiation say, the knowledge of Divine things, manifested directly to ourselves,
is more perfect than the Divine contemplations imparted through others. This, I
think, with regard to the angelic ranks, the immediate participation in knowledge
of those elevated to the nearest proximity to God, is more clear than that of those
who are initiated through the instrumentality of others. Wherefore, by our sacer­
dotal tradition, the first minds are named, perfecting, illuminating, and purifying
Powers, of the subordinate on the ground that these are conducted through them to
the super-essential Origin of all things; and are placed in possession, as far as is
permissible to them, of the consecrating purifications, and illuminations, and perfec­
tions. For this is absolutely fixed by the Divinely-established law of consecration,
that through the first, the second should partake of the Divine illuminations. This
you will find declared by theologians in many ways. For when the Divine and
Paternal Love towards man has chastened in a remarkable manner, His people Israel,
with a view to their spiritual salvation, and had delivered them to terrible and savage
nations for correction, by every kind of providential training to better things, He
both liberated them from their misery, and led them back, through His compassion,
to their former state of comfort. Then, one of the theologians, Zechariah, saw in
a vision one of the first Angels, as I think, around God (for the name Angels is
common, as I said, to them all), who learned from God Himself the comforting words,
as we say, concerning this matter. But he saw another Angel, of inferior rank,
advancing to meet the first Angel, for the purpose of receiving and explaining an
illumination. Then, from him, instructed as from a Hierarch, and charged to reveal
to the theologian, that Jerusalem should be abundantly occupied by a multitude of
people. But another theologian, Ezekiel, says that this was righteously ordained by
the glorious Godhead Itself, exalted above the Cherubim. For the Paternal Love
towards man, whilst conducting Israel through an education to better things, by a
righteousness worthy of God, decided to separate the guilty from the guiltless. This
is revealed to one first after the Cherubim—He who was bound about the loins with
a sapphire, and wore displayed the hierarchical robe coming down to the feet as a
symbol of Hierarchical Office. But the other Angels, who bore the battle-axe, the
Divine Government compels to be instructed from the former, as to the Divine
judgment in this matter. For, to one, He said that he should go through the midst
of Jerusalem, and place the sign upon the forehead of the just men. But to the others,
"Go into the city after him and strike, and spare not your eyes, but to every one
upon whom is the sign draw not near.”
What would any one say concerning the Angel who said to Daniel, “The word
has gone forth?” or concerning him of the first Order, who took the fire from the
midst of the Cherubim; or what is more remarkable than this, foreshowing the good
order that reigns amongst the Angels, the Cherubim casts the fire into the hands
of him wearing the sacred stole; or concerning him who called the most Divine
Gabriel, and said to him, “Make this man understand the vision,” or whatever else
is recorded by the holy theologians concerning the God-like Order of the celestial
Hierarchies, to which the good order of our Hierarchy, after being assimilated to
the greatest possible extent, will bear the likeness of the Angelic comeliness, as it
were, in reflection, taking its whole form from this, and conducted to the super-
essential source of order in every Hierarchy.
9. CONCERNING THE PRINCIPALITIES, ARCHANGELS AND ANGELS,
AND CONCERNING THEIR HIERARCHY WHICH IS LAST
There remains for our religious contemplation an Order which completes the
Angelic Hierarchies, which is composed of the God-like Principalities, Archangels
and Angels. I think it necessary, first to declare the meaning of their sacred ap-
pellations. For the appellation of the heavenly Principalities denotes their ruling and
guiding after the Divine example with religious order most befitting the Princely
Powers, and their being wholly turned to the Principality above Principality, and
their directing others in a princely fashion, and their being moulded to the disting­
uished Principality itself, the Maker of Princedom, and that they make manifest their
super-essential Source of Order by the regularity of their princely powers.
The Order of the Holy Archangels is of the same rank with the heavenly Prin­
cipalities. For there is one Hierarchy and rank, as I said, of themselves and the
Angels. But since there is not a Hierarchy which does not possess first and middle
and last powers, the Holy Order of Archangels occupies the middle position in (he
Hierarchy between the extremes. For it belongs alike to the most holy Principalides
and to the Holy Angels. To the Principalities because it is turned into a princely
fashion to the super-essential Prince, and is moulded to it as far as possible, and
unites the Angels after the fashion of its own well-regulated and marshalled and in­
visible Leadership. But it belongs to the Angels because it is of the prophetic Order,
receiving in a sacerdotal fashion the Divine illumination from the first powers, and
conveys the same to the Angels after the example of God, and through Angels
manifested them to us in proportion to the sacred aptitude of each one of the godly
persons illuminated. For the Angels, as we have already previously said, complete
the whole series of celestial minds as being the last Order of the heavenly Beings,
who possess the Angelic characteristic. Yea, rather, they are more properly named
Angels by us than those of Che higher degree. Especially because their Order is
occupied in making known, and is more particularly concerned with the things of the
world. For the very highest Order, as being placed in the first rank near the Hidden
One, we must consider as directing in spiritual things in a more hidden fashion than
the Order next to itself. But the second Order, which is composed of the holy
Lordships and Powers and Authorities, directs the Hierarchy of the Principalities and
Archangels and Angels more clearly indeed than the first Hierarchy, but more hiddenly
than the Order after it. We must bear in mind that the more revealing Order of
the Principalities, Archangels and Angels preside through each other over the Hier­
archies amongst men, in order that the instruction, and conversion, and communion,
and union with God may be in due order, and, in short, that the procession from
God vouchsafed in a manner becoming His goodness to all the Hierarchies, and pass­
ing to all in common, may be in a most sacred regularity. Hence, the Word of God
has assigned our Hierarchy to Angels, naming the distinguished Michael as ruler of
the Jewish people, and others over the nations. For the Most High established
borders of nations according to the number of Angels of God. But if anyone should
say, “How then were the people of the Hebrews alone conducted to the Divine il­
lumination?” we must answer that we ought not to throw the blame of the other
nations wandering after those which are no gods, upon the faithful superintendence
of the Angels. But they themselves, by their own declension, fell away from the
faithful conduct towards the Divine, through self-conceit and self-will, and through
their irrational reverence for things which appeared to themselves worthy of God.
Even the Hebrew people are testified to have suffered the same thing; for He says,
“Thou hast cast away knowledge of God, and has gone after thine own heart.”
For neither have we a life governed by necessity, nor, on account of the free will
of those who are objects of providential care, are the Divine rays of the providential
illumination blunted. But the inaptitude of the mental visions makes the overflowing
Gift of Light, which comes from Paternal goodness, either altogether unparticipated
or impenetrable to their existence, or makes the participations of the one fontal ray,
diverse, small or great, obscure or brilliant, although that ray is one and simple,
and always the same, and ever overflowing. For even over the other nations, from
whom even we have emerged to that boundless and bounteous sea of Divine Light,
which is expanded for the ready reception of all, there were not placed certain alien
gods. But there is one Prince of All, and to Him the Angels who religiously direct
each nation conduct those who follow them. Let us consider Melchizedek as being
a Hierarch, most dear to God, not of gods which are not, but of Him who is truly
most high God. For the godly wise not only speak of him as being dear to God,
but also as Priest, in order that they may clearly shew to the wise that not only was
he himself turned to the true God, but further, that he became as Hierarch, a guide
to others, in that wisdom which leads to the true and only Godhead.
Let me also recall this to your Hierarchical judgment that both to Pharaoah, from
the Angel who presided over the Egyptians, and to the Babylonian Prince, from his
own Angel, the watchful and ruling care of the Providence and Lordship over all
was made known in visions. And leaders who were worshippers of the true God
were appointed over those nations. For the interpretation of things shaped by angelic
visions was made known from God through Angels to the holy men akin to the
Angels—Daniel and Joseph. For there is one Prince and Providence over all. And
never must we think that the Godhead guides Jews by lot, but that Angels, inde­
pendently, or as of equal rank, or as in opposition, or that certain other gods preside
over the other nations. But that particular phrase of the Divine Word, must be
accepted according to its very religious intention; not as though God had divided
government amongst men with other gods or Angels, and had been elected by lot
to the government and leadership of Israel, but in this sense—that, whereas there is
one and the same forethought of the Supreme over all, which has assigned all men
for their salvation to the elevating guidance of their own Angels, yet Israel, almost
alone in comparison with the rest, turned itself to the Light-Gift, and recognition of
the true Lord. Hence, the Word of God, in order to shew that Israel himself elected
for the worship of the true God, says this, "He became the Lord’s portion.” But as
shewing that he was distributed equally with the other nations, to one of the holy
Angels, for the recognition through him of the one Prince over all, he said, "That
Michael was the Leader of the Jewish people.” From this it is evident that there
is one Providence for the whole, pre-eminently established above all powers, unseen
and seen, and that all the Angels who preside over each nation elevate as far as
possible those who follow them with a willing mind, to Itself as their proper Head.
10. A REPETITION AND SUMMARY CONCERNING THE ANGELIC ORDER
We have concluded, then, that the most exalted order of the minds around God,
whilst being sanctified by the perfecting illumination, is purified, and illuminated, and
perfected by a gift of Light, at once more hidden and more manifest—more hidden,
indeed, as being more intellectual, and more simplifying, and more unifying—more
manifest, as being a first gift and a first manifestation, and more complete, and more
shed forth to it as being more transparent. But from this order again, in due degree,
the second, and from the second, the third, and from the third our Hierarchy is
religiously conducted to the Beginning above beginning, and end of all good order,
according to the self-same law of well-ordered regularity, in Divine harmony and
proportion. But all Angels are interpreters of those above them; the very highest,
indeed, of God, who moves them, but the rest in due order of those who have been
moved by God. For, to such an extent has the super-essential harmony of all things
provided for the religious order, and the regulated conduct of each of the rational
and intellectual beings, that each rank of Hierarchies has been placed in sacred
order, and we observe every Hierarchy distributed into the first and middle and last
Powers. But to speak accurately, He divided each order itself, by the same Divine
harmonies, on which account the theologians say that the most Divine Seraphim
cry one to another, indicating distinctly, as I think, by this that the first impart their
theological knowledge to the second. I might add this not inappropriately that each
celestial and human mind has within itself its own special first and middle and last
rank and power, corresponding to the aforesaid peculiar instructions of the several
Hierarchical illuminations made known in due order, in accordance with which each
one participates, as far as is lawful and permissible to himself, in the most spotless
purification, the most copious light, the pre-eminent perfection. For there is nothing
that is self-perfect, or absolutely without need of perfecting, except the self-perfect
and pre-eminently perfect One.
11. FOR WHAT REASON ALL THE CELESTIAL BEINGS, IN COMMON
ARE CALLED CELESTIAL POWERS
Now that we have defined these things, it is worthy of consideration why we
should be accustomed to call all the angelic Beings together, celestial Powers. For
it is not possible to say, as with regard to the Angels, that the Order of the holy
Powers is last of all. The Orders of the superior Beings share in the holy illumina­
tions of the last; but the last in no degree of the first; and on this account all the
holy minds are called celestial powers, but never Seraphim and Thrones and Lord'
ships. For the last do not enjoy the whole characteristics of the highest. For the
Angels, and those above the Angels, Archangels and Principalities and Authorities,
whilst being placed after the Powers, by the Word of God, are often called by us,
in conjunction with the other holy Beings, heavenly Powers. But we affirm that
whilst often using the appellation of celesdal Powers for all in common, we do not
introduce a sort of confusion of the characteristic of each Order. Now, inasmuch
as all the Divine minds are divided into three, in the celestial description given of
them—into substance and power and energy—when we speak of them all, or some
of them, indiscriminately, as celestial Beings or celestial Powers, we must consider
that we describe those about whom we speak in a general way, from the substance or
power of each of them. For we must not apply the superior characteristic of those
holy Powers, whom we have already sufficiently distinguished, to the Beings which
are entirely inferior to them, so as to overthrow the unconfused order of the angelic
ranks. According to the correct account which we have already frequently given,
the superior Orders possess abundantly the sacred characteristics of the inferior, but
the lowest do not possess the superior completeness of the highest. For the first-
manifested illuminations are revealed to them, through the first Order, in proportion
to their capacity.
12. WHY HUMAN HIERARCHS ARE CALLED ANGELS
But this is sometimes also asked by diligent readers of the oracles. Since the
lowest Orders do not possess the completeness of the superior for what reason is
our Hierarch named by the oracles “Angel of the Lord Omnipotent?” Now the
statement, as I think, is not contrary to what has been before defined, for we say
that the last lack the whole and pre-eminent Power of the most exalted Orders.
For they possess in part and degree according to the one harmonious and binding
fellowship of all things. For example, the Order of the holy Cherubim possess
wisdom and knowledge in a higher degree. But the Orders of the Beings beneath
them possess also themselves wisdom and knowledge, but nevertheless partially as
compared with them and in a lower degree. For the possession of wisdom through-
out is common to all the spiritual which bear the image of God. But the being near
and first, or second and inferior, is not common, but as has been determined for
each in its own degrees. This also one might safely define respecting all the spiritual
minds, for, as the first possess abundantly the goodly characteristics of the inferior,
so the last possess those goodly qualities, not indeed in the same degree, but sub­
ordinate^. There is, then, as I think, nothing absurd if the Word of God calls our
Hierarch Angel, since he participates, according to his own capacity, in the prophetic
characteristic of the Angels, and elevates himself, as far as possible, to the likeness
of their interpreting powers. But you will find that the Word of God calls gods,
both the celestial Beings above us, and the holy men amongst us, who are most
beloved of God, although the Divine Hiddenness is transcendently elevated and
established above all, and no created Being can properly and entirely be said to be
like unto It, except those intellectual and rational Beings who are entirely and wholly
turned to its Oneness, as far as possible, and who elevate themselves indomitably to
its Divine illuminations by their imitation of God, if I may so speak, according to
their power, and are deemed worthy of the same appellation as God.
13. FOR WHAT REASON THE PROPHET ISAIAH IS SAID TO HAVE
BEEN PURIFIED BY THE SERAPHIM
Come, then, let us examine this as best we can, why one of the Seraphim is said
to be sent to one of the theologians. For some one may object that not one of the
inferior Angels, but one himself enrolled amongst the very highest Beings cleanses
the Prophet. Some, indeed, do affirm that, according to the definition already given
of the mutual relation of ail the Minds, this portion of the Word of God does not
name one of the highest around God as having come for the cleansing of the theo-
logian, but that some one of the Angels placed over us as a sacred Minister of the
Prophet's cleansing is called by the same name as the Seraphim, on the ground that
the removal of the fault spoken of and the restoration of him who was cleansed
to the Divine obedience was through fire; and they say that this oracle speaks simply
of one of the Seraphim, not of those who are established around God, but of the
Powers established over us for the purpose of cleansing. Now another brought
forward to me by no means foolish defense of this present position. For he said that
that great One, whoever he might be—the Angel who formed this vision—for the
purpose of teaching the theologian Divine things, referred his own cleansing function
to God, and after God, to the first working Hierarchy. And was not this statement
true? For he who said this affirmed that the Divine Power passes to all in its frequent
visitations, and penetrates all irresistibly, and yet Is invisible to all, not only as being
super-essentially elevated above all, but as secretly transmitting its providential
energies to all; yea, rather, it is manifested to all the spiritual Beings in due degree,
and conducts its own gift ofLight to the most reverend of Beings, through whom,
as being of the first Order, itself distributes in due order to the subordinate in
proportion to the power of each Order to bear the vision of God. Or to speak more
strictly, and through familiar illustrations (for if they fall short of the Glory of God,
Who is exalted above all, yet they are more instructive to us), the transmission of
the sun’s ray passes most easily to matter of the first Order, as being more trans­
parent than all, and through this lights up its own splendour more brilliantly. But
when it strikes more dense matter, its transmitted brilliancy becomes more obscure,
from the inaptitude of the matter illuminated for the transmission of the gift of Light.
And from this it is, little by little, contraced so as to almost perfectly exclude the
passage of Light. Again,the heat of fire transmits itself chiefly to things that are
more receptive, and yielding, and conducive to assimilation to itself. But as regards
repellent substances, either it leaves none, or a very light trace of its fiery energy;
more than this, when it comes in contact with things not congenial, through substances
favorable to its proper action. First, if it chance to inflame things easily changed
to its heat, and through them, either water or some other substance which is not
easily heated, it heats them in proportion to their capacity. After the same rule,
then, of Nature's well-ordered method, the .primal regulation of all good order, both
visible and invisible, manifests super-naturafiy the brightness of its own gift of Light
to the most exalted Beings in abundant streams of first-manifestation, and through
these the Beings after them partake of the Divine ray. For these, as first knowing
God, and striving pre-eminently after Divine virtue and to become first-workers, are
deemed worthy of the power and energy for the imitation of God, to the utmost
degree. And these lovingly elevate the Beings after them to an equality with them­
selves, as far as possible, by imparting ungrudgingly to them the splendour which
rests upon themselves, and these again to those subordinate. Throughout every
Order the first rank imparts its gift to that after it. The Divine Light thus rests
upon all, in due proportion, with providential fore-thought. There is, then, for all
those who are illuminated, a Source of illumination—God that is, naturally and really
and properly, as Essence of Light, and Cause of Being and Vision itself. But, by
ordinance and by Divine imitation, the superior Order is successively the Source'to
that Order which follows it, by the fact that the Divine rays are poured through
this to that. All the remaining Angels, then, naturally regard the highest Order
of the heavenly Minds as Source of every sacred knowledge and imitation of God,
since through them the Divine illumination is distributed to all, and even to us.
Wherefore they refer every holy energy of Divine imitation to God indeed as Cause,
but to the first God-like minds as being first authors and teachers of Divine things.
The first Order, then, of the holy Angels, possess more than all, the characteristic
of fire; and the distribution of the streams of Divine wisdom; and the faculty of
knowing the highest science of the Divine illuminations; and the characterstic of
Thrones, exhibiting their expansion for the reception of God. But the ranks of the
subordinate Beings possess the faculty of fire, of wisdom, of knowledge, of Divine
reception—but in a lower degree. And looking to the first, and through them, as
being worthy of the Divine imitation.in the first degree, they are conducted to •the
highest possible likeness of God. The aforesaid holy characteristics, then, which the
Beings after them possess through the first, they attribute to those Beings themselves
as Hierarchs alter God.
He who said this, was accustomed to affirm that this vision was shown to the
Theologian through one of the holy and blessed Angels who are set over us, and
from his illuminating direction that he, the Prophet, was elevated to that spiritual
vision in which he saw the most exalted Beings, to speak symbolically, fixed
under .God, and with God, and around God, and the Supreme Eminence above all
eminence, elevated unspeakably above all seated on high in the midst of the most
exalted Beings. The Theologian then learned, from the things seen, that as compared
with every super-essential pre-eminence, the Divine was seated above every visible
and invisible power, and that .He sis exalted above all, as Absolute—
-not even com­
parable to the first of created Beings. Further, also, that He is the very Being of all,
and Cause of all cause, and unalterable centre of the undissolved continuance of
all, from Whom is both the being and the well-being of the most exalted Powers
themselves. Then he was instructed in tlje God-like qualities of the most holy
Seraphim, whose sacred apellation signifies the Fiery, concerning which we shall
shortly speak, so as to shew as best we can, the hidden mysteries of the empyrian
faculty which leads to Divine imitation. But when the holy Prophet viewed the
free and most exalted restoration to the Divine, in first, middle and last conceptions,
as depicted in,;the representation of the six wipgs; and further, when he contem­
plated their innumerable feet and many faces, and their extended wings—some under
their feet and the other over their faces, and their perpetual movement of their
middle wings—he was brought to the intellectual knowledge of the things seen.
Since there was manifested to him the power of the most exalted minds for deep
penetration and numerous contemplation, and their sacred reverence which they have,
above earthly Beings, for the bold, and courageous, and impossible scrutiny jnto
higher and deeper mysteries; and the incessant and high-flying perpetual movement
in their orderly striving after the Divine imitation, but .he was also taught
the hidden mysteries of that Divine and much esteemed heavenly Hymn of
Praise — the Angel, whilst forming the vision, imparting, as far as possible,
his own Divine knowledge to the Theologian. He also taught him this, that
the participaltion, as far as possible, in the Divine and radiant purity, is a puri­
fication to the pure, in whatever degree. But this being accomplished from the very
Godhead by most exalted causes to all the sacred Minds by a super-natural Hidden­
ness, is in a manner more manifest, and exhibits and distributes itself in a higher
degree to the highest powers around itself. But with regard to the second, or us
the lowest intellectual powers, as each is distant as regards the Divine likeness from
itself, as it contracts its brilliant manifestation to the single unknowableness of its
own hiddenness. But he illuminates the second, severally through the first; and if
one must speak briefly, he is firstly brought from hiddenness to manifestation through
the .first Powers. This, then, the Theologian was taught by the Angel who was
leading him to Light—that purification and all the Divine energies, being made known
through the first Beings, are distributed to all the rest, according to the aptitude of
each for the deifying participation. Wherefore, also, the characteristic of purification
by fire he naturally attributed to the Seraphim after God. There is nothing, then
absurd if the Seraphim is said to purify the Prophet. For, as God purifies all, by
being cause of all purification, yea, rather (for I use a familiar illustration), as our
Hierarch, when purifying or enlightening through his Deacons or Priests, is said him­
self to purify and enlighten, since the Orders consecrated through him attribute to
him their own proper functions; so also the Angel who effected the purification of
the Prophet attributed his own purifying science and power to God, as Cause, but
to the Seraphim as first-operating Hierarch. As any one might say with Angelic
reverence, whilst teaching one who was being purified by himself, “There is a pre­
eminent Source, and Essence, and Worker, and Cause of the cleansing wrought upon
you from me—He Who brings both the first Beings into Being, and holds them'
together by their fixity around Himself, and keeps them without change and without
fall; moving them to the first participations of His own Providential energies. For
this He who taught me these things used to say that this shews the mission of ■
‘he
Seraphim. - • -
WORLD S REPOSITORY OF RELIGIOUS EXPERIENCES
HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED BY ITS SECRETARY AT TEOCALLI,
NORTH YONKERS, N. Y.
FOR THE FOLLOWING OBJECTS
1. To secure for God’s Work in this world the benefits arising from cooperation
with the elimination of waste, discouragement, and confusion incident on competition;
benefits of organization which Business demonstrates.
2. To establish a clearing-house for God’s modern dealings with men whereby
religious experiences may be collected, classified, published, resulting in standardiza­
tion, and utilization for achievement individual and social.
WHAT ARE OUR REQUIREMENTS?
1. Safety demands that all contributions be signed and addressed, tho' not neces­
sarily for publication; they must be typewritten in duplicate on one side of the paper
2. Tho' we intend to please and benefit everybody, we realize that if the work
is to be kept unworldly and responsive to Guidance, we cannot expect any margin
of capital, nor can we entangle ourselves in any responsibilities, such as extensive
correspondence, (return postage must always be enclosed, and we cannot promise
return of any MSS). Those who wish our work to prosper will have to cooperate
by book orders or unhampered gifts, or securing new Experience Reports, or In-
teressee-lists.
WHAT EXPERIENCE-REPORTS DO W E WANT?
We would like to hear of Prayer-Answers, Providential Guidances, Coincidences,
Prognostications, Verified Dreams, Anaesthesia Experiences, Reincamational Remin­
iscences, Parental Memorials, Inspiration, Initiation.
We have ready, at 60 cents, the First Volume of our Reports.
BROTHERHOOD OF MUTUAL PRAYER
Intercessory Membership
INVITATION
The object of this organization is to secure the benefits of organized system,
efficiency and encouragement to persons who are desirous of serving humanity as
interceders for those who are in trouble, need, sickness or any other adversity.
The Bible and the Church teach that the Lord Himself, on his throne, is acting
as our High Priest, as advocate with the Father, at the Mercy-seat. From this
ministry of service as Comforter or Advocate, which makes of those who exercise
it kings and priests unto God, no one is excluded, not even children, the poor, the
shut in, the blind or the outcast.
But to accomplish this easily, fruitfully and without wasted time or effort, it is
advisable to join in an organization that will transform these vague aspirations into
a definite habit, supply names to be prayed for, and pray for persons that we know
to be in need greater than we can relieve.
To this end you are invited to become an Intercessor of the world-wide Brother­
hood of Mutual Prayer, thus acting as Joshua and Nun, who steadied Moses’ hands
raised in prayer until the setting of the sun, when the hosts of the Amalekites were
driven away for ever, and the Lord’s people delivered.
The only expenses you are expected to pay is the postage to and from you. The
work will be continued so long as the Lord supports it by voluntary contributions.
This work is democratic and mutual. If you desire to join in it, fill out the blank
on the next page. Welcome!
Brotherhood of Mutual Prayer
S ecretary, T eocalll, N orth Y onkers, N . Y.
APPLICATION BLANK: Believing that Prayer should be:
1. U N SE L FISH , gratuitous, intercessionary and con secrated ; 2. SEL F-R E SPE C T IN G ,
therefore earned and m utual; 3. R EASO NABLE, therefore Nine social and system atic; 4. P R E ­
VAILING , therefore organized and supervised; 5. SE R E N E , th erefore regular and private;
6. IN SPIR E D , therefore receptive and educative; 7. SA C R ED , therefore invoking th e Presence;
8. N O N -PR IV ILEG ED , therefore open to all; and being w illin g to join th e w eek ly united
Prayer-com m union at 7 p.m .; S aturdays, E. T. I ask for adm ission to the BROTHERHOOD
BROTHERHOOD OF MUTUAL PRAYER—INTERCESSIVE—2
O F M U TU A L PR A Y E R . a s a n In te rcesso r. an d belli}; w illing to abid e by all its ru les, re g u la ­
tio n s, a n d decisions, I sign m y n am e in full.
N A M E IN F U L L ......................................................................................................................................................................
F U L L A D D R E SS ....................................................................................................................................................................
E X A C T BIR T H -D A T E ........................................................................................................................................................
The above is recognized as an Intercessor of Hie It. of M. I*., a s Intercessor Now .................... ..
SECRETARY: _ ___
INSTRUCTIONS FOR INTERCESSORS
1. Tray for people not m erely by nam e, but for 10 m inutes at a tim e; or till an answ er is
received; th e standard being to pray until an answ er is received. P rayer m u st be prevailing.
2. U su ally th e m ost undisturbed prayer-tim es are m idnight, five a.m .. or noon. Choose your
ow n. :t. R equests for prayer for som e person m ust be renewed w eek ly; otherw ise it w ill be.
assum ed the prayer w as answ ered. Full nam e and address is required, 4. You w ill be recog­
nized a s an Intercessor only so long a s you attend th e w eekly prayer-com m union by m ailing the
S aturday evening report to th e Secretary. M embership is never m ore than tem porary, and lap ses
autom atically w hen the Secretary lias not heard from you for one m onth. A fter th a t a request
for readm ittance is in order. So long as you rem ain an active m em ber, yon w ill receive a w eekly
postal request for prayer. P lease fill out the card com pletely, om itting no inform ation asked for.
Lapsed m em bers are on t-lie retired list, and w ill never be entirely forsaken in prayer by the
C entral Croup; but reciprocity counsels th at Intercessors live up to th eir w eekly report. 5. The
fu ller your letters to the Secretary are, the better you can be helped. All is confidential. 6.
Your first application w ill not be accepted unless accom panied by one d ollar for postage, w rap­
ping, etc., on the Brotherhood L iterature and the "Communion w ith God,” books th at w ill help
you. and direct you, and keep you sa fe. 7. A ll m em bers are invited to .join in the C hristm as,
E a sie r and All Saints* D ay m idnight w orship, w herever they happen to be. 8. To qualify for
th e P rogressive M embership you m ust present th e follow ing evidence (plense use paper conven­
ient for filing, say 5*^ by 8). a. Statem en t you keep a Record of Experience Book, or D iary;
<see Malacflii iii. 1(5). I). H aving established a sanctuary, and keeping a regular prayer-hour in
it. c. H aving read through som e Scripture, com pletely. (Find suggestions on another page.)
d. A ttendance at 12 w eekly m eetin gs, in your ow n room . e. Copy of w hat m essages you have
received, f. G aining a t lea st one new m em ber for the B. M. I*, g. Account of six divine ex­
periences.
INSTR UC TIO N S FO R A N E X P E R IE N C E RECORD OR REM EM BRANCE BOOK
The object of th e book, recom m ended in M alaclii iii. 16, is Hi ob jectify, or render definite
your ow n divine experiences, w hether th ey be an sw ers to prayer, hearing of th e divine voice of
conscience, in stances of guidance, w arnings, experiences of th e divine Presence, som e m essage,
som e blessing, som e consolation, som e dream of instruction, w arning, revelation, or initiation.
.So long as th ey are left unrecorded, they are not objective fa c ts; and thus u seless to others.
N ot a sin gle life lack s them , but because they rem ain unrecorded, the receiver m ay not even
realize their true nature. T his is th e object of th e experience book, or rem em brance record.
1. Get a special blank book th a t is durable. 2. W hen alone, preferably w ith locked door, hold
it in your hand, and w ith all your available fervor, dedicate it, speaking aloud, to your H m venly
F ath er, askin g H is inspiration on all you m ay w rite in it. Continue until from w ithin you re­
ceive interior assu ran ce of acceptation. 3. On th e first page, w rite out a self-consecration to
your ow n God, and paste in it w hatever sec red m em entoes you m ay p ossess, am ongst which
m ight be th is booklet. 4. V ery m inutely review your past life, and record your holiest exper­
iences sin ce childhood, in w hich you clearly distinguish the D ivine. 5. Keep it private and holy,
by never presum ing to w rite in it w ithout a prayer for special inspiration. Should you desecrate
it by an y trivial or foreign w riting, th e divine influence may cease tak in g charge over th e book,
and*it m ay only be a fter som e tim e, and prevailing prayer th a t you w ill be inade conscious that
th e D ivine has* reassum ed ch arge over it. 6. T his book should be re-read a t steady intervals,
say once a m onth, adding to it w hatever new evidences of divinity your life m ay boast of. This
is not so m uch a duty, a s a p rivilege.
INSTRUCTIO N FO R TH E ESTA B LISH M EN T OF A SANCTUARY
1. The establishm ent of a sanctuary is as little unreasonable a s th e building of churches,
or th e assignm ent of certain room s for sleeping, dining, or the like. They only w ill feel no need
for one w hose inner life is sufficiently little of a definite reality to be m ore negligible than their
w riting, reading, or w orking. I f you expect su ccess and power, R is indispensable. You w ill
get out of it ju st w hat you put into it. 2. A sanctuary need not be a special room, though this
is preferable. W ith a curtain, you m ay tit up som e alcove or corner, or even a sim ple gilt chair,
or other sea t m ay be standing in th e parlor. A nything w ill do th a t is set apart by prayer, and
kept sacred. Yet th e more you put into it, the m ore you w ill get out of it. A desk for w riting,
and keeping your Experience Book is advisable. A picture m ay add to the helpfulness. A sm all
incense-dish, or a cam lle-stick , cross or crucittc m ay serve; som e use a fold-stool or a ltar; but
sym bology of itself m ay lead to m ore harm than good; the essen tial is privacy and convenience.
3. A fter establishing it, you m ust consecrate it. M oreover, the divine Presence w ill best appear
if given an appointm ent, w hich should be kept a s scrupulously a s th e visit of som e earthly
Potentate. You w ill know' th e divine Presence when you have felt- it unm istakeably. 4. Some
suitable inscription, such a s th e follow ing miglut hang on the w all;
WHOSOEVER THOU ART WHO ENTEREST THIS SANCTUARY
E N T E R NOT W ITHOUT GREETING TH E D IV IN E L IST E N E R A ND W ATCHER.
TH E LOVER OF THY SOUL.
L E A V E NOT W ITHOUT ONE PRAYER TO HIM TO BE RECA LLED TO THY BETTER SE L F.
Sim ultaneously, Saturday E venings, 7 p.m ., N ew York Tim e. 6:30 p.m ., PREPARATION
6:30 Prepare am i reconsecrate your Sanctuary. 6:35 F ill in your Experience Record to date,
and review th e la st w eek, (M alaclii 3:16). 6:40 R epent, con fess to God, receive his absolution.
0:45 It("id th e Brotherhood P rayer Book. 0:50 Sing fa v orite hym ns, or Brotherhood H ym ns.
0:55 O bserve a receptive silence.
7 p.m., DEVOTIONS
D ivide each five-m inute period in tw o p arts: prayer, w hile sitting:; standing fo r D eception
of inner answ er. This is a victory for th e w ill.
7:00 R econseerntion to God, heaven, hum anity
and Brotherhood.
7:05 Seek and receive w arning of the Unex­
pected.
7:10 Seek am i receive recognition of Oppor­
tu nities.
7:15 Seek and feel th e D ivin e Presence.
7:24) Seek som e m essage in B ible reading.
7:25 Seek and receive guidance on som e prac­
tical topic.
7:30 p.m., INTERCESSION
7:30 S elf-consecration to savin g service. 7:50 Seek and receive m essage for th at person
7:35 Seek and receive m essage for Brotherhood 7:55 Seek benediction, and receive a new
•7:40 Intercession for a special person. nam e, or blessing.
8:00 W rite a report of your attendance to th e Secretary of th e M U TU A L PR A Y ER BRO TH ER­
HOOD, on th e regular p ostal, returning th is, w ith your ow n p ostal reporting th e m eeting
and its results.
I f you do not have tim e for the w hole m eeting, do as much a s you can, esp ecially 7.00-7.05 p.m.
THE GOLDEN VIRTUES. WITH ILLUSTRATIVE READINGS
1. A U STER ITY: M arcus A urelius’s M edita­
tions.
2. BA LAN C E: Plotinus’s Enneads.
3. CHASTITY: Tennyson’s Idyls of the King.
4. D UTY : M atthew Arnold’s Poem s.
5. E A R N E ST N E SS: The N ew T estam ent.
(i. FR EED O M : Brow ning’s Poem s.
7. G EN U IN E N E SS: C arlyle’s S artor R esartus
8. H O U IN E SS: W hittier’s Poem s.
!>. IMMORTALITY D E SIR E : T ennyson’s Iu
M emoriani.
10. JU STIC E: Gerald M assey’s T ale o f E ter­
nity.
11. K NOW LEDGE: S ocrates in X enophon’s
M em orabilia.
12. LIGHT IN TELL IG IBLE: F ox’s w ritings.
13. M EA N -DO CTR INE: The C hinese Four
Books.
14. NIR V AN IC R E ST : T he G ospel o f Buddha,
C am s.
15. O R D ER: Pope’s E ssa y on Man.
1«. PRACTICE OF T H E PR E SE N C E OF
G O D : Brother L aw rence.
17. Q U IE T N E S S : Irene!oil’s S p iritu a l L e tte rs .
18. R ESIG N A TIO N : M oham m ed’s K oran;
Jelluladin
10. STOICISM: E p ictetu s’s D iscourses.
20. TEM PER A N C E: Porphyry’s A bstinence.
21. U N ITY : O rigen’s P rinciples.
22. VENERATION: Emerson’s Divinity
School Address.
23. W ISDOM : G othe’s F au st.
24. X-ECSTA CY : L ittle F low ers o f St‘. F ran cis
25. Y EAR N IN G FO R H E A V E N : P lato’s R e­
public.
2<>. ZEA L: A nn L ee’s P recep ts o f the E lders.
HOW TO READ THE NEW TESTAMENT ONCE A MONTH
1. F irst Sunday, One of th e Synoptic G ospels. 3. Third Sunday: St. P au l’s E p istles.
2. Second Sunday, Gospel o f St. John; 4. F ourth Sunday, P eter, Jude, R evelations.
E p istles. 5. F ifth Sunday, P salm s, W isdom of Solom on.
TWELVE GREAT PRINCIPLES
1. V alue of Tim e.
2. S uccess of Perseverance.
3. P leasure of W orking.
4. D ign ity of Sim plicity.
5. W orth of C haracter.
(>. P ow er of K indness.
7. Influence of Exam ple.
8. O bligation o f D uty.
9. W isdom o f Econom y.
10. V alu e o f Patience.
11. Im provem ent of T alent.
13. Joy o f N atu re’s B eau ty.
SAMPLES MESSAGES
Intercessory prayer is rendered definite and efficient by seeking, receiving and sending to the
person prayed for, som e intelligible m essage of advice, consolation, encouragem ent or exhorta­
tion. T herefore intercessory prayer is divided ii
ception from w ithin our own interior silence of
have actu ally been received and forw arded; th ey
1. W hat is th at to thee? F ollow thou Me.
2. You w ill not hear Me again , until you
have obeyed My la st m essage.
3. The storm s of life can be used to strength­
en the soul.
4. Our lives are. m easured by th e fru it wo
grow.
5. W ork harder.
(>. You h ave not yet resisted unto blood.
tw o exercises: in tercession proper, and re-
a m essage. M essages such a s th e follow ing
are given here a s explanation of th e above.
7. God is ab le to sa v e even to. th e utterm ost.
8. F o r you there a re m ore than there are
again st you.
9. W hat shall a m an give in exchange for h is
soul?
10. M aster th yself first.
11. You cannot serve both God and M am m on.
12. Give, how ever little, to every one th at
asketh.
APPLICATION FOR PROGRESSIVE MEMBERSHIP !
S ecretary, M utual P rayer Brotherhood, P . O. Box 42, A lpine, N . J.
A s I have qualified by three months* successful and faith fu l in tercession for others (by 12
successive w eek ly reports), and a fter prayer oil th e subject, I desire, if perm itted, to hear about
th e Brotherhood of M utual P rayer’s Progressive M embership.
I f you do not have tim e for the w hole m eeting, (lo a s m uch a s you can, esp ecially 7.00-7.05 p.m .
NAM E ............................................................................................................................................................................................
A D D R ESS ...............................
EX A C T D A T E OF BIRTH
What Became of Kitchener
<
ZA Story Illustrating the Inevitableness oftyaith
Followed by .
Six Educational Playlets
Suggestive of Inner <
fAchievement
By KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
Intern ation al C opyright Secured, 1929, by
PLATONIST PRESS, Teocalli, 1177 Warburton Avenue
N orth Y onkers, N . Y „ U . S. A.
LIBRARY EDITION OF UNIFORM VOLUMES, at One Dollar each
By KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
1. TEMPLE GATES AJAR, or Introductory Religious Instructions, with complet­
ing Corroborative Outlines of all other great Kenneth Guthrie Religious Works.
2. PAGAN BIBLE, or Angel Belief as Inheritance from Greco-Romans.
3. WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER, Novel of Faith, &Six Educational Playlets.
4. ROSICRUCIAN MYSTERIES, Playlets on Original Rosicrucian Documents.
5. SHAKESPEREAN MYSTERIES, Playlets.
6. Popular Illustrated HISTORY OF NEAPOLITANISM, comprehensive (details).
7. APPROACHES to the MYSTERIES OF ALL NATIONS, complete outline.
By THOMAS KIP TURVEY, Jr.
1. TEMPLE GATES OPENED, Experiences, Conservation, Temple-Travel.
2. TEMPLE PLAYLETS and RITUALS for Personal Achievement.
3. DISCOVERIES & INSIGHTS in Theology, Literature, and Character Study.
4. CHARACTER-STUDY MANUAL, Zodiac's Origin, Meaning and Results.
5. OCCULT STORIES, Appollonius of Tycena, Hurrah for God, Perronik, Reuni­
ting Pilgrimage.
BOOKS by KENNETH SYLVAN GUTHRIE
A ROMANCE OF TWO CENTURIES, an Utopia of A.D. 2025 ...................$2.00
VOTIVE GARLANDS, Collected Poems, with Frontispiece, in Gift-form.... 2.00
MITHRAIC MYSTERIES, Restored and Modernized, with Exercises; Illustr. 3.00
ANGELIC MYSTERIES, Nine Angel-Degrees of Initiation; Illustrated .......... 3.00
SPIRITUAL MESSAGE of LITERATURE, 1st Text-book of Comp. Literature 2.00
PROGRESSIVE COMPLETE EDUCATION, Marriage as Supreme School.. 1.50
TEACHERS' PROBLEMS, How to Solve them, Historical Method Summary 1.50
INACCESSIBLE NEOPL ATONIST CLASSICS IN COMPLETE TRANSLATION
Pythagoras, Source-Book, Map . . . 2.00 Numenius, Text Transl., Outline. . 1.50
Proclus, Life, Works, Cl. 3.00, Pp. 2.00 Zoroaster, Text, Translation ..Pp. 3.00
Zoroaster, Translation only .......... 1.50
TEXT-BOOK OUTLINES OF NEOPLATONISTS
Philo Judaeus, Message of............... 1.50 Apollonius of Tyana, see 'Occult Stories’.
Plotinus, Life, Times, Philosophy.. 1.50 Philosophers, see ‘Pagan Bible’.
INDEX.
WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
A Story Illustrating the Inevitableness of Faith
I. KITCHENER’S TRIP TO THE ANTARCTIC ..................................... 3
II. KITCHENER'S ACCIDENTAL FALL .................................................... 5
III. The MONSTER OF THE THRESHOLD, or Faith Inevitable as Cure
for F e a r.......................................................................................................... 6
iV. MATILDE, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Despair and Suicide.......... 8
V. LEONORA, or Faith’s Fortress, Army and Soldiers............................... 11
VI. TERESITA, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Worldly Anxieties ....... 15
VII. FELIPE, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Remorse................................... 16
VIII. ADOLFO, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Provincialism ................. 18
IX. CARMEN, or Faith’s Self-control Inevitable as Cure for Capriciousness 19
\
X. MANUEL, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Crim e................................... 21
XI. RAMON, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Ill-health ............................. 26
XII. OLLANTA, or Faith Inevitable as Cure for Dull Materialism.............. 33
XIII. The FLAW IN THE CRYSTAL, or Faith as a Cure for Dualism. ... 33
XIV. LOLITA, or Explanatory Initiation .......... 35
XV. The RIFT IN THE LUTE, or Echoes of the Past ............................... 36
XVI. KITCHENER’S CHOICE BETWEEN FATE AND DESTINY.......... 38
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
Suggestive of Inner Achievement, illustrative of the Several Chapters
of ‘Temple Gates Ajar.
I. FRIENDSHIP’S SALVATION, Illustrating Friendship ......................... 43
II. THE THREAD OF THE LABYRINTH, Illustrating Prayer ............ 46
III. THE SHIPWRECK, Illustrating Immortality ...................................... 53
IV. FOOLS FEAR TO TREAD, Illustrating Inspiration ........................... 54
V. THE BANISTERS TO HEAVEN, Illustrating the Value of Vows. ... 57
VI. ST. NICHOLAS’S SURPRISES, Illustrating Spiritual Gifts.................. 61
W H A T BECAME
A Novel
\1 ^ H A T b ecam e of K itchener? T h at is w hat
th e w orld p ro fesses to d esire to know ,
but w ill n ever learn , b ecau se it h as no in ten ­
tion of b elievin g the truth, w hich , in d eed , is
stran ger th an fiction . , W hy? B ecau se, a s the
read er w ill se e , K itchener’s ex p erien ces b e­
cam e sp iritu al, w hich w ould d isp lea se not only
th e new spaper reporters, but a lso th e m aterial­
istic p atriots w h o, for the good reason th at
th ey had n ot shared th eir id o l’s ed u cative
o d y ssey , w ould not relish th e lesson it im ­
p arted . B ut here are th e fa cts, for w h osoever
w a n ts them .
N ow K itchener w a s to organ ize th e C zar’s
lea d erless h ord es. S o he step ped aboard the
H am pshire w hich , w hen it had reached the
F aroe Islands, w a s m et and sunk by a German
U -b oat, w hich had been tipped oft by a spy
em p loyed in th e B ritish W ar O ffice.
Im possib le, you say? W hy, K itchener him ­
se lf had been w arned of th e treachery! But
he had m erely lau gh ed , ju st a s had laughed
the L ondoners w hen told th at th e G erm ans had
built gu n -em p lacem en ts d isgu ised a s pian o-
fa cto ries right under th eir n o ses; ju st a s had
lau gh ed he h im self w hen H aig had asked him
for ex p lo siv e sh e lls: had he not d erisively an ­
sw ered , “ Shrapnel w a s g ood en ou gh for m e in
E gyp t, shrapnel w a s good en ou gh for m e in
South A frica, shrapnel is good en ou gh for you
in F land ers!” — ju st a s had lau gh ed the B ritish
m unition w ork ers w h o had refu sed to labor
over-tim e accord in g to “ union” h ours, until
th eir d ele g a tes, in au tom ob iles, had been taken
to exp lore th e fron t tren ch es!
W ell, th at w a s th e self-a ssu red m en tal a t­
titu d e of K itchener ev en w hen h is ship w as
struck by th e su b m arin e’s torp ed o. He w ould
not b elieve it! W ith ou t w a itin g for h is orders,
h is self-relia n t m en had tried to stuff m attress­
e s into th e h ole; but an oth er p late g a v e w ay,
th e front m en w ere d row n ed , and the hold b e­
gan to fill.
Only w hen th e H am pshire actu a lly raised her
n ose into th e air did K itchener con d escen d to
ad m it in to h is m a ssive in tellect the unusual,
and to su sp ect th at som eth in g m ight be w ron g.
W hen he sa w th e G erm an -flagged landing-
p arty sid le a lo n g , he realized th at he w a s in
for an ad ven tu re, and w a s g o in g to b ecom e
th e hero of a la tte r-d a y ed d a in w hich , un­
fortu n ately, th e m elodram atic viking part
w ou ld be p layed n ot by h im self, but by Baron
von Fink, w h o, from h is official cushion in the
g ig ’s bow , sm ilin gly aro se, and w ith a graceful
gestu re in vited K itchener to tak e a sa fe sea t
b y h is sid e.
A s th e w a ter w a s rou gh and cold , and no
h elp w a s in sig h t, K itch en er’s practical rule-
of-thum b m ind did n ot tak e lon g in ch oosin g
b etw een a n ow alm ost A lpine deck , and a safe
se a t. A s to h is m en, th ere w a s no hope of
sa lvation for them in th e little b oat; and even
th ey, w ith ou t w a itin g to bandy w ord s, h astily
pushed him in to it; and th ey had all d isap pear­
ed in to th e m aelstrom form ed by th e H am p­
sh ire’s sinking, from w hich th e Germ an sailors
row ed fran tically ou t of th e zon e of bubbles
to w a rd s the b ob b in g p eriscop e, b efore he could
ex ch a n g e any w ord s w ith h is su ave com p an ion .
“ W hy did you sa v e m e?” rum bled K itchener.
“ B ecau se you are m ore valu ab le a liv e than
d e a d !” co u rteou sly purred Fink. “ B esid es, so
lo n g a s th ere is life, th ere is hope for you
an d you r co u n try !” h issed he w ith the leer of
OF KITCHENER?
of Faith.
a p hysician sign in g your in san e asylum certi­
ficate, or a veterin ary pushing a su gar-coated
b olu s dow n a garroted h o rse’s gap in g th roat.
N ow K itchener had a p retty good opinion of
h im self;— sm all blam e to him , a fter h avin g re­
cently been prom oted to the an esth etizin g
H ouse of Lords, w ith all the eligib le h eiresses
of the K ingdom paraded b efore him in an ab ­
ortive sw ayam vara; and w hile flattery had
little effect on him ‘w hen he recogn ized it ’,
h is patriotism acted like colored g la sses, so
th at he still hoped to do som eth in g for Eng­
lan d , a s lon g a s he should be a liv e. T h ere­
fore he grim ly shook h is head a s a b ig w ave
broke over the little b oat; and after it had
p assed , he clearly perceived th e superstructure
of th e steel shark, w ith its treacherou s light
and w arm th.
Luckily for us hum an b ein gs, esp ecially at
sea , th e triflin g d etails o f th e m ost fatefu l
ev en ts are so ab sorbin g a s to p reclude em o­
tion and reflection ;— th e tw o a sp ects of life
in w hich K itchener, in an y case, w as no great
exp ert. So he w as sa fely transshipped into
th e b oat, w hich prom ptly sub m erged , leavin g
all th e rest of th e B ritish drow ning jack ies
sp u rlos versenkt.
T h e d etails of h is reception on board w ould
be o f little in terest. Sufficient to in d icate that
a s th e G erm ans had planned to keep K itchener
in com m unicado ou tsid e o f th e range of sp ies,
it had been decided to tak e him to som e un­
inhabited islan d in the Pacific O cean a s the
N orth w as to o w ell inhab ited , and to o near
h is n ation als. So h is v o y a g e w a s seem ingly
en d less, relayed from tim e to tim e by tak in g
on of fuel from b oats w a itin g for them . T h ey
p assed through th e torrid zon e into grad u ally
co o lin g tem p eratu re. T hen th ey sailed b e­
tw een the Falkland islan d s, and turned w est
until th ey reached th e ice-p ack ; p assed up the
D rake S traits to one of th e northernm ost of
the South Shetland Islands, on w hich rises an
extin ct volcan o nam ed M t. A rus. In a cave
on th e slop e of it K itchener w a s left, w ith
sufficient h ard-tack and tinned p rovision s to
la st a year, w ith a prom ise to return to re­
p len ish his store w hen it should be exh au sted .
T hen the G erm ans sailed a w a y w ith all sp eed .
For th e first tim e in his life K itchener w as
com p elled to think. T ill then he had been a
m an of action , a good adm inistrator, and an
u n q u estion in g atten d an t at th e Church of Eng­
land services. His id eal w a s th e B alaklava
Six H undred,— “ theirs not to know th e reason
w h y ,” but to fight to th e death, even w hen
the orders w ere blunders a s usu al. N ow
K itchener’s u niverse w a s u p set. Fighting
oth ers b eing ou t of th e q uestion, his fighting
in stin ct had to turn a g a in st him self and God.
For th e first tim e he w a s driven to m editate.
A t th e b egin n in g he w a s ab le to evad e self­
scru tin y by atten tion to th e p roxim ate problem
o f esca p in g th e prevailin g frigid ity. T here
w a s no fire-w ood to burn, and if th ere had
b een , he w ould h ave had no m atch es w ith
w hich to start it. He d iscovered th at he w as
som ew h at sheltered in th e cave w hich faced
north, here the w arm er sid e. B ut som eh ow
th e open in g m ust be closed , to keep ou t the
w h ole universe w hich seem ed to be starin g at
him all the livelon g d ay; for here the sun
m erely approached, th e horizon, n ever entirely
d isap p earin g. He looked around for som e
b ran ch es over w hich h e m ight spread th e few
cloaks and b lankets left him by the G erm ans,
w hose in ten tion s w ere not to kill him , but to
seq u estrate and im m obilize him . K itchener
w alked, or rath er stum bled all around the
m ountain, and in a sheltered ravine found
stunted trees sufficient to form a fram e over
w hich he m anaged to stretch his coverin gs, so
as to protect him from th e icy w in ds.
N o soon er had he d one so than he m ade the
w elcom e d iscovery th at in h is cave w a s latent
som e kind of h eat; for th at w hich he m ost
dreaded, the chill during sleep , w a s b ein g re­
placed by a com fortab le w arm th. A t first sur­
prised, he realized th at if th e m ountain had
at som e tim e been a volcan o, even though now
it w a s m apped a s extin ct, yet inner recesses
m ight still contain hidden slo w ly coolin g lava.
W hile at first he w a s over-joyed w ith the
prom ise of sa fety during sleep , he soon began
to plan som e m ore exten d ed u tilization of this
unsuspected resou rce; and he w ondered
w hether there m ight not be som e p a ssage con ­
n ecting w ith th e interior of th e m ountain,
w here con ceivab ly th e com fort m ight be still
greater.
Im m ediately he set ab out exp lorin g. Y es, the
Inside recesses of th e cave w ere distinctly
w arm er, a s he laid his hand on the friable
p um ice-like w a lls. Just a s did th e prehistoric
sto n e-a g e tro g lod ites, so n ow did K itchener
m ake him self a con ven ient flint scraper, w ith
w hich he attack ed the w a lls w herever an effort
seem ed m ost p rom ising. A bout th is task he
set him self w ith his cu stom ary en ergy, but
w ithout an y h aste. A s he w orked w ith m eth­
od, he accom plished a good deal, lured on by
the evident in crease in w arm th, until his cave
becam e quite b earab le. T hen, to release his
precious w raps, he used the debris to build
up an ou ter w all th at w a s perm anent, to re­
p lace the original barrier of branches. Later,
to protect the entrance a s much a s p ossib le,
he added an ou tsid e elb ow w hich prevented all
d irect exp osure.
A fter the entrance w a s com p lete, he turned
his atten tion to the in sid e of his cave; he
divided it into an inner and outer cham ber.
Then he shap ed a solid shelf into a m ore com ­
fortab le cou ch , and later on built a tab le and
sea ts.
By th is tim e he realized he w a s lo sin g track
o f tim e; so he em ulated R obinson Crusoe by
keeping tally of the revolu tion s of the sun on
an exp osed su rface. T hen he settled on a day
of rest to start Sunday ob servan ces, and he
resurrected a w orn P rayer B ook, to observe
the d ay in orth od ox fashion; an effort all the
m ore zea lo u s as it w a s an artificial m ask to
excu se him self from p erson al first-hand inti­
m acy w ith God.
T hus, w ith in d om itab le industry, did the
p ractical K itchener of Khartoum succeed for
a w hile in stiflin g his self-co n scio u sn ess, and
in stavin g off the in evitab le d ay w hen he
w ould have to face him self and the larger
issu es of life, som eth in g w hich his m aterialistic
nature dreaded m ore than a B oer, a M ahdist,
or a G erm an,— and w hich he justified him self
in avoid in g by callin g it in san ity.
Soon, h ow ever, he reached the lim its of
w hat he could reason ab ly exp ect to do in the
w ay of im provem ents to his cave. B ut w hat
he had begun ou t of n ecessity , he n ow con­
tinued as a form of sport, so attractive to
the B ritisher. N ow it had becom e a hunt for
the unknow n, an exp loration , a scientific ob­
servation . Indeed, the latter seem ed to be
w orth w hile, for the tem perature continued
to in crease, and m ade his residence all the
m ore com fortab le, som eth in g desirab le in view
of th e in evitab le lo w erin g o f th e extern al
tem p eratu re during th e ap p roach in g six -
m on th ’s A rctic n igh t.
R esolu tely and b ravely th erefore he co n ­
tinued shirking reflexion , w hich ev e r sin ce
ch ildh ood he had been a llo w ed to ridicule a s
m orb id n ess. So he d a ily burrow ed further
and further in to th e v ita ls of the m ountain,
until one fatefu l m om ent w h en by a chance
strok e of his scrap er, he d islod ged a p articu ­
larly w ell-h id d en sto n e , and th ere w a s a
rum ble, and h is fo o tin g slip p ed . . .
He heard a m an ’s v o ic e call him b y nam e.
W ith a n erve-rack in g w rench of surprise
w hich helped him to regain h is fo o tin g , he
turned around, and sa w , sittin g a t h is tab le,
his irrecon cilab le B oer op pon en t Oom Paul,
b eck on in g to him .
T o see a p erson you thin k dead in a con ­
tin en t a s d istan t a s A frica co o lly in vite you to
a ch at, w ould be en ou gh to sta rtle an y on e;
and th is tim e even th e iron K itchener w as
surprised . B ut w ith th e proverbial British
co o ln e ss he sa t d ow n and ask ed a fter his
g u e st’s health.
“ I th ou gh t you m igh t be lon ely, old to p ,”
sm iled th e portly old gen tlem an b etw een puffs
o f h is pipe, “ so I in vited a frien d. W ait till
I bring him in !”
T h erew ith th e B oer h ip p opotam u s w add led
to th e ou tsid e en tran ce, and in trod u ced no less
a p erson age than th e M ahdi h im self w ho, v ig ­
o rou sly salaam in g and A llah in g, join ed the
p arty a t the tab le. He then took ou t of his
p ock et a pack of cards, and p rop osed a gam e
of w h ist. “ N ot w ith you r p a ck !” n egatived
Oom Paul, “ but w ith m in e!” and he a lso pro­
d uced his pack.
T o still the strife b etw een th e tw o , K itchen­
er su g g ested th at a s th ey w ere accep tin g his
h osp itality th ey had b etter u se h is ow n pack;
and to h is am azem ent, on slip p in g h is hand
in to h is p ock et, he found th ere a lso a third
pack of card s. T h is he p roduced an d began
to d eal. A ccid en tally a card fell fa ce upw ards,
— it happened to be the n in e of d iam on d s.
T h e d ots on th e cards b egan to m ove, to
sw ell and to grow till b efore him stood nine
B ritish T om m y A tk in ses, som e o f th o se w ho
in Flanders had died b ecau se th ey had been
unp rotected by th e ex p lo siv e s he had refused
to send to H aig. T h ey th reaten ed him , sin g ­
in g, “ It’s a lon g w ay from T ip p erary,”
ch an gin g the w ord s to su it th e even t.
Like a red rag b efore th e ey e s of a bull,
th is m ade Oom P aul flush like a tu rk ey. So
he slap p ed dow n h is cards on e by on e, face
u pw ards; and from each on e of h is card -d ots
sh ot up B oers gesticu la tin g , sh ou tin g m urder
and v o ciferatin g trea so n . First am azed , then
fu riou s, th e M ahdi sh ou ted h is ow n b attle-cry,
and lik ew ise slap p ed d ow n h is card s face up­
w ard s; and from each o n e o f h is card -d ots
a lso rose to life a h ow lin g, p ostu rin g d ervish .
Soon th e ca v e w a s full to suffocation . T he
sold iers of th e th ree n a tio n a lities danced,
fo u g h t and sw ore at each oth er. It w a s a
regular w itch es’ sab b ath . T h e th ree lead ers
w ere p ow erless, and Oom Paul and the Mahdi
w ith b lo od -sh ot ey e s th rew th em selv es on
K itchener, m auled him , b an ged him , an d sp at
in h is fa ce till he co llap sed . *
B ut K itchener w a s not a m an to sta y co l­
lap sed very lon g; so he straigh ten ed up like
an arrow , took th e n earest sto n e, and laid
ab ou t him . E very m an he tou ch ed suddenly
ch an ged in to som e w ild an im al:— fo x e s, ser­
p en ts, skunks, b ats, vu ltu res, fro g s. Suddenly
Oom Paul and the M ahdi grew horns, h oofs
and lon g-p oin ted ta ils, lau gh ed d erisively,
5
KITCHENER’S ACCIDENTAL FALL
sh o u tin g , “ Hurrah for th e self-rig h teo u s B rit­
ish e r !” “ L ong live th e ruler of m en !” and
m any oth er sim ilar jib es at K itchener’s career.
T h en th e M ah d i-d evil d rove ou t th e an im als,
w h ile O om P aul slob b ered , “ Let m e in trod u ce
to yo u Lady K itch en er!” From th e in terior
w all stru tted o n e of the lad ies w h o had been
p resen ted to him by th e King in h op es he
m ight m arry on e o f th em . W ith op en arm s
she sw u n g up to K itchener, and attem p ted to
em brace him , but fo r th e first tim e in his life
the great cap tain ran aw a y b efore th is fem ale,
th e d ead liest o f th e sp ecies; and p ressin g up
clo se behind th e an im als he m ade h is escap e
ou t o f the haunted cave.
But a s he struck th e ch illy air ou tsid e . . .
II. KITCHENER’S ACCIDENTAL FALL
W hen K itchener regain ed norm al co n scio u s­
n ess h e w a s ly in g ex ten d ed on a narrow four-
fo o t le d g e ju ttin g ou t from th e sm ooth w all of
th e v o lc a n o ’s internal cau ld ron . A b ove him
to w ered a sh eer con cave w all reach in g up s e v ­
eral hundred fe e t. A bove him he n oticed the
fau lt created by th e lan d slid e th at had p recip ­
itated him h ith er. B elow him seeth ed the
g lo w in g m olten m ass of lava, slo w ly rising
and fa llin g , w ith irregu lar h issin g ex p lo sio n s
o f vap ors, a s som e irregu lar stream from the
n ear-b y ocean seep ed in to th e m eltin g-p ot, and
th ere, m in glin g w ith m etallic so lu tio n s, w a s
tran sform ed in to vap ors w hich assu m ed all
th e co lo rs of th e rainbow .
T h e su b lim ity of th is M iltonic in fernal scen e
at first h ypn otized even him , th e m an of a c­
tio n . It forced on him a sen se o f v a stn e ss
and a w e he had n ever co n ceived . B ut he w a s
so o n recalled to him self by th e rep u lsive sm ell
of a sulp hu rou s cloud th at ch an ced to d rift
up h is w a y .
T h en he d iscovered so m eth in g m uch w orse;
n am ely, th at both of his arm s w ere broken;
and n ow th at he tried to u se th em , th e pain
b ecam e ex cru ciatin g. His le g s, h ow ever,
seem ed in tact; so he scram bled up to h is feet,
and in stin ctiv e ly called for h elp . Of cou rse,
th ere w a s none to an sw er; and then he realized
th at th ere w a s no help to ex p ect. T h e great
K itchener of K hartoum , the leader of m en, the
m an o f a ction , d esp aired . N ow th ere w a s no
further p o ssib ility of evad in g h im self or G od.
Indeed th ere seem ed to be n othin g left but to
cu rse th e G od w ho had ab and on ed him , and
d ie.
Y es, h e cou ld th row h im self d ow n from the
le d g e , and a ch ieve ex tin ction . B ut w h at
cou n ted n ow w a s th e life-lo n g training of the
E n glish m an , w ho is th e b ravest m an in the
w orld b ecau se so stu p id ,— or w ise en ou gh?—
not to k now w hen he is d efea ted ; th e n ever-
d ie sp irit w hich m ade th e B ritish ta rs a t the
co llisio n o f th e C am perdow n and th e V ictoria
in th e M editerranean line up on d eck , and
sin g p atriotic so n g s till th ey w ere en gu lfed by
the w a v es.
T h en , a fter the first d izzin ess o f d espair,
com p reh en d in g th at h is presen t p osition w as
u ntenab le, K itchener stum bled up to a sta n d ­
in g a ttitu d e, to d iscover the nature of the
rem ain der of th e led g e. In on e d irection it
term in ated ab ru ptly in an a b y ss; but in the
oth er it seem ed to rise and d isap pear into
d ark n ess. S low ly, sufferin g untold tortu res
from h is d an glin g arm s, the brave sold ier d e­
cided to in v estig a te th is h is last resort. C are­
fu lly h e h oisted him self over u nseen o b sta cles,
and p rogressed to th e very la st ou tlin e of
b lack n ess, w here, to h is surprise an d relief,
around a corner, he ob served an op en in g in
th e w a ll. L ooking in, he w a s am azed to catch
a glim p se of a d istan t faint g lo w a t th e end
o f w h at seem ed to be a p a ssa g e.
A fter in d escribab le torm en ts he m an aged to
creep through th e op en in g, and tak in g a s e a ­
son o f rest, to w hich th e stab b in g p ain s of
g ro w in g inflam m ation in both of h is arm s d e­
creed an end, he on ce m ore stood on h is feet,
and stum bled a lo n g th e rou gh natural crack
tow ard s the light.
At a turn in th e p a ssa g e he w a s h ow ever
brou ght up short by am azem en t,— he heard
hum an vo ices, and th e g lo w b rightened in to a
m ore d efinite gleam .
W as th is ca v e inhabited by hum an bein gs?
T h is w a s a shock secon d on ly to his accid en tal
fall. So there m ight be help! His first m otion
w a s a glad h asten in g tow ard s the light and
v o ic es; but d irectly he stopp ed for a m inute;
— m ight th ese not proceed from en em ies, as
w ell a s from p o ssib le friends?
Y es, th ey m ight be en em ies; but w h at then?
He had n othing to lo se! T h ey could do no
m ore than kill him , but d eath w a s an yw ay
in evitab le, if left alon e. T h e tortu res that
th ey m ight inflict on him could not be an y
greater than th ose unaided N ature alread y held
in store for him ; and the p robability th at in
th ese cold clim ates n a tives w ere fiends w ho
w ould persecu te a sick m an w a s but sligh t.
So alon g w hat n ow becam e a fairly w ell
w orked gallery, w ith a prayer to G od in his
heart and on his ton gu e, K itchener continued
his p rogress. Finally he cam e to an oth er turn,
and look in g around carefully he sa w a you ng
w om an garbed in a robe of lea v es and lichens,
ap paren tly settin g ou t a rude m eal on a table
n ot very unlike th e on e w hich he him self had
fash ion ed .
A t th e u nexpected n oise of h is approach she
look ed up, and her face grad u ally con gealed
in to a stare of horror, w hich em otion alm ost
spread to h im self. T hen he realized that he
m ust presen t a m iserable sp ectacle, h is gar­
m ents all tattered and torn, w ith b lood stream ­
in g over his face and arm s, his featu res all
d istorted w ith d u st. N o w ond er th e poor girl
w a s frightened!
A s he pitifully raised his danglin g arm s, and
m ade effort to use h is so lon g disu sed speech,
the girl turned, and fled like a deer. Then
K itchener ad vanced fearlessly, and sa t dow n
on a stool-lik e p rojection and w aited for the
n atives, w hoever th ey m ight be, to arrive. He
w a s h ow ever im m ensely relieved, b ecau se from
the m om ent he had caught a glim p se of the
girl he knew he had not much to fear,— they
w ere evidently a h om e-lovin g group of hum an
b ein gs, and from them he m ight ex p ect care
and help.
He did not have lon g to w ait. He heard
rapid step s, and so o n , from various d irection s,
eig h t men and w om en , garbed much a s w as
the you nger girl, en tered the cave, and stared
a t him w ith surprise and horror quite as pro­
found a s had been hers. T h is und isgu ised
d isg u st pictured in their fa ces som ew hat
hum bled h is pride; but his desperate pligh t
m ade him accep t h is hum iliating p osition In
gratitud e for the soon appearing glan ces of
com p assion, of w hich he stood so m uch in
need.
R apidly did he sp eak out, tellin g o f h is a c ­
cident and h is m isfortune, illu stratin g his re­
m arks by exh ib itin g h is d anglin g arm s. W ell
WHAT BECAME
w a s it th at he had d on e th is, for th ey did not
seem to understand his la n g u a g e. N or, w hen
th ey con sulted , did he u nderstand th eirs; so
far a s he could discern it seem ed to be som e
d ialect of Span ish . T hen th ey turned to the
you n g girl, as if d em an din g som eth in g from
her. She turned to him , and said som eth in g
w hich, in an uncouth pron un ciation of English,
appeared to ask him to repeat w h at he had
said m ore slo w ly . T h is he d id , and had the
sa tisfaction of seein g her fa ce sm ile in com ­
prehension, a fter w hich sh e turned arou n d, and
seem ed to be in terpretin g h is w ord s to them .
She put aw ay the rude d ish es, som e of the
m en turned and left, as if to fetch som eth in g,
and returned w ith variou s rude ap p lian ces such
as b asin s, w ater and clo th s. He understood
Unit th ey intended to do their b est to relieve
his p hysical n eed s. One of th e w om en w ash ed
aw ay his stain s of m ud and b lood , w hich for
the first tim e he n oticed w ere ex ten siv e . There
w ere also som e sup erficial w ou n d s.
One of the m en m ust h ave had p rofession al
m edical training, for though u sin g the sim p lest
of m aterials, he m an aged to produce quite
efficient b an d ages, w h ereafter th e in tolerab le
pain he suffered seem ed m uch relieved . Then
th e p h ysician , a ven erable and kindly m an,
turned to th e girl w ho w a s ad d ressed a s
L olita; and the latter ask ed him w here he
cam e from .
W ithout revealin g his id en tity, K itchener in­
form ed her th at en em ies had ab and on ed him
on the islan d , and left him in a ca v e . Then
he exp lained h ow he had u nin ten tion ally caused
th e accid en t, and as clearly a s he could he
described the location of h is ow n ca v e ’s en­
trance.
T h e n a tives invited him to fo llo w them to
th e entrance of their ow n ca v e w hich looked
over th e ocean from a w esterly direction .
C arefully, and very gen tly, th ey supported the
sick m an, and a fter som e effort su cceed ed in
III. FAITH AS TF
T ill n ow , in one w ay or an oth er, K itchener
had su cceed ed in evad in g th e fa cin g of him ­
self and G od; first u n con sciou sly, and later
con sciou sly, and all th e m ore effectiv ely . But
Fate w a s stron ger than h e, an d, chained to
his couch, nothin g else w a s le ft to him but
to look into the interior m irror. W h at did he
see there? His ow n face? Oh no! A m on­
ster! A dem on! T h e fiend of Fear!
T h e great K itchener of K hartoum , th e iron
leader of arm ies, he w ho, unm oved, could
look on at th e slau gh ter of m obs of S oudanese
or B oers, w a s afraid. T h e terrib le nightm are
during h is fall into th e crater had convinced
him of th e reality of op p osin g fo rce s; and as,
resistlessly , he lay exten d ed on h is couch,
every m ovem ent im plying u nim aginable torture,
he heard, in th e ston e w a lls, crack s th at could
not proceed from the shrinking or expansion
of any w ooden b eam s th at w ere not here; he
saw sparks d ancin g up and d ow n ; th e lighter
o b jects w ould lev ita te and be slapped dow n
on the floor or som e oth er p la ce,— phenom ena
fam iliar to all w ho are w illin g to read the
a g e-lo n g , w orld -w id e evid en ce. O nly, till now ,
K itchener had a lw a y s d ism issed such accoun ts
a s had crossed h is path a s d elu sion s or fabri­
ca tio n s,— and it w a s indeed p oetic ju stice that
he him self should som ed ay h ave been afflicted
th ereb y. On him it raised g o o se-flesh ; he per­
spired cold sw e a t. Involuntary sh ivers shook
him , and his teeth ch attered . ^
W as it all im agination? H ardly, b ecau se his
spine w ould be chilled by a sudden shock
OF KITCHENER
finding h is ow n c a v e ’s en tran ce, w hich in d eed
w a s q uite w ell m ask ed . B ut in sid e th ey w ere
m et w ith n oisom e g a se s from th e crater, and
th e m en had to b lock up th e in sid e h ole p e r ­
m an en tly w ith fallen d eb ris. T hen by m ak in g
a v en tila tin g op en in g to th e ou tsid e, and a g i­
ta tin g clo th s th ey su cceed ed in restorin g a
reason ab ly fresh atm osp h ere, and K itchener
w a s en ab led o n ce m ore to occu p y h is ow n
cou ch .
A s so o n a s h e w a s rested , h e exp lain ed to
L olita th e m y steries of th e tinned p rovision s,
and h ow to op en th e can s, to feed him . But
th ere w a s held a fam ily cou n cil, as to the kind
of food he shou ld be g iv en , w ith th e resu lt
th at he m ad e acq u ain tan ce w ith w hat w a s their
ow n sta p le a rticle of food , a kind o f ed ib le
m ushroom , and variou s lich en s th at grew in
som e of th e n um erous ca v e s of th e m ountain;
in d eed , th e p a ssa g e throu gh w hich K itchener
had esca p ed from th e cra ter-led g e w a s one
used to ra ise th ese natural form s of nutrim ent.
A lso th ey had m an aged to build and su stain
a fire on w hich th ey w ere enabled to cook
th eir food , p rod ucin g a to o th so m e, if sim p le,
d ecoction th at built up h is stren gth w ith ou t
a g g ra v a tin g th e lo ca l in flam m ations.
A s L olita had to com e from d ay to d ay to
b rin g him fo o d , and to atten d to h is sim p le
w an ts, it w a s th ou gh t w orth w hile to ex c a v a te
an Internal g a llery con n ectin g th e ca v es of
K itchener w ith th eir ow n . A fter con sid erab le
effort th is w a s su c cessfu lly accom p lish ed , and
th e resu lt w a s th at he w a s ta citly accep ted
a s a n ew m em ber o f th eir com m unity.
W h ile h e w a s still w eak , all he could do w a s
to reco v er h is stren gth . P a ssiv ely he a cc ep t­
ed th e v isits o f L olita, a w om an com panion
of h ers, and of th e p h ysician , a s m in isters of
h eaven ly g ra ce, w ith ou t b ein g ab le to ex p ress
h is profound gratitu d e by m ore than a gen tle
sm ile.
E CURE OF FEAR
w hen he le a st ex p ected it, w hen h e w a s b u sy
w ith so m eth in g e lse ; and if h is ey e s cou ld h ave
ictured w h at he felt h is su b con sciou sn ess be-
eld , h e w ould h ave seen th e sudden b reak in g
in o f som e op p on en t. N o, it w a s not im agin a­
tio n ; of th at you m ay be su re. So w h at w a s
he g o in g to do ab ou t it? He w h o till n ow
had fou gh t o th ers, n ow had to figh t h im self.
N o lo n g er w a s th e in visib le w orld a trad ition
or m yth ,— it w a s n ow a rea lity of w hich th e
p ractical m an of affairs w a s com p elled to tak e
co g n iza n ce, b ecau se it had en tered the sph ere
of p ra cticalities.
Should he try religion ? W ell, to b egin w ith ,
the m u ch -vaun ted B ook of Com m on P rayer,
th at A nglo-S axon fetish , th orou gh ly sterilized
of everyth in g a n te-m ed ieval, had n ot a w ord
to sa y ab ou t th is problem , no service o f e x ­
orcism . T h en , it w a s really little m ore than
a T h ib etan p rayer-w h eel, to be used e x c lu siv e­
ly on S u n d ays b etw een certain trad ition al
h ours, and here th ere w a s no bishop of the
on ly true A nglican ap o sto lica l su ccession to
carry ou t its p ro v isio n s. So it w a s cold com ­
fort in d eed w hich th e frightened sick m an
could h ope to receive from th is sou rce.
H is first exp erien ce, in w hich he m et Oom
Paul and th e M ahdi, m igh t h ave been a n igh t­
m are cau sed by th e p oison ou s m ephitic v o l­
can ic fu m es th at rushed into his ca v e w hen
he u n in ten tion ally broke d ow n th e last rem ain ­
in g p artition p rotectin g him from th e crater
itself. H ow ever, even so th e p oison ou s fu m es
could n ot h ave d on e m ore than arou se w h a t-
7
FAITH AS THE
ev er o p p on en ts lin gered w ithin h im self; in
som e on e else th ey w ou ld h ave aroused not Oom
Paul, th e M ahdi and the m ythical Lady Kitch­
ener, but so m e en em y peculiar to h im self.
T h erefore w h ile th e p o ison ou s fu m es' in to x ic a ­
tion m igh t in d eed h ave sapp ed th e protection
o f h is ex tern al s e lf’s b lin d n ess, w h a tev er o p ­
p o sin g fo rce s ap p eared m ust h ave com e from
w ith in h im self. T h is w eak en in g o f extern al
p rotection seem ed n ow to p ersist, and he w a s
com p elled to fa ce th e problem h ow to m eet
and la y th ese d en izen s of w h at h as been called
th e astral w orld .
In the first p lace, h e cou ld n ot let th in gs re­
m ain a s th ey w ere. He w a s b ein g torm en ted
con tin u ou sly, and w ith fiendish in gen u ity,
w h en h e le a st ex p ected it. T h e ex p erien ces
w ere so real th at th ey n ot on ly cau sed trem b ­
lin g all o ver, but cold sw e a t broke ou t on h is
brow and even on h is h an d s. T o lie d ow n un­
d er th e O p p on en ts’ a tta ck s m eant m ental d e­
gen eration and in san ity, first in th e opin ion
o f oth ers, and later in h is ow n.
So so m eth in g m ust be d on e; by w hom ? If
he had b een in th e m id st o f w h at w e are
p leased to call civilization , he con ceivab ly
m igh t h ave called in the help of som e p h ysi­
cian or p sych ia trist; but even if he had (and
h is so ld ierly nature w a s not over-in clin ed to
d ep en dence on o th ers;) such help w ould have
been on ly tem p orary, until his ow n self had
cither learn ed th e w a y , or gath ered th e
stren gth to depend on itse lf. T h erefore his
lon elin ess w a s a fter all no g rea t lo ss; if th ere
w a s no w a y b ack , th ere w a s on ly on e w a y left,
th e w a y forw ard s; and cou ra g e w a s com p u l­
sory.
fro m h is ch ildh ood he rem em bered h earin g
of prayer a s m an ’s on ly resou rce or suprem e
m agic w ea p o n . U nfortun ately the orth od ox
th eoretical C om m on P rayer had m isled him
in to a n onchalan t relian ce on th eory w hich
p aralyzed p ractical trials of p ersonal attem p ts;
and h ow th at he w a s com p elled h ereto he felt
aw kw ard and scep tica l. B ut a s he had no
oth er recou rse but to try, h e sa w th at it im ­
plied faith in th e ed u cation al valu e o f every
ev en t, in clud in g th is particular con q u est of
fear. B ut w a s th is true on ly for him self? N o:
if it w a s tru e for him , it m ust b e tru e a lso
for th ese very op p on en ts w h o w ere p ersecu ­
tin g him ; and th ey, even m ore th an h e, n eed ed
repentan ce and sa lv a tio n .
As if th e latter had u nderstood h is th ou gh ts,
th ere w a s an artillery-lik e sp atterin g o f crack s,
a sort o f p yrotech n ic d isp lay o f fire-fly sparks;
nay, even a throbbing g lo w ; and w ithin him ­
self he felt h is traitor su b -co n scio u sn ess q u iv­
ering like an aspen lea f. .B u t h is extern al
mind did not give w ay; it held good , and even
aloud h e sh ou ted rep eated ly, “ D ear d isgu ised
A ngel, m ay G od speed th y redem ption for
kindly com in g to aid m y soul ed u ca tio n !”
T h ere w a s a b last w hich seem ed to rend the
interior la te ly rebuilt partition w all; and he
im agined he sa w a fain t shap e a s of an old
h ag, w rin gin g her hand s, and m oan in g a s she
d isap peared throu gh th e exterior en tran ce;—
and as sh e p assed through th e door, a s th e in ­
valid had raised h is h ead , she look ed back
a t him w ith a look of such an guish, repentan ce
and m ingled h ate, th at into his ey es cam e tears.
T hen he w ep t lo n g and freely. A s he could not
w ip e th em a w a y , the hot sa lty stream s coursed
dow n h is ch eek s; he sob b ed con vu lsively, and
in stin ct told him th is lo n g pent-up em otional
exp ression w a s N ature’s h ealin g tou ch , a s if
a n g els w ere sto o p in g over him to k iss him .
He w a s no lon ger a lo n e. From th e d ep ths
o f her ow n ca v e , w here she had been en gaged
CURE OF FEAR
in househ old duties, L olita had h astened, and
for a m om ent had m otion lessly stood at the
p a ssa g e-d o o r, tran sfixed by surprise at the
stro n g m an’s em otion . T hen her w om anly
com p assion bid her g et a kerchief. No doubt
an an gel had first b en t over K itchener’s couch;
but sw iftly L olita usurped h is p lace, kissed
K itchener’s foreh ead , and w ip ed aw ay his
tea rs w ith ten d er sisterlin ess.
T h e m ere fact th at he w a s no lon ger alone
arrested th e exp ression of the reserved Brit­
ish er’s feelin g s. T rad itional stolid ity resum ed
its sw ay, so far as w a s co n sisten t w ith his
gratitu d e for L olita’s affection ate pressure on
h is brow . Her touch w as h ealing, and he w as
so o n restored to h im self. W hile sittin g b e­
sid e him , she sa n g a hymn w hich he could not
clearly understand beyond its exp ressin g faith
in G od, for her ey es w ere raised in radiant a s­
p iration . Then her m ood ch an ged ; she seem ed
to be trying to recall som eth in g; and w hat she
recalled , w hen she san g it, in sp ite of poor
pronunciation and altered rhythm , he recog­
nized a s an attem p t to render, for his benefit,
“ R ock of A ges, cleft for m e!”
T hen he join ed in. and m aking an effort at
clear en u nciation , helped her to correct herself.
Im m ediately she ceased lead in g, but follow ed
him , lightn in gs of in telligen ce transfiguring her
m ob ile featu res.
W hen th ey w ere tired, th ey stopp ed ; and
L olita asked if she m ight share his spiritual
jo y . H aving w on the victory over his sub-
co n sciou sn ess, he doubled h is trium ph by re­
la tin g the story of his stru ggle; and he w as
rejoiced to se e that h is ta le neither w earied ,
nor raised scep ticism in h is au ditor, and that
sh e sym path ized w ith h is stran ge adventure by
ferven tly ad din g, “ T hanks be to G od !”
C om forted by finding ap proval w here he half
exp ected ridicule, K itchener exp ressed his ap ­
p reciation th ereof, and his w onder at her
ready accep tan ce of h is vera city ,— for w ith a
tw in g e of con scien ce he repented of the scorn
he him self had ever unsparingly heaped on all
w h o in his presence had con fessed to any in­
terior exp erien ces. T hen she inform ed him of
th e cau se w hy th ey had com e to him . Just as
th e D elphic sybil o f old prophesied w hen a f­
fected by the fu m es rising from the recesses
of th e earth, so here th ese volcan ic fum es had
th e pow er to in toxicate th e external self to
th e point of allow in g the in d ivid u ality to ob ­
serve th e exp erien ces of the spiritual sen ses,
w hich usually lie hid behind the activity of
th e m aterial on es. In short, th ese fum es “ op ­
en ed the spiritual se n se s.”
“ H ave any of your p eop le, or h ave even you
you rself, had any sim ilar exp erien ces?” in­
quired Kitchener, a s if visited by a new
th ou gh t.
“ N ot ex a ctly like you rs, m y frien d ,” re­
sponded his gen tle com panion; “ because you
received th e full strength of the poison ous
fu m es, and th at u nexpected ly; but a s, for m any
years, w e have know n of their p sychical effect,
w e know w hen, and in w h at q uan tities, and
w ith w hat proper preparation to allow the
fu m es to m inister to our spiritual p rogress.
Indeed, have you ever w ondered w hy w e
should at all be here, and w ho w e are?”
K itchener nodded assen t, “ Indeed I have, but
I w a s too sick and h elp less to do m ore than
a ccep t your m erciful h o sp ita lity !”
His grateful sm ile w a s returned by a sun­
shin e ray of secret in telligen ce. “ All of us
are spiritually-m inded South A m ericans w ho,
finding our hom e con d ition s unfavorable to
spiritu al d evelopm ent, have, ju st as the birds
or con sum p tives seek a ch an ge of clim ate,
sough t quiet retirem ent, and h ave found it in
th ese d eserted , tem p erate and food -yield in g
ca v es of this alm ost extin ct v o lc a n o .”
“ So then th is is a sort of herm itage?”
queried the sold ier.
‘‘E x actly!” agreed th e nurse.
‘‘But how is it th at the G erm ans did not
know ab out you ?” w ond ered th e m an of af­
fairs.
‘‘B ecause the valu e of our retirem ent d e­
pends on our rem aining u n k n ow n ,” she e x ­
p lained. ‘‘A lso, w hen on ce a m an or w om an
h as tasted of th e p rivilege of fruitful leisure,
and the p sychic a d van tage of th ese prophetic
fum es, he or she is very u nw illin g to lo se those
b en efits; to do so w ould be fo o lish . A lso, in
a w ay, our m em bers h ave b ecom e unfitted to
return to the m urderous b estial stru ggle ob­
tain in g in the w orld; and in ad d ition , the sa fe­
ty of all d ep en ds on th e secrecy o f each in­
d ivid u al. So none is adm itted w ho h as not
fu lly decided n ever to return to th e w o rld .” ..
‘‘But w hat ab out m e? I shall return to the
w orld th e first chance I get! Are yo u not
afraid of m y betraying you r secret?”
“ God w ill p rovid e!” sh e g en tly answ ered
w ith the trustful sm ile of a St. C ecilia; “ He
w ould not have allow ed you to be brought
here u n less He knew w hat He w a s d o in g .”
“ But w a s not m y arrival a surprise to your
group? W ere not you r prop hetic g ifts a t fault
in th is in stan ce?”
“ N ot en tirely, m y frien d !” m elodied sh e; “ w e
had had som e inkling of your co m in g .”
“ But m y ap pearan ce surely w a s a surprise,
and you did not know th e w h ereab ou ts of my
ca v e !”
“ T rue in part! A s w ith all p rop hecies, w e
knew th e sub stan ce, but not th e d etails of tim e
and p lace; and th en ,” — and in her face crept
an aw esom e m ajesty,— “ do you sup p ose that
u n less w e had know n of your com ing w e w ould
have received you so h osp itab ly? Do you
not think that w e could have defended our­
selves? Could w e not have m erely let you
perish of pain and hunger? Could w e not have
let th e u nm itigated fu m es finish th is particular
existen ce of yours? W ere you so attractive an
ob ject a s to com m and our devotion ? For
w hile naturally w e w ould have been inclined to
h osp itality, w e m ight h ave feared you w ere
not alon e; w e m ight have feared your b etray­
in g our sanctuary; w e m ight sim ply have let
you perish on your ow n resp on sib ility by ab­
an d on in g y ou . M ight w c n ot? So yo u se e ,
our n ursin g you back to h ealth im p lies w c
reco g n ize a d ivin e purpose and resu lt in you r
com in g,— a b lessin g to u s a ll!” and sh e sm iled
w ith an in scru tab le faith .
“ B ut I h ave taken no o b ligation n ot to b e­
tray you . . .” le a se d K itchener.
“ N one but your honor, and G od ’s a ssu r a n c e ,”
sh e seren ely con tin u ed ; “ and th at is en o u g h .”
“ G reat is you r fa ith !” m urm ured th e s o l­
d ier. “ I w ish I could share it !”
“ You can , and you d o !” trium phed sh e.
“ Did I not see you sh ed d in g holy tea rs of
faith ?”
“ You did, and I claim ed and received G od ’s
h elp ; but I w ish I could h ave m ore o f it; I
w ish I cou ld talk to y ou , and learn o f th e
grou n d s and ach ievem en ts of you rs . . .”
“ You m a y !” sw e etly agreed sh e, m od estly
b lu sh in g; “ m y treasu re w ill on ly be in creased
and m ade firm er by sharin g it w ith y o u ;—
but it m ust b e som e oth er d ay, w hen you have
recovered from you r em otion al crisis an d v ic ­
tory; b ecau se, you k n o w ,” and sh e sm iled w ith
the allu rin g im pudence of a n urse,— “ w e can ­
not afford to have you r h ea lin g d e la y e d ,—
for a h elp less . . .”
“ Invalid such a s I am is a burden . . .”
“ N ot to our h osp itab le d isp o sitio n ,” in ter­
rupted sh e, “ but a sou rce of d anger to the
a ch ievem en ts of all; for here, w ith the sun d er­
in g, selfish extern al m ask rem oved, w e live in
such h arm ony th at one is for all, and a ll for
one . .
“ A nd you cam e to m e w hen I w a s so d is­
tressed . . .”
“ N ot b ecau se I heard you r so b s, from so
great a d istan ce; but b ecau se I felt your grief,
and cam e to you to im part som e o f m y fa ith !”
and sh e beam ed on him rev iv ify in g ra y s of
tru st and p eace, until, a s the ice m elts under
th e sprin g sun, all his reserves, h is d ou b ts, his
h esita tio n s m elted into th e crystal liquid of th e
fab led elixir of life; and like G alahad inspired
by P e rciv a le’s sister, th is m ilitary m artinet
g lo w ed w ith the p ea ce th at p asseth under­
stan d in g, w hich is the exu b eran t fru itage from
th e root of faith .
“ G ood -b ye, m y brother . . .”
“ H erb ert!” he w hisp ered .
“ V ery w ell, brother H erbert!” nodded sh e,
and like som e sunbeam d isap p eared , leavin g
the sick m an to en joy th e h ealin g balm o f that
rad ian ce.
IV. MATILDE, or FAITH INEVITABLE AS CURE FOR DESPAIR -
AND SUICIDE
N ext m orning our invalid received a shock.
For s o * lo n g had Lolita tripped through the
p a ssa g e-w a y to relieve h is w an ts, and so
eagerly w a s he look in g forw ard to a d evelop ­
m ent of yesterd a y ’s con solation , that he w as
alarm ed at hearing a step w hich seem ed
stran ge; and in w alked not Lolita but a dark­
haired, m id d le-aged rather sligh t-b od ied w o­
m an. She greeted him w ith a friendly sm ile.
Her English w as not unlike th e speech of
Lolita w hen he had first m et her; so that it
w ould have been ea sier to con verse in the
South A m erican Spanish w hich by th is tim e
he had m ade shift to learn. But from certain
of her in ton ation s he susp ected th at she could
talk French, and an exp loratory greetin g in
that harm onious lan gu age elicited a favorable
resp on se, w hich a t once estab lish ed full com ­
m unications b etw een them .
So she sa t d ow n , introduced h erself a s S is­
ter M atilde, and asked him to tell her w hat
L olita had been in the habit of d oin g so that
h is treatm en t’s regularity m ight not be in ter­
rup ted . K itchener exp lained th e d eta ils, re­
d ucin g h is requirem ents to th e lo w est lim it
p o ssib le. But after th e dinner had been
b rought and fed to him , a s he w a s still unable
to use h is arm s, he b eg g ed her to sit dow n
and tell him w h at had happened to L olita.
M atild e’s g en tle and frien dly fa ce w a s tra­
versed b y a m om en tary cloud of a n x iety . It
seem ed th at th e d ay b efore, w h ile carryin g
a w a y som e of the d ish es and oth er m edical
p arap hern alia, in the p a ssa g e-w a y , L olita had
stum b led over a sto n e, dropped w h at she w a s
carryin g, and sprained her right ankle so b adly
th at she w ould be im m obilized for som e little
w h ile. W ith m uch graciou s cou rtesy th at be-
9
FAITH AS CURE FOR
tok en ed so cial stan d in g M atilde exp ressed the
h ope th at she m ight su cceed in tak in g L olita’s
p lace su fficiently w ell to a void K itchener’s su f­
ferin g any d iscom fort or set-b a ck , and b egged
him to ask her for an yth in g sh e could do or
g iv e .
He felt unable to sp eak . It w a s in th e ser­
v ic e of h is n eed s that th is charm ing girl's
h ealth had been en d angered . He exp ressed
th is, ad d in g th e sad reflection th at it seem ed
a s if th e m ost unselfish are fa ted to suffer the
m ost.
M atilde h astened to reassu re him , and said
th at accord in g to all ex p ecta tio n s, entire rest
w ou ld in a short tim e restore L olita, as the
p h ysician R am on th ou gh t th at no b ones had
b een broken. K itchener need not be an xiou s
fo r her w elfa re, but fo r her sak e m ight try
to g et w ell a s rapidly as h e w ould h ave done
if L olita had continued her m in istrations.
M atilde ad ded th at sh e con sid ered it a p leasu re
to serv e him .
K itchener w ond ered if th is w a s an oppor­
tu n ity to d iscover the ob jectiv ity of th e faith
in God w hich Lolita had p rofessed ; and he
m igh t ascertain w hether M atilde agreed th ere­
w ith . So he asked her if sh e agreed w ith
L o lita ’s firm d ep en dence on P rovid en ce a s a c­
com p lish in g m an ’s h igh est aim s.
“ Of co u rse!’’ exclaim ed M atilde, “ I a lso am
an op tim ist; but no doubt I look a t faith from
a d ifferent stand -p oin t, b ecau se no tw o hum an
b ein g s look through the sam e e y e s. Even if
th ey do repeat the sam e creed to geth er, no
tw o p erson s can m ean th e sam e th in g by it."
So K itchener felt invited to ask , “ W ell, if
yo u share L olita’s optim ism , by w h at road did
you com e to it? D o you a gree w ith her in
an y th in g excep t th e final resu lts of faith?"
“ Of co u rse," responded M atilde, “ m y d if­
ficu lties in life w ere d ifferent from L olita’s ,—
u navoid ably so, b ecau se I am an old er w om an,
and have had to face m any life-p rob lem s
of w hich L olita h as probably little m ore than
h eard ."
“ W ill you not sit d ow n ," ask ed K itchener,
“ and d escrib e to m e th e w ay by w hich you
cam e to th e faith w hich you share w ith Lolita?
W hat w a s you r startin g-p oin t?"
G raciously M atilde sat dow n and w ith ou t any
affectation related her life-ex p erien ces. “ P er­
h aps m y stand p oin t and resu lts w ill be better
u nd erstood by you if I d escribe th e m ental a t­
titu d e from w hich I started to com e here. I
am the d au gh ter of a m an w h o w a s a rich
p lan tation ow ner n ear S ao P aolo in Southern
B razil. W e lived happily, and I en joyed the
atten tio n s of a frien dly group of so cia b le and
b rillian t frien ds until, in a tim e of revolu tion ,
m y fath er w a s accu sed o f a sham eful crim e.
W hile in a gard en , one of m y you n g lady
frien d s had been attack ed by an intruder w ho
much resem bled m y fath er. A lthough the latter
w a s defen d ed by an alib i, th is latter p rotec­
tion w a s n ot sufficiently con vin cin g to redeem
him in the sigh t of our a sso c ia te s. W hile
th erefore he w a s not in a n yw ay m olested by
the a g en ts of ju stice, an unspoken feelin g of
suspicion alien ated the you n g m en and w om en
w ho till then had been m y in tim ates. Over
this m isfortu n e, o f cou rse, m y fath er brooded;
ind he grew lon ely, a s h is form er b u sin ess a s­
sociates w ith drew from him a s if he had had
the p lagu e. T h ese so cial a lien ation s resulted
n b u sin ess com p lication s w hich ultim ated in
’in ancial failu re.
“ Father and M other had ap paren tly so much
d ie d on the support of th eir frien ds th at w hen
h is w a s w ithdraw n th e w h ole joy of their
DESPAIR AND SUICIDE
ex iste n c e d isap p eared . Father grieved so
m uch a s to suffer from m alnutrition; he b e­
cam e so w eak th at a sligh t attack of fever
w hich oth erw ise he w ould ea sily have throw n off
led him to collap se in front of our ey e s. Soon
M other follow ed him . and I w a s left alon e, b e­
cau se m y sister T eresa , w ho had been m arried
to a visitor from B ogota in V enezuela, w ho
had on ly heard of the undefined and therefore
unrefutable su sp icion , becam e estran ged from
m e w h o never w avered in support of m y Fa­
th er’s innocence.
“ Finally our h om e w a s sold at au ction ; for
it w a s d iscovered th at, in trying to keep up
ap p earan ces, m y Father had, for som e years,
a llow ed m ortgages to consum e all the rev­
en u es. So I w a s ejected , and left h om eless
and in d isgrace am id st our n ow h ostile com ­
m unity w hich w a s so prejudiced that there w as
no w ay open for m e to earn m y living.
“ A t last I d ecided to follow m y paren ts, and
had alread y planned self-d estru ction by the
ea sy w ay of our little ch arcoal sto v es, w hen
m y fatal secret w a s gu essed by L olita, w ho
at th e tim e w a s m y household m aid. She
faced m e w ith th e truth, and boldly show ed
m e con vin cing reason s w hy I should continue
the ad ven ture of livin g. She then rem inded
m e th at even if unpopularity m ade m y life im ­
p o ssib le in th is p articular n eighborhood, the
w orld w a s m uch w id er, and th at 1 could not
on ly start afresh elsew h ere, but th at if I w a s
w illin g to accom p an y her, w e could retire from
th e w orld w ith ou t en terin g any convent w bich
for so m any centu ries had been looked upon
a s the on ly m ean s of release from th e w orld ’s
p rob lem s. She said she knew of a herm itage
w here w e could both retire from the w orld,
w ith ou t b ein g com p elled to accep t any doctrines
th at w e m ight doub t, or sub ject ou rselves to
th e in d ign ities of p ersonal en slavem en t to any
ab b ess. “ B ecau se I w a s still uncertain of
m yself, I doubted such a p ossib ility; but a s­
sum ing the p lace of m y recreant sister she in­
spired m e w ith the cou rage to live."
“ And how did she do it?" eagerly asked
K itchener, his cu riosity piqued at finding in
th is sligh t girl, w h o rem inded him o f nothing
so m uch as of a butter-fly, w ith all her charm
and ga iety , th e ack n ow led ged ab ility of a ch ­
iev in g the suprem e hum an problem of encour­
a g in g a fellow hum an b ein g to continue livin g.
N ow a little em b arrassed , M atilde confiden­
tia lly con fessed , “ W ell, I sup p ose she flattered
m e a t first. She pretended to sym path ize w ith
m y m ournful view s of life. She pointed out
th at all p eop le w orth y of th eir salt have,
through an attitu d e such a s th at of Elijah in
H oreb, cherished d esires to leave th is w orld by
su icid e. Indeed, the b etter the person, the
m ore likely are th ey to be d isgu sted w ith the
sh allow n ess, in ju stice and w ick ed n ess of this
w orld; so that it is in evitable that th ey p ass
through such an attitu d e b efore th ey can a c­
cep t the higher one of livin g on ly for education
of th em selves, and for im provem ent of th is
w orld w hose d eceitfu ln ess th ey h ave d iscover­
ed and unm asked."
K itchener nodded his head in agreem en t, for
h e him self had gon e through a m om ent of
sim ilar tem ptation w hen he had fallen on the
volcan ic crater’s sh elf, and had felt that in
the on ly ex isten ce to w hich he could look
forw ard pain overw eigh ed any p ossib le p lea­
sure or utility. At that tim e he had conquered
th e tem ptation to suicid e not through any
praisew orth y argu m en tation , but a s th e unre­
flectin g result of British gen tlem anly training.
B ut he also had achieved the education al
WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
stand -p oin t later on by h is con q u est of fear.
A lthough L olita’s kindly m in istrations had re­
surrected roses in h is garden o f life, h e w ould
never be th e sam e unreflectin g person he used
to be for so m any years, b ecau se her con ­
versation had led him to ab andon th e attitude
of external stru ggle, and determ ined him to d e­
v ote th e rem ainder of his life to m oral im ­
provem ent in him self and oth ers.
“ But is th at id eal not a little v a g u e? ” m used
the p ractical sold ier.
“ Surely, the gen eral id eal is vagu e, and
could affect on ly dream y, th eoretical persons.
But a s 1 am a p ractical person, L olita w a s w ise
and kind enough to presen t it to m e in a con ­
crete w a y . She show ed m e th at m an ’s h ighest
p rivilege in this w orld is to act a s an inter­
cessor for the sick n ess, sorrow s and sin s of
oth ers. By prayer, w hich ch an ges th in gs, any
one, h ow ever poor, d isgraced or repu lsive can
becom e a partner w ith G od’s redeem ers, and a
p ion eer of the K ingdom of H eaven . Even if
one w a s in prison, or m aim ed in a h osp ital for
incu rab les, or if one w a s a sla v e or cast aw ay
on a d esert islan d , still th e w orst im aginable
life w ould be an in estim ab le p rivilege, and
w orth th e m ost cruel tortu res con ceivab le. So
L olita proposed system atic in tercession for
various unfortun ates, and I took a n ew in ter­
est in liv in g .”
“ W ell,” com m ented K itchener, “ th at is the
m ost reason ab le and effective cure for suicide
1 ever heard o f. But it should n ot be left to
individual fan cy, to chance, or accid en t. It
should be tau gh t in the sch ools a lo n g w ith the
m ultiplication tab le all the w orld over, and
suicid e w ould be p revented so cia lly a s w ell
a s in d ivid u ally. N othing is effective until it is
system atized , organ ized , or m ade com pulsory
and n ece ssa ry .”
“ Y es,” chim ed in M atilde, “ it is essen tial
to discrim inate the n ecessary from th e un­
n ecessary, th e in evitable from th e op tative.
Sooner or later, ed u cation is n ecessary and
in evitable, so lon g as w e resp ect ou rselves as
human b ein gs, and con sid er o u rselves better
than an im als. A nticipated pain is not in evit­
ab le, and m ay be no m ore than a b ridge to
w hich w e n ever com e, or a th reat. A ssured
pain, on th e other hand, is b earab le, by cour-
rage. I w ill even gran t that all grow th im ­
p lies som e pain, ju st as any sch o o lin g is in­
sep arab le from effort. But th e w o rld ’s com ­
m on -sense h as decreed th at the pains of edu­
cation are* overw eigh ed by its a d v a n ta g es. The
cross h old s our head high tow ard s h eaven,
and our la test R eligion is th at of th e C ross.
In con trast herew ith, enjoym ent is not n ec­
essary, nor com pulsorily im m ediate. T he g en ­
erous and noble w ill be w illin g to p ostp on e it
till all life ’s m ajor problem s are settled ed u ­
cation ally, and a ge h as ended any further op ­
portunities of grow th . T o leave th e b asis of
education w ould be a s stupid a s it w ould be
d isgraceful and co w ard ly.”
K itchener reflected, “ I am glad you have
called m y atten tion to that d istin ction betw een
the n ecessary and the u nn ecessary. Suicide
introduces an irrevocab le fate of judgm ent,
w hether you call it sin, or m erely in evitable
retribution; w hile w illin gn ess to continue liv ­
ing, h ow ever painful or sham eful, in slavery,
prison, m arriage or d evotion to paren ts need
never be robbed of its education al privilege,
a s w a s pointed out by E pictetus w hen his m as-
ster E paphroditus broke his leg ju st to tr>st his
philosophy, and th row s the resp on sib ility on
P rovid en ce, w hich m ay know b etter than w e
do w hat is b est for us, or w hat our form er
d eserts h ave m erited ; or, a s Em erson sa y s, w e
m ay be p utting the g o d s in our d eb t, accum u ­
la tin g m erit in a d v a n c e .”
“ And w h at ab ou t h onor?” m used M atild e.
“ D oes th at not m ake a sp ecial ap p eal to you
a s a so ld ier? ”
“ Of co u rse!” sh o t back K itchener; “ if w e
w ere entru sted w ith the p ost of .h on or on the
firin g-lin e, w e shou ld ap preciate th e com p li­
m ent o f G od’s con fid en ce in us . . .”
“ And m ay w e not u n con sciou sly p erh ap s be
fu lfillin g som e high p red estin ation ?” su g g e st­
ed the lad y.
At th is K itchener sm iled , but m uch m ore
kin d ly than he w ou ld h ave done b efore his
ap paren t m isfortu n e. “ You speak of p red est­
in ation and of form er ex isten ces so ligh tly a s
to m ake m e w ond er, b ecau se I, for on e, do
not know enough of such extra-m u n d ane affairs
to be ab le to com prehend or even visu alize
such en orm ou s is s u e s.”
“ V ery w e ll,” gran ted M atilde, “ all such is ­
su es b eyond our h orizon ap art, h ave you ever
reflected th at sin ce God seem s m ore an xiou s
to keep us here than w e seem to w an t to sta y ,
it is p ossib le th at th e future life m ay be w orse
than th e presen t on e, in stead of b etter, a s the
ca reless flipp an tly im agin e?”
“ Y es,” m ed itated K itchener, “ here a lso w e
are helped by you r d istin ction b etw een the
certain and th e p o ssib le. It is on ly a p ossi­
b ility th at b eyond w e shall have a s good or
b etter op portun ities of self-im provem en f,
w h ereas it is a certain ty th at all the con d ition s
w hich w e know a s ed u cation al, in con n ection
w ith control over a b ody, and relation s w ith
certain in d ivid u als, do com e to an end w ith
d eath . A lso w e shall certain ly lo se all th e
p a lliation s afforded by our really delightfu l
sen se-life, w h ereas it is eq u ally certain that
beyond w ill be con tin u ed the stru ggle b etw een
good and evil, a s 1 h ave been ab un d an tly con ­
vinced during m y recen t con q uest of th e th resh -
h old -m on ster F ea r.”
“ R ight you a r e !” ech oed M atilde. “ W here
else could w e m aster th e body? W here else
could w e ch oose careers? W hy else should
God h ave gon e to the trou b le of p erfectin g this
b eau tifu l w orld , u n less it w a s to afford op ­
portu nity for som eth in g th at could n ot be had
elsew h ere? M ore than w e dream , perhaps, do
even the a n g els rely on our hum an ju dgm ent.
T h e ch an ce in trod u ction s to friends m ay be
m ore fatefu l than w e th in k !”
“ Y es,” d eveloped K itchener, “ d yin g is ch eap ;
it is livin g th at is d ear. A lot of harm has
been done by the fa lse glam or throw n over
th e d eath s of th e m artyrs. A s for m e, I honor
m ore the brave w ho have the cou rage to live
under ad verse, ed u cation al con d ition s. I sup ­
p o se th at w hat the w orld calls an u nfortunate
person should feel flattered that God lo v es him
so m uch a s to give him ed u cation al con d ition s
th at are thorough and rap id !”
“ Y es,” w hispered M atilde w ith a tear in her
ey e, “ d ying w ould be fine if it really w ere the
en d . B ut it can on ly be a ch an ge, an intro­
duction to a new ju dgm ent, a close of certain
op portun ities, a partin g from sou ls w ith w hom
w e have accou n ts to settle . . . ”
“ A s w e have to su rvive a n y w a y ,” interrupt­
ed brusquely the t i d i e r , propelled by a new
th ou gh t, “ w e ir.inht a s w ell sa v e our se lf-
resp ect, not to s o 'a k of our p ro g re ss!”
Trium phed M atikle, “ T h e on ly honorable
w ay out is fo rw ard !” ^
“ H urrah!” drum m ed th e sold ier.
S traigh ten in g up like a cobra ready to strik e,
w ith scin tillatin g m isch ief in her ey e, M atilde
11
FAITH’S FORTRESS, ARMY AND SOLDIERS
sp a t o a t, “ W ron g you are! T h e on ly w a y out
is s id e -w is e !”
K itchener ca u g h t his breath. “ W hat do you
m ean ?”
M atilde la u g h ed . “ T he on ly w ay ou t is sid e-
w ise, b eca u se, ev en if you do not know it y et,
you are g o in g to m o v e.”
“ M ove? W h ere? W hen?” in terjected the
p atien t.
“ L isten !” sm iled M atilde at th e su ccess of
her su rprise. “ Y ou see, Lolita m ay be im ­
m ob ilized for so m e little tim e. I w ould have
to nurse her o v er th ere, and you here, and the
som ew h at d aq g ero u s p a ssa g e w ould be m ore
over-w ork ed th an ever. T h e on ly solu tion is to
com b in e th e p a tien ts. Should L olita com e h ere,
w hich m igh t riot b e the b est, in an y ev e n t, the
difficult p a ssa g e w ill be still m ore over-w ork ed
T h erefore th e com bination had b etter be over
th ere. H ow w ou ld you like to v isit L olita?”
“ N othing w ou ld p lease m e b etter,” rejoiced
K itchener; “ I w ou ld gain com p an y. Even if 1
have had th e p leasu re of you r v isit, I have
m issed her . . . u n less,— and here h is face
fe ll,— u n less sh e m igh t h esitate to adm it m e to
her m ed ita tio n s.”
M atilde sm iled sign ifican tly. “ P erh aps she
m igh t; but a s all of us w ho d w ell to geth er
h ere h ave sun k p erson al con sid eration s, and
are livin g only for the p rogress of hum anity.
— 1 am sayin g all th is m erely to keep you in
you r proper p lace, lest you becom e conceited,
— 1 am sure sh e w ill w elcom e y o u .”
“ Am i 1 am m ore than sure th at she w ould
help m e,” hum bly responded th e proud g en ­
eral; “ 1 thank you for p utting m e in m y place,
b ecau se I w ant to be kept th ere; but I shall
b e very gratefu l if you w ill tak e m e over
th ere. Perhaps I can alread y w alk over there
m y se lf!”
“ N o, not in th at d an gerou s p a ssa g e. B e­
sid es, our physician E rother Ram on w ould
h ave to d ecide th at an yw ay; so that you had
b etter let us act for the b e s t.”
“ 1 w ill, and very g ra tefu lly ,” gen tly resp on d ­
ed K itchener; esp ecially now that 1 see that 1
ou ght to continue to live, even though it g ive
you d ear p eople m ore trouble than 1 w ish it
d id . B ecau se,— and a s he spok e there cam e
into his fa ce’s featu res a radiance of th e glory
th at tran sfigu res th e fa ces of w orld -saviou rs,
“ b ecau se, 1 am determ ined to repay you som e
d ay in the on ly coin I can offer— coop eration
for you r p u rp oses.”
“ T h an k you . b roth er!” g en tly w hisp ered
M atilde, “ God h ears, and w ill rew ard you in
His ow n tim e; but n ow I m ust leave you to
see w h at can be d o n e!” And she d isap peared .
V. LEONORA, FAITH’S FORTRESS, ARMY AND SOLDIERS
From th e d an gerou s p a ssa g e soon em erged
sev era l of th e brethren, th e physician R am on,
th e in d isp en sab le O llanta, Felipe and F elix.
W ith m any jo k es, a s tenderly a s broth ers, th ey
tran sferred K itchener onto an im provised
sti etch er, a v o id in g all con cu ssion s to the still
b and aged arm s. V ery slow ly, very p atien tly,
th ey finally m an aged to in trod u ce him into the
com m on livin g room , none the w orse for his
jou rn ey. He w a s d ep osited on an im provised
cou ch of tu fa, on the northern sid e of the
room , w here he faced the southern sid e, alon g
w hich had been sim ilarly arranged a tu fa arm ­
ch air, on w hich reclined L olita. B etw een them
stood the tab le around w hich th e m em bers of
th e h erm itage u su ally gath ered for th eir sacra­
m en tal rep asts.
N o soon er had K itchener and L olita been left
a lo n e, than a cro ss th e room th ey telegrap h ed
a cordial g reetin g . A fter a so licito u s inquiry
a s to her a ccid en t, and p rogress tow ard re­
co v ery , K itchener recou nted to her the spirit­
u al p rogress th at he had m ade during her a b ­
sen ce; nam ely, th e added realization of the
in escap ab ility of faith to produce th e cou rage
and d eterm in ation to continue livin g in this
d ifficult and trou b lesom e w orld . A t th is good
n ew s L olita’s fa ce flushed w ith jo y : but after
a rehearsal of th e con versation s w ith M atilde
w hen the so ld ier’s inquiries con cen trated on
h erself, L olita look ed em b arrassed .
Until his en forced sep aration from her, Kit­
chener had accep ted her m in istrations as he
m igh t h ave p a ssiv e ly received th ose of a m in­
isterin g spirit. B ut her ab sen ce had revealed
to him in h im self m otion s of gratitud e to her
p erson ally. N ot on ly had ab sen ce m ade the
heart grow fon der, but he had been m uch in­
terested in M atilde a lso h avin g been saved
through L olita’s com fort and en cou ragem ent.
B ut M atilde had really broken off th e con ver­
sation b efore he could ask the q uestion that
burned w ithin him ; nam ely, h ow M atilde had
been b rought over to this herm itage.
Of cou rse, K itchener w a s an E nglishm an; and
a s such he looked on servan ts a s a race d is­
tin ct from hum an b ein gs. W hen first M atilde
had d isclosed th at L olita had been a m aid in
her household, our con ven tion al E nglishm an’s
su scep tib ilities had been sh ocked. But he had
sufficiently fallen under L olita’s m agic charm
to realize that the on ly real superiority is the
sup erior ability to serv e. T hen he rem em bered
th at in France th e servan ts are called “ th e
g ood o n es;” that the G reek w ord “ a n g el” a c ­
tu ally m eant m essen ger or servan t; and how
Jesus had w ash ed his d iscip les’ feet. To his
ow n great surprise, he n ow began to reveren ce
L olita m ore for her form er hum ble con d ition ,
than for her p resen t m ental and m oral super­
iority. But a s w ill be seen , he w a s due for
a still greater shock.
H esitatin g a little, lest p erhaps Lolita m ight
be em barrassed at b ein g rem inded of her hav­
in g been a househ old m aid, he asked her
w hether she w ould im part to him th e desired
d eta ils. L olita’s blush w a s not one of sham e,
but of m odest shrinking from talk in g so much
o f h erself. So lon g had she sunk all her ow n
p erson ality into th e service of hum anity a s
represented to her by her n earest human n eigh ­
bors, that to speak of herself becam e unusual
and sligh tly d ep ressin g. But seein g an op­
portu nity of givin g p leasu re to Kitchener, com ­
bined w ith instruction ab out the w ays of ap ­
proach to this h erm itage, and its spiritual s ig ­
n ificance, she sm iled, and took up the story
w here M atilde had left off.
W hen Lolita had su cceed ed in creatin g in
M atilde a determ ination to live, the latter had
in sisted that this m ust take p lace elsew h ere,
b ecau se in any ca se her usefulness w as at an
end in her im m ediate neigh b orh ood . So Lolita
inform ed Alatilde that she knew of an old In­
dian herm it w ho, by h is credulous fellow -p eon s,
w a s considered a d escen d an t of the Inca fam ­
ily, lon g thought extin ct.
“ W hat could he do for m e?” had been Alat-
ild e’s q uestion. '
“ T o begin w ith ,” Lolita had exp lained, he
is th e man w ho on ce g a v e m e the cou rage to
liv e, w hich 1 now have p assed on to you;
b ecau se though you m ay not have suspected
it, I m yself on ce p assed through th e storm of
WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
d espair. Y es, I w a s on ce in th e sam e position
in w hich you are n ow , and I did not know
w here to turn. B oldly he a d vised m e to take
up the position of a househ old m aid, in which
I should at least be su ccessfu l in ach ievin g the
superior ab ility o f serv ice."
M atilde had interrupted, “ Indeed you have
served ! N ot on ly a s m aid, but a s cou n sellor;
and 1 can see h ow you w ould n ever have had
the opportunity o f sa v in g m y life unless you
had been hum ble enough to en ter m y hom e,
even if on ly in a hum ble c a p a city .”
“ So soon a s w e w ere ab le to settle up our
im m ediate affairs an d, through a g en ts in the
n earest tow n, offer for sa le th e rem ainders
o f th e esta te, M atilde and I traversed the fo r­
e sts until w e reached th e A nd es. T hen w e
had to n egotiate a steep clim b, until finally
w e m astered th e Inter-continental D ivide; and
th ere, in a cave in a sm all hidden recess of
the m ighty h ills, w e fou n d ,— w hom do you
su p p ose?” asked she q u izzically.
“ I could not te ll!” replied K itchener.
“ W ell, it w a s O llanta, our m an of all w ork !”
Here K itchener realized the fu tility o f all his
aristocratic stand ard s. He b ecam e con sciou s
o f the spiritual d ign ity of th is servan t of the
com p an y. He becam e asham ed o f h avin g spent
h is life a s a killer of hum an b ein gs; and
though he knew that in m any an hour of need
he had saved his country, he realized th at such
service m ust after all be d estru ctive, and he
w ished it m ight have been left to som eone
else , and that he m ight h ave d evoted his life
to p reservative or con stru ctive a ctiv ities.
A round th is herm it O llanta, it seem ed , re­
volved a sm all group of fo llo w ers. Just as, in
Old England, Robin H ood had p rotected all
th o se w ho in his d ay had been ejected from
civilization , so O llanta had draw n to him self
m any people w ho for one reason or another
had grasped the fatu ou sn ess of “ ow n in g ” land
or “ savin g m o n ey ,” or becom ing p rofession al
m urderers, or pursuing th e w ill-o -th e-w isp call­
ed fam e. In th ese sim ple surroundings the
in evitab le cares of life w ere reduced to a m in­
im um , and the hours of con tem p lation to a
m axim um . Here, far ab o v e th e m aterialistic
asso cia tio n s of th e valleys, h oly influences had
a far greater opportunity to affect th e soul.
T h e inner s e lf's figu rative ob jectification s
could here easier pierce th e p h ysical sen se s’
unconfused im pressions, than w here the sight
had to the brain all d ay lon g transm itted u se­
le ss or repulsive im p ression s. Here far re­
m oved from the n oises and unclean speech of
th e low lan d s, th e ear could m ore readily catch
the g en tle w hisp ers of the V oice w hich, from
behind the ears, tells w hich w a y to go.
U neducated a s w a s O llanta, and though prob­
ab ly any one of his com p an ion s could have in­
structed him in any of th e scien ces, neverthe­
less, once a w eek on Sunday even in gs, w hen
th ey gath ered around him , and had sun g som e
hym n, O llanta w ould begin a rem arkable ad ­
d ress w hich began from an yw h ere and ended
n ow h ere. But stran ge to sa y , h is apparently
aim less rem arks answ ered all th e h eart-prob­
lem s w hich had arisen am ong an y of them
during the w eek . D iscu ssion w hich had been
held at great d istan ces b etw een m em bers who
had th ough t th em selves alon e, here w ould re­
ceive a b lessed solu tion , ap paren tly uncon­
sciou sly to the speaker h im self. A fter the
final b enediction none left th ese m eetin gs w ith­
out tears in his e y e s. W ithout this spiritual
fea st it is evident that none of th ese follow ers
w ould have rem ained on th e b leak m ountain-
top . But th is unm istakeable d ivin e assistan ce
m ade them realize th at it w a s to th eir a d v a n t­
a g e to rem ain to gath er spiritu al fo o d , even
from th is com m on p eon .
N ot lon g a fter L olita and M atilde had join ed
th is grou p , very u n exp ected ly, th rou gh the
n earest p ost-office at th e fo o t of th e m ountain
to w hich w en t one of the broth ers ev ery tw o
w eek s, th ey received inform ation th a t M atilde
had received th e in h eritance of her u n cle’s
esta te w hich ad join ed th at w hich had b elon ged
to her fath er. She laughed sard on ically a t her
form er tem p tation s to suicid e b eca u se of p o v ­
erty. How foolish such a tragic e v a sio n o f
her real life-p rob lem s w ould h ave b een , w a s
n ow seen .
It w a s ju st a t th at tim e th at en g in ee rs of
the tran scon tin en tal railroad in vad ed th eir re­
treat, and d rove them ou t. But alth o u g h our
grou p of herm its left th is p lace, th e a sso c ia ­
tion s of th e spiritu al life th ey here led did not
p a ss a w a y en tirely, b ecau se w hen th e railroad
w a s fin ally built, q uite u n con sciou sly o f th e
real occu lt reason , th e au th orities o f both
cou n tries located h ere the fam ou s sta tu e ca lled
the “ C hrist of th e A nd es” to p erp etu ate to all
a g e s th e h eaven ly ou tpou rin gs th at h ad b een
vou ch safed here.
W hither should our herm its go? H ow ever
far north or south on the crests of th e A nd es
th ey m igh t seek an oth er retreat, th ey th ou gh t
the com ing tid e of civilization , m isnam ed pro­
g re ss, w ould u ltim ately force them to a fur­
th er ev a cu a tio n . A ny m ove th ey m igh t m ake
m ust be in a rad ically different d irection ; and
th at w ould require much m on ey. It w a s M at­
ilde h erself, w h o, like the m ajority, had no
d esire w h atever to return to th e w orld , w h o
d eclared th at th is her u nexpected in h eritance
w a s a p rovid en tial god -sen d to en ab le O llan ta’s
group to relocate in a m ore p erm anent situ a ­
tion . So sh e sen t in stru ction s to her law yer
to d isp o se of th e esta te at th e ea rliest p o ssib le
m om ent, and she soon received n ew s that it
had been turned in to cash , w hich w ould b e
forw ard ed to her on receip t of in stru ction s a s
to d elivery.
In th e m ean w hile our herm its had co u n selled ,
and d evelop ed th eir th ou gh ts into p lan s. L og­
ica lly th ere ou ght to be a central p oin t for
spiritual ach ievem en t in South A m erica in an in­
accessib le m ountain retreat; but as th ey m ight
n ot find it, nor gain ad m ittan ce, th ey should
settle a s near to it a s p ossib le. From an other
and m ore u niversal stan d -p oin t th is m igh t
p rove an ad v a n ta g e, as sep aration from th e
m ainland w ould m ake it su itab le for an in ter­
n ation al herm itage w here th e W orld-god m ight
lo ca te th e offices of th e W orld-ad m in istrators.
T ru e, th is b road er view did not ap peal to all
the herm its; and th ose w h ose m istaken “ pa­
trio tism ” w a s p redom inantly p rovin cial stayed
behind and scattered over th e South A m erican
con tin en t, w h ile th o se w ho had tran scen d ed
tribal a n im osities sufficiently to en v isa g e the
ideal o f hum anity, and to ob jectify it en ou gh
to d ev o te th em selv es to th e p rogress of the
w hole race, follow ed O llanta in an exp ed ition
to lo ca te and estab lish th e b est w orld -h ead ­
q uarters th ey cou ld .
T hen O llanta w en t off on an exp lorin g ex ­
p ed ition . T o p reserve secrecy, he p urchased a
sm all ship , and by night slipped aw a y into
the lea st know n region , th e A ntarctic. On one
of the first o f th ese d eso la te islan d s he d is­
covered a p racticab le refu ge in th ese w arm
ca v es o f th is alm ost extin ct volcan o. Then he
returned, assem b led th ose w illin g to follow ,
and to geth er th ey form ed th is little settlem en t
in to w hich K itchener had blundered.
FAITH’S FORTRESS, ARMY AND SOLDIERS 13
“ A re you p erfectly sa tisfied ? ” probed Kit­
ch en er. “ D o you not care at all w h at h appens
to th e w o ild ? ”
“ W e do care very m uch; but w e think, nay,
w e know th at w e can help th e w orld m ore
from th e inner sid e of th in gs than by exertin g
our p ow er on the external asp ect, w here its
effect w ould be quite n e g lig ib le.”
Incredulously, sligh tly sneerin gly, K itchener
o b jected , “ Do you really think th at th is p iti­
fu l p lace is a w orld -h ead q u arters, let alon e
th e w orld h ead -q u arters?”
L olita sm iled p atien tly. “ Y es and no, dear
b roth er. N o, to th o se w h o do n ot w ant it;
and y es, to th o se w ho are ready to d iscover
it .”
“ I s e e ,” sm iled K itchener. “ You are g ivin g
m e a lesson w ell d eserved by m y cu riosity.
B ut I assu re y o u ,” added he m ore cordially,
“ though you m ay think th at I am not ready,
1 h ope the d ay m ay com e w hen I m ay see in
th ese w retched ca v es a W orld -san ctu ary. But
in the m ean w hile p lea se exp lain to m e how
you could h ave a W orld-san ctu ary here, w hen
a queer sect know n a s the T h eo so p h ists claim
to locate the central W orld-san ctu ary at Sham -
b alla in th e Gobi d esert?”
A little did L olita h esita te; but soon she
said m ysteriou sly, “ I do not like to sa y too
m uch for fear of m aking m istak es ab out that
o f w hich I m yself m ay not be fu lly inform ed;
but as 1 understand it, th ere is a W orld-san c­
tu ary in each one of th e con tin en ts. 1 have
been told that th e Gobi S ham balla sanctuary is
on ly the A sian centre, ju st a s the European
on e is located in th e G argano V alley at the
fo o t of M onte S anto, near th e D olom ite A lps.
T h e A frican on e is in S olom on ’s forgotten
ruins near the R uw enzori ran ge; the A ustralian
on e is in its B lue M ountains. . .”
“ W hile the C entral Sanctuary is . . cau­
tiou sly exp lored K itchener,
“ M ay be on som e islan d in th e m idst of the
O cean ,” half volu n teered and h alf questioned
L olita; and then m ore firm ly, “ a s w e m ay find
ou t som e d ay . . .”
“ P erh ap s!” m used the b ew ild ered sold ier.
“ H ow ever, g ettin g back to practical affairs,
you told m e th at you w ere resign ed to ex ert­
in g your reform in g force from th e in sid e, in­
asm uch a s on th e ou tsid e it w ould be n eg li­
g ib le. B ut w h at ab out m e? My pow er w as
not n egligib le, b ecau se I w a s en tru sted w ith
th e h igh est fu nction s in the governm en t. 1
had d em on strated th at 1 w a s th e on ly m an in
England w ho could th ere gath er an arm y; and
m ore than that, 1 w a s ju st leavin g England to
v isit R ussia to organ ize th o se ch aotic hordes
and w eld them into a stron g unit of offen sives.
T h is I had undertaken w ith the clearest k now l­
ed ge and gu id an ce of w hich I w a s cap ab le.
D oes it seem ju st th at it should end in d is­
aster? D oes it not seem a case w here G od’s
lead in g had broken dow n? W as God too w eak
to a ch ieve su c cess for th e righteous? W as
G od ’s gu id an ce m istak en ?”
Lolita an sw ered th at som etim es th o se great
problem s of life are to o com p lex to be view ed
sim ply from on e particular stan d p oin t. Per­
haps even th ey are tem p orarily u n resolvab le.
T o o m uch do m en som etim es hear ab out G od’s
om n iscien ce, w hich is no doub t true in g en ­
eral con d ition s, even if som etim es lim ited by
freedom of the w ill in person al circu m stan ces.
Even in sm all ad m in istration s like th ose of a
sch ool or a b u sin ess, som etim es th e innocent
and w eak h ave to suffer for the m ajority, and
of th ose m ost in need of h elp . “ T hen, to o ,
w e are not th e on ly on es w h ose in terests have
to be con sid ered. T h e future m ay not be
d ecid ed ; it m ay depend on con d ition s of people
en d ow ed w ith free w ill,and also on o n e’s
ow n p erform ance. N o, the individual w ill m ust
not be interfered w ith . B e sid es,” urged Lolita,
“ gran tin g that the G uidance d oes have short­
com ings, still th ese are trifles w hen com pared
to its a s sista n c e .”
“ A nd w hat ab out the an g els? ” interrupted
a fresh , you n g voice. L olita and K itchener
then n oticed that th ey had not been alon e.
T h e tw o ch ildren, A ugustin and L eonora, had
been listen in g unnoticed by the tw o older
p eop le en grossed in their ow n th ough ts. L eon­
ora continued, “ D on’t you know th at God
h elp s us through our guardian an gels? H aven’t
you ever seen you rs?” she in n ocen tly asked
K itchener.
T h e sold ier had been b rought up in the
A nglican Church w hich p reserves the legen ds
of a n gels w ith ou t accord in g them th e ob jective
reality w hich su rvives in th e th ough t o f the
G reek and R om an churches. So w hile he him ­
self had never seen his guardian an gel, he
neither liked to deny th e ch ild ’s assertion s,
nor spoil h is faith in them , nor ack n ow led ge
his ow n lack of vision . T hen he rem em bered
th e an gel w hich had appeared to b less his
con q u est of fear, and he w ondered if it m ight
not be a good th in g to use his sojourn am ong
th ese p eop le to d evelop a perm anent norm al
ab ility to see and com m une w ith h is ow n
guardian an gel. So he g en tly turned th e ques­
tion back on th e in n ocen t L eonora, w ho w as
still in the a g e to w hich, accord in g to the
scriptural statem en t, the Kingdom of H eaven
b elo n g s. So he asked her, “ And you have
seen your ow n guardian an g el? ”
“ W hy of co u rse!” exclaim ed sh e, “ H ow else
do you sup p ose I w ould find m y w ay in th ese
dark p a ssa g es in case of d ifficulty?”
“ And I do a ls o !” chim ed in A ugustin. “ Fre­
q uently our a n g els hold con su ltation s togeth er
w h ich ,” said he w ith a rueful cou n ten ance,
“ som etim es m ean unexpected lesson s for u s!”
A ssum ing a w isdom he w a s far from p os­
sessin g , K itchener m oralised : “ T h at is fre­
quently true w hen vision s are given to us.
T h erefore such a vision is not an id le am u se­
m ent, but is a preparation for som e great trial
in w hich w e shall need their support. But,
dear children, run aw ay, p lease, b ecau se I
w an t to ask som eth in g of S ister L olita.”
T h e little p eop le kissed her, w aved farew ell
to him , and d isap peared . “ W hy did you send
them a w ay?” inquired L olita. «,
“ B ecause I did not w ish to offend their
y ou n g ears w ith m y blundering d oub ts. For
in sp ite of m y realizin g th at faith in God is
essen tia l to overcom e fear, and to m ake m e
w illin g to continue in life, n everth eless the
a n g els m ake m y m isgivin gs ab out th e un­
d en iab le m isfortunes of life all the m ore p o ig ­
n ant. For if indeed th ey gu id e us, how can
you explain such m istak es or at le a st m isad ­
ven tu res th at w e w ere talk in g ab out a little
w h ile ago? If th ey are n ear us, w h y are w e
ev er in doubt, and w hy ev er in d espair about
problem s? T h ey cannot be unw illing to save
us! So th ey m ust be too blind to p rogn osti­
ca te th e evil, or too w eak to avert it .”
S adly sm iled L olita, and said , “ There
sp eak s the true C alvinist w ho b elieves in a
ready-m ad e God and a m agic creation . Here,
I’ll sh ow you w hat I m ean. In one w ay the
gen eral is responsible for everythin g th at is
d one in the field, but one general alon e cannot
sh o o t all the gu n s, provide all th e food and
am m unition, sh elter th e sick , and send all th e
in telligen ce. Did you do all th is yourself?
W ere your w ars all one-m an affairs?”
“ N o ,” sm iled K itchener, “ I w a s on ly the
figure-head in m ost ca ses. I could on ly be
the inspiration of arm ies directed through a
hierarchy of officers.”
“ W ell,” asked L olita, “ do you then really
think that God h as any le ss sen se than you,
and that he d irects th is u niverse by a sin gle
m agic shot? D on’t you see th at the invisible
w orld m ust be officered just as w a s you r arm y?
W hile, in a w ay, to th e privates th e sergean ts
represented you rself and the King, n everth e­
less they w ere on ly subordinate officers of
lim ited authority or k now ledge w ho often m ade
m istak es. N ow did you not d iscip lin e a num ­
ber of British officers in South A frica because
th ey did not atten d to th eir b u sin ess properly?”
“ Of course I d id ,” responded th e gen eral,
“ and it becam e a m atter of n o to riety .”
“ W ell, b ecau se th ose officers w ere inefficient,
w ould you have ju stified th e p rivates in doubt­
in g you or th e K ing?”
“ Of course n o t!” responded he.
“ W ell,” continued L olita, “ if th ese guardian
a n g els of w hich w e speak are either w eak
in pow er or lim ited in forek n ow led ge, a s you
claim , and a s in certain urgencies I w ill grant,
w hy should th at m ake you doubt the Suprem e
D ivinity w ho h as higher and m ore ab le and
w iser officer a n g els w ho w ill sa v e th e situ a­
tion ju st as you did in South A frica? Sup­
p ose that, in you r nam e, som e officer had
m ade a blunder, w ould you not, w hile cor­
rectin g him , h ave helped him out, backed
him up, and vindicated him? Just so w ould
th ese subordinate officer a n gels, even if they
do m ake m istak es, know how to reach the
higher on es, and to in vok e their assistan ce,
and through them have a cc ess to th e Suprem e?
So lon g as the sergean t a n g els w ear th e uni­
form of h olin ess, and w ield the sw ord of
prayer, th ey are, if not im m ediately, yet
m ed iately invu ln erab le, and clothed w ith all
th e pow er of the H eaven s. T h at is w h y, under
their direction , even if m istaken, w hatever
happens, w e are sa fe, so lon g a s w e w ork
w ith, and not a g ain st th e G u id an ce.”
“ T hough you are a w o m a n ,” exclaim ed the
officer, “ you h ave certain ly ou t-argu ed m e in
th is. Still I h ave one m ore unansw ered ob ­
jection . W hy should God deal w ith us only
through a n g els of such a low er officer class?
In the Bible have w e not in stan ces w here He
sen t the A rchangel M ichael, or even R aphael
to T ob ias in A ssyria, for nothin g m ore than
to get h is son a w ife, and heal him of blind­
n ess?”
“ Of co u rse,” an sw ered L olita; “ and you ,
you rself, have frequently sen t your orders by
som e high officer on a special m ission ; but
in your arm ies did you not have a regular
routine w hich, like a fly-w h eel, kept every­
thing in order? W ould it have been w ell to
put colon els in im m ediate superintendence over
p rivates? So, you see, you are a trifle con ­
ceited , ju st a s everyb ody else is, to som e ex ­
ten t. But one ch ief reason w h y w e are so
con ceited is th at w e have so low an id ea of
G od, so m iserable a conception of h olin ess,
th at w e do not realize th at God d oes not show
H im self to us b ecau se His h olin ess is so d azz­
lin g th at if He sud d en ly unveiled H im self to
u s w e w ould be reduced to a sh es. B esid es,
m y dear Friend, w ill you be an gry if unin­
ten tion ally in the cou rse of my explan ation I
should happen to w ound your van ity, w hich is
com m on to all hum ans?”
“ N o ,” a sseverated K itchener, “ I have learn­
ed to be hum ble by d isco v erin g h ow much
b etter than m yself som e oth er p eop le a re. So
sp eak fran k ly, p lea se, and p la in ly .”
“ G ood !” said L olita. “ S up p osin g then that
it w a s p erfectly proper for you , a s gen eral, to
be d etailed d irectly to com m and som e n ative
A frican p rivates w h o by nature are a v erse to
b athin g, and w h ose approach can be sm elled
n ot on ly by d o g s, but by m an. W ould it be
p leasan t for you to be in im m ediate d irection
o f such so ld iers? ”
“ N o, it w ould n o t,” said K itchener; “ and
w e u su ally em p loyed som e rough iron m en w ho
d rove them like c a ttle .”
“ N aturally and p rop erly,” agreed L olita.
“ B ut have you ever th ou gh t th at w e hum ans,
th e b est of u s, carry around w ith us a m oral
sten ch w hich offen d s th e n ostrils of in corporeal
b ein g s w h ose sen se s are so rarified that they
can hear a prayer a th ousan d m iles aw a y , and
se e a ch aritable deed all around th e glob e?
Do you n ot se e th at our ow n atm osph ere is
so vitia ted , and our m agnetism is so repu lsive
to B ein gs of purer ey es th at th e on ly a n gels
w h o can be ap poin ted to reach through to us,
or w ho are w illin g to stand life-lo n g a sso c ia ­
tion w ith u s a s gu ard ian s,— are th o se of the
lo w est ord ers, w h o se spiritu al sen se s arc not
y et so keen th at th eir life and p rogress w ould
n ot be hindered by a sso c ia tin g w ith us? Far
from om n ip oten t and om n iscien t are th erefore
our guardian a n g els; but in k n ow led ge and
p ow er th ey are at an y rate sup erior to u s .”
“ M oreover, you m ust not fo rg et th at in the
in terv a ls b etw een th ese gu ard ian a n g els and us
lies the w h ole still h alf-u n d iscovered realm of
th e hierarchy o f natural la w s such a s elec­
tricity, the rad io, h eat, ligh t and th e w eath er.
A nd if all your life you h ave w itn essed con ­
flicts b etw een th ese natural la w s of different
le v els, w hereb y w ere produced storm s, v o l­
can ic erup tion s, sta tic and m isfortu n es, w hy
shou ld you be surprised if lik ew ise con flicts,
m isfortu n es or d isap p oin tm en ts should result
from in teraction of different level elem en ts of
the hierarchy of th e spiritu al w orld? For you
h ave spok en a s if u naw are not on ly of the
rational organ ization of th e spiritu al w orld,
but a lso of the clem en t o f tim e, in w hich there
are occa sio n s, op p ortu n ities, and coin cid en ces
w h ich , if for an y, or for no reason , w e have
m issed , w e m ust w a it until th e n ext favorab le
op portun ity, the n ext revolu tion of th e p lan ets,
th e com ing of the n ext com et, or th e n ext erup­
tion in the fire-m ass of our sun. So you can
see th at even if th e organ ization o f th e an ­
g elic arm y w ere p erfect, you w ould still have
to a llo w for p eriod icity, n ot on ly of know n
p lan ets, but of p lan ets, cou n cils and creation s
undream t of by us, or by an y an gel short oi
the Suprem e; for even Jesu s said to h is d is­
cip les th at not even th e Son but on ly the
Fath er H im self knew of th e tim es and sea so n s
of his second co m in g .”
“ B u t,” ob jected K itchener, “ if w e have
gu ard ian a n g els, w hy can w e not see them as
th ese children claim th ey d o?”
“ T h a t,” exp lained L olita, “ is the very rea ­
son w h y w e are livin g h ere. B eing p rotected
from th e u ncertainties and d egrad ation s of the
w orld , and from th e d ead en in g drudgery in­
cident to self-su p p ort ou tsid e, by our scien ­
tific u se of the volcan ic fu m es w e are enabled
to m inim ize and sy stem atically to rem ove th ose
p hysical p ercep tion -ob stacles w hich grow up
w ith m en a s th ey leave childhood behind. You
h ave n oticed that at th eir a g e A ugustin and
L eonora can still se e and com m une w ith their
a n g els. N ow if w e can keep th o se children
15
h ere, it is p ossib le th at th ey m ay g row up
such a s to con tin u e on th eir h igh er sph ere;
so w h ile ed u catin g them a s far a s w e can , w e
try to sh ield them from everyth in g th at in
them w ou ld ten d to d evelop th e an im al. T he
spiritu al is d riven into retreat by sp orts such
a s b o x in g , fo o t-b a ll, b a se-b a ll, ten n is, w hich
extern al ed u cation p rom otes. W e g iv e our
children p len ty ex ercise to keep th eir m ind in
con trol of the body; but w e try to shield
them from rivalry and b estia lizin g em otion s.
N ow let m e call th e children back , and do
you keep very q uiet: w e shall see w hether
through th e training w hich your lon g con fin e­
m ent h as g iv en you , or even by th e u n w el­
com e effect of th e fu m es, you m ay h ave d ev ­
elop ed sufficient ab ility to b ecom e co n scio u s
of th em .”
“ B u t, you k n o w ,” interrupted K itchener, “ I
am n ot y et q uite ready for such an exp erim en t,
b eca u se 1 did w ant to sp eak to you about
som e a sp e cts of life w hich 1 h ave not y e t re­
con ciled w ith faith in G od. Fear and d espair
1 h ave con q uered , but I am still unsettled
ab out a n x ieties, u n certain ties, p rovin cialism ,
sick n ess, licen se, and m a g ic .”
“ N ot n o w ,” p ostp on ed L olita; “ w a it! Just
now I feel th at you are on th e verge o f som e
happy ex p erien ce. Let m e call th em !” A nd
she d id .
A ugu stin and L eonora hopp ed in w ith the
irresp on sib le jo yan ce of you th. “ W h at do
you w an t, S ister? ” th ey chim ed.
“ O h ,” said sh e, “ I w an t you to sin g one
of the hym ns w hich you recen tly learn ed for
the ap p roach in g C hristm as sea so n . D o you
yet k now , ‘Hark the Herald A n gels S in g ’?”
“ Of cou rse w e d o !” volu n teered A ugu stin ,
w h ile L eon ora sm iled a ssen t.
“ Go on, th en , children, and en tertain our
B roth er H erbert h ere!”
T h e sin g in g o f th e hym n tran sported the
sea so n ed so ld ier in to a tran ce of listen in g and
w a tch in g . W h ile in th is recep tive m ood , he
b egan to b e con sciou s of a g lo w surrounding
the children. T hen it centralized, and revealed
th eir gu ard ian a n g els ap paren tly sp eak in g to
each oth er. T h ey seem ed to com e to som e d e­
cision , and L eon ora’s turned around to carry
it o u t. He called ; and to B rother H erbert’s
VI* TERESITA, or FAITH INE
WORLDLY
T h e ex citem en t of th is lo n g con versation in ­
duced both H erbert and L olita to a rest w hich
w a s interrupted on ly by th e en tran ce o f th e
fam ily for th eir com m on m eal. A fter th ey had
d one ju stice to their sim p le vian d s, Lolita
ask ed T eresita , the sister of M atilde, “ So a s
to let B roth er H erbert understand you r pro­
gress b etter, w ill you at the very b egin n in g
kindly exp lain to him your special heart-trou b le
w hich , forti n ately a s w e think, sep arated you
from th e w orld , and introduced you to our
com m on faith in G od, and m ade it so un­
sh ak ab le a s to m aster d esp a ir.”
“ W e ll,” said T eresita, “ if I sum m arized my
ch ief difficulty in life it w ould be a n x iety . In
th is I had m uch to excu se m yself, b ecau se I
am of th e stron glj m aternal d isp osition , w hich
in fa ct led m e to ad opt a s m y ow n , m y step
children w hich you h ave seen h ere, A ugustin
and L eon ora. You w ell know how a n xiou s in­
deed a m other ou ght to be. T hen I w a s both
p en n y-w ise and p ou n d -foolish . P en n y-w ise
from an xiety fo r th e future, and so pound-
fo o lish th a t I w ould g lad ly g iv e a w a y every-
grea t surprise, on e a fter an other, from the
different p a ssa g e-w a y s en tered six oth er an­
g e ls, w ho q uietly joined the d iscu ssion b e­
tw een the gu ard ian s of th e tw o children. Just
at th is m om ent th e spell w a s broken, and
everyth in g d isap p eared . A s if he had relapsed
in to an outer con d ition , B rother H erbert shook
h im self, turned to L olita, and asked her if she
had seen an yth in g. She h ow ever retorted in
kind, ask in g him to speak first. A s children
u su ally are w hen som eth in g th at is n ot m eant
for them is g o in g on, the tw o w ere all eyes
and ears, a s th e unheeding B rother Herbert
said , “ I saw n ot on ly the guardians of these
tw o children, but a fter con ferrin g, th ey seem ed
to u tter a call w hich w a s an sw ered by six
oth ers; and a fter a gen eral con sultation then
. . . if only th e children had n ot stopp ed
sin g in g !”
“ Oh, but I d id ,” g en tly continued L eonora,
“ b ecau se I felt m y G uardian tap m e on the
head, w hich u su ally m ean s, Took o u t!’ ” Both
L olita and H erbert sm iled. T h e latter m used,
“ W hat do you su p p ose th eir d ecision w as?”
L olita ventured, “ I do not know , but I think
. . . the b est w a y to find ou t w ill be to ask
the th ough ts o f th e rem aining m em bers of our
group w h ose gu ard ian s I su op ose th ey m ust
h ave b een !” “ T h e sam e th ough t had com e
to m e a ls o !” agreed Herbert.
“ P erh ap s,” su g g ested L olita, “ w hen th ey all
gath er for supper on th ese lo n g even in gs that
w e spend to geth er, w e cou ld , one by on e, let
each of the brethren ex p ress w h atever though ts
w ith w hich his guardian m ay have inspired
him . A s you are a g u est, th ey w ill no doubt
g lad ly relate to you h is or her story, the
sorrow or disap pointm ent w hich w ean ed them
from th e w orld , and th e road by w hich th ey
cam e to join in th is com m on attitu d e of faith
in G od, w hich is th e on ly support th at we
h ave here, sep arated a s w e are from all other
hum an a id .”
“ W ell,” rem arked H erbert, “ th at a grees
ex a ctly w ith m y desire; and even if it is not
w hat the a n g els th ou gh t, w e shall at least
accom plish som eth in g w orth w h ile, w hich w ill
not on ly introduce m e to m y new brethren,
but m ay a lso perh ap s clear up th ose problem s
w hich are still k eep in g m y faith in G od in ­
com p lete.”
VITABLE AS THE CURE FOR
ANXIETIES
th in g I p o ssessed fo r an y cau se I tem porarily
th ough t w orth w h ile. B esid es, an x iety w as
rooted in a furth er contradiction in m y ow n
character. I w a s d isp osed both to lon g jou r­
n eys, and a t the sam e tim e to a love of hom e
w hich, unless it w a s n ear the w ater w ith all
its uncertain storm s and d angers, could not
m ake m e happy.
“ So this problem of an xiety w a s n ot m erely
one developed by som e chance circum stance of
life, but one rooted in m y very self-co n tra ­
d ictory nature. Perhaps it w ould never have
been cured u n less som e unexpected circum ­
stan ces had driven m e to recon cile in m vself
th ese tw o pairs of op p osites, on one hand
penny-w isdom and p ou n d -foolish n ess, an d, on
the other, love of travel and of h om e. W ith
th is an alysis clearly in m ind, you w ill find
th at my actu al life-story is sim ple.
“ A s you know , I am th e sister of M atilde;
and w e both shared th e a d van tages and joys
of the social surroundings of my fath er’s p o­
sition of w ealth and e sta te. Only, at the tim e,
I seem ed to be th e m ore fortu n ate. A stranger
from B ogota visited our fath er’s hom e. He
w a s in m ourning, and w ith ou t an y intention on
my part at least, my m aternal d isp osition led
m e to try to com fort him . I w a s m uch sur­
prised and frightened, even th ough also
p leased , w ith his repaying m e by love and
an offer of m arriage. T hough m y love of ad ­
venture drove m e on, th e sam e love of hom e
filled m e w ith an xiety, a s w e had to travel
so far, alm ost around th e w h ole continent.
B ut I accep ted m y fate and its opportunity,
and I w en t w ith ‘ my husband to his hom e
w here he, b ein g em ployed in the governm en t,
w a s irrem ovably bound to C olom bia.
“ T o ad opt A ugustin and L eonora w a s a
jo y ; and both of them have am ply repaid m e
for any sacrifice I m ight h ave m ade for them .
W e built a hom e in th e on ly p lace w here I
could be happy, by th e w a tersid e. U nfor­
tu nately, th ree sum m ers a fter m y arrival, there
w ere som e very terrifyin g eq u atorial storm s.
T here w a s a trem endous tidal w ave th at pro­
duced an inundation on the M agd alena river
by w hich w e lived , and our h ouse w a s carried
aw a y . My husband w a s d row ned, and I only
saved my children by using th e d isjoin ted roof
of our house a s a raft from w hich w e w ere
saved by a rescu e p arty. A s w e had no re­
la tives th ere, w e w ere left ab so lu tely penni­
le ss. Industrious a s I w a s, I did n ot h esitate
to try to m ake m y livin g by p ia n o -lesso n s and
oth er kinds of self-su p p ort; but of course this
kind o f an existen ce could be on ly tem porary.
T h is w a s a tim e w hen m y tem p tation to
an xiety grew into a gen u in e o b sessio n . I w as
b esid e m yself w ith it. A p riest tried to tran-
quilize m e, and poin ted ou t to m e th at even
th e anim als w ere not an xiou s, and that the
Scriptures say th at no bird falleth w ith ou t the
Fath er’s care. B ut for m e, m y an alytic mind
could not con ten t itself w ith an y such m ake-
b elieve, b ecau se th e an im als’ tran q uility d oes
not proceed from in telligen ce, but from a
stupidity th at usually ends in prem ature death,
such as the m illions of spaw n th at perish to
one individual w ho su rvives. M oreover this
bovine sa tisfaction is im p ossib le to th ose w ho
have a mind or heart, for hum an b ein gs have
both id eals and resp on sib ilities. For them ­
selv e s, paren ts, friends, teach ers, n eed n ot be
an xiou s b ecau se, a fter all, it d o es not much
m atter w h at h appens to o n e ’s se lf; but w hat
o f o n e’s ch arges? And I had undertaken the
education of tw o orphans! T o them I w as
resp on sible for food , cloth in g and instruction.
A s th erefore the b est hum an b ein gs are th ose
w ith resp on sib ilities and affection s, the best
hum an b ein gs, th ose w ith the m ost in telligence,
am b ition s and d evotion , w ill th erefore be the
m ost a n xiou s. N ow th is an x iety d ep rives them
o f m aking u se of w h atever little ad van tages
m ight lie w ith in their g rasp . T h erefore for
them survival w ould be im p ossib le w ithout
faith a s an in evitable support.
“ Like a shipw recked ca sta w a y w h o clutches
VII. FELIPE, or FAITH 1
N ext ev en in g T eresita said , “ Last night I
w a s the victim of B rother H erbert’s education,
so I think th at it is tim e for onfc of the lords
of creation , the m ale sex , to m ake Brother
H erbert feel at hom e. So far on ly w om en have
been en tertain in g him . N ow I think Felipe
m ight undertake to introduce him self to Her­
bert in a practical and helpful w a y .” Felipe
sm iled sard on ically and said , “ T h at you w o­
m en have been the first to volu n teer m ay not
be en tirely due to devotion to H erbert’s edu­
cation . It is not im possible th at th eir w illin g­
n ess to talk m ay have had som e influence in
a life preserver, I sa w th at m y sa lv a tio n lay
ill faith in G od. W heth er G od w ould ju stify
it or n ot, I neither knew nor cared ; but I
knew th at I m yself could not sa v e m y children
u n less I,— y es, I w ill sa y it op en ly,— con vin ced
and delu d ed m yself in to ex ercisin g con fid en ce
in P ro v id en ce.”
H erbert in terrupted, “ W ell, and did P ro v i­
d en ce vin d icate itself? ”
T eresita sm iled . “ T h at m y children are
w ell, an d th at I am h ere, is p roof o f th a t.”
“ P ray, tell m e h ow P rovid en ce sa v ed y o u ? ”
in terested ly b esou gh t H erbert.
“ W ell,” continued T er esita , “ P rovid en ce did
n ot sa v e m e w ith ou t m ost d esp erate efforts
on m y p art. You know , w e m ust p ray a s if
th ere w a s no w ork, and w ork a s if th ere w a s
no p rayer. B ut a s soon a s I had ach ieved
h ap p in ess, I w a s en ab led to use m y in telli­
g en ce to sa v e m y self. A t B arranquilla I m an­
aged to sa v e en ou gh to g et aboard a sa ilin g
v essel in w hich I partially paid m y w a y by
serv ice, an d w e w ere fin ally landed in S ao
P a o lo , not for from h om e. Even here I had
tc ex e rcise m y faith , b ecau se I fou nd th at
Father had died under a cloud , and th at his
e sta te w a s g o n e, and m y sister, M atilde had
left. T h is w a s a divine te st of th e stren gth of
m y faith ; but I w ith sto o d it, and m an aged to
find tem p orary em p loym ent in the h ou se o f a
law yer. One d ay he en tertain ed a g u est
through w h o se ch an ce con versation I d isco v ­
ered th at our u ncle had left M atilde th e esta te
con tigu ou s to th at of m y fath er; and through
him I secu red h er ad d ress in th e h erm itage on
th e A nd es. W hen M atilde ordered th e in h eri­
tan ce sold , it w a s I w h o w a s the b earer of
th e fu nd s, an d o f th e m uch m ore p reciou s
le g a cy of our tw o d arling ch ildren, in w hom
our w h ole C olony rep o ses th e hope of sh o w in g
w h at th e future gen eration m ay accom p lish in
th e w a y o f spiritu al ach ievem en t. So yo u see
our very ex iste n c e w a s b ased on faith in G od
a s a n ecessary p rereq uisite to su r v iv a l.”
M isch ievou sly H erbert ask ed , “ A nd w h at
ab out th e con trad iction s w ith in you rself, th o se
fam ou s b a ttles b etw een p en ny-w isd om and
p eu n d -fo o lish n ess on o n e sid e, and lo v e of
travel and of hom e on th e other? H ave you
en tirely put th at inner con flict to re st an d
b ecom e p erfect?”
M atilde broke in la u gh in gly, “ N o, sh e h as
n ot; I w ill a n sw er fo r her! She still h as
m om entary occlu sio n s o f visio n , an d perh ap s
sh e w ill not en tirely o u tgrow them a s lo n g
a s she liv e s .”
“ B ut no doub t th is in eradicab le con flict w ill be
th e b asis of her sp ecial crow n of g lo r y ,” added
L olita, “ o f w hich w e alread y catch glim p ses
shin in g round her head from tim e to tim e .”
T eresita sm iled in gen tle gratitud e, and a
tea r glisten ed in her e y e . “ B ut so lo n g a s I
h ave th o se tw o d ear children a s p roof o f G od ’s
support, I n eith er w ill, nor can fa il.”
T hen the group broke up for th e ev en in g .
S CURE FOR REMORSE
th at d irection . B u t at an y rate, I w ill n o t
refu se to do m y p a rt.”
H erbert interrupted him , “ And w h a t w a s the
spiritu al hell from w hich you cam e to th is
h eaven ?” Felipe resu m ed , “ I com e from the
lim bo of flu ctu ation of vain regrets and fatal
rem orse. M y p aren ts lived in a w ea lth y sub ­
urb of B u en os A ires. T h ey w ere g en erou s,
and had n ever refu sed m e an ythin g in their
p ow er; so I lo st a tru e p ersp ective of life, and
a sa n e ju dgm ent of lim its. .1 saw no reason
to refu se m yself the so cial p leasu res of a
d ancer w h o w a s popular on th e sta g e a t th at
17
tim e. My p aren ts w ere religiou s, and w ere
h eartb rok en at m y in fatu ation . T h ey had been
g en erou s w ith m e in th e h opes th at, having
tasted all th at w a s b est in life, and sow ed my
w ild o a ts, I w ou ld som e d ay settle d ow n and
p rod uce som e n otab le ach ievem en t. H ow ever,
w ith m y fa ta l tem p tation to m ake snap d e­
cisio n s, for w hich I w ould be w illin g to fight
to the d eath , I refu sed to g iv e up m y you ng
acq u ain tan ce, and w a s exp elled from hom e.
W hile I w a s still in the m id st of fury a g ain st
m y fath er, an accid en tal fire, w hich perhaps
rose from tem p orary lack of usual p recautions
d ue to th is em otion al p re-occu p ation , d estroyed
th e hom e, and k illed both p aren ts, leavin g m e
a lon e in th e w orld w ith ou t either m oney or
th e exp erien ce and d esire to earn it.
“ A s I n ow w a s poor, m y fair friend natur­
a lly left m e, and I b egan to realize w h at I
had lo st. A lso I regretted m y ab an d on in g my
p aren ts a t a tim e w hen p ossib ly m y continued
support m ight have saved them from th eir m is­
fortu n e. A lth ough I do not doub t th at if both
of them n ow are w here th ey can se c m e and
know of m y repentan ce, th ey h ave lon g since
forgiven m e; yet I m yself w ill n ever be ab le to
fo rg et th at d efection from th eir sid e.
“ M ine, h ow ever, w a s a forceful p erson ality;
and I started to recoup the fam ily fortu n es.
First I took som e em p loym ent w hich brought
m e in d aily con tact w ith a fellow lad y-clerk
w h o on h earin g m y story grew very kind to
m e. Later she recip rocated and related her
story. Like m e sh e lived in the lim bo of re­
m orse. She w a s alread y rather old , and rap­
id ly d egen eratin g to th e d ishonored condition
of superannuated w ork ers, w ho u nless they
h ave ob tain ed a govern m en t p osition or sin e­
cure, w ould be put on th e street. Her story
rem inded m e of the Em peror C laudius's se c ­
ond w ife wTio d ivorced him for refu sal to go
Into so ciety , a year b efore his election to the
purple. W hen you ng, sh e had had rich par­
en ts w ho a lso had in d u lged her every w him .
She had had a lover in m od erate circu m stan ces
w ho had not p rop osed to her a s rap id ly as
she th ough t he shou ld; and to reven ge h erself,
w hen she p rogn osticated th at he w ould pro­
p o se to her, in order to be ab le to h on estly
tell him she w a s alread y en gaged to be m ar­
ried, she p rop osed a trial en gagem en t to a
you n g con verted H ebrew w hom sh e had m et
a t th e church, and to w hom she had been a t­
tracted b y an alm ost offen sive and a g g ressiv e
relig io sity . So w hen her lover did p rop ose,
sh e sw e etly told him sh e w a s alread y en gaged ,
and she had the joy of seein g his regret. But
her trial en gagem en t lasted on ly th ree d ays,
and w hen it w a s over, and she b egan to regret
her real lover, she found th at he had gon e on
a trip around the w orld . On th is trip he
form ed b u sin ess con n ection s w hich soon m ade
him a m illionaire, and every year he w ould
tak e extended trips of exp loration s. W hen­
ever he cam e to tow n , th is lad y w ould m ake
vain efforts to induce him to call on her, but
a s she b ecam e old er and le ss attractive, less
and less did he a ccep t her in vitation s. Fin­
a lly she b ecam e bitter, and to such an exten t
fu riou s th at she left th e church ou t of hate of
th e religion of her trial fian ce. For thirty
yea rs, she w ould a lm o st sp it a t the m ention
of her rich lover.
“ W hile th is la d y w a s g ood to m e, her b it­
tern ess froze m e to the b one. I sa w that such
a life of recrim ination w a s not w orth w hile,
and that if I w a s to su rvive, let a lon e a c ­
com plish a retrieval of m y fam ily fortunes,
I m ust not on ly go leave the n eighborhood of
th is horrible m ephitic Lcrnean m orass, but I
m ust a lso in m yself silen ce the num bing re­
m orse at the b etrayal o f m y dear p arents.
“ M y repentance w a s none th e le ss real for
lo o k in g on my youthful d ecision a s som ehow
d ivin ely guided, and for determ ining to m ake
it the foundation o f som e spiritual a ch ieve­
m ent. I saw th at I w a s not an excep tion to
hum anity; that if the truth w ere know n, a l­
m ost everyb ody h as m ade som e d ecision s that
th ey regret. 1 m et m any p eople w ho said,
‘if I had to do th at over again , I w ould do
it d ifferen tly’. I saw th at a s w e grow older
d ecisio n s are u navoid able, and th at if w e do
not m ake them , th ey m ake th em selves for us.
W e h ave to d ecide w here w e w ill live, w hat
career w e shall tak e up, w h at frien ds w e shall
knit to our soul, and w h at spiritual a ch ieve­
m ent w e w ill ch o o se. I sa w th e only attitude
w hich w ould en ab le m e to live w ould be to
have u nquestionable con fid en ce th at G od’s w is­
dom could rectify such m istak es, transfigure
them w ith a h alo, and add d ign ity to my
career. But I a lso sa w th at I could not begin
th is new life in th e old surroundings w here
even if I forgot it, m y b u sin ess a sso c ia tes no
doub t u nintentionally w ould be perpetually
jab b in g the old m iseries into m e a t every op ­
portu nity.
“ i had gone to tak e a C hristm as presen t to
an old Indian servan t of th e fam ily, probably
the on ly one w ho still clun g to m e w ith
frien dly loyalty; and seein g m e in th is slough
of despon d en cy, and realizin g m y untenable
situ ation , she told m e she had been helped by
con verse w ith an old Indian m agician w ho w as
said to be a d escen d an t of th e Incas of old.
In a fortunate m om ent, I yield ed to her affec­
tio n a te en treaties, and sh e b rought m e to 01-
lan ta, ju st about the tim e that our group
realized that th ey m ust m ove; th ey a lso w ere
in a slou gh of d espon d en cy. T h ey w ere all
w ell-in ten tion ed p eop le of m oderate circum ­
sta n c es w ith much spiritual aspiration but little
p ow er of d ecision ; and in the P rovidence of
G od it w a s I w ho w a s enabled to turn my
m iserable h esitan cy into the savin g decision of
m ovin g to a b etter location ; and it w a s then
th at dear S ister T eresita furnished the m eans.
T h at is how w e cam e h ere.’’
A cross th e room Lolita shouted th ese w ords,
“ B ut perhaps B rother H erbert has no d ecisions
to regret, so th at this life of you rs m ay not
ap p eal to him so m u ch .”— “ T h at is ju st the
m ost m istaken p ossib le id ea ,” said Herbert
ru efu lly. I shall never forget m y w retched be­
trayal of H aig in Flanders, w hen he asked me
for ex p losive sh ells sim ilar to th ose w hich the
G erm ans had ju st introduced into w arfare.
W ith m iserable h ead stron gn ess I refused to
h elp him . During m y first nightm are exper­
ien ce in my cave m any of th ose brave T om m ies
w h o died because of m y d elay cam e back to
m e; and w henever I think of them I squirm ,
even though I realize that if I am to survive,
I m u st follow B rother Felipe and throw off re­
m orse as a d em on .”
W ith a ju d ge’s inq u isitorialn ess L olita softly
ad ded, “ And w as that your on ly cau se for re­
m orse?” “ N o, n o ,” said he. “ A gen eral has
a s m any cau ses for rem orse a s there are days
in h is life. But I sup p ose I m ight in th is con­
nection m ention m y decision to leave England
for R ussia which ended so d isa stro u sly .” “ But
so b tessed ly ,” finished Lolita with the gentle
au thority of an an gel. She sa w that Kitchener
w a s in tears, and she m otioned th e rest to
le a v e; and the usual social even in g broke up
w ith ou t a w ord.
VIII. ADOLFO, or FAITH INEVITABLE FOR THE CURE OF
PROVINCIALISM
N ext even in g the frien ds gath ered in a som e­
w hat chastened m ood, and F elix asked Kit­
chener how he felt. “ P h ysically, much the
sam e a s ever; but I’ve forgotten m ostly about
m yself until last night w e b egan speakin g of
th e p ast. W hile I am w illin g to con secrate m y
past m istak es to God, and ask Him to help me
redeem them , and w hile I se e th at th is can be
based only on faith in G od’s help to retrieve
the past, th is story h as arou sed in m e stron g
aw akenings and m em ories w hich during these
m onths of seclusion had grad u ally gon e to
sleep . If I had not had a resp on sible p ost in
th e adm inistration and in the w ar op erations, I
m ight easily resign all an x ieties; but d o es God
exp ect us to bo n innies, to let th e d irection of
the w orld be m isused by rascals and scou n ­
drels? Are w e to stand by and let the world
go to the d evil, or are w e m anfully to take
cur part? You can understand h ow having
em barked w ith my w hole nature in raising a
‘Kay Arm y’ in a country of w ell-m ean in g
English bourgeois w h o did not b elieve in the
p ossib ility o f'a w ar at hom e, and w ho so much
needed it dem onstrated to them th at th e labor
lead ers refused to let th e w ork ers w ork over­
tim e in m aking sh ells until th ey had been taken
in au tom obiles on an in sp ection trip around the
front trenches in Flanders, you can understand
how' being suddenly taken out of it all, as
Freud w ould sa y , the u nexpressed or unsatis­
fied lon gin g of the heart, w ould u'ork back­
w ards into m e and torture m e. All d ay lon g
I have been attack ed by a dem on cloud of re­
sp on sib ilities of w h at m ay have occurred. W as
R ussia to lose its em peror and fall into com ­
m unistic chaos? W as Italy, baited by a sugar
plum , goin g to play false? W ould anybody
rise w'ho could persuade the B ritish to defend
them selves? I w ish I k n ew .”
“ W ell,” spok e up A dolfo, “ p erhaps m y e x ­
perien ce m ay g iv e you p eace. I w a s a uni­
versity m an, and had w ritten a th esis on South
A m erican political m ovem ents. But during this
tim e 1 had fallen in love w ith Carmen w ho is
here am on g us to-n igh t. She w a s alw ays w iser
than I. B ut w h ile 1 loved her, I looked upon
her a s a m ere w om an w h o could not under­
stand political affairs of m en; so w hen she
foresaw m y d angers, she b ravely— for a girl—
g a v e m e m y ch oice of g ivin g up hope of m ar­
rying her, or resign in g m y w ild youthful p ol­
itical am b ition s. B ecause I had becom e am ­
b itiou s, m y you n g gen erou s heart w a s deter­
m ined to sa v e m y country from exp loitation
by th e scou nd rels w ho b elieve th at every man
h as his price, and w ho ca relessly ravaged the
funds of th e d efen seless ign oran t p eop le w hile
renew ing their p rom ises to the voters ju st b e­
fore election d ay. So I felt th at in m y ow n eyes
I w ould be d isgraced if 1 did not sacrifice m y­
self for the public w elfare. In the election s to
th e con gress I boldly m ade a bid for support
a s a representative of m y distracted country.
I soon began to find th at there w a s need of
m oney for election exp en ses.
“ H aving entered the race and aroused the
support of w ell-m ean in g p eop le, I could not
draw back. 1 had to throw in w hatever re­
sources I had, and I m ade a s active a cam ­
paign a s I cou ld . T h e Friday b efore th e Alon-
day election , h ow ever, 1 w a s visited by a dep­
utation of the m ining in terests w ho had e x ­
ploited the last ad m inistration, and w ho asked
w hether, should I be elected by their help, I
w ould, w hen elected , assist them to g et the
co n cessio n s th ey n eed ed . I lau gh ed a t them ,
and told them th at th at w ould be im p ossib le,
inasm uch a s th e w hole sta te th ough t I w a s run­
ning on th e platform of op p osition to th eir in ­
terests.
“ W h y,” said th eir spok esm an , “ th at is the
very reason w e cam e to y ou . You are the
on ly one w h o is know n a s our op p oser, and
th erefore, the on ly on e w hom w e can probably
elect w ith an y sh ow of u nanim ity. N or are
w e ask in g o f you an ythin g unjust or w ick ed .
A ll w e ask o f you is th at a fter you g e t elected ,
yo u are n ot to g e t ex cited ; tak e it ea sy;
am u se you rself, and let us do the r e st.”
It w a s th erefore a sw ift d ecision th at had
to be m ad e. My an sw er w a s in the n egative.
I drove them ou t w ith ob ju rgation s, and re­
doubled m y efforts. I op en ly accu sed them of
th eir ap p roach es to m e, and exp ected a vindi­
cation by the electorate.
Judge of my d espair w hen, on E lection Day,
I w a s d efeated .
N ow m y sen se of ju stice, w hich had led me
to refu se th eir offers, could h ave con soled m e.
M y g ood con scien ce could h ave vin d icated me
in m y ow n ey es at le a st, and in tn o se o f my
friends; and I could have continued to live in
m y country, even th ough by that tim e I had
lost R osita w h o had d isap peared . B ut th ese
v ested in terests, con sciou s of their ap proach ­
es tc m e, and of m y ch arges b efore the elec­
torate, realized that,' so lon g a s I lived am ong
them , I w a s a d an ger sp o t in th eir d efen sive
arm or; and th erefore th ey turned around to
d isgrace m e p ublicly so th at m y accu sation s
w ould lo se th eir efficacy; and th ey accu sed me
of m alfeasan ce in office. I had been M ayor
o f a tow n , and unknow n to m e. one of my
com m ission ers had let som e o f th e city lab ­
orers w ork a few d ays on th e com pletion of
his h ouse. T h is w a s m agnified into a lack of
h on est p rin ciples, and b efore very lon g 1 w as
excoriated all over the country a s a corrup­
tion ist w ho had m ade ch arges a g a in st them
to cover up m y d isap pointm ent a t th eir re­
fu sal of a lleg ed d em an ds by m e for blackm ail
from them . T hen th ey had d iscovered an early
in d iscretion of m y fa th er’s, and th ey threatened
to exp o se it in the n ew sp rin ts unless I retracted
m y ch arges a g a in st them . A lso in th e local
lottery th ere had been m uch corruption. B eing
elected a s M ayor, I ta d been com pelled to un­
cover th e ven ality of sev era l o f its m anagers,
and letters of th eirs co n fessin g their dereliction
w ere even published in the n ew sp ap ers. N ow
in order to cou n teract the se chi rges of cor­
ruption, som etim e a go then,1 had been ap poin t­
ed at a very high salary, a d ictator w h ose
stan d in g in th e com m unity w a s such a s to
shield th e gam e from popular d istru st. W hen
th is ca se of d ish on esty had con e up, and !
had published the co n fessio n s, I com p elled this
d ictator to d isq ualify th ese tw o op erators. But
ju d ge o f m y surprise w hen th e financial d irec­
to rs of th e variou s lo tteries in th e country
assem b led , and voted lack of con fid en ce in me
b ecau se, accord in g to thorn, I had heaped
scan dal on th e gam e. Ti e n ew sp ap ers w ere
an gry, n ot th at th ere had been an y corruption
but th at scan dal had ap peared ; and th ey blam ed
m e for m y creatin g it by p u ttin g a stop to the
corruption. So I w a s v oted out of office. In
order to hush up the scar d al, irrcsp ec ive of
th e survival o f the corruption, th e lottery-
m an agers w ere rein stated by th e d ictator w bo
had been elected for th e p urpose o f p urifyin j
19
FAITH FOR THE CURE OF PROVINCIALISM
th e in stitu tion . T h e w h ole country h ailed the
rein statem en t of the self-co n fessed crim inals,
and had nothin g but con tem p t for m y failure
to en io r ce ju stice. T h e ostracism that 1 en­
dured w a s such th at I sa w th at any further
p olitical am b ition s w ere d oom ed to failure. I
sa w th at w hile th e gam e of purifying p olitics
is p o ssib le for m en w ho h ave n othing to lo se,
it w a s too exp en sive to th o se w ho had a stak e
in h eaven . T h erefore, I resigned all p olitical
am b ition s to the p olitical lead ers of th is w orld,
and d ecided to find C arm en, w h o w a s th e on ly
treasu re in th e w orld left to m e.
It w a s a t th e h eigh t of th is pitiful decision
to lea v e th e reform of th e w orld in th e hands
of G od, th a t 1 had a dream of Carmen in a
m ountain retreat am on g com p an ion s, and under
th e leadership of an Indian. ! left m y hom e
and scoured every valley of th e A ndes all the
w ay from m y h om e city d ow n to w here I had
at last recogn ized th e v a lley of m y dream s,
O llan ta, and th e very com p an ion s of C arm en.
B ut w hen I reached there I had chan ged ; and
I sa w th at Carmen could no lon ger d evote her­
self to m y love in m arriage. I had nothing
m ore to offer her in the w ay of support; and
sh e h erself, as you see, had u ndergone so great
a trial, that she a lso had ach ieved over-m as­
terin g confidence in G od’s protection at the
co st o f all that I could have ap pealed to in
her. A s I could no lon ger be her loyer, 1
b ecam e her com panion; and here vve have both
ign ored the w orld ’s d estin ies, th at w e m ay
p rep are ou rselves for an eternity of p ro g ress.”
K itchener interrupted, “ But you , Carm en, have
not told m e yet w hat w a s th is trial through
w hich you p assed , and* w hich produced in you
a lso th is suprem e con fid en ce in G od .” “ O h ,”
said sh e, “ that is an other story. W e m ust
le a v e it for to-m orrow nigh t, b ecau se dear
A d o lfo ’s account h as revived m y sufferings
en ou gh to d iscou n tenan ce m e. W ait till to ­
m orrow !” W ith a greetin g th e circle broke
up.
IX- CARMEN, or FAITH’S SELF-CONTROL INEVITABLE AS
CURE FOR CAPRICIOUSNESS
N ext even in g, a s soon a s the sup p er w a s
over, K itchener rem inded Carm en of her prom ­
ise to com p lete A d olfo’s rom ance by relatin g
h er sid e of it. W hile K itchener w a s an ou t­
sid er, know in g p ractically n othing of th is
group of herm its, he assu m ed th at th ey w ere
all of on e mind and h eart, a s indeed th ey w ere
in resp ect to the culm ination of their career.
B ut he did n ot fu lly realize th at th e p ersonal
feelin g s b etw een them m igh t be problem atic,
and so he did n ot h esitate to tread on d elicate
ground, u n con sciou sly ask in g for a pub'.ic con ­
fessio n of in tim ate feelin g s from a you ng lad y
b efore her d isap pointed lover. T ill now Car­
m en had a lw a y s shield ed her m ost intim ate
feelin g s from A d olfo, tak in g ad van tage of his
hum iliation and failure in earth ly su ccess w hich
restrain ed him from further p ressin g for m ar­
riage. He w a s so gratefu l for being adm itted
to even her sisterly in tim acy that he forbore
to .urge an y sp ecial claim s w hich m ight have
led to a rupture, and ejectm en t from her p res­
en ce in th e h erm itage, in w hich none could
rem ain excep t on a P laton ic b asis. M oreover
he w a s still com p elled to figh t and conquer re­
curring attack s of h eart-sick n ess, w hich w ith
w om anly intu ition sh e foresaw , and treated
w ith cu rative frien d lin ess. N or w a s even she
h erself fu lly san ctified ,— w h o— is?— so th at she
had to p rotect and m an age herself a s w ell a s
him . C onseq u en tly she w a s very u nw illin g to
be victim ized or exp loited for th e am usem ent
of a stran ger, to m ake a R om an h olid ay. So
after all her e x c u ses had been unm asked, and
all her ev a sio n s had been exp lored , she found
the stren gth p o sitiv ely to refu se, and to in sist
that R am on, shou ld be w illin g to en tertain the
stran ger b ecau se it w a s h is ch ivalrou s d uty as
a m an to spare th e w om en , and a lso b ecau se
of his greater so cial im p ortance a s a d octor.
K itchener then retorted th at he n eeded to
know’ her ju st a s m uch a^ R am on, if not m ore
than any o f th e m en; not on ly for her ow n
p erson ality, but for su ccessfu l coop eration w ith
the group. L olita sup p orted his plea by the
ob servation th at his requ est did not proceed
from m ere cu riosity, but th at a s he had been
rescued from fear, d espair, doubt, w orld ly an x­
iety, rem orse and p rovin cialism , w hich had
threatened to d estroy him , and to deb ar him
from a faith in God sufficiently stron g to favor
h is further initiation am on g them , he still had
to learn the in itiatory im portance of self-con ­
trol, a s rooted in confidence in P rovid en ces.
Im pervious to p ersonal argu m en ts, Carmen
w a s affected by th is spiritual con sid eration; but
a s last refu ge she su ggested that it could be
hand led just a s w ell, if not b etter, by O llanta
w h o , in sp ite of, or perhaps b ecau se o f, his
contin u an ce a s servan t of the com m unity, m ade
th e final d ecision s for th e w hole group; though
u su ally speakin g few w ord s w hen th ey w ere
com m on; but w hen th e occasion becam e one
fo r uncom m on in sp irational on es, h is burning
eloq u en ce rushed and foam ed a s a torrent. As
m uch for fear a s for joy did his a sso c ia tes
sh iver w henever O llanta undertook to speak,
so th at they h esitated to rou se him for trifles.
So Carm en’s appeal to O llanta aroused in the
com pany subdued alarm and an xiety, w hich
h ow ever turned to surprise w hen O llanta, in­
stead of launching into an ap ostolic tirade,
tap ered into a g en tle persu asion:
“ D ear S ister Carm en, I ad vise you to com ­
p ly w ith your dear v isito r’s requ est; and th is
for several reason s. First, if he n eed s the
stren gth en in g of h is faith in God as th e un-
escap ab le foundation of self-con trol, it is you
w ho should an sw er, sin ce it is you w ho, in
th is direction , Jiave had the b itterest lesson to
learn , and thereby h ave d eveloped the greatest
exp erien ce in w ill-task s. T hen a lso , m y S is­
ter, I m ust reveal to you th at th is series of
life-sto ries is no accid en t, but a d evelopm ent
of th e d ecision s of a special council of our
Invisible H elpers of w hich perhaps few are
a w a r e ,” . . . L olita interrupted, “ I w itn essed
it! ” and K itchener confirm ed, “ 1 a ls o !” — “ not
on ly for th e sake of our visitor, but for our
ow n , by stren gth en in g the faith of all of us,
by testify in g to their inner v ictories. B esid es,
dear Sister, it w ill cure the last rem ainders of
p ersonal feelin g w hich led you to refu se to
speak, and to bring to your ow n self-con q u est
th e divine help w hich a lw a y s fo llow s a public
con fession , such as w a s practised by the North
A m erican Shakers,— a sort of public judgm ent
w hich w ill render n eed less, and stin g less, as
w ell as prevent and forestall, the post-m ortem
judgm ent w hich w e all dread for the very
g ood reason th at then w ill have disappeared
th e im m ediate opportunities for repaym ent and
can cellation . In love and h um ility, th erefore,
d ear Sister, speak ou t, and ju dge you rself; the
severer your self-con d em n ation , the fuller the
relea se and greater th e b lessin g! T h erefore
fear n ot; w e love you en ou gh to fo rgive, if
there be an y need th erefor,— w hich l very
m uch doub t. Speak a t you r ea se; w e listen !”
Her last refu ge turned a g a in st her into an
Incitem ent, w ith a tea r in her e y e , a throb in
her throat, and a prayer on her lip, th e sain t­
lik e m aiden m ade th is lam b -like con fession .
“ I w as born in a large sp aciou s, sunny hom e
w hich still lin gers in m y mind a s th e m ost
su g g estiv e p ossib le earth ly representation of
h eaven , at le a st to m y feature's special require­
m en ts. My paren ts p etted m e, and indulged
m y love of m usical rhythm and graceful g e s ­
tu re. N othing jarred m y natural feelin g of
n obility or aristocracy, m y clear in telligen ce,
or flood of understanding w hich w hen brought
to bear on p erson al situ ation s allow ed m e to
so lve difficult problem s. T h ese ab ilities con­
stitu ted m e a s a natural lead er.
“ I had gon e on a visit to A d olfo’s hom e in
Lim a, the cap ital of Peru, and m y social tri­
um phs soon b rought to m e all th e eligible
you n g m en of th e to w n . A m ong them , the
m ost brilliant in d u bitably w a s F elix, and he
did not d elay a declaration o f love. He w on
m y adm iration by h is eloqu en t d iagn osis of
the p olitical situ ation , an d his inspired solu ­
tion s to their p rob lem s. B ut m y quicker judg­
m ent, in sigh t and foresigh t, assured m e that
he w a s undertaking w hat w a s im p ossib le for
any one m an. W ere he to have su cceed ed he
w ould have no tim e to grace th e hom e w ith
h is presence or to love m e. W ere he to fail,
a s w a s not u nlikely, w e w ould h ave no hom e
left, and it w ould be all th e harder for him ,
ruined, to h ave m e a s an added resp on sib ility.
Loving him a s I did , I understood that I
m ust g ive him h is ch oice, w hich, soon er or
later, w ould in an y ca se be in evitab le, of re­
sign in g either m e, or his chosen career. A s
h is nature w a s h eroic, he n obly ch ose to save
h is country. T h ou gh th is w a s a d isappoint­
m ent for m e, I tried to con sid er his w elfare
on ly. T hough he him self w a s partially un­
con sciou s th at behind h is external self his soul
had m ade its d ecision , I saw it, and w ithout
w a itin g for a storm of agon y, I escap ed hom e.
B u t on m y unexpected arrival there I w as
surprised to find the h ouse dark and th e door
op en . W ith m y h eart in m y m outh I entered.
I look ed all around the low er "floor, and then
exp lored upstairs. E verything w a s gloom y; but
at the end of th e lon g hall I heard suppressed
m urm urs. I hastened in th e d irection of my
p aren ts’ room . I sa w a crack of light under
th e door. I tore it op en . T h ere on the bed
lay both of m y paren ts, sud d en ly rem oved by
an in fectiou s d isea se. I cried and fain ted .
W hen I w oke up, I thanked God all w a s over.
“ On m y recovery, a s gen tly as he could, our
law yer exp lained to m e that m y fath er’s in­
ju diciou s in vestm en ts had ruined u s, th at our
hom e w as to be sold , and th at I should have
to support m yself. C ourage I never lacked,
and w ith the b old n ess of ign oran ce which
rushes in w here a n gels fear to tread , light-
h earted ly, w ith ou t reflection, I sm ilingly un­
dertook self-su p p ort. — T he first thing I
th ough t of w a s m y d earest am usem ent, dan­
cing. But I soon d iscovered that dancing as
an am usem ent for friends, and dancin g for a
livin g am ong th e id le curious and degen erates,
are very different th in gs; and m y natural sen se
of n ob ility revolted at the hum iliations and
d isg ra ces im plied by such a m ean s of earning
o n e ’s livin g. A s cap riciou sly as a b utterfly
w h ich , h avin g tasted th e sw e ets of one flow er,
flu tters on to the n ext, I th erefore planned to
teach children a s a g o v ern ess w ith friends
w hom m y father had a id ed . N ow that I had lost
m on ey, h ow ever, th ey put on airs, and treated
m e so im pudently th at m y inn ate n ob ility re­
v o lted , an d I left them w ith ou t m uch n o tice.—
Sudden u rgen cies in life are not favorab le to
secu rin g ad v a n ta g eo u s p o sitio n s, and a s 1 had
a lw a y s been an exp ert in arranging m y ow n
d resses, I undertook sew in g of costu m es to
earn m y livin g. N ow th is im plied an am ou nt
of drudgery from w hich m y cap riciou s dan ­
cin g nature stron gly revolted ; so I quick ly re­
sign ed th is p ost, for any am u sem en t turned
in to a b u sin ess lo ses its charm . — T hrough
m y h om e then by ch an ce p a ssed a rich Eng­
lish fam ily th at n eeded a gen eral h elper in th is
to th em foreign country. I th ou gh t th at p er­
h aps I m igh t continue to ex e rcise m y natural
leadership even in their service; but neither
w a s th is p ossib le, b ecau se, after travelin g to
th e in terior, m y em p loyer’s b u sin ess suddenly
ch an ged , and he w a s recalled to England under
reduced circu m stan ces, w h ile I w a s turned
ad rift on the Chilian co a st a t V alp araiso. —
My n ext em p loym ent w a s in a sm all fa cto ry .
I thought th at here I w ould at lea st be in d e­
pendent from th e p erson al w him s of em p loyers;
and dull a s m ight be the drudgery, by resp ect­
in g m yself, I y et m ight keep w rapped around
m e the robe of d elicacy w hich m y inner nature
d em an ded. H o w e v e r / in the lon g hours of
w ork, I perceived th at I had labored som e­
w h at under the sam e d elu sion s a s had been
F elix’s; for w h ile esca p in g from on e em p loy­
m ent to an other, I had really been indulging
m y cap riciou sn ess. So I d eterm ined to retire
from th e w orld en tirely an d d evelop th e stea d ­
fa stn e ss and reliab ility to w hich m y b utterfly
nature had n ever b efore a sp ired .— But w hither
shou ld I retire? Into a nunnery I could not
g o , b ecau se m y mind w ould not a llo w m e to
a ccep t th o se cou n try-n un s’ slavery or super­
stitio n s. B y nature so cia b le, I did not w ish
to retire in to solitu d e, b ecau se I knew th at the
acq u irem en t of virtues d em an ds the a sso c ia ­
tio n s in w hich th ey can alon e be con ceived or
p ractised. So I decided to do th e on ly th in g
in w hich lab or w ould be a sso cia ted w ith ben e­
ficen ce: I started nursing th e sick am on g th e
Indians, for support tru stin g to G od. T h is
d evoted service p rovided scop e for m y lead er­
ship, m y in d ep en d en ce, m y feelin g o f natural
n ob ility; and as I w a s n ever lazy I did not
shirk th e h ard est w ork , w hich cured m e of m y
b utterfly v a g a ries. — T hen I realized th at h ow ­
ev er much in th e ey e s of the w orld m y career
m ust seem a d efeat, it w a s really the victory
tow ard s w hich I had been u nconsciou sly train ­
in g; nam ely, self-con trol, w hich w a s the hard est
o f all to a person o f m y in con stan t airy,
rhythm ic, cap riciou s, d ancin g nature. T he
num berless crim inals, drunkards, ad d icts, and
vagran ts testify gen erally to th e in escap ab ility
of th e stru ggle to m aster and be divin ized by
o n e’s ow n su b con sciou sn ess. All th ese hard­
ship s I w a s undergoing com p elled m e to con ­
trol m y sleep , to lim it m y food and drink, and
w h ile I did n ot actu ally need to curtail any
in tem p erate h abits, I sa w th at faith in God in
p rin ciple, in id eal, w a s the on ly spad e w ith
w hich 1 could d ig ou t th e roots of the w eed s
o f m y nature, the on ly sw ord w ith w hich I
FAITH’S SELF-CONTROL AS CURE FOR CAPRICIOUSNESS 21
bly w aitin g for ad m ission to 1 igher d egrees
of spiritual u n fold m en t.”
L olita interrupted, “ W ould >au not ever
care to go back to th e w orld? — Carm en an ­
sw ered , “ If I did, I should perish, for in me
th ere is nothing le ft to respond to the con d i­
tio n s n ecessary for w orld ly su ccess. If driven
ou t, I should d ie. So vou can im agine how
gratefu l I am to G od W ho through O llanta’s
leadership h as brou ght m e to this opportunity
of d evelop m en t.”
A dolfo had grow n p ale. He sa w th at his
influence on Carm en had disap peared , and that
for her he no lon ger ex iste d . A dark shadow
floated across h is m ob ile featu res. G ently Car­
m en arose, m oved tow ard s him , kissed him on
the foreh ead , to o k him by th e arm , and bade
him sit near her, sa y in g “ A dolfo, behind you
your thought w a s v isib le to m e as an an gel of
d esp air; and I bid you d ism iss h im .” — “ How
can I?” gasped he, “ sin ce I have disappeared
from your life?” — “ W ron g,” sm iled sh e. “ !t
is God W ho h as b rought u s to geth er here, b e­
cau se I could not love w ith ou t a resp on sive
love of the h igh er kind; and God brought you
here th at w e m ight be com rad es on the upper
w ay to h eigh ts th at neither of u s could reach
a lo n e. W ill you fail m e ju st b ecau se I refuse
you w hat you you rself, after aw h ile, w ould re­
ject or d esp ise?” — He sm iled, kissed her on
the forehead, and sa t dow n by her sid e, tran s­
figured by a b etter h ope.
T h ere ensued a lo n g silen ce, and w ith out any
w ord of. dism issal on e after another, w ith tears
in their eyes, w en t their several w ays, leaving
K itchener as hum bled a s A dolfo, but also as
in sp ired , w hen he looked at L olita’s sm iling
cou n ten ance. He sa w th at, w ith out realizing
it, he had been tread ing on holy ground; and
he becam e con scio u s o f h is ow n coarsen ess
an d b anality.
MANUEL, or FAITH INEVITABLE AS SOLE CURE FOR CRIME
cou ld lop off the flow ers of life w hich w ere so
fa ta lly a ttra ctiv e to m y gen ia lity . Only through
th is faith in G od w a s 1 ab le to conquer in this
stru g g le w hich w a s in escap ab le b ecau se there
is n ot a sin g le hum an b ein g in th e w orld w ho
d o es n ot h ave to face th is trou b le, inasm uch
a s o n e ’s in n er self cannot be u tilized until it
is h arn essed and tam ed , w ill not respond to
an y but th e vo ice of its ow n g od , the hum an
so u l, w hen inspired by th e God o f the u niverse.
— In a w a y , nursing w a s id eal; but I sa w it
could not la st b ecau se, a t b est, n urses h ave but
a very short career. I w ould soon be too old
or to o w ea k to survive, and th e ign oran t p eop le
w hom 1 served could not be exp ected to do
an yth in g for m e. — N ow on e of m y n ative p a­
tie n ts had a su p erstitiou s regard for th e un­
can n y p ow ers of a certain m agician , m edicine
m an, or ‘b ru jo,’ a s you m ight sa y , am on g the
Indians. S he b egged m e to sa v e her life by
g o in g to him and ask for h elp . A s I had
n oth in g b etter to do, I fo llow ed the d irection s
given m e by her re latives, and clim bed into
the fa stn e ss of the A nd es. 1 found our friend
O llanta w h o, at my req u est, cam e dow n into
th e v a lley , and by occult rites su cceed ed in
restorin g h er to con v a lescen ce. B ut a s he
left, he turned his ey es on m e, and seem ing
to look through m y prob lem s, offered m e the
haven o f h is group of frien ds, in w hich I have
b ecom e a b le to d evote m yself en tirely to the
ach ievem en t o f the on ly treasu re I ever coveted ,
that o f b ecom in g con sciou s of th e p resen ce of
th e U nseen H elpers of H um anity. — Probably
m y ca p riciou sn ess w ould never have been rad­
ically cured w ith ou t fully sacrificin g m yself on
th e a ltar of service to h um anity. My fear of
b ecom in g fo ssilized is disp elled by turning m y
in n ate re stlessn ess into a ctiv ities th at dem and
u nw earied in itiative. My natural lo n gin gs for
rhythm ic harm ony have in itiated m e into the
p eriod ic m u sic of th e sp h eres, and 1 am hum -
X.
N ext d ay th e sm ooth regu larity of th e com ­
m u n ity’s h ab its w as interrupted by th e ap pear­
an ce of a brother en tirely unknow n to Kitchen­
er. In th e m orning, from on e of th e recesses
of th e ca v e s issu ed a m an disfigu red w ith dirt,
slim e and v egetation , carryin g a bundle of
unusual look in g lich en s and m o sses. T hough
he stum bled w earily, h is ey es lightn in ged
and his v o ic e, low , vib ran t and cultured, be­
trayed sa tisfa ctio n w ith his errand. Later in
th e d ay he reappeared clean and rested , and
w a s to K itchener introduced a s M anuel. T hen
L olita had to explain to him w h o K itchener
w a s, how he had arrived , his p resen t plight,
her ow n , and the la test n ew s ab out the fam ily.
L ater a gain , after M anuel had left, it w as
K itchener’s turn to h ave h is cu riosity satisfied
ab out th is m ost ad ven tu rou s m em ber of the
com m u n ity. It seem ed th at he had volu n teered
on a tw o -fo ld m ission of seek in g certain m ed ­
icin al grow th s, and exp lorin g a section of ca v ­
erns w hich, due to recent volcan ic ch an ges,
had been g ivin g an xiety.
K itchener exp ressed h is ap preciation of the
n ew b roth er’s personal q u alities, and ventured
a few g u esse s a s to th eir form ative h istory, and
a s to w hat circu m stan ces could h ave induced
him to join th e h erm itage’s m em bers. “ In­
tere stin g as have been th e ex p erien ces o f the
oth er b roth ers and sisters, th is b roth er’s d oin gs
w ou ld no doubt prove m ore fascin a tin g still,
b ecau se of the pow erful p erson al m agnetism
he quite u nconsciou sly e x e r ts.”
L olita lau gh ed . “ I see w e can n ot h op e to
keep m uch in th e w ay of a secret from you!
V ery correctly h ave you r in tu ition s appraised
the situ ation ; and if your curiosity is so stron g,
you m ay be a b le, by p lead in g your h elp less
condition, w hich ju stifies you in askin g favors
not usually gran ted to th ose in p erfect health,
to induce him to relate to you w hat so far
he h as m anaged to hide from all of u s— his
form er life .”
“ W hat?” darted K itchener, “ do you not
k now all ab out each other?” — “ Of course,
in a gen eral w a y ,” w earily exp lained Lolita,
“ w e do have a fa ir notion o f each oth er’s
p a st history and in terests; but as our purpose
h ere is a con stru ctive effort at spiritual ach ieve­
m ent, it is not ad visab le th at w e should fan
the flam e of p erson ality by resurrecting past
con troversies. So w e prefer to bid the dead
bury their dead , and draw on th e fund of past
exp erien ces on ly so far a s p ast contributions
are necessary or favorab le for future ach ieve­
m ent. Then each one has a right to his pri­
v a te sanctuary; each one h as his victory to
gain , or to con serve; his w ounds to heal, and
to p rotect from reopening. B esid es, som e are
by nature m ore secretive than oth ers . . .”
“ Y es,” interrupted Kitchener, “ no doubt; but
th is brother seem s sym path etic, approachable,
frien dly. One m ight alm ost sa y he w a s s o ­
ciable and coop erative, — so one w ould not
exp ect from him unreasonable reserv e.” _ _
“ Q uite tru e,” g en tly rebuked Lolita, “ but w hat
ab out the character of our intim ate problem s?
Are there not som e w ounds that hurt m ore
than others? Som e roses w hose thorns burn
m ore than oth er th istles? H as not each o f us
som etim es had secret th ou gh ts he prefers to
ignore? Has not each sou l its sa ftey -v a lv e of
day-dream s?”
“ P ossib ly, . . . y es, no doub t, w ith som e;
but 1 do not think you ever had an y th oughts
of sham e . . — T ears shon e in the eyes
of the sain tly m aiden. “ You are m istaken, my
frien d;” countered she g en tly; “ 1 a lso have
had my offerings to burn on th e altar. Did not
even the Perfect Man have to reject the tem p­
tation s of the Spiritual Enem y? I am no sa in t!”
“ N either am I,” slo w ly and sad ly breathed
the rough and ready sold ier. “ B ut I forgot that
w e are tread ing on h oly ground, w hen we
touch hum an ch aracter. A t any rate, I never
w ould have dream ed of any such th in g in con­
nection w ith so m agn etic a p erso n a lity .” —
“ N either do 1 know any such th in g ,” assever­
ated the m aiden. “ 1 on ly su g g ested it to ex ­
plain or excu se our brother for h is reserve;
b ecau se, though you m ay not know it, he is
the only one of our brethren of w h ose past
no one, excep t perhaps O llanta, w h o never
blabs secrets, k now s an ythin g d efin ite, excep t
th at he has been a great traveller; and he
m ust have had w id e exp erien ce, and occupied
p o sts of im portance, to ju dge by h is in terest­
in g referen ces, q u otation s and in sig h ts. So, if
you can m ake him talk, you w ill be d oin g a
favor, not on ly to you rself, but to all of u s.”
A fter dinner, th erefore, a t w hich Kitchener
en joyed the treat of a new kind of stew ed
lichen, and after a m ore than u su ally lively
con versation, at a sign al from L olita, Kitchen­
er took the bull by the horns, and asked the
new com er to join th e portrait g a llery th at he
had been review in g, by relatin g the spiritual
o d y ssey th at had landed him am on g th is group
of h erm its. K itchener did not fail to urge the
special claim s of an in valid, of an aspirant, of
a can d id ate for closer coop eration w ith the
com m unity, and b esid es for p erson al friend­
ship. — Even w h ile K itchener w a s still speak­
in g M anuel had betrayed im p atient refu sals;
and a s soon a s th e requ est cam e to an end,
countered by a dem and for K itchener’s own
life-story, no doubt sup p osin g th at if once
K itchener started a self-revelation , he w ould
continue for th e rem ainder of th e evening.
U nable to refu se en tirely. K itchener sum m ar­
ized his carer a s on ly a trained gen eral officer
could; b esid es, h is nature w a s bluff and com ­
pen diou s. N or w a s he a m an to be evad ed ; and
seein g his interlocutor n eeded a n ew argum ent,
and recallin g h is con versation w ith L olita, he
brought ou t the m any d eed s of v iolen ce he had
w itn essed , and even been com pelled to share.
D eploring them , he excu sed them on the
grounds that no spiritual cure for them existed ;
and con fessed that a t several ju nctures in his
career, and notably so w hen h e aw ok e to the
fact th at both h is arm s w ere broken, he had
been stron gly tem pted to suicid e.
“ W hat restrained you ?” in cisively interrupt­
ed M anuel. — “ ! w ish 1 m yself k n ew !” con­
fessed K itchener. “ I think it m ust h ave been
the British gen tlem an ’s training o f “ carrying
o n !” I regret to have to co n fess th at it w as
no religiou s m otive, for at that tim e, a s 1
h ave recen tly realized, my religion w a s still
no m ore than a th eoretical ritual. B ut before
crim e can be rooted ou t, there w ill h ave to be
d iscovered and m ade available som e cure ad e­
quate to p rotect m en under the tem p tation of
violen ce for self-d efen se a g ain st h o p eless in­
ju stice or social w ro n g s.”
M anuel had blanched. He sw allow ed hard.
Several tim es he started to speak, but stopped.
Then he chanced to look at O llanta w ho had
been silen tly look in g on . T h e stolid Ind ian ’s
face w a s tran sfigu red w ith a holy shin e, and
h is ey e s beam ed a friendly en cou ragem en t, a s
if u rgin g him on in to till then reserved d o ­
m ains. B lu sh in g, M anuel cou gh ed , and b egan
m ore firm ly, “ My friends, till n ow I h ave n ever
spok en m uch to an y of you ab out m y p ast
life,— and I w ill co n fess the reason , nam ely,
that 1 have been a grea t sin n er. You see, b e­
sid es spiritu al p rogress and b u sin ess profit, the
on ly reason for reserve is sham e; and w h en ever
you m eet an y person w h o is d isa g reea b le, in
m ost in sta n ces you m ay be sure that h is so -
called ‘tem p eram en t’ is ho m ore than sh am e,—
ju st a s p eop le keep strict cou n sel ab out suffer­
in g from can cer, o r h avin g som e rela tiv e in
p riso n .”
From th e group a ro se a buzz of surprise;
and M aria h a stily sen t th e children to bed,
m uch to th eir p ou tin g regret; but a k iss m elted
th eir frow n s in to a sm ile, and th ey ran aw ay
sin g in g and d an cin g. T h en , in th e full so n ­
orou s to n es of h is b a ss v o ic e, M anuel con ­
tin u ed , “ Y es, I am sp eak in g on ly a s a d uty to
hum anity, and ou t of gratitu d e to the God w ho
saved m e, and to en ligh ten our new brother
w h o sp eak s a s if he n eeded a clarified cure
for crim e. Incid en tally I m yself w ill be helped,
for until th is m om ent I h ave postp on ed th e last
rite on w hich ab solu tion is dep en dent; nam ely,
a full co n fessio n . Y es, I am w eary o f carry­
in g th e load ; I sh all free m y self!” — In his
ey e sparkled a tear, and h is gloriou s vo ice
q uivered, a s he b egan , “ You have no doubt
all heard of th e p reh istoric G olden S un-tem ple
called E ldorado, in C olom bia. It is situ ated
on the central m ou n tain -ch ain ’s series of ter­
races w hich is know n a s C undinam arca C ounty,
w herein flou rish es th e cap ital B o gota. T h ere
slee p s a lake called G u atavita, by w h ose shores
rise th e tem p le-ruin s w h ose gold en p latin g w as
stripped off by the C onq u istad ores. T h is w as
the haunt of th e fam ou s legen d w hich relates
how , on th e yearly su n -festiv a l, the n ative
King w ould b e sm eared w ith h oney, and then
dusted w ith g o ld -d u st till he b ecam e a livin g
ob jectification of the sun. Him the com m on
p eop le w ould w orship by th row in g offerin gs of
gold in to the h o les in th e T em p le-floor, and
into th e n eigh b orin g lak e. So true is th is that
w ithin our ow n tim es several m ercantile com ­
p an ies h ave a t d ifferent p eriod s drained the
lake to recover rem ainders of th ese p reciou s
sa crifices. — W hat rem ained of the p riests of
th e T em p le d isap peared in to ob scurity; but
th eir d escen d an ts continued to live in the
neigh b orh ood a s d esp ised p eon s. It is from
that stock th at I w a s d escen d ed . My m other
w as a h oly and relig io u s w om an w ho p erp et­
u ated th e an cien t trad ition s, and she w ould
have done her b est to train m e in them , if
she had n ot su d d en ly been carried off by a
p lagu e th at visited our p eacefu l va lley . — As
an orphan, ! w a s received and sheltered by
d istan t rela tiv es w h o, w hile th ey g a v e m e w hat
I m ost n eed ed p h ysically, did not h esitate to
m ake m e feel m y d ep en dence, treatin g m e con ­
tem p tu ously and p arsim on iou sly. Early th ere­
fore I w a s forced in to an ap o lo g etic a ttitu d e.
O ften I w a s scold ed , and to keep the p eace,
I b egan by ev a sio n s, w en t on to self-ju stifica ­
tion s, and to ek e ou t m y existen ce had to
resort to p ilferin g. A fter a little d elay, fo l­
low ed the in evitab le d iscovery, w hich ended in
m y b ein g driven in to ex ile, to shift for m yself.
— I sa w th at I m ust start an ew in fresh sur­
roundings. W illin g a s I p erson ally w a s to do
so, I felt bereaved a t leavin g the trad itional
hom e of m y p eop le, and the earth ly relics of
23
FAITH AS SOLE CURE FOR CRIME
m y m oth er. M y ‘‘e a sy d escen t into A verm is’*
had been cau sed by an excu se o f lo v e , a d e­
sire to p reserve friendsflip, to keep in harm ony,
to a void op en b reach es. T h at is w hy th is e x ­
pulsion, w hich to oth ers w ould h ave seem ed a
liberation , to m e w a s no le ss than a D ay of
Judgm ent. S ob b in g th erefore it w a s th at I
b egan th e d escen t of th e A ndes; ana a s I
dropped d ow n the last d ecliv ity from w hich
m y ch ild h ood ’s h om e could be seen , I felt d e­
prived of m y h um an ity, m y h eart turning to
sto n e.
“ S u llen ly I s e t m y fa ce ea stw ard , and in ­
vad ed th e fever-rid d en m an grove th ick ets a r­
ound Lake M aracaibo, on w h ose surface had
been erected the VenTce-like settlem en t th at o r ­
igin ated th e cou n try’s nam e of V en ezu ela. U n­
accu stom ed to th is p estilen tial atm osph ere, I
took sick , and w hen recovered, tried to escap e
from th is h o p e less situ ation by ship ping a s a
cab in -b oy on a ship bound for L aguayra. —
A s 1 sto o d in n eed of co n valescen ce in a higher
clim ate, such a s I had been accustom ed to m
my you th , I clim bed the foot-p ath to th at p ar­
ad ise C aracas, the shrine of th e liberator of
S outh A m erica, B olivar. H ere m ilitary trad i­
tion s w ere stro n g ; and a s I had to ch oose som e
future career, I d eckled to try to en ter the
arm y. 1
1 started a s an orderly to one of the
officers, and m ade m yself so b eloved and n e­
cessary th at he directed m y ed u cation till 1
w a s accep ted a s l& utenant. &
T h e so cia l life in to w hich I w a s adm itted
h o w ev er turned m y h ead; for m y love-n atu re
w a s a lw a y s m y w eak n ess, and 1 had not yet
built up a m en tal d efen ce sufficiently stron g
to p reserve m e unharm ed in difficult situ ation s.
Of cou rse I sta rted drinking, and it w a s at one
of th ese p arties, in w hich m y so cial nature p ar­
aded its b est g ifts, th at i en tered in to tem p t­
a tio n . T h en on e day I w a s, by a fellow -officer
in vited to m eet his fian cee. U nused to p ros­
p erity, I did n ot realize its lim itation s; I a l­
lo w ed m y self to fall in love w ith the you n g
lad y, and did n ot h esita te to plan g ettin g the
p rosp ective brid egroom ou t of the w a y . N ever
ad dicted to v io len ce, m y earlier tem p tation s to
lyin g and p ilferin g su g g ested d isq u alifyin g him
for th e y ou n g la d y ’s ad oration by som e public
d isgrace. I had fallen in w ith som e card-
sharpers, and been fleeced by tricks of th eirs.
T o ‘g et even' w ith Fate for perm ittin g th is
m isfortune to m e, a s w ell as to d isp ose of m y
rival, \ g a v e a party at w hich I started a
gam e w h ich I broke up by accu sin g him of
ch eatin g by a card w hich I had p lanted on
him . I w ould h ave su cceed ed , but for an a cci­
d en t. in th e com m otion I stum bled over a
ch air and in fa llin g, from m y slee v e fell ou t
sev era l card s w hich I had secreted . So it w a s
I w ho w a s d isgraced , and exiled on ce m ore.
“ In th e L aguayra offing th ere happened to
be w a itin g a b oat bound for G eorgetow n , the
cap ital o f B ritish G uyana. I stow ed aboard,
w'as d isco v ered , w orked a s a sailor to th e b est
of m y a b ility until w e disem b ark ed ; and to
avoid a rrest I escap ed up th e E ssequibo into
the ju n gle. B u t h ow should I m ake a living?
— A s m y p hysical nature w a s unfitted for
hard lab or, and as th e m ore ed u cated n ative
circles w ere closed to m e b ecau se o f m y d is­
g ra ce, I b eth ou gh t m e of actin g a s a gu id e
for to u rists to th e cou n try’s m arvel, th e Kai-
teur F alls. So I crossed over to th e Potaro
R iver, and attem p ted to w ork m y w ay th ith er.
I su cceed ed , an d clim bed th e low er or foot
reach , from w hich on e g ets a glim p se of the
m ost im p ressive sigh t in the w >rld, th e sheer
h eigh t of th e 700 fo o t fa lls. A s I craned m y
n eck to behold th is, my fo otin g slipped, and
I fell into a b ack -w ater p ool, w herein I ex ­
p ected to drow n; a not unw elcom e opportunity
or closin g my soiled career. — But God w as
not done w ith m e; m an’s extrem ity is, a s you
k now , His op portun ity. Som e n atives saved
m e; and a fter a pretty difficult recovery I w as
returned to u sefu ln ess. But 1 w as no longer
th e sam e. D uring the few m inutes of flounder­
in g in the w ater i had exp erien ced the usual
d row ning m an ’s lightn in g-lik e review of his
p a st existen ce, w hich w a s follow ed by a vision
of m y m other w h o seem ed to tak e m e to re­
v isit the ruins near w hich I had been brought
up. b u t th ese w ere no lon ger ruins; th ey w ere
still in their p ristin e glory, covered w ith g o l­
den p late. A s I en tered, I behold a vision of
th e U niverse in its to ta lity , and of H um anity’s
purpose, follow ed by a glim p se of the m any
m an sions of H eaven. — Had th is vision com e to
m e b ecau se 1 had d eserved it? N o; but per­
h ap s b ecau se I n eed ed it so much to g ive me
a fo otin g in life. Indeed, h ow ever often since
then I have sin n ed , and strayed from th e paths
of rectitude, I h ave a lw a y s had a guiding star
to return to , and finally to lead m e hither
w h ere, safe from all tem p tation s, I have the
ch an ce, w hich a t th e start I lacked, of system ­
a tic developm ent and rational a ch ievem en t.’’
K itchener ad ded, “ A nd did you com e here
right aw ay?’’
W earily M anuel sigh ed , “ I w ish I had! But
I did not know of th e p lace, w hich at that tim e
did n ot even y et e x ist. B esid es, I w a s still
to o you ng and resou rceful to ab andon the ship
of m y career, and retire from the w orld . N ei­
ther w as I ready, nor w orth y. Enough that
I fin ally cam e; n ow I have told you m y sto r y .’’
G ently, in sin u atin gly L olita in terposed , “ Our
b roth er K itchener m ay be satisfied , a s he is
rough and ready, and sprin gs to resu lts. But
a s a w om an, I am m ore in terested in your
hum an sid e, you r v icissitu d es, your trials. If
till n ow you h ave spoken to p lease him , now
pray speak to p lease m e, your little Sister;
and I can, b efore you con tin u e, prom ise you
m y sym pathy and lo y a lty !”
M anuel blanched a further shade of p allitud e.
“ W hy, little w h ite lily, you are th e very last
p erson here to w hom I w ould care to relate
all th e m iserable depths through w hich I final­
ly w a s saved . A fter all, I do n ot so much
mind relating them to a m an; but to you I
h esita te, and for your ow n sa k e !”
S o ftly p lacin g h er hand on his arm , L olita
com forted him . “ I prom ise you m y forgiven ess,
Bi other, in ad van ce, should you need it. B e­
sid es, I w ish to ch an ge th at self-righ teou s
w ord forgiven ess to sym path y;— for neither w as
I ever, nay, nor am , nor ever w ill be a sa in t.”
“ Perhaps n o t,” m uttered M anuel; “ but to
m e you represent an ideal . . .”
“ Of your m oth er,” ten d erly interrupted Lol­
ita . “ Yes, I know ; and in her nam e, dear
M anuel, I shall give you ab solu tion , even b e­
fore you continue; so you m ay no lon ger have
an yth in g to hide from an y of u s, and m ay
lo o k us all in the fa ce; for after all you cannot
ind efin itely go on exp lorin g caves w hile w e
m igh t profit by you r com p an y!”
M anuel gath ered h im self togeth er, and clear­
ed his throat. “ I w ill do it ,” decided he.
“ A fter all, it m ay w ell be a d ivine arrange­
m en t!” — “ It is !” chorussed the com pany.
“ Go on, w e w ill stand back of you all the
w a y !” v-
In sp eech less gratitud e, M anuel looked ar­
ound the circle. “ I think th is sum m ary of my
career, sham eful a s it is, h as done m e good*;
WHAT BECAME
not only In ridding m yself of th is nightm are
load of lying, th eft, ch eatin g, em bezzlem ent
and chicanery,— y es, stare and gasp as you
p lea se,— of ad u ltery,— nay, even attem pted
m urder,” — and he stopp ed a m om ent to do
ju stice to the involu n tary m oan of horror from
the com pany,— ‘‘but 1 can m ore clearly under­
stand w hat h as saved m e through all, the
p anacea for all kinds of crim es,— nam ely, faith
in God, or confidence in His sup p ort; for if
you can be sure of G od ’s back in g, there is
ho con ceivab le hum an situ ation in which
tem ptation can lead you to crim e. .
K itchener interrupted, ‘‘And a s w c h ave to
live, and th erefor need food , cloth in g and so ­
cial surroundings, tem p tation of som e sort is
unavoidable; so th at w e cannot afford to live
w ithout faith in G od; so faith in G od is un-
escap ab lc; m ore n ecessary than food or cloth ­
in g . . . ” — O llanta n ow interrupted w ith a
B iblical quotation w hich acted a s a b en ed ic­
tion , ‘‘Seek ye first th e K ingdom o f H eaven,
and its righ teou sn ess, and all oth er th in gs shall
be added unto y o u .”
M anuel seem ed ch an ged . N o lon ger h esitat­
in g, he realized it w a s to h is ow n ad van tage to
‘‘m ake a clean breast of it; ” and n ow he w as
m ore an xiou s to tell h is talc, than w ere even
h is spell-b ou n d au ditors to listen to it.
‘‘A fter m y vision I picked up cou rage and
rocecd ed to th e cap ital G eorgetow n . First I
ad to p erfect m y E nglish, b efore seek in g em ­
ploym ent, w hich I found at the ch ief local d e­
partm ent store of R ichards and Sheridan, a s an
erran d-b oy. But m y ed u cation al ab ilities soon
opened m y w ay into th e accou n tin g departm ent,
w here I acted a s b ook-k eeper. A t th e death
of the cash ier I w a s p rom oted to th at respon­
sib le p osition . — All w en t w ell so lo n g a s nov­
elty gave in terest to th e tiresom e book-k eepin g
and accoun tin g; but soon that w ore off, and my
natural lazin ess began to evad e m aking up bal-
lan ces, a s the form er cash ier’s life-lo n g probity
had precluded the n ecessity of such tiresom e
form alities. But sh ortly 1 w ok e up to the in­
evitab le en tan glem ents con seq uent thereon.
First I tried to clear up the trouble secretly;
but w hen 1 realized it w a s beyond m y pow er
to rectify, I becam e reck less. T h en , deciding
1 m ight a s w ell be hanged for stea lin g an ox
a s w ell as for a sh eep , I helped m yself to
enough m oney to g ive a jew el to a you n g lady
friend w h ose kindness seem ed m y on ly harbor
o f refu ge from m y n ow p oign an t an xieties.
H ow w ell do I rem em ber seein g on her face the
flush of h appiness as I presented it to her; w e
had gon e for a w alk in th e park, to see the
V ictoria R egia tw o -fo o t w ide rose-colored lily;
but I never even looked at it, w rapped as I
w a s in gazin g at the sm iles th at ch ased across
her m obile featu res. — T hrough her vanity,
h ow ever, th is cam e to th e ears of th e firm, and
an in vestigation of th e funds w a s decided on.
So lon g had I lived in secret terror that w hile
th is approach of a clim ax w a s in th e nature of
a relief, I felt justified in resortin g to som e
sp ecies of self-d efen se. T h e first investigator
w hom th ey em ployed w a s a local book-keeper
w hom I knew w ell, and th erefore m anaged to
con fu se by g ifts and dru gs. But a s his results
w ere not clear, and a definite sto rta g e w as
d iscovered at the bank, th ey im ported a pro­
fession al auditor w hom I could not hope to
dupe. First I thought of su icid e; but my vi­
sion supported m e in the b elief th ere m ust be
som e w ay out of the tan gle. So I pleaded
sick n ess, and the firm decided to d elay the
in vestigation till I recovered sufficiently to aid
in the clearin g up. — H aving gon e into the
OF KITCHENER
m ou n tain s to rest, I had a haun ting d ream of
the G olden S un -tem p le near w hich I w a s born;
and on the ch an ce of finding som e o f the
buried treasu res m y m oth er’s fo refath ers had
rescu ed from the T em p le’s d estru ction , I h a s­
ten ed h om e. T h ose sim ple Indians, o f cou rse,
in stead of d ep o sitin g sa v in g s in b an k s, bury
th eir pitiful little hoards in the field s and for­
e sts. F ollow in g th erefore m y m oth er’s fam ily-
trad ition s, 1 d ug around at n igh t, and su c ceed ­
ed in unearth in g en ou gh treasu re to h op e to
com p rom ise w ith m y em p loyers, w h o indeed
w aived p rosecu tion , and let m e o n ce m ore
ex ile m yself and try to start life a fresh in a
n ew country.
‘‘P rovid en tially th ere w a s a foreign cou n try
clo se at hand, Surinam or D utch G u iana; and
I h asten ed to P aram araib o, its ca p ita l. T h is
is a silen t, sleep y p lace, w ith h igh -p itch ed
ro o fs, dorm er w in d ow s, high sto o p s, p orch es,
and green pain ted d oors w ith sh in in g brass
k nockers. H ere m y d isgrace could not follow
m e, for the Dutch lan gu age erected natural
b arriers. I w and ered through the d en se trop ­
ical fo rests of w a v in g cab b age and cocoa
p alm sf a cr o ss th e river. W ith m y trained b u s­
in ess in stin ct I sa w the in evitab le fa te of som e
of th e n earest su gar p lan tation s, w hich w a s to
be cut up into sm all farm s and b uild in g lo ts. —
N ow th ere w a s really on ly one p lan tation th at
w a s su ita b le or ripe for d evelop m en t; but h o w ­
ev er h ard -pressed for m oney w a s th e ow ner,
an o b stin ate o b ese D utchm an, th ere w a s no
w ay to m ove him ex cep t through th e in flu en ce
of h is w ife, a you n g p lea su re-lo v in g Spanish
lad y, w hom he ad ored . A part of m y d uty,
th erefore, it w a s to gain her g o o d -w ill; and
w h ile I sou gh t it on ly to effect th e land-
sa le, I w a s terrified a t d iscoverin g th at m y
O th ello-lik e ta le s of ad ven ture at land and
sea had so arou sed th is new D esd em on a’s per­
so n a l affection th at I had m ore than I had
b argain ed fo r. O nly to o w illin g w a s sh e to
further th e sa le, for she w a s tired of th e sleep y
p lace, and relea se from the lan d s w ould m ea­
su rab ly free her from her m isshapen husband
on w hom sh e n ow look ed a s a m on ster. — It
had been no part of m y sch em e to in v o lv e m y-
se*f in a m atrim onial ta n g le; but w hen the
p rop erty’s sa le to a syn d icate w a s effected , and
the lad y w a s fo o t-lo o se , she offered h erself to
m e. A s I w a s p en n iless until th e real esta te
op eration w a s com p leted , I found m yself a t her
m ercy. O nce m ore I w a s lead in g a double
life; and th e love I w a s n ow com p elled to re­
cip rocate b ecam e the m ost ex a u isite tortu re,
every d a y exp ectin g th e exp osu re th at should
on ce m ore com pel m e to flee d isgrace. Finally
sh e h erself th reaten ed m e w ith a stile tto at m y
th roat u n less then and th ere I should drink
th e cup of rich w ine she offered; and in the
in toxication of d esp air I drank it. — T hen b e­
gan a slavery th at w a s u n im agin ab le; and ul­
tim ately th e lad y, feelin g her health gro w d el­
ica te, b etw een serp en t-lik e em b races, so u g h t to
force m e to kill her husband. I d efen d ed m y ­
self a s w ell a s p o ssib le; but b etw een her ten ­
d ern ess and b eau ty in d istress, I w a s but clay.
So sh e arranged that during a ride around th e
esta te w e th ree w ere to v isit a sheltered la g ­
oon on w hich w e w ere to tak e a b oat-rid e,
during w hich a fatal accid en t w a s planned
for. As 1 left the house I w as a s p ale and
trem b lin g a s M acbeth; and it w as the lad y w ho
d irected everyth in g w ith con tem p tu ous ga iety
and sk ill. — W e w ere to ride th ith er on h orses;
and w h eth er it w a s m y n ervou sn ess or som e
h allu cinatory vision of m y m other or n ot, I
sh all n ever know ; but m y h orse sh ied , and
FAITH AS SOLE CURE FOR CRIME 25
w ou ld h ave throw n m e, had n ot her stupid
but sen sib le husb an d, w ith rare p resen ce of
m ind, sprun g d ow n and stea d ied the rearing
an im al, so a s to sa v e m e from ap paren tly cer­
tain d eath . — T hen w e started afresh ; but to
carry ou t our crim e w hen our in ten d ed victim
h ad ju st sa v ed m e from d eath or lon g illn ess
w a s m ore than I could d o. T ru stin g in G od’s
su p p ort, I turned m y m ou nt’s head , pricked my
sp u rs in to him , and escap ed to the can al, com ­
p elled m y q u iverin g and foam in g b east to
sw im it, h asten ed to th e w ater-fron t, tied him
to a p o st, and had m yself row ed to a ship
th at w a s ju st leavin g.
4‘W hen ab oard th e steam er, I had reason to
th ank P rovid en ce, for it w ould n ot land an y­
w h ere till it reach ed a foreign country, French
G uyana, at C ayenne. W hen I landed and en ­
tered C abbage Palm Square and beheld the
m iracu lou s d oub le palm tree, w hich rem inded
m e of the double life I had been lead in g, 1
b urst in to tears; but th e royal eig h ty -fo o t high
p alm s look in g like p illars in som e cathedral
g a v e m e assu ran ce th at a fter all th is w orld
w a s G od ’s th eatre, and that w h a tso ev er m is­
ta k es w e m ade, He could sa v e us som eh ow . ..
“ In th is French p lace m y am orou s escap ad e
in Param araib o w a s hardly blam ed ; indeed it
recom m en ded m e to th e rom an tic. So I w as
m uch so u g h t for in so ciety , an-i shortly w as
p rop osed to by a rich Spanish lad y. As I w as
p en n iless, and had no exp ecta tio n s of earning
m y livin g in a country w h o se French lan gu age
I could n ot u se fluently, and inasm uch as my
s o ft life had unfitted m e for an y hard ex er­
tio n s, w hich in th is clim ate, so clo se to the
eq u ator, w ere in an y ca se im p ossib le, for m e
th ere w a s no cou rse but to yield m yself a p ris­
on er at d iscretion .
“ T h at is, th ere w a s n oth in g else left
fo r m e in th is w orld , u n less I had trusted
in G od ’s p rotection and support. B ut I w as
n ot y et trained in con sid erin g the spiritual b e­
fore the p h ysical. N or really, in the m idst of
th e rush of p assion , w a s th ere m uch tim e to
con sid er. So natural is it to act out the
u su al id eals of th e w orld , th at w e need som e
m iracle, such as a dream , or an accid en t, or
th e ap pearan ce of som e sain t to draw us out
o f our d ilem na. A s none such happened, nor
p rob ab ly cou ld happen w h ile th is exq u isitely
b eau tifu l and charm ingly gow n ed w om an held
h er arm s around m e, I recip rocated her burn­
in g ca r esses. — T o m y cred it I can say this
m uch, th at I refused to m arry her until I had
co n fessed th e d isgraces th at I had allow ed m y­
se lf to suffer. I exp ected to be d ism issed; but
on the con trary, it p leased her all the m ore I
shou ld be en tirely in her p ow er, and at her
m ercy, should she w ish to b etray m y secrets;
so she accep ted m e on th e con d ition I should
be h ers a lo n e. Frankly, it relieved m e to give
up resp on sib ility; and a s th ere seem ed to be
n othin g unjust to an yb od y else in the en sla v e­
m ent of m yself w ho had n othin g else to look
forw ard to in th is w orld , 1 accep ted to be her
lover, cavalier and toy.
“ Our h on ey-m oon w a s a torn ad o of p assion ;
she kept m e d an glin g as an an gler p lays out
th e fish he h as hooked; and on ly w hen she w a s
sure she had m astered m e, did she allow me
to d iscover th at she w a s a leper, a sexu al per­
vert, and su b ject to fits of m aniacal violen ce.
— Of cou rse i could not com plain. I had
m arried w ea lth , and I should not feel w ron ged
at h avin g to p ay for it in an y m anner w h at­
so ev er. T hen I d iscovered th at k now ledge of
m y w ife ’s real condition w a s com m on proper­
ty , so th at th ere w a s no ch an ce of arou sin g
any sym pathy for m e, as everyb ody con sid ­
ered I had g otten no le ss than my ju st d eserts;
I m ust lie on th e bed I had m ade for m yself.
— A s she w isely held on to all the m oney, I
w a s p ow erless; w hither should I run to? By
th is tim e all of C entral A m erica w a s closed to
m e; and to start afresh in South A m erica w ould
be a lon g and exp en sive effort, for w hich m y
n ow prolon ged so ft life entirely unfitted m e.
B esid es, I had m ade m y bargain, and I w as held
by m y love-natu re, th e stron gest elem en t of
m y character. I h ugged m y hid eou s chain, and
gloried in m y en slavem en t, even w hile w rith ­
in g in terror, horror and sham e. N or m ust
you forget th at b etw een attack s she could be
so allurin g, so sen su ally b ew itch in g in her
w ar-p ain t, that I doub t an ybod y could have
resisted her so lon g a s she did n ot rem ove
th e perfum ed g lo v e th at hid th e leprous sore.
“ Of course m y en slavem en t could be on ly
tem porary, for her p hysical and m ental d iseases
w ere p rogressive, and each d ay w a s h astening
to som e catastrop h e. Indeed it cam e one night,
w hen in a sudden a cc ess of fury sh e fell into
a com a, from w hich she w ould probably never
w ak e unless she received prom pt m edical a s­
sista n c e. T o release m yself from her I had
fitfu lly considered m urder; but here w a s a
ready-m ad e occasion w here I could obtain re­
le a se by m erely w ith h old in g a ssista n ce. W as
I not ju stified in d oin g so , inasm uch a s her
k eep in g her lep rosy a secret, esp ecially a s I
had con fessed m y tran sgression s to her, w as
really in th e nature o f a fraud? T he physician
knew the seriou sn ess o f her case, and no one
but m yself w ould be th e w iser for th e delay in
secu ring a ssista n ce. T hank God I rejected the
tem p tation , and a t on ce sen t for th e physician,
alth ou gh on her b ein g restored, m y only thanks
w a s th e m ost violen t ab u se. — T hen I suffered
so in ten sely th at I decided th at should another
such occasion p resen t itself, I w a s justified in
preventing further torture by evad in g a ssist­
an ce. P h ysically en slaved a s I w a s, all of me
th at w a s free w ere m y eyes; and I glanced
ou t a cross th e surrounding w a v es tearfu lly.
T hen in the bay I noticed a French w arship
lan d in g a cargo of chained w retch es condem n­
ed to transshipm ent to D evil’s Island, not far
a w a y . T heir fate w a s envied by m e, and I
w a s tem pted to com m it som e crim e th at could
insure m e that com m itm ent. — T hen I felt my
w ife ’s vise-lik e grip on m y throat. She pointed
th e con victs ou t to m e, and said, ‘I hold you
in m y pow er; by m erely revealin g your crim es
I can have you chained and in carcerated. Kiss
m e, m y pretty to y !” D riven beyond endurance
I w a s ab out to stran gle her, w hen she herself
again fell into a com a. I exten d ed her on a
lou n ge, and h esitated to lift even a finger to
rearou se such a tiger. Then I heard a d is­
turbance ou tsid e. One of the p rison ers had
attem p ted escap e. T h e guards b eat him into
in sen sib ility; he becam e delirious, and after
cu rsin g w as evid en tly d ying w hen he started
to sin g som e hym ns.— T h ese rem inded m e of my
m other, and of the vision she had show n m e;
and its lesson th at there is no grief th at cannot
be cured by faith in God; and there sprang up
w ithin me a hymn that she used to sin g which
w a s eq u ivalent to the English w ords, “ Com e,
ye d iscon solate, w h ere’er ye lan gu ish , Com e to
the m ercy-seat, fervently kneel; H ere ope your
w ounded hearts, here tell your an gu ish , Earth
h as no sorrow w hich H eaven can n ot h ea l!”
— So I sen t for the d octor, w ho had to w'ork
over her for a lon g w h ile. She revived par­
tia lly , only to stru ggle w ild ly. In the incident
con fu sion, the d octor’s m edicines g o t m ixed,
26 WHAT BECAME
and he ad m inistered th e w ron g on e, w hereupon,
to our m ingled grief and relief, sh e passed
aw a y . So I w a s released through no gu ilt of
m ine. — A fter her burial, I should not have
w ished to touch any of her m on ey, in any
ca se; w hich w as ju st as w ell a s it turned out
she had on ly a life in terest in her esta te; so
that if I had depended on it, I should have
been much disap pointed. But w ith life and its
hectic u rgen cies I w a s d isgu sted . I took re­
fu ge in a m on astery, and becam e a m onk; and
after a su ccessfu l n ovitiate and accep tation , I
w a s allow ed to leave the scen e of m y trials,
and go to P atagon ia as a m ission ary.
Here, stran ge to say, I d iscovered th at the
d escen d ants of the fierce A uracanians w h o had
never been subdued by th e Spaniards, had
much to teach m e of a natural religion of
direct religiou s exp erien ce. T h is enabled me
to resign m y d ep en dence on th e th eologico-
p olitical p reten sion s of th e ch ief estab lish ed
religions. — But w ith m y d ep en dence on them
disappeared a lso m y financial sup p ort; and 1
found m yself dependent on the m eagre help of
XI. RAMON, or FAITH INEVHA
N ext even in g, (o r w hat w a s recogn ized as
rcsting-tim e a iter a standard period of a ctiv­
ity ), after supper, there w a s a lon g silen ce.
N obody seem ed inclined to say very m uch.
T he living lesson s of the con q uest o f Kitchen­
e r ’s fear, of M atilde’s despair, of T er esita ’s
an xiety, of F elip e’s h esitation , of A d olfo’s
provin cialism , of C arm en’s cap riciou sn css, and
of M anuel’s crim es, alm ost seem ed to ob jecti­
fy itself in th e shap e of unseen G uardian Spir­
its. No on e w a s d isp osed to speak very m uch,
and perhaps th e even in g m ight have p assed in
no m ore than m ood y m ed itations, but for the
children w ho ran in, dancin g and sin gin g ch ild ­
ish son gs.
T h is jarred the seriou s character of the gen ­
eral feelin g. U sually a m ere hint or gestu re
had been sufficient to drive ou t th e playful
you n gsters w ho by this tim e, should h ave re­
tired; but a s is frequent w ith children, they
seem ed p o ssessed w ith the m ischief of fairies
or gn om es. A ugustin took hold of Carmen,
and started to m ake her dance w ith him;
Leonora teased and tickled and shou ted in the
ears of the variou s p eop le, until there occurred
a general revolt, and from all sid es arose loud
ad m onitions for them to go to bed. But for
once the little p eop le w ere quite irresponsible,
and appeal w a s m ade to Ram on w h o, a s phy­
sician, w a s gen erally treated as th e court of
last resort in m atters of d iscipline and health.
“ T ell them to g o to b ed ,” shouted K itchener
w ith his g en eral’s readiness to com m and. T o
their surprise th ey noticed that Ram on had not
said anything, but w as sm iling; and w hen he
failed to utter the desired com m and, the w hole
assem b lage turned again st him, dem anding to
know w hat w a s th e m atter w ith him , th a t-h e
seem ed to have altered his usual in sisten ce on
the children’s early retirem ent.
“ W ell, to tell you the tru th ,” grinned he
m isch ievously, “ I do not see how I could re­
press them , inasm uch a s it w as I m yself w ho
put them up to it .”
“ W hat?” shouted the w hole m eetin g in
chorus.
“ Y es,” asserted h e, “ it w as I w ho saw that
your natural, and p erfectly estim ab le reflec­
tion s, w ere Injuring th e resiliency of your usual
self-p rotective a ctiv ity . So I thought th e ch il­
dren ’s innocent g a y ety w ould be th e b est cure
for your m oody m elan ch oly.”
OF KITCHENER
th e d esp ised Indians I had p reten tiou sly com e
to con vert. — It w a s at th is tim e th at the
Indian w ho had m ost en ligh ten ed and su p p ort­
ed m e d ied; and he turned ou t to be a brother
o f th is O llanta of ou rs, w ho cam e to con d uct
th e ab original rites over h is b roth er’s corpse,
a fter th e p riests had said th eir last rites over
him . My grief and u ncertainty, com m unicated
to O llanta, so licited from him an in vitation to
join his group of und ogm atic reclu ses, and I
h ave stayed w ith him ev er sin ce, grad u ally
realizin g som e of the m ystic rev ela tio n s that
had been prom ised m e in m y m oth er’s Kai-
tcu r Falls vision ; so th at I am sure th at I am
on th e right track . N ow m y ob ject is so to
purify m yself bv faith fu l labor and stu d ies
th at w hen I sh all be p rom oted to th e next
sph ere of ex isten ce, I m ay be found w orth y to
look her in the face w ith ou t a blush, and re­
ce iv e her ab so lv in g k iss.
“ All th in gs are p o ssib le to m e through God
w hich stre n g th e n e d m e!” q u ietly ad ded O l­
lan ta, risin g and lea v in g our surprised and
b reath less group.
BLE AS CURE FOR ILL-HEALTH
T h e grou p gazed on him a s if he had b e­
trayed them , and L olita su g g e ste d th at w hile
th e children m ight h ave accom p lished so m e­
th in g very estim ab le, it w a s at their co st, as
it w a s n ot g ood for th em to be kept up at
n igh t, an d excited .
“ T h at is tru e,” a n sw ered R am on; “ and w e
w ill let th e children retire, if you prom ise to
resum e resilien cy and in itia tiv e .”
“ W ell” , su g g ested L olita, “ if it is you w ho
put th e children up to d oin g so m eth in g that
w a s not good for them , you are the o n e w ho
ou ght to p ay for it; and it w ould be m ore
d ecen t o f you to let th em retire, and you rself
undertake the office of co n soler an d en ter­
ta in er .”
“ I k n ow !” ven tu red Carm en so m ew h a t m is­
ch ievou sly, a s if to punish R am on for h avin g
sid ed w ith th ose w ho com p elled her to m ake
her public con fession , “ I k n ow ” , repeated she,
“ w h at ou ght to be d on e. Let R am on con ­
tin u e the good w ork th at 1 w a s com p elled to
d o . Let him add to the finding our faith in
God to be th e in escap ab le cure for fear, d es­
pair, a n x iety , h esitation , provin cialism , and
cap riciou sn ess, by sh ow in g us h ow th e a tta in ­
m ent and p reservation of health is im p ossib le
w ith ou t the supporting spring of faith in G o d .”
T h ere w a s a loud cry of ap p roval. T h e ch il­
dren w ere kissed and d ism issed to sleep ,
th ough th ey w ere rath er rueful a t b ein g e x ­
cluded from the p roceed in gs o f th e eld ers in
w hich th ey felt th ey had a right to sh are, in­
asm uch a s their co-op eration had been sou gh t.
But then th ey had learned to ‘k iss the c r o ss ,’
and w ith the affection ate esco rt of T er esita and
C arm en, th ey m arched off a fter sin gin g a little
hym n. T hen after a little d elay, th e tw o
lad ies returned, join ed th e circle, and claim ed
the fulfillm ent of R am on’s prom ise.
“ W ell,” said he, “ it is on ly fair th at I
should d ie to m ake a R om an h olid ay, if the
oth ers h ave had to succum b; but I am afraid
to injure m y p rofession al stan d in g by m aking
this co n fessio n .”
“ Oh, do not be afraid of th a t,” sa rca stica l­
ly sh ot F elipe, “ I h ave a lw a y s th ou gh t you
w ere not so much of a sain t a s you a p p ea red .”
“ B e sid e s,” added A dolfo, “ it is a great deal
ea sier to preach to oth ers, than to practise
y ou rself; is it not, m y friend?”
M atilde said , “ D o n ot m ind, R am on; w e
27
p ro m ise to o b ey you r m edical ad vice ju st as
m uch a fte r w e know all your p ecca d illo s. In­
d eed , w e w ill love you all the b etter p erh a p s.”
H is e y e s sp ark lin g w ith am u sem en t, Ram on
resp on d ed , ‘‘V ery w ell, here g o es! B ut you
w ill h ave to be q uiet a lo n g tim e, b eca u se m y
sto ry is a s bad if n ot w orse a s th at of any
o f y o u .”
‘‘Do not fo r g e t,” shou ted C arm en, “ th at our
B roth er O llan ta m ade m e reveal m y in nerm ost
secre ts, on th e plea th at the m ore I co n fessed ,
th e b etter it w ould be for m e. So you had
b etter m ak e a clean breast of it, m y noble
a u to cra t. Y ou to o m ay need G od ’s fo rg iv e­
n e s s.”
“ Go o n ,” cried R am on, “ th e m ore you talk ,
th e le ss I w ill h ave to s a y .”
T h is had its desired effect. T h ey all sub ­
sid ed in to com fortab le p osition s; A dolfo sn u g­
gled up to Carm en m ore than w a s perhaps
ju d iciou s, or en tirely n ecessary;— at lea st, th at
seem ed to be the reflection of K itchener,
th ough he sm iled in d u lgen tly, and Lolita looked
m isch ievou s.
“ T h e m ost hum orous a sp ect o f m y life is
th at, th ou gh livin g in M on tevideo, the h ealth i­
est city in South A m erica, w here su p p osed ly
h ealers w ould be at a d iscou n t, I should h ave
b ecom e a p h ysician , or even on ly m ade such
a p lan . Such had not been m y origin al id eal;
for m y faith fu l, lab orious, lovin g, n ay sub ord ­
in ate n ature, had at first been carried aw a y by
m u sic. T h en , b ein g som ew h at of a sca p e­
grace, I tortu red m y m other w ith all kinds of
trick s; such a s p urposely lo sin g m y sch o o l­
b o o k s, and lettin g them be found on th e top of
clo se ts. I tortured m y fath er w ith all kinds of
crazes, such a s stam ps and can oein g, w hich,
b esid es, had th e a d van tage o f k eep in g my
p aren ts in terror for m y sa fety .
“ N ow it h appened th at w e m ade th e a c ­
q uain tance of a retired co lleg e p rofessor, w ho
w a s ind u ced to a ct a s m y tu tor to p a ss th e
co lleg e ex a m in ation s w hich it w a s m y fa th er’s
am bition I shou ld p ass for him a s it w ere, b e­
cau se by fa te he had been condem ned to earn
h is livin g a s a printer, and later a s a publisher
o f th e forem ost p h otograph ic m agazin e of Ar­
g en tin e. M y teach er p ointed ou t to u s all th at
th ere w a s no future fo r a p ian ist, excep t a s a
v irtu oso, w hich 1 could not h ope to b ecom e,
b ecau se of m y a g e , or a s a m usic teach er, of
w hom none did m ore than eke ou t a p recariou s
and u nconsidered livin g.
“ M y fath er had seen th at I w ould n ever su c­
ceed a s a b u sin ess m an, b ecau se of m y rash ­
n ess, in ju d iciou sn ess, and lean in g to tak e up
ca u ses w ith extrem e p artisan sh ip. M oreover,
m y fath er w an ted m e to b ecom e th e p rofes­
sion al m an he w ould like to h ave b een ; w hich
am b ition w a s w itn essed to by som ew h at broad
m edical p rofession al jo k es w hich he in flicted on
our v isito rs. So it w a s fin ally d ecided I should
stu d y m ed icin e; and atten d in g the forem ost
co lleg e o f our country, I grad u ated w ith honor.
“ H ere m y natural lean in g to d ep en dence
m ade m e unduly prolong the training years of
h osp ital serv ice. I w a s n ot w illin g to start
p ractisin g in m y fath er’s hom e, th ough it had
been secured esp ecially for m e. On one e x ­
cu se or an oth er, I found it ea sier to follow
varyin g sp e cia lties, w hile m y fath er continued
to support m e, w ith d evotion m ingled w ith
grief. T h en , contin u in g m y d ep en dence on m y
fath er, I d ecided to m arry a nurse th at I had
m et in the h osp ital. For m e, of cou rse, my
fath er had hoped for som e great m atch, or
som e local con n ection w hich w ould estab lish
m e in p ractice. H ow ever, m y d evoted p arents
put the b est p o ssib le fa ce upon it, w ithdrew
all ob jections, and w elcom ed us to their hom e.
M y w ife turned ou t to be an excellen t m other,
alth ou gh she p urposely n eglected any attem pt
to aid me or m y p aren ts, socially claim ing the
leg a l rights of support, and con sid ering that
sh e w a s gracin g u s trad esm en w ith the trad i­
tion of her d ecayed gen tility , w hich like m ost
aristocracy, is an oth er w ord for id len ess and
parasitism .
“ But at hom e I w a s restless, and m y early
ca n o ein g exp erien ce led m e to seek a p hysi­
cia n ’s post on th e largest of the P late R iver
S team b oat Lines, th e B ritish on es. U nfortun­
a te ly my fatal in clin ation to ind u lge in sco ld ­
in g s, queered m e in th is so ft berth. 1 quar­
relled w ith one o f th e rich est of their patrons,
and I w as prom ptly show n the door.
Since m y m arriage I had grow n som ew hat
asham ed of m y d ep en dence on my p arents, and
1 h esitated to return hom e again w ithout a
p osition . So I fortu n ately found a correspond­
in g one on th e rival German P late R iver B oat
Line, which I su p p ose w ould support m e until
I could find som eth in g m ore suitable to my
p rofession al stan d in g. T h is tim e, h ow ever,
th ough I did n ot quarrel w ith any of the
p atron s, w hen I sa w h ow slip -sh od conditions
w ere below deck, I undertook to reform them ,
and w as surprised even after th e very first
trip, to find m yself again on my ow n resou rces.
T h is tim e 1 d ecided to strike higher, and
g o t aboard one of the Lam port & Holt Line
Steam ers th at circu m n avigate the southern con ­
tin en t. It w a s h ere th at I m ade m y first in­
ternal ach ievem en t o f realizin g the in escap ab il-
ity o f faith in G od. A s a physician on these
b o a ts, my so cia l stan d in g w a s such that of
cou rse I m et an alm ost en d less variety of
p eop le; and con versin g w ith them com pulsor­
ily so as to keep m y p osition w hich depended
on social su ccess m ore than on m edical skill,
inasm uch a s I had little m ore to treat than
sea -sick n ess, and inasm uch a s any m istak es I
m ade w ere buried out of th e p rying sigh t of
coroners in the d ep th s o f th e Pacific, I w as
com pelled to listen , and seem ingly agree w itli
the w ild est sup erstition s. T o begin w ith, there
w ere m any of th e m ost d evou t w ho w en t to
Lourdes in France to be h ealed; at the sam e
tim e w e m et som e A m erican C hristian Scien­
tists w h ose quite untan gible h ealings depended
on blind confidence in a book w h ose authority
rested on su p p osititiou s authorship by a thrice-
m arried ign oran t w om an w ho had openly pur­
ch ased the m anuscript from a country doctor
by th e nam e of Q uim by;— at w hich of course
m y scientific g o rge rose to altitud in ou s pro­
p ortion s. T hen th ere w ere O rientals w ho
w ere goin g back hom e to be healed by som e
of the Buddhist L am aseries in T ib et; and a c­
cording to th eir reports uttered in good faith ,
th ey also show ed an appreciable list of actual
h ealings. T h ese Hindus am used m e esp ecially
a s th ey show ed th e m ost m alicious and spite­
ful resentm ent a g ain st England, alth ou gh they
had to thank B ritish influences for th eir very
m ost elem entary ed u cation .
“ It tortured m e to keep a straigh t fa ce at
h earing them p o se a s em ancipators o f w om en,
com ing as th ey did from the land o f th e
Sw ayam vara, the su ttee and infant m arriage.
T h ey, com ing from the land of th e m ost re­
pulsive idolatry and gro ss sup erstition s, cam e
to m ulct silly so cie ty w om en of their husb an d ’s
earnings by irresp onsib le rh ap sod ies. T hey
traded on th e W estern ers’ silly look in g up to
India as the land of m ysteries, to th e exten t
th at n o v elists are com pelled to g iv e a Hindu
28 WIIAT BECAME
colorin'? to teach in gs and accom p lishm ents of
w hich th ose untutored fa n atics are entirely in ­
cap ab le.
“ 1 w a s, therefore, m uch im p ressed w ith the
fact that as undoubted cu res resu lted from
p ractice of the m ost various relig io u s faiths,
and w ere credited to the virtue of different
shrines or rites, I becam e con vin ced that un­
der the d iversities of w ord s th eir identical
cu res m ust be effected not by the orthodoxy
of the w ords in w hich they p laced m ost re­
liance, but in th e id en tical h ealin g faith e x ­
ercised by all.
“ W hile I m yself en joyed good h ealth , and
th us did not actu ally need such exercise of
international faith , a s w e m ight sa y , never­
th eless, a s the irrefutable sta tistics of sick­
n ess proved the in escap ab ility of sick n ess,
th ey also proved the in escap ab ility o f depend­
en ce on in tersectal faith .
“ My existen ce w as a fter all retired ; 1 let
th e w orld w ag, and w atch ed th e p a ssin g show
w ith a certain am ount of con d escen sion ; but
I w a s ultim ately recalled from it by converging
letters from m y father w ho w an ted to know
if I never intended to settle d ow n , and prac­
tise in the rich hom e th at he had provided,
and of m y m other w ho w as g ettin g tired of
raising a second brood of children w hile their
con d escen d in g aristocratic m other la y back in
fancied illn ess; and fin ally m y w ife ’s pitiful
com plaints of th e m ost ou tlan d ish im aginary
d isease.
“ I m ight have gon e on d elayin g g o in g hom e
but th at I happened to m eet a M ontevidean
lad y w ho knew m y w ife, and con fid en tially in­
form ed m e th at she w as su sp ected of becom ing
an addict to the drugs she had been taking.
So w hen I heard th at m y eld est girl had sud­
denly been taken by con vu lsion s, I realized
th at th is halcyon existen ce m ust cea se, and
th at I m ust face the ugly realities of life which
had no doubt b ecom e w orse than th ey w ould
have, had I been hom e to w ard off extrem ities.
So I repatriated , and found m yself in a con­
geries of difficulties.
“ T o begin w ith , m y girl’s St. V itus dance,
w hich I knew could be ou tgrow n, had been
m ade w orse by m y m oth er’s con su ltin g inju­
dicious sp ecia lists w ho m ade th eir livin g by
frightening idle w om en . It is w ell know n that
no man is a prophet in h is ow n country, and
w hen I attem p ted to rectify con d ition s I w as
laughed at for m y pain s. My d ia gn osis and
efforts to cure m y girl convinced m e on ce m ore
of the in escap ab ility of faith . T h e child had
been practically poisoned by th e pessim ism ,
valetudinarinism , and disharm ony of our hom e.
I, h ow ever, realized that nothin g could cure
the child until she should be in surroundings
w here th e pessim ism should be replaced by
optim ism , th e valetudinarinism by stoic hy-
glenism , and th e disharm ony by lo v e . So I
su cceed ed in h avin g the child taken to the
hom e of a sister w here th ese th ree conditions
soon restored her to health, p rovin g th at faith
is an in escap ab le support of th e h ealth of the
sub con sciou sn ess.
Just like a b icycle rider w ho g o e s slo w ly is
contin u ou sly in danger of fallin g off on the
one sid e or th e other, ju st so the valetud in ­
arian w ho is con tin u ou sly sh elterin g him self,
p ettin g him self, and dru ggin g h im self is sure
to fall off from the path of ru gged radiant
health on one sid e or another. Only th e bi­
cycle rider w ho rides fa st finds it ab solu tely
sa fe. So u nless on e has enough faith in health
to disregard risk s, and to ach ieve the appar-
OF KITCHENER
en tly im p ossib le, can one h ope for p o sitiv e
rad iatin g h ealth .
“ A s m y w ife had grow n accustom ed to d e ­
pend en tirely on dru gs, to the point w h ere she
w a s p oison in g h erself, (ju st a s m any syp h il­
itics are really sufferin g th e resu lts o f th e p o ­
tassiu m iod id e w hich is gen erally pum ped
in to th eir s y ste m s), at th e risk of a break in
th e fam ily, 1 to o k m y w ife aw a y from hom e,
w hich freed her from all the local a s so c ia ­
tio n s. 1 took her to M arde P lata on a w alk ­
in g trip, and a fter sev era l m onths o f figh tin g
w ith natural con d ition s, she d iscovered th at sh e
need not h ave tak en any m edicine at a ll, and
th at all th at sh e really n eeded w a s faith in
th e natural su b con sciou s restorative p ow ers
of her ow n nature. Of cou rse, sh e w a s not
en tirely to blam e, b ecau se she had been nurse
in a h osp ital, and had seen drugs prescrib ed
for every im agin ab le m alad y, and she had a s ­
so cia ted w ith p hysician s w ho often prescrib ed
bread p ills and colored w ater; but I had to
create in her a faith vig o ro u s en ou gh to give
her rob u st resilien cy and d ep en dence on n oth ­
in g but w a ter and rest.
“ T h is trip to th e country had, o f cou rse,
b een very ex p en siv e; and a s soon a s 1 had
restored her, she b ravely offered to com e back
w ith m e, and face th e uncom fortab le situ a ­
tion w hich had accru ed through our lo n g train ­
in g. My repu tation in m y hom e city a s a
n e’er-d o-w ell helped m e to h ave the cou rage
to w ork lo o se from m y p rofession , w hich had
really on ly unm anned m e. N o one w ould em ­
p loy m e, so th at m y fath er let m e cu ltivate
th e gard en , repair th e h ou se, and help in his
m an agem en t o f b u sin ess, all of w hich I could
do w ith ou t o v er-fa tig u e, an d w ith ou t injuring
our so cial p restige.
“ It w a s then th at I realized a fourth case
in w hich our health w a s in evitab ly d ep en dent
on faith . Sin ce for h on est p eop le w earin ess
every ev en in g w a s u nescapab le even for th ose
in good h ealth , so m ust a lso be u n escap ab le
th e natural restoration of nocturnal slum ber,
not to speak of such lo n g h ealing p ro ce sses
a s you r B rother H erbert and your S ister Lolita
are at p resen t exp erien cin g; for w hen th e p hy­
sician h as se t the broken arm or im m obilized
th e sprained an kle, th ere is n othin g he can do
but w a it for n atu re’s m iracle of union and
reduction of in flam m ation.
“ Of cou rse, th ere are tw o w ays of m eetin g
th is situ ation : T h e p a ssiv e one of th e an im als
w h o a ccep t th eir fa te u nresistin gly, and the
a ctiv e one of th e hum an b ein g w ho ach iev es
m iracles by fo rcin g him self to accom p lish
tou rs-d e-fo rce; for th ou gh t b ears not on ly a
rational con ten t, but h as a su g g e stiv e p ow er,
a creative in flu en ce. T h at is w hy m y ow n
restoration to vigor and self-re sp ec t’s accom p ­
lish m en t dep en ded on m y laborious efforts,
inspired by a self-resp ectin g determ in ation to
redeem m yself.
So fou rth ly I realized th at a s w earin ess is
a lw a y s, a s sick n ess is som etim es, u nescapab le,
so a lso u nescapab le is its correction and cure
by faith in G od .”
“ B ea u tifu l,” interrupted K itchener, “ I never
heard a m ore com p lete ou tlin e of th e d ep en d ­
en ce of health on relig io u s faith h ealin g, on
m ental d isea se, on d ru ggin g, on in escap ab le
w earin ess; but w h a t happened? — I am in ter­
ested ! — H ow did you com e here? W hy did
you lea v e h om e?”
R am on ’s face fell. “ T h ere,” said h e, “ is
a ca se o f the in scru tab le d ealin gs o f G od ’s
P rovid en ce. 1 th ou gh t th at ii had su cceed ed
in w ork in g m y little fam ily out of .h eir ruts.
29
FAITH AS CURE FOR ILL-HEALTH
sufferin gs and m istak es; and for th e sak e of
th e little girl w h o se freedom from relap se of
her n ervou s con d ition dep en ded on travel and
relea se from th e circu m stan ces w hich had
b rought her ep ilep sy , w e d ecided th at my
form er em p loym en t w ou ld really con stitu te a
m uch n eed ed v a cation for u s a ll. So I ap ­
p lied fo r a m ed ical p osition on th e C osm os
Line, an d w a s a ccep ted for a v acan cy created
by m y p red ecesso r, and w ith th e h igh est hopes
w e em barked on a steam er th at w a s to p a ss to
th e P acific around C ape H orn. A lthough I
had m ad e th is v o y a g e m any a tim e alon e,
w hen an y a ccid en t w ould h ave hurt on ly m e,
th e sard on ic d ecr ees of F ate arranged it so
th at th is tim e, w hen I had ab oard w ith m e all
th at w a s d ear in life, our ship, w h ile round­
in g C ape Horn, w a s a ssa iled by one of the
m ost terrific storm s th at our cap tain rem em ­
b ered. Our b o a t w a s driven ou t of its cou rse;
and for m any d a y s an d n igh ts, w e attem p ted
to ride ou t th e w a v es. W e w ere alread y con ­
g ra tu latin g o u rselv e s th at th e v iolen ce of th e
elem en ts w a s a b a tin g , w hen our ship struck
rock on th is very islan d , and w here th e Ger­
m an sub m arine w a s w reck ed . W ell, it w as
th ere a lso our b o a t sunk; and I w a s the on ly
on e sa v ed .
“ Our g o o d b rethren h ere, no doub t directed
by in terior g u id an ce, saved m e w hen I had
a lm o st p erish ed w ith cold, hunger and e x ­
p osu re; and a fter th ey had nursed m e back
to h ealth ,— w hich w a s rather hum iliating for
a p h y sicia n ,— ju st a s w e h ave restored you,
B roth er H erbert, to n orm alcy,— so w a s I a d ­
m itted to th eir in tim acy. M y gratitud e for
th eir k in d ness, m y great grief at m y lo ss,
soften ed m y h eart so that 1 w a s m ore recep ­
tiv e to th eir relig io u s revelation s than my
form er scien tific nature w ould h ave a llow ed ,
and w h en I w a s perm itted to receive ex p er­
ie n c es of first-hand religion , I b egged for the
p rivilege of contin u in g th e in itiation in their
h igh er ach ievem en ts w hich I still hope to
m ak e."
K itchener interrupted, “ A nd h ave you no d e­
sire to return to you r form er roving ex ist­
en ce, you w ho are so faith fu l to your early
d ecision s? I should think th at you could not
h ave changed your nature, even if you w ished
to d o so ."
“ Q uite right, m y frien d. S till, every tim e
th at a storm a rises, do I feel w ith in m e the
fa st fad in g ech oes o f rovin g lon gin gs; but you
m ust not forget th at here I h ave lo st every­
th in g w orthw hile th at I had in life. Much
b etter to let them think th at I have perished
a lo n g w ith m y d ear o n es, and d evote the rest
of m y existen ce to th e spiritu al ach ievem en ts
w h ich perhaps m ay redeem m yself in their
ey e s, and enable m e to help them in th e next
sp h ere of ex isten ce. If m y nature had any
lo n g in g s, it w ould be to d iscover how to ach ­
iev e som e one great w orth -w h ile ob ject. 1
w ou ld be w illin g to serve as a slave all my
life, if only I could accom p lish som e genuine
b lessin g for h um anity."
It w a s O llanta w ho here interrupted him.
“ A nd you have, m y friend. It w ill not be
lo n g b efore it shall be revealed to you how all
you r apparent failures h ave been on ly in evit­
ab le preparatr'ons for a gloriou s consum m ation.
T a k e cou rage!"
K itchener.— a s a stran ger to th e grou p ,—
had unthinkingly sup p osed th at all his h osts
w ere p erfect, and had solved all th eir prob­
lem s in life. He w a s surprised to find that
h is physician , w ho had so m asterfully guided
h is con valescen ce, look ed up w ith grateful e x ­
p ecta tio n s at the sim ple, rude l r l ^ .e r , w ho
seem ed to be th e m ainspring of the grou p ’s
ach ievem en ts.
XII. OLLANTA, or FAITH INEVITABLE AS THE CURE FOR
DULL MATERIALISM
T h e in terest m an ifested in R am on’s search
fo r faith a s th e secre t of health had apparently
exerted a p ow erfu l su g g e stiv e influence on
both K itchener and L olita. T h eir sleep w a s
a s calm and untroubled a s th at of children;
and in the m orning L olita, to her great sur­
p rise, fou nd th at, w h ile ju diciou sly sparin g
h erself, she cou ld w alk com fortab ly; and Kit­
ch en er d iscovered th at h e could raise h is arm s
w ith ou t th e atro cio u s p ain s w hich had m ar­
tyred him b efore.
W hen R am on cam e in fo r h is m orn in g v isit,
h e w a s surprised to find L olita’s couch em pty;
an d w h ile he w a s look in g around for her, he
w a s shocked at finding h im self blinded by tw o
hand s from b eh in d , and K itchener a sk in g him
to g u ess w ho it w a s.
“ O h," said h e, “ I su p p ose it is th e bird that
h as flow n from its n est; on ly I w ould a d vise
her n ot to be to o in solen t to the fa tes."
A ripple o f lau gh ter accom panied h is recov­
erin g sig h t, and a s h e turned around he saw
L olita’s m isch ievou s cou n ten ance an nou n ce that
h is m edical effo rts w ere a t an end for her.
On exam in in g K itchener, h ow ever, h e d e­
cided th a t th e latter had b etter be tak en back
to h is ow n ca v e , to w here lon elin ess w ould
break up th e h ab its o f im prudent m otion en ­
cou raged by th e so cia b ility in evitab le in the
com m on livin g room . K itchener offered to
w alk , but R am on w ould not hear of it. He
in sisted on A d olfo and Felipe carefu lly carry­
in g th e in valid back to h is ow n cou ch . B e­
fore th ey left him , he ruefully asked if he w as
g o in g to be deprived of L olita’s com pany, to
w h ich by th is tim e he had grow n accustom ed .
R am on sm iled and said , “ T h at w ill depend
on you r p opularity w ith her. Like a butterfly,
sh e w ill now be visitin g oth er flow ers, and w e
sh all see how charm ing you really a re."
A light lau gh ter from th e p a ssa g e-w a y in ­
form ed K itchener th at h is girl friend had not
abandoned him . R esponding to his coaxin g,
sh e lightly sa t dow n on the sh elf again st the
w a ll, and asked w hat com m ands he had for
h is hum ble servan t. K itchener becam e som e­
w h at em barrassed, b ecau se he realized th at his
sick n ess had indeed reduced her to a m inister­
in g spirit, even though her atten d ance w as
volu n tary and ch aritable.
“ I have punished you en ou gh ," com forted
sh e; “ w hat do you w an t m e to do?"
“ W ell, d isregarding th e oracular dictum of
our fam ous physician , I for one do n ot con sid ­
er th at you h ave recovered sufficiently to flut­
ter around m ore than n ecessary; and if I am
condem ned to a con valescen ce that is slow , I
think that th e sam e holds good for you ; so that
I in terpose m y v eto on your attem p tin g an y­
th in g but contin u in g your frien dly com radeship,
fo r th e present a t le a st." f
“ W ell, Sir O racle, if you r m arshalship of
E n glan d ’s affairs con fers on you the authority
to p ose as a physician , w e shall for the tim e
com p ly w ith your graciou s com m an d s," — and
30 WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
th en , in an affab le a sid e,— “ so far a s it su its
m e. . .”
“ Or is w ell for y o u ,” added th e unexpected
v o ic e of Ram on w h o had reappeared on the
scen e unheralded.
“ You have lost your o ccu p ation ,” pouted
L olita; “ depart! m y lord the m arshal has d e­
p osed you from o ffice.”
“ W ell, I am quite w illin g to be d isch arged ,
so lon g a s I have so ab le a lieu ten an t,”
sm iled R am on, turning on his h eel, and depart­
in g.
“ N o w ,” asked L olita, “ how do you like th e
return to your ow n ca v e? ”
“ I feel stra n g e,” confided K itchener, after a
m om ent’s reflection . “ Over th ere 1 have been
entertained by th e recitals of each of your
frien d s’ various jou rn eys con vergin g to th e
citadel of faith . But h ere 1 am oppressed by
w hat I have som ew h at fo rgotten , the gruesom e
reality o f the nightm are lim bo through which
I w a s introduced to the later ap pearin g astral
w orld, objectified by the h ateful elem entary.
T h at m onster of th e threshhold convinced m e
th at there w ere m ore th in gs in h eaven and
earth than w ere dream t of in m y life-lon g
scorn of philosop hy, though m y victory over
fear, and m y sharin g th e victory of our bre­
thren over d espair, a n x iety , uncertainty, prov­
in cialism , cap riciou sn ess, and sick n ess, has
m ade m e invulnerable to th ose d an gers. Yet
1 feel a sligh t shiver of con tact w ith th at con ­
quered astral eerie w orld m ercifully hidden from
th ose to o w eak to face it. T h e steely scow l
of m ingled hate and rage in the back-turned
face of th e p ersecu ting elem en tal is indelibly
a ssociated w ith th is cave w here 1 had to fight
th e battle w ith it .”
“ Y es,” pondered L olita, “ life is seriou s;—
its issu es fatefu l;— no w ord w ith ou t its s ig ­
nificance and creative influence upon our b e­
ing Only fo o ls rush in w here a n gels fear to
tread . Our life is m agic, charm ed, and its
realities are p ictures of h eaven or hell, which
w ill u ltim ately coalesce into the revelation s of
the Last Judgm ent.”
“ In th is w orld , or th e n ext?” interrupted
K itchener.
“ T he n e x t,” responded she; “ perhaps in
b oth. P erhaps both are but one sin gle m agic
r e a lity .”
“ You k n o w ,” said K itchener, “ it is strange
that w e should be talk in g of th is, w hen, as a
m atter of fact, every tim e th at I have m et
O llanta I have felt the sam e peculiar reality
of m agic. I do not think that he w ould need
to put on an y m agical robe or pointed cap,
or tak e up a w and to turn th at com m on labor­
er, the servan t of th e w hole group, into a
m a gician .”
C autiously, a s if w eigh in g her w ord s, Lolita
resp on ded, “ So you , to o , have felt som ething
behind him !”
“ I w ish you w ould tell m e som ein in g about
him ” , sh ot K itchener in a plea for confidence.
“ T hat is ju st w hat I w ould like to know ,
and w hat w e all w ould like to know . He is
our greatest p uzzle. T h e m ore w e know him,
the le ss w e know w here to place him . Som e­
tim es he ap pears a com m on laborer, and then
again he seem s to w rench our hearts with
k now ledge and cou n sel w hich he could not
have gotten an y w ay other than by occult
m eans. I w is h ' I k n ew ,” m used she.
“ W ell, your cu riosity can surely be grati­
fie d ,” broke in th e harsh voice of O llanta him ­
self, w ho had approached unheard by the rapt
m ystics.
Lolita jum ped a s if frightened. “ You should
n ot startle m e so , O llan ta,” g a sp ed sh e, ou t of
b reath .
T h e kindly tran q uility w hich rad iated from
under h is bushy ey eb ro w s so o n restored her
to sm ilin g con fid en ce, and he sa t d ow n b e­
sid e them , ask in g w hat sh e w ould like to k now .
K itchener w a s both surprised and am u sed to
see th at in the p resen ce of th is stolid Indian
h is u su ally self assu red m on itress, sp ok e w ith
sid e-lo n g q u estion in g g la n ce s, a s th ou gh sh e
w ere tread in g on thin ice; and K itchener him ­
self b egan a m ore careful stu d y o f th is ru gged
p erson ality.
“ W hy, of cou rse, ev ery th in g ,” sa id sh e in
th e airy m anner of a lad y w h o is cam ou flagin g
h er cu riosity.
“ W ell, th at w ou ld be d ifficu lt,” said O llanta;
“ and if you do w ish to know everyth in g, you
had b etter ask som eb od y else than m e, w ho
am to o u neducated to p lay at m y sterie s.”
“ Y es, but you p ractise th em ,” ch allen ged
sh e . “ T h at is the trouble. I w ish you did
n ot turn our h earts in sid e ou t, and then play
th e in n o cen t.”
“ M aybe it is not I w ho am p ractisin g th e
om n iscien ce. M aybe I am on ly a m irror re­
flectin g you r ow n . Is n ot th at p o ssib le? ” asked
h e of K itchener.
“ P erh a p s,” responded th e sold ier w ho w a s
n ot m uch o f a m etap h ysician ; “ but even if for
all p ractical p u rp oses, you are no m ore than
th at, you a ct as if it w a s yo u , and it is for
u s to d eal w ith you as if you w e r e .”
“ So then you think I am a m agician ?”
ask ed O llanta in n ocen tly.
“ W ell, perh ap s if not a m agician , th ere is
an u ncom fortab le feelin g of m agic a b o u t y o u .”
“ W ell, I assu re y o u ,” responded th e Indian,
“ I can return th e com plim ent, b ecau se I feel
a m agic aura ab out both of you , to begin
w ith ; and b esid es, around ev eryb od y else I
m eet. Indeed, 1 look upon th is w orld a s a
m agic revelation of G od ’s im a g in a tio n .”
“ W h at,” retorted K itchener, so m ew h a t n et­
tled , “ are you a p artisan of B erk eley’s T h eory
of V ision ?”
“ I do not know an ythin g ab out th a t,” denied
O llanta, “ exp lain you rself, m aybe 1 sh all learn
so m eth in g .”
“ W ell,” responded K itchener, “ our p h ysi­
cists, ch em ists, and electrical en gin eers in pur­
su it of th e real nature of th e atom , have been
driven to the ion, and then still further to an
u nd erlyin g, in visib le and in tan gib le en ergy.
N ow , our B ishop B erkeley, in h is T h eory of
V ision , w hich though ridiculed is a lso vindi­
cated in Karl P ierson ’s ‘Gram m ar of S cie n c e,’
h old s th at the reality of th is w orld in h eres in
our vision ; th at Is, in th e representation of
our s e n se s.”
A s w ith th e surprise of a cannon sh ot, th is
rou gh Indian flung back, “ B ut th en , w hat
w ould happen to the universe b efore our vision
d ev elo p s, and after it d eteriorates? H ow
w ould th at accou n t for th e fact that tw o p eo ­
ple, to each of w hom th e reality of th e u niverse
in h eres in h is ow n organ s of sen se , can agree,
or could g iv e each oth er an ap poin tm ent? H ow
can th ese tw o ex clu siv e u n iverses co n ta ct, m eet
and effect w ork ?”
Just b ecau se K itchener w a s a grea t sold ier,
he w a s not a great m etap h ysician ; and this
u nexpected argum ent from a com m on Indian
n ettled him , and com pelled him to do w hat is
u su ally u nw elcom e to an E nglishm an, to think
for h im self. H ere it w ould be im p ossib le to
refer O llanta to th e E ncyclopedia B rittanica or
S e e ly e ’s H istory of P h ilosop h y. For on ce,
K itchener w ould h ave to m ake good for him -
31
se lf. “ I su p p o se” , m ed itated he slo w ly , “ just
a s th e u n iverse of each one of u s depends
for its rea lity on our sen se s, so th e great uni­
verse w hich co n tain s all of us and o f w hich
w e are on ly off-sh o o ts, or b ran ch es, creates
its ow n sen se of reality by d ep en dence on the
b asic ap paren t co n scio u sn ess of G od .”
“ But th en , w h at about the reliab ility o f this
w orld ?” ob jected O llanta, w ith a k een -a s-a -
razor rap ier thrust.
Like a sch o o l-b o y repeatin g h is lesson som e­
w hat a g a in st h is w ill, K itchener w a s com p ell­
ed to sp ell ou t his argu m en ts. “ P erh aps then
th is sen sib le w orld is on ly an effort of G od ’s
im agin ation , w hich w e share a s p arts o f Him,
and the reliab ility of th is w orld is a fter all
on ly G od ’s u n sh ak ab len ess of w ill.”
A s if o v er-reach in g his pupil w ith a tea ch er’s
fore-p lan n ed con clu sion , O llanta sa id , “ Then
you se e , you h ave realized th at b efore creat­
in g th e w orld , God m ust h ave b ecom e u nes-
cap ab le in h is assu ran ce. . .”
“ Isn’t th a t w h at w e call faith ?” interrupted
L olita.
N odd in g kin d ly, O llanta ad d ed , “ T h at is it,
surely; but th e corollary of th is in sigh t is that
w e a lso can n ot hope to accom p lish an y m agic
w ork until our faith h as b ecom e in cap ab le of
w averin g; o th erw ise w h a tev er h ealin g, in sp ir­
in g, or crea tin g w e m ight h ave d on e, w ould
crum ple like a S od om ’s a p p le. T h at then is
the suprem e in escap ab len ess o f faith , th at on
it d ep en d s th e very existen ce of our h ea v en .”
V ery g en tly , but w ith gu ile, K itchener, som e
w hat tak en ab ack by th is profundity u n exp ect­
ed from the stup id look in g Indian, sa id , “ A re
you sp eak in g from your ow n exp erien ce, or is
th is on ly a th eory?”
A m used, som ew h at a fter th e m anner of a
b ig d o g to y in g w ith a P ek in gese, O llanta re­
turned, “ T h at m ean s you w an t m e to tell you
my re lig io u s ex p erien ces? ”
“ W hy, y e s ,” sly ly said L olita in a to n e th at
tapered off in to co axin g, “ W hy do you not
help u s by tellin g u s h ow you cam e to th is
suprem e faith w hich you claim to b e the b asis
of m agic accom p lishm ent, of w hich y ou have
given us so m any p roofs?”
O llanta retired w ithin h im self, and w ith all
the stu p id ity of th e Indian sa id , “ I w ould tell
you an yth in g I k new , but I h a v e n ot th e pow er
of d escription such a s th o se of our brethren
A dolfo, C arm en, M anuel or R am on .”
“ W ell, do your b e s t,” n aively su g g ested
Lolita w h o, from p a st exp erien ces a t m an agin g
O llanta, had b efore th is resorted to exp ed ien ts.
“ You know very w e ll,” thundered O llanta,
“ th at if I talk ed ab out a m agic w ork , it w ould
im m ed iately crum ble, b ecau se talk in g is a leak
of th e so u l.”
“ B ut can you not help u s at le a st, a s far
as you deem it p ossib le w ith ou t u psetting
you rself? D o you not think you ow e our
brother som e help? And b esid es,” said she
in gratiatin gly, “ you w ere very a n xiou s in p er­
su ad in g Carm en to ab solve herself by a public
self co n fessio n . W hat ab out yours? H ave
you b ecom e so divine th at you are exem pt
from th is ord eal w hich you so g en erou sly in ­
flicted on u s?”
“ Of cou rse n o t,” grow led O llanta; “ the m ore
I w ou ld co n fess, th e soon er w ould I be liber­
a te d .”
“ I shall be back in a m in u te!” and Lolita
fluttered aw a y , returning fo llow ed by th e w hole
grou p , clown to the ch ildren, so a n xiou s w a s
she to a llo w O llanta no tim e to ch an ge his
m ind.
“ Y ou can n ot escap e u s” th ey all sh ou ted .
“ Judgm ent! Judgm ent! W e dem and it, unless
you are a cow ard or a hypocrite. W e w ill not
let you escap e until you have m ade a clean
b reast of it!”
S cow lin g, a s if at bay, and sm iling sard on ­
ically a s if at th eir ch ildish n ess, he said,
“ V ery w ell; but b efore 1 b egin to tell you the
in cidents of m y life I m ust g ive you a ch oice.
I do not say that w e are surrounded by a
m alevolen t spirit w hich can n ot reach our
th ou gh ts, but w hich h ears our w ord s; but the
spiritual w orld dGes b eh ave a s if th is w a s so.
Every one of you h as had exp erien ce of the
fa ct th at pride g o e s b efore a fall, th at the
announcem ent of a d ecision is on ly th e pre­
am ble to a tem p tation . T h at is the reason w hy
the greater th e pow er m an ach iev es, the less
he sp eak s; w h y th e h igh est in itia tes are the
m ost retired; and w h y the suprem e D ivinity
sp eak s to us so little that w e even com plain
of th is, little realizin g th at the stab ility of
th is external w orld of ours, w hich is only an
ob jectification of th e th ou gh ts of God, d e­
m ands His silen ce. You n otice th at He ad ­
v ertises him self so little th at the w orld is full
of blatan t a th eists w ho b ase th eir stupid se lf­
d egrad ation on th e fact that th ey have not m et,
seen , or heard G od .”
“ 1 think you m u st be rig h t,” interrupted
K itchener. “ W hen I w a s you n g I on ce read
a story o f a B reton fairy A urelia w ho in the
m oon ligh t had fallen in love w ith th e sleeping
ex ile L anval. W hen he aw ok e she took him
to her castle and g a v e herself to him , and
Lanval enjoyed p erfect h app iness on th e con ­
dition he should n ever speak of her. But one
d ay a roving Knight of King Arthur d iscovered
him in th e forest and b rought him back to the
court w here G uinevere com pelled him to b oast
of m arriage to th e m ost beau tifu l lad y in the
w orld . G uinevere took th is as an insult to
h erself, and A rthur condem ned him to death
u n less he produced A urelia in court. A ppealed
to, th e latter sen t her servin g m aid, w hom all
th e Court adm ired, but Lanval w ould not a c ­
k n ow led ge her a s h is queen, for fear of offen d ­
in g A urelia. A gain threatened w ith d eath , and
ap p ealin g to A urelia, th e latter cam e and sa t­
isfied the dazzled court; but b ecau se Lanval
had b oasted of her, A urelia abandoned him
and Lanval eked ou t th e rest of his m iserable
existen ce vain ly seek in g his la d y -lo v e, till he
p erish ed .”
“ W ell,” resum ed O llanta, “ th e ch allen ge you
h ave uttered reliev es m e of resp on sibility,
w hich you thereby h ave assu m ed . W ith this
k n ow led ge clearly b efore you , you are at lib­
erty to ch oose to hear m y story, or risk som e
failure of m ine in p rotectin g you, as indeed
you m ust by th is tim e have su sp ected .”
“ W e h a v e,” g ravely replied R am on; “ and
y et w e think enough of your pow er to take
th e risk you m en tion .”
T eresita added, “ B ecause w e think th at your
story w ould g iv e us the crow ning proof for
the u nescapab ility of faith in G od .”
“ You are right, m y friends, in th at re sp ect,”
slo w ly responded th e m agician; “ but I know
m yself better than you do, and it is on ly with
th e utm ost an xiety con sisten t w ith faith in
God th at I shall speak. No doubt He w hom
m y faith w ill celeb rate w ill protect us, and
can p rotect u s even if I p erson ally, should fail.
B ut I am not w illin g to tak e so seriou s a risk
w ith ou t a w ord of p rayer.”
He m otioned them to sit close togeth er ar­
ound the recum bant form of K itchener, and
from th e breast of h is garm ent he drew out a
w an d . He sto o d still w hile his lips m oved,
32 WHAT BECAME
and though th e oth ers w ere cu rious, th ey also
joined in silen t su p p lication s.
W ith sudden, deep in sp iration , a s if he w as
catch ing a p assin g b reeze, he rushed to the
w all of the ca v e and bent d ow n . W ith his
w and he touched th e ground, an d w h;!? still
m ovin g h is lips a s quickly a s he cou ld , he drew
a circle on the ground all ab out th em . Kitch­
en er’s ey e s bulged, esp ecially b ecau se he im ­
agin ed th at he sa w a faint p hosp h orescen ce
left around th e m ovin g w and and ou tsid e of it.
A lthough he had conquered fear, h e supposed
that he m ust be b esid e him self, b ecau se he
fancied seein g on the ou tside o f the phosphor­
escen t circle, all sorts of w ild m on sters, crea­
tures w ith ex a ggerated le g s, or arm s, or heads,
and a s if he heard a rum or a s o f th e sough
of the ocean , at tim es interrupted by the
h oarse cry of th e p etrel or o f th e sea-gu ll,
w hich he im agined really to b e th e cu rses of
th e dam ned in hell. For a m inute he closed
his ey e s and repeated h is a ct o f faith in God;
and w hen he look ed again he q u ietly sm iled
at th e fan cies o f his im agination; but on the
fa ces of his com panions he n oticed a certain
seriou sn ess w hich seem ed co n tagiou s.
A nxiously, but inspiredly, O llanta stood in
the center, w ith his w and m ovin g around, and
w hile he spoke to the huddled grou p , his eyes
n ever for a m om ent relaxed th eir susp iciou s
w atch around th e circle.
“ My frien d s,” said he, “ you m igh t have
spared y o u rselves and m e th is a n x iety , because
a fter all there is nothing to tell, inasm uch as
1 am but a very hum ble and unim portant per­
son . P erhaps my ch ief p ictu resq u en ess in
you r ey es co n sists in m y lim itation s of being
an uneducated peon or Indian. T h at m y par­
en ts told m e that I w a s a d escen d an t of the
Incas, m ight have been on ly im agination, based
on the fact th at w e lived upon the Sun Island
in th e center o f Lake T iticaca. A lso, in the
lon g even in gs, th ey recounted w ild legen d s and
p rop hecies o f m ingled Inca and A uracanian
origin . It seem s th ey th ough t th at th e day
of th e Indian w a s still to com e, and th ey a t­
tem pted to in stil into m e a life-lon g hatred of
Spaniards and foreign ers. T heir exh ortations
to hate fell into ground th at w a s not fallow
b ecau se, unfortun ately, it w a s m y nature to
stin g th ose w hom I d espised or h ated ; and it
took m any yea rs b efore I could overcom e that.
B ut I had to do so , b ecau se an old priest
show ed m e th at inasm uch a s arm ed resistan ce
to th e in vad ers w a s out of th e q u estion , the
on ly th in g I could do w ould be by th e d evelop ­
m ent o f m agic p ow ers; and th ese w ere im ­
p ossib le w ith out prelim inary faith so irrefrag­
ab le th at m y d eed s m ight be a s perm anent as
is the w orld , and the p urgings of m y nature
o f all ten d en cy to stin g. Only to a vip er’s
venom can I com pare it. I felt like a snake
raisin g its head and striking. All m y beauti­
ful dream s o f the estab lish m en t of a Republic
o f P eace am on g our scattered su b jects w ere
repeatedly destroyed by th is m y fatal ten ­
den cy. Indeed th is led to my leavin g hom e.
A s fam iliarity breeds contem pt, w hen m y ex ­
aggerated reveren ces of my fath er’s learning
as I grew w ise and stron g, turned to scorn, 1
allow ed m yself to utter such sarcasm at the
con trast b etw een his dream s of Inca restora­
tion and our w retch ed con d ition s a s tolerated
sq u atters am on gst the cyclopean ruins on the
island, that I could have bit out m y ton gue.
I decided to aton e, and train m yself to greater
reveren ce, by leavin g hom e and travelin g
am idst our scattered follow ers, b ecau se, though
you m ay not know it, the tradition of our
OF KITCHENER
n ative m ysteries h as by no m ean s d ied o u t,
and in m any p arts of South A m erica, th ere are
Indian E lders, a s you m ight call them , w ho
hand dow n pre-C olum bian trad ition s to ch osen
Indians.
“ In v isitin g th ese sa g e s, I m yself learn ed
m uch, and d iscovered th at th e an cien t Q uiche
m ysteries in G uatem ala w ere still p ractised in
secret. W ith m y natural alm ost su p erstitiou s
reveren ce for m ystic k n ow led ge, I d ecided to
v isit them , and learn w h atever rem ained so a s
to hand it on to future g en eration s. So I fo l­
low ed the m iddle valley b etw een th e tw in
ch ain s of the A ndes, p assed a lo n g th e head
w a ters of the A m azon to Ecuador. From th ere,
1 p assed b esid e th e volcan o C otopaxi through
Q uito and B o g o ta in C olom bia a lon g th e is ­
thm us of P anam a to C osta R ica. Frankly,
a fter aw h ile, I felt unhappy th ere. T h e n a­
tiv e s greeted m e on m y w ay w ith such en ­
g a g in g sa lu ta tio n s a s ‘M ay h eaven sm ile on
your errand’, and ‘m ay you r patron sain t p ro ­
tect y o u .’ My g o rg e rose at seein g them ly ­
in g dow n under th e “ m anana tr e e s.” So I
hastened on through th e rubber fo rests of
N icaragua to th e m ost m ystical part of A m ­
erica, th e fo rests of H onduras, w here nature
h as p lanted m ore different m edicinal p lan ts
than in all the rest of th e w orld . I gath ered
m any of th ese, and still p o ssess them , w hich
h ave been o f in valu ab le service, not on ly for
h ealin g, but for relig io u s m ystical p u rp oses a s
w ell. B ut m y heart burned for th e in itiation s
th at I hoped to find in G uatem ala; so I p assed
through San S alvad or, surrounded a s it is by
nine vo lca n o es, an d p assin g through G uate­
m ala C ity, w en t on to the Q uiche stron gh old s
of Q u etzalten an go. A m ong the old est sa g es
here 1 found som e w h o had p reserved cop ies
o f the Pop ol B uj, and it w ould be im p ossib le
for m e at th is tim e to rela te all m y exp erien ces
at X ib alb a. S ufficient to sa y th at 1 p assed
through the H ouse of S h ad ow s, th e H ouse of
C old, the H ouse of T ig ers, th e H ouse of B ats,
and th e H ouse of W arriors. T hen I had to
learn to create fire, and last I had to learn
the secret of th e Im m aculate C onception. Nor
did I lea v e th ose dreadful H ouses, w hich in­
d eed w ere located on th e in sid e of a volcan o
very m uch like th is on e, w ith ou t learn in g to
b rew the elixir of life .”
If K itchener th ou gh t th at he had heard and
seen w eird sou n d s, he w a s n ow sure of it, for
he heard m ocking cries, such a s “ he h as for­
g o tten h im self!” “ he h as given h is secret
a w a y !” “ he is o u rs!” K itchener noticed that
he could not be th e on ly on e to be aw are of
th e on slau ght of th e O pponents, b ecau se all
h is com p an ion s huddled around O llanta.
A s to O llanta, he w a s superb. N ever for a
m inute did he w aver. He broke ou t in a sligh t
chant w hich n oticeab ly cow ed and drove a w a y
the m ore ad ven tu rou s of th e O pponents w ho
w ere attem p tin g to cross th e p h osp h orescen t
circle. W ithout cea sin g h?s su b ju gation of th e
in visib les, he uttered a ch allen ge for support
to G od in w hom he tru sted .
Suddenly b esid e him stood a w h ite robed
sa g e w ith flam ing ey e s a t w h ose ap pearan ce,
everyth in g supernatural d isap peared . He said ,
“ My son , you have d one right, and have by
th is trial p roved your suprem acy over the ut­
m ost op position th at th e a stra i sphere cot:Id
offer; but a s you y ou rself p rogn osticated , you
w ill h ave to p ay lo r it. You m ust at once
proceed to the sanctuary of the Great A ssem b ­
la g e, to w hich you are in vited, w here you are
n eed ed a s much a s you need u s.” He then
33
d isap p eared . — T ears w ere cou rsin g dow n
O llan ta’s ch eek s; and his com p an ion s, for
w hom he had dared th is p han tasm agoric trial,
attem p ted to sh o w him th eir gratitud e by k iss­
in g the very hem of h is garm en ts or h is hands.
He sm iled w an ly, and sad ly p assed aw ay into
th e p a ssa g e, fo llow ed b y all of h is com panions
ex cep t Lolita.
XIII. THE FLAW IN THE CRYSTAL, or FAITH INEVITABLE AS
A CURE FOR DUALISM
T h ey w ere b o th silen t fo r som e tim e.
“ W e ll,” fin ally ventured K itchener, “ w e got
m ore than w e b argain ed fo r .”
“ Y e s,” m iserab ly d raw led L olita, “ I m ight
h ave know n en ou gh not to p rovok e our good
su p p ort, O llan ta, to incur an y d anger fo r him ­
se lf; but a la s, our h in d -sigh t is b etter than
our fo r e sig h t!”
“ C ouldn’t w e h ave a void ed all th is?” a n ­
x io u sly su g g e ste d the sold ier. “ C ouldn’t O l­
lan ta h ave related to u s his career w ith ou t
actu a lly ra isin g th e d evil?”
“ T h at I d o n ot k n o w ,” m ed itated L olita;
“ even if he cou ld h ave avoid ed it, it m ight
h ave been im p o ssib le for u s, b ecau se an un­
ed u cated m agician is difficult to m an age . . .”
“ A nd it is a g re a t q u estion w h eth er m agician s
can ev er be a n yth in g but u nedu cated; ap par­
en tly ed u ca tio n ’s n on -p artisan sh ip d im in ish es
the force of u n d istracted atten tio n . . .” in ter­
jected K itchener.
“ T hen a lso he m igh t n o t,” con tin u ed L olita
w ith ou t in terru p tin g her form er train o f argu ­
m en t, “ for o u tsid e rs like u s,— you still and I
form erly,— a lw a y s fo rg et th at th ou gh t b ears
n ot on ly a co n tem p lative or lo g ica l a sp ect, but
a lso a s u g g e stiv e or creative o n e. T h ou gh ts are
th in gs, th e o n ly rea lity . If gen u in e, th e m ere
statem en t of m agic ach ievem en t co n stitu tes a
ch allen ge to e v e ry O pponent, and a cts a s an
in can tation . M oreover, it w a s not O llanta w ho
raised th e d ev il; he seem ed to d o so on ly b e­
cau se th e v ita lizin g in flu en ces of h is p resen ce
raised our se n se s to th e pitch w here w e grew
con scio u s o f ou r u su ally unnoticed en tou rage.
L ogically, yo u k n ow , it w a s u n avoid ab le. If
good and evil c o e x ist h ere, th ey m ust also do
so b eyon d ; an d w hen w e p a ss through the
con ven tion al extern al p henom enal veil, and
p en etrate in to re a lities, it w ould be illogical to
exp ect to reach th e g o o d forces, w ith ou t sim ­
u ltan eou sly reach in g th e evil o n e s .”
“ S till,” in sisted K itchener, “ I regret an un­
n ecessa ry d istu rb an ce of our spiritu al eq u an ­
im ity .”
“ It w a s n o t u n n ecessa ry ,” ch allen ged L ol­
ita . “ A s w ea rin e ss and sick n ess are u nes-
cap ab le, so a lso u nescapab le is th eir cure of
fa ith .”
“ B ut m ay w e not ach ieve faith in G od w ith ­
ou t so h eart-b reak in g a test? ”
“ S u ccessfu l faith co n stitu tes a g a in st op pon ­
en ts an offen ce u nescapab le by all w ho do not
tak e refu g e in self-d eceitfu l h ood-w in k in g, or
resort to the Land of C ock aign e. N or did the
te st injure u s, for if our faith in victory is
gen u in e, it ou gh t to h ave w ith stood any con ­
ceivab le te s t; w e ou ght to h ave en joyed it as
much a s w h en w e p lay w ith any new toy, or
p ractise an y a b ility w e have acq u ired .”
“ S till I am surprised at either you or O l­
lan ta n eed in g an y test w h a tso ev er; I supposed
you w ere all p erfectly season ed W hite M agi­
cia n s!”
“ T h ere yo u are a gain u sin g p hysical stan d ­
ard s th at a re sta tic! A fter a ship is once
tested it is relied on a s a reck onab le a sset;
but a hum an a b ility e x ists on ly so lo n g a s it
r e sists op p o sitio n , retain s its sea so n in g , and
p rogresses still further. T h ere is no such
th in g a s stand in g still in th e spiritual w o rld !”
“ So then w e can n ever hope to leave behind
us th e n ecessity for te sts? ”
“ N ever; spiritual survival is no sinecure, nor
an op tion ; it is a grim n ec e ssity .”
“ T h en ,” p ersisted the m aterialistic K itchen­
er, “ spiritual a sse rtio n s are not truth, but only
im agin ation s?”
S ister Lolita rebuked, “ Its m ere im agination
w ould con stitu te its truth. M istakes are only
flaw s in the w eak er w ills. T h at is w hy, a s you
you rself have no doub t often ob served in life,
w h y everythin g com es to him w ho prayerfully
w a its; his very im agin ative w ill creatin g the
con d ition s it d esires. Faith indeed is th e sub ­
stan ce of th in gs unseen, and im agination con ­
stitu tes the hope th at m aketh not asham ed.
T h at is w hy th ere are gen u in e an sw ers to
p ra y er!”
“ So th en ,” rejoined K itchener, “ you recom ­
m end faith a s a p anacea for all w eak n esses?”
“ S u rely,” rejoined th e inspired m aiden, “ it
cures fear, it so lv es p roblem s, it produces
h ealth , it con stitu tes self-con trol, and is the
fou nd ation of all m agic op era tio n s.” .
“ W hether for good or ev il? ” . . ’
. ventured
the thoughtful sold ier.
“ E xactly; w h eth er fo r b lack m agic or w hite;
for hell or h eaven ; for life eternal, or for
d eca y in g death. All lies in the faith , w hich
is th e on ly r e a lity .”
A s Lolita m entioned black m agic, K itchener’s
ey e s grew gray, and he rem ained still for a
few m om ents, a s if sligh tly ill at ea se. W arily,
d ip lom atically, he hazarded. “ You have m en­
tion ed black m agic, a s if it w ere a reality.
W hat is th e d ifference b etw een th e B lack
M agic, and th e W hite?”
“ It is very sim p le,” sm iled Lolita, “ although
th e resu lts are so h arrow in g. Faith is im p os­
sib le w ithout u n selfish n ess; w h ile fear could
not ex ist unless th ere w ere som e selfish n ess
to frighten; nor can a self-regard in g person
lo se him self en tirely in the ob ject of faith.
T o th o se w ho g o by the B lack R oad all en ­
joym en ts are perm itted, for th ey are selfish ;
w hile only the unselfish can p ass th e M onster
of th e T hreshhold, and d efy him . It is really
a very sim ple d istin ction ; and unselfish ness, or
d evotion to hum anity, w ill insure the w h ite­
n ess of o n e’s m agic a ch ievem en ts.”
“ T h is d u alism ,” m used K itchener, “ is w orld-
old , and of broader difficulty than you seem
to im ply. W hat if tw o faith s clash , a s they
often do in the w orld? W hat w ill happen
th en ?” queried the n ow earn est thinker.
“ T h e result w ill depend on how far each
of them realize th eir foundation in the divine
w ill, the substratum of them all. W e are all
fellow -p laym ates of H is, individual exp ression s
or creative n uclei,— until w e shall d evelop self-
con sciou s w ills pow erful enough to create the
fresh universes o f a new b ody, or carve a new
ca r eer.”
“ And sup p osin g our faith in bodily h ealing
or achievem ent of h eaven is doom ed to fail;
then our faith w a s a lie !” pondered the in ­
terested leader of m en.
34 WHAT BECAME
“ Then you have not lo st an ythin g, in any
ease. You have in th e m ean w hile been saved
from fear, from d espair of livin g, from an xiety,
from h esitation , from p rovin cialism , from
crim e, from w ayw ard n ess and stu p id ity. You
have not lost anything, and in th e m eanw hile
you have gain ed everyth in g, lettin g alon e the
unlikelihood that you w ould ultim ately fail;
w hich indeed is im p ossib le, so lo n g as you
continue by m agnetic volu n tarin ess to attract
to you rself w hatever you w an t. R ight, even
so, w a s P ascal, w ho claim ed th at w e have
everythin g to gain , and nothin g to lo se, by
w agerin g on the existen ce of G od. Even if
He did not ex ist, and if nothin g existed but
your thereby evolved w ill-p ow er d eveloped to
the point of in cap acity of fa ilin g ,— the only
real m agic ach ievem en t is the creation of your
ow n h eaven !"
" B u t," persisted K itchener, " w h ile I w ould
be the first to b elieve and p ractise the om ni­
potence of G od, n everth eless I cannot blind
m yself to the existen ce of m isfortune, accidents,
m inor d iab olism s,— such a s th e inopportune
stopp in g of w atch es, or the cracking of glass,
and flaw s in crystals,— even such m isadventures
as I feel this n igh t’s p roceed in gs to have been.
At any rate, your gran tin g th e survival of
stru ggle in volves th e p ersisten ce of the Oppon­
en ts; so that you are in effect, even if not
in w ords, by im plication assertin g the ex ist­
ence and survival of e v il."
" Y es," snapped back L olita, " ju st as the
solid ity of a throne im plies the hidden founda­
tion, and the inner im p lies the outer, and
w hite im plies black. I am no liar, or self-
d eceiver a s w ere m any fam ou s fan atics and
p ea-cock s! T o deny th e ex isten ce o f evil w ere
to deny all m eaning to victory. But I a c­
know ledge the ex isten ce of evil on ly a s a com ­
plim ent to the victory of G ood ."
"B ut d oes not evil som etim es, n ay often,
gain th e upper hand?"
"T em p orarily, y es."
"T hen you do ack n ow led ge th e ex isten ce of
evil, even if only tem porarily?"
"Y es! As the excep tion p roves th e rule, so
I grant that, in the gen u in en ess o f the efforts,
and in the greatn ess of th e p uzzle of the
W orld-B uilders, in th e coin cid en ces due to
m ultiplicity of efforts, in th e in tricacy of or­
gan ic ad justm en ts, in th e d elicacy o f m anipul­
ation in the production of m aterials, such as
the m ultiple chem ical elem en ts from th e differ­
ent arrangem ents o f the sam e ion s, in the d e­
lays incident to free w ill, in the m ood in ess of
tem peram ents, in th e cyclic revolu tion s of
h eaven ly b od ies, th ere are accid en ts, m is­
ch an ces, coin cid en ces, and m isfortu n es in one
per cent of the ca ses; but that is no m ore
than the n egligib le w a ste in cident to th e pro­
duction of the rem aining nin ety-n in e per cent
of su ccesses, w hich h ave th e right, n ay the
duty, to insult th at sam e n egligib le w a ste by
refu sin g to recogn ize it at all; but m y m aking
th is aliow an ce sa v es m e from b ein g a fool or
a liar."
"T hen you are really partially w rong!"
gloated K itchener.
"W ron gly or righ tly!" trum peted Lolita.
"A re you n ot asham ed to say w rongly?"
probed the sold ier.
"B y no m ean s!" jubilated L olita. "Y ou see,
the fools have no trouble in d eceivin g them ­
selv es, and den yin g th e ex isten ce of the evil
w hich th ey p ractically avoid in th eir lives, like
the C hristian S cience h ypocrites w h o deny there
OF KITCHENER
is cold , but w ear furs and heat the fu rn ace.
It ta k es som eb od y accu rate and h on est to hold
to God right or seem in g w ron g; like Job, w h o
b elieved in Him, " thou gh He slay m e!" T h at
is w h ere lo y a lty com es in !"
" B ut w ron g is w ron g!" tortu red K itchener.
" Y es! But w ron g th at p rod uces th e g o o d s
is right! It’s a kink in our in tellects, like the
irration al n u m b cis! Faith m ust hold unshak
ab le, for it is not a p astim e, a cu rio sity or
even id le research . It m ean s sa n ity , h ealth ,
cou rage, virtue and h eaven ! W e sim p ly ca n ­
not afford to be scep tic s, for S cep ticism is
selfish n ess, con ceit, fo lly, p ro d igality; ju st as
faith is th e b egin n in g of w isd om b ecau se it
p rod u ces g o o d s."
"I s e e ," m ed itated , K itchener, " all m y life
1 h ave had the w ron g id ea that I w a s d oin g
God a favor by b elievin g in Him! All this
childish talk of ob ed ien ce and serv ice, w hich
is on ly for our ow n ben efit, m isled m e in to
thinking th at, a fter the G reek id ea of Z eus,
God w a s a tyran t w h ose rights it w ou ld be
sin ful to d en y; th at I m ust sacrifice to him ,
and p lea se Him. I se e now th at th e sh o e is
on th e oth er fo o t. W hether or not th e U ni­
verse p rofits by m y ach ievem en t, w hich in d eed
in a certain sen se I gran t, it is I w h o ch iefly
stand to gain by b elievin g in God sufficiently
to en large m y id eal by His p erfection s. It is
I w h o am cash in g in on faith ; and if I fail,
it is I w h o am p ayin g th e b ill, not G od w ho
is b ein g m ulcted or an gered . If th e w orld
g en era lly could be m ade to com prehend th at it
w a s th e m an him self w ho w a s th e lo ser if he
om itted an hour of p rayer, or a church se r ­
v ice, he w ould not lo se it w ith so much eq u a­
n im ity; he w ould not ask G od to fo rg iv e him ,
or ex c u se him for the om ission , but he w ould
seek w hether he could excu se h im self fo r fa il­
in g to en joy it, or profit by it! N o lon ger
w ould he evad e church atten d an ce, but he
w ould squirm a t an y accid en t th at hindered
him th erefrom . T h e churches w ould not be
em pty, but th ere w ould be policem en a t the
d oor to hold back th e crow d s, a s at th ea tres.
M ission aries w ould no lon ger ap p eal to p ity
for th e C rucified, but for men to h ave p ity on
th em selv es. T h eir on ly hindrance w ou ld be
m en s’ Ingrained d istru st o f an y o n e w ho
claim ed to be a ctin g for th e oth er fe llo w ’s in ­
tere st; but I do not doub t th at by th e law of
com p en sation th e m ission ary h im self w ould
profit by p rom otin g h is con vert’s in ter ests. N ot
so m uch a d uty th erefore is faith , but a m an ’s
h igh est and n ob lest p rivilege!"
S ister L olita nodded a sse n t, but said n oth in g;
fo r a s K itchener en u nciated th is rare and g lo r­
io u s revelation , sh e h erself grew tran sfigu red .
S eren ely sm iled she a s she saw K itchener a lso
g lo w in the in telligib le ligh t, a s w ith a h alo.
H aving p assed the M onster of the T h resh hold ,
K itchener w a s now ab le to see not on ly the
ev il, but the good d en izen s o f th at inner
sph ere; and he g en tly grew a w are of h is ow n
G uardian A ngel, resp lend en t, and sh ak in g his
b ejew eled w in g s,— n ot a s a peacock of pride,
but a s a Fra A n gelico gen iu s o f spiritu al cor­
u scation s.
T h en both K itchener and S ister L olita heard
his la st sen ten ce ab out Faith not b ein g a duty
but a p rivilege, slig h tly altered , ch an ted and
reech oed by the ch oirs in visib le; an d in the
slo w n e ss of the gradual ev a n escen ce th ereof,
b reath less and en ch an ted , both hum ans lin g er­
ed lo n g in the p u lsin g effu lgen ce th at filled the
ca v e but d isap peared , leavin g tears in their
e y e s. '
35
WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
XIV. LOLITA, or EXPLANATORY INITIATION
K itchener's co n v a lescen ce had la sted dow n
till th e Sunday b efore C hristm as. In th ose
la titu d es, C hristm as and E aster are som ew h at
rev ersed , the form er m arking th e clo se of the
w in try six -m o n th ’s n igh t, an d is th e daw n of
th e sum m ery six -m o n th ’s d a y w h o se clo se is
h eralded by E aster. H ere th erefore it is C hrist­
m as w hich sy m b o lizes th e d aw n o f sum m er,
and d em an ds th e greater spiritu al celeb ration .
T h at is w h y on th is p rep aratory Sunday
A ugu stin and L eonora b rought ov er to K itchen­
er an in vitation to join in a som ew h at form al
dinner w hich w a s to celeb rate th e reunion of
all th e m em bers o f th e group w hom K itchener
had b efore m et on ly in d ivid u ally, in th eir cor­
p orate cap acity a s m em bers of th e h erm itage.
T h e tab le had been exten d ed so th at all
cou ld sit around a com m on b oard . K itchener
ex p ected to see O llanta sea ted a t th e h ead;
but on th e con trary he w a s b u stlin g ab out,
w a itin g on th e d in ers’ n eed s. N on e w ere m is­
sin g : th e p h ysician R am on from M ontevideo,
Felipe and h is sister Carm en from B uenos
A ires, w ith th eir en tirely in volu n tary a risto ­
cratic b earin g. T h ere w a s A d olfo, from Peru­
vian A requipa, and M atilde and T eresita from
S a o P aolo, m oth ering th e children A ugustin
and L eonora from C olom bian B o gota, w ho w ere
b ein g am u sed by th e d istin gu ish ed look in g
M anuel from n earb y G u atavlta. N ext to Lolita
w a s th e vacan t p lace of h onor to w hich th e
w illin g K itchener w a s ush ered .
A s th is fea st m arked K itchener’s so cia l re­
h abilitation in th e very room w here so lon g
he had lain a s a co n valescen t, it w a s on him
th at d evolved th e p leasan t task of con versa­
tio n . P ictu resq u ely he g a v e an accou n t of his
ow n career, in cid en tally d eta ilin g th e real rea­
so n s for th e a ctio n s of m any w ell-k n ow n char­
acters, w hich real reason s, during th eir au thor's
life-tim e, u su ally are n ever d ivu lged , to avoid
d efea tin g th eir o b ject; and a fter th eir au thors'
d eath th ey are fo rg o tten ; or if revealed , d is­
b elieved . His au d itors listened en tran ced ; but
w hen he had fin ish ed , it w a s he w ho had
to ask w hat th ey m ight happen to know of
the w o rld -w a r’s issu e s.
T h ey cou ld not tell him an ythin g excep t
th at th ey th ou gh t th at th e U -b oat th at had
b rought him m ust h ave com e to grief, w ith all
h and s lo st, b ecau se th e last tim e th at an e x ­
ped ition from th eir group had gon e dow n to
m eet th eir y ea rly sup p ly-sh ip , th ey had seen
dead b o d ies, and ap paren tly G erm an sup p lies
w ash ed ash o re; w h ile far ou t on th e rocks,
q uite u n ap p roach ab le, rocked the stranded hull
o f som e stra n g e-lo o k in g v e sse l. T h ey also
very an x io u sly asked w hether the G erm ans
w ere likely to return to fetch K itchener, in
w hich ca se th ey th em selv es m igh t h ave to v a ­
cate b efore d etectio n ,— for th ey had not left
th e com forts o f civilization to be d ragged into
h o stility , if th ey could avoid it, n ot to m en­
tion the ruin of th e spiritu al resu lts th ey had
ach ieved , and th e d estru ction perh ap s of the
sp ecialized fa cilities fo r in itiation w hich th ey
had here d ev ised and erected .
K itchener th ou gh t no, b ecau se th e hom e Ger­
m an au th orities p rob ably did not know w here
he w a s. It seem s th at Fink had been told to
m aroon K itch en er in som e p lace o f w hich the
location had b een left to him . Indeed it w a s
on ly at th e la st m om ent th at the latter had
d ecided to ch an ge th e d estin ation from the
A rctic to som e Island in th e P acific, and that
w a s th e u n d erstan d in g of th e su p p ly-sh ip s that
m et him on th e w a y . B ut a s he p assed by the
A ntarctic volcan ic a rch ip elagoes h is judgm ent
seem ed to have veered sud d en ly to stopp in g
h ere. If indeed he w a s suddenly w recked
w h ile returning hom e he m ust have carried the
k n ow led ge of K itchener’s w hereab ou ts with
him in to th e bourne from w hich none returns.
T o h is h osts th is w a s a great relief, and it
op erated to rem ove an y laten t u nw illin gn ess to
re ceiv e him into their closer cou n cils. So they
n ow felt freer to in vite him to exp lore their
inner dom ain, w hich th ey had contrived ap ­
prop riately to their h igh est p urposes. T h is in­
d eed w a s h igh ly ad visab le at th is particular
tim e, so th at by g ain in g a m ore in telligen t
u nderstanding of th eir m ethods he m ight be
b etter fitted fruitfu lly to tak e h is part in their
C hristm as celeb ration s.
A fter this su g g estio n had been approved by
th eir leader R am on it w a s decided to aw ait the
n ex t m orning for th e start. K itchener, ready
so ld ier that he w a s, asked the reason for this
d ela y . Lolita said he w ould understand it
b etter later. T hen sh e sm iled sign ificantly, for
she sa w that he yet had no id ea of the exten t
of th e adventure to w hich so light-h earted ly
he had com m itted h im self. W hile this new ly
acq u ired faith d isp osed him to con ten t him self
w ith her evasion , h is inborn British slo w n ess
m ade him sm ile a trifle con tem p tu ously. But
he w a s cou rteou s enough to accep t th e situ a­
tion , and he p resen ted him self next m orning
ea rly ready for the exp loration .
T o h is surprise he found his h osts garbed
in w h ite rob es, and w a s invited to join them
in prayer. T h is he did w illin gly, if w onder-
in g ly . T he d evotion s closed w ith a hym n,
a fter w hich O llanta took a sm all torch w hose
end gleam ed w ith a cold , bluish but unflicker­
in g g lo w , su g g e stiv e of p h osp h orescen ce. Then
O llanta beckoned fo r th e ad ults to follow , the
children A ugustin and L eonora rem aining in
ch arge of T eresita, w h ile w ith graciou s natur­
a ln ess Lolita fell in b esid e him , a s if contin­
u in g her m ission a s ciceron e.
A fter a few quiet w ord s the p arty divid ed .
R am on and the rest of th e brethren w ent to
the le ft, w hile O llanta beckoned to K itchener
and Lolita to follow him for an in sp ection -
tou r of his particular dom ain, th e m ushroom
and lichen p lan tation s w hich supplied them
w ith d aily food . T h ese grew m ostly nearer
the heart of the volcan o w here th e heat w as
sufficient to p rom ote grow th , but on ly in p laces
such that m oisture could abundantly fructify
the seed s. T h is happy com bination O llanta
had produced artificially, and arranged so as to
con trol at w ill, th at his d aily planted rotating
crop s m ight supply food w ith unfailin g reg­
u larity. L olita did not fail to point out the
ap plication of th e sam e p rinciples to the spir­
itual life,— regularity, regulation , and fruitful­
n ess. — T hen in sid e ca v es, w here it w as
cooler, ih ey found the w a lls covered w ith fi­
b rinous lichens w hich, like the bam boo of the
O rient, served them not only for legum inous
accom p an im ent to th e m ore flesh -like m ush­
room s, but also as m aterial for garm ents,
covers, im plem ents and upholstery. T h ese
n eed ed con stant w eed in g and trim m ing to pro­
d uce le a v es that w ould be succulent and tasty,
ju st a s the soul dem ands con stant control and
tu nin g to vib rate in resp on se to G od ’s vibra­
tio n s.
A t first K itchener w a s som ew h at bored by
th is m oralizing; but grad u ally it w a s borne
in upon him that th is w a s th e ch ief ob ject of
h is peregrin ation s;— a sort of P ilgrim ’s Pro-
36 WHAT BECAME
gross 'Interpreter’s H o u se,’ to im press on him
the m oral rudim ents w hich later en ab le the
soul to burst out in bloom of spiritual sen sa ­
tion and ach ievem en t.
W hen he com m unicated th is im pression of
his to L olita, she sm iled ap p roval, and stated
form ally th at such spiritual sign ificance should
be the sp ice of every action of life, including
th e m ost trivial; d ressin g should be sacra-
m entalized into vestin g, eatin g into an euchar-
ist, and w ash in g into a b aptism . Only w hen
its m inutest parts are th us sacram en talized can
life com p letely becom e an in itiation into the
divine realm s.
Then d aw ned on B rother H erbert, a s h e now
w as called , an id ea that sta g g ered him . T h is
exp loration th at he had so ligh tly undertaken
m ight prove a sort of in itiation , w hich w ould
explain w hy h is h osts had dem anded a d elay,
— not an idle preparation of a few provision s,
but a preparation of p rayer th at he him self
m ight not fail, and a p rogn ostication of its
accep tib ility to God, and its spiritual su ccess
in arou sin g new spiritual p ow ers w ithin him .
A s he exp ressed this susp icion to L olita, she
sm iled happily, and told O llanta th at a s the
ob ject of this prelim inary garden su rvey had
been accom p lished, he m igh t refrain from fur­
ther ex ertion s, and lead them to th e first in ­
terior m eetin g-cave w here aw aited th eir com ­
panions. She com plim ented Herbert on catch ­
ing this th ou gh t so quickly, inasm uch a s som e
n eop hytes n ever ach ieved it a t all, and after
w and erin gs so ex ten sive a s to be exh au sting,
w ere by the guide led back to the exterior
m eetin g-cave. T hree tim es w ere th e usual n eo­
p hytes led around th e gard en -ca v es; and if
b efore the end of the third tim e th ey did not
gu ess its real in itiatory sign ifican ce, th ey w ere
kept a s lab orers to support th o se spiritual
enough to profit by th e exp loration s, unless
th ey left volu n tarily, quite convinced th at there
w a s n othin g to see.
Fortun ately for H erbert, h e had succeed ed in
th is sim ple but effective te s t of the predom ­
inance of his spiritual in terests. O llanta d e­
p osited his little harvest of m ushroom s on the
tab le, and brou ght out a w hite robe sim ilar to
that w orn by th e oth ers, w hich he threw around
Herbert. Hand in hand w ith L olita, Herbert
w as led through variou s n ovel p a ssa g es to join
the com pany w hich had follow ed R am on, w hich
th ey found in th e interior m eetin g cave, w hich
w as of rather large d im en sion s. T h e com ­
panions w ere seated silen tly on sea ts around
the w alls, w hile from an orifice in the floor
rose light w isp s of volcan ic fu m es th at filled
the sanctuary,— for such it w a s,— w ith a frag­
rance a s of in cen se, effected by p lacing som e
resinous su b stan ce in a w ire b ask et in the
open in g through w hich filtered th e h ot fum es.
Here silen ce reigned suprem e, and Lolita,
tou ch in g her finger to her lips, so a s to pro­
tect H erbert from m aking an y unintentional in­
terruptions, m otioned to him to be seated on
XV. THE RIFT IN THE LUTE
T h ese vagu e d ream s w ere focu ssed into a
kiss im planted on his brow by his ow n h eaven ­
ly bride. T ill n ow he had never even adm itted
the p ossib ility th at he m ight have one; but in
his dream s he felt a s if again and again in
su ccessive in carnations he had m et her, loved
her, and parted from her. N o w onder that in
his p ast earthly career a s general K itchener
had a lw a y s in stin ctively refrained from any
thought or feelin g leading to m arriage, even
OF KITCHENER
a vacan t se a t. She h erself sat d ow n by his
sid e, and O llanta lik e w ise sub sid ed in to a sea t,
extin gu ish in g h is torch by p a ssin g h is hand
over it.
A s th e d ark ness exerted its norm al effect of
a llo w in g H erbert’s pup ils to exp an d , he becam e
co n scio u s that th ey w ere not a lo n e. T h e fum es
seem ed to assu m e th e sh a p es of large a n g els
en g a g ed in prayer, th eir h ead s b ow ed , and
h and s crossed over th eir b rea sts. H erbert
su p p osed that inasm uch a s h is p hysical lim ita­
tio n s w ere hushed, he w a s b ecom in g con sciou s
o f the G uardians o f h im self and h is com ­
p an ion s. Y es, th e num bers ta llied ; but soon
he b ecam e aw are o f an ad d ition al O ne, taller,
slig h tly m ore lum inous, w h ose ey e s su g g e ste d
he w a s a W atch er. W h ile sharin g the p rayer­
fu ln ess o f th e oth ers, h e seem ed a lso to be
im p arting m essa g es or resp o n ses o f gu id an ce,
p rotection or in sp iration .
H ow lon g th is holy co n v erse or com m union
m igh t h ave la sted , H erbert cou ld n ot tell, for
a t a sign al from R am on, O llanta lit h is torch,
an d w ith a ston e closed th e orifice, d iscon tin u ­
in g th e entrance o f the fu m es, a llo w in g H erbert
and h is com p an ion s’ ou ter n atures to resum e
th eir habitual sw ay over th eir organ ism s. W ith
tea rs shin in g in th eir ey e s th ey join ed in a
Hymn at th e clo se o f w hich th ey q u ietly arose,
sh ook hands, or em b raced, a s in each case
w a s m ost fitting or m ost h oly, and in slow ,
g en tle m otion retraced th eir w ay back to the
exterio r com m unal cave.
On th e w ay back th ey treated H erbert as a
dearly b eloved brother w ith w hom th ere w as
need of but few if su g g e stiv e w ord s of con ­
gratu latory w elcom e am on g th em ,— and th ose
of L olita’s to H erbert w ere th e ch o icest and
m ost ap p reciated , and resp on ded to w ith
eq u ally h eart-felt gratitu d e.
On arrivin g back in th eir extern al fam ily
cham ber, th ey d ivested th em selv es o f their
rob es, and q uietly sa t d ow n to p artak e of a
holy rep ast com p osed o f th e fruits O llanta had
gath ered , but w hich in th e m ean w hile had been
prepared b y T eresita and the orp h ans. T hen
reigr.ed jo y u nfeign ed and quiet sa tisfa ctio n
such a s testified to th e b lessed n e ss of their
exp erien ce. A s H erbert com m uned w ith Lolita
he found it le ss than usual n ecessary to ex ­
p ress his th ou gh ts, w hich seem ed to flow back
and forth w ith hardly m ore than a w ord of
gestu re to direct th eir w in ged fligh t. He grew
con sciou s that he w a s learning su ccessfu l
th ough t-tran sferen ce.
S oon h ow ever H erbert fe lt creep in g over him
natural w earin ess; w ith h is ey e s he so u g h t and
received L olita’s con sen t to h is retirin g. He
rose and took lea v e of h is n ow very d ear and
m uch nearer h osts, and returned to h is ow n
ca v e . He exten d ed h is w eary fram e on his
cou ch , and soon fell in to a deep sleep in w hich
he seem ed to h ave returned in to th e A ngel-
sanctuary, con versin g w ith high an d holy
P resen ces he could not later ex a c tly id en tify.
or ECHOES FROM THE PAST
w hen the King him self had urged him to en ­
d ow th e n ext gen eration w ith a rep resen tative
of h is splendid m anhood. W hy h e refu sed he
cou ld n ever have told you , if you had asked
him ; but now he knew it w-as b ecau se he w as
in stin ctively reservin g h im self for h is ow n
realized id eal beyond.
W as th is exp erien ce real? M ore real than
th e u gly cave to w hich he w ok e up, — but
th ere w a s no d isgu isin g th e fact th at he had
THE RIFT IN THE LUTE 37
fe lt on h is b row a fin ger-tou ch a s light a s a
p a ssin g b ree ze; and a s he look ed up he saw
th e m isch iev o u s sm iling cou n ten an ce of his
faith fu l com p an ion and ad viser L olita. Like
silv e ry ch im es sh e ru stled , “ S o, Sir Sleeper,
can you a w a k e at th e m ere touch of m y fingers?
F ortun ate it is; b ecau se you m ust rise at on ce.
W e are in d an ger, and w e n ?ed your assista n ce
to sa v e o u rselv e s. Come quickly to our cham ­
b er. 1 g o b e fo r e .” She w a s gon e, tripp in g a s
ligh tly a s a d oe.
So m any m on th s had H erbert p ea cefu lly lain
in th is u ncouth ca v e th at he could not under­
stan d h ow an y d anger could com e n ear them ;
but he ro se in h aste, perform ed h is sim ple m a­
tu tin al rites, and h astened to the com m on
ch am b er w h ere he found h is frien ds in an xiou s
co n su lta tio n . It seem s th at during th e night a
sud d en con vu lsion of the volcan ic m on ster’s
h eart had sen t a rush of lava through the
very op en in g by w hich lon g a g o H erbert had
esca p ed from th e seeth in g in ferno; and there
w a s d an ger of its flow in g into th eir m eetin g-
room . T h ey m ust erect a tem porary barrier
w hich m igh t later be rem oved w hen th e rare
eb u llitio n s had died d ow n .
W hile H erbert’s arm s w ere still w eak he
cou ld w ork at Jeast a s m uch a s L olita and the
orp h ans, all of w hom join ed in th e com m on
d efen se a g a in st the elem en ts. B ut Herbert w as
a good ex e cu tiv e and en gin eer, and th ough t of
a d evice for w hich even his exp erien ced h osts
w ere gra tefu l. W hen finally all im m ediate d an­
g er w a s at an end th ey join ed in a com p ara­
tiv ely b oun tifu l repast off su p p lies gath ered
by th e children w hen the w orst of th e danger
w a s ov er; and afterw ard s each sou gh t rest in
th e m anner b est su ited to h is con ven ien ce.
H erbert, h avin g som e q u estion s to ask of his
b rave gu id e, invited her to his ow n ca v e, bade
her ex ten d on his cou ch , sat d ow n on a rolling
sto n e he u sed for that purpose b esid e her, and
q u eried , — “ P lea se, L olita, if you are not too
tired , re so lv e fo r m e a few p rob lem s w hich
h ave recen tly ag ita ted m y m in d .”
“ W ith p leasu re, B rother, u n less I fall
a slee p . . .”
“ W hen 1 shall not disturb yo u , b e sure,
g o o d S ister. B ut in th e m ean w hile listen to
m y d ifficu lties, and so lv e them if you can. I
w an t to understand th at I fu lly ap p reciate the
b eau ty and h olin ess of our com m on exp erien ces
in th e A n g el-ca v e; I shall n ever fo rg et it; it
w ill rem ain a lingerin g b en ed iction so lon g a s
I liv e; it vin d icates m y faith , and m ak es m e
forever im p regnab le to the a ttack s of doubt
and d esp air. But I am askin g m yself w hether,
h ow ever g o o d , salu tary and in sp irin g such a
sin g le exp erien ce m ight be, such a p assivity
m igh t not sap the m orale if repeated m ore
than on ce,— n ay, m any tim es. If indeed it
shou ld d egen erate into a habit, m igh t it not
b esid es b ecom e a s d angerou s a s the opium or
chloral h ab its to w hich , in th e w orld ou tsid e,
th ere are so m any ad dicts? M oreover, is it
w ise to release our su b con sciou sn ess from the
d om in ation of our extern al self w h o se p rogres­
siv e d om in an ce over th e su b con sciou sn ess is
th e suprem e purpose of our existen ce? W ill
w e not b ecom e unfitted for w ork am on g m en,
such a s is dem anded by sa n ity and progress?
A nd th e . .
“ S top, m y lord M arsh al!” la u gh in gly in ter­
rupted L olita. “ N ot m ore than on e q uestion
a t a tim e! Or, like the w itn ess whQ w a s b e­
in g bullied by th e op p osin g law yer for a ca te­
g o rical m on osyllab ic an sw er to th e m onstrous
q u estion w hen he had cea sed b ea tin g h is n on­
e x istin g gran d -m other, I shall h ave to g iv e up
en tirely, and your d isap pointm ent w ill be to ta l.
N ow you m ust d isen ta n g le all th ose knotty
p oin ts and ! shall try to an sw er them one by
o n e !”
F eeling the hum or of his over-an xiety, Her­
bert lau gh ed , and com p lied w ith her requ est.
“ W e ll,” he sh ot ou t, “ w ill not such exp erien ces
unfit u s for san e effective w ork am ong m en?”
“ It certainly w ill!” agreed Lolita. “ W e are
not exp ectin g to return to the bestial stru ggle
for lu st, m oney, p osition or pow er. All that
w e h ave left behind; w e are only to o glad to
be exem p ted from th o se degrad in g n ecessities;
and you have seen th at w e have had to pay
its price, — seclu sion in th e A ntarctic, a region
uninhabited b ecau se so undesirable that even
th e w orst sa v a g es, the P atagon ian s, m ake no
effort to d isp o ssess u s, a s ea sily th ey m ight
h ave d one. T hen w e h ave had to return to
the d isad van tages of the prehistoric troglo-
d ites, — in food , garb and con ven ien ces; and
w e liv e in hourly jeop ard y of volcanic erup ­
tion s such a s disturbed us recen tly. Is th at
price not big en ou gh? Could it be an y bigger?
“ N o ,” agreed H erbert; “ indeed you have
paid the full price for freedom from con ven ­
tion al lim itation s; but could all fo llo w your
exam ple? W ould it be w ise? ”
“ C ertainly n o t,” lightninged L olita. “ Such
a freedom from con ven tion alities is suitable
not for th e m a sses w h o, lacking the M ner
gu id an ce, need th e restrain t of conventionV 'but
only for the few , w h o can n ever be m ore than
the few ,— such a s our little group ou t of a
w h o le South A m erican con tin en t;— w h o, h avin g
sucked out from C ivilization all the good it
had to offer, h ave a right, nay a duty, to d e­
v ote th em selves to sou l-grow th u n h am p ered ...”
“ B ut I . . interrupted Herbert.
“ E xactly y o u !” continued L olita. “ A lthough
you you rself did not realize it, you had pro­
fited from civilization , and civilization from
you , a s much a s w a s right, w ise or ad visab le.
T h is you r great m isfortune of b ein g suddenly
picked up ou t of the fore-fron t of b attle, and
rem oved to th ese p eacefu l caves of sou l-grow th ,
you, in your victory of faith , have alread y rec­
ogn ized as b ein g ed u cation al. You a lso had
d one w ith th e w orld ; and th at is w hy th ese
h oly exp erien ces h ave com e to you , though
th ey did not com e to th e Hunnish Fink w ho
b rought you h ere !” and a s her face blazed
w ith anim ation L olita resem bled nothin g so
m uch a s w hat M ichael tread ing L ucifer un­
d erfoot m ight h ave look ed like, gloriou s as
w ell a s holy.
“ I a g r e e ,” assen ted H erbert; “ for I have a l­
w a y s, though I w en t on w orking w ith ou t any
resp ite, said th at th e on ly ob ject of w ork
w a s the con seq u en t leisure of retirem ent; for
its ow n sake w ork is a fetish , a d ead en in g d e­
lu sion , a bru tifyin g snare! But, gran tin g that
it is b etter to look forw ard to leisure and soul-
grow th , it still rem ains th at it m ight be an in­
feriority to b ecom e unfitted, or unable to live
am on g men in th eir d aily d u ties. A nsw er m e
th at, you dear w isea cre !” challen ged th e s o l­
dier to w hom rou tin e w a s still an id ol. *
“ W ell, I think oth erw ise,” quietly asserted
the thoughtful m aid. “ Even in your ou tside
w orld , do not th e b est and h oliest b ecom e so
unfitted to su cceed and survive am on g the
brutal m ajority o f hum anity th at th ey w ith ­
draw w ithin th eir ow n sanctuaries, and the
religiou s try to seclu d e th em selves in con ven ts
and m on asteries? A re th e secular clergy even
by th e^ p restige of th eir office not som ew hat
sheltered from th e barbarities of society? Are
great artists n ot u nsu ccessfu l as m oney-m ak-
WHAT BECAME OF KITCHENER
ers? H ave not the sa v io rs all been persecuted
and crucified, b ecau se m isu nd erstood ? Do not
m any of the finer natures tad e prem aturely,
like forest flow ers, aud perish? Is it not even
a com m on proverb that th ey w hom the G ods
love die you ng?”
“ T o all that I m ust a g r e e ,” unw illin gly fal-
teied the sold ier; “ and for th o se m ore d elicate
flow ers of the hum an race I can see the ad ­
visab ility, as you people h ave d on e, of joining
forces and coop eratin g for su rvival. But w hat
If one of you w anted to g o back hom e to his
country and m ission . . .”
“ T h ey do n o t!” jubilated th e m aiden. “ T hey
h ave paid too high a price in life to get here,
ever to w ant to g o back! Did y ou , by th e bye,
n otice a certain sa m en ess in th e b iographies
of our m em bers? Did you rem ark how many
o f th eir p arents lo st th eir fortu n es, or w ere
sud d en ly bereaved? T h at w a s not ch an ce. Only
th ey w ho are accoun ted w orth y of bathing
th eir rob es in the blood of the lam b ever w ash
them entirely w hite. A ch ievem ent h as a price,
and it is the sam e for all. N o, you could not
p ay our m em bers to return to the d egrad ation s
o f the w o rld .”
“ G ood, 1 a gree. But you are evad in g my
q uestion; w hat if th ey did a s I am exp ectin g
to ? ” in sisted the gen eral, w hile the anim ated
m aiden grew pale and cau gh t h er breath. . .
“ W hat w ould you do? W ould you hold on to
m e by force, or kill m e, to hinder m e from
betraying you r secrets?” thundered the resur­
rected Field-m arshal in w hom th e sleep in g or
scotch ed , but never defin itely killed m em ories
of th e lust for m astery that an im ates a soldier
and an officer u nintentionally reech oed .
Forcing herself to speak, th e now g lazed ­
eyed , pallid m aiden firmly and p recisely said,
“ W e w ould let you go, w ith out harm ing you.
W e w ould trust to God to p rotect u s.”
“ W ould you tru st my h onor?” quizzed the
B ritish gen tlem an.
“ W ell, perhaps; — but w e p lace no reliance
in p rin ces, — only in G od, w ho no doubt m ight
op erate through your h on or,” h issed the sud ­
denly reserved girl, now no lon ger india rub­
ber, but steel.
T h e q uestionin g of h is honor had aroused
the reaction s of a life-tim e, and m ade the
B ritisher bridle. All the form ality that he and
th ey had con sid ered m elted in to th e milk of
hum an k indness had soured and coagu lated ; it
had resum ed its habitual em pery over him,
in spite of h im self. He continued the conver­
sation , biit th e m agic spell o f intim acy, that
had taken so lon g to form , w a s broken; the
m olten lava of friendship had con gealed to
fan cy-sh ap ed rock. W ith gen u in e B ritish d o g ­
g ed n ess he con tin u ed , “ But th is is n ot a ll, —
M iss . . .” he u n in ten tion ally u ttered , h avin g
receded in to th e shell of his h abitual form ality.
“ W'ould such spiritu al in toxication n ot b ecom e
a habit, and lead to resu lts a s fatal a s drug
ad d iction ?”
“ I think n o t,” replied sh e w ith stra n g e but
f»otent reserv e. “ You see, w e do n ot in d u lge
n th ese exp erien ces excep t in com m on , —
w hich of itself su p p lies a sa fe-g u a rd . T hen
w e do so on ly a fter prayer . . .” and for a
m om ent a burning flush testified to her m em ­
ory of her in stan t su p p lication s th at th is now
form al creature m igh t not fail in his p relim inary
so u l-tria l,— “ an d assu ran ce from on h igh th at
it is p leasin g to th e H igher P ow ers, w h o w ould
w ith old th eir con sen t if th ere w ere so u l-d an ger
fo r an y of u s. . .”
“ Y es, th o se are g ood sa fe-g u a rd s, I a g r e e !”
trum peted the com m an d er’s harsh v o ice; “ but
are such exp erien ces ever good ? If it is m an's
m ission to control and be divinrzed by h is ow n
su b con sciou sn ess, then d o es not any even tem ­
porary eclip se o f the ou ter con trol, w hether
artificial or n ot, retard th is building up of
self-co n tro l, and sap th e m orale o f the p er­
son a lity ? ”
“ It all d ep en d s on th e g oal you are w ork in g
fo r ,” p atien tly exp lained the evid en tly tired
voice o f th e girl. Of cou rse, if your go a l Is
to b ecom e a law yer, w ho h as to b u ll-d oze the
in n ocen t; or a salesm an w h o m ust victim ize
th e unw ary; or an officer . . . ” and h ere her
scornful ton e paid him back in his ow n coin,
“ then of cou rse it is all-im p ortan t to bolster
up th e ou ter se lf; . . but if you d esire to follow
th e fo o tstep s of the m eek M aster, th e speaker
of the Serm on on th e M ount; or to em u late
the d iscip les m oved by the Holy Spirit, or r e ­
ceive the v isio n s of a S t. F rancis, — th en , on
the con trary, w h ile still k eep in g in v iew th e
ou ter con trol, w e shall try to lim it its h in ­
d ran ces to th e m otion s and ach ievem en ts of
the inner se lf. — T h en , a s to regu larity of th e
p ractice, w e w ish to turn th ese trad itionally
accid en tal ex p erien ces in to system atic habits
sub ject to volu n tary ex e rcises in tim es o f need;
so you see our carefu lly p rotected p ractices
m ay not be so d an gerou s a s m ight a t first
blush ap pear. — Is that all? ” she asked p er­
fu nctorily. “ B ut I m ust be g o in g , — th ere is
m uch to d o, and few to h elp .”
“ Is there an yth in g I can d o?” inquired th e
British gen tlem an w ith habitual form ality.
“ N o, n othin g, th ank y o u !” responded th e
an tarctic stran ger in eq u ally freezin g to n es.
“ G o o d -b ye!” and she left w ith out turning
around.
XVI. KITCHENER’S CHOICE BETWEEN FATE AND DESTINY
In th e m orning w hen K itchener aw ok e, he
w as som ew hat estran ged from his usual self.
So lon g had he been intim ate w ith his h osts
that w hile h is habitual self still continued
friendly relation s w ith them , h is w aking m em ­
ory of the co o ln e ss that had arisen changed
his attitu d e to his surroundings.
His ow n cave had becom e festoon ed w ith
em otional asso cia tio n s, but now that he ob ­
served it d isp assion ately he becam e con sciou s
o f its m ean ess, darkness and d iscom forts. H ow­
ever, th e re-estab lishm en t of frien dly relations
w a s of prim e im portance, for he did not love
his h o sts an y th e less, m erely b ecau se he had
becom e recalled to his love for his English
hom e, though th ey, no doubt, w ould love him
le ss for h is d esire to lea v e them . A p ersonal
in terview w a s th e on ly p ossib le w ay of bridg­
in g th is sep aration o f h earts; so he p assed
through th e tunnel to th e com m on m eetin g hall
of his frien ds. T o his surprise, he found it
aband on ed .
First he th ou gh t of knockin g at th e entrance
of th e in dividual ca v e s of the different m em ­
b ers; and a fter w a itin g a d iscreet period, he
intruded in to w h at he d iscovered to be the
bare w a lls o f w here th ey had lived .
T h inking th at p erhaps th ey m ight h ave re­
tired to som e further recesses, or to th e fungus
p lan tation s, he m ade a careful exp loration of
all th e p laces w hich he had visited so little
a w'hile a g o under the guid an ce o f O llanta.
KITCHENER S CHOICE BETWEEN FATE AND DESTINY 39
T h is tim e he lacked the la tter’s torch , so that
th e trip w a s m uch m ore lon ely and gru esom e.
F inally, he returned to the com m on m eetin g
h all feelin g very d ep ressed . T hen cam e to
him th e id ea of v isitin g th e on ly p lace he knew
o f w h ere th ey m igh t b e, but w here he w ould
not have o th erw ise dared to intrude, n am ely th e
san ctu ary w h ere th ey had w orshipp ed to g eth er.
E ntering so m ew h a t h esitatin gly b ecau se of the
sa cred n ess o f th e a sso c ia tio n s, he assu red him ­
se lf th at th is a lso w a s vacan t. N o lon ger
gleam ed th e v isa g e of a n g els, nor ro se the
in sp irin g sm oke of d ivin ation . A s he sa t d ow n ,
he realized th at h e w a s a lon e; th at th ey had
preferred to lo se th e fru its o f th e lab ors of
yea rs rath er than con tin u e th eir a sso cia tio n
w ith him , n ow th a t he had d ecided to return
hom e.
W hither had th ey gon e? P robab ly th ey had
retired to y et u nexplored recesse s of th e v o l­
can ic co n g er ies of ca v e s. Even if he could
fo llo w them , if th ey w ished to esca p e him ,
he could n ever surprise them ; w h o b esid es a
k n ow led ge o f th e p lace, p o ssessed not on ly the
ad v a n ta g e of th e in extin gu ish ab le torch es, but
a lso m ystic p ow er of d ivin ation and telep athy
w hich he did not y et clearly u nderstand, and
th erefore, all th e m ore feared .
W hen fin ally h e had con vin ced h im self that
he w a s ab an d on ed to h is ow n d ev ices, he re­
turned to h is ow n cave, and lay dow n to rest
on his cou ch , to recover from th e w earin ess
o f h is h a ra ssin g search .
On a w ak in g, he b egan to realize th at he m ust
depend on h im self a lon e; and a s the friendship
w hich alon e bound him to th is in h ospitable
p lace had d isap p eared , and as he had reco v ­
ered his h ealth , th ere seem ed to be no reason
w hy he shou ld n ot do h is b est to esca p e from
th is islan d b efore th e G erm ans should return,
if Indeed an y of them knew of h is w h ereab ou ts.
So he w rap ped h im self up a s w ell a s p ossib le,
w en t ou t in to th e cold , an d scan ned th e h or­
izon .
T h e C hristm as w hich h e had exp ected to
spend w ith L olita and her friends had becom e
an ad ven tu re of p lan n in g to esca p e. F ortun ate­
ly he k new th at the P olar night m ust soon
en d , and he w ou ld then h ave a chance to scan
the h orizon m ore carefu lly. A s he w en t ou t,
he sa w a m ost gloriou s d isp lay of Southern
L ights, large b ars of purple, y ello w , green ,
ch an gin g sh a p es and m eltin g into the ocean s
o f v io let and b lu e, then assu m in g fan tastic
ou tlin es. T h ey arou sed in him lon g-ign ored
m em ories o f his earlier life.
He m u st esta b lish som e sort of a sign al of
d istress; and a s n ear the top of the volcan o
as he cou ld , he m an aged to h oist a p ole b ear­
in g at h alf m ast a dark brow n, reddish p iece
of b lan k et w hich he could ill afford to lo se,
but w hich b y attra ctin g th e atten tion o f an y
p a ssin g ship, m igh t sa v e him .
Soon th e d isp lay of A urora B orealis faded
aw ay in to the A ntarctic d aw n . He recalled
a ch ildh ood read in g o f R obinson C rusoe, and
im agined h ow th is hero m ust have felt, w a tch ­
ing th e h orizon for relief w hich he h ow ever
ack n ow led ged m u st be im p ossib le. He sat
on th e rocks a s lo n g a s the cold perm itted
him to , and review ed h is h istoric ex p lo its,
the frien ds and th e nam es of m any m en, his
plans fo r E n glan d ’s relief in her hour of d is­
tress, and th e variou s secret p rep aration s he
had m ade a g a in st a p o ssib le in vasion of Eng­
land; but ev er and anon w ould rise up in him
the fleetin g im age of L olita, no lon ger sm iling
as he had w atch ed her so lo n g from h is sick
bed, but a s he had seen her th e last tim e, w ith
a p itifu l look of reproach on her fa ce, and
diam ond tears sparkling on her quivering
la sh es.
Yet he did not feel sorry, n ow that he had
d ecided to return hom e If he cou ld , because
w ith h is bulld og E nglish nature, h» looked upon
it a s th e m ost rational end of h is adventure.
H ow ever much vagu e sub con sciou s feelin gs
p lan gen tly thrilled him , h is mind approved as
ration al the d ecision to refu se to becom e a
life-lo n g addict to m ystic exp erien ces. Yet by
ta stin g the cup of m ysteries— h is inner con ­
scio u sn e ss had b ecom e a traitor to his com ­
m on place external m ind. N ow th ere w ere great
q u estion m arks all ov er th e u niverse. He tried
to th row off the uncom fortab le feelin g that
th ere w ere m ore th in gs in h eaven and earth
than had been dream t of in h is philosophy
w h ile an em inently san e and successfu l g en ­
eral.
K now ing it w a s C hristm as, he san g over to
h im self the C hristm as hym ns he rem em bered,
and review ed the church services he had a t­
tended on such occa sio n s. H ow ever, the cold
did not allow him m uch soulful d evotion . He
w a s com pelled to m ake frequent trips to his
cave, to warm him self a little; but tne indom ­
ita b le hope of the rescu e, drove him to con ­
tinue his d istressful excu rsion s to the peak of
the v o lcan o. From tim e to tim e he visited the
fu n gu s p lan tation s, so that for th e present food
w a s plen tifu l; and he did not doubt that his
p lan ts w ould continue to gro w ;— but he w anted
to return to his ow n E ngland, to w h ose m ental
v iew d istan ce lent en chantm ent.
A s in his mind he review ed th e halls of
W estm in ster and the a isle s of St. P au l’s, m ore
and m ore did he b ecom e d isgu sted w ith the
m ean n ess of his surrou nd ings, and m ore and
m ere determ ined to esca p e at all hazards, as
soon a s the m ean s w ould presen t th em selves.
Finally, he decided to send ou t a b ottle, in the
h ope that it m ight be picked up by som e p a ss­
in g b oat. He w rote th e n o tes th at becam e the
b asis of this story, usin g a s ink a dilution of
th e so o t from the v olcan ic fu m es’ d ep osits,
and a s paper som e su itab le scrap s of linen
w hich rem ained from his kerchiefs and under­
garm en ts. T hen a fter he had recorded the
m ore vital in cidents w hich here appear, he put
them in one of th e p reciou s few b ottles re­
m ain in g from the G erm an’s b o a t,— and com ­
m itted it to th e w a v es a s h is C hristm as sacra­
m ent.
G radually the A ntarctic daw n w a s breaking.
He b egan to see clearly streak s of light rising
from the p lace w here the sun should soon
rise — cold a s w a s the air, he im agined he
felt the ozon ic excitem en t w ith which he had
been accustom ed to a sso c ia te the daw n, and
he w en t up to stand again b esid e his sign al
of d istress.
T h is tim e he im agined that he saw a sail.
T hen follow ed a period of a n x iety , greater
than he had y et exp erien ced , b ecau se hope d is­
turbed the b eatin gs of his h eart. W ould they
see it,— could th ey see it? A fter a day of
m ortal agon y, he im agined that the sail w as
com in g nearer, and he retired after a w eari­
som e series of excu rsion s up to the sign al,
and dow n to his cave, w ith a stran ge w ild
an ticipation that he should finally leave. Then
he realized it w ould be ad visab le for him to
stand on the shore, to guide th e b oat a s it w as
com in g to the sa fest p a ssa g es of the irregular
b each ; and he built up a cairn w hich he hoped
th ey w ould take as an invitation to land.
T hen cam e an other d ay of w ild excitem en t,
renew ed w ith in creasin g h ope, a s the sail
WHAT BECAME
grew larger and larger, b obb ing up and dow n,
grad u ally approach in g from the horizon, and
d etach in g itself at tim es from th e w a v es that
raised it and low ered it like som e theatrical
bit of scen ery. T hen it w a s th at he m ost felt
his sup inehess, his in ab ility to cop e w ith fate,
— to dispatch a sig n a l, and to reach th e p eop le
on board.
From w hat L olita had told him of th e pow er
of mind reach in g m ind, and from the dem on­
stration s of it th at he had seen , he even tried
to send telep athic m essa g es to th o se w ho w ere
on board, im agin in g th e happy m om ent of
of liberation.
D uring the lon g p ro cess he had forgotten
h is h osts, but a s th in gs go by con traries, and
a s ab sen ce m akes the h eart grow fon der now
that departure seem ed prob able, he w a s a s ­
sailed by the th ough t of L olita, her im age
gleam in g w ith sup ernatu ral light, and he felt
him self lon gin g for th e com panion of his
w eary hours of sick n ess.
A s th e ship grew nearer, and close enough
to discern on board p eop le and ob jects, he
suddenly becam e con sciou s th at he w a s unfitted
to' return am ong m en. T h e low erin g of the
d efen ces of his ou tsid e self con seq uent upon
the in toxication s of the volcan ic fum es m ade
him realize that tie cou.10 n ever go back to
his ow n hom e w ith ou t sufferin g tortu res, and
d egrad ation s -of w h at tie had com e to realize
w d s h is 'best self.
T o . return to th e b attlefield w ou ld b e utterly
im p ossib le, for he w ould actu ally see the re­
p u lsive p assion s of h is en em ies, and the gh osts
o f. the dep arted . He w ould be overcom e by
thq horrors of w h at w a s behind th e veil which
for rpost p eop le m ercifully shroud s th ose hor­
rors of hell.
Y et, m ight he n ot return m erely to th e civil­
ization of his old hom e? R em aining apart
from th ese purgatorial crises in som e m on as­
tery, in som e herm itage, m ight he n ot, as did
holy m onks and an ch orites, p a ss h is life un­
troubled? A lthough he had so far survived,
there w a s no tellin g h ow lo n g he m ight su c­
ceed in con servin g his food sup p lies, and a v ­
oid in g sick n ess or accid en ts in the cold.
So ab sorbed w a s he in th e ed d ies of his feel­
in gs, uncertain w h at to do th at tears cam e into
h is ey e s; he sob b ed a s a child unable to m ake
the great d ecision , w hether to go or to stay.
Yet th e K itchener of Khartoum and of the
W orld-W ar retrieved h im self. He decided that
if heroism w a s w orth an ythin g it m ust be ef­
fectiv e also in conquering th is stran ge new
aversion to con tact w ith th e low er cla ss of
average m en that he m ust m eet in the com m on
w ays of th e w orld.
So he w en t back to h is sign al, and w aved,
hopin g th at the ship w a s clo se enough to see
h is m otion s. T hen he d ecided to guide the
ship into the only sa fe p a ssa g e by taking
dow n th e sign al at th e top of the hill, by lab ­
oriously carryin g it d ow n to w here the only
safe b ay m ight yield a lan d in g place frorii
w hich he m igh t be tak en . T h is tran sferring of
th e pole and cloth over m iles of hard rocks,
stum bling in the cold, w a s a n otable p iece of
h eroism ; but he w a s nerved in his efforts by
determ in ation to end th is im p ossib le situation
abruptly.
He su cceed ed in this effort, and w a s b egin ­
ning to m ake m otion s w ith a colored piece of
cloth to attract th e sa ilo r s’ atten tion , w hen he
heard rum blings from the heart of the volcano.
Sm oke w hich rarely found its w ay ou tside ex ­
cept in w isp s so thin and scan ty a s hardly to
OF KITCHENER
be seen n ow grew visib le, and so o n form ed a
nim bus around th e sum m it of th e m ou ntain.
T h ou gh h is atten tion w a s n ever lo n g d istracted
from th e b oat, yet in th e in ten se cold , he felt
th e n eed of refreshm ent. He clam bered back
to h is ow n cave, w here he hoped to snatch
en ou gh rest b efore th e ex p lo sio n s m igh t m ak e
a return im p ossib le.
A fter w arm in g him self a little at th e sid e of
th e cave, he returned to h is sign al on th e rock
righ t a b o v e th e b ay from w hich he hoped to
b e sa v ed . B u t no soon er had he reach ed it
than he heard d eto n a tio n s a s if o f artillery.
L ooking back to th e m ountain south w ard
w here the sh a d es o f th e A ntarctic n igh t w ere
still lin gerin g, h e sa w flas'hes of sm ok e, and
thin to n g u e s of flam e em ergin g from various
o rifices. His attem p t to sa v e h im self had
claim ed h is undivided a tten tio n , but th e p o s­
sib le d estru ction o f h is refu ge on ly stren gth ­
en ed his d esire to g e t a w a y to sa fe ty .
L ess tim e than ever did he h ave to thin k of
h is form er com p an ion s and L olita; — but as
he look ed back to w here he had origin ally
p lan ted h is sig n a l, he w a s d azed a t ob servin g
a w h ite robed fem ale figure exten d in g h er arm s.
A t the d istan ce, of cou rse, he could n ot hear
a n yth in g; but h is heart w a s su d d en ly flooded
w ith a p aroxysm of love for this girl w ho
had s o u n selfish ly tended him during his sick ­
n ess, and w ho n ow m ight be in d an ger. N o,
he w ould not ab and on her; he w a s not the
kind w ho cou ld . Even if no oth er sail should
a g a in com e th at w ay, he could not ab andon
her in the hour of n eed ;— he w ould h ave to
d esp ise h im self for the rest o f h is life a s a
vagab on d pariah. If he did, n ever a gain could
lie find p eace o f m ind and d ecen t rep ose even
in th e h alls o f th e royal p alaces of London,
w h ere no d oub t he w ould be w elcom ed w ith
open arm s. He knew th at h is low er self on ly
cou ld ev er again find sa tisfa ctio n in th e old
cou n try an yw h ere.
Spiritual ach ievem en t w hich is th e b lessin g
for th e sak e of w hich m en toil and stin t and
sta rv e for life-tim es, here w a s in his grasp .
He knew th e m ountain hid y et m any m ore step s
on th e path of m ysteries w hich he had not yet
exp lored , and th at each w ou ld be a n ew stage
in sou l d evelop m en t, and in revealm en t of the
tru th , for th e sak e of w hich th e n ob lest men
had cou n ted th eir liv es a s d ro ss. He knew
th at th is w a s on e of the h erm itages in which
th e m ost ad van ced sou ls o f the w orld had
gath ered so a s to be ab le to m ake th e high est
a ch ievem en ts, p ossib le on ly w here p rotected
from th e d isturban ces of th e d ead en in g
drudgery o f th e ou tsid e w orld .
N ow th at he had love to gu id e him on his
w a y ,— a love th at should be crea tiv e, w a s he
to b ereave h im self for the rest of h is life,
m erely to revisit a country w hich h e knew
m ust henceforth to him be a livin g prison
am on g p eop le w ho neither dream ed of higher
p erson al vision of God, nor w h o w ould perm it
it in him , u n less indeed th ey shu t him up in
an in san e asylum ?
T hen he w a s sud d en ly struck b y th e thought
he shou ld have con sid ered lon g a g o : w h at d ocs
God w ant m e to do? It did not tak e him long
to d ecid e th at G od, w ho had b rought him here
to teach him the u n escap ab ility of p ersonal
faith in Him, w ould w ant him to con tin u e this
path of in itiation . Nor could he live w ithout
ab an d on in g h is kindly h elper in her hour of
need , w hen a part of th e upper century-old
earthen seal to th e crater w a s blow n off, and
th ere form ed ab ove the m ountain top an urn-
KITCHENER S CHOICE BETWEEN FATE AND DESTINY 41
b rclla of a sh e s sh o t th rou gh an d th rou gh w ith
sc in tilla tin g sta rs a g a in st th e rem ain in g dark
sh ield o f the retreatin g A ntarctic n igh t.
T h a t settled it. If he m ust d ie fo r it, he
m u st a t lea st do an E n glish m an 's d u ty, w hich
w a s to do his b est to sa v e h is form er h o sts
w h om he im agin ed crow d in g around L olita. So
h e p ulled d ow n h is sig n a l, d istrib u ted the
sto n e s on th e grou n d. W early b ut h opefully, he
sp ran g up th e rocky d ecliv ities, d eterm in ed to
reach L olita, an d m ake her his w ith a k iss, b e­
fo r e p erh ap s she should be called in to an other
w o rld , if the erup tion s sh ou ld fin ally claim her
life, le st he shou ld h ave to w a it lo n g to m eet
her a gain in som e perh ap s later in carnation.
A s he clim b ed , it in tu itiv ely flashed a cro ss
h is m ind th at he shou ld su cceed ; th at she
w o u ld lead him to th e d isco v ery o f th e rest
o f th o se m ystic ca v e s, w h o se exp loration w a s
an in itiation to spiritu al p ow er; th at he w ould
la ter be ad m itted to com p an ion sh ip w ith other
and h igh er m em bers o f th is m ost p rom isin g ot
w o rld -cen ters sin ce T ib et, M on golia, T im b u c-
to o , and th e D olom itic A lps have been in­
truded upon by th e d egrad ation s o f so-called
civilization .
Y es, he should s e e face to face som etim e the
n a m eless C hief o f th is herm itage, and receive
h is b lessin g to h is ev erlastin g union w ith Lolita,
w ith ou t w hom he w ould n ever be m ore than
an uncom pleted sketch , a w h eel torn from the
carriage, w hen he desired h is d estin y of be­
com in g a crea tiv e center of ach ievem en t form ­
ed b y the union of com plem entary hum an parts.
T h e great in d ivid u alistic K itchener now d e­
sired nothing so much a s to find h is place in
th e great spiritu al structure of the T em ple,
and he w aved back to the w hite clad figure on
the crater ed g e, th e sign al of faith , hope and
lo v e . T he ship picked up the b ottle w hich
con tain ed th e presen t n otes; but th ey w ere
scribb led so th at no one ab oard could decipher
th em ; and a s the captain could see no human
b ein g or h ab itation , he sailed aw a y into the
unknow n. K itchener h ow ever turned back to
clim b tow ard s h is d estin y of b lessed n ess.
END
BROTHERHOOD OF MUTUAL PRAYER
Intercessory Membership
INVITATION
The object of this organization is to secure the benefits of organized system,
efficiency and encouragement to persons who are desirous of serving humanity as
interceders for those who are in trouble, need, sickness or any other adversity.
The Bible and the Church teach that the Lord Himself, on his throne, is acting
as our High Priest, as advocate with the Father, at the Mercy-seat, From this
ministry of service as Comforter or Advocate, which makes of those who exercise
it kings and priests unto God, no one is excluded, not even children, the poor, the
shut in, the blind or the outcast.
But to accomplish this easily, fruitfully and without wasted time or effort, it is
advisable to join in an organization that will transform these vague aspirations into
a definite habit, supply names to be prayed for, and pray for persons that we know
to be in need greater than we can relieve.
To this end you are invited to become an Intercessor of the world-wide Brother­
hood of Mutual Prayer, thus acting as Joshua and Nun, who steadied Moses’ hands
raised in prayer until the setting of the sun, when the hosts of the Amalekites were
driven away for ever, and the Lord’s people delivered.
The only expenses you are expected to pay is the postage to and from you. The
work will be continued so long as the Lord supports it by voluntary contributions.
This work is democratic and mutual. If you desire to join in it, fill out the blank
on the next page. Welcome!
Brotherhood of Mutual Prayer
Secretary, T eocally, 1177 W arburton Avenue, N orth Y onkers, N . Y.
APPLICATION BLANK: Believing that Prayer should be:
1. U N SE L F ISH , gratu itou s, intercession ary am i consecrated; 2. SELF-R ESPEC TIN G ,
th erefore earned and m u tual; 3. R EASO N A BLE, therefore sane social and system atic; 4. P R E ­
V A IL IN G , therefore organized and supervised; 5. SE R E N E , therefore regular and private;
(>. IN S P IR E D , therefore recep tive and ed u cative; 7. SAC R EI), therefore invoking th e Presence;
8. N O N -PR IV ILEG E D , th erefore open to a ll; and being w illin g ito join th e w eekly united
Prayer-com m union at 7 p .m .; Saturdays, E . T . I a sk for adm ission to th e BROTHERHOOD
OF M UTUAL PR A Y E R , a s an Intercessor, and being w illing to abide by a ll its rules, regula­
tion s, and decisions, I sign m y n am e in fu ll.
N A M E IN F U L L ......................................................................................................................................................................
F U L L A D D R E SS ....................................................................................................................................................................
Tim e, D ate and P lace o f B IR T H ................................................................................................................................
The above is recognized a s an Intercessor o f the 15. of M. I*., as Intercessor N o...........................
SE C R E T A R Y :
INSTRUCTIONS FOR INTERCESSORS
1. F ray for people not m erely by nam e, but for 10 m inutes a t a tim e; or till an answ er is
received; th e standard being to pray until an an sw er is received. Prayer m ust be prevailing.
BROTHERHOOD OE MUTUAL PRAYER—INTERCESSIVE—2
2. U su ally th e m ost undisturbed p rayer-tim es are m idnight, five a.m ., or noon. Choose your
own. 3. R equests for prayer for som e person m u st he renew ed w eek ly; oth erw ise it w ill he
assum ed the prayer w a s answ ered. F u ll nam e and address is required. 4. You w ill he recog­
nized a s an Intercessor only so long a s you attend th e w eek ly prayer-com m union by m ailin g th e
Saturday evening report to th e S ecretary. M embership is never m ore th an tem porary, and lap ses
autom atically w hen th e Secretary h as not heard from you fo r one m onth. A fter th a t a request
fo r readm ittance is in order. So long a s you rem ain an active m em ber, you w ill receive a w eekly
p ostal request for prayer. P lease (ill ou t th e card com pletely, om itting no inform ation asked for.
Lapsed m em bers are on th e retired list, and w ill never be en tirely forsak en in prayer by th e
Central Group; but reciprocity counsels th at Intercessors live up to th eir w eek ly report. 5. The
fu ller your letters to th e Secretary are, th e better you can be helped. A ll is confidential. 6.
Your first application w ill not be accepted unless accom panied by one d ollar fo r p ostage, w rap­
ping, etc., on the Brotherhood L iterature and th e “ Com m union w ith God,” books th a t w ill help
you, and direct you, and keep you sa fe . 7. A ll m em bers are invited to join in th e C hristm as,
F a ster and All S ain ts' D ay m idnight w orship, w herever th ey happen to be. 8. To q u alify for
th e P rogressive M embership you m u st present th e follow ing evidence (p lease u se paper conven­
ient for filing, say 5% by 8). a. S tatem en t you keep a R ecord o f E xperience Book, or D ia ry ;
(see M alachi iii. 16). b. H aving estab lish ed a sanctuary, and keeping a regular prayer-hour in
It. c. H aving read through som e Scripture, com pletely. (F ind su ggestion s on another page.)
d. A ttendance a t 12 w eek ly m eetin gs, in your ow n room . e. Copy of w h at m essages you have
received, f . G aining a t le a st one new m em ber for th e 15. M . P . g . A ccount of six diviue ex­
periences.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR A N E X P E R IE N C E RECO RD OR R EM EM BR A N C E BOOK
The object of th e book, recom m ended in M alachi iii. 16, is to ob jectify, or render definite
your own divine experiences, w hether they be an sw ers to prayer, hearing of th e divine voice of
conscience, in stances of guidance, w arn in gs, experiences of th e divine P resence, som e m essage,
som e blessing, som e consolation, som e dream of in struction, w arning, revelation , or in itiation .
So long a s they are le ft unrecorded, th ey are not objective fa c ts; and th u s u seless to others.
N ot a sin gle life lack s them , but b ecau se th ey rem ain unrecorded, th e receiver m ay not even
realize their tru e nature. This is th e object of th e experience book, or rem em brance record.
1, G et a special blank book th at is durable. 2. W hen alone, p referably w ith locked door, hold
it in your hand, and w ith all your availab le fervor, dedicate it, speaking aloud, to your H eavenly
F ath er, askin g H is inspiration on all you m ay w rite in it. C ontinue until from w ith in you re­
ceive interior assu ran ce of acceptation. 3. On th e first page, w rite ou t a self-con secration to
your ow n God, and p aste in it w hatever sec red m em entoes you m ay p o ssess, am on gst w hich
m ight be th is booklet. 4. V ery m inutely review your p a st life, and record jo u r h oliest exper­
iences since childhood, in which you clearly distinguish th e D ivin e. 5. K eep it private and holy,
by never presum ing to w rite in it w ith ou t a prayer for special inspiration. Should you d esecrate
It by any trivial or foreign w riting, th e divine influence m ay ce a se tak in g ch arge over th e book,
and it m ay only be after som e tim e, and prevailing prayer th a t you w ill be m ade conscious th at
th e D ivine h as reassum ed charge over it. 6. T h is book should be re-read a t stead y in tervals,
*ay once a m onth, adding to it w hatever new evidences o f d ivinity your life m ay b oast o f. T his
is not so much a duty, a s a privilege.
SU N D A Y INTERCESSIO N TIM E, 3 p.m ., w herever you are.
Sim ultaneously, Saturday E venings, 7 p.m .. N ew York Tim e. 6:30 p.m ., PR EPA R A TIO N
6:30 Prepare and reconsecrate your Sanctuary. 6:35 F ill in your E xperience R ecord to date,
and review the la st w eek, (M alachi 3:16). 6:40 R epent, con fess to God, receive h is absolution.
6:45 Read th e Brotherhood P rayer Book. 6:50 Sing favorite hym ns, or B rotherhood H ym ns.
6:55 O bserve a receptive silence.
7 p.m., DEVOTIONS
D ivide each five-m inute period in tw o p arts: prayer, w h ile sittin g ; stand in g for R eception
of inner answ er. This is a victory for th e w ill.
7:00 R econsecration to God, heaven, hum anity
and Brotherhood.
7:05 Seek and receive w arning of the U nex­
pected.
7:10 Seek and receive recognition of Oppor­
tu nities.
7:15 Seek and feel th e D ivin e Presence.
7:20 Seek som e m essage in B ible reading.
7 :25 Seek and receive guid an ce on som e prac­
tica l topic.
7:30 p.m., INTERCESSION
7:30 S elf-consecration to savin g service. 7:50 Seek and receive m essage fo r th a t person
7:35 Seek and receive m essage for Brotherhood 7:55 Seek benediction, and receive a new
7:40 Intercession for a special person. nam e, or blessing.
8:00 W rite a report of your attendance to th e Secretary o f th e M U TU AL PR A Y ER BR O TH ER ­
HOOD, on the regular postal, returning th is, w ith your ow n p ostal reporting th e m eeting
and its results.
If you do not have tim e for th e w hole m eeting, do a s much a s you can, esp ecially 7.00-7.05 p.m .
APPLICATION FOR PROGRESSIVE MEMBERSHIP
Secretary, M utual Prayer Brotherhood, T eocalli, 1177 W arburton A ve., N orth Y onkers, N . Y.
A s I have qualified by th ree m onths' successful and faith fu l intercession for others (by 12
successive w eekly reports), and a fter prayer on th e subject, I desire, if perm itted, to hear about
the Brotherhood of M utual P rayer’s Progressive M em bership.
If you do not h ave tim e for th e w hole m eeting, do a s much as you can, esp ecially 7.00-7.05 p.m .
NAM E
A D D R ESS ............................................
T im e, D ate and P lace of BIRTH
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
I. FRIENDSHIP’S SALVATION
A PLAYLET ILLUSTRATING FRIENDSHIP
An ancient Legend completed by its historical results.
SCENE: D ion ysu s's T h ron e-R oom , in S icilian S yracu se.
CHARACTERS: D ion ysu s, h is G eneral C lin tias, D am on an d P yth ias, an A n gel.
DIO NYSUS: I am D ion ysu s, th e tyran t or
k in g of S y ra cu se. I h ave m ad e m yself m aster
o f th is city b y d ivid in g m y en em ies. B ut h o w ­
ev er m uch I h a v e ach ieved , I am still hindered
by th e e x iste n c e of a m isch ievou s sect called
th e P y th a g o re a n s, w ho tea ch an d p ractise a m u­
tu al frien d sh ip th at offers im p alp ab le op p osition
to m y im p o sin g m y au th ority on th e h earts
an d m in d s of m y su b jects. W h at d o y o u think
o f it, m y gen era l C lintias?
CLINTIAS: 1 agree w ith y ou , n ob le King!
T h ey are v e r y arrogan t in h old in g to id ea s
th a t d isturb th e w ork in gs of th e b od y p o litic.
B ut I su sp ect th a t th eir gra v ity , th eir p reten d ­
ed fid elity an d sto icism are on ly a th eo ry , a
se lf d elu sio n . I think th at if th ey fell into
so m e so rt o f calam ity, th ey w ou ld react ju st
lik e com m on p eo p le w h o are con trolled b y the
terror o f m y sw ord . I w ou ld lik e to d isp el
th is b o g ey ! I think it is on ly a scare-crow !
H ow I w ish yo u w ou ld let m e m ake an exp eri­
m en t, an d p u b licly d em on strate th a t all th is
ta lk o f frien d sh ip is no m ore th an h yp ocrisy!
It d isg u sts m e! Faugh! Faugh!
DIONYSUS: V ery w ell, gen eral! 1 g iv e you
p erm ission ; n ay, I g iv e you a com m ission to
se ttle th e m atter by an exp erim en t.
CLINTIAS: T h an k you , you r m ajesty! I w ill
u n d ertak e it, fo r a fter th is elem en t of o p p o si­
tio n is d estro y ed , your ru le in S yracu se w ill be
u n op p osed , an d b ecom e h a llow ed by m ilitary
g lo ry !
DIO NYSUS: G ood! H ave you an yth in g to
su g g e st?
CLINTIAS: Y es! T h ere is a certain P yth ias,
w h o h as g iv en m e m uch trou b le, both in th e
p ub lic a sse m b ly and in th e tem p le. 1 should
n ot be su rp rised if, w ith oth ers of h is P yth a­
g orean co m rad es, he had con sp ired a g a in st
you r life.
D IO NYSUS: T h en w e m u st g e t rid o f him ,
In an y c a se ! Ye m ust cut d ow n ev ery head
w h o se lip s d are to proclaim public op p osition !
Go an d fetch him , C lintias!
CLINTIAS: A t you r ord ers, you r w orsh ip !
H ere h e Is! (B rin gs him in ). H ere, P yth ias,
y ou a rrogan t rebel, kneel d ow n b efore his
m a jesty , o r w ith m y sw ord I shall dism em ber
yo u ! G rovel b efore your m aster, sla v e!
(P y th ia s d o e s so relu cta n tly ).
CLINTIAS: W ell, you seem to d o so relu ct­
a n tly ! T h a t confirm s m e in th e rep orts 1 have
heard th at yo u are a rebel, and h ave secretly
con sp ired w ith you r preten d ed frien d s again st
th e sacred life o f h is au gu st m a jesty , D ion ysu s,
K ing of S yracu se!
PY TH IA S: W h at, am I accu sed o f an ythin g?
Is th at w h a t I am called for?
DIO NYSUS: Y es, you w retch ed P yth agorean !
T ru stin g in th e pretended frien dsh ip of you r
P y th agorean com rad es, you h ave arrogan tly
con sp ired a g a in st m y life! Y our proud d e­
m ean or corrob orates th e charge! W hat have
yo u to sa y fo r you rself?
PYTHIAS: W hy, I am surprised! M y chief
in terest Is to m an age m y househ old! W hat
tim e I can spare from it, I d evote to th e study
o f th e th eo lo g y o f num bers, m usic, astron om y,
an d en joyin g re p asts in com m on w ith my
friends!
DIONYSUS: T h ere! Y ou h ave con victed
y ou rself! You are con sp irin g w ith your low
fello w s! T h is m u st b e stopp ed ! G eneral
C lintias, h ave y ou an y evid en ce to present?
CLINTIAS: T h is b ase rebel a g ain st your
sacred au thority tru sted in h is d eceitfu l fello w s.
B ut I had on e of m y tru sted em issaries presen t,
and several h ave con fessed to th e traitorous
p rop osals you , P yth ias, m ade w hen you thought
you rself sa fe am on g frien ds! You said that
th ere w a s a h igh er g od , w hen h e, you r king,
w a s th e god you ou gh t to w orship, con secrated
b y th e au thority o f su ccess and m ight! Kneel
d ow n and w orship him !
PYTHIAS: T h at I can n ot d o, b ecau se I w or­
ship) only th e Suprem e G od of th e U niverse,
and Him on ly! B ut King D ionysus, as O od’s
V ice-R egent, I w ill ob ey m ost loyally.
DIONYSUS: L oyally? T h at is th e very a c ­
cu sation a g a in st y ou , th a t ab ove m e you re­
co g n ize not on ly th e G od of th e U niverse, but
a certain oath o f friendship, in stituted by a
m isch ief m aking sa g e p h ilosop her called P yth a­
g o ra s. Com e, I w ill put you to th e test! R e­
nounce this oath of friendship, and sw ear un­
a lloyed a lleg ia n ce to m e! Sw ear!
PYTHIAS: H aving alread y, after one pre­
paration of seven years silen ce, taken th is oath
o f friendship, I can n ot renounce it. But it
d o es not hinder m y d ue p olitical allegian ce to
you r estab lish ed au th ority. Of m e ask an y ­
th in g else, an d se e if I w ill not ob ey!
DIONYSUS: Y ou h ave con victed you rself of
d ivid ed a lleg ia n ce! So I have verified th e
the ch arges o f con sp iracy m ade by m y noble
gen eral C lintias! T h erefore, I d ecree th at you
m u st die! G eneral, put on him the m an acles,
tak e him ou tsid e, and ex ecu te him . In S yra­
cu se there shall be n one but loyal citizen s!
CLINTIAS: G od sa v e th e King! H ere, you
rebel and con spirator, I chain your treacher­
ou s hands th at h ave conspired a g ain st our
graciou s king! A round your neck 1 fasten this
collar, and by th is chain I w ill lead y ou , like
a d og, to execu tion ! S ee h ow much your band
of p rofessed frien ds can help you now in your
d istress! But I am n ot satisfied w ith d estroy­
in g your v ile carcass! I shall h um iliate your
firoud spirit! Kneel d ow n , and co n fess th at he
s your lord and m aster, brute! (P u sh es him
d ow n , and kicks h im ).
PYTHIAS: I a ck n ow led ge D ionysus as King
o f Syracu se, but the S age P yth agoras rem ains
m y philosopher. But, a s it appears th at my
d eath is n ecessary, d ecreed by P rovid en ce, I
request of the King the d elay of the rem ainder
of the day, to settle th e b u sin ess affairs of my
ow n fam ily and of D am on, w h o lived w ith me,
and w ith w hom w e had all th in gs in com m on.
DIONYSUS: Let Dam on atten d to th in gs that
need settlin g up I W hy shou ld you be needed
therefor?
PYTHIAS: B ecau se I w a s th e eld er, an d th ere­
fore m anaged th e com m on b u sin ess affairs.
S o, King, a llo w m e to d ep art th is afternoon
for th at purpose, and I w ill return to-n igh t,
so you can d estroy th is b od y, if it so p leases
you l
DIONYSUS, (la u g h in g ): W h y, th at is a joke!
T h at is th e very reason , P y th ia s, th at I have
had you chained up, b ecau se w hen a man
k now s th at his life is a t sta k e, he b ecom es
desperate, w ill u tter an y lie s w h atever, and
m ust be restrained p h ysically! T h e law takes
no ch ances!
PYTHIAS: K ing, you n eed n ot tak e any
ch an ces, and yet your d ecree m ay be m ade
secu re. I w ill leave a su rety in m y p lace!
DIONYSUS, (su rp rised ): W hy, alth ou gh I am
a man o f w id e exp erien ce, I w ill ack n ow led ge
that I am surprised! D o you really think that
th ere e x ists a m an w ho w ould stan d surety for
the d eath of another?
PYTHIAS: Y es, King, th ere is. My friend
Dam on w ould n ot h esitate to risk h is life for
m ine, ju st a s I w ould not fail to offer mine
for his!
DIONYSUS: I do n ot b elieve it! N o one
lo v es another m ore than h is ow n skin!
PYTHIAS: I can prove it. Send for Dam on!
DIONYSUS: D o so!
PYTHIAS: D am on, D am on, com e, I need you!
DAMON: H ere I am , Friend P yth ias, w hat
can I do for you?
PYTHIAS: L isten, m y friend! King D ionysus
— has decreed that, as a con spirator a g ain st his
life 1 m ust die. I have accep ted th e situ ation as
th e inscrutable w ork in gs of P rovid en ce. But,
m indful o f m y fam ily, and of th e involved
sta te of our m utual b u sin ess affairs, I have re­
q uested a d elay until su n set, th at I m ight go
and ad just everythin g d ecen tly. B ut th e King
dem ands a surety, and d isb eliev es in th e ex ist­
ence of any m an w ho w ould stand surety for
the death of an other. So I offered to prove
th is by callin g for you , for w hom m y friend­
ship is greater than m y d esire for self-p reserv­
ation .
DAMON: R ightly you ju dged! Go and do your
d u ties, friend! Come back at su n set, if you
can ; if not, and if th e k in g’s law still dem ands
a hum an life, let him tak e m ine; and you
shall think of m e a s one w ho glad ly laid down
h is life for h is frien ds. H ere, G eneral C lintias,
put your ch ain s on me!
CLINTIAS: R eally? ! b etter w atch ou t th ere be
no trick in th is! T h ese can tin g h ypocrites are
not to be trusted! If you , P yth ias, do not
return, th e law w ill tak e toll of tw o : for not
on ly shall Dam on die, but you I shall hunt up,
an a exterm in ate th e rest of th is verm in-crow d!
(C hanging th e ch a in s). So n ow I hold you
sa fely , D am on; and you shall die, u nless at
settin g sun returns your pretended friend! But
yo u are foolish ; for he w ill never com e back!
He h as used you a s a to o l! You w ill be left
to perish as a sca p e-g o a t, a fter h avin g pulled
h is ch estn u ts out of the fire!
DAMON: F oolish, you sa y ; but I think
w ise! 1 w ill take th e ch an ces! G oodbye,
. Pyth ias! H asten, that all m ay be put in order;
•farew ell! Give me a last k iss!
PYTHIAS: (K isses him ) Farew ell, D am on;
you have n othing to fear! G ood b ye, G eneral!
G ood b ye, King! T im e p resses! I sh all soon
return! (E x it).
DIO NYSUS: You w ill n ever see him a g a in ,
you p oor delu d ed fool! (la u g h s).
CLINTIAS: (la u g h in g ). F ortun ately, I h ave
a g o o d grip on you ! (ra ttlin g the ch a in ).
DIONYSUS: B ut if 1 h ave to w a it till su n ­
set, I w an t to be am u sed . H ere, p rison er,
am u se m e, or I w ill h ave you k illed at on ce,
and you r friend a lso , w hen h e retu rn s. S o,
to sa v e y o u rself, am u se m e!
DAM ON: V ery w ell, K ing. T o p rove to you
h ow far w ron g you are in your op in ion o f m y
frien d, P yth ias, I sh all recite to you a p oem
he w ro te to h is w ife on the gold en an n iversary
of th eir m arriage. So m uch of a friend is he,
th at he m ade a friend o f h is w ife, and here
are th e lin es th at he w rote, (rea d s)
MARRIAGE IN RETRO SPECT
D ear p artn er of m y earth ly p ilgrim age,
W h at w ealth of reco llectio n s n ow is ours!
W ell m ay w e sip th at p riceless b everage,
T h e full fruition of our you thfu l p ow ers.
T h ese m em ories are a com m on d estin y,
Our so u ls shall w in tw in crow n s in com m on
earned;
A nd on e id eal o f d ivin ity
Is th e resu lt o f com m on le sso n s learn ed .
I th o u g h t I w a s the stron ger o f the tw o,
But thou rev ea led st th e clearer stren gth o f soul;
M y nym ph E geria, and m y M entor to o ,
M y B eatrice, w ho d rew m e to m y p ole!
T h e b a ttles th at I w on had been d efea ts
H adst thou not w ith unerring in stin ct steered
M y q u iverin g bark in m asterly retreats,
Or seen th e ch an ge in tid es, and sw iftly veered .
N or could I e ’er our courtship d ays fo rg et:
T h e flow ers I brou ght thou h ast kept fresh for
m e:
T h rou gh m atron ’s bloom th y b lu shes s e e I y et,
N o co a t I w ore lacked ten d er touch o f th ee.
Our fled glin g children from our n est h ave
flow n,
Y oung g o d s and g o d d e sses n ew w orld s to build;
T h e h ap p in ess o f God w e th us h ave know n,
Our m ission in th e w orld th us h ave fu lfilled .
B lended by com m on b lessin g s’ con crem en t,
W e furth er pray th e Final Call m ay still
T o g eth er g iv e us th at last sacram ent
W ithin th e T em p le on th e H eavenly H ill.
CLINTIAS: H alt, p rison er! Y ou P y th a ­
g o rea n s are m agician s! You are th row in g a
spell o v er th e au g u st m ajesty of th e King!
Your en ch an tm en ts h ave m ade the tim e p a ss
quick ly. S ee th e sun is settin g ! Y our g lib ,
sm ooth -ton gu ed , d eceiv in g friend P yth ias h as
not returned! He w ill n ever return! B y th is
tim e he is sa fe on som e ship on th e rollin g
o cean , bound for G reece or A frica! You
stupid sca p eg o a t! You are n ow g o in g to p ay
th e p rice of you r cred ulity! D oes you r d e­
cree stan d , O King?
DIONYSUS: Of cou rse! T h e m a jesty o f th e
law brooks no in terferen ce! E xecute him!
CLINTIAS: Kneel d ow n , fo o l, and stretch
out your neck, th at you r head m ay roll off
sm ooth ly! (ra ises h is sw o r d ).
PYTHIAS: (ru sh in g in, and sta y in g th e
sw o r d ), H old! D o not kill him , but m e! H ere
I am b ack! I w a s d elayed by a flood , w hich
carried aw a y a b ridge over the Phrene tor­
rent. I had to sw im acro ss, to sa v e both m y
w ord and m y frien d ’s life! Here, gen eral, re­
le a se him , and let your sw ord cut off m y h ead !
DIONYSUS: Hold off, gen eral! R elease
them both! I am am azed at the e x iste n c e of
such fid elity, founded n eith er on th e fear of
th e g o d s, nor th e terror of kings, but on self-
re sp ect. I see th at m ere b lood shed is p ow er-
45
FRIENDSHIP’S SALVATION
le ss a g a in st such m oral fa ith fu ln ess. It is no
u se m ak in g m artyrs, w h ose d eath w ould only
aro u se ju stified resen tm en t a g a in st m e. W hat
in the w orld am 1 to do?
CLINTIAS: W ell, I am d isap pointed a t b ein g
b alked of m y victim ! T h is m uch 1 a ck n ow l­
ed g e. B ut, O K ing, if you ask m y a d vice, in
your ow n in terest, 1 m ust sa y th at all you can
do is to en list th is u nconq u erab le force to your
ow n a d v a n ta g e .
DIO NYSUS: You are righ t, a s u su al, O
good gen eral!
CLINTIAS: Y es, I am so righ t, th at I see
th at m y occu p ation is g on e! I am no longer
n eed ed h ere! F arew ell! (g o e s ou t th reaten ­
in g ly ).
DIONYSUS: F arew ell, G eneral! B ut I have
b etter th in gs to d o. C om e, D am on and P y­
th ias, w e m ust reverse ro les. I w ho a little
w h ile a g o w a s th e com m an d er, m ust n ow turn
sup p liant to you tw o frien d s w h o w ere so re­
cen tly a t m y m ercy. S ee, D am on and P yth ias,
I step d ow n from m y thron e! I rem ove m y
crow n, and a s equal to eq u al, I b eg for a d ­
m ission to you r frien dsh ip ! Let th e straigh t
line en large to th e sacred tria n g le! A ccep t me
a s th e friend o f both!
PYTHIAS: A s th e elder, I ex p re ss m y a p ­
p reciation of you r req u est, O King!
DAM ON: A s th e you n ger, I offer you m y
con g ra tu la tio n s on se e in g th e b eau ty and in­
vin cib len ess o f frien dsh ip .
DIONYSUS: T hen you a cc ep t m e a s a
friend?
PYTHIAS: I w ou ld lik e to!
DIONYSUS: D o you h esitate?
DAM ON: N o, w e do n ot h esita te; on ly w e
happen to k now th at b efore on e can h ave a
friend, on e m u st be a friend!
DIONYSUS: S o you refu se m e?
PYTHIAS: N othing is im p ossib le to G od,
and 1 can n ot sp eak for th e future, so I can ­
n ot sa y w e d o , or do not refu se you.
DIONYSUS: W hat do you m ean?
DAM ON: I m ean th at friendship is not a
g ift; it is a sa la ry , a d ip lom a.
DIONYSUS: S p eak in g in m ysteries, a s did
you r en igm atic P yth agoras!
PYTHIAS: N o, in d eed ! T h e d ifficulty is,
th at you do not u nderstand th at friendship is
n ot a' bauble to b e to sse d on a racket like a
ten n is b all, or a coin to be given aw ay!
DIONYSUS: W hat can it be then?
DAM ON: It is a grad u ation to be earned;
it is a flow er to be grow n from a root.
DIONYSUS: W ell, sp eak out! W hat is that
p rice w hich you claim to h ave p aid , w hich I
could not pay? I am richer than you ! I con ­
trol p rivate and public w ealth ! M ention th e
sum , it is you rs!
PYTHIAS: T h at is th e trou b le! T h e price
is not so m eth in g th at can be given from one
person to an oth er. It is self-rdiscipline. To
b egin w ith; w e paid th e p rice of a sev en -y ea r’s
ta lk in g -fa st, w hen w e ab stain ed from uttering
a sin g le w ord . Could you p ay th at price?
DIONYSUS: N o, I could n ot, for I w ould
lo s e m y p osition b efore th e night w a s over.
W hat oth er p rice w ould you h ave to su g g est?
DAUON: R ooted in the self-d iscip lin e of a
ta lk in g -fa st and its con seq u en t m utual resp ect,
frien dsh ip gro w s on ly by prayerful asso cia tio n
in com m on u n d ertak in gs for th e w elfare of
h um an ity. Could you p ay th at price?
DIONYSUS: No', I could n ot; for the a d ­
van cem en t o f S yracu se m ean s th e su b ju gation
of her n eigh b ors; so th at I m ust lim it m yself
to th e p rom otion of m y ow n particular k in g­
d om . W hat, do you m ean to sa y th at true
i.ie n d sh ip is im p ossib le for th e su ccessfu l?
PYTHIAS: N o, w e sa y no such th in g; that
w ou ld be for G od to say! All w e know is
th at our friendship is open to all w ho by self-
d iscip lin e earn self-resp ect, and by coop era­
tion earn th e resp ect of th e god s.
DIONYSUS: T hen you refu se m e?
DAM ON: N o, w e do n ot refu se you ; b ut w e
g iv e you the g ift of tim e. If not tod ay, there
is still left tim e in w hich you m ay earn th is
friendship you d esire.
DIONYSUS: B ut I h ave show n you that m y
p osition can n ot afford a talk in g-fast or par­
tisan coop eration . Is th ere no hope for ine?
(E n ter an ) ANGEL: T h ere is! I am a
G uardian Spirit sen t by the P ow ers that
b rou ght, a ssisted and fructified P yth agoras.
And a s I am gifted w ith vision into the future,
I sh all con sole you by inform ing you that I
se e you received into com munion* w ith th e
H eaven ly P ow ers. T h e first ob stacle, you r
royal p ow er, you shall som e d ay you rself re­
m ove, w hen you leave your throne, and th ose
w ho shall drive you from it, m ust be recog­
nized a s m essen gers from h eaven ; and the sec­
ond o b sta cle, you r lim itation s to S yracu se’s
in terest shall be rem oved w hen you exercise
coop eration w ith God a s a lan gu age-teach er
at C orinth. So you shall be led to p ayin g the
tw o p rices o f friendship, and so you shall
a lso ach ieve it!
DIONYSUS: W h at, I shall ach ieve friendship
w ith D am on and P yth ias?
ANGEL: N ay, 1 did not say th at; for it is
on ly later and elsew h ere th at you shall be
read y. But on th at day God w ill bring to
you a friend . . .
DIONYSUS: B y nam e?
ANGEL: B y nam e A ristoxen u s, w h o, in his
trea tise on th e P yth agorean Lire, to all th e
w orld shall celeb rate your great ad ven ture of
th e Q uest of Friendship!
DIONYSUS: And Dam on and Pythias?
ANGEL: Shall p eacefu lly here in S yracuse
live ou t th eir liv es of friendship, and let its
b lessin g light sa n ctify th e troubled p olitics of
th eir n ative country.
DIONYSUS: And w h at of me? M ay I not
start p ayin g the price of friendship at once?
ANGEL: N ot y et; for you have involved
you rself in such a tan gle th at if even for a
sin g le short m om ent you should resign your
p ow er you w ould be killed like a d og before
you reached the first street corner. You m ust
sta y and untangle th e skein of F ate. W hen the
Sacred Hour of Liberation arrives, you shall
be sa fely conducted aw a y to a happier shore,
not far from the Sacred O racle of A pollo of
D elphi, in touch w ith w hom your life shall
be directed to th e P yth agorean sa lvation of
friendship.
DIONYSUS: And m ust w e part?
ANGEL: Y es, for a little w hile, till w e m eet
in the B eyond! T ill then let each do duty in
h is Provid en tial p lace! A s in citem ent, let all
of u s w ho are here join in the P yth agorean
Hym n o f Friendship! C om e, stan d , and sin g!
FRIENDSHIP ODE
by K. S. Guthrie
Drink to m e on ly w ith you r b est frien dsh ip
And I w ill p led ge w ith m ine;
H elping each other, sorrow w ill h alve,
And p leasu res w ill doubled be.
T h e thirst for union heavenborn is,
C o-operation ’s d ivine;
So w e w ill knock a t that G ate of H eaven
T h at opens to none alon e.
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
R ooted in self-resp ect, th at flow er
Of friendship w ill fragran t grow !
Cultured by team -w ork , w atered by visits,
Efficient will grow our cau se.
A dvice w e w ill g iv e, and cou n sel w e ’ll tak e,
Jointly creatin g w isdom ;
A lw ays a ssistin g , never hindering,
Our union G od’s P resen ce ca lls.
D am on and P y th ia s, D avid an d Jonathan
Show us the F riendly W ay
W hich sa g e P yth a g o ru s esta b lish ed ,
And Plato and Lincoln lived .
So gath er in a circle, join all you r h an d s,
And sw in g your so n g up to H eaven;
W e’ll join all m ovem en ts, aid every cau se
T h at m ay prosper hum an ity I
II. THE THREAD OF THE LABYRINTH
A PLAYLET ILLUSTRATING PRAYER
SCENE: C arthage, at the tim e of its final con q u est b y th e R om ans. S eated around are
t!u* tw o brothers, H asdrubal, a sw ordsm an ; N um is, a fin an cier, an d th eir sister, D ido.
CHARACTERS
JUG URTHA, 1st brother, gian t, CAPTAIN in R om an A rm y,
HASDRUBAL, 2nd brother, sw ordsm an , SIMPLEX, a R om an Soldier,
NUMIS, 3rd brother, financier, FIRST SLAVE-DEALER
DIDO, sister, SECOND SLAVE-DEALER,
HIERONAX, p riest o f Jupiter A m m on.
(In rushes the gian t broth er) 1UGURTHA:
W ell, good p eop le, C arthage is ruined!
(All jump up; DIDO sa y s): W hat, taken?
JUGURTHA: N ot y et, but so o n . 1 ju st ran
in haste from the Lybian G ate. N igh tfall alone
p ostponed th e now in evitab le. T on igh t the
R om ans cannot see th at the sup p orts have
fallen , nor find their w ay through the en tan gle­
m ents. But tom orrow at daw n th ey w ill, so
that this is our last night of freedom . It is
ton igh t that w e m ust rally the forces o f good
w ithin ou rselves. W e m ust d ecide w hether to
flee, if still there is chance, or to stay and
defend our liv es till the last.
HASDRUBAL: So then w e are sa fe for to ­
night?
JUGURTHA: A b solu tely. T h ere is no p o s­
sib ility of surprise.
NUMIS: T ill w hen?
JUGURTHA: T ill daw n on ly.
DIDO: W ell, it is you w ho h ave seen the
la st d evelopm ent. It is your judgm ent that
ou ght to be the b est. Do you begin and tell
u s w hat ou ght to be d on e.
JUGURTHA: W ell, as to m yself, of course,
I am not afraid. W hen it com es to the final
tu ssle, my gigan tic strength and w restling
skill w ill sa v e m e a g a in st any opponent; and
1 can a lw a y s break ou t over the w all by leap ­
in g and escap in g to the m ountains.
DIDO: T hen w hy d o n ’t you do so at once,
brother?
JUGURTHA: B ecau se I am sorry for you
tw o w eaker brothers, and you, poor h elp less
sister. 1 am stayin g to defend you!
HASDRUBAL: W ell, you need not stay here
on m y accoun t, gian t brother! I im agine that
w hen it com es to a sh ow -d ow n , I shall be
b etter off than you .
JUGURTHA: H ow so?
HASDRUBAL: W ell, if the R om ans w ere un­
arm ed, you w ould no doubt carry off the v ic­
tory! But th ey have iron sh ield s and steel
sw ords, and if b y accid en t one of th e latter
g ets its w ork in b efore your fist, all your
strength w ill be in vain . But I am a skilled
sw ordsm an, and m y sw ord can land tw o blow s
to the unskilled so ld ier s’ o n e. So th at’s w hy
I’m not running a w a y . I can do m ore than
they! But I a d vise you , N um is, to flee. You
h ave n eith er m u scle nor sw ord sm an sh ip ; you
are h elp less.
NUM IS: (C ack lin g) T o hear you tw o speak
m ak es m e lau gh ! O ne m igh t think you w ere
H ercules and A ch illes! B ut a s a m atter of
fa ct, 1 have le ss to fear than you!
HASDRUBAL: R eally? Let us hear on w hat
you are relyin g!
NUM IS: I am rely in g on som eth in g m ore
pow erful than braw n or w ea p o n s; m on ey! N ow
th e R om ans are, b efore everyth in g, ven al;
th ey are m erchan ts, th ey can be bough t or sold
like sh eep . For m oney or treasu re, th ey w ould
sell their so u ls; and w hen th e officer com es
in, I’ve got som e buried treasu re th at I d is­
covered , th at w ill m ake him d eaf, dum b and
blind, and p a ss us by a s if w e w ere n ot here!
Just you w atch , and se e h ow I sa v e th e w hole
lot of you ! T h a t’s w hat 1 am sta y in g for!
DIDO: W ell, accord in g to you th ree, w e are
sa fe! But I w ish you w ould listen to m e!
JUGURTHA: Oh, w om en m ust a lw a y s have
th e last w ord , th ough th ey are as h elp less as
g ee se!
HASDRUBAL: W hy d o n ’t you stick to your
n eed le, w ith w hich I gran t you are skilful
en ou gh! T h is is a m an ’s job !
NUM IS: W hat w ould you d o w ith ou t m e and
m y financial p rotection , I w ould like to know ?
Our baby sister is a good lay-figu re or m ani­
kin to d isp lay the jew elry th at I p rovid e; th a t’s
all sh e ’s good for!
DIDO: W ell, I can n ot h ope to ch an ge your
op in ion s, that 1 a gree to ; but you m ust at
lea st on ce hear my solu tion of our crisis;
then m y resp on sib ility w ill be at an end.
JUGURTHA: Just listen to our g a y hum m ing
bird prate of resp on sib ility, a s if sh e could
do anythin g!
HASDRUBAL: It m ak es m e sick to hear
th ese w om en m ix in everyth in g!
NUM IS: W ell, w e m ight a s w ell h ave a little
fun, w h ile lettin g you h ave the sa tisfa ctio n of
airin g your fan cies. W hat shou ld w e rely on?
DIDO: On prayer. A s th ere is n othin g else
left th at w e could do, a n yw ay, w e m ight as
w ell spend the night in su p p lication to our
H eavenly Father w ho lo v e s u s b etter th an w e
lo v e o u rselv es, im ploring help d ivin e.
THE THREAD OF
JU O U RTH A: Go to it! A s for m e, I w ill
p ractise m v m u scles!
H ASDRUBAL: 1 shall p ractise sw o rd -lu n g es
and p arries, w h ile you m ay pray all you
w a n t!
NUM 1S: And I shall straigh ten ou t m y a c ­
cou n ts, an d put som e n e st-e g g in sa fe ty . But
d o y ou g o on, and pray all you w ant! (A t
this m om en t th e d oors burst in, and b efore
th e am azed in m ates can g et over th eir p ostu re
of surp rise, so ld ier s h ave p inioned th eir arm s
behind th em , fasten ed them all to on e sin g le
ch ain , and lined them up for th e in sp ection of
th eir cap tain . (T h eir order is R. to L., Jug-
urtha, H asdrubal, D ido and N um is.)
C APTAIN : W ell, le t’s see w hat our n et has
b agged here! A gian t, an artist, a runt, and
a girl! I fear I can n ot g e t over five d ollars
for the w h ole lot from th e sla v e-d ea ler. Here,
S im p lex, g o to the d oor, and see if by luck
any of th e ca m p -fo llo w ers are around to re­
liev e u s of th is ca ttle.
SIM PLEX: A t you r com m and, C aptain. (He
g o e s to th e d oor, look s to right and left, and
b eck on in g, ca lls o u t) H ere, fo llow ers! H ere’s
a p rize fo r you ! Hurry, th e C aptain w a n ts to
get aw a y !
(E n ter 1st an d 2nd SLAVE-DEALER, H1ER-
ONAX, th e p riest of Jupiter A m m on, and
o th ers).
C APTAIN : W ell, h ow m uch am I bid for
the w h o le gan g?
1st S . D .: A bou t four d ollars, a d ollar a
head.
C A PTA IN : T h a t’s not en ou gh to buy u s a
supper. N o, w e m ust h ave m ore. W h at, w ill
you b etter h is bid?
2nd S . D .: N ot m uch! S laves w ill be cheap
today! B esid es, all th ese ju ngle b ea sts w ill
have to be g o tten a w a y sa fely ; and then th ey'll
la v e to be tam ed ! T h ese are not born sla v es,
who h ave im bibed servility w ith th eir m ilk,
who b efore th eir ow n ey es h ave seen the w h ip ­
ping of th eir p aren ts w h o for th eir ow n sake
trained them to artistry in p leasin g! I w ould
la v e a stiff job w ith th at elep han t there!
JUG URTH A: You w ill, I prom ise vo u ! If I
?ct my hand on you r neck, I’ll break it!
C APTAIN : Here, Sim p lex, g a g him . L et’s
la v e <|Uiet! T h en , you w o n ’t g iv e m e m ore
or th e lot?
2nd S . D .: N ot a p en n y. It’s a b ig risk,
guying a w h ole fam ily to g eth er; th ey support
:ach oth er, and p lot.
C APTAIN : W ell then, w e ’ll h ave the trouble
>f sellin g them sep arate; th a t’s all! Sold th ey
n u st b e; I’ve g o t a lot else to do to-n igh t,
/e r y g o o d , le t’s first g e t rid of th at m ost
rou b lesom e fello w over th ere. W ith him out
)f th e w a y , th e rest w ill be m ore ea sy to m an-
»ge; b esid es, it w ill be a good exam p le for
hem to s e e short shrift ap plied to th eir stro n g ­
est su p p ort. C om e, I’ll tak e b id s on that
ou g h -n eck , first. H ow much am I bid?
1st S . D .: B ring him ou t first, so w e ’ll see
vh at h e ’s like . . .
2nd S . D .: A nd so w e s e e if he is secu rely
a sten ed !
C APTAIN : Oh, w hat a lot o f trou b le for a
ou ple of p en nies!
1st S. D .: W ell then, w e ’ll le a v e; go o d -b y e!
2nd S . D .: If you d o n ’t ap p reciate w hat
v c ’re d o in g for you , you d isp o se of them
,-ourself. G ood -b ye!
C APTAIN : Stop! Halt! Com e back gen tle-
nen! N o, no, I ap preciate your help very
nuch! Indeed, I’ve other h ou ses to pillage*
This is a m iserable place an yw ay! N o, . • «(
ie rea so n a b le in my term s! C om e, Sim plex,
>rlng him ou t, and hold him w hile the gen tle-
THE LABYRINTH 47
m en bid! N ow kind sirs, h ow m uch? You
sir!
1st S. D .: W ell, I really do not know w hat
I could do w ith him . If he w a s tam e, he m ight
do as a porter, or to drag a dray, or plow .
HASDRUBAL: W h at, he, th e cham pion ath ­
lete of C arthage?
CAPTAIN: Shut up, or I’ll h ave you also
g a g g ed . H ow ever, w h at you sa y is tru e. But
a th letics are on ly for gen tlem en , not for slaves.
1st S. D .: N o, h e’s to o risk y; I g u ess h e’ll
h ave to go to th e m in es, w here he can be
kept chained. He isn ’t w orth m ore than a
d ollar and a half, at the ou tsid e.
CAPTAIN: (to 2nd S. D .) Can’t you do
better? Can’t you u se him for an ythin g else?
2nd S. D.: (W ho h as patted him , exam ined
his teeth ). N ow , look pretty, dear! Let me sec
you r teeth ! So, so , g en tle, gen tle! N o, h e ’s
to o w ild . He w ould tak e to o lon g to tam e.
All h e ’s good for w ould be the ga lley s.
1st S. D .: If you g et him there!
2nd S. D.: D on ’t w orry, I’ll g et him there
sa fely ! As a m atter of fact, it w ill give me
sp ecial pleasu re to s e e he d o es g e t th ere sa fe­
ly! x „
1st S. D .: But he w o n ’t sta y there!
2nd S D.: I w a g er he w ill! W hen he gets
riveted to th e bench, and the w hipper g ives
him his proper d ose, 1 w ager h e’ll becom e as
m eek a s a lam b! I’ve seen oth ers, w orse than
he, com e to ea t ou t o f my hand!
1st S. D.: W ell, you a lw a y s w ere pretty
ven tu resom e, I m ust say! G ive m e the quiet
on es w hom I can d ress up, and train to parlor
trick s! T h at’s m y sp ecia lty ! N o, I w o n ’t bid
a g a in st you.
CAPTAIN: W ell, h ow m uch am I bid?
2nd S. D .: T h e governm en t g iv es m e five
d ollars a head. I’ll g iv e you tw o and a half.
CAPTAIN: G oing, g o in g , gon e. He’s yours.
T ak e him .
DIDO: Oh, Jugurtha, all th e ath letic prow ­
ess of w hich you w ere so proud in the m arket
is w orth only tw o and a half dollars! (Jug­
urtha ra g es.)
NUM IS: D on’t w orry sister; I'll redeem you
all! T h at w ill be fun w hen I ow n him a s my
sla v e, and he w ill h ave to u se that H erculean
stren gth of his to w a it on m e! He w ho bull­
dozed m e ever sin ce m y child-h ood , and w ould
call m e a runt. Just w ait! (Jugurtha ra g e s).
(D uring th is tim e 1st S. D. has been paying
th e captain, w ho is m aking out his bill of sale.
W ith this card in h is hand 1st S. D. ap proach es
Jugurtha and tap s him d erisively on the cheek)
N ow , darling, you are g o in g to g ive m e a lot
of fun! T h at’s right! Fum e all you w ant!
T h e m ore you stru g g le, the soon er you w ill
be am enable to reason ! Say, sold ier, chain
him to that ring o v er th ere, w ill you?
SOLDIER: (d oin g s o ) Here, you w ild bull.
I’ll put a ring through your n ose, if you d o n ’t
get to be good ! I g u ess that w ill hold your
lordship! (Jugurtha stru g g les w ild ly, and g e s ­
tu res con tin u ou sly).
CAPTAIN: W ell, the w orst one is ou t of
th e w ay; the oth ers w ill no doubt be gen tler!
L et’s tak e th e next o n e, w ho look s like an
artist. How much am I bid for him? (no an ­
sw e r ). Don’t you w an t him for the ga lley s
also?
2nd S. D. N o, h e ’s not stron g en ou gh!
H ave him brought out! L et’s see him an yw ay!
(A t C aptain’s nod Sim plex slip s him off the
chain and brings him to the block. W hile b e­
in g d ragged forw ard, Hasdrubal brings out a
d a gger and stab s S im plex, w ounding him
slig h tly . Sim plex d isarm s him , and th row s the
d a gger on the grou n d .)
SIMPLEX: H e’s a serp en t, he stin gs!
CAPTAIN: Are you much hurt?
SIMPLEX: N o, on ly a scratch . H e’s safe
n ow , I've draw n h is fan gs.
CAPTAIN: H ow did you com e to do such
a thing?
HASDRUBAL: W hy, th a t’s m y p rofession ! I
am a sw ordsm an! I have th e g re a te st repu­
tation in A frica! If on ly 1 had not been sur­
prised , I w ould h ave k illed you r w h ole com ­
pany!
CAPTAIN: (la u g h in g ). Lucky I surprised
you , therefore! But sla v es d on ’t need sw ords,
and sla v es w ho are exp erts in handling them
had better be kept chained up. W ell, m y dear
sir, do you w an t him for the galley s?
2nd S. D .: N o, h e ’s too trick y, and he has
not the strength req u isite. N o, h e ’s a case
for my colleagu e over th ere.
CAI5TAIN: W hat w ill you bid for him , sir?
1st S. D.: H e’s to o d an gerou s to be trained
a s a house servan t. N o, the m in es are the
on ly safe p lace for him .
HASDRUBAL: T he m ines fo r m e, a man
w ith a w orld -w id e repu tation ?. . .
1st S. D. T h at w ould be in con ven ien t for a
slave, you know ! W ell, captain, you know the
tariff! T he governm en t a llo w s m e tw o dollars
a head, th ey d on ’t la st lon g, you know !
DIDO: God, have m ercy on him!
1st S. D .: W ell, I’ll g ive yo u a d ollar for
him ; th at’s all!
CAPTAIN: T ak e him , le t’s g e t rid of him!
C om e, g iv e m e the m on ey! (W h ile he receives
it and m akes out the bill of sa le ),
DIDO: Oh, H asdrubal, all th e w orld -w id e
sw ordsm an reputation of w hich you w ere so
proud, in the m arket is w orth on ly a dollar!
(he r a g e s).
1st S. D .: Here, S oldier, chain him to that
ring over th ere, so as to g et him ou t of the
w ay!
SIMPLEX: A ye, a y e, sir! I w arrant he
w o n ’t stin g any m ore, w here h e ’s g o in g to!
H e’ll get cured!
HASDRUBAL: God, can such th in gs be!
CAPTAIN: N ow le t’s g e t through w ith the
icm ain d er, quickly! T he n ext on e, quickly!
Sim p lex, bring him up to the b lock . Isn’t he
funny! A little, ill favored runt, w ith such
d ign ity, ruffled though it be, like a w et hen!
Look at his w h ite m anicured h ands! 1 w on ­
der if he d o esn ’t understand his p osition?
NUM1S: I do, Mr. C aptain, I d o; but you do
not com prehend it, I see. W ill you kindly ask
th ese gentlem en to w ithdraw ? 1 have som e­
th in g for your w orth y ears a lo n e.
1st S. D .: A real aristocrat!
2nd S. D .: He m ust be at le a st an Em peror
from N ow here!
SIMPLEX: H e’s sa fe, and ca n ’t harm any­
on e! But shall 1 stay for protection?
CAPTAIN: W hy not? S peak, d og!
NUM IS: N ot b efore th is gen tlem an, or any
oth er. W hat I have to tell you, is for your
ears alon e; it is to your in terest!
CAPTAIN: Very w ell, w e ’ll tak e the chances
th ere is som eth in g w orth w hile; you can never
tell w hat is g o in g to happen! B ut you , Sim p­
lex stand by th e door, so you can sprin g in,
in case of need. T he rest ‘w ithdraw !
1st S. D .: N uisance, th ese talk ative slaves!
2nd S. D .: I feel like g oin g aw a y , but I
have m y bull in there to bring m e back. T oo
bad! I hope it d o es not last lon g! (E x it).
CAPTAIN: W ell, hurry, little self-im portan t
runt!
NUMIS: T h a t’s just it, I am im portant to
you . T h a t’s w hy I had to speak to you in
p rivate. L isten, Mr. C aptain! A s an officer,
your sa la ry is but sm all. But if you w ill b e
rea so n a b le,— n ay, I say d ecen t, or kind, I can
m ake you rich for life; and no one w ill be th e
w iser; and you can retire to som e q u iet
country e sta te to live ou t you r old a g e , in
p eace, w ith ou t d an ger o f w ou n d s, or fa tig u e,
or p olitical u p sets!
CAPTAIN: And w hat w ou ld I h ave to do?
NUM IS: R elease m e, and g iv e m e a bill of
sa le for th e rem ain der o f m y fam ily, to p ro­
tect them .
DIDO: N um is! W hy not relea se u s all?
NUM IS: It’s b etter th is w a y , it’s sa fer!
CAPTAIN: T h at w ould be ea sy en ou gh in ­
d eed ; but w h y ask to se c m e p rivately?
NUM IS: B eca u se if I g a v e up th e m on ey to
you in p ub lic, you w ould h ave to share it w ith
everyb od y, and you w ould g et but little; but
if I g iv e it to you a lo n e, you can keep it all,
and be rich fo r l# e !
CAPTAIN: T h a t’s true; but, even so , of
cou rse, I ca n ’t tak e it; but, by th e w a y , h ow
m uch is it?
NUM IS: T h e treasu re is w orth over a hun­
dred th ousan d d ollars.
CAPTAIN, (ca u tio u sly ): W here is it?
NUM IS: T h a t’s m y secret, and it sh all n ot
b e your secre t until you h ave given m e a bill
of release fo r m y self, an d a bill o f sa le fo r
the rest o f th e fam ily!
CAPTAIN: But you fo rg et th at you are m y
ca p tive, and th at it is not for you to m ake
term s, but to receiv e them !
NUM IS: W ell, w ill you sw ea r on you r h onor
as a R om an to do this?
CAPTAIN: (F irst an grily, then a s if stru ck
by a happy th o u g h t); Y es, y es, I’ll do it. On
m y honor a s a R om an, I w ill release y ou , and
g iv e you a s a p resen t the rest of you r fam ily,
if you (co n fid en tia lly ) w ill g iv e m e th e trea­
sure.
NUM IS: Free m e, and I w ill g e t it for you !
CAPTAIN: Oh, no, I am to o old a fo x for
that! T he treasu re first! W here is it?
NUMIS: W ell, I h ave h is prom ise a s a R o­
m an, and th ey keep th eir o ath s! G ood! It is
there under th e flo o r-tile in th e corner! (S train ­
in g h is ey e s and b ody, fo llo w in g th e C aptain ’s
m o tio n s).
CAPTAIN: (F ind in g it ) : G ood, here is a
pension for m y old a g e ! (P u ttin g it in his
p o ck et). N ow , q uick , S im p lex, com e in and
let us d isp o se of the g o o se w h ose gold en eg g
I h ave!
NUM IS: P lea se, p lea se, Mr. C aptain, a
m om ent! If you p lea se, on e m om ent! You
rom ised to relea se m e, on your honor a s a
om an!
CAPTAIN, (b ursting in la u g h ter): T h at is
the jok e! I am no R om an! I am a C artha­
gin ian ; d o n ’t you recogn ize m e yet?
NUMIS, (a n x io u sly scan n in g his fe a tu r e s):
T here is som eth in g fam iliar. . . I can n ot re­
call!
CAPTAIN: W ell th en , let m e refresh you r
m em ory! Do you rem em ber a certain sla v e
w hom you for a jest nam ed S corax, m ean in g
garb age? Do you rem em ber th at he ran
aw ay? W ell I am th at o r e , anc am n ow a
C aptain, and w ell . . . listen ! Did you w on ­
der how w e arrived so early to-n i?h t?
NUM IS: Y es, w e w ere sc surprised th at w e
had no t m e to p repare an y d efen ce. Jugurtha
told us th e R om ans could n ever n eg o tia te th ose
en tan glem en ts in th e dark!
CAPTAIN: E ut I, v/ho k new th e p lace could,
and did; and th e very first p lace I h ead ed for
w as th is h o u se, to catch you n apping, an d to
get even w ith particularly y ou , w h o for so
m any yea rs had tortured m e, and ridiculed;
THE THREAD OF THE LABYRINTH 49
and victim ized m e! W as it not you w ho taught
m e, n ay, forced m e to lie, and steal for you ,
and g a th er the n c ste g g w hich I h ave ju st
forced you to d isgorge? Oh, th e airs you
w ou ld put on , tru stin g in th e m oney you m ade
m e ga th er for you ! And then you g rew too
d elica te to a llo w m y p itiful person to approach
to o n ear you r perfum ed self! You w ou ld teach
m e p arlor trick s like a d o g , w ith your w hip in
you r hand ! Do you rem em ber h ow you
trained m e to k neel in a corner for hours at
a tim e, and w ou ld w hip m e if I stum bled? And
all th at b ecau se I, w hen a youthful sch ool
com p an ion of you rs, had con tracted a m iserable
little d eb t of a cou p le of d ollars, and you had
m e sold a s a sla v e! But n ow I have your
m on ey on w hich you tru sted , and th e d ay of
Judgm ent h as com e!
NUM IS: M ercy!
CAPTAIN (c o n t’d .): S ec, if I d on ’t m ake
rou craw l on you r b elly b efore m e! Oh, how
sh all en joy tam in g y o u , and teach in g you
th e m ost ex q u isitely slavish w a y s! B reaking
your w ill shall be m y utm ost ecsta sy ! P lease
resist a little, so I m ay h ave th e joy of ch a s­
tisin g you ! T h en I shall put a ring through
your n ose and p arad e you in front of all our
form er sch ool-com p an ion s! Just resist m e,
p lease!
NUM IS, (p an ic stric k e n ): I w ill deprive you
of that ec sta sy ! I surrender! Do w ith m e
w h at you w ill! (D rops in a heap on the
flo o r ).
C APTAIN: H ave I tam ed yon?
NUM IS: Y es, m aster; I am a p erfect sla v e!
C APTAIN: T hen b eh ave like on e! Go and
crouch in th e corner till I w an t you!
NUM IS: (S lid in g b a ck w a rd s), A t you r serv ­
ic e, m aster!
CAPTAIN: W ell, th at w en t easier than I
exp ected ! T h ese b ullies are all cow ard s! T oo
b ad, I sh all m iss m y an ticip ated jo y of b reak ­
in g his w ill!
DIDO: Sham e, N um is! Y ou, th e exq u isite,
th e u n satisfiab le, h ave you no m anhood at all?
NUM IS: B ut d o n ’t you see th at I w a s rely­
in g on th at m on ey, and n ow that it is gon e,
and as I h ave no stren gth like Jugurtha, and
no skill like H asd ru b al,— w h y, I h ave nothin g
left to su p p ort m e . . .
DIDO: E xcept God!
NUM IS: D on ’t talk to m e of you r religion!
Y our G od h as abandoned you to o ; you rself arc
n ex t on th e au ction b lock . D on’t you se e I
h ave n oth in g left in th is w orld but his good
pleasu re?
DIDO: B ut in th e n ext w orld?
NUM IS: I do n ot know an ythin g ab out it,
a la s! A nd a s m y m oney is gon e, in th is w orld
there is n othin g to do, but to p lease my
m aster! Y ou w ill be the next one to learn
to do so ! Do not d istract m e!
C APTAIN: W ell, he is ripe. I really m ust
sh ow him off! Sim plex, bring in the cam p-
fo llow ers!
(Sim plex d o es so ; a s th ey en ter),
1st S . D .: W ell, w ell! H e’s lo o se! H e’ll
escap e!
CAPTAIN:
tam ed him .
2nd S. D .:
CAPTAIN:
an tce!
1st S . D .:
tim e?
CAPTAIN:
D on ’t w orry, h e’s quite sa fe; I
W hy, he even look s trained!
He is thorou ghly trained, 1 guar-
H ow did you do it in so short a
A h, th at is m y secret! But have
I not m ade a su ccess of it?
2nd S. D .: C ongratulation s, C aptain! Even
m y co llea g u e could have done no better.
CAPTAIN: W ell, now I w ant a bid for him.
W e w ill start at fifty d ollars.
1st S. D .: W hy th a t’s pretty high, isn ’t it?
CAPTAIN: Of cou rse, but d o es it not take
a lo t of tim e and m on ey to tam e and train a
sla v e?
1st S. D .: It d oes, I a g ree. B ut you did it
so quickly!
CAPTAIN: B ut I g o t the resu lts, d id n ’t 1?
2nd S. D .: It look s like it, but you never
can tell!
CAPTAIN: W ell, try him ; put him through
h is paces!
2nd S. D .: (C lapping his h an d s), D ance!
(N um is d oes s o .) (C la p s), Sing! (N um is sin g s)
(C lap s; m otions him to stop . Num is slid es
back to his corn er.) Y es, th a t’s right, and
sty lish , too!
CAPTAIN: W ell, I think I’ll keep him m y­
self, to play w ith!
1st S. D.: I’ll p ay you six ty d ollars, he is
excellen tly trained.
2nd S. D .: I’ll pay you seven ty-five!
(In the con fu sion, N um is has edged around
C aptain, and from his pocket abstracted the
treasu re-b ag. C aptain grips h is w rist, and
sw in g s him around in fron t.)
CAPTAIN: So, th is p erfect sla v e is a thief!
NUM IS: I am not a th ief! It is m y ow n
m on ey! It is for th e lack of a little of it that
I h ave to hum iliate m yself, and be tortured!
Oh, for a little m on ey! I cou ld n ’t help it! I
did n ot m ean to do it!
CAPTAIN: I think I w ill g et rid of him!
H ere, Sir, you can have him for seven ty-five!
2nd S. D.: I d o n ’t w an t him any m ore; a
th ief is u seless.
CAPTAIN: T hen you can h ave him for fifty!
1st S. D .: I d o n ’t w ant him either; I
w o u ld n ’t have him around th e place!
SIMPLEX: If you tru st m e, M aster, you
w ill let me kill him , and throw him into the
tren ch es.
CAPTAIN: N o, n o ,— I h ave a sneakin g fon d ­
n ess for him . Even if he is a th ief, he is d e­
v oted to my person, b ecau se I tam ed him . See
h ow he grovels b efore m e, and k isses m y feet!
W hy, at hom e I have a d og w h o w ould never
run aw ay, and w ho y et w ill snitch m eat if it
is left around. So I keep m eat locked up, and
am u se m yself w ith th e d og, w henever I have
tim e. B esid es, there is a p ersonal reason w hy
no oth er slave in th e w orld could by his faw n­
in g , am use m e quite a s much a s he! I’ll keep
him chained up, and w hen I have leisure, I’ll
turn him lo ose to d ivert m e! T here, Sim plex,
fasten him to that pillar, till I have tim e to
play w ith him ! N ow , let us g et rid of that
silly girl! Bring her out, S im plex, and d isplay
her!
NUM IS: N ow it is your turn, preacher! Let
us se e w hat your God w ill do for you now !
DIDO: (A s she step s onto the block, she
ra ises her arm s and p assion ately p ra y s). O
God o f Liberty and h olin ess, in T h ee have I
tru sted , let me n ot be con fou nd ed ! Show these
b en igh ted unbelievers th at by the pow er of
p rayer can be w orked a m iracle! I proclaim
T h y w ord that T hou w ilt sa v e T hine ow n, for
th e glory of Thy nam e, h allelujah!
CAPTAIN: W ell, how m uch am I bid for
her? W on’t you tak e her, ch eap , Sir?
2nd S. D.: No, not at an y price. She is so
a g g re ssiv e ly religiou s I could not u se her for
a p rostitu te.
CAPTAIN: W hat ab out you, Sir? I see she
is to o w eak for the h eavy housew ork; but
cou ld you not u se her for a lad y’s m aid?
1st S. D .: N o, th ese w ild fan atics m ake
m ore trouble in the househ old than w ould a
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
m onkey! W ork, th ey w ill, but th ey either try
to convert their m istresses, or drive th e m asters
to p olitical su icid e. N o, no relig io n ists for m e!
CAPTAIN: But then w hat am 1 to do with
her? My w ife w ill not a llo w such a girl
around th e house!
SIMPLEX: T ru st m e, C aptain; knock her on
the head, and g e t rid of her!
HIERONAX: I am a p riest from th e oasis
tem ple of Jupiter A m m on. Our girl w ho d e­
livers the oracles is sick , and I h ave been com ­
m issioned to procure an other. I w ill bid three
d ollars for her.
CAPTAIN: W hat good fortu n e! G oing, g o ­
in g, gon e! T ak e her p riest! She is yours.
HIERONAX: Here is th e m on ey, captain;
n ow g ive m e a bill of sale!
CAPTAIN: Here it is.
HIERONAX: Step d ow n , d au gh ter. I like
not th ese ch ain s; th ey arc cu m b ersom e, and
em b arrassin g to both of us. If I rem ove them ,
do you prom ise not to run a w a y from m e, and
to serve the God faithfully?
DIDO: Service I can prom ise w ith a good
con scien ce, for it h as all m y life been m y d e­
sire to serve God in som e d irect m anner, not
m erely indirectly as w a s m y lot in life. T o
d eliver the G od’s oracles w ould be m y suprem e
jo y . But do w ith m e a s you w ill.
HIERONAX: R elying on your prom ise,
daughter, I rem ove your ch ain s. T h ey now
are u seless, a s you arc bound to m e by a
stron ger bond, you r vow of faith fu ln ess. Come,
fo llo w me to the O asis-shrin e w here you are
to serve!
DIDO, (on her k n ees): W illin gly, O M aster;
but I beseech you to purchase a lso m y three
brothers, and lead them a lo n g to serve the
G od. Do you not need w ork ers in the field or
farm ?
HIERONAX: Y es, w e do, ind eed ; but I did
not feel ab le to bid a g a in st th ese profession al
slave dealers!
DIDO: But th ey do n ot w an t m y brothers;
th ey bought them to relieve th e Captain of his
resp on sib ility. T h ey w ould g lad ly let them go
for a son g; and your tem ple w ould have three
able and w illin g w orkers for n ext to nothing.
HIERONAX: Y es, daugh ter, but your bro­
thers are not b iddable like you . For instance,
your gian t Jugurtha, I b elieve you call him,
w ould be d angerou s if released .
DIDO: Oh no, m aster! If you w ould be
w illin g to g ive him into m y m an agem en t, you
w ill see the w ild -cat turn into a h ouse-d og!
HIERONAX: Just try it, you p oor deluded
girl!
DIDO: I w ill! L isten, Jugurtha dear, if the
good priest buys you to serve th e God, and
you are put under m y m an agem en t, w ill you
obey m e, dear?
JUGURTHA: Surely, D ido dear. T h at would
be ea sy, for I love you, and I w ould be able
to protect you. Y es, I w ill ob ey you unques-
tion in gly; you can rely on m e.
DIDO: You see, M aster, he w ill be a s m old-
ab le as putty in my h and s. It w ill p ay you
w ell to g et so stron g a lab orer for so little
m oney.
HIERONAX: W ell, p erhaps he m ight do!
B ut your other brother, H asdrubal, is a dan­
gerou s sw ordsm an ; he w ould be a peril in a
sanctu ary-oasis.
DIDO, (in g ra tia tin g ly ): Oh, no m aster; if
you w ould be w illin g to put him in to my m an­
agem en t, you w ill be su rp t’sed to find him
ea sily usable as a protection again st m araud- I
ers. Has not your shrine, ju st like others, suf­
fered from such?
HIERONAX: It h as, in d eed ! But h ow can
you m an age so d a n gerou s a creature?
DIDO: L eave th at to m e; w ill you let m e
try, m aster?
HIERONAX: Go ah ead ! If yo u su cceed , w e
shall be m ost fortu n ate.
DIDO, (ca re ssin g ly ): H asdrubal d ear, I h ave
a ch an ce for you to use you r w ond erful sw o r d s­
m anship in d efen d in g the Jupiter A m m on O asis
Shrine from m arauders. W ill you ta k e the
ch an ce on con d ition of o b eyin g m e in ev ery ­
thing?
HASDRUBAL: W hat? I, a m an, w ith an
in ternational repu tation , ob ey a girl w h ose
sla v ish in stin cts m ade her spread ou r b ed s and
cook our food?
DIDO: I did it out of lo v e, d ear; I w ould
n ot tru st you r health and sa fety even to the
b est o f sla v e s. You shou ld rew ard m e for my
lo v e , in stead of d esp isin g m e! In an y ca se,
w ou ld th at not be for you a lot h app ier than
soon p erish in g in the m ines?
HASDRUBAL: I su p p ose th at it w ould be
so . Y es, I w ill ob ey you g la d ly , in ev ery ­
th in g, good Sister! I o w e you g ra titu d e; b e­
sid es, I w ould be ab le to p rotect you !
DIDO: S ee, m aster, he a lso h as p rom ised to
be good .
HIERONAX: Fine! I’ll p urch ase him at
on ce! So you are now sa tisfied , g o o d girl?
DIDO: N ot q uite, m aster, not quite!
HIERONAX: W hat m ore d o you w ant?
DIDO: Oh, not m uch! 1 w an t you r w elfa re.
T ell m e, m aster, are th e T em p le’s acco u n ts a l­
w a y s kept straigh t?
HIERONAX: You w itch ! H ow did you m an­
a g e to g u ess th at th ey have been in terrible
d isord er, for lack of a tru stw orthy accou n tan t?
Our p riests are sain ts, but a la s, th ey h ave n ot
th e g ift of b ein g good b ook -k eep ers. T h in gs
h ave been so w ron g th at w ere it n ot fo r con ­
tin u al g ifts, w e w ould be in dire stra its.
DIDO: T h en , m aster, w ould you like a
tru stw orth y b ookk eeper, if you cou ld g et. one
for next to nothing?
HIERONAX: W hy y es, of cou rse! B ut w h ere *
could w e get such a p aragon?
DIDO: Ah, m aster, tru st m e! I w ill procure
on e for you.
HIERONAX: W here?
DIDO: W hy, m y u nfortunate brother N um is;
he is w on d erfu lly fitted for th at p osition !
HIERONAX: But h e’s a thief!
DIDO: Oh no, m aster! I’ll g u aran tee his
h o n esty if you w ill on ly be w illin g to g iv e him
up into m y m an agem en t!
HIERONAX: A h, th a t’s your old so n g ; I d o n ’t
w ond er th at you could tw ist him around your
little fin ger. You are a d an gerou s m agician ,
I fear!
DIDO: A ben eficen t on e, I hope!
HIERONAX: Y es, I really do think so ! W ell,
you m ay g o try your luck; but 1 d o n ’t think
you 'll su cceed w ith him ; I fear h e is h op e­
le ssly dam ned.
DIDO: I w ager I do succeed , m aster!
HIERONAX: No w ond er, you w a g er, you
little w itch , w hen you have n othin g to lose!
DIDO: W ell, if I fail, you can put you r
ch ain s on m e again , . . .
HIERONAX: W hich you know full w ell I do
n ot w ish to d o! And if you succeed ?
DIDO: My freedom , m y lord!
HIERONAX: In oth er w ord s, “ h ead s I win*
and ta ils, you lo s e !” N o, i d o n ’t think th a t’s
fair to m e; b esid es, it is my principle n ever
to w ager, anyv/ay. M oreover . .
DIDO: I am your sla v e, m aster; and you can
do w h atever you p lease w ith m e! (C urtseyin g,
51
THE THREAD OF THE LABYRINTH
c r o ssin g h er arm s over her b reast, and look ­
in g d o w n ca st d em u rely).
HIERONAX: W ell, g o ah ead , and see w hat
you can d o w ith th e scoundrel; and w e ’ll leave
it at th is, th at I w ill do w ith you w h atever 1
p lea se. A greed?
DIDO, (su b m issiv ely ): Of cou rse, m aster;
your w ill is m y law !
HIERONAX: R ascal th at she is! I b elieve
sh e is g o in g to b efool m e!
DIDO, (m o d e stly ): P erh aps! (T o N um is)
C om e, b roth er, h ow w ould you like to keep the
b ook s for th e Jupiter A m m on T em p le in the
O asis?
NUM IS: 1 do n ot like an yth in g an y m ore,
sin ce I lo st th e m oney on w hich I relied .
DIDO: B ut listen , b rother; w ou ld it not be
a fa te p referable to b ein g kept a s a kind of
p et d o g by a m an w ho w a s on ce your ow n
sla v e, and w ho still holds gru d ges a g ain st you?
NUM IS: 1 do n ot hate or like an ythin g an y ­
m ore!
DIDO: B ut you w ould b e n ear you r b roth­
ers!
NUM IS: I n ever loved th em : th ey d espised
m e, and I hoped to ow n them , w hen I exp ected
to repay them for their contem pt!
HIERONAX: I think I w in , and keep m y
sla v e!
DIDO, (to H ieron ax): P erh aps! (T o N um ­
is ) , A nd th en you w ould h ave to ob ey none
but m e, you r ow n lovin g sister.
NUM IS: O bey you , a m ere girl, to w hom 1
g a v e p resen ts of m oney from tim e to tim e, and
w ho w ould d ance for m e? N o! I n ever loved
y ou . I d esp ised you!
HIERONAX: 1 w in!
DIDO: N ot y et! T hen if th e on ly hand you
w ill k iss is th e one th at h old s the w hip, here,
I w ill w ield th e w hip m yself! (w hipp ing h im ).
N ow k iss m y hand! (He d o es s o ). D on’t you
see th at th e n ext b est th in g to ow n in g m oney
is d escrib in g its lo ss or gain in b ookkeeping?
D on ’t you see it’s a sort o f m on ey-rom an ce?
A kind of fin an cial epic?
NUM IS: T h a t’s tru e, I n ever th ou gh t of it
in th at ligh t! T h at w ould not be so bad,
after all!
DIDO: W ell, w ill you do it, if I prom ise to
w hip you right o ften , until you com e to under­
stand the depth of sister-lo v e, a s a fain t a lle­
gory of the d eep er lo v e from God?
NUMIS, (b u rstin g out in te a r s): Y es, yes,
fo rg iv e m e for m y h ea rtlessn ess; but a fter I
had lo st m y m on ey, I d esp aired , and th ough t
th ere w a s n othin g left in th e w orld !
DIDO: And you w ill b e h on est w ith m e?
NUM IS: Y es, I now see th at a fter th e loss
of m oney rem ain love and character . . .
DIDO: And p rayer, m y dear! O nly you are
not ready for it y et. But 1 . . .
NUM IS: D on ’t let g o of m e, sister! I w ant
to learn p rayer a lso , and your love and char­
acter alon e can teach m e that!
DIDO: G ood , N um is, I w ill teach you , on
th e con d ition you ob ey m e like you r m aster!
NUM IS: I w ill, I w ant, I in sist!
DIDO, (k issin g h im ): H ave no fear dear, I
w ill not forsak e you! (T u rn in g to H ieronax)
N ow , m aster, w h o h as w on th e w a g er, you or
HIERONAX: N eith er you , nor I,— m ethinks,
but God!
DIDO: W ell, w h at d o yo u h ave to sa y to it,
then?
HIERONAX: I h ave n othin g to say; but I
think God h as a great d eal to sa y . I think
you h ave d one G od’s w ork , and I think your
prayerful m an agem en t is n eed ed by you r bro­
thers, w ho w ere foolish en ou gh to tru st in
a th letic p row ess, or sw ordsm anship skill, or
in m on ey. A lso G od thinks you cannot exert
th at sa vin g in flu en ce thoroughly excep t a s a
free-w om an ; and my God w ould prefer to lose
on e sla v e to w in th ree. So I snail g iv e you
you r liberty on on e condition . . .
ALL THREE MEN AND DIDO, (a n x io u sly ):
W h at is that?
HIERONAX: T h at you prom ise never to re­
le a se them so lon g a s th ey live; the ob ject of
you r freedom b ein g to be ab le to redeem them
to th e end.
DIDO: Oh, m aster, that condition frightens
m e! T h ey are stron g, useful m en, and som e
d ay, by earning m oney, m ight earn their free­
dom ; w hile I am on ly a w eak girl w ho has
n othin g to look forw ard to in life! I w ill
g la d ly rem ain your sla v e, if you w ill release
th em ! See, 1 k neel to you ! R eplace on me
you r gyves!
HIERONAX: N o, on th is 1 am adam ant!
T h ey need th e ed u cation w hich can be given
alon e by you ; and th at, w hen you shall be a
freew om an , ab le to en force your d iscipline!
Jupiter Ammon w ill release none at all excep t
on th at education al b asis. O therw ise he may
not even purchase them . . . T ake it or leave
it, a ct quickly!
DIDO: B rothers, you h ave heard th e p riest’s
d ecisio n ,— to g ive m e freedom on condition that
I n ever release you from slavery so lon g as you
liv e. O th erw ise, th ere w ill be freedom for
n one, and you m ay not even be redeem ed by
th e G od. It is repugnant to m e to accep t free­
dom , w hen I w ould prefer it for you . Shall
I a ccep t this ed u cation al freedom ? W ill you
ob ey m e to th e end of you r lives?
JUGURTHA: Y es, sister, 1 a lw a y s loved
yo u ; service to you w ill be an ed ucation!
HASDRUBAL: Y es, sister, you have dem on­
strated the redeem in g pow er of prayer; I w ant
to learn it from you!
NUM IS: I am to o asham ed to speak. P lease
sister, do not abandon me!
DIDO, (rad ian t): V ery w ell, lord P riest, I
a ccep t this education al liberation and w ill hold
it a s a sacred tru st from the God him self.
HIERONAX: G ood, I w ill m ake the n ecessary
arrangem ents though th ey seem to prove e x ­
p en sive to the G od. Com e C aptain, and
sla v e-d ea lers, let us conclude the proper form ­
a lities! (W hile he d o es so , and th ey exch an ge
m on ey for ca rd s).
JUGURTHA: CJh, sister, I cannot b elieve it
yet!
HASDRUBAL: W e w ill h ave to call her
‘m istress’ now !
NUM IS: I w ant her to prove herself m y m is­
tress all alon g!
DIDO: No brothers; you m ay indeed be my
sla v es, but can you not love m e also? I w ould
be lon ely a s your “ m istress” . Call m e “ sister”
a s of old, even w hile you respect m y au thority!
H ave I not earned your affection?
JUGURTHA: You certain ly h ave; and I w ill
rem ain your lover for life.
HASDRUBAL: It is not so m uch affection
th at I feel a s reverence for the h olin ess of
your trium ph. I count m yself b lessed to be
condem ned to receive its b lessin gs!
NUM IS: I th ough t that the C aptain had
tam ed m e; but th e radiant b en evolence of your
lo v e h as subdued m e. I am gratefu l to have
b een , by resp ect, tau gh t to love.
HIERONAX: Here are all th e n ecessary
d ocu m en ts,— D id o’s enfranchisem ent, and the
b ills of sale of her brothers to her, w ith the
con d ition th at she never release them , or th ey
revert to their form er ow ners. T he on ly loser
seem s to be Jupiter Am m on!
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
DIDO: He is n ot a loser; for w h ile he has
enfranchised m e, I offer him th e sam e services
he m ight have required of m e a s a slave, but
transfigured by the sparkle of volu n tarin ess!
It shall be m y greatest h ap p in ess voluntarily
to d evote m y life to his serv ice. W hat could
I do here? C arthage is ab out to b e d estroyed .
W hither should I go? W here else could I find
safety? T o th e God g o I, and m y sla v e bro­
thers shall w ork for him ,— and th e God h as
even in ad dition a zealou s sla v e-d river . . .
JUGURTHA: W ho shall be lo v ed , . . .
HASDRUBAL: And ob eyed , . . .
NUMIS: A nd reverenced a s n ever w a s any
other before!
CAPTAIN: D ido, you r relian ce on God has
w on you , not on ly freedom , and ow nership of
your broth ers, but a lso the restoration of the
treasure I w a s ab out to tak e a w a y by force.
M y reven ge on N um is is sa tisfied , if he is
en slaved to y ou , and lo ses th e control of the
treasu re. My ow n greed in ess is satisfied if
1 know it shall o e w ell adm inistered by a ben­
evolen t person like you . B esid es I am relieved
of a threat to th e h on esty of m y p o sitio n . T h is
treasu re shall be a sort of a m arriage-d ow ry,
for it seem s to m e th at u n in ten tion ally w e are
presen t at the m arriage of you r sou l to Jup­
iter A m m on, and th at you r th ree b roth ers have
thereby been ad opted a s children.
DIDO: T hank you , kind frien d; your g en ­
erosity shall not have been in vain . T his
treasure w a s to represent your retirem ent to
safety for you r old age? V ery w ell, you have
given it to m e, w ho h ave b ecom e the bride
of Jupiter A m m on. I accep t it a s a trust for
you. W henever you shall be w eary of w arring,
com e to the O asis w here th is treasu re shall
insure you an ev er in creasin g w elcom e for your
a gin g years. So none of us h ave lo st any­
thing . . .
JUGURTHA: But all h ave gain ed every­
th in g,—
DIDO: E xcept that 1 have n ot y et rem oved
the ch ain s of m y poor dear brothers! In our
new hom e shall no such unhallow ed sound a s
the clank in g of ch ain s be heard! H ere Jug-
urtha dear, let m e release you!
2nd S. D .: W hat, are you g o in g to release
that w ild bull? I b etter escap e, he m ight take
his reven ge of m e! G ood-bye!
1st S. D .: A nd I b etter run before H as-
drubal w hom I condem ned to th e m ines, is
released ! G ood -b ye! G ood-bye!
CAPTAIN: And I b etter esca p e before
Num is on w hom I w reaked so b itter a ven­
g ean ce is released ! You can n ot tru st free
sla v es, you k now ! G ood -b ye, go o d -b y e, g ood ­
bye! (A ll la u g h ).
DIDO: W ell, Jugurtha, here I rem ove your
sh a c k les!
JUGURTHA: P lea se do n ot, d ear sister!
DIDO: W ell, th e chain m ust g o , 1 w on't
have it in th e h ou se!
JUGURTHA: B ut th e w rist-b and of slavery
m ust rem ain, to rem ind m e of m y life long
d evotion to—
DIDO, (p u ttin g her hand on h is lip s ): T o
prayer, and to G od, you m ean. V ery w ell;
let it rem ain; I am w ell p leased .
HASDRUBAL: H ere, sovereign sister,— yes,
you m ay rem ove the chain; but p lea se leave
on the sla v e 's w ristlet. On th e lo w est grounds
It w ill prove a protection from bandit slave-
drivers, w h o m igh t rein slave us, perh ap s w orse
than even b efore. But chiefly I w ant to keep
it a s a rem inder of m y servitud e to higher
Ideals, w hich sp ells freedom from th e w orld.
JUGURTHA: W ho w ould w ant freedom from
G od, from prayer, from ch aracter, from love,
HASDRUBAL: He w ould be seek in g slavery
to h ate, to p a ssio n , to d espair, and to hell!
N o, if, a s hum an b ein g s, w e are in evitab ly
sla v e s to law of som e kind, 1 prefer to be en ­
sla v ed . . .
DIDO: T o th e h igh er law , in stead of to the
low er! Y es, 1 a p p rove; you are fortu n ate in
rea lizin g you r en n ob lin g en slavem en t! P ity
m e w h o am free! B ut see, I h ave used my
freedom volu n tarily to d ev o te m yself to the
h oly career of in terp retin g G od to m an. T h at
w ill be con secration en ou gh!
BROTHERS: A m en, and am en!
NUM IS: P lea se, sister, let m e retain th is
rem inder of d ev o tio n ,— to all th e th in gs 1
b lasp h em ou sly d en ied ,— to lo v e, to character,
to prayer, and to G od! My trou b led sou l
n eed s that con stan t a ssu ran ce.
DIDO: You m ay keep them , brother, if sa n c­
tified by d evotion to Jupiter A m m on.
JUGURTHA: A nd by you r k iss, b eloved s is ­
ter to confirm m y life-lo n g en slavem en t.
DIDO, (k issin g th e w r istle t): L ove sa n c ti­
fies all th in gs, and he w h o is w illin g to serve
lo v e, shall n ever need to repent!
HASDRUBAL: K iss m ine too, sister; and
th ereb y co n secrate it! T urn m y en slavem en t
in to an en th ralm ent!
DIDO: I w ill, b roth er, w h o can n ever be
tak en a w a y from m e a n y m ore!
NUM IS, (silen tly offerin g his w r istle t): I am
to o asham ed to sa y an yth in g!
DIDO, (k issin g it a ls o ): R ep en tance in su res
a b solu tion ! I sh all n ever release you N um is;
do you hear?
NUM IS: T h an ks be to G od, I shall n ever
be ab and on ed ; m y enth ralm ent b ecom es an en -
tran cem ent!
JUGURTHA: B ut if th is our serv ice is to
b ecom e ed u cation al, p lea se, sister, g iv e u s our
first lesson in prayer!
DIDO: I w ill, B roth er. D o you oth er tw o
a lso w ish it?
HASDRUBAL: W e d o!
NUM IS: P lease!
DIDO: V ery w ell; 1 w ill, alon e, sa y th e first
line of th e od e, and the rest you shall repeat
w ith m e. ‘P rayer is th e so u l’s sin cere d e­
sire . . .”
HIERONAX: H alt, I w an t to be in on th is!
I to o w ant a first lesso n on th is victoriou s
p rayer! And so a lso is it w ished by m y fellow
pilgrim p riests in th e au d ien ce, w ho all w ant
to stand up, and join in th is m igh ty ad jura­
tion to th e P ow ers behind th e T h ron e! C om e,
on e and all, stand up, and join in th e paean
o f trium ph, th is th read th at lead s u s sa fely
through th e m azes o f th e labyrinth o f th is
con fu sed earth ly e x iste n c e,— th is go ld en th read
o f p rayer!
P rayer is the s o u l’s sin cere d esire,
T h e gold en k ey of hope;
T h at every prison bar unlocks,
T h at rings th e b ells o f h eaven .
On m oney can I n ot rely,
'T is but a w eak en in g crutch;
It m ust be left behind at d eath ,
It ca n ’t buy h o n e sty .
N or on ath letic p ow er I trust,
For a g e soon w eak en s n erves;
N or can I tru st to an y skill,
W hich a g in g sig h t d estro y s.
T h erefore on p rayer alon e I stak e
Issu es of m y career;
W ith G od, alm igh ty shall I be,
If I have learn ed to pray.
(T h is m ay b e sun g to any com m on m etre
tu ne, such a s ‘M an oah ’).
III. THE SHIPWRECK
A PLAYLET ILLUSTRATING IMMORTALITY
SCENE: T h e d eck o f a ship . T h e ch aracters are sittin g around in chairs.
CHARACTERS: M illionaire, Sw im m er, C ellist, and B eau ty.
MILLIONAIRE: W ell, as to m e, I can n ot un­
d erstan d w h y y ou , Sw im m er, w a ste you r life
sw im m in g ch a n n els. W hy d o n ’t yo u earn som e
m on ey, and w ith it g et e a se, com fort, and
resp ectab ility?
SW IM M ER: 1 am glad you h ave w on that
e a se, com fort, an d resp ectab ility; but I g et
sa tisfa ctio n ou t o f d em on stratin g th at I can
accom p lish so m e fea t that b efore I had th ough t
im p ossib le!
CELLIST: W ell, you are not a lo n e in th at;
I a lso gain sa tisfa ctio n from p la y in g m aster­
p iec es th at a ro u se ad m iration. B ut n otice the
differen ce! You d o som eth in g en tirely p hysical
but I at le a st accom p lish so m eth in g a rtistic,
so m eth in g elev a tin g ; som eth in g in sp iration al!
BEA U TY : W ell, m y frien ds, it is q u ite ro ­
m antic to a s so c ia te w ith such h eroes; but have
you ever realized th at in you r zeal to acq u ire,
to ex e rcise an d to perform , you had forgotten
m an ’s ch ief d u ty, to bloom ? A fter all is said
and d on e, are y ou not d ep en dent on rem ote,
o cc a sio n a l, an d fortu itou s circu m stan ces? Our
m illion aire here is d ep en dent on bank s and on
finding clien ts; our C ello-p layer h as to a d ­
v er tise for a u d ien ces, and our Sw im m er h ere
can p erform on ly in sum m er w hen the w ater
is w arm . B ut w h at h ave you y o u rselv es gain ed ?
T o m e, G od h as given no op portun ity to gath er
m on ey, to d ream of m usic, or to do stu n ts of
sw im m in g. A ll h e h as left m e is m y self, and
th at I h ave accep ted as a sacred tru st, and
m ad e m y little b est o f it. B esid es, all th ree
of you , a fter sp en d in g you r liv es accom p lish ­
in g alm ost Im possib le fea ts, h ave a t som e tim e
p rop osed m arriage, to m e; and to w in m y
con sen t h ave freely offered to d on ate to m e
th e fru its of all you r w ond erful a ctiv ities!
MILLION : A nd w h y do you refu se m e?
BEA U TY : B eca u se, in the search a fter th o se
b aub les w ith w hich you tried to w in m e, you
w ore y ou rself ou t, so that you no lon ger rep ­
resen t th e m an fo r w hom 1 am reserv in g m y­
se lf.
MILLION : W h at is the m atter w ith m e?
BEA U TY : All right, If you force m e to
sneak fran k ly, I w ill,— and d o n ’t b lam e m e I
You m illion aires h ave m ade such w rin k les of
care on you r foreh ead that your g la n ce w ould
stop a clock ; and I w ant my w atch to g o , if
you p lease!
CELLIST, (la u g h in g ): W ell, th a t’s tru el
B ut w hat is th e m atter w ith m e, th at you
refu se me?
BEA U TY : W ell, you h ave acquired a tem p ­
eram ent, and I should think you w ould be a
\ _ry trying com p an ion ; on e d ay m ood y, one
d ay ex c ited . B esid es, you look like a freak!
CELLIST: T h an k s! W ell, m y art is m y
id ea l, n ow ; m y art is not so fragile th at she
n eed s a v an ity ca se, a p arasol, and a flask
o f carbona!
BEA UTY : W hat a charm ing tem p eram ent!
H c.v right I w a s to refu se you !
SWIMMER: W ell, w h at ab out m e? I h ave
no gorgon stare like the m illion aire, nor w ild
hair like th e ce llist. W hat is th e m atter w ith
m e. that you refu se me?
BEA UTY : W ell, I h ate to sa y it!
SWIMMER: S peak out, I can stan d It.
BEA UTY : W ell, th ere is not enough of the
id eal ab out you . You look too much like a
p ian o-m over. Your m u scles are too stron g;—
w h y, th ey w ould crush m e to a trickle of jelly,
if I perm itted you to hug m e!
SWIMMER: B ut m y m u scles are useful too!
Sup p osin g w e w ere row in g in a b oat, and it
ca p sized ; I could sa v e you !
MILLION : Oh, n o w a d a y s, th ere are a lw a y s
b o a ts around ready to rescu e you!
BEA UTY : A jok e! Y ou’re trying to frighten
m e. T hey build b o a ts n ow ad ays that are un-
sin k able!
CELLIST: W hy, I had a friend w ho had
crossed the ocean ten tim es, and he g o es a cross
ju st a s you w alk over a pond.
SWIMMER: You are m istaken, my friends:
T h e proverb sa y s th at th ere are three m en you
can n ot avoid ; the ta x gath erer, the plum ber,
and th e undertaker. S ooner or later, all b oats
fou nd er.
BEA U TY : W hy, I am told b oats are re­
paired and revam ped.
SWIMMER: W ell, h ow old is the old est ship
you ever saw ?
CELLIST: W ell, in navy yards, I h ave seen
the C onstitution, and th e G reat E astern.
SWIMMER: Y es, carefu lly patched up, and
anchored in still w ater! But 1 m ean, ship s in
a ctu al use? H ow old is the old est one you
h ave seen?
MILLION : W ell, I g u ess you are right; the
old est I have seen is not very old . I, m yself,
had a num ber scrap p ed , not b ecau se th ey w ere
u nseaw orth y, but b ecau se they had b ecom e un­
p rofitab le. So 1 su p p ose th ey all perish.
BEA UTY : T hen I’ll sta y on land and cheat
D avy Jones’ locker, a s th ey call the b ottom of
th e sea l
CELLIST: I, to o ! B esid es, w hat do th ey
h ave insurance com p an ies for?
SWIMMER: Y es, but th e insurance d o es not
g o to you, but to you r fam ily or heirs!
CELLIST: W ell, even in th e old d a y s the
h arpist Arion w a s saved from the M editerran­
ean by the d olphin, so I sup p ose that in the
cou rse of evolu tion the fish es w ill be m ore
skillfu l at rescu ing the shipw recked artist,
than th ey w ere even in h is d ay! So I sh an ’t
w orry!
BEA UTY : B esid es I w ould not allow m yself
to be saved excep t by the m an w ho h as the
m on ey, the look s and th e d isp osition to fit him
to marry m e. You know th is life-savin g busi­
n ess has too m any rom antic attach m en ts. It's
sort of d elicate, you know !
SWIMMER: W ell, but you are on th e sea
now !
MILLION : M ay be ju st now , but n ot for
lon g! B esid es, if you have m issed gath ering
m on ey, you h ave m issed one quarter o f your
life!
CELLIST: I sa y , h ow ever, that if you have
m issed art, you h ave m issed one half o f your
life!
BEAUTY: And I in sist that if you have
m issed your natural bloom , you have m issed
three-quarters of your life!
(A violen t ex p losion , w h istles, cries: “ T he
b oat has fou n d ered .” She h as struck a rock!
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
W e are sinking! Help! E very m an for him ­
self! T h e life b oats are g on e! All is lost!
1 have forgotten how to p ray!)
SWIMMER: T h a t’s w hat you say! but see,
God is sayin g th at by m issin g learn in g how to
sw im , you h ave m issed you r w h ole life, b e­
cau se you are goin g to drow n. S ee, Friends,
the in evitable shipw reck is upon us! But I see
an island in the offin g, and I think 1 am stron g
enough to sw im there! G ood-bye!
MILLION : Stop! stop ! sa v e m e, too!
SWIMMER: it ’s a big risk!
MILLION : But I’ll g ive you a m illion d ol­
lars! You m ust tak e m e!
SWIMMER: 1 fear your m illion d ollars will
be a dead lo ss! T h ey are no u se to you now !
MILLION : But I w ill g iv e you a certified
check!
SWIMMER: B ut it w ould not hold m e up for
a sin gle m inute!
MILLION : T hen sa v e m e, in th e nam e of
hum anity!
SWIMMER: Very good , ju st a s a fellow -
hum an being, I w ill save you . But w hat is
th at big b ag you . are d raggin g along?
MILLION : Oh, th a t’s th e gold coin of my
fortu n e.
SWIMMER: W ell, y o u ’ll h ave to leave that,
if you exp ect m e to try to rescu e you!
MILLION : N ever, 1 sold m y soul for that!
SWIMMER: T hen you w ill have to stay
w ith your sou l-p rice, and sink w ith it!
MILLION : I d on ’t care, but no on e else
shall get it! No one else! (H e h ugs it and
caresses it).
CELLIST: S ave m e, then!
SWIMMER: Very w ell, com e on quickly! I
h ave to leave b efore the b oat lurches!
CELLIST, (h u ggin g his c e llo -c a s e ): Here I
am !
SWIMMER: T hrow aw a y th at ca se, and
grasp m e around the body!
CELLIST: N o indeed! T h at case go es
w herever I g o ! It is a gen u in e Crem ona cello
I had to p ay a fortune for! I d o n ’t separate
m yself from it!
SWIMMER: T hen you sink w ith it! G ood­
b ye!
CELLIST: All right, but no on e shall have
it, but m e! No one, do you hear?
BEAUTY: But m e! You w ill sa v e m e, at
lea st! You know chivalry dem ands “ Ladies
F irst” . S ave m e, you d arling! W hen I am
sa v ed , you can have m e if you w ant!
SWIMMER: W ell, 1 d on ’t den y you are
p retty. W ill you really g ive you rself to m e,
to do w hat I p lease with?
BEAUTY: 1 w ill be your to y ! Only save
m e, you hero!
SWIMMER: G ood, I’ll pick th is flow er! Drop
th at case, and clasp m e around th e neck. Leave
m y arm s free to sw im !
BEA U TY : B ut I h ave only on e arm free!
T h e oth er on e is n eed ed to hold th is c a se!
SWIMMER: D rop it, I say!
BEA U TY : W hat! Drop my P aris lin gerie,
th at I w en t to France to get m ade— sp ecia lly
fitted ? My P aris frocks? My in d ivid u al per­
fu m es, and sp ecia lly prepared co sm etics?
N ever, never, sh all any one else h a v e them !
I ca n ’t let them g o ! N o one else shall h ave
th em . N o on e!
SW IM MER: W ell, then you w ill h a v e to
sink w ith them ! G ood b ye! I m ust be off b e­
fore th e sw irl b egin s! G ood-bye to y ou , w ith
you r m on ey-b ags, your cello, and you r P aris
frippery! I m ust be off! G ood-bye and good
luck! A dieu! A dieu! A dieu!
(H u ggin g a life preserver, he ju m ps off,
th e tab le on w hich the oth er th ree w ere
stan d in g tilts, and th ey drop off to th e floor,
w here th ey lie g estic u la tin g ):
MILLION : My m on ey is d raggin g m e d ow n !
CELLIST: M y ce llo -ca se h as filled !
BEA U TY : My trunk h as b ecom e like a b ox
of bricks! I am d row ning! (G urgle, g u r g le ).
ALL: Air! Air! G oodbye! B ood b ye!
SWIMMER: Hurrah! I am sa ved ! H urrah!
And th a t’s on ly b ecau se I had no m o n ey -b a g s,
no c e llo -ca se, and no van ity v a lise. Hurrah for
th e free!— I am so happy that 1 can n ot help
sin g in g th e so n g , ‘Flag of the F ree!’ S ee, on
th is fla g th at I find on th e floor, th e in scrip ­
tion , ‘Freedom is th e F ragrance of Im m ortality!’
(D urin g th ese w ord s an assista n t tran sform s
him in to an a n gel by p utting on him a robe
and a crow n of flo w ers). But I can n ot sin g it,
u n less all you m y frien ds w ho are p resen t sin g
it w ith m e. M ake m e happy! You w ill not
refu se! (A ll s in g ):
(T u n e: FLAG OF THE FREE)
1.
F lag o f th e free, fa irest to see,
B orne through th e strife and thunder of d eath
B anner so brigh t, w ith starry light,
Float ever prou dly, from m ountain to sh ore,
Em blem of freedom , h ope to th e sla v e,
Spread th y fair fo ld s but to en cou rage and
sa v e
W hile throu gh th e sky, loud rings th e cry
F reely I live for im m ortality!
2.
F lag of the brave, lo n g m ay it w ave,
So th at m ankind m ay h ave strength to d esp ise
M oney and fam e, title and rank,
K now ing th at th ese m ust be left w hen w e die.
So w e seek th in gs that d eath cannot tak e,
Strength of the sou l, independence o f m ind,
S eek in g th e sigh t o f H eaven ’s dom e,
T h at all h um anity m ay find a hom e.
IV. FOOLS FEAR TO TREAD
A PLAYLET ILLUSTRATING INSPIRATION
SCENE: Perugia, ab out A .D . 1400.
CAST OF CHARACTERS: Ser D onatello; P erugian B u rgess; G host of Ser D onato; Bishop
of P erugia; D uke of U m bria.
(A t a tab le b efore a block of m arble
D onatello tak es up a ch isel and a hamm er
and h its ow n h an d ).
DONATELLO: Ouch, ouch! T h at hurt! All
m y fingers are thum bs! How aw kw ard I am!
1 see, I need the right habit of usin g even so
sim ple a to o l a s a ham m er. W ell, I m ust try
again !
(A fter a few m ore strok es, he is sup p osed
to chip off too b ig a p iece of m arble, larger
than he in ten d ed .)
A h, th at hurt m e m ore than even b efore,
FOOLS FEAR TO TREAD
w h en I hit m y se lf. S ec, I h ave chipped off
to o b ig a p iec e! I fear 1 h ave hurt th e ear
on th is sid e! H ow e a sy th is scu lp turin g look s,
but h ow d ifficult it is! I’ll have to m easu re
a gain !
(H e m easu res w ith co m p a sse s).
Just w h at I th ou gh t, I’v e taken off to o m uch,
1 w ill h ave to ta k e off m ore on th e oth er sid e,
an d a t th at, th e h ead m ay com e out to o nar­
ro w . W hy d id n ’t I learn to do th is w hen 1
w a s you n g, and it w o u ld n ’t h ave been any
trou b le a t all? H ow ev eryth in g seem s to go
w ron g!
(G rum bling, h e s e ts to w ork a g a in . S ud ­
d en ly his ch isel rin g s).
W hat? th is tim e I h ave broken the ch isel!
(T h row s it d ow n in d esp a ir). W ell, there
is no u se g o in g on ! I’m ruined;— and vet my
fath er, Ser D on ato w ould have put so iittlc a
job through in a few h ours w ith out an y effort!
He could h ave finished it w ith ou t an y d istress
but n ever, n ever can 1 finish it, b ecau se 1
failed to learn to u se th e to o ls w h o se p o s­
sessio n m isled m e to fo rg et to learn to u se
th em . W hat am I to do? (K nocking is h ea rd ).
C om e in! (H e co v ers th e b lock w ith a cloth
w h ile en ter P eru gian B u rg ess).
PERUGIAN: Oh good ev en in g, Ser D on atello,
g o o d ev en in g ! I h ope I am not d istu rb in g you,
sittin g alon e w ith you r grief at your fa th er’s
lam ented d em ise!
DONATELLO: O h .n o , you are n ot disturb ­
in g m e, 1 am su re; com e in and sit d ow n .
PERUGIAN, (d o es s o ): W ith p leasu re.
DONATELLO: T o w h at do I o w e th e honor
o f th is d istin gu ish ed visit?
PERUGIAN: W h y, I cam e b eca u se o f the
a n g el-sta tu ette fo r our altar.
DONATELLO: W hy, th at w a s n ot to be
read y until to-m orrow m orning.
PERUGIAN, (n o d d in g ): I k now . I know !
W h y of cou rse, to b e sure! It w a s not to be
ready till tom orrow m orn in g, but I w a s so in­
terested , so a n x io u s, so full of adm iration that
I could not k eep aw a y ! So I cam e ju st to pay
a little v isit, a p rivate v isit, you u nderstand.
Of cou rse on ly a p rivate v isit to the a n g el, for
o f cou rse it is read y and I w an ted to be the
first on e to s e e it.
DONATELLO: I am sorry m y d ear Sir, but
yo u can n ot see it y et.
PERUGIAN: O y es, I s e e , grief fo r you r la ­
m e n te d / resp ected fath er . . •
DONATELLO: N o, y e s , th a t is . . .
PERUGIAN: W h at e lse could it be? S om e
accid en t?
DONATELLO: N o, no accid en t, either.
PERUGIAN: W hy th en , 1 m ust know the rea­
so n ; 1 dem and it! I h ave a right to know . . .
DONATELLO: L ater on, m y dear Sir. N ot
to -n ig h t, at an y ra te. I m ust b eg to be excu sed .
I am not feelin g w ell.
PERUGIAN: Oh w ell, if the reason is sick ­
n ess, of cou rse, I do not w ish to be cruel; w e
are very gen ero u s, and con sid erate, to be sure.
B u t if tom orrow m orning . . .
DONATELLO: Y es, to-m orrow m orning!
PERUGIAN: If then it is not ready w e w ill
regretfu lly be com p elled . . . to tak e m eans . . .
DONATELLO, (a n g r y ): V ery w ell, tom orrow
m orn in g.you m ay do w h at you p lea se. But to ­
night is m ine. I b eg you to leave m e alon e, I
am not feelin g w ell, p lease go!
PERUGIAN: H eaven s, w hat a son! H ow d if­
ferent from h is sain ted father! He w a s a lw a y s
so prom pt.
DONATELLO, (p u ttin g him o u t): Very w ell,
to-m orrow m orn in g, but to-n igh t, g o o d -b y e!
g o o d -b y e, do you hear?
PERUGIAN: D on ’t forget, if to-m orrow
m orn . . .
DONATELLO, (sh u ttin g the d o o r ): T om orrow
m orn . . . is not y et, and to-n igh t— to-n igh t all
is lo st.
VOICE: E xcept prayer!
DONATELLO: W hat w a s that? An a n g el’s
v o ic e, perhaps? E xcept p rayer! And w ill pray­
er scu lp t the sta tu e, and let th efian gel out?
VOICE: P rayer is th e gold en key!
DONATELLO: W ell, a s all else is lo st, 1
h ave tried, I know n ot h ow . .
VOICE: Just try again !
DONATELLO: O G od, w hom m y fath er re­
lied on , You w hom I put a sid e till som e m ore
con ven ien t sea so n , w h ose urgent in sisten ce
th at I learn m y fa th er’s p rofession w hile still
he cou ld teach m e I ever in solen tly put a sid e,—
0 G od, I b eseech You now in m y extrem ity to
h ear m e. If I do not produce th e statu e b e­
fore to-m orrow m orn I shall be d isgraced , and
ruined, driven ou t in con tu m ely from this lo v e­
ly Perugia w here I sow ed m y w ild o a ts. And
m y fath er’s repu tation a lso . . . I ask You to
help m e! Oh G od, sa v e m e! (h e stan d s up and
liste n s, and look s arou n d) No help! Just a s I
th ou gh t! There is no help! I am ruined! In
m y d espair 1 w ill th row m yself aw ay! I refuse
to m eet the d isgrace! I can d ie! T h e charcoal
sto v e is b u rn in g . All I need to do is to close
th e d oors and the w in d ow s, and d iscon n ect the
p ipe! (a cts it o u t) T hen fling m yself dow n and
a w a it death! (On th e chair he fa lls a sle e p ).
(O ut from th e w in d ow or m irror or d oor step s
SER DONATO th e FATHER’S GHOST; he
com es and k isses DONATELLO’S brow and
cries g en tly ).
DONATO: Son, m y son , listen .
DONATELLO, (so m n o len tly ): Y es, m y father,
1 hear.
DONATO: Son, it is not y e t to o la te; it is
n ever too late!
DONATELLO: Y es, father.
DONATO: N ow th at you have repented of
you r idle w aste o f you r you th, I can help you .
A re you at last w illin g to learn how to u se
you r p rofession ’s tools?
DONATELLO: Y es, father.
DONATO: T hen rise and tak e you r to o ls
and I w ill gu id e your hands.
DONATELLO: Y es fath er (d o es s o ) . B ut
w hy do you fath er not do so you rself alon e?
H on ly hinder you r skilful touch.
DONATO: M aybe you d o ,— but if I did it
for you , th e m astery w ould be w on by m e, and
n ot by you, w ho m ost need it!
DONATELLO: V ery w ell, but even so I
could never, even though guided do a s w ell as
you did!
DONATO: W ell, let m e tell you som eth in g
you seem not to know ,— nam ely th at the b est
w ork I did w a s w hen m y hands w ere guided
by th ose of th e Invisible Sculptor. So you see
you w ill lose n othin g by lettin g m e guide them
for yo u . (D oes s o ). N ow tak e the ch isel this
w a y , and w ith that ham m er g iv e short, light
b lo w s. Com pare both sid es of th e figure.
S m ooth it off first. T hen take th e narrow er
ch isel to m ake a g roove here. M ake a ring
around the part yOti w ish to com e off. So it
g o e s quickly. N ow it is finished. (K nocks are
heard at the d oor. DONATELLO drops the
to o ls, and replaces the veil over th e statu e.
He drops back into th e chair; his ey e s are still
clo se d . DONATO' d isap pears. T h e knocking
con tin u es, louder and m ore in sisten t. DONA­
TELLO opens his ey e s, and a s if w aking from
a tran ce staggers to h is feet. T h e knocking
n ow is violen t and he g o es to th e door and
56 SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
op en s It. In ru shes P erugian B u rgess, and a
B ishop fo llo w s.)
PERUGIAN: W ell, It is tim e, it is tim e! The
sun h as risen, the d ay of d elivery h as arrived!
You m ust show the statu e! It is ours, w hether
finished or n ot. Your tergiversation s m ust
cea se! Show it!
DONATELLO: Later, w hen I am ready!
BISHOP: My son, I have com e to support
th e w orthy B u rgess’s d em an ds. S how it to
m e, you r spiritual father! I h ave a right to
se e it first, a s it is to stan d in m y church.
DONATELLO: I am not sure it is finished
. . . w ait!
PERUGIAN: W hat, you arc not sure w hether
It is finished? An evident lie! T h e Bishop
and I w ill step in and d iscover the true state
of affairs, and stop this fo olin g. A rc you not
asham ed of this p lay-actin g!
DONATELLO: It is no p la y-actin g. I am
tellin g you the truth. D uring m y fath er’s
life-tim e, allured b y the p leasu res of th e w orld.
I w ould refuse to let him teach m e to uce his
to o ls! H eaven k now s it w a s not his fau lt for
he w as a lw a y s p ersecu ting me to realize my
situ ation . I a lw a y s intended to learn som e­
tim e, so much so that I told everyb od y I w as
a sculptor, w hich I w a s, in th eory, con sid ering
m yself secu re of m asterin g the drudgery any
con ven ient tim e. B ut sud d en ly m y father died,
leavin g th is unfinished w ork on m y hands,
w hile I had not even learned h ow to use the
to o ls. I tried hard but m ade a m iserable fail­
ure. Just then you d escen d ed on m e, and
dem anded the finished sta tu e, and I saw star­
in g In m y face, d isgrace to m y fath er, and
ruin for m y ow n future. So I b egged you for
d elay, hoping again st h ope, for som e sort of
salvation . . . and I began to pray . . .
PERUGIAN: Oh if he b egin s to pray, there
Is som e real trouble.
DONATELLO: And so, w hen prayer w as
u se less I tried su icid e,— only th e sto v e must
have failed to w ork, for I fell into a sleep and
I had a dream that my father cam e to teach
m e, even posth u m ou sly, how to use the tools
I had so lon g scorned a s unim portant and
p ostp on ab le . . .
BISHOP: W hen you spoke of prayer, the
w orth y B u rgess said it w as high tim e for us to
a ct. N ow that you proceed to talk of a dream ,
I d eclare th e tim e of grace is g o n e. You are
d eceivin g us! W orthy B u rgess, com e, and let
us togeth er rem ove the coverin g, and ou rselves
se e w hat is the truth! (T h ey step up to the
sta tu e, rem ove the veil, and there is revealed
a perfect golden statu e of an a n g el. T he trick
is w orked by turning around th e pasteboard
statu e, painted differently on both sid e s).
PERUGIAN: W hat? C om plete? Finished?
BISHOP: A m iraculous w ork of art! The
m ost p erfect exem plar of Ser D on ato’s art
W hy, Ser D onatello h as even im proved upon
h is fath er’s w orkm anship! T h is Is sublim e!
PERUGIAN: And you. Ser D onatello, w ere
p layin g upon our credulity! You w ere acting
a com ed y! You w ere tak in g ad van tage of my
an xiety!
BISHOP: Calm you rself, B u rgess. Ser D ona­
tello is on ly an overgrow n b oy, and is not over
h is tem p eram en tal p eriod . W e m ust not
gru d ge him th e fun he w a s p ok in g at us!
BU RG ESS: B ut he is crazy!
BISHOP: C razy or n ot, he h as evid en tly
prod uced w h at bids fair to be the jew el of
P eru gian art, the lo d csto n e that w ill draw
v isito r s from all over the w orld , and fill the
coffers of our storek eep ers and in n -k eep ers!
W e are p ractical m en, w h o d eal in realities!
Call th e Duke of Um bria and let him accep t
th is treasu re for th e future g en era tio n s of our
b eloved P eru gia!
BURG ESS: Surely, I sa w him ju st n ow in
his gard en n ear by: D uke! D uke!
DUKE: W ell, and h ow h as the prom ised
sta tu e p rogressed ?
BISHOP: G loriou sly, Ser D on atello h as ou t­
d istan ced h is father, and produced th e m ost
m arvelou s revelation ! Look!
DUKE, (exam in in g it): M arvelou s! N ever
h ave I seen th e like! Such d elicacy of touch,
ob jectify in g such b old n ess of con cep tion , and
alm ost en d ow in g it w ith life! It is a new
creation ! Ser D on atello, you are th e grea test
artist of the a g e s . . .
DONATELLO: It is not to m e, it Is to m y
father th at th e cred it is due . . .
DUKE: W h at filial d ev o tio n , w h at m od esty!
T ou ch in g!
DONATELLO: I assu re you , it w a s only
a fter prayer th at God helped m e . . .
BISHOP: W h at d ev o u tn ess and con secra ­
tion !
DONATELLO: I assu re you m y fath er held
his hand s on m ine, w hich till then had been
a m iserable failure.
BURG ESS: W hat hum ility! A lm ost you
p ersu ade me you arc sin cere; but even if your
story be true, it w a s your ow n hand s on w hich
your fa th er’s spirit rested h is; so , a fter all is
said and d on e, it is you w hom w e rig h tly hail
as our g re a te st Peru gian hero!
DUKE: C om e, frien ds, let u s all ex p re ss our
en th usiasm by join in g to g eth er in a so n g of
a p o th eo sis for our m od est, d evou t and properly
filial h ero! C om e every -o n e, stan d , join hands
and fall in to harm on iou s union w ith ou r paean!
(W h ile DONATELLO sits d ow n at tab le w ith
h is head bent over, but ca ressin g th e statu e,
th e oth ers join hand s, and s in g ):
(T u n e: INTEGER V ITA E).
He w ho h as learned to m aster h is ow n forces
And to produce resu lts th at are artistic
Out of the sen se less ston e creatin g b eau ty
Hero h as he b ecom e.
W h at th ough , his God w ho a n sw ered sup p li­
cation
W hat though h is hands w ere gu id ed b y a spirit
W hat though he realize h im self a failure
Y et, his th e victory.
W e shall raise praise to hum an a sp iration s
G uided d ivin ely, into n ew ach ievem en t
B y th e coop eration o f h is forces
Into a man divin e!
V. THE BANISTERS TO HEAVEN
A PLAYLET ILLUSTRATING THE VALUE OF VOWS
C H A R A
PA TER NO , d yin g fath er
LIBERO, eld er son
DEVO TO, you n ger son
PU ELLA , an orphan girl
'(P atern o is brou ght in w ith h is arm s around
th e n eck s o f h is so n s Libero and D evoto, w hile
little P u ella com es in trem b lin g and an xiou sly,
sn ifflin g, h old in g her hands up to her e y e s ).
LIBERO: W ell, Father, are y ou really feel­
in g so b adly?
PA T E R N O : Y es, son , I fear I am d yin g.
D EVO TO : Let us h one n ot, fath er. R est
y o u rself, sit d ow n com fortab ly.
PA T E R N O : Y es, I m ust, for m y lim b s re­
fu se to sup p ort m e. H ere, P u ella, m y poor
orphan fou n d lin g, w h o w ill tak e care of you?
P o o r b ab y, p oor baby!
PU ELLA : W hat is the m atter, gran d father?
D o n ’t le a v e u s, p lease d o n ’tl
PA TER N O : I d on ’t w an t to , d ear, but I
fea r I m u st. Oh, son s, I can n ot die until som e
p ro v isio n is m ad e for th is orphan w hom I have
a d o p te d . P lea se prom ise m e you w ill not un­
d ertak e an y n ew ven tu re, until she h as been
ed u ca ted , led in to th e right p ath, and settled
in lifel P rom ise m e, and I sh all d ie happy, and
m y sou l can p rogress to oth er sph eres! Prom ­
ise m e, w ill you not? Libero, yo u th e eld est,
w ill you not?
LIBERO: Sorry, fath er, but I can n ot prom ise
th is. I w ou ld like to p lea se you , but m y con ­
scie n c e is to o sacred to be bound by an y v ow s.
B ut you m ay be at e a se , fath er, tru stin g the
little h elp less P u ella to a con scien ce so tender,
so se n sitiv e a s m ine.
PA TER N O : T h at is all g o o d ; but a fter death
I w ou ld w an d er around in p urgatorial torm ent
u n less I had th e p rom ise of you , to relieve me
of th e resp on sib ility for th e ch ild. I appeal
to yo u , Libero, m y eld e st, support o f m y sou l.
LIBERO: M y con scien ce forb id s. Oh, if I
on ly cou ld ! Y ou w ould ruin th e n ob lest part
o f m e!
PA TER N O : B ut son , rem em ber th e p o e t’s
w ord s, th at “ ta sk s in h ours o f in sigh t w illed ,
m ay be throu gh the hours o f gloom fu lfilled !’’
R em em b er th at co n scien ce, w h ile d ivin e, is not
a lw a y s on gu a rd ,— indeed lea st of all w hen it
is n eed ed m o st, a s in th e a ccid en ts of m is­
fortu n e, th e sudden flares of p a ssio n , the
u rgen cies o f im p erative tem p tation . .T h ere­
fo re, w h en our con scien ce, th at still sm all voice
th at sp e a k s on ly in th e rare hours o f silen ce,
h as ou tlin ed a cou rse, w e need th e sh eet
an ch or o f a v o w or prom ise to hold us fa st
d urin g th e storm s of life.
LIBERO: Y es, y es, for th e w eak con scien ce;
b ut not for m ine, w hich is th e ruling elem ent
o f m y life.
PA TER N O : Y es, w h ile it is on gu ard ; but
w hen it is not? A re you n ever a slee p , con ­
fu sed , or disturbed?
LIBERO: P oor m e! A ttack n ot m ine in teg­
rity, O m y fath er! R ob * » * not o f m ine hon­
or, m y hum an d ign ity!
PA TER N O : W ell, 1c. m e u nderstand. I
h ope th is o v ercon scien tiou sn ess is not a sub­
terfu g e! D oes your vau nted con scien ce really
ap p rove o f the guard ian ship of the orphan?
LIBERO: C ertainly; and you h ave nothing
to lo se , but all to gain , to tru st her to the
d elica te n iceties of m y q u ixotic sen se of m ag-
C T E R S
ADVOCATO, a law yer
BARONO, a noblem an
RECITORA, a reciter
CANTORA, a sin ger
n an im ity. Much m ore w ould it do than a
gru d gin g sen se of prom ised duty!
PATERNO : B ut w hat of m y peace of mind?
LIBERO: C hange your m ind, then. D ism iss
th ose unw orthy su sp icion s of you r m ost con ­
scien tiou s, eld est son !
PATERNO : T h e point is not m ere ch an ge
of m ind, or su sp icion of m y son ; it is my
p roper solicitu d e, the con fu sion s of the next
ex isten ce, w hich I m ust fa ce. W hy do you
in d u lge your h yp oth etical scru p les about prom ­
isin g som eth in g of w hich you say you thor­
ou gh ly approve? W hat, am I abandoned by
m y ow n children?
DEVOTO: N ay, n ay, fath er! I w ill prom ise!
I understand th at life h as urgencies; w here
th ey w ho d esire to accom plish w orth w hile
ta sk s, m ust assu m e resp on sib ilities. Yes, you
can count on m e, father, (raisin g his right
hand ) to assu m e resp on sib ility for the ch ild ’s
ed u cation ! I prom ise to undertake no new
ven tu re till th e child is firm ly esta b lish ed ,—
fear not!
PATERNO: H ere, let m e k iss thee my son,
for relievin g my so u l. N ow Lord, lettest thou
th y servan t depart in p eace, for m y soul has
grasp ed th e sa lvation of m y little child,
P u ella!
PUELLA: T hank you , father, n ot to have
abandoned m e!
PATERNO : T a k e m e ou t, let m e g o to the
ch ap el, I w ant to die there! S ec, the an gel
o f d eath is beck on in g to m e! N o, so n s, do
n ot com e; the an gel w an ts m e on ly; you are
y et to live lon g, useful lives! G ood-bye Libero!
G ood-bye D evoto! Your affection ch eers m e
on m y w ay! Y our love h as cn h allow cd my
leavin g!
PUELLA: Y ou shall not g o alon e! The
A ngel of D eath h as no fears for m e, an or­
phan! I shall support th e step s of m y pro­
tecto r to the end!
PATERNO : G ood, Pu ella, love w ill protect
you ! Come dear! Y es, support m e! God w ill
rew ard you for th is! (T h ey stum ble out; Lib­
ero an:’ D evoto start to follow him , but are
called back as from th e op p osite sid e en ters)
ADVOCATO: G ood evening, gentlem en!
Your w orthy fath er sen t for m e in h aste.
W here is he?
DEVOTO: He h as ju st gon e into the chapel;
and as w e fear, dying.
(From the chapel en ters Barono, w ho s a y s),
BARONO: You m ean, d ead . He has passed
aw a y ; his last w ord s w ere ‘May God rew ard
D evoto for lettin g m e p a ss on to p e a c e .”
DEVOTO: W here is Puella?
BARONO: L eave her sob ou t her grief; that
is b est; she is sa fe.
DEVOTO: I shall go to him . . .
ADVOCATO: N o, you better n ot, because
you arc needed h ere. Last year you r revered
fath er m ade a w ill, and drew ou t all his cash
from the bank, divided it into tw o p ortions and
g a v e it into m y care, to be handed to you , on
h is dem ise, w ith the proviso that if Libero did
not undertake P u ella’s education his share
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
should a lso g o to D ev o to . I su p p ose he m ust
h ave foreseen h is d eath w hen th is aftern oon
he sen t for m e in h aste; and no doubt he
w ished m e to settle his esta te a t on ce! T h ere­
fore 1 brought w ith m e his w ill, and th e for­
tu ne, to settle up everyth in g q uick ly, for I am
sure Libero w ill do his d uty by P u ella a t the
righ t tim e!
LIBERO: A t the right tim e, y es, of course,
m y con scien ce w ill do th e right th in g! N ay,
m ore than an en slaved m ind!
DEVOTO: It seem s to m e th at you r con ­
scien ce can h ear th e call of filthy lucre, of
M am m on.
LIBERO: Of cou rse, th at is th e essen ce of
con scien ce, th at it be free to act right at the
right tim e. Y ou, bound by a prom ise, can
a ct right on ly on ce, w hen you m ade it; but
m ine is exercised all th e tim e.
DEVOTO: But your con scien ce w ould not
listen to P atern o’s d yin g w ish!
LIBERO: T he w ish w a s all right, but he
w anted to en sla v e m y co n scien ce! S ee, when
th e right tim e h as com e, how con scien tiou sly
I can act!
DEVOTO: Y es, y es, a fter you r fath er died
in grief!
LIBERO: T h at w a s his fau lt for tryin g to
en slave m e; not m ine! But I shall a lw a y s do
w hat is right! But should th ere not be w it­
n esse s, so th at everyth in g m igh t be done
leg a lly , and in due and proper order?
BARONO: W ell, 1 for on e w ill do for a
w itn ess: I had ju st dropped In to con gratu ­
la te your noble fath er on h is b irth -d ay; but
a la s, h is earth ly b irth-day seem s to h ave be­
com e a lso a graduation in to h is h eaven ly
b irth-day! W hat a grief to m e!— B ut the
w orst is, it w ill prove a grief to tw o visitin g
frien ds w hom I had invited to join m e here,
to in crease th e joy of your revered fath er’s
an niversary. I w ond er If I cou ld head them
off . . .
DEVOTO: I fear you can n ot, for I hear
several p eop le arriving.
LIBERO: W e shall h ave to put the b est
p ossib le face on the situ ation .
ADVOCATO: And th ey w ill serve a s w it­
n esse s, so all can be settled a t on ce.
RECITORA, (en ters): Is M aster A dvocato
here?
ADVOCATO: Here I am , kind friend, ready
to greet you and to assu re you a w elcom e,
and to thank you for h avin g been w illin g to
join th is stra n g er’s party, to entertain them
w ith your p rofession al recitation s; but I regret
to h ave to inform you th at m y revered friend,
Patern o, on his very birth-day anniversary,
h as sud d en ly d eceased , so that th is h ouse is no
lon ger one of rejoicin g, but one o f m ourning.
RECITORA: T hen indeed I feel I did not
com e in vain , if I can presen t m y sincere
con d olen ces, and serve to allev ia te m ourning.
LIBERO: I accep t your kindness!
DEVOTO: And perhaps you m ay be w illin g
to act a s w itn ess to th e reading of th e w ill
and th e settlin g of th e esta te, w hich , it seem s,
m ust tak e p lace a t on ce.
RECITORA: W h at little 1 can do, is at
your service. Indeed, m y sister C antora w as
p assin g w ith us. I can still call her back, and
she can serve a s an ad ditional w itn ess. Can­
tora! C antora! Come in! (E nter C antora).
CANTORA: W hy, dear R ecitora, did you
w ant me?
RECITORA: Y es, sister, com e in, and let me
introduce you to m y friends here, Libero, De­
voto, and B aron o;— A dvocato you already
know . A s you rem em ber, I accom panied good
A dvocato to help entertain at P atern o’s birth­
d ay an niversary; but he h as ju st d ied , and w e
are n eed ed a s w itn esse s to th e read in g and
settlem en t of h is w ill. W ill you join m e? I
shall feel le ss em b arrassed .
CANTORA: You m ay cou n t on m e, th ou gh
w ith m in gled regret and con gratu lation .
DEVO TO: Sit d ow n , lad ies, and m ake
y o u rselv es com fortab le.
LIBERO: I feel I should do m y little b est
to offer you h o sp ita lity . Our grief shou ld n ot
render u s n eglectfu l of our so cial d u ties. It
is a m atter of con scien ce to entertain y o u .
(H e brin gs ou t cu p s and a fla g o n ).
BARONO: W e are glad if w e can b e of
som e service in recogn ition of your gen ero u s
h osp itality.
ADVOCATO: M y task , lad ies and g e n tle ­
m en, is e a sily accom p lish ed . T h e w ill d iv id es
the fortu n e in to tw o equal p arts, to L ibero
and D evoto. Shall I read it?
DEVOTO: It is u n n ecessary!
LIBERO: Spare us the h arrow in g m om en ts!
ADVOCATO, (p rod ucin g tw o p a rce ls): H ere
is th e d ivid ed fortu n e, cou n t it; one for ea ch .
(G ives th em ). N ow , each sign a receip t, an d
th e rem ainder of th e com p an y sign as w itn ess­
es, and all w ill be settled up. (A ll d o s o ,
am on g g o o d natured ch a ffin g ).
DEVOTO: Here is m y ack n ow led gm en t.
LIBERO: T h is is a q u it-claim , w hich w ill
a void all h a ir-sp littin g con ten tion s later. My
con scien ce m ust be free to a ct, like a co m p a ss-
n eed le ev er tu rn in g to the p ole of ju stice.
BARONO: I co n gratu late you on relea se
from slavery to u nsettled in h eritances.
RECITORA: And I con gratu late you g e n tle ­
m en on you r future!
CANTORA: N or let m e fail to w ish you
w ell on your life careers!
ADVOCATO: It seem s to m e th at in b ein g
relieved of th e resp on sib ility, I should o b ject­
iv ely d em on strate m y felicita tio n s to our
w orth y D evoto, by offerin g him th is cup of
w ine!
DEVO TO: T h an k in g you for you r g o o d
w ill, and the kindly m o tiv es w hich prom pt
your actio n , I regret to h ave to refu se to do
m ore than a m ere gestu re of cou rteou s a p ­
p reciation by ra isin g th is g la ss. A s a m atter
of fa ct, I am not free, a s you seem to thin k .
I have undertaken to ed u cate our orphan Puella
and I h ave prom ised to undertake n othin g until
that h eavy burden is w orth ily lifted . T ill
then I m ust refu se all th at m igh t d istract, con ­
fu se, or in cap acitate. T hank you kindly h ow ­
ever! (T h e com p an y look p u zzled ).
LIBERO: P erm it m e, m y honored g u ests, to
step into the b reach, and a p o lo g ize fo r m y
m isguided b roth er’s u n graciou sn ess. W hat I
an ticipated h as actu a lly ob jectified . P rom ises
are k ill-joys, m ar-p lots, trou b le-b reed ers. A s
a m atter o f fa ct, m y con scien ce w ould com ­
pel m e to do for P u ella even m ore than w ould
his prom ise. B ut his prom ise unfits him to
attend to th e u np redictab le duties or p rivi­
le g es of th e hour; w h ile I w ho w ould do m ore
than he . . .
DEVOTO: T h at rem ain s to be seen !
ADVOCATO: N o quarrellin g, gen tlem en ; a t
lea st w hile you r revered fath er rem ains un­
buried!
DEVOTO: I b eg p ardon; I shall not quarrel,
but I b eg him to d esist from p erson al re­
flection s in com p an y.
LIBERO: C ertainly, certain ly! I shou ld! I
m ust! I w ill! B ut I w a s on ly excu sin g him .
So 1 m ust sh ow m y d issen t from h is d o g-in
the m anger attitu d e . . .
DEVOTO: C areful, p lease!
LIBERO: B y m yself accep tin g the cup o f
59
THE BANISTERS TO HEAVEN
"freer, so m agn an im ou sly offered, to show h ow
c o n scie n tio u sly I ap p reciate the g o o d -w ill of
m y frien d s! H ere’s to you all! (D rinks it
fu ll).
BARO NO : F riend, you drained th at bum per
to p led g e A d v o c a to . N ow it is m y turn a lso
to offer o n e to yo u . . .
DEVO TO: C areful, b rother! Y our con ­
scie n c e, alm ig h ty w hen in actio n , on its guard,
m ay soon b e off its guard . . . and th en . . .
LIBERO: T h an k s for you r w arn in g, brother!
B ut I am n o w eak lin g like som e p eop le, not
very far a w a y , w'ho need p rom ises a s b an is­
ters! My co n scien ce is stro n g , stren gth en ed
a s it is by in itia tiv e and free p ractice. No
little p hysical th in g such a s a little cup of
w in e cou ld u p set it! Y es, ju st to dem on strate
m y stren gth , an d to put to rout all con tem p tib le
cow a rd ice here I in sist on drinking th is cup!
DEVO TO: P lea se, brother, if you ju d ge that
co u rtesy d em an d s it, ju st ta ste it, but set it
d ow n !
LIBERO: N o, I w ill d em on strate m y stren gth
of m ind, 1 sh all drain it to the last drop! And
n o w , a s a com p lim en t to you , lad ies, each of
you fill m e up a bum per!
CANTORA: It is not n ecessary to d o th at,
I ap p reciate you r good in ten tion s!
LIBERO: B ut I in sist on p rovin g m y p er­
son al liberty . . .
DEVO TO : T o m ake a pig o f you rself.
LIBERO: V ery w ell, I shall m ake a p ig of
m yself, m erely to vin d icate m y p erson al lib­
erty! W ill you pour it, beau tifu l R ecitora?
RECITORA: W ith p leasu re, Sir; w ith p lea s­
ure! (D o es s o ) .
LIBERO: 1 drink th is cup ju st to prove th e
fo lly of p ro m ises, to in d icate m y p erson al lib ­
erty, w hich is the m ost p reciou s treasu re of
m y sou l! T o sh o w I am stron g enough to
drink, or not to drink! Ha, ha! T h is is the
a p o th e o sis of reason !
DEVOTO: T h en reason is not ad eq u ate a s a
guide?
LIBERO: R eason is suprem e!
DEVOTO: A nd your b oasted con scien ce?
LIBERO: Can w ait, until I am good and
ready to listen to its lam en ts and jerem iad s
a g a in . T o p erson al liberty w ith all of you !
ALL, (ex ce p t D evoto and C antora drink:
C antora on ly p reten d s): Hurrah for p erson al
lib erty! D ow n w ith tiresom e b lu e-la w s and
silly scru p les!
ADVOCATO: L adies, I am really d eligh ted
to m ak e you r acq u ain tan ce. I hear you are
ro fessio n a l en tertain ers. M ay I not h ave the
on or of learn in g to know you better? Com e
let u s sit to g eth er, and b ecom e friends!
RECITORA: W ith p leasu re, Sir!
CANTORA: It is a great honor, sir! (A s
th ey grou p th em selv es tow ard s th e back , B ar-
ono b eck on s to D evoto and Libero, and s a y s)
BARONO: G entlem en, com e o v er h ere. 1
h ave a p rop osition to m ake to you . B efore,
I h esita ted , fearin g to obtrude b u sin ess on
your fam ily g rief. B ut now th at friendship
h as been cem en ted , and th at our n oble Libero
h as g lo r io u sly a sserted his p erson al freedom
from o ld -fash ion ed scru p les, I feel th at his
m agn an im ou s lib erality ju stifies m e in rew ard ­
in g him . A s a fa v o r to you , I can d oub le your
fortu n e!
DEVO TO: H ow so?
BARONO: W h y, by an in vestm en t w hich I
can g u a ra n tee. Let m e do you th is favor! As
a m atter of frien dsh ip I sym p ath ize w ith your
fam ily grief, an d I w ish to co n so le you , by
settin g you up in life, and m ak in g you richer
th an the duke, or king h im self!
LIBERO: W onderful!
BARONO: H ow d o y ou feel ab out th is pro­
p osition , D evoto?
DEVOTO: I am sorry, Sir; but m y prom ise.
LIBERO: T h at h ootin g calam ity-h ow ler!
DEVOTO: Even so , I prom ised to under­
tak e n othing new till P u ella is ed u cated .
BARONO: B ut th e op portun ity is on ly now !
DEVOTO: T hen I m ust lo se it!
LIBERO: But w ould n ot ev en your duty to
P u ella ’s future and com p eten ce dem and that
you m ake her a m illion aire?
DEVOTO: B ut I w ould h ave broken my
p rom ise!
LIBERO: W ell, thank G od, I have none to
b reak ! I w ill do th is th in g, not m erely for
m y ow n sak e, but for P u ella ’s; and in ad d i­
tion , I w ill dem on strate to D evoto h ow w ron g
he is; that w ill kill th ree birds w ith one
ston e!
BARONO: E xcellen t, L ibero; you have
show n you are a m an, not a ninny, or a re­
lig io u s h ypocrite!
LIBERO: W ell, com e! E xplain you r prop­
o sitio n ; if it is an ythin g reason ab le, I am w ith
y o u . Explain you r sch em e!
BARONO: It is th is. Our baronial hall is,
a s you know , h eavily m ortgaged ; due to the
accum u lated high livin g of gen eration s of pop­
ular h eroes. D ebts h ave accum u lated until the
high incom e from bountiful h arvests is m ore
than eaten up in nothing but u surious in terests
on a relatively sm all cap ital. N ow if you w ill
in v est your fortu n e, Libero, it w ill be ju st
en ou gh to repay th at cap ital, w ip in g out en­
tirely the in terests w hich n ow am ount to tw ice
th a t sum .
LIBERO: B ut w h at w ill you do for me?
BARONO: W h atever you w ill! W hy, I have
such sym pathy for you , and for the noble m o­
tiv e s that lead you to do th is, the enthrone­
m ent of your m anhood o v er the prejudices
and trad itions of h yp ocrites, that I w ill w ill­
in gly pay you on e half of you r fortune as in­
tere st every year, and in so d oin g I w ill be
sa v in g as m uch, and you can have you r for­
tu ne back in three yea rs, in tact, if you are
fo o l enough to g ive up an in vestm en t at fifty
p er cen t in terest. Did you ever hear of a
b etter m oney-m aker?
LIBERO: N o, I frankly n ever did!
BARONO: T hen you had better g o into it
at on ce, or I w ill g o for the loan elsew h ere,
and then your brother w ill laugh at you!
LIBERO: T h a t’s right! I have to teach my
brother a lesso n . Here is th e m oney! (G ives
it to him ).
BARONO: Ha, you are a gentlem an of n a­
ture, b efore w hom even our an cient aristocracy
m ust bow ! Here I drink to your h ealth! Drink
to m ine!
*BERO: 1 w ill! (d o es s o ) . T hank you for
th e .nplim ent, n oble B arono! But. . . .w here
is the receip t,— are you not g oin g to g ive m e
one?
BARONO: W hy, receip ts are not necessary,
b etw een gen tlem en , such a s w e are. T hey
w ould be b eneath our dign ity.
LIBERO: D ign ity or no dign ity I should
feel safer!
BARONO: A h, th at is the v estig e of old
p easan t stock p eep in g through! You m ust
learn m ore n oble w a y s, if you w ould a sso c ia te
w ith m e.
LIBERO: B ut if I have paid for your ca stle,
th e deed ou ght to put it in m y nam e!
BARONO: Ah, honor forb id s. Such a little
th in g as m on ey, you know , it is a con ven ience;
60 SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
but in the sca les of fa te, it w eig h s nothing in
com parison w ith h onorl
LIBERO: But are you n ot g o in g to g iv e m e
at lea st a p rom issory n o te for th e fifty per
cent interest?
BARONO: A las, I can n ot. T o b egin w ith
th at rate of in terest is illeg a l. In th e second
r
dace it w ould be an in su lt to your m agnanim -
ty.
LIBERO: But then I h ave nothin g at all
to show for either principal or interest?
BARONO: So much the b etter, for a debt
o f honor, you know , is the m ost sacred ; m ore
sacred even than my n oble b lood.
LIBERO: But still I w ould feel m ore com ­
fortab le.
BARONO: W hat, are you so low -b row th at
to a sacred debt of honor you w ould prefer
a b ase m oney lend er’s certificate? . . .
LIBERO: 1 fear 1 w ou ld —
BARONO: T hen you are no n oble, w ho live
on honor . . .
DEVOTO: You m ean, on oth er p eop le’s
honor!
BARONO: R eptile!
LIBERO: So far a s I am concerned 1 a c­
k now ledge I am no n ob le. I am m ean and
p easant-b orn , and 1 w an t d eed and prom is­
sory n ote!
BARONO: Ah, p itiab le! A m ean sou l with
noble aspiration s, trem bling on th e verge of
d egrad ation ! No, you shall not b ecom e d£-
classtf! I w ill rescu e you , in sp ite of your­
self! You shall be com p elled to rely on honor!
I esca p e, and leave you r higher nobler self
to reassert itself! A h, w hat a narrow sa lva­
tion from return to g ro ssn e ss, to b asen ess!
B ut I shall sa v e you! G ood -b ye! G ood-bye!
DEVOTO: And he is carryin g off your
m oney w ith out any secu rity!
RECITORA: You have lost your fortune!
You w ill n ever again se e th e color of your
m oney? He is a n otoriou s con fid en ce-m an !
LIBERO: But is not he a noble?
RECITORA: Of cou rse, and th at is w hy he
can ch eat w ith im punity!
LIBERO: But, dear A d vocato, can 1 not get
red ress at th e law ? D oes not reason assert
th at . . .
ADVOCATO: P o ssib ly; Y es, of course.
T h eoretically, you can g e t redress, ju st as
th eoretically your free con scien ce, a t every
m inute unham pered, could p rotect you . But
p ractically, a law -su it, even if fortu n ate, w ould
la st you a life-tim e; and then you w ould have
to p ay in law yer’s fees and cou rt-costs a s much
a s you w ould recover. So I a d vise you to give
It up a s a bad job!
LIBERO: But is not th at unjust?
ADVOCATO: Y es, I a g ree.
LIBERO: And w ould I not be con sen tin g to
in ju stice?
ADVOCATO: Perhaps!
LIBERO: W ell, I w ill not! E ven if you
should, a s fees, g et all th at I w ould . ecovcr,
still m y con scien ce d em an ds that you do.
P lease g o and start a la w -su it right aw ay!
ADVOCATO: W ell, you w ould h ave to sign
a retain in g claim .
LIBERO, (w riting it): Here it is, start suit
at once.
ADVOCATO: W ell, if you in sist, I w ill, th a t’s
th e w ay I have to m ake my livin g, off fools!
1 hate m yself, but I have to live! V ery good,
I w ill go. and do m y b est! G ood -b ye!
RECITORA: A cted like a m an, Libero! I
w ill con sole you, O m y gloriou s hero! I ad­
m ire you! I adore you! I pitv you for your
loss! ' T o recoup yoi:, I w ill g iv e you every­
th in g I h ave! I w ill g iv e y ou , m y self! H ere!
(fillin g an oth er cup of w in e, and o fferin g it
to h im ) Drink th is, Libero! S ee, I am p o u r­
in g m y h ea rt’s-b lo o d -w in e in th is cup; d rink it,
an d I am you rs forever! Drink up m y so u l!
LIBERO, (b esid e h im self): A nd then?
RECITORA: If you h ave consum ed m y so u l,
m y b ody w ill d ance at you r b idding! C om ­
m and, and I w ill recite m y rep ertory. K iss
th ese lip s, if you p lea se, for th ey then w ill be
you rs! A t you r frow n 1 w ill trem b le. A t your
sm ile I w ill thrill. H ere is m y sou l, for you
to con su m e . . . p o ssess m y in n erm ost h eart!
LIBERO: A nd w hy do yo u offer it?
RECITORA: B ecau se th e tem p est o f com ­
p assion h as stirred m y s o u l’s ocean to its
p rofou n d est d ep th s. (On her k n e es). Drink
up m y sou l, th at m y s o u l’s strin gs m ay re­
echo to you r fa n cy ’s touch! Drink up m y sou l!
S how your craven brother th at you are a m an,
and are not afraid to conquer and su b d u e a
w om an! C onsum e m e, and b ecom e m y m aster!
PUELLA, (in terru p ts): U ncles d ear, U ncles
d ear! T h ey h ave taken gran d father a w a y ! I
am so lon ely! Oh, U ncle Libero! Let m e tak e
you r hand!
RECITORA: T h at brat to interrupt, a t th e
sup rem e m om ent! M aster, d efen d m e from
th at m onkey! S how th at you are a m an!
Subdue m e!
DEVO TO: Y our co n scien ce, L ibero! Let it
sp eak !
LIBERO: C onscience? C onscien ce to d ep rive
m e of m y suprem e con q uest? Later, w ill 1
p arley w ith con scien ce w hich w ill h ave to
a w a it m y con ven ien ce a n y w a y . But ju st n ow
1 shall sh ow I am a m an! A w ay w ith th o se
w om an ish in fan ts! (p ush in g P u ella a w a y ).
PUELLA: Oh, U ncle! D on ’t you lo v e m e
an y m ore?
LIBERO: Oh y es, I d o! A nd to sh o w you
h ow m uch I love you , I am g o in g to em an ci­
p ate your con scien ce to o . H ere, girl, drink
a cup of th is glo rio u s w ine!
RECITORA, (p resen tin g it to h e r ): H ere,
drink.
PUELLA: N o, no I d o n ’t w ant to drink!
LIBERO, (strik in g h er): T hen ta k e th is, to
learn o b ed ien ce.
PUELLA, (tu rn in g a w a y ): Help m e, U ncle
D ev o to ! S ave m e!
DEVO TO: T h at you shall not d o! L eave
th e child a lon e! 1 h ave prom ised to p rotect
her, an d I w ill! (P u ella sn u g g les up to him ,
and p u ts her arm s around h im ).
LIBERO: B ut I am the m aster, n ot only
over m y con scien ce and m yself, but thereby
a lso o v er th o se w ho love m e! H ere, I pluck
th e fruit o f the tree of life! W om an, I drink
th y sou l!
RECITORA, (faw n in g on h im ): M y m aster!
C om e, m y d ivin ity! Let u s g o into th e m oonlit
gard en ! C om e let us g o . . . (a s th ey le a v e)
DEVOTO: . . . to th e d evil! He is lo st!
First he lost h is self p o ssessio n in th e w in e;
then he lo st h is fortu n e; and n ow he h as lost
his sou l, w h ile d eluded by thinking he had
subdued a tem p tress. L ost, lo st, lost . . .
PUELLA: And m e? Am 1 lo st too?
DEVO TO: N o, not you are lo st; th ou gh for
you , it seem s, I lo st the p leasu res o f drink,
the op p ortu n ities o f fortu n e, and com p an ion ­
ship!
CANTOR A: N ay, you h ave not lo st them ,
m y d ear. For see I am here! I adm ire you r
n oble self-co n tro l from drink, your n ob ler re­
sign ation of p ossib le fortune; and n ow , n o b lest,
shall you receive n:y adm iring, su b m issiv e, a f-
61
THE BANISTER TO HEAVEN
fe c tlo n a te com rad esh ip . For you h ave show n
y o u rself m ore than a m an, superhum an!
DEVO TO: N ot superhum an, m y friend, but
I fear subhum an; for m y p rom ise d eb ars m e
from all th e p leasu res o f life. C om e, P u ella,
Into my arm s, em b race m e, y ou , for w hom I
h a v e had to resign so m uch!
CANTORA: So m uch, p erh ap s, but n ot a ll;
fo r in you r n ob le self-sa crifice you h ave earned
m y resp ect, m y ad m iration; nay, you h ave
kin d led m y d ev o tio n ; an d m y sou l b reak s ou t
in to a so n g of h oly lo v e in vitin g you to a
com rad esh ip to all etern ity! C om e, be m y
1
>al, and let u s to geth er accom p lish th e noble
d ea ls you h ave dream ed!
DEVO TO: You tak e m y breath a w a y ! I
am not w orth y of you r love! N or is m y
vau n ted self-sa crifice an ythin g ad m irab le; it
w a s no m ore than stup id ity!
CANTORA: T hen let m e be stup id alon g
w ith you ; 1 ask nothin g better!
DEVOTO: B u t, you u nderstand, I su p p ose,
th a t m y love to you , b eau tifu l sou l, is su b ject
to m y d evotion to th is child . . .
PUELLA: D o not ab and on m e, U ncle D e-
v o to . . .
CANTORA: Oh, w ell, it w a s all right to
er ect that b arrier b efore A d vocato and his
w in e oup, and B arono and his sw in d le, and
R ecitora and her p a ssio n ,— but it w ou ld n ’t
cou n t w ith m e and m y sa n ctify in g affection ;
w ou ld it?
DEVOTO: N o, no, no in d eed , m y lovely
frien d ; but, a prom ise is a prom ise, and th is
ch ild m ust first be cared for! D on’t you a lso
thin k so?
CANTORA: Of cou rse, of cou rse. But th ere
are orp h an ages th at m ake a sp ecia lty of such
g o v er n e ss-jo b s. W hy not send her to an or­
p h an age, and sa v e our h oly partnership?
DEVOTO: B ui w ould you not be w illin g to
ta k e care of her?
CANTORA: W hy, o f co u rse, of cou rse! But
s till, 1 have serv ed m y ap pren ticesh ip at b e­
in g a nursery m aid w ith m y ow n in fan t bro­
th ers and sisters, and I think the tim e has
c«m e to be civilized , to sy ste m a tize, to regu l­
a rize th ese stup id d ru d geries. D evoto, much
a s 1 hate to say it,— you w ill h ave to ch oose
b etw een Pu ella and m e. You w ill h ave to,
you see? B ecau se if 1 start in again on an
ad d ition al n ursery-job , by the tim e I finish 1
w ill be all w orn ou t, p ast th is, th e Indian Sum ­
m er of youthful charm s; w h en it is gon e, you
y ou rself w ill reject m e a s a w orn -ou t h ag.
N o, not 1 g iv e you this ch oice, but nature d e­
m ands it! R eason d em on strates it, and God
com m ands it! C hoose now or never!
PUELLA: Oh, U ncle D evoto, do n ot ab an ­
d on m e! You are th e last b ein g 1 love!
DEVOTO: N o, I w ill not abandon you , dar­
lin g , your lo v e is a treasu re i can n ot lo se,
even to gain an ad dition al on e! I w ill keep you
d arling; and a s to you , C antora, m y last hope
in th is w orld , if you cannot share w ith m e the
ed u catin g of this sou l and th e celestia lizin g of
her asp iration s, then m ust 1 resign even you!
(P u ttin g h is hands over his e y e s ). L eave m e,
C antora, b efore 1 w eak en ! I m ust rem ain
faith fu l to m y vow to P atern o, or I w ould be
a s asham ed to d ie a s I w ould be to liv e. God
sa v e m e!
CANTORA, (sh ed d in g her garm ent, an d ap ­
p earin g as an a n gel w ith a w reath of flow ers
in her h a ir). G od h as saved you, d ear D e­
v o to ; for 1 am not a s you thought a w om an
w h o could m islead you from your duty, but
an an gel sent from h eaven to share your noble
ed u cation alizin g and celestia lizin g d uty of rai­
sin g Puella to w om anh ood . S ee, a s G od Him­
self allow ed Lucifer to test Job so w a s I sen t
to test your faith fu ln ess to your prom ise,
w hich though you realized it n ot, w a s the
b an isters of the gold en stairs to heaven! Al­
th ough from now on I shall be m ostly in vis­
ib le, n everth eless, I shall n ever forsak e you,
till you r vow be com p letely fulfilled . Should
you ever need my ad vice, you need on ly lis­
ten to the interior still sm all v o ice. If every
Sunday you w ill tak e leisure and in vite your
sou l, I w ill w arn you of any im pending danger
of m isfortune. I am to a ssist the G uardian
A n gels of both of you , and in solem n council
every w eek w e shall guide you both into m u­
tu al com p letion .
PUELLA: Oh, I am so happy in the love of
U ncle D evoto and th e sm iles of that beautiful
lad y! . . .
DEVOTO: Oh, I am so happy m yself, I
could sin g . . . W hat shall w e sin g, darling?
PUELLA: • U ncle, let us sin g th at lovely
hym n, “ O happy d ay that stayed m y ch o ic e.”
CANTORA: Oh, all you v isib le and in visib le
h elp ers, stand up, com e around, an d let us all
join in.
BANISTERS
(T u n e, any Long M etre T u n e; p erh ap s, Lord
S peak to M e).
O happy day, th at sta y s m y choice
On tasks in hours of in sigh t w illed ,
So that I m ay ach ieve m y goal
W hatever accid en ts b etide!
Here rest, m y oft divided heart,
Fixed on the roots of th y career;
W hen in tem p tation ’s d angerou s hour,
Or w hen in p a ssio n ’s sw irl I’m lost.
Of gu ard ian ’s d etail, v o w s are prize,
T h ey ’re shield , and sw ord, and A lpine rope;
High h eaven hath heard th o se solem n vow s
W hich a ct a s b anisters up golden stairs!
VI. ST. NICHOLAS SURPRISES
A PLAYLET ILLUSTRATING SPIRITUAL GIFTS
SCENE: R om e, ab out A. D. 350.
C H A R A C T E R S
OAUDENT1US, fath er to PETRONIUS, LUCIUS, and PRUDENTIUS,
CLAUDIA and CLARA and FELICIA. S old ier-lovers.
S T . NICHOLAS, B ish op of M yra.
PETRONIUS: I love you , C laudia. CLAUDIA: I am you rs, d ear; tak e m e If
CLAUDIA: And I a lso , P etron lu s. yo u w ill— if—
PETRONIUS: W ell th en , let u s g et m arried! PETRONIUS: If w hat?
SIX EDUCATIONAL PLAYLETS
CLAUDIA: If father p erm its . . .
PE T kO N lU S. And if . . .
CLAUDIA: If w hat?
PETRONIUS: If he h as a d ow ry to g iv e
you!
CLAUDIA: So you lo v e not m e, but m y fa ­
th er’s bank account?
PETRONIUS: Oh no, h eaven forefen d l
CLAUDIA: W hat then?
PETRONIUS: 1 lo v e you , m adly, in san ely,
suprem ely. 1 ad ore you , in d eed , but . . .
CLAUDIA: But w hat?
PETRONIUS: I don ’t think you could under­
stand it. I w ould h ave to tell you r fath er; he
w ould.
CLAUDIA: W ell, le t’s se e yo u exp lain It!
Father G audentius, Father!
GAUD: W hat is it daughter?
CLAUDIA: Com e here, fath er; you h ave tw o
th in gs to do; to g ive you r con sen t to m y m ar­
riage to P etron iu s, and to receive h is exp lan ­
ation w hy he cannot m arry m e u n less you g ive
a dow ry w ith m e. R eally, I d on ’t think much
of his love!
PETRONIUS: I love your daugh ter, C laudia,
Sir; w ill you give her to m e in m arriage?
GAUD: I w ill in d eed , y ou n g noblem an : and
con sid er our house h onored by th e h igh a l­
liance. T ak e her!
PETRONIUS: I w ill, indeed.
GAUD: W hat, the future ten se?
PETRONIUS: N ay the cond ition al ten se.
GAUD: W hat do you m ean, Sir?
PETRONIUS: 1 m ean th at th e tradition of
our aristocratic house is that none of its
scion s m ay m arry unless the bride brings w ith
her a d ow ry. T h a t’s w h at w e pay for being
noble.
CLAUDIA: The*i you really do hot love me?
PETRONIUS: Oh y es, I love you ; but not
th e com m oner th at is, but the w ealth y a risto ­
crat you shall b e. T hrough you 1 love the
ideal you shall realize. 1 love you b etter than
you love you rself!
CLAUDIA: It’s an insu lt!
PETRONIUS: No, it’s a com plim ent!
GAUD: But I understand, you ng rascal that
through her you are m aking lo v e to m y bank
accoun t! But you shall be d isap pointed. All
I have earned has been sp en t in raising my
three b loom in g d augh ters; th ey represent all
m y sub stan ce; and lo v e ly buds th ey are! So
you refuse her?
PETRONIUS: R efu se her? N ever; but a c ­
cept her, not y et.
GAUD: N ever, you scou nd rel! Leave her
and d isappear!
PETRONIUS: I w ill not! I love her so
d early. I in sist on a d ow ry! I m ust have it!
I w ill!
GAUD: B ut I h ave nothin g left but our
h ou se.
PETRONIUS: T hen sell your house!
CLAUDIA: N ever w a s girl so insulted! T o
claim that he loves m e, to refuse m e w ithout
dow ry, and then to dem and that w e be m ade
h om eless . . . w retched m e, 1 am th e sport of
fa te, th e scap egoat!
GAUD: Sorry, m y dear, but I regret to an­
nounce that you are not the on ly one thus
treated . T he w hole w orld seem s to have turn­
ed m ad; there seem s to be a con spiracy. The
id entical m isfortune h as happened to both of
your sisters!
CLAUDIA: It cou ld n ’t, I d on ’t b elieve it!
GAUD: W ell if you d o n ’t, go and ask them
you rself!
CLAUDIA: I w ill! C lara! Come here!
(E nter CLARA, q u arrelin g w ith h er lover.
LU CIUS).
CLARA: W hat d o you w ant?
CLAUDIA: Is it tru e, C lara, th at like m e
you a lso have been p rop osed to by a lover
you h ave accep ted but w ho refu ses to m arry
you w ith ou t a dow ry?
CLARA: Ah m e, w o e th e d ay th at I m ust
a ck n ow led ge such a d isg ra ce. B ut then it
isn ’t any w orse than h as happened to Felicia!
CLAUDIA: F elicia also ? 1 d on ’t b elieve it!
CLARA: A sk her.
CLAUDIA: It ca n ’t be! But I w ill ask!
F elicia, F elicia, com e quickly!
(From oth er sid e en ters FELICIA, a lso fo l­
low ed by her q uarrelin g lo v e r).
FELICIA: W ell, w hat is it?
CLAUDIA: Clara tells m e you a lso have been
p rop osed to by you r accep ted lover, and re­
fu sed until father should g iv e him a d ow ry, a s
if to bribe him ? And now he refu ses to leave
till fath er g iv e s him w h at he dem ands.
FELICIA, (b lu sh ing and hiding her fa c e ):
A las, I am asham ed th at I am so treated . 1
feel 1 am sin k in g through th e floor.
GAUD: 1 revolt! D isgraced b efore m y ow n
ch ildren, I drive forth a ll th e bold intruders;
B egon e y e vile in su lters! (A s he m akes
th reaten in g g estu res at all th ree lovers they
m ass on the left, w h ile th e girls m ass on th e
rig h t.)
GIRLS: (W ith arm s around each o th er). O
Father, p rotect us, w e pray!
G AUD: I w ill, m y d au gh ters; but w h at can
I d o? You know w e ow n n othin g but th e
h o u se, th at th ere is a m ortgage upon it, and
th ere w ould be n othin g left, not even en ou gh
for th e dow ry of an y o n e of you . On earth
th ere is no help; all I can a d vise you is to
turn to h eaven !
DAUGH TERS: W e w ill! O G od! help us!
Send us sa lvation b efore our lovers leave u s!
O God if thou art our h eaven ly Father, sa v e
u s w e p ray!
(From th e right en ters S T . NICHOLAS, w h o
s a y s,) I am St. N ich olas, bish op of M yra in
A sia M inor. G od’s A ngel appeared to m e and
h as inform ed m e of the pitiful p ligh t of
G au d en tiu s’s virtuou s th ree d au gh ters. So
from am on g the funds for ch arity I h ave taken
th ese th ree gold en p urses and hereby I hand
them on th ese th ree b ran ch es.— and for all
tim e th ey shall be sym b ols of the b en eficen ce
of g iv in g to th e poor a s lend in g to Che Lord!
F arew ell!
GAUD: God h as in d eed heard th e p itiful
p rayers of his d evoted servan ts. Here I ap ­
proach th e tree on w hich his servan t S t. N ich­
o la s has hung th e th ree d o w ries. I w ill take
the first and give it to him w ho approached
m e first, P rudentius, w ho dem anded a dow ry
to m arry the girl F elicia w ho had accep ted
him . Here 1 tak e it, and sw a llo w in g m y pride
a s fath er, I offer it to you Prud en tiu s. T here
tak e th e dow ry God h as sen t, and m arry the
m aiden to w hom you p rop osed by sw earin g
u nchan ging loyalty.
PP U D : (step s forw ard , sh ed s his coat and
ap pears garbed a s an a n g e l). My friends, I
w ill accep t the d ow ry th at God has sen t, and
n ow exp lain w hy I ask ed so u nreasonable a
g ift. A s you w ill see, I am no sold ier, officer
in th e Em peror’s arm y, a s you sup p osed . I
am th e A rchangel G abriel w h o stand b efore
th e throne of G od. F elicia’s m aidenly prayers
of virtuou s asp iration s like a flo w er’s perfum e
ascen d ed in to His ears, and His fatherly heart
gran ted her p etitio n s. And so He sen t m e,
b ecau se sh e is so lo v ely and holy th at none
63
ST. NICHOLAS SURPRISES
b u t an a n g el cou ld relieve her lo n elin ess, and
crow n h er w ith full com p letion . N one but an
a n g el in d isg u ise cou ld h ave ach ieved her co n ­
q u e st; an d h er rew ard w a s to be th at she
sh ou ld b e refu sed a s she w a s, but accep ted
w h en sh e m igh t com m and th e d ow ry th at God
a lo n e w a s w orth y to supply her w ith . S ee,
I a ccep t th e d ow ry; but th is dow ry is not
w h at you th in k . Did you think it w a s m oney?
A h, n o: m on ey w ould not h ave been g iv e n by
G od, for m on ey is not a lw a y s a b lessin g ; n ay,
it is o ften a cu rse. B ut th e dow ry G od to o k
th e trou b le to sen d is som eth in g fa r m ore
p reciou s than th at. S eel (O ut o f th e gold en
purse he ta k es th ree p resen ts, and su c cessiv ely
h an gs them on the X m as tr e e ). T h ese g ifts
are th ree: spiritu al ach ievem en ts, w ith ou t
w hich it w ould h ave been an insult to have
a ccep ted h oly F elicia. She herself w ould h ave
b een w illin g to h ave settled in life w ith ou t an
a n sw er to her h o lie st a sp iration s. B ut, no,
G od lo v ed her so m uch th at from her He
w ou ld h ave n oth in g le ss than an ach ievem en t
of S elf-A d ju stm en t, P h ilosop h y and L iterature.
T h ese n ow are her dow ry, and for G od I a c­
cep t them from G od. N ow first is sh e ready
to be a bride o f m e the A rchangel G abriel
w h o stan d b efore th e th ron e. So (op en in g
h is arm s) com e to m e, F elicia, n ot for a day
but fo rev er and ever! m y h ea v en ly bride! (H e
g o e s to her w ith open arm s, and sh e fa lls in to
th em . T h ey form a tab leau th at la sts until
th e en d , to th e extrem e le ft.)
LUCIUS: Sim ilarly, d ear C lara, you w ill n ow
b e con vin ced th at it w a s not an in su lt, but in
com p lim en t th at 1 dem anded a dow ry th at
shou ld b e h ea v en ly . For I am not th e officer
L ucius, but th e A rchangel R aphael, w h o once
h elp ed T ob it and escorted T o b ia s to find him ­
se lf a w ife. So God sen t m e to d ig n ify your
m aid en ly M agn ificen ce and to a ccep t from you
a d ow ry of n othin g le ss than th ree spiritu al
a ch ie v em en ts, nam ely, (h e ta k es dow n the
secon d p u rse, op en s it, rem oves th ree g ifts
and h a n g s them on the X m as tree a s h e nam es
th em ), C orresp on dence-L an guages, A ngelic
H elp an d A n gelic H ierarchies, w hich b eloved
Clara h avin g ach ieved shall now be allow ed
for ev er to unite w ith m e, G od ’s rep resen tative,
a s her h eaven ly b rid egroom . (H e g o es to the
extrem e right w here u nitedly th ey stand in
ta b lea u , the girl now b ein g en h a lo ed .)
PETR O N IUS: And n eith er am I an em p orer’s
officer, nor is m y nam e P etron iu s, but M ichael,
th e P rin ce o f G od, w ho d ash ed reb elliou s Lu­
cifer d ow n to the lo w est a b y sses of h ell. And
m ine is th e p rivilege of d ign ifyin g the holy
virgin C laudia, w h o d eserves no bridegroom
le ss w orth y than G od H im self a s w h ose repre­
sen ta tiv e I h ave com e. And so tak in g dow n
S t. N ich o la s’ third purse of gold I open it and
w ith d raw the holy ach ievem en ts of Initiation,
A ngelic C ouncils and W orld T em p le, w hich , as
sym b o ls o f St. C lau dia’s victory, I n ow h ang
on th e b lessed C hristm as tree. Here m y b e­
loved , com e to m y breast and let m e support
th ee for ever and a ye! (H e g o es to C laudia
and w ith her fa ces the au dien ce from th e
ce n tre ).
GAUD: If indeed such a h oly m ystery has
occurred , then in d eed am 1 b lessed , and re­
v iew in g the nine h oly g ifts:
C laudia’s S elf A dju stm en t, P h ilosop h y, Lit­
eratu re.
C lara’s C orresp on dence-L an guage, A ngelic
H elp and H ierarchies.
F elicia ’s Initiation, A ngelic C ouncils and
W orld T em p le, w hich to geth er form a sym ­
phony of the h igh er life fo r each of the three
kinds o f sain ts,
C laudia the Lover
Clara the M usician
F elicia the P h ilosop h er
then indeed m ay I celeb rate a new er kind of
C hristm as, th e C hristm as o f the
C laudia for th e heart
C lara for th e soul
F elicia for the spirit
and I w ould like St. Sim eon of old sin g Lord
n ow lettest T hou th y servan t depart in p eace,
fo r m ine ey es h ave seen th y salvation !
(A t the clo se en ters St. N ich olas w ho raisin g
h is arm s in b en ed iction s a y s),
And I have com e to close th is blessed th ree­
fold m arriage, th e m ystic m arriage of the soul,
w hich w a s really an in itiation by the b lessin g
of m yself, th e B ish op , by the b lessin g of th e
th ree A rchangels to b eatify Felicia and Clara
and C laudia— the b est C hristm as presen t that
an y could have d ev ised ,— nay none could have
d evised it but God h im self,— for only He fore­
sa w that the ap paren tly earthly rom ances
be spiritualized in to an initiation into b eatifi­
cation . So 1 g iv e m y b lessin g to the three
n ew Saints, St. F elicia, St. Clara and S t.
C laudia, to th e A rch an gels, to the b lessed fa ­
th er, to the C hristm as tree and finally to the
au d ien ce a s p roof of w hich I b eg them to rise
and w ith m e join in sin gin g a real C hristm as
ch eery song.
It cam e upon th e m idnight clear
T h at gloriou s so n g of old
From A ngels ben din g near the Earth
T o touch their harps o f gold .
T h ey brought nine g ifts to m en in need
Of aid to each high h eaven ,
W hich g ifts if hung on C hristm as tree
W ould turn m en in to Saints.
T h e first w a s self-ad ju stm en ts’ key
And then philosop hy
T hen corresp on d en ce-lan gu ages
And every literatu re.
Faith cam e p ro tectin g -a n g els’ guard
And ninefold hierarchy;
T hen in itiation , cou n cils and
L ast a T em p le-view .
For lo! the d ays are h astening on
B y prophets seen of old
W hen spirit shall be poured on man
And all shall prop hesy;
Y ouths shall dream ed u cative dream s
And vision b less th e m aids
And the w hole w orld send back the song
W hich n ow th e a n g els sing.
THIS ZONED CONCENTRIC
CITY HAS CHARMED
PUBLISHERS
NEWSPAPERS I
CLERGYMEN
PUBLICISTS
LAWYERS
AND
CO
O
PERATIVEPROGEESSIVEREADE
everywhere!
Enjoy Anticipations in Future
Cities Household reform ,
Marriagerejbrm, dress re­
form,The coming World*
Capital, World-wide
settlementof Dem­
ocracy, Reform
in Business,Art,
Teaching, etc.
EVERY
TOPIC of
INTER-
bargain
priced400P
xE ADVENTURE
by
•Kenneth
SYLVAN
LAUNFAL
GUTHRIE
These our present rambling
disordered accretions* • •
Would you saddle them
on the FUTURE? NEVER!
RITUAL OF COMMON PRAYER or ANGELIC SUPPLICATION
A Ritual of Prayer based on the Hierarchy of Nine Ranks of Angels.
I. INTRODUCTION
Our F ath er w h o art in h ea v en , T h ou art
very far from u s; n ot th a t T h ou h ast rem oved
T h y h ea v en , b ut th at In th e ch a n g es and
ch an ces o f th is m ortal life, an d in th e a g o n ies
o f self-su p p o rt an d b od ily d iscip lin e, In the
p rop er a n x ie tie s fo r a ch ievem en t, so far h ave
w e w an d ered Into th e clo u d s of Illusion th at,
lik e th e P ro d ig a l S on , d isg u sted w ith th e husks
th a t are d en ied u s ev en w h en w e feed the
sw in e w ith th em , w e thin k o f th e ta b les around
th e G reat W h ite T h ron e a t w h ich th e a n g els
con su m e th e eu ch aristlc corn and w in e of
h ea v en , th e H oly G rail th at n ever fa lls. S o w e
sin g ,
N earer, m y G od to T h ee, N earer to T h ee I
E 'en th o u g h it b e a cr o ss T h at ralseth m el
Y et In m y d rea m s I’d b e N earer, m y G od to
T h ee, N earer to T h ee I
W h erefore w e ra ise ou r e y e s to T h ee; but
th ou gh w e s e e th e m oon and th e stars o f th e
first h ea v en o f th e A n g els, w e can n ot see th y
F ace ex c ep t in ou r tea rs nor h ear T h y vo ice
ex c ep t In ou r sig h s o f lo n g in g . So w e direct
o u r step s to th e Jacob ’s L adder o f th e U ni­
v erse, w h ere g a z in g u p w ard s tow ard th e
B eatific V ision , ou r lo n g in g fo r T h ee w a fts
u s up th e first step s, till w e arrive a t th e
F irst G ate, th a t o f th e A n g e ls. T o a void d is­
tu rb in g th em , w e lo o k around to se e If th ere
b e n o o th er p a ssa g e o r b y -w a y , th at w ou ld
a llo w o f a sc e n t w ith ou t th e d iscip lin e Inevit­
a b le In an y a sso c ia tio n w ith h ea v en ly b ein gs.
B u t seein g th a t th ere Is no esca p e, by an In­
vo ca tio n to T h ee, w e ta k e cou rage to knock
a t th e F irst C elestial G ate, th e A n gelic clam ­
orin g fo r a d m issio n b y sin g in g th e A n gelic
hym n I
1. H ark, hark m y so u l, a n g elic so n g s are
sw e llin g , O’er ea rth ’s green field s, and o ce a n ’s
w a v e-b ea t sh ore; H ow sw e e t the truth th o se
b lessed stra in s are tellin g , Of th at n ew life
w hen sin sh all b e no m orel A n gels o f Jesu s,
A n gels o f lig h t, S in g in g t o w elco m e th e p il­
grim s o f th e n ig h t1
I. ANGELS
W e a c c e p t y o u r Invitation , O h o ly A n gels, ye
B ein g s, w h o co n so le, p rotect, gu id e, sup p ort,
Instru ct. D ea r A n g els, p ray g ran t u s p a ssa g e
around you r p racticab le spiral path around
th e H oly M ount 1 W e k now th a t th is In volves
a ssim ila tin g o u rselv e s to y o u b y p ractisin g
you r fu n ction s o f co n so la tio n , p rotection , gu id ­
an ce an d su p p ort; and so w e prom ise to con ­
s o le som eon e to d a y , — to p ro tect som eon e to ­
d a y , — to g u id e so m eo n e to d a y , — to support
so m eo n e to d a y , — to Instru ct som eon e to d a y !
T h ereb y a ssim ila ted to you r a n g elic h olin ess,
w e tea rfu lly ta k e le a v e, an d circlin g your
D om ain, w e a g a in arrive a t th e U n iverse’s
Jacob ’s L adder, w h ere, g a z in g u pw ard s at
G od ’s Suprem e S m ile, o u r lo v e to it, w arm er
th an ev er b eca u se o f ou r clo se r p roxim ity,
ev e r m ore sw iftly w a fts u s up a g a in st th e G ate
o f th e S econ d H eaven , th a t o f th e A rch an gels.
R ealizin g th e p ain fu l effort im p lied in an y g en ­
uin e im p roving ed u cation such a s is Involved
In p a ssin g throu gh any sph ere h igh er th an our
ow n , w e seek so m e b y -w a y ; but a s w e find
n on e, w e k nock a t the S econ d G ate, b y sin g ­
in g th e A rch an gellc H ym n:
2 . C om e, y e d isco n so la te, w h ere’er y e la n ­
gu ish , C om e to th e m ercy -sea t, ferven tly k neel I
Here b rin g you r w oun d ed h earts, h ere tell
your an gu ish , Earth h a s no sorrow th at
H eav’n can n ot h ea ll
II. ARCHANGELS
W e accep t you r in vitation , O holy Arch­
a n g els, ye B ein gs w h o figh t G od ’s b attles,
G abriel th e A nnouncer, R aphael th e H ealer,
U riel th e E nlightener, and M ichael th e Fighter,
w h o cleared H eaven of L ucifer. W e realize
th a t p a ssa g e through your p racticab le spiral
p ath around th e H oly M ount in v o lv es our a s ­
sim ila tin g o u rselves to you by p ractisin g your
fu n ction s of figh tin g G od’s b a ttles, so w e
p rom ise tod ay to fight w h atever problem s
G od h as given u s, such a s ------- , in th e In­
effab le N am e o f G odl A m en I
T h ereb y assim ilated to your archan gellc h oli­
n ess w e tearfu lly tak e le a v e, an d circlin g you r
d om ain w e a gain arrive a t th e U niverse’s
Jacob ’s Ladder w here, g a zin g u pw ards a t O od’s
Suprem e Sm ile, ou r lo v e to It, w arm er th an
ev e r b ecau se of our clo ser proxim ity, ev er
m ore sw iftly w a fts us up a g a in st the G ate o f
th e Third H eaven, th at of th e P rin cip alities.
R ealizin g th e p ainful efforts th at should b e
Im plied in an y gen u in e Im proving education
such a s is Involved In p a ssin g through an y
sp h ere higher th an our o w n , w e seek som e
b y -w a y ; but a s w e find n on e, w e knock a t
th e T hird G ate, and clam or fo r ad m ission by
sin g in g the P rin cip alities’ Hym n:
3. Lord, speak to m e, th at I m ay speak, In
liv in g ech oes of th y to n e; O feed m e Lord,
th a t I m ay feed , T h y h u n g’rln g o n es w ith
m an n a sw eet!
III. PRINCIPALITIES
W e accep t you r in vitation , O h o ly Princi­
p a lities, ye B ein gs w ho ad m in ister th e King­
dom o f H eaven, y e office-h old ers, officers and
com m ission ers of G od’s affairs In this w orld .
W e realize th at p a ssa g e through your p racti­
cab le spiral path around th e H oly M ount In­
v o lv e s our assim ilatin g o u rselves to you b y
p ractisin g you r fu nction s of system atizin g
m ak in g efficient, and u tilizin g th e resu lts of
our inner spiritual liv es; so w e now review
our m eth od s and order our spiritu al liv es,—
A m en I
T h ereb y assim ilated to you r p rin cipalities’
organ izin g o f G od’s w ork in u s, w e tearfu lly
tak e le a v e; an d circlin g you r dom ain, w e
a g a in arrive at the U n iverse’s Jacob ’s Ladder
w h ere gazin g upw ards a t G od’s Suprem e Sm ile
our lo v e to it w arm er than ev er b ecau se of
ou r clo se r proxim ity, ever m ore sw iftly w afts
u s up a g ain st th e G ate o f th e Fourth H eaven,
th a t o f the P ow ers.
R ealizin g th e p ainful effort th at should Be
Im plied in any gen u in e Im proving education
such a s Is Involved in p a ssin g through any
sp h ere h igh er than our ow n, w e seek som e by­
w a y ; but a s w e find n one, w e knock a t the
Fourth G ate, and clam or fo r ad m ission , by
sin g in g the P o w ers’ Hymn:
4 . God Is health , th at h ealth surrounds m e,
In th a t health I sa fely d w ell; ’T is ab o v e, b e­
n eath , w ith in m e, H ealth is m ine, and all Is
w ell! G od is h ealth , pure health ! G od Is health,
sw e e t h ealth l T h at health Is m ine, m ine, and
all is w ell!
IV. POW ERS
W e accep t you r Invitation, O h o ly P ow ers,
y e b ein gs w ho d o G od’s h ealin g w ork am ong
m en. W e realize th at p a ssa g e through your
p racticab le spiral path around the H oly M ount,
In volves our assim ilatin g ou rselves to you by
p ractisin g your fu nction s of h ealin g th e sick;
so n ow w e first heal o u rselves, ------- ; and then
w e h eal som e friend, -------, A m en!
COMMON PRAYER ANGELIC SUPPLICATION RITUAL—2
T h ereby assim ilated to your p o w er’s w orld ­
h ealin g m ission, w e again arrive a t th e U ni­
v er se’s Jacob ’s Ladder w here, g a zin g upw ards
a t G od’s Suprem e Sm ile, our love to it, w arm ­
er than ever b ecau se of our clo ser proxim ity,
w a fts us m ore sw iftly than ever up again st
th e O ate of th e Fifth H eaven, th at o f the
A uth orities.
R ealizin g th e painful effort th at should be
Im plied in any genuine im proving education
such a s is in volved in p assin g through any
sphere iiigh er than our ow n, w e seek som e
b y-w ay; but a s w e find none, w e knock at the
Fifth G ate, and clam or for ad m ission , by
sin gin g the A u th orities’ Hymn:
5. G od for th e w orld w e sin g, T he w orld
to God w e bring, In fervent p rayer; For th ose
w ho lab or on, T o bring into th e w orld , T he
public founding of K ingdom of H eav’nl
V. AUTHORITIES
W e accep t your in vitation , O h oly A uthori­
tie s, y e B ein gs w ho a s a sse sso rs of Christ,
seated at the right hand of th e T h ron e, en ­
ga g ed in the in tercession for hum anity, are
d evoted the silen t m inistry of th e M ercy-Seat,
d eciding the fa te of m en, in th at you h ave b e­
com e au th orities in the spiritual w orld by in­
tercession . W e realize th at p a ssa g e through
your practicab le spiral path around th e Holy
M ount in v o lv es our assim ilatin g ou rselves to
you by p ractisin g your fu nction s o f interceding
fo r in d ivid u als of hum anity; so w e n ow inter­
cede first for our fam ilies— secon d for en em ies
— and frien ds — third for hu.nprdty — e s ­
p ecially the unfortunate — th e p rayerless —
and the d evil! A m en! .
T h erefore by in tercession h avin g ach ieved
au thority in th e spiritual w orld , w e tearfully
tak e lea v e; and circlin g your dom ain , w e again
arrive at th e U n iverse’s Jacob ’s Ladder w here,
gazin g upw ards at G od’s Suprem e Sm ile, our
lo v e to it, w arm er than ever b ecau se o f our
closer proxim ity, ever m ore sw iftly w a fts us
up a g ain st the G ate of the Sixth H eaven, that
of the D om inions.
R ealizin g th e painful effort th at should be
im plied in any genuine im proving education
such as is in volved in p assin g through any
sphere higher than our ow n, w e seek som e
b y-w ay; but a s w e find none, w e knock at
th e Sixth G ate, and clam or for ad m ission , by
sin gin g the D om inions’ Hymn:
6. Sing a llelu ia s forth for everyth in g, Includ­
in g trials ed u cative w hich, T o God th e soul
w ill con secrate!
VI. DOMINIONS
W e accep t you r in vitation , C h oly Dom in­
ion s, ye B ein gs w ho clinch P rayer by P raise.
W e realize th at p a ssage through your prac­
ticab le spiral path around th e H oly M ount,
in v o lv es our assim ilatin g ou rselves to you by
p ractisin g your fu nction s of p raisin g God first
fo r our fam ilies, ------- ; secon d for en em ies
and friends -------; third, for hum anity esp e­
cially th e unfortun ate’s sa lvation , the prayer-
le s s ’s education therein, and th e d ev il’s con ­
version! Am en!
T h erefore by p raise h avin g clinched our in­
tercessio n s, w e tearfu lly tak e lea v e; and by
circlin g you r dom ain , w e again arrive at the
U niverse’s Jacob ’s Ladder, w here, gazin g up­
w ard s at G od’s Suprem e Sm ile, our love to
it, w arm er than ever b ecau se of our closer
proxim ity, ever m ore sw iftly w a fts us up
a g ain st the G ate o f the Seventh H eaven, that
of the T hrones.
R ealizin g th e p ainful effort th at sh ou ld be
Im plied in an y gen u in e im p roving ed u cation
such a s is in volved in p a ssin g th rou gh an y
sp h ere h igh er than our o w n , w e seek som e
b y -w a y ; but as w e find n on e, w e knock a t
th e S even th G ate, an d clam or for a d m ission ,
by sin gin g th e T h ro n es’ H ym n:
7. T hou art the W ay, th e T ruth, th e L ife,
Grant u s th at W ay to k n ow , T h at T ru th to
k eep , T h at life to w in , W h ose jo y s etern al
flow !
VII. THRONES
W e a ccep t you r in vitation , O H oly T h ron es,
y e B ein g s w h o m ake G od ’s D ecisio n s, and la y
d ow n His L aw s for th is w orld ! W e rea lize
th at p a ssa g e through you r p racticab le spiral
path around th e H oly M ount in v o lv es our a s ­
sim ilatin g o u rselv es to yo u by p ractisin g
you r fu n ction s of m ak in g d ecisio n s in our ow n
life, for th e com ing w eek ; --------1 A m en!
T h erefore, by h avin g en acted la w s fo r ou r­
se lv e s, w e tearfu lly tak e le a v e; and by circlin g
you r d om ain, w e again arrive at th e U niverse’s
Ja co b ’s L adder, w here, g a zin g upw ard s a t
G od ’s n ow d azzlin g Suprem e Sm ile, our p a s­
sio n a te lo v e for it, m ore torren tial than ev er
b eca u se of our clo ser p roxim ity th ereto , ev er
m ore irresistib ly are w e sucked up a g a in st th e
G ate of the Eighth H eaven , that o f th e Cher­
ubim !
R ealizin g th e p ainful effort th at sh ou ld b e
im p lied in an y gen u in e im p roving ed u cation ,
such a s is in volved in p a ssin g th rou gh an y
sp h ere h igh er than our o w n , w e seek so m e b y­
w a y ; but a s w e find n one, w e knock a t th e
E ighth G ate, and clam or fo r a d m ission , by
sin g in g th e Cherubic Hym n:
8. O Cherubim , y e livin g B ein g s w h o stan d
round th e T h ron e upon th e g la ssy se a , T h ou
O x, thou Lion, E agle, Sacred M an, A ssist our
in itiation to your ranks!
VIII. CHERUBIM
W e a ccep t your in vitation , O H oly C herubim ,
y e L iving B ein gs w ho th ron e a t the fou r cor­
n ers of the G lassy S ea, in w h o se centre w e b e­
h old th e ever thun d erou sly flash in g C loud upon
th e S anctuary! Ye B ein gs w h o are sym b oled
a s th e H oly Ox of R em em oration, th e H oly
Lion o f raven in g hunger and th irst for in itia ­
tio n , th e H oly E agle of clear vision o f th e
W orld S anctuary, and th e H oly M an, rep re­
sen tin g th e W orld-G od! W e re a lize th at
p a ssa g e through your p racticab le spiral p ath
around th e H oly M ount in v o lv es our assim i­
la tin g o u rselv es to you by p ractisin g y o u r
fu n ction s; and so w e b egin our p ilgrim age
around the sw ellin g G lassy S ea ! First, turn­
in g so u th w estw a rd s, w e reach th e South ern
H oly C herubim O x, w ho ch ew s th e cud o f
m em ory, and w ho w ill a ssist us in recallin g
som e h elpful bit of our form er in carn ation s or
e x iste n c e s, — (W ritin g d ow n w h atever c o m e s).
W e th ank yo u , O h oly O x, in ta k in g le a v e
o f yo u ! T urning n orth -w est-w ard s, w e arrive
a t th e W estern H oly C herubic L ion, w h o se
raven ou s d esire for in itiation con su m es u s w ith
d e a th less lo n g in g th erefor, — (w ritin g d ow n
w h a tev er co m es);
W e th ank you , O h oly Lion in ta k in g le a v e
o f you ! T urning n orth -eastw ard , w e arrive at
th e N orthern H oly C herubic E agle, w h o un-
b lin k in gly look in g in to the sun, both p hysical
and spiritu al, beh old s th e W orld T em p le. Help
u s to do so to o ! — (W ritin g d ow n w h atever
c o m e s).
COMMON PRAYER ANGELIC SUPPLICATION RITUAL—3
W c th ank y ou , O h oly E agle, In ta k in g lea v e
o f y o u l T u rn in g so u th -ea stw a rd s, w e arrive
a t th e E astern H oly C herubic M an, w h o like
M o ses, v e ile d , rep resen ts th e W orld-O od
C hrist! U n veil th y self to u s, ev en ev e r so
little , M aster! — (W ritin g d ow n w h atever
c o m e s.)
W e th an k th ee, O h o ly M an, in ta k in g leave
o f th e e l T h erefore, b y h avin g rem em orated ,
th irsted fo r in itiation , telesco p ed th e w orld -
tem p le , and lifted th e V eil o f th e M aster, w e
tea rfu lly ta k e le a v e; and h a v in g b oxed the
C herubic co m p a ss, w e a g a in arrive a t th e U ni­
v e r s e ’s Ja co b ’s L adder, w h ere, g a z in g u pw ards
a t G od ’s n ow d a zzlin g Suprem e Sm ile, our
p a ssio n a te lo v e th erefor, m ore tem p estu ou s
th an ev e r b eca u se of our clo se r p roxim ity
th ereto , w e are ev e r m ore irresistib ly w hirled
up a g a in st the G ate of th e N inth H eaven , that
o f th e Seraphim .
R ea lizin g th e p ainful effort th a t shou ld be
im p lied in a n y gen u in e im p rovin g ed u cation ,
such a s is in volved in p a ssin g th rou gh any
sp h ere h igh er than our ow n , w e seek som e
b y -w a y ; but a s w e find n on e, w e knock a t the
N inth G ate, an d clam or fo r a d m ission , by
sin g in g th e S erap h ic Hymn!
9. Seraphim , y e Fires d ivin e, G low w ithin
th is h eart o f m ine; Kindle every h igh d esire,
P erish se lf in th y pure fire!
IX. SERAPHIM
W e a ccep t you r in vitation , O H oly Seraphim ,
y e liv in g B ein g s w ho are aflam e w ith th e
U n iversal Fire, and w ho a ssist hum an b ein gs
to in sp iration , illu m in ation , and tran sfigu ration !
W e rea lize th at p a ssa g e through you r last lap
o f p racticab le spiral path around th e H oly
M ount in v o lv e s our a ssim ila tin g o u rselves to
you by p ractisin g your fu n ction s o f burning
w ith Intelligible ligh t. So first w e com e to
th e U niversal C entral Fire an d th ereto turning
the palm s of th e hand s, w c w arm them till
th ey g lo w .
T h en , secon d , w e inspire th e in telligib le light
till our brain b egin s to coru scate, and u tter­
in g th e g ift o f to n g u e s’ revelation s, w e becom e
co n scio u s of our a u reoles 1
T h en , third, a ctu a lly step p in g into th e lam ­
b en t an d tow erin g flam es of O od ’s h olin ess
th em selves, w e b ecom e transfigured and im ­
m ortalized illu m in ates 1
T h en w c are levitated to th e peak in the
centre of the crater, from w hich finding our­
se lv e s in the very centre of th e Sm ile of G od,
to our surprise from th ere, w e behold a c o ­
herent panoram a of th e u niverse and d iscover
th at it Is shap ed like a rose, and that w e
R osicru cians are righ t in d eclarin g
ROSICRUCIAN O DE: 1. T h e w orld ’s a rose
called R osam und, T h e u niversal R ose, W h ose
p eta ls blush as sacred fire, Incarnadines and
g lo w s!
2 . N o cross, n o crow n, n o root, no ro se,
but both to geth er sw a y Into a fresh d evelop ­
m ent of im m ortality!
S o , d ivinized and im m ortalized bv our a s ­
cen t up the H oly M ount, let u s en cou rage our­
se lv e s by sin gin g th at gloriou s p aean of spirit­
ual stru ggle,
F ight the good fight w ith all th y m ight,
Christ is th y stren gth , and Christ thy
right;
Lay hold on life, and it shall be
T h y joy and crow n , eternally!
MENSIVERSARY RITUAI^-1
or Monthly Recurrence of the Birth-Date
C AN D ID A TE: Lady, th e m on thly an n iversary
o f m y birth h as arrived , and m y sou l feels
th e need of p rayer th at th e n ex t m onth m ay
b ecom e h oller and m ore effective than the la st.
B ec a u se o f th e p rom ise o f th e com ing o f the
D ivin e P resen ce w h erever tw o o r th ree are
g ath ered to g eth er in G od ’s nam e, you r p ar­
ticip a tio n w ou ld h ave th e effect of a ttra ctin g
such U nseen H elpers a s m igh t be w illin g to
h old a M onthly C ouncil, for th e b lessin g an d
h a sten in g of m y so u l’s career.
LADY: G ladly, sir. B ut w h y do you com e
to m e, in stead of som e oth er person?
CAN D ID A TE: F irst, b ecau se yo u are a t th e
p resen t tim e m y n earest frien d, and th erefore
m y ch osen co n fesso r, w h o se g o o d opinion I
v alu e m ost, and w ho th erefore are th e on e to
w hom it w ill co st m e the m ost to co n fess m y
sin s, and w h o se b en ed iction w ill m ean th e
m o st to m e.
LADY: W h y do yo u com e to m e, w h o am
a w om an?
CANDIDATE: B ecau se a s such you , a s
th ou gh t the P o sitiv e P h ilosop h er A u gu st C om te,
b est represent the hum an race, a s m other,
h elp er and Inspiration.
LADY: B u t w h y do you com e to m e, w ho
am so you n g, — you nger than yo u rself, and
p erh ap s le ss exp erien ced ?
CANDIDATE: B ecau se you b est represent
th e in n ocen cy o f th e a n g els, w hom you are to
rep resen t to m e. B esid es Jesu s said th at none
cou ld en ter Into th e Kingdom o f H eaven unless
h e b ecam e as a little child; an d he said that
th eir a n gels do a lw a y s b eh old th e Face of
th eir Father in H eaven!
LADY: B ut h ave you a lso purified you rself
a s m uch a s p ossib le?
CANDIDATE: Y es, an d I shall w a sh m y
hand s in in n ocen cyl
LADY: Frankly, I feel m yself unw orthy o f
such an honor, but 1 prom ise to profit by it
a s much as p ossib le to assim ilate m yself to
your ideal of m e, and of b ein g a rep resen ta­
tiv e o f th e d ivin e race am on g m en. (K neeling
d ow n b efore her san ctu a ry ). A lso, to G od I
co n fess all m y sin s, and b eseech him to gran t
m e ab solu tion , and to ordain m e to th is high
d ign ity of representin g Him. I w ill th erefore
listen to receive His approval and d irection .
(She listen s, or look s into m irror or crystal,
or g la ss of w ater. If there is a resp on se, or
if it b e favorab le, she rises and s a y s ), Y es,
God ap proves o f th is effort, and I w ill serve
in w h atever representative cap acity you d esire
o f m e. W h at am I to do? W hat are you
g o in g to call m e?
CANDIDATE: W ill you be m y V estal?
LADY: I p rom ise to serve a s you r V estal
during you r p leasu re.
CANDIDATE: In token th ereof I put on you
th is w hite gow n , in token of you r V estaleh lp .
LADY: Is th at all?
CANDIDATE: N o, I a lso crow n you w ith
th is m ystic band, w h ose jew el shall reflect the
ra y s of d ivin ity, in token th at you are to be
m y C olom be, m y Sybil, to d eB ver to m e the
o ra cles of Ood!
MENSIVERSARY RITUAI^-2
LADY: V ery w ell, a s you p lea se, I shall
be you r S ybil. B ut to ensure m y fid elity to
you r b est Interests during th is cerem on y, you
should capture m e, by p utting on m e th is
b racelet, so th at I m ay becom e you r m irror,
p utting asid e all person al Interests, a s un-
troubledly a s p ossib le to reflect fo r you G od’s
W ill. P lease tak e p o ssessio n of m el
CANDIDATE (p uffing on th e b ra ce let):
H enceforw ard, till I release y ou , you are m y
m irror, m y telesco p e, m y trum pet, m y p riest,
and m y p ope, or v lcc-g ercn t of G od on earth!
(L ead in g her to a ch air In fron t o f th e altar,
back in g It). Sit d ow n on th is ch air, and In­
terpret G od to m e. I light th e can d le of
you r sou l; w hile th ey burn, you r sou l shall
be on fire w ith d ivin e p o w er. S p eak , V estal,
I obey!
LADY: B ut I h ave no au th ority I
CANDIDATE: V ery w ell, to th is b racelet-
captured hand I entrust th is sco u rg e, a s an
E gyptian flail-sym b ol of th e p ow er of Im pos­
in g p en ance. U se it m ercifu lly, but efficien tly
for th e salvation of m y soul I S ee, I salu te
th e hand th at holds th e sco u rg e, in tok en of
h eart-su b m ission 1
2. THE COUNCIL
CANDIDATE: N ow th at you are m y V estal,
I m ust ask w h at Is your p leasu re!
VESTAL: R ead m e an accou n t o f you r d o­
in g s and ach ievem en ts th is m onth 1
CANDIDATE: i ob ey y ou , O V estal! (R eads
in turn his
1. A ch ievem en ts; 2, P eop le V isited ; 3, B ooks
R ead; 4, P oetry W ritten; 5, S ins C om m itted;
6, D iscip lines U ndertaken; 7, E xperim ents
M ade; 8, R eln carnatlonal M em ories R ecovered;
9, M essages R eceived ; 10, W orship E xperiences,
11, D ivine E xp erien ces; 12, V ision s; 13, Y early
M on th -P rogn ostication s E xam ined; 14, M oon
ch an ges and A stral S en sitiven ess; 15, Friends’
B irth -d ays.
(E ach tim e, the CANDIDATE s a y s ),
CANDIDATE: V estal, are yo u satisfied ?
V ESTAL: Y es, or N o.
CANDIDATE: V estal, h ave yo u a n y su g g e s­
tion s?
V ESTAL: My su g g estio n s are, . . .
CANDIDATE: H ave you an y pen ances?
VESTAL, (If n o n e ): Y es, th at you prove
you r sub m ission by salu tin g m y hand!
3. THE ABSOLUTION
CANDIDATE: N ow V estal, I b e g y o u to
grad u ate m e for th e m onthl
VESTAL: I cannot do so until yo u are
w earin g th e w h ite robe of in n ocen cy!
CANDIDATE: H ow m ay I d eserve it?
V ESTAL: T h e Hymn sa y s, “ R ep en t, con fess,
th ou sh alt be lo o sed from a ll!” R ecite the
G eneral C onfession !
CANDIDATE, (r e c ite s): A lm ighty and m ost
m erciful Father, w e h ave erred an d strayed
lik e lo st sheep ! W e h ave follow ed to o much
th e d ev ices and d esires of our o w n hearts!
W e h ave offended again st th y h o ly la w s! W e
h ave left undone th ose th in gs th at w e ought
to have d one, and w e have done th o se th in gs
w hich w e ou ght n ot to h ave d on e, and there
Is no h ealth in u s! But th ou, O Lord, have
m ercy upon u s, m iserable offen d ers! Spare
thou th o se, O G od, w h o co n fess th eir fau ltsl
R estore thou th o se w ho are p en iten t, accord ­
ing to th e p rom ises d eclared unto m ankind in
Christ .Jesu our Lord! A nd gran t, O m ost
m erciful Father, for His sak e, th at w e m ay
h ereafter live a g o d ly , righ teou s an d so b er
life, to th e glo ry of th y H oly N am e, A m en!
VESTAL, (p la cin g her hand on th e k n eelin g
C and id ate's h e a d ): A lm igh ty G od, our h ea v ­
en ly F ather, w h o o f his great m ercy h ath
p rom ised fo rg iv en ess of sin s to all th o se th a t
w ith h earty rep en tan ce and true faith turn
unto Him, H ave m ercy upon you , pardon an d
d eliver you from a ll you r sin s; confirm an d
stren gth en you In a ll g o o d n e ss, and b rin g yo u
to all g o o d n e ss, and b rin g you to e v e rla stin g
life, through Jesu s C hrist our Lord, A m en!
N ow I g iv e you on you r brow the h istoric
C hristian sa lu tation I You arc released from
a ll you r sin s I Go and sin no m orel
4. THE GRADUATION
V ESTAL: N ow th a t you r sou l Is G od ’s, ir­
revocab ly, you m ay p roceed to put on y o u r
w h ite vestm en t, sym b olic of d evotion to G od!
(d o n e ).
CANDIDATE: H ave I p leased y ou , M istress?
VESTA L: Y es, an d in tok en th ereof I con ­
fer on you th is m on th ’s sp ecial d ig n lty l (T o
b e altered a ccord in g to th e m onth, accord in g
to th is e x a m p le :) T h is July L eo-m onth Is th at
o f H op ei Its su b ject of ach ievem en t b ein g
P rayer, y ou , a s its con q ueror, d eserve to h ave
con ferred on you th e title of H elper, o f w hich
knigh thood I, w ith th is scou rge, here dub you
k nigh t! R ise, Sir H clp erl (H erself r isin g ).
A nd in sig n th ereof, a s a sou ven ir, I pin on you
th e w h ite sto n e, th e fam ou s p h ilosop h er’s
sto n e, on w h ich Is w ritten you r n ew nam e!
P reserve It fo r m em ory o f you r con q u est of
yo u rself, and le t It Inspire you to further suoh
co n q u estsl G od b less yo u , Sir K nlghtl
M onth’s N ature, S u b ject an d T itle (In ord er
n am ed ):
July— H ope, P rayer, H elper
A ugu st— L ove, B eau ty, C om forter
S ep tem b er — W a tch fu ln ess, U n exp ected n ess,
C om rade
O ctober— C ooperation , G uidance, T each er
N ovem ber — R esp o n siv en ess, M essage, Inter­
p reter
D ecem ber— C haracter, S ystem , Leader
January— S ilence, S elf-co n tro l, Friend
February— P h ilanth rop y, A p o sto la te, R estorer
M arch— S elf-E xam in ation , R ep en tance, C on fess­
or
A pril— D evotion , C onsecration , M inister
M ay— P erson ality, P resen ce, H ost
June— Faith, C on solation , H eir.
CANDIDATE: I th ank y ou , V estal, Sybil and
C olom bel T h e com p lim en t I recip rocate by
con ferrin g on you the sam e title o f ..................
5 . THE BENEDICTION
V ESTAL: A re th ere an y u nseen C om rade
S la v es of G od p resen t a t th is Initiation , w h o
m ay be either w illin g or a b le to m an ifest
th em selv es to add th eir b en ed iction to th is
sold ier o f H um anity’s v o w of C onsecration?
A ny m usic? A ny fragran ce or flow ers? A ny
vision ? . . . . D o th e C him es ring? (A fter­
w a rd s), T hank yo u until an oth er tim e, A m ent
CANDIDATE: I am surprised a t h earing you
call th is rite an Initiation ! I th ou gh t It w a s
on ly g o in g to be a m en slversary review sa n ct­
ified b y th e a ssista n ce o f a V estal, an d lo , I
find m yself n ow called an Initiate!
V ESTAL: R ight you are I Initiation Is a l­
w a y s a surprise, and an yth in g w ell d on e b e­
com es an Initiation, It w a s a surprise, b ut a
b lessed on e, w a s It not?
CANDIDATE: Y es, in d eed ! A nd I h ave
tea rs in m y e y e s I
MENSIVERSARY RITUAL-3
V ESTA L: If yo u can n ot see th e Lord Jesus,
at le a st y o u can feel the k iss of G od, can you
not?
C A N D ID A TE: Y es, V estal Lady (H elp er) 1
A nd n ow a ll is o v er . . .
V ESTA L: N o t q uite y et! I m u st first con ­
g ra tu la te yo u a lso on th is unusual cere­
m on y w h ich , b egu n a s a m ere m en siversary,
h as turned in to an in itiation . From h en cefor­
w ard y ou are an Initiate, and you shall w alk
en ch an ted w a y s. A s, on lea v in g h is d iscip les,
th e Lord Jesu s sa id , “ In m y nam e you shall
ca st ou t d e v ils, you shall sp eak w ith new
to n g u e s, y ou sh a ll unharm ed tak e up serp en ts,
an d if yo u drink an y d ead ly th in g, it shall not
hurt you ; yo u sh all lay hand s on th e sick , and
th ey sh all re co v er!" W hen you need m oney,
it sh all be su p p lied ! E verything th at heart
d esire s sh all n ow roll in unto y ou , n ow that,
a s a k n igh t, y o u can no lon ger m isu se th em !
Y ou h ave n ow realized th e Prince of W a le s’
h o ly m o tto , “ Ich D ien ,” or, “ I serv e!" and
th ereb y a tta in th e rank of th e A n gelic P rin ­
cip a litie s. I felicita te you , Sir!
V ESTA L: N ow let us celeb rate th is a ch ie v e­
m ent by sin g in g a psalm o f victory!
F ight th e g o o d fight w ith all th y m ight,
C hrist is th y stren gth , and Christ th y right;
L ay hold on life, and it shall be,
T h y jo y an d crow n , etern ally!
R un the stra ig h t race throu gh G od ’s good
g race
L ift up th in e ey e s, and seek h is fa ce;
L ife w ith its w a y b efore u s lies,
C hrist is th e p ath, and C hrist th e prize!
C ast care a sid e , lean on th y Guide,
H is b o u n d less m ercy w ill p rovid e;
T ru st and th y tru stin g sou l shall prove
C hrist is its life, and C hrist its love!
F aint n o t, n or fear, His arm s are near,
He ch an geth n ot, and thou art dear;
O nly b eliev e, and thou sh alt see
T h a t C hrist is all in all to th ee!
5. THE BENEDICTION
V ESTA L: N ow th at th e victory is ach ieved ,
I b eg yo u to relea se m e!
CO N DID ATE: N ot y et, V estal, w ith ou t your
b en ed ictio n ! D o you rem em ber h ow Jacob
w ou ld n ot le t g o of th e A ngel until He had
revealed h is nam e? D o you do so too!
V ESTA L: D o n ot fo rg et th at I h ave u n self­
ish ly effaced m y self, so that all I can do is
to b rin g you to G od for His b lessin g! T h ere­
fore I w ill try to g e t for you a b lessin g from
G od. W hich b lessin g do you w ish?
CAN D ID A TE: G ive m e th e T ran sfigu ration !
T a k e m e w ith you up in to the retirem ent of
th e M ount, th row you r cloud around m e, that
M oses and E lias m ay com e and talk to us!
VESTAL: Form and m ention som e holy d e­
sire th at God m ay sa tisfy !
CANDIDATE, (d o es s o ).
VESTAL, (tu rn s her sea t tow ard s the Altar,
sits dow n, w ith th e C andidate by her sid e,
p u ts ou t th e can d les, and perform s the T ran s­
figu ration, first ask in g w hether th ese S ages
are p resen t.)
V ESTAL: I w ill n ow relate to yo u m y e x ­
p erien ces . . . W hat w ere yours?
CANDIDATE: A nd now I w ill relate you
m ine . . ,
VESTAL: Kneel d ow n , w hile w e both receive
G od ’s b lessin g! (A fter quiet, both exclaim ),
A m en!
6. THE DISMISSAL
VESTAL: N ow th at w c have received G od’s
b lessin g , 1 b eg you , Initiate, to release me
from m y service to you ! I have been as
w a x in the hands of you rself and G od, crush­
ed b etw een tw o m illston es! R elease m e!
INITIATE: B efore I do so , I m ust leave you
a souvenir. (K n eelin g). Here, h oly V estal,
Sybil and C olom be, is an engraved bead to
rem ind you forever o f m y undying gratitud e.
A ccep t it, I pray!
VESTAL: I w ill p reserve it as a hallow ed
g ift from G od! A m en! R elease me now !
INITIATE, (P u ttin g on the outer lig h t),
C om e forth from the inner w orld to the outer!
(T ak in g aw a y th e sc o u rg e), I rem ove the
b ad ge of au thority!
(R em oving th e b ra ce let), R em oving this
b racelet you are restored to freedom ! Am en!
(R em ovin g her b a n d ), R em oving this band,
you m ay reflect for you r ow n benefit!
(R em oving her r o b e), R em oving this robe,
you m ay resum e you r ow n in terests and d uties!
You are once m ore you rself norm ally!
VESTAL: And th e first u se of m y freedom
w ill be to release you from the uniform of
th e sanctuary (R em ovin g h is w hite ro b e), that
you m ay carry ou t G od’s W ill in your d aily
life! I w ish you a b lessed m onth, O brave Sir!
INITIATE, (k n e elin g ): And I too say fare­
w ell, w ishin g you the sam e, O lovely Lady. . .
F arew ell, Am en!
BOTH . Let us to g eth er sin g a so n g of Part­
in g!
N ot now , but in the com ing years,
It m ay be in the b etter land,
W e ’ll read the m ean in g of our tears,
A nd there, som etim e, w e ’ll understand!
T hen trust in G od, though all thy d ays,
Fear n ot, for He doth hold th y hand;
T h ou gh dark th y w a y , still sin g and praise,
Som etim e, som ew h ere, w e ’ll understand!
RITUAL FOR THE MONTHLY BIRTH DAY PILGRIMAGE
or Mensiversary Liturgy written for July 22, 1928 for the Brotherhood
of Mutual Prayer
1, C om pan ion sh ip ; 2, P roclam ation ; 3, P rep ­
a ration ; 4, C elebration ; 5, O utfitting; 6, A im ­
in g , O utlining; 7, S tation One; 8, Station T w o ;
9, S tation T h ree; 10, S tation Four; 11, S tation
F ive; 12, S tation S ix; 13, Station S even ; 14,
C row ning Sum m ation; 15, D epuration; 16,
17, P artin g.
1, COMPANIONSHIP
(W h en ever p o ssib le a C om panion should be
in vited and ad m itted )
LEADER:
Am I aton e u pon th is Pilgrim age?
COMRADE:
A dm it m e, pray, a s com rade on your w ay
Friendship, th ey sa y , h alves sorrow s, doubles
joys;
W ithout a friend, th ere’s no creative though t;
E ven M agicians had th eir fam uli;
So let me fo llow ; I w ill glad ly help;
N or, pray, forget th at you at last m ust com e
T o last great d oor th at o p es to none alone!
LEADER:
Com e on, good Friend, be C om rade, and help
sin2
p il g r im a g e RITUAL—I
T h e son gs of the H ouse of m y P ilgrim age;
I sea l the bond by touch of you r dear hand.
If I should stum ble, help m e up again ,
A sleep if I should fall, then w ak e m e up;
Share in my S acram en t’s viaticum ,
Of G uardian A ngel w ith m e fill th e role!
COMRADE:
Y our touch of hand I h ere recip rocate:
A s com rad e-sign on you I fix th is flow er!
BOTH : U nited w e fa re: All for O ne, and
One for A ll! Am en!
NO TE: The COMRADE m ay share th e read­
ings, tak in g the altern ate lin es, or by prepar­
ing and handing to the leader the various ob­
jects as m entioned, m ake him self or herself al­
m ost indispensable. Of cou rse the Com rade
w ould corroborate each oracle by additional
recep tion s. T he C om rade m ay profit spirit­
ually just as much as the Leader, if proper
prayer is kept up.
3. P R E P A R A T I O N
A . PREPARATION OF THE ALTAR
On altar, first I w ill p lace eleven th in gs:
1, Pencil and card I place con ven ien tly;
2, Second is w a ter-g la ss w ith ro se-lea f float,
3, Third, dish w ith w a fers num bering the
m onth;
4, P ictu res of friends th at helped m e tow ard s
m y God;
5, H ighest is picture of the H eavenly Shrine,
0, Low er, a s d ossal, sta n d s sh rin e’s C alendar;
7, I draw th e veil from R ose upon the Cross,
8, M irror and C rystal-ball I then d isclo se,
9, Incense I light a s flow ers from H eaven’s
field,
10, And place th e strin g of b ead s (fo r w om en)
or colored ston e ring or n eck -tie pin (for
m en ), I’ll w ear n ext m onth.
11. A nd then, for if I conquer, V ictor’s crown.
B . PREPARATION OF THE ROOM
First, unto seven o b jects con secu tive
T h at lead around the room , I fix s e v ’n screeds
T h at label them a s station s of m y p ilgrim age;
2, T o left of altar, cu rtain-d oor I hang;
3, I set th e golden chair for A ngel-G u est;
4, A s in vitation ’s call I ring th e chim es,
5, K neeling, my con secration -vow rep eat,
6, R ising, th e s e v ’n-fold G loria I in ton e,
On the ascen d in g s c a le ’s su ccessiv e notes;
7, L ast I provide the ca g e of cap tive bird,
(w hich need not be m ore than sym bolic)
CONSECRATION VOW
I hereby d evote, con secrate and sacrifice
everyth in g that I am , h ave and h ope to be, to
th e Father D ivine, to be used for His purposes,
both here and beyond, now and forever. I re­
serve nothin g selfish . I w ill do an ythin g rea­
son ab le if th e Still Sm all V oice should guide
m e. W eary of m y ow n earth ly p u rp oses, I de­
sire to be conform ed to th e etern al. U se me
as a hand to do T h y w ill; I on ly ask to rem ain
thine fo r everm ore.
BROTHERHOOD GLORIA
G lory to G od, the High Father, Suprem e and
Eternal,
G lory for ever and ever, A m en!
G lory to G od, th e Father of S pirits, and A ngels
of A ngels,
G lory for ever and ever, A m en!
G lory to God, w ho in love n ever w earies in
Justice,
G lory for ever and ever, A m en!
G lory to God in the nam e of h is C hrist, our
R edeem er,
G lory for ever and ever, Am en!
G lory to G od tor His help in a tta in m en t of
R igh teou sn ess:
G lory for ev er and ever, A m en!
G lory to G od for th e p ow er of th o u g h t, and
the w ork in g of w isdom ,
G lory for ev er and ever, A m en!
G lory to G od for th e length of our liv e s , an d
th e h ope to attain im m ortality,
G lory for ev er and ever, A m en!
4. C E L E B R A T I O N
N ow I reh earse th e S even M ajor S acram en ts
S tartin g w ith M inor and Prelim inary F ive:
F irst, B ap tism , a s by rubbing round th e h and s;
T h en , V estin g, p u ttin g on w h ite rob e of
p rayer;
T h ird , G irding, round m y w a ist w ith sev en fo ld
prayer;
R cm em oration, fou rth , w ith rosary;
O racu larization fifth, I hold,
S electin g m otto fo r th e com ing m on th;
N ow co m es the M ajor D ouble S acram en t:
F irst in sp iration s e v ’n fold 1 perform
B y b reath in g in th e in telligib le Light
For b od y b reath , V itality-breath ,
Etheric b reath , then A stral B reath, and th en
S u b con sciou s B reath, B reath In tellectu al,
A nd la st th e p urely Spiritual B reath.
S even th , I eu ch arize by seven sip s,
E ach o n e referring to th e p roper p art.
5. O U T F I T T I N G
I stan d to sin g the Hymn (623 O ld) o f P ilgrim ­
a g e ;
I’m b ut a stran ger h ere, H eav’n is m y hom e
S o th at m y efforts h ere, Form p ilgrim age;
P a st sta tio n s of m y cross
A round m y sanctuary,
P ro g ressin g p rayerfu lly, H eav’n I sh all reach !
N ow I b egin m y annual (or, secon d , or third
g o o d , or fourth g o o d , or fifth g o o d , o r sixth
g o o d , or seven th , or eighth g o o d , or ninth
g o o d , or tenth g o o d , or eleven th , o r tw elfth
g o o d ) p ilgrim age,
B y ta k in g w ith m e m y viaticum
In th is sm all b a g I h an g around m y n eck ;
I shed m y slip p ers, w hich slip p ed on again
B ecom e th e san d a ls w hich can tread life ’s
w a v es;
I ta k e a lo n g m y pencil and m y card
T o keep a record of w h at I receive;
I h an g around m y neck m y com p ass-b all
A s A aron con su lted U rim s’ gleam s.
T h en I p ut on th e Z od iac sign o f current m onth;
T h e staff I ta k e by k iss b ecom es m y cro ss;
T h u s fitted ou t, a s pilgrim I b egin !
6 . O U T L I N I N G
B y p o stin g high th e P resen t Z od iac S ign
W h ose in flu en ce m ust perm eate th is p ath
I m ake th is jou rn ey individual
A nd all its b en ed iction s con cen trate:
BRAIN:
A ries b etok en s tem p le o f th e Brain
So all I do m ust shin e w ith in tellect;
G ive m e th e k n ow led ge of w h at is T h y w ill,
T h e w ish to d o it, and the stren gth an d skill!
NECK:
T au ru s b etok en s cereb ellar glan d s,
So all I d o m u st bear su b con sciou s jo y ;
Let m e a ccep t each circum stance a s b est,
A s crow n , a s scou rge, a s in itiatin g te st.
SHOULDERS:
G em ini’s sh ou ld ers sw a y s th e arm s and hand s,
So all I do m ust be q uite p ractical.
My p ast bring back, m y p resen t realize,
And 'iv e m e grace g ood future to d ev ise.
PILGRIMAGE RITUAL—2
C H EST:
C ancer d irects th e b reath in gs ot th e ch est,
S o all I d o m u st ever be inspired.
1 a sk not th at m y d u ties shou ld be ch an ged ,
B u t th at m y a ttitu d e be rearran ged .
HEA R T:
L eo d irects th e b eatin gs o f the heart;
S o all I d o m u st p ulse and throb and thrill.
C hasten m y h eart, m y m ind coord in ate,
M y sp irit-life build up to settled sta te.
DIG ESTIVES:
V irgo d ig e stiv e o rgan s all d irects
S o a ll I d o m u st everyth in g d ig est.
T h e H oly O nes u nto m y sigh t reveal
T h a t I a s in itiate in T em p le k neel.
ELIM1NATIVES:
Libra elim in ative fu n ction s sw a y s,
S o all I d o m u st evil from m e d rive.
T o W isd om ’s b alan ced p oise m y sou l ad just
Full kind w h ere p o ssib le, but ev er ju st!
CREAT1VES:
S corp io th e recreative p ow ers d irects,
So a ll I d o m u st m e regen erate.
L est I create new o b sta c les, suffu se
My flu xfu l p o w ers to tran scen d en tal use!
MUSCULARS:
'T is S a g g itta riu s w ho th e m u scles d rives,
So all I do m u st show forth en ergy.
M y u rgen cies prop hetic so constrain
T h ey m ay effect w hat I can n ot exp lain!
JOINTS:
’T is C apricorn w h o ru les th e hum an join ts,
S o a ll I do m u st help ad a p tiv en ess.
B reak not m y w ill, but tem p er it, to fu se
W ith T h in e, on fa tes T hou d arest not refu se!
LYM PHATICS:
S ystem lym p h atic ’tis A quarius floats,
So all I do m ust purify and clean se.
T h e w a ters o f th e sacred p ool-d ep th s stir
T h a t w e m ay le a v e in them a ll th ou gh ts th at
err.
FEET:
P isc es d irects th e lo co m o tiv e feet
S o all I d o m u st carry m e to h eaven !
M ost, let T h y P resen ce be m y victory,
M y in sp iration , jo y an d d estin y!
(T h e COMRADE m ight read th e last tw o
lin es, or p rayer-in stalm en t. W hich is chosen
depends on the m onth in w hich th e P ilgrim age
is h eld: B, b egin s M arch 21; N, April 20; S,
M ay 20; C, June 21; H, July 22; P, A ugust
22; R, Septem ber 23; O, O ctober 23; T, N ov­
em ber 22; K, D ecem ber 21; A, January 20;
F, February 19.)
M y p ilgrim age shall last a h eaven ly w eek ,
Each d ay 1 shall assu m e a different nam e,
Each d ay on e part of m e I’ll con secrate,
Each d ay I w ill com m em orate su ccessiv e n ge,
In w hich resp ective b od y-p art p rep on derates;
So con secratin g each by prayer, m y p ilgrim age
W ill cau se d evelop m en t of m y in terior selv e s,
A nd con stitu te an in itiation grad u al;
So that th is C hinese n est of sev en b ody-p arts
M ay co a lesce to in d ivid u ality.
S tren gth ’ning n ot on ly b od y, but th e sou l, I
w ill
Each d ay review som e sp rin g of certitu d e,
E ach d ay recall som e sp ecial p oin t for prayer,
Each d ay w ith new rellglofi p ractise God,
T o drive aw ay all kinds of so u l-d isea se ,
So th at the w h o le an in itiation grow ,
And form a spiral rung of H eavenly Stair!
(H ere, and b etw een each S tation sin g the
P ilgrim age S o n g .)
7. STATIO N FIRST
’T is M onday w hen 1 reach my station first;
M ary 1 call m y so u l. M other of God!
C hild h ood ’s th e a g e w hen body p hysical
P rep on d erates, w hich here 1 con secrate.
S e v ’n are, m y so u l, th e sprin gs of certitu d e,
Of ch eer, seren ity, and fortitu d e;
F irst, is a h ea v n ’w ard com p ass in m y b reastl
On M ondays, pray to see th e T em p le-road
T h at sca le s th e M ountain of S erene A bode;
On M ondays s e e th at none by w ord be stun g,
A nd like a B rahm in, bridle your ow n ton gu e.
W h at is th e o racle of S tation First?
R ed g leam s b urst round th e D oor I w ish to ope,
1 record them upon m y P ilgrim 's screed !
(O ra cle).
ALL: W e th ank T h ee, h eaven ly G uide 1
HYMN during P ilgrim age.
8 . SECOND STATIO N
’T is T u esd ay w hen m y secon d stop 1 m ake;
Joan of A rc I call m y stru gglin g sou l;
Y outh is th e a g e w hen body vital ru les,
P rep on d eratin g; th is 1 con secratel
Of seven sp rin gs o f certitu d e, the secon d
Is con scien ce, w hich can sw allow up despair;
On T u esd a y s, pray to have in full sun ligh t
S om e U nseen H elper daw n upon th y sig h t.
On T u esd ays, Z en d -lik e, shun h ypocrisy,
B y con stan t p ractice of self-scru tin y.
W h at is the oracle of secon d post?
N ow oran ge g leam s burst round the creaking
door,
I record them upon m y pilgrim ’s screed .
(O racle).
ALL: W e thank T h ee, h eaven ly G uidel
HYMN during P ilgrim age.
9. STATIO N THIRD
’T is W ed n esday 1 h alt for th e third tim e:
C onstan ce 1 call m y sou l, w hich m ust endure;
In a d o lescen ce, th e eth eric sheath
P rep ond erates, w hich here 1 con secrate;
Of seven sprin gs of certitu d e the th ird ’s
T h a t all but virtue m ust be left behind.
On W ed n esd ays th y earn est prayer sliou ld be
T h e U n iverse-totality to see.
B e , W ed n esdays, C onfucian sa g e, and ch oose
T o put you rself in oth er p eo p les’ sh o es.
W h at is the oracle of station third?
N ow y ellow g leam s burst round th e shaking
door,
I record them upon m y p ilgrim ’s screed!
(O racle).
ALL: W e thank T h ee, h eaven ly G uide!
HYMN during P ilgrim age.
10. STATIO N FOURTH
’T is T hursday reach in g S tation Fourth:
S eren a is the nam e d escrib es my h opes;
In hom e-estab lish m en t p reponderates
T h e astral double, w hich I con secrate;
Of seven sprin gs of certitu d e, th e fou rth 's
T h at G od’s your Father, nor w ill fall support.
On T h u rsd ays pray to hear the stellar strains
And learn th e son gs th e A ngel-ch oirs m aintains.
On T h u rsd ays, like th e B uddha, keep unfurled
C om passion for the su ff’ring of th e w orld.
W h at is the oracle of S tation Fourth?
G reen gleam s burst round the D oor I w ildly
push:
i record them upon m y pilgrim 's screed!
(O racle).
ALL: W e thank T h ee, h eaven ly G uide!
HYMN during Pilgrim age.
PILGRIMAGE RITUAL—3
11. STATIO N FIFTH
’T is Friday reach in g Station Fifth:
Phoebe, to -d a y , I call my sunny sou l.
In business a g e , m y deep su b -con sciou sn ess
W hich know s the future, and to -d ay p reserves,
P rep ond erates; th is here 1 con secrate.
Of seven springs of certitu d e, the fifth ’s
T h at griefs are trials w hich w ill soon prom ote.
On Fridays pray that God to you w ill speak,
For all w ho p rop hecies from you m ay seek .
On Fridays, w ith E gyptians sa v e your breath,
In contem plation of your com ing d eath .
W hat is the oracle of S tation Fifth?
Blue gleam s burst round the p alp itatin g D oor:
1 record them upon my p ilgrim ’s screed!
(O racle).
ALL: W e thank T h ee, h eaven ly G uide!
HYMN during Pilgrim age.
12. STATION SIXTH
’T is Saturday on reaching P o st the Sixth:
Sybil, tod ay, m y soul p rogn osticates!
In m issionary a g e m y in tellect
P rep ond erates: — this here I con secrate.
Of seven sprin gs of certitu d e, th e six th ’s
T h at V oice of C onscience p roves d ivin ity.
On S aturdays, let prayers from G od dem and
Som e revelation from th at H oly Land.
On S aturdays, w ith M oslem s m editate
T h e W ill of G od, and H eaven con tem p late!
W hat is the oracle of S tation Sixth?
Indigo gleam s burst round the sh ak in g D oor,
1 record them upon m y pilgrim ’s screed!
(O racle).
ALL: W e thank T h ee, h eaven ly G uide!
HYMN during P ilgrim age.
13. STATION SEVENTH
Sunday it is, w hen reaching Seven th P o st:
C am illa, servan t of th e G ods, 1 grow ;
In closin g tra v el-a g e p rep on derates
My spirit self, w hich here I con secrate.
Of seven sprin gs o f certitu d e, th e seven th ’s
You m ay tak e cou rage, b ein g an gel-w atch ed .
Sundays for con secration you shall pray,
T o serve the p urposes of D estiny.
On Sundays w ith P latonic in sigh t pray
T o livin g p resen ce of the D eity!
W hat is th e oracle of S tation S ev ’nth?
N ow v iolet gleam s burst round th e open in g
D oor:
I record them upon m y pilgrim ’s screed!
A ll: W e thank T h ee, h eaven ly G uide!
HYMN during Pilgrim age.
(B etw een sta tio n s, if preferred, instead of,
or after the Pilgrim Hymn, the COMRADE may
each tim e repeat the special m onthly Z odiac-
sign prayer, to preserve the sp ecial intention
of that m onth's P ilgrim age).
14. THE CROWNING
COMRADE:
T h is is the D oor th at op es to n one alon e;
So both togeth er w e shall n ow su cceed .
LEADER:
T h e curtain representin g M ystery-door
In strength by journey gain ed , I fling asid e;
A nd stron ger than I w a s, I n ow approach,
M y form er altar, a s a conqueror,
And place upon m y (you r) brow the laurel
w reath .
In light of current m onth’s zod iacal thought
I h ave, in turn, each body-p art refreshed,
Ar.u its eventu al indep en d en ce d ay
I’ve b rought m ore near, by feed in g it w ith
prayer.
A s n ow the final w afer I consum e,
M y lotu s soul h as sprouted one m ore leaf,
I scan the T em p le C alendar to find
W hat tim es, th is m onth, I to o should celebrate
In sign o f freedom w hich I h ave a ttain ed ,
T h is livin g creature n ow I lib erate;
A nd n ow le st I shou ld e ’er fo rg et m y p rayers,
I h ang th ese n ew -m o n th ’s b ead s around m y
neck
(I slip on finger color-b earin g rin g );
W ithin th e m irror for a v isio n look ,
T hen w rite the m essa g e w hich sum m ates m y
trip ;
1 try to fathom F ate in crystal ball
All w hich m y pencil n ow record s on sh eet
W hich now , by m y C om panion full en d orsed
In m y E xp erien ce-b ook I n ow do file.
15. FAREWELL
M y jou rn ey fin ish ed , n ow I releg a te
U nto its p lace th e staff th at g a v e sup p ort.
Like M oslem 1 p rostrate m y brow to earth
In gratitud e to leavin g A n gel-G u est.
T h an ks and g o o d -b y e , an d pray com e soon
again !
I ask ap poin tm ent for n ex t m onth a gain !
T hen I stan d up m y shrine to d isad orn ;
C ov’ring the G olden C hair, ’tis set a sid e;
I quench the in cen se, a sh e s d uly strew ;
I clo se th e m irror, and the C rystal hide
L est ch an ce reflection s shou ld its sparkle dim ,
I h ang aw a y the T em p le C alendar,
And a lso pictured N ew Jerusalem .
T h e em pty p aten n ow 1 put asid e
C onsum ing now th e flo a tin g r o se -le a f's scen t
E m ptying full the ch alice th at I sip p ed ,
N ow la st m y p rayer-robe w h ite I h ang aw a y .
16. PARTING
T u rn in g to le a v e, I veil the R osy C ross,
And p leased a t b etter startin g life an ew ,
A lon g w ith w h at com p an ion sh ip G od g iv es
My w ell-loved R osicrucian Ode I sin g:
1. T h e W orld ’s a R ose called R osam und,
T h e U niversal R ose, W h ose p eta ls blu sh a s
sacred Fire, Incarnadines and g lo w s.
2. O H oly Bush w h ose bud I am , 1 n estle
in th y b ou gh s, From w hich I sip th e sacred sap
T h at w ith G od’s life en d ow s.
3. A round m y stem m y hum an d eed s W ill
clu ster green like like m oss, W h ose prayerful
sta lk s stretch ou t th eir le a v es In fragran t
R osy C ross.
4. My sw e etest bloom d ra w s lo v elin ess
From ro o ts of sacrifice; So th at m yself I offer
up, A s p riest of P arad ise.
5. I treasure every m om ent o f L ife’s sa cri­
ficial F east; B y prayer and p raise Each sin gle
d eed 1 sacram cn talize.
6. N o cross, no crow n , no root, no rose,
B ut both togeth er sw a y Into a fresh d ev elo p ­
m ent o f im m ortality.
T h en w ith m y w ell-lo v ed C om rade sh ak in g
hands
W e w ill d ism iss o u rselves w ith Hymn o f F ight;
FIGHT th e g ood figh t w ith all th y m igh t,
C hrist is thy stren gth , and C hrist th y right;
Lay hold on life, and th at shall be,
T h y jo y and crow n eternally!
RUN th e straigh t race th rou gh G od’s good
grace,
Lift up thine e y e s, and seek His face;
Life w ith its w a y b efore u s lies,
Christ is the path, and Christ th e prize!
C AST care a sid e, lean on th y gu id e,
H is b oun d less m ercy w ill provid e;
T ru st, and th y tru stin g sou l shall prove,
C hrist Is its life, and C hrist its love!
FAINT not nor fear, G od ’s arm s are near,
G od fain teth not, and thou art dear;
O nly b elieve and thou sh alt see
T h at G od is all in all to th ee!
NEW MOON RITUAL—1
To Celebrate and Profit by the Monthly New Moon Time
A . Introduction,
A . T h e G od s’ D eath ,
C. Im m ortality’s R en ascen ce
D. C rucifixion,
E. T h e M oon’s R en ascen ce,
P. D ism issal.
A . INTRODUCTION
W O RSH IPPER: I h ave a great u n d ertakin g
on hand ; an d I w en t to th e local S ybil, w h o
told m e I m u st seek help from th e N ew M oon.
So 1 am roam in g the fo rests, in h op es of
m eetin g h er, and gettin g help from her! W ho
k now s but th at I w a s to gath er stren gth by
im bibing her m agic rays!
For a s to m e, I lo v e the m oon ! W a s it n ot
the Em peror Julian w h o said , “ From m y ch ild ­
h ood , 1 w a s filled w ith a w ond erful lo v e for
th e rays o f th at g o d d ess! W hen in m y b o y ­
h ood 1 d irected m y ey es to her eth ereal light,
I w a s q u ite b esid e m yself! By n igh t esp ecia lly ,
w hen I fou nd m yself under a w id e, pure,
clo u d le ss sk y, I fo rg o t everyth in g e lse under
her in flu en ce.
I w a s ab sorb ed in the b eau ties of h eaven , so
th at I even did not hear, if a d d ressed ! N or
w a s 1 a w a re o f w h at 1 did! I ap peared to be
so lely en g a g ed w ith th is d ivin ity, so th at even
w hen a b ea rd less b oy I m ight h ave been taken
for a sta r -g a z e r !’’
Indeed, sh e g iv e s us one quarter o f our
ligh t! W hen am id st th e p astu re o f th e b lessed ,
w h o shin e a s sta rs, she w alk s in b eau ty, no
w on d er th a t I ra ise m y arm s and call her th e
Q ueen of H eaven ! N o w on d er th at sh e h as
been ca lled , M ary the Star o f the S ea, Diana
of th e E p h esian s, Isis o f th e E gyp tian s, M ylitta
of th e S yrian s, M aya o f th e H indus, A sh-
toreth of th e P h oen ician s!
(T h ere is heard th e ringing o f a sm all b ell,
and en ters th e M oon, blind, gu id in g herself
by a ca n e, garb ed in ragged clo th in g , stum b ­
lin g ).
B ut w h o co m es here? W ho are y o u , b eg ­
gar?
MOON: I am th e M oon!
W ORSHIPPER: Im possib le! th e M oon is
g lo rio u s, resp len d en t, divin e! A nd y o u are. . .
M OON: D yin g, I know it! I h a v e on ly a
few m om en ts to live!
W O RSH IPPER: W ell, if you are d yin g, you
can n ot b e th e M oon, for sh e is a g o d d e ss, and
a s such is im m ortal!
MOON: T h a t’s it! T h a t’s it ex a c tly ! T h a t’s
w h y I am d yin g!
W ORSHIPPER: T h at is a jok e! Y ou are an
im p ostor! It w ould be illo g ica l!
MOON: L ogic, you know , is on ly a h and­
m aid, a fo llow er! She is a com m en tator on
th e tex t of reality! It is you w h o h old w ron g
con cep tio n s o f d ivin ity and of im m ortality!
W ORSHIPPER: P rove it, sa y I! So im ps:,
sib le do I deem th is, th at if you can co n v in c.
m e of error, I en g a g e to w orship you a s t.._
M oon!
MOON: Y ou b etter, fo r it w ill be to your
ad v a n ta g e! You w ill not regret the lesson ,
and later you w ill be gratefu l for it, a s It is
b ein g given to you , a s to u s a ll, for your
an d our ow n sake!
B . THE G O DS’ DEATH
W ORSHIPPER: B ut I th ou gh t go d s did not
die!
M O ON: T hen you h ave forgotten your m yth­
o lo g y ! W ere not th e V alhallic revels to clo se
In a T w ilig h t of th e G ods? In the G raeco-
R om an w orld, did n ot th e T itan s fall b efore
the O lym pians? And did n ot th e sea s reecho
w ith m ourning v o ic es w hen Pan died, and the
D elphian oracle grow silen t? W as not A donis
w oun d ed , and did h e not perish? W as not
O siris cu t up into p ieces, th at from him m ight
sprout a tree of life?
C. IMMORTALITY’S RENASCENCE
W ORSHIPPER: V ery w ell, I w ill gran t th at
you r d ying d o es n ot d isp rove you w ere a
g o d d ess; but then th e go d s are no lon ger Im­
m ortal!
MOON: T h at is w here you are m istaken!
On th e contrary, d ivin e b ein gs are im m ortal
not in spite of their d yin g, but b ecau se of It!
W ORSHIPPER: M on strou s! R idiculous! Im­
p ossib le!
MOON: T h e trou b le lies n o t in m y rev ela ­
tio n , but in your callo u sn ess, your unreflect­
iv en ess, your ch ild ish n ess! For do you not
see th at an im m ortality th at w ould be sta tic,
and not dynam ic w ould be tiresom e, to begin
w ith? Even the earth ly com ic papers have
lon g since d iscovered th at! T h ey exp loit this
boredom b oldly!
WORSHIPPER: B u t w ould not an im m ort­
a lity that ended ce a se to survive?
MOON: S urely! It m ust not end, but
ch an ge; it m ust be a renascen ce, a d evelop ­
m ent, a p rogression ! An unchanging im m ort­
a lity w ould be a lim itation , a doom , a punish­
m ent! W ould you d esire that?
W ORSHIPPER: On reflection, I se e I w ould
not like that; but is it not an unusual v iew ­
point?
MOON: N ot unusual, excep t to th e Ignorant,
th e stupid and m aterialistic, w ho lack Ideals!
D. CRUCIFIXION
WORSHIPPER: B ut is it not painful to you
to undergo this m ortal change?
MOON: Of cou rse, o f course! B ut I am not
here to am use m yself. I am here for the b en e­
fit of the w orld!
WORSHIPPER: T hen Is suffering inevitable?
MOON: Suffering is a great p rivilege!
Said U go B assi, in h is Serm on in the H ospital:
NEW MOON RITUAL—2
B ut if, im p atient, thou let slip th y cross,
T hou w ilt no find it in th is w orld again ,
Nor in an other; here, and h ere alon e
Is given th ee to suffer for G od ’s sake I
In other w orld s w e shall m ore p erfectly
Serve Him, and love Him , p raise Him, w ork
for Him;
But then w e shall not an y m ore be called
T o suffer, w hich is our ap poin tm ent here!
So w hile w e suffer, let us set our sou ls
T o suffer perfectly; sin ce th is alon e
T h e suffering, w hich is th is w o rld ’s special
grace
M ay here be p erfected , and left behind!
W ORSHIPPER: But is th is resign ation to
C rucifixion not unheard of?
MOON: In E gypt th ey told us o f th e P hoenix,
w hich every five hundred years g rew old , and
seek in g rest on a funeral p yre, by being
burned up, w a s reborn you n g, hopeful, and
diviner!
WORSHIPPER: But th e p h oen ix w a s a bird,
not a m an!
MOON: Even hum an sa v io rs had to under­
g o the C ross! Every reform er h as had to su f­
fer! It is a u niversal la w : so purificatory
suffering cam e to Chrishna, G autam a, T ham -
m uz, W ittob a, Iao, H esus, Q u exalcoati, QuirJ-
nus, P rom etheus, and m any m ore crucified
saviors!
W ORSHIPPER: B ut th ose w ere an cien t tim es
w hen social con d ition s w ere so contrary that
d ecen t liv es w ere im p ossib le w ith ou t p ersecu ­
tion!
MOON: W hy, the m ost recen t savior, Jesus,
had to suffer the m ost pictu resq u e torture on
the cross! B esid es, w here th e M aster led the
w ay, shall th e d iscip le h esitate? (S in gs)
In th e C ross of Christ I glory,
T ow erin g o ’er the w reck s o f tim e!
All the light of sacred story.
G athers round its head sublim e!
(M oon sits d ow n , and b en ds o v e r ).
W ORSHIPPER: P lea se, M oon, d o n ot die
ju st yet! I cam e to seek help from you ! I
have a great undertaking on hand, and by
th e local sybil I w a s told to g e t h elp from
you ; and h ere, a s I arrive, you are dying!
O w retched m e! W ho w ill help m e?
MOON (arou sin g herself from h er som no­
le n c y ): Y es, m y dear W orshipper, I w ill help
you ! Indeed, I am dying, ju st on purpose to
help you! Just a s said T ertu llian , th e blood
of th e m artyrs is the seed o f th e church! As
said the H ebrew s E pistle, ‘W ith ou t the shed ­
d in g o f b lood , th ere is no rem ission of sin s!’
It w a s on ly b ecau se I had received a secret
m essage o f you r need, th at I cam e here, in
th e gu ise of a b eggar. You received m e w ith
scan t cou rtesy, b ecau se you feared a request
for h elp; w hile I cam e really a s a ben efactor
to lay dow n m y life to help you ! A re you
satisfied , now ?
W ORSHIPPER: B ut w h y can n ot I b e helped
w ith out your dying?
MOON: B ecau se of the Law o f C ausation,
of Sufficient R eason , of S cientific E xp lanation.
N othing com es by chance! T h ere is no m agic!
If a child is to b e born, it is a m other w ho
h as to suffer th e p an gs o f ch ild-b irth! If you
w an t h elp , so m eo n e h as to p ay for it! Y ou
h ave a n eed ; it shall be sup p lied — but on ly
in th e Land o f C ock aign e d o seek e r s find
th eir w ish e s read y-m ad e! S o I h ave com e to
d ie for y ou , th at yo u m ay b e sa tisfied ! Can
I do m ore?
W ORSHIPPER: B u t w h y sh ou ld I ex p ect
such a sa crifice from you ?
MOON: B eca u se, a s I w a s tellin g y o u , I
am d ivin e, and a s G od is lo v e, th erefo re
“ g rea ter love hath no m an than th is, th a t he
lay d ow n h is life for his frien d s.’’ .S o , m y
d ear W orsh ip p er, w hen I am dead w ill yo u
som etim es sh ed a silen t tear fo r m e?
W ORSHIPPER: I am sp e ech le ss w ith a d o ra ­
tion ! But p ray exp lain to m e h ow and w hy
the gran tin g of som e g ift to m e n ec e ssita te s
th e d eath an d resu rrection of you rself?
MOON: H asten you r q u estion , fo r I am
d yin g, and it so o n w ill be to o la te! (S in g s):
W hen th e w o e s of life o ’ertak e m e,
H opes d eceiv e, and fears an n oy,
N ever sh a ll th e C ross forsak e m e:
L o! It g lo w s w ith p eace an d jo y !
W ORSHIPPER: P lea se, M oon, ex p la in , b e ­
fore it be to o la te!
MOON: I w ill! D o you k now an yth in g
ab ou t ships? W ell, th ey le a v e p ort, n o t w hen
b u sin ess con ven ien ce w ould d ictate, but w hen
th e tid e tu rn s! D o you know w hy?
W O RSH IPPER: Of cou rse! B ecau se the
flo w in g of th e tid es sp eed s the d ep artin g ship s
a t d oub le ra te, w h ile, if th ey left a g a in st the
tid es, th ey w ou ld b e slo w ed o n e h alf th eir
p rop elled sp eed .
MOON: G ood! T h a t is th e very reason
w h y hum an b ein g s shou ld b egin u nd ertakin gs
a t th e com m en cem en t o f th e N ew M oon! H u­
m an efforts are w eak , a t b est; and no effort
can su cceed en ou gh to bear fruit th at d o es not
tak e a d v a n ta g e o f the currents of the U ni­
v erse, of th e b lessin g s o f G od! “ T h ey lab or
but in vain w h o build the h ou se, u n less th e
Lord lead th e w a y !” T h erefore, a s m y M oon
p ow er th at d raw s th e tid es around th e g lo b e
on ly b egin s w h ile I am resu rrectin g from d eath
so I recom m en ce g ro w in g . So in ord er to
p rom ote you r p lan s, 1 m ust die to resu rrect!
T h at is w h y, a s you called for aid from m e,
I had to com e to la y d ow n m y life, a s n ow
I d o , th at la ter on , m y u nseen crescen d o m igh t
sp eed you r p lan s to victory! (S in g s):
B an e and b lessin g , pain and p leasu re.
B y th e C ross are sanctified ;
P ea ce is th ere th at k now s no m easu re,
Joys th a t th rou gh all tim e ab id e!
W ORSHIPPER: W ill th en m y under tak in g
flou rish m ech an ically by you r aid?
MOON: N o, in d eed ! T h e help I offer is
d ivin e, an d m u st be secu red in a d ivin e m an ­
ner!
W ORSHIPPER: H ow w ill I k now h ow to
la y hold upon it? H ow w*U I know w hen I
su cceed ?
MOON: If a t th e m om ent o f m y d eath yo u
offer a p rayer, and b low th e tru m p ets su m ­
m on in g G od ’s a n g els; and if w ith th em you
NEW MOON RITUAL—3
celeb ra te th e sacram en t by eatin g a h istoric
lunar hot cro ss bun; and if at that m om ent
yo u s e e d ivin e fire from h eaven fall on the
a lta r, accep tin g your sa crifice, — then m ay
you w ith som e a ssu ran ce turn you r foreh ead
to th e d aw n , an d sin g a so n g o f th an k sgivin g,
k n ow in g th at G od w ill g o w ith you all th e
w a y till you reach th e H eaven ly G ates! So
n o w , fa rew ell, — (S in g s):
In th e cro ss o f C hrist I glory,
T o w erin g o ’er th e w reck s o f tim e;
A ll the lig h t of sacred story
G athers round its head sublim e!
(M oon co lla p se s, and c r ie s), F arew ell! 1 die
th at you m ay liv e! F arew ell! (D ie s ).
E. THE MOON’S RENASCENCE
W ORSHIPPER: Oh M oon, M oon, I had
rath er fail, th an h ave yo u die for m e! But
sh e h as d ied , an d I am left alon e! A las, 1
h a v e fo rg o tten h ow to in vok e G od’s help!
S u rely, I m u st pray to G od!
Oh G od, rem ind m e h ow to p erform the
ev o c a tio n of th e N ew M oon ’s h elp!
N oth in g h as h ap p en ed ! So in m y d espair
I w ill b low a tru m p et! P erh aps th a t m ay
reach th e b a ttlem en ts o f h eaven ! (B lo w s the
T ru m p et).
(A pp ears an ANGEL, w ho on a sa lv er brings
th e lunar h ot cr o ss b u n .)
ANGEL: K neel, W orsh ip p er, th at I m ay feed
y ou w ith th e corn an d w ine of th e H eaven,
com p ou nd ed in th is lunar hot cro ss bun!
W ORSHIPPER (k n e e lin g ): And w h at w ould
be th e effect h ereof?
ANGEL: Its spiritu al food w ill feed your
spiritu al b ody, so it m ay vita lize you r efforts
w ith spiritu al p o ten cy ! So p artak e, W orsh ip ­
per, an d be b lest! (H e d o es s o .)
(Fire from h eaven fa lls on th e corp se of
th e M oon; th ere form s a cloud , under cover
o f w hich the M oon is tran sform ed in to a you n g
ch ild, w h ich sta n d s up, ex ten d s her arm s and
c r ie s ,)
M OON: M ay G od b e b lest for th is new
le a se o f life! B efore m e lies a n ew cou rse!
A n ew g ro w th ! A new b lessin g for th e w orld ,
an d for all w h o w ill com p an y w ith m e!
(C him es are h e a rd ). T here is the call from
P red estin ation ! .1 m ust aw a y ! F arew ell, dear
A ngel! T ak e m y gratefu l b lessin g s to th e dear
Lord, w h o sits on th e G reat W hite T hrone!
B ut I m ust on to D estin y! F arew ell!
W ORSHIPPER: Hold on, dear M oon, ab an ­
don m e n ot! L eave m e not com fortless!
MOON: Sorry, m y friend, 1 am called !
(C him es ring th e secon d tim e.) Farew ell!
W ORSHIPPER: W ell, H oly M oon, if you
w ill not sta y fo r m e, then suffer m e to com ­
p any w ith y ou , a s a com rade!
MOON (to th e A n g e l): Is he fit to com e?
Did he p artak e, and w a s he stren gth en ed ? If
n ot, he w ill like Icarus, perish a lon g th e c e le s­
tial w ay! Is he fit?
ANGEL: He Is fit! He p artook ! Let him
fare a lo n g w ith you ! It w ill prosper the w ork
of G od, of th e W orld, o f you rself, and of him !
F. DISMISSAL
MOON: Very w ell, com e a lo n g , com rade 1
C om e, grow and prosper a lo n g w ith m e I
(C him es ring a third tim e.) You see, th e first
tim e th e chim es ran g, it w a s P red estin ation ;
th e secon d tim e th ey ran g, it w a s D estiny;
n ow th e third tim e th ey ring, it h as becom e
F ate; farew ell!
W ORSHIPPER: B ut I am to com e alon g
w ith y ou , and you are alread y slo w ly m oving
upw ard , and 1 can n ot keep up w ith you!
W h at Is to b ecom e of m e, O H oly C om rade?
MOON (slo w ly w alk in g, n ever stopp in g,
turn in g sid ew ise): Go a lo n g you r d a ily d uties;
but every even in g sin g on e sta n za of the im ­
m ortal hym n, “ T h e S p aciou s Firm am ent on
H igh!” From h eaven I w ill hear you , and If
you w ill listen a m om ent, you shall hear m y
w h isp er, of en cou ragem ent and inspiration,
sen d in g you th e good cheer th at m y influence
is so silen tly w ork in g for you ! T he oftener
you lo o k up a t m e, the clearer w ill you see
m e sm ilin g at you ! S o, alth ou gh our paths
m ay lie far ap art, w e shall be coop eratin g as
fellow -w ork ers for God!
W ORSHIPPER: Oh, all that K now ledge of
frien dsh ip is very w ell; B ut 1 w ant som e d ef­
in ite tok en , som e sign , som e assu ran ce, that
h en ce forw ard w e b elon g to each other!
MOON: V ery w ell! A s you see, I cannot
sto p , and also you cannot com e a lo n g w ith
m e! B u t even w h ile w alk in g, I stretch my
hand forw ard in b en ed iction, and 1 con fer on
you th e title of K night C om panion th e N ew
M oon, Com rade of the One w ho W alks in
Splen d or. And a s partin g b lessin g, I place on
you r brow s a crow n of flow ers, w h ose perfum e
sh all last till I return to d ie again , to help
you in a further ven tu re, a q uest m ore ro­
m an tic, an em prise sublim er! T ill then, fare­
w ell! “ God be w ith y ou , till w e m eet a g a in !”
(T h e W ORSHIPPER proudly s in g s); to tune
of R ussian H ym n):
I am a Knight C om panion o f th e M oon,
C om rade of Her w ho high in splendor w alk s!
W hen I look up, sh e sh ed s a special sm ile
R em inding m e of our m ysteriou s talks!
I heard the w hisp ers of th e D ying M oon,
A nd ate the A n gels’ lunar sacram en t!
I sa w the fire from h ea v ’n th e Old M oon
change
Into th e N ew M oon’s sw eet developm ent!
T h erefore the old relation ship to guard,
Each night her sm ile I seek to recogn ize;
T o m ind m e, she coop erates w ith all
M y puny efforts, all m y enterprise!
N ew M oon’s Com panion K night am I,
C om rade of Her w ho high In splendor sw ings!
A lon g w ith Her, m y in terests Increase,
S o th at, w ith Her, m y heart in trium ph sin gs!
FULL MOON RITUAL—1
To Celebrate and Profit by the Monthly Full Moon Time
1. T h e M oon’s E ducation,
2. T h e M oon’s S ervices,
3. T h e Kinds o f K isses,
4. N ature’s C elebration,
5. T h e W orsh ip p er’s E ducation
6 . D ism issal.
1. THE M OON’S EDUCATION
W ORSHIPPER: It is m idnight, and in my
lon ely breast I feel a stran ge turm oil! No
lo n g er can I sta y w ith in d oors! In vain have
1 for m any years been seek in g G od! T rue, in
an cien t legen ds I h ave heard h ow the O lym pian
g o d s used to roam over th e cou n try-sid es, just
a s once in the Garden o f Eden, God w alked
around in the cool of th e even in g! So Jupiter
an d M ercury w andered around P h rygia seek ­
in g if th ere w ere left any true w orshipp ers, and
In th eir hut found Philem on and B au cis, and
b lessed th em . T hen P rodicu s tells h ow Her­
cu les stum bled up a g a in st the cross-road s, one
like th is, w here he w a s com p elled to ch oose
b etw een , th e ea sy path o f vice, and virtu e’s
ru gged cou rse. Since th ese O lym pians h ave
d eserted th e nocturnal road s, w e are left com ­
fo rtless; in d eed I alm ost regret th e old d a y s
w hen friendly Pan piped in th e w o ld s. Oh,
h o w I w ish th at God and h is A n gels w ere a s
com p an ion ab le as th o se ob so lete O lym pians!
(E nter MOON, w ea rin g a p hosp h orescen t
m an tle, and on th e head som e su itab le or
p o ssib le sy m b o l).
MOON: P eace and seren ity to a ll!
W ORSHIPPER: W hat, is th ere a stranger?
MOON: H allo, frien d! It is I w h o did not
know th at at this eerie hour th ere w ould be
ab ou t any hum ans! I b etter lea v e quick ly, for
yo u hum ans are so con ceited th at you w ant to
you rselv es th e w hole earth , n ot on ly w hen it
rightly is you rs by d ay, but even w hen it
righ tly is ours by night!
W ORSHIPPER: N ot I am g u ilty o f such,
you m ay be sure! T h at is ju st th e reason
w h y I left m y couch and th e habitation of
m y earth-bound fam ily to loiter in the p laces
form erly haunted by th e Im m ortals, on the
lo n g chance th at som e stra y G enius m ight
happen to ring the ch im es o f th is fo rest’s
aeolian harp!
MOON: You are fortu n ate th at you gu essed
th e p recise m onthly m om ent w hen, after rest­
in g at tw en ty-eigh t su ccessiv e recuperation
h o u ses, or h o stels, I ch an ce to p a ss this cross­
road s, here also to leave m y b enediction!
W ORSHIPPER: But I n ever su sp ected there
w a s such a certain p rearranged tim e, differ­
ent each m onth, w hen you p assed here!
MOON: No w onder! For the m ajority of
hum an b ein gs, alth ou gh apprised by th e pop ­
ular calen dars, never su sp ect m y m ystic p as­
sa g e; and a s I do not recogn ize you very w ell,
I presum e th is is you r first ap pearan ce at
m y p rocession !
WORSHIPPER: “ Y es” , or “ n o ,” (a s the
ca se m ay b e, th is is m y (first, secon d . . .)
ap pearan ce, though I never for m any years
susp ected I cou ld m eet you . B ut w ho are
you , Lady?
MOON: Oh, I am th e Full M oon! I have
m any nam es! A s m any as the cou n tries over
w hich I p ass! In B abylon I w as called Sin, a
m em ber of th e Suprem e T riad! T h e Hebrew s
used to celeb rate m y reapp earance w ith trum ­
p etin g p rocession s of p riests, and w orshippers,
esp ecially at th e P assover.
W OSRHIPPER: I am glad you cam e here
to o ; but w h y m ust you im m ortally sw in g
arou n d your crucifixional circle? W ould you
n o t p refer to rest?
MOON: Indeed I w ou ld , b ut I h ave a w ork
to do; and w ith ou t m e th e w orld w ould lack
o n e quarter o f its ligh t! I am th e Illum inating
W anderer!
W ORSHIPPER: Y ou sp eak o f you r self a s
a w and erer; are yo u a va g ra n t or a pilgrim ?
MOON: Y es, I am a pilgrim , and 1 sw in g
around a road so lo n g th at I h ave to rest
tw en ty -eig h t tim es a t various road -sid e sh rin es,
or h o stels, lo ca ted a lo n g th e Lunarian P il­
g rim age P ath around th e w orld !
W ORSHIPPER: Can yo u g iv e m e th eir
nam es?
MOON: Y es, an d here th ey are: E ach w eek
I jou rn ey th rou gh a d ifferen t con tin en t!
W ORSHIPPER: Can you tell m e th eir nam es?
MOON: C ertainly! T h e first w eek I p a ss
th rou gh th e S ocial C ontinent; th e secon d , 1
p a ss through th e F am ilial C ontinent, the third
I p a ss throrugh th e O ccu pational C ontinent; the
fourth throu gh th e D ign itary C ontinent!
W ORSHIPPER: A nd is th at all yo u rem em ­
ber or profit by you r jou rn ey?
MOON: Oh no! A t each o f th e sev en h o s­
te ls of each o f th e fou r con tin en ts 1 learned
a sp ecial lesso n !
W ORSHIPPER: T hen p ray ad m it m e to
th ese b en efits o f y o u rs, an d re cite w h a t yo u
learn ed in each !
MOON: P a ssin g throu gh th e S ocial Con­
tin en t I learn ed , in th e ------- H ostel, to be -—
(S o on , a ccord in g to th is Sch em e:
A . S ocial— 1, Church O rganizer; 2, P ea ce
M aker and H arm onizer; 3, P rotector and
S hepherd; 4, P roph et and S eer; 5, H ealer of
th e Sick; 6, G uide on th e P ath ; 7, Ign oran ts’
T each er.
B . Fam ilial — 1, F ather an d M other; 2,
L over an d S w eeth eart; 3, B ride an d B ride­
groom ; 4, C om rade in S olitu d e; 5, S ocratic
M idw ife; 6, M aturity H asten er; 7, E van gelistic
M essen ger.
C. P ro fessio n a l— 1, O rchestra L eader; 2,
M usician; 3, P ain ter; 4, G ardener; 5, L aw yer;
6, P h ysician ; 7, E xecutioner and E m balm er.
D . D ign itary: 1, O racle; 2, P roblem S olver;
3, Inspirer; 4, L istener; 5, D iscoverer; 6, H iero­
p h an t; 7, M iracle W ork er.)
W ORSHIPPER: I se e n ow w h y yo u are so
z e a lo u s and u nw earied in m ak in g you r m onth­
ly p ilgrim age; it is a sort o f p erp etu al re­
ed u cation for you r ow n sou l.
2. THE M OON’S SERVICES
B ut is it n ot a p retty ex p en siv e so rt o f a
th eatre fo r G od to run h is U niverse ju st to
g iv e y ou a regular sch oolin g?
MOON: W ell, an y sch o o lin g is exp en siv e,
you k now ! B u t, h ow ever, I return to th e U ni­
verse service fo r th is valu e received !
W ORSHIPPER: W ell, w h at eq u ivalen t ser­
v ices do you render?
MOON: W ell, first I sup p ly th e w orld w ith
on e q uarter of its ligh t. T h en , secon d , I draw
th e tid es of th e ocean around th e w orld , and
k eep th e sea -d ep th s so stirred up th e fish es
can liv e in it, b esid es furnishing a sto re of
en ergy sufficien t to run all th e w o rld ’s en ­
g in es, a s so o n a s m an g ro w s in tellig en t enough
to u se it!
W ORSHIPPER: W ell, th at m ay b e very
g o o d , but it sou n d s rem ote and vision ary!
Can yo u do an yth in g m ore p ractical?
FULL MOON RITUAL—2
MOON: C ertainly! I bring fertility to the
fe m a le s o f all livin g creatu res, as testified to
b y th eir m on thly retirem ents. In the G raeco-
R om an w orld I w a s called L aton a, and a s I
p a sse d from cro ss-ro a d s to cr o ss-ro a d s even
th e d o g s w orshipp ed m e by b a y in g at m e!
W O R SH IPPER : N ow you are b egin n in g to
b e p ra ctica l; but is th at not som ew h at m at­
e r ia listic?
M OON: C ertainly, and I ad van ced th at a ct­
iv ity on ly to p lea se a m aterialist such a s you !
W O RSH IPPER: W ell, do not h esita te to d is­
p la y you r m ore id ealistic ach ievem en ts!
M OON: V ery w ell, th e n ext m ore spiritual
o n e is th a t I in sp ire you th s and m aid en s w ith
V irg il's “ frien dly sile n c e s” th at in sp ire to
lo v e !
W O R SH IPPER : I gran t th at th is is a lovely
d u ty , but love soon flies ou t of th e w indow
w h en k itch en w ork and m ortg a g es knock at the
d o o rs! S o is th at not to o a esth etic to be of
p ractical valu e?
MOON: O nly b ecau se you ch o o se to ign ore
all th at it im plies! T h e m en tal C oru scation s,
th e u ntertak in g of m ission s, and later, the
fo u n d in g of fam ilies.
W ORSHIPPER: G ood! B u t it is com m on ­
p la ce ! Is th a t all?
M OON: Further, I arou se th e a ctiv ity of
th e m any grad ation al in ternal u n iverses, for
in sta n c e, the fairy w orld . It is a slee p , not
h ib ern atin g but m en sivatin g, in cavern , and
la k e, on p eak and in fo g s, until m y light,
rea ch in g its m axim um in ten sity, lend s them
v ig o r en ou gh to regain th eir so cia l a ctiv ities.
If I did not com e around on ce a m onth, your
w orld w ould m iss th e m on thly rou sin g of the
elem en tal v o ic es, the fairy w orld th at sleep s
ex c ep t w h en , com ing arou n d, I aw ak e it to an
h o u r’s fe stiv e d ance, for the com in g of w hich
th ey h ave been dream ing for fou r w eek s.
C ould I d isap p oin t th em , do you think?
W O RSH IPPER: N o, you could n ot! nor
w ou ld I w an t you to d isap p oin t m e now I
h a v e fou nd y o u . W ill you n ot, p lea se, allow
m e to be p resen t at the rev els of th e elem en t­
al sym ph on y you are ab ou t to d irect, O m ystic
orch estra-lead er?
M OON: So far a s I am con cern ed , you are
w elc o m e to do so , — but rem em ber I cannot
a n sw er for th e local reg u la tio n s o f th e var­
io u s sta te s of th e elem en tal an d fairy repub­
lics and k in gd om s. P erh ops th e b est w a y to
m ake sure is to see if you su cceed in w aking
th e local d ivin ity w ho should be around here
ly in g a slee p in som e b ush . If you w ak e her
w ith a k iss, if she k isses you in return, you
sh all be free o f th e revels; if not, though all
th e elem en tals and fairies in th e w orld dance
around you and th ough I do m y u tm ost, you
sh all not be aw are of an yth in g u nfam iliar to
you r p hysical sen se s, a s h app en s com m on ly to
th e m ajority o f hum anity!
3. THE KINDS OF KISSES
W ORSHIPPER: So then a m ere k iss is not
a p a ss-p o rt sufficient?
MOON: N o, for th ere are a ll kinds of k isses.
First, th ere is th e Judas K iss, so com m on am ­
o n g you m en ; w ould th at be a p assp ort, think
you ?
W ORSHIPPER: Oh no, ind eed !
MOON: Or w ould you , a s a p a ss-p ort, pre­
fer G od ’s K iss th at, on th e M oabite M ount,
A aron died of?
W ORSHIPPER: N o, n o, w e are not p essi­
m istic M ortuarians; w e are op tim istic Imm or-
talizers! W e w an t a K iss, that sp eed s on
and d evelop s creation !
MOON: V ery w ell! H ow w ould you like
th e Vam pire K iss th at lea v es th e Julian-like
lun atic raving and m aniac?
W ORSHIPPER: Oh no, w e w ant the sanity
of h olin ess.
MOON: V ery w ell, h ow w ould you like the
L echerous Kiss?
W ORSHIPPER: N ay, n ay, God is the En-
virtuer!
MOON: B u t w hat ab out the purer K iss of
ch aste love, like D ian a’s K iss to Endym ion,
celeb rated by K eats?
W ORSHIPPER: T h at is im practicable, — it
h app en s on ly on ce; and it rem ains an a esth et­
ic m em ory on ly b ecau se tragically broken off.
Is there any oth er kind of a Kiss?
MOON: V ery w ell, how w ould you like the
am iab le so cie ty Kiss?
W ORSHIPPER: N o, no! So far a s it exerts
an y p oten cy w h atever, that Kiss is hypocrisy;
so put it a sid e! Is th at all?
MOON: Oh no! T h ere is the h eaven ly
b enediction K iss, o f w hich the prim itive church
m ade a g re etin g and parting cerem ony, —
w hich here m ight succeed !
W ORSHIPPER: But how m ight I, im potent
and com m on hum an, im part such h eaven ly
en ergy I m yself do n ot p ossess?
MOON: T h at is ju st it! T h is celestial Kiss
is not a sim ple salu tation of your ow n . W hile
th e k iss m ust be you rs, n everth eless it m ust
b e p oten tialized w ith G od’s p ow er; it m ust
a lso be G od’s K iss!
W ORSHIPPER: And h ow m ight I ach ieve
such privilege?
MOON: Just a s all other p rivileges are a c ­
quired, — by prayer! K neel, sup p licate, and
you r guardian an gel w ill k iss a lon g w ith you.
T ry it! You h ave nothing to lo se, but much
to gain!
W ORSHIPPER (k n e els): G uardian A ngel,
pray let G od ’s Kiss, through you rs and m ine,
w in m e the vision of the revels of th e interior
w orld ! Y es, 1 think I heard m y G uardian ap ­
p rove!
MOON: T ry it n ow ! (G oing to a bush or
curtain, d raw in g it asid e, d iscovers sleep in g
N ature.)
W ORSHIPPER: N ow , an gel, help m e!
(K isses N ature on th e foreh ead , N ature w akes
up, sm iles and r ise s).
4. N A TU R E’S CELEBRATION
NATURE: W ell, w ell! So I am arou sed to
life once m ore! Joy and gratitud e to God!
T hank you, dear Faithful M oon! You are one
of the Spiritual C ocks of the W orld! You are
on e of G od ’s W atchers, appointed to rouse
our finer u niverses to m onthly orgiastic thrills!
T hank you ! I feel like dancing for very b liss!
— But w ho is th is stranger?
MOON: Y ou need not mind him , dear N a­
ture! He is one of my W orshippers w ho
b egged the p rivilege of instruction by being
presen t at your m onthly revels, and you you r­
se lf returned h is rousing Kiss, so he seem s
d estin ed to p articip ate in our holy lab ors of
p raise and th ank sgiving!
NATURE: V ery w ell, he shall in crease our
gratitud e to G od by join in g in our p aean s;
w ill you, friend?
W ORSHIPPER: C ertainly!
FULL MOOIJ RITUAL—3
N ATURE: T hen I sum m on you , in su cces­
sio n , you d en izens of the fairy w orld s! (h
stcreop ticon could reveal grou p s of various
fairies a s called , or various person s could im ­
p erson ate each called grou p ),
FAIRIES: (From behind the scen es are heard
childish so n g s of jo y ), “ H ow happy w e a n
once m ore! God b less us all! Let us aw ak
to new ach ievem en ts! Let u s plan th e w orld ’: |
p ossib ilities of b lessin g! Let u s w ea v e destiny I
into fate! Let us transform accid en ts in t
provid en tial p rivileges!
N ATU R E: A w ake, y e E leinentaries!
FAIRIES: E lem entaries of every chem ica.
L iquidac, the spirits of liquid are w e,
And w e p raise God for th is n ex t m oth,
w e do! Am en!
S olid ae, the spirits o f so lid s are w e,
And w e praise God for th is n ex t m onth,
w e do! A m en!
C rystallinae, the crystallizin g sp irits arc w e, !
And w e praise God for th is n ex t m onth, '
w e do! Am en!
G asidae, th e g a sify in g en ergies are w e,
And w e praise God for th is n ext m onth,
w e do! A m en!
O xidisae, th e spirits o f com bustion are w e!
And w e praise God for th is n ext m onth,
w e do! Am en!
NATURE: A w ak e, ye G raeco-R om an d au gh t­
ers of sea and land!
FAIRIES: N ym phs of th e G raeco-R om an
w orld -age are w e,
And w e chant the p raises of G od for the
n ext m onth, w e do! Am en!
O ceanides are w e, m erm aid d augh ters of
O ceans,
And w e chant the p raises of God for the
n ext m onth, w e d o! Am en!
N ereids are w e, d augh ters o f the M editer­
ranean sea,
And w e chant the p raises of G od for the 1
n ext m onth, w e d o! Am en!
O reads are w e, d augh ters o f m ou ntains and
gro tto es arc w e,
And w e chant th e p raises of God for the
n ext m onth, w e do! Am en!
H am adryads are w e, d augh ters of every
tree, born w ith each on e, and dying
th erew ith , ah, do not m urder u s need­
le ssly , w e pray!
And w e chant th e p raises of God for the
n ext m onth, w e do! Am en!
L ocaliad s are w e, daughters of each place
h allow ed by a nam e or a hum an birth
or a d eath , or a prayer, an o racle, or
a tem ple,
And w e chant the praises of God for the
n ext m onth, w e do! Am en!
N A TU R E: A w ake, ye national spirits of
eld!
FAIRIES: A sianias are Hindu d eev s, and |
Persian p eris, and A rabian D jinns; Europias
are Scandinavian trolls, D anish elves, German
K obolds, and B reton poulpiquets; B ritishia arc
Irish p ixies, b an sh ees, and leprechauns, Scotch
b row nies, W elsh b ogies and British fays:
And w e chant the praises of God for the
n ext m onth, w e do! Am en!
NATURE: A w ake, you m ediaeval alchem ic
sprites w ho m ay som ed ay ach ieve hum anity
by servin g som e m agic sa g e, a s revealed by
the Count of G abalis!
FAIRIES:
G nom es are w e, in caves and fo rests, w ho •
by our tin y ham m er guide th e miner* I
And w e chant the p raises of God fo r th e
n ext m onth, w e do! A m en!
S ylp h s are w e, w h o teach self-k n o w led g e
and m odern p rogress,
And w e ch an t th e 'p r a ise s of God for th e
n ext m onth, w e do! A m en!
S alam an d ers are w e, w h o by fire sm elt
m etals and d ia g n o se crim e,
And w e chant th e p raises of God for th e
next m onth, w e do! A m en!
U nd in es are w e, frien dly and in tu itive, w h o
seek to b ecom e hum ans,
And w e ch an t the p raises of God for the
n ext m onth, w e d o! A m en!
N A TU R E: A w ak e, y e literary sprites!
FAIRIES:
K ing O beron is ruler of th e Fairy Em pire,
Q ueen T itan ia is th e charm ing lady:
Puck is th e sp irit of in n ocen t fun,
A riel is th e d elica te sprite of m usic,
Q ueen M ab w a s S h e lle y ’s leader o f fairy
revels.
N ATU R E: A w ak e, y e A n gelic b ein gs!
TAIRIES:
Sand alph on th e A ngel of prayer am I,
O rphea, th e A ngel of M usic!
\7 c A n gels co n so le, gu id e, guard and p ro­
tect!
W e A rch an gels’ effectu ate G od ’s w-ork, —
M ichael th e F ighter, R aphael the H ealer,
G abriel the A nnouncer, Uriel th e En­
lightener!
W e P rin cip alities organ ize G od ’s w ork!
W e P o w ers restore and p reserve hum an
h ealth!
W e A u th orities h ave ach ieved our influence
through in tercession !
W e D om inions clinch p rayer by p raise!
W e T h ron es esta b lish the la w s of p rogress!
W e C herubs are th e livin g b ein gs w ho
a s H oly O x, rem em orates p ast ex isten ces;
a s H oly Lion, raven ou sly hunger and
th irst for in itiation ;
a s H oly E agle, w e gla n ce straigh t at
th e sun of R igh teou sn ess!
as H oly Man reveal th e featu res of the
W orld-G od, w h o is the M aster!
W e S eraphim s burn w ith th e Fire of H oli­
n ess th at w arm s, en lig h ten s, in sp ires and
tran sfigu res!
N ATU R E: N ow , all of you F airies to geth er
chant the P raises of G od!
FAIRIES: (S in g A p ollon iu s’s N uktem eron,
(found in G uthrie’s M ithraics, D egree XI) and
th e lon ger G loria, d an cin g to it, if th ere are
sufficient a cto rs.)
N ATU R E: And n ow , farew ell! Ye d en izen s
of the Invisible Em pire!
FAIRIES (d isa p p ea r).
5. THE W ORSHIPPERS EDUCATION
W ORSHIPPER: And are all th e revels over?
N ATU R E: W ell, th e cu stom ary revels are all
over; but in the honor of you rself, kind v isi­
tor, w ho aw aked m e w ith a k iss, there is still
to be a d ance — for you know in heaven,
th ere is a proverb, w ho k isses d ances!
W ORSHIPPER: T h e d ancer is you rself,
beau tifu l lady!
N ATURE: C ertainly, of m yself!
W ORSHIPPER: W ith w hom ?
N ATU R E: H ow d en se th ese m ortals be!
Surely if you arou se a lad y w ith a k iss, the
lea st you can do is to d ance w ith her! D on’t
you think so?
W ORSHIPPER: W ell, it sou n d s fair and
FULL MOON RITUAL—4
rea so n a b le, it d o es! B ut th ere is n obod y left
here but m e!
N A TU R E: E x a ctly , you ! And a s it w a s you
w ho arou sed m e w ith a k iss, it m ust be you
w ho shall d ism iss m e w ith a dance!
W O RSH IPPER: B u t I am u nw orthy of the
h onor of d a n cin g w ith so b eau tifu l a lad y as
you !
N A TU R E: M y d ear Friend, you m istak e the
p rop osition . T h is is not a person al m atter!
E veryth in g co n n ected w ith nature is ed u ca ­
tio n a l! W hen 1 in v ite you to d ance, 1 am not
co n d escen d in g , but I am , like a m agn et, w hich
if it is to b e o f any u se w h atever, m ust be
a ttra ctiv e, — I am luring you to an ed u ca­
tio n a l ex e rcise. A re you w illin g?
W O RSH IPPER: Lady, it is not a q uestion
o f w illin g n e ss; 1 am fascin ated by the m agic
o f you r w isd om !
N A TU R E: A nd th e M oon, w hom I pray to
g iv e her ed u ca tiv e b en ed iction to our h oly
sacram en t of terp sich orean ad oration of God,
— w hich a la s foreign w ord I shall tran slate
in to plain E n glish a s ed u cation al tran sfigu ra­
tio n , — for s e e , G od ’s g leam in g rep resen tative,
th e M oon, h as n ow reach ed her b rillian cy’s
clim ax by w hich I can look straigh t into your
so u l, and tra n sfu se in to you th e exu b eran t b liss
o f th e d ivin e crea tiv e en ergy!
W ORSHIPPER: Like the Em peror Julian, I
feel thrilled w ith sacred lu n acy, in w hich I
fo resee clim acteric ach ievem en ts of hum anity!
N A TU R E: D an gerou s co n fessio n ! For w h o ­
so ev er fo r e se e s an id eal is th ereb y com m itted
to its fu lfilm en t! T h e ed u cative d ance w ith
m e, w hich b efo re w a s on ly d estin y, h as now
b ecom e you r fa te!
(A ll join h and s and gracefu lly fo llo w th e
leadership o f M oon, a s she sw in g s to right or
le ft),
M OON’S SONG
MOON: C om e, frien dly w orshipp ers, and
fare a lo n g w ith m e, U nto th e ch am p aign s of
th e so cia l con tin en t. T h ere n igh tly in a h ostel
shall you b id e w ith m e; And every m idnight
should you be in prayerful m use, I w ill, a s
G o d ’s in sp ector, m ysteries reveal!
W ORSHIPPER: I’ll fare around th e glob e
terraqu eou s w ith you , In every h o ste l’s shrine
som e lesso n to be tau gh t; And fo llo w in g the
tran sform ation s of you r light, A s p hoenix d y­
in g, con q u er im m ortality!
N A TU R E: A dm ire, inspire, th e ligh t the
m oon is sh ed d in g round, Let it transfigure
every g racefu l m otion ’s glid e! For n obler ed u ­
cation is a sacram en t, A con flagration d ivin ­
izin g d estin y !
SOCIAL
MOON:
In h ostel first y o u ’ll learn a church to organ ize!
In seco n d , m ak in g p eace, all th in g s w ill har­
m on ize!
In third, a s sheph erd, w and erers w e w ill pro­
tect!
In fou rth , a s p rop h et-seer w e'll vaticin ate!
In fifth , a s h ealer o f th e sick w e ’ll cure!
In sixth , a s gu id e upon th e path d irection s
g iv e!
In sev en th , in stru ctor o f th e ign oran t w e ’ll
teach !
ALL: G lory to God th e M ost H igh, th e Su­
prem e E d u cator! G lory for ever and ever.
A m en!
N A TU R E: N ow , T each er M oon, p a ss to a
further C ontinent!
MOON: Fare forth w ith m e ab ove Fam ilial
C ontinent!
W ORSHIPPER: I p a ss the stra its of T h eo­
retic S elfish n ess on B ridge U tilitarian to Fam ­
ilia l Life!
2. FAMILIAL
MOON:
In h ostel first, I’ll teach p aren tal service-lore!
In secon d , the indifferent to lovers I shall turn;
In third, the nup tials spiritu al i ’ll celeb rate;
C om rade in solitu d e to g row , fourth w ill teach!
S ocratic m idw ife, new id eas, I’ll propagate!
S ixth , I w ill h asten search ers to m aturity!
S e v ’nth, 1 shall form E van gelistic m essen gers!
ALL: Glory to God th e M ost High, th e Su­
prem e Educator! G lory for ever and ever,
A m en!
N ATURE: N ow , T each er M oon, p a ss to a
further continent!
MOON: Fare forth w ith m e o ’er C ontinent
P rofession al!
W ORSHIPPER: I p ass th e w retched straits
of Inefficiency in to th e fruitful C ontinent Pro­
fessio n a l!
3. PROFESSIONAL
MOON:
In first, orchestral lead er I shall m ake of you!
In secon d , O rpheus-like m usician you becom e!
In third, a s painter, you r id eals represent!
A s gardner, fourth, you fragran t flow ers cul­
tivate!
A s law yer, fifth, G od’s stru gglin g cau ses you
defend!
P h ysician , sixth , o f p ain s yo u only hear to
cure;
E m balm er, seven th , and E xecutioner you grow !
ALL: Glory to God the M ost H igh, the Su­
prem e E ducator! G lory for ever and ever,
A m en!
NATURE: N ow , T each er M oon, p ass to a
further continent!
MOON: Fare forth w ith m e to D ignitary
C ontinent!
W ORSHIPPER: I p a ss the straits m iraculous
of Human prayer in to resu ltin g D ignitary Con­
tinent!
4. DIGNITARY
MOON:
In h ostel first, I teach oracularity;
S econ d , all p roblem s, p u zzles, issu es raised 1
solve;
T hird, as inspirer, sacred p oem s I produce;
Fourth, to becom e g ood listen ers I w ill
instruct;
F ifth, new d iscoveries rom antic I prom ote;
S ixth 1 ordain you a s a m ystic hierophant;
W orker of m iracles, I, seven th , m ake of you!
ALL: Glory to G od, th e M ost High, the Su­
p rem e Educator! G lory fo r ever and ever,
A m en!
NATURE:
N ow , T eacher M oon, th at you traversed all
continents,
I feel anticipation o f n ew life w ithin!
A n ew prophetic panoram a d izzies m e!
I fall asleep , that later P h oen ix-lik e again
T ransform ed, in later splen d or I once m ore
m ay rise!
I fain t! I am am azed ! I gloom , transm ogrified!
(S he falls a sle e p ).
6. DISMISSAL
W ORSHIPPER: Help! M y radiant dancer
h as fainted! R evive her, O M agic M oon!
FULL MOO*
MOON: A las, (T w elv e ch im es are heard)
do you hear the T em p le-ch im es of F ate, that
call m e to a further p ilgrim age? 1 m ust on
and on, up and up unto th e T em p le of the
W orld to see th e W orld-G od Christ in His
tem ple, in terced in g w ith F ate fo r h is pupil
hum anity! I follow ! 1 follow !
W ORSHIPPER: Fine! Fine! For you ! But
w hat about fairy N ature? A re you g o in g to
abandon her?
MOON: N o, not ab andon her! For see,
here is the A ngel of G od, w h ose nam e is
P aed agogu e, sen t to p rotect and guard her re­
cum bent form w hile sh e d ream s th e vision s
sh e h as here danced, and by w ork in g them over
in her mind to tran slate them into som nam bu­
listic m otions during w hich w ak in g she shall
find herself h avin g b ecom e w h at she w as
d ream ing. Is th at n ot her happ y fa te, O
auroral guardian an gel?
ANGEL: Indeed it is, and layin g her again
into her w aysid e bush, I shall guard and pro­
tect her till, supporting her first w aking m o­
tion s, 1 shall con sole her a g ita ted surprise at
finding herself becom e the d ivin ity w hich she
supposed she w a s only dream ing!
W ORSHIPPER: B ut h avin g danced w ith
Holy N ature, I cannot abandon her b eloved
form w ith out solicitu d e a n g elic to o , for “ I also
am an a n g e l!”
ANGEL: Indeed you are, p arap hrasin g the
French proverb, “ And I also am a p o et!” I w ill
lea v e a visib le testim on y of m y an gelic pro­
tection !
WORSHIPPER: How m ay w e hum ans learn
so profound a m ystery?
ANGEL: E asily indeed! Just look at the
b ush ’s flow ers, each of w hich budded w here-
ever fell a so licitou s tear of m ine! Flow ers
are an gel-tears, you know or ou ght to learn!
W ORSHIPPER: I stand rebuked, and to
you r an gel-tears I m in gle m y regretfu l tear
of parting.
MOON: W hy parting? It is 1 w ho am leav­
in g for my m onthly ed u cation al pilgrim age!
G ood-bye!
W ORSHIPPER: N o, no! N ot g ood bye!
B ecau se I am goin g w ith you ! I w ant to be
ed u cated , alon g w ith you !
MOON: W hy, you said I w a s selfish be­
cau se 1 pointed th e w ay in self-ed u cation !
W ORSHIPPER: I retract! 1 sit m e dow n in
dust and ash es! Like Job I cover my m outh in
sham e! Let m e be a learner, pray!
MOON: You m ay, if you w ill fo llo w alon g
w ith m e!
W ORSHIPPER: B ut how can 1 do so , since
you r exalted path lies in th e p astu res of the
scin tillatin g sain ts w ho to us ap pear to be
stars! It is on earth, through the caverns of
drudgery that I m ust w an d er w atch in g your
gloriou s progress from a d istan ce. Help m e,
T eacher M oon! Surely you m ust know w hat
to do for a pupil!
MOON: I do, indeed. H ere is an itinerary
of th e 28 h ostels I shall stop a t; and w here-
ever you m ay be, at m idnight, as inspector,
I w ill com e dow n and shed a sym path etic tear
th at rou sin g a flow er in the garden of your
sou l, shall w ith am aranthine splen d or burst
you r shell and spread the fragran ce of your
asp iration s! W ill that suffice you , beloved
com rade?
W ORSHIPPER: Indeed it w ill, revered T each ­
er M oon! Give m e your itinerary! (T here
should be provided printed blanks to be filled
in m onthly to convert th e 28 lunar station s
r RITUAL—5
in to th e corresp on d in g calen d ar d a tes. W here
the calen dar a ssig n s tw o d a y s to the fu!l
m oon , u se th e first.)
LUNAR ITINERARY
FULL MOON FESTIVAL
CALENDAR M ONTH an d DAY
1. W eek S ocial:
S tation 1, Church O rganizer,
S tation 2, P eace M aker and Harm ortizer,
S tation 3, P rotector and S hepherd,
S tation 4, P rophet and S eer,
S tation 5, H ealer of th e Sick,
S tation 6, G uide on the Path ,
S tation 7, lg n o ra n ts’ T each er,
2. |W eek Fam ilial:
S tation 8, P aren tal,
S tation 9, L over and S w eeth eart,
S tation 10, B ride and B ridegroom ,
S tation 11, S olitu d e C om rade,
S tation 12, S ocratic M idw ife,
Station 13, M aturity H astener,
S tation 14, E van gelistic M essen ger,
NEW MOON FESTIVAL
3. W eek P rofession al:
S tation 15, O rchestra L eader,
S tation 16, M usician,
Station 17, P ainter,
S tation 18, G ardener,
S tation 19, Law yer,
S tation 20, P h ysician ,
Station 21, E xecutioner an d Em balm er,
4. W eek, D ign itary:
Station 22, O racle,
S tation 23, Problem solver,
S tation 24, Inspirer,
S tation 25, Listener,
S tation 26, D iscoverer,
S tation 27, H ierophant,
S tation 28, M iracle W orker.
MOON (h an d in g to W orshipper a filled in
D ate C onversion Lunar Itinerary B la n k ): H ere
is m y Itinerary fo r th e C om ing M onth,— fo l­
low it and sa lu te m e w ith th e sp ecial n ig h t's
T itle, w hen a s in sp ector each m idnight 1 tap
at you r w in d ow ! Are you satisfied ?
W ORSHIPPER: A lm ost, h oly T each er M oon;
but I am in doub t a s to w h at w ill b ecom e of
th e sacred F airy W orld during th at lo n g in­
terv a l! M ost p eop le forget it; d o es it fo rg et
us?
MOON: It d o es n ot fo rg et y ou , fo r n igh tly
it seek s a c c e ss to you r slum bering sou l in the
dream w orld ; so , dream , p rofounder and pro­
founder, until you r dream s b ecom e rea lities!
W ORSHIPPER: But w hat o f m y w ak in g
m om en ts; m ust th ey b e dull, p rosaic, ab an ­
doned?
MOON: If th ey d o, it w ill be you r fau lt.
For you m u st n ot fo rg et th em ! A s H aggard ’s
“ Children of th e Z o d iac” roam ed around sin g ­
in g so n g s of ch eer rem inding the lab or b ru tal­
iz e d hum ans, “ T h at th ey had been G od s” , so
m ust yo u every hour of th e d ay p erform a
j m agic in can tation by u ttering, as you turn to
the N orth, “ I too am a fa ir y ,” if you a re a
w om an, if you are a m an, you m u st exclaim
! “ I to o am an a n g el!” It is you , w h o, hour
b y hour, m u st p ierce th e fairy sph ere and
draw d ow n a m agic g lo w th at shall au reole
w h a tev er d ru dgery-cave you r fa te m ay have
I draw n vou into!
W ORSHIPPER: Hurrah fo r th e Pilgrim -
T each er M oon! E very w om an a fairy! E very
m an an a n g el! Hurrah! F ollow on ! Hurrah!
I G ood b ye, until w e m eet n ext m onth! Hurrah!
ORIGINAL RESEARCH IN THE CHARACTER CLASSES
o r S tu d ies in th e 12 C h aracter-C lasses as
S ym b olized by th e Z od iacal S ign s; or, T h e 12
L etters o f th e A lp hab et o f T h ou gh t; or, T h e
12 S h ad es o f th e Hum an C haracter-sp ectrum .
T ill n ow th e traits o f each C haracter-class
w ere eith er reprodu ced from legen d ary a stro l­
o g ic a l d ata, such a s th o se of P tolem y, or
ch o sen b y g u ess-w o rk . T h is w a s unbearable
to th e w riter, w h o had b een trained in scie n ti­
fic m eth od s. D isgu sted w ith th is d isgracefu l
q uackery he w o u ld , like m ost p eop le, h ave re­
jecte d th is w h o le su p rem ely im p ortan t d ep art­
m en t o f hum an ch aracter, b ut th at h e w a s
com p elled to u se it a s th e first step o f char­
a cter-im p rovem en t, an d in evitab le for co n ser­
v a to r s o f th eir crea tiv e en erg y . He w a s th ere­
fo re com p elled , sin g le-h a n d ed , to a ttack the
w h o le su b ject from a strictly d ed u ctive, e x ­
p erim en tal and sta tistica l p oin t of v ie w . In
th is p articular inq u iry th e C h aracter-classes
a re exam ined and d educed in th e literary field.
T o b egin w ith h is w id e read in g in p oetry,
b iograp h y an d dram a en ab led him to d etect
a sim ilarity of d eta ils b iograp h ical or sym b ol­
ic . T h en h e d ecid ed to exten d h is research to
u to p ia s an d p h ilo so p h ies,— and fin ally h is d e­
ta iled stu d y w a s b ased on th e fo llo w in g :
>A. EPICS: A eneid, A rgon au tica, B eow u lf,
B id asari, G en esis, G ilgam esh , H iaw atha, Iliad,
K alevala, M ah ab harata, M orte Arthur, N ib el-
u n gen , O d yssey, P op ol V uh, Prem S agar, R am -
aya n a .
B . BIOGRAPHIES: B ald er, B uddha, Her­
cu le s, Jesus, K rishna, M oses, O rpheus, O siris.
C. DRAM AS: A n tigon e, C yrano, D uchess of
M alfi, F aust, H am let, H ernani, M acbeth, M aster
o f P alm yra, M erchant o f V enice, N athan the
W ise, O llanta, P rom etheus B ound, Saku n tala,
T em p est, T o o th of B u d dh a, T raged y o f Hu­
m an ity, W allen stein .
D. U TO PIA S: C ity of G od, E gyp tian B ook
o f D w ellin gs, and of G ates, W ilhelm M eister,
P ilgrim ’s P ro g ress, P rom etheus U nbound, R e­
p ub lic, R evelation , M ore’s U topia.
E. PHILOSOPHIES: B acon ’s A dvan cem en t of
L earning, K ant’s C ritique o f Pure R eason,
E gyp tian B ook o f D ead, and o f H ades, Spin­
o z a ’s E th ics, Hindu P h ilosop h y, L essin g’s Laok-
oo n , A risto tle’s N icom ach can E thics, an d U p-
an ish ad s.
In all th ese w ork s h e d etected b iograp h ic or
sym b olic sim ilarities; and th en h e realized th at
th ese w ere no m ore than th e com m on p lace in­
cid en ts in th e norm al d evelop m en t of an y hu­
m an career from infan cy throu gh you th, m ar­
riage, h o m e-settlin g , travel, culture adjustm en t,
u tilitarian ism , p artisan sh ip , organ ization , w orld ­
lin e ss, to fru ition . T hen th e w riter d iscovered
th at each o f th ese, and hi proper order, w a s the
su b stan ce or q u in tessen ce o f on e of th e sign s
o f th e Z od iac, in clud in g even th eir d ecan s!
W h at is th e con n ection? If th e tw elv e su c­
ce ssiv e p arts of a n y sto ry reveal th e norm al
p rogression o f th e com p osite hum an biography,
an d if th ese correspon d to th e Z odiacal sign -
sig n ifica n ces, th en th e ce lestia l Z od iacal sig n s
are, corresp on d in gly th e tw elv e su ccessiv e a ge-
E
eriod s of (S w ed en b o rg ’s ) G rand M an of the
leaven s,— I had alm ost said of w orld -d eity!
T h en th e Z od iac is rescu ed from ap pearin g
q u eer and irration al, and fa lls in to th e rational
sch em e o f th e u n iverse. T h at is th e w riter’s
d isco v ery .
T h is then g a v e th e w riter an unprejudiced
b a sis from w hich to stu d y th e latter, a s th ey
ap peared in th ese literary w ork s. T h e w riter
th en , by su p er-im p osin g th ese w ork s, m ade a
com p osite life-p h otograp h o f th e representative
hum an b ein g, a s fo llo w s: AGE 1, Y ears 1-7,
b oyh ood , (a rles, b rain ) pred om in an ce o f cere­
bral nervou s sy stem , fairly w ell d escribed by
a CONFUSION of sen se im p ression s fu sin g in to
UNITY of co n scio u sn ess of PLEASURE o f liv­
in g, th us gain in g d iscernm ent. (D ecan s, C as-
sio p ea , A ndrom eda, C etu s).
AGE II, Y ears 8-14, you th, (T au ru s, n eck ),
pred om in an ce of sym path etic and cereb ellar
n ervou s system ; life is a FEA ST, w ith ath letic
T E S T S , & INTUITION by ed u cation . (D ecan s,
P erseu s, P leiad es and E ridan u s).
AGE III, Y ears 15-21, lover-p eriod , (G em ­
ini, sh ou ld ers) predom inance of spinal nervous
system ; STRUGGLE to attain th e b eloved
PA R TNER , by earning W EALTH. (D ecan s:
A uriga, H yades, O rion ).
AGE IV, Y ears 22-28, difficulties in th e w orld ,
(C ancer, c h e st), predom inance of th e pulm on­
ary system ; ORATORICAL self-a ssertiv e n e ss
a s con n ected w ith sow in g th e w lld -o a ts of
GENEROSITY, lea d in g to the so w in g of w iser
PRESERVATION, w hich is a RETROGRESSION
into DARKNESS, secrecy or p rivacy. (D ecan s,
C anis M ajor, P ro-cyon , O rion ).
AGE V, Y ears 29-35, assu red p osition and
travel (L eo, h ea rt), p redom inance of th e car­
d iac system : FOUNDING of a HOME, w here
DAY-DREAM S resu lt in TRAVEL. (D ecan s,
Lynx, H ydra, A rgo N a v is).
AGE VI, Y ears 36-42, cu ltu re, (V irgo, d ig es­
tiv e s ), predom inance of th e sym path etic ner­
v o u s sy stem ; ap preciation o f Art lend s a
MAGIC w hich transform s or INITIATES a m an
in to b etter b ein g. (D ecan s: Leo M inor, Spica
and C rater).
AGE VII, Y ears 43-49, ju stice (Libra elim ina-
tiv e s ), predom inance of th e renal sy stem ; on
returning hom e JU ST arrangem ent of th in gs
su g g e sts a vision or PLAN of higher u se. (D e­
ca n s: U rsa M ajor, C anes V enatici, C orvu s).
AGE VIII, Y ears 50-56, stru ggle for estab lish ­
m ent, (S corp io, r e c r e a tiv e s); p redom inance of
the sexu al system ; Ideal effort m ust be PA S­
SIONATE to be ab le to effect an ythin g STING­
ING; politic OFFICIALISM m ust be used to pro­
duce USEFUL R ESULTS. (D ecan s: U rsa M inor,
B o o tes, C orona).
AGE IX, Y ears 57-63, a d ecisiv e figh t (S a g -
gittariu s, th e th ig h s); p redom inance of th e
low er m uscular system . FAITHFULNESS to th e
QUEST w ill lead to PRONOUNCEM ENTS b efore
th e critical STRUGGLE. (D ecan s: D raco, Her­
cu les, O phichuus).
AGE X, Y ears 64-70, p olitical estab lish m en t,
(C apricorn, the K n ees), p redom inance o f oc-
seo u s or derm al system s, su ccessfu l ASCEND­
ANCY resu lts in POLITICAL ESTABLISHM ENT
w hich the in d ividual w ill soon w ish to
LEAVE for a higher p erson al C ondition. (D e­
can s: Lyra, S agitta, A q u ila).
AGE XI, Y ears 70-77, w isdom (A quarius,
a n k les), predom inance of lym p h atic and join t-
system s; a W ATER trip or n atu re-stay tow ard s
an INTUITIONAL end th at is PLEASING resu lts
in a celestial MEETING or ASSEMBLY of Kin­
dred Spirits. (D ecan s: C ygnus, D elphinus and
Equiuleus C eleris). +
■
AGE XII, Y ears 78-84, d eparture (P isc es fe e t),
p redom inance o f the feet; PRACTICAL double
FATALITY o f d eath ushers m an to h igh er su c­
c e ss. D ecan s: C ephus, L acerta, P e g a su s).
Sum m arizing, if m en ’s m inds p a ss through
such sta g e s, then m ust a lso th eir exp ression s,
nam ely, an y great book, b e w ritten a lon g
th ose d evelopm ental or zod iacal lin es, and the
natural d ifference b etw een sto ries be due to th e
com m anding em p h asis or n eglect o f som e par­
ticular one of the a g e s or sig n -sym b ologies,
happy sto ries w ill resu lt from the predom in­
an ce o f the first six creative sta g es: tragic on es,
fio m that of the latter six d estru ctive on es.
CHARACTER QUALITIES QUESTIONNAIRE. Check qualities acknowledged.
Sign, w ith ad d ress and ex a ct birth d ate, and
JEFFERSON T Y PE : 1. R epelled by chaos?
2. Seek sa lvation in unification?
3. Do you ex ercise natural leadership?
4. Do you feel natural nobility?
5. Are you self-sacrificial, like lam b?
6. Love sunny, spaciou s room s and hom e?
7. E xercise natural charm ?
8. Do you b eliev e, or feel, or realize devil?
9. Do you h ave dream s of discernm ent?
10. H ave you natural h and som en ess?
11. Are you capricious?
12. So fond of rhythm , m usic ca u ses dance?
13. Have ven eration for d ivine things?
14. Exem plify in tellectu al d evelopm ent?
GRANT: 1. D o stren gth -trials thrill you?
2. Do you en joy, adm ire, seek feasts?
3. A re you a lw a y s led by feelin gs?
4. H ave you felt, given , or en joyed horror?
5. A re your determ in ation s u nalterable?
6. M ake cunning schem es? S ee th ro ’ gam es?
7. D o you m ake, or b elieve in enem ies?
8. H ave you p lanning ability?
9. Can you g u ess, m ind-read dream ?
10. H ave you phenom enal m em ory?
11. Do you en joy sen sation s? rl?h food?
PETER THE GREAT: 1. Dual in disp osition ?
2. A ttracted to m anual trick s, rites, grips?
3. A re you very practical?
4. Do you create or effect d isturban ces?
5. A re you loq u aciou s?
6. A re you essen tially kindly?
7. A re you fond of, or seek , or g et w ealth?
8. A re you curious? nosey?
9. Is your a rtisticaln ess ornam entary?
10. Are you found of nursing? caresses?
11. Im pressed by tricks of individuality?
12. Like or w ear stran ge ornam ents?
13. A re you ever hysteric?
CAESAR: 1. Are you reactionary?
2 . A re you brilliant? adm ire it?
3. A re you oratorical? or adm ire it?
4. A ttracted by d ark ness, hom e privacy?
5. A re you p en ny-w ise?
6. Are you poun d -foolish ?
7. Are you changeable?
8. Do you preach com p rom ise’s w isdom ?
9. Are you sp ecially hom e-desiring?
10. Could you , w ould you in stitu te reform s?
11. Are you fond of lon g, w astefu l travels?
12. Are you p atern alistic?
13. Are you a rtist in con versation?
14. Do you love n earn ess to w ater?
NAPOLEON: 1. Heat? Zeal? G am e? Song?
2. Are you essen tia lly coop erative?
3. Are you essen tia lly philosophic?
4. Are you am atory?
5. Are you self-ju stificatory?
6. Do you w ander? Fitfully lazy?
7. A ttracted by royal estab lish m en t?
8. D oes ex c essiv e love produce m eanness?
9 . D oes nocturnal ex ile, silen ce, attract?
10. Are n atu re-sen sation s sp ecially im pressive?
11. Are you in gen iou s, in ven tive, cooking?
12. Are you given to day-dream s?
13. Are you essen tia lly id ealistic?
14. Is serp en t-b ite p oison in g ever ju stifiable?
T A FT : 1. Do fatal spirits thrill you?
3. D ocs im itation im press you?
4. Are you gen erous?
5. Are you dignified?
6. Are you resilient, a lw a y s com e up again?
7. Are you very critical?
8. Are you essen tia lly artistic?
9. D oes th e cup sym bolism affect you?
10. D oes th e vim of nature support you?
11. Can you ju d ge, or like jew els, ornam ents?
12. A re you essen tia lly dietetic?
13. Do you like creatfvcn ess, sheaf of corn?
14. Are you fond o f, or use parables?
NELSON: 1. Is you r id eal balanced?
2. Is life com p osed of crises?
3. Is your vision pure and clear?
return to K. S . GUTHRIE, N . Y onkers, N . Y.
4. A rc you given to m elancholy?
5. Is ju stice you r sup rem e ideal?
6. A rc you affection ate?
7. Do you h ave vivid d ream s, v isio n flash es?
8. A re you reck less?
9. A re you irritable?
10. A re you dependent?
11. Do you hunt? like hunts? search es?
12. A re you extern ally form al?
13. Do yo u u nderstand and u se sym bolism ?
14. Are you d isp osed to gam b lin g?
CHARLES I: 1. Is P assion sacred?
2. Can you stin g you r en em ies?
3. H ave you a m agn etic p erson ality?
4 . Is opportunity reason ab le? L oyalty, foolish ?
5. Could you be dip lom atic?
6. A re you utilitarian?
7 . A re you im p ressed by d eath and spirits?
8. Do you approve of official b ureaucracy?
9. Is so cialization you r m aster-p assion ?
10. Are you prudish? S hocked at indecency?
11. Do you ap prove of form ality?
12. D o you feel you are a born G uardian?
13. A re you thrilled by g en erative love?
14. O ver-reveren t to sup erior know ledge?
BUNYAN: 1. A re you com b ative?
2 . D oes faith fu ln ess thrill? enthrall you?
3 . D o you ap prove o f w ar?
4 . D o you g et prop hetic resu lt-k n ow led ge?
5 . Are you rash?
6. A re you frank?
7 . D o you ea sily take up q uests?
8. Can you scold , g iv e to n g u e-lash in gs?
9. D oes speech seem sacred ? m agical?
10. D isposed to great straits? crises?
11. A re you , or could be laborious?
12. D isposed to helpful cou n sel? nursing?
13. A re you im p ressed by d ragon stories?
14. Do you like far, quick excursions?
W ILSON: 1. A re you sincere?
2 . D o you undertake large feuds?
3 . A re you determ ined, rule or ruin?
4. Like g o a t and fish , of dual elem en ts?
5. D o you organ ize everythin g?
6. A re you dom ineering?
7. A re you sin cerely religiou s?
8 . A re you r id eals utopian?
9 . H ave you a lyre or girl elem en t?
10. A re you d isp osed to teach ?
11. Are you m usical?
12. D o you seek organ ized reform s?
13. D o you do and buy all w h olesale?
14. Is your love m asterful?
LINCOLN: 1. M ake ju d iciou s d ecision s?
1. M ake ju d iciou s d ecision s?
2. Do you g iv e ston y stares?
3. A re you w avering?
4 . Is you r con versation brilliant?
5. Do you h ave vision and charm ?
6. A re secret ca v e s or h ou ses attractive?
7. Is your d isp osition kind?
8. D oes sw an -lik e fa ta lity im press?
9. D o you like w ater-co u rses, lak e o r sea?
10. A re you ad aptab le?
11. D o you feel kindred to nature?
12. S ocially d isp osed ? Like assem b lages?
13. Can you d iagn ose ch aracters <
5
r con d ition s?
14. Are you tactful?
W ASHINGTON: 1. Fear d up lex fatality?
2. Do you seek higher success?
3. D ocs tran sfigu ration im press?
4. A re you dual? Im pressed by pairs?
5. D o you support ch ivalric id eals?
6. Are you ritualistic?
7. P ilgrim age? R unning aw a y from hom e?
8. D oes m aterialism im p ress you?
9. Are p hysical trials, te sts, im p ressive?
10. Is religion o b jective, d octrinal, tan gib le?
11. D o you like fish or fishing?
12. A re you a lw a y s in re stless p lay?
13. Like g h o sts, m aterialized spirits?
14. A re you extrem ely industrious?
From th e d a y s of P tolem y d ow n to th is p res­
en t w ork , a ll ch aracter-stu d y w a s trad ition al,
ch a o tic , and fan cifu l. B ut th e p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
b eca u se o f its crucial im p ortan ce for ch aracter-
im p rovem en t an d con servation . D istru stin g his
ow n p reju d ices and lo g ic, he ch o se, from
a m o n g reco g n ized , fam ou s, ob jectiv e literary
w o rk s, 16 ep ic s, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 d ram as, 9
u top ias an d 10 p h ilosop h ical w ork s, and a n a ­
ly zed them co n secu tiv ely . He d iscovered th at
all of th em fo llo w ed the norm al d evelop m en t
sch em e o f a hum an life, an d w ere its so u rce.
A R I E S
N ew O ld R evised O rder C ases %
1 7 C haos ............................................+ 5 7 91 14
2 8 S a lv a tio n ’s U nity .............. 46 80 12
3 10 L e a d e r s h ip ................................ 23 57 9
4 13 N atural N obility ................ 18 52 8
5 17 S acrificial S elf-D evotion 13 47 8
6 9 L ove o f Sunny Hom e . . . . 9 43 7
7 15 C h a r m .......................................... 7 41 6
8 a 6 D evil ........................... + 1 8 5 6 40 6
8b 12 D iscern m en t, d ream s . . . . 6 40 6
9 16 B eau ty ......................................... — 34 5
10 18 C aprice .........................................— 2 32 5
11 14 R h y th m -fo n d n e s s .................. 7 27 4
12 19 V e n e r a tio n ................................ 16 18 3
13 11 Intellectu al D iscernm ent . 20 14 2
14 1 S ym bol of A ries ................... 25 9 1
15 2 D ec. C assiop ea E nthrone­
m en t .............................................. 29 5 1
16 3 D ec. A ndrom eta, D istress­
ed B eau ty ................................ 29 5 1
17 5 S ym bol Brain ............— 191 29 5 1
18 4 D ec. C etus, T em p le D evil 34 0 0
A verage 34 640
ARIES VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferen ces due to ch an ce, th ere
w ou ld b e no variation from the a v era g e of 34,
or 5% from to ta l 640. A total of variation of
376 ( + 1 8 5 and — 191), is th e h igh est of all the
oth er 12 ch aracter com p lexes, exp lain in g A ries’
b rillian t gen era l leadership. S ep aratin g ou t the
m inor A ries ch aracteristics (5 % and u nder) w e
h a v e left (640— 149) 491, or 7% illu stratin g
th e sca ttered b rilliancy of traits of th e A ries
n atu re, seen in the grad u ation of trait per­
c e n ta g es, th ere are no sharply-m ark ed sm aller
g rou p s.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o sh o w th e exten t of th ese re su lts’ su rp rises
to th e ob server, the variation o f the n ew trait-
ord er from th e old trad itional on e, am ou n ts to
151 p oin ts. S pecially m ay be m en tion ed the
em p h asis on S a lv a tio n ’s U nity, L eadership,
N atural N ob ility, Sacrificial S elf-D ev o tio n and
C harm , and th e relegation of D eviltry. A t
la st w e h ave a scientific ou tlin e of th is ch ar­
a cter , and a d em on stration th at it is th e m ost
im p ortan t in the w h ole list of 12: 376 ca ses,
to on ly 119 for C apricorn! R ule-or-ruin w h o le­
sa lin g is evid en tly a p oor con trast to in telli­
g en t charm !
JUDGMENT COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing the revised A ries-tra its u nto re­
lated co m p lex es for clearer com p reh en sion ,
recogn ition and u tilization , w e m ight say:
th ere w e h ave an
1, G raciou s (traits 4, 5, 7, 9, 10),
2, C larifyin g (6, 8b, 1 3 ),
3, Stirrin g (10, 11),
4, R edeem er (2, 3 ),
5, from C onfusion (1, 8 a ).
M OST DISTINCTIVE JUDGMENT WORKS
In sp ite of th e large ca se-to ta l, A ries has
but fe w h eavy ca se-sectio n s; only tw o 12-
sectio n s, no 11-section s, nine 10-section s, and
eigh t 9-sectio n s. T h e 12-section s are Bidasari
and M aster of P alm yra; T h e 10 section s are
A rgon autica, G en esis, H iaw ath a, M orte d ’Ar-
thur, lesu s, H ernani, T em p est, Prom etheus
and A ristotle’s E th ics. Its m ost extended sec­
tio n s are in th e K rishna b iograp h y, and O dys­
se y ; th e Patriarch is G ad, th e A postle Thom as
th e Jew el, the diam ond, b lood ston e or am e­
th y st.
SAMPLE JUDGM ENT STORY
T h e A ries section o f th e Life of K rishna is
so unusually full th at w e can only in d icate a
few tou ch es. In M athura (15) proud King
K an sa (8a) m ad e a trea ty (10) to m arry the
Kali w orshipp ing (8 a ) N ysoum ba (5 ). Fail­
in g to bear a son (1 ) she threw fire incense
(12) to the R ak sh asas (8 a ). T he priest pro­
p hesied (8b ) none of th e K ing’s son s should
rule (1 ), but the heir com e from D evald the
p iou s (9) w ho p rayed (5) for th e queen (2 ).
H earing th is, th e queen dem anded (10) Kansa
d estro y her (8 a ) and h e com p lied . But a
p riest, after a v isio n (8b ) w arned D evaki (1 ),
w h o escap ed by n igh t (2) to a h erm itage (6)
w here she w a s h o sp itab ly received (7 ), being
told the G ods had chosen her (4) to m other
the future Indian sa v io r (1 ). Garbed a s prin­
ce ss (4 ), sh e had ec sta sie s (7) w hen fell
flow ers (8 b ). O vershad ow ed by the Spirft
(8 b ) she con ceived th e D ivine son (4 ), to
be called Krishna th e saved (12) and R adiant
(11, 7, 9 ).
FAMOUS BRAIN-PERSONS
(M arch 21— April 18 of an y year)
RELIGIOUS, 7— M me. G uyon, S. T eresa, G eorge
Herbert, S w ed en b org, P eter L ange, Benj.
Dorr.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— Parkhurst.
HUM ANISTS, 1— M uret.
SOLDIERS, 4— C harlem agne, B ism arck, Juan
R osas, Joachim M urat.
ACTORS, 3— M arie K rauss, Lecouvreur, Barrett.
LITERARY PERSONS, 19— Z ola, de M aistre, H.
Kirke W hite, F itzgerald, J. P. R ichter, Sal-
let, W . G. Sim s, Ik M arvel, G ogolj, A ndrew
Lang, Henry Jam es, Irving, V erlaine, P ercy,
A uersperg, B urroughs, E. A. A ndrew s, An­
dersen, D elavign e.
MUSICIANS, 6— Spohr, T artin i, H aydn, L assen,
Lichtner, B ach.
A RTISTS, 6— B arth old i, R afael Sanzio, E.
A bbey, A nnerling, R osa B onheur, Jules
Dupre.
ORATORS, 1— Henry C lay.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 15— Louis XVIII, Leopold II,
John II C asim ir, T h. F relinghausen, G. Favre,
W m . Eden, W ilhelm 1, T hiers, F. K oenig,
W m . Kelly, D rexel, A lex. B atten b erg, T h os.
A llsop , Lucien B on ap arte.
SCIENTISTS, 21— L ecky, R aw linson, l.ardner,
P . G osse, Latham , W m . H arvey, H ahnem ann,
Bartram , J. H adley, Euler, Franklin, Emin
P ash a, Jas. M ill, A. G am ier, E. Gurney,
B row n-Sequard, A ustin Flint, A bernathy,
G. A m ice, A llibon e, H. A llen.
N o R eform ers, C hess-p layers, T each ers, V il­
lains.
T o ta l, 85 ou t of 1229 Fam ous P erson s, or 17
b elow a v era g e, 102.
From th e d ays of P tolem y dow n to this p res­
en t w ork, all ch aracter-stu d y w a s trad itional,
ch aotic, and fan cifu l. B ut th e presen t w riter
w a s com p elled to reduce it to a scien tific basis
b ecau se of its crucial im portance for character-
im provem ent and con servation . D istru stin g his
ow n p reju d ices and lo g ic, h e ch o se, from
am on g recogn ized , fam ou s, ob jectiv e literary
w ork s, 16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9
u top ias and 10 p hilosop hical w ork s, and ana­
lyzed them con secu tively. He d iscovered that
all of them follow ed th e norm al developm ent
sch em e of a hum an life, and w ere its source.
T A U R U S
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
1 9 S tr e n g th -tr ia l........................... -j-19 84 15
2 10 A fea st ...................................... 47 82 15
3 12 F eelings-p red om in an ce . . 29 64 12
4 6 H o r r o r ......................................... 25 60 11
5 8 D eterm ination ....................... 17 52 9
6 16 Cunning schem e, ch ess . . . 6 4 1 8
7 7 E n e m y .......................................... 2 37 6
8 15 P lanning ab ility ................... 1 36 6
9 14 O uessing, mind reading,
D ream ........................................ — 1 34 6
10 13 M em ory ........................................— 3 32 6
11 11 S e n sa tio n -e n jo y m e n t...........— 8 27 5
12 1 Sym bol of T aurus .............. 31 4 1
13 2 D ecan of P erseu s .............. 35 0 0
14 3 D ecan of P leiad es ............ 35 0 0
15 4 D ecan o f Erldanus ............ 35 0 0
16 5 D ecan o f Bull ...................... 35 0 0
A verage 35— 553
TAURUS VARIATIONS
W ere th e d ifferen ces d ue to ch an ce, there
w ould be no variation from the a v erage of
35, or 6% from their to ta l 553. A to ta l varia­
tion of 359 (+ 1 7 6 and — 183) is, n ext to
A ries, (376) th e h igh est o f all the oth er char­
acters, illu stratin g th e overw h elm in g leader­
ship o f th is character-com p lex. S eparating
ou t th e m inor ch aracteristics (6% and b elo w ),
w e h ave left (553— 170) 383, or 70% , show in g
th at th is ch aracter is on ly a little m ore solid
th an A ries’s, w ith traits b etter m assed .
TA UR U S SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o show the exten t of th ese resu lts’ sur­
p rises to th e ob server, th e variation o f the
n ew trait-order from th e old trad itional one,
am ou nts to 110 p oin ts. S pecially m ay be men­
tion ed the b ringing to the fore of th e Strength-
trial, the F east, the Predom inance of the Feel­
in g s, and th e C h ess-ab ility. T h e enem y-trait
b ecom es le ss im portant. A very close second
to A rles (376 and 359) is T au ru s in num ber
o f ob servab le traits, and th erefore gen eral lit­
erary and social im portance. N o on e had or
w ould have su sp ected th at th ese tw o sign s, so
clo se to geth er w ould so oversh ad ow th e others
in im portance.
.GLANDULAR COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing the revised T au ru s-traits into
related com p lexes for clearer com prehension,
recogn ition and u tilization , w e m igh t say:
T h ere w e have a
1, P ow erfu l (traits 1, 8 ),
2, H igh-livin g (3, 11),
3, D iscerning (6, 8, 9, 10),
4, Friend (5, 11),
5, Enem y (4, 5, 7 ).
M OST DISTINCTIVE GLANDULAR WORKS
Still m ore noticeably than in A ries, in spite
of T au ru s’s high case-num ber, th ere arc very
few rich ly ch aracterized w ork s,— on ly s ix 9-
sectio n s, and th ree 10-section s; the form er are
O d yssey, D u ch ess of M alfi and Fau st; th e la t­
ter are A rgon au tica, B eo w u lf, Popol Vuh, T em ­
p est, B a co n ’s A of L, and A ristotles E th ics.
T h e sig n ifica n ce o f th is is sup erior tr a it-d istri­
b ution , su g g e stin g g o o d ch a ra cter-b alan ce.
T h e M ahabharata and P op ol Vuh are th e w ork s
in w hich th e T au ru s-section is m ost ex ten d ed .
T h e p atriarch is A sher, th e A p ostle T h a d d eu s,
th e je w els are th e a g a te or Em erald.
SAM PLE GLANDULAR STORY
In th e P op ol Vuh T au ru s-section , G od, L ife’s
F ather-M other (3 ) con su lted w ith H im self (1 )
and accom p lish ed creation (2 ), in clu d in g a n i­
m als ord ered to p ron oun ce h is nam e (9 ). A s
th ey on ly roared , G od m ade a secon d cr ea ­
tion (1 ) an d , as third, a m an w ho still cou ld
not sin g h is p raise (2, 6 ). T hen m a rion ettes,
in cap ab le o f reprodu ction (1, 4 ). D isgu sted
w ith th ese m an ik in s, God let them drow n in a
flood (7 ); and p u lverized them (5 ). T h en
the an im als cam e to in su lt their d estroyed
form er m a sters (4, 3 ), b ut m iracu lou sly (9 )
th eir scorn fu l g estu res g a v e birth to a race
of sm a ll m on k eys nam ed G oy (1 ).
FAM OUS NECK-PERSONS
(A pril 10— M ay 19 of an y y ea r)
RELIGIOUS, 6— L ouis IX o f France, K eble, J.
Freem an, M onod, M oehler, E zra A bb ot.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— Lady B u rd ett-C ou tts.
HUM ANISTS, 2— V on H utten, S caliger.
REFORMERS, 5— Sir John E liot, R. D . O w en ,
Lilly, E dw . D igb y, A lex A lbert.
SOLDIERS, 12— W ellin gton , C rom w ell, R o b es­
pierre, R udolf I, Z iethen, M urat, K ossuth,
E llsw orth , B ou lan ger, D avout, G rant, O.
A nson .
ACTO RS, 2— John B rougham , A d a R eh an.
LITERARY PER SO N S, 31— R. B row n in g, G ib­
bon, F roude, M ignet, d a V inci, R ueckert,
S allet, S ey es, N o v a lis, M unchhausen, Kurz,
JSh K n ow les, T ain e, U hland, T rollop e, JN
P a g e, M artineau, M acch iavelli, Le S age,
B alzac, B a iley , A . C arey, D ow d en , W m .
B room e, Ch. B ron te, A dd ison , T im . D w igh t,
Du P on t, J. A n gell, C otton, D audet.
FAMOUS W OM EN, 3— M aria T h eresa, M aria
d e ’ M edici, M m e d e S tael. ,
MUSICIANS, 10— R ou get d e L isle, G ottsch alk ,
F lotow , P a isiello , S eid l, S ullivan , T ch aik ow -
ski, M assen et, H eller, B alfe.
A R TISTS, 4— T urner, L ear, L aw rence, Flandrin.
PUBLIC PER SO N S, 21— N ich olas II, N atalie of
S ervia, N a ser-ed -d een , N apoleon , Justinian,
H enry II of G erm . Edw ard II and IV Engl.
M. A urelius, W ayn e M cV eagh, A u gu st II
P olan d , Krupp, G. C hilds, B onner, E m m ett,
D undas, Ch. D ep ew , A lex II R ussia.
SCIENTISTS, 30— H uxley, L ankester, L innaeus,
K uehner, T o tleb en , M onge, L iebig, E. Lan­
k ester, Fuerst, F orbes, Fahrenheit, Fuchs,
B acker, B an croft, H ell, Jacobi, Jenner, R osen -
kranz, H um e, Kant, A ubert, A udubon, A udu-
nin, A zara, D raper, A chard, D yer, D in sd ale,
D ilm an, D ep ping, H. Spencer.
V illain: G. B arrin gton, th ief and au thor. C hess­
p layer: S tein itz. T each er: Froebel.
T o ta l, 128 ou t o f 1161 Fam ous P eop le, o r -31
ab o v e a v er a g e, 97.
STUDY O F THE 1NNERVATIVE, OR PETER THE GREAT, or THIRD
CHARACTER-TYPE
Born May 20—June 21 of any year, known as Shoulders, or Gemini, II, or S.
From th e d a y s o f P tolem y d ow n to th is p res­
en t w ork , a ll ch aracter-stu d y w a s trad ition al,
ch aotic, and fa n cifu l. B ut the p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to redu ce it to a scien tific b asis
o f its crucial Im portance for ch aracter-im p rove­
m ent and co n serv a tio n . D istru stin g h is ow n
p reju d ices an d lo g ic, he ch o se, from am on g
reco g n ized , fa m o u s, ob jectiv e literary w ork s,
16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 d ram as, 9 u topias
and 10 p h ilosop h ical w ork s, and an alyzed them
co n secu tiv e ly . He d iscovered th at all of them
fo llo w ed th e norm al d evelop m en t sch em e o f a
hum an life, an d agreed w ith , or rather w ere
th e sou rce o f th e fam ou s trad ition al zod iacal
sch em e. A n a ly zin g the p arts correspon d in g to
the section m en tion ed a b o v e, and grad u atin g
th e resu ltin g Bst of ch aracter-traits by the
freq u en cy of th eir oeeu rreace, he h as d evelop ed
th is first scien tific list:
O E M I N I
New Old R evised Order C ases %
1 7 D u ality ....................................... 31 53 14
2 17 T rick s, R ites .......................... 24 46 13
3 8 P r a c t ic a lity ............................... 21 43 11
4 6 D is tu r b a n c e ............................... 12 34 9
5 14 L oq u aciou sn ess ..................... 10 32 9
6a 9 K in d lin e s s .................................. 5 27 8
6b 11 W ea lth in ess ............................ 5 27 8
6c 13 C u r io u s n e s s ..............+ 113, 5 27 8
7 15 A r t is tic a ln c s s .......................... 1 21 6
8a 10 N ursing, C aressin g ............ 4 18 5
8b 12 I n d iv id u a lity ............................ 4 18 5
9 16 L ove or O rnam ent ............ 7 15 4
10 3 D ecan o f H yad es ................. 19 3 1
11 2 D ecan of A uriga ................. 20 2 1
12 1 Sym bol of Gem ini .............. 21 1 1
13 4 D ecan of Orion ................... 22 0 0
14 5 S ym bol of T w in s — 120 22 00
A verage 22 367
GEMINI VARIATIONS
W ere the-.e d ifferen ces due to ch an ce, there
w ould be no variation from th e a v erage of
22, or 6% from th e to ta l of 367. A total varia­
tion of 233 (+ 1 1 3 and — 120), (o r 7% ) is
much low er than the 12% o f A ries and th e
10% of T au ru s, sh ow in g an ex c essiv ely m ore
lim ited and m ore so lid , a lso le ss sh o w y or
su ccessfu l (A ries T otal 640, T au ru s total 553,
and Gem ini to ta l 367) trait-com p lex. S ep ar­
a tin g ou t th e m inor traits (6% and under, w e
h ave left (367 — 78) 289 ca ses, or 80% , e x ­
h ib itin g th e reliab le drudgery of th is n ature.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o sh o w th e ex ten t of th ese resu lts, sur­
p rises to th e ob server, and th erefore th e n ot­
ab le im p ortan ce of th is scien tific in vestigation ,
w e can point ou t th at the variation o f the
n ew trait-ord er from the old trad itional one
am ou n ts to 118 p o in ts. S pecially n otab le a
brin gin g to th e fore is th e trait of relian ce on
ritual, trick s or rites, a lso loq u aciou sn ess, not
to m ention artistry and love of orn am en t. Of
to ta l o b served c a ses, G em ini h as on ly 367 a s
a g a in st A rles 640 and T au ru s’s 553, sh ow in g
th at its p racticality m ak es it com m on -p lace,
an d con d em n s it to su b ord inacy.
INNERVATORY COMPLEXES
S um m arizing th e revised Gem ini traits in to
related co m p lex es for clearer com p reh en sion ,
recogn ition and u tilization , w e m ight say:
th ere w e h ave a
1, Dual (traits 1, 4, 6 c ),
2, M anual (2, 3, 6b, 7, 8 a ),
3, D em onstration (5, 8a, 9 ),
4, Friend (6a, 8 b ).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE INNERVATORY tfORKS
T h e con fu sion of the Gem ini nature is w ell
illu strated by the irregu larity of case section s:
sev en o f 9, five of 10, one of 12, and one of
13 ca se s. T h ey arc: T hirteen section : Faust;
T w elv e section : G ilgam esh ; T en section : Hia­
w a th a , K alevala, O d yssey, M acbeth and T em p ­
e s t. T he Nine S ection s are: A rgon autica,
B eo w u lf, B idasarl, G en esis, P ilgrim 's P rogress,
M aster of P alm yra and O llan ta. T h e m ost
exten d ed Gem ini sectio n s are Faust and Hia­
w a th a . T h e p atriarch is Issachar, th e A p ostle
ju d a s, the jew els beryl and aquam arine.
SAMPLE 1NNERVATIONAL STORY
In th e Faust G em in l-scetion , he turns to
stu d y the p ood le (8b , Sirius 4 ), w ho m akes a
d isturban ce (4) w hen Faust tran slates (5) the
Johannine p rolog (9, 2 ), as a p uzzle (6 c ). T he
D evil (6b ) w hen ex o rcised (2 ) ap p ears a s an
Individual (8b ) and w hen th e spirits have
su n g (7) him to sleep (8 a ) esca p es (3 ). On
returning he m ak es a dual (1) con tract ab out
re stle ss (4 ) cu rio sity ’s (6 c) p ersisten ce (6 c ).
H ere the D ecan s ap p ear m ost clearly, exp lain ­
in g both th e w riter’s form ative ch aracter-in ­
flu en ce, and the w ork ’s u niversal su ccess.
FAMOUS SHOULDER-PERSONS
(M ay 20— June 20 of an y year)
RELIGIOUS, 9— Zlnzendorff, H. C. P otter,
S purgeon, K ingsley, Lardner, Edm und Law ,
W . F. E vans, D orner.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— M rs. E. G. Frye.
REFORMERS, 3— M arat, Jonas Justus, Jos.
Fouche.
SOLDIERS, 4— Pim , O xenstiern a, M acM ahon,
Jas. Keith.
LITERARY PERSONS, 27— J. A ddison, Edwin
A rnold, E m erson, W alt W hitm an, M argaret
Fuller, J. G. S a x e, Erckm ann, A lex Forbes,
T h o s. M oore, Julia W ard H ow e, T h os. H ood,
T h o s. Hardy, de Kock, C. G. E astm an, H.
B eech er S tow e, T ieck , Parinl, A lex P op e,
C has. R eade, G erald M assey, H. F. L yte,
B ulw er L ytton, A lfred A ustin, B lackm ore,
C hanning.
MUSICIANS, 9— W agn er, Schum ann, P leyel, J.
H. Payne, Paer, M osch eles, L ecocq, R ich.
Hoffm ann, G ounod.
A RTISTS, 1— M illais.
WOMEN, 2— Q ueen V ictoria, M m e. d e S taal.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 21— P eter the G reat, W m .
P itt, Jr., Philip II of the Inquisition, Jay
G ould, Stephen Girard, F argo, V anderbilt,
Patrick Henry, N athan H ale, Edw ard I, Old
Stuart Pretender, W o lscley, Jam es I, John
III S obieski, A bdul H am id, J. D avis, D es-
cham ps, R lverty Johnson, R ufus King, B eau
Brum m el.
SCIENTISTS, 18— A ntoine Foucroy, Laborde,
Fiorelli, J. B. E ads, P auli, Flinders, Petrie,
M csm er, M atterner, L assell, R. H am ilton,
J. S. M ill, C has. B onap, J. L. A gassiz, Jos.
G uillotine, A sh m ole, P layfair, R om anes,
Adam Sm ith.
T o ta l, 95 ou t o f 1161 Fam ous P erson s, or 2
b elow average 97.
From th e d a y s of P tolem y d ow n to th is p res­
en t w ork, all character-stud y w a s trad itional,
ch aotic, and fan cifu l. B ut the p resen t w riter
w a s com pelled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
of its crucial im portance fo r ch aracter-im p rove­
m ent and con servation . D istru sting h is ow n
p reju d ices and logic, he ch ose, from am on g
recogn ized , fam ous, ob jective literary w orks,
16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 d ram as, 9 u topias
and 10 philosop hical w ork s, and an alyzed them
con secu tively. He d iscovered th at all of them
follow ed the norm al d evelopm ent sch em e Of a
hum an life, an d w ere its sou rce.
C A N C E R
New Old R evised Order C ases %
1 7 R e a c tlo n a r in e s s ............. + 1 7 50 10
2a 17 B rilliancy .......................................13 46 9
2 b 18 O r a to r ic a ln e ss................. 13 46 9
3 6 D arkness .................................. 11 44 8
4 11 P enn y-w isdom ...................... 7 40 8
5 14 Pound fo olish n ess .............. 6 39 7
6 a 12 C h a n g e a b le n e ss ............. 2 35 7
6b 13 C om prom ise ............................ 2 35 7
7 9 H om e-lovin g ....................+ 7 2 1 34 7
8a 15 R eform ing ten d en cy ........... — 3 30 6
8b 16 T ravel fo n d n ess ................... 3 30 6
9 8 P a te r n a lis m ...................... 4 29 6
10 10 C onservatism ................... 11 22 4
11 19 W ater-p roxim ity love . . . 14 19 4
12 * 1 Sym bol o f L eo, th eL ion . 27 6 1
13 2 D ecan o f G reater D o g . . . . 29 4 1
14 3 D ecan of P rocyon .............. 29 4 1
15 4 D ecan o f Orion ................... 29 4 1
16 § S ym bol o f C hest . . — 180 31 2 1
A v. 33, T o ta l 519
CANCER VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferen ces due to ch an ce, there
w ou ld be no variation from the av era g e of 33,
or 6% from to ta l 519. A total o f variation of
252, ( + 7 2 and — 180), is m uch higher than
th e Gem ini traits Illustrating th e exceptional
b rilliancy of the C ancer nature. S eparating
ou t th e m inor ch aracteristics (under 6% ) w e
have left (519 — 20, or) 499, or 96% , sh ow ­
in g that this ch aracter is p erhaps of all the
m ost solid and unchan geab le trait-group .
CANCER SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o sh ow th e exten t of th ese resu lts’ sur­
p rises to the ob server, and th erefore the no­
tab le im portance of this scientific in vestigation,
w e m ay point ou t th at the variation of the
n ew trait-order from th e old trad itional one
am ounts to 150 p oin ts. S pecially notable is
m aking its ch ief trait reaction arin ess, bril­
lian cy, oratoricaln ess, and releg a tin g its re­
form ing ten d en cy low enough to m ake it a
bluff, a s w a s th at of th e last Germ an Kaiser.
Patern alism , lo g ica lly C ancer’s chief trait, is
b y the sta tistics m ade one o f th e la st. Its
ob served ca ses, 579, con trast w ith th ose on
each sid e, Gem ini 367 and Leo 307, show in g
C ancer’s preponderance of p ow er.
(C ancer) RESPIRATORY COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing th e revised C ancer-traits into
related com p lexes for clearer com prehension,
recogn ition and u tilization , w e m ight say:
th ere w e h ave a
1, C onservative (traits 1, 3, 4, 7, 10),
2, P aternal (8 ),
3, B rilliant (2a, 6a, 8 a ),
4, W orld-im presser (2b, 5, 6b, 8b, 1 1 ).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE RESPIRATORY WORKS
A s w ith G em ini's d uality, C ancer’s fu nd a­
m en tal self-co n tra d ictio n resu lts in m any
crow d ed sectio n s: ten 10s; eigh t 11s; seven
12s; th ree 13s; and o n e 14. T h e latter is
R am ayana; the 13s are, O d yssey, K rishna and
O llan ta; th e 12s, B id asari, G en esis, B uddha,
C yrano, W allen stein , P la to ’s R ep ub lic, and
R evelation . T h e 11s are N ieb elu n gen , Pop ol
Vuh, O d yssey, H ernani, M aster of P alm yra,
City of G od, G oeth e’s W ilhelm M eister. T h e
C ancer sectio n is n otab ly ex ten d ed in K ale-
v a la , B id asari, A rgon au tica, Prem S a g a r. T h e
patriarch is Z ebulon, th e A p o stle M atth ew ,
and th e jew el is the O nyx.
SAM PLE RESPIRATORY STORY
T h e K alevala h old s a C ancer sectio n so e x ­
ten siv e th at w e can do no m ore than b egin it.
Lem nlnkainen roam s (6b , 8b ) at n igh t (3 ),
Kulli refu ses (1, 5 ), sun, m oon and sta rs (2 a );
but he is n ot d iscou raged , (6 a ) an d g o in g
th ere is en g a g ed a s Shepherd (4) w ork in g (4)
by d ay, and d ually (6b ) fea stin g an d d ancin g
(5 ) at night (3 ). K ylliki, com in g to o early, is
ab du cted (9 ) and y ield s to him on a con tract
(6 a ) she (7 ) is n ot to g o to d an ces, w h ile he
is n ot to g o to w ar. N ow , o n e n igh t, (3 ) she
w en t (6b ) to a d ance (8 b ), so he left (6 a ) for
w ar (8 a ). B y an oratorical (2b ) in can tation ,
he p rod u ces w ea p o n s (1 ) ch a n g es (6 a ) his
form , and tra v els (8b ) north fo r a secon d
bride (7 ), p a ssin g by a w atch d o g (1 0 ), he
en ch an ts all the w arriors (2 b ), ex c ep t one
w retch ed shepherd N assh u t, w ho cu rses him
(1 ); an d so forth .
FAMOUS CHEST-PERSONS
(June 21— July 21 o f an y y ea r )
RELIGIOUS, 5— C alvin, John W esley , P asq u ier
Q u esn el, T h o s. G uthrie, M anning.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— Sam uel A pp leton. .
REFORMERS, 4— M azzini, John H uss, G aribaldi,
Johann B ased ow .
SOLDIERS, 6— Julius C aesar, R obert B ru ce, Ru­
d o lf II, Paul Jones, M an sfeld , M axim ilian.
ACTO RS, 2— C. L. K ellogg, M m e. Jan ausch eck.
LITERARY PERSONS, 22— A braham a Sancta
C lara, R ou sseau , W . W in ter, G. F reytag,
A rnould Frem y, G eorges Sand, M olbech, N.
H aw thorne, Fitz-G reene H alleck, R ider H ag­
gard , La Fon tain e, W m . S tead , T rissin o,
T h ack eray, P a scal, P etrarch , M . P ryor, Fred
M arryatt, L eopardi, C herbulliez, C ath. Fan-
sh a w e, A rid .
W OM EN, 1— E m press Josep hin e.
MUSICIANS, 2— O ffenbach, Jos. Joachim .
A R T IST S, 10— R em brandt, R ubens, d el S arto,
R eyn old s, Lathrop, W . B. Joh nston e, Chas.
F rere, P . A ube, F. D rake, P aul D elaroch e.
ORATORS, 3— H. W . B eech er, M assillon , M ar-
m on tel.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 10— Frederick th e G reat,
M azarin, Henry VIII, L ouis X ‘Fath er of the
P e o p le’, P res. A dam s, P. B arnum , J. J. A stor,
W . E. A ytoun , W . B lack ston e, A bb as II.
SCIENTISTS, 14— Sir W m . L aw ren ce, S. D.
G ross, Rich. O w en, W . W . H um boldt, P lazzl,
M asp ero, H. L. H edge, L. F riedlaender, A.
B astian , L alande, M. M ackenzie, J. Latham ,
De M organ, E schenm ayer.
VARIOUS, 3— T eacher, E. G . W alker; C hess­
p layer, A dolf A ndersen; Inventor, G. C orliss.
T o ta l, 83, ou t of 1161 Fam ous P eo p le, or 14
b elo w a v era g e.
STUDY OF THE CIRCULATORY, or NAPOLEON or FIFTH
CHARACTER-TYPE
Bom July 22—August 22 of any year, known as Heart, or Leo, SI, or H.
From th e d a y s of P tolem y d ow n to th is p res­
en t w ork , all ch aracter-stn d y w a s trad ition al,
ch a o tic , an d fa n cifu l. B ut th e p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to redu ce it to a scien tific b asis
o f its cru cial im p ortan ce for ch aracter-im p rove­
m en t an d co n serv a tio n . D istru stin g h is ow n
p reju d ices an d lo g ic, he ch o se, from am on g
re co g n ized , fa m o u s, o b jective literary w ork s,
16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 d ram as, 9 u top ias
an d 10 p h ilosop h ical w ork s, and a n alyzed them
c o n secu tiv e ly . He d iscovered th at all o f them
fo llo w e d th e norm al d evelopm ent sch em e of a
human life, and were its source.
L E O
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
1 6 F ire, h e a t, zea l, figh t, g a m es. 32 8
2 12 C o op erative ....................................... 32 8
3 17 P h ilo s o p h ic ................................. 31 7
4 10 A m atory ..................... 30 7
5 16 S e lf-ju s tific a to r y ..................... 30 7
6 7 W a n d e r in g ................................. 29 7
7 11 R oyal estab lish m en t ................... 28 7
8 9 S u p er -lo v e, m ean n ess ................. 25 6
9 20 S ilen ce .................................................. 25 6
10 18 C ook in g, farm ing ........................... 24 6
11 15 In gen iou s ................................... + 7 7 22 5
12 8 F itful ...................................................... 18 4
13 13 D a y -d r e a m s ............................... 18 4
14 14 I d e a lis t ic ...................................... IS 4
15 3 D ecan o f H ydra, D ragon . . . . 16 4
16 19 F ou n tain flow in g ........................... 13 3
17 2 D ecan L ynx, E xp erim en tation . 12 3
18 1 S ym bol o f Leo, th e L io n .......... 7 1
19 4 D ecan o f A rgon avis, M ission . 5 1
20 5 Function of heart —78 3 1
A verage 21 307
LEO VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferen ces due to ch an ce, th ere
w ou ld b e no variation from th e a v er a g e 21,
or 5% , from to ta l 307. A to ta l o f v a riation of
155, ( + 7 7 an d — 7 8 ), is m uch lo w er th an th e
C an cer-traits (2 5 2 ); g iv in g a m ore m an ifold
an d in ter estin g nature. S ep aratin g ou t the
m inor ch a ra cteristics (under 5% ) w e h a v e left
(307 — 73, o r) 234, or 76% , sh o w in g th a t th is
ch aracter h a s a b o u t th e sam e b rillian cy a s
V irgo's.
LEO SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o sh o w th e ex ten t of th ese re su lts’ sur­
p rises to th e ob server, and th erefore th e n o­
ta b le im p ortan ce o f this scien tific in v estig a tio n ,
w e m ay p o in t ou t th at the variation of the
n ew trait-ord er from th e old trad ition al one
am ou n ts to 145 p oin ts; m aking it rank w ith
th e sig n s of g re a te st ch an ges, such a s A ries
(1 5 1 ), C ancer (1 5 0 ), S agittariu s (1 7 0 ), and
P isc es (1 4 8 ). Its ch ief ap preciation of trait-
rank are co o p era tiv en ess, p h ilosop h icaln ess,
am a to rln ess and sclf-ju stlfica to rln ess; a lso , its
ten d en cy to m ood y sile n c e. Leo is a le ss solid ,
but m ore b rillian t sign (145 va ria tio n ) than
C ancer (6 4 ) or V irgo (8 9 ); n ev erth eless it is
le ss n o tice a b le (366, to C ancer an d Libra’s
519)!
(L eo ) CIRCULATORY COMPLEXES
S um m arizing th e revised L eo-tralts in to re­
la ted co m p lex es for clearer com p reh en sion ,
recogn ition an d u tilization , w e m igh t say:
th ere w e h ave a
1, Z ealou s (tra its 1, 6, 7 ),
2, C oop erative (2, 14),
3, Ingeniou s (3, 5, 8, 10, 11),
4, L over (4 ),
5 , W ho is m ood y (9, 12, 1 3 ).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE CIRCULATORY W O R W ’
L eo's coo p era tiv en ess w ould no doub t oper­
a te tow ard s b un ch ing of ch aracteristics: one::.
14 (P o p o l V uh ); tw o 13 (S aku n tala and T em p ­
e s t); tw o 12 (K alevala and R am ayan a); six
11 (B ld asarl, M ah abharata, O d yssey, Jesus,
M acbeth and G oethe W ilhelm M eister; and
th ree 2 (A rgon au tlca, N iebelungen and Bud­
d h a ). T he m ost exten d ed Leo sectio n s are
G en esis, B u d dh a-tooth , A rthur and K alevala.
T h e patriarch is Judah, the A p ostle Sim on, and
the jew el is th e ruby.
(L eo ) SAM PLE CIRCULATORY STORY
T h e L eo-section of G enesis tells h d w A bra­
ham w andered (6 ) a cross th e Haran desert
seek in g his id ea l prom ise (14) and ultim ate
estab lish m en t in P a lestin e (7 ), T h e fam ily
coop eration (2 ) w a s broken by L ot’s dish ar­
m ony (8, 5) a t th e w ells of w ater (16) and
led to sep aration (9 ). His fove to Ood (4)
and p hilosop hy (3 ) w a s faith in 'th e Lord (1 4 ),
and It w as counted him for righteousn ess (5 ).
He perform ed m an y sacrifices (1 0 ). In sleep
(9 ) he had a v isio n (13) o f a burning lam p
(1 ). T h e circum cision (1 1 ), the H agar and
Ishm ael in cident (12) illu strate L eo’s h ea rt
affection (1 ). s t
FAMOUS HEART-PERSO NS
(July 22 — A u gu st 21 of any y ea r)
RELIGIOUS, 6— F enelon , Farrar, Ingersoll, M ar-
ten sen , Liddon, H. E. Irving.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— W m . Penn. 3
INVENTORS, 6— D eL ong, E lisha G ray, C laude
F reycln et, L aP erou sse, Paul du Challlu,
E ricsson .
PHILOSOPHERS, 4— N ordau, M ichelet, Lebrun,
Johann D ippel. .
REFORMERS, 1— L abouchere.
SOLDIERS, 6— N ap oleon B on ap arte, O ’HlgglnS,
N apier, M oreau, H enry Knox, A . W ilhelm.'
LITERARY PERSONS, 22— Shelley, W lnther,
F euillet, Sir W alter S cott, N. Frothingham , 1
von Stralilenau, B aron ess N aim e, M elanes,
Ch. Joliet, Guy de M aupassant, G o ld w in ;
Sm ith, South ey, T en n yson , de T ocqueylllii,
de Q uincey, B eranger, T h os. C am pdell, A lex.
D um as, Sr., and Jr., D ryden, D ana, W m . T .
A dam s.
A CTO RS,3— C harlotte C ushm an, W m . Florence,
M ary A nderson.
W OM EN, 1— C harlotte Corday.
MUSICIANS, 5— V incent N ovello, Meyerbeer,
F. Gore O useley.
A R TISTS, 3— E. M oran, Jean Jouvenet, Eu­
g en e Isab ey. i . i
PUBLIC PERSONS, 14— Philip A ugu stu s, N a­
p oleon i, Joseph I, G revy, E. F. Freilinghusen,
B uckingham , W m . Frederick III, B en j. Harri­
son , Jos. Francis I, R osw ell Flow er, Due d ’
E nghien, T orsten son , A ugu stu s o f Saxony* i,
Prince A lfred.
SCIENTISTS, 13— T h os. Klrkbride, Richard
M eade, Jean Lam arck, Sam uel H aldem ann,
E. D. C ope, T yn d all, C has. Hutton, Jer. D ay,
L avoisier, A vogadro, F. M . A vellln o, C has. ■
A ncelon , N iels A bel.
VARIOUS, 2— C hess-p layer, L. B ledow . T h ief
and d etectiv e, V ldocq.
T o ta l, 86 out of 1161 Fam ous P ersons, or 11
b elo w average, 97.
STUDY OF THE DIGESTIVE, or TAFT, or SIXTH CHARACTER-TYPE
Bom June 21—July 22 of any year, known as Chest, or Cancer, or C.
From th e d a y s of P tolem y dow n to th is pres­
en t w ork, all ch aracter-stud y w a s trad itional,
ch aotic, and fan cifu l. But the p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
o f its crucial im portance for ch aracter-im p rove­
m ent and con servation . D istru stin g h is ow n
p reju d ices and logic, he ch ose, from am ong
recogn ized , fam ou s, ob jective literary w orks,
16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9 utopias
and 10 p hilosop hical w orks, and a n alyzed them
co n secu tively. He discovered th at all o f them
follow ed th e norm al d evelopm ent sch em e of a
hum an life, and agreed w ith, or rath er w ere
th e source of the fam ous trad ition al zodiacal
sch em e. A n alyzin g th e parts correspon d in g to
th e section m entioned ab ove, and grad u atin g
th e resu ltin g list of ch aracter-traits by the
freq u en cy of th eir occurrence, he h a s developed
V I R O O
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
i e Fatal S pirits............................ + 2 5 48 13
2 7 Fem ale, or an gel ............... 4-21 44 12
3 8 Initiatory ................................ + 2 0 43 11
4 10 G e n e r o s ity .............................. 4-9 32 8
5 12 D ignified ................................. -j-4 27 7
0a 11 R e s ilie n t ................................... + 2 25 6
8b 13 C r itic a l...........................+ 8 5 4-2 25 6
7 14 A rtistic .................................... — 4 23 6
8 4 C u p ............................................. — 4 19 5
0 6 N a tu r e -v im ............................. — 5 18 5
10a 15 Jew el, ornam ent ............... — 7 16 4
10b 16 D ietetic .................................... — 7 16 4
i i 3 S h e a f , creativen ess . . . . — 8 15 4
12 2 C o m p a r a tiv e n e ss................. — 11 12 3
13 5 A bdom en m ention ............ — 21 2 1
14 1 V irgo m e n tio n .......... — 95 — 22 1 1
A verage 23 366
(VIRGO) VARIATIONS
Were th ese differences due to ch an ce, there
w ould b e no variation from th e a v era g e 23, or
6% , from total 366. A total o f variation of
179, -{-85 and 95, or 25 p oin ts m ore than Leo
traits (154 v a ria tio n s); g ivin g a m ore m ani­
fold and in terestin g nature. S ep aratin g out
the m inor ch aracteristics (under 5 % ), w e have
left (366 — 99, or) 267, or 73% , sh ow in g that
th is ch aracter h a s a m ore varied brilliancy
than th e Libra (85% so lid ity ).
(V irgo) SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o show th e exten t of th ese re su lts’ sur­
p rises to th e ob server, and th erefore the no­
tab le im portance o f th is scien tific in vestigation ,
the surprise q uota in ch an ge of trait order
thereby effected am ou nts to 115 p oin ts, rank­
ing w ith th e sign s of sm aller ch an ges, such
a s T aurus (1 1 0 ), Gemini (1 1 8 ), Capricorn
(120) and A quarius (1 3 0 ). S ta tistics now
em p h asize th e im portance of th e Fatal Spirits
Initiation, G enerosity and D ign ity. N ature-vim
is d ecreased in im portance, but d ietetician and
jew el-d lagn ostlclsm in creased . S ligh tly more
successfu l (366) and n oticeab le than Leo,
V irgo is still one of the le ss im portant sign s,
to ju dge by Libra’s 519 or A ries’s 640.
(V irgo) DIGESTIVE COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing th e revised V irgo-traits into
related com p lexes for clearer com prehension,
recogn ition and u tilization , w e m ight say:
th ere w e have an
1, Eerie (1, 3 ,)
2, A ngelic (2 ),
3, G enerous (4, 6a, 9 ),
4, N ature-loving (6a, 9, 10b, 11),
5, A rtist (5, 6b ( 7, 10a).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE DIGESTIVE W ORKS
In sp ite o f V irgo’s rela tiv ely larger c a se-
num ber, th e sectio n s are so even ly related th at
w e h ave on ly th ree 10s (G en esis, P ilgrim 's
P ro g ress, E gyp tian B o o k s), on e 11 (R ev ela ­
tio n ), on e 12 (F a u st), and on e 15 (J e su s). On
th e oth er hand, w e find som e rem arkable e x ­
ten d ed sectio n s: B a co n ’s A of L, U topia, G ll-
gam esh and P op ol Vuh. T h e p atriarch is B en ­
jam in , the a p o stle is B arth olom ew , an d the
jew el is th e sapp h ire. T h is u n u su aln ess of
d istrib u tion w ell illu strated V irgo's h ea d ­
stro n g criticism of o th ers, n ot of h im self.
(V irgo) SAM PLE DIGESTIVE STORY
T h e V irgo-section o f th e G osp els r e la tes the
secon d p a sso v er (5 ), th e u nleaven ed bread or
V irgo’s corn -ear (1 1 ) w a s ea ten , and w in e
drunk from C rater, th e Cup. In th e field w a s
plucked the ear of corn (14, 1 0b ). T h en ord ­
in ation (3 ) of the tw elv e d iscip les; th e raisin g
(6 a ) of th e N ain w id o w ’s son (2 ) and Jairus’s
d au gh ter (2 ). M ary M agd alene illu str a tes
V irgo’s fem ininity (2 ) and h is relative in ter­
feren ce to its criticism (6 b ). T hen com e th e
p arab les (12, 7) o f th e S ow er (1 1 ), th e T ares,
th e T reasu rer (1 0 a ); th e en terin g (1 3 ) of
th e d evils into th e sw in e (1 ) a t G adara. A lso
a h ealin g (4) of th e w om an w ith th e issu e of
b lood , en d in g Jesu s’s secon d g en eral circu it.
FAMOUS PLEXUS-PERSONS
(A u gu st 22 — S ep t. 22 o f any y ea r )
RELIGIOUS, 6— Johann H. Jung, Parker, O rson
P ratt, O berlin, M aurice, A braham K uehnen.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— W illiam D odge.
SOLDIERS, 6— R ohan, T u ren n e, W allen stein ,
L afayette, P aul IV E sterh azy, F elix D on ay.
ACTO RS, 2— John F aw cett, J. C larke.
W OM EN, 1— Q ueen E lizab eth .
REFORMERS, 2— Fourchct, B ased ow .
LITERARY PERSONS, 27— G oethe, Henry
G eorge, Sam uel Johnson, O. W . H olm es,
W ielan d, E u gen e Field, R onsard, V lctorien
Sard ou, S ch leg el, Slm rock, J. W . Fletch er,
B ret H arte, G autier, G. L aube, G. P . Lathrop,
S n oilsk y, C. D . W arner, M . P ow er (F a sh ­
io n s ), LeVer, T ren ch , R. F erguson, J. F.
A stic, J. von A uffenberg, Ph. C arey, F.
C ooper, A d e V ere, Paul B ou rget.
MUSICIANS, 5— V incent, N ovello, M eyerbeer,
A dolph H esse, C herubini, D vorak.
A R T IST S, 4— T in to retto , Fr. K ruger, W . D yce,
P . B artalozzi (E n g ra v er).
PHILOSOPHERS, 3— H egel, L ocke, L azarus.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 19— Abdul Ham id II, L ouis
XI an d XIV, R ich elieu , R ichard C oeur de
Lion, P op e P aul V, M ilan, Louis XVI, Iva.i
IV, R. W alp ole, W . B. A stor, C has. D ilko,
G en. D iaz, LZ Lam ar, H. Ham lin, John Ru-
d ay, A lex II and III (S c o ts ), L ouis B on a­
p arte.
SCIENTISTS, 14— N iebuhr, C. H. L ea, T . S.
Hunt, M ungo Park, F. H. H um boldt, L eldy,
J. S. R eilly, F. H. H am iln, L angley, J. Hull,
J. G eikie, P. F on tain e, Faraday A m ontous.
VARIOUS, 2— T ea ch ers, S eely e. Inventors:
R ichard G atlin g.
T o ta l, 92 out o f 1161 Fam ous P erson s, or 5
b elow a v era g e, 97.
From th e d a y s o f P tolem y dow n to th is p res­
en t w ork , all ch aracter-stu d y w a s trad ition al,
ch a o tic, and fa n cifu l. B ut th e p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to redu ce it to a scien tific b asis
b ecau se of its crucial im p ortan ce for ch aracter-
im p rovem en t and co n servation . D istru stin g h is
ow n p reju d ices and lo g ic, he ch ose, from
am on g reco g n ized , fam ou s, o b jective literary
w ork s, 16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9
u to p ia s and 10 p h ilosop h ical w ork s, and an a ­
lyzed them co n secu tiv e ly . He d iscovered th at
all af th em fo llo w e d the norm al d evelopm ent
sch em e of a hum an life, and agreed w ith , or
rath er w ere th e sou rce o f the fam ou s trad i­
tio n a l zo d ia ca l sch em e. A n alyzin g th e parts
corresp on d in g to the section m en tion ed ab o v e,
and grad u atin g th e resu ltin g list of ch aracter-
tra its by the freq u en cy of th eir occurren ce, h e
h as d evelop ed th is first scien tific list:
LIBRA
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
1, 7, B alan ced ............................................... 49, 8
2, 6, C risis ......................................................... 40, 7
3, 19, Purity— fem a le ................................... 38, 7
4, 18, M elan ch oly .......................................... 37, 7
5, 15, A ffection ate .......................................... 35, 7
6, 8, Justice ....................................................... 35, 7
7, 9, V ision ...................................................... 34, 6
8, 11, R eck less ................................................. 34, 6
9, 12, Irritable .................................................. 33, 6
10, 14, D ep en dent ............................................. 30, 6
11, 3, D ecan o f H untingD ogs,S eek in g 28, 5
12, 18, Form ality or ritual ....................... 25, 5
13, 10, Sym bolism ............................................. 23, 5
14, 17, G am bling ............................................... 21, 4
15, 13, U np recise ............................................... 19, 35
16, 4, D ecan of C row ,or L earn in g------- 18, 3
17, 2, D ecan o f M ajorB ear,T errorizer 14, 3
18, 1, S ym bol of Libra, th eS c a l e s .... 6, 1
VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferen ces due to ch an ce, th ere
w ould be no variation from the a v era g e 29— ,
from total 519. A to ta l variation of 143, -f- 65
and 78 m inus, sig n ifies th at the tra its are
by 36 p oin ts le ss d iversified than V irgo’s
(179 v a r ia tio n s); g iv in g a le ss m anifold and
in terestin g n atu re. S ep aratin g out th e m inor
ch a racteristics (u nd er 5% ), w e have left (519—
78, o r) 441, or 85% , sh ow in g th at th is char­
acter h as, a fter all a pred om in an tly solid
fou n d ation .
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T o sh o w th e ex ten t of th ese resu lts’ sur­
p rises to th e ob server, the variation of th e
n ew from th e old order am ou nts to 134. S p e­
cially m ay b e m en tion ed th e p lace of gam b ­
ling, u n p recision , form ality, fem ale or purity
(w hich had h ardly figured in the earlier p lan ,
but w hich is lo g ica l, a s it is on ly th e pure in
heart w ho shall see G od ). So th e w riter a t
le a st feels, th e w ork h as repaid itself.
ELIMINATIVE COMPLEXES
S um m arizing th e revised L ibra-traits into
related co m p lex es for com p reh en sion , reco g ­
n ition and u tilization w e m igh t sa y : th ere
w e h ave an
1, A ffection ate (tra its 5, 1 1 ).
2, U nhappy (4, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 17).
3, C ritical (1, 2, 6, 1 8 ).
4, Sym bolist (3, 7, 12, 13, 16).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE ELIMINATIVE WORKS
For Libra w e find an u nusually great num ­
b er o f high tra it-sectio n s, p erhaps b ecau se
th is sign is th e tu rn in g-poin t back to A ries
an d in stories w ould be th e b egin n in g of the
C ounter-plot. It is one of th e 2 g a tes of life,
so to speak (tak in g th e p lace of Cancer and
C apricorn in P orph yry’s an tiquated a g e, in
h is C ave of th e N ym p h s). So w e h ave 1,
15-section , 3, 14-section s; 5, 13-section s; 9,
12-section s; 3, 11-section s; and 4, 10-section s.
14-section s are B uddha, Krishna, Balder,
O d yssey; 13-section s are A eneid, W ilhelm
M eister, Faust, H iaw atha and H am let; 12-sec­
tio n s are K alevala, O rpheus, P ilgrim ’s P rog­
re ss, R epublic, C yrano, M acbeth, V enice-
M erchant, U topia, M adach.
SAMPLE ELIMINATIVE STORY
T h e Libra section of the life of Gautam a
B uddha show s how a grea t Schism threatened
th e B uddhist Church (6 ).— A certain m onk
w a s charged w ith h avin g com m itted an offen se.
(1 2 ), and a s he refu sed (13) to ack n ow led ge
it, th e Church pronounced (18) an excom ­
m unication (1 1 ).— N ow he w a s m anifold in his
accom p lishm ents (9 ), and tactfu l (1 4 ); he
p rotested (8) his in n ocen ce, and d eclared he
w ou ld not abandon th e order (3 ).— A s um pire,
(7 ), B uddha not b ein g listen ed to , m eekly (16)
left K ansham bi; w h ereat the brilliant Kan-
sham bi lay sup p orters (4 ) b ein g d isgu sted
w ith th is litigiou sn ess (12) w ithdrew their sup­
p ort (17) w hereupon th ey surrendered and
reestab lish ed concord (1 5 ).
FAMOUS REINS-PERSONS
RELIGIOUS, 6— Laud, Jonathan E dw ards, Euri­
p id es, Liguori, M osheim , Lym an B eecher.
SOLDIERS, 2— N elson, P rince E ugene.
ACTORS, 3— Sheridan, M odjeska, Sarah B ern­
hardt.
LIT ERARY PERSONS, 27— M me. Edm ond
A dam , V irgil, N oah W eb ster, S . P. Francis,
J. F oster, Paul F lem ing S arcey, S ilva, M un­
ich , W m . M ueller, P rosp er M erim ee, Mrs.
H em ans ,M rs. G askell, de Lam artine, H. H.
Jackson, Stedm an, T ollen , P algrave, Allan
R am say, Carl A ndree, M arini, Lerm ontoff,
B oyesen , M m e. D urand, C oleridge, Drach-
m ann.
MUSICIANS, 5— V erdi, N ik isch , M olique, Liszt,
L. D am rosch.
A R TISTS, 8— M unkacksy, W ren, J. P . & A.
M illet, H arriet H osm er, M artin Frem inet,
D eteille, Cruikshank.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 23— A ugu stu s, G uizot,
P edro I, R ichard II, Edw ard VI, Jam es II,
Friedrich II & IV, L ouis XIII, Isabella II,
A ugustus III, E m press A ugu sta & A ugusta
V ictoria, A udiffret, A velland a, A urungzebe,
C lem enceau, C hoate, H. A llen, C. A bbott,
Law , Ferencz D eak, John Forny, R. B. H ayes.
SCIENTISTS, 17— A . G unther, V irchow , W ilkin­
son , W m . Grey P eek , G uyot, B ancroft,
G reenleaf, M ansel, von A ster, Paul Bert,
C heselden, A bercrom bie, Louis D uperrey,
M ax Dinker, D iderot, J. A nderson, R idquist.
T O T A L , 91 ou t of 1161 Fam ous P ersons, or 6
b elo w a v erage, 97.
STUDY OF THE GENERATIVE, OR ROOSEVELT, OR
8th CHARACTER-TYPE
born Oct* 23 - Nov* 21 of any year, known as Creatives, or Scorpio, T
T
t, or G
From th e d ays of P tolem y d ow n to this p res­
ent w ork, all ch aracter-stu d y w a s traditional,
ch aotic, and fan cifu l. But th e presen t w riter
w a s com pelled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
b ecau se of its crucial im p ortan ce for character-
im provem ent and con servation . D istru sting his
ow n prejudices and lo g ic, he ch ose, from
am ong recogn ized , fam ou s, o b jective literary
w orks, 16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9
utopias and 10 p hilosop hical w orks, and an a­
lyzed them con secu tively. He d iscovered that
all of them follow ed the norm al d evelopm ent
schem e of a hum an life, and agreed w ith, or
rather w ere the source of the fam ou s tradi­
tion al zod iacal sch em e. A n alyzin g th e parts
correspon d in g to the section m entioned ab ove,
and grad u atin g the resu ltin g list of character-
traits by the frequency of th eir occurrence, he
h as d evelop ed th is first scien tific list:
SCORPIO
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
9, P a ssion ate ........................................... 46, 9
2, 10, S tin gin g ................................................... 43, 9
3, 8, M agnetic ................................................ 40, 8
4, 17, D isloyal ................................................... 38, 8
5, 15, D iplom atic .............................................. 36, 7
6, 16, U tilitarian .............................................. 36, 7
7, 11, D eath and Spirits ................................ 31, 6
8, 14, Official ..................................................... 29, 6
9, 13, S ocialization ............................................28,
10, 7, Prudery ..................................................... 27, 5
11, 12, Form ality ................................................ 23, 5
12, 2, D ecan of M inor B ear, G uardian. 22,
13, 5, G eneration L ove .................................. 21, 4
14, 6, R everence for Learning .................... 21, 4
15, 4, Crow ned Jew els .................................. 16, 3
16, 18, H ygienic ................................................... 16, 3
17, 1, Scorpion ................................................... 13, 2
18, 3, D ccan of B o o tes, Seek er ............. 13, 2
19, 19, D ivination .............................................. 4, 1
VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferences d ue to ch an ce, there
w ould be no variation from the average of
26-1- from a total of 503. T h e to ta l variation
of 180, + 94 and — 86, sign ifies th at th ese traits
are by 37 poin ts m ore diversified than Libra’s,
or about the sam e a s V irgo’s; yield in g a m ore
Interesting and m anifold nature. Separating
ou t th e m inor ch aracteristics, under 5% , w e
h ave left (503— 126, or) 377 or 75% show in g
th at th is character h as a narrow er foundation
than Libra’s dem anding m ore num erous and
varied m ethods of con trol.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
A s to surprise to th e ob server, th e variation
o f the new from the old order am ounts to 159,
or 25 poin ts m ore than in th e ca se of Libra.
T h e feature of this com parison is one entirely
new trait of d ivination, and the by far greater
im portance of d isloyalty than cou rtesy had
prom pted us to sup p ose; a lso m ore diplom acy,
and u tilitarianism , m aking the character m ore
d angerou s to others than ever; prudery h ow ­
ever is le ss. V aluable indeed w a s th is w ork.
GENERATIVE COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing th e revised Scorp io-traits into
related com p lexes for com prehension, recogn i­
tion and u se, w e m ight sa y : here w e have a
1, P assion ate (traits 1, 2 , 13, 17, 1 8 );
2, U tilitarian (4, 5, 6 );
3, B ureaucratic (8, 9, 10, 11, 12);
4, M vstlc (3, 7, 14, 15, 16, 19).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE GENERATIVE WORKS
W hile som e S corp io -sectio n s are th e h igh est
of all (1, 16-section ; 1, 15-section ; 4, 1 4-sec­
tio n s; 2, 13-section s; 4, 11-section s; 11, 10-
se c tio n s) th ey are but thin ly d istrib u ted , and
sm all in num ber, esp ecia lly in view o f the
h eigh t of th e c a se-to ta l. T h e sig n ifica n ce of
th is w ould be th at m any w ork s for a crisis d e­
pend on p assion op en ly, w h ile a g rea ter num ­
ber do so reserved ly. 16-section , T em p est; 15-
scctio n , R am ayana; 14-section , W ilhelm M eis-
ter; 13-section , N ieb elu n gen , K rishna, N athan ,
M adach, 12-section , C yrano and O llan ta. O ut­
sid e of p a ssio n -p lo ts, the S corp io nature o f­
fers le ss of in terest than th e oth er n atures.
A fter all p assion is banal.
SAM PLE GENERATIVE STORY
T h e S corpio section of th e ‘T em p est’ (A ct
4, S c. 1 ), d escrib es P rosp ero’s d ip lom acy (5)
and w arn s him (14) of lettin g his p assion (1)
for M iranda spoil (2) th eir fair fu ture. T hen
P rosp ero (12) sen d s (181 for th e rab b le o f th e
crew (1 3 ), Ferdinand in sists on h is natural
(16) ch astity (1 0 ). T hen th ere is a form al
m arriage (8) a t w hich C eres, V enus and Juno
(19) p articip ate, a d visin g Hymen (10) to res­
train (5 ) M ars’s h ot stin g (2 ). T h e scen e
en d s w ith a d ance (13) b etw een (3 ) th e
N ym phs and R eapers (6 ).
FAMOUS SECRETS-PERSONS
RELIGIOUS, 7— A ugu stin e, E rasm us, Francis,
C onverse, G . Faber, A uberlen, E w ald , G.
A bbott.
PH ILANTHROPISTS, 1— Johann Falk.
REFORMERS, 4— Joh. von der Eck, M ontefiore,
Luther, R. D. O w en.
PERSONATO R, 1— Eon d e B eau m on t.
SOLDIERS, 4— M oltke, P elissier, E arly, Sir
John M oore.
W OM EN, 1— E. C. S tanton .
ACTO RS, 4— Edm und K ean, M innie H auck,
C has. F echter, Edwin B ooth .
LITERARY PERSONS, 40— V oltaire, K eats,
B ryan t, Schiller, M onier W illiam s, T egn er, H.
H. Furness, L ouis Frechette, M ary F oote,
W h itelaw R eid, Fritz R euter, M arshal S axe,
John E velyn, Johannes E w ald, O eh len sch laeg-
er, M usset, Jas. M ontgom ery, M ilton, Joaquin
M iller, M m e. G uizot, O liver G oldsm ith , T h o s.
H ughes, R. L. S teven son , T u rgen ieff, V ac-
q uerie, V ondel, T op lad y, M acph erson , E.
L ytton, B oileau , Cibber, C hatterton, C henier,
Johann L avater, D onnelly, Ida D urin gsfeld ,
T . B . A ldrich, A nna D ickinson, D esch an el,
C ow per.
MUSICIANS, 10— P agan in i, H enry Sm art, F.
H iller, M m e. H ensel, H um m el, K reutzer, R.
B ish op , B ellin i, D orn, A m bros.
A R TISTS, 1— T h orw ald sen .
INVENTORS, 1— W . W . A verell.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 29— C harles I, E dw ard III
and V, T ib eriu s, V espasian , Julian, D om itian,
W m . P itt, S r., Polk, C asim ir-P erier, R o o se­
v elt, R unjeet S in g, E lizabeth C hristina, Ch.
Freycin et, Emil Frey, A . Fould, E gm ont,
M orny, Isab ella (F ra n ce), J. B ayard , E. Fair­
bank s, A ndiffert P asq uier, Jerom e B on ap arte,
E lphinstone, J. A dam s, Edw ard A lbert of
E ngland, W . B . L aw rence, E dw ard L aw , R.
D evereux.
SCIENTISTS, 12— Forscham m er, L yell, L essep s,
L eew en h oeck , E ngelhardt, W m . H ersch ell, E.
H alley, R osm ini, Jean A m ussat, d ’A lem bert,
A uton, B alfou r S tew art.
TO TA L, 103 ou t o f 1159 Fam ous P erso n s, or
7 ab o v e a v er a g e, 96.
STUDY OF THE MUSCULAR, OR BUNYAN, OR 9th CHARACTER-TYPE
born Nov. 22 - Dec. 20 of any year, known as Thigh, or Saggittarius, t or T.
From th e d a y s o f P tolem y d ow n to th is p res­
en t w ork , all ch aracter-stu d y w a s trad ition al,
ch a o tic , and fa n citu l. But th e p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
b eca u se of its crucial im p ortan ce for ch aracter-
im p rovem en t and con servations D istru sting h is
ow n p reju d ices and lo g ic, he ch o se, from
a m o n g reco g n ized , fam ou s, ob jectiv e literary
w o rk s, 16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9
u to p ia s and 10 p h ilosop h ical w ork s, and a n a­
ly z ed them co n secu tiv ely . He d iscovered that
a ll o f them follow ed the norm al d evelopm ent
sch em e o f a hum an life, and agreed w ith , or
rath er w ere th e source of th e fam ou s trad i­
tio n a l zo d ia ca l sch em e. A n alyzin g th e parts
co rresp on d in g to the section m entioned ab ove,
an d gra d u a tin g the resu ltin g list of ch aracter-
tra its by th e freq u en cy of th eir occurren ce, he
h a s d ev elo p ed th is first scien tific list:
SAGGITTARIUS
N ew O ld R evised Order C ases %
1, 14, C om bative .............................................. 45, 10
2 , 16, F aithful ...................................................... 42, 9
3 , 15, F igh tin g ................................................... 41, 9
4, 11, P rop h etic ................................................. 32, 7
5, 12, R ash ................................................................ 32, 7
6, 9 , Frank ........................................................... 31, 7
7, 10, Q u estin g ................................................... 30, 6
8, 13, S cold in g ................................................... 30, 6
9, 17, M agical Speech ............................... 25, 5
10, 18, G reat stra its, orcrisis ...................... 24, 5
11, 8, L ab oriou s ................................................. 23, 5
12, 19, H elpful cou n sel ornursing ............ 20, 4
13, 2, D ecan D ragon ....................................... 20, 4
14, 7 , R oam in g ................................................... 18, 4
15, 1, A rrow or sw ord ............................... 15, 3
16, 6, D ilatory, n eglectfu l ......................... 12, 3
17, 3, D ecan H e r c u le s ..................................... 8, 2
18, 4, D ecan Serp en t-ch arm er ................. 7, 2
19, 20, P atien ce ................................................... 5, 1
20, 5 , M uscularity ............................................ 1, 1
VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferen ces due to ch an ce, there
w ou ld be no variation from the a v erage of 23
from a total of 461. T he total variation of
203, + 102 and — 101, sign ifies th at th ese
tra its are 44% of the to ta l, con trasted w ith
S co rp io ’s 36% and Libra’s 28% , m eaning th at
w h ile th e total ch aracter-p oin ts are 90% le ss
than S corp io’s, th e variation is 8% greater.
In such a sca tterin g ch aracter, of sm all varie­
g a tio n , and hence resou rce, no w ond er that
self-co n tro l is difficult, and that th ey fall an
ea sy prey to the m asterfu l, dangerou s S corp ios.
S ep aratin g out th e m inor ch aracteristics under
5% w hich form 23% (106 c a se s) w e h ave left
a fou n d ation of ab out th e sam e a s S corp io’s.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
A s to surprise to th e ob server, the va ria ­
tion of the new from the old order am ou nts to
170 p oin ts, or 21 m ore than Scorpio, or 36
than Libra, sh ow in g the p rogressive im portance
of th is stu d y. T h e featu res are greater com ­
b a tiv en ess, faith fu ln ess, p rop h eticaln ess, rash­
n ess, q u estin g, m agical sp eech , great stress,
h elp fu l cou n sel or nursing, and le ss d ilatori­
n e ss, roam ing, b lood th irstin ess, d ilatorin ess
an d m u scularity. Only in p atien ce w ere the
g u e sse s right.
MUSCULAR COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing th e revised S aggitariu s-traits
into related com p lexes for com prehension, rec­
ogn ition and u tilization , w e m ight sa y w e
h ave a
1, M uscular traits 1, 3, 5 , 11, 13, 14, 17, 2 0 ),
2, D ilatory (16, 18, 19),
3, S incere (2, 8, 12),
4, Q uesting (7, 10),
5, P rophet (4, 6, 9, 1 5 ).
M OST DISTINCTIVE MUSCULAR
S agg ita riu s-sectio n s, for a relatively high
c a se-to ta l, are still le ss than th e Scorpio, a l­
th ough there are a few high ca ses: 2, 15-sec­
tio n s; 1, 14-section s; 0, 13-section s; 5, 12-
sectio n s; 4, 11-section s; and 4, 10-section s.
T h ey are, 15-section s, R epublic and B ook of
th e D ead; 14-section , O d yssey; 12-section s,
B eow u lf, W ilhelm M eister, Pilgrim ’s P rogress,
Prom theus U nbound and M adach. 11-section s,
K alevala, M ahabharata, C yrano and Buddha-
T o o th ; 10-section s, G enesis, Iliad, O llanta,
Saku n tala.
SAMPLE MUSCULAR STORY
T h e S aggittariu s section of P la to ’s R epublic
(B k . 9 ), im p lies in the individual sub jection
o f p assion (5 ) to the dom inance (1) of rea­
son (1 2 ). D isordered p a ssion s (9) lead to all
kinds of figh tin gs (1) and ton gu e ev ils (8 ),
rash n ess (§9.5) (5 ) and w ar (§11) (1 ). Such
a disordered (5 ) m an is illu strated (§12) by
th e C him aera, S cylla and C erberus (5, 18).
FAMOUS THIGH-PERSONS
RELIGIOUS, 12— Lym an A bbott, - M olinos, O.
Frothingham , Frances H avergal. Dean Stan-
ley, Jas. H am ilton, T h os. Starr King, Bunyan,
John C otton, A ngelicus A rnauld, C has.
D eem s, Ph illip s B rooks.
REFORMERS, 1— John C row ley.
SOLDIERS, 4— G ustavus A dolphus, M onk, M ar­
tin ez C am pos, E sterh azy.
W OM EN, 5— M ary of S cots, M m e. d e Mainre-
non, D eborah Sam pson th e A m azon, M m e. de
R ecam ier, G race D arling.
ACTORS, 5— Fanny and C harles Kem ble, M at­
ilda Heron, G eorge H olland, Jane H ading.
LITERARY PERSONS, 28— C arlyle, Heine,
W hittier, Flaubert, S. P. Sydney, Chatrian,
M ax M ueller, H orace von H olberg, Mme.
Laroche, Hermann Kurz, J. E. M arlitt, C.
Fleury, E ggleston , Leslie Stephen, Suderm ann,
Jonathan S w ift, M assinger, E. M arlitt, Jane
A usten, J. B igelow , S. C lem ens, Mrs. Burnett,
G eorge E lliott, E. D ixon, L. and B. A lcott,
W m . Drum m ond, H oratio Bonar.
MUSICIANS, 9— B eethoven. R ubinstein. W eber,
Lindpainter, G ungl, A ttw ood , B erlioz, D upres,
D onnizetti.
PHILOSOPHERS, 2— Spinoza, T rendelenburg.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 8— N ero, Pedro II, Sully,
Henry IV, C arnegie, A bbott L aw rence, J. Jay,
S. Johnston.
SCIENTISTS, 20— Lope de V ega, Fieschi, A g­
a ssiz, L atreille, W . H. F oster, W . E. Parry,
B eaulieu, L egge, B allantyne, F lugel, K. J.
Jakob, S. G. M ivart, R. Koch, M. de Biran,
j. Foster, Humphry D avy, D onati, D oberiner,
E schholtz, R ook.
VARIOUS, 1— Inventor: Pliny Earle.
TOTAL, 95 out of 1159 Fam ous P ersons, or
1 below a v erage, 96.
STUDY OF THE JOINTS, Oil WILSON, OR 10th CHARACTER TYPE
bom Dec* 21 "Jan. 19 of any year, known as Knee, or Capricorn, V
S, or K.
From th e d ays of P tolem y dow n to th is p res­
en t w ork, all character-stud y w a s trad itional,
ch aotic, and fan cifu l. But the presen t w riter
w a s com p elled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
b ecau se of its crucial im portance for character-
im provem ent and con servation . D istru sting his
ow n p reju d ices arid lo g ic, he ch ose, from
am cn g recogn ized , fam ou s, ob jective literary
w ork s, 16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 d ram as, 9
u topias and 10 p hilosop hical w ork s, and an a­
lyzed them co n secu tiv ely . He d iscovered that
all of them follow ed the norm al d evelopm ent
schem e of a hum an life, and agreed w ith , or
rather w ere the sca rce of the fam ou s tradi­
tion al zod iacal sch em e. A nalyzin g th e parts
correspon d in g to the section m entioned ab ove,
and grad u atin g the resu ltin g list of character-
traits by th e frequency of their occurren ce, he
h as d eveloped th is first scien tific list:
CAPRICORN
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
1, 11, S incere, loyal, faithful ............... 42, 13
2, 17, D ccan D ragon, to beC onquered 36, 11
3, 6, Ru»e or Ruin ..................................... 28, 9
4, 10, Dual nature (G oat-fish ) ............. 26, 8
5, 9, O rganizer .............................................. 26, 8
6, 7, D om ineering ................. 25, 8
7, 14, R eligiou s .................. 23, 7
8, 15, U topian ................................................... 23, 7
9, 2, D ecan Lyra, Girl .............................. 19, 6
10, 19, T each in g .............................................. 17, 5
11, 13, A rtistic ................................................... 17, 5
12, 18, R eform ing ............................................ 16, 5
13, 8, W h olesaler ............................................ 12, 4
14, 20, L ove M asterful ................................... 12, 4
15, 12, O riginal .................................................... 4, 1
16, 4, D ecan Serpent-C harm er .............. 3, 1
17, 3, D ecan H erculcs-H ero ...................... 3, 1
VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferences due to ch an ce, there
w ould be no variation from the a v erage of 19
from a total 326. T h e sm alln ess of the total
sign ifies th e relative sm alln ess of in terest of
this character to oth ers, w hich is in universe
ratio to its in terest to itself,— leadership, to
others appearing tyranny. T h is sm alln ess re­
flects the m eagern ess of the Capricorn section s
of the literary w orks stud ied; perhaps th is re­
flects th e fact that th e m ore excellen t the
leadership, the sm aller the num ber of leaders
n eeded; th ey are a n ecessary, but dim inishing
evil in a d evelop in g d em ocracy, w here the
id eal is the raisin g of th e m asses. T h e total
variation of 119 ( + 4 7 , and — 7 2 ). or 37% is
equal to S corp io’s, sm aller than S a g g ita riu s’s
but far b igger than Libra’s, yield in g a le ss in­
teresting but m ore m anageable a nature than
the oth ers. Separating out the m inor charac
teristics, under 5% , of 47 p oin ts, or \4 % w e
have left a rem arkably stron g (86<7r) ch ief na­
ture, com parable on ly to Libra’s, w hich after
all is w h at w e w ould exp ect and dem and in a
natural leader.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
A s to surprise to ob server, th e variation
from the old order am ou nts to 129, sm aller
than any of th e oth ers, sh ow in g the w riter’s
fairn ess of original judgm ent. A s to features,
notice the p reem inence of sin cerity, lo v r ltv o-
faith fu ln ess, rule or ruin, duality (of go a t and
fish ), organ ization , religiou sn ess, utopianism
and ed u cation alizin g o f leadership, a s tea ch in g .
T h ere is le ss of the w h o lesa lin g , but a greater
elem en t of lo v e, than had been su sp ected . A s
to origin ality, th at of cou rse w ould b e the
natural resu lt o f in tellig en t leadership.
JOINT COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing th e revised C apricorn tra its in to
related co m p lexes for com p reh en sion , reco g n i­
tion , and u tilization , w e m igh t say w e h ave a
1, C haos-h atin g (tra its 2 ),
2, S in cerely relig io u s (1, 7, 8 ),
3, A rtistic (4, 9, 11, 14, 15, 16),
4, D om in eerin g (6, 14, 17),
5, O rganizer (5, 10, 12, 1 3 ).
M OST DISTINCTIVE JOINT WORKS
B ecau se of the very sm all C apricorn ca se-
to ta l, th e am ou nt of th e sectio n -ca ses should
be m agn ified; but all th e sam e w e n otice th at
w h at th ere is Is w ell-bu n ch ed and lo w : 4, 10-
scctio n s; 2, 9 -sectio n s; and 7, 8 -sectio n s. 10-
sectio n s, are M oses, W ilhelm M eister, Palm yra-
M aster and P rom etheus B ound; 9 -sectio n s are
M adach and P rom etheus U nbound; 8-sectio n s
are A rgon au tica, Prein S agar, B uddha, P il­
grim ’s P ro g ress, T em p est, A n tigon e, and B ook
of H ades.
SAM PLE JOINT STORY
T h e C apricorn S ection of M oses’s biograp h y
rela tes th at it b ecam e M o ses’s (15) duty to
p recep itate on th e T w o T a b les th e T en la w s
(5, 6, 10, 12), and to punish (2) th e p eop le
w ho under A aron had reverted to th e w orship
of th e G olden Calf (4 ). He organ ized (5 ) and
m an aged (5, 6) the m ilitary d isp osition o f th e
H ebrew s, ar.d w a s sin cerely (1 ) relig io u s (7 ),
and m ade th e w orship (11) a s b eau tifu l a s he
cou ld , h is sister M iriam sin g in g (9, 11) th e
fam ou s p salm o f d eliveran ce (6 ).
FAMOUS KNEE-PERSONS
RELIGIOUS, 7— L oyola, C has. W esle y , T a l-
m ad ge, N eander, M offat, M eyer, Jos. Sm ith.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 3— W . E llis, J. M orley,
D avid D ale.
WOM EN, 1— Joan of Arc.
SOLDIERS, 6— Frem ont, N apier, M oellendorff,
R. E. Lee, de P alad in es, B . A rnold.
ACTO RS, 6— M rs. John D rew , S alvin i, H.
Irving, John K em ble, C has. K eane, Faure.
LITERARY PERSONS, 35— E. Burke, M. A rnold,
M oliere, C icero, M. Flem ing, Jas. Fields, M .
R egnier, H ans S ach s, S . B eu ve, Schaff,
S cribe, Jules Sim on, E tienne, Carm en S ylva,
R ene I, D ue d e N o aiiles, M ickiew icz, M ctas-
ta sio , M ontesquieu, T h . G ray, E gerton, Eber-
hard. C has. Perrault, P oe, R acine, A tterborn,
C lough, D obson, C ollins, R. A nderson, A s-
jorn sen , A rndt, D ittrich sen , de V ere, AlfierL
A R TISTS, 4— D ore, Lam binet, P . E. Frcre,
M urillo.
MUSICIANS, 8— G oss, G ilm ore, Scharw enka,
N iem ann, W m . Jackson, A bt, B u elow , L.
M ason.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 15— G lad ston e, King John,
Franklin, Francis II (S ic ily ), P etrarca’s E liza­
beth, Louis Frederick, D israeli, Seth Low ,
A. H am ilton, J. F ortescue, A lex. VI B orgia.
A lex. I, R ussia, O akes A m es, Feiland.
SCIENTISTS, 16— N ew ton , P asteu r, H aase,
V /cissm an n, L epsius, Lenorm ant, Hcrrig,
L aceoed , Ladd, A stle, J. A. F. A st, A ufrecht,
W . G ull, M. Johnson. A. A llison , S chliem ann.
VARIOUS, 4— O rator, D aniel W eb ster. T eacher,
P e sta lo zzi. C hess-p layer, L asker. Inventor,
M ontgolfier.
TO TA L, 105 out of 1159 Fam ous P erson s, or
9 ab ove a v erage, 96.
From the d a y s of P tolem y d ow n to th is p res­
en t w ork , all ch aracter-stu d y w a s trad ition al,
ch a o tic, and fan cifu l. B ut the p resen t w riter
w a s com p elled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
b eca u se o f its cru cial im portance for ch aracter-
im p rovem en t an d con servation . D istru stin g his
ow n p reju d ices and lo g ic, he ch ose, from
am on g re co g n ized , fam ou s, ob jective literary
w ork s, 16 ep ic s, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9
u top ias an d 10 p hilosop hical w ork s, and a n a­
lyzed th em co n secu tiv e ly . He d iscovered th at
all o f them fo llo w e d th e norm al d evelopm ent
sch em e of a hum an life, and agreed w ith , or
rath er w ere th e source of th e fam ou s trad i­
tio n a l zo d ia c a l sch em e. A n alyzin g the p arts
corresp on d in g to th e section m en tion ed ab o v e,
and gra d u a tin g the resu ltin g list of ch aracter-
tra its by th e freq u en cy of th eir occurren ce, he
h as d ev elo p ed th is first scien tific list:
AQUARIUS
N ew Old R evised Order
1, 18, Ju diciou s d ecision ........................
2, 17, B asilisk ey ed , horror .................
3, 8, W averin g ............................................
4, 16, B rilliant ..............................................
5, 9, V ision , C harm ..................................
6, 20, S ecrets, C ave or H ouse ............
7, 12, K indly ...................................................
8, 2, D ecan, S w an , F atality ...............
9, 7, W atery .................................................
10, 11, A d ap tab le .........................................
11, 6, N ature-K in .........................................
12, 13, S ocial .....................................................
13, 14, D ia g n o stic .........................................
14, 15, T a ct ........................................................
15, 19, Fem inine ............................................
16, 10, D ep en dent .........................................
17, 3, D ecan D olphin, Ship or Car .
18, 4, D ecan E agle, V ulturous .............
19, 21, H ealin g touch ..................................
VARIATIONS
C ases %
. . 39, 9
.. 38, 9
7
. . 32, 7
. . 29, 7
. . 28, 6
.. 26, 6
. . 25, 6
. . 25, 6
. . 25, 6
. . 23, 5
. . 23, 5
. . 20, b
. . 20, 5
. . 19, 4
. . 14, 3
. . 13, 3
. . 9, 2
. . 2, 1
T h at th e to ta l of A quarius c a ses (442) is
greater than th e C apricorn ca ses (326) sh ow s
th at it is m ore in terestin g, alth ou gh , accord ­
ing to th e old a d a g e of ‘divide et im p era,’ this
d ifferen tiation of a b ilities con d em n s them to
service to th e m ore m asterful, if m ore stup id ,
C apricorns. W ere th ese d ifferen ces due to
ch an ce, th ere w ould be no variation from the
av era g e of — 24 from a total of 442. T h e total
variation of 133, + 6 9 and — 64, sig n ifies that
th ese 19 tra its are 70 poin ts le ss d iversified
than S ag g ijta riu s, and 14 poin ts m ore than
C apricorn, yield in g a fairly sta b le ch aracter.
S ep aratin g ou t th e m inor ch aracteristics, under
5% w e h ave left (442— 57, or) 385, or 85% ,
sh ow in g a character of sam e typ e-ran ge as
C apricorn, m ean in g sym pathy and m utual un­
d erstan d in g b etw een servan t and m aster.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
A s to surprise to the ob server, the variation
of the new ord er from th e old am ou nts to 130,
or but little d ifferen t from th at of the m aster­
ful C apricorn. T h e ch ief ch an ges w ere ju­
d iciou s d ecisio n , b asilisk -eyed horror, S ecrets,
in C ave or H ou se, and their b rillian cy,— even
their k in d lin ess. Even the fem ininity and h eal­
in g touch w ere in creased , w hile the only d e­
creases w ere in N ature— kindred and d ep en ­
den ce.
LYMPHATIC COMPLEXES
S um m arizing th e revised A qu arius-traits into
related co m p lex es for com prehension, reco g n i­
tion and u tilza tio n , w e m ight sa y , h ere w e
h ave a
1, W ise (tra its 1, 4, 5 ),
2, Kindly, (7, 15, 19),
3, D iagn ostic, (2, 6, 8, 1 1 ),
4, T actfu l, (3, 9, 10, 14, 16, 18),
5, S ocializer, (12, 17).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE LYMPHATIC WORKS
In spite of th e sm all ca se-to ta l A quarius has
som e scatterin g high ca se-sectio n s: 2, 13-sec­
tion s; 1, 12-section ; 2, 11-section s; 10, 10-sec­
tion s; 10, 9-sectio n s; and 8, 8-sectio n s. W hile
Scorpio h as on ly 13 high c a ses, A quarius has
33; sh ow in g th at it is m uch m ore in terestin g.
T h ey are: 13-section s, R am ayana and T em p est;
12-section , Saku n tala; 11-section , O llanta and
P ilgrim ’s P rogress, 10-section : B idasari, G en­
esis, M ahabharata, N ibelungen, Popol Vuh;
B uddha, P rom etheus U nbound, A ntigone, P ro­
m eth eu s Bound.
SAMPLE LYMPHATIC STORY
T h e A quarius S ection of the K alevala (39—
•43) is lon g and con fu sed , m entioning the
m agic Sam po (4) hid (6) in a copper m oun­
tain ; a m usic b oat (1 7 ), on w hich W ainam oin-
en charm s (5) the w aters (9 ), but his boat
stick s fast (2 ), and he k ills (8 ) the obstruct­
in g p ik e. He is ad vised (1) not to sin g; w hich
h ow ever he d o es d iscord an tly and raises a
storm (1 1 ), and th e P oh yloan s gath er a pur­
su in g (10) exp ed ition , and the b oat is a t­
tack ed (17) by a w ater-m on ster (3 ).
FAMOUS ANKLE-PERSONS
RELIGIOUS, 10— M elanchthon, Sw edenborg,
F liedner, E ged e, R obertson, Hanna M ore,
M oody, M ilm an, H epw orth, J. H. H opkins.
PHILANTHROPISTS, 1— P eab od y, R ob. P eel,
T h o s. M ore, G. G urney.
W OM EN, 1— M mc. de S evign e.
SOLDIERS, 10— Sherm an, Frem ont, Fraser,
Failly, Seth E astm an, M ortier, S tonew all
Jackson, C has. G ordon, B azaine, C harles
B ourbon.
ACTORS, 1—-W. B arrett.
LITERARY PERSONS, 37— Edm ond A bout, D ic­
k en s, B acon, Burns, B yron, W hateley, An­
d rew Fuller, Frothingham , Abraham Froeh-
lich , Franz Franzen, Ludw ig Frankel, N iccolo
F oscolo, Bernard F on ten elle, R enan, R oche­
fort, Ruskin, F. S ch effel, M . H opkins, A ntho­
ny H ope, R. W . G ilder, Laurcntie, W . S.
Landor, G. Kennan, C has. Lamb, Lanier,
Jules Verne, V olney, Paludan M ueller, Littre,
L essing, L egou ve, B eaum archais, L. H. A t­
w ater, G. B randes, H. B u lw er, F. Dahn, W m .
Falconer.
A RTISTS, 3— D ’A ubigne, A ry Schefier, J. von
Fuehrich.
MUSICIANS, 9— M ozart, Schubert, P acini, M en­
d elssoh n , W m . M ason, C. I. Latrobe, A uber,
O le Bull, W . D am rosch.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 21— R obespierre, Salisbury,
T ild en , Faure, T alleyran d , W ilhelm II, W m .
Friedrich the Gt. E lector, Louis XV, A ugust
Frederick (B ritish ), B laine, Churchill, B ea­
trice Cenci, W m . E varts, T h os. Erskine, Burr,
A nna Ivanovna, Lincoln, G reeley, H. Grinnell,
P op e A lex VII.
SCIENTISTS. 21— C has. D arw in, W . D. W hit­
n ey, M audsley, M ariette, H um boldt, J. Hunt­
er, W . Freund, W . B artram , H uggins, H aeck­
el, Lagrange, N. F accie, R. Laennec, E. K.
K ane, A. M althus, F. Jacobi, E. A tkinson,
E. F. A ugust, D um enil, J. A m es, Ira R em sen.
VARIOUS, 3— P h ilosop h er, S ch w eglcr. Invent­
ors, John Fitch, Henri Fotirdrinicr.
TO TA L, 85 ou t of 1159 Fam ous P ersons, or 11
b elow average 96.
STUDY OF THE LOCOMOTOR, OR WASHINGTON, OR
OR 12th CHARACTER-TYPE
born Feb. 19-March 20 of any year, known as Feet, or Pisces, or F*
From the d ays of P tolem y dow n to th is p res­
en t w ork, all character-stud y w a s trad itional,
ch aotic, and fan cifu l. B ut th e presen t w riter
w a s com pelled to reduce it to a scien tific b asis
b ecau se of its crucial im p ortan ce for character-
im provem ent and con servation . D istru sting his
ow n prejudices and lo g ic, he ch ose, from
am on g recogn ized , fam ou s, o b jective literary
w ork s, 16 ep ics, 8 b iograp h ies, 17 dram as, 9
u top ias and 10 p hilosop hical w ork s, and an a­
lyzed them con secu tively.
PISCES
N ew Old R evised Order C ases %
1, 15, D ouble F atality ................................ 33, 7
2, 18, H igher S u ccess .................................. 33, 7
3, 4, D ecan P egasu s, T ran sfigu ration 31, 7
4, 6, Pairing or D uality ............................31, 7
5, 19, C hlvalric ................................................ 31, 7
6, 21, R itualistic ............................................ 30, 7
7, 8, Pilgrim age ............................................ 27, 6
8, 12, M aterialistic .............................................23, 5
9, 17, T rial ........................................................ 22, 5
10, 20, R eligiou s .................................................22, 5
11, 7, 5, 23, Fish or Fishing .................... 21, 5
12, 9, R estless Play ........................................20, 4
13, 22, G host spirit or an gel .................... 19, 4
14, 11, Industrious ......................................... 18, 4
15, 10, Practical .............................................. 16, 4
16, 13, Intellectual ......................................... 12, 3
17, 14, Independence ....................................... 11, 3
18, 5, M ention of F eet (b ig ) ................. 10, 2
19, 2, D ecan C epheus, K ing .................... 9, 2
20, 3, D ecan Lacerta, S erpent ............... 9, 2
21, 16, D ependence .......................................... 9, 2
22, 23, A rtistic ..................................................... 6, 1
VARIATIONS
W ere th ese d ifferences d ue to ch an ce, there
w ould be no variation from th e average of 26
from a to ta l of 454, on ly slig h tly larger than
A quarius’s. T he total variation of 197, -b 34
and — 163, or 43% , is m uch greater than either
A quarius or C apricorn, but slig h tly le ss than
th e in terestin g S aggitariu s, but seem s to be
m ostly on the m inus sid e, a g reein g w ith P isces
dom ination by the earlier tw o m em bers of the
E xecutive T em peram ent, alth ou gh it w ins
earth ly su ccess by sh eer o b jective industry.
Separating ou t the m inor ch aracteristics, under
5% w e have left (454-150, or) 304 or 69%,
sh ow in g th at, its actu ally tellin g ch aracteristics
are far few er than th ose of the preceding
ty p es, and hen ce m ore p ractically effective,
th ough m ore repellen tly m aterialistic, creating
the illu sion of tw o d istin ct varieties of the
typ e, — the sordid p leasu re-lovin g m aterialist,
and th e m ore developed au stere activ e g en tle­
m an, adorned w ith the gra ces of th e spirit, the
m odern and future rep resen tative of the ch iv­
alry of old, a con trast alm ost com ic for it is
th is upholder of the trad itions of ‘h onor’ w ho
is th e m ost d isgu stin g m aterialist, and there­
fore brings it into d isrep u te. B y actu al count
th ey con stitu te the ch aracters of the m ajority
of th e h istoric d ign itaries of th e R om an church.
SURPRISES TO OBSERVER
T he surprise quota in P isces (148) charact­
eristics is greater than w ith Capricorn (120),
Aquarius (130) anu Libra (1 34), but less than
Scorpio (159) and S aggittariu s (1 7 0 ), show ing
that on th e w h ole, the P isces person is about
what he seem s.
LOCOMOTCR COMPLEXES
Sum m arizing th e revised P isces traits into
related com p lexes tor com prehension, recog­
nition and utilization , w e m ight sa y : here w e
h ave a ^ v
1, M aterialistic (traits 1, 8, 15, 2 1 );
2, D ual, (1, 4, 9, 13, 2 0 );
3, C hlvalric, (5, 10);
4, Industrious, (6, 7, 12, 14, 18, 19, 2 2 );
5, P ro g ress!v ist, (2, 3, 11, 16, 17).
M O ST DISTINCTIVE LOCOMOTOR WORKS
W ith alm ost the sam e C ase-total P isc es h as
ab ou t th e sam e distrib u tion as A quarius, b ein g
of ab ou t th e sam e in terest to the w orld : 1, 13-
sectio n ; 2, 1 2-section ; 4, 1 1 -section s; 11, 10-
sectio n s; 4, 9 -sectio n s and 8, 8 -scctio n s. T h ey
are: 1 3-section : K alcvala; 12-section , A ristotle
E th ics; B uddha; 11-section , M orte A rthur,
M ah abharata, B id asari, R evelation : 10-section ,
G en esis, G ilgam esh , H iaw atha, M orte A rthur,
P op ol Vuh, K rishna, O siris, F aust, P rom eth eu s
B ound, M adach, B acon 's A . of L.
SAM PLE LOCOMOTOR STORY
T h e con fu sed K alevala is again th e banner
sectio n , in P isces; and w e hear of W ain am oin -
cn ’s d esire to resto re h is harp (23) a fter vain ly
fish in g (11) for it. Louhl aven ged h erself by
sen d in g to K alevala (1 ) nine d ise a se s. B y
h eatin g th e b athroom s (1 5 ) he d rives them
a w a y an d in vok es h ealth (2 ). Louhi stea ls
Ilnatar th e first of E th er’s d augh ters (4 ) w ho
had been w ed ded sev en tim es to th e h eroes
of creation (101. S o h e ch an ged in to sm oke
(5 ) and k ills the serp en ts (2 0 ), and restores
the sto len sun and m oon (21) to K alevala.
M arietta the virgin m oth er seek s refu ge (17)
in th e hom e of R uotus and her child is b ap­
tized (10) and crow n ed (6 ) King o f K aryala.
T hen W ain am oin en sa ils a w a y to th e v erg e of
h eaven (7 ) lea v in g h is harp for hum an jo y (3 ).
FAM OUS FEET-PERSONS
RELIGIOUS, 4— John P earson (o f th e C reed ),
N ew m an, H yacinte L oyson, Sam uel D rew .
PHILOSOPHERS, 1— S chopenhauer.
W OM EN, 1— Q ueen L ouisa.
SOLDIERS, 11— W ash in gton , San M artin, Santa
A na, Franz von S lck in gen , M outon, M ont­
calm , L aw rence, M antteuffel, Paul II E ster-
h azy, H. D earborn, A ug. D ucrot.
ACTO RS, 6— Edwin F orrest, D avid G arrick, J.
Jefferson, M rs. K endal, M acreary, Sam ary.
LITERARY PERSONS, 32— M rs. B row n in g,
H ugo, L ow ell, L on gfellow , Ibsen, A ngel de
S aaved ra, S ch legel, Epinay, Eichendorff,
O ’Shau gh n essy, N icander, M ontaigne, M eil-
h ac, W . Grim m, Paul L acroix, H ow ells, S piel-
h agen , T ain e, V arnhagen von E n se, V oss,
Sam uel P ep ys, M anzoni, Sam uel L over, J.
A struc, J. B . A. A ssolan t, F. A tterb u ry, B.
A uerbach, Paul B lou et, M m e. A ncelot, Pedro
A larcon, G. W . C urtis, T iep olo.
MUSICIANS, 9— Elihu V edder, Carl E bers, Pon -
iatow sk i, R ossin i, M acfarren, C hopin, A lbani,
C zerny, C ranur.
A R T IST S, 5— M ich elan gelo, P oyn ter, L andseer,
D aunier, Du M aurier.
PUBLIC PERSONS, 10— H um bert, P o p e Paul
III, N apoleon II, Joseph II, V ictor Em m anuel,
J. A ustin, G rover C leveland, A lex III, A n-
d rassy, A . C onstable (P u b lish er).
SCIENTISTS, 20— P riestly, R eaum ur, M. Flin­
d ers, W . E aton, L ivingston , C opernicus, Lay-
ard, E berts, A. S. Packard, L everrier, Fritsch,
B artsch , J. and C. H erschell, J. W . F oster, J.
Fourier, L. von K lenze, W . H am ilton, T . W .
A tkinson , W . Ferguson, A . Clark, Frank, Fal­
con er, W . C olburn, W . C ody, H. D raper.
VARIOUS, 4— P h ilanth rop ists, Sam uel A bb ott.
Inventor, H ez A ugu r. O rators, M irabeau,
B ryan.
TO TAL, 115 ou t of 1159 Fam ous P erso n s, or
19 a b o v e a v era g e, 96.
EXPERIMENTAL RELIGION—BY KENNETH SYLVAN LAUNFAL GUTHRIE
I. EXPERIM ENTAL FAITH
R eligion u sed to be d istin gu ish ed in to true
and fa lse ; is sh ou ld be d ivid ed in to th eoretical
an d ex p erim en ta l. T h is m istak e of th ough t
w a s ch iefly d u e to a m isu se of th e w ord faith ,
w h ich th eo lo g ia n s h ave lim ited to reason (see
N ew m an ’s A p o lo g ia , and G uth rie’s Faith and
R eason fo r th is su b -ration alism ) in stead of
su p er-ra tio n a lism , w hich m ean s, a fter reason
h a s d on e her u tm ost to h ave con fid en ce in th e
su c cess of virtu e and h o n esty , in vestin g m oney
fo r th e b en efit of h um anity, refu sin g w ell p a y ­
in g p o sitio n s for h igh er co n sid era tio n s, stu d y­
in g th e truth, and w illin g n ess to d ie in proper
u rg en cies; th is is fa ith ,— w hich is exp erim en tal,
an d n ot th eo retica l. So faith d o e s n ot support
th eo lo g y , b ut exp erim en t.
II. ANTI-M ATERIALISM
W h at is th e o b ject of exp erim en tal religion ?
T o p rove to m ateria lists th at sp iritu ality is not
o n ly no op p on en t of scien ce, but on th e con tra­
ry is its resu lt, and its u n escap ab le d estin y.
It is sim p ly h igh er p h ysics (or, su p er-p h y sics!),
and th is exp erim en tation ch a llen g es th e m ost
b latan t, ign oran t op p on en ts to exercise their
scep ticism by exp erim en ts, to refu se w hich is
to silen ce and stu ltify th em selv es. T h ere are
n o old -sch o o l m a terialists left; nor an y th eoret­
ic a l re lig io n ists, ex cep t th e ign oran t and th e
la z y ; rath er, relig io u s exp erim en talism h as in­
trod u ced th e era o f su p er-m aterialism .
III. NORMALCY
An im p ortan t p ro v iso of exp erim en tal religion
is th at its exp erien ces sh all and m ust tak e p lace
in th e norm al ex tern al co n scio u sn e ss sta te (see
P . P . Q uim by, and Dr. J. H. D ew ey .) T h is
ru les ou t all m ed iu m istic sp iritu alistic p h en om ­
en a, h yp n otism , and ca ta lep sy ; n ot th at th ey
are not gen u in e, but th at th e w riter lim its his
1‘religion ’' to spiritu al ex p erien ces ob servab le,
rep eatab le, an d en joyab le, by all, at all tim es.
T h is is V incent d e L erin s’ d efin ition of the
‘ca th o lic’ (n o t ‘R om an!’) fa ith : th at w hich is
ten ab le ‘ab om n ib u s, sem p er ct u b iq u e,’ by ‘all,
a lw a y s and e v e ry w h er e,’— nam ely, n orm alcy.
T h is p reserves religion from seg reg a tio n from
public reco g n itio n .
T h is n ew exp erim en tal ad m in istration avoid s
th e trad itional fo lly of relig io u s prop agand a,
o f ad van cin g n on -rep rod u ceab le phenom ena as
a d v ertisin g b a its to ou tsid ers w h o th ereb y are
m ore an ta g o n ized than a ttracted , d oom in g it
to failu re ex cep t am on g th e unreflective im ­
p ression ab le.
IV. EXPERIM ENTS
T o m eet th e se requ irem en ts of exp erim en tal,
a n ti-m aterialist norm alcy, th e w riter h as here
gath ered ten exp erim en ts (th ree p resen t, static;
and seven p ro g ressiv e or d yn am ic) w hich any
on e, a t an y tim e, an yw h ere can m ake and
con vin ce h im self of th e scien tific reality (or
u n escap ab ility) o f the gen u in e religion . A s
W ells claim ea h e had “ d iscovered G od ,’’ so
h en ceforw ard th e sh oe is on th e oth er foot; the
burden of p roof is n ow on the ign oran t or lazy
w h o refu se th e ch allen ge o f con vin cin g th em ­
se lv e s o f G od, b y n eg lectin g to m ake one or
all of the fo llo w in g ea sy , n orm al-con sciou sn ess
exp erim en ts.
T h o se here p rov isio n a lly p rop osed are:
1. T h ree p resen t, sta tic: a u ra -seein g , sign -
ch an ge feelin g , and astra l-b o d y a th letics.
2. Seven p ro g ressiv e or dynam ic: p rayer-
an sw ers, orp h an-su p port or ch ild-edu cation;
rou sin g knocks or v isio n s; h ealin g; p ro g n o sti­
ca tion s; in sp iration ; or so u l-travel.
S p a ce-lim itation s here p rohibit m ore than
referen ce to th e m ost a cc essib le au th orities.
A 1. AURA-SEEING
T h e b est trea tise is still C olville’s A uras,
an d S ign ifican ce of C olors. A d aily p ractice
is ta u g h t in P rentice C urtis, Land of th e Living
D ead , R osicrucian F ellow ship, O cean -side Cali­
forn ia. E xperim ental m eth od s are b est in Dr.
Starr W h ite’s T h e S tory o f th e Human A ura,
327 S o . A lvarado S t., L os A n geles.
A 2. SIGN-CHANGE FEELING
For sign -ch an ge feelin g p ractice, see Guth­
rie’s R eligiou s E xp erien ces. Send 10 cen ts for
current y ea r’s E phem eris to E soteric Fraternity,
A p p legate, P lacer C o., C alif; or use R aph ael’s
A lm an ac. T he p ractice should be both d educt­
iv e and indu ctive; feelin g know n ch an ges, or
from feelin g s d iscoverin g the ch an ges. R ec­
ord s shou ld be kept.
A 3. ASTRAL BODY ATHLETICS
For astral body a th letics th e on ly accessib le
m aterial is G uthrie’s T em ple T ravel. It m ay
be d on e sittin g by, or through a solid w all;
and m ay con sist of th row in g dow n a feath er or
p iece of paper; m ovin g a balan ce; affectin g a
co m p a ss; ringing Japanese chim es, or w riting
letters, m arks or d raw in gs on g la ss p lates
lig h tly dusted w ith talcum -p ow der.
B l . PRAYER-ANSW ERS
F or gen eral P rayer-an sw ers, read F aris’s
B ook o f A nsw ered P rayer (P resb yterian Book
S to res) or ‘I Cried and He A n sw ered .’ (M oody
In stitu te, C h icago), or G uthrie’s P rayer: P roofs,
F law s, O bjections. B ut for experim ental pur­
p o se s is needed a m orning ch allen ge to God
let th e d ay p a ss w ith out som e unm istakeable
op portun ity of service.
B 2. ORPHAN SU PPO R T OR
CHILD-EDUCATION
For th is, read G eorge M ueller’s W ork of
P rayer in th e M oody C olportage Library, In­
stitu te Street, C hicago.
B 3. ROUSING KNOCKS AND VISIONS
For th is read G uthrie’s R egen eration A pplied,
or C onservation o f Your V itality.
B 4. HEALING
For th is read H oratio D resser’s ‘H ealth and
th e Inner M ind,’ and E van ’s ‘Prim itive M ind-
C ure.’ S tarting w ith sm all th in gs, p ut ou t a
can d le, by snuffing its w ick w ith thum b and
fore-fin ger, and by m in d -pow er stop the pain
a t on ce. S ee G uthrie’s W estern T h ou ght for
W estern P eop le, Quim by and Dr. D ew ey
a rticles.
B 5. PROGNOSTICATIONS
R ead G uthrie’s R eligiou s E xp erien ces.
B 6. INSPIRATION
R ead G uthrie’s R eligiou s E xperiences, and
T h om as Lake H arris’s Internal R espiration, by
R espiro; a lso G uthrie’s W estern T h ou ght for
W estern P eop le.
B 7. SOUL-TRAVEL
R ead G uthrie’s T em p le-T ravel in T em p le-
G ates O pened.
CONCLUDING: SYSTEM
In con clusion ; it is su g g ested th at th ese ex ­
p erim ents be m ade system atically; either one
each d ay in ten -d ay rotation ; or one every
w eek -en d leisure-p eriod . R egularly could be
m ade th e sign -ch an ge feelin g and p rogn ostica­
tion ; also th e. d aily p rayer-an sw er, as w ell
a s d aily au ra-ob servation in street-car or
office or factory. The sou l-travel should be
exp erim en ted w ith nigh tly, till su ccess is
a ch ieved . N othing hinders d aily insp iration al
p ractice, or astral ath letics.
T h e only on es that seem difficult to adjust
are the O rphan-support, H ealing, and R ousing
K nocks and V isions. For the latter Friday
n igh ts or at lea st Saturday n ights (b ecau se of
th e w eekend h olid ay) are p ossib le.
A ll exp erim en ts should be recorded, and,
for hum an ity’s sak e, reports d ep osited w ith the
W orld ’s R ep ository of E xperim ental R eligion,
care o f its Secretary, K enneth S. Launfal
G uthrie, 1177 W arburton A v e., N o. Y onkers,
N . Y.
Aim BonusKin^sfecd sParcranifcAllecoryof Salvation
Aitrolecy W
1
A^^^^^jtorTheelccized
o
rVei9elius’
s
Plixcrotostn’s S even Provinces
Mon begins inthe Outermost orSatimic
O-fc orSoTbn Circuit, The orbit of
the Ibllen One. (v^)^
ffftcrocosmic development is centrifugal
W A s t r d rule,S; posi| ion
is Involvedinrtoftei* edftl
DAWN of
ccNcioi/sniss
@ V IN « S
L C l
0 §
© ■?=
© <
>
43 Pg
*5
*■ w **
C i
© M -lS
J *
t
y o u r s t x n
Seven Provinces of rlJcrocosrf
M an ends irr th e inmost orSol^rCU ’^ ••
circuit. The O rb it df the Ascended
^ 0OC’
M
icrocosmij inlawingor
ft. C
entripetal throughSeven
progressiveandm
utually
m interdependent staoes of
tbeofajizatioo ofall
endowm
ents and faculties
f^ee "
B
u
rstaoes of
Itolutionaiy Ascent
Culminates inGod.
| £
s + i "
idjust^ble foo to
rxJwididi^ 5
o' -
3
Astral or Ir>
MttUODS .f SEtiSITIZINC
Ve^etarionism &
A ffti- vivisection/^
f t
§ Q_
s - "*•
1 1 1
g
g ,
©*
. 3
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR V
EXPERIM ENTAL RELIOION of JAMBLICHUS,
? 280 — 333 A .D .
1. BIOGRAPHY
From E u n ap iu s and Suld as w e learn he
stu d ied u nd er A natoliu s and P orph yry, but
con tin u ed to resid e in h is h om e tow n till his
d ea th . He is gen era lly given th e title of “ the
d iv in e ,” in th e sam e m anner a s P la to , “ to
w h om , a s th e a cu te Em peror Julian rem arked,
“ he w a s p o ste rio r in tim e on ly, and n ot le ss
in G e n iu s.” D iscu ssion s o f h is w ork m ay be
fou nd in V au gh an ’s H ours w ith th e M ystics,
(B k . Ill, C h. IV, p. 100), W h ittak er’s N eop lat-
o n lsts, p . 121, and M cC lintock an d S tron g
C yclop ed ia a rticle.
M ESSAGE o f JAMBLICHUS
E vid en tly Jam b lichu s’s ch ief sign ifican ce lay
in fu rn ish in g the gold en link b etw een G od and
M an’s w o rld , till then ch ild ish ly ign ored or
n eg le cted . S econ d ly, G od m ust be u tilized for
m an ’s d ev elo p m en t, final h ap p in ess, an d th e
“ sa lv a tio n o f th e w o rld ,” w hich are Jam blich­
u s ’s o b je c ts. T h ird , th is can be ach ieved on ly
th rou gh ex p erien tia lism : rites an d p rayers.
T h is Is ca lled “ th eu rg y ,” the so le path to
ex a lta tio n , th e h ea v en -g iv en m eth od b y w hich
th e w ise and h o ly m ay a ch iev e, k n ow led ge,
p o w er an d h ap p in ess. In oth er w ord s, the
p h ilo so p h er m u st b ecom e a p riest, o r v eh icle
o f th e d iv in ity .
ADVANCE OVER PORPHYRY
M asq u erad in g a s th e E gyptian p riest A bam -
m on (w h ich a ck n o w led g es the prim acy of th e
E gyp tian r e lig io n ), Jam blichus an sw ers point
b y p oin t each of h is teach er P orp h yry’s o b ­
je c tio n s to m ystic rites, in h is “ De M y steriis,”
In w h ich he v in d icates th e M ysteries o f th e
E g y p tia n s, C haldeans and A ssyrian s.
ADVANCE OVER PLOTINUS
B y a cc u sin g P lotin u s of b ein g th eo retica l,
Jam b lich u s’s a d van ce w a s tw o fo ld : first, th e o ­
lo g ic a l, in su b d ivid in g th e T rin ity u nto su b ­
ord in a te tria d s, — in tellectu a l, in tellig ib le, and
m en ta l, each h ierarch ically tran sm ittin g the
d ivin e p ow er to m an and the w orld , form ing
an “ en n e a d ,” or n in e-grou p . T h e p sy c h o lo g ­
ic a l a d v a n c e w a s in rescu in g th e ec sta sy from
P lo tin u s’s ep ilep tic atta ck s, b y u nd erlayin g it
w ith a p sy c h o lo g ica l exp lan ation , m eth od and
r e su lts.
BACK TO PYTHAGORAS
H avin g th u s refuted P lo tin u s’s th eo retica l-
ep ilep sy , esta b lish ed u n iversal link in g, stup id ity
and fu tility o f recon cilin g tw o m id d le-m en,
P la to an d A ristotle, Jam blichus p o in ts b ack ­
w ard to th eir ack n ow led ged sou rce, P y th a ­
g o ra s (In h is “ P ro trep ticu s" ). H ere are re­
v ea led th e a llegorical P yth agorean secrets,
w h ich to Jam blichus seem to en d orse h is ow n
m essa g e: “ P a ssion -con version for th e s a lv a ­
tio n o f th e U n iverse!”
JAMBLICHAN DIVINE HIERARCHY
W h ile our m odern S p iritu alists lum p all b e­
in g s b eyon d in one cla ss, Jam blichus w a s ca re­
fu l to p erp etu ate the old Greek H esiod d istin c­
tion b etw een G ods, D aem on s or G uardians,
H ero es or D em i-G ods, and in corporeal S ouls.
T h e G ods m an ifest uniform ly. T h e D aem ons,
w h o are terrib le, v a riou sly. A rch an gels are
b o th a w fu l and m ild, w h ile th e A n gels are
g ra c io u s. G ods con fer h ealth and a ch ie v e­
m en ts. P rin cip alities con fer tem p oral a d ­
v a n ta g es. A rch an gels an d A n gels g iv e only
su b ord in ate en d ow m en ts. H eroes stim u late to
n ob le actio n s. Pure so u ls h ave en cou ragin g
sa lu ta ry in flu en ce.
WESTERN PEOPLE—Introduction
INTELLIGENT CHOICE OF GOVERNORS
W hat is th e u se of th is K now ledge of the
principles, or ord ers of existen ce of th e Uni­
verse? A s if w e d esire to p rogress, w e are
in evitab ly led by som e principle or other
higher than o u rselves, it lies in our discretion
in telligen tly to ch o o se w hich shall be our
d irector, and to ad apt th e ritual m ethods best
su ited to th at sp ecial “ g o vern or" . T h is is
exp lain ed in the fo llo w in g poem .
JAMBLICHUS’S “ M ASTERS" G uide,
S in ce m an, if he w ould grow , m ust h ave som e
W hich ‘m aster’ he shall h ave, can he decide?
“ T h is w ill d ep en d ," sa y s h e, “ on your d eserts:
“ 'T is your ow n prayer th at hell to h eaven
con verts!"
PSYCHOLOGICAL SECRET
Freud’s P sy ch o a n a ly sis seem s to be no m ore
th^.i a m odern in terpretation of Jam blichus’s
fou nd ation . T ak in g as elem en ts th e human
p a ssio n s, such a s an ger, th ey can be rescued
from crim e-exp ression on ly by the p acifica­
tion of an upw ard con version , to p articipa­
tion in divinity. H ow m ay th is con version be
effected ? By th e vicariou s exp erien ce of
w atch in g d ram as or particip atin g in rituals;
by dream s and p rayers. T h e san ative instruc­
tion of sym path etic ob servation of traged ies
is lim ited to ex tern a lities, w hile th e m ore
d irect internal ach ievem en ts can be im aged
on ly in sacred sp ecta cles, cerem on ies and di­
rect tests. T h ey are then rem edies leading
to liberation , by sym path y acquiring higher
cou rses of life and en erg ies, leading to be­
com in g sup er-m en . T h e b est m eans then to
ach ieve any spiritu al g ift is to p ractice it in
a “ theu rgic" ritual; every rite, th erefore is a
sch ool of m iracles, or is a p oten tial m iracle,
or “ en th usiasm ," or “ en th easm ."
DREAMS AS LINK WITH DIVINITY
W hile d ream s (a s in th e B ib le) are th e m ost
direct m eans of com m unication betw een d iv­
in ity and m an, th ey are not volu n tary, a la s.
T h ey m ay be sou gh t by sleep in g in tem ples,
h ow ever. D ream s m ay be pred ictive (of
w hich Jam blichus gath ers historical c a se s), or
cu rative (a s in A escu lap iu s tem p le-sleep ), or
revelative (a s in M y steries). T h e exp lan ation
is th at, “ by ab straction from control by the
low er self, as in sleep , th e so u l’s nobler part
is thus united to the higher nature, and b e­
com es a particip ant in the w isdom and fore­
k now ledge of the G od s."
PRAYER AS MOTIVE
Invocation co n sists of tran slatin g the em o­
tio n s, or p assion -m aterial into th e higher
w ord-form , d em an din g intellectu al an alysis
and form ulation, prod ucin g illum ination. So
prayer effects th e con tact, su p p lication s (em o­
tion alized m ental o b jects) by intim ate con­
verse lead to th eir ob ject, sim ilitu de w ith the
d ivine perfection later ach ieved . W hile rituals
are dependent on coop eration s of oth er p eople
prayer is av a ila b le b y all even in private;
hence it is th e m ost a ccessib le rem edy, a con ­
verter.
FOUNDER OF EXPERIENTIALISM
R ecap itu lating Jam blichus’s m essage, it w ill
be seen that he laid th e p sych ological fou nd a­
tion for the E gyptian tradition of experiential
religion, by H artm ann (in his P ronaos of the
T em p le) traced from Herm etism through N eo­
platonism , to M edieval Philosophy as sum ­
m arized by C ornelius A grippa, the A depts
(Flam el, S t. G erm ain, C agliostro), th e R osl-
crucian d ocu m en ts, B oehm e and P aracelsu s to
G uthrie’s C atholic T h eosop h lc R osicrucianism .
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—1
INSPIRATIONAL ILLUMINATION
o f T h om as Lake Harris
(M y. 15, 1823— M ch. 23, 190fc)
I. AS SEER
W hile Sw edenb org in S w eden and England,
and A ndrew Jackson D avis in P ou gh k eep sie
w ere great seers, they are of no sp ecial interest
a s th ey confined th em selves to g iv in g ou t their
ow n revelation s, w ith out d ev o tin g th em selves
to induce the sam e ab ility in oth ers. W hile
T h om as Lake Harris w a s accu sed of b ein g jea l­
ou s of the p sychic g ifts of som e of his diciples,
he n everth eless estab lish ed a B rotherhood of
th e N ew Life for the very ob ject of training
asp iran ts to receive in terior illu m in ation s.
T h at he him self w a s a great seer is a c­
k now ledged; he visited all th e various p arts of
th e U niverse, in the A rcana o f C hristianity,
(1857), T h e G reat R epublic (th e su n ); Epic
of the Starry H eavens (th e p la n ets).
In th e W isdom of th e A depts (1884) he
d escribes the form ative history of the human
race, and the d evelopm ent of p rehistoric
ad ep ts; of w hom th e ch ief w a s Jesus— Y essa or
C h rstu s— C hrista, w ho, a s d ivin e, incarnated
a s m an. He w a s a lso a great p oet, in trances
receiving lon g ep ics, such a s T h e R epublic of
th e Sun, A Lyric of the G olden A ge, A Lyric of
the M orning Land, A V oice from H eaven, The
Lum inous Life, and T he Holy C ity. T h ey have
not received the p oetic ap preciation th ey d e­
serve b ecau se m ost p o ets, and th erefore the
influential critics are idlers or m aterialists, and
do not even w ant to know of H arris’s p oetic
w ork.
II. BIOGRAPHY
Born in England, at five years of a g e he w as
taken to A m erica and fell under th e dom ination
of a C alvinist m oth er-in -law from w hom at nine
years of age he su cceed ed in esca p in g by earn­
in g his living.
A t sixteen he w a s converted in a B ap tist con­
ven ticle. In 1844 he b ecam e a N . Y. Uni-
v ersalist p reacher; he studied under A . J.
D avis; then, S w ed en b org’s w ritin gs. In 1810
he exp erien ced ‘internal resp iration ’ and foun­
ded th e M ountain C ove C om m unity, then, in
1860, th e B rotherhood of th e N ew Life, which
m oved from W assaic, N . Y ., to B roeton, and
th en , in 1875, to Santa R osa, C alifornia. W hen
F ountaingrove burned dow n he abandoned the
p lace to a Japanese colony and travelled to
N. Y., S cotlan d , and back to N. Y.
His m ost fam ous d isciple w a s Laurence Oli-
phant, w ho later left him and d evelop ed his
ow n d octrine, Sym ptom neum ata.
III. MISTAKES
W e m ay sa v e m isfortunes by listin g several
m istak es of his, w hich the reader should avoid .
1. He exp ected not to die, but be tran slated .
2. He exp ected a great cataclysm w hich
n ever cam e off, excep t perhaps on th e spir­
itual sid e.
3. He tau ght a doctrine of ‘spiritu al cou n ­
terp arts’ w hich seem to have been no m ore
than spiritu alistic ob session , b ecau se th e ex ­
p erien ces produced cold, and fatigu e, and in­
stead of b eing progressive, tended to disappear,
b esid es g ivin g rise to d om estic trou b les.
4. His exp lan ation of e v il’s rise b ein g due
to an A rch-adept on th e lo st p lan et O riana L
fan cifu l.
IV. DOCTRINE
1. He sta tes th at his doctrine is an occult
C hristo-centric scien ce, w hich a ccep ts as its
principle that Christ is not dogm a, but Spirit
and Life; th at C hristianity is not hierarchical,
but lium anitary; not repressive, but evolu tion ­
ary; th at its o b ject is th e recon stru ction o f th e
p lan et in th e form of its d ivine g en iu s; th e
restoration o f an orb th at w a s forced ou t of
the line o f m arch by d isturbin g fo rce s, in to
‘th e grand p ro cession al order of th e u n iv erse.’
In oth er w o rd s, a d istin ctiv ely C hristian T h e­
o sop h y.
2. T h e M ahatm ic term ‘astral b o d y ’ is by
H arris p referab ly called by th e G erm an n am e
of ‘g e is t’— th e d ou b le, th e sh ad ow form , th e
m em ory form , or astral im age.
3. He w a s a T h eo -so cia list, and co n ten d ed
th at ‘internal resp iration ’ cou ld not b e a ch iev ed
excep t in ‘in so cia te d ’ or colon y life; in a
church.
4. His b est, n o b lest and d iv in est tea ch in g
is th at o f in ternal resp iration (G od ’s B reath in
M an, and H um anity (1 892); Internal R esp ira­
tion , or, th e P len ary G ift of th e H oly Spirit
(1895). It is in short ‘p ractisin g in sp ira tio n ,’
and relea ses u s from d ep en dence on B u d dh ist
p rop agand a for y o g a b reath in gs by fu rn ishin g
us a C hristian scien ce th ereof, (a s is d istin ctly
n oted p. 2 of I R ), w hich g iv e s ex p er ien ces,
m eth od s and resu lts.
5. He a lw a y s spok e of Jesu s a s J esu s-Y essa ,
and of Christ a s C hristus-C hrista, a s th e per­
son al m an ifestation of our T w ain -O n e h eaven ly
F ather-M other. T h ou gh in visib le to natural
sigh t, the L ady Y essa, His cou n terp art, w a s
in volved in th e b ody of th e Lord Jesu s, either
b ein g in com p lete w ith ou t th e oth er— th e Lord
T w o-in -O n e.
6. F ollow in g H esiod, he tau gh t th e G olden,
Silver, C opper and Iron a g es, p rep aratory to
th e en gu ltm en t o f A tlan tis. T hen th reaten ed
the attack of th e b lack m agician s, on th e black
sa tellite O riana, w hich w a s repelled by the
incarnation of th e Suprem e H im -H erself a s
Jesu s o f N azareth .
V. BENEFITS
T h e Internal R espiration al B en efits are m en ­
tion ed d iscu rsively: 1, th ough t read in g (2 9 );
p erception of w ord (3 0 ); in th e fourth d egree,
seein g of fairies (3 1 ,5 1 ); rein vigoration (3 3 );
circle w h eel drill of in ternal current (3 6 ,3 7 );
projection of inner b ody (3 0 ); w arm th in body
parts (3 8 ), p oetry-insp iration (4 8 ); renew ed
youth (5 2 ); tran sp orts or th rills (5 2 ); look in g
for a ch an ge (5 3 ); m usic heard (5 7 ); rem ove
all d isea se and sorrow (6 0 ); feelin g of com ­
p leten ess (6 1 ); th e ch an ge a s ‘ch em icalization ’
(6 2 ); refreshm ent (6 7 ); a continued co n scio u s­
n ess (6 8 ); but it is im p ossib le alon e; no con ­
gregation is a church of C hrist till it b ecom es
an in terw oven fraternity (7 3 ). C onsecrate you r­
self th erefore to th e S ervice of C hrist in the
bosom of hum anity (7 J ), and b ecom e on e of
m any p illars in th e S ocial and Fraternal T em ­
ple of our God (7 1 ). He w arn s o f hypnotic
cou n terfeits (71) and d espair (7 2 ). It is the
breath of th e R edeem er (7 4 ); th erefore a strict­
ly C hristian so cie ty .
W hile th is internal respiration w a s o rigin a­
ted by S w ed en b org ( ‘2 w a s introduced by th e
Lord into interior resp iration s as a m edium of
in tercou rse w ith sp irits and a n g els’), Harris
recom m ended its p ractice by everyb od y, m a­
king u nn ecessary th e Hindu b reathing and la y ­
ing the fou nd ation of the first step of occu lt­
ism , illu m in ation by th e W hite Light.
VI. CONCLUSION
Harris can b est be studied in W . P . Sw ain-
so n ’s TLH and h is O ccult T each in g, London,
1922 (from John W atk in s, 21 Cecil Court,
C haring C ross R oad, WC 2, L on d on). He w as
a great p oet, inspired to w rite sublim e celestial
ep ics, such a s th e ‘Lyric of the G olden A g e ,’
and th e ‘N ew R ep u b lic.’ Illum inating is his
lectu re on T h e H istorical Jesus Christ.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—2
INITIATION INTO THE WORLD-
TEMPLE
o f M ABEL COLLINS (M rs. K eningdale C ook,
1851-M ch. 31, 1927)
BIOGRAPHY
Her life fa lls in to th ree p eriod s.
I. Her fath er, M ortim er C ollins, w a s au thor
of ‘T ra n sm ig ra tio n ,’ and she m arried K ening­
d ale C ook. She fell under the in flu en ce of th e
H erm etic (E gyp to-G reek ) M aster H ilarion Sm er-
d is, and from him received th ree treasu res:
tw o sto rie s op p o sin g m agic (Idyll of W hite
L otu s, 1885); and ‘B lossom s and Fruit’ 1885);
an in itiation in to th e W orld-tem p le, (W hen the
Sun m oves N orth w ard, 191^) and a m onitor on
p erson al religion (L ight on th e P ath , 1885).
II. She b ecam e a victim of an attack on
th is H ilarion S m erd is’s E gyp to-G reek occultism
by a p seu d o-B u d d h ist P ropagan d a under the
d irection of M ahatm a M orya, w hich ad vertised
pseudo-H indu relig io u s term s, and captured
both the E gyp to-G reek occu ltism and th e Chris­
tian term T h eo so p h y , under the leadership of
M adam e B la v a tsk y . T h e d a y a fter M abel Col­
lin s’s in itiation in to th e T h eosop h ical E soteric
S ection , sh e left it, and told w hat she thought
of it in ‘M orlal th e M ah atm a’ (w hich ed ition is
n ow u n ob tain ab le; for w hat reason ?)
S he reaffirm ed her stan d p oin t by com m en ­
taries on her earlier w ork s: Light on th e Path,
sh e exp lain ed by A Cry from A far ( ? ) , Our
G loriou s Future ( ? ) , L ove’s C haplet (1905)
an d the A w ak en in g (1906). T h e W hite Lotus
Idyll w a s exp lain ed in th e S tory of Sensa
(1 9 1 3 ). Of origin al reaffirm ations of her E gypto-
G reek occultism w e have Green L eaves (1895),
T h e S tory of th e Y ear (1 8 9 5 ): P leasu re and
Pain (1896); T h e Scroll of the D isem bodied Man
(1 904); L ove’s C haplet (1 9 0 5 ); Fragm ents of
T h ou gh t and Life (1908); One Life, One L aw ,—
T h ou Shalt N ot Kill (1 9 0 9 ); T h e B uilders
(1 910); T h e T ran sparen t Jew el (1 912); Illu­
sio n s (1912?).
III. A s her in d ep en d en ce (in evitab le in a
thinker and w riter ), deprived her of the now
organ ized M ahatm ic back in g, w hich for a short
tim e had given her p ub licity, and a s apparently
M aster Hilarion Sm erdis had been captured and
recogn ized (w hen M adam B lavatsk y repudiated
M abel C ollins, sh e had also denied the adep t-
ship of H ilarion S m erd is) by th e M ahatm ists,
(D r. D ow er, lead er of th e 'H a lc y o n ‘A rtisan ’
‘T em p le of th e P e o p le’ con tin u ou sly publishes
m essa g es from both M orya and H ilarion Sm er­
d is to geth er, and A lice B ailey reco g n izes them
b o th ), H ilarion S m erd is’s m edium C ollins w as
ab and on ed . In 1913 she fell into straiten ed
circu m stan ces, and con d ucted a book shop in
C heltenham , found relig io u s fellow sh ip in the
C atholic Church (R om an branch. S m yth e), and
d evoted th e rest of her life to hum anitarian
com p assion for an im als, her survivin g portrait
sh o w in g her h old in g her little d og, w orking
pub licly for A n ti-V ivisection ists, w h ose R eview
for M arch 1927, London, published th e only
ob itu ary n otice, w ith picture. In this period
she continued her in terest in m agic again st
spiritualism in T h e Locked R oom (1920), The
C rucible (1 9 1 4 ), etc.
II. CRITICISM
1. T h e L ight on the P ath is valu ed by
h ypocrites ch iefly b ecau se it en ab les them to
d eceive th em selv es in to thinking th ey are living
an in terior life, w ith ou t a ffectin g their outer
con d uct of life! It is ch eap to w rite con tra­
d ictories such a s , ‘go quickly but g o s lo w ly ,’
2. B lack m agic is a su b ject w hich, like pitch,
d efiles him w no o p p o ses it. It can b est be
o p p osed by ign orin g it. A s, h ow ever, ‘w h ite’
is a con cep t in sep arab le from ‘b lack ,’ w e shall
h ave to drop ‘w hite m a g ic’ and ‘w hite B rother­
h o o d ’ a lso . T h e b est is to w ork for ‘spiritual
a ch iev em en t,’ and H elpers of Hum anity which
sim p ly ign ores its o p p osite. M abel C ollins b e­
cam e a m artyr to th e d evil she had raised by
her feud w ith ‘black m a g ic,’ g iv in g it the best
p o ssib le ad vertisem en t.
3. Her ‘W hen th e Sun M oves N orthw ards’
T em p le Ritual C alendar is good and su g g estiv e;
but a s its crow ning festival is the B irthday of
B uddha, w hich is m ean in gless to W estern P eo ­
ple (w h o are clear-sigh ted enough to refuse
to aim at an nih ilation, w hich is the dictionary
m ean in g of ‘N irvan a’), it has had to be rear­
ran ged a s in ‘T em p le G ates O p en ed .’
III. CHIEF DOCTRINES
She tau ght the ex isten ce of an ‘ethereal
w o rld ’ ab ove th is on e, in w hich reside M asters
of w isd om , and h oly b ein gs. T h e fou nd ation s
of th eir shrines and tem p les are on undisturbed
rocks, and the b u ild in g-ston es are a cts and
d eed s of faith by th e ‘B u ild ers,’ or th e con ­
stru ctive d evou t. E very act of doubt, denial or
icon oclasm th reaten s to d estroy this spiritual
fou n d ation . So th ere is an eth ereal Egypt
h overin g over the real E gypt.
IV. APPRECIATION
So bare a review o f M abel C ollins’ life and
w ork, and sharp criticism w ould seem com ic
w ith ou t an ap preciation of her exclu sive m es­
sa g e , th e u nveiling of initiation .
Her special p reciou sn ess co n sists in her ev i­
d en tly genuine p alp itatin g initiatory exp eri­
en ces, and unique accou n ts of the W orld-T em ­
p le ritual. In this her w ork ranks w ith Ezekiel
and the R evelation s. No w onder that the Bud­
d hist M ahatm ic Propagan d a, w hich has b efore
and sin ce been sterile of all genuine exp erien ce
and revelation s, tried to capture and appropri­
a te her! W hen th ey failed in this, their bar­
barity tow ard s her revealed their real nature.
Like oth er sa viors, she had to becom e a m artyr.
V. CONCLUSION
A pparently b etrayed or abandoned by
by M aster Hilarion Sm erdis, excom m unicated by
the M ahatm ists, left to her ow n resou rces, she
closed her hum ble life'n o b ly , a m artyr to d e­
votion to hum anity and God, an uncanonized
sain t. It is the duty and p rivilege of all her
fello w hum anitarians and religion ists to pray
for her, and m ake know n her life and w ork s,
w hich is the b est p ossib le sub stitu te for M ahat­
m ic Buddhist prop agand a, as she drew her
occultism from a source independent of them ,
and sh e did not h esitate to leave them w hen
her con scien ce im pelled her to accu se them of
b lack m agic. Her sign ificance is revelation of
in itiation into the W orld-T em ple. T h is ob ject
is so suprem e that preservation of her w orks
b ecom es a w orld cau se. T h is w riter w ill ren­
d er h is rare cop ies of them a ccessib le by p la­
cin g them in the N ew York Public Library.
S om e b en efactor of hum anity m ight w ell ch eap ­
ly republish in a sm all volum e, sm all print and
large page-form , all her very short occult
w ork s. It w ould be a service to H erm etism ,
or E gypto-G reek occultism , and p rotest again st
th e pseud o-B u d dh ist in vasion of the W est,—
our m otto should be, ‘W estern T h ou ght for
W estern P e o p le.’
M abel C ollins’s resu ltan t m essage is: “ Every
prayerful act of faith is the creation and build­
in g in of one ston e in th e T em p le in w hich you
are to be in itia ted .”
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—3
INTERPRETATIVE REVELATION
of
ANNA BONUS KINGSFORD (1846-F eb. 22, 1888)
I. MESSAGE
O ctober 23, 1921 (and 1928), M adam B lavat-
sky w ho had once appointed A nna K ingsford
president of the British Section of th e so-called
T h eosoph ical M ahatm ic S ociety, through Dr.
and Mrs. F. Homer Curtis, lead ers of th e Order
of Christian M ystics, of W ashin gton , D. C.,
sen t a m essage to her B esan t-strayed follow ers
im ploring them to return to spiritu al in terpreta­
tion of C hristianity,— w hich w a s ex a ctly Anna
B . K ingsford’s m ission .
II. BIOGRAPHY
She w a s th e d aughter of th e Shrew sbury
vicar of A tcham , w nere she w a s born. She
studied m edicine in P aris. She w a s ap-
Eroached by L aw rence O liphant for T h om as
ake Harris; a lso by W . G. C olville. She re­
turned hom e but often visited Paris and S w itz­
erland. She collab orated w ith Dr. Edward
M aitland w ho survived her, and sa w to the pub­
lication of her literary rem ainders. She m ar­
ried the rector of P ontesbury, S alop . T h e co l­
laboration b egan by a visit to her in February,
1874; the T h eosop h ical S ociety w a s form ed in
N. Y ., S eptem ber 8, 1875, so th at th is an te­
dated them . In 1883 she w a s elected President
of the British S ociety; but b ein g an tagonized
for her C hristian lan gu age, in 1884 w ithdrew
to form the H erm etic S ociety w hich lasted till
1886, w hen her health gave w'ay.
She practised and tau ght V egetarianism for
its sen sitizin g influence on th e h igher plan es of
th e con sciou sn ess. She did all sh e could for
the w om an ’s R igh ts’ M ovem ent. Like M abel
C ollins, she d evoted herself to the A nti-V ivi­
section cau se, and dem anded G od ’s judgm ent
on the cruel C laude Bernard, w ho died sud d en ­
ly. Ralph Shirley d escribes her in “ O ccultists
and M ystics of A ll A g e s.’
Her m ystic p roclivities m ust have been d evel­
oped, during her stay in Paris, by intercourse
w ith the B aron G iuseppe Spedalieri, th e friend,
d isciple and literary heir of th e A bbe C onstant,
Eliphas Levi. In 1901 M aitland form ed the
E soteric Christian U nion, and for it published
the B ib le’s Own A ccount of Itself, T he N ew
G ospel of Interpretation, and a M essage to
Earth, con tain in g Forty D a y s’ C om m unications
from friends beyon d.
HI DREAMING
Hers w a s a natal endow m ent d eveloped by
fourteen yea rs’ ab stinence from flesh food , and
a disciplinary exp erien ce and m anner of life.
She w a s a great dream er, u sually in the last
m orning sleep ; also chiefly in high and dry
clim es, at hom e p artially losin g that facu lty.
T he result w as her charm ing book ‘D ream s and
Dream S to rie s.’
T h ese vision s assu m ed a m ore direct re­
ligiou s aspect a s revelation s w ith th e beginning
of the ‘P erfect W a y .’ On June 4, 1878, she had
a dream com m unication w hich w a s an an sw er
to M aitland’s prayer for help in com pleting
h is attem pt a t a B iblical in terpretation. She
g o t help from S w edenb org and W illiam Lilly,
P allas, Herm es and her G enius; and th ey d e­
livered in London nine p arlor-lectu res, as* pre­
paration for th eir publication in 1882, and re­
vision in 1887, w ith a third in 1890.
W hile both au thors considered the doctrines
o f greatest valu e, the illum inations on which
th ey rested seem the m ost im portant; and
these w ere gath ered in ‘Clothed w ith the S u n ,’
published after her d em ise,
T h ose w hich to u s are m ost in terestin g are
not her ‘R estoration of a hymn to the Planet
G od ,’ or ‘T he B ook of V enus,’ to the Elem en­
tal D iv in ities,’ e tc ., but her rev ela tio n a s to
the actu al Jesu s (3 3 ), h is p reviou s liv es (341,
P aul and th e d iscip les (3 o ), and th e Origin
an d C om position of th e G osp els (3 2 ),— w hich
she th in k s w ere w ritten up in the A lexandrian
Library.
She ‘learn t th e in ten tion an d recogn ized the
n ecessity of restorin g th e G reek presen tm en t
of the Sacred M ysteries, in exp lan ation of th e
H ebrew , and in correction o f the ecclesia stic a l
p resen tm en t of C hristian ity.’ (D . & D S. 5 4 ).
IV. THE PERFECT W AY
T h ey con sid ered it n eith er an in ven tion or
com p ilation , but a d iscovery and recovery, un­
sea lin g the B ib les of the W est,— a recovery of
th e G nosis of the Church, its eso teric C hristian­
ity . It h as th ree p rin ciples: th at the dogm a >
and sym b ols of C hristian ity are sub stan tially
id en tical w ith th o se of oth er and earlier reli­
g io u s sy stem s; 2, T h e true p lan e of religiou s
u elief lies not in the sep ulch re of historical tra­
d ition , but in m an ’s ow n m ind, and h eart;
3, T h at th us in terpreted , C hristian d octrin e w ith
scien tific ex a ct, t.ide rep resen ts th e fa cts of
m an ’s spiritual h istory.
Its in d ex sh o w s 1, R ep lacin g th e desired
p erfect th ou gh t-system by one fou nd ed on e x ­
isten ce; 2, T h e S o u l’s S u b stan ce of E xisten ce;
3, T h e V arious O rders of Spirits, and How to
D iscern T hem ; 4, T h e A ton em en t; 5, N ature
and C onstitution of th e E go; 6, 7, T h e Fall;
8, T h e R edem ption; 9, G od a s the Lord, or the
D ivine Im age.
V. HERMETISM
W hen A nna K ingsford ’s C hristian T h eosop h y
d rove her from the P resid en tsh ip of th e B ritish
T h eosop h ical S ociety, she w a s com p elled to
find an other b asis for th e sou rces of her
C hristian w ork. Her ed u cation supplied her
w ith G reek a sso c ia tio n s; but w h en ce cam e
th ey? Of cou rse from E gyp t,— H erm es’ b ooks
b eing a Greek version of Egyptian m ysteries.
So she tran slated into E nglish th e H erm etic
b ooks, the P oem and res and th e Virgin of th e
W orld, to w hich , a s a P reface, she prefixed
the M an ifesto of H erm etism ,— E gypt a s ch al­
len ge to p seud o B uddhistic M ahatm ism . Her
con clu sion s are th at the H erm etic b ook s are a
survival of an cient E gypt: th at th eir doctrine
coin cid es w ith esoteric C hristianity; b ecau se
3, C hristianity represents a d evelop m en t from ,
and re-form ulation o f th is lon g p re-existen t
E gyp tian doctrine.
VI. ASTROLOGY THEOLOGIZED
N ow th is H erm etist m ystic ex a ltation im ­
p in ges upon the M iddle A ge; and so sh e took
V alentine W eigeliu s’s ‘A strology T h e o lo g iz e d ,’
reprinted its E nglish tran slation , and w rote a
lon g illu strated introduction in w hich sh e e x ­
tended her system of in terpretation from C hris­
tian ity and the E gyptian trad ition to th e m ed i­
a ev a l a stro lo g y . ‘T h u s is th e S oul o f the
astro lo g ica l man ‘th eo lo g ized ’, d ivin ized and
affirm ed in the L ikeness o f G od ,’— a m ethod of
d eliveran ce from b ein g th e to y o f fa te and
circu m stan ce, w here the elem en tal p ow ers have
such com p lete sw a y over him th at u rgen cies
m on opolize his ex isten ce.
VII. TAUG H T REINCARNATION TO
THEOSOPHY
T h e T h eosop h ical S ociety w a s founded Sept.
8, 1875, so that for 7 years it op posed R eincar­
n ation , for it w a s on July 3, 1882 (S hirley,
O aM oAA , p. 162) that Anna K ingsford w rote
to Lady C aith vess a letter record in g a violen t
argum ent w ith him , in w hich he q uoted from
Isis U nveiled (in v o lv in g H elen B lavatsk y)
a g a in st it; but he soon turned for it, in a let­
ter to Edward M aitland. Since then it h as been
claim ed a s a d istin ctly ‘T h eo so p h ica l’ teach in g.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—4
AMERICAN MENTALISM
of
PH INEAS PARKHURST QUIMBY
(F e b . 16, 1802— Jan. 26, 1866)
I. BIOGRAPHY
B orn in L ebanon, N. H ., of a b lack sm ith ,
h is fam ily m oved to B elfa st, M e., w h ere th ey
rem ain ed ex c ep t for h is 1859 p rofession al
ca reer in P ortlan d . First, he w a s an in ven tor,
an d w a s a rg u m en tative, and stu d ied th e 1836
m esm erism o f C harles P oyan . H is ch ief su b ­
je c t w a s a L ucius Burkm ar, w ith w hom he
tra v eled , g iv in g d em on stration s, in 1842. T he
p h en om en a w ere by him attribu ted first to an i­
m al m agn etisn ij later to electricity , then to
‘m en tal s u g g e stio n .’ A d isea se com p elled him
to ap p ly h is k n ow led ge to h ealin g, su c cess in
w hich con vin ced him th at mind w a s (sp iritu al)
m atter, an d cou ld be ch an ged . H elping others,
h e m esm erically g a v e d ia g n o ses through his
su b jec t. F in ally he d isp en sed w ith him , through
relia n ce on h is ow n in tu ition s. For h ealin gs
ca m e to him : Julius D resser in 1860, M rs.
E d d y in 1862. A n etta D resser in 1862, and Mr.
E van s in 1863, (w ho in terpreted D r. Q uim by’s
w isd o m ,) rein forced by the accum u lated learn ­
in g o f th e cen tu ries. His w ork w a s sa v ed for
h um an ity b y H oratio D resser.
II. CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
W h y d id h e call h is d isco v ery a ‘scie n c e’?
‘T h e e ffe c t o f a scien ce b ecau se I k now how
1 d o th em .’ So he d eveloped ‘th e scien ce of
life an d h a p p in e ss,’ or, ‘the scien ce of h ealth .'
T h is co m p osition ‘is a s m uch o f a scien ce a s to
k n o w h ow to d ecom p ose a p iece of m eta l.’
E van s tea c h e s ‘the scien ce of ob liv e sc en ce, or
th e A rt o f F orgettin g a M alad y.’ Q uim by illu s­
tra ted h is ‘S cie n c e’ of health by the C hristian
sto r ie s, w h ich turned it into ‘C hristian S cie n c e.’
He u sed th is w ord tw ice, fo llo w in g C ow les in
1840, A dam in 1850, and D eletsch e. M rs. Ed­
d y ’s fa lse claim s are d estroyed in th e M ay
1899 A ren a.
III. ANALYSIS
S tafford p h rases Q uim by’s in n ovation a s ‘the
a p p lication o f th e unreality of m atter to h eal­
in g .’ D resser sa y s: ‘T he n ovelty co n sists in the
p o ssessio n of a con crete, practical m ethod such
th at each m an is put on his ow n re so u rce s.’
E van s (187) q u o tes P lato th at redem ption is
a con cretization of m an ’s origin al spiritu al e le ­
m ent in to a d ivin ely illum inated germ of light
and life .’ In religiou s d ialect, E van s d escrib es
it a s ‘faith in a good G od .’
IV. CONVERSATION
Q uim by sa id : ‘the exp lan ation is th e cu re.’
It con sisted of a con versation w ith th e p a­
tie n t’s co n scio u sn e ss (w hich w ou ld a ffect his
su b -co n scio u sn ess), clo sin g som etim es w ith a
‘p la ce b o ’ m anipulation.
A fter g iv in g the p atien t a d etailed accou n t of
w h a t h is trou b les w ere, he w ould con verse w ith
h im , and exp lain to him th e ca u ses o f h is trou b ­
le s, and th u s ch an ge th e p a tien t’s m ind, d is­
a b u se It o f its errors, and in its p lace estab lish
th e truth; w hich ‘ex p lan ation ’ w a s the cure.
T h is con versation w a s ju st a s effectiv e w hen
d o n e silen tly , or a t a d istan ce. He d escrib es
th is con versation thus:
Ideas are m atter con d en sed in to a solid ca l­
led d isea se, w hich like a b ook co n tain s all its
a u th o r’s w isd om . So I read the co n ten ts of
th e book to th e p a tien t, and sh ow th at it is
fa lse . A s th e truth ch an ges his m ind, h e sees
throu gh the error of d isea se, m atter is d is­
p ersed , he is freed of op in ion s, and h appiness
is re sto re d .’
V. P A T IE N T ’S TRANQUILIZATION
D r. Quim by an ta g o n ized th e physician s by
op p osin g th eir m ed icin es. “ D isease can be
cured on but one prin ciple. ” “ 1 m anufacture
h ea lth .” He did not a n tagon ize the p atient
by ‘ly in g ’ ab out h is sym p tom s. W hile teach ­
in g th at d isease w a s ah error of the (su b -con ­
scio u s) mind, and th erefore not (id eally) real,
he frankly adm itted ‘pain w a s not im agin ation ,’
but a s real a s can be a dream . D isease is not
a truth, but is ack n ow led ged a s a (p rogressive)
d escrip tion . If th e p atien t needed it, he re­
lated the w a ter-g la ss p oison -trick successfu lly
used w ith m esm eric su b jects. He reason ed
w ith him scien tifically, and by q u otation s from
th e scriptures, till he quieted him in to recep ­
tivity.
VI. PHILOSOPHY
In 1862 Dr. Q uim by said : ‘My m ode is en ­
tirely o rig in a l,’— he had d eveloped h is ow n phil­
o sop h y, that ‘m an w a s a p rogressive b ein g so
th at mind w a s spiritu al m atter and could be
ch an ged ,' th at w e w ere m ade up of truth and
error; that d isea se w a s an error, or b elief, and
that the truth or E xplan ation w a s th e cure.
Health is th e truth. He called the (su b -con ­
scio u sn e ss’s) phenom ena ‘spiritual m atter’
w hich m ight be in error, forgetfu l of the so u l’s
n orm ative pow er, w hile the external con sciou s­
n ess rightly ack n ow led ged phenom ena o f d is­
e a se .
Few b easts arc d iseased b ecau se th eir nor­
m ative facu lty is not disturbed by hum an rea­
son in gs, to cure w h o se d ivagation s m an has to
resort to p urposive, ‘scien tific’ m ental ap p lica­
tion s. Henry W ood ob jectified the su ggestion
into a ‘m ental p ictu re,’ or m otto for au to ­
su g g estio n . C has. M. B arrow s p rogressed to
‘S u ggestion Instead of M edicin e,’ and Dr. Hack
T u k e studied T h e Influence of the Mind on th e
B od y, for n on-partisan evid en ce. T h is w a s
ap plied p ractically b y C oue. T h is cau sed p sy ­
ch o lo g y under P rof. Jam es, to produce p rag­
m atism and ‘V arieties of R eligiou s B elief,’ and
fin ally Mr. E van ’s em pirical id ealism , a reli­
g io u s faith in G od ’s curing.
VII. FOUNDATION
B ut w hy should God cure m an? ‘God w a n ts
us to be in g ood h ealth '; it is ‘natural’; it is
‘tru th .’ Such ev a sio n s are unscientific: and
Q uim by him self had m ade h is d iscovery by o b ­
servin g the su b con sciou sn ess’s norm ative in ­
fluence and p ow ers. T h is then is the p sych o­
logical fou nd ation , w hich can be studied (for
p eop le in telligen t enough to need or dem and
or ap preciate a d em on stration ) in H udson’s
Law of P sychic P henom ena. T h is is the w ork­
in g cause of cure of all ‘(u n -) Christian Sci­
e n c e ,’ New T h ou ght, M etaphysics, and A bstract
‘Science of B ein g ’ or ‘M ental S cien ce,’ w hich
is a s im potent as it is m ost rem oved from its
w ork in g principle.
VIII. DIVINER OUTLOOK
B ut w e m ust p oin t ou t that beyond p h ysical
health th ere are ob jectiv es nobler, m ore social,
and diviner. In this connection w e m ight m en­
tion Prentice M ulford (T h ough ts are T h in g s),
w ho com m ercialized Em erson, Quim by and O c­
cultism ; H olcom be w ho never lost sigh t of th e
d ivin e life, and U rsula G estefeld, Who tried
to hold to Q uiinby m odernized. T o all th is
Dr. D ew ey added in itiatory ach ievem en t. T h is
bare A m erican M entalism w as m ost n otably
applied in story form by S tocking in h is great
A m erican n ovel, Carmen A riza.
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—5
CHRISTIAN THEOSOPHY
of
Dr. J O H N H A M L I N D E W E Y
O ct. 13, 1828-1908?
I. BIOGRAPHY
He seem s to have been an allop ath ic p h ysi­
cian in C incinnati, w here he m et w ith Dr. J. D.
B uck’s N ature and Aim s of T h eosop h y and w as
a critic of M ahatm istic B ddhsit p rop agand a in
U . S. By several p rayer-cures he w a s prob­
ab ly by h is lovely w ife con verted to N ew T es­
tam ent O ccultism , claim ing th e gen u in e Chris­
tian su ccession of the term ‘T h eo so p h y .’ He
published and taught at 111 W . 68th S t., N ew
York C ity, celeb ratin g h is 80th b irth -d ay in
1908.
II. WORKS
1. T h e W ay, th e Truth and th e L ife, a hand­
b ook of Christian T h eosop h y, H ealing and P sy­
chic Culture; a N ew E ducation b ased on the
Ideal and M ethod of the C hrist (1888).
2 . T h e P ath w ay of th e S pirit, a G uide to
Inspiration, Illum ination, an d D ivin e R ealization
on Earth.
3. N ew T estam en t O ccultism . 4. H ealing and
P sych ic Culture. 5. Introduction to the T h eo s­
ophy of the Christ. 6. C hristian T h eosoph y
D efined. 7. S cientific B asis of M ental H ealnig.
8. D ivinity of H um anity. 9. Spiritual G ifts.
10. T h e Law of the P erfect L ife. 11. T he Open
D oor, or T h e Secret of Jesu s. 12. T h e D aw n­
ing D ay. 13. T he G enesis and E xodus of the
Human Spirit.
III. OCCULT PHENOMENA
A s w ould be natural from h is origin , h e b e­
gan by laying chief stress on p h ysical healing,
for w hich he published h is w ife ’s form ula (W .
T . L. 180; 159). But h e broad en ed ou t into
further ‘g ifts of the sp irit.’ He g iv e s a for­
m ula fo r ‘introversion^ or m en tal travel (W .
T . L ., 2 8 5), w arning of d angers of revery and
som nolen ce (2 89). He calls it ‘in tegral edu­
ca tio n ’ (236) by w hich th e m ind, w ith ou t losin g
hold o f the norm al con sciou sn ess, is tau gh t to
function at w ill on the three p lan es of body
(th e 5 se n se s); the mind (th e sixth sen se, in­
clud in g all p sychic p henom ena, such a s clair-
au d ien ce, clairvoyan ce and clairsen tien ce) and
veg eta tio n influence (306); and psychom etry
(2 2 5 ), or the spirit (th e seven th or divine
sen se, th e b ib lical m iracles). His norm al seer-
ship in clud es (317) b odv-h ealin g, m ental illu ­
m ination, attain m en t of n eed ed inform ation,
or b lessin g on oth ers in b ody, spirit or estate.
His m ost valu ab le collection s are in h is ap ­
p en dices. In that to the N .T .O . he g iv es a
system atic biblical occult m ethods and results
outlined, and the m ost thorough accou n t (from
the A rena) of the Hindu m agic tricks ever pre­
sen ted . In the appendix to th e W .T . & L. he
g iv e s a precious Buck T h eosoph ic quotation,
phenom ena recorded by Em ily F aithful, London,
1864, of th e French W illiam R obert B ertolacci,
w h ose fam ily w a s initiated into th e divinest
ach ievem en ts by ‘pious th ough t-con cen tration .’
T hen an accoun t Dr. W m . B. F ah n estock ’s
S tatu volism , or A rtificial Som nabulism , en a­
b lin g on e to accom plish som nabulic phenom ena
in the norm al condition. Last an accoun t from
Em m a H ardinge Britten of a B ritish n oble­
m an ’s fam ily w ho in their private O ratory had
d irect con n ection w ith the W orld-G od or Spl-
ritus M undi,— the H oly Spirit.
IV. DEFICIENCIES
It is to b e d ep lored (and a fter his d eath o b ­
livion p un ish ed ) h is h oly p ractice o f refrain in g
from m en tion in g n am es, or leavin g record s (h is
biograp h y and p ictu re seem to h ave d isa p ­
p ea re d ). T h is w a s th e p unishm ent in ev ita b ly
in d issociab le from th e holy p lan e, on w h ich h e
an d h is lad y con d u cted their w ork.
V. OPPOSITION
He w a s op p osed to tw o m ovem en ts: th e
p seu d o B uddhist T h eo so p h y , and S p iritu alism .
A gain st the first, w hich in his d ays had ju st
em erged from its sp iritu alistic p hase, h e n o ­
ticed th at th eir a d ep ts claim ed secrecy , in co n ­
trad istin ction to th e C hrist’s d isp en sin g w ith
secret lod ge in itia tio n s, and Christ b oth p rom ­
ised and effected m uch m ore than th ey even
claim ed to do for th eir fo llo w ers. 2, A g a in st
th e S piritu alists he urged n ot only th e d e­
m oralizing d an ger o f yield in g to undefined an d
irresp onsib le co n tro ls, but a lso th at it to lera ted
the u tm ost p ractical ath eism , irreligion and
rank m aterialism (3 2 0 ). 3, A gain st th e m od ­
ern organ ized C hristian Church he u rges th a t it
h as b ecom e so ab sorbed in its fran tic efforts
(31) to sa v e so u ls from th e con seq u en ces o f sin
in an other w orld a s to n eglect the suprem e task
of p reventing sin in th is w orld , blinded a s it is
by m iscon cep tion s of trad itional th eo lo g y and
in ternecin e w a rfa re. Its on ly sa lv a tio n w a s the
p reservation o f th e B ible.
VI. DOCTRINES
1, Faith. W hy shou ld God h eal and an sw er
prayer? ‘B ecau se G od and h is u niverse are
p led ged to th e fulfilm ent o f every le gitim ate
d esire and g o o d p o ssib le to m an .' 2, T h ere
are tw o m eth od s o f h ealin g (W TL 2 9 1 ): th e
low er m ental action w hich is the le a st efficient;
and th at from th e p sych ic p lan e of inw ard co n ­
centration , reach ed by training in th e art of
in troversion , w hen self-h ea lin g b ecom es a sim ­
ple m atter o f w ill, and th at of oth ers a p ­
p roach es, in th e sev en th sen se-realm , B iblical
m iracles. 3, Christ w a s th e livin g exam p le
and illu stration of T h eosop h y, and h is sch ool
th e royal g a te w a y to d ivin e w isdom and su ­
p rem acy. 4, Spiritu al g ifts fo llo w , but do not
precede the K ingdom of h eaven and rig h teo u s­
n ess (2 2 3 ), and 5, C ontrol o f th e atten tion by
w hich in troversion -p rocess one tran sfers the
sea t of th e m in d ’s a ctiv ities from th e front
to the back brain, w ith ou t susp en d in g extern al
co n scio u sn ess.
VII. SUMMARY
Im portant m erits of Dr. D ew ey ’s w ork are:
1. R escu in g th e C hristian term T h eosop h y
from m on op olization by secret B uddhist M anat-
m istic p rop agan d a. (It is due to P orphyry,
C lem ent A lexan d rin e, E u sebiu s, L eontius and
B oeh m e.)
2. O pening th e fu ll occu lt field for all pro­
fessin g C hristians.
3. R ed eem in g C hristianity from h ypocritical
evisceration by p ro fessio n a lists.
4. R escu in g spiritu al h ealin g from g o d less,
black m agic m o n ey -g ettin g m ental scien tists
D r. D ew ey a lw a y s held to th e term ‘p rayer-
cu re.’
5. His w ork w a s a lw a y s unw orldly and h oly,
and indeed suffered in prop agand a th ereb y. If
did not d esire self-a d v ertisem en t, and in vites
not so much con tin u ation as im itation . From
Dr. C urtiss’s Order of C hristian M ystics an ­
nouncem ent of M m e. B la v a tsk y ’s con version to
C hristianity it w ou ld seem a s if Dr. D ew ey w a s
fu lly vin d icated.
WESTERN THOUGHTS FOR WESTERN PEOPLE—6
MODERN WESTERN MYSTERY-
RITUALS
o f W . 1. COLVILLE
t [(S ep t. 5 , 1859-D ec. 15, 1916)
I. BIOGRAPHY
Of French (m oth er, d e M ordaunt) and Italian
p aren tage, born on o cea n , bred in L ondon, on
M ay 24, 1874, h e heard a lectu re by Cora L.
V . R ichm ond in B righton , w hich inspired him
so m uch th at h e asserted he a lso could speak;
w h ich he did w ith such su ccess th at a religiou s
p eriod ical took him up and ad vertised him .
T h en he v isite d th e U nited S ta tes, w here he
a lw a y s w a s the g u est of M r. Henry S teign er,
Of H yperion H ou se, N . Y. Cy. He traveled in
A u stralia, an d d ied in San F rancisco. Every
C hristm as a m essa g e is received from him by
M r. H enry S teign er, w h o still sp ea k s of him
in th e p resen t ten se.
II. TO TEM S
, In h is ‘N ew Z ealand E p isod e’ S aved by a
P an th er, p u b lish ed by th e A rena of O ct. 1902,
h e exp lain ed h is fo n d n ess for felin es, after
w hom he nam ed all th e ch ief ch aracters of his
n o v els; and he a lw a y s w ore som e cat-ch arm .
P arrots a lso ap p ear in h is n ovels freq u en tly.
III. BIBLIOGRAPHY
A list o f h is b ook s could hardly be com p lete,
so n um erous and scattered are th ey. H ow ever,
a con d en sed library of h is w ould in clud e, n ov­
e ls, D ashed A gain st th e R ocks, O ncsim us T em ­
p leton , W ith O ne A ccord, and T h ron e of Eden;
o f tea ch in g s, M ystic Light E ssays, G lints of
W isdom , R eligion o f T om orrow , and o v er 35
m ore.
IV. ANTHOLOGIST
He tau gh t L ucretia M ott’s noble m otto, Truth
fo r A uth ority, n ot A uthority for T ruth. He
w a s an om n ivorou s reader, and gain ed sign ifi­
can ce a s in terpreter. A ll during his life he
loan ed ‘H udson’s Law of P sych ic P h en om en a’
to o u tsid ers, a s b est introduction to th e spiritu ­
a l w orld . His ow n tea ch in g of au ras popu lar­
ized L ead b eater’s b ook. He acted a s an th ol­
o g is t or sum m er up of h is a g e o f scien tists.
A s a resu lt of th is read in g he reveals m any
odd and o th erw ise in accessib le b its of k now l­
ed g e, such as th e nam es of the occu lt teach ers
o f M arie C orelli, C ount M attei of B ologn a, and
o f B ulw er L ytton; C hauncey Hare T ow n sen d .
From M arcus A urelius’s reflection th at our
th ou gh ts d ye our garm en ts, C olville a d vises us
to ch o o se them w ell. He w as fond of Lucy
L arcoin’s m otto, “ N ever, w alk in g h eaven w ard ,
can w e w alk a lo n e !”
V. TEACHINGS
L eaving a sid e th e h ealin g d octrines w hich
are quite gen eral, he ad v o ca tes the h igher
sp iritu alism , and the gen u in e th eosop h y. T h ere
is no virtue in u glin ess. T here is a circle of
th e true church of the spirit, a church ab ove a
church reached b y a ladder of light; a church
w ith in a church. T h e “ h igher c a r elessn ess,”
burning a s a lam p livin g on the U niverse; d i­
vin e ordination to a sup er p ersonal G od; b ein g
a jan itor to h eaven and treatin g or con secra­
tin g san ctu aries.
He p op u larizes L ead b eater’s au ras, P rentic?
M ulford’s (w hom he d o es n ot nam e) m ind as a
m agn et, and dream ing tru e; m in eralogy, and
vo w el-sig n ifica n ce; M arcus A urelius’s garm en t­
d yin g, and F lam m arion’s trips to M ars. He is
in terested in A tlan tis (W O A , 142). He tea ch es
S even P lan es (W O A . 197) and th e W hite City
in H eaven (DAR, 208).
VI. HIGHER SPIRITUALISM AND
THEOSOPH1CAL RESEARCH
T h e “ higher sp iritu alism ” co n sists not in the
can t and absurd p reten sion s of the m edium ’s
d escen d in g to th em , in a carnalization of the
sp irit, but in th eir rising to a su p er-con sciou s­
n ess, exp ression on a plane h igher than that
of g ro ss m atter.
A s to ‘true T h eo so p h y ,’ it co n sists not in
seein g nothin g g ood ou tsid e of H induism , but
in k n ow in g h ow to go into the silen ce at w ill,
and find the true perpetual ligh t. In the ‘Brom -
le y k ites’ he ridicu les th e M ahatm ists w ho con ­
sid er m eat-eatin g a sin on ly if th ey pay for it.
As m isinterpreted by occid en tal aspiran ts to
O riental w isdom , ‘K arm a’ seem s both m u­
tab le and im m utable, to be conquered or ev a ­
ded , insu ltin g spiritualism as d ealin g w ith d is­
carded astrals, sh ells and oth er con coction s of
orien talized h ysteria. T h is w riter su g g e sts th e
W estern unspoiled w ord N em esis to represent
w h atever residuum of valu e th ere is in karm a.
C olville a d vises a so cie ty for T h eosoph ical
RESEARCH. He is a lso op p osed to a self-a d ­
vertisin g ‘W hite B roth erhood ’ of a lleged ad ep ts
(D A R , 114).
VII. MYSTIC ORGANIZATIONS
C olville’s ch ief con stru ctive doctrine is organ ­
ization of the religiou s in th e w orld (like
G arver’s B rother of the T hird D egree) into
m ystery-ord ers. In O ncsim us T em pleton w e
h ave a U nited S ta tes version of C orelli’s ‘R o­
m ance of T w o W orld s,’ w e have a French
H eliob as called Dr. M ontm artre, a ‘God of
N orse m yth ology, d ressed by a London tailor,
and hold in g com m and over a R ussian arm y,’
and th ey form th e Order ‘La S tella Israfel.’—
In ‘D ashed A gain st the R ock s’ w e have A ldeb-
tu re, a spiritual W orld ’s Fair, and the Brothers
b aran ’s scientific occultism , a Z odiacal L egisla-
and S isters of the Perpetual L ight.— In ‘W ith
One A ccord’ w e h ave th e Order of the 777, and
th e B rothers of the 9th E state, the 999 w ho
send a m issionary to H industan, and w hich
are m entioned by M rs. P eek e. But in the
‘T h ron e of Edenr w e find the E gypto-G reek
A nastasian Order, w ith lod ges all over the
w orld , at every one of w h ose m eetin gs w a s ef­
fected a cure of som e d esp erately sick person.
T h is is th e crow n of C olville’s religion.
VIII. CONCLUSION
S om e rich lover of spiritual p rogress m ight
con fer on hum anity a b lessin g in reprinting, in
a sin g le volum e, large size , and sm all typ e,
C olville’s Spiritual N ovels. T h ey are already
scarce, ana difficult to gath er, and valu ab le
in th eir objectification of E gypto-G reek occu l­
tism . T o them should be added M rs. P eek e’s
Z en ia th e V estal.
IX. INTERPRETATIONS
He interprets ‘He giveth to h is b eloved sleep ’
a s ‘He giveth to his b eloved w hile sleep in g ,’—
nam ely true d ream s, such a s illu m in ated Joseph
(DAR 158). In his trip to M ars (DAR, 145;
W OA, 81), he pictures an international Z odi­
a cal legislatu re, and a real religion uniting
creed and p ractice; the true G nostic feels God
is a reality.
He gives an in terestin g reincarnational rem ­
in iscen ce. (DAR 200) w hich exp lains, heartens,
and inspires.
Earth is a sch ool of love for the reuniting
of P la to ’s sundered dual so u ls (DAR, 126).
His interpretation of the Lord’s P rayer is,
‘Our Father-M other, w ho art in all the h eav­
en s, thy nam e is hallow ed th roughout th e Uni­
verse; thy kingdom is estab lish ed in all the
exp ression s of thy love and w isd om . T hy w ill
is d one in all the celestia l sph eres, and done
a lso by reflection in all sta tes terrestrial; Thou
g iv e st all th y children d ay by d ay their d aily
susten an ce; thou lead est not into tem ptation,
but deliverest us from all error; thou forgivest
us our debts as w e forgive our debtors; thine
alon e is sovereign ty, d om in ion , and glory eter­
n ally, Am en!
WESTERN THOUGHT FOR WESTERN PEOPLE^-7
G E R M A N R O S I C R U C I A N I S M
of DR. FRANZ HARTMANN
1838— 1912
I. BIOGRAPHY
A ccording to a biograp h y in the O ccult R e­
view for January 1908, he w as a n ative of
A ustria, early em igrated to the U nited S tates,
w here he stud ied an d practiced m edicine in
the M iddle W est and S outhw est. Here he b e­
cam e fam iliar w ith the early p h a ses of th e
T h eosoph ical M ovem ent, and w a s invited to
v isit and a ssist M m e. B lavatsk y at A dhyar,
in India, during the m ost con stru ctive and
critical p eriods o f her activity th ere. W hen
the crash cam e, he returned to E urope, esp e­
cially in G erm any, w here am ong som e artisan s,
w eavers, in G oslar, he found a grou p of o c ­
cu ltists w ho w ere to o m od est to ad vertise
th em selves a s R osicru cians, but w ho continued
the Germ an R osicrucian trad ition . From that
tim e H artm ann d evoted him self to its prom o­
tion in Europe.
HARTM ANN'S SIGNIFICANCE
His ch ief sign ificance is th reefold . He re­
vam ped th e occultism of P aracelsu s, B oehm e,
and Jesus (in , T h e Life of Jehoshua, th e P ro­
p h et of N azareth ), and A grippa’s m ethods of
P rediction (in T h e P rin cip les of A strological
G eom an cy). T h en , h e revam ped G erm an R osi-
crucianism in T he Secret Sym bols o f th e R osi­
crucians, a tran slation of one h alf of the an ­
cien t Germ an w ork. (In th e N. Y. City Li­
brary it is indexed under “ C osm ology.” )
T hen he thinly veiled h is ow n in itiation in
“ An A dventure am on g th e R osicru cians”
(B oston , 1893). He attem p ted to condense
R osicrucianism in “ In th e P ronaos of the
T em p le of W isdom , con tain in g the H istory of
th e T rue and the False R osicrucians, w ith an
Introduction into th e m ysteries of the H erm etic
P h ilosop h y (B oston , 1 8 9 0 ),” w hich p roves that
he considered Germ an R osicrucianism to be a
d escen d ant of the E gyp tian M ysteries.
T hird, he attem p ted to set forth h is ow n
v ie w s in “ A m ong th e G nom es, an O ccult T ale
of A dventures in the U ntersberg (a m ountain
In the B avarian T yrol, overlook in g th e fam ous
K o en ig see). A lso in “ M agic W hite and B lack ” ,
of w hich over 300 ed ition s ap peared . He did
valu ab le w ork for crem ation of corp ses in
“ Buried A liv e ,” (B oston , 1895) in w hich he
d eta ils 108 ca ses know n to him p erson ally.
V aluable contin u ation of th is effort is to be
found in R aw son ’s “ Life U n d erstood .”
ROSICRUCIAN ANCESTRY IN EGYPT
T h e special valu e of H artm ann's w ork is
th at he not on ly rejects T ib etan ism , but he
m akes it u nn ecessary, by d em on stratin g that
Germ an R osicrucianism , through C ornelius
A grippa’s sum m ary of M edieval M ysticism , is
derived from “ T h e H erm etic P h ilosop h ers,”
N eop laton ists, A m m onius S accas, Plotinus,
Porphyry, Jam blichus, P roclu s and H ierocles.
(T h is is done in C hapters 2 and 3 of “ In
th e P ronaos of W isd o m .” )
REJECTION OF BLAVATSKYISM
H artm ann’s ch ief sign ificance is th at he stu d ­
ied B lavatsk yism a t first hand and rejected it
in favor of th e Germ an R osicrucianism , from
w hich both R udolf S tein er’s A nthroposophy and
M ax H eindel’s C osm oconceptionism are derived.
A s to M me. B lavatsk y h erself, he believed
In her sin cerity. He sa y s: “ H. P. B . appeared
as a great spirit, a sa g e and in itiate, inhabit­
in g the b ody of a grow n -up cap riciou s child,
very am iable on the w h ole, but also at tim es
%*ery irascib le, am b itiou s, of an im petuous
tem p er, but e a sily led , and carin g nothing for
co n v en tio n a lities of any kind. S he did not
claim to be an ad ep t, but on ly a conscious
in strum ent o f an in tellig en t p ow er h ig h er than
her ow n p erson ality. S he u sed to sa y , “My
learn in g is m y M aster’s . I am n o th in g but a
reflector o f som e on e e ls e ’s lu m in ou s light.'*
A s to th e se “ M asters” h e sa y s, “I am con­
vin ced th at such M asters e x ist. I h a v e been
p resen t on certain o cca sio n s w hen th e Master
ap peared to her, and sh e sp o k e w ith him . I
could n ot se e him w ith m y ey e s, but 1 felt his
p resen ce, w ith in d escribab le b lis s .”
A s to B lavatsk yism , H artm ann sa y s: “I found
that it is far m ore im p ortan t to find the real
M aster an d G uide w ith in o n e ’s ow n soul, than
to seek to gra tify o n e’s cu riosity to know all
ab ou t the M asters in T h ib et, an d that it as
far m ore va lu a b le to help to crea te a heaven
w ith in o n e ’s ow n m ind, th an to be informed
of w h at is said to h ave tak en p la ce at the
tim e w hen our w orld w a s created , or how the
old L em urians and A tlan tean s liv ed , however
in terestin g and am u sin g and ev en instructive
such inform ation m ay b e .”
T h is sto ry represents th e a d ven tu res of a
“ T h eo sop h ical D on Q u ixote” w h o seek s for
w isdom everyw h ere ex cep t in th e righ t place.
He join s a “ S ociety for th e d istrib u tion of
W isd om ,” in th e E ast, but finds n othin g but
fo lly . F in ally, in the la st ch ap ter, he d isco v ­
ers th at tru e w isd om can n ot be found a n y­
w here ex cep t by attain m en t o f th e K n ow led ge
of the S elf. H artm ann did n ot h ate th e Blav-
a tsk y ists; he claim ed he w a s not in th e least
in terested in th e affairs o f th at so c ie ty , and
he did not w ish th is b ook to ap p ear a s mere
sa tire or b urlesq u e upon it, but a forcib le Il­
lu stration of w ell-kn ow n and u nd en iable truths,
garbed in a story of fa scin a tin g in terest, which
should be en joyed by a ll. T h e b ook emphfl/-
siz e s th e fo lly of stu d yin g th e o p eration s of
th e H oly G host w ith ou t first d ev elo p in g with­
in o n eself its sen se s, b y w hich alon e it may
be ap preh en ded.
HARTM ANN’S SECRET FIRE
In h is d ed ication to th e “ P ron aos to the
T em p le” H artm ann a d v ises th e “ D iscovery of
th e T rue C ross by E ntering in to th e Light
throu gh th e P ow er of F ire.” T h is “sweet
fire” o f th e A lch em ists is illu strated by the
T ib etan K undalini, th e serp en tin e or annular
w ork in g pow er in the b ody of th e a scetic. In
th e “ S ecret S ym bols o f th e R osicru cian s” It Is
recom m ended th at th e stu d en t o f A lchem y
shou ld seek it, a s Ind isp en sable to all alch em ­
ic op eration s.
“ T h e p o ten tia lities in nature are arou sed by
th e action o f th e secret fire, a ssiste d by the
elem en tary fire. Only th o se w h o h ave gained
th e p ow er to con trol th eir ow n self will be
told h ow th a t pow er can be arou sed in man.
T h at is w h y th e secrets of A lch em y are not
d ivu lged to th e cu rio u s,” but veiled under
chem ical procedu res. — T h is secre t fire is in­
v isib le, and is con tain ed w ith in all things. It
is th e m ost p oten tial and pow erfu l fire, with
w hich th e extern al visib le fire can n ot be com­
p ared . It is th e fire w ith w hich M oses burned
th e gold en calf, th at w hich Jerem iah hid away,
an d w hich sev en ty years a fter w a s found by
th e K now ing o n es, but w hich , by th at time had
b ecom e a thick w a ter (p etroleu m ? 2 M acc. 11.
19-22) w hich N ehem iah used to m ake a blaze
on th e a ltar sacrifices. T h is “ secret fire” Is
th e “ W hite L igh t” w hich can be inspired, and
co n stitu tes th e p ractice o f th e Transfiguration.
SPICY SITUATIONS, and Dr Kenneth Guthrie's REMEDIES
The Board O f Education’s Examiner had Just turned down the blushing Miss Teacher
Candidate. Weeping, she walled. Is there no hope a t a ll fo r m e? Oh yes. purred he. Try again next
year! VWiat could I stu d y in the m eanw hile? Dr Guthrie’s TEACHERS’ PROBLEMS & HOWTO SOL­
VETHEM, $1.25;’ Ualue and Limits of the History of Education.’ and’The Mother-Tongue Method
of Teaching Modern Languages.’ each 30 cents. W ill th a t pass me? Really. Mlss.you are too pret­
ty to teach sch ool. Get his Progressive Complete Education, or Marriage as the Supreme ScliOul
of Life, SI.25. A n d i f 1 pass exam ination on it? Then I will marry you. Thanks, kind siri
How a Pessimist Became an Optimist. The theological student had Just beer prep­
aring a thesis by cribbing the wittiest passages from Discoveries <
&insights. Essays Theolog­
ical, literary, and af Character-Study, S I. Nettled at the undeserved praise, he blushed at the
second-handedness of his religion. So at midnight he went to the Bishop's study, and said u»t he
would leave the Church because he was honest, ‘ignorant, you mean!’ corrected the adviser. ‘Do
a little first-hand reading yourself! *T hai's where the trouble lies, bellowed the martyr, fc a u 7 hunt
the m anuscripts! ‘Unnecessary nowadays!’soothed the Bishop.‘i know of g wizard who can sum­
mon to your roonrfof canferCnce all the greatest but neglected Philosophers of antiquity. Shall
I have him send them to you? Oh yes, please! gasped the theolog. A ll m y life I have dreamed o f
those sublim e leaders o f the race, but who were inaccessible. ‘Uery well, the wizard shall send you
Zoroaster teacher of purity and angels. S3; Pythagoras, the Sage. & Philosopher. $3; Numenius
Comparative Religionist. $2; Plotinus. Greek Combiner. $12 cl, $9 pp; Proclus, Universal Hier-
OPhant. $3: Zoroaster Translation only. $1.25; Apollonius of Tyana, Life. $1; Plotinus, Outline
$2; Philo Judaeus, Outline. $2/ Slop! I f they came a ll at once, it would be tragic. Is there no guide
to all this? ‘Write for a free copy of Names to Conjure With, which will open the whole subject.’
This is what occurred atthe Masonic Club after last night’s Lodge-Meeting
The Master was entertaining the Just Initiated Candidate who asked him. Where could / read up on
the m eaning and historic origins o f initiations such as ours? Well, said the Master, the best book is
G/ie Pagan Bible an Anthology of the Soul and its Helpers, Gathered from Ethnic Sources
$1. T hat sounds good, said the novice. B at I would like to see the original rituals. Vou can. explain­
ed the Master, by reading GAe Modernized MltHralc Mysteries. Dramatic Sketches of
Historic Initiation, $3. B u t are the Christians entirely excluded? No. no! laughed the Master;
whatever exclusion there is. is of their own making. Good: b u t are any Christian Mysteries acces­
sible? Certainly, and good ones! Get the Angelle Mysteries of the Nine Heavens, a Drama
of Interior Initiation, $3. B ut how do you advise all this, when you yourselfare a Rosicrncian?
retorted the persistent Candidate. ‘I was only trying to please you!’ winked the Master. ‘I my­
self prefer the Iloslcruelan Mysteries, $1, a dramatization of the original documents.’
B u t I am a modern m an! sobbed the querulous Candidate. ‘Nothing is easier/ comforted the
suave Master. ‘Vou need only get the Modern Mysteries, $1, alluring and thrilling Mystical
Playlets of Experiential Iteligion: also the glorious Sliakesperean Mysteries, $
1
. th a n ksI
Savanarola’s Ghost met Giordano Bruno’s, stm reeling from the fire-s agony
•Cheer up. friend/ consoled he: ’you are now safe from persecution:- Perhaps; b ut I am home­
less. ‘Oh no. friend; look!’ As he waved his hand, there appeared a glistering Temple. W hat's
th a t building? gasped Bruno. ‘Your home!’ comforted Savanarola. B ut the door is locked, and
I want to get a look in! ’It’s your own fault/ rebuked the Florentine:’didn’t you while on earth
read Temple-Gates Ajar, $1? B u t a look-in is not enough; 1 would want m y whole body in,
•Uery well: I shall send for a copy of Temple-Gates Opened, $1/ B at in the meanwhile?
whined Bruno, ‘i’ll lend you Prayers, Visions <
fc Aspirations, $ 2 / Please, 1d o n 't want
merely to aspire, I w ant to DO som ething! ’Then i will lend you Regeneration the Gate, A
p
.
plied, and Special Methods, $2 cacti, $5 all three.* Oh thank you! Then I wou 7 lose any time. V
A Fundamentalist-Modernist Fracas. In a recent rail-road wreck near Albany the Mo­
dernist Rev. I. Catchem. of St Shark’s-ln-the-Mill-pond for hours lay waiting for rescue, cheek
by Jowl with the renowned Fundamentalist Rev. U. Cheatem. Fellow-misery broke down the bar­
riers ot orthodoxy, and I Catchem said. My injuries are due to over-fascination while reading
occult stories entitled H n rra li fo r God, $1. ’My fatuous friend/In shocked tones retorted
self-righteous U. Cheatem. ’you better sober up by exchanging books, for ihe faith-strengthen­
ing TVImt H ap p e n e d to K itc h e n e r, SI, whose hypnotic charm immobilized me during
the accident/ Conversation revealed they were both about to be ousted, and a flash of genius
bade them exchange: but this flop implied two reeducations, betraying secret tricks of the craft.
So U. Cheatem babbled. ‘To be a Fundamentalist ail you need to do Is to keep people distrac­
ted by anything absorbing, such as Romance of Two Centuples, $2. Reuniting P ilg rim a g e,
$1, Stories for Young People, $1.25, eerie Vollve G arlan d s, $3: and then you can fulminate
from Why You Really Want to ho a Churchman, $1.25 ’—
‘Thanks/chortled I. Catchem. ‘Now
I will tell you how to succeed as a Modernist. Shed tears while haranging over your honesty,
and inability to be convinced by any reasonable arguments, in the meanwhile cribbing from
GAe Ladder of God, & Other Sermons, $1. GAe Message of the Master, $1.25. & How the Mas­
ter Saved the World, $1.25. Then you can make a reputation as a pundit by Judiciously using
Tlt« S p iritu al M essage of Literature, $2.50, it’s convenient. B u t shouldn’t I seem som ewhat’
sa in tly? ‘Transcribe Of Communion With God, 50 cts, and Of the Presence of God, $1.25/
Pray? Thatwas the only point where Fundamentalist and Modernist agreed: Let us p rey on the
PLATONIST PRESS. Teocalli. 117? Warburton Ave. No. Vonkers. N.V.
THIS ZONED CONCENTRIC
CITY HAS CHARMED
PUBLISHERS
NEWSPAPERS
CLERGYMEN
PUBLICISTS
LAWYERS
AND
CO
O
PERATIVEPROGRESSIVE
QVeryt/hefe!
Enjoy Anticipations in Future
Cities Household reform ,
Marriagerefarm, dress re­
form,The coming World-
Capital,World-wide
ADVENTURE
this
4 1 . 0 0
A
settlement of Dem­
ocracy, Reform
in Business,Art,
Teaching, etc.
EVERY
TOPIC of
INTER­
EST.
b a r g a i n
* * priced400P
by
-ftRNNETH
■SYLVAN
LAUNFAL
GUTHRIE
These our present rambling
disordered accretions. ••
Would you saddle them
on the FUTURE? NEVEft!
