{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__anonymous___mormonism_exposed.pdf","mytitle":"Mormonism Exposed","mylang":"de"}
MORMONlSM EXPOSED:
Ill' WHICH Ill SHOWN
THE MONSTROUS IMPOSTURE,
'l'HE.BLASPHEMY1
AlCJ>
THE WICKED .TENDENCY 1
OF T.llAT
""' E.NOB1'1_01JS DELt1818N1
ADVOCATED BY
-A PROFESSEDLY llELIGIOU8'8ECT,
CALLl1'0 TBEXIELVU
, .:
"LATTER DAY SAINTS.'f
•
This work ls _made up principally of quotation! from thll
Mormon writings, some ofwhich they are striving to keep from
the public eye. It contains, alt!>, copious e:w:tracts from a docu-
ment published by order of tbe United States' Senate, showina
the treuonable tendency of Mormonism; the whole arranged
under appropriate heads, and giving a cleai;_ e:w:hlbitlon of th.~
faith and conduct .of .that arch impostor, J . Smitli1 Jr., and
those concerned with him Inlpreadh1g that wtclu;d ayatem.
NEW YORK;
Printed and Publillatd at IM Ojfice-.! the N. y, Watrh111an1
' 126 Fultrm strut,
. 184~.
. ,/
01, "' ,Google
01, "' ,Google
_j
TO TllE READER,
Do nQt. imagine that Mormonism is a sub.
ject 100 ~hleu for your atte.tttion,
If any other religious sect should be CON•
VICTED fr®i .their own writings of T.aEASON.&-.
BU: designs against the govemme:Qt of this na.~
tion, would you deem it unworthy of your no-
tice 1 If the Methodists, or Ba:titists, or Pre...
byterians, <>.r Episcopalians, shQuld be convict.
· ed of forming "secret aoet'.eti~," and binding
their meqabers1 under the '1W.ful :penalty of
DEATH, to subvert the institu.ti®s of this coull-
,try, would you not do all in your power tQ
make such iniquitous proceeditgs known 1
It is no~ some Qleven years since this sin~
gular delusion iirat began to attract attention
in this country. During all this while we have.
been persuading our~lves that the i01p~ture
was too glaring to ao any s~rious mischief~
We have trusted to the good sense of the pea.;
ple, as presenting a. sufficient barrier ag!W.is\
01, "' ,Google
· iv
the spread of notions so silly and so utterly
opposed to reason, to scripture, and well
known •matters of fact. And what has been
the result 1 While we have been sleeping the
enemy has scattered his tares among us, and
thousands have been duped by this insidious
foe. And not only so, but these emissaries
have visited Europe, and from the ignorant
multitudes of that country, hundreds have al-
ready been induced to emigrate to our shores,
for the purpose of swelling the ranks of Joseph
Smith, who glories in comparing himself to
Mohammed, and who has"Over and over again
avowed his DESIGN of spreading his religion by
the SWOJlD ! .
And who has not heard of the use this Smith
fllld his deluded followers have already made
of the swoRD in the state of Missouri 1 ·A
pamphlet has been printed the present year, by
order ofthe United States' Senate, showing the
bloody character of Mormonism; and proving
·by the testimonies of Mormons themselves,
that it'is a system cifignorance, blasphemy,false-
hood, theft, and MURDER.
From a number of years' acquaintance with
this imposition, the writer is fully convinced,
that but very few persons have ever embraced
01, "' ,Google
T
what i8 caned MorlhOnism, with a knowledge
of its true character. Their book of "Doc-
trines and Covenants" is usually kept ·out of
~ight; and, indeed, it is kept from the knowl-
. Jdge of all the Mormons themselves, except
the leaders! We know of numb~s who have
joined them, who never heard of such a book~
till they had embraced that delmion. For
years we have attempted to beg or buy one of
those boo~s in vain. However, we·have ob-
tained the reading of a copy long enough to
extract a sufficient portion of its contents to
ahow the nature of this wicked system.
As these pages will probably fall into the
bands of many, who would be glad of infor-
mation on these subjects, and as it may pro-
mote the object we have in view, we shall first
give an account of the origin of Mormonism.
Secondly, its distinguishing doctrines, and
show that Mormonism is, in itself, treason
against the government of God and man.
But, before we proceed. it may be proper
to name the aathorities on which we base
these charges agaim1t Mormonism and its au-
thors. . They are the following:-
I.·" The Book of Mormon; by Joseph Smith, Jr., author
and proprietor. l'almyra, printed by E. B. Grandin, for the
author, 1836.'' •
1•
.,,, "',Google
•
vi
2. " Doctrines and Coveuan~ of the Church of tile Lattier
Day Saints : carefullyotielected and compiled from th• Reve.
1attons of God, by Joseph Smith, Jr., Oliver Cowdery Sill·
ney Rigdon, Fred. G. Williams, (Presiding Elders of said
Church,) Pro,Prietors. Kirtland, Ohio; printed by Williams
& Co., 1835.' .
3. "A1Voice ofWarning to ill people,coataining a decla·
tat1on of the faith and doctrine oft11e chttrch of the Latter
Day Saints, 1111mmonly called MormOJ1s. By P. P. Pratt,
minister of the Gospel. New York, printed byW. Sandford,
1837.''
The above are books written or published
by Mormons thei;ase'lves. ,
I t
· 4. "Docum'!lllt (189) showing the testimony given before
the Judge of the Fifth Judicial Circuit of the state of Missou.
ti, 011 the trial ofJoseph Smith, Jr. and others1 for high tr<'il•
sM1Md other criQles ~inst that state. Prmted hr, order
ofthe United States Senate, Washington, D. C., 1!;41.'
5. "Mormonism Unveiled, by E. D. Howe ; published ii.t
Pclinesville, Ohio, in 1834." .
We need not mention our common English
Bible in this list, not because we do not ap·
peal to its:authority, but because we do n@t
design to enter upon the theological bearings
of this subject. How utterly opposed Mor·
. mon.ism is, in some ofits claims, to the gospel
of Jesus Christ, will be readily seen when thea,e
pt~p.osterous elaims are once viewed in the
light of reason and th~ testimony of God's
word.
New Y01"k, July 1, 184"1.
oi9 .zed , :iooglc
•
CHAPTER I.
Or:igin of Mormonism.
MoR!llONISM owes its origin to~one J.oseph
Smith, Jr., ~d Martin Harris, and perhaps one
or two more ignorant but designing persons,
then resident in the western part of the state
of New York.
In the work entitled "Mormonism Unveil-
ed," ~e find the testimonies of not less than
EIGHTY different persons, allresidents of Wayne
and Ontario counties, N. Y., which prove, be-
yond the possibility of doubt, that neither Jo.
seph S!llith,frr., nor either of his witnesses are
to be believed, and that Mormonism; from be-
gi~ning to end, is a base delusion, which does
·not ]eave its originators e11en the credit of
honesty or good intentions in its propagation.
These witnesses are disinterested, respectable
citizens, many of whom have made solemn
oath to the following facts, and their charac·
01, "' ,Google
8)
ters are su~cieatly vouched for by magis-
trates ofthe counties where they live. Among
mRny other things which might be named to
the eternal dislionor of the nuthors of the Mor-
mon delusion, we notice the following :-
That Joseph Smith, Jr., and his family, were,
about the time he pretended to have discover-
ed the book of Motmon, known as "fortune
tellers" and "money diggers," and that they
. often had recourseto tricks ofjuggling for the
p•rpose of finding moneywhich they said wns
hid in the earth.
That the said Smith, up to that time, and af-
ter, was known as a wicked man, that he was
a cheat, and a liar, and used profane language·;
that he was intemperate an'il quarrelsome.
That his own father-in-law never had any
confidence in him, and he was knowing to the
manner in which Smith commenced his impos-
.ture in getting out what he called the book of
Mormon.
That Smith has,himself, confessed thecheat,
and so has Martin H~j.a, one of his principal
witnesses.· Harris once said, "What if it is a
lit 1 If you will let me alone, I will 'Dake mo- ·
ney out of it."
That Oliv:.er Cowdery, nnother of the wit.-
,,, '";Google
9
nesses to Smith's book, was not a man of good
character before be joined Smith in the cheat
of Mormonism.
Th~t Smith and Martin Harris were in the
habit of meeting togt?ther, often,· just before
the plates were said to be found, and were fa-·
miliarly known in the neighborhood by the
name of the "Gold Bible Company;" and
they were regarded by the community, gener-
ally, as a lying, indolent set of Cellows, in
whom no confidence could be placed; and Jo-
seph Smith, Jr.'s character for truth was so·
notoriously. bad, that he could not and was not
believed when under oath. •
The wife of Martin Harris testifies, that he
is both a cruel man and aliar, he having b~at
her 11,nd turned her out of his house.
That Smith confessed his object in pretend·
ing to find the pla~es was to make money, say··
ing, "when it is completed, my family Will be
placed on a level above the generality of man·
kind."
Suen are s.ome of the facts, which are prov·
ed beyond the possibility of confutl\tion, by
the affidavits of respectable witnesses, persQns
who were well acquainted with Joseph Smith,
Jr., ~nd his associates, both before and since
., ,Google
\ I
10
the pretended diaco•ery of bis golden plates.
And, pethaps, we cannot bettel' close the in·
velltigation of this subject, than by quoting. a
specimen of those testimonies. It is nume·
rously signed, as will be seen, and by persons
well acquainted :with the "autho.r.and propri·
•tor'' ofthe book o( .Mormon:
P.u.ln'U, N. Y., Dec.4, 1833.
"We the udersisned, have hem aequainted with the
Smith kmily for a number of yeiara, while they rssided near
this place, aild we have no hemtation in saying, that we con-
sider them destittfte of that moral c;haracter which ought to
entitle them to the oonfidence of any community. ~hey
were tiarticularly famous for visionary projects, spent much
oftheir time in digging for money~ wliich they pretended YllS
hid in the eatth ; 1111d to this day, large escavatioea may be
Ileen in the earth, not far from their residence1 ·wtlere they
used to spehd tlleir time in. diggingfor hidden treuures. Jo-
aeph 8DUth1 Se.ior, and his son .TosePb, were, in particular,
considered enljrely dutltutt ofmoral choiaeta-1 and ad.dicUd. I#
fliciofla halJiU. .
" Martin Harris was a man who had acquired a handsome
F.Opi!ltJ'1 and in matters of business Ills weird was consider-
ed good; but on moral and religiull8 subj~ts, he was per-
fectly visionary--sometimes advocating one bentiment, and
sometimes another, And in reference to 1111 wid>. whom we
were acquainted, who have embraced Morm1111ism, from this
11eighliorhood, we are compelled to say were veryvisionary,
and most ofthem destitute ofany rnoraf charaeter1 Bild with-
eut infiuenee in this cODllllunity, and this may account why
they were permitted to go on. with their impositions undis-
turbed.
" It was not 811pposed that ay ortlaem were possessed or
sufficient character, or influence, to make' any one believe
their book or their sentiments, and we lo)ow not of a single
individual in this vicinity, that puts the least cooMeiu:e in
dleir pretended revelatione.
G. N. Williama,
H. Sinnell1
Th. Rogers, 2d1
Cl4rk Robinson,
W.Parke,
L. Durfee,
S. Ackley,
E, 8. TowDHD.d,
°'9'' '"',,Google
Josiah Fradtjt;
Jilsiah Rice;
H.P. A14er1
G. A.. Hatha_..Yt
ll. D. Clark1
G. W•Mlderl!On;
H. K. Jerome,
H.P. 'i'bayer,
L. Williams,
Lewis Fosteri ·
G. w,Crosby1
Levi ~yer1
P. Graod111;
Philo Iiurfee1
P. Sexton,
Joel Thayer,
• R. W. Smith;
8. P. ~e~our1
A. Millird;
Henry Jessupi
John Hurlbut,
James Jeoner1 .
u
Amoa Holil$t11t'1
~eue To'IVD8en41
C. E, Thayer, .
D.G:E!Yt
Th. P:.1:18.ldwin,
lobri 8"thinatQll1
G. Beelwith,
Durk·thaae,
w..4e1-,
H. ame,
A. H. Beckwith1
Jl, 8. ~illiams,
t.uun1; ·. •
· G. S.Ely,
M. Butt,rfield,
E. D. llohinson1
Pelitian West,
D, s, Jackways,
E1 Eaewtlfth1
till ' 1'bl'th·
lir..'!1 F, tillsonll
Persons thus dest~tutA oC moral character,
combined to ulihmo intb being a book p~ort~
ing to be of EQUAL authority with the bible,
And here is the story which one of its " apos-
tles," professittg to aet un~er the infallible in·
spiration of God, tells o{ this book:-'
" The bo<lk ofMormon wai folldd in the year of aur Lord
one thousaol eight hundred and twelltY. seve'!, hi ~tario
County.J New York; was translated anCI J>Ublished 1D the
year ot our Lord one thousand eigllt liundred and thirty. It
contains the history of the ancient inhabitants of America,
who were a branch ofthe house oflatael1 of the tri~ of Jo·
seph ; ofwhom the Indians are still• felllJl8Dt } but the Jlrin'
ciPal nation of them h&ving fallen in battle1 in the fourth er
fifth century, one of their prophets, whose name was Mor·
mont saw fit to make an abridgntent of their bistoryi their
propbecies, and their doctrine, which he ~ved on plates;
and afterwards being slain, the record fell mto the hBnds of
his eon Moroni, who being bunted by his enemies, wu di·
rected to depoeit tM iecord safely in t1M! earth1 with a prom-
01, "' ,Google
•
iee from God that 1t should be prese"ecl, and should .,ain
be brought to light in the latter days, by.means nfa Gentile
nation, who should possess the land. The de~t wae made
about the year four hundred and twenty; OD a hill then called
Cwnora1 now in Ontario COllDty, where it was preserved in
eafety, until it was brought to light by no less than the min.
iatry of angela • and tranalattd by llfllPJJlATIOlf. And the
Great Jehovah &;re record of the same to chosen witne81e8,
'Who declare it to the world."-Voice of War. p. WI.
Of course, they give us no evidence (ex-
cept their own word) to prove. what is here
aaaertedl •
'
01, "' ,Google
/
T.ke Distinguis.king Doctrine8 ·of .Mormonism,
and the manner in which they have
been acted of4t,
THE only way in which the advocates or this
delusion could .make converts, would° be by
teaching some truths in common with other
christia1rs.. Hence, we find, when· first visit-
ing a place for the purpose of making con-
verts, they preach and enforce many christian
precepts, like ordinary christians, leaving en•
tirely out, of sight the peculiar notions whieh
dlstin~ish thein from others. The following
are some of them:~
!.-MORMONS PROFESS TO ACT·UNDER THE INFAL-
LIBLE INsPIRATioN oF GoD, AND To HAVE POW•
Ell TO WORK MIRACLES.
"Without these gifts [prophecy, miracll!s, healing, and
all other gifts] the saints cannot lie perfected; the work of
the mini,iey CllllllOt proceed; the llody of Christ cailnot 1"I
edified."-Vaice of Warning, pp.1181 119. ,
2
°'9'' '"',,Google
'' And as I •id unto mine apostles; even IO I say unto
you; for ye aie mine apostle&-therefore, as I said unto
mine apostlesi I say unto you llgllin; that ewry IOtJl who be-
lieveth on four wo_rd1• and is li&ptized with water for the
remission Ii sins; .snau._i:eceive the Holy Ghost; and these
signs ahall follow them tvat believe i In my name they shall
cast out devil&-heal the 11ick--i>~ the eyes of the bliud
-unstop the ears ofthe deat:-aod ifanymsn shall adminis-
ter.poison unto them it shall not hurt them."-Doc; and Cot1.
p; 92. •
Il;-MORXONt AB£ PLBDG!Jt TO WORK MlltACLES
WHEN REQUIRED TO DO SO,
"Require not miracles, a:•I shall command yoniuupf
casting out devils; healing the sick, and apillst poisonous
1erpents1 and ag11111St ·dea(lly poisons; and .these things ye
aha1l not do ncept it lie required ofyou~ by them who denre
it, that the scr1pture1 might be fu1filled;"-Doc. and Cot1;
P· 112. .
1u:-MORMON8 :i'RdPies Te HAVE lNTERCOURSB
wt"l'il TB:E ANUI.s OF GoD, .AND AFFIRM TB.AT
'l:UY FREQUENTLY SE:t m111, .&NJ> :HAvB MuaA-
aEs Fii.OM GoD THROUGH THi:Mi
See the account of the origin bt the book of
Mormon, before quoted.
IV.-'MoRMONa CLAIM To BE TH! oNi.Y 'fRug
CmtllcH; ALL OTHER CHURCHES A.RE OF ANTI-
CHRIST, A.ND EXPOSED TO GoJ>'8 BTRRNAL l>Is-
PLEAiURE.
· "Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which
11bould oeme upon lhe inhabitaDM ofthe earth; called upon
my servant, Joseph Smith, jr., and spake unto him 1'iom
heaven, und give IDltO him com-Nhrwiots;''
".After having received the recOld of tlle Nephites, yqa
even my semtntj Joseph SD).itbdr., might have power to
translate, througn the .111ercy of l:ioo1 by the power of God,
the book of Mormon; and also to those to whom these com-
o''''"" ,Google
15
•
~andll\en.ts were given, might )!Jve power to lay the founda•.
Uoo of this church, • . , , • • the only trw 11114 lilling
churdi. upon the/au ofth4wlwl4~th,"-JJoc,and COD. p.76,
V.-MoRMONS SAY THAT Gor> ·HAS SENT DOWN
FROM HEAVEN A CITY CALLED. THE ·u NEW JE•
RUSALBM,'1 AND LOCATBD rt IN TBB WESTERN
BOUNDA.RlBS OF Mls.soURI, WHERE BE 11.EQUIR..
ALL ms TRUE FOLLl)WERS TO Go, UNDER THE
J.'~N PJ BIS WRATH.
And, it ls ll fundamentai principle with them(
that if they cannot buy the land, they are to
obtain it by the 8'1D01'd.
;, America is 11 choll{!n land of the Lord, abo'fe every other
land; it is the place of the New Jerusalem1which baa come
down from Go4out ofheawn,upon the earth. •-vcnc.of War,
J'· 179. . .
" This is the will of God COIM;8llling his· aaint1, that t!ieJ
ishall assemble themselves torether unto the l.alid of Zion.
Behold the land of Ziorii I the Lord holddh it in my owu
bands j notwithstanding, , the Lord, renderelh unto C111w
the things which are Cresar's. Wherefore, I, the Lord, wil.
leth tlult you sllall parch11Se the lauds, that you may ban '4·
vantage of the world, that JOU may have claim of the world,
that tbey may not be stirred up onto anger; for Satan put·
tetb it into their hearts to enger ~t you, and to the shed·
ding of blood. Wherefore the 1aoiJ of Zion shall not be oit-
tained but by pUll:hllSe1 rn- by blood; ot)ierwiso·t)lel'ttj.s noJM
jnherita11ce for you.''-Doc. and C(lf). p. 143,
!' 4 revl!lation of Jesus Christ qnto bis &ervllllt ,Josepk
Smitll,lr., and six elders, as t)ley united their hearts and lift·
ed up tfieu voices on high, • , • for the gatljering of Ilia
111.ints to stand (Ill Mount Zion, which shall be the city of
New Jerusalem; "!'hi~h shallbe built, beginning at the 'l'em.
ple Lot, ap~inted by the finger of the Lord, in the western
bo1Dtdaries ofMiasouri.'7-Ib. p. 88. ·
"And that it was the place of the New Jerusalem wbicll
should: come down out ofheaven, and the Holy SllllCtu&l)' of
the Lord.'7
-Book ofMormon, p. 566,
.°'9'' '"',,Google
16
VI.-MoRMONS AFFDtM, THAT TBJtIR Booxs WERB
WRITTEN, "AND THAT THE BOOK o:F MoRMoN w.As
TRANSLATED BY THE INSPIRATION OF Goo j A.Np
THAT THEY A.RB OF EQUAL AUTHORITY WITH TH.lil
HoLYScRIPTURES.
The book called "Doctrines and Covenants,"
it seems, received the approbation of the Mor-
mon General Assembly; August 17, 1835.-
Twelve .Mormons bear the following testimo-
ny to its divine authority:- ·
"Wet therefore~ feel Willing tp bear. testimony to all the
world 01 mankind, . . . . . that the Lord nath borne
record to our souls, tlirough the Holy Ghost shed forth upon
us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of
God, and are profitable for all men, and are verily true.''- .
Doc. and Coe. p. 256. ·
"Thev shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy
Ghosti and what they shallspeak when moved upon b;y the
Holy uhost, •hall be ICIW'TUJU:!'-lb. p. 148.
VII.-MoaMoNs PRET-END TO H.AVJ: PpwEB. TO
GIVE THE ffoLY GHOST TO THOSE ON WHOM
TJJ.EY LAY THE.IR li.L'UIS FOR THIS PURPOSE.
"Behold, verily, verily, I say unto my servant, Sidney
Rigdon, . . • . I give onto thee a commandment, that
thou shalt baptize with water, and they shall receive tM Holy
Glwat by the laying on of hand8, EVEN as tM apoatlu ofoltl."-
Doc. and C<W. p. 116.
VIII.-MoRMONISM THREATENS ALL wno REJECT
IT, WITH ETERN~L DAMNATION.
"Verily, verily, I say unto you, they who believe not on
Y.Our word1and are not baptized by water, in my D&111e,for
1he remission ofsins, &c.-sHALL BE DAMJ<ED. And thiarew.
ation unto you, and commandment, is inforcefr<1fll thU. wry
hour, upon ALL TIJE wo11LD."-Doc. and C<111. p. 92.
01, "' ,Google.
17
·fX.-MollMONllM MOST WJCDDLY A88U!IES TO AL•
TER THE CONDITIONS OP FoaoIVENEl!IS AND SAL·
• VATJON,
"And whoso believeth not in me ~d it not &aptizttl, shall
be d:unned."-Book ofMormon, p. 478.
" Behold, I say unto you, thatlie 1hat sup{IC>seth that little
children needeth baptism, is in the gall of bitterness, and in
the bonds .C iniguity: for he hath neither faith ho_pe, nor
cliarity; wheteforeJ ~~ould he be cut olfwhile inibettought,
IN tllUt 10 4'owA lo MU."-Jb. p. 682.
The curse of God is denounced upon all
who reject the nonsense contained in the book
of Mormon:-
" And he that shall deny these things let himbe 4CCW'Ud."
-lb. p. '*46. . .
"Therefore, all who receive the priesthood receive the
oath aud covenaut ofmy Fathert which he eannot break, nei-
ther can it be renounced; bqt WllOOIO breaketh this cove11a11t,
after be hath received it, an'8 altogether turne1h therefrom,
shall not have forgiveness· of sina in this world nor in the
world to come.''-Doc. anii C0t1. p. 91.
"And this condemnation restetb ujion tltechildren ofZion,
even all ; and they shall remain under this condemnation
until they repent and remember the new covenant, eve11 the
book ofMormon.".,....Jb. p. 91. · · .
"He that kills 8haJl nOt have forgiwnu1 in this world, nor
in the world to come.''-Jb: ~.1.21.
x.-Moa11.omsx DEMANDS MoNEY AS THE. CON·
DITION OF D1scIPLBSHIP, UNDER THE PENALTY
OF ETERNAL DAMNATION. .
" Whoso receiveth you, receivetb me, and the same will
feed you, and clothe you, and giw you BOlfEY-and he who
doetti not these thing8 isnot mydisciple.'' Doc.and C0t1. p.93.
Here it will be seen, that giving money to
the Mormon leaders, is a condition of disci·
pleship, and all who are not Mormon disciples
are doomed to hell I 2• ·
01, "' Google
18
XI.-ONB GRAND DESIGN or MonoNISX Is, To
PILL THE POCKETS OF ITS ADVOCATES WITH
MoNEY.
" U must needs be that ye save all the money that ye can,
and that ye gain all ye can in righteousness." Doc. and
Cov.p.191.
"It is wisdom in me, that my sel'Vllllt Martin Harris
should be an example unto the- dlurch, in laying hU ~
befure lhe bisJwp qfthe church. And also, thhf is a law unto
every man that cometh unto this land, to receive an inherj.
tance; and he shall do with his moneys according as the law
directs.'' D .p. 138.
From the next extract, which is addressed
to one Titus Billings, the grand object of Mor-
monism· appears in full view :-
"And let all the moneys which can be SJ>arcd, it maitereth
not unto me whether it be little or mu.ch, lie sent up unto the
.land of Zion, unto those I hav11.nppointcd to recehe it." lb.
p.143. .
Here i.
t is agaiji. Money, money, money:-
" And let all those (Jlreachers) who have 'no· families,
who receive mone~1 ~end it up unto the bishop of 2ion, or
unto the bishop in Ouio, that it ·may ··he consecrated for the
'brlngiftKforth oft'he rtvtlatiom1 and the printing thereuf, and
utablishing Zion."
No " revelations" can be brought forth with-
out money. The "New Jerusalem" cannot
come down from heaven without.money. Here
it is again :-
" Behold, this is my will, obtaining moneys even as I have
directed." lb. p. 14a:-4. 1 ·
" He that sendeth up trea.suru unto the land of Zion, shall
receive an inheritance in this world. And bis work shall
follow him. And also a reward in the world to come.'' lb.
p.144.
• 01, "' ,Google
19
And .we must believe that the foregoing lan-
. guage is from the mouth of the infinite God,
under the penalty of eternal damnation!
Look, also, to the following, said to be the
w~rds of the Most ~igh :-
" I command that·thou shq.lt not to1>et thine own property,
but impart it freely to the printing of the Book of Mormon,
which contains the truths of.the.word ofGod.'' lb. p.17n.
" Impart t ,portion of thy property· yea, even part of thy
lands, and (IQ save the support of thy iamily." D. p. 176.
The next extract is not only important, as
it plainly shows the true Mormon solicitude
about money, but it reveals an imp0rtant fact
with regard to Oliver Cowdery, one of the
·eleven witnesses upon whose ipse dixit we are
commanded to believe the Book ofMormon :-
"Hearken unto me, saith the Lord your God, for my ser·
vant Oliver Cowdery's sake. It ia not wisdom in me that be
should be emrwted with the commandments and the moneys,
which he shalt carry up unto the land of Zion, t:retpt 01U! r:o
U'ith him who ia trru and faithful. Wherefore, I, the Lord,
willeth that my servant, John Whitmar, shall go with my
servant, Oliver Cowdery.'' Jf).p 138. ·
Does the l'eader stili doubt as to ihe grand
design of Smith and his associates 1 Read the
following:-
" It is meet that my serrnnt, Joseph Smith, jun. should
have a howe built in which to live and translate. And, again,
·it is meet. that my. servant, Sidney Rigdon, should live as
·aeemeth him good1_masmuch as he keepeth my command-
ments."-Ib.p. l!Sl:I. .
And from the following it will be seen, that
J~. Smith excuses hims~lf from work, and ha~
• 01, "' ,Google
provided himeelf with "WllATSOBVBB. he need-·
11tk." · And tbis regulation is not only to last
while he ·lives, but he· is to h~ld his office in
the world t«? come !
" Provide for him foo4- ad raimmt, aiid to~ be
needetb.!' lb. p. 126. •
"And in temporal" labor thou (Smith) shalt not have
strength, for tbiS i:s not thy cal~itlg." .lb.p. I2.2. .
"Verily, I say unto you (Joseph Smith,jr.1) the keys of
the kingdOni shall never be takeQ from you, ithile thou art
.in this world, neither in the 'World to come!' lb. p. l14•
.Nor is this all. A new "revelation" has
recently "come forth" from this impostor, in
which.he not only makes provision for himself
during life, but, also, for ti.is family connec-
tions after him, forever !. ! This revelation is
'
dated January 19, 1841, and has appeared in
the pape.~s of the day. It ·orders the building
of a boarding JU>use :-
"And n!'w;1 say unto you, as pertB;irung to my ~ding
lwwe, which I commandeQ you to build for the bOardiog of •
strangers; let it be built unto my name, and let my name be
named uw>it it, and let my servant Jouph 1114d hiahome have
places tL"erein from generation to gmeration. For this anoint-
mg have I put upon his head, that his blessing shall also lie
put upon the beads ofhUposterityafter him, and as I sairl unto
Abraham, concerning the kindreds of the earth, even so I
say unto my servant Joseph, in thee, and in thv seed, sbal!'
the kin'1re,ls ofthe earth lie blessed. • ·
"Therefore, let my servant Joseph, and hia mdaftn- him,
have place iB that house from genetation to generation for
ever.and ever,·saith the Lord, and let the nllJlle ofthat house
be called the Nauvoo House."
A Presbyterian clergyman, from the neigh·
borhood of Smith's residence, informs us that
01, Google
21
the impostor walkswith a golden headed cane,
and dresses in the finest.style. A d~tinguish­
ed member ofthe sect informed him that Smith
was now possessed of more than $100,000.
How much further could fanaticism go l
We now c~mmence our quotations from the
Congressional Document before referred to :
" John ~it1111U', a ~Mormon] witn- for the state, pro-
duced, sworn and exanimed, deposeth and 5llith :-
"I also conversed with Mr. J. Sm.ith,jr., on this auB.Ject.
I told him I wished to allay the (then) excitement1asfar as
I could do it. He said the excitement was very nigh, and
he did not know what would allay it ; but remarked, he
woul<t give me his opinion, which was, that if I would put
my property into the liand.s of tM bUhnp and high council, to
be disposed of ac.cording to the laws of the church, h~
thought that would allay it, and that the church after a
while might have contidence in me!' Cong. Doc• .No. 189.
p.33.
XIl.-MoRMONISM AUTHORIZES.TBEF"t.
" Behold it is Said in my laws, or forbidden to get in debt
to thine enemies ; ~1 behold, il i8 notaaid, at any time, that •
the Lord should not l<Uee when be please and pay aa ttemdh
him good: wherefore, 118 veareagtnl8 anayeare on ~he Lord.'11
rrrand, and whatsoever ye do acco;Jlng to the will of the
Lord is the Lord's business, and be haJh. ~ you to proftde
for hill aaintl," &c. Doc. and C0t1. p. 147.
A Mormon has only to imagine himself an
agent of God, and, according to the above pre-
cept, he may steal or commit any other crirrie,
and fancy himself doing the will of God all
the while. And these very things the Mor·
mons have done. Most of our readers have
probably heard of the Mormon war, which
°'9'' '"',,Google
2t
raged in -Missouri, in lSSS. And it is a re•
niarkable fact, that the editor of the New York
Wlltehman, while exposing this great ~elusion
thro'llgh the columns of that paper, a year be..
fore,: showed the ·tendency of bformonism to
that very state of things ; .and the reader wiU
see, 'in the seque~ that Mormonism is dir13ctly
f!alcwl•ted to produce- in8Ul'rection IQl.d blood..
•hedo
T~at they have been perse~uted, we admit
as q:.i_ite probable. This is much· to be re•
petted, as nothing could increase that fanati,
cism. more than to persecute its advocates.
Tl)e following account of one of the battles
is from a western paper, printed in Jefferson
Cityi Mo., and qnoted into the N~ York Sun,
of November 20, 18$8:-
• 11 EI.moo, Oct. 30, 1838.
''oD Thursdey, the !5th instant, about tbii dawu of day, a
party<0f l\iform1>ns1 about 200 8ll0ng, attacked Capt. B~rt's
company, consisting of about .41> men, on the line dividing
Ray and Caldwell counties, On the approa.cll of the Mor.
mons, the sentry fired and gave the alarm. Tbe former ad·
nnced within 36 paces, formed a line, and rellflived orders
I in the name of Lazarus, the apostles,and .Jesus Christ Olil'
Lord, to fire1• which was followed Jrya simultaneeuscharge,
accompaniro by demOniac and hideous yelle of ' fight foe
libt-rty-charge boys-charge-kill the Cl-d rascals,' &tc.
Bogart, at the headofhis gallant band, leveled his gun ancl
echoed the command, 1 Boys, let them have it !' The strug.
gle was short and desperate. The MormODll. were armeil
with one gun, two !Ong pistols1 ll butcher'• kuife, &c., and
rushed to the charge, in whicn many of our men came in
eollision wi!JJ them and parried their swords, &c., with their
' guns, 1111d knocke4 them do\\'.11. Tlley pursued the charge
°'9'' '"',,Google
about 600 Y.8fdl'· Our lou wu oaekilled and three woudded j
two ofthe latter were left for dead on the gr<>und: The loss
of the Mormona was 19 or .20 killed andwounded i five or six
ofthe latter are yet living. They took one prisouer1ce:rried
him to within thlee inile1 of Fv West1 where they .118(1 hiDl
put to death. .
" The colllltrJ is in the higaest state ofetoitelltent ; there
are about 2600 troops within a day's march of Far West:
They ate ~ng in from all quarters, and we expecti in a
ilay ortwoi that that to.,vn will be laid waste• We are ook·
ing for the Govl!mor with more troops. . I have this moment
been informed that the Mbrmons are makingqery !>~para"
tion for a general battle. In the. engagement on tlie 26tlrf
they took: about $4,500 worth of bones, &c." .
The Congressional document before men~
Honed, conta~s .testimony which frequently
allude~ to this baitle. This testimony was
give~·bafore the Hon. Austin A. King, judge
of the Fifth Judicial Circuit, in the state of
Missouri, at thl! court house in Richmond, in
. a Crimii!.al Coim or'Inquiry, beguh November
12, 1838. The defendants were Joseph Smith,
Jr., the head Mormon leader;- Hiram Smithj
Sidney Rigdorl, Parley P. Pratt, Amasa Ly•
tnan, Lyman Wright, George W. Robinsoni
and about fifty otht!r Morrlions, who !lppear to
have been tht; ringleaders in this War.
This testimony wai giVen by about thirty
}.>t!rsons, most of whom were Mormons,,and it
demonstrate1, most fully; the blobdtJ and thiev•
ilk charactw of this moilt Wretched of nll fana··
tieisms.
The JolloWing ·extracts will 1show·the ioai•
01, "' ,Google
'·
dious manner in which Smith teaches his Co1-
lowers to steal. One of the principal witnesses
~s a prominent Mormon leader, by the name
ef Sampson Avard. Speaking of 11.n address
delivered at a certain time by Jo. Smith, Jr.1
he says:--:
" In the addreSs he [Smith] related an anecdote about a
captain who applied to a Dutchman to purchase potatoes;
wlio refused to sell. The captain then charged biscompa'n:f
11everal different tiQles, not to toucll the. Dutchman's potatoes.
Inthe morning the Dutchman bad not a potatoe left in his
patch." Cong. Doc. 189, p. 2. .
" Reed Peck, a [Mormon] witness for the state, produced,
~worn, and eumined, deposetb,and saith :-One day before
the last expedition to Daviess, I heard Joseph Smitb,jr., in.
a speech say, in reference to •tedling, that ia a gtmral u:ay,
lie did not approve ofit; BUT, that on one occasion, our 811.vior
and his disc9'les s'roL~ torn in passing through the coril
fields." Ib.1. 18.
" John Corrill1 a f:M.:ormon] witness, produc~d, swom,
and examined iii. beb11.lfofthe state, tleposeth and saith :-
On Sundal') Joseph Smithjr., in bis discourse1 spoke ofper·
. 1111ns lalcing (!] st some times, what at other times it would
be wrong to take." Ib.p•.13. ·
In the next extracts we have the practice ~f
this ddctrine !-'
"Andrew J. Job, a witness fo~ the state; rrOdticed, swbrn
and examined, deposeth and saith : After left Diahmon1,
.I went to my step-mother's, and made efforts to !!'et out ot
the county. After the Mormons surrenderedai Diahmon to
the militia, I went with my step-.mother to Diabmon to
hunt for her property, which bad 'been left at the honse when
she moved and which was missing on her return-such as
~ds, bed c\othiog, knives and fork:s, a trunk, &c. On ex-
amination. we foUll.dat the house ofLyman Wright, and UJ>:'
on his bedstead, a feather bed, which I knew to be one left
by her at the time she tied from the Mormoru;. I knew the
bed from its app~ee ; the ti~ was striped and.pieced at
tbe eild1 and the stripes 6fthe piece tumed c:roeaw1se ; al.so,
,,, JhyGoogle
'~
.......·-.-··
we found in Wrighl's house.a set ofknivea and forks, which
I knew were the same left at her house as above stated. My
atep-mother left her residence, (in two milea of Diahmou,)
where she left the above articles, on Wednesday before I
waa taken prisoner, which was on the Sunday.night after I
and when at Diahmon1.thenight I waa a prisoner, I lll.ept on
that same bed, aa I believed it to be'1 at one Sloan's,asl nn•
derstood his name to be." lb. p. 28.
"George W. Wonhini;:tou,a witness in hehalfofthestate,
produced, sworp aJld examined, deposeth and saith-
" I thought it test then (or me to put out, seeing they
were burning. It alarmed me and i fixed, and aid stan, that
evening, leaving something like $700 worth of property ill
my house. After I left, my house was b11rnt, and the prop-
erty gone. Since then, I hil.ve seen some o( my properly in
a Ta.cant house in Diahmon ; some Jn a storehouse ; some in
a ho11se said to be Bishop Knight's ; all in Diahmon. These
articles consisted of a clock, two glass jars, a box coat, a
paper ofscrews, some paints, a canister of turpe_ntine, and
some planes, Clhisels, squares1 &c.. These were found since
the surrender of arms iii D1ahmori, by the Mormons. I
saw a numbet of articles also in Diahlllon, at the time I was
seE'ki'!g aftet my ptope.rtY., whloh, I believe, were taken from
Strollmg's store; cons1st1ng of a leghorn bonnet, a castor,
ecrew and hinges, or butts, which I knew belonged to Stroll·
ing. I saw a number of articles which had been concealed
uniler ground, consisting ot pots, ovens, aod skillets j among
them a pot belonging to myself.'' lb.p. 34.
The above are s·ufficient to fix the charge of
tkeft against Mormonism as a system.
XIII.-Mo1u(0Ns CHARGE THEIR LEADERS WITH
THE CRIMES OF THEFT, LYING, CHEATING, CoUN-
TERFEiTING, SLANDER, AND OTHER JNFAl\lOUS
CRIMES.
Dr. Avard~ the Mormon teacher befote al-
luded to, when under examination, prodvced
a d.ocument signed by eighty·four Mormons,
in which they charge a number of the leaders
directly with theft, 11Bd in a manner wbicb
3
01, "' ,Google
lettes tto r<iodl to·~oubt ·the truth of what i'
lltated. The fdllowing are extraets1 It i111 ad•
drened "To Oliver Cowdery; David Whitmar1
John Whit01ar, W. W. Phelps, and Lyman E.
·Johnson," and dated,
ifu Wzar1jdde118$,
"After Oliver Cowdery had been taken br a state watra11t
for attaling, and the stolen pro~fty found in the house or
'William W. Phelps I in which nefarious transaetionl Johll
\Vbitlll8r had als6 Barticlpated. Olivet Cowdety sto e the·
. propert.YJ conveyed it to John Wbitmar, and Johll Whitmat
to William W; Phelps; and theii the officers of· Jaw
found it. While in thenands ofan officer1 and under arrest
for this vile transaction, and, ifs
· ible, to hide yourshame
from the world, like criminals which indeed you were),you
appealed to our beloved presi ents1 Joseph Smith1 jr.1 and
Sidney Riirdon, men whose char&ctera you bad enaeilvored
Jo destroy1iy every stitice you could invent1not even the
basest lytng excepted. . .
" Aa we desip this paper to bl! t>llblished to the world, wt!
Will giv~ an epitome of1our sca11dalous conduct and treacli•
wy for the la8t two years. We wish to remiad you, that
Olititr Cowdlry dn4 DaiM. WhUtlUir were among the princi•
J>!il of thosl! who were the meads of ptheting us to this
jllace (I'll' Weat1) b.J their testim~ which they gave ton.
tmaing the pldtU (ff the book. of Momwm1 thllt they were
ahown to theathyao al)lel1which te1timooy we believe1now1
Is mucha8 before you liad so IJCBDdalously disgraced it, The·
aaints in Kirtland1 having electe4 Oliver Cowdeey to be a
justice ofthe.peace1be used the power of that ollee to take
their niost aaCted ~itfhta from the1D1andt~t echl~tal'J to law.
He sup_ported a parcel of blacklega1 and disturblDI ihe wor· .
ship of the saints. Oliver Cowderyi David Whltmar; and
Lyman E. Johnlolli united with a pnf tlf tounUrfliUr•1
tfl!ttiu1 liara, and blatkkga ofthe 4Nput drt1 ttl dtuiw1 c/lftJI;
1111d ~tid the saints out of their proJH!rty1by every art ·
flDd stratagem which wickedness could invent 1 using the
laftuetlce ofthe vilest persecutiot1s1 to bring vexatious law
euits, villannus P..1:01ecutions,1.and even tudling bot e.r.cepted.
"Durin! the fwl career ofOliver Cowtlert. and .l>llvid Whit.
mar'• botNs (counterfeit) money bullineaa,it pt abroad into
the worJa: that they were enpged in it, and several gentle·
lMll were phlpatinito«iimnen~. ~uU.a apiut Cow-
01, "' ,Googic
27
td~ry · he, ihidiaa it out, took with him LJllllll 11:. Joblllea,
and'.Jl,d to Far 1Vest, with their Wiilli•1 Cowdery ltNling ,
.proptrly and bring~ it with him, wllich DU been, within IL
few weeks J11l5t, obt&J.Ded by the owner, by meansofa 1earch
warrant • arid he WM saved from theJlClllleatiary by the in-
ftuence o~two influential 11\80 df the place•. He alsol>rought
notes with him, upon which he. ha41eceived pay, an.f made
an attempt to sell them to Mr. Arthur, of Clay county. And
Lyman E. Johnson, on his arrival, reported tha( he had a
Jlote for 011e thousand dollars, again1t a principal man of the
church1 wh,en it wap. ~ :,P&!Pable falseliood, ilnd he' had JlO
1111Ch thlng; and he did lt tor the purpoae of iD,jUling bi,s
character. .
" Neither we1e you cbntent with slaaderuiv and vilifying
hele, but you kept, up ~ontinu.-J. corre~ndence with your
grzngqfmaraudera m Xirtland, encouragmg them to go oa
with their iniquity, which -they did to. perfection, by swear-
·mg falsely to injure the character and pro]ierty of lDll~t
men; atialing, ch«Jting, lying; instituting vexatious law-
llllita; selling bogus [bad] money1 and also, stones and sand
for bOgus ~ in which nefarious business, Oliver Cowdery, Da-
'Vid Whit.mar, and Lyman E. Johnson, were engaged whilo .
you were there. Since_your arrival here, you have commeu~
ced a geo'eral system of that same kind of conduct. in thi1
place. You set up a.nasty, .dirty1 Jllltlif~r's office, pre-
tending to be judges or the law, when it is a notorio"us fact,
that you .are profoundly ignorant of it, and of everr otb«
thing which is calculated to do IJlankind good, [of course,
1ben, they were ignorant of the 'plates' which they silid ·
an. angel had 'made known' to them) or ii you Jaiqw it,
-you take ~QOd care never to practise it.'
"And 1n order to brinJ yourselves into rrotice, Y.OU begaJl
to interfere with all the bUsiness o.f the place, trying to de-
•troy the character ofour merchants, and bringin!f thirir ere-,
ditora !1pon them, and break .them up. In addil!on to this,
you si1rred up men of weak uunds to prosecute one another,
for the vile purpose ofge·ting a fee for pettifogpg from o~
of them.. You have 11lso been threatemog contmually to en.
tl!r into a ireneral 11JSlem ot prosecuting, determin~, as you
aid, to pick a 411w in the titles of those wbo have .bou,ht·
• city lots and bu!lt UP.OD th~m-not that you can do any thing
but cause .vexatious lawsuits.
· "And, amongst tbe most monstrous of all y.oUr abomina-
tions, we have evidence (which, when called upon, we can
produce,) that letters sent to the JM1lt ofice 10 tJµs place
have been opened, ?ead, and destroyed, and the . ~rson1 to
whom they_ were seitt never obtained them ; ~· ruining the
°'9'''"'"Google·
28
business of the place. ·.We have e,vidence-of a very st;ong
character, that you are at this time engaged with a gang of
counterfeiters, coiners~ and blacklegs, as some ofthose cha..
racters have lately visited our city from Kirtland, and told
what they had come for; apd we know, assuredly, that if
we suffer you to continue, we mayexpect, and that speedily,
to find a seneral system ofstealing, counterfeiting, cheatin~,
and burningproperty, as in Kirtland-for so are your associ-
ates carrying on there at this time; and that, encouraged by
you, by means ofletters you send continually.to them;.and,·
to crown the whole, you have had 'the audacity to threaten
us that ifwe offered to disturb you, you would get UJ> a mob
from day and Ray counties. For the insult, ifnothing else,
and your threatening to shoot us,ifwe offeredto molest you,
we will put you from the county of Caldwell: so help us
·God." ·
" The above was signed by same 84 Mormons.'' Cong.
Doc. No. 189, p. 6, 7, S. , .
Such, then, is the account which Mormons
give of on.e another, and such are the men who
profess to have " seen and liefted " the golden
plates, and who command us to believe that
they are inspired, and empowered to ~ork mi-
.racles ! And this,Oliver Cowdery, here char-
ged with such infamous conduct by his own
disciples, is ·annou~ced in the book of Doc~
,trines and Covenants, (page 77,) as an "apos-
tle," and the "second elder" of the Moi;mon
church!!
: x1v.-MoRMONISM ArrTHORIZJ>S THE CRIME OF
RoBBERY AND PLUNDER,
Fro~ the testimony of Sampson Avord, be-
fore referred to :-
"Smith said, on some occasions that one should chase a
thousand, and two put ten thousand to Bight; that he consi·
,,, JhyGoogle
.29
demi the United States totteia. He co~ed the Monnoa
clmrcl) to the linle atone •_poken or by die l>rophet Daniel ;
and the dissenters first; ilncfthe· state next. wu part Of the
iipage that &hduld he destroy_ed by_
thia littlt! stone. 'l'he
couocil was called oil to vote the measures of Smitli"; 1Vhich
they did unanimously. Pn- the next day Captain Patten
(who was called by the prophet Captain Fearnaught) took
command of about one huniired armed· men, and told them
that be had a job· for them i6 do, and that the work ofthe
·Lord was rollmg on, and they mnst be united. ·He then led
the uoops" to Gallatin, sayin' he was. ~ins io attack the
mob there. He made a rush mto Gallatin,dispersed the few
men there, and -took thegooda oaf of Strolling's store, and
carried them to Diahmon, and I afterward& saw the ttore-
itouse on fire. When we tetumed to Diahmc!L, the 1oodi
were deposited in the Lord's atorehouse, under tbe·care of
Bishop ~incent Knight. Orders were strictly given that all
the goods should he deposited in the Lord's storehouse. No
individuals were to 8J;lprOpriate any thing to theltl8elves un-
til a general distribution should he 111ade. Joseph Sqaith, Jr.,
was at Adam on Diahmon, givir.g.direetions about thinga in
·general connected with the war. WheuPattenretum.edlrom
Gallatin to Adam on Dishmon, the cooda were divided or
apportioned out among those engaged ; and these alfair11
.were cooducted under the superintead,ence of the first pre».
dency. A"Jl&.11 of tl;le goods were brou!Jht to Far West. Oa
their arrival, under the care of Captaut Feamaught, Prefi.
dent Rigdon shou"ted three ho111nnalls to the victors. .On the
day Patten went to Gallatin,.Colonel Wright went to Mill-
port, as I understood. I saw·a great many cilttle, beds, fur-
niture, &c., brought into our camp by the Mormons. After we
returned to Fat:. West, the troops were constantly kept ia
motion1 and there was a council held at the house of Pi-eli-
dent Rigdon, to.determine who should be chiefa." Cong.Doe.
No . 189,p. 31 4. ·
"G~orge M. ·Hinkle, a (Monnon] witness• for the state,
produced, swum and exarruned, deposeth and saith :-
" Therewas much·mysterious conversation in camps, as to
plunderingand house burning; so much so, that I had my 9wn
notions about it ; and, on one occasion, I gpoke to Mr.Smith,
Jr., in the house, and told him that this course of burning
houses and plunderingJ by the Mormon ~. wpuld ruin
· .us; that it coold not lie ltept hid, and would !iring the force
of the state upon us; that hOU$ea would he searched, and·
atolen propeny found. Smith replied to me, in ·a pretty
·rough manner, to keep ltill; that hhcMlld say not.hioiabout
3•
·o,, "' ,Google
30
it ; that it would.disCllurage the men ; and lie would not suf.
fer me to say any thing about it.
~· I saw a great deal of plwider and bee stands b,o~ht into
camp; and 1 saw many persons for many days, taku_w the
honey out of them ; I U11dersto~ this property.and plunder
were placed into the hands ofthe bishop at Diawnon, named
Vincent Knight, to- be divided out among them, as their
wants might require. ·
" There were a 'number ofhorses aad caule drove in ; also,
hogs hauled in dead with the hair on ; but whose they were,
I knew not. They were generally called consecrated pro-
perty. I think it was the day O&llatin was attacked. I saw
Colonel Wright start off with hoops, as was said1to Mill-
port; all this seellltld to he done under·the in~pect10n of J~
seph Smith, Jr. I uw Wright when he returned; the troops
Crom G!lllatin returned about the some time ; and 1 heard
,Smith find fault with Wrigb,t for not being as resolute as te
serve Mill)lort as they bad served Gallatin; this was remark·
edto m~ alone." 1~. p. 21, 22. .
· " Alten Rathbun, a witness for the state produced sworn,
and examined, dcposeth1nd saith :-On t~e day bctore the
. battle with Bogart, I was in Far West; and early in the
morning, Daniel Carn, one of the defendants here, asked me
to help him grease bis w~on. I did NO, and asked him
'Where be was going. He said lie wns going out to Raglin's,
in Daviess county; that there were about forty bee srr.nd!i
there that they were going for. Direct!vafter, I was down
in Morrison's store, in Far West. There was a compnny of
t~ or a dozen men there, with two or thrrc wagons. l heard
' Mr. Huntingd'on ask for brimstone. Some of the company
tnid they had two pounds. Himtingdon said that would do.
Mr. Huritcr, of the defendants, here gave the word of com·
mand, arid they marched off. Mr. Daniel Cam was in the
·wagon with them. Late that evening I 3aw Mr. Carri'~
wagon at his grocery down in Far West. I saw Carn and
Huntingdon unloading it. The wagon 'lfaS loaded with oae
bfC gum, and lwustl1old stuff, consisting of bed.~, or bed clothes,
kinder tied up ; also, there were oniona in the -
wagon. Mr.
Carn that evening remarked, that there would be in that eve-
ning a c<m&iderable number of1/teep and cattle; and further re.
markc<lj' that it looked to him sometimes, that it was not
right (! ·to take pluruitr1 but that u uw aeamling to the di-
rections of Joseph Smith,jr1 and that WD.11 the reuoo why he
did it. The next morning 1 saw a c®sidcrable numbci- of
1heep on the square, in Far West, near about one h110dred."-
Ib. p. 26.
01, "' ,Google·
...
·31
XV,_:._MoR.llIONISM ENJOINS SECRECY WITH RE•
GARD TO .ITS REAL DESjGNS1 UNJ?ER PENALTY OF
DEATH.
" And now I say_unto you, laep these thinga from going
abroad untotlue Wlf"ld., until it iaexpedient .in me, that ye ipay
accomplish this work, &c.,-in the eyes ofyour ell'emies, that
thepnar not.know your work until ye have oocOfllP]ished the
thing which I command~you."-Doc.and c011: p. 132. .
XVl,_:_MoRMONJSK iANCTioNs S!tcRET SocraTIE!i,
.Ul:O ASSU!'ttB$ TUB B.lGllT TO J,NFLWT TU PEN.Al.~
TY OF DEATH UPON ·SUCH AS REFUSE TO COMPLY
WITH .THE l)ICTATES OF ITS LEADERS.
"Sampson Avard, a witness, produced, sworn, and exa.m:
ined, in bebalfof the state, dcposeth and saith :-That allout
four months since a h11Dd called the daughters ofZion, (since
called1:h<" Danite band,) was formecl of the members of the
.Mormon church, the original object of which was to drive •
from the county of Caldwell all those who dissented from
the llforrnon church; in which tlley s11weeded admirablJ<,
and to the satisfaction of all concerned. I consider Joseph
SmitJi,jr., u the prime raover and organizer of this ·band.
The officers of the band, according to their grades. were
brought before himLat a school house, together with Hitam
Smith and Sidney Rigdon ; the. three corapouag the first
· presidency of the whole church. It was stated by Joseph
Smith, jr;, thnt it wus neccuary this band should lie Jiound
together by a covenant, that those who revealed the secrets
of the society should be PUT TO nE,\TH. The covenant taken
by all the Danite band was as follows, to wit :-They declar-
ea, holding up thcirright hand, 'In the name ofJesus Christi
the son ofGod, I do so1emnly obligate mp·sclfever to concea
11Dd never to reveal the secret purposes o this society, called
the Daughters of Zion. Should I ever do the same, I hoIA ·
my lift as the forfeiture.' "-Cong. Doc. 189, p. 1, 2.
· "John Cfeminson, ii [Mormon] witness pro,luced, sworn,
nod examined, for the state, deposeth and saith :-Soive time
in June J attended two or three D'anite meetings; and.it wns
taught there as a part of the daty of the band, that they
<Jhould suppott the presidency 'in ALL their tksi,,"1181 rigliJ:
qr wrong; that WIJA.TEVBR thq said. t"8 to be ·obtytd, 8ql
whoever opposed the presidency in what they aaid ot tlulre4
01, "' ,Google
clone, should be e:spelled from tlie ~ounty,·or .\awtMir«-
iabn. . .
"Dr. Avard furthertaught uapart of\heiroblipiien,tbat
if any one betrayed tlle aecrtt daigna of the eociety, tMy
•h0td4be1dJl'4 arid laid IJllM, and nol/Unr aaid ..., it."-lb.
p. 15t • .
Some of the language used in the book'of
.Mormon proves ihat book to han .been .writ-
ten, or put into its present shape,.since 1827,
as it quotes JDPoh of the language used about
that time, coneeraing Freemasonry ;·and henee
it denounces "secret s0cietjes," ·"oaths," &c.
But, by this testimony it is prond th!lt the
Mormons hllVe·their "1eeret societies," and
we believe they ban them in New York, Phi-
ladelphia, and most of the places where they
have made converts to their delusion.
XVIl.-MORMONISM COMPELS ITS VICTIMS TO A
COURSE OF JRRELIGION .A.ND .CRutE1 UNDBJL THE
PENALTY o:r DEATH. .
From the testimony of Dr. Avard:- •
" Joseph Smitb,jr., the S11Dday before the late disturban·
ces in D&Jrins, at a church meeting, gaH notice, that he
Wished the whole county collected on the 11est uy, at Far
West. He declared that all who did not take-up arms io
defence ofthe Mormons of Davie~a, should be considerecl aa
tories, and should take theiresit from the c11\1Dtry.'' Cong.
Doc. 189, p. 2. .
~n the p;per signedby eigfltyfour Mormons,
and addressed to Oliver Cowdery, David Whit-
mar, John Whitmar, William Vf. Phelps, and
Lyman E. Johnson, we have the following :-
r.1 "' ,Google
33
" There are no threats &om you-GO ft'U of toeing nur
lives by you, or by any thing you can say or do will res•
train us; for out of tlie county you shall go, and no power
shall save yolf. And you shall have three days after you
receive this communication to you, including twenty four
ho,urs iu each day, for you to depart with your families
peaceably ; which you IJISY do undisturbed by any person ;
~ut in that time, if you do no\ depart, we will use the means
lll our power to cause you to depart ; for go you shall.'1 lb.
11· 6.
"Morris Phelpa a [Mormon] witness, produoed 8W01'111
and examined:for th; state, deposeth and saith :-Tb;t Par.
ley P. Pratt WU in the battle.with Bogart. Darwin Chase
wss one of the expedition, but not ·in the battle. Lyman
Gibbs was in the battle ; thinks BenjlUJlin Jones was in
.the battle. Norman Shearerwas aleo and wounded. I was
called UJll!R by Charles C. Rich, to go down to clookedriver,
to help relieve some Mormon _prisoners, who, it was said,
bad been taken by a mob. I first refused to~ ; but, being
threatened with force, I consented to gn. Rigdon, in speak-
ing of dissenters, who were unwilling to fight mobs, said
that they ought to be pitcJjed upon their horses with pitch-
forks and bayonets, and forced into the front of the liattle,
and their property confiscated to the use ofthe army.'1 lb.
11· 12.
'From the testimony of John Corrill :-
"President Rigdon, in a speech, said, that those whc>
were unwilling to go into the war, ought to be put upon their
horses with guns and bayonets, and forctd into the front of
the 't'&r. No persons were suffered to leave the country in
those extreme times." lb. p.' 13.
From the testimony 9f John Cleminson :-
" On the Monday prior to the last Daviess expedition, I
heard Mr. Rigdon 11ay that those who had heretofore lM'en
backward in taking up al'llll in defending themselve1 ought
to, or should, be put upon, their horses with bayonets and
pitchforks ; and Smitli said, forced into the froni of the bat·
tie ; and that the property of those who would not go into
lhc war should be consecrated to the use of those who did
Mr. Smith said their beef, corn, aud potatoes they ,.ould
take. ,
"I went in the e~pedition to Daviess in which Gallatin was
burnt, as I felt myselfcompel\e<i. to go from the regulations
which had been madt-.11 lb.p. 16. ·
01, "' ,Google
From the tettimony .of ~eed Peck :-
'! Such men as would oppose thiDp undertaken, .. being
1mlawful, and such as theyfeared was a violationofthe law,
I have lieard Smith and Ri~o!.! in their pu\>lic addresses,
denominate, ' 0 don't men. . Tlll!&e I understood to be
those who were denomiDated1 also; dissenters i and ia ref.
erence to men who were haogmg baclc, and d.ia not wish to
engage in their expeditions, they were called traitors j and
r<[wrlng to auch, as t understood, Mr. Rigdon proposea that
blood should first begin.to flow at Far West, [thit is, thlt
tlleae men shonbl be pit to death !J The proposition wu ·
tbea made and. cariied unanimooily, that tllOae wlo tllut
Jnmg beck alaould be 1-itched' DpOll lieir hones and . -t.
p and placed in the front oftlie UlllJ.
1
1 I heard Dr. Avard say;that it was a regulation of thlt
Society rp,nite baud]· that no - should speak again•
them, ornear ~y one else do it with impunftr!' jb. p. 18.
"B11rr Riggs, a [Mormon] witness forthes&ate,produced,
swora,aiid t>nmined, deposeth and saith :-JC1Seph Smithjr.,
1aid Uaere were certain men using their in'fluence againlt the
proceedings of the presidenc:r., and if they were sud'ered to
go 001they would do great injury. Alld Smith told RobU..
.son, tnat tlle lint man he heard speaking aninst the preai.
• dency, and ~nst their proceedin~, be must tie him up and
give llim thirty nine l•hes i and 1f that would noj dO, five
him .tllirty-nine more, until 11e was &OITY' for what he had
said· and Robinson said be would do it.'r .
. " While the. last expedition'was aoing 01I in Da'riees there
1V8S a meeting in Far West, in which Mr. Sidney Rigdoo
presided. The/e were ·present a.bout 80 er 100 men ; a
guard was ]lilt around the-house, ftl!.d one wu placed at tile
door. Mr. Risdon said that the last man bad 'J'UD away
from Far Welt lhat was agojng to • that the· next man who
atarted, he should be purslied and hrought 'hack· dead or
alive. He furtW said that one maa had eli;;;;J his·wind
yesterday, and had~ thrown aside into th:~sh forthe
buzzards to pick, and the first man that lisped it should die!•
lb. p. 291 so. .
"John Whitmar, a [Mormon] ivitne8s for the state pro.
aueed, swom and exammed, deJ>Oseth and saith :-Mr. Smitl
said, that any person who SJ>Oke or acted against the presi-
dency or the church, sh()uld 1'11wlM cOtlnh'y,orDJE." lb.p.
83.
" Benjamin Slade, a (Mormon} witness for the state,~
4nced,sworn, and e:mmined, depoeeth and sa.ith!-1 was ia
01, "' ,Google
1. llMtlnk ia a school hOllBe in FarWest1whll~ the M:otm&1l
troops were in Diahmon1 ia the last expedition. After the
easembly had got into toe house; a guard waa pliced at t"M
"'°'11'. Mt. Rigdon 9ot lllJ1l abd in a apeeth1aaid1that the
time had now comel in whiCh ttery man must take his par!
in tbis war ; and tnat they had been rumllllg away, and'
leaving Caldwell cuunty, an\i that the last man had now. left.
Jbe ci>Ubtf1 thanhoulcUe ~trtd to do '°' A formal vote,
by way o resolution, or covenan~, was puto.-tbat, if an7
OUUl attempted to leave the county1any one of the companJ:'
thel present1 was to s:iu. M.m, and .aay nothing about it, CJnli
IArot6 1riM iltto the Mwh• Whea this was put tt> vote.I heard
bo one vpte againstit, Rigdon ~en called tbr the negative
Yote, aiulsaid he·wanted to see if an; one eland to vote
•gainst it., There was no negative vote.'1 lb.p. 37. '
" ·Atldiaoh F, Gteen1 a (Mormon] witness fOr the state,
fitocluced, sworn> and exanuned1deposetb a!rd saith :-I heartt
idne:r. Rigdou> (spe~ of those who would attempt tci
eave the county at tbat tune) say) 'it was the duty of anr, ·
J!reaent1 ifthi!J&Wllllch movem~tti tost911 the meii.,' and if
tJley persist . mIJoing, be SaM SOlllllthilig·about Sending
~em to the o .er world to tell their hellisli newe, or BOlllO•
dliDg lilte th"-Jb.. P• 3&.
XVIII.-=-:MoaMONt•M .Auulds "tn PRnoGA.TlVE•
oF GoD ov.EJt. 'tBB CoNsCIBNCEs OF MEN.
· We have already shown that it impio1J8ly in•
lltitotes new eondition• of forgiveness and sal·
'Vatlon$ an.d trom t.he following it will be seen
\hat there is no bla-sphemous assumption too
horrible for this \\'retched m,1usion to ~pose
-.cm:its vietims.
· From. the 'testnnony of Sampson Avard, and
~ have seen that no man among the :Mor-
b\ons could know, better than he~ what it is:-
"The prophet,. Joseph Smithtjr., t~ether with his two
<couaaelors1 Hiram Smith and Sidney ll1gdon, were consider-
" aa die rvrua RAD or·JHf CBV&CJI; and lltc Dani#
01, "' ,Google
. j
'btltNlful t~-,,"' -"bOund to obfN tMm "" to.,flt•
SUPREME GOD. ~ong. Doc. No. 189, p. 2.
Their" book of Doctrines and Covenailts·as.
serts·that, " The saint• [Mormons] shall be
filled with the glory of Christ, ~nd be EQUAJ.
with him."
XIX.-MoRMONISM AUTllOllIZEs AND SANCTJONI!'
]?HYSICAL RESISTANCE TO THE LAws , OF THE
LAND•.
The following thows how they justify mob
Tiolenee:-
. ." We believe that all men are jlstified in defending them~
•lves1 their friends and property, and the.ro-.ernment, [I]
&om tlle unlawful aaaaults.1111d enuoachments of all perao~
in times qf e.tigenciu..I. where immediate appeal caDnot ~
made to the laws."-.uoc. and COtl. p. 253.
From the testimony of Reed Peek :-
"I heard Joseph Smith, jr., in a public address; Ba;Y, that
he had a reverence for the coBBtituiioo of.the United Slates,
and of this state,but as for tlie laws of this state he did not
intend to regard them, norC81JI! any d»ngabout tben1, as they
weremadeby lawyers 8.1\dblacklegs.''-Cong. Dot.189,p.20.
, ~e~timony of John _
Whitmar :-
"Mr. Smith said he did not intend in future to have Bll1
P.fOCeas served on him, and tbe ofllcer who attempted it
Should die ; that any person who spoke or acted against the
presideney or the church, should leave the country or die';
that he. would suifer Ito such to remain there ; Uiat they
should lose their head. George W ..Harris, who was there
present, observed, 'the head ·of their inftuence,.I suppose.'
Smith replied, yes, hewould so modify it. Mr. Rigdon them
got up, and spoke in connection witti what Mr. Smith had
been saying· and in speaking ofthe head of their infiuence,
be said that he meant that bill on theirshoulders, called the
bead1 and that they should be followed to the ends ef the
,,, JhyGoogle
S7 .
urtk. Mr. aigdla.Cvtber remarked, U... llftllllflU"'8,,.,..
lf'"OCIU ofla40 lo WN1'wd Oil - '/itrf4fler, '
" Some time in June, at\er Mr. 11.~ llacl PfellCbed hi,a
'salt sermon,' I held eoo-liooe with Bll'\'tral M0111W11a Qll
the allbject ofthat sermon1aad the excitement preduced by
the ce-llllCl COllduct oftne preai.dimcy. Among others, I
(l()nverwcl.wita AIUISllll Ripley. I 1~11 of the lllJll'!llMeJ
ofUie lau of tile land, aDd the neeeasityof, a1 all t1111e11, be-
ing r.:iv-ed b:r them. He replied, that as to She tec:h1iical
JllCflUeuf the law of tile la_rid, he did not iMll4t<1 r~
11-; tliat the killgd- ~ of by tile prophet ~
bad Ileen •et up, aad tllal 1t waa n~ ewrry kinadllllf"
llhould be gOfti'QN by ia. o..a laws. l a1eO oea•er.ed with
George W. R~~•.Oil tlae -• mbject, who umrered,
( w-en I apoke of llei.Qg p1'8?1led by the la1J8 aad their at·
pre~,)"' whell Goel •r.b he JDll8t be obe7e4. wlletber his
word came ill contact with the Jaws of the land or not: ~
that, as the kingdom llJIOken of by Daniel bad been set up,
Us laws must be obeyed.' I told him I tl!_ought it wu con-
are.ry to the laws of the land to drive men from their homeli
to which he replied, such t~s W been dOQe of old, IUlll
that the gatherinM ofthe saints must continue, and tbaC dis-
senters could11ot µve aaongthem ill peace."-lb. p. S3.. ·
" Timothy J.ewis, a [Mormon] witness fOr the state, proo
-duced, sworn, and examined, deposeth and saith:-I was at
Diahmon during the last expedition to Davi- oouaty. I re-
mained in die place during the time the MormOll troopewere
there. I wu out on aone oftheir 8001ltingpar_tiee, IJUt Sllw a
~t deal of property and. plunder brovgiit tn, 'Wbieh WllS
said to be consecrated. property by those who brollght it in,
as well aa by others. ThOll! wtro wete aotive in Jl!-Undering,
said they interilli to consecrate all the pro~rty iJl Davi-
county, ilnd take the county to themselves. '!'hey said there
was no law in thl. ute, but that a Jaw wu Uoiit to 'ha •
tablished by a higher power, to be given byrevelation.»-.ni.
p.38.
xx.-TB& MoJUION LIUDBB.11 DBSIGN TO ~
A POSITION o!' lNDBPENDENCB ABOVB THE Au·
TBO:RITIES OF TBIS NATION.
Testimony ofSampson Avard:- .
"In the above referred to council,Mr. Smith~ &f the
Jl'ievances we had. sulfered in Ja~bon, Clay, Xfrtland, q•
<11thtr places ; declare4 that we must, in future, stand np filr
fl
°'9'' '"',,Google
our rigtit9 ae'~itizen• of the United 8tatea vid as sain~ n(,
the most high God ; and that i~W1l8 the willofGod we sboukl
do so; that weshouldbefruand~,and that asthe
State ofMistouri, and tlte B'nited States, would not protect
us, it was high time that we should,be.up,as thesaiitts ofthe
' moet high Gild, 8.lld protect o11l'selves and talu tM ki~doot.
Lyman Wright obsened thf\t before the winter was over,he
·thought we wo11ld be in $t.Louie,aodtake it. Smith charg.
·ed Uem that they should be unittid in supporting each other.
"In connection with tbe grand scheme of the prophet,
·his preachers and apostles were inllC?ucted to preacli and in-
struct tlteir follow- (wbe are estimated in Europe and
Ameri~ at about 4d,OOO) that it was their dutrto oome up
to the state eallediVWeet,and te.~tht kingdom; tbBt
it Wiii the 'Will ofGod·tfiey llhould do so, and that the Lord
. would give tliei;nJXlwer to·po9Be18tile kingtlon1."-CDf1B:.Doc•
..189, p. 9, fl.
:XXI.-Tui.: Mo&l'40N· LEADERS HOLD THAT THE'li,
·oR:"l'HEnt.'sEcT,. A.RF! J'USTLY ENTITLED TO THE
TEMPORAL A.ND SPIRITUAL DolirINlO.N oF THESE
UNITED STATEs, A.ND THAT· u, THEY cA.NNoT
OTHERWISE OBTAIN THU! DoMI~ION THEY ARE.'IO
· • 1 GAJ.N IT BY THE SwoRD.
· " Wherefore t1- laH ~fZien ~allaot be obi.Pied, ltut bf
, pu1Cha1S or ~ blood.''-.Doc. and <Am. p. 143. .
It ~ added, in connection with the above,
·"as ye are Jorbi<Men to shed 'blood." , But
)low the Mormons are forbidden to shed blood
we shall see in 'the sequel.
"For behold, verily I say unto you1 the Lord willeth. &bat
tle diseiples and the cflildrim ofrnit& Should open their hearM
. even to purchase this wlwkrtgionofcottntry,u soon astime
will permit. Behold, here is wisdom, let them do thia, lest
theyreceive none inheritance,saTeitbe the ahtddingofblood."
-Ib.p.139. ..
The following is designed to signify the UT-
TE,
lit .DESTRUCTION' of this nation; except it sub-
,,, JhyGoogle
!!lits to Mormonism. ·By the Gentilell; he.
means the people of these United States:~
"A remnant o:f'tpe house of Jacob (as he calls ~ur Amert•.
~n lncli&'18] ~ll he alllOng tll.e Geohles; yA&, iJi.~e mil'lst
of them, as a. lion among the beasts of the forest, as a youni
lion ~ng the Jlccks o{.sbeepi wh<>, if hep through, both•
treadeth down and teareth in wecea, and none can deliver.
Tlleir·hand shall Mi lifted up 11pon their ad:tenarries, and all
their enemies shall -be.cut otf. Yea, wo be unto the Genti.Jr.~
except theyrepent: for h ' shall come to paesin \hat day; sa1tli'
the Fathei.1 that. I will cut olf thy ho1ses out ofthe W.clst of
thee, and 1 will destroy thy, chariots, and I wJll cut off the .
dtiu oflkt/ lsrid, and throw dawn thy 1tr"1g holds," &c.-
Voice of War. p. 188. . . ; . · .
" And the day cometh that they wbo will not hear the ·
voice of the Lord, neit~r tile voice.o(hiuerval'lls, [the Mm·
mons] neither give heed to the words of the prophets and
apostles, [Mormons] shall be euT OFF from among $e peo.
ple-for they have broken mine:everlastingcoveuant."-Doc.,
and C0t1. p. 76. . . · .
. " E11erlasring covena~t" broken! .
"TbereiOre having~o great wit11esses1{Jo-. 8Uiith. ant4. Oli·
?er CoVl'liery] by tlleM. aluiU IM W¥rld IHJud8'Bd1 ~ven afi many:
as sll.all llereafter coae w &·lrooo!rie~ of tnis work-!Jtit·
those who harden. their hearts in unbelief and raject it tihall
tum 10 th'eir owt1 conclemllation," &c.-lb. p. 78.
"Wo, I say·again; unto that'house, or that village, or city,
that rejeotetli you, [Mormons] or your words, or your testi·.
wony of me."-lb. p. 93. ·
"Let the bishop go'unto the city of New York, a.Dil also
to the city of Albany, and also to the city of Boston, llDd
'\ftrD the pt!Ople of those cities with the sound of'thegospelr
with a lo~ voice,, of the D.ESOLATI-ON an,d UTTER AB?LISH-
llE1'T which awalls them 1f they do reject these tbmgs,"
[JdOJU!Onism.)-Jb. p. 96.
"Verily I say unto you [Monnons,] that in time, ye shall
l!ave tw king flll1' ruler, for I Will be your ·king and watch
over you ; and you shall be a free people, and ye shall have
no laws but my laws when I come.' -lb. p. 119. .
"Assemble yourselves together to rejoice upon the land of
- Missouri, whicn is the land of your inheritance, which js now
ill the hand of your enemies."-.lb. p. 194. _
_
, .
°'9'' '"',,Google
/
0 Tb4relbre, get ~ strailritway llDle !11J.lmd ; blWk.,_
tbe walls ofm!Jie enemies,tM-ow down tJieir tower, and scat*
ter dleir W$cbmea, avenge me ofmine eoemies tbt by 11114
hy I may come and pessess the land."-16. p. 238.
'
The aboTe extraots are from the Mormon
Creed. The.following, from the evidence giv·
en in the- Congressional Documeat, show what
tbat creed is when carried out in practice.
Thie John Corrill, whose testimony follows,
ia frequently mentioned in the Mormon book
of Doctrines ancJ Covenants, (see pages 136
and..193,) as a fellow laborer wit)t them:-
"Jolln Oll'rill, witn~11s for tbe state, prodMed, swom1 ex*
amined, deposetb and saitll:-The Mormon church bas Deen
:represenled as being the little stone spoken of by Danie}
which should rotil on aod CRUSH .ALL 11llfl08itil?ft to it, and
1!7ultimattly should be eatobliahed a1 .a TEXPORAL as well as
a ll]liritual ~dom. These thinp were to be carried on
tbrilugh the iAstl'IJllle11tality of the Danite 1land u far u
J"O&CE WU neCCSBUJ i (OllD abJ Oll8 who ieada iii; believe
that the M:onnou tABrely acaed ill melfdefence, ia the lat•
civii war in MiS80Uri l] if neeeuarr, they il6ing ~ani:ied
i:u.to bands oftens,fifties1 &c., ready for WAB. Tiie teac;h-
ings of that societ7 led tnem to prollll>it the talkings of any
persona agaimtthepruf;hni;y [Smith andothers],so much so
that it was da.ngerOllU for an:v. man to set 'Up opposition to any
thing that migit be set on C.ot, 8IMl I beCmM q/rtl/11. to apeak
•Y OWll mind. I objected to the course of Dr. Avard, in ref.
erence to the Danite band. I rathertbougbt .Joseph Smitl jr.,
upheldhim, and would notallowanyobjuffona to him. T~ey
were greatly: incensed arinst certain persons in Caldwell and
DaYiess, and said they mtended to '.llDI the counties of'them
and ofthe mob, in the eourse ofthat week."
"After the [Mllt'mon] tTOops got to Dialtrnon, in all about
four or ive hundred men, l heard Lyman Wright addreasinr
a portion of the men who were there, (J>e!haps eight or ten,
that the earth was the Lord's and the fulness thereof, wit
the cattle upon a thousand hills, &c. i that the saints ofthe
:Wrd [Mormons] had tile same privilege or rights. After
tbat1 or perhaps \Ile neltl lil.ay, I saw a diovc of 101111! four oir
°'9'''"'"Google'
'
"
&ftl -cattle pa.a a)eng:, and asll:ecf.w~a't 'Cattle these were,and
was answered, that they were a drove of 'f>u_tfalo ; others ob•
served·, they were cai.tre·a Methodist priesthod cdnsecrated.
Joseph Smith, Jr., Hiram Smith,' Parley P. Pratt, Lyman
Wright, George W. Robertsen; Caleb Baldwm, AlllllS'O!I Ri~
ley, George W·.Harris-, George Grant, DarwinChase, Alexall·
der McRay,Ed,ward Partridge,J.oseph W. Younger, and pro·
b'abl_y James w,R:O'wli.Jle-,were in the eiqiedition that went to
Daviess <!01mty, at the time that Gallatin was bU'rllt." Cong,
<foe. 189-,p. 12) 14.
The toestimony of Burr Riggs:~
' ·u Two or three days before·tlie surrender of the Mormons
to the militia.at Fa,r West, I heard Jo~~ph Smi.lh,'Jr., say1
tliat the SWORD was now unsheathed,andshouldnot be agam
sheathed until he could go through the U'tiited States, llnd
live in any county h_e pl.eased', peaceably." lb. p. 29; .
::"Wyatt era-, a (Mortnon] witnnefor the atU>e, pre,.
duced, sworn, and. e:r.amined, d~e$h am saith,_
" Jn the last, or, in some.p!!blic. meeting1 Joaeph Smith,.
Jr., said< it the people would let~ alnne1we1"1Qld preach'
the gospel to them, 111 peace ; but 1f they came on to mo.le~t
us, we would E~TABLISH· OUR RELIGION ilJr THE SWORD;
and th!lt .he would become to this generalwn a second MAHo•
MET." lb.p. 12. .
"~ M. Hiakle, a {Mormon] witaess fur the state1
producedi 11110m1 anll exammed, deposeth and saith :- ·
"I have beal't1 Joseph Smith; J1>.; say1 that·he belieTe4
Mahemet was a goed man ; that the Koran was not a true ·
thing, but that the W'orld belied Mahomet as they had belied
him, and that Mahomet was a true prophet." (A good iqaQ.
writing a book which is full of fal8eho0d !J .
"The general teachings of the presidency wet'e, tbat ·the •
kiagdom they were .setting up, [lif") was a. TEHPO&AL u,
well as a 8]1irilual kingdqm; that it was the little stone spo-
ken ofby Daniel. Utllil flltely the teachings of the chouh
appeared to be peaceable, and that t~ kin~dom was to be
ae< up peaceably ; but lately, a diJferent idea has been ad·
vanced,-tltat tlie time had come when this kingdom was to
be set up by FORCIBLE means, if necessary. It was taught,
that the time had come when the riches ofthe Gentiles [peo.
pie of the United States and the worldl were to be conse-
crated to the true Israel [Mormons;) This thing ofTAKING
PROPERTY, was conridered a fulfilment of the above prophecy•
.The preachers who were sent out to preach their doctrines,
4•
01, "' ,Google
1'eH inlUlllll.ed to dhec• t.beil CIOll.Vertll to eome. up t.o 'U°'11
-me1111ing this 11pper part of Milaouri.
"I heaid Lyman Wright ay, that the 11tcord bad now
'Ileen drawn, and lihould not be sheathed until be had march·
ed to De Witt, io Carroll county, into Jackson county, 1111d
into many other places in the &tale, and swore I.hat he waa·
able tfl accomplish it,
·~ A.t the time J06e}lh Smi~1 Jr., and m:rselfj were under
guard at Far West, be man.itested a great disposition ta
couerse altont our difficulties,&nd said he bad lleard I had
turned against him ; and propoatd to me the id.ta ofhanging
togetber1;and not teetifyilig apinst eaeh otbq-1 and if we
8Ulfer, a.usuJfor tosether." 16.p. 21-.24. .
Testimony of Jamas C. Owens:-
"He {Je, Smith, Jr.J further stated that t,bey "Pretended
to come out as militia, but that tlley were all a. d-d set of
mobs, H'.-e stated, at I.hat1or aome ether time, tha.t, u they
)lad c-nced allll9ecrabll&iii Daviess ceaaty, tat he .in·
tn&ded to""- tAe awr~ t~ ton#crattd to Aim;
tba.t the time had come wlea the tielles of tlle Ge11.tilea
should be e001Sec:ratedto tll.e 1&inta1"· EMormona,] ' I!>.p.14,
«Jesse Kelly,a witness produced1 awom,aad examined,
de~sethand saith:-
'The rMormon] captain asked us i{ we belonged to the
mob, and"we replied not t he then said we bud betterjoin
them, [the Mormons] an<lcomeintoDiabmon for p1'oleUlon ;
I replied that I would ooll8ider ef that; the eaptait'Hhen
said, if we did DOl wish to ti@bt tbelll [the Mo"-] we
mnat leave the state;-' for we iatelld,' saiil he,•afterwe_get
pouu#iml of Davieaa, to takr J.ivm,,.ton, and after tllat,
loeep on, till we take flOntuilm oft/141C11oU alt*.'" .lb.·p. 31.
Let the reader ponder the foregoing testi~
monies, and th~n ask himeelf what religious
fanaticism may not yet do to accomplish ita:
designs 1 Wha' has it not done for Mahom-·
medanism 1
,,, JhyGoogle
XXJJ.-MoltlllOKB, ARE Pt:&DGED TO BBLP BA.Cit
OTHER, ltIGHT O:& WRONG, AGAINST THE lllGBT"
EOUS ADMINISTRATION OF THE LAWI OF THE
LAND·
Testimony of Sampson Avard:~
"Insttuction was given by .To11epb Sllli'lh1 h., that if any
(If them [the Daftite band] should get into d1ticulty1therest
should help him oot,aild ibat they should lta.nd. by iachother1
AJ&HT oa waoi.o.'1 Cong, Dot. No. 1891 p. 2, ·
Testimony of John Corrill:-
" I took exceptiollS only to the teacbiap u to tlie du·
ties of that rDatute] aociety, wherein it wu aid, ifone bro-
ther got int4 difficulty, it waa the duty ol th rest ta help
him out, right or wong.11 Jb.p. 12.
Testimony of John Cleminson :-
" I attended two or three Da.nite meetiap1 atid it was
tatight there, as a pan of the dutr of the b8o4, that tLey
ehonld support the presidency in till their designs, f'i¥1tl or
'wrong." lb.p. Hi. ·
Testimany of Beed Peck:.-..
"George W. Roberh6n and Philo Dibble invited me to a
Dllllif41 tneefing. I wto*t; and the only speaker was Dr.i:
.Anr41 who explained the object of the meetingl and said
that we were to be govetned by the presidency1 ana do wluJJ~
,_they recfflired, and llphold fheD'I ; that we wen not to
iW#for oui*1tiU1 tl!Mth~U were rfB!at. or wrong1 that God
Dadraised 11f1 a prbP.het who would J04ge for as..!alld that it
was proper 1'e sbould stand by each O'tber in all cases, and
pve ue an eumple:-' If we found Oile of tfie Danites in
difficulty; in Ray or Clay for instsnce;we shouldre8cue him1
ifwe haiil to do with his adversary1 as Moses did witIt tbe
:Egyptian, put him mtit~ aand. It made no d'ilference wbe~
ther the Danite was to blame or not.; they would pack to
Far West and there be taken care of.'' lb. p. 17.
,
XXIII.-M011MON1111t AuTRo'ttt~s A.ND APPROVE$
THE HORRID CRIME OF AssAsSINAfioN.
'' - Ne•erthelea1, thine eaemy is in thine halld, and ir'
.\lloll rewud IWn according to hi• works, thuu art jualijlld·J
' 01, "'',Google
~·
lfhe baHOlllJht thy life1 8lld t~y life is endugeted 'by iiitn1
tlune enemy is in thiru Ilana, and tllou art Juali!ied," Doc.
<ind Co11. p. 218. . . . .
· Testimony of Wyatt Cravens:-
. " After getting into 't\le prairie, Wright halted the COJll•
paey. He, Pratt, and four others, rode offa piece, and con•
(ened togethet1 and then returned to the company, and call·
e'd out some'captain and.ord.ered him to call out ten of his
braves. . . . I then thought the man who had not re.
fumed, had been placed around the 1ence .to kill me ; but I
was determined to·do the.best I could to make my escape.
In passing on, I di!ll:o'IJered my dirootiqn weuld lead me to
where I thought the man was placed1and I took oft to I.Be
rig'ht1 and immediately I was orderea to stop, by·some per.
eolt1 '!"horn I ~ognir:cd to be the m~ of tJie guard who
Jootft wnh the captam .rthe guard, and di1l not return. i fted1
and turned my head to look,1Uld saw the man with bis gun
in a a/woting 1l<!*fon; and shortly afte~, while running, I
wna 11/wt by nim ; and I made mr, way to Ray county.
Parley P. Pratt was in the battle.' Cong. D«.. No. 1891
p.11. .
· Testimony of Reed ~pk:-
"I think it was the last ot 1uae1 orfitst of July last, tiiat
I heard Dr. Avard ·say, that be nad jnst teturnM f~m a
eouncil with tbll presidency, in which coUDl:H Jared Carter
was broken of bis office by {;aptain Gene, ofthe Daoite baad,
for haviag ~J>Oken ag~inst Sidney l\.i~on1 one oC the presi·.
dency, it bewg a regulation of th&t eoc1aty tbat nooae Should
speak agains\ them, or hear any one else .do it wit.b impuni·
ty. In that council, Avard said, an arrangement was made.
to di1pope of di~11ters1 l() wu: that all tlie bead 1>tficers oJ
the Dan1te band s))ould bave a list ofall the dissenters, both
~re and in Kirtland; 'and;' said he,' I will tell· you how I
will do 1b.eo. When I meet OQe damning the presidency. I
cao damn them as well as J,!.e ; and if he wanted to drink, he
would get a bowl of brandy, and gft him hciifdrunk, and1
taking him by the arflt, he wotlld taklhifi totM woo'6orbruah,
a11d' said he1' hewould-[the language is not fit to be printed]
in a minute, and put thimi under the sod! 11
. "And Mr. Rigdon said, in the same evmon,tliatbewoold
assist to erect a gallows on the square and ha.nit them all.
Jos.,ph Smith, Jr., was present, and followed Mr. Rigdon,
after be'bad made the above declaration, and .said he did not
wish to do any thing unlawful. He then spoke ef the fate ol
,
<,:;ooglc
llldu;mid -.id tbat Peter llad htng him, (Jaclu,) 11114 said
that be appreTI!d of Mr. ltigdon'a sermon, 11114 i:alled it a.
pod aermon." lb.p. 20, 21.
"BeDjamin Slade, a [!"formOll] wit_ for the awe, pro.
cluced, sworn, and examinea, d~eth and aith-1 wu ill
a mee~ io tbs aebool hoaae in .Fu Ws.t, wbile the Mor-
mo1a troops were in Diabmoa, in the Jut expeclilion. After
ti.le usembly had got into the h_, a pcird uu plaud d
tM door. lfr. Rigdon got 1111, and, ia & 11J188cll1 ll&id tbat the
time had now come, iA whiCh every 1111111 aUlt cake hia part
ia this war ; and that they had been l'Olllliag awa:r. and iea-
villg Caldwell cOWlty and that the laat - a'J aow left
the countJ., that w0uid be allowed to do 90, A f'ennal Tote,
lly way of reeolation, or ooveoaat, wu putf"':"l)iat, if any
mui attemptetl to leave the county, aay one of the comps.
ny then preaeet waa To JUU him, IJfld NY nothing about it,
aild throw him into tJu brwh. When tbia was pat to the vo1e7
I heard no one vote ar.-!oat it. Rigdon tlaeo callecl ji,r \he.
negative vot.e, and said he wanted to see if any one DARED
to wt. llgflinat it. There waa no oegatin vote. I heard Mr.
lligdoa ny that, UT' yeaterd4y a f/1411 Md alipped hi8 win~1
and 1LVl8 thrown into tli4 brtuh ;' and, Aid he ' THE MA!'I
THAT LISPS IT SHALL DIE.' "-llqt. 37.
Testimony of W. W. Phelps:-
"Mr. Rigdon then commenced ·makiag covenants with
uplifted hands. The first was, that, if any man attempted
to move out ofthe county, or pack their things for that pm-
~. that any man then in the house seei.ow tlti1 witliout
saying anythilig to any other person, SHOULD KilL HIM,
and hilul ~im <Uide into the brtilh; and that all the borial he
abould have1should lie in a turk~ ,buzzard's--, (not fit
to be priote<1,] so that nothing ofbim should be lef\ liut his
bones. That measure was carried in form ofa covenant witlt
~plifted hands. Af\er the vote had j>llSsed he said, uow see
ifany one DARE wit againat it, and called for die negative
vote. and there was none. The next covenant, that, if any
persons &om the surrounding country came into their town,
1ralkiog about, no odds whO lie might be-any one of thal
-mtg e/wuU KILL HIM, 4lld tftrow 1tia tuiu into tit#
brvM. The third covenant was, ' CONCEAL ALL THESE
THINGS.' Mr. Rigdon then observed, \hat tile kiairdom of
heaven had no secrets~ that Y.CSterday a ma• had el{ppe4 Ji•
wind, and was draJieQ into the hazel brush and, said he,
'TB& MAN WHO LISPS IT SHALL D1£:1"-J!).p.46.
01, "' ,Google /
/
."JeilQ C~n1 a fllfonnoa} .wi~ss, }B'edec~-s:\Totn,
and ex.aminelj, in behalf of the $late, deposeth and saith:-
Some time in June, I attended. two or three ·Dauite meel•
!'igs1 and it was taught there, as a part of the dut;r ofthe
11U1<1,·tbat•they·sb6111d support the p.esideney V. till their
tiesips, right« wr-oog; that w.1u.niv1:a they said was to
be OBEnlD) and ~r oppo&ed tM prutdlncy, m witat tltty
.uid ordaireddone,should be expelledfrom tke county, or RAVB
1'HEI• UVES TAKE!f. The three c~g_ the presidency
were at one ofthose meetio~; and, to satietythe tteople, Dr•
.A:rard called on Joseph Smith, Jr., who gave them a pledge,
that ifthey led them into a difficulty, he would giTe them
his head for a fuot ball, and that it was the will otGod these
thi~s eh011ld -be so. The.teacher and utive agent of the
aociety, was Dr. Avard, and.his teachillgs were approved of
1iy the presidency. Dr. Avard further taught, as a part of
their obligation, that if any one betiayed the SECRET DE·
uoNs of the eoc~ty, THEY SHOULD lie KILLED, and laid
aride, ane nothing aaid about it." lb. p. 15.
I
"Reed Peck, a witness, producedJ sworn, and examined,
oo behalfot the State, depo#eth ·an<l llaith:-A. short time
~1er Cow4.ery and the Wbitmars left Far West, (SGme time
in June;) George W. Robertson and Philo Dibbl~inTited mo
to a Danite mceiing. I went, and the only speaker was Dr.
Avard, who explaiped the ob~e.ct of the ~etillg, aad said
tbat its object was, that w~ might be perfectly organized to
defend ourselve!! against'mobs; that we were all to be gov.
erned bv the presidency, and do WHATEVER they requi-
red, ancl uphold them ; that WE WERE NOT TO JUDGE FOil
ouasi:LVEs, U'hethtr it were ~ht or wrong; that God had
raised up a prophet who would judge for: us; and that it was
proper we should stand by each other, ID all ca~es: .and. he
gave us an example; if we found one of the Dan1tes ID d1di·
culty, in Ray or Clay, for instance, we should rescue him,
ifwe had .to do with his adversary as Moses did with the
Egyptill'll, put him in tM Blln<i. It made no difference whe-
ther the Danite was to blame or not; they would pack to Far
West, and be1aken care of." lb.y. 17.
"I heard Avard, on one occ!lSion, say, that the D11;11ites
were to consecrate their surplus property, and t& come m by
tens to do so ; and ifthey lied about it, he said Peter killea
Ananias and Sapphira, and tltat ~-an e:eam,,U for tu.'1
-{b.p. 15.
And, in .view of the. foregoing testimony,
01, "' ,Google
47
let it be remembered, thnf these fanatics are
now among the lndianfl of our we!tMn wilds,
teaching them the bloody and trea1onable
doctrines already described ; 'and their war-
like m0vements are sufficient t~ show the
da:nger4>us tendency of this great delusion.
It was proved, on the trial of Joseph Smith,
for high treason, thai he had repeatedly de-
clared that he " would become .a second Ma·,
hornet" to the world! A western pa.per, pub·
lished at GaleM, says :~ .
" From what we bear and read, we should judge that gre,t
excitement prevailed among the other inhabitants of Han-
cock county and v~cioity1 in ·relation to this sect. We
should exceedingly regret to see the exciting seen~ ofMis-
moori re.enacted in ~ s..te, but we coollider aach as nat
among the impossibilities. What appears to excite pal'.tic;-
ular avenri.on or alarm is the organli:ation of.what is called
the Nauvoo Le~ioo, who muster every few days, 'all hat-
n.essed for war. · Their"neighbors1 unskilled in·.the myste-
nes of the golden plates, fear they. are to be dnven out, 11111
were the Hittites, Jebusites, &c. from the land of Ganaan of
old, and that,Smith does not place as mueh faith in tile eftl.
cacy of ram's horns, in tearing down the walls of the Gen·
~ tiles, as inshooting-irons an.d li&ll-cartridges." •
Read the following, from the Mormon pa·
per, published at Nauvoo, Illinois, June 1,
1841:-
"NAUVOO LEGION.
Hta.d Quarter•, NatnJOO ~n1 CUy of ~
Nau1X>0, RI., May 25, .D., 1841. ..S
GENERAL OJU>ERS.
"The•Isl ColD,}IU!y, (Riflemen,) 1st Battalion, 2d ~
meat, lid.Cohort, will be atiached to the eiscort cootempla-
/
/
·'8
ted in the general orden of th~ 4th inst., fqr tlle.ljf efJuly
next. .
" Ia fonniag t.ie Legiqn,, the A.djttam will obecft the
rank ofcompanies as follows, to wit:-
" lat <lohort-tbe ftying artillery fint · the lanet!rS aut,
tile riflemen 11~,i_!isitmg companies of ~,.;;;,,:, next, the
lancers and ·C&VlLll'J' next, the dragoons. id~ii7irt-tbe ar-
,tillery fim, the laucen next, the riJlelllllll next, the Jigat ia-
fan~ next, and the infantry next-visiting comPIU!ies in
their llJll!lopria&a ~ on die right ol tbe t10Pf1S of their
own griMl.e: the rinking company bf the lllt cohort will be
Ima~ OD lhe ritlbt ofPitl cohort.-nd Wt~ C0-1Jlll·
ny of tbe 2d cobOrt will be formed on the left of said cohort
..;cuui an tbe left ohlae rl&'t thu1ut on tlle nght· of
the left, and so on to the centre. The ~ort will be formed
·en the right ofthe forees.. ·
Josnff 8JaTK1 Lipd. ~Ill..
Johll C. Jleanett, Maj. General.'
Long before the Mormon war, we confi-
den.tly predicted that result, from the teach.·
ings of this sect ; and we may feel and mani·
fest aa mach contempt as we please againet
tbi. :rank delusion ; it will cause more blood-
shed in this country than it bu yet been the
eooasion. of. For, what will not religious fa·
natiei11n do, when waited fDit1' .tlu swoaD, ae in
the case of Mohammed 1 .
The following extract is from a oonespon·
dent of the Boston Recorder, under date of
April 6, 184'1, giving an account of t~e laying
of the comer stones of the great Mormon
Temple in Nauvoo :-
' "After some show ofreviewing, the presentation ofa ban-
ner by some ladies, &c., the whole• Nauvoo Legion' advan·
ced up the hill, accootP..&Died by llll immense ptoceesion.
They were OOllUllllllded by the Quarter Master General of
°'9'' '"',,Google
l~ who, ia,his new ~citJ of a MtW'lllOn c.on'ft'd,
doubtless considers it :bis lu'gllest military distioctian 1o
l!ead this motl&y betll, ·nen uader the direction and a.utho-
rity ofsuch a man as Smith. The latter presented the ap-
pearance of a prophet; mittant, being dressed in elegant
inilitary c~ume, ridmg a 1iae horse1 and aurrouuded by
quite a respectable stslfl )>es.ldes a life.guard oftwelve men,
mOUDled1 dressed in 'W'llite1 and -ed with rifles, plsto14,
ud knives-a necessary reLmue fora prpphet who is an out-
1aw1 having been demtlftded by_the Governor of Missouri, as
a criminal; a demand w~ch )Us plllll have promised wi\)l
an oath to resist, e'l'en unto bloOd. I' obtained a position
jaat-9utai.de of the Jine. of eenniea est"1ilialied azoUDd ~
· consecrated enclosure, from which I could see and hear all
"that pa!lll(l~4·a lflDlt ~scene ti 'lfllB,lloughwith
a to11ch ofthe ludicrous. Here, on a lone blull' in the wild
west, were11fteen mfiitar}' compllllies, under 1111 ecde&iasd-
cal organization,with au assembly oi spectlltors variousty
estimated at from file thousand lo eight thousand; end m
-Ue c:entl'01 nm>unded kT U,.Ollllts, we• "1 ill .made, iU
br!ld man, decked in military garb-an indicted criminal un·
der the laws ofMissouri, honored and guarded, and 1well-
ing with ill concealed prid11 as the inspired organ of the Di·
'fine commands and 'tlie grand centre of all this strange_pa.
geant !-alas,_ ?or poor liaman nature. I had never before
·so well conceived the po#fbillty of the :Mohammedan, Swe.
denborgian, or any other pophdir: delusion. Certaillly rib
'false phrophet or dreamer ever bad shallower pretences ti>
.go_upon, or a smaller capital in the trade of delusion, than
this man ; and yet he boasts of a train of dupes amounting
to between fifty and a hundred tbonsand. Probably even the
emaller number is much above the truth; but it is undenia-
ble that some in EuropeJ as well 4S great numbers in Ohio,
Pennsylvania, New Yoik.1 and even New England,have beesa
led captives in this triumph of stupid impollture. I say atv.
pd, for llO far as tJi,, 011twsible leader is.:oncerued this t'pi-
thet is not rendered inapProP.riate by whate'l'er ol low cdll.·
Iring Ile·.PQlllllflllell. I am incijned te the &pinion lllat R9'·
don, whO delivered the address on this oc~.asion, is now In
ftelity tile mailer 8lJirit of the hlll!lbug, end that be, ra11l!*
th1111, Smith, is tl\e inspi,rer oftfie.oraoles which, for 'purpo-
11es ofstate,' the latter promulgates as the breathing of bis
own ajJl,alu&." ·
,,, JhyGoogl~/
/'
;
/
.xxrv.- SoME or SmTH's ' MosT rnTillllTE
FRIENDS HAVE KENOUNCBD HIM AB .AN lMPOS-
TO'R.
We have now before us a pamphlet, writ-
.ten by Mr. W. Harris, a renouncing Mormon,
we believe, which discloses deeds of dark-
ness, of which Smith has been guilty, enough
·to stamp his eha~ter with the deepest infa-
my. Mr; Harris gives the names of a number
who have not only renounced Mormonism,
'but, for doing .so, have .been denounced· by
.Smith as " ~eneath contempt." Here are some
.of them:-
.· "Warren Parriah was one of the first seventy elders of
.the Mormon chur>Ch. uonard Rich, and Sylvester Smith,
were two of the 1even presidents of the seventy elders.
;John F. BIYJl1ll.on1 and Luke ,Johnson, were two of tile twelve
,2'}>0stles. Stqhen Burnett was an elder. Zerah Cole was
.one o( the &evenly elders. Frederick Williams, one of the
J'fesidency ofthe church. Martin Harris, a. highpriest1 and
a witness to tM book o
f Mormon. Cyrus Smalling, one ofthe
seventy elder.. and Doct. Warrtn A. Cowdcry1 a presiding
high priest. Here then, by Smith's own showina, a great
nwnber of the highest officers of the church, seYected by
'himself, were a pack of scoundrels."-p. 43. _
We know of numbers who have renounce~
this wicked imposture. Mr. R. Shurragar, of
this city, is one. Mr. S. not only 'believes
Mormonism to be a .lie, but he knows that
some who advocate it are deceiving the peo-
ple with their eyes wide open.
,,, JhyGoogle
51
'
XXV.-TltE SPIJlIT OF MOJt'MONillM.JI A SPIII't
.OF MURDER AND BLOODSBE'&• .
. Of this fact, the foregoing testimonies must
satisfy the most iaereduleus·, Bnt we ad41
one more. It is- an ex•mci.from a speech de-
livered at "Far West/' July 4, 1838, (before
the disturbances took place which drove them
from Missouri,) by Sidney Rigdon:-
: "We take God and all the hOly angels t&·witnees tbW
day, that we warn·aJI men, ia tile name of Je1US Christ, to
.eome··oo ua no more ferever. The man, or the let of mtw
who auemJl'8 it; lloea it at tl.e expen9e Of their lives. AJ;.I
that mob·that cotnes on us to distmb ue ) it shall be betwem
1llJ and them a war of t:dermindlionr far we will follow 1hem
till the laat drOf! of tll.eir blood ii qilltd, or .else the:r. will
ban to extermmate ua: For we will C8ft'J tbe·seat of t00r
to their qwn 1ioti8ea and their 01V11t-UWrand one puty or
the,ot.ber skall be· uttetly destroyed.· Remember 1t, then1
all men. • • • · No man shall be at liberty to
«>me into our streetsf to threaten ws with lll0b81 far if h~
does1 he shall atone for it before he leaves the placeJneither
lhall he be at libert:r. to 'rilify 8°' slander 1111y 01 ua, fer
auft"er it we will nott in this place. We tberelOre take all
men to record this <111y1 as eel our fetben. &id we pledge
thi• day.to one another1 eur fortunes, our lives, and our sa-
cil'ed honors, to be delivered from·the persecutiona which we
ha,.. hu te en&ure, fer tlle laat aine yean, or neuly that.
Neither will we indu~ any m11D1 or set of men, in instita-
ting ve:Qtious law suits against us, to cheJlt us out of our
just ri!hfa : if tbey attempt it, we say w be unto them.
We this day, then, proclaim ourselves free, with a purpOSI!
and a determinatiof!.t that can never be broken.-No Never!
No NEVER! ! NO NEVER! ! !' "-P· 46.
XXVI.-TllE MORMON LEADERS ARE GUILTY OF
DOWNRIGHT SWINDLING,
The following facts are from the pamphlet
before referred to, entitled "Mormonism Por•
trayed :"-
01, "' ,Google
"In J836, Smitll, Jl.ilde!i,ud othen, formed a mercantile
house, and purchased gooda ill. Clneh111d and in Bd'a.lo, to
a: very_ large amount, on a· credit of six months. In the
fall other bou~ were formed, &11d 1QC>ds purdwed ill the
easlem cities to a still greater amount. A great part ofthe .
~ eftheee houses W411!.t to ~)' tlie '!l'lllkriiell on the Tea.
pie, and many were sold on credit, so tljat ·when the notes
llecame dne, ih• UmM wen net able to meet Uwm. 8111ith,
Rigdon aiid Ca. tlien attemj!ted to borrow money, by issu.
ing their notes payalile at different periocla after dite. Thie
UPfllient not being elfectual, the i4~ of a bank SQU98t~
itself. Accordingly in 1St7, the far famed Kirtland Bank
W88 put into OP'rallO!I, withOQt chartef.
" Thia institution, by which so many have been swindled,
YU formed after tile followilig manneri SuMcriben for
.iock were allowed te Jl&Y tile amount oftbeitr subscriptioaa
ia town lots, at five or m times theirrealTalve-othen ~
a personal property, at a high ~oo; aad llOJlle p.id
the cash. WU.. tlie aotea were lirat U-1 they were car.
"9t in the vitinity, and Smith took aihantqe Qf their ere.
lilt, to pay olfwith tb81!1J the debts he and die brelbren had
contracted in the neigllll0!'1*1d for land, &c. The eaatena
«editors, boinnr, ~to take them. Thia led to tlie
upedient ole.zehtulging them for the llOtes of other benb.
Ac~ly1 tll8 elders were sent o~ into the countryto bu.
ter olfJUrtltlDll IDlllley1which they did with great lleal, ud
continued the operation, 1111til the DOtee were not worth
twebe and a halfcents to the dollar. Aa might haYe been
upeotecl, this inatitation .after a few months enloded, iD..
Toiriag Smith and hil brethrea iii inextricabfe diftielll.
ties. ·The comeq-ce W1l8J that lie and mast of the mem-
liers of tile eharoh eet ol'· in the l}lriag af 1838, for Fer
West, Mo., lleiiag punaed by tlleir aediton, but Ml no ef.
fect."-p. 31.-
" As reprda tll• peeuni.~ transactions of the Mormons,
Since they have heeii in Illliiois.-Smit.h still uses his JH!wer
for his own benefit. His preseoi o~tions are to Jllllchaae
land at a low rote, lay it olfinte town lots, and sell &llem at
a high price to his followers. Thus, lots that scarcely cost
him a di>llar are freguently sold for a thouaand. He haa
made severai town in this manner1 both iD Iowa andin Illi·
11ois.''-p. 36.
01, "' ,Google
~~
xxvn.~JosEPH SmTR, Ja;, AND 0111u .Mo1'-
. ru:o~s: ARE NoToaiousLY PaoFANE.
, "James.C. O'wens a [Mormon] witness, produced, swo~
llnd examined, in behalf of "the state, de~th and saith:-'-
In the morning of the day that the militia arrived at Far
West, I heard ,Joseph Smit.h, Jr., in a speech to the Mormon
troops, !Illy, that .they were a d-d sety and God should
d-.-n them, so help him Jesus Christs that he meant to go
on then, as he had begun, and take bis own colll"ae; and ICitt
and DESTROY, and told the men to fia:ht like angels ; ihat .
heretofore be had told them to 6ght liJre devi1s, bUt now he .
told them to fight like angels, 'that angels could whip devils'.
-He awote considetaMy, ud oblerved1 that they might
think that be was swearing1 [!), but tbat God Almighty
would not take noti~e ofhim in cuning sncb a d---d set u
tlley.were."-Cong. Doc. No. 1891 p. 1~.
Testinipny of George M. Hinkle:-
''The ~oming t~t' I inatched out of Far West, to meet
\Ile militia \e CODfer wjth them, as above referred ti>, Joseplr
Smith, Jr., made a speech to the troops who were called to,
gether, in which he said :-That the."°op' which were ga.
Uiering through the country were a d~ .mob. Th11t the
whole State was a mob set; and that, if they eame to fight
him, he would pla.Y hell with their apple carta.
· " While in llaviess; on the last expeditiott; 1 lilentioried
the J!rcat difficulties the course .they wete porsuing would
likety get them· into ; the reply Wai, by a nontber of them
that, as the citizens had all fled, there would be none·t~
prave it by but themselves, aad 'they c0014 ltl'tar tu they
pltalfd in the '114lter. These, I believe, were of the Danite
order. And I uudert;tood from them that tlley could swear
each othet clear, ifit should become necessary."-Jb. p. 24.
XXVIII.-MoaMoN1s111 1s A. BASE IMPOSTURE, DI•
RECTLY OPPOSED TO THE GosPEL OF JEsu$
CHRIST.
" Wbosoever shall lay their bands upotl you by violcocej
ye shall comnumd to~ llf1litttn in my name, and behold,
will smite them, according to your words, in mine own dtU
tinu."-Doc. and-C°"' p. 1)2.
~nd this impious blasphemy is put into the
5•
01, "' ,Google
mouth ()f God l And will any believer in tht
christian scriptures say, that such daring
wickedness as this should not be exposed and
rebuked 1
The book of MoPmOn inlJtitmes new condi•
\ions of salvation:-
" An~ whoso helieveth 11bt in ore 111d la flat fxtptWei1 shall
be damned."-.tb.p. 478.
"Behold, I •Y unto J11C11 that he that SUPJ!Oltlth that littl41
Uildrea 11eedetli llaptism1ill' in the gali of titUefbeu1and ia
the ~nda ofilliguityj for he bath nei~ f~tb1 hope, not
thanty 1wherefore shUuld he be e11t of''lriaile la the tlioaght1
M mtllt go dotDh ttJ Mll.''-Jb,P• 582, .
The cur,se of God is denounced upon all
who reject the nonsenl!e contained in t~
book of Mormon :-
" And he that ahaJi deny theae thiitga let him heilteurau,il
-.Jb.p. 546.
" He that kills 11aall not 1uu7; j'orfiiient# ill this Wllrld, not
in the world to eome.'1-Jb.P• l!U.
" If thine ert'einf trel!DaM ogaibst thee the fbukth tiqie1
\hou 1hatt Net/orgi.t'e Ahii,H~Jb,f, 219.
" ~nfOUB~ yolll'.ehe';Bies ~ cal upon them to ~t you,
both in public and ill ptivate.•l,_Jb. p•.225. .
It would be foreign to our purpose to at•
tempt an exhibition of any considerable pro•
portion of the egregious blunders, contradie•
tions of facts in philosophy and scripture,
which abound in the book of Mormon, and
the Doctrines a~d Covenants. In the latte~
for instance, it is said, page 142:-
"The day of tr~iltWA 1hall i;Qnte1 wbea th• tarlll
shall be lrailfft1ttd11 . · •
01, "' ,Google
I.
.A.gain:"'-
" The measure or man) according lo his creation before
\he world ftS."-.Jb. p. J.9i.
« Enoch was twimty-nff years old when he was ordained)
under the llaod of Adam
1
. and be was sixty-five, and .Adam
bleued hitllt and. he saw be Loni; and lie walked widt liilll\
end wu before his face continually, and he walked with
God three hundred and sixt~ve yean1, making llim ii•
hundted. and thitty yean old whea he was traulated."......lb•
.fl. 85.
The Bi~ (Gen. iv. 23,) gives a very Ga.
ferent aeeeunt of Enooh's age, Ml any one
may see.
But en~gh.
The New Testament \}!Jmtnands ue not to
resist evil, (Matt. v. 39.) The bol>k 'Of Moi•
mon command'$ directJy the ~~rse ~~
" L'et us nriat ft>if; and what-.er e'Vii we cannot resist
with ~ woldS) yea) such as rebe!1jolls alld dilllMlllliona, )eil
VI u:ai'ST THEii WITH OU1l IW'ORnl> '-.;lb.. p. 399•
.XXIX•......AndmBll Dnrtl'fsl11m1w FBATl7Jl£ ot
:Mt>tthtC>NlsM xs, TH~ lllNORAM:E AND BLASPRE•
MY DISPL.A.YBD IN TBB wBITINGS OF ITS Anvo•
'CATES.
Take the following as specimens :- ·
"Behold I,God, havesuffered thisfor alli that theymigbt
not suffer ifthey will repent; but if the}' will not1 they must
suffer even as I; which sufferings ta\lsed me, even God, the
greatest ofall, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at
every porll.''-Ib.p. 175.
What impious blasphemy, to attribute such
language to the lips of the infinite God ! Alld,
01, "' ,Google
indeed, it would be difficult to find one ras,
~age, .i.n any of their writings, that we h&ve
seen, which conveys aQy ·thing like good
sense, to say nothing of the gross violations
ef grammar, which abe>u11.d in th.em.• Look at
~ followiDg :--. . ·
11 He (Christ) is in the 81n11 and the light of the sun, ani
the J,K>wer by which it was made. As alio, he is in the moon,
ad 1a tlle' light oftu moon, and tlie pewer ~ which it was
made. As also, the light of tile .tara,'' &c. "And the
ta.rth, also'," 8:c.-.l'b.p. 100.
" Through tbe redemption whicli' is made fer YOllo· i•
brought to pass the resurrection frein the dead. Andtheapi.
rlt and the body uthe IOU/ ofman, And thi~ from
the dead uthe redmlption of the wul."-lb.
" :Ana t'tl4! stints sJiaD !let filW 'flk11 glory1 (Christ'•) and
be ~lllll with hi.m.'' .
S~ch is. aome 0£ ~e D011i8Dlle and blasphe·
my of Morfilonism. Look, als9, at the follow·
ing, which, like the· ~bove, we are told, is the
language of God himseif! · ·
I' :A.lid;, again, verily, I say uatq y11n, let mt servant Sil·
ney Gilbert plaJit himselfin I.his pJa:ce,aod establish a 8'ort,
tliat lie may sell goods without traud ; thl\t he ma7 obtain
money to boy lanila for the goed of the-sainls." ' ADii let
my servant, Sidney Gilbert1obtain a licentt, (behold here u
wia.Wm, and' whoso readetn, let him onderstand,) that he-
may send goods in unto the people, eren by whom he will,.
as clerks, employed in his service1 onil tllus pro~ide for my
Mints." ·
" Let my servant, William W. Phelps, be pfaut~d'. in thi't
place, and cstabli~bed :is a l'~inter unto the cliur.ch; .and let
all the world receive bis wntmgs, (behold here 1s.wisdom);
let him obtain all he can obtain in righteousnes~, for the
gpod of th& saints. And let my servant, Oliver Cowdery,
assist rum," "to copy, and to eorrectL and to select, tHat it
iDay be rigbt.before me."-Jb.p. 15'1 o.
01, "' ,Google
6'7
·"To ~opy, and to ~orrect1 and to 8el1'et, that
it may be right before me!" Aud, yet, though
ihe book of Monno~ prpfeS$ei to bll.ve been
written by divine inspirati.bn, it i1 full of blun-
den and contradictions, a,.d in this ~espeet,, it
'8 not equaled by any ot~r bo.ok'le ever iea<L
As the reader may not have an opportunity
of examining any of ~ · Mormon books, for
hllnseir, we will here preHDt a few more ex-
tracts from the "Doctrines and Covenants,'t
that he may have a (ull view ol the sublime
mylteries ,of Morm<?ni~ Inatcance ~he fol-
lowing:-
Revelation given April, 1829, to Oliver Cowdery':-" Be-
liold P.lll hilve not llodenitood ; you have •upposed that l
mwit give it" (the translation of the golclen ptates) '' unto
you, when you take no thought,11&ve it weie to ask me. But1
bellold, I say unto you, that :roumust study it out in your
iaindi· that you must Biik me 1fit beright i and ifit is nght,
I wil cause y:our boaorJa •Wl ·tnina Withia you ; then yon
•hall Jul tlult it is right. But if it be not nght, you allall
aot have auch feelings; but then shall have a nupor o/
lhovgftt, that •h•ll cause you toforgtl those thinga whimare
wrong.'' Ib.p. 162.
" Debold I co1q111!1Dd yoa" (H1flllJ1 Smith,) " that you
'need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are
allecl." {!I] 1), p. 168. .
Look at the following,'said to be the word
of God, and of equal authority with the holy
scriptures I
"Varily, hay unto you, let my aervnat,Joeepll Smith, Jr.1
and Sidney Rigdon, take their jonmey, aa 1oon 118 prei>fVa-
tillm can be made to llat:e thtir lwnta, aDdjourney to the land
ef.Mi1SOuri." lb.p. 193.
,,, JhyGoogle
08
. "I the.¥>rd, am willing, if any amo!li you desireth to
nde. upon hors~, O! upon ~' or in cM.r~u, he shttll
nceue the bleSSUllJ ifhe.recel'•e 1t from the haad of the
Lord, with an upright heart in all things." lb. aec. 72. _
"All grain is good for the food-of man, and also the fruit •
of.tlu. tnflll, &hat which yieldeth fruit'wbea in the g?OUDd or
al>ove the ground. Nevertheless,·wh«Jt for man1 and corn for
tile ox, and oata for the horse, and rye for the iowls, and for
swine1 and for all beasts of the field i and barley for all use-
:fiil anunals, and for milddrinks ; ano. all other grain,,, fi.
~~ . .
It is said those me&l' have commenceda new
translation.of our commo11 bil>le, he'1ee the fol-
lowing:-
" It 'is my will th.t :feu·Bhevld 111.ste ta tl'IU9llate DlJ:!
acripture.s1 and to obtain a knowledge of history, and of
tountries, aad ofkingdoms, oflaws ofGod and man, and all
this for the salvation of Zion.'' lb. p, 213:
Fro~ the fol.lowing,. it se~ms Smith and
Rigdon have become wiser· than any of the
prophets or apostles of God :..:.....
. "We, Joseph Sm,ith,"Jr., and Sidney Rigdon, being in th8
11pirit on the 16th of February, in the year of our Lord~ 18321
by thjj power ofthe Spirit QI!' eyes _
were opened1and our wa.
del"!ltalldi.ngs were enlighteaed1 so as to see ana understand
the things of(>od ; even those thiogs which were frqm. the
beginning, beforethe world was.'' lb.p. 226.
The oook of Mormon, they tell us, was writ·
ten and translated by inspiration of God ! An~
of. course, they· were inspired when carrying
it through the press. But this inspiration was
not sufficient to save them from some of the
;veriest blunders a11d Jooathauisms, like the
following~-
01, "' ,Google
\
59
"Bearing down against the church, p. 221. All IJlllllDef
ofgood homely doth, p. 224. Were placed in most danger.
oua circumstances, p. 375. Sent forth to .Preach among the
people, &:c., p. 362. [This is the first tune we ever knew
that God revealed his will by a 1 &:c.'] Somewhat, p. 375.
lt supposeth me·, p. 378. Rations,·p. SSO. Because .of the
•umeroirty of thetr force11 Jl·· 382. The enormity of our
·Dllll'lbers, p. 387. Are a marching, p. 389. ltmatterethnot1
p. 399. The Lord spake and sayeth,p. 7. DwindTu in wme;.
-lief, p. 22. Oae eternal round,p.!3. I saw rumors ofwars,
p.28. Make bellowses, p. 43. Having been waxed str.onser
m battlei p. 247. I am a.man of no.small reputation among
eU those wtio know me, p. 248. As I was.a journelinlr:, 1'.
249. 'fhe foundation is begi~ to be laid, p•.25f. "tli.e
scriptures are before you ; ifye WJ.11 arrest them, it shall be
to your own destruction, p. 260. The walls were rent in
twain,JI· .264. As be was -a going forth, p. 270. He found
Mulak1 a preaching, p. .254. Becometh worse than as though
tley had never kii11wn these UMngs, p. 293. My heart is
brim with joy, p. 296. A tremendous battle, p. 3!1. Neither
Lamanites, nor no manner of ites. p. 515. · Ono continual·
"°'10d of murder, P. 532. He that eathdh this "bread, eatlwth of
my body to their soul, p. 496. I will make thy hoops biass,
p . 497. And be ·W118 m a dowd, p. 541. Never hall lDBD.
come before me, with such exceed.Uig faith as thou hast; for
were it so, ye could not have seen Illy finp, p. 544. Did
moultea. out ofa rock, [! l !] p. 643."
The following are a few of the p}agiarfams
observable in this book ; and no one but an·
ignoramus would think of denying, that they
are bungling attempts to imitate the scripture
style:- ·
" The cold and silent grave from whi~ no traveler can re-
tlll'll," p. 61. . ··i'' ·
"01 wretched man that I iun, p. 500. 'tins which doth ao
easily beset me, p. 70. 1 luiow in whoni I have believedt p.
'70. Days of probation1 p. 81. To be carnally mindea 1s
death, p. 82. Wars ll!l<l rumors of wan, p. 104. Carnal,
sensual, d~ilish, p. 189. Reeurrectien ofendless damnation,
p. 189. Olle faith and.one baptism, p. 193. . Born ofthe spi·
rlt, p. tl4. Must be born again p. 214. Gall of bitteme&s
and bonds ofiniqui.ty1 p. 214. TI!e driven snow, p. :U. 01
01, "' ,Google
,
Jeeaa, tile>$ son ofGod, 1111.ve !Mrcy 011 me, p. 316. Wh-
ever will come may come, and.paitalte of tbe wai.r. of lift
freely, p. 339. For behold, to 011e is given, lty tho Spim,
that bemay teach the word ofw.iaclom ; and to Pll8ther that
.he may teaCh the word oflmowle<Jse &:e., p.686. [~
l Cor. Di. 7, JS.J Stimd fu& a that 'iillerty wberewitb God
.bath made them free, p. 398. Be!ng pievtd for \he hard-
.neu of their hearts, p. l'J. lly l&i.th 011 the 8an ofGod, p.
1 •.13. He ia the Baille :y~day, to.day, 11111 fore'fe!J p. 23.
.Th-v are theTwbic.)l lhall judge 1M twelve tribe• 01.Israel,
·p.11. PWns'l &he nsht wayael1laeJ.or4tP• aG. How tiea.
illid upon the mOutaiul, p. 31. Did Dreadie CIUt -~
~. p. 49. Their torments iUit.ll be u a lake .f
*8 a114 hrilll.ftmae,p. fi."
'l'be book of Doctrines and Covenants is
filled with these mileraWe attempts to imitate
the. scripture .style, and from hundreds or'
others we. aelect .the folldwing ~isms, as
1L matter o{ curiosity, coming, as they do,
fnm a ~olc profesaedly written under divine
iupiratic.n:-
"Let him take with hllll be 6atis weal!." Dot. ad Cttf.
,Jl.!14. . . . • ' II .
"The earth roUs upo11 her wtllg'I. A. p. JO!l.
".Alld thuta1a sball lie80dle ~angry." 11>. p. JCJll.
. " He [the angel] shall 10U,Dd his trump Doth long aal
·Jom\." Ap. l06', US, Jt'J. ·
"Let DGt au be spokesme11at once.'' lb.p..107.
"Art thou 'II. bro\lier, or lmihrm1" A.p. J~
"All eternity is~.'' lb. p. 118.
" Aud from tllenCe wh011110ever I shall go forth lllbODg a1l
UtiOJa.n lb.p. 11111. · . .
"And if thy bro1her or sister oi'eria tliee, thou sbalt take
Win or liar betw1191 bim or hAlr, and thee al<ifte.'' 1.b.p. 125.
"I the Lord~ you' $ia '}llestion,11• Ib.p. JU.
"That lhy faa.ti!ig may~ penect · or1in otMr worb, thllt
thy jCly may be fl}~•. VWily thia is la;u11g imd prayers oc,
• OUtir tOOrb, l't'DOlCUlg ud prarer," lb. p. J~
"Revelatjons" " in other words," are cit
·frequent occ~ce in this book.
• 01, "' ,Google
61
k I the Lotd wilktli." lb.p. 148, . · .
"Veoly, I say, fr»" this once, I have.forgiven your sfns/~
lb.p. J40, . . .
" I the Lord jwtiliah. you-I the Lord God 1118keth you
he." lb..p. 216, !17.- · ·
·'I the Lord ehastelieth liim.'' /1J.p. 221..
"For behold,.and 1o." U1p1282.. .
"Saith eon Ahman I et; m other words; Alphus : ot, ill
e&hetwords, Omegus; eve1t Jes119 E:hrist y!laf Lord." ,Ib.
J'> 234. . .
"It is expedient in me.'1 lb,y ,~,dnd 1114ftV ot""°·placu.
" All they sh&Ube co111f6rted-ll they sh'aR be c~'Wned."
Ib.p.236. ·
"All th'ey thould gott~togetler.'' lb. p. 236.
"And his aemdl\ WeJllt 1111d dom an things wbataoever,"
Ac•. Ib.p.-!188. • .
· ••8hioe·love•1looae/1 l1'1p. tu, ·
And what is the'sense ef the fellowing :-- ·
·' Tliai ye go to makeulle ofthe stewardshipwhich I have
appointed tmto )'QUt e~lll•sive of the sacred thiRgs; for the·
purpose otshine-love iliese eaered tlWigs.1' lb-. JI· !44. ·
.
:XXX.-MoRMO'KS CONTtMPJ..(TE A. COMBINAfION
WITH THE A11tERIOAN INDIANS FOR THE SuBVBR·
st6N oF ·r&B C1v1L GovEBNllBN'P e>F TRIS couM..
TRY1
Out space .wm itot adttixt the testimony
which .we have at command in proof of this
• assertion, We are told that various methods-'
have been adopted by Mormons for the pur-·
pose of corruptiflg 1he minds of different In-
dian tribes, and enlisting them against the go--
ternment of the United States.
Be'sides visiting them in the professed chit-' i ·/
meter of Missionaries, It is· said they have
proposed intermarriages with them, and with
1.om~ success. The following is from Mr.
Harris' papiphlet, before re~rred to :--.~
Vorce of Warning, by Par1ey P. Pratt, e11e of the Twelve
.&.posdes1page 1.861" Thi! Gove111me1u of the United States
has bel!n engqed1 fur upwwts of sev~ y.ears, in gathering
tllll reft!Danfof J<t14!l>h (the Iodlaoe) tp tlie very.pl&ee w~ere
, tlley will fiuµ, build " New JeruaaJem; a cuy of Zion ;.
With the acquisittol\ of the believing Gentiles1wlio IVill p-
ther witti them Croan all the .lla~iOlll of the '8nh ~ ud this'
;atbering 1s 4jlearly predic&ed in the .Btiok of Moraum, ahd
other revelabo~ u~od the place befo~ appointed, and t.he,.
bme set for itr J11l1111D411lt; 8ntl 11x911pt ihe Gentiles reJKlllt 01
all their · ~tio911} ud embniOe the 881118 C0nlltlat1
(namely1 tb;e Book of Monn1111) ·and to1ne into tilt! same
}>lace of gatllering-,t~wf!/IOolt (It ~fr- offtliljace
qf tht land : as it 1s Written by Isai$,' the.nation and king·
dom that Will not eerte thee wll Perish. Yea, those na-
tions shall be utterly wuted.11' It fs further stated in the
llallle werk, thatthe Inaians shall be 811there4, andthatthey,
in comiection with the MonMD91 shall be am~llt the Oe11J
~sJJ!.;'.;~~~!~°!1M~ire;(!ii!:~.~~o~~ ~~~
be," as a tnillg long sine~ aw-y1sad tberemeq\branee·
of it almost gone from tM"
eanb.11
Bot to cap the climu; ~ad thll follo"lflng : "Afl wlto wjll
' hot hearken to th• Book of Mbhn11&, sh&ll be cut otf fro1n
among lhc J*Ople ; 11\d tbat ioo1in the.dl!.y it tomes fotth to
the Gentiles and is tejected by them." And not only does
t,hi,s ~ sel the tittle for the Otltf"thl'otD 4Jf-:~nt,
Ud arr ot/w GentiU Go!JernmlnU on the AllEllttA1' Col'ITI•
iu:n:, 1Nt die -ny and IUUIS of thla tdll:t' ~ are
clearly roretold; namely, the remnatttof J•cob (nr :ttldians)
ltill go 111iroutll aml>og the Geutilea 1111cl lttlr tlwm In pttrt8
like a lion among the ftoeb of she11ti. Their band shall be
lifted UJ> 11poll their adversaries\ anlf all ·their ellemies shall
bt cuto;f. 'l'his de1muctioa inc ude11 an·utter ovetthrow,and
de!l0lat1on of all our cities1 forts anlfstrong-holds-an entire
MflihUatkm of Of.Ir ract, except such as embrace the Cove-
nant, nod are numbered withlsrael ! I ! " Alld I will state,
!ls a prophecy, that there will not ~ dn unhelktnn~ Gentile on
tMfo.ct'fJ,f tlaU cqnffn"!t.Aftvyeara IUnu i.and if they~ ll!lt
ltreatly 1courged ud m a great measure overthrown w1tbm
ii.ve .<»"ten ~ {rom this date. (i8S8) thell the Book of
M;onnon•ill have proved itself falsea" This last quotation
.,... Jiom·l'nit•s" Jlbrmollisal Ulilaild, or Tmh Vjadi~
01, "' ,Google
