{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__lewis___rosicrucian_principles.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Principles","mylang":"de"}
T^OSICRUCIAN
PRINCIPLES
FOR THE HOME
AND BUSINESS
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis
Rosicrucian Library
Volume No. II
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
Publishing Department, AMORC College
W
\c\zc\
Copyright 1929
By AMORC
First Edition
March, 1929
Second Edition
May, 1929
Printed in the U. S. A.
i
ft/*?
DEDICATED
V V V
to the student of all natural and
spiritual laws who remembers
that the Great Master
Jesus taught the first
lessons in the art of
living a practical
and useful life
among
men
V
THE R0SICRUC1AH LIBRARY—
Volume I. Rosicrucian Questions and An'
swers and Complete History of the
Order.
Volume II. Rosicrucian Principles For the
Home and Business.
Volume III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
Volume IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In preparation.)
Volume V. "Unto Thee I Grant."
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
Volume VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
Volume VII. Self Mastery and Fate.
A Vocational Guide.
(In preparation.)
Volume VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
Volume IX. Rosicrucian Prayers.
(In preparation.)
Volume X. Rosicrucian Healing.
(In preparation.)
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete catalogue.)
Contents
♦
PACE
Introduction 9
Introducing the Author 15
Chapter I
The Truth About Affirmations . . . . 19
Chapter II
The Cosmic and You 29
Chapter III
Mental Alchemy 39
Chapter IV
Commanding Cosmic Help 61
Chapter V
Securing Money 79
Chapter VI
The Attainment of Wealth 105
Chapter VII
Seeking Employment 1 19
Chapter VIII
Impressing Others 139
Chapter IX
An Unusual Help in Need 155
Chapter X
The Law of Compensation 171
Chapter XI
Attracting Patronage 189
Chapter XII
The Round Table 207
Introduction
■
Soon after the reestablishment of the Rosicru'
cian Order in America for its present cycle, hun'
dreds of the members petitioned the Supreme Offi'
cers for special information relative to the applica'
tion of the Rosicrucian principles to business
affairs.
Rosicrucianism, as presented by the AMORC
in America and other lands today, is a practical
philosophy, a science of demonstrable laws. The
Rosicrucians were always practical men and wee
men, laboring with nature's laws for the sole pur'
pose of improving their own, and others1 lives here
on earth, now. Hence the Rosicrucians had naught
to do with speculative philosophies, hypothetical
problems, and fantastic theories. They worked in
their laboratories, solving the chemical and physi
cal mysteries of the material world as well as con'
centtating in their sanctums on the development
of their personal, latent, dormant faculties.
According to the Rosicrucian standard of living,
each man and woman should attempt, by every
means that is ethical, moral and Cosmically ap'
9
Rosicrucian Principles
proved, to succeed in life, enjoy health, happiness,
the material luxuries, and the comforts of physical
existence as well as seek to attain spiritual Peace
and attunement. In fact, the Rosicrucians have
ever held that to truly fulfill the mission of our
existence here on earth, and thereby carry out the
Divine Will, no man and no woman should slight
or negate the material or worldly obligations which
are bounden upon all of us, but master them, meet
them, and make an eminent success of our earthly
careers. This, say the Rosicrucians, will bring us
more truly in contact with the universal laws of
nature and attune us more consciously with the
universal scheme of things than living a life of
speculative abstraction or spiritual monasticism.
Every one of the Masters of the Great White
Brotherhood has devoted the larger part of his
earthly life to the application of his knowledge
for the alleviation of suffering, the advance
ment of learning, the promulgation of science, and
the achievement of worldly happiness and pros'
perity. Each has contributed to these elements of
our life by and through intimate contact with the
problems of our existence and association with men
10
For the Home and Business
and women struggling to live an exemplary life
of a "light on earth." None ever lost the human
touch, the companionship with his earthly breth'
ren, nor the opportunity to work out, in a material
way, the solution to man's actual physical prob
lems.
It is but natural, therefore, that students of the
Rosicrucian teachings would become imbued with
this practical standard of living, and seek more
information relating to the solution of their per'
sonal problems. The organization expected, and
even anticipated this, and glories in the fact that
with all the schools of speculative, abstract, urt'
practical philosophies operating today, the Rosicru'
dan Order once again shows its unique and distinct
place in the lives of humans by meeting a demand
more important and more useful in the pursuit of
health, happiness, and Peace than any other.
Among the most important problems facing men
and women today are those which relate to success
or prosperity in the business world. Success in
such matters does not always mean the attainment
of great wealth, although this is neither impossible
nor undesirable; nor do success and prosperity in
11
Rosicrucian Principles
business include a selfish heart and a greedy motive.
Most men and women in the business world to
day—especially those who are of the type and mind
to become students of the Rosicrucian teachings-
are in business because they enjoy its activities,
seeking to contribute to the world's progression',
and desiring to meet their obligations, fulfilling
their duties, carrying on what seems to be their
mission in life, and enjoying sufficient prosperity
to be able to help others as well as help themselves.
Surely, no higher motive can actuate any being in
any endeavor or aspiration.
These persons deserve to succeed, for their sue
cess and prosperity in the business world will help
business generally and will bring happiness and
Peace to others. For this reason the Rosicrucian
Order realizes its own duty and obligation, and is
happy to aid and guide, to the best of its ability,
its members and friends in attaining success in
business matters.
To carry on such aid in a practical manner, it
was found necessary to establish a "Business Ad'
visory Bureau" of a national and international
character. With men and women well trained in
12
For the Home and Business
the special application of Rosicrucian principles
to business problems serving in this Bureau, it has
been possible to advise and aid thousands who
have attested to their increasing success, and
affirmed their debt of gratitude to AMORC.
13
Introducing the Author
Many years ago the Imperator of the AMORC
for North America was selected by prominent
business men in New York and other cities as
their advisor in special matters. His unusual ability
to sense conditions intuitively, his ready contact
with the minds of others and with the universal
mind of the mass, plus his strange ability to direct,
or engineer, the successful issue of the most in'
volved and difficult plans, attracted the attention
of many men of large affairs. He soon became the
"silent partner" in many corporations and organi'
zjations, accepting only donations toward the great
work of AMORC as his compensation. In what'
ever city he traveled in behalf of the work of
AMORC he was sought by business men and
women for short consultations, and it became
notable that whenever Dr. H. Spencer Lewis gave
his approval to a plan and said that he would use
his "methods" to bring the matter to a conclusion,
there was eminent success.
After a number of Better Business Bureaus,
Boards of Trade, Business Guilds, Clubs and
15
Rosicrucian Principles
Societies had invited Dr. Lewis to speak at their
weekly or monthly sessions, he was importuned to
prepare a series of weekly talks to be delivered to
one of the largest classes of business men and wo
men ever called together to hear a man speak on
the mystical principles involved in "good business."
These lectures enabled the attendants to achieve
such unusual success in their personal affairs that
the reports of the results spread from city to city,
from one business man to another.
Many hundreds of requests have been received
weekly from all parts of the United States asking
that the original lectures given by Dr. Lewis be
reproduced. Business magazines offered to publish
them serially, and book publishers likewise offered
good sums for the exclusive right to commercialize
them.
It was decided, however, by the Imperator him'
self, that the plan suggested by the Supreme Secre
tary was more in keeping with the ideals of
AMORC and that instead of permitting any pub'
lishers to issue and sell these lecture lessons at a
great profit as a commercial venture, the "Business
Advisory Bureau" of AMORC should issue the
16
For the Home and Business
matter in a small book to sell at a nominal price
with a nominal profit, which profit could be used
by AMORC in its various welfare activities.
The present book is the result of this decision.
The original lectures given by Dr. Lewis have been
augmented, revised and extended. None of the
secret teachings of the Rosicrucian Order are pre
sented in their fullness, but every mystical way is
utilized. Therefore this book can be used by mem'
bers of the Order or their friends.
We would remind each reader of this book that
the complete teachings and full work of AMORC
are not represented by the few laws and principles
applied in the lectures given in the following chap'
ters. In fact, the principles and formulas used for
the lessons in this book were extracted from the
hundreds of lessons of the AMORC which deal
with scores of other vital matters, such as the
development of latent abilities, the awakening of
dormant talents, and the building up of such func
tions as intuition, mental creation, healing powers,
Cosmic attunement, prophecy, and other powers
which enable men and women to master their lives
and succeed in being healthy, prosperous, and
17
Rosicrucian Principles
happy. Such complete instruction is given freely
to those who are members of the organization, but
cannot be published in books for public circula'
tion.
An interesting book, "The Light of Egypt,"
will be mailed to any person who is not familiar
with the purposes and activities of the Rosicrucian
Order in America and other lands. There is no fee
or obligation required to secure a copy of this book,
except that the inquirer be sincere in his or her
desire to live a better life and help others live a life
of more abundance.
To our members we offer the present book as
an auxiliary to their studies, containing the spe-
daily helpful principles assembled in a handy form
for ready reference. Letters of comment will be
greatly appreciated by
The Supreme Secretary.
AMORC, the Rosicrucian Order,
Rosicrucian Park ' ' San Jose, California
18
Chapter I
THE TRUTH ABOUT AFFIRMATIONS
HE late French psychologist, Coue, did
not introduce anything new into the
American popular misunderstanding
of psychological principles when he
promulgated his prettily worded affirmation, "Ev
ery day in every way I am getting better and
better."
In the Occidental world generally, the value or
usefulness of affirmations to affect one's physical,
mental, or material conditions, has been greatly
misunderstood, and the same may be said of the
real fundamentals of applied psychology.
The Orientalist, long familiar with the mystical
laws of life, is quite aware of the fact that the
mere affirmation of wealth or health will not bring
these desirable things into the environment where
they do not exist. The real mystics of every land,
and especially those who have been thoroughly
trained in the Rosicrucian principles, know that
certain affirmations under certain conditions have
19
Rx)sicrucian Principles
some value and a real place in the scheme of things,
but they also know that an untrue or unsound
affirmation is not only valueless, but really detri
mental.
How can the affirmation: "I am in perfect health
and in complete attunement with God," have any
effect upon the physical condition of a person who,
at the very moment of making the affirmation, is
suffering from pain, due to some diseased or ab
normal condition?
Pain, as we shall see later on in another chapter,
is not something that should be affirmed out of
existence as a condition unwarranted by nature and
unauthorized by God. It is one of God's own crea
tions and a perfectly natural thing when the body
is diseased, or in some abnormal physical or mental
condition. Pain always has a cause for its existence,
and a reason for its manifestation. The cause may
be unnatural; it generally is unnecessary. But pain
as a result of disease is perfectly logical, natural,
and a Divinely authorized principle. To affirm,
therefore, that one has no pain when pain is quite
manifest, is attempting to deny the existence of
something that not only logically exists, but which
20
For the Home and Business
has a good purpose for its existence, and a motive
which will serve us and help us if we but realize it.
Therefore, not pain, but the cause of the pain
should be considered as the undesirable condition
to be relieved.
But disease or any abnormal condition of the
mind or body cannot be relieved by affirming its
nonexistence.
Poverty and failure in business and material
affairs cannot be altered by the affirmation that
these conditions do not exist, and are only imag'
inary things, to be swept out of the consciousness
and cleansed out of the mind by a denial that they
are there.
For a man or woman who seeks relief from debt
and solicits the Cosmic aid in having an abundant
supply of necessities, to affirm that "I am not in
debt, and I have the richness of the Cosmic at my
disposal," is merely to attempt to stultify the con'
sciousness of the existing conditions, and to so
charm the objective mind by a false picture of
imaginary conditions that, for the time being, all
effort to relieve the situation in the proper way
is cast aside, and in an attitude of self'induced
Rosicrucian Principles
hysteria, believe that all is well and that there is no
need for effort or even thought in any other direc
tion.
The man or woman who has become an addict
to the drug habit, and who shuts out the worries,
trials, and problems of the hour by the induction
of sleep or the stimulus of a flighty imagination,
with all of the glorious pictures of wealth and con'
tentment, is no less a victim to a false practice
than the one who affirms the non'existence of real
conditions and proclaims the actual existence of
imaginary bounties.
As may be judged by the foregoing remarks,
the mystic who is really familiar with the laws of
Nature and the operation of the Cosmic methods,
knows that his dominion over his affairs and the
use of his will to regulate his conditions, must be
directed toward changing causes of conditions
rather than denying the manifestations of the
causes.
The misunderstanding regarding affirmations
came about through the miscomprehension of the
Oriental and mystical conception of the funda'
mental laws of psychological consciousness.
22
For the Home and Business
The real mystic knows that it is wrong and
unsound to outwardly or inwardly admit the ex
istence of a condition which is not real. He will
not admit that he must continue to suffer pain or
suffer from disease or suffer from poverty or the
lack of necessities. He will even go so far as to
deny these things the power to enslave him. He is
quite positive in his negation of the omnipotent
power assigned to material things of this earth life
to control his living and to limit the enjoyment of
the Cosmic blessings.
But the mystic denies these things and rules
them out of his life, not by affirming that the mani'
festations do not exist, but by affirming that these
things shall not continue to be and are not what
they seem to be, and must submit to his will.
In later chapters, we shall see that just as pain
is a natural result from a cause, so poverty and a
lack of the necessary things or even the luxuries
of life is a result of a cause, and the cause must be
affected.
When one suffers from the agonizing pain of
toothache, it is indeed foolhardy and entirely incon'
sistent with Cosmic and natural law to affirm: "I
23
Kosicrucian Principles
have no toothache, and am at peace with the uni'
verse." Such an affirmation neither affects the
toothache as a pain, the cause of the toothache and
its pain, nor anything else connected therewith.
Nor does it bring about any substantiating proof
that the sufferer
is,
at the time, at peace with the
universe. The practical mystic, who does not dwell
in the clouds of hypothetical postulations and
ethereal speculations based upon theories discov
ered by eminent founders of new schools of psy
chology, knows that he must direct the use of his
will power, and the magnificent creative forces of
his mind, to the immediate alteration of the con'
dition which
is
the real cause of the pain in the
tooth; and thereby relieve the pain without giving
it
any undue considerations in
a
negative sense.
The mystic thus informed stops his suffering and
brings
it
to an end, and quickly demonstrates that
he can be "at peace with the universe," and truly
is
"a child of God's love," by ^establishing the
harmonium in his body through the removal of the
cause of disease and suffering.
The man or woman who
is
without the im'
mediate necessities to meet
a
material emergency
24
For the Home and Business
of either a financial or any other form, will find
that the affirmation of "I need have no concern
for the abundant supply is mine," brings no relief
and simply inhibits as well as prohibits such action
on the part of the individual as would actually
bring about the desired relief.
In the following chapters of this book, which
are really specific and practical lessons in the appli'
cation of certain mystical laws, the proper use of
the proper affirmations will be explained. It is the
purpose of this preliminary lesson to remove from
your mind the misunderstanding and the miscon'
ception that may exist regarding affirmations as
generally promulgated by popular lecturers, who
are generally less informed regarding the mystical
laws of the universe than they are about the super'
stitious beliefs of a multitude of persons, who think
that a few lessons in psychology will furnish the
key to the mastership of all of life's problems.
Therefore, whatever you may have read or
learned about affirmations should be set aside if
you would succeed with the instructions given in
these lessons. If you have become so fond of the
use of affirmations through an intimate acquain'
25
Rosicrucian Principles
tance with them, and because of their alluring at'
tractiveness you cannot reject all that you have
read and learned about them, at least take these
pretty beliefs of yours and wrap them up for the
time being; place them in your treasure chest
among the family heirlooms and rare possesisons
of this material world, until such time as you have
become familiar and well acquainted with the new
er ideas contained in this book. Then, after you
are as intimate with these new principles as you
are with the others, you may occupy a rainy Sun'
day by taking the old ones from their hiding places
and comparing them with the newer ones, and
decide for yourself which you shall make your
real jewels and your ornaments of life. But until
you are as well acquainted with the use of the new
tools as you are with the old ones, and until you
have given the newer principles as much time to
prove their efficacy and demonstrate their power
as you have given the older ones in your hopes
and frustrated realizations, you are not competent
to judge which will serve you best, and you will
not be fair to yourself in rejecting what is now
offered to you.
26
For the Home and Business
Therefore, proceed with these new ideas with
an open mind, and give them an opportunity to
register their logical basis and appeal to your com
mon sense without bias or prejudice, .and you will
soon find that you have contacted a new world
of possibilities and a new life of realities.
27
Chapter II
THE COSMIC AND YOU
HERE are two very universal ideas
associated with the practical applica'
tion of psychology and metaphysics
in the Occidental world which are
generally associated with affirmations, and with
conscious or subconscious ideas held by those who
are seeking the blessings of the Cosmic.
One of the ideas is that each one of us "is at
one with God," or "a child of God's perfect mani'
festation." The other idea is that "the abundant
supply of the Cosmos is at our disposal," or "the
blessings of God are mine."
With both or either one of these ideas as a fun'
damental belief, it is natural for a man or woman
to feel that suffering and pain, disease and
ill
health,
poverty or the lack of the necessities in life, are not
only essentially wrong but due entirely to some
trick of the mortal mind or some lack of realization
of Divine or Cosmic contact.
If
it
were true that
ill
health and suffering or
disease were the result of some mental trick of
29
Rosicrucian Principles
the mortal mind, or some aberration of the mortal
mind's memory of its Divine attunement, then we
would be justified in believing that it would be
necessary only to untrick the mind, or to establish
a conscious realization of Divine attunement in
order to cleanse the body or the consciousness of
all suffering, disease, and pain. In other words,
if all pain and suffering were the result of some
false reasoning on the part of the mind, and both
the cause and the manifestation of disease and pain
were the reactions of a false belief within the mor'
tal mind alone, then it would be logical to con'
clude that the cleansing of the mind's conceptions
and the repeated affirmation that disease and pain
do not exist will alter the conditions and leave one
free from all suffering.
But such is not the case, fortunately. I say
fortunately, even though on the face of the matter
it would seem that it would be a very fortunate
thing if all disease and suffering were the result of
mere mistaken beliefs in the mortal mind, for they
would seemingly leave healing and health easily
attained. But it is fortunate that such is not the
case, for it would eventually demonstrate the
30
For the Home and Business
superior possibilities of the dominion of mortal
mind over the will of man, or over the fundamental
and natural laws of the universe.
And man is ever and anon subject to natural
laws and spiritual laws, all of which are laws of
God.
Man cannot change, regulate, or modify, least
of all negate and set aside any of the natural laws
or any of the spiritual laws. He must abide by
them! But he has the will, and with it the privi'
lege and power of using natural law, and spiritual
law, to regulate his life. He must abide by these
laws, and he may cooperate with them or run
counter to them. Nevertheless, he is ever affected
by them, and his hope and salvation from disease,
pain and suffering, poverty and discomfort, lie in
cooperating with natural and spiritual laws and
applying them to his own advancement and per'
fection, rather than running counter to them.
Disease and suffering, poverty and discomfort,
are invariably the result of the violation of natural
or spiritual laws. The sufferer, or the victim of
circumstances, may not always be the one who
has violated the law, for it is true that "unto the
31
Rosicrvician Principles
third and fourth generation will the law make itself
manifest." But regardless of the cause and regard'
less of who violated the laws, the sufferer there
from and the victim thereof has it within his or her
power to adjust the conditions by directing, in his
or her behalf, the operation of other natural and
spiritual laws, and living in harmony with them.
It is perfectly true that as human beings we are
the highest expression of God's creation. It is also
true that being created in His spiritual image, we
are children of His Consciousness and an intimate
part of His own being. Therefore, it is more than
a mere logical conclusion that we are children of
love, perfectly created, and having within us the
■
creative powers and the essential goodness and
Divinity of God's own Consciousness. But this
alone is not sufficient to prevent the development
of disease within our bodies, or to keep us contin'
ually healthy and happy, regardless of our own
voluntary actions and our methods of living and
thinking. Man may create a perfect piece of ma'
chinery, and if it is misused, or if it is allowed
to be neglected or injured, it will cease to be the
perfect thing it was or could be.
32
For the Home and Business
It is useless to argue the point as to whether
God also created evil and disease, suffering, pain,
and poverty, as the opposites of all that is good.
The fact is that such things do exist, and what we
should be concerned with in any practical study
of metaphysics or ontology is the cause of their
existence in our own affairs, in our own environ'
ment, or within our own body. Regardless of
whether God created the dark night as well as
the bright day, we know that the night is caused
by the absence of light. And we know likewise
that light will dispel the darkness. We know
these things because they are demonstrations of
natural law, and spiritual law. And we have come
to realize that to affirm in the darkness that there
is no darkness, results in no effulgence of light.
The mystic may have his symbolical interpreta-
tion of light and may have his metaphysical under'
standing of darkness, but he does not allow his
symbolical light to become a material thing, nor
his metaphysical darkness to become such an equi'
vocal thing that in the midst of actual darkness
he affirms the existence of light, and denies the
existence of its opposite. He knows that there is
33
Rosicrucian Principles
but one thing that will dispel darkness, and that is
light. And he knows that there is but one thing
that will affirm the light, and that is the actual light
itself.
Such it is that a practical mystic, trained in
the Rosicrucian principles, is aware of the fact that
all disease and suffering have resulted from the
violation of natural laws, or the failure to abide
by natural laws through a voluntary disobedience
of their authority.
To return to the familiar toothache, we may
say that the tooth aches because of some cause
within the tooth. The cause is a diseased con'
dition of the tooth or the gums surrounding the
tooth. This diseased condition is a result of the
violation of some law of nature. The violation was
not a metaphysical one, a mystical one, nor a
mere trick of the mortal mind in believing that it
had violated some law.
It is difficult for man to imagine that which
he has never experienced nor realized. The mind
that has never realized the agony of a toothache
cannot conceive or imagine
it,
and produce
through its imagination
a
synthetic demonstration.
34
For the Home and Business
The mortal mind can be conscious of a toothache
only through having the experience. The mortal
mind may give a false eminence to the toothache,
or may attribute to it a mistaken sense of authority,
and it may even credit the toothache with the
right to enslave its victim. But it cannot create
that toothache, nor can it negate it out of exis'
tence. The ache is a pain, and the pain is the result
of a cause, and mortal mind cannot create the
cause nor can it remove the cause.
As we have said in the previous chapter, the
Oriental mystic has used affirmations and his will
power to prevent the mortal mind from giving
undue power and authority to the ache or its cause
to enslave him. He has learned how to negate the
mortal minds acceptance of a false belief in the
power of pain to enslave him, but he has never
prostituted his correct understanding of the use of
such a negative affirmation to the imbecilic prac
tice of positively affirming the non'existence of the
pain itself.
The Rosicrucian, as a practical mystic, with his
feet firmly on the ground during his earthly exis'
tence, and ever conscious of the material laws as
35
Rosicrucian Principles
well as the spiritual laws, used his will in directing
the natural creative forces within his body, and
throughout the universe, to remove the cause of
pain and cure the toothache by curing the condition
which resulted from the violation of some natural
law.
As we have intimated, this is practical rays'
ticism. It is reasonable, rational, and sound in
every way. It neither denies the existence of God
and His means and methods, nor does it aggrandize
the material part of man and make him superior
to the spiritual part of his being.
The abundant supply does exist, not only in
the Cosmic, but throughout all of nature. God
has provided bountifully for all the needs and most
of the luxuries required or desired by every human
being. These constitute the rich blessings which
God promised His creatures and which He has so
beautifully demonstrated throughout all the ages.
Whatever may be lacking in your life, whatever
may be wanting among your needs, exists for you
to possess and to have, and to hold, so long as you
use them rightfully. What you lack is not in your
possession or at your disposal because you have not
36
For the Home and Business
attuned yourself to
it,
or have not attracted
it
to
yourself. Affirming that you have
it
when you do
not have
it,
will not attract
it
nor manifest it. Nor
will the belief that since you do not have
it,
you
cannot have it, affect the fact that you still may
have
it
if
you earn
it,
deserve
it,
or attract
it
and
bring
it
into your consciousness.
All things that man may require are his essen'
tially and potentially, but they may not be his
actually, because of some principle, some law
exercised by him or denied by him which with'
holds the realization of the things that he lacks.
To affirm, therefore, that since we are perfectly
created and perfect in the image of God, we shall
have no disease, regardless of how we think, live,
or act,
is
as inconsistent as saying that regardless
of the fact that
it
is
the middle of the night, and
by natural and Divine law, the sun does not shine,
still the sun will shine because we affirm that the
sun exists and the darkness
is
not.
And to affirm that because there
is
an abundant
supply for all, and essentially every blessing and
bounty of God at our disposal, we therefore have
everything, and lack nothing, while at the time we
37
Rosicrucian Principles
are objectively conscious of our needs, is simply
proclaiming a falsehood and hoping that our own
predicament will be magically changed by a form'
ula that is as unscientific and unsound metaphysi'
cally as anything can be.
Therefore, in a practical way I shall attempt to
show you how we may attract and bring into our
existence the things which we lack, and which our
Divine perfection and the abundant supply have
established for us.
38
Chapter III
MENTAL ALCHEMY
NE of the most popular beliefs in the
Occidental world regarding the appli'
cation of psychological principles to
our everyday affairs is in connection
with the sccalled "art of concentration."
It is generally believed, by those who have
heard the public lecturer propound the simpleness
of modern psychology, that through concentration
upon a specific need some magic processes are set
into action, which bring into materialization the
thing desired. It matters little what the thing may
be, nor when nor how we concentrate upon
it,
for
according to the various lecturers and teachers of
this "art," there are as many methods as there
are teachers who offer their personal instruction.
One public lecturer, renowned for her years of
devotion to the expounding of the simple formu'
las of psychological magic, frankly admits that
after investigating her own private formula for
many years, and examining the reports of her thou'
39
Rosicrucian Principles
sands of paying students, she can guarantee her
concentration method to be sixtyfive per cent effi'
cient! It would seem that if there is any psychology
cal, metaphysical, or mystical law involved in the
"art of concentration,'" one hundred per cent effi'
ciency should be guaranteed as the standard.
Thirtyfive per cent admittedly fail, according to
this one lecturer. My own investigations, and the
reports I have received from perhaps fifty thou'
sand persons who have tried all of the personally
discovered and unique systems of concentration
taught in the "Fifty Dollars for Seven Lessons"
assemblies conducted by these itinerant teachers,
have shown that ten per cent of the tests of such
methods produce results which may be attributed
to the practice.
Yet it cannot be denied that there is an art in
concentrating, and that this art can be used to
bring into our lives the things which we desire or
which we need. There is a method known to the
Rosicrucians which is easily guaranteed to be one
hundred per cent efficient, if used as directed, but
of this I may speak later. The point I wish to make
is that there is nothing wrong with the principle
40
For the Home and Business
of concentration, but there is much wrong with the
system for its use, as presented by those who foster
the false beliefs in the minds of the public that it
is a simple process, requiring no other considera'
tion than that he who would concentrate wishes
for something and desires to turn the wish into
materialization.
It is an easily demonstrable fact that of the many
things we need in our lives, or wish for the most,
those things upon which we concentrate our at'
tention and our thoughts most continuously and
sincerely are apt tc be brought into realization. It
would be a trite thing to say that through concen'
tration upon a desire, we tend to bring it into
realization. But the fact remains that there is a con'
siderable difference between centering our con'
scious thoughts upon our great desire and keeping
it foremost in our consciousness, and the so'called
secret methods of concentrating on each and every
little thing that appears upon the prospective hori'
Son as a necessity or a desirability.
Without doubt, we are more apt to bring into
our lives that thing upon which we devote most
of our attention, or to which we give the utmost
41
Rosicrucian Principles
thought. When we become obsessed with a wish,
a hope, or a desire, to such an extent that it blots
out all other temptations and puts far into the
background all other seeming needs or wants, we
are very likely to make every one of our acts con'
tribute toward the fulfillment or realization of the
wish, and give every possible effort toward a con'
tributing factor in its materialization.
I have found, through conversations with hun'
dreds of individuals who have been especially selec
ted to discuss with me their wants, because of their
importance or their seriousness in the scheme of
things, that there has been an entire absence on
the part of the individual to truly concentrate in
the proper manner upon the thing desired.
Let me illustrate my point with a typical ex'
ample. A young man was brought to me by his
father, who was a very successful banker and
general business man. The son was twentyfour
years of age, and for five years had been employed
in the bookkeeping and record office of one of the
largest lumber companies in the West. The father
had wanted the boy to start at the bottom of what'
ever industry or profession he chose, and had been
42
For the Home and Business
quite satisfied with the youth's connection with the
lumber company when he first secured the position.
But both the son and the father were now restless
because there seemed to be no special opportunity
for advancement with the lumber concern, and the
boy did not care to go into the banking business
or in any other business in fact, but had what
he called a great hope. He hoped to become a good
architect, with a big practice, and with the oppor'
tunity to create wonderful buildings and beautiful
homes. The father agreed that the boy's ambition
was noble, and had offered to pay the boy's way
through one of the universities if he wished to take
the complete course in architecture. But the boy
bad refused the offer, insisting that he would not
have his education paid for nor accept any further
money from his father, but would work his way
through life. I believe that secretly this proud atti'
tude on the part of the boy pleased the father, but
the problem was this: How was the boy to become
an architect?
The boy admitted that he had held this desire
and wish to become an architect for many years.
He said it was his dream, and his hope. He had
43
Rosicrucian Principles
always heard that if one held fast to a belief, a hope,
or an ambition, or had maintained that wish stead'
fastly for a number of years, that it would lead the
person on some path toward the goal desired. Yet
here he was, doing the same work in the same way,
day after day, with no indication that his great
dream was to be fulfilled.
I asked the boy if he had concentrated upon
this great hope or dream, and he enthusiastically
replied that it was the only thing he concentrated
upon day and night. He had no other particular
ambition, he said, and had laid aside all social
desires as dependent upon his success in attaining
his great hope.
Careful questioning revealed that his idea of con'
centration was much like that of the tramp who
sits upon the park bench and looks across the lawns
toward the home of the wealthy man, and wishes
that he could be inside at the dining table to enjoy
the excellent meal and the comfort of the fire
place, and he wishes and wishes and wishes. Un'
questionably every time the tramp is hungry he
wishes he had a meal, and every time he sees others
in comfort and luxury while he is cold and uncom'
44
For the Home and Business
fortable he wishes he had the pleasures of life
which others enjoy. These wishes of his receive
considerable concentration at those times when he
is most impressed with his poverty and discomfort.
But can one say that such intermittent wishing, or
the holding of one consistent desire, constitutes
the art of concentrating?
The young man referred to above admitted that
in the lumber company's office where he worked,
he often met, almost daily, other architects who
came there to secure important data or to discuss
their plans with the executives of the company. He
was constantly brought into intimate contact with
builders and contractors, and he met a great many
persons who discussed in his presence the many
problems of architecture and building. Careful
questioning revealed that he had not concentrated
enough on his great dream to have made the dream
an obsessional desire. The dream had not become
so dominating a factor in all of his thinking and
acting as to have led him into conversation with
other architects as to how he might advance him'
self from his present position, to that of a student
of architecture, without going to college. He had
45
Rosicrucian Principles
not even been tempted by his hope or his dream
to visit architects at their homes, or their offices,
and watch them at work. He had not been urged
by his dream or his hope to borrow any of their
books, or preliminary guides to the art of archi'
tecture. He had not even expressed his dream or
his hope to anyone else, but his parents and one or
two friends. And even his employer did not know
that he was anxious to become an architect, nor did
the draftsman of the lumber concern have even a
suspicion that this young man was anxious to
take up the study of architecture, and thereby be
come a valuable aid to the concern for which he
was working. Concentration, indeed!
There is a considerable difference between con'
centrating upon a dream or a hope, and concen
trating upon the fulfillment thereof.
Had this young man been truly concentrating
on bringing into realization his dream, he would
have talked achitecture, thought architecture, and
acted architecture every moment of his life. He
could not have been kept away from the presence
of other architects, nor away from the drawing
boards, book shelves of architects' offices, and
46
For the Home and Business
draftsmen's rooms. Real concentration on his great
hope would have led him within a year to trying
his hand at making plans and drawings, and he
would have undoubtedly fallen in with those who
would have advised him and helped him, even
while holding his position and earning an income.
Even his employer admitted later that he would
have gladly admitted him to work in the drafting
room in his spare hours, to learn some of the prao-
tical lessons of the first stages of creative building.
Let us take another example. A young man,
nineteen years of age, working in a photographic
studio doing the commonplace work at the average
wages, had occasion to see some special work
brought to the studio to be copied, and its very
nature, beauty and rareness attracted his attention.
He found that the pictures brought into the studio
to be copied were the result of a little known
process, almost secretly used by a few men in New
York City, who had learned the art in foreign
lands and were capable, not only of making the
most attractive and beautiful reproductions of na'
ture ever exhibited in art galleries, but of earning
an unusual income, enabling them to live well and
47
Rosicrucian Principles
enjoy many of the luxuries of life. The young man
became obsessed with the desire to learn this wi'
usual art, and devote himself to it. The idea —
the hope—the ambition —came into birth almost
spontaneously as he listened to his employer's
story of the rareness, beauty, and profits connected
with this fascinating art. For many days, the young
man dreamed about
it,
and gradually his ambition
became an all'absorbing, dominating obsession of
his consciousness. In every spare moment he visited
art galleries and art stores, seeking to view other
specimens of this art. He soon learned that the art
was rare enough and the specimens few and in
great demand. While walking or riding through
the parks or busy streets, his eye was ever alert
to the beauties of nature which might be repro
duced by this unique process. In every magarine
and newspaper he saw pictures or read of incidents
that would be worthy of reproduction
if
he could
use the secret process. During the evenings he
spent every possible moment in libraries, search'
ing for any possible clue that might lead him to
some description of the secret methods. He talked
about
it,
he dreamed about
it,
he lived his hope.
48
For the Home and Business
Every conscious moment was centered upon doing
those things, learning those things, thinking those
thoughts, and arranging those thoughts which
would bring him nearer to his ambition. He was
concentrating in the true sense of the word upon
what he wanted, and there was no mystical, secret
principle about his concentration so far as he knew.
He was unaware of any psychological principles
involved in his devotion to the one dream of his
life. He did not go to fortune tellers, crystal gamers,
palm readers, or card prophets to find whether he
would ever succeed in materializing his dream. He
had no question in his mind, no doubt in his con'
sciousness but what he had selected the mission
of his life, and that it would be realized. Finally
his great urge and concentration led him to locate
the man who had brought the first specimens to
the studio. He found reason to call on him in a
business way with other matters connected with
the art, during the hours when the man would be
working at his process. In hurried interviews with
the man, his eyes registered everything within
sight, with that keenness that comes through real
concentration. He saw labels on bottles, names on
49
Rosicrucian Principles
instruments, imprints on catalogues, in the man's
work room. He hurried to stores, and to factories,
and purchased similar instruments, chemicals, and
other things, little by little as his means afforded.
He experimented by following the very brief and
almost enigmatic instructions that accompanied
each thing he bought, and finally, through medi'
tation, concentration, and inspiration, there seemed
to come to him shafts of light in the form of bits
of wisdom that informed him, as if intuitively, how
to experiment, and what to do. The results were
small, crude specimens of pictures which were far
from being admirable, but were, nevertheless,
unique in their process. Finally he took several of
these to the man who knew the whole art, and the
man was so astounded at the youth's "discovery"
of part of the secret formulas or process of this
hidden art that he unintentionally perhaps, or dip'
lomatically, told the young man where he had
made some errors, and why his work was not what
it should be. This led to further experiments which
produced better results, and within a few months
the young man had evolved a process of his own
which produced pictures equal to those of the
50
For the Home and Business
eminent artist whose work had inspired him. With'
in a year his success in this effort was bringing
him an income and a recognition in the art world,
never equalled by any youth in the past, and within
another year, his dream and hope was being ful'
filled abundantly.
Concentration did it! But it was not the form
of concentration that is taught in "Five Lessons
for Five Dollars," nor learned in a dollar book on
"how to concentrate upon the abundant supply
for your needs."
The Rosicrucians know that to truly concentrate
means to have one absorbing idea at a time, and
to think of it to the exclusion of everything else,
and then let your entire life for the time being, cc
operate with your concentration to bring into reali'
nation the thing you desire.
This does not mean that to successfully con'
centrate, the dreamer or the thinker must take
himself away from his profession, his business, his
duty, or his obligations, and isolate himself in a
cave or on a mountain top where he can do nothing
else but think and meditate upon his one desire.
That would surely frustrate every possibility of
Si
Rosicrucian Principles
fulfillment. Nor does it mean that concentration
should be indulged in only when the mind is free
and the body is at ease before the firseside in the
evening, or upon retiring at night. It means con'
centration in every possible moment of relaxation
from the duties at hand. It means sacrificing every
other thought that is not productive or essential.
It means devoting every spare moment and every
moment that is not absolutely necessary to life and
its duties. It means forsaking the pleasures and
temptations, and the casual things of life, to more
profound and more extended thought upon the one
desire. It means time, for it requires time. It means
effort, for it requires mental activity, not passivity.
It means action, for it cannot be associated with
relaxation and dormancy of the faculties. It re
quires faith and confidence, for the elements of
doubt and suspicion will frustrate every possibility
of fulfillment.
As we proceed with these little talks in the next
chapters, the art of proper concentration will be
made plain and more practical.
One of the most important principles, however,
which must be understood and brought into use
52
For the Home and Business
before concentration becomes useful, is that of men'
tal alchemy. The Rosicrucians of the past were
well known as alchemists preeminently. Not only
have they been accused of having succeeded in
making pure gold out of gross metals and thereby
bringing into realization one of their fond dreams,
but it has been conceded that the Rosicrucian art,
with its unusual teachings and knowledge, enables
its students and adepts alchemically to bring into
materialization everything that they could men'
tally conceive and create in imagination.
Thus they were proficient in the art of mental
alchemy as well as in the alchemy of the crucible
and physical alchemy.
Man alone, of all other creatures, has within
his being creative powers which are a part of the
God Consciousness, uniquely endowed in man. He
has the rare privilege and ability to mentally con'
ceive and create that which he desires to create
eventually in material form. In this process of
mentally conceiving and mentally creating, man is
the equal in some degree of God Himself, since it
is a God'given privilege for man to use the creative
S3
Rosicrucian Principles
powers which brought into existence in this uni'
verse all that is.
But the art of mentally creating is little under'
stood in the Occidental world, and is practiced
almost exclusively by those adepts who are often
considered to be the white magicians of this earth.
I say they are considered the white magicians,
for their magic is white magic, free from evil, and
free from any destructive nature, for the power
which they use is part of the creative power of the
God Consciousness, and this creative power is
incapable of creating that which is evil, or that
which is destructive.
The undeveloped and unevolved mind of man
may conceive of evil and of things destructive, but
man cannot mentally create them with that power
which will bring them into materialization in the
mystical manner by which good and constructive
things will come into material form when properly
created in the mind.
When man conceives of that which is not good,
and seeks to bring it from his mind into material
form, he must labor with the grossly material ele
ments and bring them into irrational, illogical, and
54
For the Home and Business
unnatural relationship, in order to make them mani'
fest as evil in the material realm. But when man
conceives of that which is good, and constructive,
he may mentally create it by the alchemical pro-
cesses of his mind, in attunement with the alchemi'
cal processes of the Cosmos, and through such at'
tunement the thing he created will sooner or later
become manifest outwardly through the creative
processes existing through his consciousness and
his being.
It
is,
therefore, only necessary for one who seeks
an improvement in environment,
a
good element in
his needs, or
a
beneficent item in his possessions,
mentally to create the thing he desires through
concentration and mental visualization. He should
do this day by day, hour by hour, whenever the
time permits, until the thing conceived of and in
the process of creation, becomes
a
living, vital, vi
brating thing of life in his own consciousness.
It
must become so real that its reality
is
omnipresent,
and so effectual in its existence that
it
modifies,
controls, directs, and influences his thinking, his
acting, and his living.
55
Rosicrucian Principles
Such a mental creation soon ceases to appear to
be a thing of the mind alone. When the eyes are
closed, it is clearly seen; when the mind is in re
laxation it takes possession of his being. It is ever
present in all of its forms, color, size, weight, and
power, regardless of its nature. It is like the unborn
in the womb of its parent, ready for delivery into
this material world.
All things which God created were first con'
ceived by God in this manner. All things which
materialize on this earth as blessings for man and
contributions to his essential needs were alchemi'
cally created in the Cosmic before their existence
was projected into material form on this earth
plane. Man must therefore exemplify and emulate
the Cosmic processes and the Divine scheme. He
cannot materialize into this world that which he
has conceived without the proper process of matur
ing development.
In my experience with business men, firms,
boards of directors, and corporations which have
labored falsely and therefore unsuccessfully with
great plans or important matters, I have found
that that which they desired to bring about had
56
For the Home and Business
not been properly conceived in the first place. Seeds
which are lacking in consistent relationship, or
which are impotent in nature, inharmonious in
vibration, or the offspring of evil parents, cannot
be brought together to effect a perfect conception
or to vitalize an idea. And I have found that even
where the conception was complete and more or
less perfect in every requisite, there had been no
period for proper gestation, and no logical, natural
course of development to bring the conception into
a living, vibrant form for final expression.
It is fortunate, indeed, for man that all his
passing conceptions and that all of his mental
images do not take form and parade about him to
enslave his being and clutter the world with the
hermaphrodites of misconceptions. It is fortunate
that only those things can come into being, into
concrete and material realization, which have been
carefully synthesized and developed in the crucible
of the mental laboratory of man's Divine con'
sciousness. But because there is this element of
time, and this necessity for proper development
and maturity, man becomes impatient and seeks
shorter methods and easier ways to bring his
57
Rosicrucian Principles
dreams and his desires into fulfillment. In this he
most surely fails, and through such failure loses
faith and confidence and dethrones the creative
power within him as a pretender.
It is not a difficult thing for the human mind to
visualize in all of its details, that which the mind
can conceive as a thing desired. It must be done
through the concentration of the objective facul
ties, and the use of the will power directed from
the outer self inwardly, as though there were
within the human consciousness a sanctum for the
preparation and creation of all things desired by
man. Little by little, part by part, element by ele
ment, the thing must be put together in its visual'
ized form, and after each addition of each stage
of development, it must be examined, tested, and
tried, to discover if any element has been over'
looked, any part neglected, or any adjustment or
associations of parts and elements wrongly made.
As one would build a house by constructing the
walls, brick by brick, so each part of the thing
desired must be mentally created and visualized,
until it is ready to burst forth in its completed
state and stand in the consciousness of the creator
58
For the Home and Business
as a thing actually existing and in his possession.
So much for mental alchemy—the art of men
tally creating and visualizing the thing desired.
Nothing pertaining to the desire must be over'
looked. One must keep in mind the usefulness of
the thing desired. One must avoid attempting to
create that which has no practical use and which
will bring neither profit nor benefit to anyone.
The dangers from its misuse must be considered
and provided against during the process of creating.
Its benefits to others must be included, and it must
be so created that it cannot fail to be useful to
others, and to be of benefit generally to humanity.
It must be so created or of such a nature that when
it comes into final manifestation objectively, it will
become no charge upon the happiness, peace,
health, and contentment of others, nor carry with
it the sacrifices and sorrow of others. It must be
desired with as little selfishness as is consistent with
the need of the thing. Its possession must be in'
spired by no motive associated with revenge or
anger, hatred or jealousy, pride or arrogance. Its
development and growing reality in the conscious'
ness of its creator should continually inculcate a
59
Rosicrucian Principles
sense of humility and humbleness, for as it comes
into form, the magnificence of the creative powers
of man should make the creator of each thing realize
his obligations to God and his attunement with
God's kingdom.
If all of these things are considered, and made
a part of the process, then truly one may feel that
success and satisfying realization are imminent
and assured.
60
Chapter IV
COMMANDING COSMIC HELP
HE real mystic knows that he must
work through the Cosmic and with
Cosmic law in order to bring about
the realization of his conceived and
visualized dreams and plans. He never forgets
the Cosmic law, and he never fails to take the
Cosmic into partnership in all his plans and desires.
But there is a great difference between com'
manding Cosmic help and demanding Cosmic help.
One may command Cosmic help through one's
worthiness, sincerity, loyalty, and devotion to
Cosmic ideals, but one can never demand anything
from the Cosmic, for the attitude of demanding
would immediately preclude any consideration on
the part of the Cosmic for the wishes and desires
of the petitioner.
Still, we read in many popular forms of applied
psychology, and even in much of the so'called
mystical literature of the day, how one may de
mand of the Cosmic or through the Cosmic, the
61
Rosicrucian Principles
realization, mediate and immediate, of those things
greatly desired. Such an idea is responsible for the
many failures that thousands have had in trying to
bring about concrete demonstrations of mystical
processes.
Before giving you the definite methods for
bringing about certain hopes and ambitions in your
life, I wish to complete these preliminary lessons
by devoting the next few pages to a proper expla'
nation as to how you may secure the co-operation
of the Cosmic, and how you may avoid interfering
with the Cosmic methods for cooperation.
When one seeks the co'operation of the Cosmic
in bringing about a realization of some plan, one
assumes that the Cosmic can help, and since it
knows how to help, and is unlimited in its means
and methods, it would be almost futile to ask the
Cosmic to help in many of the problems which
man has to solve. It is natural to think that no
man or woman will appeal to the Cosmic for help
in regard to a proposition or plan which can be
easily worked out by the man or woman, indepen
dent of the Cosmic. Surely we do not appeal to the
Cosmic for help every moment of the day in
62
For the Home and Business
mastering the minor or routine things of life. We
have learned what our own possibilities as an indi'
vidual are, because of the Cosmic creative powers
resident within us, and most of our daily tasks and
passing problems are solved or mastered without
appeal to the Cosmic. This is precisely as it should
be, and as God and the Cosmic intended it to be.
We appeal only to the Cosmic when our plans
seem to meet insurmountable obstacles, or when
our efforts and endeavors have been frustrated,
and the efforts and endeavors of others around us
seem to be of no avail. The mystic knows that he
should not bring to the Cosmic —which is the court
of last appeal in a mystical sense —any problem
which can be solved without its help.
We must not forget the ancient injunction that
by the sweat of our brow shall we labor and pro
duce the necessary things of life. He who labors
diligently and persistently in an effort to produce
and bring about the things he needs in life, meets
with the greatest success, while he who dreams and
plans and expects the Cosmic to labor for him in
the fulfillment of the things he dreams, is doomed
to failure. Yet that is precisely the situation in this
63
Rosicrucian Principles
country today as a result of the mistaken informa
tion that has been taught and disseminated by so'
called practical psychologists and New Thought
teachers.
As stated above, Cosmic help can be secured and
should be secured at such times when the indivi'
dual is incapable of coping with the situation, and
the situation is one which is beyond human con'
trol, or of such a general nature or intense nature
that too many problems or points are involved for
one mind to master.
Assuming, therefore, that the Cosmic can help
through unlimited means and methods at its dis'
posal, we must realize at once that any attempt
to tell the Cosmic how to bring about the desires
or plans uppermost in our minds, is not only an
imposition on the intelligence and universal wis'
dom of the Cosmic, but it is one of the most fre
quent and positive reasons for the negative results
that are so universally attained.
Let me state this point again, in another way,
so as to give it the utmost emphasis. Since the Cos
mic has unlimited ways and means of carrying out
anything that it decides to do, wishes to do, or
64
For the Home and Business
agrees to do, it is inconsistent and injurious to
the success of the plans to tell the Cosmic how to
work out the solution. However, this is precisely
what thousands are doing in every attempt they
make to secure Cosmic cooperation, and I hope
that this particular lesson from me will prevent
anyone from ever forgetting the fundamental prin'
ciples explained at this time.
Now let me take an example of the wrong me
thod, and see if you can grasp the point in a man'
ner that will register definitely for a long time on
your mind. Let us assume that a man has a piece
of property which he is anxious to release. He
does not wish to carry the taxes and insurance any
longer, and prefers to have the cash so that he
may use it right away to buy railroad tickets for
himself and family, and start for the West. Here
he wishes to establish his home and secure a new
position in order to start life over again under
better conditions and in a better part of the coun
try. He has tried every known method to sell his
piece of property. He has tried real estate agents,
real estate brokers, newspaper advertising, and per'
sonal solicitation. After many months, he has lined
65
Rosicrucian Principles
up a few prospective buyers, but after all is said
and done the total result of his efforts consists of a
prospective sale to one of three persons. One of
these persons would pay him the money immedi'
ately if he could get his case settled in court, which
would bring him enough money to buy the prop'
erty, but the case is in the hands of a referee who
delays in rendering his decision. Prospect number
two would buy the property immediately, except
for the fact that his business is in the hands of a
receiver and he is waiting for cash to come as a
result of a settlement among creditors and others.
Prospect number three is a young man who wants
to buy the property to begin the life of farming,
but his father is in Europe, and will not return for
several months, and the son is waiting for the
father to send him money by mail or cable, but
does not seem to be able to get it. Now then, our
man who wants to sell the property and go West
to live feels that he should appeal to the Cosmic for
help. He proceeds to concentrate on the Cosmic
and to visualize what he would like to have made
manifest. He follows the typical system outlined
in modern psychology courses, and so he sits down
66
For the Home and Business
and projects to the Cosmic Mind his requests and
demands, about as follows: He says to the Cosmic,
"Now I want to sell my property, so that I can go
West and buy a home and start life over again, and
I cannot sell my property unless one of these three
prospects secures his money. Therefore, please help
the man to have the referee make a favorable de
cision, or the receiver to bring about a settlement of
that man's business, or the father in Europe to
send money to his son." Then, our concentrating
friend proceeds to concentrate upon and visualize
the referee working over the legal papers and reach'
ing a decision to release the money that the one
prospect needs. Then he visualizes the receiver
working over his papers and coming to a favorable
decision for prospect number two. Then he visual'
izes the father in Europe reading the boy's letters
and deciding to send the boy the money. After
doing all this, and spending half an hour in con'
centration and visualization, he feels quite sure
that he has made perfectly plain to the Cosmic just
what he wants. And he waits day after day for the
Cosmic to manifest itself and no manifestation
67
Rosicrucian Principles
occurs. Naturally he wishes to know what is
wrong.
Now let us look at this man's problem and see
whether or not he has been doing the right thing.
In the first place, when this man consulted me—
and I have selected this case from an actual occur'
rence —he impressed upon me very strongly the
fact that his great desire was to sell his piece of
property to one of these three prospects so that
he could get the money and start for the West.
That was the uppermost thought in his mind in
all of his concentrations, and in all of his appeals
to the Cosmic. And yet I am sure that each one
of you will agree with me right now when I say to
you that after all is said and done, what the man
wanted least of all was to sell his property and get
the money. In fact, the sale of his property and
the securing of money was not the vital issue or
the real thing that he desired the most. What the
man really wanted was to get out into the West
and start life over again. I convinced him of this
by saying to him, "Suppose you did not sell your
property, but had an offer from a firm in California
to come out to that state and manage one of its
68
For the Home and Business
big factories, and this offer was accompanied by a
promise to pay all your traveling expenses, and aid
you in locating in a nice home. Would you accept
that offer?" He immediately replied, "That is the
very thing I want, and I would gladly accept the
offer." So you see, the real desire of this man's
dreams or hopes was not to sell the piece of prop'
erty . From his limited, material, earthly viewpoint,
there was only one way by which he could get out
West and start life over again, and that was by
selling his property and using the money to carry
out his plans. He never, for one moment, thought
of the possibility that the Cosmic might have other
ways of bringing about a fulfillment of his desires.
In other words, his desire was to get out West
and he had sat down and reasoned it out, and
figured it out from his point of view and had de
cided, arbitrarily and finally, that there was only
one way for him to master his problem, which
was by selling his property. Then he proceeded in
all the rest of his thinking, planning, and concen'
trating, to use his arbitrary decision, his final con'
clusion, his reason and judgment, as being the ulti'
mate, the perfect, the only way to bring about a
69
Rosicrucian Principles
realization. Having once decided this way, he pro'
ceeded then to tell the Cosmic that it should or
must accept his decision, his plan, his solution, and
work it out for him. Certainly that is an imposition
upon the Cosmic, and at the same time it was the
worst thing he could do to bring about the realize
tion he expected.
In other words, the man was appealing to the
Cosmic to sell his property, instead of appealing
to the Cosmic to help him to get out West and
start a new life. Or, in another way, we may say
that he was saying to the Cosmic, "I want your
help in bringing about a realization of my plans;
but listen, Cosmic, I have decided how it should
be done and how it can come about, and how you
should assist. I am going to tell you just what I
want you to do, and I want my plans fulfilled in
just this way and no other. I do not want you to
drop any money out of the sky into my lap. I do
not want you to have any money come to me
through a will or through a gift, or through any
other channel, but through the sale of my prop'
erty. I do not want you to send me railroad tickets
through some firm that would like to have me come
70
For the Home and Business
West. I do not want you to give me the railroad
tickets through some banking institution that
would help me to go out West. I do not want you
to have a representative of a western company call
on me and offer to pay my expenses, but I want
you to give me the money solely through the sale of
my property. I do not want you to have any com'
pany offer me a position or a home in the West.
I want to go out there with my family, and hunt a
position, find one in my own way, and bring about
that end of the plan through my own efforts. I do
not want you to do anything unique or original
that I have not thought of, but simply follow out
my instructions and then I will know that the Cos*
mic is my partner."
Now I will leave it to the common sense of my
reader as to whether or not such reasoning and
such appealing to the Cosmic is apt to bring the
desired results or not. The proof of my contention
lies in the fact that after I had talked to this man
and pointed out the limitations that he was putting
around the solution of his problem, and the dicta'
torial attitude he had taken toward the Cosmic, he
went home and proceeded to concentrate in the
71
Rosicrucian Principles
proper manner, and succeeded in having his hopes
fulfilled abundantly. He concentrated on the fol
lowing picture: He saw himself and wife traveling,
not particularly by train or by automobile or in
any definite form, to the West. He pictured him'
self meeting a group of men who offered him a
good position. He saw his wife and himself enter'
ing into a cozy home, without attempting to visu'
alize that home with a porch or without a porch,
two stories high, or one story high, painted red or
painted green, with big yards or little yards,
but just a home, comfortable and in accordance
with what he actually needed. This is all that he
had in mind when he concentrated, and appealed
to the Comsic. He was absolutely indifferent as to
whether he bought the tickets or someone else
bought the tickets; whether he went this week or
next week; or what part of the state of California
he reached or what kind of a position it was that
was offered to him. All of these minor details and
ways and means he left entirely to the Cosmic.
What was the result? One of his friends who
had casually written to an acquaintance in the
West about this man's desires, received a letter
72
For the Home and Business
stating that there was an opening in a new shoe
factory to be established in the West, and since
this man had been a former superintendent of a
shoe factory, there was a possibility of a position
for him. This letter from the West was shown
to the man who was concentrating, and he wrote
direct to the new factory in California and was
offered the position, plus an advancement of his
salary sufficient to bring him and his family to the
West. In twelve days he was on the train west'
ward bound. Precisely three weeks after he had
reached the West and was settled in his new home
and new position, a real estate firm in New York
notified him that a large corporation heretofore
unconsidered as a prospect for the buying of the
property had made a very large offer for his prop-
erty, and that the offer had come "out of the blue."
Hence our man found himself comfortably and
happily settled in a new home, in a new position,
and in a new part of the country, plus a nice sum
of money which he could put away in a savings
bank and hold for a rainy day. All of his dreams
and hopes had been fulfilled, and even more, and
yet not one detail of the realization was anything
73
Rosicrucian Principles
like he had been concentrating upon in his original
attempts to demand of the Cosmic its ccoperation.
In another illustration: A widow sought a defi'
nite means to earn an income in order to support
her fourteen'year'old son so that he might continue
at school, go on through high school, and prepare
himself to support his mother and keep up the
home. Before appealing to the Cosmic for help,
she also reasoned as to the proper way of bringing
about her hopes, and she decided after talking with
a number of other women, that there was only
one thing she could do to earn an income, and
that was to make paper flowers and have her son
either peddle them or deliver them to some stores
or novelty shops in various parts of the city where
she lived. She had reached this conclusion by anal'
yring herself and determining, as she explained to
me, that since she had no business training, knew
nothing of stenography or typing, and was not an
artist or musician, there was no other way for her
to earn an income. In other words, after fifteen or
twenty minutes' self analysis, she was fully con'
vinced that she knew all about herself, knew all she
could possibly do in this world to contribute to its
74
For the Home and Business
needs or to produce anything of usefulness. I may
say, in passing, that that is one of the big mistakes
a great many persons make in connection with theii
personal problems. They attempt to decide what
possibilities they have in this world. They believe
themselves to be the best judges, even better than
the Cosmic or God Himself. And whatever con'
clusions they may reach regarding their capabilities
and limitations is always ultimate, final, supreme,
and quite definite. It never dawns upon the minds
of these persons that there may be a higher and
better judge, or that there may be an intelligence
that knows better than any living being just what
they can do in life. It never seems to come to the
minds of these persons that each one of us has a
certain mission to fulfill in life, that in order to
fulfill this mission there are various means by
which it may be brought about, and that God or
the Cosmic may know more about this than we do.
However, the widow referred to proceeded to
concentrate day after day for several weeks, asking
the Cosmic to help her boy dispose of these paper
flowers, which were very poor in quality and un'
attractive in finish because of her inexperience.
75
Rosicrucian Principles
The poor boy was neglecting his studies and tiring
out his young body trying to sell these flowers
from place to place. He had very little success, and
as the family funds became exhausted, and the cold
weather threatened many days of suffering and
privation, the widow came to me in desperation
and explained her problem. She wanted to know
how to get the Cosmic to help her sell flowers!
All she could think of was the sale of flowers, and
the continuance of her efforts to make and dispose
of them.
When I asked her why she wanted to sell flowers,
she said it was because she wanted to earn an
income. When I asked her why she wanted to earn
an income, she said it was so she could maintain her
home and let the boy go to school. When I asked
her why she wanted to maintain the home and let
the boy go to school, she said it was because she
wanted him to complete his education and be able
to go into business and then support her. So we
see that after all her real problem was not that
of selling flowers, but of keeping her boy at school
and maintaining a home. But that was not the
picture she had presented to the Cosmic. That was
76
For the Home and Business
not the picture she had concentrated upon. She
had been asking the Cosmic to help bring about the
ultimate desires of her heart, but at the same time
she had been telling the Cosmic that it could only
be done through selling flowers. Since the Cosmic
probably did not agree with that plan or that de'
cision, it did not cooperate. It had ways and means
of its own of bringing about her desires, but since
the widow had limited the Cosmic's co'operation
to the method of selling flowers, the Cosmic offered
no other form of help.
After explaining to this good woman how to
concentrate upon the real desire of her heart, and
how to refrain from thinking about the method
the Cosmic should use in working out her problem,
it was brought to a manifestation in one week, and
this is what happened: Another family living in
a very fine home, a half mile away from her, en'
gaged her as housekeeper with the understanding
that the boy could live in the home as companion
to another boy, the only child that lived in the
big house. The son continued at school, and the
widow continued to live more comfortably, freer
from worries, and doing more constructive work
77
Rosicrucian Principles
for the two boys, and the couple who had engaged
her, than she could have done for anyone through
the making of paper flowers. The solution of her
problem was one that she had never conceived of,
and one which had never been suggested to her.
These two illustrations should make it plain to
you what I mean by concentrating on the ultimate
desire of your dreams, the eventual hope in your
plans, without limiting the Cosmic to ways and
means of bringing it about.
In all of the explanations given in the following
pages, for seeking Cosmic help, it should be kept
in mind that the fundamental principle outlined in
this lesson should be carefully followed.
78
Chapter V
SECURING MONEY
NE of the two most often desired gifts
from the Cosmic
is,
perhaps, that of
money—actual cash. The other
is
health.
It
is
strange indeed that in the ultimate analysis
of most of the cases where petitioners are asking
the Cosmic for money we discover that
it
is
not
the actual cash in dollars and cents, or gold or
silver that
is
desired, but the credit. There
is
a
considerable difference between securing credit in
order to enable one to purchase, buy, or secure
certain necessities, and the possession of the actual
cash in material form for the same purpose. And
from the Cosmic point of view, there
is
also
a
con'
siderable difference.
We would hardly think that anyone believes
that the Cosmic conducts
a
bank and has in its
vaults gold and silver, copper and nickel, as well as
paper, in the form of coins and bills of all denomi'
nations, and of all countries.
It
would seem that
79
Rosicrucian Principles
only the child mind would conceive of the Cosmic
being able to deposit into the hands of a petitioner,
like hailstones from the sky, actual money. The
moment one realizes that the Cosmic cannot de'
liver into our possession actual cash, but must
bring this about through various earthly channels,
we see at once that it may be that the Cosmic can
aid us in our financial needs in a manner quite dis'
tinct from delivering the material form of coin
to us.
Those who have read the preceding chapter will
realize that in a great many cases those who are
seeking or asking for money through any occult,
mystical, or psychological process may not be asking
for what they really need at all. I may decide that
I need a new hat, and decide at the same time that
I will buy it at a certain store for a certain price.
In order to do this I must have the actual cash in
my hand. Therefore, I proceed to concentrate upon
the Cosmic to give me five dollars, seven dollars, or
ten dollars, according to the price of the hat. My
whole concentration is upon the amount of money
that I believe I need. The purchase of the hat or
the necessity for having the hat is a secondary con'
80
For the Home and Business
sideration. If I proceeded properly, the hat would
be the primary consideration, and whether I pur'
chased it with actual cash, secured it on credit, or
had it donated to me by a friend would be mv
material. I would be glad to leave the arrangement
to the Cosmic, feeling quite satisfied if the Cosmic
saw to it that I got the hat. All this providing, of
course, that I was unable to earn the money and
secure the hat by the sweat of the brow, as the
Cosmic and all natural law intended I should.
However, there are instances where the necessity
for money in some form, or for credit to an equi'
valent amount, is the paramount desire, and these
occasions require as much serious consideration
on the part of the mystic as any other necessity or
desire of a legitimate nature.
From the Cosmic point of view, the use of money
as it is used today is fundamentally wrong, and is
a method or means arbitrarily established by man
for the purpose of getting around and avoiding
most of the ethical principles established by the
Cosmic. I will touch on this subject in another
part of these lessons, but it should be kept in mind
that the Cosmic generally is not in sympathy with
81
Rosicrucian Principles
the use of money, and whenever and wherever it
can bring about the desired results without recourse
to the use of money, it will do so. Therefore, we
will presume that the petitioner who is seeking for
money with the help of the Cosmic will have
reached the conclusion that he must have money
only after analyzing his necessities very carefully,
and knowing very positively that nothing else but
money in some form, or the equivalent credit, will
serve his purpose.
Now there are two ways by which the average
petitioner expects the Cosmic to help him receive
his money. The first way is in asking the Cosmic
to help him borrow what he needs from someone
who he believes is capable in a financial way to
lend him the amount; the other way is in asking
the Cosmic to help him collect either an amount
that is justly coming to him, or which he expects
through the settlement of some estate, will, legal
paper, or other form of benevolence.
We must take each of these by itself, and con'
sider the proper methods whereby mental or mys'
tical laws can be used to help bring about the
desired results.
82
r'or the Home and Business
When money is owed to you, and you cannot
collect it because of the indifference or the tem'
porary inability or stubbornness on the part of the
person who should pay
it,
then you may rightfully
and ethically ask the Cosmic to help you secure
what
is
justly yours.
I
must warn you, however,
that
if
there
is
even a fair reason for the debtor
to hold back the payment while some investigation
is
made, or while an adjustment
is
made, or until
you comply with some just conditions, then you
cannot expect that the Cosmic
is
going to aid
you by setting aside the rights and interests of the
person who owes you the money, and force that
person to make an immediate settlement with you
against his own best interests.
It
has been found
in many cases that where Mr. Jones owed
a
bill
of one thousand dollars to Mr. Smith, and Mr.
Smith was asking the Cosmic to force Mr. Jones
to pay the money right away, that Mr. Jones was
holding up the payment of the thousand dollars
because Mr. Smith had not fully complied with
the conditions that brought about the thousand
dollar obligation.
It
might also have been that Mr.
83
Rosicrucian Principles
Smith was not willing to concede some point or
to agree to some just and proper point previously
arranged or that Mr. Smith was perhaps attempt'
ing to secure the money in a shorter period than
had been agreed upon. In such cases, the Cosmic
will not act any differently than the judge in any
court would act if he knew both sides of the case.
The Cosmic will insist upon being fair to every
one, and it is simply impossible for any petitioner
to come to the Cosmic with his requests and de
sires, thinking that he can hold back some facts
about the matter and fool the Cosmic into granting
him immediately, and without investigation, his
special wishes. If you will stop a moment you will
realize that the Cosmic if it has any mystical, uni'
versal mind and power at all, is just as familiar
with the reasons, demands, and rights of the per'
son who owes the money, as with the person who
desires the money. So we have found that the
petitioner seeking the payment of money which he
claims is owing to him, must come to the Cosmic
as he must come to a court of law, with "clean
hands."
84
For the Home and Business
But if the money is justly due you, and there
is no reason for its nonpayment except the indif'
ference or stubbornness or forgetfulness of the per'
son who can and should pay
it,
then you may con'
centrate upon the Cosmic, and with patience,
petition the Cosmic to intercede for you and see
that your just debt
is
paid.
As to what method to use in concentrating for
such
a
purpose,
I
will have more to say in
a
few minutes.
In asking the Cosmic, on the other hand, to
bring money to you that you believe
is
coming to
you, or should come to you through an estate,
a
court settlement,
a
will,
a
legacy, or
a
donation
of some kind, we find that here again the peti'
tioner must be sure that he
is
justified in assuming
and believing that the money
is
to be given to him
and will be given to him by the giver's own voli'
tion, but that the whole affair has been delayed
through forgetfulness, indecision, or something of
that kind. Now we see in this latter case, an
analogy with that of the former case. The peti'
tioner must again come into court with "clean
85
Rosicrucian Principles
hands." He must be receptive, and ready to re
ceive the money that he desires. It must be free
from entanglements that are unethical, and it must
not be money that will bring the petitioner pleas'
ure alone, and bring sorrow, suffering, and regrets
to others, for in such a case the Cosmic will not
think of lending its aid or giving its aid to the
carrying out of a wish or a gift or a help of any
kind that will make just one or two happy, while
it makes many others sad and unhappy.
Of course there are those cases where people
petition the Cosmic for some money to meet an
emergency, when they have no definite idea where
the money may come from, because no one owes
them any particular amount, and they do not ex'
pect any money through a legacy or a donation of
any kind. Such a situation is a very difficult one
in which to give advice and suggestions of any
kind. In a great many cases of this kind, the per'
son soliciting the money is not warranted in ex>
pecring any from any source, and certainly is not
warranted in asking the Cosmic to create an im'
mediate situation wherein the petitioner is sud'
86
For the Home and Business
denly made the benefactor of Cosmic gifts which
have not been earned, arranged, or donated in
any way.
Speaking in a general sense, the securing of
money through Cosmic aid reduces itself to a form
of concentration that is simple and effective. After
, having determined that the actual money is what
is needed, and not the things which are to be
purchased with
it,
then the petitioner should de
cide what
is
the precise amount, or the smallest
possible amount which will meet the conditions.
Not too much or more than
is
necessary should be
asked for. On the other hand, sufficient should be
included in the asking to take care of the immedi'
ate, as well as the mediate, needs. This amount of
money should be visualized in its figures, and not
in its form. In other words, the money should not
be visualized as gold or silver, or bills, or in any
particular denomination or form of currency.
If
one thousand dollars
is
desired, the figure or
amount of one thousand dollars should be concen'
trated upon, regardless of whether that one thou'
sand dollars will eventually show itself in the form
87
Rosicrucian Principles
of a check, a draft, a money order, actual cash, or
a liberty bond. And every morning, every noon,
and every night, at a time just preceding the meal,
the person desiring the money should attune him'
self through relaxation and concentration with the
Cosmic and Universal Mind, and hold in his mind,
at the same time, the thought and impression of
the amount of money that he or she needs. After
doing this for a few minutes, with the eyes either
opened or closed, the person should dismiss the
matter by the simple statement of "This I ask of
the Cosmic!" And then go about the business of
the day, unconcerned about the coming of the
money or the method by which the Cosmic will
answer his petition. Doing this for four or five
days will unquestionably bring some result in the
process leading to the realization of the amount of
money desired. In addition, if this amount of
money is justly owed to you by some one person,
you should concentrate on that person in connec
tion with the thousand dollars, and hold the pic
ture of that person in your mind, along with the
amount of money, so that the Cosmic will get di'
88
For the Home and Business
rect from you an impression of the person who
should pay the money to you. Again I must warn
you about the necessity of being sure that the
money is justly owed you at the moment, and that
the delay in receiving it is not a just delay, and also
that you are entitled to its immediate payment
without further delay. Of course, after what I
have said in the preceding chapter, you will not
attempt to visualize as to how the Cosmic will
make the person pay you, or just what hour it
shall be handed to you, or brought to you, or
placed to your credit, or otherwise made avail'
able. Such concentration upon the amount of
money, and the person who owes
it,
three times a
day for
a
number of days, will undoubtedly help
to bring about an attitude on the part of the per'
son who owes the money leading to action and
eventual realization of your desires.
In the case where money
is
desired from an
estate or from some person who
is
settling an es'
tate, and where there
is
a
delay or
a
hesitancy, or
a
possible frustration through sccalled legal "red
tape," you must be sure that there
is
no just
89
Rosicrucian Principles
reason for the delay, and that you are fully entitled
to have the Cosmic come to your rescue and make
immediate settlement. If you are sure of this point,
then you may again visualize the amount of money
desired, and with that visualization, keep in mind
the person or the condition surrounding the delay,
with the idea that the Cosmic will contact the
right person or persons and set into action the
process which will lead to the proper settlement.
It has been found that in these cases where a
referee or a judge, or any other individual is at'
tempting to make up his mind and decide whether
to do a thing or not to do a thing, or whether to
grant a request to one person or to another, that
if the Cosmic is appealed to to bring about a de
cision favorable to the petitioner, the Cosmic does
affect the hesitating mind of the referee, judge, or
other person, and causes him to suddenly make a
decision in favor of the person who is concentrat'
ing on the Cosmic for cooperation. I have known,
personally, of many cases where judgments or de
cisions have been held up for months, and in some
cases years, because a certain person could not
90
For the Home and Business
come to a definite decision and was hesitating until
a proper decision could be reached. A few days'
concentration, however, upon this person and
upon the necessity for immediate decision, has
caused the person to suddenly come to a conclu'
sion that he has delayed too long, and now must
render a favorable decision to one of the parties
concerned. In several cases, an investigation after'
wards or an interview with the one who made the
decision, revealed that during one of the evening
hours, while in relaxation, he suddenly had an im'
pression that he must come to a certain conclusion
that appeared to him to be absolutely fair and just.
You can rest assured that when the Cosmic
takes up your case and impresses someone who has
the right to decide with the necessity of making
a decision in your favor, it is because the Cosmic
knows that such a decision is just and correct. In
other words, the Cosmic will not make a judge
or referee or anyone else decide in your favor just
because you petitioned the Cosmic to do so, and
the other party did not make such a petition. We
see by this that if both persons concerned in such
91
Rosicrucian Principles
a matter were to petition the Cosmic, and each
asked for a favorable decision, that the Cosmic
would have to decide and impress the hesitating
judge with what is his duty, and what is proper
in the points in question.
As to borrowing money, many other things
must be taken into consideration. The Cosmic is
not loathe to aid in the matter of borrowing, pro
viding the motive back of the desire to borrow is
right, and the person who wants to borrow has
proved to the Cosmic and to others that he is one
who keeps his word and repays whatever he prom'
ises to repay. Again we realize that the Cosmic
will not aid in any injustice or in any matter that
will be unfair or injurious to another person.
If,
therefore, you are attempting to borrow money
without having any real necessity for the money,
or
if
a
real necessity exists without having any
idea as to where, how, or when you will be able
to secure sufficient money to repay what you bor'
row, you can rest assured that the Cosmic
is
not
going to aid you in the matter.
If,
on the other
hand, in your previous transactions of small or
92
For the Home and Business
large amounts, you have always repaid what you
borrowed, always given back what has been loaned
to you, always met your just obligations with
every endeavor to fulfill what you have promised
to do, then you may be sure that the Cosmic will
aid you if there is a real need for the money you
are seeking. You cannot go to the Cosmic with
a vague hope that the borrowed money will be
repaid some time in some way, or with the idea
that when it comes time for you to pay the money
back to the person you have borrowed it from,
you will appeal again to the Cosmic to deliver
some more money to you in order that you may
square your left hand, while you get ready to hold
out your right hand for something more.
In seeking the aid of the Cosmic in borrowing
money, it is presumed that you have in mind some
person or place from which to borrow the money,
that this person or place can loan it to you with'
out injury to itself, and that you will make it a
regular business transaction, clean'cut, and of the
proper ethical form. With these points being true,
you may then visualize the amount of money and
93
Rosicrucian Principles
the person and place from which you desire to
borrow it. By concentrating upon such visuali'
nation three times a day you may count upon the
Cosmic's help, provided, of course, you have made
the regular earthly, physical, material appeal to the
person or place, in addition to concentrating upon
the Cosmic. It is not to be presumed that you may
want to borrow some money from Mr. Smith and
without ever letting Mr. Smith know you want
the money, proceed to concentrate upon the CDS'
mic and ask the Cosmic to urge Mr. Smith to walk
to your house and hand you the money, as though
he were being forced to do it by the Cosmic. In
all cases of borrowing, it is proper that you should
make your appeal and request to the persons first,
in a regular way, and acquaint them with the
knowledge that you wish to borrow from them.
In attempting to borrow money from anyone,
it is always advisable to use the utmost frankness
and be extremely specific. To go to any man or
woman, or institution like a bank or loan associa'
tion, and ask for money of an indefinite amount,
and in a way that shows that you are not familiar
94
For the Home and Business
with what you want, and why you want
it,
will
surely bring
a
negative result. And to be evasive
in your answers will likewise jeopardize your sue
cess with any person or institution, just as
it
would
with the Cosmic.
It
is
understood, of course, that the borrowing
of money has become
a
very ethical process in the
world today, and many institutions and persons
earn more money by loaning money. Our banks in
America and elsewhere would cease to exist, and
would go out of business
if
they did not loan
money, as well as receive money from persons who
put
it
on deposit in their care. A bank's only real
excuse for existing
is
to receive money from de
positors, and loan and invest that money in many
ways, so that
it
will earn an income and produce
more money. Many persons have money which
they are willing and ready to loan under certain
conditions, and such persons demand the utmost
frankness and security.
In talking to the manager of one of the largest
loan associations in America, he frankly told me
that in their institution, where millions of dollars
95
Rosicrucian Principles
are loaned through their various branches every
month, seventyfive per cent of the money is
loaned, not on security, on notes, or on written
paper, but on character. He said that while inter'
viewing persons who wish to borrow money from
them, and while having the questionnaire or ques'
tion'sheet filled out the manager who is doing the
interviewing at each one of these branches studies
the person who is applying for the loan and
reaches a decision in most cases from this study of
character, and the money is loaned on the strength
of the person's apparent stability and integrity.
Of course, they also secure signatures and notes in
the form of security, as a means of legal protec
tion, but this manager frankly told me that such
papers usually prove of no value whatsoever if
there is no character or integrity back of the per'
son doing the borrowing. With this loan associa'
tion, and with individuals all over the world, the
hesitating, evasive borrower is given a negative an'
swer in the mind of the person who has the money
to loan, long before he speaks a word. The shift'
ing eye, the hesitating voice, the indefinite mind,
96
For the Home and Business
are earmarks of irresponsibility. When a person is
quite positive and definite about why he wants the
borrowed money, what he intends to do with
it,
and when he expects to pay
it
back, he finds
a
ready listener and ready money at his disposal.
Most loan associations, banks, and persons who
make
a
business of loaning money, are interested
not only in the character of the borrower, but in
the purpose for which the money
is
being bor'
rowed. You can well imagine that neither bank
nor individual would loan money to
a
person,
when that person says he wants to use
it
for gam'
bling or betting at the race track, or for some other
wild, illegal, or irregular form of speculation. Nor
will such an organization loan money to
a
man in
very moderate circumstances who wants the
money to buy an automobile for pleasure.
If
that
same man could show, however, that he needed
the money to buy
a
small automobile truck in
order to increase his business, or efficiently carry
on his business, the money would be loaned for
that specific purpose. Everyone who has money
to loan would hesitate to loan
it
to another to buy
97
Rosicrucian Principles
luxuries instead of necessities, and even household
furniture, radios, and pianos are not included
among the necessities. Clothing, food, the pay
ment of rent, doctors' bills, the purchase of ma'
terial for business, the investment of money into a
growing and successful business proposition, the
buying of railroad tickets to go to some point for
business purposes, the buying of a home that is in
a good location and is a good real estate invest'
ment, or other real estate purposes, are generaly
considered good motives for borrowing. To bor'
row money to educate a son or daughter, when
there is reason to believe that the parents will bene
fit by such education, and will be able to pay back
the money, is sometimes considered a good invest'
ment, but to borrow money in order to enjoy a
pleasure trip to Egypt would be considered a risk,
and at the same time show that the person asking
for the money has little or no sense of business
values and money values.
Every firm or individual who loans money ex'
pects interest at the legal rate, or sometimes a little
higher. Very few persons are willing to take their
98
For the Home and Business
money out of the bank where it is earning four or
five per cent, and loan it to someone on the prom'
ise of securing six per cent. The risk of loaning
their money, plus the trouble in collecting
it,
and
the delays in having the installments met promptly
so that they would bear the proper amount of in'
terest, would more than offset the benefit of an
additional one per cent or two per cent that they
would secure from the borrower instead of from
the bank. So you must be prepared, in many cases,
to pay more than the usual rate of interest
if
you
expect anyone to take
a
risk of this kind.
You need not feel that you are hurting your
integrity or your standing in
a
social or business
way by borrowing money, for many of the larger
firms, the most successful business institutions, and
the most prosperous individuals, find
it
necessary
to borrow money from their banks or from other
persons at times, in order to increase their business
or carry on
a
special deal in an emergency. What
will hurt you more than borrowing money
is
fail'
ure to keep your promises regarding the payments
on the return of it. What will injure your pros'
99
Rosicrucian Principles
pects of securing borrowed money more than any
thing else is the record of the manner in which
you have lived and spent money when you have
had it. A person who has had plenty of money,
or sufficient money, at one time or another, and
has squandered it and has used it for drinking,
and for habits that are not wholesome, or for pur'
poses that are not ethical, cannot expect to have
others loan him more money. All these things are
taken into consideration by the Cosmic, as well as
by the mortal mind of man. Therefore, in asking
the Cosmic's cooperation, you must be absolutely
sure that you are appealing with "clean hands."
And you must have made your solicitations to the
persons or institution in the usual way, before you
ask the Cosmic to help bring it about. The Cosmic
is not going to conduct a telegraph office or a
telegraphic system, and communicate with banks
all over the country and tell them you want some
money, and that one of them should loan it to you.
But the Cosmic will help, if you are worthy and
deserving of the loan, to impress upon the minds
of the persons who can make the loan that you are
100
For the Home and Business
worthy, and that the loan should be made, and
will even go to the extent of urging them to make
the loan more quickly or with less delay than
usual.
In securing money for business purposes, always
be sure that your business is one that is really pay
ing, or capable of being made into a paying busi'
ness. Dreams and speculative propositions are
neither supported by the Cosmic nor financed by
financiers. I have had men come to me years ago
with ideas for the building of aeroplanes that were
simply so ridiculous that one could hardly keep
from laughing, and yet they expected someone to
loan them thousands of dollars to build what was
only a dream in their minds. If you have not made
aeroplanes or worked on them, or have not done
any flying in them, you have no right to think that
you have a new idea about them, and that the idea
should be financed by someone else. On the other
hand, if you have aided in the manufacture of
aeroplanes for a number of years, and have had
considerable experience in flying them, and have
discovered through experimentation, building of
mooels, and testing, that you have a better idea
101
Rosicrucian Principles
about aeroplanes than others, you can rest assured
that there will be many who can help you finance
it. If you are a blacksmith, and have succeeded in
being a good blacksmith, but now have an idea
that you would like to open a drug store, because
you believe there is more money in
it,
do not ex
pect anyone to agree with you in your decision and
put up the money to start you in the drug store
business, unless
it
is
someone who does not care
what happens to his money, or what kind of ex'
perience you get out of it. But if you have been
a
good druggist and you wish to move into
a
new
section and open
a
better drug store, where there
is
little competition, and every possibility of suc
ceeding, you will find there are others ready to
help you in the plan.
You cannot expect, either, to raise money to
find sunken fortunes or missing gold. Undoubtedly
thousands of ships have sunk in the sea in the past
centuries, containing jewels and gold worth fabu'
lous fortunes. Undoubtedly these fortunes at the
bottom of the seas, and not far from shore lines,
could be salvaged, so far as the value of the things
are concerned. But despite the fact that dozens of
102
For the Home and Business
companies have been incorporated and formed to
salvage these fortunes, and people have risked their
money in investing in such salvage schemes, not
one of them has ever succeeded in securing enough
gold from the interior of some of these sunken
ships to pay back the money they have borrowed,
or have secured on investments. If you have some
such wild ideas as these, do not expect any person
of sound mind and sound business principles to
finance the scheme for you. If you want to buy a
farm and a nice little home on
it,
you will find
someone who will help you with
it,
providing you
can show you are
a
farmer, and not
a
bookkeeper.
On the other hand,
if
you are
a
good bookkeeper or
an accountant, or
a
dressmaker, or
a
watchmaker,
you can secure money to help you improve the
work you are in, providing you are honest, skillful,
and dependable. And the Cosmic will help you in
all these legitimate propositions, and silently smile
with negative action on the scheming ideas of the
impiactical dreamer.
103
Chapter VI
THE ATTAINMENT OF WEALTH
ONTENTED in life, indeed, is the
person who has no desire for the
attainment of wealth. Few there are
who do not have this desire to some
extent, or who no not express it in some form.
Fortunately, all of vis do not measure wealth by
the same standard, nor do we desire richness in
the same measure. Regardless of what we may
possess, or what may be our privilege to enjoy, most
of u: seek some things in abundance, and that abun'
dance may be our wealth.
Before taking up several points of a practical
process, which will enable us to bring wealth into
our possession, let us consider what constitutes
wealth for the average human being. It may be
trite to say that one man's wealth may be another
man's burden, or that what one person cherishes as
a rare and costly gift may be of no value to another;
but, it is true, nevertheless, and there seems to be
but one material thing which, by common accep
105
Rosicrucian Principles
tance by persons of all minds, constitutes wealth —
and that is money. However, there is one imma'
terial possession or blessing which most of us en'
joy, and which, by common consent also, is con
sidered as the equal of wealth in any form—and
thac is health.
The power of money in the world today is
unquestionably a curse with those who do not
know its real place in the scheme of things, and
who cannot relegate it to its proper place.
In a preceding chapter, I said I would speak
about money, and this is my opportunity. If there
were no money in the world, or no material thing
that represented wealth, or had the power of fie
titious valuation, health and the freedom of exis'
tence would constitute the real wealth of every
human being.
In the proper scheme of things, man should
labor to assist in producing and materializing the
created things of the world's requirements. There
should be no other motive for his daily labor, no
other incentive for his dreaming and planing, than
to assist in the carrying out of God's constructive
work. He should feel that he will share in the
106
For the Home and Business
world's blessings, with all beings. He should know
that of what he assists in producing a portion will
be enjoyed by him, and a portion enjoyed by his
children, who are too young or incapable of assist'
ing in producing. He should know that unless he
contributes to the universal effort, and takes his
proper place in the creative world, he cannot hope
to enjoy the blessings of the universe, nor indulge
in the beneficent joys resulting from the labors of
others.
This is no socialistic plea, nor doctrine of politics.
It is merely the mystical viewpoint of life as it
should be. But man has learned that he may enjoy
life's blessings and indulge in the necessities as he
understands them, by buying them with fictitious
symbols which have the power to secure those
things which have not been earned nor paid for.
Thus, one man may labor, diligently, and even to
great extreme, to sustain life in his own body and
to provide the bare necessities for his wife and
children, while another man may labor not at all,
nor produce, nor even plan or create, but live a
life of laziness and indolence; and yet, through an
inherited possession or unfair scheming, is able to
107
Rosicrucian Principles
buy with the gold that he has not mined from
the earth, or with metals that he has not labored
to extract, or jewels that he has not physically
produced, such luxuries, privileges, and such
abundant supplies as permit him to flaunt his ex
travagant wealth, while others cry for the things
that he casts aside.
It is unquestionably true that the average man or
woman who finds life devoid of the necessities or
luxuries, and whose longing is for wealth in some
form, is a victim of the man'made process of re'
warding labor with money, or compensating effort
with symbols of fictitious value. If money were
not the thing with which the necessities and even
luxuries of life could be secured, then few indeed
would be without that which they needed most. It
is neither the sluggard nor indolent man, nor the
man who need not work or labor, who most gen'
erally petitions the Cosmic or prays to the God of
all beings to aid him in attaining wealth. It is the
man who is laboring industriously, consistently,
and fairly; it is the man—and woman —who is de
voting most of the daytime hours to laboring by
the sweat of the brow, and by the torment of the
108
For the Home and Business
body; it is the one who is striving in every honor'
able way and against seemingly insurmountable
obstacles, to earn and deserve the necessities of
life. He it is who finds the battle against poverty
and sorrow a most difficult one, and who, without
losing faith or hope, and without giving up in his
tiresome efforts, appeals to the Cosmic and to the
higher laws of the universe, for aid and assistance
in securing for himself and those dependent upon
him, that which will bring them joy with their
health, and happiness with their necessities. Such
a man seeks to attain wealth, and his wealth is a
wealth that is deserved, and his desires and petitions
should be answered.
Among the practical considerations which we
must analyze at this time are the facts that material
wealth does not always bring into our lives the
real wealth we seek, and that very often we uncon'
sciously associate the money standard with our
thoughts of our needs.
In speaking with hundreds of men and women,
who believed that the attainment of wealth was
their real ambition, we have found that in nearly
every case, money was desired in order to secure
109
Rosicrucian Principles
or purchase or even attract, other things which it
was believed could not be secured or attracted ex'
cent through the power of money. In the pre
ceding chapter, I have tried to show that petition'
ing for money in most cases was not the right way
to bring about the ultimate desires within one's
heart. I would like to show at this time, however,
that the petitioning for wealth —abundant wealth
—may be a proper procedure, and that the desire
for it may be a proper thought.
Among my intimate associates in the business
world, is that master of finance and big business,
Mr. James Stillwell, who built more railroads in
America than any other living being, and whose
power on Wall Street at one time was so great that
his voice on the convention floor at the time of the
selection of a national candidate for the presidency
turned the tide of big business in its ramifications
toward political goals. I have had the pleasure of
being the advisor to Mr. Stillwell in many and
great business propositions. Some of them were
cast aside in their early considerations, often upon
my own private recommendation, while others
were developed and enlarged into successful na'
110
For the Home and Business
tional operations, solely through the personal effort
it was my pleasure to institute. Mr. Stillwell was
a man of remarkable mental and psychic develop'
ment, and I am glad to note that in recent months
he has published in some national magazines, arti'
cles reviewing his mental and psychological con'
tests with big business deals and the victories that
have come into his life, many a time through the
application of the mystical laws which were demon'
strated to him in the secret sessions we held while
I was his silent partner during the course of a num'
ber of years.
Mr. Stillwell's idea of wealth, however, was
not that wealth which gradually accumulated for
him in the vaults of Wall Street, or even in the
holdings in international marts. His idea of great
wealth was the wealth of character, and of mental
power. He considered that there was no power
in the world as strong, as mighty, as indefatigable
in its processes of overcoming the obstacles of life
as the creative power of mind. His daily petition
to the universal Mind and Consciousness was a
prayer for the continuance of health and especially
ill
Rasicrucian Principles
of that power which was developing in his mental
faculties.
On many occasions, when Mr. Stillwell has tele
phoned me late in the night to go to his private
office in New York, he has greeted me with a
joyous grip and a hearty smile, and the exuberant
claim that "I am truly wealthy tonight, for I have
a great idea!" And as we would discuss his idea,
I could not help but note that he enjoyed the idea
which he held. He cherished it like a fond child,
not because he could see that the idea would some
day produce money for himself and others, but
because the idea was a thing alive with possibilities,
and because it could be visualized and matured and
eventually materialized into a vibrating, magnetic
demonstration of mental laws. There was not al
ways a selfish interest in these ideas of his, for I
have spent long hours with him discussing an idea
which both of us realized we would have to pass
on to another to turn into commerical form, for
neither one of us would have the time nor the
interest in developing the idea along business chan'
nels. But we could see in the idea a germ, and we
could see this germ conscious and active with life
112
For the Home and Business
and possibility, and often such ideas were passed
over to his associates, some of whom were con'
nected with the Standard Oil Company, or with
other large industries whose executive we were ao-
quainted with, and whose planners and builders
were also men who appreciated the value of ideas,
and had the true standard of wealth in their con'
sciousness.
The man today who has a good idea, a workable
idea, and a creative mind in which that idea can be
fostered and visualized, is a man that has wealth,
extreme wealth, potent wealth. The man who has
money, who has jewels, who has gold and silver in
sufficiency or in abundance, but who has not the
creative power to use such wealth, is not rich but
poor indeed.
In petitioning the Cosmic, or in using the psy
chological processes to bring wealth into one's
personal environment, the less thought given to
wealth as represented by money or gold or silver,
the more quickly will the petitioner attract to him
self the ways and means of attaining that which
will really constitute his wealth in this life.
113
Rosicrucian Principles
First of all, those who believe they are deprived
of life's necessities, or think that they lack the
abundance which should be theirs, should seek to
build up the greatest wealth and blessing that is
within their reach, and that is health. Perfect
health, with the harmonious functioning of all the
inner faculties, cooperating with the functioning
faculties of the consciousness outside of man, is one
of the greatest blessings that man may possess.
When such health is in the body, the mind is keen
and alert, and the creative powers of the Divine
Mind working through the mortal mind are active,
and productive. Man is then able to direct and con'
trol the obstacles that stand between him and the
attainment of his desires. He is able to appeal to
the minds of others without doubt and without
hesitancy. He is truly a master of his life, and the
captain of his ship, and it is just as possible for him
to steer his ship of fate and his life of destiny
toward the goal of his dreams, and toward the pot
at the end of the rainbow, as it is for the experi'
enced navigator to scientifically bring his ship to
the distant point on any horizon.
114
For the Home and Business
The next great blessing is that of receptivity.
To receive, one must give. And as we give, we
receive. It is the law of compensation. No man
as yet has successfully avoided this law, nor found
a way to contest and negate it. Man's mind must
become receptive to the intuitional impressions sent
forth by the Cosmic, it must become receptive to
the still, small voice within that seeks to guide and
direct in all of his actions, in all of his thinking
and planning. Man must become receptive to the
inspirational urges of the universal Mind. He must
become receptive to the cries and the needs, the
desires and the wishes, of the mass mind of hu'
manity, so that he may hear the pleas of the
individuals, and the hopes of the groups of men and
women who are sending out into the universal
space their creative ideas, seeking assistance in their
fulfillment and materialization. The receptive mind
must be able to sense what another needs, as well
as what is needed by the self. The receptive mind
must be attuned to the divine Consciousness, that
it may have the unlimited wisdom, the infinite
knowledge, and the universal apprehension of
things as they really are. To be receptive, one must
115
Rosicrucian Principles
be productive. One must contribute in order to ex'
pect anything in return. Life will give back pre
cisely what one puts into
it,
and in
a
greater
measure.
Let he who seeks great wealth beware of seeking
gold, unless
it
be to materialize
it
into the beautiful
things of life, symbolized by the very nature of the
metal. Let he who would be wealthy guard him'
self against seeking for money. For money may
come into the hand and pass out again without ever
leaving its impress of joy, or
a
realization of the
dreams that sought its coming.
In the home and in the business, let each man
and each woman daily, nightly, or at every possible
opportunity, petition the Cosmic for wealth of
health, the wealth of mind power, the wealth of
joy in living, the wealth of contentment that comes
from adjusting ourselves to the conditions that sur'
round us, and then slowly improve them. To the
wealth of happiness that exists in our lives
if
we
will but discover
it;
to the wealth of peace that the
universe affords all its beings; to the wealth of
life itself that permits us to know that we are,
and that we are who we are—such petitions for
116
For the Home and Business
wealth as these, followed by prayers of thankful'
ness for what we have, will daily attune the indi'
ttidual to the abundant wealth of the universe, and
each will soon find that affluence and prosperity,
that health and happiness, and that material bless'
ings and spiritual benedictions, are flowing freely
and bountifully into the filling cup of life.
Then each one of us will know what really con'
stitutes wealth, and what is meant by the mystic
when he seeks the attainment of wealth.
117
Chapter VII
SEEKING EMPLOYMENT
E MUST NOT overlook the fact that
not all who seek aid in business mat'
ters are seeking for money, for specu'
lation, or investment, nor even any
specific thing in life's journey. Many ask only for
an opportunity to serve and earn all of the necessi'
ties of life, plus a few of its luxuries.
In other words, not all are looking for large sums
of money, or for homes, or for fulfillment of great
dreams. Perhaps most of those who appeal to our
bureau for help are those who are seeking to secure
better positions in the business world, or for oppor
tunities whereby they may improve their employ
ment.
Since women have entered the business world,
conditions are considerably different than they
were a few years ago. There was a time when the
employment of a woman in any part of a business
institution was considered as an indication that the
employer was seeking to secure services at a lower
119
Rosicrucian Principles
standard of wage, than that demanded by a man.
This was because the average woman in the bus'
iness world was receiving a salary much smaller
than could be offered to a man of the same age in
the same capacity. This situation placed a handicap
in some respects in the path of the man who was
well qualified to fill a good position, but who had to
demand higher wages because of family and other
financial obligations. In other words, the race be
tween men and women for positions in the business
world was not a fair one, for the woman had the
advantage of being able to offer her services at a
lower scale. This put competition between men and
women on a basis of salary difference. Today, how
ever, the average woman in the business world is
receiving the same salary as the man, and very few
business men think of employing anyone in any
important position because of any economy in the
matter of salary. The outstanding qualification is
tending to be that of experience and capability.
And in the matter of capability, woman is rapidly
proving herself to be the equal of many men, in
many capacities. Therefore, the contest between
120
For the Home and Business
men and women today in seeking positions is a
contest of qualifications, not one of salary.
I know thousands of business men who frankly
say that when they have a vacancy which calls for
a capable person to fill, they care little whether the
successful applicant is a man or a woman, and
usually the matter of salary is settled in the mind
of the employer before he decides upon the appli
cant. And he does not think of offering a lower
salary to the applicant because she happens to be a
woman.
I know there are men who will disagree with
me because they feel that often they have been
removed from a position to be supplanted by a
woman, or have been unsuccessful in securing a
position, because the successful applicant was a
woman, and in each instance they have felt that
the woman's only advantage to the employer was
that of salary. If you are a man, and you hold
such ideas as these, you are prejudicing your mind,
and you are building up the first great psychological
obstacle to your success in securing a new position,
or in securing promotion in your present position.
Too many employees today fail to realize that
121
Rosicrucian Principles
the business world now demands efficiency. Capa'
bility is the standard by which every successful
business gauges its employees. I am not speaking of
new and inexperienced employers, who are starting
in business for the first time and employing help
for the first time in their lives. Such inexperienced
persons may assume that female help can be se
cured at a lower scale of wages, with the same
efficiency as male help at a higher scale, and they
may proceed on this basis to make selections and
show favoritism toward female applicants. But
such business men will learn sooner or later that
they receive in return just such efficiency and capa'
bility as they pay for, and that it is a serious mis'
take to use the standard of wages between the sexes
as a basis for selection.
In every successful business, selections for new
positions or for promotions are made on the basis
of experience and special capability. And if you
want to be successful in your business career, you
will avoid seeking positions with new firms and
with inexperienced employers who do not have
such a standard for the selection of employees.
122
For the Home and Business
Of course there are certain qualifications pos'
sessed by women which men do not possess, and
men undoubtedly possess other qualifications which
women do not possess. We were accustomed to
think that women or young ladies made the very
best secretaries and stenographers, but this, too,
has been found to be an arbitrary decision, not
based upon any fact so far as capability is con'
cerned. And we have been accustomed to think
that in certain lines of business, women were out of
place. All this has been changed in recent years,
and I can assure you that it is not uncommon for
one to find in some of the largest institutions,
corporations, and nationwide business proposi'
tionr,, women holding executive or other positions
that one would naturally expect to find filled by
men.
It
is,
therefore, quite evident that when
a
man
or woman seeks
a
new position, or promotion in
any business, the idea that the difference in sex
makes any difference in capability or in the em'
ployer's mind, should be immediately dismissed;
and the seeker for employment should at once be
gin to analyze himself and his capabilities with no
123
Rosicrucian Principles
other thought in mind than that he must discover,
or she must discover, how well qualified he or she
is as an individual to fill the position being sought.
All of these remarks are preliminary to some of
the important things I would impress upon the
mind of the seeker for employment. In interview
ing hundreds of persons each year who are seeking
new positions or better positions, and who tell me
of their failure to secure what they seek, I find that
they generally have a tendency to blame their fail'
ure upon certain preconceived ideas or false beliefs
which they have established in their minds.
Foremost among the false beliefs is the idea that
"pull," or personal influence of some kind, is a
very important factor. I have found from my own
experience, and in conversation with many thou'
sands of big business men, that the only way in
which they have ever noticed that "pull" or influ
ence brought someone into their employ was
through the assistance of another in letting some
one else know that there was a vacancy. In other
words, assuming that Mr. Jones was contemplating
engaging a new secretary or a new department
manager, and that he expressed his contemplation
124
For the Home and Business
to some friend; if that friend knew of a very capable
and efficient person and told him to call on Mr.
Jones, and ask for the position, and if he seemed to
be as capable as Mr. Jones expected his new em'
ployee to be, the probability is that he would se
cure the position. And in this way it might be said
that some "pull" or influence enabled the employee
to secure a very fine position. But you will note
that I have distinctly said that if the employee was
as capable and efficient as the employer expected,
theti the employee would secure the position. I
know that business men will not engage an em'
ployee of inferior qualifications or capabilities just
because that person comes well recommended from
some friend, or has some "pull" or influence with
some acquaintance, with the employer, or with
the business concern. In fact, I know of thousands
of instances where influence and so'called "pull"
have tried to place an unqualified or partially quali
fied person in an important position; but when the
employer interviewed the applicant, and found him
unworthy of the position, the influence of friend or
family, or even the political or financial "pull" of
125
Rosicrucian Principles
important members of the firm have failed to secure
the position for that applicant.
Of course it is but natural for an employee to
think that he is as well qualified for many positions
as those who are in employ with him in any busi'
ness concern, and it is natural also for him to feel
that when one of them is promoted over his head
that some influence has been brought to bear in
making the selection. Natural though that feeling
may be, it is generally wrong, and the employee
who has failed to be promoted, or who has failed
to secure an expected position, and who blames
his failure on influence and "pull," is generally
doing himself an injustice, as well as doing an in'
justice to the successful applicant.
The moment we attribute our failure in securing
anything in life to the exterior influences which we
imagine exist, we shut the door against self analysis
and fail to learn a very'valuable lesson.
The man, or woman, who fails in securing a de
sired position, or a desired favor at the hands of
another, should turn that failure into a very val'
uable stepping stone to rise higher. He, or she,
should immediately proceed to find why the other
126
For the Home and Business
person succeeded and why he, or she, failed, and
if this examination and analysis is properly con'
ducted and conscientiously carried on, it will proh-
ably enable the successful applicant to discover
how he, or she, may improve himself and make
himself ready for a more successful attempt.
The average business firm in America today
promotes its employees from the lower ranks to
the higher ranks, as each employee demonstrates
his mastership in his present position, and his pos'
sible capability for a higher one. But there are
limits to such promotions in many lines of business.
There is often a point in the ladder of promotion
for every employee when he cannot be promoted
higher than he
is,
regardless of his present efficiency
and capability, and regardless of the fact that there
are openings for employees higher up in the busi'
ness. Therefore, when an employee finds that he
has reached
a
point in the business where he
is
situated where he can no longer secure promotion,
and finds others brought in from the outside to fill
positions above him that he thinks he can fill, he
should not attribute the engagement of others as
due to influence, nor even feel that his failure to be
127
Rosicrucian Principles
promoted is an indication of incapability on his
part. He should try to have a frank talk with his
employer and discover whether he has reached the
height of his efficiency with that firm, or whether
he has failed in showing special capability for
promotion.
The one thing that warrants employers in pre
moting employees is the spirit of service. The man
who gives just that much time and labor and
thought to his work that he is paid for, is sure to
find at the end of the year that he is being paid only
for what he is giving. The employee who feels that
he is engaged and paid for doing eight hours work
a day, and that the giving of a ninth hour should
be compensated for as extra labor, is one who will
find eventually that promotions do not come his
way, and even increases in salary are delayed or
refused. On the other hand, the employee who tries
to show that he is anxious to help in every depart'
ment of the business, and specialize in none, and
willing to hurry through his assigned work in order
to make his willingness to work in other depart'
ments quite evident to his employer, is apt to make
the employer feel that the employee is not giving
128
For the Home and Business
as elaborate and careful attention to his assigned
work as he should.
I have actually seen employees who were busy
helping in so many departments, and trying to
make themselves useful in more ways than they
were engaged to be, lose their positions in a few
months because the employer felt that they were
not limiting their thinking and their industry to the
assigned work, and therefore were neglecting it in
some phases, or failing to find in their particular
work the possibilities of enlargements and extra
efforts that were close at hand.
But it is natural that an employer will appreciate
every special effort, and every extended endeavor
that an employee puts into the business, regardless
of the time clock or the salary being paid.
I have heard so many employees say that if their
employer would give them a little interest in the
business, or even a fractional percentage of the
profits being accrued, they would be willing to put
some personal interest in the work at hand. The
trouble with this argument is that if the employee
thought it was possible for him to put some per'
sonal interest into the business, to such an extent
129
Rosicrucian Principles
that he would do his work better and more rapidly,
or more completely, then he should have put that
intetest into his work long before he expected the
employer to compensate him for it by giving him
a share of the profits. Let an employer discover in
his own peculiar way that you have more than
merely a salary interest in his business, and he
will gladly see to it that you are compensated
accordingly. The demonstration must begin on
your part, and not on the part of the employer.
Another one of the things which is responsible
for many employees losing their positions, or failing
to be promoted, is the lack of loyalty to the em'
ployer or the institution wherein he is employed.
Taking time off to seek better positions, or stealing
occasional minutes to interview someone about a
position in another firm, or ways and means for
securing promotion, have caused more employees
to lose their positions than any other simple thing.
An employer has a right to believe that you should
be so loyal to your position and your employer that
while you are working for him and with him, you
have no thoughts regarding your own personal in'
terest, your own personal affairs, or your own
130
For the Home and Business
personal dreams. To discover an employee seeking
another position outside of the firm is a signal to
any employer to release that employee and secure
another one. The employer does not want to be
caught off guard by having you suddenly resign
and leave your position unfilled, and your work
unattended to. If he believes that you are seeking
another position or seeking to make some change,
even within his own business, he is apt to feel that
you are undependable and not loyal.
For the same reason, thousands of person seek'
ing employment fail to secure desirable positions
for which they may be well qualified in a mental
or physical way. Such persons frankly tell their
prospective employers that they have worked for a
number of different firms, but have left each one
because they wanted to improve themselves or se
curs a better position. This confession to an em'
ployer means that the applicant is not dependable,
and that to engage him today may mean losing him
a month from now. And if there is any one thing
that harasses, bothers, annoys, and infuriates an
employer of help, it is to constantly seek new em'
131
Rosicrucian Principles
ployees, interview them, and have them trained in
their positions.
On the other hand, the employee who thinks
that he will take advantage of this fact and demand
that he be promoted or given an increase in salary
so as to avoid vacating his position and causing the
employer the trouble of seeking a new employee,
is proceeding very foolishly, and against his own
best interests. Any employer would rather go
through all of the tiresome procedure of seeking
and interviewing new applicants, and having them
broken into new positions, than to be subjected to
such coercion.
From a mystical or Cosmic point of view, loyalty
to your employer is the keynote to success for those
who are employed, and such loyalty is not only of
the physical body, but of the mind and heart. And
it is not something that exists only during eight
hours of presence in an office or building, but is
twentyfour hours long each day.
Every employer knows that an employee in his
business may be worth more to his competitor or to
someone else in a smaller line of business, who needs
a similar person, than the employee is to him. And
132
For the Home and Business
when the employee decides that he has an oppor
tunity to use his experience to secure another posi'
tion with a competitive firm, he is being disloyal
to his present employer and disloyal to himself.
The chances are that the new employer will remem'
ber that he left a trusting employer to come to him,
and he will be wary of the employee's faithfulness.
Cosmically speaking, the inexperienced employee
who does this sort of thing is bringing a Karmic
condition upon himself which will bring him fail'
ure and discontent for a long time.
Let me cite a practical illustration of Cosmic
Karma in this regard. An employee, just graduated
from a business course, applies for a position as
clerk in a corporation. The employer needs another
worker, and engages the applicant and proceeds to
use his own time and the time of a number of other
employees to train and educate the new employee
so that he will become efficient and worthy. The
employer is paying the employee a nominal salary
to start with, and the chances are that in ninety
nine cases out of one hundred, he receives more
salary each week for the first six months he is in his
position, than he earns. According to the law
133
Rosicrucian Principles
of averages in every business, the new employee is
probably receiving seventy'five per cent more salary
than he is actually worth, when it is taken into con'
sideration that the employer's time and the time
of a number of other employees must be used to
help him understand and master his duties. The
employer, however, counts on the future months
and years of that employee to earn for him that
which he has not earned during the first six months,
and to make up for the money he has received dur
ing the six months of preparation. But after the
first six months are past, the employee who thinks
he has earned every cent he has received, demands
an increase in salary. The employer realizes that in
stead of now having an opportunity of making up
for the overpayment that has been given to the
employee during the preceding six months, he must
face the situation of paying more money and con
tinuing to lose money, or lose the employee and
engage another one. In the employee's mind, how
ever, there is this one thought: That he can now go
into the office of some other concern, and with
the six months' experience he has had, at the ex
pense of the other firm, he is ready to receive a
134
For the Home and Business
slightly higher salary in his new position. In other
words, he is ready to take advantage of the experi'
ence he has had at someone else's expense, and turn
it to profit for himself, ungrateful and unmindful of
the obligation he owes his present employer. Being
refused an increase in salary, he leaves his present
employer and goes to another concern.
A record carefully kept of a thousand employees
doing this sort of thing has shown that at the
end of a year, these employees were again out of
positions, and in two years their changes in
positions, with periods of unemployment, showed
that they had earned less in the two years through
their many changes than if they had remained in
their first position, and had secured a raise at the
end of the first year. Furthermore, their continual
changing of positions has given them a record
which no employer values, and they soon find them'
selves among the army of unemployed, and dis'
gruntled, discontent, and suspicious of the entire
employment system.
In seeking a position, therefore, be sure that
you are well qualified, that you are ready to give
it your loyalty and entire support, and that you
135
Rosicrucian Principles
are willing to work and labor with the concern
for such a length of time as will enable it to secure
from your services such reward as will make in'
creases profitable to them and to you.
If you are seeking promotion in your present
concern or position, you will be sure of securing
it if you give less thought to the promotion or to
the possibility that lies before you, and more
thought during your business hours to the work
you have at hand.
Let your thinking about your advancements or
changes in position occur during your hours of re
laxation while you are at home, and rather than
concentrate upon your employer's mind with all
kinds of silly demands that he grant your recent
request, concentrate your mind for a moment or
two on yourself, and see if you can find how you
can go into your present position the next morning
and do your work a little better, or improve the
affairs of your business for your employer and
thereby attract his mind to your desires.
In appealing to the Cosmic, or through any mys'
tical laws, for advancement, promotion, or the
securing of a new position, be sure that you have in
136
For the Home and Business
mind a definite position along a definite line of ef'
fort of which you are capable, and in which you
can demonstrate efficiency.
In interviewing an employer regarding a change
or z. new position, follow the suggestions given
in the next chapter about interviewing and selling,
for you must sell yourself. But in addition to fol'
lowing those suggestions, be sure that you make it
plain to your employer that you are not offering
him just your eight hours of physical labor each
day, but you are offering him your best mental
services, your loyalty, your interest, and that de
gree of efficiency which he may expect.
With all of these suggestions in mind, and with
the advice given in future chapters, you should be
able to make your life as an employee just as sue
cessful and profitable to you as any business in
which you might engage yourself and become an
employer.
137
Chapter VIII
IMPRESSING OTHERS
HERE are certain psychological priiv
ciples which may be used and applied
very efficiently, even by those who
have not taken a thorough course in
the subject of psychology, or who have not had
long experience with the intricate principles
involved.
The most definite use of these psychological
principles is in connection with that of impressing
the mind of another person, and the art of making
the proper impression is very important with those
who are attempting to convey a message of a very
definite nature.
Now whether you are trying to sell some mer'
chandise to a person, or sell yourself, it is absolutely
necessary that you create in the mind of your
prospective buyer a duplicate of the picture that
you have in your mind. Really it is the art of
thought transference, but instead of being by the
process of mental telepathy exclusively, you have
139
Rosicrucian Principles
the additional advantage of using words and using
some other psychological laws which I will explain.
With some persons, the most difficult thing in
the world is to talk to another and talk so impres'
sively or so efficiently that the right message is
conveyed. Many persons find it more convenient
and certainly more efficient to write letters than
to talk, and I have known hundreds of successful
salesmen who did all of their selling by correspond'
ence, and who were eminently successful. How
ever, the moment they faced a prospective buyer
and attempted to say in words what they had been
accustomed to saying in letters, they became self'
conscious, wobbly in their concentration, and weak
in their impressiveness.
If you are one of those persons who can write
a strong letter and present your proposition by
mail better than you can in person, you certainly
have an advantage and I question whether it will
pay you to attempt to change your methods. But
if you are in a position where you must face your
prospective buyer, or where personal interviews
are absolutely necessary, then there are certain
140
For the Home and Business
principles which you can use and which will make
your work more sure of results.
As I have said above, whether you are selling
merchandise, or applying for a position, or seeking
favors or benefits of any kind, you are either selling
some material thing or selling yourself. And in
either case, you must create in the mind of your
prospective buyer or the person you are interview
ing, that sort of impression and that sort of picture
which you have in your own mind.
Now you cannot send a telegram by walking
into a telegraph office and telling the clerk that
you want to say something, but do not know what
it is you wish to say. Neither can you convey an
impression from your mind to another if you do
not have a clear picture in your mind to begin
with. That which you wish to have your prospec
tive buyer build up in his mind, must be so concrete
and definite in your own that you never have to
hesitate a moment in the process of transferring the
impression from your own mind to his mind.
On the other hand, you cannot send a telegram
of congratulations to anyone by walking into the
office and filing with the clerk a telegram of sym'
141
Rosicrucian Principles
pathy and sorrow. You cannot convey to the mind
of another person an impression of positive affirma'
tion and of wholehearted conviction, if in your
own mind the impression you have there is weak
or negative, or the opposite of what you wish to
convey.
In . other words, you cannot face your inter'
viewer and glibly talk, positively, about the good'
ness and merits of something you wish to sell,
while in your own mind there is a doubt about the
goodness of the thing, and a conviction that the
thing has no merit. You can train your lips to
speak a he, and you can glibly juggle your words
so that you are conveying a double meaning, but
you cannot trick your mind into forgetting the
facts it knows and creating momentarily a false
picture in agreement with the false words you are
speaking.
The average business man who is accustomed to
dealing with salesmen or interviewing persons who
wish to seek favors, benefits, or assistance, has be
come keenly sensitive to the vibrating impressions
from the mind of the speaker, and I wish to tell
you frankly that I know of thousands of such busi'
142
For the Home and Business
ness men who secretly admit that they seldom pay
as much attention to the words being spoken by
their interviewer as they do to the thought im'
pressions they are receiving in between his words.
I know from my own experience, and from the
experience of many business men who have dis
cussed this matter with me, that very often the
business man reaches a conclusion as to what he is
going to do long before the salesman or the inter'
viewer is half through his talking. Often after the
first half dozen words are spoken by the salesman
or the interviewer, the business man who is listen'
ing has received direct from the mind of the talker
an impression that all is not as it seems, and that
the man is attempting to fool him, or trick or de
ceive him, by his talking. Under such circum'
stances, the business man immediately decides that
he will not buy and will not grant the requests
being asked, and nothing that the salesman or the
interviewer says changes that impression. The very
opposite of this is true. The average very busy man
in big business will often interrupt a salesman or
an interviewer by saying: "Alright, I will accept,"
or "I agree," or "I will grant what you wish." It
143
Rosicrucian Principles
would appear that he has made up his mind before
the interviewer or talker has half explained his
proposition. Others who witness such things as
this think it is due to the fact that the business man
has some hunch or some intuitive way of deciding
what he should do. This is not true, however. He
has simply received from the interviewer's mind
an impression that reached him before the inter'
viewer had spoken a half dozen words. Busy busi'
ness men have little time for long discussions and
long interviews. If they can get the impression from
the salesman's mind mentally, in a moment, they
would rather have it that way than wait a half
hour to get it through a long series of complex
statements and descriptive explanations.
From all of this you will see that the salesman
who attempts, nowadays, to sell something that has
no teal merit, or in which he has little faith or
confidence, is lost unless he is going to try and sell
it to ignorant, uncultured, and inexperienced buy
ers, and even there he may fail because it must be
remembered that a lack of education and a lack of
culture does not prevent the human mind from
being very sensitive to mental impressions. The av
144
For the Home and Business
erage street hound has little culture and no educa'
tion, but it is mighty sensitive in reading the auras
and mental impressions of the persons who pass it
by. The salesman, or anyone else who thinks that
he can take advantage of uneducated persons and
untutored and unlettered minds and work a trick
upon their inner intelligence, is very apt to be
fooled.
In trying to sell yourself to a prospective buyer,
whether it be seeking a promotion in business, a
new position, or some special service you wish to
render, remember that your own real opinion of
yourself and of your service counts far more than
the beautiful description that you will give with
words, or which may be glowingly stated in a num-
ber of testimonial letters you ask him to read. If
you doubt your own ability to fill the position
you are seeking, if you have the least doubt in
your mind about your efficiency or capability for
the service you wish to render, do not think that
you can buffalo your business man by egotistical
statements nicely worded. Glowing promises mean
very little to the business man. He naturally as'
sumes that everyone who wants to work for him or
145
Rosicrucian Principles
serve him is going to try and do his best. The mere
fact that you say you will do your best means no
thing. He wants to know what your best really
is,
and
if
you have any doubt back in your mind as
to bow good that best
is,
he
is
going to discover
it
very soon.
Many persons are full of promises in their inter'
views, and then they are about as dry as the Sahara
desert when
it
comes to making good those prom'
ises. The most promising thing
Iever heard of was
a
Mississippi steamboat that had
a
twentytwo'inch
whistle, and
a
sixteen'inch steam boiler, and when
it
was ready to start away from the dock,
it
blew
its whistle with such strong promising tones that
it
exhausted its steam and moved backward.
So the first thing to do
is
to have the proper
determination in your mind, and
a
very complete,
definite picture of the real service you wish to
render, or the true value of the goods or things
you wish to sell.
If
you are attempting to sell mer'
chandise, whether
it
be stocks and bonds or articles
of commerce, be sure you are so familiar with what
you are selling that not only can you answer glibly
any question that
is
asked, but you can close your
146
For the Home and Business
eyes and in a moment see an entire picture of the
article from the time it started in its process of
manufacture from the raw materials, to the last
moment of its delivery.
Unless you are as familiar with that which you
are offering someone else as you are with the part
in your hair and the wax on your mustache, do
not think that you have a clear conception of the
goods at all. All the while that you are talking
to your prospective buyer, he will be getting from
your mind the precise picture you have in your
mind, and if it is about as blurred as the moving
pictures in a ten'cent moving picture house, he
will get the same sort of reactions, regardless of
the nice captions and glowing billboards that you
paint for him to look at. Telling your prospective
buyer all about what you have to offer, and at the
same time having a poor picture in your mind, is
like taking your buyer in front of a moving picture
house and pointing out to him the attractive bill'
boards, with all their glowing colors and screaming
statements. He will tell you that the show on the
inside is the thing he wants to see; therefore, your
picture on the inside of yourself should be more
147
Rosicrucian Principles
definite and more cleapcut than you or any poet or
literary master could ever picture in words.
The next important point is to convey to your
prospective buyer the fact that you are steadfast,
honest, straightforward, and businesslike. Not
only should your conversation be brief, your state
ments definite and to the point, and your whole
attitude that of positiveness and sureness, but your
every glance and movement should indicate a sure
ness and conviction that is unmistakable.
Business men do not like to have salesmen or
interviewers assume an attitude of humiliation, or
even of humility. They do not like the one who
apologizes for taking his time to explain what he
has to offer. If you are doubtful as to whether
what you have to offer is of value to the man
or not, do not go and see him until you are sure
that it is of value. If you have the slightest feeling
that you are taking up a business man's time with'
out profit to him, then do not go near him. Unless
you feel in the bottom of your heart, and in the
top of your head, that your time in his presence
will result in profit to him and benefit to his busi'
ness, as well as any profit to yourself, do not go
148
For the Home and Business
near him. Apologizing for your intrusion, or for
the time you take, is merely another way of saying
to your prospective buyer that you do not believe
you are going to show him any profit in what you
are presenting, and that after all he is going to be
the loser if he buys or if he does not, and you may
just as well save your time and his at the be'
ginning.
Of course, if you are asking merely for a favor,
wherein all the profit is for yourself and none at
all for the other fellow, you may properly explain
that you regret that you are taking some of his
valuable time in such a selfish manner. But if
you have something really of merit to offer in the
way of merchandise or your own personal services,
and you believe what you have to offer is of bene
fit or value to the other fellow, do not apologize
for taking his time. Every business man is thank'
ful to have a meritorious proposition brought to
his attention, and every business man makes it his
business to see and interview real live salesmen or
persons who have something definite to say.
One of the sure signs of weakness in character
and inefficiency in mental ability is the shifting
149
Rosicrucian Principles
eye. You will notice that the average big business
man has his desk so placed in his office that the
interviewer who calls to see him faces the light,
while the business man has his back to the light,
and has his face in the shadow. This is so that the
business man can quickly watch and study the
changing expression of the person who is talking
to him, and so that the person who is talking to
him cannot see the changing expression on his face.
The business man has a right to such an oppor
tunity to examine the character and the expres'
sions of the person who talks to him. You have
no right to look upon it as being placed at a dis
advantage, for if you are wise and good, you will
take advantage of the situation and face the light
as well as face his critical scrutiny, and fear noth'
ing. In fact, you will make your face and your
eyes serve your purpose, as I will explain in a few
moments.
Of course it is understood that you will never
go in the presence of another person seeking fav
ors, benefits, or aid, or attempting to sell or pre
mote any idea, if you are slovenly dressed, careless
ISO
For the Home and Business
in your appearance, foul of breath, and inconsidep
ate and uncordial in your attitude.
Approaching your prospective buyer, you
should have the positive affirmation in your mind
that you are going to succeed, not by overpower'
ing him, not by hypnotizing him, and not by hav
ing the Cosmic superinduce a state of mental coma
wherein he knows nothing, says nothing, thinks
nothing, but what you describe in words. The
Cosmic will not aid in such a method, through any
law or principle of the universe. If you want to
throw your prospective buyer into a state of men'
tal aberration, you will have to do it by the charm
of your personality and the goodness and greatness
of your proposition.
But there is one method, however, whereby you
can keep your listener, whoever he may be, from
letting his mind wander while you are speaking,
and coming to a conclusion too quickly. It is a
method used by the most successful salesmen
throughout the world, and by diplomats, detec
tives, judges of the court, criminologists, psycholo'
gists, and mystics. It is a method whereby you
can stand before your prospective buyer or any
151
Rosicrucian Principles
other person and say what you have to say pro'
viding it is the truth, and make him realize it is
the truth and cause him to judge your statements
and your mental pictures correctly.
The method is simply this: The moment you
begin speaking to the person you wish to convince,
be sure and concentrate your two eyes all the time
you are speaking on the center of his nose just
between the eyebrows. That point of the nose is
called the root of the nose, and if you will con'
centrate your gaze upon that, you will be concen'
trating upon the root of his attention. You will
find that he will gaze back into your eyes, and he
will feel the steadfast, permanent, convincing
glance and mental attitude on your part. If you
have to close your eyes or change your gaze from
that position while talking to him, do not drop
your eyes and look down to the floor or down to
your lap or your hands or anything that is lower
than the level of his face, but rather, shift your
eyes or your glance sideways to something in the
room that is on the level with his face. You can
rest your eyes for a moment this way, and then
bring them back to a definite view upon the root
152
For the Home and Business
of his nose. Do not attempt to stare with wide
open eyes, as though you were trying to play the
part of Svengali and turn him into a beautiful
singer. He will become suspicious of your motives,
and you will lose out instantly. Let your eyes
have just a perfectly natural look, but merely cen'
ter them on the root of his nose instead of looking
at his watch chain or the papers on his desk, or at
your own hands or feet. Every downward glance
on your part weakens your impression. Do not
attempt to get close to your man, but stay at a
respectable distance. Talk softly and in a mono
tone. Do not try to give emphasis to certain words
by pronouncing them loudly, for that will shock
the mind of the listener and upset the rhythm of
his thinking. Do not lean on his desk, put your
hat on his inkwell, or put your shoes on the rungs
of his chair. Do not get familiar, intimate, or per'
sonal. If you know the person in a friendly way,
reserve your personal, friendly talks for hours after
business. Make your conversations brief and to
the point.
If,
when all this
is
done, the prospective buyer
suggests postponing
a
decision, do not attempt to
153
Rosicrucian Principles
urge him to immediate decision. He will become
suspicious. Rome was not built in a day, and
whether he buys something from you or not, today
or tomorrow, will not ruin or wreck his business.
If the service or the thing you have to offer is any
good at all, it will be just as good tomorrow as it
is today. If you are fearful that it wont last more
than twentyfour hours, and may get weak if he
does not accept it right away, you will convince
him that he will gain more by rejecting it than by
accepting it.
Even in public speaking, and in dealing in busi'
ness matters or in personal matters, be sure and
always gaze at the person you are talking to with
your eyes centered as instructed above. This will
gain for you a mental impression of a strong, mag'
netic personality, and it will keep your listener
from wandering away mentally in a field of specu'
lation, and will hold him fast to your line of
thought.
A thousand men have told me of a thousand ut
stances where this formula saved the day. It may
not be mystical, it may not even be psychological,
but it works.
154
Chapter IX
AN UNUSUAL HELP IN NEED
(The following matter was presented originally
as a lecture to a special assembly of business men.
They became so enthused over the possibilities of
the process explained herein that for many months
after the delivery of the lecture, hundreds of prom'
inent business men in the city where the lecture
was given went about their affairs using the pecul
iar aid explained herein, much to the amusement
of their friends, but to the astonishment of those
who found it efficient and of unusual benefit.
Many business men are today using this process,
and without any attempt to understand how or
why it works, they acknowledge that Dr. Lewis
revealed a truly worthwhile principle to them. —
Editor.)
NE of my good friends and a member
of our organization, Miss Springer,
who is one of America's prominent
novelists and authors, wrote a very
fetching story one time entitled, "A Hea for Hy
pocrisy She very capably outlined the benefit
iss
Rosicrucian Principles
that all of us derive from some mild forms of
amusing hypocrisy in our lives. I feel that before
my readers are through with this chapter in my
book they will believe I have written something
that should be entitled "A Plea for Superstition."
It is strange how many superstitious beliefs most
of us really have, and how greatly we are affected
by them. You have heard of the sane, conservative
business man who laughed at the superstitious be
lief of his wife, regarding the raising of an um'
brella in his office, and yet when he went out on
the street he went out of his way to avoid
walking under a ladder. In my contact with busi'
ness men in all of the industries, trades, arts, and
professions, I have found that nearly every one of
them has some sort of superstitious belief, which
they indignantly refuse to have labelled as super'
stition, and they deny it is merely a belief. Most
of them take great pains and considerable time to
explain to me that the strange little conviction that
is in their mind is based not upon faith but upon
practical experiences, and, therefore, is neither a
belief nor a superstition.
156
For the Home and Business
They try to tell us that sailors are the most sup'
erstitious persons in the world, but I want to find
a business man who is always ready and willing to
start a new proposition or make a big investment
on a day that happens to be Friday, the thirteenth;
and I would like to find the business man who is
willing to always be the thirteenth director in a
new company; or the man or woman, in business,
who is willing to hand over his money in a new
investment just after a black cat has crossed his
path. These persons will stand on the street corner
for ten minutes or more, looking for a white horse
right after they have seen a red'headed man, and
yet deny that they have any superstitious beliefs.
However all this may be, the fact of the matter
is that most of the superstitious beliefs which have
come down through the ages and still grip us with
their possibilities and hold us with their potential
powers, are those which are actually based upon
some scientific principle. I will grant you that
walking under a ladder is a risky thing at any time,
especially if the ladder is not well grounded, and
there is a man with a paint pot somewhere above.
But there are many other superstitious beliefs or
157
Rosicrucian Principles
practices which deal with vital principles not so
obviously connected with serious possibilities.
We hear men and women who are dealing with
the important material things of life speaking of
such conditions as luck and chance. While they
may not go so far as to walk around their chair
four times just after a new deal of the cards, or
slap the top of their head three times after they
have placed a marker on the board at the side of
the roulette wheel, still they are prone to do other
things which they believe will assure their success
in the undertaking at hand.
Recently, the president of one of the largest coal
combines in America came from Chicago to have
a business consultation with me in San Jose.
Whenever he finds that talking to me, from New
York, Pittsburgh, Chicago, or Salt Lake, on the
telephone is too slow, he drops in to see me. Dur'
ing his last conversation, he told me how a presi'
dent of one of the banks with which he does busi'
ness in Chicago carries a lucky coin in his pocket,
and takes hold of it and grips it tightly whenever
he is dealing with an important matter, because he
has found that "the vibrations from this coin bring
158
For the Home and Business
him luck." The coal magnate smiled at the story
he was telling, and then he presented me with a
paper weight of a novel design for my desk, which
was a duplicate of the one he had on his desk in
his office in Chicago. He said it was the symbolic
design of a large banking institution in New York,
and that his paper weight was a reminder to him
to consult them in regard to extraordinary matters
because he found he had better luck in dealing
with that firm than with any other. Of course he
had no superstition at all!
Now the truth of the matter is that there is one
strange practice used by so'called mystics, espec
ially by business men and women who have heard
of
it,
who have tried
it
in
a
half'hearted way, and
found reason to pin their faith to the principle
involved.
I
am going to explain
it
to you, and
I
suppose that the result will be that one hundred
or more of you will go about your business affairs
from now on doing this strange little thing, much
to the amazement of your partners, and let us say
to the consternation of your business enemies.
Perhaps you have heard of the peculiar trick of
"crossing your fingers," and keeping them crossed
159
Rosicrucian Principles
while you are awaiting the result of some plan or
the decision of some person who holds the key to
your immediate problem. Perhaps you have
thought that crossing your fingers or keeping them
crossed was a superstitious practice, and perhaps
it really
is,
I
do not know, but
I
do know that
it
works. And
I
have found
a
very satisfactory ex'
planation for the practice, and whether you accept
my explanation or not, you are at perfect liberty
to try the formula and cross your fingers when'
ever you wish, and keep them crossed as long as
you like.
If
this practice does not bring the un'
usual results that others have secured, you are
again at liberty to condemn the thing as
a
foolish
superstition. On the other hand,
if
you secure
unusual results, you are at liberty to attribute the
success to the little superstitious practice.
I
have found that when
a
man or woman has
visualized and built up in the mind
a
plan,
a
desire,
or something of
a
picture representing what they
want from someone else, that the most difficult
thing
is
to keep that picture in mind and have
it
radiate in the form of mental vibrations to the
mind of the other person without interruption and
160
For the Home and Business
without interference. I am speaking now about the
man or woman who is about to interview another
person, or has just completed such an interview,
seeking or suggesting that certain things be done
which can be done by the person being inter'
viewed, but which may not be done because of
interference, forgetfulness, or some other interrup'
tion preventing the plan from being carried out.
Take, for instance, the man who goes to his banker
and explains to him his need of a loan. He uses
every convincing argument to show the banker
that the loan is not only needed, but is a safe and
businesslike proposition. The banker listens care
fully and makes certain notations, but defers giv
ing a definite answer until the next day. The man
who wants the loan realizes that after he leaves
the banker's presence, other problems and matters
may arise, and the banker may come out of the
spell which he, the business man, has worked upon
him through his good arguments and his presenta'
tion of facts. A business man in this situation
always feels that if there was some way whereby
he could hold the banker's mind in the same recep'
tive and favorable condition that it was during the
161
Rosicrucian Principles
interview, there would be no question about a
favorable decision a few hours or a few days later.
The problem is how to keep the banker's mind
inhibited with the picture which the business man
created there.
Or, take the example of a man or woman talking
to a prospective buyer of a piece of property. The
seller does his level best to create in the mind
of the prospective buyer an excellent picture of
the property and a favorable impression. The
buyer decides to give his answer a few days later.
The problem here, again, is to prevent the picture
from fading out of the mind of the prospective
buyer, and to keep the favorable impression con'
stantly alive and vibrating.
Or, take the man or woman who interviews a
prospective employer. After partially convincing
the employer, the employee is told that final decis'
ion will be made a few days later. Other appli'
cants are to be interviewed. A confusion of pic
tures and facts will be built up in the employer's
mind, and it will be difficult for him to recall
clearly the next day the fine, definite picture
which the applicant of today created in his mind.
162
For the Home and Business
The problem here is for the applicant to keep his
impression in the mind of the employer until a
decision is made.
How is one person to so inhibit the mind of an'
other that the thoughts, ideas, pictures, facts, and
impressions implanted in the mind, will stay there,
and keep revealing themselves like a moving pic
ture to his consciousness, until he cannot eliminate
them except by acting upon them and bringing
the matter to a conclusion? All of you will agree
with me that if there is a method for doing such a
thing as this, it would be not only a legitimate
thing to do, without violating any of the ethical
laws of business, or the standards of the Cosmic
principles, but it would also be an invaluable aid
to all men and women.
Now crossing the fingers will do this very thing.
I have found it to work in many cases, and I daily
hear from those who have had it recommended
to them by some acquaintance, and have found it
successful in the first trial. Whatever faith you
may put in the explanation I am going to give you,
may or may not have a bearing upon its successful
operation when you use
it,
but at least you may
163
Rosicrucian Principles
try it without jeopardizing any of your interests
and without injury to your dignity and pride.
We know from psychological laws and princi
ples, as well as from mystical practices, that the
second and third fingers on each hand are the ter
minals of certain nerves which have to do with
the centers of visualization in the mind, and the
radiation of psychic waves in the process of tele
pathy. We know that these two fingers on each
hand play an important part in so-called magnetic
healing, or contact treatment work where the
hands come in contact with the nerve centers of
other bodies. We know that all through history
these two fingers, with the addition of the thumb,
have been used symbolically as the fingers from
which there are potent radiations, often believed
to be spiritual radiations, but now known to be
magnetic or of the nature of the mental essence.
A few years ago, an eminent scientist in Europe
discovered that by pinching certain parts of the
fingers, the outward flow of this same energy
could be short circuited for the relief of pain in
various parts of the body. It was later found that
all that was really done was to affect the mental
164
For the Home and Business
activity of the consciousness. I could point out
many other reasons to show that there is a rela'
tionship between the first and second finger of each
hand, and the peculiar mental and psychic func
tions of the human mind. But in this talk I am
not dealing with metaphysics or with other mat'
ters that are wholly within the realm of the scien
tific teachings of the Rosicrucian Order. I am deal'
ing solely with the application of some principles
to business affairs.
Now, according to the explanation that I have
worked out, and which has been accepted by hun
dreds of persons who have delved deeply into the
possibilities of this explanation, I am convinced
that whenever one of us has built up in our minds
a definite picture or idea, thought or impression,
which we are conveying to another mind, that if
as soon as we have completed the picture or im'
pression in our mind and have expressed it to the
mind of another, we cross the first and second
finger of either hand or both hands, for a half hour
or so, that the impression thus created in our
mind is caused to radiate in the form of telepathic
waves from our mind to the mind of the person
165
Rosicrucian Principles
to whom we have just been speaking, and whose
personality we associate with the impression we
have in our minds.
I have found by test that if at certain hours
during the day I think of the man that I inter'
viewed yesterday, once more build up the pictures
that I had presented to him in words, and then
cross my fingers and hold that impression in my
mind for ten minutes, that during those minutes
the man once again recalls the impression I put
into his mind, and thinks of me and the picture
or story that I left with him. A great number of
experiments of this kind were conducted by myself
and others for the purpose of testing the principle
involved, and as I have said before, there are hun'
dreds of business men who are using this method
many times a day, and who do not hesitate to
claim that the final results prove its efficiency. In
many cases they have been able to ask the other
fellow at just what hour or minute he had the
recurring impressions, and they have found these
periods to check with the periods during which
the fingers were crossed.
166
For the Home and Business
I remember one case very distinctly, which I
think illustrates the whole principle involved. One
aftenoon, about 2:30, a man, who had been in'
structed in this process, rushed to a banker to pre
sent a proposition calling for a loan. He found that
he could have only a threeminute interview with
the president of the bank, for the president was
about to step into his automobile, go to the rail'
road station, and take a train for a northern city.
He promised the client that he would decide the
matter upon his return to the city three days
later. The client returned to his office after the
interview, and every half hour he sat in a relaxed
condition, crossed his fingers for two minutes, and
thought of the banker, while he built up again in
his own mind the picture and story that he had
given to the banker in words. That night, at eleven
o'clock, the client received a telegram sent from a
railroad station many miles distant, which read as
follows: "Have thought of your proposition many
times during afternoon and evening, and have de
cided to grant your request and am wiring my
bank accordingly." When the banker returned to
the city, he was questioned by the client and ad'
167
Rosicrucian Principles
mitted that he had sent the telegram in order to
bring the matter to a conclusion. He wanted to
get it out of his mind because he had been unable
to think of any other matter during the afternoon
and evening, and had to clear his mind of this
recurring proposition in order to work out other
problems pertaining to the matter which was tak'
ing him to a northern city.
It may seem foolish to some of you to stop in
the midst of your affairs many times a day, and in
silence cross your fingers, and it may even seem
like a waste of time. But if you had a big proposi'
tion pending, or an important matter hanging fire,
you would not think it foolish if it was feasible to
call the other fellow on the phone every half hour
and remind him of your proposition. Such a
method would probably annoy the other fellow
and jeopardize your interests. Crossing your fin'
gers has the advantage of diplomacy, for the other
fellow may not be aware of your process, and it
has the additional advantage of secrecy, for you
can cross your fingers behind your back without
revealing to anyone around you what you are do
168
For the Home and Business
ing, whereas telephoning is not always a private
matter.
If you have followed all the suggestions I have
given in my previous talks, you will undoubtedly
find that crossing your fingers or keeping them
crossed "just for luck" will prove to be one of the
luckiest things you can do in bringing your affairs
to a satisfactory conclusion.
Thus I make a plea for one form of superstition
at least. And so far as I am personally concerned,
I care little whether some practices are supersti'
tious or not, so long as they work and produce
results, and I have an explanation as to how they
work that enables me to apply the process intelli'
gently and understandingly. After all, that is as
much as we can say about many things in life, and
especially in connection with business and social
affairs as we meet them in our commercial and
home activities.
169
Chapter X
THE LAW OF COMPENSATION
AN has attempted in many ways to
emulate or reduce to material form
the Cosmic law of compensation, and
while he has made a miserable failure
of it in most ways, however, the spiritualistic busi'
ness man or the mystical worker in the field of
business has succeeded in establishing in his own
life and in the rules of his affairs, some principles
which are truly representative of the Cosmic laws
of compensation.
As I have said in preceding parts of this book,
money as a means for rewarding and compensat
ing men and women for their efforts is a false
practice, and an arbitrary one, created by man
without having the least relationship to the ideals
of the Cosmic law.
It is fortunate, however, that while man on the
one hand attempts to compensate those who serve
him, and those who contribute to his needs, by
paying them money, the Cosmic law of compen'
171
Rosicrucian Principles
sation also operates to bring to each one of us a
true compensation for what we have done. And
in each element wherein man's method of compen'
sation fails to reward or punish, adequately, for
each good or evil deed, the Cosmic law properly,
efficiently, and sufficiently compensates and makes
full adjustment.
Man may scheme and plan to prevent the Cos
mic law of compensation from operating in his
individual case, and he may try to stay the great
Cosmic laws from adequately adjusting the com'
pensation for his acts. He may even succeed for
a time in escaping what he believes is imminent,
but it is a fact that no one has ever successfully
avoided, evaded, or escaped the operation of the
Cosmic law completely and continuously. Men
and women may cheat one another of their just re
wards, and men and institutes may fail wilfully or
unconsciously to make proper compensation to
men and women, but the Cosmic law never fails.
It is immutable, of course, but it is also fair, just,
and really worthy of our admiration when once we
understand the principles of Cosmic compensation.
172
For the Home and Business
In business, the employer representing a great
institution or a great corporation, or the employee
representing himself as a mere human cog in the
industrial machinery, must learn that injustice, un'
fair dealing, evil doing, and evil thinking will bring
into operation the law of compensation as estab
lished in the Cosmic, and that there is no escape
from the operation of this law. The employer or
the employee who plans to take advantage of the
faith, trust, and hope of another human being, or
of a collection of human beings, that represent a
city, a nation or a continent, must expect the law
of compensation to operate sooner or later, and
bring punishment to the mind and interests of the
person who has planned the injustice.
It may be said that the law of compensation
does not always bring an immediate manifestation
of its operation, and that under the conditions in
which we live man cannot always wait until the
close of his life to enjoy the rewards of this Cosmic
law, but must seek immediate rewards of a very
definite nature each day and each week of his life.
There is no warrant for the belief that the law of
compensation defers its reward until the close of
173
Rosicrucian Principles
life. I believe this common misunderstanding is
due to the preachments of certain religious doc
trines that refer to the ultimate rewards that all
good men and women will receive in the future
state; but so far as the Cosmic law is concerned,
it makes compensation adequately and properly in
such ways and at such times as will render the
most help and benefit to the deserving one.
With many business men and women with
whom I have come in contact, the faith and trust
in the operation of the law of compensation is
equal to the faith or trust that many persons put
into a superstition. Just as I have met rational
business men who hesitate to pass under a ladder
because of a conviction that within a few hours or
at the very next turn of their activities some dire
disaster would befall them, I have met many other
men and women who believe most implicitly that
whenever they do a kindness or an unselfish act
for someone else or contribute in any way to the
health and happiness of others, they can expect
some reward or some Cosmic blessing, suddenly
and uniquely, at almost the following hour. They
had learned from experience that the Cosmic
174
For the Home and Business
brings its reward not only suddenly, but at a most
propitious moment, and that by helping others or
giving in whatever way they could to the needs
and happiness of another, they were accruing a
certain amount of Cosmic blessing or help that
would come to them just when they needed
it,
and as they needed it.
I
do not mean to say that such persons con'
stantly had in mind the reward or return of their
blessings whenever they planned to do something
for someone else.
I
have noticed from many re
ports, and from intimate contact with those who
followed such principles in their lives, that most
of the unselfish or kindly acts performed by
these persons were unplanned and wholly spon'
taneous, and that
it
was only as they were per'
forming the act or immediately thereafter, that the
thought came to them that in compensation for
their rashness or liberality there would be the
proper return.
It
is
but natural for anyone to
promptly question the logic of
a
spontaneous act
or sudden urge, and to wonder whether
it
is
worth
while, diplomatic, or reasonable.
It
is
at such mc
ments of consideration of the spontaneous act that
175
Rosicrucian Principles
these persons generally conclude that even though
it was sudden and probably urged by an emotional
impulse, the Cosmic was conscious of the urge,
and the wholehearted response to
it,
and would
compensate accordingly.
Let me illustrate how such co'operation with
Cosmic law can really become
a
valuable asset in
one's life. For
a
number of years
I
was closely
associated with, and advisor to Mr. William
Woodbury, who was one of New York's wealthy
men given to
a
study of human needs. His busi
ness affairs with which
I
was connected were of
such
a
nature as to permit him to have ample time
for personal matters, and provided him with an
income sufficient to allow him to indulge in any of
the costly hobbies and practices which often be
come the ruination of many wealthy men. Mr.
Woodbury, however, decided that he would get
more pleasure out of life
if
he could evolve some
plans of helping the worthy and needy who
wanted to help themselves. He had no faith in
organized charity, and did not believe that any
form of charity helped the real man who had
a
real need.
176
For the Home and Business
Finally a plan was evolved whereby Mr. Wood'
bury set aside a million dollars in a bank in New
York for the special purpose of helping others. He
informed various business and charitable organize'
tions that if they contacted any man, with a legiti
mate plan, who was anxious to go into business for
himself to send such a man to see him. Mr. Wood'
bury opened a special office in a private residence
in a secluded part of New York City, and there,
each morning, we interviewed applicants for help.
Briefly outlined, his plan was to find such men as
were competent in some definite line of business
or trade, who had many years of experience in that
particular line, and who were anxious to discon
tinue being an employee and go into business for
themselves. If such persons were well qualified in
a moral and ethical way, as for instance, not ad'
dicted to drinking, gambling, or other extravagant
indulgences, and were healthy and of an age which
would permit the starting into business and the
building up of a good following, he would loan
them anywhere from five thousand to twentyfive
thousand dollars, and in some cases even more.
The money was loaned to such men without se
177
Rosicrucian Principles
curity, and with no other pledge or promise than
their personal word, and with no agreement as to
the return of the money except that it should be
returned from the legitimate profits of their busi'
nesses, and in such payments as they found were
possible, convenient, and not injurious to the prog'
ress of their business, and without any interest of
any kind.
Inside of a year practically the whole of the
million dollars had been loaned in this manner, and
during the following year it was a pleasure to see
that ninetyeight per cent of those who had se
cured the money were making various returns in
accordance with the profits of their business, and
in no wise attempting to defraud Mr. Woodbury.
After four years of operation of the plan, Mr.
Woodbury found that quite a few had returned
not only the original amounts which they had bor
rowed, but had donated to the fund liberal
amounts to help others, and that on the basis on
which it was working, his original million dollars
would be returned with a very much larger increase
than if he had loaned it at six per cent. In fact, a
report from Mr. Woodbury, to me, in 1924,
178
For the Home and Business
showed that in ten years previous, his million dol'
lars had been returned and a large additional fund
accumulated; and he had proved his original con'
tention that human nature could be trusted, and
that the average man, if placed upon his word of
honor, would not take advantage of any plan that
was truly conceived to be noncommercial and one
hundred per cent altruistic. Only a little over two
per cent of the persons he had tried to help had
taken advantage of the situation and had either
absconded or in other ways defrauded him; but
he took no means to punish them or even search
for them.
The most important discovery made by Wood'
bury in connection with his humanitarian plan,
however, was that soon after he inaugurated it his
other business affairs began to prosper far beyond
his anticipation, and many persons who owed him
large sums of money began to make payments, and
in other ways he found that the Cosmic law of
compensation was beginning to reward him for his
efforts in behalf of others. He finally organized an
institution of helpfulness for business men, and
up to the very last hour that it existed before being
179
Rosicrucian Principles
completely abandoned in order to carry on other
activities, it was one of the outstanding demonstra'
tions of Cosmic law. It is unfortunate that Mr.
Woodbury is no longer in America to carry on
these forms of help, but there are undoubtedly
others in this country, and other countries, who
have been doing and possibly are doing what Mr.
Woodbury has done.
Another illustration is that of the work of Mr.
Dodge, the New York financier, with whom I was
associated as advisor and consultant in new plans
for over five years. Mr. Dodge was not only well
known throughout many eastern cities as a pre
moter of big corporations and interested only in
big business in every sense, but he was one of the
most liberal workers in behalf of the unfortunate
men of the East, that I ever met. From one end
of New York City to another Mr. Dodge was
known in the principal hotels, restaurants, cloth'
ing stores, and real estate offices. When an unfor'
tunate of either sex appeared at a restaurant or a
hotel and asked for a room or a meal, and had a
note written on the back of a card signed by Mr.
Dodge, he or she was given every possible help.
180
For the Home and Business
And a note written by Mr. Dodge has given to
many men and women a receipt for a month's rent
for their apartment or home, or some necessary
furniture, groceries, or clothing.
It used to be a pleasure to go along with Mr.
Dodge, in his automobile, once a month, to these
principal stores, and listen to the reports and note
the pleasure Mr. Dodge had in handing out his
personal checks to pay for the things others had
received. What he had learned and what I knew
of his business affairs, proved the soundness of his
activities. There never was one of his big business
proposition that did not pay and prove an eminent
success. Whether in the Wall Street district, when
several large financial institutions were amalga'
mated under his plan, whether it was on the upper
streets of Manhattan, when two large systems of
chain drug stores were united into one of the lar'
gest drug corporations in the country under a plan
outlined by him, or whatever it might be, he
seemed to have what others called "luck." And
every person who had money for investment
sought an opportunity to have an interest in any
proposition that Mr. Dodge sanctioned or spon'
181
Rosicrucian Principles
sored. He knew that he had Cosmic cooperation
and support, because he believed himself to be
one of the many silent and secret workers in behalf
of the Cosmic to help his fellow men. It used
to be a pleasant thing with him to tell a few others,
quite confidentially, that he himself was incorpor'
ated, and that his firm consisted of the Cosmic
Hosts and him. With such a partnership, no man
could fail in business.
Take the case of Sam Small, the president
of the Board of Directors of one of the large cereal
companies of America. Mr. Small was at one time
an abandoned waif and had to fight his way
through life, but he never forgot, in his days of
wealth and prosperity, the sufferings of the waifs
of the street. It was indeed a pleasure for anyone
to accompany him in his automobile several nights
before Christmas each year, in whatever city he
happened to be, and watch him go into the by
ways of congested districts among the poor, and
pick up boys and girls and take them to clothing
stores and buy them the shoes, stockings, and
overcoats which they needed, and send them home
with baskets of groceries or buy them toys. Hun'
182
For the Home and Business
dreds of them in many cities were helped in this
manner, each Christmas, without ostentation, and
with no other motive than the soul pleasure he de
rived from it, and the idea that some divine law
had raised him from poverty as
a
waif to great
wealth for the purpose of enabling him to carry
out the Cosmic principles. He could not conceive
of the possibility of his wealth having come to him
for his own selfish use or the use of his immediate
family exclusively, and he had the true idea of
being
a
steward of divine funds. And yet as fast
as Mr. Small expended his funds in this manner,
his income was increased and increased until he
finally became the head of many big companies.
Mr. Small and many others would frankly tell
you that at times, when they first felt the urge to
give to others and to help others, they often had
to debate whether the few dollars they possessed
should be rashly or spontaneously divided and
given away, or held in reserve for
a
possible rainy
day. Many times the money in hand represented
just
a
safe margin for emergencies in their business
affairs, and in some cases the plan for helpfulness
called for the expenditure of every available dollar,
183
Rosicrucian Principles
and the jeopardiyng of personal interests at the
time. Yet there was always the conviction, based
upon previous experience, that if even the last
penny is given away freely and without reluctance,
and with that spontaneity of good will, that the
Cosmic always uses, there would come a proper
reward in the form of some adjustment of financial
affairs that would remove any possibility of dis'
astrous results to the giver.
And so my plea to you must be, that regardless
of the station in life you occupy, or the situation
of your business and financial affairs, you must not
permit your own needs, and especially your con'
templated needs, to interfere with the liberality of
your charity or the broadness of your helpfulness.
It is a positive fact, that as you act spontaneously
and freely, and without hesitation or long delibera'
tion, in the giving to someone else of that which
you can give but which you could use yourself, so
you will find the Cosmic spontaneously and lib
erally coming to your aid at the proper time, and
with the same lack of hesitancy which you mani'
fested.
184
For the Home and Business
It is safe to say that the average person of health
and business capabilities who finds himself or her'
self out of employment, out of funds, and out of
contact with any who can help or tide over the
serious situation, is a person who has failed in the
past to give liberally and spontaneously when the
Cosmic urge came from within. Too many per'
sons appeal to the Cosmic or to the laws of psy
chology and mysticism for aid in their predica'
ment, who cannot show that at any time in the
past have they co-operated with the Cosmic in lily
erally helping others. To merely give advice to
others who seek
it,
or to simply give
a
meal to one
who begs at the door or to drop
a
few coins in
the Salvation Army pot, or to donate some old
clothing to the orphan asylum
is
not carrying out
the greater work of the Cosmic. Those who sud'
denly feel that there
is
something they can do for
someone, something they can give, even though
it
hurts in
a
financial or material way, or something
that they can do even though
it
is
inconvenient,
unpleasant, tiresome, and costly, and without hesi'
tation, without reluctance, wholeheartedly sub'
mit to the urge, are the ones who are truly co
185
Rosicrucian Principles
operating with the Cosmic, and find not eventu'
ally, not in the days of the last judgment in the
world beyond, but in the days here and now that
at every crisis and in every need the Cosmic comes
to their help abundantly.
It behooves everyone, therefore, who has read
this book through with the hope of finding in it
some help in the solving of his personal prob'
lems, to ask himself this question: "What have
I done for others?" And perhaps this additional
question: "What have I contributed to the Cos'
mic supply that I may now appeal to its teller and
withdraw from the universal supply?" If you can
find no positive, affirmative answer to your ques'
tions, and you believe, even half reluctantly, that
you have been deficient in your co-operation with
the Cosmic in this regard, it will be well for you
to immediately consider how you may proceed at
once to help some others while you are seeking
help for yourself. Before you expect any return
through Cosmic or mystic laws, be sure that you
have done your utmost to help someone else, not
only because of the reward that will come to you,
but because it is your duty, as it is the duty of
186
For the Home and Business
every human being, to be an earthly instrument in
the carrying out of the Cosmic scheme of things.
And as long as you are out of attunement with the
Cosmic plans, and not a part of the army of Cos'
mic workers, you cannot expect the Cosmic laws
to help you and be unmindful of your neglect.
Perhaps your very situation today, in whole or
in part, and perhaps the problems which you now
face, and from which you have sought relief or
now seek relief , are a result of your failure to co
operate with the law of compensation in the past,
and, therefore, your present predicament is a part
of your Karma. If this is so—and no one else but
you can tell that—it is certain that you must ad'
just the conditions first with the Cosmic law, and
with the Cosmic Hosts, and then with man on
earth.
187
Chapter XI
ATTRACTING PATRONAGE
NE of the most common complaints
voiced in letters to our various wel
fare departments is to the effect that
keen competition or rivalry is respon'
sible for the troubles and poor progress in the line
of business owned or operated by the writers. In
other words, the writers of such letters say: "I
was getting along alright with my business, which
was slowly building up and becoming profitable,
but others near me have entered into the same line
of business and the patronage is now divided be
tween a number and none of us are succeeding
as well as we should." Other letters say: "A com'
petitor has entered my field of business and is near
me, drawing so heavily upon my patronage that
my business is about to fail. I am honest, give
proper returns for the money, and have tried to
build my business on a fair and square basis; yet
I now face failure because of this competition."
189
Rosicrucian Principles
It is absolutely true that competition is the spice
of business and that keen competition should re
suit in keener business for the keen business man.
There is hardly any business today that does not
have competition, and if it has no competition, it
soon will have; and everyone who is in business,
whether for himself or for another, should realize
that competition is no explanation for failure, but
should be a real incentive for success.
I remember the story of a clergyman who came
to me and told me that the attendance at his Sun'
day evening and Wednesday evening services was
being ruined by lack of patronage because a mov
ing picture theatre across the street was attracting
everyone in the town and drawing from his con'
gregations. I asked him if it was hurting his Mon
day night, Tuesday night, Thursday night, Friday
night, and Saturday night congregations, and he
told me that he had none on those nights for his
church was closed on all those evenings. I asked
him to describe the front of his church so that I
might get a picture of what the church looked like.
He went into detail whereby I was able to visualize
one of those nice grey stone structures often seen
190
For the Home and Business
in the heart of some middle'sized town, with ivy
growing over the doorway and around the win
dows, an old belfry with rusty, dusty bells, a little
lawn in front of the church, badly kept, and huge,
wooden doors in the doorway, closed and securely
locked. The structure I saw in my mind could have
been a suitable place for a prison, an insane asylum,
a sanitarium, or the winter home of an erratic old
man of wealth. I asked him if he had any signs
or emblems on the front of the church and he said
there was a cross on the top of the belfry that was
once gold but now quite rusted, and two signs on
the front of the building, one on either side of the
door. When I asked what the signs said, he
answered:
"The sign on the left side of the door is small,
with a black background and gold lettering which
says that the Reverend John Blank, D. D., is Pas'
tor, and that services are held Sundays at eleven
o'clock, three o'clock, and seven'thirty, and on
Wednesday nights at seven'thirty, and that all are
welcome. The sign on the right hand side of the
door is black, with gold lettering, and states that
John Sexton is the undertaker and sexton."
191
Rosicrucian Principles
Then I said to the clergyman: "What kind of a
building does the moving picture concern have?
He explained to me that it had a white and green
tiled archway with a large, well decorated lobby,
an attractive ticket booth, many lights, and attrac
tive signs, and was in full operation every night in
the week. Then I asked him to step with me men'
tally into the middle of the street on any evening
at about seven'thirty and consider the mental atti'
tude of a person that had an evening to spare and
was trying to decide where to go. On the one side
of the street was the church, and on the other side
the moving picture theatre. The one structure is
dark, gruesomelooking, uninviting. No strains of
music come from within, no face appears at the
door to greet you, and the only signs that you can
read, politely tell you that the place is open on
only a few occasions during the week, and that
two persons are connected with it—one who is
ready to tell you how sinful you are and the other
will bury you when you die. On the other side of
the street there is warmth, color, attractiveness,
gaiety, interesting music, and a smiling face at a
booth inviting you to come in, and the signs in
192
For the Home and Business
front of this place tell you that a number of char'
acters will appear before you to speak to you or
portray stories and lessons, and that these stories
and lessons deal with the realities of life, the actual
occurrences, the things of here and now, and be
speak generally the land of the living and the life
of happiness and joy.
Of course the clergyman could see the point of
my discussion with him. Instead of complaining
and attempting to discover all the wrong things he
could find about the moving picture theatres and
the moving picture industry generally, he should
have analyzed his own situation and tried to find
what was wrong with him and his church. Man
is unquestionably religiously inclined, and the aver'
age man and woman would be the last ones to
think of having the church left out of community
life. But the average man and woman wants a re
ligion that is joyous and inspiring and filled with
hope and salvation that is a saving grace from all
the trials, troubles, sorrows, and tribulations of
this life. The church, as conducted by this par'
ticular clergyman, was an institution of sadness
and despondency. His own records showed that
193
Rosicrucian Principles
he was catering more to elderly people than to
younger people, and that in fact he could not get
any of the young people to any of the evening
services.
I found a year later, after this man had kept his
church open seven nights a week and had arranged
interesting and instructive programs for each
night, that he was operating a keen form of compc
tition to the theatre, for the folks in the town
found that they could get cleaner entertainment
and more real benefit out of some of the week'day
church services than they got at the moving pic
ture theatre, and at a smaller price. Since it was
not a matter of price competition but of audience,
the clergyman had the upper hand all the time, but
did not know it.
Speaking of theatres, I remember an early ex'
perience with a neighborhood moving picture
theatre in the residential section of the upper part
of New York. A number of men who had never
been in the moving picture business but who had
some ideas to test in regard to how a theatre
should be conducted, pooled their funds and
turned a small store building into very attractive
194
For the Home and Business
moving picture theatre. The theatre seated only
three hundred persons, and in those days a neigh'
borhood theatre did not dare to charge more than
fifteen cents for a seat. They believed they could
get twentyfive cents if there was a good show,
*nd if the theatre was properly conducted. If the
house was filled every evening at its two perform'
ances, the total income for the night would be one
hundred and fifty dollars. That amount of money
would not go far in putting on first run pictures
and having some good vaudeville acts and good
music. Therefore, elaborate programs and costly
features had to be eliminated, and what was used
had to be presented in a unique manner in order to
appeal. After everything was done to make the en'
trance and the interior of the theatre attractive in
an artistic way, even to having some mural artists
make some very unusual paintings on the walls
and in the lobby, and after an attractive stage with
various beautiful scenic drops had been completed,
the theatre was ready for its opening.
In order to fight the competition of the large
downtown theatres, not more than five minutes'"
ride from this neighborhood, the owners of this
195
Rosicrucian Principles
theatre consulted with me in regard to a plan of so-
licitation whereby an appeal could be made for pat'
ronage among the well'to'do and the cultured who
would make this their private or personal amuse
ment house. Letters were sent to the Board of Ed'
ucation and to the schools in the neighborhood, an'
nouncing the opening of the theatre and stating
that the theatre would not be open on school
afternoons so as not to tempt the youths to stay
away from school; that children would not be
permitted in the evenings without their parents;
and that only clean and wholesome pictures, free
from rowdyism or crime would be shown. This
announcement made a "hit" with the teachers and
the Board of Education, and with the churches and
the better families of the neighborhood. Then an
engraved invitation was sent to every well'tcdo
family within a mile of the theatre, announcing
the opening of the Venetian Theatre with its Ital'
ian orchestra, Italian decorations, Italian atmos'
phere, and Italian courtesy. We assured them that
they would find a better program, more comfort
able seats, a more wholesome environment, and
more courtesy than they had ever found in any
196
For the Home and Business
theatre before. They were invited to come to the
opening night free by using the ticket that was
enclosed.
The theatre was packed on its first night, and in
the three years that it continued it was packed
every night at each performance. When the pa'
trons came to the door they were ushered politely
and with real courtesy to their seats. Every convex
ience was provided, even to the extent of having
the seats wider and further apart than they were
in ordinary theatres. For the first time in the his'
tory of any New York theatre, drinking water was
freely distributed in sanitary cups between the vari'
out acts. As patrons left they were handed a little
card thanking them for their patronage and invit'
ing them to come again and make this theatre then-
evening home of pleasure. The courtesies and atten
tions did not extend solely to the patrons, but to
the vaudeville performers and everyone acting as an
employee. After it had been in operation for three
months, I went to the dressing rooms behind the
stage and found that even individual bathrooms
had been built in the corner of each dressing room,
and that a shower'bath and a little kitchenette for
197
Rosicrucian Principles
the preparation of hurried meals had been provided
for the performers. I found notations written on the
white walls of the dressing rooms stating that the
undersigned couple, or individual performer, want'
ed to say that he or she never had been in another
theatre where they had received such courtesies,
and wished the theatre well and enjoyed perform'
ing in it. In the downtown booking offices where
the vaudeville acts were engaged, the men praised
the system that the theatre used and sent only the
cleanest and best acts it had. Before the theatre was
a year old, it had forced out of business a number
of cheap ten and fifteen cent moving picture houses
within two or three blocks of this new place.
Here was the art of attracting patronage brought
to a high degree, and proved to be the proper way in
which to build business in the face of competition.
Even those theatres that were forced to go out
of business could have saved themselves by im'
mediately adopting the same policy that the Vene'
turn Theatre used. They claimed that the Venetian
Theatre had made a tremendous investment in dec
orations, musicians, uniforms for ushers, and other
incidentals that they could not afford. The truth
198
For the Home and Business
of the matter was that the biggest investment that
the Venetian Theatre made was an investment in
politeness and unique business methods that did
not cost anything but some thought and consider'
able sincerity.
The business man who says that he is giving
full measure for every dollar received, and, there
fore, is entitled to patronage, is fooling himself.
It is only natural for the average man and woman
to expect full value plus for every dollar he or
she spends, and the plus part of the return does not
have to be in material form. There was a time
when thirteen doughnuts constituted a dozen in
the bakery shop, and the extra doughnut was sup'
posed to be a bid for patronage. So much did the
average bakery shop count on the extra doughnut
or the extra roll in each dozen that they almost
threw the bag at you, grabbed your money, and let
you go. They expected the prize doughnut or roll
to wipe you off your feet and paralyze you into
believing that you simply had to go to that par'
ticular bakery or do without. The truth of the
matter is that any live bakery could have gotten
away with eleven doughnuts for a dozen, if in
199
Rosicrucian Principles
place of the other dougnuts it had handed out
a good big handful of politeness, courtesy, and a
little touch of unique service. I saw this proved in
a bakery that opened its doors against keen com'
petition. It did not give the extra doughnut in
each dozen, but it did use a unique bag for its
doughnuts that did not get greasy and become a
telltale article in the hands of every woman who
carried the bag around with her during the rest
of her shopping; and it sold more warm biscuits
every afternoon than any of the other bakeries be
cause it did not wait for its customers to come to
the store counters and ask for them, but sent them
around to every home sharply at four o'clock
every afternoon in unique little boxes, and let you
pay for them at the end of the week. Who
could resist warm tea biscuits at four o'clock in
the afternoon?
I know of a men's furnishing store that opened
in the face of keen competition and walked away
with all of the neighborhood business in a few
months by adding some unique features. For in'
stance, it did not sell neckties by hanging them on
racks or by displaying them in a glass case. The
200
For the Home and Business
store had a little booth conveniently situated with
a bright light in it and a chair and a mirror where
a prospective customer of neckties could sit down
and try on one or a dozen and see how they ac
tually looked when tied in his collar or around his
neck. Women hold dresses up to their faces to
see how the color agrees with their complexion, or
at least all sensible women do this. Very few men
have any idea how a necktie will look when it is
off the rack and close to their chin, and a tie that
looks nicely tied in a knot held by the salesman,
looks like anything else when it is around the neck
of the man who wants to buy it. They soon found
that men also tried on collars in this same way,
and their collar business increased along with the
necktie business. The man who owned the store
believed that if you tried on shoes, and tried on
suits, to see if they fit you, you should also try
on neckties and collars. The little loss through
wrinkled neckties and an occasional soiled collar
was more than offset by the tremendous business
he did.
Many lines of business are failing today or fall'
ing into the hands of incompetent, irresponsible
201
Rosicrucian Principles
persons because men who have money to invest
believe that some of these lines of businesses are
failures, and cannot be put upon a high plane. The
average man with several thousand dollars to in'
vest and who wants to enter a dignified business
thinks that conducting a garage is one of the low
est, meanest, or dirtiest jobs that he can have.
Some men believe that such a thing as a garage
should be left for mechanics or persons incapable
of conducting any other kind of business. The re
suit is that the average garage and repair shop for
automobiles is an uninviting and irresponsible in'
stitution. For this reason patrons do not want to
pay well, are always suspicious about the charges
asked, and take with a grain of salt any statements
as to the efficiency of the work performed. The
result is that a garage in any community is like a
prophet in his own country. The people who live
near it or closest to it will not patronize
it,
but go
into other fields where the grass seems greener or
conditions seem better.
There
is
no reason in the world why
a
garage
business and repair shop could not be established
and maintained in
a
high class manner without any
202
For the Home and. Business
more investment or any more operating costs
t^ian
is required by an ordinary garage. Why it is not
done more often is an indication of the inability of
men to think along unique lines and to create a
new aspect and a new character for the business
they are in.
There is no surer way of attracting patronage
than by making the new customer or the old cus'
tomer feel that from the moment he crosses the
threshold of your doorway he is in a different place
and going to receive different attention and dif
ferent service than he has received before. When
a customer feels that some distinctive service and
some special courtesy, that he has not asked for
and is not expected to pay for, is going to be given
to him, or is being given to him, he begins to make
a mental note of the place and decides that if
everything turns out well, he will come again. And
when a customer can walk out of your place of
business saying to himself that regardless of what
he paid, or what he received, he also received what
he did not pay for, and what he did not expect,
and what he did not find anywhere else, then you
203
Rosicrucian Principles
will have a patron who will stay with you as long
as you can keep him thinking that way.
There is a big difference between politeness and
sycophancy, and between courtesy and servility.
No customer wants to be filled with large slices
of the declicatessen article that is so popular now
adays as a symbol of flattery, and which no matter
how thinly it may be sliced, still retains its nature
in the mind of every intelligent person. On the
other hand, there is a way to extend courtesy and
demonstrate politeness that will leave its impres'
sion long after the demonstrator of these things
has forgotten it.
No matter what business you may be in, or for
whom you may be working, you will better the
interests of the firm, and incidentally yourself,
if you try to give every customer, every patron,
every client, more than he pays for, and remem'
ber again that the "more" need not refer to the
material things being sold. A railroad company
is not in business to sell tickets. It is a service com'
pany, and unless service is given along with the
ticket, and carried out by the ticket and the sellers
of the ticket, the company is not giving its patrons
204
For the Home and Business
what it is in business to give. The ticket is but the
symbol of what is to follow. The customer does
not buy a railroad ticket for one hundred dollars
in order to have a nice, green piece of paper in
his wallet. It is what the ticket represents that he
pays his money for and by which he judges the
efficiency of the company. You could not make
patrons continue to use any particular railroad
because of an attempt to make them fall in love
with the color scheme of the prettily engraved
ticket you sell them. The service that goes along
with the selling of a suit of clothes, and continues
long after the man has been wearing the suit, will
bring that man back into the store again, when
the high quality of the merchandise for which he
paid adequately would make no impression upon
him. When you sell a man an ice cream soda, you
cannot argue with him that you are giving him his
money's worth of water, gas, and frozen cream.
It is the cleverness of the mixture, the uniqueness
of the service, the comfort in enjoying
it,
and the
environment of the whole occasion, that makes
the hit with the thirsty man or woman.
205
Bjosicrucian Principles
Therefore, in attracting patronage remember
you must use subtle and psychological principles
and put them into such outward manifestation
that the person to be affected realizes them keenly,
and makes a mental note of them. The process is
entirely up to you and not up to the customer. If
your competitors are taking your business away
from you or from the employer who employs you,
it is up to the employer and you to win the cus'
tomers back, providing the merchandise is good
and the business is an honest one. If your com'
petitors are beating you in the game of giving plus
in every deal, you have got to go one better with
them and add plus to plus. It is not a matter of
the survival of the fittest, but a survival of the
best giver; and again I say, the things that count
most with the customer, client, or patron in any
line of business are the things he did not pay for,
did not expect, and which do not have any mater'
ial price attached to them.
206
Chapter XII
THE ROUND TABLE
T would appear from a careful survey
of the success attained by a large ma'
jority of the Rosicrucians who have
used the unique principles to improve
their health and enlarge their social and financial
standings, that these persons have used freely such
methods, principles, processes, and formulas as
might be used by every man and woman without
limiting themselves to some narrow doctrines of
psychological laws to the exclusion of any piinci'
pie or idea that was sane and sensible.
In other words, it is found in the review of the
lives of most of the highly successful Rosicrucians
that no element of fanaticism and no degree of
bigotry or narrowness has entered into their appli'
cation of Nature's laws and power. Just because
one man finds in the Rosicrucian teachings some
principles that are unique and efficient and worthy
of continuous application, there is no reason to re
ject from one's mode of living and from one's
207
Rosicrucian Principles
scheme for advancement any principle or idea that
is good, and yet not essentially Rosicrucian. In
this we see the broadness of the Rosicrucian idea,
and it illustrates the working out of the thought
constantly presented to Rosicrucians, namely:
he must be, above all else, sane, reasonable, and
broad'minded.
The true Rosicrucian comes to know very early
in his experiments with the teachings that the doc
trines of the Rosicrucians are not intended to be
a limited creed or an exclusive outline of the only
laws and principles of value to man in his personal
evolution. As inclusive as the teachings have been
made and are being made, the fact remains that
man is constantly discovering or evolving methods
and processes for his own advancement which may
not be found in the Rosicrucian teachings or in
the teachings of any other school or system. Some
schools or movements insist that in order that sue
cess with their work may be attained, the student
or the practitioner must exclude everything that
is not a part of their systems.
We find physicians of some schools of medicine
who are so old'fashioned in their beliefs and com
208
For the Home and Business
prehension of the newer laws that they insist that
the patient must not accept or receive any fom
of help for his physical disability than that being
prescribed by him in accordance with the indica'
tions of his system. On the other hand, we find
the broad'minded and more modern physicians
freely admitting that in addition to the medicine,
surgery, or adjustments prescribed by him, the pa'
tient may have the benefit also of metaphysical,
mental, or psychological treatments. Such physi
cians are not only helping their patients to atta'r
normality in a more rapid manner, but they are
establishing faith and confidence in the minds of
their patients by showing a tolerant attitude, and
an understanding of the possibilities of various
laws to affect certain conditions.
The Rosicrucians freely proclaim and demon
strate that the mind of man is capable of many
marvelous controls over the physical body, and
that through psychological or psychic and mental
principles man may alleviate pain and suffering
and produce many cures. On the other hand,
Rosicrucianism plainly and distinctly indicates that
where medicine or herb extracts, surgery or me'
209
Rosicrucian Principles
chanical adjustments, massage or electricity, tooth
extracation, eye correction, or any other improve
ment in the physical, chemical, anatomical, or
functional condition of the body is indicated, these
things should be attended to immediately and at
the hands of a competent person, thoroughly
trained in a college devoted to that work and
li'
censed to practice his art or science. To believe
that psychological principles will take the place of
these other processes or methods
is
to simply shut
the door to efficient aid and depend upon faith or
the operation of natural law to gradually effect
a
change, or permit
a
temporary condition to be
come
a
chronic one and thereby more serious than
it
was.
The same thing may be said of business ills, soc
ial ills, and the general ills of humanity. Miracles
are performed by the mind and also by the hand,
and many of the great miracles of the past that are
recorded in sacred literature as having been made
manifest through prayer or the application of
a
Divine Principle are being duplicated today by
science through
a
more direct application of nat'
ural laws. The manifest miracle
is
the same in
210
For the Home and Business
both cases, and where science or the arts and
laws of the natural world will competently and
efficiently adjust matters for man, he is extremely
foolish to ignore these other methods and depend
solely upon faith or his finite understanding of
infinite principles.
To be highly successful in life, men and women
must cease believing or feeling that they are indi'
viduals, independent of all other persons or beings
in the universe. It is only through a developed
sense of oneness with God and oneness with man
kind that man attunes himself rightfully to the
conditions that surround him, and which will carry
him onward to success, happiness, and health if
he masters the obstacles that seem to arise before
him. Most of the obstacles in life which men and
women look upon as mountainous barriers to the
goal of life are fictitious things, and often figments
of the imagination or phantasmagories of the fear
element that still resides in the minds of men 'and
women as an inheritance from the primitive stages
of existence.
One old mystic said that the things we feared
the most in life were the things that never hap'
211
Rosicrucian Principles
pened; and I know from personal and correspond'
ence contact with thousands of men and women
who write to the Welfare Department of the Rosi'
crucians for aid and help in overcoming the ob
stacles that they believe stand before them, that
the statement of this old myscic is true. There is
a trite saying that one should never cross a bridge
until one comes to
it,
and
I
have found that the
average man and woman who hesitates in ventur
ing along the path to success
is
not only trying
to cross
a
bridge that
is
far in the distance, but
is
making of that bridge
a
greater structure and
a
greater test of endurance than
is
warranted by the
actual facts. In fact, many of them are not sure
that there
is
a
bridge to be crossed, but on the
basis that no long road continues in any direction
without going over some bridges, they anticipate
the existence of them in their lives and proceed to
worry about the crossing.
After all, the road to success
is
like unto the
road to happiness, prosperity, health, or pleasure.
It
is
not likely to be entirely level, always straight,
not always free from showers, storms, or muddy
spots, or even rocky beds. But these little difficul'
212
For the Home and Business
ties or inconveniences are part of the game of life,
and the one who is deterred or discouraged by
these conditions when he approaches them is the
one who fails to make the goal. But as I have
intimated, there are many who permit themselves
to be deterred on the path while it is still level,
smooth, straight, and convenient, because of an
anticipation of some incline, some curve, or some
unpleasant condition.
Man has been given more faculties and more
marvelous abilities to direct and control his life
than any other of the living creatures on this earth.
He possesses the ability to reason and reach con'
clusions and establish through his will power a
determination to carry out his conclusions against
obstacles and conditions which deter other crea'
tures and hold them within limits unknown to
man. The strongest of the creatures of lesser in
telligence than man are easily held within bounds
by means and methods that the average man would
smile at as a barrier to his freedom. The wildest
and strongest lion of Africa demonstrating its
prowess in many ways is easily held within a lim'
ited area by an iron grating or a wall that would
213
Rosicrucian Principles
mean nothing to a man who was determined to
pass beyond such an interference to his freedom.
We know that men who have been confined
within prison walls have pitted their ingenuity,
strength, and endurance against the minds of
the most skillful engineers and architests in escap
ing from such limitations. If the same amount of
thought and determination was used by the aver'
age man in attempting to overcome the obstacles
that beset him in his attempt to succeed in life,
with all of the freedom of thought and action that
is natural to the average man, he would make a
greater success of his life.
Man has within him a creative power that is a
part of the universal creative force and is a part
of that creative energy which God breathed into
space when the first Word was spoken, and order
came out of chaos. Science is constantly proving,
and the psychic powers within man are constantly
demonstrating, that there is no limit to the possi'
bilities of this creative power. Man has yet to dis'
cover in any of the fields of science or in the do'
main of psychology and metaphysics, the limit of
214
For the Home and Business
that creative power when it is focused upon some
issue or upon some condition.
Much has been said in recent years about the
death ray or that invisible beam of light that may
be focused upon living matter and through its
high frequency or high rates of vibrations bring
a cessation of vibratory animation and produce
so'called death. The vibrations of this beam are
not potentially destructive, but creative, and it is
because of their high creative potentiality that they
disturb the equilibrium or harmonium of living
cells and bring about a change of expression. That
change may bring "death" to the form of expres'
sion upon which the vibrations are directed, but
will bring new life into the newer form of expres'
sion that results therefrom. The power of this in'
visible beam and the greatest amount of energy
that may be put back of it at the hands of science
cannot possibly equal in strength the creative
power that man may focus upon an issue or con'
dition and in this wise affect things in his life
which this marvelous beam could not affect at all.
The Divinity in man is the only real part of his
existence, and all else is but a servant unto it.
215
Rosicrucian Principles
The world is the footstool for this Divine Being,
and everything in the universe is enslaved by the
omnipotent intelligence of this highest expression
of creation. This Divine Self of man knows
neither disease nor death, failure, or discourage
ment. Its trend of activity is always upward and
progressive. Its outlook is altruistic, optimistic,
and joyful. Its intellectual resources are unlimited.
Its capabilities are as wide as the universe itself.
It is only the outer man that should be a servant
unto the inner self for the outer man is limited in
time of expression, in period of existence, in capa'
bilities, and endurance.
The outer man attempts to judge the world by
its comprehension, and this is but an infinitesimal
part of the apprehension on the part of the Divine
Self. It is only when the outer man attunes him'
self with the inner that limited comprehension
widens into universal apprehension, and man be
comes cognizant of a great world in which he
lives. In keeping with this widening of conscious'
ness, there comes an influx of Cosmic Conscious'
ness and Cosmic Attunement, and in this man
216
For the Home and Business
finds a power and a strength that is beyond any
power or energy of the material world.
As I have said above, man tends toward think'
ing of himself as an individual, separated, isolated,
and unique unto himself. By contemplating the
Divine Self within, man broadens his conscious'
ness to the extent where he senses and finally real'
izes that the real part of him is but a part of all
of the real expressions in the universe, and that
he is not separated from the rest of mankind and
is not an individual, but an inseparable segment
of the universal self or soul.
If in a material sense it is true that in union
there is strength, and if in our mundane affairs
association and co-operation bring added fortitude
and security, certainly then in the wider sense the
unification of all soul expressions on the earth and
the inseparable association of the real self of man
with the real self of all other men bring a security,
a power, and a strength that makes man the
dominating master of his fate and his destiny. But
man cannot master his career or his life by consid'
ering that he is the skipper of a ship that sails the
seas, unrelated to any of the other ships that he
217
Rosicrucian Principles
passes, or that he knows to exist on the seas of life.
Man can no more direct his course in life, inde
pendent of any consideration of the other beings,
than can one of the comets in the sky arbitrarily
select a course for its rapid movement and success'
fully avoid the collisions and catastrophes that
would be inevitable. The success of any man is a
joy and a benefit to others, and the failure of any
man is a sorrow to all others. Success begets sue
cess, as happiness begets happiness and joy. Tol'
erance, sympathy, and love attune men not only
to one another, but to the universal laws, and to
the harmony of the Cosmic. Of these love is
unquestionably the greatest law of the universe.
Much is said in the business world of the code
of ethics by which business should be standardized
in operation, and in the social world we hear of
the moral code and the conventions. To the mys
tic who is attuned with the Cosmic laws there
comes a code of principles for living that super'
cedes the man'made code of ethics or the morals
and conventions of society. He learns with con'
viction and proper understanding why ethics in
business and morals and conventions in society
218
For the Home and Business
have been established and reduced to definite
words by man, and why these things are a neces'
sity. He knows that it is not simply immoral to
violate one of Nature's ethical laws, but a sin
against himself and against society, as well as a
sin against Cosmic decree. Therefore, immorality
or the violation of Nature's laws in any sense be
comes abhorrent to him. He realizes that the most
beautiful of principles in the universe are reduce
able by the undeveloped mind or the evil mind in
the physical part of man to corruption and perver'
sion. He realizes that while love is the one uni'
versal law that is higher than all others, it must
be a love that is free from the contaminations of
the physical self, and free from the sins of lust and
selfishness. He realizes that while this great law
of love makes it incumbent upon him to love all
creatures and all beings, and to love his neighbor
as himself, that to reduce this law to the selfish
or personal, physical love of the animal part of
himself, in an unbridled manner and with promis'
cuity, is to pervert a divine principle to a coarse
and vulgar application. The laws of Karma and of
Cosmic Compensation reveal to him that he can'
219
Rosicrucian Principles
not do an injustice to another, or take advantage
of another, or even live a dual life of existence,
without bringing into his life inevitable suffering
and sorrowful adjustment. Hence the mystic's
comprehension of ethics and morality have a
cleaner and more definite meaning to him and elicit
an obedience to Cosmic Law which man is reluc
tant to give to mundane law or the laws of man's
invention.
In the home, in business, in society, and in cur
private personal affairs, man must be true unto
himself, and this self must be the inner self, if man
is to be true at all. He must let the Divine power
within him dominate the physical power of his
body and of the world around him. He must let
the beauty, the grandeur, and the sublime thoughts
of the Divine Mind of his being fill him with the
inspiration and comprehension of his real place in
the universe and of his relationship to all other
beings. He must let the God Consciousness of
his soul control and direct the health and activities
of the physical self so that it may truly be the ser'
vant unto him, and not a master whipping him
into submission and earthly servility. In this way
220
For the Home and Business
will man rise to power and glory and attain the
highest degree of success and happiness in all of
the affairs of the home and of the business world.
The End.
221
ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
AMORC
PURPOSES AND WORK OF
THE ORDER
The Order is primarily a Humanitarian Move
ment, making for greater Health, Happiness, and
Peace in the earthly lives of all Mankind. Note
particularly that we say in the earthly lives of men,
for we have naught to do with any doctrine de
voted to the interests of individuals living in an
unknown, future state. The Work of Rosicru'
cians is to be done here and now; not that we have
neither hope nor expectation of another life after
this, but we \now that the happiness of the future
depends upon what we do today for others as well
as for ourselves.
Secondly, our purposes are to enable men and
women to live clean, normal, natural lives, as Na'
ture intended, enjoying all the privileges of Na'
ture, and all benefits and gifts equally with all of
Mankind; and to be free from the shackles of
223
Rosicrucian Principles
superstition, the limits of ignorance, and the suffer'
ings of avoidable \arma.
The Work of the Order — using the word
"Work" in an official sense —consists of teaching,
studying, and testing such Laws of God and Na'
ture as make our Members Masters in the Holy
Temple (the physical body), and Workers in the
Divine Laboratory (Nature's domains). This is
to enable the Brothers and Sisters to render more
efficient help to those who do not know, and who
need or require help and assistance.
Therefore, the Order is a School, a College, a
Fraternity, with a laboratory. The Members are
students and workers. The graduates are unselfish
servants of God to Mankind, efficiently educated,
trained, and experienced, attuned with the mighty
forces of the Cosmic or Divine Mind, and Masters
of matter, space, and time. This makes them es'
sentially Mystics, Adepts, and Magi —creators of
their own Destiny.
There are no other benefits or rights. All Mem'
bers are pledged to give unselfish Service, without
other hope or expectation of remuneration than to
Evolve the Self and prepare it for a greater Work.
224
For the Home and Business
For those who are unable to attend a local teni'
pie or lodge because of personal reasons or because
of the fact that there might not be any in their
immediate community, the National membership
offers a personal, home study means. Instructions
are sent in weekly lectures and lessons, especially
prepared, and contain a summary of the Rosicru'
cian principles with a wealth of personal experi'
ments, exercises, and tests, such as will make each
member highly proficient in the attainment of cer
tain degrees of mastership. The lectures are under
the direction of the Imperator's staff. These corre
spondence lessons and lectures compose many
grades. Each grade has its own initiation ritual to
be performed by the member at his home in his
own sanctum. Such rituals are not the elaborate
rituals used in the temple lodges, but are of practi'
cal benefit to the student.
THE ROSICRUCIAN MANUAL
Authorized hy the Imperator
This Manual has been demanded for years,
urged and awaited. Now it is ready. The first
and only Rosicrucian Manual, containing matter
225
Rosicrucian Principles
suggested by the masters, officers, and members of
the various lodges.
WHAT IT CONTAINS:
It is divided into a number of parts, each com'
plete and invaluable as a guide and reference work.
The following is a partial list of the contents:
Complete explanation of all the terms, signs,
and symbols used in various parts of the teachings.
A complete working manual of all the rules and
regulations of the Order. Extracts from the Con'
stitution. Description of Temples, Lodges, and
other parts of our assembly places, with laws per'
taming to convocations and symbolical ceremonies.
A synopsis of the subjects covered in all the lec'
tures of both the National Lodge correspondence
work and the Temple Lectures of the higher
grades. Charts, diagrams, and illustrations of the
various lectures requiring such helps. The laws of
Crystallography, Magnetism, Formation of Atoms
and Molecules, illustrated and explained. Dalton's
experiments and alchemical and chemical laws il
lustrated and explained. A complete Rosicrucian
Dictionary of the terms used in all lectures. An'
226
For the Home and Business
cient and modern symbols explained and ilW
trated. A special article fully explaining the origin
of the Great White Lodge and its existence, and
how to attain Psychic Illumination, written for
this Manual by the Imperator. The Rosicrucian
Code of Life, with the thirty laws and regulations.
Short biographical sketches of Rosicrucians. In'
structive articles on such subjects as NUMEROL-
OGY and the law of Numbers. A number of por'
traits of prominent Rosicrucians, including Master
K'H, the illustrious (with hitherto secret facts
about his activities) .
Questions often asked, with
official Answers.
Price: The book is strongly bound with attrac
tive silk cloth binding over heavy covers, and
stamped in gold. Single copies of the book my mail,
anywhere in the U. S. A., $2.30. In Canada or
foreign countries, by mail, $2.40.
227
