{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__moore___instantaneous_personal_magnetism_debunked.pdf","mytitle":"Instantaneous Personal Magnetism Debunked","mylang":"de"}
LITTLE BLUE BOOK NO. 1395
Edleed by E. Haldeman-Julius
Instantaneous Personal
Magnetism Debunked
Ben Moore
LITTLE BLUE BOOK NO. 1395
Edited by E. Haldeman-Julius
Instantaneous Personal
Magnetism Debunked
Ben Moore
HALDEMAN-JULIUS PUBLICATIONS '
GIRARD, KANSAS
Copyright,
By Haldeman-Julius Company
PRINTED IN THl!l UNlTED STATES OF AMERICA
INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL
MAGNETISM
Ben Moore
It is neither fair nor just that inform:ation
relative to "Instantaneous Personal Magnet-
ismism'.' be withheld from our readers. Why
should "the most powerful agency in ,life," to
quote from the author of the book itself, be
available to Lions, Kiwanians and Rotarians,
to the~ exclusion of their lesa fortunate fellow-
countrymen?
Subscribers of The Lion, monthly organ of
the luncheon club bearing the same ferocious
name, have known for several months about
the great philanthropic enterprise set on foot
by the Ralston l.Jniversity Press, which aims
in the words of the University's spokesman,
to "give you magnetic power in 24 hours."
"The moment you read my secrets of per-
sonal magnetism," he continues, "you can ap-
ply them. Instantly the fetters that have held
you down are struck off. You· will laugh at
obstacles that once seemed unsurmountable-
you will toss aside timidity _
and awkwardness
-you will feel your powers doubled, trebled!"
Possibly, to persons who are already suffi-
ciently magnetized for practical purposes,
these simple statements of fact would carry
little, if any, appeal. But to an unmagnetic
personality such as my own the induceJINlnt
was irresistible. I signed the coupon in the
corner of tl:~e page, and in due time received
the volume.-
INSTANTANEOUS
Accompanying the book was a letter from
the publisher, which read, in part:
Deals~t~dent of Instantaneous Personal · Magnet-
Do you want Money, Power, Influence, Fame,
Happiness, the Glory of Success ! Answer "yes"
or "no."
Faced thus with the necessity of making a
categorical reply, I was compelled to admit a
for craving for each and all of the above vani-
ties.
The method is now open to you [the letter went
on] in the world famous studies embracing all hu-
man powers, to which "Instantaneous Personal
Magnetism" introduces you. Demonstration of
wonderful results h~e already been made in over
SG0,-000 cases. Don't handicap yourself by losing
this magic key. It opens the doors to wealth un-
told-to Magnetism, the most powerful force in the
Universe. We sell it at cost, solely to create new
friends and patrons.
With such preliminary information concern-
ing the potency of the book, it was with some
trepidation, and not a little palpitation of the
heart that I essayed the effort which I was
assured' would make me magnetic within the
brief space of a day and a night. Before I had
finished the preface, I had learned facts which
clearly demonstrate that the compilers of
"Who's Who," and various other biographical
encyclopedia"S, have been guilty of a monu-
mental blunder, or else have leagued together
:in a vast conspiracy of silence. The author
ef "Instantaneous Personal Magnetism," one .
Edmund Shaftesbury, numbered among his
"close friends, students or endorsers of the
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
systems created by" him, the following per-
sons, not altogether unknown to Fame:
Charles Bradla ugh, John Bright, C. S. Parnell,
Rev. C. H. Spurgeon, William E. Gla dstone, Edwin
Booth, Charles Sumner, Benja min F . B utler, John
A. Logan, J ohn B. Gough, Cardina l Gibbons,
Dwight L . Moody, H enry W a rd B eecher.
It is a striking example of the injustice ot
t he world that' the names of these men should
have achieved the prominence which has been
accorded them, while that of the benefactor to
whom was largely due credit for the unusual
fund of personal magnetism possessed by each
has been entirely overlooked by all Nineteenth
Century biq,graphers.
In proof of a laudable desire to deal with
facts, rather than with mere theories and esti-
mates, the following statistics are given, show-
ing the practical results attained by students
who have been made magnetic by reading the
book :
2,781 pastors have had their salaries raised.
7,793 lawyers "rose to the very heights of
success."
12,624 doctors have risen "out of mediocre
conditions to the very highest in their pro-
fession."
For a time I was curious to know why the
effect of the book should be so disproportion-
ately evident in favor of doctors. This was
explained when I read on page 382 the follow-
ing simple statement:
When a person dies solely because the machin-
ery stops, as w hen h e is the victim of a cute in-
d igestion, drowning, shock, anesthesia, heart fail-
ure, asphyxia, neurasthenia and other causes, he
INSTANTANEOUS
is called dead enough to bury, although a ll that is
needed is some power to set in motion again the
machinery of his life. . . . Doctors say that
fully 33 percent of all burials are of persons whose
life machinery ha s merely stopped, but wh-0 need
only some power to set it going again. J ust think
of it!
We may readily deduce from this that the
methOd 'whereby most of the 12,624 doctors
rose "to the very highest in their profession"
may have consisted in furnishing the magnetic
power required to resurrect a part of the 33
percent of prematurely dead people. It is too
well known for comment that nothing so en-
hances the reputation of a physician with his
patients and with the public in general as his
skill in resurrecting the dead. '
It is not stated whether or not any under-
takers have ever been rendered magnetic, or -
if so, what may have been the effect.
The uncanny properties of this work of lit-
erature are thus further recognized:
Since it is true tha t this book itself is charged to
the full w ith the power of magnetism, w e venture
to assert tha t a single read jng of its pages w ill not
only draw the r eader to it in an inseparable pa rt-
nership, but will also, in a nd of itself, have
a roused in such read er a very marked degree of
acquired persona l m agnetism. One read ing of this
w ork will effect a complete a nd revolutionary
cha ng.e in the reader. This cannot be said of any
other work of human origin.
It is interesting also to learn that "the char-
acter of the magnetic fire is more or less in-
fluenced by eye-color." Thus, I was somewhat
humiliated to find that, though I possess the
natural e¥e-color that entitles me to be called
beautiful, I can never hope to be either deep,
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 7
cold or affectionate, without first laboriously
acquiring those qualities by means of suitable
magnetic exercises-. For,_says Shaftesbury:
All human beings belong to one of the following
magnetic temperaments :
(a) The Beautiful ................................Blue
(b) The Cold ........................................Gray
(c) The Deep .................- ...................Black
(d) The Affectionate ......................Brown
The following unique experiment indicates
that the practitioner of magnetic power need
not depend upon luminous dials, flashlights
and such devices in order to tell the time, or
locate objects in the dark. He can, if Ife
chooses, furnish bis own illumination.
In experimenting In a dar)!:ened room with .the
glow of the eye, we have witnessed lines of fire
proceeding far Into the ·room when the eye has
been made tense by will power. The magne~ic eye
is always tense.
And the prOM$S, absurdly simple, of acqliir-
ing the ability to tense tire eye is thus set out
in detail:
W e µave for ye<tt's used a plan of shifting leca-
~ions which we find to be the best method of tens-
ing t he brain and eye, as follows :
8 7
up left, up front,
2 1
level left, straight
ahead,
9
up right,
3
level right
5 4 6
down left, down front, down right.
While holding the eyes in the positio,i; indicated
by the numbers, repeat the following remarks With
their full meaning stamped in your tones:
When the eyes are at (1), repeat: "I am talking .
to you and you must hear me." '
-o I:"<STANTANEOUS
When the eyes are at ( 2), repeat: "You cannot
escape 1ne."
When the eyes are at (3), repeat : "Beware ! Do
not maim me angry!"
When the eyes are at ( 4), repeat: "I will do no
wrong."
When the eyes are at ( 5), repeat: "Get thee
behind me, Satan."
When the eyes are at ( 6), repeat: "I am stronger
than my enemies.1'
When the eyes are at (7), repeat: "Thou God
seest me."
When the eyes are at (8), repeat : "Right is
mighty and will prevail."
When the eyes are at (9), repeat: "Angels hold
watch and ward over my life."
You may have to keep• at it for weeks, but the
power will come, a nd, once come, it always re-
mains.
The new light which is shed by the author
on many of the hitherto perplexing probl-ems
or psychology, biology, physics and other sci-
ences, is little less than amazing. For exam-
ple, it has long been erroneously thought that
to be devoured by a wild animal is a process
causing more or less discomfort to the ltle-
vouree. 'l:his idea is dispelled by Shaftesbury
in a few well-chosen words:
Life dies most happily and most easily in the
clutches of other life. The bird that must end its
days in the slow process of old age suffers many
a month of torture waiting for the end; but in the
jaws of the cat or the fangs· of the snake it finds
a pleasurable release from the agonies of living;
an enjoyment that is participated In by the victim
as much as by the devourer.
Similarly, we are presented with a new view
ot a well-known classic which has not here-
tofore attained the recognit.ion to which it jg
PERSONAL MAGNETISl\l..
entitled as a work 'of history. Speaking of Mt .
Ida, in ancient Magnesia, the author says :
This may he the very locality alluded to in the
Arabian Nights. a s the Magnetic Mountain, which
drew out the iron bolts a nd fastenings from pass.l.ng
ships, and sank them instantly.
The extraordinary faculty of Shaftesbury for
assembling accurate statistics is indicated by
the following note on divorce:
Wher e two persons a re drawn to each othet· by
the power of magnetism, they never separate, a 11d
there has never been a divorce in a ny such ca~e.
The American people have but recently
emerged from a bitter controyersy concerning
the method of handling the Demon Rum. The
question is by no means settled yet. But all
that is needed to settle it is public recognition
of the following facts, developed by Shaftes·
bury as the result of much painstaking re·
search:
All kinds of cures ha ve been trled to overcome
the craving for liquor, a nd none have been very
s uccessful, until the method was devised whereby
a ll congestion was removed, and then it was learned
'.ha t craving for stimulants is the cry of a con·
gesteil stomach. . . . .The desire for stimulants
h as a lways disa ppeared when a ll congestion has
been r emoved.
A warning is sounded to those persons who,
either through ignorance or perverted a ppetite,
indulge in the pernicious practice of gravy·
eating in hotels:
In hotels gravy is bought of gravy makers, w.ho
produce it by the hundreds of barrels, as a bnai-
n ess.
10 INS'.l'ANTANEOU~
Some further contributions to modern sci-
ence are as follows:
The Third Brain (medulla oblongata) attends to
all these functions: Digestion, Circulation, Respira-
tion.
Some people curve their backs so much when
they get old that they must support themselves
with canes when they walk, to prevent pitching
over.
Luther Burbank, by placing one hand on the
chest of a person, and the other hand on the back,
was able to throw so powerful a current of mag-
netism into a person that cures were effected that
defied all treatments of science or medicine.
For the benefit of such students as may
clamor for the fulfillment of the publisher's
~4-hour guarantee, the short cut is set out on
page 170:
. The quickest way to aocumuldte lpersanal mag-
n etism, if a person wishes to secure results the
v ery first day after this book has been read, ls to
turn your mind into tha t of an optimist.
The unique benefits which may be derived
socially by owners of "Instantaneous Personal
Magnetism" are thus set forth:
Any m a n or woman, or young per son, who pos-
sesses a copy of this book w ill be admitted to
m ember ship in the Magnetism Club of America,
without fe.es or dues or expense of any kind, and
w ithout obligation, except tha t one or m ore extra
copies of this book must be kept on hand ready for
immediat~ inspection and delivery to any other
pernon who may w ish it.
In conclusion the autho!' allows himself to
give voice to some severe strictures on the
modern novel, and also reveals the secret of
tbe absurdly low price on his own work:
. Last year several m!llion novels sold. f-0r $2
each, most of them trashy; some for $2.50 each ;
and some for $3 each. This book of persona l mag-
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 11
netism, now recognized as "the most powerful
agency in life," vastly larger than these nov~ls,
and containing a whole, university of trainii'lg in
its pages, may be obtained for the trifling sum
mentioned ($3). This, in educational circles, is
known as a merely nominal price; and it is due
to the persistent demand of the author that the
price bas been made nominal.
Mr. Shaftesbury, we are told, is also the
author of "Brain Tests,'' a book devoted to 1ihe
elucidation of the following thesis:
The seat of Intelligence is In the membranes,
never in the brain. What Is immortal in a human
being, whether soul, spirit or mind, is seated wholly
in the membranes.
I have said that I signed a coupon in order-
ing the book. This coupon contained a state-
ment that the volume would be sent on five
days' approval. There remains to be related
the most singular phase of the entire trans-
action, which demonstrates convincingly, al-
beit inversely, the correctness of the author's
main theory. It is' well known that when the
poles of a magnet become reversed, the enect
is to repel, instead of to attract. This is ex-
actly what happened with respect to the book
and myself. Upon taking it from its wrapper,
I inadvertently opened it upside down. The'
effect of this reversal of the poles could not,
despite every effort on my part, be counter-
acted. The repulsive force continued, until
I was finally impelled by it to return the vol-
ume to its wrapper, affix, the necessary post-
age, a,nd deposit it in the postoffice, addressed
to the :publisher, all within the allotted pel'fod
of five days.
J
12 INSTANT.ANEOUS
HOW TO RESIST SCIENTIFIC SALESMEN
Oloytl Hampton Valentine
Time and again, during the past few years,
I have been informed that every man on the
face of the globe is a salesman. There can be
no logical denial of this fact. A person may of-
fer earthly wares to another, he may proffer
his services; he may attempt to convince his
friends that his is an exemplary character. In
any case he is trying to sell something, whether
that particular something be material merchan-
dise or ideas.
It is with material goods that I am here con-
cerned_ In general, throughout hum.an history,
salesmanship connected with such articles has
been largely hit-or-miss. There was nothing sci-
entific about it.
Now that situation endured from the begin-
ning of the world till the end of the adminis-
tration of William McKinley. But during the
past twenty years or so, a marked change has
occurred. Salesmanship, like dentistry and vo-
cational advisership, has developed into a profes-
sion. It has a technique, a savoir faire and,
unfortunately for us prospective customers, a
psychology.
The salesman (drummers we called them in
the good old days) used to spend years in be-
coming familiar with the wares which he had
to sell. But that condition is at last done away.
Since he has become an adept at psychology, it
is no longer necessary for the salesman to
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 13
know what he is talking about, in order to
earn a living.
This salesman now attends a school; or, if he
cannot a fford such a privilege, he can achieve
his result just as efficiently by a fortnight's
r eading of a self-instruction book. Send fifty
cents to Department F 442, American Psycho-
Success Institute, Oolalala, North pakota.
The salesman is taught to dress .elegantly,
beca11se that will have a dazzling effect upon
us an.d render us incapable of resisting his ap-
peal. He is taught to have confidence in his
"line"; for, how can he hope to convince others
of the value of an article, unless he' himself
believes in its efficacy? He is taught to catalog
people; at one glance he can tell whether you
belong in Class Eight, and must be pleaded
with, or in Class Eighteen, and must be com-
manded. Et cetera ad' infinitum.
Here are you and I, humble mortals, anxious
to continue in earthly existence as long as we
can conveniently do so. To that end we must
save our pennies. Coolidge 'has spoken. Yet,
how can we save our pennies? Alive in a pre-
vious decade, we could have summoned Fido.
And the·n, as the college freshman once wrote,
our foeman would have beaten a hasty retreat
fa all directions. But now, having the newer
psychology in his mental grasp, or being in the
grasp of the newer psychology, the salesman is
invincible. We yield to his onslaughts. We pay
him three dollars down, and agree to settle the
balance of the account at one dollar per m.onth
14 INSTANT.Al'l"EOUS
for what may be the remainder of our natural
lives.
The affairs of which we treat are matters to
whi.ch I have devoted considerable thought. I
have long since realized that the possibility of
social salvation lies only in the ability ef the
race to construct something able success!\ully to
combat scientific salesmanship.
One method, which I employ with favorable
result, I have entitled The Alibi. I recommend
it. You ascertain and memorize the names of
two firms which manufacture the same type of
article. Thus, when the Fuller Brush man rings
my bell, I say: "I am so sorry; but the Better
Brush Company's represeµtative was here last
week, and I am all stocked up." When confront-
ed by such a statement, what can the stunned
salesman do except withdraw?
Another worthy scheme I call The Contagion.
My children, out playing, have instructions to
inform me of the approach of any salesman.
Then I put in the window a red placard, bear-
ing, in heavy black type, the words SCARLET
FEVER. The salesman, reading the sign, finds
his psycholdgy paralyzed, and tiptoes away. I
have known only one instance in which The
Contagion failed to work. The salesman was a
Christian Scientist.
A third plan is The -Impersonation. It oc-
curred to me quite accidentally one morning
when, feeling the need for exercise, I essayed
to mow my lawn. A salesman appeared.
"Is tlie boss in?" he asked, evidently mis-
taking me for the hired man.
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 15
"Naw,'' I replied, "he's in Europe, and won't
be back till fall."
Those are a few suggestions. As- I survey
them, however, I am aware that they represent
merely a preliminary digging into a field
worthy of most consecrated human endeavor.
To change the metaphor, let us prepare, that
we may eventually dethrone the Kaiser .of Sci-
entific Salesmanship, and make the world safe
for prospective customers.
GREAT HUMBUGS
Marc T . Greene
No one has ever taken any serious excep-
tipns to the pronouncement of the late Phineas
T. Barnum, that the American people like to
be "humbugged." For the great showman was
offering no affront in that observation. He
meant t!>nly that the average American parted
genially. with his fifty-cent piece for the priv-
ilege of gazing tolerantly on much that was
so obviously I\ departure from the genuine as,
in that very ~ct, to provide amusement. More-
over, for their half-dollars the show-goers of
Barnum's day got a good deal rriore than hum-
buggery. They got many strange things that
even the "world's greatest" cirouses of these
days cannot or 'do not provide. In short, they
got their valUEl and more; and if that were
being humbugged it was naturally accepted
without rancor.
But what would Phineas T. say should he
find himself in· the midst of the thousand and
16 INSTAN'l'A.NEOUS
one forms of quackery, the numberless vari-
eties of humbuggery, that are practiced upon
the American people today, and not admittedly
for the purpose of furnishing a little har.mless
entertainment, but mostly with malice afore-
thought for the purpose of securing the largest
possible amount of coin for the least possible
value in return? Barnum's "humbugs" were
mild and inoffensive, and as obvious as those
of the ten-year-old who demands his parents'
attendan.ce upon his own fi-rst "circus" con-
sisting of the patient family domestic animals
in slatted boxes.
But the great American humbug of today is
in many respec~s a dangerous and a menacing
thing. It not only parts its victims from their
worldly goods on any and every conceivable
kind of false pretense, but over and over again
seriously threatens their peace of mind and
their physical well-being. Yet despite the fact
that "exposures" of fakes, one and another,
are almost as frequent as the issues of the
weekly and monthly periodicals, the quackery
goes merrily on, proving beyond cavil that the
American people, tolerant and slow to distrust,
are the most gullible of all people.
Yes, there is no doubt at all that Americans,
on the whole, are a trustful folk, not readily
regarding with suspicion any person or thing,
surprisingly prone to believe what they are
told, if the telling carries th€ least degree of
conviction, and to believe what they read, too,
if only the subject is set forth in large type
and in sufficiently forceful language. To il-
lustrate:
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 17
Turn the pages of the average "popular"
magazine, and what is about the first thing we
encounter? Ah! Our old friend, "Lionel, the
Lion-hearted." Observe what he offers you
and in what effective language, emphasized by
photographs revealing the surprising results
of his "system" upon himself. "Come on now,
you moochers, get fl. little pep into the old sys-
tem! .Don't fool yourselves any longer that
you are anything like men! I'll give you an
arm that'll look like Gene Tunney's ! I'll take
six inches off your belly and stick it on your
chest! Come on, now! Quit ·looking like
something the cat dragged in, and come to me,
come to me, COME TO ME!
Thus the "get-strong-quick" man. You all
know him, and if by any chance you have
yielded to his urge to "fill out the coupon" his
airily-worded "literature" has followed you for
years ere he has abandoned hope of landing
you. He has many variants, nor do they an
address you thus forcefully, langu·age as quoted
being distasteful to certain delicate sensibili-
ties, even in America. The variant take1i some
such form as this:
"Do you crave a great.er degree of physical
manhood, my friend, a greater efficiency in all
concernments? Do you feel that you are un-
able to make the most of certain opportunities ?
Then let us consult together. By the aid ef
my enticing elucidations (an exact quctation
from a popular magazine advertisement) all
that you desire can be accomplished. But I
respectfully urge you not to delay. An ad-
dressed envelope will bring full particuiars.
18 INSTANTANEOUS
And five dollars down with five more in three
months will secure the enticing elucidations."
The very number of these folks make it clear
that this is a profitable form of quackery. Yet
nothing that they can do, or expect to do, for
you is in the least degree beyond your own
capacity to do for yourself, especially with the
aid of suggestions and advice from the family
physician. It is humbuggei:y, pure and simple,
and such humbuggery as would have left Bar-
num aghast.
Another magazine. What have we here, pray?
"Would you like to write stories?" Well, who
wouldn't? Come on, then; here's the way to
do it! "The Selleman Gryn School of Fiction
writing, 217864 Ocean Boulevard, Santa Bonica,
California. Our pupils have just sold three
scenarios to Charlie CP,aplin for $1,000 each.
You may be the next. We'll teach you in ten
lessons how to write fiction, poetry, essays,
history, science, biology or scenarios, whichever
you like. Ten dollars now and a hundred when
you've. sold your first story. Why drudge at
the desk or punch the time-clock when you can
enjoy the glorious independence, freedom, hap-
.Piness and wealth which are the possession of
every writer? Look at Victor Hugo, look at
Bernard Shaw, look at Mrs. Selleman Gryn!
You can do it, too! Fill out the coupon and
send ten dollars at once!"
How is it that people fall for such obvious
bunk as that? Yet they do, for the magazines
are full of these advertisements. If they didn't
PERSONAL l\1AGNETIS~I 19
pay they wouldn't be there. Nothing can be
more certain than that. And the American
people, victims of the' great national scheme of
humbuggery, do the paying. Yet no single per-
son who ever answered one of these advertise-
ments learned. to "write" by any such means.
The thing simply cannot be qone in that way,
of course, never has been and never wUl be.
And no writing person having the least respect
for himself-or herself-would lend the author-
ity of a name to such arrant quackery. It you
have the gift of expression, soon or later you
will write-with more or less success. Ir you
haven't it, you never will write-in any degree
that will bring you any distinction or fortune,
that is to say. And though you devote a life-
time to it, and patronize every "school" of
literature on both shores of the Atlantic and
Hollywood Boulevard, you will achieve nothing.
The man who said tl;lat genius is an infinite
capacity for taking pains was an ass and knew
it. For achievement in literature or music or
painting-call it "art" or whatever you like-
is not a matter of industry or perseverance ex-
cept as you possess the golden gift; then it
must be, or even the gift will avail you little.
But without that- stick to your desk and your
time-clock, and deem yourself lucky to have a
job at all. And incidentally, to console your-
self, place no faith in the glowing descriptions
of a writing man's highly-colored existence,
"free, independent, happy and rich." Know
that it is not in the scheme of things mundane
that these much-to-be-desired conditions should
go together.
20 INSTANTANEOUS
I have lately received-in response to the
coupon and addressed envelope-a "contract"
from a "song-publishing house." I shall have
to admit that I played a low-down trick on
t hese gentry. Yes, I sent them a couple of
IJUblished poems of my own, poems published
In a periodical which I deemed it highly im-
probable they would have seen or be interested
in. They selected the inferior of the two lyrics
which they agreed to "revise" in accord with
their professional experience and poetic judg-
ment, after which suitable music would be com-
posed by a gentreman of much ability. The
latter was convincingly attested by an accom-
panying list of his prolific output of "popular"
songs, at least one of which was "generally
acknowledged by experts to be the greatest
song-ballad of all time."
Clause "7" of the contract entailed a first
payment of five dollars by the "author" to the
"principal," and similar sums at monthly in-
tervals until the full amount of $105 had been
paid. In return for this "one thousand pro-
fessional copies of your song will be printed,
forty copies sent to forty music publishers, fif-
teen copies to fifteen manufacturers of phono-
graph records or player-piano rolls, thirty
copies to thirty radio-broadcasting stations, and
one hundred capies to one hundred theater
managers and theater orchestra leaders with
instructions to distribute them among profes-
sional singers."
Inasmuch as a number of these crooks have
·been jailed 'for misuse of the mails during the
.J
PERSONAL MAGNETIS!I! 21
past ten or fifteen years, their "contract" now
invariably contains the following qualification,
printed in small type on the back : "This con-
t ract is uot an indication of belief on our part
t hat you will profit financially. We absolutely
refuse to express an opinion about the com-
mercial value of merit of any song or song-
poem."
I hear you observe that "there must be some·
thing lacking in a man who falls for that sort
of stuff." Well, for the matter of that, I heard
a young woman at an adjoining restaurant
table the other day express the rather depress-
ing opinion that there was something lacking
in everyone of us. But·mark you this. There
never has been a time in all recorded history
when the urge to make money quickly was
greater than it is in America today; or when
money would-or so runs the popular impres-
sion-gain more for its possessor. Thus any
chance is worth staking a little upon. Wild
yarns are spun of the fortunes made by writ-
ing asinine drivel . to be perpetrated upon a
long-suffering people by means of radio and
other nuisances. It looks easy. One is told in
convincing advertisements that it is easy. Why
not have a go at it? Thus, once more, the
aforesaid American gullibility.
All this sort of quaclrnry has the effect of
destroying one's peace of mind beca11-se it is
full of suggestions that all is not as it should
be with one, that one is weak where he might
be among the elite ot earth, that he is drudging
through an uncongenial occupation when he
22 INSTANTANEOUS
might be achieving the glor-y-and fortune--
that is popularly supposed to be the lot of the
literary man. And so on. There are :many
more advertisements that hold forthi impossible
id'8als and point to unattainable goals. Not in-
frequently it becomes a conviction with these
victims that they are far t6o good for their
job, that they have hidden talents and latent
abilities which might bring them to indepen-
dence and glory; and so they become useless
at the thing they are doing.
* * *
But even worse than all this is the humbug-
gery, so widely practiced in America today.
that seriously endangers physical health. It is
a thousand forms, from vicious smokables eon-
structed of anything and everything but pure
tobacco, to synthetic drinkables and eatables.
and even to certain cults and isms. Glance at
this blithe bit in another well-known periodical
which I shall call The Offic;ial Organ of Ameri-
can Babbittry. Recognize it, don't you? "Come
on, now! Pack up that old jimmy pipe and get
set behind. it! And don't let the fact get away
from you that King Canute's the stuff to pack
it with! Get that, fellows? It's the he-man
smoke, is King Canute, and the guy that's be-
hind a pipe packed with it is all set for any-
thing from a game of checkers to a lion hunt.
Don't fool yourselves, men! As to good imi-
tations, there ain't no such animule! We've
got a special process that puts King Canute
where the Gods of Olympus would have hank-
ered for it. Get busy, now! Play the he-man
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 23
and get behind a jimmy-pipe full of good old
King Canute!"
Regard the glorious sceneryfrom a railway
train. Do you see any of it. You do not!
Here is what you do see. "Hot diggetty dog!
Here's the best cigarette since Cleopatra lighted
the original Egyptian for Mark Anthony!" Or,
"Here you are! Blend of the best tobacco on
earth. Heavy Wal.lop Cigarette! Our process
costs a million but we do it for your good!"
Amazing altruists, these makers of n~ar-cig­
arettes. And so it goes, this '-beautiful Ameri-
can roadside scenery consisting chiefly of bill-
boards and ghastly disfigurements of the land-
scape bearing names of a thousand and one
things, at least half of which are accurately de· ·
scribed as humbugs.
* * "'
Even more menacing are the synthetic drinks,
the artificially-colored and artificially-preserved
fruits, the ices "renewed" for weeks. and even
months and utterly unfit for human consump-
tion. Several years ago, as a result of Iong-
continued agitation against this sort of thing,
it began to be required that every establish-
ment' selling artificially-preserved condiments
make th_at fact clear to the public. But is the
consumption of such filth affected? Bless yc;ro.
n~ For the shop-keeper will tell you that ben-
zoate of soda, formaldehY,de and what not does
you no harm "if taken in small quantities."
Yet the fact is, that every time you consume a
liquid with artificially-preserved and artifi-
cially-colored syrup, every time you ea~ near
24 I~STANTAN J~O U'
ice cream which has beer :efrozen and re-
newed anywhere from fou; ~o ·'orty times, every
time you attack those vicious and viscous
masses of chemically-preserved fruits and
syrups and venerable ice ::reams known as
"sundaes," you are not only ~nsulting your pa-
tient stomach, but in most ~ases actually men-
acing your health. They ·uE. all humbugs of
t he first order, such stu..' ~ 1i: our sensible fore-
fathers would never ha··: :!reamed of touching,
s uch concoctions as no· _ .Jut Americans make
a habit of consuming e'. -: 1ow. The enormous
increase in this consumptior. since prohibition
is distinctly and defhiteiy one of the ~vils
t hereof; and that is sc .vitnout regard to your
views for or against. .~m: the form of these
offerings-and especiai.·:i; :heir color, chemically
originated though it 1s- -appeals to the eye ;
and there the AmericaD. mccumbs.
Yet all these are Du s 1 few of the great
American humbugs or ·£oday. Think of the
thousand and one "isms," especially prevalent
in southern California, which have nothing
whatever back of them but the cleverness of
some man or woman who has found a new path
to riches leading through the well-known and
oft-proven American gullibility! Think of the
hundreds of quack remedies for this and that,
particularly popular under a prohibitory re-
gime! Think, indeed, of what the American
people swallow-literally and figuratively-and
t hen wonder if Barnum wasn't very modJrate
i:i. his pronouncement of fifty years ago.
PERSONAL )11AGNET1S;.v1 25
PUTTING PUNCH IN YOUR PERSONALITY
Ballard, Brown
The late Orison Swett Marden is undisputed
claimant, whether he would enjoy the title or
no, of the ranking as firmest believer in and
most zealous disciple of the personality punch.
To him it became as a religion to the fanatic.
Marden was born in Thornton, New Hampshire,
about 1850. He died on March 10, 1924, but
his doctrine goes marching on. The list of 1
his works having either direct or indirect re-
lation to the subject is a long one. It reads like
the bibliography of an Alger. His books num-
ber at least forty-eight. Their titles reveal the
man as well as could any brief critical estimate.
As early as 1894 we find him author of "Push-
ing to the Front." Scarcely a year passed
. without his producing a similar effort, and in
several years they number two and three. Such
inspiring phrases as Success (the name of the ·
magazine, incidentally, which he founded in
1897 and edited until 1912.) "Cheerfulness as (
a Life Power," "Winning Out,'' "An Iron Will,"
"Every Man a King," "The Power of Person-
ality,'' "Success Nuggets,'' "The . Mirac-le of
Right Thought,'' "Everybody Ahead," "How to
Get What You Want," and the like, are char-
acteristic.
Marden 1was president of the League for the
Larger Life, and it is s·carcely necessary to say
what constituted the view of "the larger life"
26 INSTAN'LlliEOUS
in the eyes of him and his disciples. Success
Magazine, or rather one of its derivatives, is
still a power on the magazine stands. The num-
ber of nitwits who think they can achie've Suc-
cess (always with a capital "S," for with be-
lievers it is a religion) by emulating the cur-
rent high priests of material wealth is as un-
limited as it is surprising. In reality this class
entertains no such illusions; they would stamp
the individual' attempting to land the person-
ality punch first hand, as outlined in the Suc-
cess books, magazines, and various bastard
articles, as an idiot and a fool, a fellow to be
laughed at. But strangely they continue to
patronize and believe in the creed so long as it
is s·et forth in the comparative safety of cold
print.
To that almost inexplicable phase of human
nature, the present-day hawkers of the per-
sonality punch owe their fat living off of the
yokelry of the land. Marden has gone on, but
his work lives. He would be surprised to see
some of the forms and promotions it is taking.
The man himself, devoting a long life to preser-
vation of the bubble, must have been sincere.
There is reason to doubt that some of his pres-
ent-day prototypes are equally sincere. Vic-
timizing the drab nobodies who want to rise
from dishwashers and clerks to, perhaps, heads
<1>f steel mills and senators, must be a profitable
business.
* * * * *
I have before me an attractive letterhead,
embellished with an imitation gold seal. It
PERSONAL MAGNETISM 21
comes from the Personal Analysis Bureau, 41
East Chestnut Street, Chicago, of which one
Forrest A. Kingsbury, Ph.D., is "chief of staff."'
The legend reveals that the Personal Ana!ysiS
Bureau is "a corporation extending · a profes-
sional service of Personal Analysis and Gufd...
ance." This with a beautiful tail. on the "y" i:tt
"analysis," racing around aimlessly for a .cott--
ple of scrolls and giving the whole a decidedly
refined appearance.
The letter, which comes from John C. Kram·
as secretary, begins thus:
Every great man attributes his success to cer-
ta in persona l traits or qualifica tions. He is big
enough to appreciate that he must consta ntly ap..
ply the laws of self-development in order to have
a bet ter understanding of not only himself, but also
his business a ssocia tes and his employes ; a nd not
until he a pplies these la ws can he achieve the ·
"picture" h e has been striving for.
Then one learns of its purpose:
For the man who has gained success through
practieal business experience, who is a mbitious tu '
further extend his influence and earning power,
and realizes that the first step in· self-improvement
is to find out just how high in type, as an execu-
t ive, he r eally is-a new and effective Personal
Analysis a nd Development Service has been cre-
a ted.
I am no stickler on split infinitives, having
some such feeling about them as does Havelock
Ellis in The Dance of Life, in his chapter on
The Art of Writing, but I wonder if the Per-
sonal Analysis Bureau will n~t be shocked to
discover its commission of the unpardonable
I
28 INSTANTANEOUS
sin. But business men make no pretense of
fine English. Just good hard-headed sense.
Anyway, the Personal Analysis Bureau
finds it necessary to use this old ruse:
One of our local members has suggested that
we send you a "Personalysis Rater" and the latest
copy of the Personal Development Bulletin, which
is issued only to our members. In this national
publication· you will find articles written by Elbert
H. Gary, Chairman, United States Steel Corpora-
tion ; Frank A. Seiberling, President, Seiberling
Rubber Comp~ny, and other leaders in the busi-
ness world. 1 ,
Judge Gary was always good for a Success
promotion before his death, and there is no
reason why he should be dropped from the list
of splendid examples now. The Personal Analy-
sis reference was made, however, I believe, be-
fore the great and good head of the Steel
Corporation had shuffled off his mortal coil.
rhe inevitable catch phrase-"Personalysis
·~ater," in this case-is likewise a powerful
}:miler. Who could resist its scientific lure?
Another old bait is -pulled out of the moth-
balls and slipped on the hook:
In order to introduce this new and practical ex-
ecutive service, we are sending out a few of these
gratis, as an advertising feature. to secure a select
local roster of progressive business men who be-
lieve ln constructive work of this kind and who
would endorse the service if it meets with their
approval.
The succ~ss promotion, the reader notes, is
advancing. This one flatters prospective mem-
bers by presuming to assume that they have
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
already achieved Success, but mjght be inter-
ested in a little more of it. Just how far, in
other words, can you go? And, of course, only
the Personalysis Rater contains the answer.
* ,;, *
As Success was given its own magazine, or
magazines, if one includes the Arnerican and
others of their ilk, so must P ersonality, its first
cousin, bestow its name on a publication.
Doubleday, Page and Company gave the world
the first issue of Personality last November (0
momentous month!). Its purpGse was declared
in an editorial announcement:
\
Whether in business or trade, science or art,
learning or commer ce-no matter what is the
field, there lies behind the striving of each winner
a story that contains both interest a nd inspiration.
This magazine w ill devote itself to discovering the
thrills and lessons in these life stories. All Ameri-
cans admire achievement. . . . It w~ J:>e the
purpose of the new Personality to help, interest·
and entertain every reader who harbors the spark
of ambition-which means everybody.
Nothing new or startling about that. Per-
sonaliry was simply taking its cue from Success
and the Arnerioan and deciding to enjoy a little
of that subscriber's money itself. Some of the
articles in the first issue are interesting in the
types they offer for "achievement" : "Coolidge
to His Shoemaker," by James C. Young; "My
Gardens," by Edward W. Bok; "Was Roosevelt
a Genius?" by Lawrence F . Abbott; "A Tennis
Ace Who's a Financier," by John R. Tunic;
"George Eastman the Silent," by Diana Rice.
30 INSTANTANEOUS
Cooli(lge, Bok, Roosevelt, a tennis player, a
manufacturer of kodaks. And "the larger life,"
doubtless.
It seems almost too much to hope that the
paying public is getting wise to the overwork-
ing of t:he personality punch, but it appears
that Personality finds the sledding a little
rough. At any rate, the publishers have found
it necessary to inform me, entirely of their own
volition, that my name has been placed on
Personality's subscriber list "to receive PER-
SONALITY, a brand new magazine with a
brand new idea." I wonder why their sudden
generosity, but the circular letter, a little far-
ther down, is disillusioning:
If you r emit within a week, we shall enter your
name to r eceive free of charge a 175-page book
that will give you the keenest enjoyment. It is
called "One vVeek's Reading." It contains an ex-
cellent selection of d a ily readings for a whole
week-gems from the great ma sters of the past
four hundred years-fiction, essays, tragedy, fan-
tasy, poetry, drama, humor ! For seven whole days
you can live in peace and contentment with a good
book, love the beauty of its verse, shiver with ex-
citement over four or five _murders, weep w ith a
broken-hearted dwarf, and laugh uproar iously a t
Flannery's cat.
"All for the small price of a dime, ten cents,"
one feels like shouting after a perusal of that
ballyhoo. But the publishers want not ten
cents, but a dollar for a four ;months' subscrip-
tion to their journal of personal magnetism.
Personality, one may gather, is failing ' to sell
itself. even though:
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
The magazine will entertain you migh tily, but it
will do more than tha t-It w ill fire you w ith a m-
bition, teach you the things tha t ha ve ena bled
others to succeed, warn you of the pitfalls that
have ·kept others from success.
Introductions to Governor .M Smith, Thomas
A. Edison, Edsel Ford, Dr. S. Parkes Cadman,
"Red" Grange, Walter P. Chrysler, Jeanne
Eagels and others are promised "in intimate,
unusual articles."
Th.ere is little doubt, I think, that Personalitu,
backed by Mr. Doubleday. will prosper. Bar•
num's old role of one a minute still holds.
/
' J
/
/
/
