{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__krauss___sexual_incompleteness_and_a_magnetic_courtship.pdf","mytitle":"Sexual Incompleteness And A Magnetic Courtship","mylang":"de"}
READ AND PONDER
ALL WHO SEEK
Enjoyment
Beauty
Virtue
Healthy Offspring
To Know How to
Conserve the Vital
Sex Powers Requires
More Than Physical Training
FOREWORD
Pens have written, orators have spoken, but all have
failed to dwell on one of the most important subjects
of this fair land SEX.
Wives have suffered, homes have been broken up,
husbands and wives have been separated. Why is
there so much trouble existing in the World now?
Ignorance exists in the homes of many of our
greatest statesmen, ministers, doctors, lawyers and
those engaged in all professions of life.
This work has been written to arouse the slumber­
ing World and bring joy and gladness to the sorrow­
ing heart. We may say that this work has been writ­
ten with the object of enlightening those who are in
darkness.
Read carefully and act accordingly and your life
will be peace, joy and happiness.
2
The Author
Nature itself usually portrays the healthy condi­
tion of the female in her beauty and sexual system.
Large limbs, indicative of strength to sustain the
body during the period of pregnancy.
Broad hips, indicative of a large pelvis, giving
abdominal support during pregnancy, and easy de­
livery.
A relative narrow waist, indicating freedom from
suppressed menstruation, and a proper expansion of
the hips.
Breasts standing out prominently, firm in texture
with large nipples and a bright pink areolla sur­
rounding the nipples, free from discolorations, all of
which indicate a correct condition of the womb.
A graceful carriage of the body, a springing, vigor­
ous, rythmical step, a sweet breath, good teeth, clear
complexion, pleasant musical voice, a well shaped
neck and back-head, red and full lips and a well de­
veloped chin, projecting forward slightly, clear, bright,
animated eyes, all these are indispensible indications
of a good sexuality, and any departure from these
portrayals of nature, is a warning that the female is
in whole or in p art unsexed and should be avoided as a
mate in matrimony. These points apply equally as
well to estimating the sexual strength of the male,
with the addition of broad shoulders, deep chest and a
contour of body, broadest at the shoulders and taper­
ing toward the feet. References here stated as in­
dicative of a healthy condition of the sexual organs
applies with equal force to the general health of the
whole body.
Following are certain indications of inherited weak­
nesses which may be found very valuable.
ary sexual organs, to m arry through the universal
ignorance which exists on this subject. Of course,
such persons are incapable of sexual desire or inter­
course in any form , and yet they are frequently
selected by ignorant men as wives. The consequences
are deplorable in the extreme, resulting in the most
frightful injury by attem pting it where it is mani­
festly impossible. This rudim entary condition re­
sults from arrested development, caused by paralysis
of the organs in infancy. The same condition exists
in the case of many men, whose sexual organs have
never developed owing to paralysis, neglect or disease.
Such men are incapable of correct intercourse, or of
satisfying the desires of any norm ally organized
woman, and it is a tru th th at persons of either sex
afflicted in this way can never expect anything in
m arriage but disappointm ent, unhappiness and per­
sonal injury.
When there is organic incompleteness of the sexual
organs of the body, it is always evidenced by a defi­
cient development of the organs of love in the brain,
and by a deficient chin, and also by a. deranged con­
dition of the circulation evidenced by clammy cold
hands and feet. The eyes are cold and glassy in ex­
pression, and the mouth is always repulsive in ap­
pearance.
It is a safe rule never to fall in love w ith a woman
unless you can love her eyes and mouth; this applies
to both sexes.
It is a peculiar fact, th a t the organs of love in the
brain may be so deficient th at the individual may be
incapable of affection, and yet he may be sufficiently
intellectual to learn to repeat the most ardent expres-
6
fewer faculties of intelligence with which to sweeten
the expression. The more complete the manhood or
womanhood of a person, the sweeter and richer will
be the kiss. It is this fact which gives to the kiss its
great value as a test, and those persons who are
afflicted with organic incompleteness will give kisses
which are as destitute of flavor as those of the lower
animals. The same comparison holds good with a
woman using tobacco.
Assuming that you have made a successful selection
according to the principles announced herein and that
the man is himself a complete speciman of manhood,
alluding to the man for conventional reasons, for
there is no difference in the application of the princi­
ples in the case of a woman.
First, remember, that in order to make the proper
impression, both parties must be well informed on
these topics, otherwise you are likely to waste all of
your magnetism where it is not appreciated; when a
man and woman know the facts, and they test each
other intelligently, great benefit results from the
mutual respect called out by the display of each
other’s powers. To enable you to make all the neces­
sary tests, study carefully the strong and weak points
of the proposed mate, and remember, that all the or­
gans manifest themselves by positive action, and that
this action gives the greatest enjoyment to the possessor.
When you want to make a fine impression, call all
your powers into action and let them have full ex­
pression ; the person thus experimented upon will en­
joy your company exceedingly and think you have
given her an opportunity to display her powers.
When dealing with a receptive and attentive listener
8
difference in capacity in persons as to love, as there is
in tea cups. Some delicate and undersized capacities
are overwhelmed, surfeited and disgusted by the ex­
pressions of those of large and perhaps coarser or­
ganizations, while these are, in turn, starved by the
inability of their consorts to give them the full, rich
expression for which they crave. Measure the capacity
carefully and do not overtax it at first. Many a wo­
man has been disgusted by the extreme passion of a
man, who would have responded fully to it, if she had
been given time to comprehend it; it is a fine art to
know just how much passion to express so as to fill
the measure to happiness, but not to overflow and
surfeit it. Sexual passion is like the appetite for
food or any other appetite. It is attractive while
hungry; it revels in satisfaction, but it is repulsive
when surfeited. Love your sweetheart passionately
and devotedly, but do not overdo it. Keep your digni­
ty. Give kisses and caresses when they are grateful­
ly received, but be on your guard and quit at the right
time. Go home before midnight and leave her in a
condition so she will welcome your next visit. Pre­
serve these harmonies when they have been secured.
Remember that the present form of marriage cere­
mony is problematical, and that because a woman has
agreed and promised to love and honor you, it does
not follow that she can do it, even if she tries. You
must be lovable and honorable in your conduct, and
in the words of the new marriage ceremony, given in
“love and cherish”, present yourself to her daily in the
most lovable and companionable aspect of which you
are capable. This rule conscientiously applied on
both sides, will come pretty nearly solving the problem
of a magnetic courtship and happy marriage.
10
toilette at all times preserve the strictest privacy, if
you find yourself at a disadvantage. Many good but
ignorant people think, that any indecency is permiss-
able between persons who are married. The nowa­
days form of marriage undoubtedly educates people to
forget all the privacy and decency just as soon as the
marriage ceremony is over.
Love cannot exist except under constant culture,
and wretched are they who forget this rule of nature.
Make the general rule of your sexual intercourse,
kisses and caresses correspond to the facts set forth
herein and let your entire associations be a magnetic
courtship, never carried to a disgusting lust, never
characterized by the indulgence of lust, but always a
feast of unselfish, considerate love.
Jealousy is the legitimate child or offspring of a
marriage, in which the husband and wife are educated
to believe that each is the property of the other. Men
and women are naturally selfish and suspicious; the
selfish idea dominates and when a selfish individual
has won a desirable mate in the matrimonial market,
he naturally wishes to deprive all others of the pleas­
antries she may be able to bestow, and vice versa.
The man or woman who submits to the selfish dicta­
tion of such a mate, is a slave and sacrifices all happi­
ness and self-respect, as cowards and slaves generally
do.
When the association of the mates is entirely ex­
clusive, as it usually is in marriage, and intercourse
is indulged in to an extent which creates a surfeit, a
specie of insanity is developed and the individual is
guilty of absurd and insufferable actions. He treats
his mate with suspicion and acts as if he believed she
12
peared, and the first of the objects is a failure, when
mutual, perfect love has been destroyed, and the pro­
duction of good offspring is impossible, and the pro­
duction of depraved offspring is assured, then the
union should be dissolved in the interest of humanity
as well as of the parties.
When the parties have become antagonistic, mutual
support of themselves is in a large measure de­
stroyed ; their improvement and progress is arrested
and their offspring already in existence is neglected,
and consideration for future offspring should be ex­
ercised; it is better for a well organized offspring to
suffer neglect for the time being, than for one to be
borne of an unhappy union, foreordained to suffer all
his life the ills of unnatural conditions.
Capricious rupture of the marital relations for
trivial pretenses is not to be sought; but, every man
and woman is the final judge of the question of his
or her relationship, and should not be made to suffer
disagreeable conditions. Therefore, the court is there
for a remedy. However, the knowledge that either
party is free to sever the union, puts the other party
on his or her good behavior to maintain and preserve
it. Most of the disagreeable and tyrannical actions of
husbands and wives, which produce the misery of
matrimony, grow out of the inability of the other party
to find ways and means of escape.
When this philosophy is recognized, and sexual as­
sociation is placed upon the plane of love instead of
being, as now, a commercial commodity, happiness will
be possible and education will make it a certainty;
when a matrimonial mistake is committed the parties
should be permitted to rectify it.
14
{ R e s o h e
To talk health, happiness and prosperity to every
person you m eet.
To be strong, th a t nothing can disturb your peace of
mind.
To make all your friends feel th a t there is som ething
in them.
To think only of the best, to work only for the best,
and to expect only the best.
To look at the sunny side of everything, and make
your optimism come true.
To forget the m istakes of the past and press on to
the g reater achievem ents of the future.
To w ear a cheerful countenance a t all tim es and give
every living creature you meet, a smile.
To give so much tim e to the im provem ent of your­
self th at you have no tim e to criticize others.
To be too large for w orry, too noble for anger, too
strong to fear, and too happy to perm it the presence
of trouble.
To be ju st as enthusiastic about the success of others
as you are about your own.
The Author
Dr. K rauss’
H Y G I E N I C O
Eminently Superior In Germicidal Effectiveness
A Soft, Fluffy, Soothing Pow der
The Scientific Method of Feminine Hygiene
A very ingenious and safe feminine prophylactic compound
which has banished the fears of woman’s VAGINAL HYGIENE.
Treatments truly scientific in every application. An emphatic de­
parture from dangerous and poisonous methods.
“An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”
USED as a PREVENTATIVE against infection or disease.
HYGIENICO is a real product of modern science. Highly bene­
ficial in cases of Cervitis, Vaginitis, Pruritus, Congestion, Leuchor-
rea, or whites. Hygienico sootnes, cleans, purifies and heals.
This STANDARD OF QUALITY HYGIENICO product is not
poisonous, non-irritating, yet it KILLS GERM LIFE almost in­
stantly, due to its PROVEN principal GERMiCIDAL consequent.
HYGIENICO has the unique ability to actually dissolve GERM­
BEARING matter without injuring the delicate sex body tissue.
The Powder is quickly dissolved by the Vaginal secretions and a
concentrated antiseptic solution stands guard. Used on retiring,
the beneficial results and protection are ideal. Approved by dis­
criminating women.
IT IS well to remember that physicians throughout the world
are now endorsing and prescribing HYGIENICO BECAUSE IT IS
SAFE AND THE BEST.
PROFESSIONALLY TESTED HYGIENICO
is scientifically compounded from the following well-known an­
tiseptic and medicinal ingredients:
Zinc Sulpho-Carbolate
Lacdc Acid
Oxyquinoline Sulphate
Boric Acid
Oxyquinisol-B (germicide)
Benzoic Acid
Quinine Sulphate
Salicylic Acid
COMPLETE OUTFIT CONSISTS OF Sanitary Special Meas­
uring Insufflating Applicator, easy to operate on a moments notice;
2 Jars of Powder— 100 treatments. (Sanitary packed.) With full
directions.
Price $7.50
Refills, 50 treatments, $2.50.
