{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__mingle___the_racial_problem.pdf","mytitle":"The Racial Problem","mylang":"de"}
The Racial Problem
There is a racial problem, for the Plan of Life, in-
augurated by the Creative Mind from the founding of
the planet and the race, introduced itself into the con-
sciousness to be worked out. The working out of the
Plan of Life is first symbolical, for the reason that the
world, which is not of the Father, ~r the Laws of Being,
forms from the movement of darkness, that arises be-
cause of the movement of the Light, this causing a kind
of a man and a kind of a Plan of living which is not the
real Plan or Man. Fundamentally, every planet has its
v oid or negations, incidental to the running down of
forces in the course of a planet's progression, this cen-
tralizing as the void for the next planet's beginning, upon
which God, the Creative Mind moves, to cause the Plan
of that Mind to work out. Planets are formed in a cer-
tain order, one preceding the other in the God-Plan, this
causing some to appear to be older and more advanced;
so that the naught of one becomes the v0id of the next
one to be formed, this being the fundamental elements
that make up the world of darkness in the planetary
course.
The problem arises in the effort of the Principles and
Laws of the Plan, introduced into a planet and the race
that is to inhabit it, to work themselves out, though with
every mov ement of Light there is a corresponding one
of darkness, this darkness becoming ignorance on the
plane ·of the material. Ignorance poses as intelligence
among mortals, though before the Plan of Life for that
p lanet, it is gross darkness, hence not light. The prob-
lem continues until the end of mortality, d'a,rknes!'i reach-
ing its height at mortality's end, at the same time that
the Light has worked itself out and made known the
Plan of God for the particular planet. Progression is. in
1
cycles, called on the plane of government, eras of de-
velopment, with the Plan revealing something of itself,
at the same time revealing the errors of darkness;
though with the first coming of Christ, consciousness
reached the state of advancement that permitted the Plan
to make itself known in its own Light and Truth. Dark-
ness arose because of the movement of the Divine Light,
and the dark ages that followed taught the way of the
outworking of the Plan of Life. The second coming of
Christ, actually begun in November, 1922, made known
the fuller Light, as well as led to a fuller revelation of
the darkness, by which both the Plot with the problem,
and the Plan of Life, could be known.
The Plot Against the Plan of Life
The Plot against the Plan of Life arises from the de-
v eloped darkness, in which is the law of sin and death,
a law opposite to the Law of Life that is in the Spirit of
consciousness. The Plot arises from the problem, the
problem being the intricacies involved in the Qualities
of Light taking on form in a world controlled to the Lord
of darkness; yet, paradoxically, the Light is never
formed in the darkness, but because of it consciousness
is forced to turn from the darkness toward the Light,
this inviting the intelligence and love necessary to pro-
mote the Plan of Life and to know it. The Plan of Life
is known as it works out, hence is actuated by the
Principles and Laws of God that caused it to be, when
they have a consciousness in which they can work and
make themselves known. The Plot embraces all the
forces that are anti or against the Plan of Life, hence is
p romoted by the agents of antichrist. It embraces all
the enemies of God and Man, and all the inhuman and
cruel tendencies of mortals, who never having had the
Spirit of God, as Christ,, incorporated into conscious-
ness, plot and plan in darkness and for darkness, in the
false belief that they work for a Cause; though some
agents necessarily work for themselves and their partic-
ular cliques. Since the Light can be consciously known,
2
•
the darkness is also known, though this may be as to its
aim and purposes, and not necessarily as to why or how
it exists.
The Plot embraces all the hellish machinations of men
that betray and kill. It embraces as an ultimate wars
that are always instigated by antichrist agents, however
apparently good men may appear (and I do say men,
for women in recent centuries have not had enough direct
voice in the control of governments to affect marked
changes for the betterment of the nations). The Plot
embraces deceit, trickery, personal domination and de-
sire, jealousy and hate, rivalry and greed, and kindred
forces of consciousness, .though on the outer plane of for-
ing these may take the form of debt, interest, double-
talk, political and financial trickery, usurpation of the
people's privileges by political and financial powers,
strikes for domination and control, totalitarian practices
in government via socialism, communism and fascism,
and such other machinations of evil that impose bond-
ages and burdens upon the people. The Plot especially
centers to lies, trickery and deceit, that are-practised in
business, government, religion, over the radio, via the
press, and even in the home. Wherever there is lack
of honesty, understanding and frankness, there are as-
pects of the Plot in action, as it is a work of spirituab
understanding and overcoming to weed out of oneself
all that makes for lies and deceit. ·Even ignorance, by
which persons fail to do what they should do, or fail
to think what they should think, is one with the Plot,
though where persons are eager and willing to learn and
can put their errors to rout through understanding, there
is natural growth, which all are al1owed, for they must
first work out the natural before they can put on the
rudiments of the spiritual.
Those who know anything about the Plan of Life,
can discern the machinations of the Plot in the degree of
their understanding; though strangely, those promoting
the Plot.always im.agine they are hiding themselves and
that theu ungodly works are not known. They may
3
,
•
even go so far as to attempt to enact legislation to pro-
tect themselves from being uncovered, making it unlaw-
ful to call them by name, not having enough common
sense to know that they violate the governmental prin-
ciples of Freedom of Speech or Freedom of Assembly;
for some of these agents of hell attempt to prevent per-
sons from speaking out ideas that will uncover them,
or that will show the other side of a proposition; though
God, Itself, has permitted two sides of a proposition, on
the plane of the dual world of mortality. The plotters
always attack the upholders of the Plan of Life, though
the latter may expose the machinations of evil of the
former, which is quite within the province of humanity
and' decency. Thus the Plan of Life so operates, that if
people have eyes to see, meaning if they have any de-
gree of human intelligence, they can detect the enemies
of God and Christ, and know by their conduct that they
work the works of the devil, and not for the good of
humanity. However, it appears there are many unde-
veloped souls in our nation, persons who are deceived
by the plotters, and who take a stand against the up-
holders of m ercy, justice, decency and order, thus damn-
ing their own souls. The Plan of Life so operates that
egos give an account for all that is thought, said, felt
and done, whether it be good or evil, hence invite at the
end of mortality the retribution or compensation of their
works. If one is growing, he or she will look into either
side of a proposition, weigh and balance the activities,
and take a stand with that with which one's develop-
ment is attuned, which is the most anyone can do; and
so declare to those who can see the state of development.
What one declares before humanity, one also declares
before God and Its Laws, inviting good or evil, accord-
ing to the development.
Purpose and Result of the Racial Problem
The racial problem centers toward making Man to par-
take of the nature of God. The nature of God is re-
vealed as Christ, hence Christ becorrtes the goal to be
4
attained. Christ is not person, though functioned by
means of an organism of consciousness, attuned to its
Principles and Laws. The whole purpose of the Plan of
Life is to make itself known, and since God works by
means of Man or Woman, it having no Being apart
from them, the purpose of the Plan will be revealed
among men. The spiritual import of the purpose of the
Plan was revealed with the first coming of Christ, and
the bodily or earthly import of the purpose with the
second coming of Christ. The first coming by means
of Man solved the problem of the race as to its spiritual
import and inaugurated the Christian religion as the sys-
tem of living by which the Plan would work itself out.
Being spiritual, the first coming of Christ met the attack
of its opposite, the material, and stirred up the racial
problem and the devils who adhered in the darkness.
The devils are the forces of consciousness developed in
darkness and ignorance, though men and women func-
tion these forces and can become so at-one with them
as to partake of thei-
r devilish nature. There is always
opportunity for repentance, through understanding, if
one's development permits; though since the mortality
of the race is in duality, there are states of consciousness
destined to function the evils and hells, hence these love
the evils and the promotion of their forces until the end
of mortality.
The racial problem is in the necessity of the law of
sin and death, which is the Law of Life inverted or re-
versed to Principles and Laws of God, hence is a sys-
tem of living in the involvement of dark forces by which
egos are forced to find the light. Mortality is in death,
and under the jurisdiction of the mind of the flesh. The
raising of the mind from darkness to the light, by which
understanding offsets ignorance, is a phase of develop-
ment that characterizes the human nature from the ani-
mal, though this is but the light that is darkness, hence,
must be carried forward to the Light of the Mind, by
which one discerns the darkness in some comprehension
of the spiritual, and contrast with it. The Light of Mind
s
developed will give way to the Light of the Spirit, by
which one finally understands the duality and knows
that neither good nor evil belongs to the Plan of Truth
and reality. Thus the racial problem is solved only in
Truth, through an individual solving the problem of liv-
ing and attaining to the Truth. Such an individual be-
comes the Throne of Truth, through which God works
to project all 1
gained into the forces of the race and the
planet, by way of the Law of the Cross. Thus all egos
receive the gains of One according to their works,
and at the end of mortality, after the second coming of
Christ, are brought to compensation or retribution, ac-
cording to the works or state of development.
The purpose of the racial problem is to make Man,
and the result of the working out of the racial problem
by individual Man and Woman, is to lay the Plan of Life
for all the race, as Scientific Government and Credit,
by which all men und women may put on the true charac-
ter of Man and of Woman. A system of Scientific Gov-
ernment and Credit is comparable on the plane of the
race to the Plan of Life, as it issued from the Creative
Mind, hence is present to the race as Immortality, in
which the true human state of being is revealed. As the
Light and Truth of the scientific Plan of Life is opened
to consciousness, the darkness and unscientific aspects of
the planet and of the race uncover themselves, this per-
mitting the advancing egos to take dominion and mastery
over them unto the establishment of a real system of liv-
ing, in which all things are made to count to the glory
of God and' the honor of Man. It is quite scientific that
darkness should arise in degree of the intensity of the
Light, hence today we are in the midst of such darkness,
evil and devHtry, as have never before been witnessed
on the governmental plane. Politicians and financiers,
the two chief agents of darkness, on the plane of gov-
ernment, who necessarily deal with the forces of the
world, are coordinated to control materialism and to
introduce new methods of darkness, as indicated by the
various forms of totalitarian government they would pro-
6
mote. While this is a necessary evil, it is all the more
imperative that those who love the Light and the Tiuth
should dominate and control the powers of darkness and
evil, so that they will be reduced' to nothingness in the
presence of the known Plan of Life. Since evil works
by means of persons, good works also by means of them,
with Light and Truth functioned among men to make
known the Plan of Life, though using the two poles of
duality as means to establish the Plan in a working and
living way.
The Plan of Life
The Plan of Life is within the consciousness of Man
and of W oman, they b.eing the organism of conscious-
ness by which God has Being. This is to say, there is
no being of God apart from Man (race). God is not
something in the skies nor existing apart from the crea-
tion, for God as Creator has being by means of con-
sciousness that becomes, when completed, Man and
Woman. Man and' Woman are the racial expressions
of the Male and the Female Poles of God, respectively,
though they have their identity in Christ, the Male-Fe-
male of God, the Image and Likeness. God works by
means of Chrint, and Christ by means of Man and
Woman, though God and Christ are the within and the
without of each other, hence are not separate, except
for purposes of understanding. The Male and Female
Pole of God', united in manifestation make up Christ, but
as Twain make up Man and Woman. Men and Women
are the separated expressions of these two poles on the
plane of the world, and are the means by which all forces
are progressed in the race, including themselves. Since
God work:; out the mortal race by means of men and
women, it follows that God works out Its Plan of Life
by means of Man and Woman.
The Plan of Life, made racial, is the Plan of Scientific
Government and Credit, because it is only on the plane
of Government that Principles and Laws of living can
be made to apply to all. The Plan of Life directly works
7
itself out in an individual Man or Woman, and from
this consciousness, gained in Christ, the Truth, univer-
salizes itself to the entire race; or to all men and women.
The process by which the Truth universalizes itself and
makes itself racial is spiritual, and understandable only
by one in the Truth; but the fact that the Science of
Government and Credit is made known proves that the
Truth has worked universally and made itself known on
the plane of the body. Body, in its relation to the race,
is.governmental, the outer expression of the Spirit. Gov-
ernment, when it is scientifically premised is the Plan
of Life in a universal aspect, with egos living under the
Plan to become individualized; though an ego individ-
ualized in male-female union has been the means by
which the Plan has been universalized to all, govern-
mentally. Government, when it is real as God intended,
.is a science of living, hence the means by which men and
women are advanced, according to the Plan of Life.
A kind of a government exists even as a kind of a
man, before their reality is manifested. The United
States is a kind of a government in which is a kind of
a man that could become enlightened to receive the im-
pregnation of the Spirit and be born in the Truth; though
this Man in identity is Woman in the second coming of
Christ, she being the means by which the Science of
Government is made known. The Science of Govern-
ment, while it is the Science of Life is also the Science
of Love, and Woman, the Principle of Love, is the means
by which the law of sin and death is understood, and the
Law of the Spirit of Life in Christ is opened to make
known the Science of Life and Government. Thus,
Woman, in God-function, gives birth to universal Man,
or the race in position to attain to the true human state,
even as the Mother Principle of God was the means by
which the race and the planet were primarily created.
The United States has developed a kind of individuality,
with initiative and liberty, by which freedom of spirit,
soul, mind' and body could be promoted to permit the
Lord to act to make known its Plan. The United States
g
is the nation, chosen of God, to become the Ensign or
Pattern to all other nations, when she has put on the
Science of Government and Credit, and has been born
into Immortality as the beginning of the New Order in
the Ages; which she was at her founding in symbol, but
which she becomes in reality at the end of mortality.
The Plan of Life is always working itself out, and
while many adverse forces arise, all darkness moves be-
cause of the movement of the Light, hence we can re-
joice that our redemption, as a race, draweth nigh, when
the hidden forces of darkness and the principalities of
hellish powers are uncovered, as has been the case the
last twenty years, especially. The hellish forces become
more hellish as mortality comes to a close, though on
the other side, the Light asserts itself, with the plane
of science showing a corresponding advancement to the
plane of the Spirit. The gains of Light carry over to
the New Order, while the gains of darkness carry back
to · become the naught of another mortal planet's begin-
ning, though both come to a harvest at the end of mor-
tality, now working out. Bogus plans of living work out
as the height of materialism, because mortal minds,
puffed up in the vanity of themselves, and stimulated
by the introduction of the Qualities of Christ-Truth into
the race, attempt to work out in their own wills new
systems of living at the dying down of the old system of
materiality, though these necessarily are more evil than
the old, since they come from mortal minds at their
heights of material power and development.
The False Plan of Life Arises From Darlmess
The false ·Plan of Life arises at the time of the rising
of the real Plan of Life, for the darkness moves because
of the Light. Since the darkness has reached its height
of materialism at the time Light culminates in Truth, a
false and untrue system of living arises from the highly
evolved material minds at the end of mortality. This
false and untrue system of living comes under the head
of socialism, communism or fascism, all forms of totali-
.g
tarianism. These arise because the Plan of Llfe is work-
ing out universally, to bring all governments and nations
under its own system of Scientific Government and
Credit, but instead of working all separated nations out as
one system, as the leaders and promoters of totalitarian-
ism would do, it works out each nation in the system of
Scientific Government and Credit, according to the state
of progression; following along the line of making indi-
vidualism the central throne for the action of God. Indi-
vidual nations are aggregations of individuals, hence ir.
their orders of progression can partake of the Science
of Government and Credit; but the mortal minds, highly
evolved in materialism, and that are found on the plane
of government, would work out all nations in an inter-
national system before each nation has attained its
nationalism. This is comparable to trying to unite all
individuals of a group in a cooperative system before
each has learned the spirit of cooperation.
God's Plan of Life is laid', the kingdom of heaven is
already pi-eached, and all individuals and nations press
into it, either through understanding or tribulation. The
Plan of Life cannot be changed because Roosevelt,
Churchill or Stalin set themselves up as God and at-
tempted to dictate a plan of living. The Plan of Llfe
centers to the individual', already worked out as the first
and the second coming of Christ, though persons not
conscious of the second coming may use the first as an
example of this principle. From one individual, co-
ordinated to the Principles and .Laws of God, a standard
and an example were set for all egos by which they could
attain to the advancement of the first-born of them who
slept in darkness and death (mortality). The first in-
dividual, as man, raised up the second, as Woman, and
from the two perfected in coordination to the Plan of
Llfe, all men and women are to be raised up through liv-
ing under Scientific Government and Credit. But as
there is a Type Man and a Type Woman, so there is a
Type Nation, or Universa·l Man, after which all nations
10
may pattern their governments and come under the
Science of the Plan of Life and Love.
The false Plan of Life could arise only as the true
Plan of Life was working out, hence the true Plan work-
ing out individually from 191 2, forced the false Plan
to assert itself. The false had its inception in commun-
ism, with Cain again asserting his power to slay and to
kill, for violence and death was directed toward the more
advanced in Russia, where the forces of darkness had
their first ascension in the spirit of death and sin. Now,
due to the schemes and machinations of men's minds,
the whole of Europe is prepared to be swallowed up in
the forces of communism, though a more highly evolved
aspect of communism would assert itself in England and
the United States, where politicians and financiers are
masters in the art of intrigue and deception; though of
course, England should receive the high score for this
accomplishment. But under Roosevelt, the politicians
of the United States learned rapidly, though their direct
education could be said to have begun with the first
World War. This is not to say that intrigue and decep-
tion were not before used in our government, for they
were rampant during Lincoln's administration, even re-
sulting in his assassination; but they did not include the
international plot until the first World War, though the
plot has been in process of development, from its finan-
cial side, for several centuries.
It is the financial forces that keep alive the false Plan
of Life, for by controlling the power of money, certain
financial groups plan on controlling the world of nations.
The international scheme, though centered toward
national peace, has its first purpose as financial control
of all peoples. A certain moneyed .group, not neces-
sarily possessing money but the power to control it,
profit by wars, for they promote the schemes to produce
rivalries and jealousies that cause nations to rise up
against each other, then they finance the wars produced,
then they finance the building · up of the nations that
they have financed to have torn down, and in this way,
11
the plot centers directly to the financiers. Politicians.
play into the hands of financiers to control the financial
power. These two poles of the devil or of hellish forces
build up the material world, and when the time has
come for all authority, in the unformed and the formed
world (heaven and earth) to be given to Christ, the
Truth, they are used to tear down the material world
they have built up. Fools that they are, being ignorant
of the Plan of Life, they begin to plot new forms of
materialism that are ten-fold more steeped in hell than the
first system of materialism, that necessarily arose in the
law of sin and death in the outworking of the Plan of
Life. Such is the nature of any form of totalitarianism,
which is exactly reverse to the Plan of God that has
placed all responsibility in the individual, and has made
him or her the seat of its action.
.
The Universal and Individual Plan of Life
The Universal Plan of Life applies• to all nations, or
the race as a whole, but it is evident that since people
live under governments, that it must apply to nations,
governmentally. The Universal Plan of Life is alike for
all nations, though until all persons in a national group
are coordinated to the Individual National Plan there is
no possibility of coordinating all nations to one universal
system of living. It is a sign of the desire for coordina-
tion that nations attempt to work out a Plan of Interna-
tionalism, but this is as far as it has any virtue; for it is
impossible to coordinate national groups, when the group
is not coordinated within itself to a plan of Life and
Government. Wlhen each nation is coordinated to the
Plan of Life, individually, then all nations can be co-
ordinated, universally. This is the way that makes for
order and science; but trying to unite a conglomeration
of nations together, without anything to which to coor-
dinate them, is without science, order, system, harmony
or anything else that makes for a constructive expres-
sion of living.
12
The Universal Plan of Life applies to all people, as
national groups, while the Individual Plan of Life applies
to citizens of each nation, individually. . It foll9ws that
if each nation, in its order of advancement, established
Scientific Government and Credit, all nations would be
coordinated in a scientific manner at a certain time. We
would have Internationalism based upon genuine nation-
alism, for all citizens of a nation owe allegiance to that
particular nation, before they owe anything to other
nations. Mortal minds attempt to work out Internation-
alism from a premise of materialism, hence establish
force and legal requirements, to which nations cannot
conform if their developments do not permit. Any-
thing that is scientifically premised will produce scien-
tific results, while that which is materially premised will
produce mat~rial results. Material results have their
acme as wars and the hells they occasion. Materially
minded men are responsible for wars and the hells they
promote, by making themselves agents of darkness and
by failing to learn the Principles that underlie the sys-
tem of living. Especially, are they loathe to touch any-
thing that relates to the financial, though a false financial
premise of living is the root cause of all national calami-
ties, inclusive of wars.
The Science of the Plan of Life is so perfect that it
would appear that anyone could discern it. They might
not discern how an individual became conformed to the
Principles and Laws of Life, but they should see that
the same Principles and Laws that apply to one indi-
vidual, applied to all individuals in a national group,
would make for Scientific Government, individually
premised; and that one ego credited before the Principles
and Laws of Life invites the knowing of Credit to apply
to all. An ego is a State of being when completed in
conformity to the Principles and Laws of Life, hence a
completed individual is the Pattern for all individuals,
or of the State, as government. All individuals make up
the State, though they are divided into national groups.
Each national group, conformed to the Plan of Life
113
whereby each individual can exercise his or her God-
given Rights through the free use of Credit, premised to
the Word-Standard of Value in the enumeration of it-
self, would· be a perfect State of individuals, hence a
perfect State. The aggregation of a group of nations, or
a group of perfect States, would be scientific Internation-
alism, or the Commonwealth of God,. referred to in
scripture. The only wealth that people can have in com-
mon is that which each can invite, according to his or
her state of development, living under a system of Scien-
tific Government and Credit. Only under such a system
could citizens be free and equal.
The Individual Plan of Life relates primarily to one,
then to many; to one as an individual, and to many as a
group of individuals, called a nation. Every nation
established as an individual group, coordinated to. Scien-
tific Credit by which Scientific Government has its
being, would make up the Individual Plan of
Life for nations; the coordination of all groups being
the Universal Plan of Life: The Universal Plan
of Life would outpicture the Plan of God for the
race, and characterize Immortality; though potential Im-
mortality or its beginning, is premised to a national
group being centered to the Plan of Life as Scientific
Government and Credit. Mortality ends on a wave of
destruction of material governments and their credits
(debts), for they gather the totality of materialism and
must be reckoned with. It would seem that the United
States is now in a position to be overthrown in her ma-
terialism, she having taken on the materialism of the
European civilization in order to become the first-born
nation into the New Order, or Immortality; correspond-
ing to the Type Man and the Type Woman taking on
the sins of the world that the world, through them, might
be brought to an accounting and judgment. Even so all
nations will be brought to accounting and judgment,
through the Divine Laws that bring the United States to
an accounting, to become the Ensign to all nations in
a New Order, or in Immortality. The problem of the
14
race is to make Man as God intended him to be, hence
Government under which he lives must be conformed
to the Plan of Life that he may make himself through
processes of living, at the same time promoting the
love of the self in the Lord (Laws of Being) and the love
of the neighbor, by which a genuine international unit
can be formed among men.
(Editorial Note: This matter was published in the
March, 1946, "Light of Truth," and written by Ida
Mingle. Write for sample copy of this monthly paper,
and receive it free for the next six months).
GOVERNMENTAL LITERATURE
"Scientific Government the Basis of Peace," 1Oc;
"Divine Power and Monetary Power," 1Oc; "Chicago:
The Queen City of Destiny," 15c; "A New Order of
Things," 1Oc; "Rededication of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence," One Word-Dollar; Free Literature: "Money:
Its Function and Service," "The United States Govern·
ment: Revolution or Rebirth," "The Government of the
United States a Republic," ··Fundamental Principles of
the American Government," "'The American Way of
Government," "The Destiny of the United States and
Americans," "The New Social Order," "Equality and
Justice," "Real and Fictitious Prosperity."
LESSONS IN GOVERNMENTAL STUDY AND
TRAINING, promoting knowledges of Americanism, as
the practice of our Ideals and Principles,· with SCIEN-
TIFIC CREDIT, and matters relating, are sent out month-
ly to those enlisted. Write for ·particulars.
Copy of "Washington Vision" in full may be obtained
hy sending ~ cents to cover.
15
LITERATURE
"SPIRITUAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE BODY,"
355 pages, showing qualities and ideas underlying the
plane of body. Price $2.65.
The following chapter heads of the above mentioned
book give some idea as to the nature of its contents:
The Body-Brain: Universal Intelligence and Mind -
Eyes: Perception and Redemption - Ears: Receptivity
and Obedience-Tongue: Taste, Tone and Discrimina-
tion - Nostrils: The Breath of Life: Discernment -
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity-Hair and Beauty-
· -
Face and Intelligence - Teeth: Analysis and Diet -
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech-Shou1ders: Responsibil-
ity and Support-Arms and Hands: Giving and Receiv-
ing-Ribs: Accident and Protection - Spinal Column:
Righteousness: Ladder of Life-Lungs: Breathing and
Inspiration-Heart: Blood and Love-Solar Plexus: Soul
and Order-Stomach: Substantiality and Impersonality
-Liver: Service and Balance ·- Spleen: Birth, Life,
Death-Bowels: Freedom, Mercy, Elimination-Appen-
dix and Operations - Kidneys: Equality, Reciprocity,
.Confidence-Generative Organs: Reproduction and Con-
summation-Hips: DeterminatioJil and Self-Preservation
-Knees: Humility and Devotion - Lower Limbs and
Feet: Willing and Doing-Nerves: Sensitiveness and Im-
munity-Bones: Substance and Reality-Musc1es: Exer-
cise and Will-Veins and Arteries: Purity and Impurity
--Glands: Pituitary, Pineal, Adrenals-Glands: Thyroid
Para-Thyroids, Thymus, Pancre·as-Glands: Mammary,
Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian.
SCHOOL OF LIVEABLE CHRISTIANWY
Suite 1510 Kimball 'Bldg.
306 South Wabash Ave. Chicago 4, Illinois
16
