{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__hopewell-ash___therapy_of_personal_influence.pdf","mytitle":"Therapy Of Personal Influence","mylang":"de"}
An'. B Cof Trient b Prsnal
BF li~t'1929
Wt*bie privy atBM /BIUJ*LZnd W.~
THERAPY OF
PERSONAL INFLUENCE
THERAPY OF
PERSONAL INFLUENCE
An A B C of Treatment by Personal
Influence, Suggestion, Medical
Hypnosis,andPsychomagnetic
Methods
By
EDWIN HOPEWELL-ASH
M.D.
1929
Published privately at BM/ELHA, London, W.C.x
OOD L!RARY-MUEUM
o0
Made and Printedin GreatBritain by
The Camelot Press Limited,
London and Southampton
CONTENTS
CHAP. PAGE
I. ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERAPY . 7
II. ABOUT METHODS . . . . 18
III. SOME RESULTS . . . . 42
IV. NOTES OF CASES . . . 65
V. CONCLUDING NOTE ON THEORY . 93
CHAPTER I
ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERAPY
THE practice of treatment through personal
influence, suggestion, and psychomagnetic
methods is so interesting in its scope, so satis-
factory in its results, and so accessible to every-
one that it is surprising how few medical
practitioners take it up. This may be because
the details of such practice are, by force of
circumstance, hidden from all except the few
who are immediately concerned with this
special branch, and because there are so few
facilities for doctors to get into contact with
practical psychotherapy. It is on this account
that I have decided to publish some record of
my work, as I know how helpful the experi-
ences of any specialist practitioner can be to
others who want to take up the same kind of
practice. In the beginning I had great
difficulty in obtaining assistance when learn-
ing the technique of treatment through personal
8 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
influence, suggestion, or medical hypnosis;
and, had I not felt strongly an individual
aptitude for this kind of work, and, moreover,
found results came fairly readily, I should not
have gone very far in that direction. Hence
I do not intend this little book to be a thesis,
but just a guide and friend to students of mind-
healing and of aill the treatment by personal
influence or suggestion that goes under the
general term of psychotherfapy. It does not
deal With psytho-aiLalysis. I hope readers
will be kind enoiigh to fegard it as just a simple
story of h6 one medical man--myself--
apptoached th6 qnestion of this special treat-
ment ini the first iiistance, What kind of results
he obtaiied, aiid hoW his thought and technique
have develop"d. -By suimmarising my own
experiences of treatment during the last
tweity-five yearsi I feel thAt I can best give
the kiid of help t students and fellow-prac-
titioners that I foiid so difficult to obtain
When startirig prictice myself ; it is my sincere
hope that felloW-Workers will find in this story
just that kind of help that Would have been
invaluable to nme in early days, for I am of
opiiion that even inow it is not readily
ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERAPY
available from reading current text-books on
psychotherapy. It is the first steps in prac-
tical treatment that I want to make clear;
in fact, my wish is just to write an A B C of
treatment.
The wide use of such treatment as that now
being reviewed can be best illustrated by
describing some practical events, and I must
emphasise the point that practitioners in-
terested in it cannot do better than study
the experiences of others, if they wish to
become proficient in its use. In that way,
confidence will most quickly come to them
when first undertaking treatment. As with
all medical practice, it is at the outset that
the practitioner is in urgent need of support
and confidence; with increasing experience
the self-reliance so essential for sustained
success comes readily enough. As an example
of the kind of thing that the tyro may meet
with straightway, I call to mind that in my
own early days of practice, when I was anxious
to secure successes by special treatment, I
had two particularly difficult tasks set me by
doctors whose good opinion I was very anxious
to secure. I will relate the circumstances.
9
IO AN AB C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
Case of Mental Excitement, with Sleeplessness,
Hallucinations, and Inability to Keep the
Eyes Open
The first of these was the relief of a middle-
aged woman who had been undergoing treat-
ment in a large general hospital for an intract-
able nervous condition; she suffered from
repeated attacks of mental excitement with
hallucinations. Her distress was further in-
creased by inability to keep her eyes open;
also by coarse tremors, weakness of the back,
general nervousness, and difficulty in sleeping.
The picture presented was one of extreme
nervous unrest and distress, with incapacity
for work. It should be noted that this patient
had, through character and diligence, succeeded
in obtaining a business position of considerable
responsibility; and that previously to her
breakdown she had been fulfilling her duties
to the satisfaction of her employers. It must
be admitted that here the outlook was as
unpromising as it could be to a comparatively
inexperienced psychotherapist. Nevertheless,
I tackled the situation boldly, and was at once
successful in giving relief ; indeed, in about a
ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERAPY
fortnight the patient was able to get about,
keep her eyes open, and sleep well. In all,
less than twelve treatments were given before
the patient was considered to be thoroughly
convalescent. Subsequently she returned to
work, and thereafter continued in the successful
administration of her duties, to the satisfac-
tion of herself and her employers.
Viewing it as a nervous case with a strong
element of hysteria, it may be said that this
was not a difficult thing to accomplish; but
it must be remembered that it is just this type
of so-called hysterical patient who is most
difficult to help by the usual routine methods.
And in institutions and private houses intract-
able cases of this kind abound, often to the
misery of themselves and their relatives.
Case of Mental Depression, with Suicidal
Impulse
The second of my early difficult cases was
of an entirely different order.
In this instance the patient was a young
woman, who, after becoming acutely depressed,
had attempted to put an end to her troubles
by taking laudanum. Fortunately, she had
II
12 A9 A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
taken so much that she became sick, and so
got rid of most of the poison before it could be
absorbed.
The position was serious, and certificates
of insanity were being discussed. However,
the doctor in attendance had some conversa-
tion with me about the possibilities of psycho-
therapy and called me in to treat. Again I
found that the patient was in such a state of
mental Unrest that the induction of any kind
of sleepy state or of definite medical hypnosis
Was out of the question; nevertheless, I
succeeded ii obtaining a rapid improvement
and so successful a result that within six or
eight Visits the patient had returned to the
normal.
These cases, both of which appeared so
unpromising and yet ended so satisfactorily,
taught me two important lessons. The first
was that a successful result could be hoped for
even under very difficult circumstances; and
the second that, as regards the technical pro-
cess employed, nothing resembling hypnosis,
and far less anything akin to the popular
conception of hypnotism, need come into the
matter.
ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERaPY
t3
As to method in detail. In the frst qcse
I endeavqured to concentrate attertion, but
the patient's unrest was such that for all
practical purposes she did not atten4 to what
I was saying ; and in the second casp pircum-
stances were much the same.
So what the actul process of treatment
amounted to was that in each instance I stood
or sat by the patient, placed one hand on her
head, and made what I then considered to be
proper suggestions for recovery whilst trying
at the same time to induce a more restful state
of mind. I believed at that time that the
success of the method depended entirely op
the question of yerbal suggestion; but, in
view of subsequent experience and my present
conclusions about our natural forces in relation
to the constitution of matter and the ether of
space, I feel quite sure that there is 4, X-factgr
to be considered in such work.
Painful Hip'
To take another instance: a surgepn asked
me to see a young woman who, after an injury
to her hip and subsequent treatment which
14 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
had apparently relieved the physical injury,
still suffered from neuralgia about the site of
the original bruising, the pain being severe
and disabling. I was assured that every
reasonable examination had been made to
eliminate an organic lesion and told that
consequently the case should be simple from
my point of view! And so it proved. Asking
the patient to sit on an ordinary chair, and
taking a little instrument designed for the
induction of hypnosis in my right hand, I
placed my left hand on her head and made
several sweeping passes across the painful
area, but some inches away. Almost im-
mediately the pain ceased and did not return.
Insomnia, with Mental Crisis
Yet another kind of happening. Late one
night I was asked by a medical friend to see
a.distinguished doctor who had broken down
from over-work and whose lack of sleep, even
after sedative drugs, had brought about a
serious mental crisis. In fact, he was in such
a state that he had declared that he could not
go on living under the circumstances. Condi-
tions were not promising. I found the patient
ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERAPY
in bed, thoroughly depressed and highly
sceptical of the kind of treatment proposed;
submitting to my visit only at the urgent
request of his doctor and wife. It was not a
time for argument or discussion; I was there
at the request of the physician in charge of
the case to do my job if permitted, or other-
wise to go away. However, I was allowed
to proceed, and, having asked the restless
sufferer to relax as far as possible, to close his
eyes, and to let me place my right hand directly
on the skin of the epigastric area, I rested my
left hand on his forehead and, closing my own
eyes, assumed what I knew would be a helpful
mental attitude. After a time I gave one or
two simple verbal suggestions, and left at the
end of some twenty or thirty minutes. The
previously distressed doctor slept well. A
satisfactory habit of sleep was restored and
the patient able to go away for convalescence.
An interesting example of what can be
achieved by personal influence and suggestion
in restoring self-confidence occurred in the
case of a famous boxer who, through. an
unexpected defeat, had lost his nerve and
found it impossible to " come back." I found
15
16 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
him to be a magnificent specimen of humanity
from the physical point of view, but quite
unable to visualise further victory. However,
after a course of some ten or twelve treatments,
he took part in a big -fight and knocked his
opponent out without difficulty. I thought
this a most interesting occurrence.
Personal and Explantory
In explanation of my personal interest in
psychotherapy, I must point out that from my
school-days I have been a keen student of
mind-power, personal influence, and mental or
spiritual healing ; books on these subjects have
been familiar to me since the age of fourteen
or earlier. Later I turned to medical studies,
largely because through them I anticipated
increased knowledge of the practical applica-
tion of will-power and personal influence to
human affairs. Then, as a medical student,
I learned the elements of brain physiology,
and was taught a little about the physical
machinery of mind in action. I had to depend
on my own reading and research for studying
the practical side of mind-power in relation
to treatment, as such subjects as suggestion,
ON TAKING UP PSYCHOTHERAPY
medical hypnosis, and psychotherapy were not
included in the orthodox courses of lectures
and study. Nevertheless, opportunities came
to me for wide discussion about the problems
in which I was specially interested, for know-
ledge of my interests spread amongst my
fellow-students, and often in smoke-filled
studies did some of us dispute about the human
ego and the relations between our minds and
our bodies. Still later I began to give little
lectures and demonstrations. One given to
the East Sussex Medical Society, followed by
a similar lecture-demonstration at St. Mary's
Hospital, London, in 19o6, called a good deal
of attention to my work.
BT
17
CHAPTER II
ABOUT METHODS
WHAT the student of treatment through
personal influence and suggestion wants to
know is, of course, just what are the details of
technique that he must carry out to bring
about such successful results; but it is by no
means easy to give as readily helpful verbal
or written instructions as one would like.
I am dealing with an art, and not with a science.
There is, of course, a scientific basis for the
methods indicated just as there is a scientific
basis for the technique of painting or of instru-
mental music; but just as mere experience
in technique does not always bring about suc-
cess in painting or in music, so with psycho-
therapy far more is needed than technical
proficiency to bring about first-class results.
And I would emphasise this fact, that anything
I may say about technical detail, and any
apparently rigid system I suggest in the
z8
ABOUT METHODS
elaboration of treatment, should be regarded
merely as a framework on which to arrange
such methods as will arise out of experience.
True as it is that in all forms of medical or
surgical practice nothing makes for proficiency
so much as experience, I do not think there
can be any branch of our profession in which
experience is so essential for successful treat-
ment as that with which I am now concerned.
I believe that many of the disappointments
that have come to would-be practitioners of
treatment by personal influence, suggestion,
and medical hypnosis have been due to the
fact that they have attempted the treatment
of difficult cases long before they were really
conversant with the necessary methods to
enable them to have any reasonable chance
of success. My experience has been that
medical men and women cheerfully take up
the treatment of quite difficult cases after very
few talks or lessons about practical details
with an experienced psychotherapist. I think
they do this because they feel that their
medical training in some way qualifies them
for rapid understanding of the basis of mind
treatment and puts them in a particularly
19
20 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
favourable position forcarrying it out. Speak-
ing for myself, I can only say that I have found
nothing in the elaborations of medical train-
ing that has in the least helped me to be more
proficient in the actual carrying out of personal
treatment; neither have I observed that any
other successful psychotherapist has gained
very much, if anything, in expertness from
his medical surgical equipment. Naturally,
it is enormously to the advantage of a prac-
titioner to be acquainted with the bases of
diagnosis and to be familiar with the natural
appearance and usual course run by the various
common diseases to which mankind is prone.
Indeed, it is almost essential for the honest
carrying-out of a great work in treatment
that the practitioner should be able to recog-
nise both these acute crises in health for which
surgical intervention is urgently needed, and
those terrible progressive maladies for which
operation or radiology are the best measures;
but, when it comes to the point of actual treat-
ment, a medical practitioner by virtue of his
general training is no more qualified to carry
out difficult procedures of personal treatment
than he is qualified to remove a stomach, open
ABOUT METHODS
a brain abscess, or deal with a cataract. I
must go further and say this, that the very
confidence which medical practitioners assume
on the strength of their special training
frequently leads them to follow such avenues
of approach that from the outset they court
failure rather than success. Were there no
difficulties in effecting that contact between
therapist and patient that enables not only
suggestion to have weight, but the X-factor
and " personal magnetism " to help in renew-
ing the health of invalids, there would scarcely
be any need for a special study of methods.
Many of the practical books written on
psychotherapy during the past twenty or
thirty years have dealt exclusively with
the suggestion factor, and so considerably
minimised the importance of the personal
factor, that the latter is to-day being neglected
in treatment. Nevertheless, as can be noted
by anyone who impartially reviews the various
methods advocated for treating by suggestion
and medical hypnosis, the successes recorded
undoubtedly depend as much, if not more,
on the personality of the practitioner than on
the method observed. One man relies entirely
21
22 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
on the simplest plans; another on elaborate
technical details which often lose their value
when carried out by someone else. The fact
is that everyone has the same object in view,
whether or not they are clearly aware of it,
and this object is to bring about a definite
contact between physician and patient and to
accentuate all the powers of the former to give
help ; whilst, in addition, it is hoped to induce
what, for want of a better term, can quite
well be called a state of receptivity in the
latter. The whole question of personal con-
tact through mind and of dynamic healing
influence is too often shelved by modern
psychotherapists, who cling to the ideas of
suggestion and " increased suggestibility," as
if it were wrong to expect that other influences
could be at work.
A Useful General Method
As an example of treatment by personal
influence and suggestion in its simplest form,
I will now describe a method which is very
easy to carry out, and yet can give most satis-
factory results in many instances. It requires
definite co-operation on the part of those
ABOUT METHODS
treated, and is not suitable for patients who
definitely refuse to be quiet and whose mental
excitement prevents them from keeping still.
But it is a mode that is particularly useful
as a first treatment, and has the additional
recommendation that it can often be used as
an aid to revelation and diagnosis in cases of
nervous disorder depending on obscure con-
flicts. It is very suitable for psychological
autognosis.
To carry this out, place your patient in a
comfortable chair or on an adjustable couch
and instruct him to get into the most restful
position he can. See to it that his head is
comfortable, that there is no restriction of
breathing; make these desirable conditions
more sure by asking him to take his coat off
or loosen his collar if this seems likely to help
matters. Also make certain that your patient
is warm, not exposed to draught, and, if neces-
sary, throw a light rug over him, for nothing
is so disquieting as feeling cold.
Then you yourself should draw up a suitable
stool or chair and sit by the patient, preferably
on the right side of the treatment couch, when
it will be easy for you to take firmly hold of
23
24 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
his right wrist with your right hand. Make it
a rule to grasp wrist rather than hand, and
it is a sound plan to make your grip firmly
over the back of his hand with your right
thumb. If your own hands happen to be cold,
warm them before beginning treatment. Let
your own position be as comfortable as pos-
sible, and if you are sitting see that your own
chair and attitude are as restful as may be.
Particularly see to it that your own breathing
is free and unhampered.
Now your patient is resting comfortably
and you are easily sitting by his side, having
taken a firm grasp of his right wrist with your
right hand. Just ask him to close his eyes
and go on being comfortable. Ask him to
think of something pleasant and cheerful if
he can, and particularly not to listen to what
you say or attend to what is going on in the
treatment. Instruct him to " think away
from " the treatment as far as possible, but
to make no effort or strain of concentration.
If the patient says, " What shall I think
about? " answer quietly, "Why not go over
your last game of golf? " or say, " Just call
to mind a favourite walk, picturing familiar
ABOUT METHODS 25
objects of interest." Or again say, "You
were shooting the other day--well, just quietly
recall incidents of the day-what happened,
how you got on, and so forth." It is usually
easy to persuade a man to take mental refuge
in remembrances of scenes and pastimes; for
a woman it is not always so easy to call up
something so interesting that it definitely
captures attention, and, if nothing can be
found in her daily routine or habits of life to
act as a " fixation point," then rely on passivity
and do not bother your patient to carry out
an unfamiliar mental exercise.
If you have previously discussed the
symptoms for which relief is sought and
definitely stated what relief you propose to
effect, very little need be said in the course of
the actual treatment. But, if you have not
made this clear, then after some five minutes
give definite verbal suggestion, but do not
labour it. Let your suggestions be short and
to the point; repeated not more than three
times aloud-and by all means repeat if you
feel that it gives you confidence as well as your
patient. And I will here assert my belief that
all suggestion-and all thought treatment-
26 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
should be based on a threefold plan; let
there be :
Assertion of helpful conditions.
Denial of the inevitableness of the trouble.
Affirmation of attainment in positive terms.
Think of a switch being turned, letting
through " power " or " suggestion," or what-
ever you like to call it; or, metaphysically,
imagine a process in action for cancelling an
error or negative and setting up a positive. In
any event, let the treatment be reposeful;
do not distract your patient unduly; do not
excite yourself. On the other hand, I am not
at all in favour of treatment being carried out
in dim and shaded rooms ; I like my surround-
ings to be as normal as possible. There is no
reason why you should not move freely in the
room, avoiding sudden noises or jarring happen-
ings. It is an excellent plan to leave your
patient alone for a while, you yourself sitting
quietly, or preferably writing a letter or look-
ing at a book; although certainly doing
nothing to excite your thoughts. If you have
realised clearly the need of your patient and
the kind of positive thought and influence
ABOUT METHODS
required to help him, then I am quite sure that,
apart from the benefits of the direct treatment,
whatever there may be in the X-factor of
psychic contact-or psychomagnetic influence
or transmission of thought-will act all the
more strongly when you are quietly occupied.
The general method just described should
be taken as a form of treatment which can be
modified according to particular circumstances
and special indications; if the beginner
strictly adheres to the method as described he
will certainly get good results, but with experi-
ence there will come an understanding of how
to modify the process, or to emphasise par-
ticular phases of the treatment. I advise
students to regard this simple method as
foundational; it is useful as a mode which
can be used at once-that is, as soon as some
definite practical understanding of the subject
has been obtained. Also it contains a number
of important practical elements which can be
emphasised, discarded, or elaborated as experi-
ence grows and grasp of technique becomes
strengthened. Thus I have used them with
success in such cases as the following*: an
elderly man of delicate physique complains of
27
28 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
fatigue, indigestion, and sleeplessness; he
finds that exhaustion follows comparatively
little mental or physical work, appetite is very
poor, and any substantial meals cause
flatulence, discomfort, and heartburn; at
night he may get to sleep fairly soon, but wakes
in the early hours and has difficulty in getting
any further rest; his nerves are all to pieces,
and his general sense of incapacity is accom-
panied by mental depression and subjective
sensations of various kinds; whilst he is
oppressed by constipation with colicky pains,
signs of mucous colitis, and spinal sensitiveness.
This is a type of case in which the general
method can give excellent results, and in
which the suggestion part of the treatment
can be directed to the three chief needs-
namely, increased nerve tone, sleep, and
digestion. Where there is a special demand,
or the patient's doctor feels that physical
remedies should be used, the treatment will
go very well with whatever else is being done;
but it is desirable that if possible the psycho-
therapeutic part of the treatment should be
carried out by someone who is not dealing
with the digestive medicines, sedatives,
ABOUT METHODS
massage, injections, or other physical measures
that are being employed; with this exception,
that if it be used as part of a psycho-electrical
modality then the psychotherapist can use
some particular electro-magnetic method to
effect the required ends, but even then he
should leave local electrical processes to some-
one else. My " General Method " also answers
very well in cases of menopausal ill-health,
and can be used as a preliminary treatment
in almost any type of case, although it may be
desirable to modify it or substitute one of the
other methods described.
Modifications of General Method Intensive
Verbal Suggestion
A useful modification of the general method
is that in which intensive verbal suggestion
is mainly relied on. A rest-state is first
obtained, and then verbal suggestion without
contact made use of. Treatment on this plan
will be found particularly suitable where there
is specific loss of power, or want of self-confi-
dence. In dealing with functional aphonia,
paralysis, local anaesthesia, or patches of
abnormal sensation this method has many
29
30 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
uses; also sometimes in the treatment of
enuresis nocturna it will be found to secure
success where other modes have not been
successful. Again, there are some cases of
alcoholism, morbid conduct, and anxiety that
react well to the dominant note of intensive
verbal suggestion.
Appropriate suggestion, repeated in an
earnest, somewhat monotonous manner, with
intervals, for the space of five or ten minutes,
will effect wonders in the right sort of case;
the appeal being made not to the reason, but
to the sub-conscious or sub-attentive mental
field, which, according to the suggestibility
of the patient at any particular sitting, accepts
the suggestions and stores them up.
Always remember that if negatives are
associated with positives-denials with affirma-
tives-the results will be better and the work
done more quickly than if positives alone are
employed.
Let me give another example of intensive
verbal suggestion to emphasise this important
point of double-suggestion. I have used it
many times to relieve impediments in speech,
and so will take a case of stammering for my
ABOUT METHODS 31
present illustration. Quietude and receptivity
having been obtained, achieve a dominant
note in your voice and give intensive sugges-
tion as follows:
"Rest-Relax-Let Go.
Go on resting; pay little attention to what
I am saying.
There will be no more difficulty,
no hesitation,
no nervousness ;
but, on the contrary,
complete control of speech,
easy speaking,
absolute self-confidence.
And then:
no stammering-but-freedom of speech,
no difficulty-but-perfect ease,
no nervousness-but--confidence."
In this method some such suggestions, and
grouped in such way, should be repeated a
number of times at short intervals; say, for
three minutes on end. And then again at
the end of five minutes' interval; and yet for
a third time to a treatment lasting about
twenty minutes ; and I may say here that the
32 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
intensive verbal suggestion method should
be short-that is, from ten to twenty minutes
in duration.
Method of Silence with Contact
Another modification of the general method
is to make the process a silent one. An open,
silent method with contact, that is to say,
holding one of the patient's wrists or placing
the hands on the patient's head, frequently
answers very well in highly nervous patients
whose thoughts are running away with them,
and to whom verbal suggestion acts as an
irritant rather than a sedative. There are
some patients in whom verbal suggestion calls
up antagonistic thoughts at once; their
critical faculty is roused by the method and
they cannot rest under it.
The " silent method " helps to give rest
and enables whatever has been said before the
treatment-particularly if it has been care-
fully put in the form of terse suggestions-to
incubate and to come to fruition. Another
great advantage of the silent " method " is
that it enables the personal X-factor to come
into play with special weight, and the student
ABOUT METHODS
of psychotherapy will soon find that hebecomes
aware of certain circumstances in which it is
felt that this personal factor is going to be
the best agent for giving help and relief in
particular instances.
Desk Method
Personally I am all in favour of simplifying
the actual technique of treatment; when we
are ill, and particularly if we are suffering
pain or mental stress, elaborate technical
processes confuse and even harass us. Patients
should be encouraged to " give up " stress,
strain, enquiry, and criticism; they should
,be encouraged to " let go " for treatment and
to allow the therapist to do his job with as
little discussion, argument, or technical details
as he can. Certainly give one, or more than
one, ample opportunity for " hearing the whole
story "; that is important, but endeavour to
cut out all unnecessary conversation and
verbal side-play. It is sometimes helpful to
strengthen and support simple treatment at
the desk by leaning forward and asking your
patient to place the palms of the hand flat
downwards on yours and to keep up definite
CT
33
34 AN A B C OF PiYC OTHERAPY
pressure whilst you are treating. Or, instead
of palmar contact, to hold the patient's hands
or wrists firmly in your own. This contact
need only be maintained for four or five
minutes ; although, with repetition and pauses,
a treatment usually lasts from fifteen to twenty
minutes. If this kind of process is disturbing
to a patient and you still wish to go on with
it, ask the invalid to sit in a particularly com-
fortable position, to breathe easily, and to
close the eyes.
All these modes of treatment are based on
elements emphasised in my general descrip-
tion of a general method.
With confidence and experience, many
" cures "can be obtained Without the physician
leaving his desk, or the patient leaving the
chair of consultation, which is so familiar by
out desks in professional consulting-rooms.
In what I call my open method of treatment
the patient is not asked to do anything; riot
even to close the eyes. I do the work entirely
myself by reciting my treatment-formule in
the three or four stages indicated in my descrip-
tion of a general method-namely, in the form
of declaration, denial, affiration, confimation.
ABOUT METHODS 35
The following cases occur to me as having
been striking examples of successful treatment
rapidly effective on this plan:
(a) Somnambulism.
(b) Alcoholism.
(c) Obsessions.
Medical Hypnosis
In all methods of treatment by personal
influence and suggestion the therapist's
endeavour is to allay nervous unrest and to
ease physical discomfort; he tries to get rid
of all disturbing factors and render his patient
as receptive as possible to treatment benefits.
The only reasonable object of medical hypnosis
in particular cases should be to increase this
receptivity; in any case, there need be no
attempt to control the patient's will, nor
should there be any interest in displaying the
more striking pheriomena of experimental
hypnotism during such treatment. Confusion
between the legitimate objects of medical
hypnosis and the spectacular events of experi-
mintal seances has caused much misunder-
standing, and undoubtedly has often prevented
36 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
both patients and doctors from having any-
thing to do with this form of psychotherapy.
My advice to the student of psychotherapy is
to keep strictly to the necessities of treatment
in the matter of medical hypnosis; that is to
say, that where it is desired to make use of this
altered state of consciousness he should restrict
himself to inducing a quiet rest-state; in
this amnesia will be the characteristic which
will tell him subsequently that the required
state has been obtained. Further, he will get
the best results by using suggestion to induce
hypnosis after the manner of the so-called
Nancy method. Actually, what the therapist
has to do in this method is to lead the patient's
attention and activity away from the ordinary
distractions of daily experience towards a
condition of mental and physical abstraction
so deep that consciousness is lost for the time
being just as in sleep. Any attempt to test
the depth of hypnosis by experiments will
disturb the treatment and probably embarrass
both doctor and patient. After a successful
induction it will be found that the patient has
been oblivious of something that has happened
in the room, such as the striking of a clock, a
ABOUT METHODS
knock on the door, or the doctor's movements
about the room. At any time during the
treatment the patient would have responded
at once to a disturbing incident and would
have replied if called on ; but, left to himself,
he has enjoyed a sense of deep restfulness with
memory-gaps just in the same way that we
enjoy resting dreamily in an armchair at the
end of the day's work. But, inasmuch as the
state of hypnosis thus obtained is one of
increased suggestibility, it has its uses in treat-
ment, and in particular instances may secure
brilliant results. Nevertheless, apart from
its special usefulness in certain cases of hysteria
and where it is wished to call up lost memories,
I am of opinion that as regards routine practice
the induction of medical hypnosis is really
limited in its application. Certainly it has
not the immense advantages and wide scope
for successful treatment of the more general
personal methods I have outlined. But, in
view of the interest to students, and the
importance of its special applications, I have
outlined in An A B C of Medical Hypnosis the
methods of induction advocated by its most
successful practitioners.
37
38 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTIERAPY
Psychomagnetic Methods
I developed my psychomagnetic methods
through searching for intensive ways of focus-
ing personal influence in treatment without
the use of hypnosis. In The Practitioner
(July 1913) I described a method of psycho-
electrical treatment in which a definite " sug-
gestion treatment" is associated with a
stimulating charge of static electricity.
Briefly, my psycho-electrical treatment
(P.E.T. or P.E. method in notes of cases) is
carried out as follows. The patient is seated on
a comfortable, reclining chair, insulated or on
an insulated platform, connected with a static
electrical machine. He is then requested :
I. To assume a position of relaxation and
comforf.
2. To close the eyes.
3. To breathe evenly, and a little more
deeply than usual.
4. To refrain from making any unnecessary
movements throughout the treatment.
The electricity is generated in the usual way,
ABOUT MIETOi0DS
and, as a general ~rle, the apparatus is so
arranged as to give a mild "1 eqd-breeze."
The object in view is th pefg).d
Firstly, to obtain a state of mentil rest an4
Secondly, to bring about a state of increased
suggestibility for the purpose of therapeutic
suggestion.
Thirdly, to produce the physical and topic
effects of the electricity,
Recently I have brought within the scope
of my psychophysical methods those rays
which are now so popular in modern therapy.
I have worked with ultra-violet rays, white
light rays, and various colour rays, heat radia-
tions and infra-red rays, using each and all at
times both from their purely physical effects
and in attempts to incorporate them in my
psychophysical system. The results have been
most interesting, and I propose to give an
extended account of them elsewhere. For
the present I may say this, that I am now
continually using rays from the red end of
the spectrum and infra-red rays with the
most satisfactory results in combined treat-
ment. Whilst ultra-violet rays have not
39
AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
assisted me very much from my special point
of view, useful as they are as treatmentadjuncts,
orange, red, and infra-red rays help me a great
deal. Having tried the effects of applications
of these rays to the head, to the neck, to the
spine, to the body generally, and to the solar
plexus area (abdominal skin), I find that their
judicious application in the latter region is
extraordinarily useful in the production of
states of receptivity to treatment. By the
right use of this method patients who other-
wise might be impossible to deal with can be
steadied and soothed and strengthened by
the rest state obtained and the personal
influence exerted. I am not at all sure that
in the future I shall not find that along these
lines methods will develop that will ultimately
supersede my original psycho-electrical method
altogether.
I use the term " psychomagnetic " for such
methods as the preceding and others described
in this chapter because they depend on a
combination of personal influence and sugges-
tion with electromagnetic processes. For par-
ticular modes the term psycho-electrical is
perhaps more appropriate. But, inasmuch
40
ABOUT METHODS 41
as all the forms of energy used on the physical
side in this relation are theoretically dependent
on vibrations-waves-or rays in the ether of
space, and are electromagnetic, I favour the ex-
pression psychomagnetic as being more generic.
CHAPTER III
SOME RESULTS
As an indication of the varied interest to be
found in treatment through personal influence
and psychomagnetic methods, I will now de-
scribe in some detail a case which presented
exceptional features. Improvement of vision
is always a dramatic happening, and such
cases as the one I have in mind compel me to
believe that medical men could often give
substantial help in " eye-cases " by methods
other than medicine, local applications, or
operations if they realised more fully the
frequency with which functional disability
aggravates organic disease in ophthalmic
maladies. To go on with my particular
example :
There had been preliminary correspondence
about a patient suffering from some kind of
eye trouble which made it impossible for her
to read or to earn her living, and it had been
42
SOME RESULTS 43
suggested that I might be able to help; having
consented to see this patient, a middle-aged
woman was shown in wearing dark glasses
and being guided by a companion. To all
intents 4nd purposes she was nearly "blind."
The outlook was not promising and the situa-
tion worse than had been hoped for. However,
I agreed to give six or eight treatments on
the understanding that if she obtained no
benefit the case was to be considered definitely
beyond my scope; there appeared to be an
organic condition present which might well
be expected to prevent a successful result.
However, I asked the patient to rest quietly
on a couch, to close her eyes, to be as restful
as possible, and told her that the object of my
treatment was to bring about such a readjust-
ment of " nervous " reactions that her sight
might be given back to her; but that she was
to keep an open mind, not to be too anxious
about recovery if she could possibly help it,
and, above all things, not to allow herself to
be crushed by disappointment if, after all, she
remained blind. After three treatments she
came in able to walk without assistance; at
the end of a week she was able to go about
44 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
the streets alone. And she soon returned to
her work perfectly satisfied, and wonderfully
grateful for what I had been able to accomplish.
The most interesting point about the whole
thing was that there was an organic and
apparently progressive retinal disease present;
I could define it myself with the ophthalmo-
scope, and even whilst the patient was under-
going treatment this diagnosis was confirmed
by an ophthalmic surgeon of distinction, who
assured me of the utter hopelessness of the
outlook and the futility of my proceedings, as
the patient was suffering from retinitis pig-
mentosa. Probably the explanation of this
"cure " is that a functional amblyopia super-
vened in the course of the trouble and rendered
this patient blind long before the progressive
organic lesion would have done so.
Chronic Diseases
Persistent headache, neuralgia, and insomnia
constitute a familiar group of maladies which
frequently resist routine medical methods,
and yet yield many successes to personal
treatment. I refer, of course, mainly to cases
in which there is no evident organic condition,
SOME RESULTS
or, at any rate, no definite organic condition
that can be readily relieved by operation or
absorbed by medication. But I would not
limit the use of psychotherapy and psycho-
magnetic methods to functional cases only
because the relief that can be given by such
can be invaluable even in cases of progressive
organic disease. I think that it is in this
group that the public is often deprived of a
ready means of help owing to our very strict
attitude about the difference between func-
tional and organic disorders in response to
treatment. We medical men are so jealous
of professional honour that we deprive patients
of help they might possibly obtain because
we fear to be put into the position of promising
too much; we quite rightly hesitate from
competing with those unscrupulous individuals
who recklessly suggest that they can cure
where, according to experience, disease will
be progressive. Nevertheless, I think that
our attitude should much more often be one
of a cheerful optimism which permits the
patient to try new methods hopefully, instead
of emphasising the "hopelessness "in very
difficult cases.
45
46 AN A B C OF PSYHOTHERAPY
I feel that one is quite justified in saying,
for example, "In psychotherapy (or similar
methods) we have a treatment that will give
you relief; by all means try it. Leave the
question of absolute cure and be content with
what is being done for you." If we do not
adopt this hopeful attitude patients will quite
likely go and obtain a similar kind of help
from those who are not best fitted to give it,
and whose training is amateur compared with
that of properly qualified psychotherapists.
I recall with regret that in the early days of
practice I refused to treat many patients to
whom I now know that I could have given
relief, and this because of a mistaken idea of
professional rectitude. To-day I feel that
whenever one is asked to help one should do
one's best to relieve, whilst not being led to
make rash promises. "To do one's best and
leave the rest " must be the attitude of the
wise physician who is asked to help by psycho-
therapeutic or psychofiagnetic methods in
cases of serious and progressive illness.
One of the most strikitig illustrations I ever
had of the cdtrectness of this attitude is td
be found in the relief that I was able to give
SOME RESULTS 47
to an old doctor whose last weeks were rendered
miserable by a malignant deposit somewhere
in the neighbourhood of the spinal nerve roots.
The treatment that I was glad to give
undoubtedly afforded such relief that the
general condition was more bearable, and it
was found that much smaller doses of sedative
drugs thereafter kept the pain within bounds.
A memorable feature of the first treatment
was that not only was the patient a medical
man, but three of his doctor sons were present
in the room, and I asked them all to maintain
a particular attitude of mind whilst I carried
out my technique. There were thus five
doctors taking part in the process of mental
healing on this special occasion. There was
a wonderful atmosphere of confidence, sym-
pathy, and desire to help. At the end of the
treatment one of the medical men present
said, " It is an extraordinary thing, but there
seems to be something spiritual about a treat-
ment of this kind."
There are a host of chronic maladies which
can be relieved by proper psychomagnetic
methods, and there are countless thousands
of patients whose conditions resist routind
48 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
medicines and operations; it is surely time
that some non-systematic effort should be
made to bring this help to them.
Indigestion and the Chronic Abdomen
Disorders of digestion and bowel action
bring many sufferers to the consulting-room,
and where the condition present is not that
of actual ulceration, acute obstruction, calculus,
or cancer, psychomagnetic methods are most
likely to give permanent relief. I do not say
that recovery cannot be aided by a variety of
aperient remedies, but I do say that the want
of elasticity and proper nerve control, which is
so characteristic a feature of all diseases of
the digestive tract, can be better combated by
psychotherapy than by any other process,
and I say this after many years experience of
the various remedies in popular use, including
drugs, vaccines, and so forth. Perhaps this
does not sufficiently describe what I feel about
appendicitis. So I will say at once where an
appendix has become inflamed and definite
attacks of appendicitis are occurring I hold
that there should be no hesitation about having
SOME RESULTS
the diseased organ removed by operation,
But with regard to the many cases labelled
" chronic appendicitis" I have been able to
relieve so many by psychomagnetic methods,
whereas after operation painful symptoms
have so frequently returned, that now I am
in favour of giving the former a fair trial.
The problem of the chronic abdomen is one
of the most difficult for the practitioner to
tackle, but I note with interest that many
surgeons who some years ago advocated
various operations for "slinging up" the
colon, " shortening the peritoneal ligaments,"
" removing a chronic appendix," and so forth
are now much more inclined to say the patient
requires rest, and his problem is largely a
"nerve " or " psychological " one.
Alcoholism
To turn now to an entirely different class of
case, I will give some illustrations of the treat-
ment of alcoholism.
A patient was sent to me because he was
subject to terrible bouts of drinking; these
attacks lasted from ten to fifteen days, at the
DT
49
50 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
end of which he was a wreck and during the
course of which he was a terror to his wife and
a nuisance to his friends.
I worked hard with him and failed to cure
him. This was disappointing. But, on ques-
tioning him closely, I found that his attitude
towards me was this: he came to me because
his friends and relatives wished him to--he
did not consider that I had any right to try
and influence his drinking--he considered
that he had a perfect right to drink when and
what he liked, and he thought that the medical
part of the affair really consisted in his being,
as he called it, put right after the attack was
over. In other words, he submitted to the
treatment to save more fuss with his relatives,
but with a mental reservation not to attempt
to derive any benefit from it and certainly not
attuning his mind to the idea of self-control.
I have had other cases like that.
On the other hand, I call to mind the case
of a young man,: successful in his profession,
who was addicted to alcohol, with appalling
results when the taste seized him. I treated
him, and almost from the very first day he
stopped drinking; according to later reports
SOME RESULTS
received from his doctor, he remained well
over an indefinite period.
One case reminds one of another, and I now
remember being asked to treat an elderly lady
of means who was just coming out of an attack
of delirium tremens, and not the first one at
that. When she was well enough she came
down to see me, and never touched another
drop of drink after the first interview. Men
and women of all walks of life have consulted
me about alcoholic habits, and I have often
put them straight and frequently enabled
them to keep their addiction well in hand,
even if they cannot quite overcome it.
Hallucinations of Hearing
To take another class of case, the reaction
to treatment of which has always interested
me greatly; that distressing form of mental
disorder in which patients "hear voices."
These voices are always irritating, sometimes
insulting, and often menacing. They torment
the patient as he is dropping off to sleep and
when he awakes in the morning ; they appear
to come from all parts of the neighbourhood,
from above and from below, and in his distress
51
52 AN A B C ON PSYCHOTHERAPY
the sufferer frequently thinks they originate
from malicious persons who hide outside doors
and windows. I have frequently heard it
asserted that one of the things that psycho-
therapy cannot do is to check this kind of
hallucination, but, as a matter of fact, I have
often found that treatment by personal
influence and the right kind of " suggestion "
will not only bring these voices within bounds,
but get rid of them altogether. A very early
case in my experience was that of a young man
who was much tormented by voices and who
within six treatments became free from them.
It is quite true that I have always found these
highly successful results to occur where the
voices have not been troubling the patient
for very long, but that, of course, is an added
argument for the systematic use of psycho-
therapeutic treatment in the early stages of
mental disorder.
In several cases my difficulty has been that,
although I have succeeded in quieting the
voices, patients have refused to believe that
they should take care of their mental health
or in any way alter their routine mode of life.
Indeed, often enough they have been unable
SOME RESULTS
to do so. Consequently, as soon as stress and
strain have once more worn down resistance,
"voices " have again given trouble, And
even then I have found that occasional treat-
ments have sufficed to enable mental balance
to be maintained in spite of voices.
Similarly with delusions of persecution,
whether accompanied by voices or not, I have
found that in early stages it is often possible
to give considerable relief. But my impres-
sion is that the true delusion of persecution
is not anything like as easy to handle as the
" voices " problem. Unfortunately, most
people who definitely suffer from a delusion
of persecution are not inclined to think that
they are mentally ill, and consequently they
are disinclined to treat the question as a matter
for treatment. Their inclination is for advice
from the psychological point of view, whilst
accepting treatment more as a tribute to one's
own wishes in the matter than as an expression
of their sincere feeling.
Obsessions
There are few nervous conditions which
cause so much distress to their victims as
53
54 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
obsessions. It is particularly aggravating for
individuals to find that their lives are governed
by such an obsession as, for example, that of
being in a closed space. No medicine has ever
been found to relieve these conditions, although
some sedative and nerve tonic preparations
may assist the sufferer to cope with them-
nevertheless, in psychotherapy there is a means
of relief which is remarkably successful where
sympathetic co-operation is secured between
physician and patient.
Claustrophobia-fear of being in a closed
space-torments many persons, and until it
is cured there is a definite lessening of energy,
capacity, and fitness for work. Success in
life has often been built up or frustrated by
these obsessions. My own experience has
been that, whilst " suggestion " will help some
cases, by far the majority are more quickly
relieved by a definite psychomagnetic method.
Curious Habits
Allied to obsessions are a variety of curious
habits, the only cure for which is some form of
constructive treatment that frees them from
what is practically automatic subconscious
SOME RESULTS
control in regard to that particular matter.
Many of the obsessing habits that occur are
not of sufficient importance to warrant the
expenditure of time and energy in getting rid
of them, but sometimes they are very trouble-
some. I remember some years ago seeing a
man who had grown into the habit of making
little spits from side to side both as he walked
about and as he sat in a room ; it is true that
the spitting did not amount to much, although
I think it was sufficient to have brought him
within the scope of these notices we sometimes
see in public places about spitting being
prohibited and subject to a fine of forty shill-
ings. At any rate, it was an objectionable
habit and very distressing to his family. I
proposed to cure him by psychotherapy, but,
strangely enough, he refused help and went off
to live by himself away from his relations.
Such a condition is quite out of the reach of
medicines and can only be relieved by personal
treatment. One of the most extraordinary
habits that I ever came across afflicted a school-
boy; he was about ten years of age, and
persisted in plucking out hairs from his head
from a particular area, with the result that he
55
56 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
had completely denuded a spot of about the
size of a five-shilling piece, the bald patch thus
resulting being very conspicuous. It looked
just like one of those bald patches one so
commonly sees occurring in cases of alopoecia
areata. Fortunately I was able to effect a
cure within a few treatments.
Paralysis and Loss of Power
Again another type. A man limps into
the room on crutches. He is, for all practical
purposes, paralysed below the waist; his legs
dangle stiffly and there is no useful movement
in them. The story is one that was only too
familiar some years ago. I ask him to sit in
an easy chair with his head thrown back and
to close his eyes. I place my right hand on
his head and say firmly and in a loud voice:
"I know exactly what is the matter with you
-trust me and I will give you back the
strength in your limbs-rest quietly, simply
be confident, and even in a few moments I
will have you walking. Your paralysis is
not permanent, it is temporary and caused
by the shock of explosion. Be comfortable,
trust me, power is already coming back. Now,
SOME RESULTS
quick, when I say one, two, three, hold on to
me and walk." And he does so. But, of
course, this kind of happening was familiar
to many medical officers during the Great War ;
the relief of functional conditions of this kind
was easy enough where the condition had not
become too fixed by emotional stress or
duration. Were the illnesses of everyday
civilian life so lightly fastened on their victims,
treatment would be a simpler matter than it is.
Loss of power, varying from weakness to
complete paralysis, brings many patients
whose readiest means of relief are through
mind and the finer forces and not through
medicines. Apart from any question of directly
applied psychotherapy, the cure of hoarseness
and loss of voice-aphonia-has been wrought
time and again by simple methods in which,
after the application of an instrument to the
throat, the patient has been persuaded to speak;
even the placing of a clinical thermometer
in the mouth has been known to be followed
with return of voice in patients who had no
idea of the significance of that useful instru-
ment, but who consciously or sub-consciously
attributed to it voice-restoring powers i
57
58 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
During the war loss of voice-functional
aphonia-was a very common thing one had
to treat, both amongst shell-shocked com-
batants and civilian patients who had been
shocked by bombs. I remember one unfor-
tunate woman in a frequently air-raided
district who used to seek out my services to
bring back her voice every time the streets
round about her own house had been severely
bombed ; at first I had to see her several times
before the reluctant speech returned. Sub-
sequently I used to restore her power almost
immediately. I think the reason it is so easy
to restore the power of speech in this kind of
nervous aphonia is that the patient is so greatly
helped by a natural tendency to imitate the
voice of the person treating; therefore, if with
sympathy and tact the suggestion is conveyed
to imitate the sounds one is making, whether
whispered or spoken, cure is greatly facilitated.
When it is a question of restoring power to
paralysed limbs, even in the absence of an
organic lesion there may be great difficulty,
however experienced the physician; and the
response to treatment as a rule decreases with
the length of time that the paralysis has lasted.
SOME RESULTS 59
The longer the disability goes on the more
set does the system become to any reaction to
it, and the more difficult it is not only to loosen
the patient's ideas about the hopelessness of
the condition, but to stimulate-shall we say
to infuse with more active psychomagnetism
-the sleeping nerve-cells which have been
out of work for so long. In this class of case
sometimes the shortest cut can be found by
treating the cure as a psychological or psycho-
magnetic operation and giving the patient an
anesthetic; ether is the best anaesthetic for
this purpose; and after unconsciousness has
been obtained the patient should be allowed
to " come round," and before being quite
awake should be given a strong suggestion
about moving the paralysed limb, whilst if
possible the limb itself should be put in some
position that enables the half-awake patient
to realise its possibilities of moving into new
positions.
I demonstrated the success of this method
very strikingly in the case of a young girl who,
following an injury to her hand at games,
lost the use of the fingers of the right hand in
such a way that that hand became useless for
60 'AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
ordinary purposes of writing, using a knife and
fork, and so forth. After going into the case,
I told her parents that I would either effect a
practically instantaneous cure or should pro-
bably not be able to relieve the condition.
Then, having called in an anesthetist and
explained what I wanted, I took hold of the
patient's hand while she was coming round
from the anaesthetic and, folding her loosened
fingers round the neck of a large and heavy
water-bottle, gave her a strong suggestion to
hold on and not to drop it. Automatically
her fingers grasped more strongly the heavy
carafe, so that a few moments after, when she
opened her eyes and came to herself, she found
herself holding up a heavy bottle full of water,
and holding it with her hitherto paralysed
hand. The cure was complete. The interest
of this was to some extent increased by the
fact that she had previously had treatment
from a variety of other practitioners, including
neurologists, orthopoedic surgeons, a famous
bone-setter, and a well-known Christian Science
healer.
Much on the same lines are those curious
cases of "imitation" joint diseases which
SOME RESULTS
certainly in the past have often puzzled ex-
perienced surgeons. Judging from my own
experience, I do not think that this class of
case occurs quite so frequently as it used to,
or perhaps it is that X-ray examinations enable
surgeons to judge more accurately as to whether
a nervous element is present or not. The
sort of happening I have in mind is well
illustrated by a patient I saw in the early
days of my practice. A young woman had
been sent up to London from the country for
the express purpose of having a leg amputated
at the knee-joint. She had to stay with
friends for some days before going into hospital
as arranged, and in this interval someone who
knew of my work persuaded them to bring
the girl to me. On examining her I was quite
at a loss as to whether disease was present or
not, but I decided that the gravity of the situa-
tion was such that it was my duty to tell the
surgeon who was going to operate that I
thought she should have a chance of treatment
before irrevocably losing her leg. On enquiry
the surgeon turned out to be the late Maynard
Smith, whom I knew quite well and whose
knowledge, sympathy, and breadth of mind
61
62 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
made it easy for him to consent to my treating
this case as a last resort before he admitted
her into hospital. This was one of the first
cases in which I devised a psychomagnetic, as
distinct from a purely psychological, method
of treatment, and I remember using a small
battery with the object, apparently, of induc-
ing a state of increased suggestibility, and
secondly, with the idea of reflexly stimulating
dormant nerve cells in the spinal cord. Power
came back quite quickly to the hitherto fixed
knee-joint, and after a few treatments the
patient was able to walk without crutches or
other assistance.
Neurasthenia
There are innumerable opportunities of
doing good work with the methods under
review amongst neurasthenic persons. In the
notes of cases given subsequently (see
Chapter IV) many instances of neurasthenia
successfully treated will be found. And it has
been my experience that the physical exhaus-
tion and want of vitality so distressing tQ
neurasthenic patients are usually relieved
more readily by psychomagnetic methods
SOME RESULTS
than even the accompanying sensations and
symptoms. I emphasise this because I have
often heard it stated by inexperienced persons
that psychotherapeutic measures may perhaps
relieve the mental symptoms, but cannot
remedy the physical exhaustion. It is the
fashion to-day to make careful distinction
between neurasthenia, psychasthenia, and
anxiety-neuroses; also between various types
of hysteria. But when it comes to the routine
treatment of numbers of individuals suffering
from these disorders it is found that " mixed "
types are very common, and that treatment
results may be seriously hindered if one tries
to work out the actual clinical type too keenly.
Certainly the psychoneuroses as a class do
present clinical features distinguishing them
from the psychoses as a class, but when it
comes to treatment of the kind 'under notice
the shortest cut to success will be found in
treating the conditions found from the patient's
point of view. The sufferer wants relief, and
very often requires it urgently; I know of no
form of treatment so readily successful in
lessening mental stress and steadying shattered
" nerves " as that through personal influence.
63
64 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
Suggestion, medical hypnosis, psychomagnetic
methods, or other modifications, may be made
to play a suitable part according to special
circumstances; but, as Dejerine has well put
it: " There is . . . some individual element
which makes the success of the psychotherapist
depend on his personality." An endless list
of symptoms, diseases, and disorders suitable
for special treatment might be given, and
striking examples of successes might be quoted
indefinitely ; my intention in this chapter having
been rather to indicate the wide and varied
interests of psychotherapy than to cover the
ground of its suitability in detail. But I have
given a long list of cases in Chapter IV, noting
the most interesting features in each; and
these will further suggest how interesting a
field is open to the medical practitioner who
takes up the more systematic use of personal
influence in treatment.
CHAPTER IV
NOTES OF CASES
IN this chapter I am giving notes of some
cases representative of the conditions fot
which relief is frequently sought by special
treatment; in each instance definite forms of
ill-health were satisfactorily remedied. I have
not followed any particular classification or
system in setting down these notes, but have
taken them at random from my case books,
with the idea of indicating how wide and useful
is the scope of treatment through personal
influence, suggestion, and psychomagnetic
methods.
1. Melancholia: elderly lady suffering from
severe mental depression with organic
heart-disease; terribly distressed; family
doctor called me in for special treatment;
patient found sitting with head bowed
between her hands ; moaning miserably ;
ET 65
66 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
conversational contact impossible; treat-
ment carried out by taking one of patient's
wrists in my right hand and giving
appropriate "suggestions," although
treatment was for the most part a silent
one; no attempt was made to obtain rest
or relaxation or any condition of increased
receptivity; recovery occurred within
eight visits. A very striking result.
2. Claustrophobia: young man whose busi-
ness arrangements and general life were
being seriously upset by persistent fears
about being " shut up" anywhere and
unable "to get out"; rapid improve-
ment and relief followed treatment by a
continuation of my desk method and
psycho-electrical method.
3. Colitis, with spasm: (?) appendicitis or
gallstones ; married woman suffering from
repeated attacks of severe abdommnal
pain with sickness; appendicitis with
or without gallstones had been diagnosed
and operation advised; I treated for
NOTES OF CASES O7
colitis with spasm by a psychomagnetic
method, with immeasurable relief.
4. Hallucinations anddelusions of persecution :
elderly lady greatly distressed by her
condition ; direct treatment gave remark-
ably successful results within six visits.
5. Neurasthenia, with indigestion: also as-
sociated with the menopause; married
woman much debilitated and fearful of
going about alone; digestive symptoms
prominent ; improved most satisfactorily
under psycho-electrical treatment ; a type
of case that is very frequently seen and
readily helped.
6. Headache: recurrent and persistent over
many years in a middle-aged woman;
causing great distress and incapacity;
attacks frequently stopped and pain
relieved by a psycho-electrical method.
7. Supraorbital neuralgia: very acute and
incapacitating in a colonial visitor, who
came to this country to obtain relief if
68 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
possible; quickly relieved by a routine
psycho-electrical method.
8. Conjunctivitis, with acute photophobia and
blepharospasm : characterised by extreme
sensitiveness and irritability with remark-
able injection of conjunctiva; very
successful result quickly obtained by a
psychomagnetic method ; it is noteworthy
that the condition had previously been
treated for some time on the ordinary
lines without improvement.
9. Impotence: complete failure in a newly
married man, both patient and wife were
young; treatment by hypnosis asked for,
but I preferred to use a psycho-electrical
method, and this was successful within
ten treatments.
10. Cerebral tumour :sent for " neurasthenia" ;
symptoms being chiefly mental excite-
ment, distorted vision; no headache;
but my examination revealed paresis of
third cranial nerve, and double optic
neuritis. Treatment by my open method"
NOTES OF CASES
and simple general method carried out,
pending the case being handed over to a
surgeon; results as regards mental symp-
toms were so satisfactory that relatives
failed to understand my insistence on
transferring patient.
11. Noises in the ear : accompanied by "head
sensations "; elderly married woman
rapidly relieved by a psychomagnetic
method.
12. Dysmenorrhoea lecturer about 30 years
of age whose attacks of pain were so severe
that she became violent and maniacal
at times; treated by a simple general
method with immediate success.
13. Obsessions: about religion and duty;
patient had been certified some years
before; condition recurred in definite
" attacks " over a long period ; treated
always with success by either open method
or a psycho-electrical method.
14. Obsessions : about religion, numbers, duty,
and eternity; successfully treated by
open method.
69
70 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
15. Dementia preecox type: young woman
widowed by war; depressed, confused,
unable to feed herself, and dirty in habits;
had been treated by rest, persuasion, and
general routine in various homes; a very
difficult case to make a beginning with,
but persistent treatment (no psycho-
magnetic method brought in) by personal
influence eventually made an impression,
and ultimately complete recovery and
return to useful life and work occurred.
16. Colitis : supposed " chronic appendicitis ";
operation advised; successfully treated
by a psycho-electrical method. (N.B.
these " chronic abdominal " cases can
always be safely undertaken by a physician
practising psychotherapy, because he can
act as required should an acute condition
suddenly occur; but they illustrate the
danger of such cases being undertaken
by medically unqualified practitioners,
or without adequate medical supervision.)
17. Vertigo: successful business man in the
fifties ; incapacitated by attacks of vertigo
NOTES OF CASES
in which the giddiness was accompanied
by a feeling of falling down a hole ; success-
fully treated by a psycho-electrical method.
18. Neurasthenia, with severe mental depres-
sion : widower suffering breakdown follow-
ing loss of his wife; rapid improvement
and complete recovery under treatment
by a psycho-electrical method.
19. Epileptiform attacks: young man; com-
pletely stopped after several treatments
by simple general method in which verbal
suggestion was strongly emphasised.
20. Stammering: relieved satisfactorily by
psycho-electrical treatment.
21. Alcoholism: landowner living some way
from London stopped drinking after first
treatment ; treated twice more at intervals
of several weeks; no relapse.
22. Mental depression, nervousness, want of
self-confidence, and lack of interest in
work or life: patient seriously incapaci-
tated in business by this condition;
71
72 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
successfully treated; a remarkable case
in its reaction, for during one treatment
he suddenly remembered-following a
verbal suggestion given-an incident in
his past life which he had regarded as
disgraceful and much regretted; he had
tried to forget it and for some time had
done so; remembrance of this affair now
caused great distress, but this particular
treatment was followed by immediate
and rapid improvement.
23. Aphonia : girl aged 23 much incapacitated
by attacks of dumbness lasting from a few
hours to a few days ; natural voice restored
after ten minutes' treatment by direct
verbal suggestion in open method.
24. Morbid flushing and sweating: young
medical man who had tried various treat-
ments; immediately improved under
treatment by general method.
25. Neurasthenia, with morbid fears : terrified
of heights or of going in a train; much
NOTES OF CASES
incapacitated by continual pressure head-
ache; rapidly improved under psycho-
electrical treatment.
26. Mental depression: menopausal type
associated with unpleasant head sensa-
tions and insufficient sleep; psycho-
electrical treatment successful.
27. Neurasthenia, with indigestion: army
officer; psycho-electrical method success-
ful.
28. Neurasthenia: mental and physical ex-
haustion chief features; psycho-electrical
method rapidly successful.
29. Neurasthenia, with headache : " Seems
as if the nerve which runs in centre of
scalp has become very sensitive " ; pains
so severe that -impaired attention and
unfitness for work occurred; treatment
successful; P.E. method.
30. Indigestion and colitis : neurasthenic young
man successfully treated by P.E. method.
73
74 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
31. Insomnia and mucous colitis : remarkable
improvement in general health, appetite,
sleep, and powers of endurance after six
treatments by P.E. method.
32. Melancholia associated with a morbid
idea that a mistaken course of life had
been followed; also morbid ideas about
sex matters; patient aged 42, already
passed menopause; supposed suicidal;
improved satisfactorily under treatment
by simple and open method; at the end
of three weeks was sent to stay with a
doctor trained in psychotherapy and
made a complete recovery.
33. Neurasthenia with depression: man aged
76 with arterio-sclerosis; satisfactory im-
provement with P.E. method.
34. Neurasthenia, with indigestion, constipa-
tion, and headache: man aged 55 much
benefited by occasional P.E.T.
35. Nervous indigestion, with attacks of palpita-
tion : much benefited by occasional P.E.T.
NOTES OF CASES
386. Railway-carriage phobia: much helped
by treatment; simple method.
37. Melancholia: severe mental depression
following tragic loss of only son in woman
aged 60; very successful result of treat-
ment by simple method; after the first
visit said: " It is the first time my head
has been light for six weeks."
38. Melancholia: professional man aged 42
who said that he felt he was " an agonised
atom whirling through an utterly in-
comprehensible and torturing universe."
Improved under treatment, and after
ten days said he then felt " like a person
who has crawled out of a morass and is
lying on the brink." Unfortunately he
insisted on considering himself well before
his health had been properly restored,
and he soon broke down again, but not
badly enough to have to return to London
for treatment.
39. Neurasthenia, with indigestion and morbid
fears: recovery after short course of
P.E.T.
75
76 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
40. Insomnia : man aged 56 ; disturbed sleep
for many years; very successful result
with P.E.T.
41. Insomnia: overworked man aged 40;
complete success with P.E.T.
42. Cardiac attacks, with palpitation: elderly
medical man who had been told to give
up his practice and live very quietly;
completely relieved by treatment (P.E.
method) and returned to busy practice,
which he carried on for many years.
43. Persistent headache: clergyman aged 59
greatly relieved by treatment.
44. Psychasthenia: man aged 28 "full of
fears, worrying over social things";
nervous, self-conscious, and with slight
stammer; said: " At times I have fits
of a sort of despairing feeling that I am
no use"; treatment successful, simple
method.
45. Neurasthenia with depression: woman,
aged 44; also neuralgic pains in the back
NOTES OF CASES
and obsessed by her affection for another
woman; treatment (P.E.) successful.
46. Alcoholism: married woman aged 43;
very successful result after treatment.
47. Neurasthenia : Indian Civil servant suffer-
ing from a typical breakdown after long
years of hard work in a bad climate;
exhausted and much troubled with morbid
thoughts ; very distressed and ill ; rapidly
improved under P.E.T. An interesting
feature of this case was that the patient
was travelling in some remote part of
India on his way home, and, stopping
the night at a wayside bungalow there,
met a stranger who told him to try and
find me as soon as he got to London; it
never transpired who this stranger was,
and all the patient had to go on was my
name and London.
48. Stammering : Army officer about 25 years
old much troubled by speech difficulty;
rapid and very successful results followed
treatment.
77
78 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
49. Neurasthenia: medical student of colour
exhausted and sleeping badly; rapidly
improved.
50. Paroxysmal headache: young married
woman; P.E. method rapidly successful.
51. Obsessions: married woman aged about
6o ; greatly distressed by obsessions about
drink; social activities much hampered
by condition; treatment by open and
desk method most successful.
52. Morbid fears: patient aged 24 much
distressed by recurrent fears about her
heart and possibility of impending vital
attack; open treatment most successful.
53. Insomnia : invalids' nurse aged 57 ;
difficulty in getting to sleep; no worries;
digestion good; P.E. method very suc-
cessful.
54. Morbid fears, with insomnia: patient
very distressed and on verge of complete
NOTES OF CASES
breakdown ; terrified lest " sub-conscious-
ness " should gain control of him; treat-
ment most successful within a month.
55. Nervous indigestion : with want of self-con-
fidence and general nervousness extremely
troublesome to a young public man.
Digestion and confidence restored by
treatment.
56. Mental and physical exhaustion : associated
with disturbed sleep in over-worked artist ;
speedy restoration of strength urgently
required to enable a contract to be com-
pleted; intensive treatment by P.M.T.
method, supported by ultra-violet spinal
radiation and injections, was rapidly
successful.
57. Mental depression : threatening loss of
employment in elderly official; treatment
thoroughly successful.
58. Mental depression : with extreme nervous-
ness and disturbed sleep in elderly widower
79
80 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
following loss of a near relative; treatment
entirely successful.
59. Supposed " stroke " : rather obscure symp-
toms diagnosed by a local doctor as due
to cerebral haemorrhage; attack with
dypsnoea, cyanosis, and semi-coma; sub-
sequently patient suffered from weakness,
depression, and headache; treatment
restored health and no further attack
occurred.
60. Neurasthenia : recurrent mental and
physical exhaustion mostly complained
of and very incapacitating to man of
50; derived great benefit from a P.M.T.
method.
61. Spastic gait: with tremor of hands and
extreme nervousness; early disseminated
sclerosis had been suggested; treatment
(P.E. method) was quite successful, and
there was no recurrence of the major
symptoms.
62. Alcoholism: man aged 43; repeated
severe bouts; made a habit of coming
NOTES OF CASES
up to London as soon as attack started,
when two or three treatments at once
stopped it.
68. Nervous dyspepsia: also much depressed;
said that my P.E. method relieved him
more than anything he had tried
previously.
64. Mental depression and exhaustion : married
woman; quite incapacitated; treatment
very successful; wrote, " It's a glad,
happy, grateful woman [writes]. . . . As
the weeks go by I find my health and
strength and vitality coming back."
65. Neurasthenia : head symptoms prominent ;
very stout middle-aged man much worried
about his health; confidence and nerve-
tone completely restored by treatment.
66. Mental depression, with insomnia: aged
60 years; much benefited by open method.
67. Deafness: psychotherapeutic treatment
specifically asked for ; patient very pleased
with improvement effected.'
FT
81
82 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
68. Morbid fears: obsessed by acute fears
about health; almost distracted at times;
completely relieved by treatment; P.E.
and open methods.
69. Dysphagia : following a throat operation;
relieved by general and desk methods.
70. Tropical neurasthenia :with mental depres-
sion and complete loss of interest, with
exhaustion, in clergyman; followed many
years' hard work in a hot country; treat-
ment, aided by rest, quite successful.
71. Delusions of persecution : after severe
mental breakdown and stay in an asylum,
patient over-worked and again developed
delusions; treatment stopped the attack
and patient recovered.
72. Astasia-abasia :married woman ; hysteria;
complete recovery; subsequently had
minor recurrences; but no further bad
breakdown.
78. Abdominal pain; " appendicitis attacks" :
married woman; treatment successful;
NOTES OF CASES
attacks and pain completely ceased; a
psychomagnetic method used.
74. Dementia preecox, type: with stuporose
state, irritability, and delusions in young
married woman; very difficult case;
treatment protracted ; recovery complete.
75. Headache and depression : elderly business
man; the "blue blues" (see also 95);
treatment successful.
76. Loss of memory attacks associated with
wandering and mental distress; complete
recovery.
77. Obsessions: about conscience and duty,
with fears of possible moral slackness in
thought ; Church dignitary ; open method
gave complete and permanent relief.
78. Heart: paroxysmal palpitation; highly
strung clergyman; very satisfactory im-
provement after four treatments only.
79. Mental depression : associated with
" nerves " and neuralgia; " I see nega-
tives all the time "; noted as " another
83
84 AN A B C OF -PSYCHOTHERAPY
remarkably successful result of treat-
ment "; open method.
80. Recurrent mental depression : business
man in early forties much helped by
treatment in several attacks; finally
recovered without further relapse.
81. Paresthesia : persistent sensation of
" pins and needles" in hands; treat-
ment, assisted by general tonic remedies,
entirely successful.
82. Mental depression : type of neurasthenic
condition often seen in elderly men;
clergyman aged 76; greatly helped by
treatment (P.E. method).
83. Mental depression: associated with
obesity and anhedonia in young married
woman; treatment successful.
84. Mental excitement=: neurasthenic man
of no occupation; very self-centred;
attacks of mental excitement and panic;
causing much trouble to family doctor;
treatment at once successful.
NOTES OF CASES
85. Colitis : abdominal pain ; associated with
"nerves " and gall-bladder trouble ; pain
much relieved and general strength
restored by treatment; but patient
subsequently relapsed and turned to
surgery without success.
86. Obsessions : banker; often incapacitated
from routine work owing to obsessions
about duty, scrupulousness, and char-
acter; panics about disease, infection,
and possibly injury to other persons.
Complete recovery. Desk method.
87. Stammering : young business man, very
obstinate stammer; previously treat-
ment on physical lines only.; P.T.
methods rapidly successful without
relapse.
88. Exhaustion: associated with over-work
in business woman; nervous symptoms
not prominent; greatly assisted by P.E.
treatment.
89. Nervous dyspepsia: associated with de-
pression and sense of unfitness in business
85
86 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
man aged 52; rather over-worked;
treatment, supported by spinal ultra-
violet ray radiation, very successful.
90. Morbid fears: young married woman
much incapacitated by persistent fears
about health and " things about to
happen " ; developing into panic attacks
at times; much helped by treatment.
91. Facial twitching : troublesome facial
spasms in a highly strung boy; treat-
ment successful.
92. Speech impediment : associated with want
of self-confidence and characterised by
spasmodic catching of the breath in
public man; very greatly relieved at
times, but probably not completely
cured.
93. Sciatica: elderly woman who had tried
various treatments without success;
relieved with unexpected readiness by
treatment, P.E. method; no local
applications.
NOTES OF CASES
94. Facial spasm : associated with attacks
of laryngeal stridor; elderly woman of
nervous temperament; supposed to be
due to a central lesion; rapidly and
readily relieved by treatment.
95. Melancholia: elderly unmarried woman
suffering from what I call " the true
blues "; that type of mental misery
associated with not only a blue outlook,
but with blueness of face and hands. It
will be remembered that the late Sir
James Goodhart used to emphasise the
blueness in this type of patient, suggest-
ing that the mental depression might be
due to a stasis of cerebral circulation
corresponding to the stasis in the ex-
tremities ; treatment was most successful
in relieving two severe attacks.
96. Melancholia: young woman much over-
worked in busiqess; suicidal and made
one serious attempt; did not respond
to treatment at first, but eventually a
combination of methods brought about
a mental change and complete recovery.
87
88 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
97. Neurasthenia : associated with exhaus-
tion, depression, and insomnia ; woman
aged 35; completely relieved by treat-
ment associated with rest.
98. Mental depression: patient dull, heavy,
and anhedonic; result of treatment
most satisfactory.
99. Stammering : member of colonial legisla-
ture; after treatment was able to make
the first successful speech in his 15
years' career as a politician.
100. Vertigo: middle-aged business man in-
capacitated by attacks of giddiness which
made it dangerous for him to cross the
street ; his doctor considered it a suitable
case for treatment by P.E. method, and
this was entirely successful.
101. Melancholia: elderly professional man;
said to be second attack of " true blues " ;
walked up and down saying, "I feel
perfectly dreadful" ; recovery slow, but
eventually complete.
NOTES OF CASES
102. Delusions: certified patient: delusions
about health and impending death;
unable to care for himself because he
believed it was not worth while eating
or dressing or doing anything else owing
to his being about to die; recovery
complete; simple method; subsequently
his wife wrote: "Words quite fail me
to express how very grateful I shall always
feel to you for all you have done for my
husband."
103. Neurasthenia : elderly professional man ;
persistent depression, exhaustion and
anhedonia; treatment by P.E. method
entirely successful.
104. Neurasthenia: patient in 75th year;
successful business man much depressed
with headaches and neuralgic pains in the
back and shoulders; treatment, assisted
by ultra-violet spinal radiation, thoroughly
successful.
105. Nervous dyspepsia : post-menopausal case
completely relieved by psychomagnetic
method.
89
90 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
106. Psychasthenia : young business man;
mentally fatigued; "Thoughts won't keep
still "; lacks confidence and keenness;
much improved under treatment and sent
away for convalescence.
107. Parsesthesia: tongue sensations; busi-
ness woman much disturbed by unpleasant
tingling sensation in anterior part of
tongue; no general neurasthenic or
hysterical symptoms; treatment very
successful.
108. Neurasthenia : chief features, exhaustion,
anxiety, and disturbed digestion; treat-
ment successful.
109. Melancholia: young woman of good
position who suddenly became depressed,
and, on being sent to stay at a cottage in
the country, one evening walked out into
the middle of a pond, which, however,
was very shallow ; the shock of immersion
and surprise that the water did not cover
her seemed to have brought her to reason
and she came out again. The family
NOTES OF CASES
doctor sent her to me for treatment, and
an entirely successful result followed;
so much so that she was able to marry
and live happily without, so far as I
know, any recurrence of the depression.
110. Melancholia : with delusions and mental
confusion; retired business man of middle
age; responded well to treatment; re-
acted sufficiently quickly to enable certi-
fication to be avoided; a difficult case
with an exceptionally satisfactory result.
111. Stammering bladder: elderly medical
man with persistent tonic spasm of vesical
sphincter; entirely dependent on catheter;
much relieved by suggestion, with ether
anaesthesia.
112. Impotence : patient young; proper func-
tion restored by notably short course of
treatment.
113. Enuresis nocturna : many cases in both
boys and girls; cure often dramatic in
its rapidity; unfortunately failures occur
91
92 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
in what appear to be simple cases ; psycho-
therapy always worth trying in obstinate
cases.
114. Enuresis nocturna: youth aged 17;
seriously threatening his future; treat-
ment with medical hypnosis failed ; but
treatment by simple general method,
without sleep, succeeded brilliantly.
CHAPTER V
CONCLUDING NOTE ON THEORY
IN conclusion I must point out that in
endeavouring to write a useful A B C of treat-
ment I have purposely avoided theory and
confined myself to practical details. It is clear
that we know very little about what actually
happens in treatment, and I ask fellow-workers
to keep open minds about the possibilities.
The outstanding fact is that, as a result of
successful treatment by the methods under
review, patients are steadied in nerve, quieted
in mind, and benefited physically to the extent
of digesting their food better, putting on
weight, and becoming of more healthy
appearance. Undoubtedly something happens
psychophysically, as the result of treatment,
by which not only are psychological twists
straightened out, but neurones are assisted
in their work, relieved of pressure, and
93
94 AN A B C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
physically strengthened. All very important
results.
But modern views of psychotherapy have
so far reduced its effects to matters of " sug-
gestibility," " ideas," " complexes," " repres-
sions," and so forth, that the important pos-
sibility of there being something dynamic at
work in certain forms of personal treatment
has been lost sight of. I feel very strongly
that we may reasonably conclude that there
is another factor at work in successful treat-
ment. My own feeling is that in all " con-
tacts" such as occur in the exercise of personal
influence there is an X-factor at work ; further,
that this unknown quantity functions on the
physical (electromagnetic) planes of our being
rather than as a purely psychological activity
such as " suggestion." Personally I find it
helpful as a working hypothesis to think of
" what happens in personal contact " in terms
of some medium for the action of our mind-
power effects such as will and suggestion; I
think of some such medium as modified or
influenced by our neurones in a way similar
to that in which the magnetism of physics
is modified by batteries, armatures, and so
CONCLUDING NOTE ON THEORY 95
forth to the end that electromagnetic effects
are produced in material experience. And
I suggest the term "psychomagnetism" to
indicate this "hypothetical energy of per-
sonality." Further, as regards the psycho-
physical methods of treatment I have described,
I am inclined to think that where there is
" will " to that end some kind of link is set up
between operator and patient. This is what
I feel as the result of practical experience and
after watching results in countless treatments.
It seems to be that on some such working
hypothesis of psychomagnetism we can explain
how it is that electromagnetic radiations,
working through the neurones of a patient,
can so alter conditions that a bridge or link
is set up between patient and psychotherapist,
greatly facilitating successful treatment. I
put forward these suggestions more with the
idea of stimulating thought than to ask for
their acceptance, in view of the fact that I am
unable to produce scientific tests or measure-
ments. It is, of course, open to the more
conservative schools of suggestion and medical
hypnosis to say that I am wrong in my beliefs,
and that my results are simply due to ingenious
96 AN AB C OF PSYCHOTHERAPY
ways of increasing suggestibility. They might
be right; I do not think they would be.
My position is that I know I can obtain
definite results by a variety of modes; many
of these results, even some of the most surpris-
ing, can certainly be explained on the basis
of the familiar theories of suggestion and sub-
conscious mind, with and without hypnosis.
But, on the other hand, it has come to me very
strongly, entirely as a matter of practical
experience--of now over twenty-five years'
duration-that in many of my results there
are factors at work which cannot be thus
explained. I am also of opinion that many
of the results obtained by mind-healers and
psychotherapists elsewhere call for further
explanation, which may be found in my idea
of psychomagnetism. On this question of
hypothesis I am open to correction from any
reasonable quarter. Finally, I ask readers
pondering on theory to consider the happenings
in treatment by personal influence or mind
reaction in relation not only to the electro-
magnetic constitution of matter, but to the
spiritual nature of Man,
A Ii
;~~,,,A AA~ cg
9- Aa A.
I ~
~ : Ai
9k'E
'9 A
A "A' 9
.Xri 4
9" :
~
9A~~r~~
IAAA
4
AA AF
AI d A;Il
i~
A.ii..p' ":~i; H
~pi
A:
l '9 Ft ~: a~~
A 7
