{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__anonymous___a_crust_for_the_phrenologists.pdf","mytitle":"A Crust For The Phrenologists","mylang":"de"}
CRUST
FOR TUB
PHEENOLOGISTS;
BEING
A VIDIMUS OF LECTURES ON PHRENOLOGY,
Purposed shortly to he offered to the Public,
IX WHICH THE DELUSIVE AND UNFOUNDED CHARACTER OF THAT
PRETENDED AND VAUNTED SCIENCE, IN BOTH ITS DEPABT-
MHNTS, PHYSICAL AND METAPHYSICAL, WILL EE DBMOir-
STBATXD.
Then comes my fit again ; I had else been perfect
Whole as the marble, founded as the rock ;
As broad and general as the casing air ;
But now I am cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in
To Baucy doubts and fears.
GLASGOW:
WILLIAM HAMILTON, 139, RENFIELD STREET;
X. BOWACK, 46, LEITH STREET, EDINBURGH; AND
A. HEYWOOD, MANCHESTER.
MDCCCXLII.
Notice The Lectures, of which the matter con-
tained in the following pages is given as a vidimus of
the line of argument to be pursued in them, are in
tended to be delivered in Glasgow a few weeks hence,
and in some of the principal towns of Scotland and,
England during the course of the ensuing winter.
Glasgow, Nov. 1st, 1842.
A CRUST FOR THE
PHRENOLOGISTS, &c.
An individual, author of several Avorks on Political
and Moral Science, has at present, in a state of ad-
vanced preparation, a Course of Lectures on Phre-
nology, which he purposes to offer to the public, in
which he will show the delusive character, and utter
groundlessness, of that pretended and vaunted Science,
in both its departments, Physical and Metaphysical.
In these discourses the Lecturer will give a critical
review of the doctrines, as they are laid down in the
standard institutionary books of Phrenology ; and will
show, from the principles of the science, thence de-
v
rived, and from the nature of the pretended facts
whence its deductions are wholly drawn, that no con-
clusions resting upon such premises can be true (ex-
cept by chance) or trustworthy, in any instance.
It will be shown that both classes of their so-called
facts*—namely, first, the pretended discovery of the
existence and relative sizes of the thirty-five organs
of Phrenology ; and second, the ascertainment of the
measure or degree in which the faculties are possessed
y different individuals above others, exclusive of the
ejects of the education and circumstances peculiar to
ea)h, are both of them impossible. It' will be shown
* VIr Combe says— Syst. Pren. p. 791—That " Phrenology is
the insertion of certain physical facts," meaning the existence
of th Phrenological organs.
i
that every proposition affirming the existence and site
of an organ—and every one affirming the measure or
degree in which an individual possesses any faculty
above others, exclusive of the effects of the education
he has received, and of the peculiar circumstances in
which he has been placed—so far from being entitled
to the name of facts, are conclusions, or inferences,
drawn from innumerable, perplexed, and arbitrary
considerations, and from estimates of innumerable
items of evidence, each one of which is of the most
uncertain and undeterminable description.
Mr. Combe lays it formally down, that "For the
purpose of comparing mental faculties with cerebral
development, it is necessary to show, 1st, that the
mental qualities of individuals can be discovered"f
And his conclusion on this head is, that "It is possi-
ble, by accurate, patient, and continued observation
of actions, to discover the true dispositions and capa-
cities which individuals possess.''^
Now this is a gross misrepresentation of what it is
necessary to show "for the purpose of comparing
mental faculties with cerebral development," for the
ends of Phrenology—because, for this purpose it is
not merely necessary to show that the mental faculties,
and dispositions, and capacities, actually possessed by
individuals, can be discovered ; it is necessary to show
that the measure or degree in which individuals pos-
sess those mental faculties, dispositions, and capacities,
above others, exclusive of the effects of the particular
education which has been given them, and of the
peculiar circumstances in whieh they have been placed,
can be discovered : For it is the residue of the force
of the manifestations of the faculties in any individual
tfter due allowance has been made for the effects f
f System of Phrenology, fourth edition, p.
\ Idem, p.
5
education and circumstances, which must balance the
organic force of his cerebral development, or the
power of the Phrenological organs. In every instance
of comparison of the power of a Phrenological organ,
with the force of the manifestations of its supposed
faculty, in any individual, the experimenter in Phren-
ology is required to make allowance for the effects of
education and circumstances. "He must not," says
the first lecture, " take the faculty simply as it exists
in the individual, modified as it is.—exalted or depress-
ed—excited or deadened—by education and circum-
stances. On the contrary, he is required to make
allowance for all these circumstances—for all the
circumstances of his life and education. He is re-
quired, in considering the force and energy of the
faculty, as exhibited in the individual's conduct and
actions, to deduct the proper modicum for the exciting
circumstances, and to add, in the same due measure,
for the circumstances of an opposite tendency to which
he has been exposed by his education and the other
accidents of his life ; and to extract, disentangle, and
draw out the natural and original force of the faculty,
pure and unalloyed, from all these factitious and super-
added influences."
To discover this original or organic force of the facul-
ty is quite a different thing—is a totally different under-
taking, and species of inquiry—from that of discovering
" the mental faculties" and " capacities" which indivi-
duals possess, as they are exhibited in their conduct
and actions. To discover the faculties which indivi-
duals possess, to a certain extent, from their conduct
and actions, cannot be at all difficult ; since it is laid
down and acknowledged that every individual, "not
.an idiot," possesses the whole of them. If a man
hums a tune, we immediately discover that he possesses
that faculty ; if he understands the rule of three, the
same thing happens; we discover that he possesses the
G
faculty of number ; and in this manner we may disco-
ver the faculties of Benevolence, Fhiloprogenitiveness,
and the rest. But to discover the different degrees in
which individuals possess these dispositions and capa-
cities: the different degrees in which they are bene-
volent, for example, or in which they love their children
more than other individuals love theirs, is somewhat
harder, frequently baffling the close observation of
years to accomplish it. "In modern times," says Mr.
Macnish, "life is all a disguise. Almost every man
walks in masquerade, and his most intimate friend
very often does not know his real character. Many
wear smiles constantly upon their cheeks, whose hearts
are unprincipled and treacherous. Many with violent
tempers have all the external calm and softness of
charity itself. Some speak always with sympathy,
who, at soul, are full of gall and bitterness."!
Nevertheless, it would be presumptuous altogether
to deny the very cautiously enunciated proposition of
Mr. Combe, that " It is possible, by accurate, patient,
and continued observation of actions, to discover
the true dispositions and capacities which individuals
possess •"% because it is probably true in many instances,
and the proposition is not a universal one : he does
not say "which every individual possesses." But sup-
+ Anatomy of Drunkenness, fifth edition, p. 50.
+ Here, 1 would ask, how many of the disciples of Phreno-
logy have time for this "accurate, patient, and continued ob-
servation of actions," when it is considered that a good number
of instances of individuals must be observed, watched, and
studied in this "continued" and " patient" maimer, to prove
the sign of one organ upon the skull, and thirty- five times that
number, whatever it may be, to prove the whole Phrenological
map? For as the Phrenologists disclaim all pretensions to
prove the doctrines in their books, every one must either repeat
this process or take their science as they themselves give it out.
They tell us that we must "interrogate nature," and prove the
doctrines, each individual, or disciple, for himself.
7
posing the proposition had been put universally—and
suppose we should grant it in that form—still nothing
would be granted which could avail the Phrenologist
in his comparison of an organ with the force of the
manifestations of its faculty. For this purpose it is
required that it should be further granted that the
Phrenologist could discover how much of the force of
the " true dispositions and capacities which individuals
possess" is to be ascribed to education and circum-
stances, and how much to the organic power of the
faculty—a postulate which never can be granted to the
Phrenologists.
That this point of doctrine, then, should have been
stated as it has been here done by Mr. Combe is ex-
ceedingly extraordinary—that it should have been
formally laid down by the greatest master of the
science, that, "For the purpose of comparing mental
faculties with cerebral development, it is necessary to
show that mental faculties can be discovered," without
its being noticed at the same time that it is also neces-
sary to discover how much of the force of these mental
faculties is to be ascribed to education and circum-
stances, before such comparison can be made available
for the purposes of the Phrenological enquirer—
namely, to ascertain whether the force of the manifes-
tations of the mental faculties thus modified agrees with
the cerebral development. That such an enunciation
of this point of doctrine, I say, should have been made
by the greatest master of the science, cannot be cha-
racterised otherwise than as a gross misrepresentation
of the true state of the case, calculated to veil from the
sight of the raw and unsuspecting disciple the main
difficulty which attaches to this part of the question,
and which interposes a barrier across his path, in this
direction, which the Phrenologist will never be able to
surmount.
"For the purpose of comparing mental faculties
8
with cerebral development" Mr. Combe lays it down
further, that "it is necessary to show, 2dly, that the
size of different parts of the brain can be ascertained
during life."f This affirmation is quite vague.. It is
not the same with the assertion that the size .of the
supposed organs of Phrenology can be ascertained dur-
ing life ; and whilst it must be admitted, of course,
that the size of different parts of the brain may be
ascertained in a general way, or to a certain extent,
during life—as, for example, whether one individual
has a larger orless mass of brain in the forepart of his
head than another—it will be proved that the size of
the Phrenological organs, supposing them to exist,
never could be ascertained either during life or after
death : because, not to mention here numerous other
obstacles of a minor description, these supposed organs,
or the parts of the brain assigned as their localities, lie
generally several of them together under one smooth
surface of the skull, whether it be flat and nearly level
or consist of one continuous unmarked elevation
;
and as it is admitted by the Phrenologists that their
organs encroach upon one another, and vary their
situations in each head,\\ when they show themselves
by separate bumps or protuberances ; so, of course,
when they lie several of them under one smooth sur-
face, being in that situation equally liable to vary their
sizes and situations, and to encroach upon one another,
unseen and unknown to the Phrenologist, he can never
know their divisions or sizes under that predicament
;
not knowing which organ encroaches or which is en-
croached upon, or how far they encroach upon one
another, and vary their situations, in the dark and
impenetrable space beneath that smooth surface un-
X System of Phrenology, p. 84.
||
Combe's System of Phrenology, p. 121, 122.
||
Macnish's Introduction to Phrenology, p. 66.
0
less he could see through the skull itself, and there
discover—what no anatomist can discover upon dis-
section "the brain to be divided and parcelled out
as his imagination figures it to him in her obstinate
vagaries."§
It will be shown that this difficulty, or rather this
obvious impossibility, of discovering the dimensions of
the organs lying under the predicament now stated, is
palpably slurred over, and left totally unexplained in
the Phrenological books. The difficulty is only barely
noticed, and passed by ;
only six sentences being de-
voted to the mention—for it cannot be called explica-
tion—of this difficulty, in Mr. Combe's « System of
Phrenology," and Dr. Macnish's "Introduction to
Phrenology" put together—-four sentences in the latter
work, in which Dr. Macnish affirms the possibility of
discovering the size of the organs under the smooth
surface, but neither shows, nor attempts to show how
it can be done ; and two sentences in the System of
Phrenology, in which Mr. Combe neither affirms nor
denies the possibility, but merely states, in the first of
them, the fact, that when several neighbouring organs
are all equally developed, "the surface is smooth," and
"no protuberance can be perceived;" and in the se-
cond of them he tells us to learn "from books, plates,
and casts, or personal instruction" not how to discover
their dimensions under the predicament stated, but
something else—namely, "to distinguish the form of
each organ, and its appearance when developed in
different proportions to the others ;" that is, when they
are separately elevated and protuberant
The following is the manner in which this subject,
•bo vital to their science, is treated by these two au-
thors, the passages now to be quoted being the only
ones in which it is noticed by them.
) Lecture II.
10
Dr. Macnish puts the question—"Are we always to
expect a prominence or bump when a particular organ
is large?
No;" he replies. "If several adjoining organs are
all large, none of them will, probably, present any
particular projection ; there will be merely a general
fulness in the locality occupied by them. It is only
when an organ decidedly predominates over those in
its immediate vicinity, that a protuberance is to be
looked for. An inexperienced Phrenologist has much
difficulty in estimating the size of organs where there
is uniformity of surface, and is hence apt to deny the
possibility of following up the science ; but one who
has sufficiently studied it feels no such difficulty. He
estimates the dimensions of the organs correctly, al-
though there is not the slightest bulging out of any
particular part beyond those in its vicinity ; but this
requires considerable experience, and is not to be
learned all at once."§
These are Dr. Macnish's four sentences on this ques-
tion, and they are at least intelligible and explicit,
although the whole amounts to nothing more than a
bare assertion of the possibility of discovering the
dimensions of the organs under the predicament men-
tioned, and this without a blush, in the front of the
manifest impossibility of it. But Mr. Combe's two
sentences on the same subject are of a far more ex-
traordinary kind. They are as follow :
—
" If one organ be much developed, and the neigh-
bouring organs very little, the developed organ will
present an elevation or protuberance ; but if the neigh-
bouring organs be developed in proportion, no protu-
berance can be perceived, and the surface is smooth.
The student should learn from books, plates, and casts,
or personal instruction (and the last is by far the best),
§ Introduction to Phrenology, p.p. 40, 41.
11
to distinguish the form of each organ and its appear-
ance when developed in different proportions to the
others, because there are slight modifications in the
position of them in each head ! ! !"§
This is all that is said by Mr. Combe upon this ques-
tion, or upon the method of discovering the dimensions
of the organs when they lie several of them together
under one smooth surface. But this is not explaining
the matter ; it is turning tail and running away from
it. In the first of these sentences Mr. Combe confesses
that when several neighbouring organs are equally de-
veloped "the surface is smooth," and that "no protu-
berance can be perceived ;" and when we should have
expected that he would inform us how we should dis-
cover their different sizes under that predicament, he
looks us broad in the face, and tells us to "learn from
books, plates, and casts, or personal instruction,"
what ?—to discover their sizes when they are separ-
ately elevated and protuberant —"when developed,"
as he confusedly expresses it, "in different proportions
to the others 1" And he never opens his lips upon the
subject more.
Yet without proving, or attempting to prove, that
the different sizes of two or more organs lying under
one smooth surface can be discovered, he seems to
expect that we will not press him hard upon this point,
but generously overlook it; because otherwise, he
states, and informs us with great humility a little after-
wards, Phrenology could not have any foundation ;
thus : "Each organ has a form, appearance, and situa-
tion, which it is possible, by practice, to distinguish in
the living head, otherwise Phrenology cannot have
any foundation!"!
There are, in the same section of Mr. Combe's work
§ System of Phrenology, p. 120.
H System of Phrenology, p. 122.
12
in which these passages are found, numerous directions
for discovering the size of the organs, but these only
explain the manner of doing it where there are separata
bumps or prominences, or marked and distinguishable
boundaries for each—where they are " developed in
different proportions to the others," to use Mr. Combe's
very distinct and judiciously chosen expression, when
he is particularly anxious to make matters very clear.
In one of these directive passages which follows the
foregoing he says, " The question will perhaps occur
—If the relative proportions of the organs differ in
each individual, and if the Phrenological bust repre-
sents only their most common appearances, how are
their boundaries to be distinguished in any particular
living head ? The answer is—By their forms and ap-
pearances.'^ But where several organs—suppose four
—.lie under one smooth surface, upon which £<
no pro-
tuberance can be perceived," there are no "forms"
nor " appearances" by which we can "distinguish" any
"boundaries," except those which circumscribe the
whole four organs. Of course there is no possible way
here of discovering the dimensions of any one of them;
because we can never know how much or how little
any one of them has varied its situation, or how much
or how little they have encroached one upon another.
In another of these directive passages Mr. Combe
says, " When one organ is very largely developed, it
encroaches on the space usually occupied by the neigh-
bouring organs, the situations of which are thereby
slightly altered. When this occurs, it may be distin-
guished by the greatest prominence being near the
centre of the large organ, and the swelling extending
over a portion only of the others. In these cases the
shape should be attended to ; for the form of the organ
is then easily recognised, and is a sure indication of
the particular one which is largely developed."
I System of Phrenology, p. 1 22.
13
'
Here it is seen we have a "prominence" and a 'swell-
ing" to guide us. " It may be distinguished by the
greatest prominence" he says ; and by " the swelling
extending over a portion only of the others." But
nothing is said in this place,' or anywhere else in Mr.
Combe's book, about how we are to proceed where
there is no "greatest prominence" or "swelling"
where, to use Mr. Combe's own words, "no protu-
berance can be perceived." When this is the case
then, how, I repeat, are we to proceed ? Where are,
then, Mr. Combe's forms and appearances'? " They are
all blotted out from his sight—they are all swept away
and rolled down to the level of the smooth green turf
and although he may indulge his imagination with the
pastime of pourtraying and figuring to himself par-
terres and serpentines upon that uniform and unvarie-
gated surface, there are no parterres there for all that
not a single row of box or willow to relieve the longing
eye of the disconsolate and disconcerted Phrenologist
—not the smallest inequality in the bristling sward, so
nicely and neatly is the vapid expanse shaven and
cropped."*
This doctrine, that the organs encroach upon one
another, and vary their situations in each head, is one
of their fundamentals ; and is employed by the Phren-
ologists to solve cases which would be otherwise ano-
malous, and contradict the doctrines. And if there
were anything true about their doctrines this must be
so, for the organs could not vary their sizes Avithout
varying their situations ; and when this happens where
several are under one smooth surface nobody can ever
know it.
Further, it will be shown in these proposed lectures
that there is a third impossibility which the Phrenolo-
* Fourth Lecture, p.p. 40, 41.
14
gists must perform before they can complete one
Phrenological observation or experiment ; or before
they can discover whether the disposable power of an
organ exactly balances the (circumstantially) modified
force of the manifestations of its supposed faculty:
for an organ has other business tq transact besides
manifesting its faculty—it has other powers to oppose
and to contend with, before it gets leave, or can acquire
the predominating force required to manifest its faculty
at all. These powers which an organ has to contend
with, and to vanquish in battle, before it is at liberty
to manifest its faculty, are a given number of the
other thirty-four organs. It has also a given number
of alliances, or confederations, to enter into with the
remainder of these thirty-four powers, to assist it in
its struggles against those which are opposed and
adverse : for all the organs are either friends and
allies, or enemies and opponents. Thus, for example,
before Benevolence can manifest its faculty, or give a
single farthing in charity, it must resist the force, and
repel the opposition, of Acquisitiveness, Alimentive-
ness, and others ; and to enable it to overcome these
powers, it must, if it be feeble itself, enter into alliances
with Love of approbation, and others.
The power of every organ, it is to be recollected, is
modified more or less by the forces and influences of
all the other thirty-four organs. Every one of these
forces must therefore be known to the observing or
experimenting Phrenologist, in every instance; and
their modifying influences upon the organ whose power
is to be compared with the manifestations of its faculty
must be calculated, and put into two different scales,
which must be balanced against one another, and the
difference of their weights placed to the credit of the
organ if it be on the side of increasing its power ; and
to its debit if it goes to diminish it. All this must be
done in every Phrenological observation or experi-
IS
nient, before a correct balance can be struck, or tried,
between the free disposable force of the organ and the
modified foree of the manifestations of the faculty
"Who, then, I ask, shall pretend to calculate the result
of the workings and counter-workings of these thirty-
five powers ? What profound mechanic shall pretend
to foretel the precise effect of the movements of so
complicated a machine ? « Each one of these thirty-
five organs or faculties of Phrenology constitutes a
separate and distinct force ; but each has a modifying
influence upon all the others, and is itself modified
differently upon every change of the relative size or
force of these others—changes which are infinite in
their modes, and numerous beyond conception—the
relative sizes and forces, or combinations, of the facul-
ties and organs never being found precisely alike in
any two individuals of the human race. To predicate
the result or effects, therefore, of any given combina-
tion of the organs or faculties, supposes not only a
knowledge of the exact force of every one of them
taken separately, but of the altered force and tendency
of each under the controlling and modifying influences
of all the others—a knowledge depending upon consi-
derations too numerous, too complicated, and too subtile
to be fully comprehended, or exactly weighed and esti-
mated by the most penetrating genius."f "What
effect, I ask, has Individuality upon Amativeness ?
What effeet has Tune upon the same organ ? It will
not do to say they have none at all ; for it is undoubted
that each must have some effect, greater or less, upon
all the others ; and that either the defalcation, or the
increase or diminution of power of any organ or faculty,
must produce a different natural character, and must
alter in some measure the powers and workings of all
J Lecture I.
16
the others. If this is denied, let the Phrenologists
tell us which organ has an effect upon the others and
which not ; and let thern prove their dicta in this
matter, in a clear and intelligible manner, and not put
us off with a single sentence, and with the interjection
of an " Oh ! we find it so in nature."f
It will be shown still further, with reference to the
doctrine of the temperaments, that this doctrine intro-
duces a new and unlimited source of uncertainty and
of latitude in estimating the force of the 'organs, which,
although the facilities for making that estimate entirely
arbitrary were before unbounded, presents us with an
additional infinity of itself, applicable to the same pur-
pose.
But I shall not here dole out to the Phrenologists
any more of these crumbs of argument, but let what
has been already hinted suffice upon this division df
the science, I mean its Craniologj'. I shall only
remark, what appears to be very little attended to by
the disciples, that the Phrenological writers neither
prove nor pretend to prove their science to any but
themselves—that is, each Phrenologist for himself.
They tell us that they cannot exhibit their premises,
but only their conclusions in their books—they tell
us that "self-conviction can only be founded on self-
observation that we must " interrogate nature"
and "she will afford us premises and that "the pre-
mises are found in nature, and the conclusions only in
the books."§
Thus much, then, just now, with reference to the
Craniology of the science. As to the metaphysical
f Lecture IV.—It may be added here that no Phrenologist-
ever saw, or had experience of, two cases exactly alike.
+ Spurzheim.
§ Combe ; Answers to Dr. Roget.
17
department of it, the Phrenology, properly so called, of
the system, which is vaunted and extolled as a new and
improved system of mental and moral philosophy, it
will be shown that Craniology makes known no new
principles of human nature—that it furnishes no new
materials to the Phrenological workman with which
he should be enabled to construct any new system of
mental or moral philosophy. Because all the facul-
ties, propensities, and qualities of Phrenology, that are
real constituent principles of human nature, were
known from human conduct and action, independently
of, and antecedently to, their pretended discovery at
second hand, from the bumps upon the skull. This is
manifest ; because these bumps are merely the signs
of faculties which, if proved at all, have been proved
from human conduct and actions. Craniology, there-
fore, presents no new faculty of human nature to the
Phrenologist—no newrfatafor the construction of any
new or sound mental or moral philosophy.
"This department of their science the Phrenolo-
gists found upon their nomenclature of the faculties,
propensities, and qualities of human nature, duplicates
of which they pretend to have discovered written down
upon the skull. I say duplicates ; because these writ-
ings, or signs upon the skull, must, if true signs of
true faculties, have been proved ; and if false signs,
must yet be pretended to have been proved, from
human conduct, before they could be known or esta-
blished as the signs of those faculties. It is therefore
manifest that these faculties, propensities, and qualities
were all known and available for any purpose to which
they might be applicable, antecedently to, and inde-
pendently of, Craniology. It is therefore demonstrated
that the Phrenologists possess no new materials or
data of faculties, propensities, or qualities wherewith
to construct any new mental or moral science ; and
that their uncouth, cumbrous, and absurd system, com-
18
pounded of Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, Acqui-
sitiveness, and the rest, might have been hatched,
concocted, and presented to the admiring gaze of all-
devouring credulity, independently of Craniology, by
merely adopting the same ridiculous nomenclature,
had any new-system-monger taken it into his head to
do so. The materials were all at hand, independently
of Craniology ; the only thing necessary to have been
done for such a purpose being to have re-baptised and
re-designated them with their new swollen and foot-
and-half-long names."']'
It will be shown, upon this part of the question,
what true moral science is, and that the mighty "boon" J
which Mr. Combe would confer upon moral science
by presenting it with a bump which is to discover what
actions are right x>r wrong, virtuous or vicious, moral
or immoral, by the smell, or something like it, and
which is to supersede all reasoning and inquiry into
their effects or tendencies to produce good or evil,
happiness or misery, to mankind, is quite of a piece
with the uniform absurdity and charlatanerie of his
whole Phrenological lucubrations.
In his hodge-podge treatment of this most moment-
ous of all questions, Mr. Combe has raked up, out of
Brown's Lectures and "Stewart's Outlines," all the
exploded doctrines of Hobbes, Cudworth, Mandeville,
Clarke, Reid, and others, which are allowed to occupy
and amuse the hours and years of boys at college ;
the
multiplicity and jarring characters of which he fondly
imagines may open a way for the reception of his
"boon ;" though the multiplicity of opinions and jar-
rings of the Phrenological writers with reference to
their metaphysical doctrines and their analyses, as they
call them, of their faculties, and with reference to this
f Lecture VII.
+. System of Phrenology, p. 3oo.
19
very bump and "boon"—the existence of which the
founder of their science totally and flatly deni es—are
ten times greater than those of the metaphysical writers
he enumerates.
I have said that the doctrines of these writers as to
the fundamental principle or law of morality are
exploded. I say so because, as will be shown, the true
fundamental law of morality, or fundamental principle
of every general rule of moral conduct, has been fully
and irrefragably demonstrated ; and because, although
this fundamental principle is still denied, disputed, and
repudiated in ivords by the combined powers of all
the sinister interests in the world, or by all who parti-
cipate or hope to participate, in the plunder which
sinister interest implies ; yet its truth and supremacy
is universally acknowledged by all parties, in a far
more authentic and unquestionable shape, by the fact
of the whole of them, to a man, pleading to its juris-
diction whenever they are brought to defend or advo-
cate their measures or systems in the face of the world.
Of the truth of which fact Mr. Combe is, of course,
amongst the rest, himself an instance, who, when he
defends and advocates his system of Phrenology, does
it upon the ground that the adoption and cultivation
of it will promote the interest, advantage, and happi-
ness (not the misery ?) of the human family. This
great law of utility, I say, is universally appealed to
by the propounders of new systems of speculative
philosophy, as well as by the practical statesman and
lawgiver, however they may often, from policy or
from ignorance, decline acknowledging the principle
in terms.
The speculative moral philosopher, in propounding
and advocating his rules of moral conduct, and the
practical statesman, in proposing his political laws,
universally pay homage to this great principle of
utility, and appeal to its tribunal The former does
20
this through the press, the latter by his speeches in the
senate ; though it happens sometimes that the Parlia-
mentary candidate turns his back upon this principle
on the hustings, when he tells the populace, whose
crude theories and rude hands he fears, that the exist-
ing political laws, or "law of the land," is the only rule
or foundation of right and wrong!
» Every general rule of moral conduct, and every
political law which is proposed, is either consistent or
inconsistent with the fundamental and supreme law of
utility ; and the problems which moral inquirers, and
practical law-givers have to solve, are—What rules of
moral conduct, and what political laws are consistent
with it.| And in every instance in which they are
successful in establishing this consistency, in demon-
strating clearly to our understandings that any such
rule or law has this sanction, that it is calculated to
produce the greatest sum of human happiness, taking
all circumstances of course into account, remote as
well as immediate—we are bound, as reasonable beings
whether it be a general voluntary rule of conduct,
such as those of temperance, frugality, industry, fide-
lity, fortitude, and the rest of this sort,§ or a proposed
+ In the debate in the House of Commons, May 2d, 1842,
on the motion for hearing counsel on behalf of the parties who
signed "The National Petition," Lord John Russell said:
—
"He did not understand the doctrine which ascribed to every
man of twenty-one years an indefeasible right of choosing
members. It was or was not a right, in proportion as it was or
was not advantageous to the public." This was exactly the
ground upon which the "Petitioners" were bound to meet
Lord John and the legislative body. It was language becom-
ing a statesman and a legislator. On that ground all parties
are bound to join issue ; and I do not scruple to say that every
man who denies or rejects this principle is either imbued with
tyrannical principles, and has sinister interests in view, or
is profoundly ignorant of moral and political science.
§ All these virtues, and every other which is real, are founded
on the fundamental law of utility: it is the sole ingredient
political compulsatory\a.\v —if it be the former, we are'
bound, I say, to conform our behaviour to it ; and if
it be the latter, we are bound to use all reasonable,
endeavours to promote its establishment. This is
moral obligation ; and hence we see the extent and
limits of the term. We are bound by this principle
as rational beings, pursuing our own and the public or
general weal, to follow these rules of conduct : and as
to the observance of the political laws when estab-
lished, whether right or wrong, moral or immoral (for
these terms are perfectly synonymous), we are bound
in another form, as we are answerable and subjected
to pains and penalties if we disobey them. If they
happen to be wrong, or immoral, we are bound to use
all reasonable endeavours to have them repealed ; and
if their iniquity be flagrant, it may be our duty to dis-
obey them and incur the pains ; in other words, moral
\ obligation may demand of us this sacrifice."§
It. is on this ground, then, solely that I meddle with
Phrenology ; because it would substitute for this mode
of determining moral questions, by reasoning and
inquiry into the tendencies and consequences of human
conduct and actions, the capricious and self-deceiving
decisions of a blind and non-reasoning supposed orga n
and faculty ; and because the attempt and efforts to do
so adds a new obstruction to those already too numer-
ous and too powerful which at present exist to the
progress of moral science. Besides, this doctrine, that
we have a moral sense which distinguishes right and
which constitutes them virtues. They are useful to ourselves
or others, as the observance of them is the means of personal
and social happiness ; and any propounded rule of conduct
which possesses not a preponderating infusion of this ingre-
dient is not a virtue at all; whatever may be pretended in
favour of blind bumps and non-reasoning faculties.
§ Lecture VII.
22
wrong without reasoning or inquiry into the tenden-
cies and consequences of actions, is the most danger-
ous one that can be imagined, as it teaches every man,
ignorant or learned, wise or foolish, fanatic or enthu-
siast, that if he has the self-interpreted sanction of his
bump or faculty, it is enough ; and that no further
explanation or vindication of his conduct is necessary,
but that he follows, obeys, and submits to this pre-
tended, unerring, and heaven-derived impulse and
guide.
It is for these reasons, I repeat, that I make war
upon Phrenology ; for otherwise I should not have
esteemed it worthy of a moment's attention.
SAMUEL READ.
23
POSTSCRIPT.
In these proposed Lectures it is believed that a more
thorough insight will be given into the true character
of Phrenology than has been obtained from any yet
delivered in support of the doctrines, or than can be
derived even from the Phrenological books ; because,
in the books, as has been partly shown here, and as
will be more fully pointed out in the Lectures, all the
main difficulties of the science are slurred over, and
passed by with the slightest possible notice of them.
The arcana of the science will be laid open ; and the
ingenuity and disingenuity of the authors, in overleap-
ing them, will be exposed.
It is only necessary to add further that this pseudo-
science has now assumed a degree of importance, from
its spread chiefly, it is said, amongst youths of the
busy and less informed classes, who, wanting the time
and opportunity required to^ study moral science in its
genuine shape and character, are delighted to find in
this spurious form of it an easy method of becoming
mental and moral philosophers ; for Phrenology has
the word philosophy constantly in its mouth. These
disciples get possession of thirty-five formidable look-
ing terms, which they are taught to believe form, by
their combinations, all the characters, and explain ail
the motives to action, of mankind, although one-half
of them have only the shadow of a meaning. These
terms they can easily commit to memory, and the
moment they have done this, they can talk as pro-
foundly, fluently, and consistently on the subject as
the greatest Phrenologist of them all. In this vain
and empty study these disciples throw away the great-
24
est portion of their time and intellectual activity. It
is to disabuse these deluded individuals of their blind
faith in these futile doctrines that the proposed lectures
have been undertaken ; for blind faith it can only be,
and confessedly is by their instructors, in all those
who have not proved the doctrines for themselves,
which—considering the time and the labour required
to prove even one sign of an organ and faculty, much
more the whole Phrenological map—it is manifest not
one of them can have done, who have not had the
means or opportunity of devoting the greater part of
their time to the undertaking.
1K1NTED BY W. HAMILTON, 1139, HENTlElt) STBKET.
