{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__bailey___astrology_and_birth_control.pdf","mytitle":"Astrology And Birth Control","mylang":"de"}
ASTROLOGY AND
BIRTH CONTROL
By
E. H. BA ILEY, D.A., F.A.S.
Editor of the British Journal o f Astrology;
President of the British Astrological Society.
LONDON
W. FOULSHAM & CO., LTD.
io & 11 Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.4
«©o*or>uootootooto>tootootootoo
Other New Books of great
interest and importance
By E . H. B A IL E Y
ASTROLOGY AND
THE CARDS
ASTROLOGY AND
SOCIALISM
Each bound cloth is. 6d. net
ofall Booksellers, or direct
from the Publishers,
post free is. 9d.
London: W.Foulsham & Co., Ltd.
10 &11 RedLionCourt,FleetSt.AC.4
coocoo000cootoo000000toocoo000
CONTENTS
Chapter
Introduction
I. W hat is B irth Co n tro l?
•
•
Vacs
6
9
n. T he P hysiology of Sex . • . to
m . T h e A strology of Sex . • • *7
IV . T he Procreation of Ch ild ren • • 54
V. T he F irst G reat L aw Re v ea led • • 41
VI. T he Second G reat L aw Revealed • . JO
vn. T he Psycho-Physiological L aws of
G eneration . . . .
Co n c l u s i o n .............................................
. j6
. 6i
i
INTRODUCTION
In commencing to write a series of Manuals dealing with
special aspects of Astrology, applicable to the various
anomalies of Human Life and existence, and the numerous
advantages which can be obtained, mentally, morally,
and spiritually, by a proper understanding of the true laws
of this most ancient and wonderful science, I find myself
placed on the horns of a dilemma, owing to the thousand
and one matters which have suggested themselves to my
mind, on which Astrology speaks in no uncertain voice.
It has long been my desire and intention to bring out
a series of small works of this character, and after serious
consideration of a dozen or more particular subjects, all
of which are specially prominent in the world of to-day,
I have decided that my first Manual shall be devoted to a
very important and far-reaching question, one which has
not only engaged the attention ofthe newspapers, scientific,
religious, and medical people, but has also been brought
prominendy before the world in the Law Courts, and is
now being taught in Clinics. I refer to the great question
of Birth Control.
In this work, I propose to deal with this important
subject, both from the psycho-physiological and astro­
logical laws of sex, and to give some remarkable illus­
trations of the joint workings of these laws in the pro­
creation of human beings, showing that no children are
born fortuitously, or by chance, but that all births must
and can only take place at certain specified times, and in
accordance with these joint rules.
I shall also show from reliable data, that the whole
process of human generation, from the coitus, or act of
generation, and from the process of ovulation in the
female, to the actual moment of birth, is governed by
definite laws, all of which are connected with one another,
and based on lunar periodic revolutions, and that the whole
6
INTRODUCTION 7
process of gestation in the human female can be followed
month by month by means of Astrological laws and
precepts.
I shall go even further than this, and prove that it is
possible, by a proper knowledge of the laws of Astrology,
coupled with those of generation, to bring children into
the world at pre-ordained times, when the planetary and
zodiacal influences are of such a nature as to produce a
being possessed of the highest degrees of physical, mental,
and moral character.
I am making no boast; I am putting forward no
fanciful theory or plausible delusion; I am making no
suggestion which cannot be put into a practical and con­
crete form. Moreover I am bringing forward no new
theory or invention of my own. It is part and parcel of
the laws of Astrology, and the knowledge belongs to the
ancients and was made use of by them, as I shall hereafter
show.
No ideal can be greater or grander than one which has
as its aim and purpose the uplifting and perfecting of the
human race, but no ideal, if it may be called so, can be
more detestable and reprehensible than that which pro­
fesses and pretends to accomplish a much needed improve­
ment in the virility of the race, by tampering with the laws
of nature, and using distorted ideas of morality and sexual
inversion in order to accomplish its ends.
In modern days, several attempts have been made to
improve the physical status of the human race, but all
have been doomed to failure, and will continue to be a
failure, until the laws and precepts o f Astrology are brought
to bear upon the subject. In Eugenics, the science of
breeding, much has been put forward of useful purpose
in the development of humanity, but here again the teachers
of this subject have gone astray, because they had not the
light which Astrology could throw on it.
The greatest study of mankind is man. Astrology
must be regarded as a psychological study of humanity,
and therefore of man. It must be looked upon as a study
of the physical, mental, and moral attributes which go to
make up the human constitution. Man is composed of
8 INTRODUCTION
Cosmic elements, and Astrology is the science which deals
with these elements, and shows how man responds to the
etheric vibrations which radiate through the Cosmos.
In such a subject as Birth Control, which is regulated
by natural laws, Astrology speaks in definite and un­
mistakable terms, and in these pages I shall endeavour
to place before my readers the knowledge which I have
obtained from a close study of Astrology, extending well
over thirty years. This particular subject has been of
great interest to me, and only the extreme difficulty of
obtaining certain accurate and reliable data connected
with the preliminary stages of generation, has prevented
the earlier appearance of this Manual. The time,
however, has now arrived when the information at my
command must be placed before the world, and although
the actual necessary data is small, the results of my investi­
gations are given in these pages.
E. H. BA ILEY.
Astrology and Birth Control
Chapter I
W HAT IS BIRTH CONTROL ?
T he subject of Birth Control is one of world-wide import­
ance ; an ideal of the highest possible nature, and one
which, if properly carried out in accordance with Astro­
logical laws and precepts— some of which have been
partially dealt with in magazines devoted to the science—
would be of the greatest importance and incalculable
benefit to men and women, and even more so to the
coming generation of unborn infants.
The theory and practice of Birth Control is by no means
a new one. From the earliest times, various methods have
been advocated for preventing the birth of children, and
for the purpose of family limitation, and various means
have been employed by women of loose character to
avoid the natural results of their conduct.
What is the real meaning of Birth Control ? Let ns
look at the literal meaning of the word “ Control.” The
word really means, “ to arrange, to superintend, to govern,
to regulate, to have authority over.” In other words, the
strict and perfect meaning of the two words “ Birth
Control ” is “ the regulation and superintendence of human
births in such a manner as to produce healthy children,
with the minimum of pain and danger to the mother.”
I will go further than this by stating that it is a proper
regard for the ordinances of nature; an obedience to the
laws of sexual polarity and sex affinity; a regard to the
laws of natural selection, and the proper use of a certain
function in the human economy, a function which is
intended for one purpose and one only, viz., that of the
reproduction of the species.
9
IO
If, however, we are to regard the word “ control ” in
the light of “ prevention” or “ interference,” then it
becomes an inversion of the true intent and meaning of
the word. A person who is placed in “ control ” of a
business is not there for the purpose of interfering with,
or preventing the success of the work connected therewith,
but for the purpose of managing and superintending the
affairs of such a concern, so that they can be carried to a
successful issue, with the minimum of labour and
expenditure of capital.
According to the protagonists of Birth Control, it
would appear that the primary object of this subject, as
taught at the present time, is the “ prevention ” of
conception. In other words, that sexual intercourse can
be indulged in to the fullest extent, and that artificial
means are to be used to prevent the natural results of such
intercourse. To use their own words : “ The underlying
principle is that of securing the combination of full
marital relations, with the dehberate control [prevention]
of any subsequent conception.” The word in brackets
is mine.
If this is the sum-total of what Birth Control implies,
then it can only be regarded by all pure and naturally
minded people, as the preliminary to a species of inverted
morality, a degeneracy which conduces to moral self-
deception, the inability to distinguish between what is
real and unreal, and what is false and true.
The teachings of this cult can only lead to a gradual
lowering of the physical standards of humanity and the
production of a race of physical, mental, and moral
degenerates, unfitted for all departments of human life
and activity, and if persisted in, will bring about the gradual
decay of the human race.
From an astrological point of view, Birth Control is
a purely Neptunian ideal—an ideal whose claims and
pretences, by their apparent innocent subtlety and glamour,
promise wonderful results. Like all Neptunian ideals,
it becomes a fallacy and a delusion, an inversion of moral
motives, when once put into practical effect by its pro­
tagonists and demonstrators.
ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
Put into operation, as it is at the present day, it becomes
a pitfall and a snare, a vile interference with the laws of
nature, and a putrid conception of all that is unnatural.
It can only tend to the ruin and degeneration of the sexual
instinct in man, and is fraught with the most terrible
consequences to the physical and moral faculties of the
parents, and even more so on the greater possibilities
of the unborn generation.
Birth Control, however, when properly taught— when
Uranian principles are brought to bear upon its reality
and purpose—when put into practice according to the
laws of Astrology, can become of power and efficacy in
the purpose for which it was created. It can be made
the highest and grandest factor in the elevating and per­
fecting of humanity; in the proper and scientific repro­
duction of the human species; and in the bringing into
the world of children, physically, mentally, and morally, the
beau ideal of perfected manhood and womanhood. But
children of an A .i standard will never be brought to this
degree of perfection by C.3 methods of morality and
sexual inversion.
To quote again from the published statements of the
teachers of Birth Control: “ The argument is, that it
is better to preserve the health of the mother and to pre­
sent the country with four or five healthy children, rather
than with twelve diseased or weakly ones of whom the
majority do not survive.”
This argument is erroneous and faulty, for it is merely
an attempt to deal with effects rather than causes. If it
could be proved that the offspring in all large families
are usually weakly or diseased, and that the majority do
not survive, then there might be some weight in it.
Statistics do not corroborate this, but rather disprove it,
and it is also an incontrovertible fact that, even in small
families, below four or five, the number mentioned above,
the children have been weakly and diseased, and all have
not survived.
Moreover, Birth Controllers, in their ill-advised eager­
ness and enthusiasm, blindly and wilfully ignore several
vital facts which cut at the root of all their arguments,
WHAT IS BIRTH CONTROL? II
and render nugatory and highly dangerous what they
are pleased to call “ Constructive Birth Control.”
I will give these facts separately, and deal with them
seriatim. . . .
1. Their supposed remedies, against bringing into the
world weakly or diseased children, deal with effects only,
and they ignore antecedent causes, a fact which can be
astrologically demonstrated.
2. They ignore the psycho-physiological laws of
generation, and the important fact that the procreative
power varies in each individual man and woman. I
particularly include the man, as will be seen later.
3. They do not take into consideration the part played
by the male parent in the propagation of the human species.
4. They ignore the most vital question of the fitness
of both the male and female parent for marital duties and
responsibilities.
3. They do not appear to recognise that marital
felicity, and the production of healthy children, depends
on the proper temperamental and spiritual affinity between
the parents—a matter on which Astrology speaks in no
uncertain voice. In fact, it is the one and only guide
to the true meaning of Sexual polarity and Sex affinity.
6. Their efforts to teach Birth Control—as it is
taught—can only tend to excesses in sexual indulgence,
a vice far more evil than either drunkenness or gluttony,
for it is detrimental to the nerve and vital forces of the
male, and weakening to the generative organs of the
female.
7. They appear to ignore the incontestable fact that
each organ of the body has a specific function allotted
to it—the eye for seeing, the ear for hearing, and so on.
Apparently the sexual organs can be used for all kinds of
indiscriminate sexual intercourse, thus violating the
function for which they were created.
Now let us go a little further into the seven points.
The first objection is fourfold, and covers the first
four of the seven points, which are more or less inter­
dependent. The supposed remedies put forward by
Birth Controllers against the production of weakly or
12 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
diseased children are futile and 'highly dangerous,
inasmuch as they deal with present conditions and effects,
and ignore precedent or ante-natal causes, which are the
basis of the reason why children are born into the world
weakly or diseased.
Prevention is better than cure, but to try to remedy or
cure an effect, without eradicating the predetermining
cause or causes is an utterly useless procedure and highly
dangerous. This, however, is the proposal of the Birth
Controllers, as frankly put forward in their teaching.
Without taking into consideration the psycho-physio­
logical laws of generation, or the natural functions of the
procreative organs; without the slightest regard for the
important part played by the male parent in the process
of generation, and with a total disregard o f the physical
fitness of both the male and female parent for the marital
duties and responsibilities, as well as a complete indifference
to the question of natural selection, sexual polarity and
sex affinity, they put forward the delusive and utterly
immoral idea that married couples can indulge in sexual
intercourse, loosely and indiscriminately, and that pre­
ventive methods can be adopted to stop the course of
nature. It is a plausible and inverted idea, a “ fiddling
of sweet harmonics on the strings of sensuality.”
I am no believer in the supposition of those whose
religious convictions make them think that children
should come by chance. There is no such thing as chance
in the birth of children. No children are “ pitchforked,”
as it were, into the world by chance— some to squalor and
misery, others to prosperity and affluence. Astrology
teaches the same. The real and true science, the tenets
and principles ofwhich have long been kept hidden from the
common herd, teaches us that no child can be born except
at such a time which harmonises with the inherent charac­
ter and capabilities which it will afterwards develop, and
the whole life and destiny can be foreseen.
Moreover, Astrology teaches that every birth takes
p ce at such a time as can be determined by Astro-
mat icmatical laws, based on lunar motion and periods,
as i shall show in a later chapter.
WHAT IS BIR T H C O N T R O L ? 1}
In addition to this, and what is far more important,
astrologers do not rely wholly on the horoscope of birth,
but on another horoscope, which has a direct relation
with the psycho-physiological laws of generation, and
takes place at the commencement of the gestative period—
a figure which is known as the pre-natal epoch, concern­
ing which I shall have more to say later.
The teachers of Birth Control ignore a fundamental
factor in nature, Vis'., that the procreative power varies
in each individual man and woman, and they do not
appear to recognise that any attempt to prevent or inter­
fere with the full functioning of this power is a direct
violation of, and tampering with the laws of nature.
Those who violate nature will eventually pay the penalty.
Whereas one woman will have only one or possibly
two children, another will have five or six, another eight,
ten, twelve, or even more.
This fact seems to be lost sight of by those who advocate
the limiting of families, and they do not appear to recog­
nise, or maybe they do not want to admit, that to suppress
this function in the female organism is not only dangerous
to the female, but is likely to produce serious disorders
affecting the generative system. The power is there,
and it should and must be made use of, not loosely or
indiscriminately, but wisely and well. Here again
Astrology shows the proper manner, and times, when such
power should be used.
One of the most important arguments I am compelled
to use against the teachers of so-called Birth Control, is
that they do not appear to take into consideration the part
played by the male parent in the propagation of the
human species. The male supplies the seed with the
vivifying factor, and if that is weak, or of poor quality,
lacking in force and vigour, it cannot be expected that the
woman, however strong physically, or in fecundative
power, can give birth to strong and healthy children.
A particular case comes to my mind at the moment
which is eloquent of this point. A young woman of
twenty married a man three years her senior, and they
lived together for seven years, when the husband died.
14 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
Full marital relations took place, but no children were
born. Three years after the death of her husband, the
woman married again. By her second husband, she had
a family of seven children, all of whom were strong and
healthy and lived to maturity.
This is a direct proof of the important part played by
the male parent in the procreation of children, and equally
a proof that the fecundative power varies in individuals.
Why was it that the woman had no children by her first
husband ? It was certainly not that she was barren or
sterile, as after events proved, but that the spermatozoa,
or procreative fluid of her first husband, was lacking in
vivifying power. WTien she married a second time, she
had seven strong and healthy children, a direct proof that
the cause did not lie with her, but with her first husband.
Barrenness or sterility is not always due to the woman ;
it is more often caused by the fact that the male seed is
impotent, and has no virility or procreative power. All
this can be determined from Astrology.
All these arguments, however, lead us back to the great
and far-reaching fundamental point— the natural physical
and mental fitness of the male and female for the duties
and responsibilities of marriage.
A great deal has been written concerning the marriage
of the unfit, and it has been suggested that prospective
married couples should submit to medical examination
before marriage. If this was done, it would have a far
more beneficial effect than any form of Birth Control,
because it would ensure that both parties were in a con­
dition to undertake the marital duties and responsibilities
in a proper manner. At the same time, however bene­
ficial such a procedure might be, it would only be a partial
remedy, and in the long run would be more or less futile
and inconclusive.
Now we come to a far more important factor in the
question of the procreation of healthy and virile children
that marital harmony and the production of healthy
children depends on the proper temperamental and
spiritual affinity between the parents—a matter on which
Astrology speaks in no uncertain voice; in fact, it is the
WHAT IS BIRTH CONTROL? IJ
one and only guide to the true meaning of Sexual polarity
and Sex affinity. . , ~
This question is undoubtedly ignored by Birth Con­
trollers, and would probably be still more feared if they
knew of the astrological factors involved therein.
Evidently the twin giants of Ignorance and Prejudice
still stand against humanity’s progress and development,
and until the real and true science of Astrology is recog­
nised, humanity must continue to flounder in a morass
of stygian darkness, ignorance, and inverted morality,
and remain blind to the great and wonderful powers
which it possesses.
I use the words “ real and true science of Astrology,”
because I am not concerned with the superstition which
goes by the name of Astrology—the cheap life readings
for sixpence and a shilling offered by charlatans who
batten on the credulity of the foolish, and who “ pretend
to tell fortunes with the intent to deceive.” This species
of chicanery has no connection with Astrology, the real
and true science, and is in no sense astrology at all.
For upwards of thirty years, Astrology has been my
life work and study, and the science, as I know and under­
stand it, is wholly distinct from all species of fortune
telling and predicting the future. Astrology is founded
on the immutable laws of nature, and the plumb-line and
level of science have been applied to its rules and principles.
It stands at this present day unrivalled and unchallenged,
as the only guide to the physical, mental, moral, and
spiritual salvation of humanity, and the uplifting of the
human race to that degree of God-like perfection, of which
it is written:—So God created man in His own image,
in the image of God created He him; male and female
created He them. And God blessed them, and God said
earth thCm> BC fruitfu1’ and multiP1y and replenish the
To return to my particular argument. Temperamental,
physical, and spiritual harmony between the parents is
a vital and essential factor, if the proper marital relations
are to be conducted efficiently, and healthy children
result. Apparently, with Birth Controllers, this is
l 6 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
unnecessary, but to the astrologer who understands the
meaning of sexual affinity, it is absolutely vital, not only
for the procreation o f healthy children, but for the physical
welfare of the parents.
If the pairs that are joined in marriage have no spiritual
bond or affinity between them, and nothing but the mere
attraction of the body, the purely sexual instinct, they will
people the world with children, more or less incapable,
unthinking, and degenerate, as they are themselves.
If these children are born in millions, like ants and flies,
they will violate the purpose of man’s existence, and bring
about that stoppage and recoil which is called death—
a turning back of the wheels o f time, when the main road
has been lost, and it becomes essential to begin the journey
all over once more.
It is outside the scope of this work to give the laws o f
Astrology in relation to Sex affinity, but it can be laid down
here, without fear of controversy, that no couple should
marry unless their horoscopes harmonise; unless the
positive elements in the female are in harmony with the
negative elements in the m ale; unless the positive and
negative vibrations in the one horoscope balance and
harmonise with those in the other.
Medical examinations would not be necessary, as the
horoscopes of the parties would show whether they were
physically and mentally fit for the duties and responsibilities
of marital life. Moreover, the joint horoscopes would
determine the fecundative power o f each, and the times
when children should be brought into the world, healthy,
vigorous and virile, with the minimum of pain and suffer­
ing to the mother. It is those ill-assorted unions that give
every facility for their offspring to grow up in discord,
and bring into the world children that are weakly, often
seased and defective, for how can they be otherwise,
when born into an atmosphere the magnetism o f which is
poisonous.
It is only too evident from the writings of Birth Con-
ro ers that the psycho-physiological laws of generation
appear to be an unnecessary factor in their propaganda,
and it is equally evident that their teachings can only
W H A T IS B IR T H C O N T R O L ? 17
result in excesses of sexual indulgence. To ignore these
laws is to ignore the basic principles of the generative
functions, and to give both male and female the supposed
power of interfering with the laws of nature.
For what purpose were the generative or sexual organs
intended ? What is their function ? The function of
the eyes is sight; of the ears, hearing; the functions of
other organs are for a specific purpose. They are not
used for purposes for which they were not intended by
nature. Therefore the function or use of the sexual or
generative organs is for one purpose and one only, the
reproduction of the species. To assume, as is stated,
that the principles of Birth Control are for the purpose of
allowing full marital relations, coupled with the deliberate
control of any subsequent conception, is to imply that
marital relations merely consist of sexual indulgence,
and the use of the sexual organs in an indiscriminate
and wilful manner.
I understand that it is held that love cannot exist with­
out sexual intercourse. I have yet to learn that true love,
which is one of the sacred emotions, requires the exercise
of animal propensities to keep it alive. This is a most
offensive idea, and one that is utterly repugnant to the
idea of love. It is stated by physiologists that a repression
of the sexual act in the young and amative, when living
together, is likely to lead to morbid results, and that the
love of two young people under such conditions can have
only a maimed expression.
If this is the teaching of Birth Controllers, then it
should be stamped out, because it is an inversion of morals,
a putrid conception of love, and a deliberate violation of
the great laws of nature. The sexual act, the function of
the generative organs, is for one purpose only, and should
not and must not be used for any other purpose.
A continued indulgence in sexual intercourse only
results in the wasting of the vital fluids in man, a gradual
weakening of the physical and nerve forces, and a lowering
of the standard of humanity. To the female, this excessive
indulgence is likely to cause a putrefaction of the natural
organs of generation, a weakening of the fecundative
l 8 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
power, and will tend to cause disorders of the generative
system, difficult to cure, and likely to cause considerable
pain and early death.
To sum up the various points mentioned, I have only
to say that the present idea of Birth Control as taught by
its protagonists, is one which is contrary to the fundamental
laws of nature. It is a deliberate attempt to tamper with
such laws ; a violation of the common laws of morality
and sexual relationship; and is fraught with the gravest
danger, not only to the parents, but more so to the coming
generation of unborn children. Its practice will lower
the standard of physique, weaken the fecundative power
of both male and female, and will eventually result in the
bringing into the world of beings of an inferior nature,
mentally, morally, and spiritually.
The true key to Birth Control, real and constructive,
lies in the laws of Astrology, as applied to sexual polarity
and sex affinity, by the union of those who are properly
fitted for the duties and responsibilities of marital life,
and by allowing only those couples to marry whose
horoscopes show the proper harmony and balancing of
vibrations.
By this way, and this way only, and not by destructive
methods of preventing conception, or by any other
artificial means, will the standard of humanity be raised,
and the highest forms of perfected manhood and woman­
hood be evolved.
WHAT IS BIRTH CO N TRO L? 19
As this book is not intended for professional purposes,
it is not essential to the object I have in view that I should
give a detailed or technical explanation of the anatomy of
the sexual or reproductive organs. It will suffice if I
give a brief description of certain particular parts of these
organs, so far as the preliminary processes of generation
are concerned, in order that I may give my readers some
knowledge of their physiological functions, and also that
I may show the connection which exists between stellar
laws and the process of human generation.
The female organs are divided into two groups, the
external and internal. I am not concerned with the external
organs, but the internal comprise the vagina, the uterus or
womb, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts and the ovaries.
The vagina is merely a membraneous canal, situated in
the cavity of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum.
It is simply the external outlet to the womb, and its office
is to allow the passage of the menstrual fluid, and also the
child at birth, and to assist the perineal muscles to sustain
the position of the womb.
The womb is a slightly flattened pear-shaped muscular
organ, placed in the cavity of the pelvis, between the
bladder and rectum. It is the organ in which generation
takes place, and which contains the embryo or foetus
during the gestative period.
There are three openings to the cavity of the womb—
two at the upper part, into the oviducts or Fallopian tubes,
and one at the lower part, into the vagina, the latter open­
ing being known as the Os Uteri, or mouth of the womb.
The Fallopian tubes, or oviducts, are hollow canals or
tubes, about four inches in length, which connect the
Chapter II
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF SEX
20
21
ovaries with the womb at its upper angles. The function
of these tubes is to convey the ovum from the ovary to
the womb. There are a number o f very interesting facts
concerning these tubes and their construction, but they
need not be discussed here.
The ovaries, together with the womb, are the most
important structures connected with the female repro­
ductive organs, for they are the organs on which devolve
the development o f the ova or eggs, which, when fertilised,
are capable of developing into a child. They differ in
form and structure in the lower forms o f life.
They are situated in the cavity of the pelvis, one on
either side of the uterus, and are joined thereto by a
fibrous cord, called the ovarian ligament, and also to the
Fallopian tubes by another fringe-like attachment.
Each ovary is of oval shape, about one and a half
inches long, half an inch thick, and three quarters o f an
inch wide. The internal structure o f the ovary consists
of a soft fibrous tissue, in which are embedded what are
known as the Graafian follicles, which contain the human
ovum or egg.
Every four weeks, during the child-bearing period of
life, one of these follicles bursts, and an ovum breaks
through, being carried into the cavity of the uterus. I f
this ovum becomes fertilised by the male fluid, then it
grafts itself to the womb and becomes the embryo or
foetus. If it does not become impregnated, then it
eventually escapes outwards with the menstrual flow.
The ovum or egg must now be considered. This is
the germ from which the body of the child will be formed
after impregnation, and it may be described as a cell—
that is, a living body composed o f living material. It
averages in diameter one one-hundred-and-twentieth
part of an inch. The ovum may therefore be regarded as
a special cell, set apart for the reproduction o f the race.
This cell, however, must be impregnated or fertilised,
y which is meant the union o f the male sperm with the
^prcgaation may take place in the womb
itself, when the ovum has arrived there, or the male fluid
n^y pass into the Fallopian tube and meet the ovum there.
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF SEX
However, as soon as this contact has taken place, the ovum
is sent forth on its developmental history, which in all
natural cases is carried on in the womb itself.
Now the ovaries are to the generative organs of the
female, what the testicles are to those of the male, and may
be said to supply the fructifying principle—the ovaries
supplying the egg, and the testicles the impregnating
fluid. This germ, or fluid, is in character like a tadpole,
having a nucleus or head, and a tail-like attachment or
filament. As soon as impregnation is effected, the
nucleus becomes the head of the coming child, and the
tail-like attachment the spinal cord.
As mentioned above, the ovaries are to the generative
organs of the female, what the testicles are to those of the
male. Just as in the female organs an ovum or egg is
discharged each month into the womb from the ovary,
so in the male organs a germ is created which is capable
of reproducing its kind; if not discharged from the
body by the sexual act, it passes into the blood
and enriches the system. There is therefore a correspond­
ing function in the organs of generation of the male and
female.
Having dealt as fully as is necessary with regard to the
sex organs and the preliminary processes of human
generation, I may now proceed to link up these processes,
and the period of human gestation, with astrological laws
and precepts.
It must first be understood that the chief stages in the
generation of a human being are:—
(i) The coitus, or act of generation—an important
moment, and directly related to the horoscope of birth
by a certain well-defined law ; (2) Impregnation, the con­
tact or union of the male fluid (spermatozoa) with the
female ovum, after which the ovum is immediately sent
on its developmental history; (j) Quickening, or period
of viabjhty, the half-way period between impregnation
and birth; and (4) the actual birth of the child.
The period of time from the coitus to the impregnation
varies from one to five days, this being the time allowed
by obstetricians “ during which, at any moment, and from
2a ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
• single coitus, conception may occur.” Moreover, the
period usually agreed upon by medical authorities is that
impregnation can only occur from a coitus which takes
place within five days before or after menstruation. This
particular period of five days is the extreme length o f time
the male fluid (spermatozoa) is capable of vivifying power,
and unless it meets an ovum before that period has expired
it then dies. The period from impregnation to birth is one
of 273 days, approximately nine calendar months, and
equalling ten revolutions o f the moon. A lunar revolu­
tion, — the return o f the moon to the same longitude
it previously held— is equal to 27.32 days, and ten similar
revolutions is equal to 273 days. The period o f quicken­
ing occurs at four-and-a-half calendar months, or five
revolutions of the moon.
It must, of course, be understood that these periods
relate to normal births, and are the average periods as
deduced from obstetric observations. Considerable varia­
tions occur, and births take place at seven, eight, and even
ten months from conception.
Now this period of 273 days is what is termed the
“ period of gestation,” or pregnancy, and the following
extract from “ The Modern Physician,” edited by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, F.R .S.E., F.S.L., will have particular
bearing on the question and its relation to the laws o f the
epochal theory:—
“ The normal and natural duration o f pregnancy
becomes naturally a subject of much importance, because
it bears an intimate relation to the period at which the
confinement may be expected. A normal pregnancy lasts,
as a rule, for 280 days, but great variations occasionally
arc found, first on the side of pregnancies which may be
of shorter duration, and still more on the side o f those
which extend beyond the period just named. There is
little doubt that allowance must be made for a certain
period both below and above the normal duration o f
pregnancy, seeing that variations may exist here, as in
respect of other functions of the human frame.”
The following further quotation from the medical
work referred to gives a more definite statement as to the
THB PHYSIOLOGY OF SBX
period at which the birth may be expected to occur
« The usual way to estimate when labour will occur is
that of calculating 280 days from the first day of the last
menstrual period of the woman. But, as regards the
actual occurrence of confinement, the rule which probably
brings us nearer to the actual date of the confinement is
that of counting three months backward from the last day
of the last menstrual period, and of adding seven days.
According to this rule, a woman who ceased to men­
struate on the ist of January would fall due to be confined
on the 8th day of October following. This rule depends
on the fact that probably she will have conceived a few
days after menstruation had ceased.”
The period usually agreed upon by obstetricians is
that impregnation can only take place from a coitus
which takes place within from five to seven days from the
last day of menstruation.
This is of course a normal period, but there are excep­
tions, as is shown by Dr. Marie Stopes, in her recent book,
“ Radiant Womanhood ” (page 4):—“ The longest
time which the individual sperm has been observed to
remain vital, after entry into the woman, is seventeen days,”
and she refers to Bossi, in L e N . Arch. d’Obstetr. Gynacol.
for April, 1891, as her authority.
I now come to the astrological laws and precepts
connected with this subject, and as the whole question
of human generation is governed by such laws and precepts,
the connection between Astrology and Birth Control
will become apparent.
The first law is, that no birth is fortuitous or takes
place by chance, but that all births are regulated by a
proved law, vi%., that at the exact moment of birth, the
degree of the zodiac then rising on the eastern horizon,
and that containing the Moon, interchange in accordance
with certain rules, with the degree of the zodiac contain­
ing the Moon, and that rising on the eastern horizon at
a certam moment of time, or “ Epoch,” which, though not
coincident in point of time with the coitus, impregnation
or conception occurs at the commencement of the period
ot gestation, and is related to the coitus by another law.
24 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF SEX 25
No doubt these statements may be strange, or even
unheard of, to the teachers of Birth Control. Let that be
as it may, the fact remains that they have been proved,
and are part of the laws and precepts of Astrology.
The law above stated is that o f the pre-natal epoch, and
the particular moment of time, at the commencement of
the gestative period, is known as the pre-natal or lunar
epoch. It was well known to the ancient Astrologers,
and under what was called the “ Trutine o f Hermes ”
it was supposed that it was the actual moment o f con­
ception—similarly when the epochal theory was first
presented to the astrological world in 1888, it was assumed,
not without a certain amount of reason, that this particular
epoch was the actual moment of conception.
It soon became apparent, as numerous authentic cases
came to hand, that this could not be correct, inasmuch
as in the case o f first children, the moment o f epoch
antedated the marriage. Other cases came to light which
definitely proved that the epoch had no relation whatever
to the physiological fact o f conception.
Further investigations, made by the present writer,
brought to light the fact that in certain cases the coitus
or act of generation antedated the epochal moment,
while at others it was later. This led to the conclusion
that there was a certain process in the generative organs
of the female— and that it should be possible to deduce
the time of such process from the horoscope o f the mother
which was really co-incident in point o f time with the
epochal moment.
Now it has been shown that, every four weeks, the
ovaries discharge an ovum or egg, which is passed into
the uterus via the Fallopian tubes, and is capable of
living there for a certain limited period, when it dies,
unless its functions have been established by impregnation,
similarly the spermatozoa of the male on entering the
uterus retains its vivifying power for from five to seven
oays, and unless it meets an ovum within that period
»t also dies.
From this it can be seen that one o f two processes
eventuates. The ovum may be present in the uterus at
the time of coition, in which case the epoch would ante­
date that process; or the spermatozoa may have to wait
until the ovum descends, in which case the epoch would
occur after coition.
It is therefore possible, in the case of a first child, for
this process, known as ovulation, to occur shortly before
the marriage of the parents, and consequendy the epoch
will occur prior to marriage.
This fact has been definitely proved by authentic cases,
one in particular being quite conclusive. It was argued
in this case that it was physiologically impossible for the
epoch to have taken place on a certain date, on the ground
that the parents were absent from each other for five days
before the date until six days afterwards. It was admitted
that the child was three weeks overdue, which would
bring the date within the period named, in spite of the
assertion that it was physiologically impossible. The facts
were quite clear that ovulation took place on the particular
day, but that the coitus did not occur until five days later.
As a result, the ovum was already waiting for the sperma­
tozoa, and the epoch antedated the day of conception.
In another case, the day of epoch was found to be
December 9th, 1893, although the parents were not
married until the 13 th. Here again the process of ovula­
tion took place before the act of generation.
The result of these investigations have led to the con­
clusion that we are now justified in identifying the moment
of the pre-natal or lunar epoch, with the physiological
process of ovulation, which has been explained in the
preceding pages.
Having dealt with the astro-physiological facts of
human generation, I can now turn to the Astrology of
Sex—a very important and distinctive feature in con­
nection with my subject.
26 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
The astrological significance of Sex is probably the most
important part of the science, and the various laws con­
nected therewith, as laid down in the theory o f the pre­
natal epoch, show that all births are governed by well-
defined and striedy mathematical laws, in which Sex
plays the controlling factor, and therefore it must neces­
sarily form an essendal part in the subject o f Birth Control.
This theory of the pre-natal epoch is the greatest
modern discovery in Astrological science, and many
hundreds of pages have been written about it, both by
the discoverer o f the theory, the well-known astrologer
“ Sepharial,” and by the present writer, who has also
written a complete work on the subject, a second edidon
of which is now ready.
The complete laws o f the pre-natal epoch are fully
detailed in the various astrological magazines of the past
thirty-five years, as well as in the two works mendoned,
and it is not necessary for me to elaborate upon them
herein. Readers are referred to my book, “ The Pre­
natal Epoch,” second edition, to be obtained from the
publishers of this work, for the complete explanadon
of this most important thesis.
It is, however, necessary for me to point out that the
fundamental principle of this epochal theory— no longer
a theory, but a definitely proved and established fact,
substandated by many hundreds of horoscopes, and
records of authendc birth data— is, that at a specific
moment before birth, known as the pre-natal or lunar
epoch, varying by a certain number of days before or
after the 273 rd day before birth (such variation being
determined from the horoscope of birth by the position
Chapter HI
THE ASTROLOGY OF SEX
*7
28 a s t r o l o g y a n d b i r t h c o n t r o l
of the Moon in relation to the Sun and the ascending
degree), when the ascending degree and the Moon, at
this particular specific moment or Epoch, are in horo-
scopical relations with the Moon and the ascendant at
the moment of birth. In other words, the ascendant
at birth becomes the place of the Moon at the epoch, or
its opposite point, while the Moon at birth becomes the
ascending degree or its opposite point at the same epoch.
All of these interchanges are computed by strict astro-
mathematical laws, and are controlled in every way by
the paramount law of Sex.
By the laws of the epoch, no birth can take place
except at such a time when this interchange can be made,
and investigations of many hundreds of birth times,
including those of people of wealth and position, as well
as the ordinary rank and file of humanity, have proved
beyond the slightest doubt or fear of contradiction that
this interchange does actually exist. There are no
exceptions ; the theory would be untenable if there were.
It is a proved and incontrovertible fact.
The Law of Sex, as applied to Astrology, is based
primarily on the Hindu sub-division of the Zodiac into
28 asterisms or mansions, each being 12$° in extent.
The four cardinal points are the starting posts for the
determination of sex, and these, with their respective sex
distinctions, are: Aries o°, Female; Cancer o°, Female;
Libra o°, Male; Capricorn o°, Male.
A further extension of this division is now to be made
by dividing the whole circle of the zodiac into seven
equal parts of ji f ° , commencing at each point of the
quadrant, making the 28 asterisms or divisions. Each
point of the zodiac cut by these divisions is alternately
male and female, commencing with the sex of the cardinal
point from which the division is made.
Starting from Aries o° {Female), the points of the zodiac
arrived at and the sex are : Taurus, 210 26', Male ; Cancer,
12 5 1, Female; Virgo, 40 i 7', M ale; Libra, 250 4*',
Female Saglttarius> I7° »'» and Aquarius, 8° 54\
Commencing with Libra o°, the opposite point, and
Male sex, the points of the zodiac are the same degrees
and minutes of the opposite signs to those named in the
last paragraph, with the sex reversed.
Starting with Cancer o° (Female), the several points
are: Leo, 2 10 26', M ale; Libra, 120 j i ', Fem ale; Sagit­
tarius, 40 17', M ale; Capricorn, 250 4 }', Fem ale; Pisces,
170 9', M ale; Taurus, 8° 34', Female.
Commencing with Capricorn o°, the opposite point to
Cancer, and Male, the points o f the zodiac cut by these
divisions are the same degrees and minutes o f the opposite
signs to those named in the last paragraph, with the sex
reversed.
Collating these in their proper order, the following
table of sex degrees is obtained.
THE ASTROLOGY OF SEX Z $
Degree Sign Sex Sign Sex Sign Sex Sign Sex
0. 0 V F. as F. M. M.
12.31 V M. as F. F. M.
2 5 -4 3 V M. as M. F. F.
8.34 « F. SI M. in M. F.
21.26 a M. SI M. HI F. F.
4 - 1 7 n F. nje M. t M. X F.
17. 9 n F. nje F. t M. X M.
It will be seen, therefore, that there are four sets or
series of sex degrees, alternately male and female, which
have their genesis in the four cardinal points. Each point
is separated by I2 f°, approximately agreeing with the
diurnal motion of the moon, and forming the twenty-
eight lunar mansions, or asterisms.
The application of these sex, or “ critical ” degrees, as
they are termed, to the theory of the pre-natal epoch has
now to be considered, and here a further extension of the
division must be properly understood. The position of the
two prime factors, the moon and ascendant, in relation
to these degrees must be noted, but it will hardly ever
occur that either of the two factors in any horoscope will
occupy the exact degree and minute of any of them;
but so long as they are placed within a certain distance
of the exact point they are considered as within orbs of
the particular sex degree.
A very important point must now be considered. It
is one of the later developments of the epochal thesis,
and gave the clue which settled a very difficult point which
had baffled investigators. The distance from the exact
sex, or critical degrees at which the Moon and ascendant
would act, is not the same for both.
The 360 degrees of the zodiacal circle are divided as
shown in the table above, but the exact points obtained
are not the commencement of any particular sex area, but
the centre, and so far as the zodiacal degrees were con­
sidered, the distance from each exact sex point is only
3° 13', or one quarter of each asterism, so that the sex
influence of the degrees of the zodiac extends for this
space on each side of the exact sex point. The area,
therefore, not covered by this space of 30 13' is con­
sidered negative or neuter.
For illustration, Aries o° to 30 13' is Female. From
Aries 9° 38' to 160 4' is Male. The space from Aries
30 13' to 90 38', is negative or neuter.
In regard to the Moon, however, the arrangement is
different, as this orb is always of either one sex or the
other. As each of the 28 divisions of the Zodiac contains
i2$° or 120 51', the Moon retains the sex of that
degree to which it is the nearer. Thus, if placed between
Aries o° and 6° 26', it is in a female area ; but from Aries
6 26 to 19 17 , a space of 12 ^°, it is male. It can never
be negative or neuter.
The following tabular arrangement will show at a
glance the exact sex degrees, and the orb of influence at
which both the Moon and ascendant will act.
30 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
THE ASTROLOGY OF SEX 31
I a 3 4 3 6
Six.
Limi ts of
E x a c t
S e x
P o in t
Limi ts of
Moon's
Orb
Ascendt’s
Orb
Ascendt's
Orb
Moon's
Orb
F. — — V 0 . O V 3 1 3 T 6 26
M. r 6 26 V 9-39 r 12.51 r 16. 4 T 19 17
M. T *9 -17 V 22.30 r 25 43 V 28.56 a 2 9
F. a 2. 9 a 5.21 a 8 34 a 11.4 7 a 15 O
M. a 15 O a 18 .13 a 21 26 a 24-39 a 27 51
F. a 27. 5i n I- 4 n 4 17 n 7.30 n IO 43
F. n 10.43 n 13-56 n 17 9 n 20.21 n 23 34
F. n 23 34 n 26.47 QD O. O QD 3 1 3 QD 6 26
F. QD 6 26 QD 9-39 QD 12.51 QD 16. 4 QD 19 1 7
M. QD 19 17 QD 22.30 QD 25 43 QD 28.56 ft 2 9
M. ft 2 . 9 ft 5-21 ft 8 34 ft *1-47 ft 15 O
M. ft >5 O ft 18 .13 ft 21 26 ft 24-39 ft 27 51
H. ft 27 51 R I- 4 R 4 17 R 7-30 R IO 43
F. R IO. 43 R I3-56 R 17 9 R 20.21 R 23 34
M. R 23 34 TT 26.47 O. O H z 3 1 3 H z 6 26
F. • Hz 6 26 — 9-39 12.51 Hz 16. 4 19-17
F. — 19 17 — 22.30 H 25 -43 H z 28.56 R 2 . 9
M. "1 2. 9 R 5-21 R 8 .34 R 11-47 R 15 O
F. "l »5 0 R 18 .13 R 21 26 R 24-39 R 27. 51
M. R 27 51 t I- 4 t 4 -17 t 7 -3° t IO. 43
M. t IO 43 t 1 3 5 6 t 17- 9 t 20.21 t 23- 34
M. t 23 34 t 26.47 A O. O A 3-13 K\ 6 .26
14. A 6 26 A 9-39 12.51 A 16. 4 A 19-17
r. A 19 17 A 22.30 A 25- 43 28.56 cm 2 . 9
r. em 2. 9 cm 5.21 cm 8 .34 cm 11.4 7 cm 15- O
cm *5 O cm 18 .13 cm 21 26 cm 24-39 cm 27. 51
cm 27 51 X I . 4 X 4 -17 X 7.30 X IO. 43
X 10. 43 X 13.56 X 17- 9 X 20.21 X 23- 34
r. K 23-34 X 26.47 X 30 . O
Explanation.—Column 4 of the uble shows the exact sex point. Cols. 3 and 3
llK^ where the influence of the ascendant commences and finishes respectively. Cob.
a sad 6 show where the Moon's influence commences and finishes respectively. Col. I
***** *e* of the area between the longitudes in Cob. 2 and 6. When the ascendant
•t the epoch falls between the longitudes in Cob. 2 and 3, and 5 and 6 it is negative.
. Exampls.—Ascendant at epoch, Cancer 180 5'. Moon, Scorpio i j ° 24'. Looking
oownthe columns headed “ Ascendant's Orb,” it will be seen that Cancer 18* j ' is outside
“£“ ** 8>veo. It b. therefore, negative. Looking down the columns headed " Moon’s
Jl V 11 will be seen that Scorpio 130 commences a Female area, and the Moon will
uierclore be in an area of that sex. The same rule applies to all cases.
We now come to another very important point, one
which must not be overlooked. The sex of a person is
not shown in the horoscope, but in the figure for the
pre-natal epoch. At birth, sex has already been deter­
mined. The sex of a child is determined during the
gestative period, and it is from the figure for the epoch
that the sex is obtained.
Having the figure of the epoch properly drawn up, the
sex of a person is determined by noting the areas in which
the moon and ascendant are placed. This is performed
in accordance with the following rules :—
1. When the ascendant is negative, outside the
distance of 30 13' from an exact sex point, as frequently
happens, the sex of the person will be that of the sex
of the degree to which the Moon is the nearer.
2. When both the moon and ascendant are within
their respective orbs of a degree of the same sex, the sex
of the subject is the same as the sex of the area so occupied.
3. When the Moon and ascendant are placed within
their respective orbs of degrees of the opposite sex—
the moon in a female area, and the ascendant in a male,
or vice versa—the sex of the subject is determined by the
quadrant held by the moon. There will then be two
points of one sex, and one of the other, and whichever sex
predominates that will be the sex of the subject.
The sex influences of the quadrants of the epochal
figure are as follows:—
South-East Quadrant: Meridian to Ascendant . . Male.
North-East Quadrant: Ascendant to Fourth House . .
Female.
North-West Quadrant: Fourth House to Descendant . .
Male.
South-West Quadrant: Descendant to Meridian . .
Female.
In dealing with this question, it may also be mentioned
that the sex influence of the quadrant is not an invention
or an arbitrary or fortuitous supposition.
It is based on nature, and has a direct relation with the
sex activity in the cell in animal organisms, and I have
recendy found, in certain species where reproduction is
32 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
THE ASTROLOGY OF SEX 33
brought about by fissure, that the sex of the newly formed
organisms follows exactly on the line of the sex arrange­
ment of the quadrants of the horoscope.
This is an important point in relation to the epochal
theory, and shows that the main factors relating to sex,
without which the interchange o f the birth moon and
ascendant with the epochal ascendant and moon cannot
be made, are in no sense inventions but are actual scientific
facts. Not only is the whole theory indissolubly con­
nected with obstetrics, the laws of generation and gestation,
but it is directly related to the laws of sex in the lower
organisms.
When an ovum has been impregnated, certain changes
take place in its structure. The ovum (as already pointed
out) is a single living cell. As the result of fertilisation,
there occurs what is known as “ segmentation,” or cell
division, each ovum dividing first into two parts, each
of which again sub-divide, exactly as shown in the diagram
of the quadrants of the horoscope. It is in this sub­
division that the process o f sex determination takes place,
and it is in accordance with the laws and precepts of
Astrology.
It is not possible in a work of this nature to give any
detailed illustrations of the calculations involved in deter-
mimng what is known as the pre-natal or lunar epoch.
For full details, and numerous illustrations, I must refer
my readers to my other work, “ The Pre-Natal Epoch.”
%
c
K ing Solomon, the wisest man who ever lived, w rote:
“ To everything there is a season, and a time to every
purpose under the heavens ; a time to be born and a time
to die; a time to plant and a time to pluck up that which
is planted. . . ” William Shakespeare, the greatest of
all great poets, wrote : “ There is a tide in the affairs
of men, which, taken at the flood leads on to fortune.”
Solomon said, “ There is a time to be born; there is
a time to sow.” The farmer sows his wheat at a propi­
tious time, and reaps a bountiful harvest. The cottage
gardener or allotment holder sows his beans and peas
under favourable planetary influences, and obtains an
abundant yield. The investor buys securities or shares
at a favourable time, and later on sells out to a large profit.
But do we ever hear of the sowing of the seed which,
in after days, will develop into a human form, and be the
home or dwelling-place of a Divine Spirit— the soul—
at a time when influences are favourable for such an act ?
The gardener prepares his ground, selects the best and
strongest seeds, and the young plant thrives, grows strong,
and yields an abundant harvest. Does man prepare his
own seed, or select the best and purest of virgin soil,
and thus obtain a strong child, physically, mentally, and
morally as near perfection as possible— the beau ideal of
a veritable superman ? Is it not more often the case that
the seed is tainted by habits of bad living, physical imper­
fections, hereditary diseases, while the soil is unprepared,
equally tainted, and similarly imperfect and diseased ?
Yet what is the difference in the sowing of the seed of
the plant and that of the human form divine ? In the
sowing of the plant seed, there is the union between the
Chapter IV
THE PROCREATION OF CHILDREN
J4
seed and the soil. Then follows the germinative period—
the darkness beneath the ground— then the thrusting
forth of the young shoot to face the winds and storms,
and the danger of destruction from being trodden under­
foot.
In the human life we have the same parallel. The
sowing of the male spermatozoa to meet the ovum of the
female is the same as the union of the plant seed with the
soil. Then follows the gestative period— the darkness of
the womb— followed by the thrusting forth of the
living child, to face the dangers and trials of earthly
life.
The beasts of the field, both wild and domestic, have
their particular seasons for reproducing their kind, some
at one season of the year, and others at another season.
In some of the smaller animals this occurs two or three
times a year. The human beast—for verily he is worse
than one where sex is concerned— produces his kind at
any season, regardless of whether it is a suitable or natural
time for them to be born. The brute beasts are far more
temperate and discriminating in sexual matters than
human beings, for they do not use artificial means to pre­
vent conception, and once this is an accomplished fact,
the female beast will not allow the male to approach her.
With the human being, however, according to the teach­
ings of Birth Control, sexual intercourse is to take place
at all times and all seasons, while artificial means are to
be taken to prevent the results of such intercourse.
The question which I am now propounding is this :
If the farmer, by astrological rules, can select a favourable
time for the sowing of the plant seed, after having properly
prepared his soil, why should not humanity select similar
propitious times for the procreation of children, thereby
ensuring a progeny, physically, mentally, and morally
superior, capable of uplifting and benefiting the world ?
I am putting forward no fanciful theory or plausible
delusion. I am making no suggestion which cannot be
put into a practical and concrete form. Moreover, I am
bringing forward no new theory, or invention of my own.
It is part and parcel of the laws of Astrology.
THE PROCREATION OF CH ILD REN J J
If, by Astrology, man is advised to avail himself of
certain planetary positions for particular purposes, is it
logical to suppose that the question of procreation is not
one of these particular purposes ? A man makes an
“ election” for commencing a business, for taking a
journey, or making a change. Why should he not do
so for reproducing his kind ? In the Hindu writings we
are given the facts that a man should avail himself of
particular planetary positions if he desires an excellent
issue. Parasara, who was a great Astronomer and
Astrologer, finding that such an hour for Nisheka (con­
ception) had approached, joined a boatman’s daughter in
an island on the Jumna, and the issue was the great
Vedavyasa. A Brahmin Astrologer, under similar cir­
cumstances, joined a potter’s daughter, when the issue was
the great Salivahana.
Let us first of all consider the question of children
from an Astrological standpoint. Children are denoted
by the fifth house of the horoscope of birth, the second
of the three houses comprising the triangle of Life, which
governs procreation, whereby man’s life, by the un­
changeable law of nature, is transmitted to his offspring.
It is generally given in the text books that this house
shows the number of children a person will have, but
this, in my view, is wrong. The real influence of the
fifth house is that it denotes the natural procreative power
of a person—the power or faculty for reproducing his
or her kind.
This is determined by the planets in the fifth house,
and the sign on the cusp of the fifth. The Moon, Venus
and Jupiter show a strong procreative power. The Sun,
Saturn and Uranus give small powers of procreation, or
a power that will be moderately used. Neptune may be
considered to be fruitful, but its influence is doubtful,
as it usually conduces to non-sexual tendencies, and has
a conspicuous influence in such matters as Birth Control.
Mercury is either fruitful or barren in accordance with
its sign position in the fifth house.
With regard to the signs themselves, Taurus, Cancer,
Scorpio and Pisces are fruitful signs and increase the
36 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
procreative power. Aries, Leo and Capricorn are the
reverse. The other signs are moderately so.
When no planets are placed in the fifth house of a
horoscope, the sign on the cusp of that house has the chief
influence; but if planets are placed therein, they must
be taken in accordance with their own nature, in con­
junction with the procreative power of the sign in which
they are placed.
An important question arises from a consideration of
these brief rules regarding the indication of children
from the horoscope of birth.
Let us suppose a woman, in whose horoscope Venus
is in the fifth house in the sign Cancer. Here is a fruitful
planet, or a planet which has a strong procreative power,
placed in a sign of similar nature. The text books would
say that this indicates “ a large family, mostly girls.”
Under normal conditions, marriage taking place at an
early age, this influence would be likely to produce a
family of from ten to fifteen children. On the other hand
if Birth Control was practised in a really constructive
manner, and the procreative powers used as nature
intended them to be used, could not “ Quantity ” be
changed into “ Quality ” ? Would it not be possible, by
a proper exercise o f the procreative function, a proper
method of “ Constructive ” Birth Control, to regulate
the number of offspring, and thereby ensure “ quality ” —
strong, healthy, and virile children— rather than
“ quantity,” in a large number of mediocre, and less
virile children ?
This is where the true system of Birth Control comes in,
but it will not be done by the pestilent teaching of indis­
criminate sexual indulgence, with the m inim um danger of
subsequent conception.
But to return to the main question—whether it is
possible to reproduce one’s kind at pre-arranged times,
when the planetary positions are such as to ensure an
excellent issue— I am absolutely certain that it can be done,
and that the key lies in the science of Astrology, and the
laws of the pre-natal epoch.
From my investigations, extending over a period of
THE PROCREATION OF C H ILD REN 57
some twenty years, in connection with the epochal theory,
I have discovered that the key lies in the inter-relationship
of the ascendant at the act of generation (coitus) with the
Moon at birth, these also having the usual recognised
interchange with the Moon and ascendant at the epoch,
and the ascendant and Moon at birth.
The following cases are put forward in support of my
views—they are the first of their kind, and from two
different standpoints, and it was from these cases that I
was led into a definite line of research, the results of which
are embodied herein.
Case No. i
In November, 1903, a gentleman resident at Sitting-
bourne, Kent, acquainted me with the fact that he was
about to become a father, and that he had computed the
birth of the child, which would be of the male sex, to
take place on December 23rd, at 5.35 p.m.
The date and time of the coitus in this case had been
noted as occurring at 11 p.m., on March 26th, and from
this the epoch had been computed as taking place on the
following day at 7.34 a.m. No reason was assigned for
this particular computation, and I was left to ascertain
the modus operands myself.
In the next chapter I propose to make a detailed examina­
tion of this particular case with a view of explaining and
illustrating the relationship of these three times, and the
connecting link with each other.
The particular and most astonishing point in con­
nection with this case is that the father of the child
correctly computed the time of its birth some weeks
before it happened, and with no other factor to work
from than the date and time of the coitus. If there was
any mathematical basis for this procedure in one case,
there should be no difficulty in arriving at the modusoperands
in other cases.
These are the facts—astonishing though they may seem,
they are absolutely true, and the letter giving them is by
my side as I write.
What was the sequel ?
38 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
An American astrologer wrote me as follow s:—
“ Following the example given in the latter part of your
work on the pre-natal epoch [this was the case just given]
I have been able to correctly determine the time of birth
and sex of four children, born in our family within the
last two years, six months or more in advance of their
birthdays, and I feel that the remarkable accuracy of
the rules given is clearly demonstrated and entitled to
endorsement.”
The particulars of this remarkable case, which I checked
and found correct, so far as the mathematical side was
concerned, led me into a certain line of investigation
which was extremely difficult, owing to the lack of the
necessary date, vh^., the time of the generative act.
A number of cases were obtained, but as the particular
time was only approximately known, little progress was
made in arriving at any definite laws. A few cases came
to hand where the time was given with accuracy, and
although no definite system of laws has been propounded,
it is proved conclusively that the moment of the act of
generation is connected with the epoch, the quickening,
and the time of birth, and it is therefore in no sense
illogical to suppose that it is possible to select a time for
the coitus, which will bring a birth at a selected hour, so
that the child may be born under propitious influences,
physically, mentally and morally evolved.
This led to a consideration of another important
factor in this subject, v i the date of quickening.
According to medical authorities, quickening is often
called that sense of “ feeling life,” or “ stirrage,” and it is
due to the movement of the fcetus in the womb. Import­
ance is attached to the period at which quickening occurs.
This period may be set down, as a rule, as occurring at
the end of the fourth month of pregnancy, approximately
at the half-way point between conception and birth.
Very frequendy, the first movement of quickening causes
a sensadon of faintness or sickness in the woman. Many
nurses calculate the date when the confinement will take
place from the occurrence of the quickening.
With these notes before us, it will be interesting to
THE PROCREATION OF CH ILD REN J 9
see how far the epochal laws will determine the date of
quickening, and in what way.
The following facts came under my personal observa­
tion in the year 1903, but it was not until eleven years
afterwards that I was able to bring to light a very impor­
tant discovery in connection with this factor. I give the
full details, so that students have the opportunity of
examining the whole matter.
A lady relative, who was known to be enceinte, related
to my wife that, about one o’clock in the middle of the
day on August nth, 1903, she experienced a turning
movement in u/ero, came over very faint, and was sick.
The lady gave birth to a boy on December 26th, 1903,
at 3.47 a.m., rectified time. The ascendant was Scorpio
120 17', and the moon was in Pisces 22°49', increasing and
below.
On August nth, at 1.15 p.m., the moon was in Pisces
220 49', exacdy the same as at birth, while the ascendant
was in the middle of Scorpio, close to the birth ascendant.
At the epoch on March 16th, 1903, the ascendant was
22049' Pisces—the place ofthe moon at birth—and the moon
was in Scorpio 120 17'—the ascendant of the horoscope.
Such a series of coincidences—if one may properly
call them such—are not by any means fortuitous. They
cannot have happened by chance, or be merely a play on
the moon’s motion. There must have been some reason
for the exact coinciding of the moon’s place and ascendant
at three distinct and separate dates, some natural law in
operation regulating such coincidence.
That the facts stated in this chapter must be relegated
to the realms of coincidence is a suggestion which no
earnest seeker after the truth will admit. Moreover, there
are no such things as coincidences where natural laws are
concerned. It was no “ fake,” no chance occurrence ; it
was in conformity with a well-defined law, which is capable
of further demonstration.
40 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
Chapter V
TH E FIRST G R E A T LAW R E V E A L E D
I will now give the mathematical solution to the remark­
able case given in the previous chapter, and will then
proceed to demonstrate the law governing the connection
between the coitus, epoch, quickening, and birth, from
several other known and authentic cases.
Case No. i, was that of a male child, born on December
23rd, 1905, at Sittingbourne, Kent, at 3.33 p.m. observed
time, and it is stated that the coitus took place on March
26th, 1905, at 11 p.m. The longitude and latitude of the
birth place are 51.20 N. and 44' E.
The following is the calculation.
H. M. S.
Sidereal time, Dec. 23rd ... 18 5 26
Add time of birth ................ 3 35 o
„ correction ................ 35
„ for E. long. 44' ... i ;6
Ascendant .............................U 28 j6
Moon .............................Tl\ 26 40
The ascendant is in a female area, while the Moon is
below the earth, decreasing and negative. The Index
date—the 273rd day before birth— was 24th March,
1905, but as the Moon was decreasing and below, the
exact day of the epoch would fall on 27th March, 1905,
at a time when the Moon’s birth-place would be setting,
and the Moon on this day would be in the descendant of
the birth figure, 1 $ 28.56.
The Moon’s birthplace will set with a Sidereal time of
i9h. 52m. 47s., and as the time of the epoch would be
before noon of March 27th, the Sidereal time at noon
41
on the previous day must be subtracted therefrom, as
follows:—
42 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
H. M. s.
Sid. Time, 26.4ofl\ sets 19 J2 4 7
99 „ noon, 26.3.05 ... 0 13 3
*9 39 4 4
Subtract for E. Long. 44' ... 2 J <
5
19 36 48
Less correcdon ............... 3 13
19 33 35
or 7h. 33m. 35s. a.m. of March 27th, at which time the
longitude of the Moon was f 28.50, which was the exact
descendant at birth, as against f 28.56 at the recorded
time.
As 28.50 f would set at 2ih. 44m. 37s., which was
20s. less than at the recorded time, 3.35 p.m., the exact
birth time was 3h. 34m. 40s. p.m.
Now what relation has the time of the epoch with the
time of the coitus, which is stated to have taken place at
11 p.m. 26th March, 1905, the night before the epoch?
Calculation shows that at the time of the coitus—
March 26th, 11 p.m.—the R.A.M.C. was n h . 17m. 47s.;
ascendant, Scorpio 250 55'; moon in Sagittarius, 240 3'.
At the time of the epoch, it is noted that the degree
rising at the coitus is now exaedy setting, 26° 40' y being
on the ascendant; the moon had progressed to f 28° 50'
—an increment of 40 47'. At the time of birth, the
posidons are reversed, the ascendant being 28° 50' n ,
and the moon 26° 40' ify.
The point to be noted is that the ascendant at the
coitus was the moon’s place at birth. The period of sex
formadon—the fifth return of the epochal moon to its
radical place, on August 10th, at ioh. 34m. 57s. p.m.—
shows 26° 40' b , again ascending; moon in 26° 3 1' f .
The distance of the moon at this time from the line of
central impulse is 20 19'—approximately half the distance
moved by the moon between the coitus and the epoch.
THE F IR S T GREAT LAW REVEALED 43
If the ascendant at the coitus is adjusted to 26.40,
this time being merely approximate, the correct time
becomes n h . 4m. 16s. p.m.
Examining the position of the moon and ascendant
at the four periods, the following is obtained:—
Coitus ... 26° 39'n\. Agcendant.
Epoch ... 26° 39' d . „
jth Return ... 26° 39' d . „
Birth ... 26° 39'TTl. Moon.
Thus at all the four points there is found the same
identical longitude of either Scorpio or Taurus, the
opposite sign. The transposition is due to the moon
at birth being decreasing. With an increasing moon,
all four would be in the same sign. A connecting factor
is thus shown to exist, the ascendant or its opposite at the
first three stages becoming the moon’s longitude at the
fourth stage— that of birth.
Case N o. 2
This case is an emphatic corroboration of the previous
one and gives the identical working of the law which
was therein outlined, pi\.t the connection between the
coitus, epoch, quickening, and birth.
The particulars are as follows : A female child, pre­
maturely born on May 14th, 1917, at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
lat. 54.59 N., long. 6m. 28s. W., between 0.30 and 1 a.m.
At the time of the epoch the parents were residing in
lat. 53.21 N., long. 6.15 W. The coitus took place about
four minutes after midnight on October 31st, 1916.
The birth being premature, the ordinary regular rules
would not apply, the epoch being of the 4th order, varia­
tion 3 ; the period of gestation being 25 days less than
8 lunar months, or 193 J days.
From the data supplied the following particulars are
obtained:—
Birth.
May 14th, 1917
oh. 40m. 7s. a.m.
2 3 - 4 9 ft
22. 1 s»
G.M .T.
Ascendant.
Moon.
Epoch.
Nov. 1st, 1916
2h. 21m. 2s. p.m.
2 2 . I 3S
2 3 - 4 9 f t
Now, what relation does the coitus bear to these figures ?
The time is given as about four minutes after midnight
of Oct. 31st, 1916. At this time 220 1' SI the opposite
degree to the epochal ascendant was rising. The Moon
was then in the 15.24. As soon as the degree which was
then rising had set, and the Moon had progressed to
23.49, the moment of the epoch arrived.
The process given accords exactly with that given
in the previous case in every single particular.
An examination of this figure yields the following
further information:—
44 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
Ascendant. Coitus ... 22° 2' SI
99 Epoch ... 22° 2'
» 5th return ... 22° 2' C
C
S
Moon. Birth ... 22° 2' C
C
S
Here, again, the same harmony is shown as in the
previous case, save that the Moon at birth is in the degree
of the same sign instead of the opposite.
Case No. 3
Case No. 3 is a little different from the foregoing,
there being a period of nearly eight days between the
coitus and epoch; but the law revealed in the previous
cases is again confirmed, and the connection between the
coitus, epoch, quickening, and birth is again demonstrated.
This is the case of a male child, born June 4th, 1886,
at i i p.m., in Lat. 51.18 N., Long. 2.27 W. The coitus
is stated to have taken place at 11 p.m., on September
24th, 1885. I give the calculations in full.
Birth Time
Correction
Subtract for W. Long.
Asc.
Moon
H. M
. s.
> ... 4 5 * 24
••■ II O 0
... I 48
*5 53 12
... 9 48
* J -3
16.0
ij
as
43 24
THE FIRST GREAT LAW REVEALED 45
The ascendant is a female degree, the Moon is not far
from a female degree, increasing and below; the child is
premature as clearly shown from the gestative period,
as the period from the coitus to birth is only 253 days,
so the ninth lunar return must be taken as the index date,
not the tenth. The following is the epochal calculation.
The Moon, although increasing and below, will set at
the epoch, being female, but the epochal Moon must be
in Cancer to get the required sex.
H. M. s.
J)’s place s e t s ................ ... 15 *3 38
Sid. Time, October 2nd ... 12 43 28
2 28 30
W. Long......................... ... 9 48
2 38 18
Correction ................ ... 26
G.M.T. ............................. 2 37 52
The Moon’s longitude at this time is as 24.32, a
male degree, and as the ascendant is also male, the sex
was the same. The ascendant will therefore be 24.32.
H. M. S.
This degree rises a t ................ i j 41 30
Sid. Time at observed birth 15 43 24
The Birth time is therefore im. 34s. earlier than the
observed time.
Making the necessary adjustments, very small in this
case, we have the following comparison of birth and epoch.
B ird.
June 4th, 1886
H. m. s.
58 26 p.m.
48 38 p.m.
2 4 - 3 2
13.59 23
10
10
G.M.T.
L.M.T.
Ascd.
Moon. , _
Now what relation has the coitus to these figures ?
it is stated to have taken place on Sept. 24th, 1885, at
Ii p.m. The ascendant was then 16 .13 so* If the
Epoch.
October 2nd, 1885
h . m . s.
2 37 49 p.m.
2 28 1 p.m.
15-39 V
5
24.32 as
time is taken as im. ns. earlier, it will give 15.59 on as
the ascendant, this being the place of the moon at the birth
and the opposition of the ascendant at the epoch. A longer
period elapsed between the coitus and the epoch, because
the correct interchange could not be made until nearly
eight days had elapsed.
Case No. 4
This case exhibits a variation from the three previous
inasmuch as the meridian comes into play. It is the case
of a male child, born in London, on Dec. 18th, 1922, at
9 a.m. At this time, the Sidereal time was I4h. 44m. 46s.
Scorpio, 13.39 being on the meridian, Capricorn 7.45
ascending, and the Moon in Sagittarius 23.52. The Moon
is negative and the ascendant in a male area.
The pre-natal epoch took place on March 21st, 1922, at
ih. 53m. 38s. a.m., correcting the birth time to 9I1. om. 42s.
a.m., with the ascendant at y^ 7.56, and the Moon in
t 23.53, the meridian beingII\ 13.50.
The comparison of the birth and epoch is as follows :—
Birth. Epoch.
18th Dec., 1922. 21 st Mar., 1922.
h . m. s. h . m. s.
9 o 42 a.m. g .m.t . 1 53 38 a.m.
7.56 Ascdt. 2 3 -5 3 t
23.53 t Moon. 7.56 y^
A negative area is rising and the Moon is in a male area
confirming the sex.
The time of the coitus was given as 10.30 p.m., March
18th, 1922, the ascendant being Il\ 14.19, less than half
a degree from the meridian at the time of birth. If the
time of the coitus had been loh. 27m. 31s. p.m., the
ascendant would have been fl^ 13.50. The Moon was
then in f 10.31.
In this case a little more than two days elapsed between
the coitus and the epoch, the ascendant at the former
time going round the horoscope twice and then coming
to the meridian. The ascendant at the coitus in this case
becomes the meridian of the horoscope.
46 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
t h e f i r s t g r e a t l a w r e v e a l e d 47
Case N o. 5
This is an interesting case, as the epoch antedates the
coitus by several days, a corroboration of the statement
previously made that the ovum may be waiting for
contact with the male spermatozoa. The data of birth
are given in Mr. C. E. O. Carter’s Encyclopedia of Psycho­
logicalAstrology, page 92. Female, born 20th March, 1916,
at 6.40 a.m., Lat. 510 30' N., Long. 13' W. Ascdt.
17.7 <y>. Moon Hz 6.10. The ascendant is in a male
area, and the Moon is below the earth, decreasing and
negative. The coitus occurred on July 3rd, 1915, at
n p.m.
The case is also interesting from another point of view,
it being affirmed that the rules of the epoch gave a male
birth. This, however, was quite incorrect, for the Moon
being negative at birth, its place at the epoch was bound to
be in a female area, in accordance with the published rules.
Correcdy calculated, the epoch took place at oh. 14m.
46s. a.m., June 22nd, 1915, and compared with the birth
figure showed as follows :—
Birth. Epoch.
20th Mar., 1916. 22nd June, 19IJ.
H. M. S. H. M. S.
6 40 34 a.m. g.m.t. o 14 46
17.38 T5 Ascdt. 6 .11 T
6 .11 Moon. 17-38 —
The correction showed 54m. only difference in the
birth time, while with a negative ascendant at the epoch
and the Moon in a female area, the correct sex was denoted.
At the time of the coitus, 3rd July, 1915, at 11 p.m.
X 19.40 was on the ascendant, and the Moon was in
V 7 -37-
Case N o. 6
This case came under my notice a few years ago, and
has since been mentioned in the pages of Modern Astrology,
wherein the father of the child issued a challenge to anyone
to relate radix and coition maps in such a way that fore­
casting could be attempted.
The particulars of birth and coitus as stated in Modern
Astrology are as follows :—
Birth, 29th Oct., 1925, 3.25 p.m., Croydon.
Coitus, 13th Feb., 1925, 7.50 a.m., Wandsworth.
The time of birth was originally given to me as 3.20 p.m.
and I propose to work from this time.
The following is a comparison of the birth and epoch:—
Birth. Epoch.
29th Oct., 1925. 27th Jan., 1925.
H. M. S. H. M. S.
3 17 37 p.m. g.m.t. 10 26 24 p.m.
22.15 X Ascdt. 9 .14 —
9.14 T Moon. 22.15 X
The ascendant of the epoch is negative and the Moon
is in a male area, thus confirming the sex.
At the time of the coitus which, as in the last case, took
place after the epoch, the ascendant was X 7.16, and the
Moon was in 15.35 —.
48 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
Case No. 7
The last case which I submit has recently been the
subject of a competition, in which the father of the child
offered a prize for the calculation of the birth time from
the coitus.
The coitus took place at 8.45 p.m. on March 19th, 1928,
in Lat. 550 58' N. and Long. i° 4' W. The child was
born on December 2nd, 1928, at 10.49 P-m » and was
15 days before time.
At the recorded time of birth T1J 4.36 was rising, a
male degree, and the moon was in St 26.22, negative,
above and decreasing. As the child was known to have
been 15 days before time, the regular rules do not apply.
The following is the comparison of birth and epoch :—
Birth. Epoch.
2nd Dec., 1928. 5th March, 1928.
H. M. S. H. M. S.
10 53 21 p.m. g.m.t.
5.21 Tlj Acsdt.
*6.25 SI Moon.
3 54 4 p m.
26.25 ft
5.21 nje
The Ascendant of the epoch is negative and the Moon
male, thus confirming the sex.
The figure for the coitus gives ^ 24.24 rising and the
Moon in X 2.2, and is a distincdy male figure.
I have several other cases*in possession, which bear out
the facts enumerated in this chapter, but the exigencies of
space prevent their inclusion.
THE FIRST GREAT LA W REVEALED 49
Chapter VI
THE SECOND G REA T LAW R EV EA LED
W hen writing my first work on the pre-natal epoch,
in 1916, I had occasion to deal with the horoscope of a
child known as “ Lilian.” This case had been previously
used by an opponent of the theory, as an argument
against its verity, the gestative period being at its utmost
limit only 36 weeks and 4 days. The case was further
used as an argument against the validity of the theory,
inasmuch as the epoch actually took place four days
before the parents of the child were married.
The data of the case was as follows :— Female, August
list, 1894, 3.55 p.m. Lat. 52.48 N., Long. 1.25 E.
Calculation of the correct time yielded the following
comparison of the birth and epoch.
Birth.
Aug. 21st, 1894.
H. M. S.
3 56 58 p.m.
4 2 38 p.m.
26.12 f
26.52 «
y
>
In dealing with this
Epoch.
Dec. 9th, 1893.
H. M
. s.
G.M.T. 3 17 24 a.m.
L.M.T. 3 23 4 a.m.
Ascdt. 26.52 -~-
Moon. 26.12 t
case later, I wrote as follows :—
It has already been shown from the birth-map that the normal
period of gestation is increased or decreased according to the
moon s position. Is it an unreasonable hypothesis to suppose
that the actual moment of the commencement of the period of
gestation may vary from the epoch in a like manner, and be deter­
minable from the epochal map ?
In this particular case of “ Lilian,” the ascendant of the epoch
was Libra 26° 51', and the moon was in Sagittarius 26° 12'— a
distance of 60 from the ascendant, equal to nearly five days. As
the epoch occurred on December 9th, why should not the con­
ception happen on the 14th, or five days later ?
In another case, particulars of which were submitted by Raphael,
jo
the epoch occurred three days before marriage. The position
of the moon at the epoch in regard to the ascendant would give
a difference of twelve days later as a possible date for conception.
I do not put these suggestions forward with any absolute
certainty, as 1 have not sufficient authentic data on which to form
any reliable rule. The idea is purely hypothetical, and based on
the supposition already referred to, vi%., that as the b rth varies
from the 273rd day by a certain number of days (governed by the
distance of the moon from the horizon in the horoscope of birth),
it is also possible that the exact moment of conception may vary
from the epoch by a corresponding distance of the moon from the
horizon of the epochal figure.
The final word on this hypothetical point has yet to be said.
I have my own particular views thereon, and am following a fine
of research which I am confident will lead to a further develop­
ment of the epochal theory.
T he point is no lo nger h ypo th etical ; it has been
SOLVED.
In this particular case of Lilian, the distance o f the
Moon from the ascendant at the epoch is 590 20', which
turned into time in accordance with soli-lunar measure­
ments (the exact length of which I am not at present
prepared to divulge, and this for very good reasons),
is 4d. 2oh. 48m. This added to the date and time of the
epoch, viv., Dec. 9th, 3.17 a.m., gives Dec. 14th, o.j
a.m., or five minutes after midnight o f Dec. 13th, the
day on which the parents were married. At this time,
the meridian was jh. 42m. 13s. equal to Gemini 26, the
exact opposite point to the place of the Moon at the epoch, and
the opposite point of the ascendant at birth.
Let it be noted in this case that this last time was derived
from the epochal figure.
Further to prove this calculation, I will take the several
cases given in the preceding chapter.
Case No. i .— Epoch, March 27th, 7I1. 33m. 35s. a.m.,
Moon t 28° 30', Ascdt. « 26° 40'.
Distance of Moon above
descendant ................ 320 10'
Time equivalent to ... 2d. ijh . 20m.
Add to time of Epoch ... 26d. 19b. 34m.
THE SECOND GREAT L A W REVEALED 51
M arch 29 10 54 p .m .
J2 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
H. M. S.
Sid. Time noon, Mar. 29th ... 0 2 4 ) 2
Add time elapsed 10 54 O
Acceleration ................ 1 4 7
Add for E. Long...................... 2 56
ir 2 } 35
The longitude on the ascendant at this time is 26 .57TTI,
the place of the Moon at birth, and the descendant of the epoch.
Case N o. 2.—In this case the epoch took place on Nov.
1st, 1916, at 2h. 21m. 2S. p.m., the ascendant being 220 1' ce;
and the moon in 230 49'. The distance between these
longitudes is 28° 12', which turned into time according to
the Lunar equation referred to is 2d. 6h. 39m. This
added to the date and time of the epoch gives Nov. 3rd,
1916, at 9.0 p.m. h . m. s.
Sid. Time, noon, Nov. 3rd 14 49 39
T im e ........................................ 9 0 0
Correction ............................ 1 29
23 j i 8
Less W. Long. ................ 6 15
_ 23 44 53
The ascendant at this time was as 24, opposition Moon
at epoch and ascendant at birth.
Case N o. 3.—This case exhibits a variation. The
epoch takes place on Oct. 2nd, 1885, at 2.37.49 p.m., the
Moon being in as 240 32', with 150 59' rising. The
Moon is therefore 8° 33' above the descendant. This
turned into time by the new Lunar equation is i6h. 29m.,
which added to the time of epoch gives Oct. 3rd, 7.7 a.m.
Time elapsed
Correction
Less for W. Long.
2nd
H. M. s.
... 12 45 28
... ... 19 7 0
... ... 3 8
7 55 36
... ... 9 48
7 4 J 48
THE SECOND GREAT LAW REVEALED J J
At this time the meridian, not the ascendant, was
so 24J0, the place of the Moon at the Epoch, and the
descendant of the birth figure.
Case N o. 4.— This case is solved in a similar manner,
and shows the same interchanges as before. The epoch
took place on March 21st, 1922, at ih. 53m. 38s. a.m.
The ascendant was f 23.53, and the Moon 7.56, a
difference of 140 3', which turned into time by the new
Lunar Equation gives id. 3I1. 41m. This added to the
epoch gives March 22nd, at 5.35 a.m. The Sidereal
time for this is :— H, M. s.
Sid. Time, March 21st
Add Time elapsed
Correction ................
23 52 J3
17 35 °
2 53
17 30 46
The meridian is the 24th degree of Sagittarius, the
place of the Moon at birth and the ascendant at the epoch.
Case No. 5.— This case shows the same variation as
Nos. 3 and 4, but the result is arrived at in a different
manner. The epoch took place on 22nd June, 1915, at
oh. 14m. 46s. a.m., the ascendant being T 6 .11, and the
Moon in — 17.38. The Moon’s distance from the
ascendant by way of the descendant was 19 10 27', which
turned into time by the Lunar equation gives 15 d. 1 7h. 12m.
Time of epoch 21st June i2h. 15m.
Add time ... 15 days 17I1. 12m.
7th July 5h. 27m.
H. M. s.
... 6 57 29
... 5 27 o
•••__________ 54
12 25 23
Less W. Long............................ 52
! 2 24 }I
The meridian at this time is approximately ^ 6 .11,
and this point was the Moon’s birth place, and the descendant
of the epoch.
Sid. Time, 7th July ...
Add time .................
Correction ... ...
Case N o. 6.—In this case the epoch took place on
27th Jan., 1925, at ioh. 26m. 24s. p.m., with — 9.14
rising and the Moon in X 22.15. Here again the epoch
antedated the coitus by several days. The distance of
the Moon from the ascendant by way of the descendant
and meridian was 196° 59', equivalent to i6d. jh. 38m.
54 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
D. H. M.
Time of epoch Jan. 27 IO 26
Add time ................ ••• l6 3 36
Feb. 12 14 2
H. M
. s.
Sid. Time, Feb. 12 ••• 21 28 4
Add time ................ ••• 14 2 0
Correction ................ ... 2 18
II 32 22
W. Long........................ ... 24
II 31 58
At this time the meridian is approximately T1J 22.15,
which is the descendant at birth, and the opposition of the
Moon at the epoch.
Case N o. 7.—The epoch in this case fell on 5th March,
j 928> }b. 54m. 4s. p.m., with SI 26.25 rising and the
Moon in T1J 5.21. The distance between the Moon and the
descendant was I7i°4 ', equal in time to 13d. 23b. 59 m.
Time of epoch
Add time
Sid. Time
Add time
Correction
For W. Long.
D. H. M.
Mar. 5 3 54
... 13 2 3 59
Mar. 19 3 53
H. M. s.
••• 2 3 47 8
••• 3 53 0
••• 38
3 40 46
••• 4 16
3 36 30
The ascendant at this time is approximately T
1
J 5.21, the
ascendant of the horoscope, and the Moon of the epoch.
From the seven cases submitted in this and the last
chapter, there is direct evidence to prove the inter-relation
between the coitus, epoch and birth, and the relation of
the Moon with the ascendant of the epoch is a further
proof of the relationship of this luminary to the prelimin­
ary stages of generation.
There is at the same time a definite proof of the con­
tention previously made, vi2., that it is possible to so arrange
the coitus, or act of generation, at such a time as will
ensure the birth of the child at a favourable moment.
THE SECOND GREAT LAW REVEALED 5 J
Chapter VII
THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL LAW S OF
GEN ERATIO N
T here can be no gainsaying the fact that if the precept
put forward by Birth Controllers («■ £, “ the underlying
principle is that of securing the combination of full marital
relations with the deliberate control of any subsequent
conception” ) is to be accepted as the guiding principle
for married couples, then it can only result, as I have
already stated, in the “ ruin and degeneration of the
sexual instinct in man, and is fraught with the most
terrible consequences on the physical and moral faculties
of the parents, and even more so on the greater possibilities
of the unborn generation.”
I will here give a short extract from a work, entided
“ Pracdcal Methods to ensure Success,” published in
1898, by the Esoteric Publishing Co., of Applegate,
California, U.S.A.
“ Look at the pure young woman—her cheeks are
red, her eyes bright, her hands warm and dry, her
movements buoyant and vigorous, and her face covered
with smiles: she is happy in her innocence. She
marries, and after a few weeks, or months at most,
you again meet her : the rose is gone from her cheeks,
the luster from her eyes, the joyous smile from her face.
Instead of bounding along as if her body had no weight,
she moves heavily, with dark clouds under her eyes.
Take her by the hand : it is cold and moist. Pass her
by, and call on her at the end of the year. Now she
begins to look pale and thin. Ask her what has been
the matter. *Oh, I have been sick; I do not feel well
now. What has wrought the change in so short a
time ? Certainly there must be something very wrong
J6
THE PSYCHO PHYSIOLOGICAL LAWS 57
in the marital habits. Nature always rewards the
obedient with abundance o f her good, but always
punishes the sinner against her laws, and never excuses
because of ignorance ; and the God o f nature does not
remove the sentence that nature imposes, even in answer
to the devout prayer. But follow that woman further :
see her after twenty years. She is now worn and aged :
around her are several children. The eldest is a son of
eighteen, his face filled with pimples, his hands cold
and clammy, his eyes dull and watery, his intellect
capable of naught but mischief. He learns slowly at
school, frequently gets into trouble for his wrong­
doing, chews tobacco, smokes cigarettes, eats enough
at each meal for two men, does not care to retire until
late at night; in the morning it is with difficulty that
his parents can get him out of bed, and when up, he
gapes and lays around with no ambition. What mean
all these symptoms ? What do they evidence against
this young man ? That he is injudiciously squander­
ing his life in secret vices, and, consequendy, is devoid
of animation in body and mind. . . .
“ Where did all this evil begin ? With the ignorance
of his parents, and the consequent excessive indulgence
of the sensual nature: he was inflamed, even in his
mother’s womb, with that all-destroying passion.
The waste of the vital energies was the cause of the
mother’s almost constant sickness and rapid decline,
and the most loathsome condition of her son is due to
the same cause.”
This is what Birth Controllers would have us believe,
“ that full marital relations ” (which evidently and clearly
means indiscriminate sexual intercourse), “ with the deliber­
ate control of any subsequent conception.”
It does not appear to be generally recognised that
the gonads (the testes and ovaries) have a double function
and a corresponding double construction. One part of
their tissues produces respectively the sperm and the
ova, but there is also an interstitial tissue which produces
an internally used secretion, similar to the hormones of
the other glands. The function of generation, therefore,
is two-fold—the first and principal is to generate life, for
the purpose of supplying the body and brain with proper
powers; the second to produce children.
It does not appear to be recognised that the sexual
power is a creative faculty; when normal and used for the
health and vitalisation of the body, it gives an added power
to the brain and mental faculties, and allows body, mind
and soul to grow in harmony. On the other hand if
this power is used in indiscriminate sexual intercourse,
the loss to the vital, mental and spiritual faculties cannot
be estimated. The secretion of the interstitial glands of
the gonads is to the mind, what the digestive secretions
are to the body. It will therefore be seen that the sexual
force is to be used for two purposes: (a) the renewing
of vitality, and (b) an occasional use in propagation.
Another fact of the greatest importance does not
appear to be understood properly. Just as in the female,
each lunar month, an ovum is liberated from the ovary,
and is capable of being impregnated by the male germ,
becoming in due course a child, so in the male, every four
weeks, a germ is created, which is capable of impregnating
an ovum. In the case of multiple births, it may be that
the ovum is double, just as an egg may contain two yolks,
or a nut two kernels, or it may be that two or more ova
break away at the same time, and each becomes im­
pregnated.
Indiscriminate sexual intercourse, therefore, or as the
Birth Controllers will have it, “ full marital relationship,”
results not only in the loss of the real germ, but also the
continued loss of the interstitial secretion, which should
be used for building up the body, and renewing the
vitality, both in the male and the female.
But there is a further fact, which is even less known
than any of the foregoing, and it is a psycho-physiological
law of the most vital importance. Every four weeks, a
psychic germ is developed in the bodies of both male and
female—in the male, at the time of the creation of the
ph) sical germ, and in the female at the discharge of the
ovum from the ovary. If, in the female, impregnation
does occur within the prescribed time after menstruation,
j8 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
and if, in the male, the physical germ is retained in the
body, this psychic germ becomes transmuted into a crystal
fluid, which is taken up by the lymphatic glands (and there
are many such glands in the region of the sex organs)
and carried into the blood, thereby enriching the red
corpuscles of the blood, strengthening the body, improv­
ing the mind, and giving added strength and virility.
It is argued that man cannot control the sexual forces,
and as before mentioned, it is stated by Birth Controllers
that love cannot exist without sexual intercourse. These
are teachings which must be disregarded by all pure
minded people. Every man has, or should have, full
control over his sexual force, and should be fully able to
retain the individual germ in his body, month by month,
and allow it to be transmuted and carried into the blood,
and at the same time allow the interstitial secretions to
be used for renewing the vitality.
On no account should the germ, or seed, be allowed to
escape from the body, unless, in the case of husband and
wife, Both desire a child, and then only after due prepara­
tion, and the selection of proper times for the generative
act. Children born from fully matured and developed
germs will be physically, mentally and spiritually of the
highest grade, while child-bearing would be a delight
instead of being attended with pain, danger and discom­
fort.
There is, however, another side to this question of
Birth Control, or rather to the question of prevention of
births, which in my opinion is equally as, if not more,
important than any with which I have dealt. Apart from
the fact that it is a deliberate interference with the psycho-
physiological laws of generation, and with the laws of
Nature, it is also a direct interference with the laws of
Karma and Re-incarnatiqn.
IT IS A DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO CLOG THE W HEEL OF
HUMAN DESTINY, AND HINDER SOULS OF THEIR CHANCE OF
EVOLUTION, BY DEPRIVING THEM OF THE PHYSICAL VEHICLES
NECESSARY FOR THEIR SPIRITUAL GROWTH.
It is a nefarious attempt to interfere with the plan of the
Great Divine Architect of the Universe, and to hinder
THE PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL LAWS 59
the working out of that Great Divine law, which decrees
that “ As a man sows, that shall he also reap,” and that
every human being must work out his own immortal
destiny. It is holding back the evolution of Humanity,
and preventing thousands and tens of thousands of souls
from carrying out their great immortal destiny.
Re-incarnation, that great Eastern truth, which was once
taught by the early Christian fathers, and for which there
is Biblical authority, is no myth, no pagan belief, but
a principle in Nature which can be proved and demon­
strated. In fact, it can be seen in nature every day of
the year, to those whose eyes are open, and whose mental
vision is not blinded by present-day materialism.
With every act of generation, a vortex is set up on the
Astral plane, into which a soul is drawn, in readiness
for the physical vehicle about to be created. But if
conception is to be prevented, such a vehicle is not created,
so that soul is deprived of its chance of evolution. It is
a crime too horrible to contemplate. It is compatible
with murder, for just as the murderer deprives a soul of
its physical vehicle, the Birth Controller is teaching his
or her dupes to do the same.
I do not suppose that this phase of the subject appeals
to these people. Anything of a spiritual or supernatural
character would be regarded with derision by those
whose minds and morals are steeped in gross materialism,
and who are giving out their perverted ideas to poison
the minds and morals of others.
Just as in ages ago, the great and mighty civilisation
of Atlantis was overthrown, because its people pandered
to the evil forces and the Black Arts—and Birth Control
as now taught is one of them—so those same evil forces
are now marshalling their hosts to overthrow a civilisa­
tion equal to, or even mightier than, that of Atlantis,
and the people of the present age are pandering to the
same evil forces and Black Arts.
THIS TIME, HOW
EVER, THEY WILL N
O
T SUCCEED.
60 ASTROLOGY AND BIRTH CONTROL
CONCLUSION
In conclusion, a few words of warning, and a few words
of advice.
Be sure, good people, especially you young married
people, and those who are about to be married, before
you accept the teachings of so-called constructive Birth
Control, that you are right in abjuring the spiritual for
the material. Let it be said, here and now, that Nature
will be obeyed, and that he or she who defies nature will
pay the heaviest of penalties. Moreover Nature will
never be outwitted by human agencies. It is stated, on
good authority, that there are some tluee or four hundred
thousand of married couples who are definitely refusing
to have children. What is the result ? Nature is bringing
into the world an unprecedented number of twins, triplets
and quadruplets. When the great war took toll of the
manhood of the world, what happened ? For a long
time afterwards there was a large excess of male children
born— Nature was at work to keep the balance between
the sexes. So it is with our subject, and I say it without
the slightest hesitation or compunction, that this teaching
is in no manner constructive Birth Control, in any sense
of the word, but simply an incentive to immorality, an
inversion of the sexual faculties, a lowering of the stan­
dards of human physique, and is fraught with the gravest
physical and moral dangers to both parents, as well as to
the children which may be born.
Now a word of advice, and this especially to those
about to marry, and to young married couples in par­
ticular.
The sexual act should only be undertaken when both
husband and wife desire a child, never for mere grati­
fication or pleasure. When there is this combined
desire for a child, the time for the act of generation should
61
CONCLUSION
be selected by astrological laws, and the minds of the
couple should be placed in proper rapport, with a due
regard for the sacredness and responsibility of their actions,
and with the united desire to bring into the world a being
of high physical, mental and moral power.
In a work of this nature, it is impossible to give advice
or instruction on a matter of this sort, as such advice could
only be general, and not applicable to each individual
case. Nor would I care to accept the great responsibility
of advising anyone hereon, or giving instruction as to
the selection of a proper time for the procreation of chil­
dren, although I have many times been asked to do so.
My knowledge of this matter is necessarily limited, on
account of the difficulty of obtaining the requisite informa­
tion. The cases dealt with have been supplied by interested
students, but much more information will be necessary to
establish or formulate a series of reliable rules. It is not
suggested or supposed that the rules given are the only
ones, for as there are four orders of epochs, it is only
reasonable to suppose that there should be four general
rules applicable to each order, while variations, similar
to case No. 4, would no doubt be met. On this
point I can say nothing at present.
Suffice to say, I have merely laid down certain results,
obtained from many years of study and investigation of
the epochal theory, and its relation to the laws of genera­
tion. I have for several years contemplated placing
these results before students of Astrology, but have
hesitated on account of the serious nature of the informa­
tion, and to the fact that it might be put to improper use,
and be made a curse, rather than a blessing.
The time has come, however, when I feel that I can no
longer withhold this vital information, and the few facts
at my disposal are now placed before the astrological
world, with the hope that, having cast these few crumbs
of knowledge on the waters, I shall find them after many
days.
6z
P rim * and Uadt <» Or,al Srllaln Vy iha Crypt B om , Frau Limit*!, Olouctilar and London.
F O U L S H A M ' S B O O K S F O R S T U D E N T S
OF A S T R O L O G Y
ASTRO LO GY AND M ARRIAGE. By Sepharial.
The increasing number of cases, in the Divorce Court,
leads one to ask, “ Is Marriage a failure ? ” The author
sets out, in this book, to show that happiness in married
life is still possible, and can be ensured if only the Astro­
logical influences governing those contemplating mar­
riage be considered. This is a work of absorbing
interest to all, written by one whose years of earnest study
and practically acquired knowledge of the science of
Astrology, befit him to deal with so vital a subject.
Cr. 8vo. Cloth. 2s. 6d. net. Post Free 2s. 9d.
ASTRO LO GY IN RELATIO N TO MIND AND
CHARACTER. By a Mental Specialist.
The matter in this book will be found of exceptional
interest to all students of Astrology. The author has
made a close study of the mind in relation to Astrology.
He deals with the hereditary side of the question, ana it
is shown whence these radical tendencies come and the
presumptive cause of mental derangement in each case is
added. The cases cited in illustration are supported by
maps. Crown 8vo. Cloth. 2s. net. Pott Free 2s. 3d.
HEBREW ASTRO LO GY. By Sepharial.
Herein, this prominent Author lays down the key to
Biblical Prophecy and reveals, without reservation, the
method by which he has made some of the most astound­
ing of his fulfilled predictions. Never before has there
been available a work of such importance to the student of
Astrology, or to the Interpreter of Scripture Prophecy.
A subject of the deepest human interest, written through­
out with much learning and great sincerity, characteristic
of the author’s work, this volume undoubtedly consti­
tutes a revelation. Cr. 8vo. Cloth, jr. net. Post Free y . q i.
TH E LAW OF VALUES. By Sepharial.
An exposition of the Primary Causes of Stock and Share
Fluctuations. The only scientific statement of the cosmical
laws underlying the rise and fall of securities. This work
provides the investor with the means to regulate his
investments so as to protect his profits. Pocket Edition.
Limp Leather Gilt. 5s. net. Post Free 5s. 3d.
TRANSITS AND PLA N ETA R Y PERIODS. By
Sepharial.
A new and original exposition of the law of transits, a
much misunderstood subject. The author introduces an
entirely new factor, which solves the much debated
question of the power and efficacy of transits over the
significators, not only in the horoscope of birth itself,
but in the progressive positions. Cr. 8vo. Cloth. }s. 6d. net.
Post Free 3s. 10d.
O F A L L B O O K S E L L E R S or D IR E C T , PO ST F R E E A S A BO V E
London: W, Foulsham & Co Ltd , 10 & 1 1 Red Lion Court, E.C.4
F O U L S H A M ’ S B O O K S F O R S T U D E N T S
OF A S T R O L O G Y
PHRENOSCOPY. By Stpbarial.
A Synthetic System of Astro-Phrenology—the Key to
Human Character. In this comprehensive volume this
famous Author presents a method by which the com­
plexities of Character-Reading are reduced to their
simplest equation. Cr. 8vo. Cloth Gilt. 3-f* 6d. net. Post
Free y . 9d.
THE PRE-NATAL EPOCH. By E. H. Bailey.
A new and completely revised edition of this important
work, which deals with the Rectification of Horoscopes:
The Law of the Epoch, Rules for calculation. The Rectifi­
cation of Twin and Multiple Births explained. New and
additional information concerning the calculation of Birth
times from past events, with reference to, and checked by,
the Epoch. A chapter on Mathematical Rules. Tables of
Ascendants for the British Isles. Demy 8vo. Cloth Gill.
ios.td.net. Post Free its.
THE SCIENCE OF FOREKNOW LEDGE. By
Sepharial.
A compendium of Astrological Research, Philosophy
and Practice in the East ana West, containing material
otherwise inaccessible to the student. It contains the
rules and instructions for calculating the RADIX
SYSTEM of directing, as used by tie Author and
hitherto unpublished, and constitutes a sound argument
for the validity and utility of the Science of Astrology.
Cr. 8vo. Cloth Gill. 5s. net. Post Free 5s. 3d.
THE SILVER K EY. By Sepharial.
A guide to Successful Speculation. Especially applicable
to Horse-Racing. An application of the principles of
gravity and tidal acdon to the question of selection.
This work embodies an entirely novel principle of
particular interest to those who speculate on events and
invest in stocks and shares. The volume includes a set of
tables by which all complex calculations are eliminated.
Over 6,000 copies sold. Cr. 8vo. Cloth. 5s. net. Post Free
5 i- 3d.
THE DAILY G U ID E: A s t r o lo g y L u c id l y
E x p l a in e d . By Sepharial.
This “ easy-to-understand ” volume, from the pen of
one of the leading Astrological writers of to-day, supplies
a long-felt need among students for a work on daily
influences and pointers from which a line of action may
be safely conducted. All who have commenced or con-
template the study of Astrology, cannot afford to be
without a copy of this book. F'co p. 8vo. Cloth. 2s.6 d .n et.
ro s l Free 2s. 9d.
OF A L L BOOKSELLERS or D IR EC T, POST F R E E A S A B O V E
London: W. Foulsham & Co. Ltd., 10 & u Red Lion Court, E.C.4
