{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__crandon___progress_of_the_margery_mediumship.pdf","mytitle":"Progress Of The Margery Mediumship","mylang":"de"}
..
THE PROGRESS OF THE "MARGERY"
MEDIUMSHIP
MISS FELJ CIA R. SCATCHERD
Transition March 12th, 1927. Agccl C.5 years.
[Frontt"spiece
T HE FELICIA SCATCltERD
MEMORIAL LECTURE
1929
ON
The Progress of the
"Margery" Mediumship
Delivered under the joint auspices
of The London Spiritualist A lliance
and t he British College of
Psychic Science, on December 12th
1928
BY
L. R. G. CRAND ON,
AM., M.D., F.A.C.S.,
Published· by The L ondon Spiritualist Alliance. L td·..
16 Q ueensberry P lace, London , S.W.7.
Mtide ~11d Pl'illted itt Great Bl'itain
The Gainsborough Press, St. Albans. Fisher, Knight.& Co., Ltd.
,\
I
,1
PREFATORY NOTE
THE Address which follows is the second of the
annual lectures designed as a memorial to the
late Miss Felicia Scatcherd, who passed away
on the l 2th March, 1927. The first lecture,
which was given by Mr. Stanley De Brath at
the rooms of the London Spiritualist Alliance
on the 8th March, 1928, dealt with "The
Relation of Spiritualism to Psychical Research''
and has been published in pamphlet form by the
London Spiritualist Alliance.
The second, the present lecture, by Dr.
Crandon, was delivered in advance of the
second anniversary by reason of the fact that
he was on a temporary visit to London, and
prompt advantage had therefore to be taken of
his presence there in order to secure a lecture
from him as being the person best qualified
5
Prefatory Nate
to deal with that important record of evi-
dential phenomena known as the "Margery
Case'' .
On this occasion the chair was taken by Mrs.
Hewat McKenzie, who paid a high tribute to
Dr. Crandon and "Margery" for their work
carried on in the face of a fierce publicity, much
oi which was ignorantly malicious. She pointed
out that no impartial person could examine the
mass of evidence accumulated, patiently and
scientifically, by Dr. Crandon and his associ-
ates, without seeing that the case for human
survival was overwhelmingly proved. There
was no alternative. Every possible avenue had
been tested, and "Walter", the spirit guide and
brother of "Margery", had (as Dr. Tillyard
has shown) given all the proofs necessary to
establish his claim to be a personality apart
from and independent of the Medium and the
circle.
As appropriate to the lecture it may be per-
missible again to refer to the character and
6
•
•
Prefatory Nate
achievements of the lady in whose memory
these lectures were established.
Miss Lind· tf-Hageby , who presided on the
occasion of the first lecture, paid a fine tribute
to Felicia Scatcherd, describing her as a very
delightful and quite unique personality who was
remembered by many as an enthu~ :..Lstic worker
for Psychic Research and Spiritualism. She
had been a kind of liaison officer between many
different bodies of people in politics, inter-
nationalism, social reform, and religion. She
was not only intensely curious, intensely alive,
but took a loving and intelligent interest in
hw11anity everywhere .
In the course of her address Miss Lind
referred to Miss Scatcherd's friendship with
that greatest of journalists, Mr. \l\T . T. Stead.
When Miss Lind first met Mr. Stead she had
asked him in astonishment : '' Does Felicia
Scatcherd really know all these people of whom
she has spoken-Prime Ministers, Ambassa-
dors, Statesmen?'' And Stead had replied that
7
Prefatory Nate
it was indeed so, adding: " She is a wonderful
woman ; she is a universal woman. "
Referring to Miss Scatcherd's friendship with
Professor Charles Richet, the great French
scientist, Miss Lind mentioned that on the occa-
sion of her visit to Paris, at the International
Psychic Congress in 1925 , she had been touched
to see the devotion of the old French savant
for his little English friend. He was deeply
distressed when she died. H e had written to
Miss Lind expressing his grief at the loss of
one so full of charm, so pure and loyal a spirit.
Felicia Scatcherd had a special mission in regard
to Charles Richet and they did some valuable
scientific work together.
Miss Scatcherd was for some years editor of
the Asiatic R eview and a member of several
learned and humanitarian societies. She will
no doubt be best remembered, however, for her
work in Spiritualism and Psychical Research.
The impression that she made on the mind of
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is shown by her
8
~I
Prefatory N ate
appearance m one of his novels, Tlie Land of
Misl, in which , under the name of "Delicia
Freeman'', she is delineated with the skill of a
master-craftsm an.
It is felt that her memory could not be more
fittingly perpetuated than by such a series of
lectures as this, which has been established
to deal with the evidences of Psychical Research
as carried on along those practical lines which
were so congenial to her mind and temperament.
9
..
PROGRESS IN THE "MARGERY
MEDIUMSH I P'"i«
BETNG THE
ScATCHERD MEMORIAL LECTURE, 1929
Tr-rn "Margery Mediumship" is over five years
old. It appear now to the group which has
been conducting experiments, as if there begins
to emerge, yet dimly, a glimpse of the whole
picture. The picture seems to have significance.
We realize the bondage of science to facts
and the freedom from such bondage which
philosophy has. The latest reference to this
difference is in an admirable paper by Mr.
J. Malcolm Bird (Jour . A. S. P.R., October,
1928). Sci'ence, we know , demands control of
·• An :iddress given before the American Society for
Psychical Research, New York Section, at the Waldorf-Astoria,
November r9th, 1928, and at the Grotrian Hall, London, W .,
before the London Spiritualist Alliance, of 16, Queensberry Place,
London, S.W.7, at a Scatcherd Memorial joint meeting with
tbe British College of Psychic Science, December 12th, 1928,
and at Smith College, Northampton, Mass., January 6th, 1929.
p
F el-icia S catcherd M emorial LectU1·e
all the factors of an experiment. In meta-
psychics, we cannot have such complete control,
therefore the subject at present is ruled out by
orthodox science.
Science, for example, says that outside of
several well-known and explicable methods,
telekinesis, namely, the moving of an object
without apparent mechanical aid, cannot occur,
and similarly, philosophy says there is no
survival of the human spirit because biology
tells us when we die we are dead. As Bird
says, we are dealing with a g·roup of inter-
related facts which we may define better later.
These facts up to now have defied orthodox
science to relate them to other phenomena.
As scientists we entirely respect the con-
servatism of science. Its scepticism is funda-
mental and admirable so long as it is honest.
The true scientist has always room in his world
for a new fact.
We accept the dictum of Bishop Berkeley
that the only reality of this apparent world is
l ~
..
Felicia S catcherd lVIemorial Lecture
what the senses bring us. Behold, we now pick
up sound out of the air which the ears did not
hear, and our experiments with a quartz-lens
camera reveal structures very real, but quite out
of the range of our poor eyes. So our three
dimensional space, which seems so real, may be
illusory. Analysis of the material world at this
moment shows it to be indeed a cinema, or
''movie'', a series of pictures constantly chang-
ing and travelling along that path which we are
beginning to call "time-a fourth dimension''.
Hence, Bird suggests, in this time-space world
of ours there may be transcendental paths which
are available for telekinesis or for varieties of
mediumistic cognition .
Now appear before us as philosophers, two
alluring paths for exploration.
(a) What sort of universe is it in which we
can survive out of one existence into
another ; transcendental to the first?
(b) What manner of man is it that can so
survive?
Felicia Scatcherd Memorial L ecture
The first path at the present moment we will
leave in its shining attractiveness . Perhaps
later we can feel our way along.
As to the second, let us then consider what
seems to us the probable, or at least the
possible, · characteristics of a surviving human
entity, and to see whether or not our experi-
ments have any bearing on the matter .
We shall try to survey the phenomena of the
Margery Mediumship from a sufficient perspec-
tive to enable us to place them in the: plan and
give each one its due significance.
The mediumship began with the movement
of material objects and went through all the
stages of raps, table-lifting , moving of objects,
large and small. The acme was reached by this
experiment : Margery, thoroughly searched "was
seated in an all-glass cabinet, 7ft. x 6ft. x 3ft.
H er ankles were lashed to eye-bolts in the floor
by picture wire with sealed ends . The hands
were pushed up through side port-holes and
lashed. They cannot be draw n in. A locked
14
Felicia Scatcherd Meniorial L ectme
leather band round the neck was fastened by a
stout cord to the back of the cabinet. The
experiment was conducted by Dr. H. A.
Overstreet, Professor of Philosop}:iy at the
College of the City of New York, and Dr.
H. C. McComas, Professor of Psychology at
Princeton. T he two observers were alone in
the room which contained Margery in her
cabinet. The door was locked and the room
searched . U nder these conditions, a luminous
ring of paper was passed into the cabinet by
Dr . Overstreet. It was seized by ·a visible
terminal and then carried with great rapidity
above the medium's head, three feet behind her
chair, and all over the cabinet like a crazy
fireAy. Other objects were similarly lifted, and
the voice-cut-out machi°ne (V .C.O.), of which
more later , was also used with 100 per cent suc-
cess. At the end of the experiment the lashings
were found to be as they were in the first place.
T he detailed account of the sitting is published
in Jour. A .S .P.R ., September, 1926.
IS
F elicia S catcherd M eniorial L ecture
The mediumship has been characterized since
a few months after its beginning by the constant
presence of a voice, which seems to be inde-
pendent of the normal anatomy and physiology
of the medium. This has been proved by a
hand over the medium's mouth, by her mouth
tilled with water, and by an ingenious mechani-
cal device by Dr . Mark W. Richardson, one
of our group. This machine, which has been
many times described , consists of a U-tube of
glass , about three feet high . From one arm
of it comes a flexible gas-pipe tube, and into the
distal end of that pipe is fitted a glass mouth-
piece. This mouthpiece distends the mouth.
The medium now blows through the pipe, and
two luminous corks which float in the U-tube,
half-filled with water, move , one up and one
down, as the water column receives the pressure
caused by the mediu~1 's blowing . In order to
maintain these A
oats at their disparity in level,
separate holes in the glass mouthpiece must be
covered, one by upper lip , one by lower lip, and
16
F elicia Seateherd l\IIemorial L ecture
one by the tongue. At the same time, the
hands of the medium being lashed, she cannot
take the mouthpiece out of her mouth. Under
these conditions, then, the voice which declares
itself to be that of W alter (brother of
Margery, deceased in 191 r, at the age of 28)
goes on speaking or whistling with perfect
freedom.
The next outstanding physical phenomenon
which appeared was one which neither science
or philosophy had dared suggest, namely, con-
stant thumb-prints. The technique of this is as
follows : In front of the controlled medium
sitting in the cabinet in a dark room, is a pan
of hot water (abo"ve l40°F .) and a pan of cold
water; the medium being controlled. The
investigator puts into the hot water a ·piece of
red dental wax (called Kerr) which has the
property of softening in hot water and hardening
in cold water. The piece of wax is marked for
identification by the. observers, and . in any
manner they choose, by carving some mark on
17
F elicia S catcherd M eniorial L ecture
one side of it or 0 11 the edge. After a while the
wax is heard apparently being transferred to the
cold water, and then the experimenters take it
out and find on its surface a distinct human
thumb-print. Seventy-five of these have been
obtained, and always that of the same thumb,
some concave, some convex , some negative,
and some positive, and some curiously enough
are mirror-prints, corresponding to the others,
ridge for ridge, but reversed. T he acme of this
experim en ~ was reached at a sitting in an
entirely strange house, conducted by D r. R. J.
T illyard, D .Sc., F.R.S. At this sitting only
he and Margery were present. He lashed her
to the W indsor chair in which she sat. He
presented the identified wax as usual and got two
good prints, the same as the seventy which we
already had. Police experts have declared these
prints to be direct primary prints from the
human ski n. T hey are not those of any sitter .
T he dilemma in which the finger-print expert
·now fi nds himself is evident. If these prints,
18
I -
F elicia S catcherd M emorial L ecture
obtained under conditions as described are
'
made by direct contact with human skin , whose
skin is it ? If these anatomically perfect prints
are a hoax, they constitute a successful hoax,
and finger-print science must fall to the
ground.
At the beginning of 1928, manifestation of
the mediumship totik a new turn towards
the subjective side, and since then scores
of experiments have been carried out which
tend to separate the personalities of Walter
and Margery.
A ll will agree that the first requisite which
must obtain in the survival of a human entity
1s memory. T o survive without memory is not
to survive. 'vVe have then, first, to admit the
difficulty of separating the memories of Walter
and Margery . This is difficult, because Walter
is only five years senior to Margery, and they
grew up close together. There is, however,
one fairly good story of a memory told us by
\IValter, concerning a period before Margery was
19
Felicia Seateherd Memorial Lecture
born, and there are two fairly good stories of
·Walter's memory of episodes not in the mind
of Margery.
(I) Margery was sitting in the home circle
of Dr. T. Glen Hamilton, at Winnipeg,
Manitoba ; twelve people were present. After
vValter was introduced, he said: " I worked
near here one summer at harvesting. I lived
in a town called --" Here he mentioned a
town which bears a French name, but much
modified from local mispronunciation. The
Winnipeg people said he had pronounced it in
the now common mistaken way. It seems
improbable that this could be in Margery's
mind.
(2) vVhen Walter was about four years of
age, ''Aunt Annie'' came to visit Walter's
home. Just before then, Walter had a favourite
pet of his, a white rabbit, which had been killed
by a dog. "Aunt Annie" was telling Walter the.
popular bed-time story of that period, namely, 1.
the one about "Brer Rabbit" . Walter immedi- j
20
l
Felicia Seateherd Memorial Lecture
ately broke in : " Oh, but the rabbit was killed
by a dog." "Aunt Annie" went away, and died
shortly after, thereby fixing the date of this
episode as a year before Margery's b~rth. It
seems improbable that Walter told this story
- -
years after to the child Margery, not born at
the time of the episode.
(3) Mr. Bell, a stranger from Montreal, came
to sit, with others. On being introduced,
Walter said: "Ash, I knew the Bells of
Montreal. They lived on Mansfield Street,
and I got to know them when I was having a
bit of a vacation there ." To this, Mr. Bell
replied : " Walter, you are right except for the
street. We always lived and still live on St.
Cather.ine Street." To this Walter said: " I
may be wrong, but I still think I remember the
street." Two days later, Mr. Bell wrote us
that he had told his mother of the episode,
and she said : " You have forgotten, my son,
in your childhood there was a family of Bells
who lived round the corner from us, namely,
ZI
Felicia S catcherd Memorial Lecture
on Mansfield Street. Their mail was constantly
getting mixed with ours ."
Other observations poinL to separation of the
personalities. Frequently during sittings where
Margery is not in trance, Walter and she will
engage in lively controversy and disagreement.
There have been also a number of instances
showing Walter's personality being on a differ-
ent level to that of Margery's. For example,
during a so-called "lashed" sitting, articles may
be put in a basket in front of the medium for
Walter to describe and name. One night,
someone put in a thing which Walter, after con-
siderable length of time, called a thread-gauge.
The correct name of it was screw-gauge. The
existence and function of such an instrument we
believe to be outside of Margery's proper
mental content.
Another time Walter was discussing electrons
with a Professor of physics, and he said to him :
'' Comstock, to show these electrons, why don't
you bring down here some night your sphin-
;z2
•
\ Felicia Scatcherd Memorial L ecture
thariscope ?'' This was an instrument at the
time unknown to any of us, and we believe that
to be true of Margery's mind.
Finally, there has been an overwhelming
number of brilliant experiments which seem to
show Margery as an autG>maton carry111g
out post-hypnotic suggestions, Walter being
the ongm
In these
follows :
and agent of those suggestions.
experiments the set-up 1s as
Margery sits in her usual surroundings in the
dark at IO, Lime Street, Boston. Another
medium, George Valiantine, sits in the seance
room at Hyslop House, I 5, Lexington Avenue,
New York City. Another wholly amateur
medium, D r. H. H. Hardwicke, sits at his
home in Niagara Falls, New York. These two
mediums are respectively 2 50 and 450 miles
away. Many times , as variation, we have sat
with a team consisting of Margery in Boston,
H ardwicke in Niagara Falls, and Mrs. Sarah
Litzelmann (Sary), a wonderful amateur
23
Felicia Seateherd Memorial Lectur1.,
medium, in Cambridge, Mass., four miles from
Lime Street.
Some stranger and sceptic brings to the Lime
Street sitting an envelope containing forty to
fifty leaves of a one-day calendar selected by
chance, marked on the back for identification
and entirely shuffled by being loose in ·a large
sealed envelope. This same person also brings
in a sealed envelope any magazine wh{ch has
been marked and sealed up for him by a person
who knows rnthing of what is to be done with
it. In the seance room, when Walter is ready,
the envelope of calendq.r numbers is opened,
and then either the sitter or Walter can pick
any one of these numbers by chance. It is held
up for from one· to three minutes for perception
by Walter in the blackness of the seance room,
and then is put in the custody of the original
holder or someone else, in such a place or pocket,
that it can be identified later as being the object
cif the first experiment. This is now done wi11
several numbers, for good measure. Next the
24
•
Felicia S wtcherd Memorial Lecture
envelope containing the magazine is opened, and
either \i\Talter or the sitter will tear off half of
one of the advertising pages which usually con-
tain pictures and large size letters. After a
brief period for perception, Walter directs the
sitter to take the torn piece again and to keep
the magazine to prove absence of substitution.
At the end of the sitting, Margery goes down-
stairs into a brightly-lighted room, no trance,
no circle , and proceeds to write with great
rapidity a lot of numbers , draws a picture, and
writes some word or part of a word. A number
and the torn magazine-page selected upstairs are
now brought forth and are found to correspond
nearly rno per cent with that which Margery
has written. The sceptic now rings up New
York and Cambridge, by telephone, and we get
from these other two mediums again nearly roo
per cent reproduction of that which Margery
has already made . Sometimes the New York
report reaches Lime Street before the Margery
group comes downstairs. The time between
25
Felicia S catch.erd Memorial L ecture
mediums does not seem to be identical. As a
variant, vValter sometimes says the first number
selected shall be multiplied by the second
number selected, and the product will . be
found by combining the figures written by
the two distant mediums. Thus, the
Lime Street numbers will be twelve times
two, and the Sary number will be two, and
the Valiantine number will be four, thus:
12x2 = 24.
The perfect flower of this type of experiment
came when twenty (3in. x 5jn.) cards, marked
with a thumb-print for identification, were
distributed to twenty individuals, and each was
asked to cut and paste from any source, figures,
words, or pictures, on one side of his card .
These were collected in a large box, sealed,
taken to the seance room and there sat four
people, none of whom is a medium, so far as we
know. The box was opened in the dark, one
card was selected by chance by any one of the
sitters, exposed in the seance room a minute or
26
F elicia S catcherd J
V!enwrial Lecture
two, and then hidden away in a pocket. At the
moment of exposure of the card there were
heard five raps, which, by pre-arrangement with
Walter were to indicate the numbers of letters
in the word which happened to be on the
particular card selected. There was no medium
present. Margery was eight miles away,
Valiantine was in New York, Hardwicke was
in Niagara Falls (250 and 450 miles away
respectively), yet the three mediums thus
distributed were able, each of them, to produce
the picture which was on that card, and each
produced part of the word which was also on the
card, the parts together making the whole word .
In this experiment, apparently some intelligence
was able to make cognition of that card in the
dark room without a medium. The perceiving
intelligence was able then and there to rap the
number of letters in the word, and clear enough
and powerful enough to transmit all the ideas
on that card, ;.i.s a whole, or in part, to each of
three distant mediums. Margery, in this experi-
27
Felicia S catcherd Memorial Lecture
ment, seems to have no different status to that of
the other two mediums, with relation to Walter.
_
Here, then, we have post-hypnotic suggestion
plus a true cross-correspondence, wherein the
script produced by the three mediums must be
combined to make an intelligible whole. By the
fortuitous method of selection of the material
of this experiment, it is apparent that telepathy
is excluded. We have also nw11erous examples
of what appears to be a true travelling clairvoy-
ance . For exampie, Walter is able to tell us
something of the set-up at Hardwicke's house
during a sitting. Walter tells us of a narrow
escape in a taxi-cab which our Judge Hill had
at a distant place at a time when we know that
Margery was not there present. This travelling
clairvoyance, however, if it were a function of
Margery_, should appear at her will, but as a
matter of fact it only seems to appear at the will
of Walter, when Margery is in trance. Con-
cerning cross-correspondence, Dr. Tanner made
a careful study of this phenomenon in the famous
28
\
I F elicia S catcherd M emorial Leet-lire
medium , l\frs. Piper. But she reports that she
searched reams of writing from three mediums
and then only got a few signs of cross-
corresponclence, and none of them at all clear.
Dr. Tanner concludes that logic denies the
value of those alleged cross-correspondences.
\!Vhereas, with Margery, we get the cross-
correspondence perfectly produced within a few
minutes, with practically no omissions and no
outside matter to be discarded.
If Walter is what he pretends to be, namely,
a discarnate being, there should be others in
his state of existence, and this should be a matter
of presumptive proof. As if in answer to that
needed sign of other intelligences in a state
comparable to that of \IValter, we have had
many examples of intelligent material which
apparently cannot arise in Walter or Margery,
or in any person present with either of the
mediums. Thus, one night in trance in good
red light, Margery made signs to have writing
material provided. A pad and pencil were given
29
Felicia Seateherd Memorial Lecture
her, and she then wrote 14 columns, ~ total
of 148 characters, of what appeared to be
Chinese writing. The speed of writing was
such that fourteen of the characters were written
in twelve seconds. Later the same night, in
bright white light downstairs, as if to show that
no page of such writing had been cleverly sub-
stituted during the seance, Margery proceeded
to write more Chinese. Parts of this same
Chinese writing were reproduced by Hardwicke
and Valiantine. It has all been recognized as
extracts from the Analects of Confucius.
The Chinese experts consulted say it was
obviously written by a vVestern hand, because,
although in columns, the writing begins at the
left instead of the right of the page. The
translators, too, agree that in several places the
characters are reverse or mis-placed in order,
but the experts add there is no error in any single
ideograph.
A dramatic and impressive last sentence is
found in the Chinese script of both Margery
30
(
Felicia S catcherd Memorial Lecture
and Hardwicke, namely, "I am not dead,
Confucius''.
Still better, Walter asks Mr. Bird quickly
to say any sentence which comes to his mind ;
to which he replies : ''A rolling stone gathers
no moss'' The same night, Hardwicke, in
Niagara Falls, produced a Chinese sentence
·which reads when translated, cc A travelling
preacher gathers no gold'', a typical Chinese
antithetical sentence. The idea of Mr. Bird's
proverb was not only transmitted to Niagara
Falls, but translated into Chinese.
Of prophecy there has been very little.
Walter has, by indirection, implied the death of
two persons. Thus, of one he said : cc Give
- - my love, and tell him I will see him soon'' .
This appears several times in our records, and
the death occurred.
Walter has described, with accurate detail,
the clothing and behaviour of someone standing
in the front entrance to the house four storeys
below the seance room.
31
Felicia Scatclierd Memorial Lecture
In the whole realm of psychic phenomena
there ts no division more full of interest
and possible value than that of ''hauntings'' .
The common meaning of the word is the occur-
rence of supernormal physical phenomena in the
absence of a medium. The French critics
declare that no story of a haunted house has
ever been scientifically studied and confirmed,
but that a practical joker or a physical medium
was found present. Dr. Driesch (Professor of
Philosophy at Leipzig and sometime President
of the British S.P.R .) is more liberal and less
dogmatic. He says, in fact, that there is no
division of this new science more full of
important possibilities than examples of true
hauntings.
Phenomena which apparently come under this
category have occurred at 10, Lime Street.
We have had noisy, prolonged movement of
furniture in the seance room which contained
no person, and Margery 3I feet away.
A phenomenon of this kind which occurs
32
I
..
F'~licia S catcherd Memorial Lecture
under more scientific conditions is that related
to the victrola.
At times , when a welcome guest, or a very
sceptical one comes to the house, and is let in
the house by the servant, or may even come in
alone through the unlatched door, the victrola
may start playing. To do this, the little brake
must be moved about r-i inches. Such a move-
ment of the brake has been seen many times
with no apparent cause. The victrola will be
started perhaps when one has to leave the house
unexpectedly after midnight, or, again, it may
start when one returns at an unusual hour,
perhaps two in the morning. No normal way
of causing it to start under the conditions
described has yet been discovered, and every
normal way which has been suggested has been
tried without success. This phenomenon has
been observed when Margery has just been
reached on the telephone at a place three miles
away . It has occurred over 200 times, and
seems like a clear-cut example of a haunt.
33
SUMMARY
What now has apparently been accomplished
towards the definitio~1 of Walter as an individual?
(r) There occur in the presence of Margery
when she is in deep (snoring) trance under the
control of Walter, physical phenomena, the
supernormal quality of which we believe to be
established beyond question.
(2) The voice declaring itself to be that of
Walter is apparently proved by a mechanical
means to be independent not of the presence of
:Margery, but independent of the normal
anatomy and physiology of her voice-producing
apparatus.
(3) We have seventy-five thumb-prints, all
from the same thumb, and never that of any
sitter . This thumb-print has been produced
several times in the sole presence of a strange
35
Felicia Seateherd Memorial Lecture
sitter who has arranged the mechanical control
of Margery. The prints are always on marked
pieces of dental wax. This print means an
individual, or finger-print science is rendered
void.
(4) We have post-hypnotic performances by
three mediums all distant from the source of
information, Margery being one of the three.
In this experiment telepathy is apparently
excluded.
(s) Perfect cross-correspondences have been
produced many times.
(6) Apparently to show that there are other
entities similar to himself, but not himself,
Walter has brought about apparent communi-
cations from the Chinese. Events occurring in
one seance room have been transmitted to far-
distant mediums, and not only transmitted, but
the facts are then stated in Chinese.
(7) Walter has given memories of his life
here which seem probably not to be in the con-
tent of Margery's mind. We must all agree
36
Felicia Scatcherd Memorial Lecture
that survival without memory is hot survival, so
far as our concepts go.
(8) Like a true individual, \Valter apparently
cannot be in .two places at once. There is
always an appreciable time between phenomena
in two -places.
(9) Phenomena which come under the defini-
tion of the word "haunt" occur at 10, Lime
Street in the absence of Margery.
We ·will make ·1;0· conclusions. None have
had greater experience in supernormal physical
phenomena than the Margery group. _This is
not so much to their credit as to good fortune.
Assuming the facts to be truly and clearly
described, the reader now has a. summary of
our ·experiences to the present time. We are
confident ·that whatever the ultimate true
explanation of these phenomena. may be, the
facts themselves will stand. We are· sure that
the occurrences are not miracles, but that they
belong to some new supernormal category
of cause and effect. They open up great vistas
37
Felicia S cat.clierd Memorial Lecture
for the future of psychical research. We ask no
man's opinion, and we ask no man's endorse-
ment. Truth does not become evident through
endorsement. It permeates the minds and
hearts of man by other means. We hold only
that the survival hypothesis should have equal
standing with others in the final judgment.
J. B. S. Haldane, in "Possible Worlds"
(p . 208), says : "To prove the survival of the
mind or soul as something living and active, we
should need evidence that it is still developing,
thinking, and willing. Spiritualism does not
give us this evidence.''
Mr. Haldane cannot thus dogmatically put
us on the defensive. We do not produce the
phenomena, nor do we even know much of the
mechanics of their production, Walter's com-
ment on the dictum just quoted is not too bad.
He says, in effect : '' I have proved to you that
I can do a good many things you cannot do;
that I have senses which you have not; that I
have new means of communication. My
38
•
Felicia S catcherd Memorial Lecture
'racho ' works u1 both directions. If I am asked
to d7£cribe my landscape, I reply : 'You are
using ours, and it is by you , most poorly per-
ceived'. Outside these performances of mine,
which yott call supernormal, if I vvere to attempt
to tell you of all my surroundings and all my
work, !t would mean nothing to you, there can
be no check up, and most of it is contrary to
,,
your expenence.
We believe all should admit that it is possible
that \tValter is what ' he says he is. The most
discouraging encounter we have is with the m::\n
who says : '' I am not interested. One world at
a time. " It seems possible that this world and
the world of survival are, in fact, one world.
Nor can we believe the person who says : '' I
am not interested in the fate of my ego."
Annihilation may be the fact, but it seems
psychologically unthinkable. Less still can we
believe that anyone with faith in a moral
umverse can contemplate the destruction of the
great souls. "What if Socrates be slain as
39
Felicia Scatchera Memorial Lectiire
~yell as me ? \i\lhat if a11 those, the latchets C?f
whose shoes I rim l1ot worthy to unloose, are
also to be quenched in everlasting night?" No,
let us admit that we ''all yearn beyond the sky-
line where tl1e strange roads go down."
The integrity and dignity of the human spirit
demand that -
it .be an end in itseH, and in its
possible survival, as such, we have a right to be
scientifically interested.
NOTE.- Readers interested are referred to the files
of "Psychic Research" (N.Y.) for 1928.
For details, notes and records see
Proceedings of Am.S.P.R. 2 Vols. 1926-
27-28.
