{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__france___life_of_a_soul_palaces_and_slums.pdf","mytitle":"Life Of A Soul Palaces And Slums","mylang":"de"}
Utty Htfe of a g>oul
Wonderful Description of the Palaces and Slums of Spirit Life
By One Who Has Visited Them in Soul Flight.
By
MRS. MARY E. FRANCE
1929
THE AUSTIN PUBLISHING COMPANY
4522 St. Charles Place Los Angeles, California
(Copyright)
1929
MARY E. FRANCE
FOREWORD
Many years ago I was told by one of my teachers
from the higher life I was to write a book, the name
was to be, "The Life of a Soul," the history of this soul
is my own. So in writng today, I am prompted by a
sense of duty and a promise which I gave to my teachers
from the higher life many years ago, to help them in
spreading these truths wherever I could-
When being told I was a chosen instrument to help
them to bring light to the world, I pleaded my ignorance
and lack of education to do so, and asked why I was
one of the chosen, when, from my worldly standpoint,
there were so many more capable than I was. The
answer came, "By constantly adding brands to the fire,
we hope in time to light the whole world."
So it is with the assurance of help that I will add
my little store of knowledge with the hope that it will
help lift the burden from some poor souls who are still
struggling under the wrong thought —that death ends
all.
736756
INTRODUCTION
"Herefore ye shall see heaven open and the angels
of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man."
John 1 :51.
"Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither have
entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath
prepared for them that love him. But God hath re
vealed them unto us by his spirit." 1 Cor. 2 :9.
Paul declares he was "caught up" into the third
heaven and heard things unlawful to utter.
The history of saints and martyrs and of devout and
consecrated men and women under spirit entrancement,
shows that like St. Paul, many who are spiritually pre
pared are caught up into heaven, and made to see and
understand the realities of the spirit realm, and in many
cases are able to remember what they have seen and
heard, and describe what has been there revealed for
our instruction. St. Paul says he was "caught up" by
which we understand that thru spirit entrancement his
vibrations were raised from the lower vibrations of the
material realm on which he ordinarily functioned, to
tune in with the vibrations that prevail in the higher
realms of spirit.
Many thus visit the spirit land in their sleep and
sub-consciously receive much instruction and help but
are not able to recall and portray the same in their wak
ing moments.
Happy is the medium who is not only prepared to
see and enjoy such visions as Mrs. France describes in
this book and give them out to those thirsting for the
knowledge of spiritual realities. No one acquainted with
Mrs. France will question the sincerity and absolute
truth of her statements.
B. F. Austin.
LIFE
O! wonderful life, how little we know
From whence we came or whither we go,
From the giant Oak to the tiny flower
All are filled with God's life and power.
Man is crowned king of all life on earth
And endowed with great gifts at time of birth,
God to him many beauties has given
To brighten his path on the way to heaven.
Look to the fields where the lilies grow,
The towering mountains covered wtih snow,
And the little rivulet bordered with flowers,
O! what a beautiful world is ours.
O! wonderful life, in awe we stand,
As we view the work of an unseen hand;
Let us raise our eyes with adoration and love
While we thank our Father who dwells above.
. : ; . ;•: THE LITTLE THINGS OF LIFE
The tiny little flower found growing by the brook,
Is ready with a smile, for all who care to look;
The tiny little insect finds rest beneath its shade,
And a perfect peace, in a home there made.
The tiny little brook sings merrily on its way,
Lulling to sleep the insect on this warm summer day ;
Saying "good bye little insect, good bye little flower,
Until we meet again endowed with greater power."
Thus they help one another as they cross life's rugged
stream,
Sharing each the other's burden, making life a happy
dream ;
Pushing onward —ever onward, to the bright world
above,
Surrounded as they go, by universal love.
0! the happy busy world, tho humble it may be
In our mad rush through life we often fail to see.
0! the lessons we might gather from little things each
day
If only we would stoop to pick them on our way.
THE LIFE OF A SOUL
There comes a time in the life of every soul when
it is wide awake, and when this time comes, it knows why
it is here and is ready to begin to free itself from all
entanglements of earth life which it has brought around
itself by wrong thoughts and acts. It sees now that to
do this it must face about, look over its past life, and
resolve to erase every wrong by an act of helpfulness
to every living creature.
It now begins to take pleasure by loosening these
bonds and seeing the light which by freeing itself reali
zes it has been there all the time, only kept covered by
wrong actions and thoughts. The strong bond between
the soul and its heavenly parent is strengthened, and
it finds help at every turn, which the Father has been
trying to give, emanating from the unawakened soul.
Oh! Joy! it has now made another discovery —that it
is eternal and never dies, but it is destined to go on and
on, higher and higher, out of the old, into the new, ever
taking on a brighter more etherial body as it climbs
into the radiant beauty of unknown worlds and finds
itself surrounded by love and beauty never dreamed of
before. It now finds outstreached hands and words of
encouragement everywhere to aid this weary soul who
so long ago, resolved to free itself and who indeed is
weary and needs rest.
There are heights beyond human conception toward
8 LIFE OF A SOUL
which the soul is ever reaching- But after learning
there is no death, the awakened soul looks around it
and discover the dark mantle of ignorance which covers
the great majority of earth's children. Then it begins
to see, that in order to rise higher, it must help remove
this darkness that others may also see the light as it has
seen it. After doing what good it can, and going here
and there to learn from this teacher and that, it finds
the greatest teacher of all is right within, ever ready to
help the soul sever the last thread of ignorance, super
stition, and all things which have held it to earthly
conditions.
Now comes a time when this soul has brought such
a bright light around it, and knows that the helper is
right with it, that no matter what conditions or environ
ments surround it, each hour, each day, brings a joy
and a happiness in the knowledge that others are con
tinually being fed by the emanations from
it,
and that,
though unknown to the soul, wherever it goes, the radi
ance which
it
throws out helps other souls on their
journey through life.
This awakening came to me after many long years
of earthly struggles, trials and temptations. Having
been born in
a
rude log cabin on
a
farm in a western
country, but being blessed with good christian parents,
the principles of religion were in my young soul and
have been
a
great help to me in my struggles to live the
higher life.
My mother passed away when
I
was but six years
old, then my earthly trials began. At the age of twelve
I
was out in the world to battle alone without friends
or home. Being of a very sensitive nature
I
would often
think of my lost mother and cry out from the depths
of my soul for that mother love; but early in life she
LIFE OF A SOUL 9
taught me to pray and this stayed with me and helped
to bridge over many temptations.
In looking back I cannot remember the time when
I did not look to our Heavenly Father for guidance.
But time is a great eraser of sorrow and at the age
of eighteen one came into my life who for fifty-seven
years has been a kind, helpful companion, and with his
patience and good judgment has helped me to receive
these wonderful experiences. But this meeting has had
its sorrow too
It has taken many hours of deep thought to be will
ing to bare my soul to the gaze of the world and unjust
criticism, knowing that these truths are often given but
always covered up, but with the conviction of divine
guidance I give here that which I thought to leave out
until I was told to put it down too.
I am thoroughly convinced that my life has been
planned and carried out to the letter by higher intelli
gences than my own, so for the sake of truth and with
the help of my soul to gain these higher truths and finish
my material lives in this incarnation, as I have been told
I would, I am writing nothing but truth as it came to
me. I won my earthly companion unwittingly from
the one who should have been his, but not for long for
she is now waitiing for him in a beautiful spirit home
and when I look back I can see the great help they, as
well as myself, have received through my wonderful
experiences in gaining my liberation from earthly en
tanglements for all time.
When I was about fifty years old I had my first
experience, and when looking back at that memorable
night I am reminded that God works in a mysterious
way, his wonders to perform.
Up to this time our family had consisted of six
10 LIFE OF A SOUL
people. Our only child, a daughter, her husband and
their child had moved to a western city to enter a busi
ness he had already formed. Dear old aunt Ann about
the same time was called to the bedside of a sick daugh
ter, so this left my husband and myself alone in a large
nine room house.
This night that I speak of I was left alone, my hus
band was summoned on a Jury Trial. It being a murder
case, he was not allowed to come home, and as I was
of a timid nature I felt that a great calamity had befall
en me, but the outcome has been grand indeed, for all
I needed was just this one incident to start me on the
path, which unknown to me had been planned. I was
standing looking out of a window crying, it was a bright
moonlight night, when a voice startled me by saying,
"Mrs. France, you must not feel so bad for I am with
you." With these words came the knowledge that it was a
close friend of the family who had passed away two
weeks before. These words were spoken so plain that
in my excitement I looked around expecting to see my
friend standing there, but not seeing anyone, you can
imagine my astonishment and fright. I seemed glued to
the floor, not knowing what to think of it, for this was
the first time I had ever heard a spirit voice.
If I had known what I learned afterwards I could
have said something, but as it was my tongue refused
to move, and my whole body was numb with cold; oh,
for someone to speak to—even a cat would have been
welcome, but there I stood looking into space not even
daring to move for fear of I did not know what. How
long I stood in that position with my head turned
toward what I did not know, waiting and listening for
another word or some move, but none came, so gradu
ally I came out of my awful trance state and turned on
LIFE OF A SOUL 11
the light and found a chair and sat down, but the solemn
stillness filled me with awe, as this house we had just
built and moved into stood out in a new addition and
no other houses were near. But as my senses began
to come back to me, I thought, "What does this mean?"
Always being of a devotional nature my mind was turn
ed toward the divine, and like the majority of people 1
had never given a thought to what God has prepared
for us after leaving this world. After collecting my
thoughts some power, unknown to me, lifted the burden
and I went to bed with the determination to find out, if
possible, the meaning of this invisible presence. So all
I could do was to think it out alone, for I had no books
on the subject and no one to enlighten me.
I soon found out that if I wanted to keep the good
will of my old friends I must not mention my little ex
perience, for the side glances spoke louder than words,
but I had had my first lesson, and there was an urge
within me to go on and find out, if I could, more of
what that invisible presence meant, but where to begin
and what to do, that was uppermost in my mind now,
so I began to look into Christian Science, Mental Science
and anything I could get a hold of that was a little
broader than Orthodoxy. But nothing I found seemed
to give me any information on the subject I was look
ing for.
At this time an old friend came into my life again,
who, unknown to me was having some experience with
what she told me was an Ouija Board. In surprise I
asked what that was. She told me to come over and
she would show me as it was writing for her and her
daughter. Gladly I went.
Being so long associated with the Methodist church,
it took me a long time to get acquainted with this new
12 LIFE OF A SOUL
order of things, and to hear her ask if someone would
write, when there was no one in sight, was a little out
of the usual way of conversation. But when "yes" was
spelled out 1 began to sit up and take notice; and the
next question and answer gave me another shock equal
to the first night's experlnece when on inquiry by my
friend, "who is it?" and the name of an uncle of mine,
of whom I was his favorite, spelled out, I almost faint
ed and made an excuse to leave the room for a moment
to compose myself. When I returned I explained to her
that that was an uncle of mine who had been run over
by a railroad train and instantly killed many years ago.
Knowing that my friend had never heard of it was an
other lesson for me that I could never forget.
A short time afterwards a spiritualist lecture was
to be given and as I was beginning to be intensly inter
ested I went to hear it—the first talk along this line of
thought I had ever heard, and the teachers who had
taken me in charge certainly knew just how to give me
my lessons as I needed them, for when giving out her
message, the lecturer gave me one from the same uncle
who had made himself known to me over the Ouija
Board. She described his work and looks, he being an
orthodox minister, also a physician, in such plain langu
age that there could be no mistake. But to still further
clinch the truth, and make me know beyond a doubt,
he took full possession of her, and she went through the
agony of his death, but it was too much for her and she
had to close her lecture and work, then begged anyone
recognizing the spirit to please release her by acknowl
edging it. While it almost took my breath away to stand
up I did so, for it was another lesson, though a severe
one for me.
I also had a vision at this time which was a proph
LIFE OF A SOUL 13
esy of what was coming to me and as the name of this
book, "The Life of a Soul" was given to me by one of
my teachers from the higher life, I must show you how
they began instructing me with littie things first. I am
reminded many times of the Kindergarten school, for
this is just what it leads up to —greater things all the
way, and by perseverence, sincerity, truthfulness and
prayer for guidance, I at last reached God's Holy city,
and I often cry out from the depths of my soul, "0 ! the
glory of it all!" The trials, sorrows and temptations
I went through are nothing in comparison, and the out
come is more than worth it all.
But now for my little vision —I was standing in a
basin in a mining country, my friends and associates
were sitting in groups around the upper rim of the basin
gossiping. I was alone down below them picking up
gold nuggets—0 ! so many of them ; I looked up at them
wondering why they did not come down and get some
too, but they were too busy laughing and gossiping to
notice me or what I was doing.
Many days after, this vision came home to me with
great force, and was very prophetic spiritually and not
material as I thought at the time.
Soon after beginning my search for truth, I heard
this, "Follow the light that is given you, do not borrow
from others." I found this to be a great help, for while
receiving help from the outside it also led me to look
within where the greatest of all truth is found.
I LEAVE MY OLD HOME A>D ASSOCIATES
About one year later we sold our home and moved
to a Western city, where our children were located as they
were constantly urging us to come. I soon found this
14 LIFE OF A SOUL
to be a great advantage for my spiritual growth, as it
took me away from my old associates and out of the
clubs for which now I was beginning to lose interest.
After getting comfortably settled in our new home,
my longing for spiritual things grew stronger —I at
tended lectures and received messages which were very
encouraging. One I received I did not understand for
two years afterwards. A whole rose bush was brought
in and handed to me having full blown roses, buds and
leaves and also the roots, but the roots were covered with
little bugs. When I asked what the bugs meant the answer
came "people"—"everything is to be given to you com
plete but you are to guard it well or the people will tear
it to pieces."
After reading the following you will see as I do, how
true this is.
About this time our daughter and husband began to
make arrangements to go to China and Japan, as his
business called him there, and I naturally set up a train
of thought that was disastrous to my spiritual growth,
by cunjuring up sea disasters and all sorts of accidents
that could happen on this long journey (but which
didn't) so it was necessary for my teachers from the
higher life to give me another little vision to quiet my
nerves.
So one morning before getting up I lay there think
ing of the many sea disasters I had read about when
suddenly I saw a large passenger boat leaving the dock,
slowly it started out over the ocean growing dimmer
and dimmer until away in the distance land came in
sight and the boat landed safely, showing me that noth
ing would happen to them on this trip.
I thanked my teachers for their patience in blotting
out of my mind, thoughts that were so disastrous to
LIFE OF A SOUL 15
the one thing I was so desirous of gaining —a knowledge
of the higher life.
I kept going to this teacher and that one, trying to
learn that which seemed to elude me all the time, until
one night when my husband and I had listened to a good
lecture, one came to me saying they were starting a
class for "soul unfoldment" —would I enter? I gladly
said "yes, I would." So for one year I went once a week
and long after the rest of the class had quit work I still
spent one half day each week with this teacher. I also
kept up the practice of one hour silence at home each
day from 9 until 10 A. M. alone. By this regular prac
tice I became clairaudient and also had the sensation
of leaving my "body. But I could see nothing. At last
my teacher had a vision of where I was now able to
walk alone. I was shown to her as a child just begin
ning to walk. So I quit going to her and kept up my
silence hour at home.
A CHANGE
A quaker lady was described as being with me, I
could not see her, but I could hear her talk. One day
she said, "You ought to be able to see me as I am look
ing you in the face." I said, "I'm sorry, but I cannot see
you." Then the thought came to me, "why not ask her
to give me her name," so I did, when immediately I
heard "Lucretia Mott." My daughter was in another
room, and excitedly I went out and said, "Who is Lu-
crctia Mott?" She said, "I think she was a reformer,
but I am not certain, get the Encyclopedia, mother, that
will tell you." I could hardly wa't to look it up, but
when I found it, I was pleased to get her whole history.
She was right with me and laughingly said, "You couldn't
16 LIFE OF A SOUL
wait, could you, dear, until you had looked up my his
tory?"
I want to say it was she who stood guard over my
body the entire time I was taking my journeys through
the higher worlds.
After I began my silence hour alone, I missed my
worldly teachers very much, but I could hear and con
verse with my teacheis from the higher worlds, and
feel their loving influence all the time.
One morning I said, "Shall I continue my silence
hour each day?" Lucretia Mott, who was always with
me at this hour, said "Yes, the more often you sit, the
sooner we will be able to give you that which we are
preparing you for."
Yet in the face of all these wonderful messages,
sometimes a sadness would come over me because I could
not see them.
I was sitting at the piano one morning when these
thoughts ran through my mind: "Could it be possible
that all of these beautiful messages I am receiving origi
nate in my own mind?" Immediately one who seemed
to be always with me, one who had been described to
me as a "Master" said, "You may call me Abba Fath
er." This greatly surprised me, for up to this time I
always said "Master." Continuing he said, "My child,
you must know by this time without a doubt, these are
truths we are giving you, don't allow these dark
thoughts to enter your mind for they retard your work.
Your soul, like a full blown rose, Will soon send out a
fragrance that will help many who are yet in the dark."
When he finished speaking, I felt my unworthiness for
giving way to a sadness I didn't seem able to control,
but now that was all gone and a happiness stole over
me and the beautiful influence which is with me so
LIFE OF A SOUL VI
much had returned. I cried out with the new name he
had given me, saying, "0! Abba Father, forgive me, I
do know they are truths and I will not allow such
thoughts to intrude themselves into my consciousness
again, and with your help and the help from the angel
world will be faithful to those who are trying so hard
to enlist my help."
I ENTER A BROTHERHOOD
I soon afterwards had a prophetic dream which
was the means of entering me intoi the Universal
Brotherhood of Mystic Adepts. In my dream I was walk
ing down the street, there were two of my bodies —the
one leading (the first body) was dressed in white, the
second body was dressed in dark clothing. We were
about five feet apart, the material body was of course
sound asleep. I could see both of them and knew they
were mine.
In relating this dream to a friend a few days later,
I said it was so real and vivid I wondered what it could
mean. She said, "There is a Brotherhood located in the
East who offers to interpret any dream one may send in,
by simply sending in three subscriptions along with
your own, to their magazine." She was loud in her
praise as to the good work they were doing. So I secur
ed the required number and sent them along with my
dream. I also joined this Brotherhood, and the help I
received while studying their forty-nine degrees sent
out each month is beyond words to express, for I soon
began to leave my body. The interpretation follows:
"The charm and delicacy of your dream means
much, and should prove to you a source of everlasting
inspiration : but it carries a warning too, that you must
18 LIFE OF A SOUL
safe-guard yourself. The way to your own improvement
is to be made clear as cut crystal. There will be no ex
cuse for you to falter on the way, and I am sure you
will not. Think of the dream often for by so doing it
is certain to make you steadfast in all your undertak
ings."
"A fine example of zeal and honor is the ex-queen
Regent of Spain who by the very fact of her exhalted
position, Was obliged to climb the steep and thorny road
that others might tread the paths of dalliance, a noble
life of self-renunciation. Read Alice Maywells "Sonnet
of Renunciations." It is the only one she ever wrote,
and the late John Ruskin declared it to be one of the
finest in the English language."
The interpretation to this dream, at the time, was
as much of a mystery as the dream itself, but afterwards
I had warnings from two different mediums to be
careful when away from my body, for I might not be
able to get back into it. Hence the warning from the
Brotherhood to safeguard myself.
It was shown me by visions and messages that a
purification of the body was necessary before I could
receive the highest. So I took myself in hand with a
determination to blot out everything in my mind that
did not harmonize with their beautiful instructions. To
say this was easy is not true, for not one day passed for
years that I did not find something I had done or said
that must be overcome.
When I was striving so hard to overcome, always
with a prayer for help, this was flashed before me,
and so plain that it has always remained.
LIFE OF A SOUL 19
A Vision
My tombstone stood before me with these words on
the face of it, in plain letters at the top and alone, it
was this one word, "EXALTED" then below, "Mary
E. France, Passed from this life 1926."
To say that I was astonished would be putting it
mildly. I naturally supposed it meant my transition,
and I began to count the years before that eventful time
would arrive. But I soon discovered it had an entirely
different meaning, so these thoughts were laid aside for
far greater experiences which were rapidly approaching,
and for which I was being prepared by purification and
overcoming in every way possible.
OFF FOR THE ORIENT
Our children now bid us good bye and started on
their long journey to be gone through the summer
months, I little dreaming that I would visit them in far
away China in spirit before their return home. But I
know now that this was all planned before hand. Even
to their trip abroad, for had they staid at home I could
not, amid the confusion, have experienced my wonder
ful soul unfoldment.
I still kept up my silence hour, always dressed in
white and never forgetting to offer up a prayer for pro
tection and thanking my teachers for the help I was re
ceiving each day. I soon began to realize I was far away
from my body, but only for a few minutes at a time.
Sometimes a shiver would run through me when I re
turned.
While I could rarely see my helpers, I could hear
them talking, one came to me and said, "There will be
20 LIFE OF A SOUL
a change in your work, but do not be frightened or sur
prised." This sounded strange to me, but I understood
it later. I was surprised and anyone would think I might
be frightened when taken so far above the earth, but I
was not. A friend afterwards developed this phase of
mediumship, but was so frightened she had to give it up.
I began by taking short trips, and one day went
to a friend's home, and saw her mother with her. I
telephoned and asked her who was with her. She said
her mother was—I then told her I had just been there.
With this practice I soon grew stronger, so that
within about ten days after our children had gone, I was
taken on my first long journey.
In my early development one came to me saying he
was my soul mate and had been with me always. I
made light of it thinking it a joke as I had not heard of
anything along that line at that time. The next day at
the same hour he said, "You did not believe what I told
you yesterday—I should not have told you so soon, but
you will understand some day."
Friends, as this is a truth, I put it in here and
have learned this to be truth, not only in my case, but
with everyone when their souls have unfolded so they
can understand.
He accompanied me on journies, showed me where
he had lived in England, and where his body now is
laid away, which I will describe later.
On one of these trips I stood on a wide porch and
looked into a room which was furnished in pink and
white, but I only caught a glimpse of it as I did not seem
able to stay but a moment. I was told' by my companion
this was my spirit home.
LIFE OF A SOUL 21
I Again Visit My Spirit Home, No. 1
On June 10, 1902 I was taken on my first real con
scious journey in which I could remember on my re
turn, everything I heard and saw. I began now to write
down from memory, with the help of my invisible teach
ers, all that occured on these wonderful journeys through
the higher worlds, and as I have them written down I
will tell of each trip and what I saw just as I come to
them.
After sending out a prayer for help and guidance,
as I always did, the one who accompanied me on the
most of my journeys said, "Now be quiet." I was
standing on the same veranda which I had been told
before was my spirit home.
On looking down on a well kept lawn I saw a foun
tain on each side of a beautiful walk bordered with
flowers. This with the tall, waving trees, which were
scattered here and there over the sloping ground, made
a pleasing picture to look at.
Just beyond this was an immense park, well laid
out with flower beds and walks running in every direc
tion, as I looked I saw white robed figures gliding around
through it as if they were so happy. My soul leaped
with gladness for everything was so beautiful.
Then for the first time I realized there was some
one with me, but there seemed to be a veil between us
and I could not see who it was ; but my companion turn
ed around, opened the door and told me to come inside.
On looking in, I recognized the same pink and white
room which I had looked into before. Now I saw the whole
furnishings which were pink and white silk. The win
dows were draped with the same material and the car
pet was white velvet with pink flowers scattered over
22 LIFE OF A SOUL
it, the flowers looked as if I might pick them up, they
were so natural. My companion walked across the room,
opened a door into what proved to be a dining room.
On looking in I could not control myself any longer and
exclaimed, "Oh! what a beautiful room!" The table was
set for two, covered with snowy linen, cut glass and
silver, everything glistened! with it.
After allowing me to view this room until I was
satisfied, my companion led the way up a wide stairway ;
opening a door we went into what seemed to be a bed
room. The color in this room was blue and white. Oh !
I thought, "this must be heaven, for I have never seen
anything on earth so beautiful." After admiring this
room we passed on into what I was impressed was a
guest chamber. This room was yellow and white; all
the draperies and furniture was covered with a thin
gauze which looked like silk, giving it a most beautiful
effect. I stopped and looked around in wondering amaze
ment, and was so happy to know it was mine, but before
I could say anything, I was back in my home on earth,
seated in my chair just where I started from. I open
ed my eyes, my companion gone and I seemed to be alone,
looking around at the room and comparing it with the
heavenly home I had just left.
A VISIT TO THE GOLDEN TEMPLE WHERE JESUS
CROWNED US WITH ANGELHOOD
Julie 11th, 1902
I was for the present, taking these journeys each
day at nine o'clock, so as usual I dressed in white, mak
ing myself ready to go. My companion was always
ready at the appointed time, so he said, "Put your
LIFE OF A SOUL 23
thought on something spiritual and hold it there." I
did so by putting my mind on my beautiful spirit home
as I saw it yesterday, and I was soon there, but I began
to realize I was floating away from this home.
My companion being with me, we traveled a long
distance, so it seemed to me. The experience and sensa
tion of moving in this manner I can hardly describe, as
I seemed to glide along with so much ease and the panor
amic view which was spread out far below me was grand
in the extreme.
We seemed to pass from one sphere to another, and
I was so intensely interested in watching this beautiful
stretch of country we were passing over that if my
companion spoke I did not hear him until we were ready
to settle down in front of a large golden temple, when
he called my attention to it, I was astonished for it stood
out in the sunlight like a huge mountain of gold.
On looking up over a wide arched door I saw a
golden angel with outstretched wings. We passed through
the open door and down a wide aisle. The building
was filled with people, all of them dressed in white.
We both walked up to the altar, or throne, where in a ,
large golden chair sat one whom I was told was Christ;
over him was carved a golden angel, and around his
head was a halo. On either side of him was a golden
chair, smaller than the one he occupied. Over each of
the smaller chairs was also an angel. In front of him
on the altar were two crowns, and in one hand he held
a book.
We both stopped in front of the altar facing him. I
was greatly surprised and wondered what it could
mean when the occupant of the chair picked up one of
the crowns, held it over my head and said :
"Friends, we have gathered here this morning to
24 LIFE OF A SOUL
witness the birth of these children into a higher 1 ife,
this one born as she was in a rude log cabin, springing
from a lowly life, her struggles through childhood were
hard, but through them all she never lost sight of her
heavenly Father. Always with her face turned toward
the spirit world, and ever ready with a soulful prayer
to God, she has at last, through her strong faith, reached
her reward and crown which has been promised."
Then placing it on my head he motioned me to the
chair on his right, saying, "May you ever wear this
crown with the same faith with which it was won."
Handing the book to me he told me the law was written
within which I was to give out, and, "Oh, soul, may
my blessing rest with you now and forever more.
Amen." He blessed my companion and placed the other
crown on his head motioning him to the chair on his
left. Just then the whole congregation began to sing,
"Praise God from whom all Blessings Flow," and along
with the instrumental music it rang in my ears for
days.
After coming back to my body I thought of it in
astonishment, for it was something new to me, and so
unexpected, a nd everything I had seen stood out so
bright and beautiful that I cried out, "Oh, can it be
possible that I am worthy of anything like this—what
does it mean?" I raised my hands toward heaven and
thanked God for being able to put myself in condition
to be taken to such beautiful places to learn my lessons,
and when I was through, my words sounded so weak
compared with these heavenly things —the beautiful
golden temple and all connected with it—that I said,
"There must be some mistake," I was in this deep
thought when I was startled by a voice saying, "No,
child, you are not mistaken this is all for you, have we
LIFE OF A SOUL 25
not been telling you there was a crown awaiting you?
This is all true, that we have taken you to see that you
may know when you come to the spirit world to stay
it will be carried out just as you saw it today. Put it
down in your book with the other truths we have been
giving you."
I had been told long before, by this medium with
whom I had been siting, that my teachers from the
higher life wanted me to write down everything which
I received. I did so, and thought it very strange, but I
understood later when they began to take me on these
journies, why they wanted me to do this, for had I not
written them down immediately it would have been im
possible for me to remember all that I saw and heard
on these many journies.
A VISIT TO GOD'S HOLY CITY
Where My Dream Was Verified by Leaving
Two Bodies Behind
This morning after preparing myself for another
journey, and offering up a prayer for protection, and
thanking my teachers for their patience and work in
trying to enlist my help in spreading this great truth
that there is no death —a prayer that I never forgot, I
was told as I had been before to put my thoughts on
something spiritual. I did so by thinking of the golden
temple I had visited the day before. This concentra
tion seemed to draw my spirit away from my body, and
I was soon unconscious of my surroundings, but as I
was ready to start I realized another guide had been
called in to take me to these different places of interest.
26 LIFE OF A SOUL
Why this was necessary I did not know, but I do know
that he was my companion on a part of my trips.
Soon I heard him say, "Come, take my hand and I
will take thee to a higher sphere than the one thee visit
ed yesterday. To a place whither thou art trending."
While I said nothing, I noticed the words "thee" and
"thou" were used, now here was something that set up
a train of thought in my mind, for now I seemed; to be
under the care of good Quakers which pleased me very
much, as I had mingled with them in my younger days
and learned to love them. Now I thought, "Here is
Lucretia Mott guarding my body while I am away, and
another good Quaker protecting my spirit, I am well
protected and guided, for my eternal companion was
with me also." So clasping his hand we continued on
our upward journey.
Now for the first and only time on these journeys,
I felt timid and was afraid to go higher, but his reassur
ing voice of, "Come, child," gave me confidence and we
started up. But soon that timid feeling came over me
again and again it was necessary for this heavenly
teacher to give me words of encouragement and to re
peat, "Come, child."
We were soon far away from my body, and my
weakness had left me for the wonderful experiences I
j
was going through with, for I now realized my second
body was too heavy and that too was left behind. I now
took an etherial body and was immediately clothed in
etherial clothing, making me as light as a feather. As
we floated out and upwards, words cannot express the
grand heavenly scene which opened up before us. While
I was admiring all this beauty my guide said, "Dost
thou see the stars below thee?" "Oh, yes, Father, and the
beautiful blue sky," was my answer. Why I called him
LIFE OF A SOUL 27
Father I don't know, but I felt I was in the company
of an ancient, and young in knowledge compared to him.
As we floated along I felt so free and happy for there
was a continual change of scenery and I did not seem
to have a care —that was all left on earth with my body.
But before I had finished my trips I learned some
severe lessons, and realized, as I never had before, the
great work there is to be done in lifting humanity out
of the mire of the world in which they have been strug
gling for ages. The rejoicing which came from the
angel band around me when they saw how deeply these
lessons were imbedded in my soul, will, I hope, inspire
me for all time to come. To clasp hands with them and
do what little I can in spreading the great truth that
there is no death, and when we live here as we should
we pass through the lower conditions in the spirit world
into one of great beauty.
After traveling a long distance, gradually ascend
ing all the time, my guide pointed to something far
ahead of us which looked like a beautiful white fleecy
cloud, but we floated on and settled down outside of the
most beautiful city. My words fail to do justice to it,
try as I may, they fall far short of a description of this
beautiful city as I saw it that day.
As we came down my guide said, "This is God's
Holy City." We stood outside of a wide double closed
gate, and as we walked up to it, (or rather floated,) it
noiselesly opened, and when I looked in the scene was
beyond anything I had ever thought of. "Oh," I cried,
"Father! is it possible for me, being so weak, to enter
this Holy place?" His only answer being as it had been
before, "Come child," he led me down a marble walk,
everything which greeted my eyes was pure white, the
gates and the wall around the city looked like white
28 LIFE OF A SOUL
marble. The grass, the trees and the leaves looked to
be crystalized, they were so pure and white.
But Oh, such a quiet awe fell over me the moment
we entered the city, that it seemed to me I must hold
my breath. The quietness! the awful stillness! what
could it mean? When everything was so grand and
beautiful, I thought what is the cause of this.
After coming back from this trip I was not satis
fied until I had it explained. My guide led me down
this walk until we reached an immense round temple
which like everything else in the city was white. We en
tered a wide open door and immediately floated up to
the dome, and upon looking down, I saw it was filled
with etherial spirits. I call them etherial for it seem
ed to my wondering eyes that I could see right through
them, but Oh, the stillness was something awful. They
were moving around but from my high place I could not
hear a sound of any kind.
We kept floating around this immense building
when my guide broke the stillness by saying, "Now
child, I have given thee an insight into what thee may
expect to inhabit sometime in thy future life. This, the
Holy City is inhabited by pure angelic beings, who have
won their abode by ceasless devotion to God through all
their trials of earth life, and this too will be thy future
home, for knowing thy past life as I do, and of the trials
and temptations thee had to pass through, I am glad to
know that by thy true devotion to thy heavenly Father,
thou hast earned this beautiful home as thy reward,"
and as he finished speaking this grand, beautiful city
began to fade and I found myself again an inhabitant of
earth. But Oh, how dark everything looked!
After coming back from this heavenly city I asked
my companion, who is always with me, why there was
LIFE OF A SOUL 29
such an awful stillness in the Holy City? His answer
was, "All of those who inhabit the Holy City being so
etherial, those coming from the lower spheres cannot
enter their vibrations ; hence do not hear them. But
among themselves they make as much commotion as we
do, that is if we could mingle with them ,and enter into
their finer vibrations, this noise would be the same to us
there as any other sphere."
Friends, this is the highest home to which I was
taken. A home which was so dazzling and beautiful
that my weak description fails to convey to you, its
deep meaning. But it is there, and when we have ad
vanced to where we can truthfully say, "Thy will be
done," give up all and become like Him in word, thought
and deed, then will the gates of that heavenly city open
for us to enter to remain forever with the angels of
God who have won eternal harmony and peace.
But there are homes in the lower spheres which
some of us will occupy before leaving for that celestial
home, and into which I have been. So I will describe
some of these.
MY HUSBAND'S BROTHER'S HOME
The morning I visited this home I am about to
describe I made myself ready as usual, not forgetting
my daily prayer for protection, when I soon heard the
welcome voice of my guide say, "Come."
We started and were soon floating over clouds. After
traveling some distance we settled down in what looked
to be a beautiful park, walking along a wide avenue, we
came to a light gray house, it looked like gray marble,
beautifully carved. The front was square with a double
row of pillars around the veranda, the guide led me
30 LIFE OF A SOUL
around to the rear, and up some steps, saying, "Look
well before we enter." And as he said this I cast my
eyes around the ground and saw it was much the same
as other places I had seen in the spirit world, white
walks, tall waving trees and fountains with water pour
ing out of them.
Opening a door we entered a large dining room, all
furnished in white. While I was wondering whose
home this was, my guide said, "This is a family re
union where thy husband will first meet his family."
As I entered this room I saw a long table covered
with a white cloth, in appearance much the same as the
table in the school which I will describe later. Seated
around this table was my husband's family and proved
to be a family reunion. At the opposite end from where
I stood was seated his father. Facing him at the other
end of the table was his mother and on either side were'
his five brothers and sisters making in all, seven. As I
stood there looking at them his brother, James, address
ing me, said, "Mary, this is a family reunion, showing
you the welcome Walter will receive when he comes to
us. Father and mother and the rest of them have homes
of their own, but have come today to meet you, Walter
will be here ahead of you, for you will be left to battle
for this truth in the face of bitter opposition. Tell
him not to put anyhing in your way to hinder your pro
gression, either by word or action, for if I had had the
chance to learn of this life as he is having from you to
day, I could have progressed faster, but not knowing
about this life, I had to learn my lessons after I came
here."
After he finished speaking, I soon found myself
back on earth thinking, "0! what a beautiful home
LIFE OF A SOUL 31
gathering," and of the many times we had met the same
way on earth.
"0! life how wonderful, no death! but on and on,
ever on! and my thoughts carried me away out into
space, until I was lost in a maze of bewilderment, and
was extremely startled by hearing my new found guide
say, "Come child, there is another home I would show
thee at this time." So he took me by the hand and we
floated out and up a wide path.
A GLIMPSE OF MY EARTH COMPANION'S;
SPIRIT HOME
This path was something new, the path was white,
banked up on either side with white roses the whole
distance. My guide noticed my astonishment and said,
"This is the path thy companion traveled in his progres
sion to his new home," and as he finished speaking we
came in sight of another beautiful home, being similar
to the one we had just visited only more beautiful.
There were more flowers. The white home stood on a
knoll overlooking a beautiful country, the fence around
the home was covered with flowers and green vines.
My guide led me up wide steps to an arched door;
it being open we entered. The furnishings were beauti
ful, the carpet was white with red roses scattered over
it, the window draperies being the same color of the roses,
overlaid with white silk, and the furniture was the
same color.
As I glanced over the opposite side of the room
my astonished eyes fell upon Walter, his left arm
thrown around someone standing by his side, I looked
the second time to be sure my eyes were not deceiving
me. He looked just as he did thirty years ago, I must
32 LIFE OF A SOUL
have looked astonished for he said, "Mary you under
stand these things better than I can explain them don't
you?" for this was the one who should have been his
earth companion, and was the one who had been with
him since time began.
Friends, as nothing goes into this book but truths,
and I have been told to put everything in it just as it
came to me, I put this one too, so much has come to
both of us since I had this experience, we talk of these
higher truths just like brother and sister.
A HOSPITAL FOR WEARY SOULS
After my usual morning exercises of making myself
ready and offering up a prayer for strength and help, I
was ready to take my daily journey into an unknown
land toward which we are all rapidly approaching but
about which we know so little. My heart swells with
gratitude when I think of the manner in which this
wonderful knowledge is given to me, and I often think,
"0! if I could only make the people know and see what
I have seen, how it would change their ways of living."
But my sensitive soul has already felt the bitter attacks
from an undeveloped world, and I know I must expect
more, but I have felt stronger since one day after a
severe criticism I gave way to tears, when the voice
which is always near said, "Are you any better than
Jesus?" "Oh, I cried, "indeed I am not." These few
words have lifted many a burden from my soul, and
given me courage to go on and help my angel friends in
their great work to enlighten the world.
My new found guide made his presence known this
morning by saying, "Come, there are other places we
want thee to see, come!" So putting my hand in his,
LIFE OF A SOUL 33
we started and before this journey was ended, I had
learned that there are, in the lower spheres in the spirit
world, places that are not so beautiful as the ones I had
been taken to on former visits. Scenes which stirred
my soul to its very depths, and where I saw the great
necessity of enlightment on the earth plane. I also be
gan to realize why I was being taken to these places
that I might learn a lesson, and be able thereby to help
my angel teachers in their great work to undo some of
the false teachings of earth.
As we floated along we crossed a wide stretch of
beautiful country, my guide, calling my attention now
and then to places of interest. He said, "Dost thou see
that building?" I looked in the direction he pointed
and away below us, almost hid from view among tall
trees, I saw an immense brick colored building, round
in shape. The top looked to be cut square off. He did
not explain what it was, but I was impressed that
sometime I would visit it.
So many times on these journeys when taken where
I was to learn my lesson, my teachers would step back
and let me see and hear what I was brought here to learn,
without any explanations from them.
We traveled on and on, passing over an old looking
town, being so far above it looked deserted, but I could
see dimly, the streets, but how different from the beauti
ful country we traveled over yesterday. After we cross
ed the barren country we settled down in front of a
light colored building, but the comparison was so great,
a sadness took possession of me and turning to my guide
I said, "Oh ! Father, where are we, and what is this deso
late looking building?" "This is a hospital for weary souls,
come if thee has taken a good look at the surroundings,
I will show thee the interior." Indeed I had taken a look
34 LIFE OF A SOUL
—as far as I could seee it was one of desolation—a bar
ren country, and a feeling of loneliness crept over me
when I thought of God's Holy City, and the beautiful
country I had traveled over, but I was brought here to
learn a lesson, and while not a comforting one, a lesson
that must be learned if I was to keep my promise to
help my teachers. So we glided up the steps, my teach
er opened a door and led the way into a large room
where, stretched on cots were souls who had just come
from earth plane. Leading me to one he stopped. Stand
ing by the side of this spirit was a ministering angel.
I was amazed to hear him say in heart broken
tones, "Where is my wife, why doesn't she come
to me when I call her? She was always ready and
anxious to come. Where is she? I've called and call
ed, but she does not come—tell me where she is." The
pure angel who stood near, leaned over him and took
one of his hands saying, "My brother, rest a while, then
you will be stronger, you have left her for a while, and
after you rest you may go and see her for you have
passed the change called death, and you are in the spirit
world."
"Dead ! I'm not dead, if I was do you think I would
be able to call my wife as I have been doing? No, I'm
just as much alive as I ever was."
"Yes, brother, but look at your hands, you certainly
can see there has been a change," and as she ceased
speaking he raised his hand and looking long and earnest
ly at it. I knew by his long silence that a world of
thoughts were surging through his brain. At length
he looked up at this patient being and said, "If this is
death, and I realize there has been some kind of a
change, why don't we on the earth plane know of it? I
have never heard of a change like this, why are we not
LIFE OF A SOUL
taught differently? Why?" —and in his excitement he
raised up and exclaimed—"Why don't the ministers
stand up in their pulpits and tell the truth, instead of
telling us a lot of trash? They must know better, in
stead of telling us how to live in faith, why don't they
go to work and inform themselves of this life, there must
be some way of finding out these truths." When he
had finished speaking he laid back on his cot in a state
of exhaustion.
Turning to my guide I said, "Oh, Father, what does
this mean?" for I was excited and greatly astonished
too, this brother had just passed out of his earthly body
and had been brought to this hospital to be given his
first lesson, not knowing that one stood near who had
just left a body on earth too, but must soon return to
take up duties of earth life. This was a deep lesson
for me, as well as the spirits I was listening to, for I did
not know that anyone, after leaving the body could give
vent to a conscious talk like this. The only difference
I could see was that I was getting my lesson before
leaving the body to remain. Now I could see why the
angel band around me were working so hard to enlist
my help.
With patience my teacher stood silently by my side
waiting for me to speak again. I said, "Oh, Father,
this lesson has sunk deep into my soul, and is well learn
ed, but what does it mean?"
"This, child, is a school, or hospital, where these
weak ones are brought and taught the truths which have
never been given them on earth, and this is another of
earth's false teachings. But come, here is another lesson
I wish thee to learn at this time. And leading me to a far
side of the room, my attention was called to another scene
which impressed me still more than the one I had just
36 LIFE OF A SOUL
witnessed, for lying on a cot was a small child crying
for her mother, and in such pitiful tonesl too, shed tears.
She was saying: "I want my mamma! Oh, I want my
mamma! Where is she—why dosen't she come?" and
with this the ministering angel who stood by her side
turned away, unable to control herself any longer, rais
ed her eyes upward, clasped her hands and in heart
broken Words said, "Oh, God! how long, oh, how long
are we to be forced to listen to these pitiful cries ! Oh,
heavenly Father, hasten the day when their false
teachings on earth, may be replaced by truth, so that
when each one passes to this life they may know and
understand." And with tears streaming down from her
eyes, she turned to the little one and tried to comfort her
with her oft repeated words of, "We will take you to
your mamma, dear, just as soon as you are stronger."
I was so overcome that I too turned my eyes upward
and found myself in this attitude with this prayer com
ing from my soul:
"Oh, heavenly Father, only show me the way ,and I
will help to spread this great truth, for I see the need
of it plainer today than I ever did before. I also realize
the great work there is to be done to lift the dark vibra
tions away from our bothers and sisters. May we who
have been so wonderfully blest, ever stand ready to
reach across the chasm, and clasp hands with these dear
angels and thereby lessen their burden by spreading
these truths so that everyone may know and understand
this great change called death, and be prepared to know
when they do pass to that beautiful life beyond, that
they can. come back if we will only allow thflm to. Oh,
heavenly Father, help us all to learn this truth as it is
being shown to me in such a beautiful way."
LIFE OF A SOUL 87
SPIRIT HOME OF GREEK ARCHITECTURE
This beautiful home, which I speak of now, I was
glad to see and describe too a dear friend of mine to
whom it belonged, and who has since passed away, and
who many years afterwards returned, and through the
trumpet, told me what a beautiful home it was. She is the
soul of Orion, a Greek Philosopher, into whose temple I
went later and heard him lecture on our Planetary sys
tem of which I will tell you later.
The grounds around this home were beautiful, a
fountain stood on one side of a white marble walk, the
water shooting high in the air, around this fountain
was also a white marble walk bordered with lillies of
the valley, as was also the walk leading up to the home.
As I walked up to it my attention was drawn to its
beautiful architecture. Walking up some steps I stood
in a large open court supported by immense round, white,
marble columns, on top of these rested square blocks of
marble. The whole building was white. I went from
there up three steps to a wide veranda and around to
the west side and entered the home through an arched
doorway, where a bautiful sight was presented to me,
the carpet was white with pink roses scattered over it,
while the walls were the same, the windows were drap
ed with a soft silky looking goods looped back with gar
lands of roses. On the south side of this room was a
mantel. Over this mantel was either a picture or a
figure of some kind which seemed to be covered with a
mist, and I could not see plain enough to describe it to my
friend when I returned.
In one corner of the room was a pillar chiseled in
the wall, the same shape as those in the open court, on
top of it was a vase filled with pink roses. An open
38 LIFE OF A SOUL
archway with garlands of pink roses around it led to
a room to the east. Another door on the north side of
the room where I stood opened into a dining room in
which stood a table with a white cloth over it, and a
garland of roses around
it,
there was also
a
vase on the
table with pink roses.
Now here
is
a
strange incident, one
I
have never
been able to interpret unless
it
was to show me that my
friend was soon to occupy this beautiful home, for
I
saw her standing close to the table dressed in white.
And now comes the most beautiful scene in the
home. In the room where
I
stood, in the dome-shaped
ceiling was
a
cupid and as
I
looked
it
began to throw
pink roses. Some fell on the carpet and others lit on the
wall and staid there, some went straight to my friend
and clung to her dress.
I
was greatly astonished and
as
I
stood there in wonderment and surprise,
I
looked at
this beautiful manifestation, the words which came to
me in my early development struck me with force now,
for this was indeed something different from anything
I
had ever seen before, the words, "Remember my child,
if things look strange to you, that our ways are not
your ways," seemed to apply to this case, so
I
will put
it
in here.
These homes which
I
have seen when out of my
body are as real to my spirit eyes as our earthly homes
are, only
a
great deal more beautiful. There was no
explanation from my companion who stood near, as to
the beautiful combination of pink and white. Pink be
ing the most prominent color, as in many of my
lessons
I
was left to learn them without any suggestions
from my teachers, so in this case, when
I
thought about
it. Pink
is
love and my friend had love highly develop
ed for every human being and all life. This
is
the only
LIFE OF A SOUL 39
explanation I can give, as to why there was so much
pink in her home.
MY SPIRIT HOME NO. TWO
This Beautiful Home Stands in The Fifth Sphere
"In my Father's house are many mansions."
I have described one of my spirit homes, but this
one I speak of now I am more familiar with, for I have
been in it several times.
My new guide was with me as well as my compan
ion, the one who told me he had been with me since time
began. I had learned to call him Robert. My guide
taking my hand said, "We will asecnd now," while on
the way he said, "In my Father's house there are many
mansions, and in thy progression thee will need another
home other than the one thou hast seen." As he finish
ed speaking we came in sight of the most beautiful home
that mortal eyes can imagine. It stood on a high slope
of ground and looked like a castle. It was immense and
pure white. Surrounded by a low fence made of fes
toons of white flowers, the grounds were laid out beau
tifully. The white walks were bordered with white flow
ers with fountains and pots of Easter Lillies scattered
over the lown.
As my other home had a wide veranda leading up
to it, so did this one. I was standing spellbound look
ing at these beautiful things when my guide broke into
my pleasant thoughts by saying, "Come, thee will want
to see the inside of this beautiful home." The surround
ings were so interesting and beautiful it did not occur
to me to go inside. As he spoke we walked up the steps,
opened the door and went inside, where there was pre
40 LIFE OF A SOUL
sented to my view, the grandest and most delightful
scene of all filling me with happiness and joy. Every
thing in this home was pure white, the carpets looked
like white velvet. Unable to control myself, I cried,
"Oh, what a beautiful home! How can I ever expect
to live in a home like this? There must be some mis
take."
"No, this will be thy home, thou art building it
now with thy good thoughts and deeds, go on child, send
ing out thy beautiful thoughts and do all the good thou
cans't and this is thy reward." As my guide finished
speaking I looked around the room and saw on one side,
a white piano, in the center of the room was a pot of
Easter Lillies, upheld by three cupids, on the wall I was
amazed to see a life size portrait of myself, framed in
white, my hands clasped, my head drooped as if in
prayer, and dressed in white.
After coming out of my deep reverie, I turned to
my guide and we walked to the opposite side of the
room where a wide white marble stairway led to the
rooms above. On one side of this stairway on one of
the posts was a statue of Jesus. The wide steps were
covered up the center with a strip of white velvet car
pet. We had gone about half way up when everything
began to fade, my guide was gone and a sadness stole
over me when I thought I had lost it.
I soon afterwards visited this home again, and the
view from an upper window overlooking the grounds
and a lake close by was beautiful.
About one year later I again visited it and found
myself standing on the opposite side of this home from
where I entered it on my first visit, this being on the
East side.
Oh, this beautiful home! I can hardly describe it
LIFE OF A SOUL 41
as I saw it today. It was so white like a palace with
here and there a spire running high in the air. As I
stood there looking up at
it,
I
thought, "What have
I
ever done to earn
a
home like this?" The grounds too
are beautiful, and the walks are white marble bordered
with flowers.
I speak of this home for the reason that
I
know if
I
have a home there so much more beautiful
than any earth home,
I am sure that all of earth's chil
dren will sometime, have the same.
On one of my latest visits to my spirit home
I
no
ticed a beautiful scene had appeared on the East wall
of one of the rooms. A shepardess and her flock of
sheep. This surprised me for
I
knew
it
had appeared
since my last visit and wondered what
it
could mean,
but in this was a great lesson to be learned, for
I
had
been asked and promised my teachers from the higher
life to help them to spread these truths whenever
I
could.
I
had been striving to carry out their wishes
by having some of my experiences published in
various magazines and papers, and from my efforts
along this line the scene had appeared.
I
also learned later that anyone who may have ac
cess to your spirit home knows by the symbols seen
there, just how far you have progressed in your soul
unfoldment, and the life you are living on earth. Oh,
friends if every one could be made to know this great
truth, I'm sure we would not live such selfish lives, but
would try to make others happier. After
a
long scrutiny
at the scene on the wall
I
turned around and saw my com
panion seated at the piano.
I
went over, laid my hand
on his shoulder, and asked him to look up so that
I
could see him, he did, but there was
a
mist between us
so
I
could not see his face.
I
went back to where my
guide stood and he opened
a
door near him and said,
42 LIFE OF A SOUL
"This, child, is thy bridal chamber, for thee will be borne
to a higher life when thou occupiest this home. I only
looked into this room and was not permitted to enter
at this time. But I have since been inside of
it,
the
furnishings were also white,
a
window on the East side
of this room overlooks one of the finest scenes
I
have
been shown yet.
I
stood by this window and loked down
on
a
well kept lawn of green grass and flowers with tall
trees scattered here and there, and just byond this
pleasing scene was a beautiful body of water with boats
gliding in very direction.
Another picture of both-— a spirit picture, hangs on
the wall of the room. My guide said at this time "Take
a
good look, for thou may'st not see it again until thee
comes to stay," then added "although thee may." And
I
have been there twice since, for there is naturally
a
great attraction to draw me there. But with my last
visit there goes with it quite
a
history on three different
occasions
I
was held in a power of divine love. The
last time lasted about one half hour. After coming out
of my trance-like state
I
thought "Well this is some
thing new—what does
it
mean?" The influence staid
with me the rest of the day, but not for several days
did
I
learn why
I
was held in that condition.
This morning that
I
speak of, now, after asking
for protection and thanking my teachers for their help,
I
heard the well known voice of my spirit companion
say, "Come," so we floated away to the home
I
have be
come so well acquainted with, but before entering the
house he took me down to the beautiful lake
I
had
seen before where anchored near by was a swan shaped
boat covered with pink and white roses, a garland of
flowers was caught in the bill of the swan, brought
around the sides of the body of the boat then brought
LIFE OF A SOUL 48
up and fell in a shower all around us. After placing
me in the boat, and he at my side, we took a ride—the
ride in such a beautiful boat is beyond anything I ever
dreamed of, and the wonder of it all gave me new
thoughts which have stayed with me ever since. We
saw many out for pleasure in all sorts of creations of
boats. After a ride and leaving the boat, he said, "We
will go into the house." We did so and leading me to
the room where I had seen my portrait he said, "I didn't
like the old picture, so brought a special artist and got
another to take its place. To say I was amazed is not
strong enough, for there was my spirit picture, not the
white hair and wrinkles of age, but one of youth in the
prime of life, I couldn't get away from the fact that it
was I, it was so much younger and many thoughts were
running through my mind. "Oh, this is the answer to
my trance like state, now I have the answer." After
admiring the artist's work in putting on canvas a face
I hope I looked like, and knew my natural face did not,
I had a longing to stay, for the beauty of the home, the
grounds, the lake, the boat and all connected with them
kept running through my mind, so I said "Can't I stay
this time?" His answer was "No, your work on earth
is not done yet."
Friends, this is the last time I have been inside my
beautiful spirit home, but it stands there and someday
I hope to occupy it. But I have seen many other places
of interest there and will tell you about them. I wish
I could say that all homes in the next life were as beau
tiful as the ones described, but this is not true, and I
was shown homes from the Holy City on down to the
bottomless pit, even down into the caverns, down where
the murderers live. Oh, I wish I could blot forever, from
my memory —some of the awful scenes I beheld while
44 LIFE OF A SOUL
standing by some of these poor misguided specimens of
humanity, but it was their own fault for they knew bet
ter. I have learned such wonderful lessons from just
looking at the many spirit homes I have seen—I learned
that the first occupied is just what we have made it
while here, so I was shown one that surprised me not
a little, at the time, for I saw it before the two old people
who occupy it now did. They passed away soon after
I saw it. They were both workers in a spiritualist
church, and good people, but their home showed little
soul unfoldment. A small home made of new lumber set
in a new country surrounded by a growth of young trees.
But the beauty of it all is, we may and do, work out of
these lower conditions and ever on to a more perfect life.
TENT HOMES
This morning after the usual preparation, I heard
the voilce of my guide say, "Come we will go to a lower
sphere today," so we started and floated over a beautiful
stretch of country; like the most of it, we had passed
over, it looked like a panorama of moving pictures. In
time we came in sight, far below of what looked like
Indian wigwams scattered over a lonely desert. Upon
coming closer I saw they were tents set here and there
in the most desolate looking country I ever saw. They
were standing on rocks and sand, the hot sun poring down
on them, and lying around on the ground were spirits.
I thought, "Oh, if there is a hell, this must be one,"
for I was never in such a hot place in my life. Then I
thought, "Why don't they go inside the tents? They
would be sheltered' from the hot sun," but when I went up
to them, I found out why they did not, for if possible,
it was hotter on the inside than it was on the outside.
LIFE OF A SOUL 45
They seemed to be set up to lure the mass of spirits
to them, only to turn: them away in disappointment, for
the heat was almost unbearable. I was so intensely in
terested in watching them and trying to devise some
way whereby they could be made more comfortable, that
the voice of my guide startled me by saying, "Come."
In my intense curiosity, I had for the time, forgotten
him. So I turned around and went to where he stood
when, to my horror, I saw a man lying at his feet, beg
ging for water. He said, "Oh, only give me a little
water, Oh, God! if there is a God, why am I in a hell
like this? Oh, help, Oh," and as he uttered this sound,
he fell back on the hot sand. I was greatly excited: ,and
turning to my guide said, "Oh, Father, what does this
mean?" "This, my child, is one who has been taught
the right way, but would not listen and in his besotted
condition, passed to this life, caring for nothing better
than whiskey, and all the evil things that go to make a
drunkard's life,"
I was glad to hear him say, "Come, we will go far
ther," for there was not a drop of water in sight to re
lieve his thirst, nor was there a blade of grass or a liv
ing thing in the shape of a tree or vine. Nothing but
hot rock and sand everywhere, and as I could not re
lieve his suffering I was glad to go.
A SLUM IN THE SPIRIT WORLD
Friends, these scenes are not pleasant, but I stood by
and saw and heard these things, just as I describe them.
They are there and will be just as long as there is so
much sin in the world. And as everything I describe in
this book is a truth, I must write them in just as I saw
them.
46 LIFE OF A SOUL
The next place I was taken to, another sight met
my eyes, worse than the one just witnessed. While
looking at this, the words of "The Wanderer In Spirit
Land" flashed across my mind, my guide seemed to
catch my thoughts for turning to me he said, "My child,
while you have read this, we wanted thee to see it with
thine own eyes so that these lessons would be all the
stronger." "Y)es, so it is, but oh, this is terrible!" For
at our very feet and all around us were moving reptiles
and sli)me of the worst kind and oh, horror!—lying in
the midst of it were beings, men and women from the
worst slums of earth.
"Oh," I cried, "Father, can it be possible that people
who have inhabited the earth must pass through anything
of his kind?" The answer was, "Yes, but it is their
own fault, for they knew better." Here were lewd
women, murderers, drunkards, and every crime repre
sented. My guide stopped beside a being who seemed
to be in most horrible agony. I was told he was a
murderer, and he certainlw had committed some hor
rible crime, for I could hear his agonizing cries for days.
He kept repeating, "Take them away! —Oh, take them
away! Why do they come here to haunt me?" And in
his horrible agony, he was continually writhing in the
slime and among the hideous looking reptiles and with
his awful moaning and words put before my mental
vision, some of his victims of innocent women and chil
dren.
There is one more scene I would like to speak of
now, that was shown to me at the time, so I will write
it here.
My guide knowing the above lessons were well em
bedded in my soul led me where in a heap (it looked this
way to me) lay little tiny babies which I will describe
LIFE OF A SOUL 47
later on and how they appeared to me after being cleans
ed. This scene surprised me, as did many of the others,
for it was all so new to me. So with tears in my eyes I
cried, "Oh, Father! what does this mean, in such an
awful place for little innocent beings like these?" His
answer to my inquiry was, "These are the offcasts from
the lowest slums of earth, thrust out before their time
and so saturated with sins of their unnatural parents,
they must be cleansed by these ministering angels whom
you see hovering over them before they can be released
to take their flight upward."
I was greatly agitated, for these awful crimes kept
running through my mind, which are enacted every day
on the earth plane. So raising my eyes upward I cried,
"Oh, heavenly Father! what a work there is to be done
on the earth plane, and Oh, so few to do it. Help me, Oh,
God, seeing these truths as they have been shown me,
to stand up for the truth and clasp hands with these
dear ones who are trying so hard to enlist my help in
spreading this great truth."
As this prayer left my soul, I found myself again
in my body, and was surprised to see, formed around
me, clasping hands in their delight, a band of angels,
rejoicing to know that they had found another who
could grasp their meaning and understand these lessons
as they take me to them each day. I sat there and
watched them until their hallelujahs grew fainter and
fainter and this beautiful encouraging vision had van
ished as had all the rest.
But, Oh, what an impression these lessons have left
on my soul, may I never be found wanting in my duty
as I see it now, for they are written in letters of fire and
48 LIFE OP A SOUL
I hope will never grow dim as long as I am able to help
humanity.
MY VISIT TO A SPIRIT SCHOOL
My Sister Was One of The Teachers
At the usual hour each morning I was found anx
iously waiting for my guide to say "come." So when we
were ready to go he said, "I will show thee a brighter
place than the one we visited yesterday." So taking my
hand we floated up and far from the lower sphere of
the murderers, and after seeing the darkness where some
souls must abide for a time, until they are ready to ask
for help, the scene looked more beautiful than ever.
After traveling over miles of these beautiful scenes
we came to something that astonished me greatly.
After settling down on the ground we entered what I
found out later to be a spirit orchard. I thought I had
seen beautiful trees and fruit on the earth plane, but
this is no comparison, for every tree was perfect, as
was also the fruit, there were plums, apples, grapes and
peaches. The ground looked white. After looking theon
over he pulled a bunch of purple grapes and gave them
to me, the symbol of which is spirit truths. After walk
ing a little farther we came to a large light gray build
ing, and going up some steps we entered a door which
opened into a large room, the carpet, chairs and win
dow draperies all being the same color, gold and white.
After looking at these we went into a dining room
down past a long dining table covered with a white
cloth loaded with the luscious fruit I had seen in the
orchard. From here we went into a large school room
Up to this time I had not learned what this build
ing was, but when I saw so many little ones in this
LIFE OF A SOUL 49
room it dawned on me that it was a school, so for infor
mation I turned to the one who was with me and said
"Father," I had learned to call him that, "what is this
I see, no books? His answer was, "Look around thee."
I did so and on the walls hung mottoes with words writ
ten on them, such as "love, truth, progression." The
children looked to be from six to ten years old, and with
them were three teachers.
I learned afterwards that one of the teachers was
my sister, but having left the earth plane so many years
ago she did not make herself known to me, neither did
I recognize her. When askd later on why she did not
make herself known to me, she said, "I could hardly
keep my arms from around you, but you were brought
here to learn some lessons and if I had made myself
known it would have broken conditions and you would
have missed them."
While looking at the children they began to leave
the school room for out-door sport. I was so intensly
interested to know what they were going to do I followed
them to the door. They were a happy lot of little ones,
quite noisy, but not boisterous like some children of
earth. Looking out over a well kept lawn and through
many tall stately trees I saw a large body of water;
some of the little ones ran to get into tiny boats which
seemed to be put there for their pleasure; others began
tumbling on the grass. The ones in the boats acted as
if they had no fear of the water, and all were as happy
as children could be.
My teacher, seeing this lesson was well learned,
said, "Dost thou see those little beings?" pointing at the
same time up to the ceiling which was high and concave,
"They are some of he little ones thee looked at yester
day, of premature birth. They, as they progress, come
and mingle with these older children," and as I turned
50 LIFE OF A SOUL
and looked up, my eyes widened with astonishment to
see these little ones flying around in this dome looking
like butterflies in human shape.
When I returned to the earth I sat there and thought
of this grand beautiful truth a long time, for I was alone
each time I took these journies, with no one to interrupt
me. So I said, "With God's help I will, upon every oc
casion and every opportunity that presents itself, spread
this great truth so that each father and mother who
reads this may know how happy each one of their little
ones are who have left them for a little while."
REINCARNATION
A Vist to a Hindu Temple Where I was Told
I Used to Worship
This morning as usual at nine o'clock I was ready
to go, and friends, you can imagine with what joyous
expectancy I waited for this hour each morning. My
teachers never told me before starting where I was to
go, but they would sometimes say whether to a lower or
to a higher shpere.
My thoughts this time were centered on the dome
of the beautiful white temple in God's Holy City. We
were soon there and the same voice of my new guide
said, "Come, we will visit another city far from here."
So, taking my hand, he gently led me away and out
through the gates of this beautiful city. As we started I
felt a sadness stealing over me, for it was so beautiful
I would rather stay here when this loneliness crept over
me, Hooked back and saw the City in all its grandure
and purity. I raised my hand and waved it adieu.
I felt weaker than I did yesterday and seemed to
LIFE OF A SOUL 51
need constant encouragement. At last the guide put his
arm around me and with our hands clasped, gave me
more strength for the journey. We had traveled a long
distance when he said, "Child dost thou see the ocean
below?" I answered, "Yes, Father, where are we going?"
His answer was, "Thee will see." We traveled what
seemed to me a long long journey, for I was weary. Why
this weakness I did not know, for this was the second
time I had felt any weariness.
After we crossed this wide stretch of water we at
last came to where the atmosphere seemed denser and
darker and entered a gray looking city. I said nothing
but kept wondering where we were, and what city it
could be, for it was entirely different from any I had
seen. We settled down on what looked like a gray mar
ble walk, the grounds were well laid out with trees scat
tered here and there, but everything looked gray and
dark. Casting my eyes down a winding walkway I saw
people coming in groups and others two and two, they
were dressed in dark colors, I said, "Father where have
these people been? they all seem to be in a hurry." His
answer was, "They have been to the temple to worship."
We also met children coming out of the same
temple, dressed in white uniforms. I still felt very tired
from some unknown cause, and under this condition I
could not describe them as I might have done otherwise.
We passed all of them and soon came to a large
oblong Temple. We went in at the open door, there were
no seats, but all around and along each side of the
Temple were idols. The guide led me to the far end
where I saw three wide steps on a platform, back of them
was a very large Idol and on either side of it a smaller
one. It just began to dawn upon me what they were,
when everything began to grow dim, and I cried out—
52 LIFE OF A SOUL
"Oh, Father let me see more, let us look around, I'm
not satisfied yet," his answer was, "Oh, my child, have
you not seen enough to note the difference? This is a
Hindu Temple where thee used to worship."
Then it all flashed across my soul, these were Hindu
Idols and the people had been in here to worship them.
"Oh," I cried, "Father, do they indeed worship such
things as these?" "Don't they know a better God than
these?" "No, child!" "And did I really use to worship
these same Hindu Idols?" "Yes, my child, in thy past
life,," and with these last words the Holy City and all
that I had seen before flashed across my vision, and I
broke down and cried, and raising my eyes upward I
said, "Oh, heavenly Father, I thank thee for my prog
ression, how can I thank thee enough for being shown
these grand, beautiful truths !" And when I found myself
—my heavenly guide had left me with the tears stream
ing from my eyes.
This message keeps running through my mind,
given several days ago. "There will be a change in
your work, but do not be frihtened or surprised." There
is also a message I received from my teacher in the early
days of my soul unfoldment that I think will be appropri
ate to give here, as it was long before I took this journey
to the Hindu Temple. She described a Hindu Temple
very much the same as the one I saw, saying I used to
worship there, she saw me before an Idol when I seemed
to have an inspiration, I came out of the temple—then
for a long time I was a Sun Worshiper.
INDIAN HOMES
This morning I had a happy surprise. While I have
seen, many spirit homes, from the highly developed
Angel homes on down to the lowest, I had not seen any
LIFE OF A SOUL 53
Indian homes, so when "Big Chief" who often helped
me in my early development came and said he was going
to show me his home, I was indeed pleased.
So becoming quiet and with my guides, I left my
body and soon came in sight of a most beautiful forest,
an ideal home for an Indian. The trees were tall and
thick and it was so shady I could hardly see through
them, but there was no underbrush and as I looked I
thought "Oh, what an ideal home for an Indian."
We were now down on the ground and as I walked
on farther we came to Big Chief's home, made of logs,
but they were all white, the home stood on the bank of
a beautiful body of water. His canoe was anchored near
by. I lost sight of Big Chief for the tipie, but now he
walked around in front of his home and stood by the
door which was almost hid with vines and flowers ; there
were flowers growing in the yard also. While we stood
there I had another surprise, for a deer came walking
up to him, out of the forest. He put out his hand and
it put its nose into
it,
next came his dog, then his horse.
This was all very interesting to me for
I
had wondered
how the Indians lived. As
I
looked away into the forest
I
saw more animals and more Indians moving about.
I
kept thinking, "Oh, what an ideal Indian home!" A
friend who was with me through all of my development
was with me this morning, and was so interested in all
that
I
saw on every trip, that as soon as
I
returned and
told her where
I
had been and what
I
had seen, she was
unusually interested and as soon as
I
was through des
cribing this journey,
I
had another surprise, for the
description seemed to please Big Chief so much that he
gave
a
pleased war whoop.
I
will only mention one more home, that of a miser
ly
millionaire, and
I
am glad to know that all millionaires
54 LIFE OF A SOUL
have not lived the life that this one had, so have won
better homes ; for I learned that money and royalty count
for naught in the spirit world. It is the life we live on
earth that does count.
This home was not so pleasing for I was told he
was a miserly millionaire. I looked out over a desolate
country with scrub oak and brown grass, nearby was
a hovel, just tall enough for the miserable spirit who
stood near to enter. He was in tatters, cursing his fate.
As far as I could see was the same desolate scene with
here and there a hut with no path leading out in any
direction. The inhabitants seemed to be shut entirely
away from each other.
This is a dark scene, but friends, it is there, and
when we learn to not live such selfish lives on earth we
will immediately after death, pass on to more beautiful
homes, and the one great truth is, all who find them
selves in this condition can and do work out of it, but
how much easier to have commenced while on earth.
AN EARTH REFLECTOR AND TEMPLE
OF RECORDS
This morning I was taken out again and found
myself standing beside an immense structure of some
kind. It was oval and open at one side, the outside was
painted in panels of different scenes, the predominating
color being gold.
I walked to the open side and looked in on a im
mense screen, there appeared the earth and around it
the moon, stars and sun came into view. The sun was
so bright it almost blinded me when I looked at it.
These disappeared, then came a whole army of men—a
LIFE OF A SOUL 55
battle took place, they marched away; then came a
beautiful mountain range. Next came on the screen an
ocean with large sailing vessels and passenger boats glid
ing over placid waters. This too passed away when a
Japanese city came in sight. Then an Island, the water
began to rise and looked as if it was about to sink. My
teachers explained that this was a temple where all
earth's happenings were reflected and recorded, both
past and what was to come.
ORION—A GREEK PHILOSOPHER
This morning after the usual preparation of prayer
and dressed in white, I heard the well known vioce of
my guide say, "Come." So we ascended gradually go
ing higher and soon came to a Temple filled with
spirits, all dressed in white. On a platform stood a teach
er. My guide saying, "This is Orion, a Greek Phil
osopher ." I was always surprised when I returned
from the many temples that I could remember every
word that had been spoken, so that I immediately wrote
them down. The lessons all seemd to be stamped and
retained; while in my natural body I soon forgot; my
metmory is poor.
So Orion began his lecture this way : "Friends I am
pleased to see so many here who are interested in our
great planetary system, and looking at me he said, "I see
one in our midst who is yet an inhabitant of the earth
planet." Then he continued, "You will notice ( pointing
toward the earth) these two planets." When I looked
I saw one was very dark, the other was very light.
"The one clothed in such a beautiful light is Mars, the
other one is the Earth Planet. At one time thousands of
years ago, the planet Mars was dark like the earth is
fifi LIFE OF A SOUL
today, but after this great cycle of time she has become
purified, as you see her people are spiritual; almost
etherial. As time goes on and the earth circles around
in her orbit she too will become lighter like the other one.
Now look, coming from the parent planet." As he spoke
I turned my head and looked in the opposite direction.
"You will see a miniature world, floating out from this
one, which has just given it birth, but is not strong
enough, so stays close by. After a time it will float out
and away from its starting point, contiually drawing
to itself, more substance on which to live."
What I saw looked like a small ball of rock attached
to a larger one by a light which resembbled the milky
way. "After thousands of years, for, Friends, there is
a fixed law which governs all things, this tiny world
which you see will move out and take its place among
the other numerous planets. Now she will be stationary
and continually drawing to herself. After a time she
has an atmosphere, now vegetation springs up, dense
forests, water, and later on—life. These parent planets
are continually sending out lesser ones."
Here I became so weak I was unable to stay longer,
so returned to my body only to stay until the next day
when at the appointed time my teacher and guide would
come and take me to other interesting scenes. I was out of.
my body so much I seemed to live in the spirit world the
most of the time, and can't you see, friends, how I wait
ed with expectancy and wonder for each day to come?
Wondering as to where I was to be taken, for I was never
told where I was to go.
I heard this lecture and saw the new world given
birth in 1904. You can imagine my delight and surprise
to see it corroborated seven years later, February 3, 1911
in a Los Angeles, California, paper under the headlines,
LIFE OF A SOUL 57
"Telescope Shows New Worlds Forming; Triumphs
Over Trillions of Miles . First Published Photograph of
a World in Formation." And below this headline was
a picture of a planet with a small one attached with the
same light I had seen from Orion's Temple, and below
this picture was this, "Mt, Wilson Scientists Photograph
nebulae, in act of throwing off new universes." ..I cut
this article out and it is before me while I write.
When I returned from this journey I was in a high
state of exaltation. I kneeled down while I gave
thanks to the Father and his Angels for their patience
in showing me so many wonderfud truths. While I was
in this position there arose from around me (seen for the
first time) five or six angels and they floated up what
looked like an electric pathway.. Each one waved their
hand and I did the same. I was surprised to see them
throw beautiful white roses all over me.
A VISIT TO HONG KONG, CHINA
Where Our Daughter and Family Were Visiting
I had company this morning so could not go at
the usual hour, so told my guide I would go at two
o'clock in the afternoon (or was it they told me?) I be
gan to think they did all the planning. At two o'clock
I made myself ready but before starting I had a strong
impression to put a blue ribbon on my white robe. Why
this was I did not know until I had taken this trip, but
to show the influence my teachers had over me I will
say I had no blue ribbon or thought I had none, but
so strong was the impression that I went up stairs and
looked through a sack kept for the purpose of preserving
bits of silk and ribbon in ,and when looking through
58 LIFE OF A SOUL
it I found a piece of blue silk from a dress made for my
grandaughter and worn to China by her, and the mo
ment I laid my eyes upon it I thought, "Oh, this is just
what I want, now the idea of a piece of blue silk made
into a bow made me smile but the impression was too
strong to smile it away, so I wore it, and was told this
made it easier for the guide to take me to them.
I was living in Seattle, Washington, at the time, so
at 2 o'clock my guide said, "Come." We immediately
started out over the ocean, we were not far above the
water. After a short time we settled down outside of
a Chinese building which did not look as clear to me as
other places I had visited, why I did not know, but we
entered and while standing near the door, my guide said,
"Now look, what dost thou see?" Everything looked
gray so my answer was, "Oh, Father I can't see any
thing, why can't I see?" But just as I finished speak
ing I cast my eyes to the far side of the room and I saw
three people sitting at a table. I left my teacher, cross
ed the room and then I saw it was my daughter, her hus
band and their child. While I stood there looking at
them I was surprised to hear my guide say, "A failure."
What he meant I did not know at the time, but it was
explained to me later, the failure was because my daugh
ter could not see me standing there, as they were in
hopes she could.
About one week later our children started home, so
a few days later at the usual time my guide came and
said we will look them up, so we immediately floated out
over the ocean. On the way I saw many boats coming
and going, at length we settled down on the deck of a
passenger vessel, walked around to a door and entered
the dining room. Many people were seated at the
tables, but my children were not among them. After
LIFE OF A SOUL 59
looking them over to see if they were there I returned
to my body without any explanation being made why
they were not there. All that he said was that they
would arrive sooner than we expected them. They
did arrive two days ahead of the time we expected
them. When they did come I told my daughter about
my visit to the boat and she said it was not the one
they were on as I described the tables as being set length
wise of the boat while the others were short ones be
ing set in opposite direction.
The Japanese boat they came on arrived in Seattle
a few days later so I went through it and soon saw the
difference. We enetrtained the Captain while it was
in port and how I longed to tell him of my sea voyage
too, but did not have the courage.
MY VISIT TO A CEMETERY IN ENGLAND
This morning my guide, who is always ready at the
appointed hour, said, "Come, we will start from the pur
ple temple this morning." With my mind centered on that
city we were soon there He clasped my hand to give me
strength, and we floated out and away from that beau
tiful Temple and City. As I left it I turned and looked
back and it stood out before my view in all its gran
deur and immensity for as far as I could see were tall
trees and palacial homes. After traveling some distance
we came down close to the earth, crossed a wide open
country over cities, then across a large body of water.
After leaving the water my guide said, "We will
settle down here in England," and to my astonishment
we did, in front of a cemetery. The grounds were in
closed with gray marble with slabs of the same running
from post to post. We walked into the grounds on a
60 LIFE OF A SOUL
wide path which led around a mauseleum and down a
winding road back of the building.
This mausoleum astonished my by its costly ap
pearance. On each side of an arched doorway stood an
angel carved in white marble. Each reaching up above
the door clasping a wreath carved in marble also. Just
above the door was another angel pointing toward heav
en. My guide led me down a wide stairway; on either
side resting in the wall were caskets,, showing me that
a long line of ancesters were laid away here.
My guide said, "This is where Robert's body lies along
with his family of English noblemen, for he was the son
of an English Peer." My astonishment and curiosity got
the better of me, for I turnd around and said, "Father
why do you show me this ?" His answer was, "That you
may know that nobility and earthly possessions count
for naught in the spurit world. That you may also know
that the high and low are counted for their true worth
here. My child, thee canst surely read this lesson.
Robert is thy soul mate, an advanced spirit, and the
leader of thy band. The lesson we wish thee to know
is that it is thy pure soul which brought to thee this
bright influence and not as thee well knows high birth.
But, come, there is another place I would show thee at
this time."
So he led me out of this home of the dead and we
floated up and away to a more beautiful clime in the
spirit world to a Temple of Music. As we came close to
the Temple and stopped in front of it, the scenery was
beautiful, a wide terraced lawn sloped away from it on
all sides, a wide veranda extended around the whole
temple, with here and there an upright pillar around
which were twined green vines and flowers; looking out
over the lawn I saw fountains here and there, and when
LIFE OF A SOUL 61
walking around the veranda and looking still farther
toward the North I saw a large body of water shining
through the trees. Just as we stepped inside this beau
tiful Temple it began to fade, my guide saying, "Robert
is a director of this Temple of Music.'" As he said this
and before I had time to see the interior I was back in
my body —thinking—thinking—"Oh, what lessons !"
I VISIT A PALACE IN ENGLAND
My guide was waiting as usual, to take me on an
other trip, and as usual I was anxious to go. So we
started, and on the way he said, "It is a pleasure for us
on this side of life to take thee to these different places
for we see these lessons are deeply imbedded in thy soul.
They are truths, my child, and are given so that thy
after work may be easier for thee, knowing now more
than thee ever has before,—the need of these workers.
So we never grow weary when we find one like thee who
is such an earnest seeker aftr truth."
We crossed a body of water and soon came in sight
of a beautiful English home (Palace) standing on a
high piece of ground surrounded by a park, the grounds
were the most beautiful of all that I have seen on any
of my trips. They looked clearer. The wide walk bor
dered with ffowers, the green grass and fountains, all
stood out clear and bright. We entered the house and
came into what I took to be a reception room. The in
ner door being open I looked through and the whole
palace seemed to open into one room. The carpets and
draperies were cream and gold. My guide led me up a
wide stairway, we turned to our left and looked into the
family sitting room. There seemed to be no limit to
spirit, and surprisese met me on all sides, and the words
62 LIFE OP A SOUL
uttered long ago rose up before me with more force than
ever —"If things look strange to you, remember our ways
are not your ways." For on looking in I was astonished
to see, sitting around a center table, Robert, two sisters,
and his father and mother. The father held in his hand
a bible, his white head bowed as if he was interested in
reading it while the rest of the family listened. The
furnishings in this room were blue. Would wonders
never cease! I had just left the vault where Robert's
body rested and how could I account for this scene.
After looking at them, everything began to fade
and I seemed to be gliding back from where I started
from. I missed my guide and said, "Where are you,
Father?" There was no answer even when I asked the
second time, but Robert was with me, so we went to our
beautiful white spirit home No. 2.
"Oh infinite Father, source of all that is good and
beautiful, I come again this morning asking for that
light and knowledge which my soul so much needs, for
that understanding which thou alone canst give, that I
may so live and keep my soul so pure, that these angel
teachers who surround me each day, trying to impart
lessons of knowledge, may be able to co)me close and that
I may be able to grasp these lessons with the meaning
with which they are given, and then, dear Father, help
me to do my duty in helping humanity as I have prom
ised to do."
After I had offered up this prayer Robert said,
"Now be quiet, we are trying to see if you can hear the
music from the Temple." I put my whole mind on it,
but after listening for some time I caught a far away
strain ofmusic, but it was very faint, so I told them I
could not, for it was so far away I said, "I'm so sorry I
do wish I could" (I was sorry to disappoint them ). So
LIFE OF A SOUL 63
I said, "Do you suppose it will be possible for me to
learn?" They said I might in time, they then said they
would call the guide to take me on another journey for
they did not want to disappoint me.
There are many places I have not written about.
My mother's home is one. I did not see her, the home
was lit with a light not seen on earth. Why I did not
see her I do not know, unless the light was so blinding,
for she is an advanced soul. Another visit I will not
write of was a nunnery in. France, and what I saw in
side of it. The memory is too sad to repeat here, but
it was a sad journey and one never to be forgotten.
Then there are the caverns, while I did not go down in
to them I stood at the top and looked down —down—Oh,
so far. I saw a lake that looked black, Spirits dancing
around it and I also saw one I had seen before his pass
ing away going down the steep entrance. He had an
Indian blanket around him and was a very undeveloped
soul, while on earth; but the beauty of it is they will
all come out some time—aeons of time perhaps—but
they have all eternity to work upwards and with the
help of the angel world will succeed.
A MONUMENT ERECTED TO THE MEMORY OF
EARTH'S FALSE TEACHINGS OF GOD
This morning after reaching a great height, on
looking down I saw a large city. I seemed to be
miles and miles above it. As I drew nearer I saw
in the center of the city, an immense oblong temple, rest
ing on top of it was a monument. The two were chisel
ed making one solid piece of marble. It stood in the
center and seemed to form the center piece of the city,
64 LIFE OF A SOUL
for the monument and temple was an immense structure.
Coming down onto the ground I saw a large door open
ing up into the white marble Temple. When entering it
I saw it was filled with people, my guide saying, "This
is a monument erected to the memory of earth's false
teaching of God. Daily and hourly there is coming into
the spirit world, people who have been taught all their
lives that there was a living God seated on a throne.
These people are sincere and earnest in their worship
of God, and expect, when coming here, to find just such
a being. In order that these people might be taught the
truth and given a start in their progression, they are
brought here and given their first lesson. These lessons
are given by the angels from a higher sphere, after
they learn this lesson, they are then taken to their homes
by friends to make room for others."
At the same time I was shown a temple in a Catholic
city, a place of worship, the temple was gray stone of
beautiful architecture. The walks and grounds around
the temple and homes were all laid out in a beautiful
way, but they were all dark, just like the earth homes —
or the most of them. My guide saying, "These people
or priests, had become so absorbed in their religious
work on earth, and held such power over their subjects
that after coming here they are drawn together ,not hav
ing progressed out of their earth belief.
AN ORTHODOX RELIGION
This morning I saw a cemetery in the center of
which stood a church, around this church were white
tomb stones; around all was a white fence. The only
pleasing thing I saw before coming down close, was the
white which to me, being so far away, I took to be a city,
LIFE OF A SOUL 65
but we entered the church. On the platform stood the
minister, in front of him stood a casket and around this
were seated the mourners crying.
The minister was trying to comfort them by saying,
"My friends, have faith that your loved one has gone
home to God," and in his eloquence he pictured to these
heart broken friends, God, seated on a throne ,and bye
and bye, they too would see his face, march up and down
the golden street and play on a golden harp through all
eternity. After these comforting words, the best the
minister knew, they all went to the grave and knelt
down around it and wept. One of them in deep mourn
ful tones said: "Oh, I can"t give her up. Oh, is there
nothing beyond to think of but faith? Oh, tell me if
you can, will we meet again?" and her pitiful cries stay
ed with me for days.
I followed them to their home and saw there noth
ing but gloom and despair; while I stood there a shaft
of light came into the room. Looking up to see where it
came from I saw God's Holy City, the beautiful homes
and temples I have seem, and Oh, what a flood of joy and
beauty flowed into my soul. I thanked God and his holy
angels from above that I had passed from this darkness
into light, and asked the Father to show me the way to
bring more light into the world.
A VISION OF THE NEW JERUSALEM
While in the silence this morning I saw the follow
ing:
The first which appeared on the scene was a great
sandy desert, lit up with a most beautiful golden light,
seeming to come from the setting sun, next I saw myself
seated on the back of an elephant, following me was a
66 LIFE OF A SOUL
long, long line of elephants, on the back of each one
sat a person. As we traveled along others fell in, com
ing to a certain spot on the desert, we stopped, our ele
phants formed into a perfect square. In the inclosure
began to spring up white houses, white walks and flow
ers everywhere. In the center of this beautiful city
there sprang into existance, a large white and gold Tem
ple; inside the Temple, up three steps on a platform,
was a chair, white and gold ; and in this chair sat a person
dressed in a purple robe trimmed with gold bands. As
he looked above a stream of golden light came striking
him square in the face.
The people came in and kneeling down, as they did
so the occupant of the chair gave out the divine reve
lations which he was receiving. As this vision began to
fade I heard these words, "The New Jerusalem."
As a companion to the first vision I immediately
saw the following:
I saw the earth swinging in space, standing on top
of it was a powerful spirit dressed in white, enveloped
in a blue atmosphere; raising her arms which were
draped in long flowing sleeves, she began in a slow
graceful way to move them backward and forward; at
the same time there began to be a scattering of the
people, many coming from all parts of the earth, others
falling away. There seemed to be a division of the
people, all spiritual people came to the upper part of the
earth, which was a beautiful light blue, the others seem
ed to be drawn to the lower half which was dark.
I was under a very strong power while seeing these
visions which remained with me for some time.
Seen —January 8, 1910.
Today I had such a longing for somethink higher,
a yearning which seemed to come from the depths of my
LIFE OF A SOUL 67
soul, a longing for something I knew not what. I became
quiet and looked within and asked why I had this in
tense longing and what it meant.
I soon heard these words, "It is the soul's longing
to be free from its prison house, free to go and not re
turn." "Why," I asked, "does it not go and never re
turn, as soul is all powerful?"
"Thy soul knows full well the consequence of not
finishing its life work through your body. There would
not be so many withered and scarred spirits, my child,
if each soul was allowed to grow and to do their work
while encased in the material form. Oh, take up the
thread of life and weave it to the end, and thank God it
is no shorter."
While thinking about this beautiful answer and re
solving I would be as contented and happy in the weav
ing as I could, as I had found so many friends from the
heavenly sphere who were with me and willing to help
me all the time. I was startled to hear the voice say,
"Oh, the beauty of a soul when it takes its flight after
completing its full work here. It then enters into per
fect bliss and happiness. Thank GGod that you have
been awakened to a relization of your soul's needs, for
by and through this awakening will go forth in a com
plete state."
THE GREAT WITHIN
One morning before getting out of bed I lay there
thinking deeply of the divine life as I often do, and of
the many beautiful encouraging messages I had receiv
ed, and of the many heavenly cities, homes and temples
I had seen when traveling through the higher worlds.
I was startled when upon looking up at the ceiling to see
68 LIFE OF A SOUL
a large figure "4," no sooner had I seen this, and before I
had time to collect my thoughts as to what it meant, than
a voice startled me still more by saying, "I promise God
and his holy angels to keep within 'myself all that is
entrusted to me until I am given permission to give it
out." The figure "4" faded from view and the vioce
ceased without giving any intimation as to the meaning,
and not for many days afterwards was I asked to take
this oath under strange conditions. But a few days
later while in deep meditation about the figure "4" these
lines came to me :
A VOICE FROM WITHIN
"I give into your keeping this priceless gem,
You will always find it by looking within ;
It has been found by few of old,
But its true worth has never been told.
Oh, treasure this gem, and on it dwell,
In time you will learn its secrets well,
This priceless gem, will bring all to you
That man could wish, or even knew.
It is God's gift to each child of earth,
If they will but listen and receive this truth,
Oh, the joy of this meeting can never be known,
By only the one whose soul hath grown."
1903.
A LIGHT
After sitting in the silence a few moments, I heard
this: "This morning there is placed around your head,
LIFE OF A SOUL 69
a brilliant light, a light like that which showed around
the head of Jesus. This will be seen by many clair
voyants and in time wll be dscribed to you."
Here the voice ceased and after thinking a moment
over the strange message I said, "Did I hear correctly
what you said about the light?"
"Yes, my child, this is true, you have won this light,
as all will sometime, many wear it now—all who come
into a oneness with God, as you have, are given this
light. It not only shows where you belong, but it is a
protection as well."
This is true, for three different mediums have seen
this light, and described it to me, not only that, but I
have seen it.
Taken from "Aceon" "A Tale of a Soul's Experi
ence" : "And where the crown of thorns had lately been,
there shone a radiant light above his head, the symbol
of at-one-ment with his soul."
GOD'S HOLY TEMPLE
In the seventh sphere of the spirit world stands a
beautiful Temple. Over the great oval door, in letters
of gold is the name, "God's Holy Temple." I seemed to
be attracted to this Tqmple, but not until after many
struggles for self mastery, was I able to even enter the
outer room. I at one time went, hoping to enter
it,
but
when
I
almost reached the door,
a
mound arose before
me and the one word, "Overcome" was spoken. So
I
returned to my body with a determination stronger than
ever to overcome everything within myself that was re
tarding my spiritual growth.
About this time "Alohah" was spelled out to me,
one letter at
a
time, on
a
revolving shaft, he saying, "1
,70 LIFE OF A SOUL
am with you as a protector; if at any time you feel the
need of help to overcome self and to be given strength
call 'Alohah' and I will immediately respond saying
'you must be saved to finish your life work.' "
To make it plainer, I saw myself standing by an out
side door, upon opening it I was confronted by two rob
bers. I was impressed to call "Alohah" and as I did so
they disappeared.
The next time I went to this temple I was taken
into an outer room and met Alohah who said, "This
room is only the entrance to the temple, and as soon as
you have overcome self, you will be taken inside and
these secrets given into your keeping which are not to be
given out until you are given permission to do so. You
will soon be ready to be initiated into God's Holy Temple
and take your place with these holy ones. There are very
few yet in the material form who are able to come into
this temple as you are. The secret password is, 'Alohah.'
This also is my name and is not to be given to anyone
until given permission." He told me to get quiet and
look within and listen to the instructions I would re
ceive, and prepare myself to be taken into the Temple
later.
So my next visit to the Temple I was ushered into
the second room where I met Alohah, when he told me
I was to be given a little more at this time, of the work
I was to do; and that the next time I would be taken
into the third room.
When I went to the temple this morning I noticed
what seemed to be guards, or spirits, up above and all
around the sides of the temple. So I said "Alohah, why
is this temple so guarded, are not these people in this
sphere to be trusted?" "Yes, my child, but these secrets
Imust be well guarded, for even righteous people some
LIFE OF A SOUL 71
times gain access to places and things which are not in
tended for them. Now go hence and prepare yourself
for your next visit to the temple. Good bye."
Having been told to go to the Temple within which
was a counterpart of the one I had been taken to, and
listen, I would be given instructions, I did so and heard
this: "God's Holy Temple is situated in the Seventh
sphere. There are other temples in the sphere beyond,
but this is the highest that anyone from the earth plane
can work in, and but few succeed in reaching it, while
encased in the material body. The sooner you overcome
all things the sooner will you enter into this work which
has been promised. Oh, see to it that you prepare your
self for this work."
AN OATH
I had a strong desire to go to God's Holy Temple
this morning. I did so, and when I reached it Alohah
met me at the door and led me on through and into a
room where I was surprised to see an oblong pool of
what looked to my wondering eyes like boiling elec
tricity. I glanced around the room and saw it was
white and gold. Alohah led me up to the center of the
room where the boiling electricity was. When I saw
steps leading down into it and on the opposite side
were steps leading out. He started to lead me in and
down the steps when he said, "Come" so I took a step
down and hesitated, but we continued on until the
liquid touched my chin when I again hesitated, for I
knew another step would completely cover me. He said,
"Come child, I am with you." When we had gone
down under the liquid he said, "Raise your right hand
and repeat after me : "I promise God and his holy angels
72 LIFE OF A SOUL
to keep within myself all that is entrusted to me until
I am given permission to give it out." I was surprised
when asked to repeat the same oath, I had heard some
time ago spoken by someone else.
When we had finished speaking he led me on
through and up the opposite steps, when Alohah said,
"To show you how stupendious is your work I will tell
you, in this Temple there are seven rooms, and in each
room are seven smaller ones." I looked around and I
want to say I did not feel this boiling liquid at all. So
when we came out of it and while he was speaking, I
saw all around this room which was white, were panels
of gold, He stepped up to one and I was surprised to
see him open one which proved to be a door. We went
next into a smaller room where he took a scroll of
paper and read a little to me.
THE FIFTH ROOM
I kept on striving for perfection, battling with this
condition and that, for many months, going often to
the Temple I was taken into, and then (at various times)
to the second, third and fourth rooms. Until one morn
ing Alohah, the master who has charge of this Temple
came to me and said, "My child, today you enter the
fifth room. In this room you will find many trials and
many temptations. It all rests with you how long you
remain here. It may take you one year and it may
take many more for all things which have retarded
spirit growth must be laid aside before leaving this
room. Even all desires of past habits must be overcome.
But remember this, God and his holy angels are here
ever ready to help you at all times. So be persevering
and in time you will reach the goal. And now may the
LIFE OF A SOUL 73
peace and blessing of God and his holy angels abide
with you forever, —good-bye."
It was long, long after this that I reached the
seventh room.
REACHING THE GOAL OF LIFE— UNION WITH GOD
During my silence hour this morning, I was sur
prised to hear the voice within say, "Create a desire to
know more of God." I replied, "Create a desire to know
more of God?" What does that mean? When all my
life from a child up to the present time I have always
talked to God and asked for guidance. How could I do
any better? What could I do to know more about him?
To be sure I have looked away off sometimes, but I
felt too, that he was near.
After letting my thoughts run along in this way
for some time, trying to argue with an invisible some
thing, I became quiet when the voice continued. "For
the time being you are to renounce Robert, and all else
you have seen in the spirit world, and come to me."
I grew excited as I repeated, "Renounce Robert! what
do you mean? for I knew the voice came from with
in. "I came first, you rightfully belong to me." I
listened to see what would come next—when the voice
continued, "I am Robert. I am Robert —I am Robert;"
repeating it three times, then, "come to me." "You
say you are Robert, that is impossible." I said it with
a little defiance in my voice. "You hear a voice don't
you?" "Yes." "Then why wouldn't it be I as well as
anybody else?" "Well-I-er" began to stammer, for the
voice was right within and as plain as any voice I ever
heard. I could think of nothing better to say, so I
stammered again, "I ca-n't love you" and tried to say
more but failed; so the voice continued. "Very well
LIFE OF A SOUL
then, I will never ask you again, but you will come to me,
and remember when that time comes, my arms will be
open ready to receive you."
I wanted to hear more but waited in vain for at
this time there was no more said, the voice had ceased
and there was nothing more to do but keep silent and
think, and I did think, and kept it up for two years,
without another word from within, along this line. I
had thought along this line until my thoughts were
threadbare, and I made up my mind to ask for more
information. So I said, "If as you said you come first,
I am now ready to come to you to be instructed;" So
I waited a moment when I heard this: "You may call
me God, Lord, Adoina, or what you will, I am your
soul mate." And for the time being Divine love almost
took my breath, and the pleading of love which came
from within, left me speechless, so here and now I gave
myself completely up to the Christ within. Oh, what
a new world was opened up within. I sat there numb
with emotions —here, at last, was my answer to the
figure "4," my soul and Robert's spirit was within me,
Robert's soul and my spirit within him. Oh, friends,
can't you see the harmony that must exist when every
soul is awakened to this God given truth? But I
thought, "Must I bare my soul to the world? This then
is the great truth which has been covered up for ages,
and for generations; is this why I have been so< lonely
and isolated, to give my experiences to the world? If
it,
will help— well and good."
I
had been told by Alohah
to go within to be instructed, as that Temple was a
counterpart of the one within.
I
did so, until the goal
of life had been reached* and
I
had given myself to
Christ;. The revelation which came from this union
With God, was so wonderful, and
I
had no one to share
it
withy that for days
I
lived in
a
different world. It
LIFE OP A SOUL 75
has completely changed my life. The churches are con
tinually talking about the "Oneness with God," but I'm
afraid few understand it in its true sense.
A PUBPLE TEMPLE
My Baptism—Dressed in a Purple Bobe
Many times when ready to start on my journey I
would put my mind on the place I visited the day before,
and at times we would go as quick as thought, at other
times we would travel leisurly along, so I could see the
different places of interest which I enjoyed very much.
So, when I heard my guide say, "Come, we will go from
here to a higher realm ,to another city thou hast not
seen." I put my mind on the school we visited yesterday.
He took my hand which always seemed to give me
strength for the journey, and we floated up and away
from this beautiful body of water. The school and orch
ard, and after rising up above it so I could look down
(it was indeed a grand picture to look at) I said, "Oh,
what a beautiful place this is!"
"Yes, it is beautiful, but dost thou see that beauti
ful scene also?" pointing to a wide stretch of country
ahead of us. I looked and another pleasing picture was
spread out ahead and below us, but very different from
the one we had just left, for instead of the orchard I
saw a narrow, winding stream, its sloping banks cover
ed with green grass and tall stately trees. I could see
ho misshapen trees Or rubbish of any kind, as we see on
earth, but everything looked clean and trim.
From here we gradually rose higher and the atmos
phere was lighter and clearer. We were now above the
city, far out from among tall stately trees and flowers
76 LIFE OF A SOUL
arose the placial home of this angelic throng. "Oh," I
cried, "what a beautiful city," and, I thought, "if I could
only make people on earth know of this life as it is, and
has been shown to me, they would look at earthly trials
in a different light. It would give them courage to go on
with a lighter heart to do all the good they could while
they had a material body to work with."
After I had looked at this interesting scene for some
tifme, for it was a vastly populated city, we came down
in front of a purple and gold temple, festooned around the,
sides with purple flowers. This was a large, beautiful
temple. The front door was an oval archway. My
guide said, "Look well before we enter." When he said
this, I looked over the door and in letters of purple and
gold were these words, "Angels of Purity." My guide
said, "Thee will live in this beautiful city for many
years.
My Initiation
After surveying the outside to my satisfaction, we
entered and just as I stepped inside there spread around
my body, a thin purple robe. I was surprised at this,
and looked up at my guide expecting him to say some
thing, but he did not, so we walked in. My ear cought
the chant and instrumental music of, "Glory, glory
glory." It sounded very strange to me and I wondered
what it could mean.
The interior of this temple was purple and gold,
blending into each other, making a most beautiful color.
We walked to the far end of the temple and up two or
three steps, where on either side of a wide rostrum stood
a font of water. While I was looking at these, I grew
weak and was drawn back towards my body, but my
LIFE OF A SOUL 77
lesson was not learned yet soi my teacher brought me
back by saying in sharp tones, "Come back child, come
back!" When I returned I was on the rostrum, a band
of twenty or thirty Angels, each dressed in purple and
gold velvet. Their costumes harmonized in beauty with
everything in the temple. I was led up with them when
I too was clothed the same, with a girdle of gold
around my waist. Then a master stepped up to
me holding in his hand a crown on which were the
words, "Angel of God." This he placed on my head
saying, "My child, your struggles through life have
been long and trying. Many times you have felt like
giving up in despair, but always that bright star
would break through the clouds and beckon you on and
in your true devotion to God you would gather up
strength to go on up the path which unknown to you
had been planned. I am glad, for by so doing you have
at last reached the highest position it is possible to at
tain, and are now ready for the crown which has been
prepared for you. May you wear it with wisdom, when
sitting in council with these your co-workers who have
gathered here this morning to bid you welcome into their
glorious band. Then dipping his hand into one of the
fonts, he sprinkled my head with the water and said,
"Now my child, I baptise thee in the name of the Father,
Son and Holy Ghost," and as he finished speaking, the
Angel band that had gathered around me began to chant,
"Glory, Glory, Glory." While I have not yet reached
perfection, the beautiful influence and heavenly music
have remained with me through all the years that have
come and gone since that memorable day ,and given me
strength many times to help others, and with a better
understanding of the soul life within, the path becomes
brighter and brighter with each passing year. And
is LIFE OF A SOUL
while iny efforts seem puny, I am still trying to keep my
promise to those Angelic beings who worked so faith
fully to enlist my help to make our brothers and sisters
on earth know that death is only the gateway to a beauti
ful life beyond.
JERUSALEM
I soon heard the well known voice of my guide say,
"Come, I will take thee to a sunny clime this morning."
We were soon soaring above a barren looking country.
We seemed to go this time like a flash, for I saw nothing
on the way until my guide said, "This is Palestine."
The country around the city was barren and looked as
if the sun had turned the grass a dingy brown. Looking
away off toward the foothills I saw coining slowly, what
proved to be camels, on the back of! each sat a native
with his peculiar turban resting on his head, my guide
saying, "We will follow them and see where they are go
ing." We fell in behind them. There were eight or
ten. This city was enclosed with a wall so when they
came to the gates they entered and put heir camels out
to one side, when they immediately laid down, showing
me they have traveled a long distance. After watch
ing the camels until my curiosity had subsided, I turned
to my guide who led the way to a temple. I was not told
so but I was impressed this was the city of Jerusalem,
we followed them in and they went to the far end of the
Temple, kneeled down, bowed their heads in worship.
After some time they went out, mounted their camels
and started back over the same road they had traveled
before. As I watched them I saw they were met by
others coming on the same errand to the Temple to wor
ship. My guide explained that they were from the vine
LIFE OF A SOUL 79
yards located in. the foothills, showing me this lesson,
that in their true devotion they thought no task too hard
to endure in order to go to a holy place to worship.
Showing me also how much easier in our enlightened
country was our access to places of worship compared
with riding miles and miles in the blazing sun on the
back of a camel. This scene soon faded and I was once
more at home. My guide who had accompanied ;me on
many of my journeys said, "Now I will have to leave
thee for awhile, as I know these lessons have been well
learned, so I will bid thee good bye."
A sadness stole over me as he said this and I said,
"Oh, Father, must you go?" for I felt as if I was losing
a tried and true friend, and was for the moment selfish
enough to want him to stay longer. After collecting
my thoughts I said, "Oh, Father," as such I had been
led to call him, "how can I thank you enough and the
other teachers also, for your interest in my behalf, and
for these grand true lessons which you have had so much
patience in showing me." "My child, it has given us
great pleasure in showing these truths to thee, for by
so doing we feel that we have enlisted another in our
band, and are clasping hands with one who will help us
in our great work, to scatter these truths to the children
of earth, and thus help them to come into a knowledge
of this beautiful life." And saying good bye he had gone,
leaving me, as I said before, as if I had lost a good
friend.
After he left me these thoughts ran through my
mind, "Oh, Father, help me to understand these lessons
more and more as time goes on, and help me to not dis
appoint my teachers from the spirit world. May I be
faithful in my promise to them in spreading these
truths wherever the opportunity presents itself, Re
80 LIFE OF A SOUL
gardless of the scoffs I must expect, to receive from an
undeveloped world."
A SUPREME TEST
After twenty-four long years, bringing the time up
to 1926, an answer to the vision of my own tombstone
is given me by another long vision in a trance state.
And the year 1926 was the time—just as I saw it, as I
said before, on the face of the tombstone at the top was
the one word, "Exalted," below this was "Mary E.
France, passed from this life, 1926." I have learned
after passing through these long years of temptations,
trials and overcoming, the giving up completely to the
will of the Father and guided by the spirit within, to let
go of worldly things and pass on into the higher life.
But this was no easy task as all know who have
gone over the same road, but we all learn to look with
in for guidance without which we could make but tittle
progress.
In my vision I was surprised to see the spirit of the
one who should have walked in my place in this life, my
husband's old sweetheart, appeared before me, a beau
tiful spirit about one half head taller than was
her natural body. She walked up to me. We stood
side by side. I was surprised flor this was the
first time I had seen her since her transition, as I
am not a true clairvoyant. As we stood there my
husband walked into the room and showed his astonish
ment as he looked at first one and the other, the thought
came to me, "Now he will make his choice." As I was
wondering which one it would be, a voice said, "Look in
to his eyes for your answer, that will tell you which one
he will choose." I did so and learned that it was not
LIFE OF A SOUL Bl
me. With a sinking heart I turned to her and said, "Be
good to him, for he has been good to me." The thought
came to me, "Alone, deserted ,after fifty-seven years of
contentment. Oh, God what does it tmean?" Then a
loneliness I had never felt crept over me—alone —alone
—I felt I had no one left, not one, that for the time had
all vanished' too. As I stood there looking at him he turn
ed and left the room, she following him. No one on
earth could feel more forsaken and lonely than I did
when they had gone and I was left alone. For one
moment I thought, "Has God, too, forsaken me? No, I
can pray," and then and there I prayed as I never had
before, that they might be happy together and that God
would bless them . When I came out of my trance-like
state I was more surprised that I can tell to hear these
words, "Oh, beautiful soul, you have passed the Supreme
Test." And for three days this rang in my ears above
everything else.
VISIONS
The first visio nwhich I saw Was in the beginning
of my search for truth. I saw a very large serpent, it
laid around a whole block of city lots, and had its tail
in its mouth. The meaning which came with it was,
"Spiritual wisdom and a completed life."
Another one was shown me some titme later. "The
Winged Globe." It flashed very bright before me. I
said, "If that is for me, show it to me again" —it flash
ed even brighter than the first time. I then thought,
"When have I seen that?" After thinking a moment I
went and looked in "The Hidden Way Across the Thres
hold," a book I had, and the meaning is—"Glory unto
Thee, a ripened and perfected soul, finished of earth,
82 LIFE OF A SOUL
the perfected one, one with God, a soul ripened to
Nirvana."
So friends in finishing this book I will repeat what
I said in the beginning, with this change. I now feel
that I have kept my promise given many years ago to
angel friends, to help them to bring more light to the
world ,and who were so faithful and worked so hard to
give me these truths in such a beautiful way. Not only
this, but I have obeyed the command of one high in
authority—Jesus the Christ, who when standing before
him in the Golden Temple, when handing me a book said,
"The law is written within, you are to give it out."
So in plain simple words I have written these truths
just as they came to me, while many times my sensitive
soul shrank within me when being urged to write down
the most sacred truths which can be given to any soul.
In sending them out it is with the prayer that some
souls may catch the vibration of these truths, and be
helped. If only one, I will feel that my efforts have not
been in vain.
The End.
