{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__besant___theosophy_past_and_future.pdf","mytitle":"Theosophy Past And Future","mylang":"de"}
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND
FUTURE ·
Being the four Convention Leetures delivered in
Adyar at the Fifty-Fourth Anniversary of the
Theosophieal Soeiety, Deeember, 1929
r.
BY
ANNIE BESANT, D.L.
THE RT. REV. C. W. LEADBEATER
J. I. WEDGWOOD, M.A., D.Sc.
C. JINARAJADASA, M.A.
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
ADYAR, MADRAS
1930
CONTENTS
LECTURE PAGE
I. Theosophy, Past and Future. By Dr.
Annie Besant 1
II. The Two Paths. By Rt. Rev. C. W.
Leadbeater • 23
Ill. The Gaining of Spiritual Experience.
By Bishop J. I. Wedgwood, M.A.,
D.Sc. . 36
IV. A Year's Travels in Latin America. By
C. Jinarajadasa, M.A. 67
• • • . 111
LECTURE I
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
• BY ANNlE BESANT
WHEN I was speaking to you at noon to-day in
connection with the Presidential Address, I dealt
with the Present of the Theosophical Society. I
propose to speak to you now about the Past and the
Future of the Society. · The Past is interesting and
is also instructive; but for us the Future is really the
more important. We are helped, I think, to consider
it wisely by lookin~ back, in order to see what the
Society has already accomplished in the world. If
we look at the world as it was before 1875 and look
at it as it is now in 1929, we shall find certain very
salient differences; and, just glancing at them, we
may come, I think, to some kind of forecast, by
judging whether we have improved that which has
gone before ; how far there has been an advance in
a definite direction ; and how far we have drifted,
without any very clear idea as to what the Future of
the Society is to be.
There is found lately a certain number of people
who have been inclined to think that the Society
has no lon~er any particular reason for existence ;
2 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
that it had had, indeed, a work to do, but has really
done its work ; hence there is no particular reason
why it should continue to exist. That is one view
which you may have seen put forward during late
years.
There is no doubt that there are considerable
differences in the Society as it was and the
Society ·as it is. Looking back to1
the early days,
we see certain outstanding facts, experienced only
by those who are now very old. I suppose a few
people are still in the Society who came into it in
the very early days. There are still certain
documents in connection with the Society, which
show you some of the ideas which were current,
as to the work that the Society came into existence
to do ; and these ideas, I think, are not quite the
same as those which are widely held by members of
the Society to-day.
In the first place, we know that the Objects of the
Society, as such, have been changed several times.
We need not dwell on this. The subject has been
dealt with lately in an article by Mr. Heyting in The
Theosophist. He has pointed out how many
varieties of Objects we have had. We have discuss-
ed their alteration several times, and various changes
have been made. I am more concerned with what
one may call the spirit, the tone, of the Society;
how the present spirit or tone differs from the
earlier spirit or tone, whether for the better or for
the worse,
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 3
There was one point which was very strongly
stressed in the early days of the Society, and that
was its relation to India, in every department, we
may say, of India's National Life. ·we find, for
'
instance, mention of the desire of the Masters that a
paper should be started, which was to be called The
Phoenix, and how very much They desired that the
political and social conditions in India should be
radically changed. Quite a distinct tone, as it were,
was given to the Sodety in relation not only to the
social conditions of India, but also to her political
and economic state. Those particular points have
been very largely dropped out of sight. It was
specially, as far as I can distinguish, the desire of
One of the true Founders of the Society-the Master
Maurya as He was then, the Chohan Maurya as He
is now-that the improvement of the national, the
political and the social conditions of India sho~ld be
worked for by the Theosophical Society, so that India
might again become a great Nation. This idea was
obviously a larger part of the thought of Those who
through their great messenger, H.P.B., were laying
the foundations of the Society in the outside world.
You may have heard it said that there was ·a
discussion among some of the Members of the
Hierarchy as to whether the Society should be a
public or a secret Society. It was decided that it
should be a public Society, partly because attempts
to form an Occult Society had met with disaster
in the past. Consequently, in the various changes
4 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
through which the Objects of the Society have
passed, we come at last to those which we have now,
that the Society is a nucleus of Universal Brother-
hood. We use the word "nucleus" in the technical
sense in which it is used in biology. Just as the
nucleus in the cell of a plant is the centre from
which go forth the organizing forces by which the
plant is shaped and moulded ; so also the Theo-
sophical Society is to act as such a centre, from
which the forces that make for Brotherhood should
radiate in all directions, and thus bring about a
condition in which it could be said, with some
amount of truth, that there really existed a nucleus
of Universal Brotherhood which, it is hoped, will
send its formative forces all over the world.
In some of the outside work which has been done,
the Society has played a considerable part. It has
worked quite definitely to win recognition of the
idea of an Inner Government of the world, the
" Power which makes for Righteousness," the Great
Hierarchy which ever labours for the good of the
world. Among Those specially concerned in that
work the Rishi Agastya has played, and still plays,
a very prominent part in India. As some of you
know, He lives in Southern India; His dwelling-
place is known to a limited circle. T. Subba Rao and
my brother Leadbeater, for instance, were permitted
to visit Him, and met Him in the physical world in
the human body He is now wearing. It is quite
clear that He takes an active interest in the
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 5
elevation of the Indian Nation, and also that He lays
particular stress on the subject of Social Reform.
In one direction I had from Him years ago (in
1913), a direction to give a certain series of lectures
on the subject of Social Reform. Those were
published, as you know, as Wake Up, India., a kind of
preliminary call to India, to get rid of some of the
worst of her social abuses, and so prepare her-
self for playing a great and influential part in the
world. A considerable advance has been made in
that direction during the life-time of the Theo-
sophical Society. If you take the condition of India
now and compare it with the condition of India as
she was, you will find that her position in the world
has largely changed. That change has been partly
worked by the movements for Social Reform, which
lessened some of the worst abuses, although some
of them still remain.
Since the Lords of Kar1na rule Nations as well
as men, the fact that we have still among us a large
class of people who are called and are born
., untouchables," is one of the greatest obstacles to
the high position which India ought to hold among
the Nations of the world. It is not simply the fact
that India has, as other Nations have, unhappily, a
large number of poor people, putting the United
States of America aside. Looking at the condition
of India, comparing it with that of other Nations,
we do not find, so far as we know, in any other
Nation, the fact that being born in a certain class
6 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
makes a person unfit to be touched by his fellowmen
born in the same territorial area. The fact that it
is so in India is, quite rightly, I think, a hindrance in
the way of India's Freedom. So long as she
oppresses a certain class of people who are marked
out by birth as "untouchable'' by their fellow-beings,
so long there is no real belief in Univ~rsal Brother-
hood. The reality of a belief depends on its being
practised as a matter of course in daily life. A
belief which is simply a theory, looked at occasional-
ly and then put by and forgotten, such a belief is
not a true belief at all. Psychologically, belief is
the immediate antecedent of action. First comes
desire ; then thought ; taking the desire to
indicate the direction of the impulse, taking the
thought to indicate the method, the next step is the
act. We find that the result of right desire and
right thought is a beneficent act. I am not at all
sure that the greatest obstacle to India's winning
her Freedom is not the shameful fact that India op-
presses a very large portion of her population. So
long as we are not working to put an end to that
oppression, how can we dare to demand Freedom
for ourselves, while we deny it to others who are
included in the Universal Brotherhood? That is
one point which we ought to consider very definitely
in our political work.
There is a great movement in India for Freedom.
We are not at the moment particular!y concerned
with any details of the different movements. There
THEOSOPHY. PAST AND FUTURE 7
IS the movement for Complete Independence, the
breaking of the tie with Britain. There is the
movement for Dominion Status, which will give
Self-Government to India within her own territorial
area, but will keep her connected with Britain. The
maintenanc~ of India's connection with Britain is a
matter on which one or two of the Hierarchy have
spoken most distinctly.
. Not very long ago I published this in New India.,
and also printed in The Theosophist what
I have called " my marching orders" ; that is to
say, a certain order that . was given to me with
respect to India, which I have carried out ever
since. I do ·not challenge an order given to me by
.
my Master, or by one of His Colleagues. I live to
serve Him and to carry out His will. In the state-
ment made directly to myself by the Lord of the
World, known to you of course as.the eldest of the
Four KumAras, the Lord Sanat KumAra, you can
read what I was told-to "clf;lim India's place
among the Nations ; be firm but not provocative ".
I try to avoid being provocative while claiming
India's rights, to find that middle path which is
between the two extremes. There is the promise
shining in front of us : " The end will be a great
triumph. Take care that it is not stained by
exeess." That shows us that we shall succeed,
and it warns us also of definite danger.
On the spread of the realization of the ideal of
Brotherhood. our attitude towards political questions
8 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
must be based, as much as in any other part of our
lives. When we find a distinct statement or direction
given by a Master or Masters, then the value of it
to each of us must depend on whether he believes in
the existence of the Hierarchy or not ; and that,
remember always, is entirely a matter for your own
decision. But it does not, and must not, make any
difference in your place in our Society, because in
our Society the only condition of admission is that
we recognize it as a nucleus of Universal Brother-
hood. A nucleus is a centre from which forces go
out to organize a form. We have the explanatory
words : "without distinction of race, creed, sex,
caste or color,'' but the gist of it lies in the word
"nucleus ".
Obviously, members of the Society are bound to
work against unbrotherly conduct, wherever it is.
In India our worst failure is that we are face to
face with untouchability, and are not able apparent-
ly to get rid of it. Putting it quite baldly, we are
failing to recognize that people come into the
Society without any questions being asked, and that
is quite right. If you profess to·accept Universal
Brotherhood, you have no right to shut out anyone
at all. As a matter of fact, most of our National
Societies do not base themselves on Universal
Brotherhood, but on the Brotherhood of those who
are vouched for as worthy. We have still, I think,
in most of our National Societies the practice of
requiring two sponsors who pledge themselves that
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 9
the person they certify for membership will be a
worthy member of the Society. You may think me
very immoral if 1 say that I do not think that
worthiness has anything to do with membership of
the Society. If the Society is a nucleus of Uni-
versal Brotherhood, then the unworthy person has
as much right to come into it as the worthy can
have. We are apt to be remarkably anxious to
claim kinship with the Elder Brothers, but do not
usually show a similar eagerness to claim it with
our younger brothers in the slums or in the prisons.
As we hope for help from our Elders, so must we
give help to our youngers.
There are a great many movements in which that
work can be done. If you are really in earnest and
are desirous to come into touch with the Elder
Brothers, you must be showing service to those
around you. There is one sentence familiar to some
of us, that' is very striking in this respect. It is
that : "The very heart of Our Brotherhood is the
selfless service of mankind." If that be the heart
of the Brotherhood, of the Hierarchy, it must be a
part of our daily duty to offer service everywhere
we can. There is one sentence that I have very
often quoted to our members when they write letters
to me, saying that they have no opportunities of
really doing much service, and that is a sentence
which came from the Chohan Maurya: " Service in
the little things of daily life counts as much with
Us as the so-called greater services."
10 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
It is the service in the little things of daily life
that makes the habit of service, so that you seize
an opportunity for service the moment it offers
itself. You grasp it before it has passed away, and
train yourself in this way so thoroughly that it
becomes practically .automatic in your life. You
seize the chance of service ; you take it at once and
think no more of it. To me, that is one of the most
valuable thoughts that have come in connection
with the Great and Mighty Hierarchy. They are
looking out for people who serve in their ordinary
lives, and if you want, as many of you do, to come
into closer contact with Them, then give yourself
up to the service of those around you, and
you will prove by your actions that you are of
those who will seize greater opportunities as they
occur.
Do not wait for big opportunities. They may not
come to you, or you may not seize them even when
they come. Try to seize opportunities all day long
in your daily life. If, for instance, you see a woman
with a child in her arms, and another child dragging
at her by her sari, and she is endeavouring to
carry parcels on her head at the same time, why not
offer to carry them for her? If you see a person
walking on the road, why should you not stop and
pick him up in your motor car ? I have done that
sometimes, and the person has been so grateful.
Try to see what the people round you want, and
supply that want. Do not try to force something
THEOSOPHY•. PAST AND FUTURE 11
on them that you think is good for them. That is
not a practical way of realizing Brotherhood.
There are two other movements in the world
which profess Universal Brotherhood: Masonry,
which makes certain conditions for admission, and
the Scout Movement, which is a practical training-
ground for our young people, boys and girls. One
of the Scout laws is, to '' do a good turn every day ".
Each good turn means a piece of willing service.
If one act of willing service is done every day. then
it soon becomes a habit, and it will mean many acts
of service every day. This is one of the ways in
which you may draw the attention of One of the
Elder Brothers. He will see in your desire to
serve a qualification for coming more closely into
touch with Him. I do not mean that you should
think of that as the reason for doing service to
others. But you will be helping Them in Their work,
and They are glad to find helpers. There are so
few comparatively who are willing to help in that
work ·of the Brotherhood.
lu the past, opportunities for service were in some
ways wider than they are now. We have got too
much into the way of thinking that the Theosophical
Society is served only by propaganda of Theo-
sophical teachings. Living the Theosophical Life is
the highest form of propaganda. Everything use-
ful to mankind is part of the duty of the Theo-
sophist when it comes in his way, if he is able to
render the serv1ce. Do not get the idea that
12 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
Theosophical work consists simply in teaching or
writing about Theosophy. Theosophy is Life, much
more than lecturing. It is also an attitude to life, the
attitude of .a person who is eager to give anything he
can, and makes service the supreme object of
his life.
In the older days, Theosophy seems to have in-
cluded much more, including the much objected to
politics. Of course, my own standpoint is that
political work is just as much Theosophical work as
any other kind of work called Theosophical-say
the reading of a Theosophical book. Perhaps it is
more so. But we must not associate the Theo-
sophical Society, as a whole, with any particular line
of activity that we take up. Jt is my duty very
specially to do political work connected with
1ndia, because I have been told to do that work ;
but I should be acting wrongly if, while I am
doing political work, l should try to induce the
Theosophical Society to join any particular
political party or any particular line of political
activity.
I had one rather curious illustration of the
limitations which Brotherhood imposes. 1 once
gave a Charter in the Order of Service for a League
against vivisection. A lady who was violently in
favour of vivisection wrote and asked for a Charter
for a League to promote vivisection. I wrote back a
verry polite note, saying that I would at once send
her the Charter she asked for, if she could show
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 13
me that vivisection came within our prin~iple of
Universal Brotherhood. I never got any more com-
munications from that lady. It is fairly obvious
that we must not torture our younger brothers, in
order to make ourselves less liable to diseases,
which generally come because we do not obey the
ordinary laws of health, and because we lack self-
control and the perfect temperance that we should
practise, if we want to have a healthy body. If you
want to be thoroughly healthy, you need not be an
ascetic, but you must consider the body along with
the emotions and the mind ·; both influence the
~
body, therefore you must have right emotions and
right thoughts as well, if you want to be healthy, in
addition to paying attention to the physical laws of
health. Treat the body as a very useful animal
that serves you. 1t is not to rule, but to obey. Do
not torture the body, unless you are doing an act
of great self-sacrifice for the sake of others. And
so we find that in the active side of our Theo-
sophical life, Brotherho9d is the one test that we
should apply.
Speaking of the method of its application, one
thing I have to suggest. I do not think it is wise to
start parallel activities to those already existing,
and label them with a Theosophical name. If there
is an organization called a Peace Society, there is
no reason why we should ,have a special Theo-
sophical Peace Society, because we can go into the
ordinary Peace Society and theosophise it. We
14 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
have to try to practise Brotherhood in the organi-
zations we enter into for work.
And considering how much stress has been laid
upon that, I would ask you to consider whether we
are not leaving the Elder Brothers too much out of
our thought in our ordinary daily lives. The
relation between the Elder Brothers and ourselves
should be a verry close and real one, the relation
of the younger brothers to the Elder Brothers. Such
relationship keeps life serene and happy. Taking
things just as they come-knowing that the Elder
Brothers are aware of them, and can interfere if
They desire-that is one of the conditions of
strong, persevering and useful work.
Then we have to learn another lesson, and that is
to work hard and keep serene, not caring for the
result of our actions. You know some people may
say that if you are indifferent to the result of your
work, you have not put your heart into it. But we
ought to put our heart into the work, and yet be
indifferent to the results. Both are possible-to
work hard, strenuously and devotedly for a parti-
cular piece of work, and to see the whole thing break
to pieces and yet not be troubled about it. In order
to gain that serenity, I think you need to consider
one great teaching, if I may call it by that name, and
that is to realize the fact that things in the world
do not go by chance, but go according to a Plan.
The Ruler of our world has a Plan given to Him by
a Higher Official in our system, like a piece of an
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 15
architect's plan given to an overseer, who has to
build accordin.g to that plan and to do his work per-
fectly as far as his part is concerned. If we
want to work for the Great Plan, we must learn
to work without looking for the fruit of our
actions. That is the lesson given in the Bha.ga.va.d-
Gita.-to work very, very hard and strenuously,
and not care for the results. Also in Light on
the Pa.th it is said : '' Kill out ambition. But work
as those work who are ambitious." That is
exactly what we have to do. If we feel sorry when
we fail in a particular piece of work after
we have put our best efforts into it, then we have
not learnt the lesson of true· indifference. We must
learn to be serene when our own ideas are smashed.
Your outer plan may go ; but the force you put
into it, your life, your desire to serve, those go on
into a better and bigger plan than the plan that was
broken up. When you realize that that is true, then
you can work without any anxiety at all. You can
shrug your shoulders and say : "Well, I'll make a
better one."
Personally, the last wrench that I had was in con-
nection with the Central Hindu College at Benares,
When that passed out of our hands altogether,
though the passing was my own work, and thqugh
I had persuaded the Trustees to give it over,
still, when it was done, I felt a little sort of emptiness
somewhere. Something I cared for veryimuch was
gone, and I could do nothing for it hereafter. That
16 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
taught me a great lesson. It taught me that I had
put something of the personality into my work ; it
was not thoroughly unselfish. These are the lessons
you learn as you walk along the path of life. As
long as you put your personality into your work, as
long as you want something from your work, so
long your work is not realJy a pure offering to the
Inner Government of the world.
The value of the Society in the Past centres itself,
I think, in one tremendous fact. It destroyed
ma~erialistic philosophy. You none of you can
know the tremendous power that materialistic
philosophy had. One discovery of science after
another seemed to make it more and more formid-
able. Tyndall said that we must change our views
about spirit and matter, and that ''we must see in
matterthe promise and the potentiality of every form
of life ". But twenty years later, you find just the
opposite statement made by Sir William Crookes
(who was a member of the Theosophical Society).
He gave out the statement, with his great authority,
that we must radically change our views of Life, and
that we must see in Life the moulder and shaper
of matter. This is the general view now, that Life is
the shaper and moulder of matter, and matter is that
which is shaped and moulded. Perhaps that may
be one of the reasons why our Krishnaji lays such
tremendous stress upon Life. He often says : ''Be
in love with life." Live with Life ; admire it ; serve
it. There is only one Life, and that Life is divine.
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 17
Of course, the whole atmosphere changes for us if
we realize that ; and I think that the greatest service
that the Theosophical Society has rendered to the
world in the past is the destruction of t:naterialism as
a philosophy of life. That is done, definitely done.
Materialism has its place in study, but it cannot
solve life's problems. I can remember that Ludwig
Buchnertold me, that when I went to Berlin, I should
not find more than a handful of men of science who
believed in religion-a rather sweeping statement.
Now all that has passed away. Materialism is not
now a philosophy that rules the hearts and lives of
men. It was rather significant that a Roman
Catholic priest who once came to a Theosophical
Lodge, said that we had done one thin~, we had
destroyed materialism-a curious source for the
statement to come from. I should put that as our
greatest achievement in the Past.
It is no good to keep on looking at the Past.
What about the Future ? Some people say that we
have done our work, and the Society can go. One
of the Elder Brothers said in relation to it, that it is
" the corner-stone of the reiigions of the future ".
That is the view I put before you to consider, re-
membering the source from which it came, as the
true view, the view by which we ought to shape
our activities.
Any member of the Society who does not
endeavour to make his life really useful ·is scarce-
ly, I think, living up to the Theosophical ideal.
2
18 THEOSOPHY. PAST AND FUTURE
Remember that all that is good is within the Divine
Wisdom. You remember a favourite text from the
Hebrew Scripture, that the Divine Wisdom" mightily
and sweetly ordereth all things". Both these ways,
the tremendous power and the infinite sweetness in
that power, should be characteristic of the true
Theosophist in his work. He should not try to
force his views upon others; he should not try to
dominate.
One very good rule of conduct for those who have
strong views and are inclined to force them on
others-1 was one of these myself-is to be very
steady in the assertion of a principle, but very lenient
in everything which is not essential. Why should we
worry about the unessential ? You know how
Krishnaji is using that word. It is for you to judge
in any line what is essential to your success. Study
the people you have to deal with, but follow your
own judgment in the method of your work. I do
not think, if you will steadily apply yourselves to
study your surroundings and judge your own
capacities, and if you will remember that in any
work for others you must always give your best
capacity. you will have very much trouble in finding
what is essential in the opportunities that surround
you. You may make mistakes, but you will gain
experience. You will be gradually developing, if you
have the strong desire to serve, that priceless
quality called intuition, which is to be the character-
istic of the new race, the quality of seeing things
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 19
which are not material with the same sensitiveness
with which you see an object that is material.
True intuition will always lead you right, but
there is a difference between impulse and intuition;
and if you are face to face with a situation where
you are not quite sure which voice is speaking, then
the best way is not to do the thing at once but wait
and see if that feeling lasts ; because if it is intuition
it will assert itself over and over again. Intuition
is what Krishnaji called "the tyrant". You cannot
get rid of it. It does not change; it lasts. It does
not come and go, impermanent. Test yourself by
that lasting power, and also whether it is the lower
part of you that wants you to act. That lower part
does not speak with steady forae, but with a
passionate urge.
Now life is a complicated thing in many ways. It
becomes simple as you go on, if you keep a high
ideal, clinging to that till you get a still higher one.
If as individuals we could all do that, we might be
fairly sure that the Theosophical Society as a whole,
being composed of individuals, would do its benefi-
cent work in the world. It is not coming to an end.
It has a great future still lying before it.
But I do feel that we need much more recognition
of the Elder Brothers, than we now are in the habit
of giving. I do not know why speaking about the
Masters has become much less usua.J among us than
it used to be. H.P.B. always took Them for
granted. You could not remain with her for a
20 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
few hours without her saying something about
the Masters. But with very many of us They
are put away at the back of our minds, to be
called out on some great occasion, instead of being
the Light of our daily lives. The constant recognition
of the Masters is, I am inclined to think, rather
wanting among us. We are so afraid of being
thought superstitious, so afraid of the reproach that
we try to glorify ourselves. In the presence of the
Master, no desire survives except the desire to
serve Him. Any is joyful work if it is in His service.
I hope that in the Future of the Theosophical
Society, there will be a growing recognition of the
part' the Elder Brothers play, not only in the great
life of the world but in the life of those who believe in
Their existence. The value of that existence to us
is enormous, if we are able to realize it ; and it is so
reasonable a thing, if you think of it, and if you
believe in survival after death. How can you
explain the fact that one child is born an idiot and
another a genius, if you think that there is only one
life? And how can you think that justice rules the
world? The human mind only seeks to make things
reasonable, and it seems to me that the teachings
of Theosophy are supremely reasonable. They
explain the puzzles of life. They throw light into
dark places. They make us strong, where we used
to be weak.
To me, to give a knowledge of Theosophy is the
greatest service you can render to another. I do not
THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE 21
mean that we should force Theosophical teachings
on others, but lead them courteously in the direction
of that ljne of thou~ht. I think I have mentioned the
fact that Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, who was obliged to go
to a ~reat many social functions, used to sit in a
corner, perhaps of a ball-room or party of some sort,
and think Theosophy, some Theosophical teaching.
She told me she always found some one coming to
her and asking : " Do you know anything about
something which is called Theosophy ? " So trust
your powers of thought and use them in your work.
Scatter Theosophical thoughts round you in the
mental atmosphere, as you go about your business
in a 'bus or a tram, wherever you may be. Send
out something that will be caught up by a brain that
is sensitive in that· direction; it may give just the
link that was wanted.
The Future of the Theosophical Society depends
upon those who live the Theosophical life in the
Present. Let yourselves be marked out by your readi-
ness for service. Let people turn to you if they want
help. Above all, let those who have done wrong con-
fide in you, feeling that they can find in you a helper,
a comforter and a guide. In that way, the whole
Theosophical Society will become a benediction, if
its members will work by living the Life. The more
you live the Life, the more you will understand of the
treasures of the Divine Wisdom. Christ has said:
" He that deeth His Will shall know of the doctrine."
It is absolutely true.
22 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
Let us, then, look forward to the future, my
brothers. Let us make that future glad with
Theosophical light. Sometimes it is very dark in
the world round us, but the very test of our strength
lies in the fact that in the time of midnight-darkness
we still look forward steadily to the dawning of the
day. It is easy to believe in the light when the Sun
is shining; but to believe in the Sun when it is dark,
when the Sun has gone to the other side of the
world, is the test of our strength. Make the Sun
always present with you, because of your profound
belief in the Divine Wisdom; for that is the one
thing that will never fail. You will never live in the
darkness if that Light of the Divine Wisdom is ever
shining in your heart.
LECTURE II
THE TWO PATHS
BY THE RT. REV. C. W. LEADBEATER
THINK we may take it for granted that we all
believe in evolution and the possibility of progress,
that we all wish earnestly to grow greater and
better, to become nobler and more spiritual. But
there are many lines along which that progress may
be made, and various methods of attainment are
suggested to us.
A few minutes ago a gentleman said to me :
" Surely there are three great Paths, not two; are
you then going to omit one of them from your
lecture?" I know quite well what he means, for
our revered President some years ago wrote a book
called The Three Paths, and I suppose my friend
was referring to the well-known division into Gnana,
Bhakti and Karma Yoga, which explains to us that
there are three lines of advancement towards union
with the Divine-by Wisdom, Devotion and Action.
A Christian hymn-writer has well expressed the
same idea:
Three doors there are to the Temple-
To know, to work, to pray ;
And they who wait at the outer gate
May enter by either way,
24 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
You may say that something of each of these
ways is necessary for every student ; they are not
antagonistic but complementary; so it is not a
question of following one or the other exclusively,
but rather of inquiring which side of one's nature
most needs unfolding at this stage of pevelopment ;
and that is largely a matter of temperament. All
the three great qualities which we have just men-
tioned are required by the perfect man; but which
do we need most just now? From one point of
view they may be considered as manifestations of
the characteristics of the Three Aspects of the
Logos-Power, Wisdom and Love; and so they are
connected with the three vehicles of man on these
lower planes, for the acquirement of knowledge
strengthens the mental body, devotion has a tre-
mendous effect on the astral or emotional body,
while the planning and execution of definlte pieces
of work fortifies and invigorates the physical brain.
All these qualities have to be brought to maturity,
and if possible a reasonable balance should be pre-
served between them; for if one is greatly in excess,
its expression is often mischievous.
Power without wisdom might be wasted, or exer-
cised in all kinds of foolish and erratic ways ; while
power without love at the back of it might easily
degenerate into selfishness of the most serious kind.
Wisdom without power would be fruitless ; without
love it often makes a man cold and hard, so that he
does not use it for the benefit of his fellow-creatures.
THE TWO PATHS 25
Love without wisdom leads men into many mistakes,
and may easily do more harm than good, as in the
case of a mother who loved her baby intensely and,
observing that it was cold, administered whisky to
it, because she had found it warming herself. On
the other hand, love without power is liable
to become mere helpless sentimentality-utterly
ineffective. So all these qualities are necessary.
and must be developed in turn, but at any given
moment (or, let us say, in any given life) we shall
probably find a man emphasizing only one of them
-that upon which he is then specially engaged.
For the average man can do effe(jtively only one
thing at a time.
We can make little sense of the scheme of evolu-
tion unless we keep the great idea of reincarnation
constantly at the back of our minds. A man may
be entirely on the path of Bhakti in this life; but
we must not suppose that he will always be exclu-
sively on that line. Successive lives are like classes
in a scho.ol, and that in two ways. First, there are
infant classes, junior classes, senior classes; and
the young soul passes from one to another as he
grows-from the savage to the half-civilized, and
from that to the fully-civilized. But also there are
classes for different subjects ; just as a boy takes
a class at one hour for mathematics, and then at
the next hour passes into another to learn geography
or drawing, so is a soul born into one race to
acquire valour and decision, and into another in
26 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
the next life to develop artistic faculty, and
so on.
If we trace back the 1ine of incarnations of any
person, we shall usually find that he has been born
in various countries, obviously to give him the
opportunity of unfolding the qualities which he
needs. In Europe, at any rate, that seems clear,
for there are certain countries which make a specia-
lity of intelJectual development, and others which
specialize just as definitely along artistic lines ; and
the same soul passes from one to the other accord-
ing to his requirements. That is one way in which
the law of evolution works ; but there are other
factors which come into play, and one of them is
the strong desire of the ego. So we might find two
men born into similar surroundings for exactly
opposite reasons-one in consequence of his intense
longing for them, and the other not because he had
yearned for them, but because he knew nothing
about them, though they were required for his
evolution.
I think that the same rule which we see thus
manifesting itself in the case of the three Paths of
which our President wrote also holds good with
regard to the two Paths upon which I am asked to
speak to-day. Something of both of them is required
for perfection, or perhaps we should rather say that
what is needed is a perfect balance between them-
a balance between reason and love, as Krishnaji
has put it ; but most of us at the present moment
THE TWO PATHS 27
are earnestly following one or the other-
· following
it so definitely, so one-pointedly that it is difficult
for us to be patient with a man who finds it best for
his progress to walk on the other.
These two Paths are sometimes called respectively
the Occult and the Mystic. This is not a really
satisfactory terminology, as we shall see as soon
as we attempt to define the words. Oeeultus is a
Latin word meaning "hidden ", so Occultism is the
study of things not generally known or taken into
account. In that sense and to that extent surely
aH we Theosophists are Occultists, for it is of the
very essence of the teaching usually called Theo-
sophy that we learn more about the unseen side of
life and nature, about God and man and the relation
between them, than is known by men who have
never felt any interest in such subjects ; and having
acquired that additional knowledge, we proceed (or
we ought to proceed) to modify our lives accordingly.
The vast majority of humanity are just living for
the physical plane. We cannot blame them for
thinking chiefly of it, for-not having studied-they
really know nothing of any other, and they have
not realized that it is very closely intertwined with
an astral plane of emotions and a mental plane of
thoughts, and even with still higher possibilities.
The ego, living as it does on the higher part of
the mental plane, is in close touch with the plane
above, from which the deeper knowledge which we
eall intuition sometimes shines down. It would,
28 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
therefore, be foolish for the man, although he is down
here in this world to gain experience·in a physical
body, to ignore the higher planes and their vehicles
and their possibilities, if he has ever heard anything
about them or had any opportunity of knowing
of them.
Very many people do not know anything certainly
about the higher worlds, and generally they lay
them aside as mere fields for conjecture, which is
a very unfortunate attitude. We who are Theo-
sophists should know much better than that. We
may or may not have had personal experiences;
that is a matter of much less importance than most
people seem to think, for we have (or should have)
read and studied sufficiently to know that there is
a vast amount of incontrovertible evidence for the
existence of the higher planes and vehicles. Many
phenomena have been observed which cannot
possibly be explained on any other hypothesis than
that of the subtler vehicles and the higher worlds,
so the evidence is very strong. It is for each man
to say whether he accepts the Theosophical ideas.
We do not expect people to believe them blindly;
but we do put them forward as hypotheses by which
we can account for a great deal in life which cannot
otherwise be reasonably explained at all. It is,
after all, the same kind of evidence as that which
is commonly admitted in various other sciences;
and in that sense it might be said that we are all
occultists.
THE TWO PATHS 29
The word myticism has in its origin a signification
very similar to that of occultism-the same idea of
the study of secret things; but the modern diction-
ary definition of a mystic is one who seeks inner
direct union with God. One might say, perhaps,
that the mystic flies (or at least tries to fly)
straight to his mark, like an arrow, taking
no account of any intervening stages, while the
occultist advances step by step, making sure of his
foothold at each stage before attemptin~ the next.
The mystic must . of course pass through the
intermediate stages of development, but he does not
think of them; he aims only at the One. There is
no reason why the other man, the occultist, should
not keep the final goal always in mind; but he does
think of the next step that he has to take, and he
does think also how far, in taking that, he can help
other people along the line which he is himself
following.
The consciousness of the mystic is more inward-
turned, while the occultist turns more outward.
The occultist studies the phenomena around him
to a greater extent than the mystic. The mystic
ignores all helps that are offered on the way, while
the occultist thankfully accepts them. Each path
has its advantages, but I think each has its dangers
too. The occultist might perhaps concentrate so
excessively on his next step as to forget for the time
the final goal, and do something inconsistent with
its attainment. If he uses some ceremonies, he
SO THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
might come to take them as a matter of course, and
forget the life behind them-though he would be a
very poor ceremonialist if he did! He might even
be tempted to rely solely upon his rituals, and to
think that if they were proper!y performed nothing
else mattered, and interior development would look
after itself. On the other hand, he has the
advantage of receiving much assistance, and he also
has the good karma and the happy experience of
doing something for others. "Can one man really
help another?" you may ask. Certainly a man
can be greatly helped; the advice of another may
show him the easiest road, may save him from
wasting much time in foolish and futile experiments.
No man can take the next step for him ; that he
must absolutely do for himself; but he can be
brought to see what that next step is, and it can be
made much easier for him to take it. I myself
have been helped on my way by our holy Masters-
helped beyond the power of words to tell.
The mystic aims straight, but all his progress is
made subjectively, and therefore there is a certain
possibility that he may deceive himself. Attainment
is to him a matter of feeling that he has attained;
and some people's feelings are not always permanent
or reliable. Another danger for him is that he
may forget others, and live in prideful isolation.
There is. for example, a type of Indian yogi who
constantly strives to become one with Vishnu, often
through the medium of a thought-image of some
THE TWO PATHS 31
temple statue of Him. I do not say that such
meditation is useless ; it may presently bring
realization to the yogi, and it even does some good
to the world, however indireatly, unintentionally.
unconsciously. Such a man is pouring out mental
vibrations at a high level, and so doin~ something
to counterbalance the enormous mass or torrent of
low, gross and selfish thought with which average
humanity is usually flooding the world. His
meditation is not barren; of its kind it is high and
noble ; but it has not the definite intention of
doing good to others.
•
His theory is, presumably, that he should first of
all reach the Highest, because when he has attained
that, he can act without any fear of mistake :
whereas one who tries to act in any way before he
has gained that union is always liable to error in
his action, and so may do more harm than good.
That is undoubtedly true in the abstract, yet we
may well ask ourselves which course of action is
most useful to the world. It seems to me, for
example, that if Madame Blavatsky had chosen to
take this mystic line, and had waited until she
~ained Adeptship before doing anything, there would
have been no Secret Doetrine and no Theosophical
Society. She individually might have attained ;
but what of all the hundreds of thousands who have
been helped by the sacrifice she made in postponing
that attainment ? What of those whose feet she set
upon the Path of Holiness, and those other
32 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
thousands whom those, her disciples, have thereby
been enabled to guide from darkness to light?
. We all agree that man must eventually reach
perfection, but he cannot do it in one leap. He may
see his ~oal in a flash, and make his resolve to
attain it; he may register a vow to that effect; and
that in some of the Christian sects is called
" conversion.'' It is by no means a bad name for it,
for verto in Latin means " I turn," and con means
"together with.'' Up to that point the man has
been plunging about wildly, without any particular
object but his own pleasure ; now he turns from
that aimlessness, and moves together with the
current of evolution, the direction of which he now
realizes for the first time. In the Buddhist
scriptures this important landmark in a man's
development is called ms.nodvs.ravs.jjana, the open-
ing of the doors of the mind. It may, and sometimes
does, come upon him instantaneously, like a flash
of lightning; but it will usually take him many years
(and in some cases many lives) to work up gradually
to its full attainment.
Liberation, again, is a relative term, and may
be achieved little by little at different stages. For
example, we can begin here and now to liberate our-
selves from bad habits on the physical plane-
irritability, snappishness, gossip, lack of sympathy,
and many others. Some of us are bound by our
emotions and passions ; liberation from them may
be obtained, although it often means a long struggle.
THE TWO PATHS 33
Many people are bound by their minds, their pre-
judices and habits of thought ; we may by determined
effort free ourselves from those hindrances.
Assuredly we should also have in our- minds the
knowledge that there will some day be a full and
final liberation, a union with the Logos ; but most of
us are still some distance from that; and while we
look forward to it and strive for it, we may as well
try to be useful to our fellow-men. Even now, in a
modified way, at our far lower level, we can realize
that that unity exists, for we must remember that
God is everywhere and in everything-the lowest as
well as the highest ; and the knowledge of that at
once raises us above all the troubles and worries of
life, and gives us an unshakable conviction that all
is well.
There are, then, these two paths to the mountain-
top, these two methods of the unfolding of the
Divine Spirit in man ; they always have existed, and
I suppose they always will exist. It seems wise to
accept that fact, and not to dispute about it or be
troubled by it. As I have already said, both lead to
the summit; some travel most easily by one road,
and some by the other. It does not matter in the
least which path we pursue ; it does matter very
much that the man who follows one of them should
not condemn or despise his neighbour who follows
the other. It is perfectly possible to preach one
path enthusiastically without attacking the alter-
native way ; each may pursue and advocate his own
3 •
34 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
line without blaming those who prefer something
different. Surely both types are needed in the
world.
Brothers, there is but one Truth, though it has
many facets, and there may be many presentations
of it. It is obviously impossible that with our limited
intellectual power we can fully comprehend the
whole of this Truth ; it would be ridiculous pre-
sumption on our part to suppose that we can grasp
it in its entirety; but our lack of comprehension
does not for a moment affect the great reality
behind. It is quite certain that the destinies of the
world are in the hands of an entirely beneficent
Power, and that the best that can be done is being
done; and that is all that matters. Those great
facts behind are the only things of any importance ;
our belief as to those facts, or our understanding or
lack of understanding-all that makes no difference
except to ourselves personally. There is not the
slightest reason for any of us to feel troubled; all is
well, and some day we shall fully understand; some
day we shall know, even as now also we are known.
Meantime, let us persevere steadily with any good
work that we may have been doing, trying ever to-
extend it and make it more useful. When we·
compare those many presentations of the Truth, let
us not carp or criticize, let us not commit the folly
of trying to set one against another, or to discover-
differences between them. Let us rather take the
nobler attitude of endeavouring to synthesize, to
THE TWO PATHS 35
find the agreement between them, to take them both
and make the best of them. That, surely, is the
path of wisdom.
We are told that charity never faileth; let us then
never fail in charity 1 Two pieces of advice which
St. Paul gave long ago to his converts seem to me
to be especiatly appropriate at this time and in this
connection : " Let every man be fully persuaded in
his own mind'', and "Let brotherly love continue.''
LECTURE III
THE GAINING OF SPIRITUAL
EXPERIENCE
BY RT. REV. J. I. WEDGWOOD
Doeteur (Seienees) de 1'Universite de Paris
WHEN the President honoured me with an
invitation to deliver one of the T.S. Convention
lectures, I chose this subject because of a number
of reasons. We are a very mixed assembly here;
there are people of different races, of different
nationalities, and of widely differing temperaments.
We all cherish as our great ideal the work of the
Theosophical Society, though some of us also
specialise in various other departments of the one
great work. I selected ~his theme of personal
experience because it is one of quite fundamentaJ
importance and concern to all of tiS, each in our
particular phase of interest and at our particular
stage of evolution. It happens also to be a subject
to which I have given a good deal of attention in
recent years. And there is yet a third contributory
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 37
reason for the choice of this subject for a lecture;
which is that frankly the Society at the present day
stands in a peculiar and special condition.
The Society has not been standing still in recent
years. A numberof highly important announcements
have been made. There has been a great increase
in the flow of life through the Society, and this has
brought pressure to bear upon the members. There
is no need to discuss the situation in detail
here. It will suffice to say that this pressure has
produced a reaction of scepticism. I am sure that
there is only one remedy for this doubt and
scepticism, and it is this ; people should work to gain
their own spiritual experience and verify for
themselves some of those things about which our
Theosophical books tell us, and which we have
previously perhaps accepted either on faith or as an
attractive and reasonable hypothesis. When we
are able to reach a measure of such first-hand know-
ledge for ourselves~ then it becomes easier for us to
give provisional acceptance to other teachings
which still lie perhaps beyond the compass of our
attainment.
WHAT IS SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE?
We had better begin by considering what we
mean by experience and by the word spiritual. I
think we may say that when we have had a suffi-
ciency of contact with outside events~ with certain
38 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
experiences with which the world provides us, then,
as a result of that, a marked change of conscious-
ness takes place. That can legitimately be called
experience. Everything that happens to us produces
some change of consciousness, and every such ch~nge
of consciousness is in a general sense of the word
experience. But we can invest the word experience
with a fuller significance, and one prefers to
use the word in that deeper sense. When we have
had a sufficiency of experience from the play of
outer events, the change in consciousness tends to
become permanent. We call that experience in the
more technical sense. That which was implicit or
latent in our consciousness has now become
explicit ; it has been brought out into manifestation.
The word spiritual is used, and can quite rightly
be used, in a relative sense. Anything which
represents higher development for us is for us
spiritual.
Words like "spiritual" are too often taken for
granted as regards their meaning. The chief
reaction they produce is apt to be emotional rather
than mental, and people often use such words
without ever trying to outline for themselves an
explicit mental equivalent of the . word. It may
help my listeners to gain for themselves a clearer
view of what " spiritual.'' means, if we pause for a
moment to examine what is comprehended by the
sister word " religion". We can often get
illumination upon a subject, if we just take the
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE . 89
trouble to recall the etymology of the word denoting
that subject and possibly also of other technical
words appertaining to it. What I am saying is
curiously true when we come.to study the etymology
of the word " religion ''. Religion is generally
supposed to be derived from the Latin religare,
meaning "to bind back''.* Religion can then be
defined as that influence in our lives which binds us
back to the real or spiritual self, to the Spiritual
Intelligence which is Man. I have just been
writing a book, it I may be pardoned for making a
personal reference, called . The Larger Meaning of
Religion. In it I have developed the view that
medicine is part of religion in the larger sense of
the word, because it keeps our bodies in a healthy
condition, so tttat they can serve as channels for
the transmission of higher powers. Education is
part of religion; art is part of religion. These
various departments of religion have in the course
of time come to be handed over to the secular or civil
administration. What is now usually called religion
is really a higher department of the work of
religion, one which concerns the more special
and technical work of religion, which instructs
man to unfold his higher powers and helps
him in a wonderful manner to do so. It is rather
in this sense and at this particular level that I am
* There is another less probable derivation in relegere
which in one of its senses means '' to sail back over the same
waters". This would equaUy cover my interpretation.
r
40 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
going to make use of the word spiritual in the sequel
of this talk. I am taking the stage at which
we as Theosophists stand, the work which lies
ahead of us in terms of self development; and it is
this which I am assuming to be spiritual work for us.
MAN'S PAST DEVELOPMENT
We shall, therefore, deal with the work that Iies
ahead predominately. But I think we shall be able
to envisa~e the whole scheme of spiritual develop-
ment . in a better perspective, if we just for a
moment or two glance back at the previous
history of man and the special development through
which mankind as a whole has passed. At this earlier-
stage we are concerned first and foremost with res-
ponse to outside stimulus. We know from the teach-
ings of modem science that we are surrounded on all
sides by forces which are pouring their influences
upon us. We speak of them in terms of vibration.
We are surrounded and played upon by vibrations
of all degrees of rapidity, and our bodies are so
specialised that they respond only to small ranges
of these vibrations. For example, take the sense of
hearing. There are employed in modern organs
groups of pipes, each of which groups is called a
" stop '' or " register". These groups of pipes run
in series up the whole compass of the keyboard or
pedalboard. These '' stops " differ from one another
in quality of tone (this being produced by the special
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 41
shaping and other treatment of the pipes). The
" stops " differ from one another also in pitch. The
lowest note on a large organ sounded on the bottom
pedal key is produced from a pipe about S2 feet in
length from mouth to top. The note given by such
a pipe is two octaves below the lowest C of the
keyboard. The highest, played . from the top
note of· a keyboard, is from a pipe measuring half
an inch from mouth to top approximately. Some
people cannot hear the note of the highest pitched
pipes, and above the high pitch just mentioned few
can hear sound produced. In the case of the very
big pipes of the pedal organ referred to there comes
for many listeners a certain point where the limit
in sound perception is reached, so far as the
fundamental tone or ground note is concerned.
What they hear below this point is the series of
higher harmonic notes, called sometimes the" upper
partials," from which the listener is able to
synthesise the ground tone. We respond only to a
certain number of the sound vibrations which may
be playing upon us, and our experience is limited to
that degree of response.
We can apply these ideas to different levels or
strata of evoJution. If you take the case of the
savage, there is little in terms of cultured life to
which he can answer. He has to learn the most
elementary experiences. He has to struggle for his
existence, and he thus gains the most elementary
expertence. When he has exhausted the possibilities
.r
42 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
of savage environment, he comes perhaps into the
slums of one of our great cities. Then other
possibilities open before him and gradually he
rises in the scale of culture and civilisation, acquiring
greater facilities of response. Education, the
training of the mind, the bringing of knowledge to
bear upon a person, is a method of drawing out the
inner and latent faculties and of developing them.
We observe cases of increased zest for life, which
means that the faculties are being drawn out more
plentifully, and we use a certain word in connection
with the gaining of definite experience, the word
"realisation;' that is making a thing " real" to us.
We come to know of these things definitely in terms
of experience. We can trace this gradual growth
throu~hout the whole of humanity.
SELF-CONSCIOUS PROGRESS
There arrives eventually a very special stage
when a person comes perhaps into touch with the
Theosophical Society. He can, of course, arrive at
some understanding of the purpose of life outside of
the Society. But the special contribution of
Theosophy is that it explains to us the purpose of
life, why we are here, whence we have come,
whither we are going. It unfolds before us a great
and wonderful scheme of evolution and life, whose
scope and reasonableness is elsewhere unequalled.
This .is all a. boon fop which we have to be profoundly
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 4S
~rateful to the Society, for in regard to the whole
plan of life it brings for us order out of chaos. We
become self-eonscious to a certain extent in re~ard
to our life-experience. We understand why we are in
the world, why the various events happen to us, the
whole theory of experience in life. We know that
man is essentiaUy a Divine Being, a spark from the
Divine Flame, a germ or seed of Divinity, and that
these Divine powers are gradually being brought out
from the stage of latency, the germinal stage, into
a state of development and manifestation. That
takes place through the constant sequence of
experiences which life provides for us. Onee we
understand that, of course, we take up a ql,lite
different attitude towards things. Life becomes, so
far as we are concerned, a deliberate and purposeful
effort. We go out to meet the experiences that
come to us, to see what each event has to teach us,
what we can gain from each event, and what more
of a fundamental and exhaustive character we can
derive from the experiences that befall us. So
we can use these different events that come to us
in any walk of life, and deliberately draw from them
the lessons they are designed to teach us ; in that
way we can work enormously more rapidly and
more powerfully at the development of our
character. That seems to be the greatest message
of Theosophy. We get the same thing, of course,
from the study of other people. We are drawn into
association with different people, and in relation
44 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
of consciousness with them we gain far-reaching
lessons.
ANTICIPATION FROM WITHIN OF
OUTER EXPERIENCE
Up to the present we have been oonsidering those
changes of character that are produced by our
interaction with happenings in the outer world.
Life, as we have seen, is a constant panorama of
. experience ; event succeeds upon event. Life is
forever providing us with episodes ~ we go out to meet
these and this contact and coping with the outer
world leads to constant changes of character. I
have stressed t his a good deal, because it is really
important that we should see and understand quite
clearly this process which is so constantly at workt
and learn, as I have been pointing out, to react to
and deal with it intelligently and with definite
realisation of what is actually happening.
I want now to pass on to other aspects of the
whole question of development and to deal with
certain practices which may be taken up and
studied by those who wish to take their evolution
intelligently in hand. We are not dependent for
our development only upon opportunities for
growth which come to us from outside. We can
deliberately get to work within the depths
of our own consciousness. We can get control
of the mechanism of consciousness, and work
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 45
to open up the reaches of consciousness that
lie within us. One method of doing this is the
practice of what is called meditation. I shall deal
with that a little later, and also with another branch
of work-the ceremonial method. In the meantime
there. are one or two interesting points that we can
study in connection with the control and the general
manipulation of our consciousness.
THE BLENDING OF CONSCIOUSNESS
One experiment which is very fascinating is that
of gaining experience vicariously from other people.
One does that by a process of blending of conscious-
ness. There is a great deal to be learned by this
process. Much sympathy of outlook, whether in
terms of feeling or thought, can be gained by such
blending at the astral and mental levels. When
you get a little further in spiritual achievement, and
can work consciously at the higher mental or
buddhic level you can unite yourself with other
people and study things quite intimately from
their point of view. People use different methods
according to their temperament and the system of
training they have followed. Using the buddhic
faculties you find yourself right in the centre of
another person's consciousness, and seeing things
from his own larger point of view. Using the
faculties of the causal body the experience is rather
different. One finds oneself first of all in relationship
.
r
46 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
of a close and sympathetic nature with another
person, but outside of him as it were: Some
preliminary process of rapproehement is necessary,
and one then finds oneself entering into a close
community of consciousness. There are different
methods of doing these things. Some people
naturally take one way, some another. I daresay it
has to do with difference of ray and temperament.
Second ray people more naturally use the buddhic
method. Those belonging to the grouping of the
five rays under the Mahachohan more naturally use
and develope the faculties of the causal body. One
has to learn both methods, but there is perhaps a
natural tendency to predominance of the one or
the other.
Now in regard to many of these things our mem-
bers lack initiative. It is not to be expected that
without a good deal of hard work people can
function at the levels of consciousness I have just
been indicating. But a man can begin with the ex-
periences of his own daily life. Most people have in
point of fact much more first-hand experience than
they are willing to admit.
When people say to one that they have been
active members of the T. S. for a great many years,
that they have been lecturing and doing meditation,
all without result in terms of first-hand experience,
one usually takes the liberty of eontradicting them
flatly. It is very difficult to take note of experiences
that grow and accumulate gradually over a period
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 47
which may be spread over a number of years. If we
could take ourselves as we are now and compare
ourselves with what we were when we first aame
into the Theosophical Society, we should find that
in most eases an astonishing change had taken
place. It is largely because people do not quite
understand what they have to look for in terms of
consciousness, that they are so apt to assume that
they have not got any such first-hand experience.
I want, if I can, to bring this question of first-hand
experience down to an ordinary commonplace
level.
Let us take, for instance, the question of our
relationship to one another. If you picture a person
who is not present with you to yourself, and ask
yourself what it is exactly that is making itself
perceptible to you, you find a number of things. If
you ask yourself, how do I identify such and such a
person ? How do I characterise him? I think we
can answer that you do so by his physical
appearanae to a certain extent, by special features
of the face for example, or perhaps by his dress or·
the tone of his voice. But there is also what is
called the personal magnetism which plays a very
large part in this process, and which we recognise
consciously to a very slight extent as a rule. If
you just stop for a moment to analyse any one of
your friends and ask what it is that distinguishes
that person from others, you will all agree that there
is some special influence which radiates from that
48 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
person, which stamps him as an individual, which
makes its own distinctive impression upon you and
upon other people. It is the special and individual
characteristic of that person. I think a great many
of us get as far as that. We do not go ve-ry much
further as a rule. We do not carry on the investiga-
tion. You may go a little further and ask what it is
that characterises that person, what is his particular
influence? You are really then engaged in a process
of the blending of your consciousness with that of
the other person, and if you can learn to do that
sufficiently well, you can gain something that you are
conscious of, the sense of his love, or stren~th, or
any other quality, whatever it may happen to be.
That is the result of a ve-ry simple process, and
people who work at that could get results with ve-ry
little effort. People are not sufficiently awake to
the possibilities of these things. It does not occur
to them to make a little exercise of that sort. Of
course, we have to be scrupulously careful about
undue inquisitiveness in regard to the character of
other people. There is no harm in serious experi-
ments of this sort.
Efforts at the blending of consciousness made in
this way may quite easily lead to definite results,
and there is a variety of directions in which the
attempt may find its outlet.
The most normal result is that already indicated,
namely that one finds oneself in a condition of close
understanding of the other person. In ordinary
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 49
life a man uses the ordinary faculties at his disposal,
and we find that the ordinary person usually sums
up another in terms of the content of his own ex-
perience. He is apt to attribute to the other motives
for action which would naturally inspire himself.
As people grow tolerant and large-minded they
become less partial in their judgments, but this is
the natural consequence of their own experience
being augmented and enriched. Fair-minded people,
in making judgments, try to place themselves in the
position of another and so to understand from what
motive or attitude the other has acted. Obviously
it is far more effective to be able actually to merge
one's consciousness with that of the other man and
to be able thus to experience vicariously what
motives inspired him, and what was his real outlook
upon the situation.
It may interest you if I make here a little
digression to say that this power to blend con-
sciousness tends to develop in the case of people
who are brought into close and constant relation
with one another. Especially does this happen to
those of my profession, if I may be pardoned for
touching on this special line of work in the
Christian Church here-but it illustrates rather well
what I am trying to explain. In administering Holy
Communion, for example, the priest is often in a
state of great spiritual exaltation, and is able to
reflect within himself something of that marvellous
and transcendant love and understanding which is
4
50 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
the special characteristic of his Lord and Master,
the Christ. There comes sometimes at this point a
curiously intimate and tender understanding of
other people, of their aspirations, their efforts
towards nobility of character, their devotion, and
also their difficulties and weaknesses. You will
perhaps allow me to say how great a privilege it has
been to minister to so many of our Indian brethren.
Ours is a. liberal Church in the true sense of the
word. It does not want converts from other
churches and religions. It welcomes those who are
not members of any Church to its services and even
to partake as guests of the Holy Communion. We
have had here during the past few days experiences of
the wonderful devotion and great power of aspiration
of those who have thus been attending our services.
It is different in many ways from what happens in
the West. There are very developed people there,
but there is more mental assertion, which has
tended to dull down the very intense spiritual
eagerness which is so characteristic of the Indian
people. I do not think that I should have come to
the true realisation of these things if I had not been
able to come into relation with my Indian brothers
under these peculiarly intimate conditions.
SOME OTHER EXPERIENCES
There is another direction in which this blending
of consciousness of which I have been speaking may
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 51
find its outlet. The person with whom one is
dealing may suddenly appear transformed and show
himself under quite another aspect. What may in
such cases be happening is that one may be seeing the
other in his Egoic aspect. The consciousness then
is not working simply within its usual sphere of
relationship-the orbit of the ordinary waking
consciousness, which comprises the physical body
and some expressions through it of emotion, mind
and determination. The orbit is enlarged, and one
gets a more direct touch with the Ego, the dweller
in the body.
This transformation may also represent a glimpse
of a past life. There is a special method of coming
to this experience, and it is by working with the
magnetism that flows from the eyes of people. If
you study the look of people's eyes, you notice that
often the eyes reflect the outside world and not the
inside character of the person-at all. The person is
concerned with the activities ofthe outer world rather
than with those of the soul. Sometimes, however,
one sees that the eyes reflect not outer surroundings
but the depths of inner·consciousness, and in these
cases, if one puts oneself into sympathetic rapport
with that person, one finds that this magnetic flow
carries one to contact·with the Egoicr consciousness
of the causal body. It is not so difficult for those
who can do this to see past incarnations of the
person concerned. The man seems to get trans-
fi~ured. There is a chan~e of something, you
•
52 · THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
aontact the individuality of the person, to which you
"hang on," and you can trace back life after life
in that way. I mention these things because
they are all interesting avenues towards
first-hand experience.
By similar blending of consciousness it is possible,
given sufficient intensity and concentration of
purpose, to come into relation with Nature, with
the trees, with the landscape, with rivers and lakes.
And there is again another process by which, leaving
aside objective and physical focal points, like people
and objects of nature, one can make oneself sensitive
to the presence of the angels and the company of
the dead. You must be very careful. You should
not make yourself entirely negative. First send
out a feeler, and if you find the result satisfactory
then you aan put more of your consciousness
into the operation, and you can come
into relationship with angels and dead people.
These are not such difficult experiments as might
be supposed. and some suacess along these lines of
work does bring certainty and conviction. But I
had better be quite frank and say that the beginner
cannot afford to be too sceptical at this particular
stage. He is dealing with faculties which are
incipient and most delicate as regards their handling.
The wisest plan is to keep a certain reserve of
healthy scepticism at the back of the mind, and to
decide otherwise to go ahead with faith and a
completely open mind at the experimenting with
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 58
these faculties so as to give the whole experiment a
fair chance. The scepticism can be released some
months later. The results are as a rule uncertain
at the beginning. But as one develops with practice
and in experience, it happens that there come
changes of consciousness whose reality seems to
leave no room for doubt. When this incipient stage
is over the hardest and most difficult part of the
path is trodden, for the results are much more clear-
cut and definite later. It is difficult to explain to
persons unacquainted with the subject wherein lies
the ground for conviction. It is partly that one can
compare notes and even conduct investigations with
others. But there is one characteristic, which goes
specially with a class of psychism that can be called
'' intuitive psychism," and which can be described
in this way. When a person deliberately·uses his
imagination-for example when he pictures to him-
self that a white wall is red, he can arrive at the
stage of seeing red in a certain sense, but there
comes with this no definite change in the working of
his consciousness. If, however, his psychic faculties
open and he receives directly an impression from
the higher worlds, the test of its reality can, in the
case of this particular kind of psychism, be measured
by the sudden expansion or opening up of conscious-
ness that takes place. There is a sense of " more-
ness" which is quite unmistakeable, and which is the
more definite, the less to be questioned, the higher
the experience and the clearer its transmission.
54 ._ THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
Unless this clear-cut change in consciousness
takes place, it is well to refuse to pass judgment
favourably, or if I may so say, adversely. With
growth of experience the power to judge and to
deoide upon the reality of the thing steadily
Increases.
· In a book written someyears ago called" Varieties
of Psychism" 1 pointed ·out that there are two ways
in which psychism can be developed. The one is
''from below upwat'ds" and the other" from above
downwards ". By the former method you gradually
enlarge the scope of your sense peroeption, and as you
penetrate into the higher worlds you get experience
in terms of a wider super-physical sense-perception,
which is objective in its character. The training of
these psychic senses requires untold care and
perseverance. The other method does not produce
results in terms of extended sight or hearing or so
much as objective observation, but in terms of
direct or intuitive knowledge. It comes more
naturally to those who have practised meditation or
made themselves thoroughly .at home with the use
of consciousness in ceremonial along the lines most
familiar to us Theosophists.
Usually when one has had the privilege of
spending some time in intimate contaot with our
Leaders one finds that some marked development
of consciousness has taken place, and usually
along entirely different .lines from what one had
expected and perhaps wished. Such development
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 55
does not as a rule take the phase of a·maturing of
faculties already in process of development-that
can be done by the man himself. What happens
much more is the opening up of a new dimension or
faculty of consciousness, as it were. It is something
quite original and unexpected. If, for example, you
begin to bring into the waking consciousness that
of the causal body you find to your great astonish·
ment that you can think and hold relation with large
numbers of people-literally hundreds-simultane·
ously. One can test the veridicity of these more
advance~ powers of consciousness by the sense of
reality and utter conviction that they bring with
them.
MEDITATION
The other two methods with which I want to deal
are meditation and ceremonial, for they both are
practices which make for the gaining of first-hand
knowledge. We can pass rapidly over the subject
of meditation~ for most of you are tolerably familiar
with it. Our audience is mainly composed of Indian
brothers, whilst among our European represent-
atives we have people of widely differing nationalities.
All this complicates the question of discussing
methods, inasmuch as people of differing races and
national temperaments obviously have differing
needs and requirements. The consciousness of
the Indian, for instance, is poised in quite another
56 .THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
way from that of the Teutonic race. The special
contribution to the world of the first sub-race is
that of the higher spiritual consciousness. The first
sub-race preserves this for the world. It will be
entirely objectivised only in the corresponding
seventh sub-race. The Indian does not naturally
identify himself with the physical body. When we
first read ~heosophical literature we are struck to
hear that the Indian says naturally that his body
is tired or hungry, and we Westerners are told that
we ought not to say " I am tired," and so forth, in
the way we do. But there is a difference, as I say,
in poise of consciousness. The Indian, as far as I
can discover, does not naturally identify himself
with his body, whereas the European, being plunged
deeper down into matter (fourth and fifth sub-races),
has his consciousness centred more at the physical
level and does identify himself in waking conscious-
ness with this phase of things. Where there is this
initial difference in poise of consciousness I suppose
that the requirements in meditation will be different.
CONCENTRATION
There are some problems which arise when one
tries to meditate about which it may be useful to
speak. The initial difficulty with the European lies
with concentration. That is his first and great
stumbling block. He finds often that he suffers
from a sensation of whirling in the brain, of which
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 57
he finds -ij difficult to rid himself, or else he gets
/
tired or··dreamy. The application of a little common
sense suffices to explain this. I have personally
had a good deal to do with group-meditation. If
one asks a group to go into meditation, one finds
that many people reach out at once towards the
highest ideal that they conceive, and are then
troubled that brain restlessness or absence of
realisation results. It is not scientific to ignore the
whole intermediate territory to be traversed. A
man has to realise frankly that he devotes a
few minutes in the course of a day to purposeful and
deliberate turning inward of the consciousness,
whereas for the remainder of the day he is either
outward-turned or in vivi-d contact with the life of
the world or else is dreaming or reading other
people's books. He cannot hope to succeed all at
once. And the preliminary process with which he
must occupy himself is one of purification and of
getting himself quiet and tranquil. In other words
he has to undo and work against the habit of contrary
activity in which he indulges otherwise for so much
of the day. He should deliberately face the situation,
and instead of flying away immediately to the ideal
laid down for the meditation, should as a preliminary
step apply himself to getting his mechanism into
efficient working order.
Apart from this important aspect of the question,
he will do well to remember that concentration is
the equivalent of interest. If a man is sufficiently
58 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
interested in a subject in the course of daily life, he
has not the slightest difficulty in concentrating upon
it. Concentration arrives quite naturally when one
allows the· imagnation to get to work on the subject
presented for meditation and to invest it with a
really compelling interest.
DANGERS OF INTROSPECTION
The man who decides to give much of his attention
to meditation will do well to keep constantly in
mind one fact. It is by constant reaction with
.the outer: · world that a man awakens to self-
consciousness, or, shall we say rather, to intelligent
appreciation of his position in the world, of his
relation to his fellows, of his place in the scheme of
things. Meditation may usefully be followed by the
attitude of turning out into the world and towards
one's fellow men and pouring out upon them the
power or high experience in consciousness that has
been won. But meditation proper is the turning
inward of the consciousness upon that larger
consciousness which is within man, and it entails
the exploration of uncharted territory to a much
greater extent than outward-turned contact with
the world. Because of this it has its possible
dangers. Experiences in relation to outer things
are more common property and can be measured by
outside and accepted standards. The imagination
is a powerful faculty ; it is capable of producing
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 59
=
great and useful creative results, but it can easily run
riot (because of this lack of standards) and mislead
a person. That is why mysticism, which has to do
with the inward-turned attitude of consciousness is
a difficult path. Occultism, which has to do with
.consciousness turned successively both inwards
and outwards has safer standards of comparison.
The danger of occultism is love of power, that of
mysticism self-centredness and self-gratification in
regard to emotions and mind.
CEREMONIAL
I now turn to the concluding subject of this talk-
the use of ceremonial in the gaining of spiritual
experience. One is faced with difficulty at the
outset in discussing this subject, for there are
numbers of people who have prejudice against
ceremonial. I think that this prejudice can be
allocated to two causes. In its more developed
phases, such as one finds in connection with
religion, ceremony is often complicated, and it
escapes the understanding of ordinary people
because it sets out to do things and to deal with
forces which are beyond their ordinary range of
appreciation. The dislike in this case arises
from want of understanding. But there is another
cause for a rooted dislike which goes much deeper,
and which one finds instinctive in many people
to a degree of great intensity. Such people, if they
r
60 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
see a Church, or even perhaps some other ceremony
being performed, are extraordinarily perturbed,
sometimes they feel ill, sometimes they grow
unreasonably angry. The explanation of this is not
difficult to find. The feeling cannot be so deep
without having had some real cause, and usually it
is instinctive and puzzling because it originates from
previous incarnations. It may perhaps have some-
thing to do with experiences of childhood, but most
likely it is a heritage from past lives in which so many
people (especially people likely to find themselves
now in the Theosophical Society) have been per-
secuted by religious organisations in the past.
They have perhaps held liberal ideas or resented
the oppression of priest-craft in days of ecclesiastical
abuse and tyranny, and have been made to suffer in
consequence. Often it is only necessary for people
to be helped to understand the cause of this
seemingly unreasonable antagonism to ceremonial
workings, for them to be loosed from this bondage
from the past, or at any rate for them to see that
common-sense and reasonableness demand that
they should use every effort to be open-minded about
the legitimate use of ceremonies in these days of
greater freedom and respect for the individual
consCience.
THE INEVITABLENESS OF CEREMONY
Because of this prejudice and ignorance in regard
to ceremonial I propose to ask you to face the whole
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 61
•
question for a few moments quite dispassionateJy.
One constantly meets with people who say that they
do not care for ceremonies and intend to do without
them. Enthusiastic advocates of the life-side of
things say the same about doing without forms.
The fact is that in a manifested universe there is
a fundamental duality of life and form, of spirit and
matter. No life can express itself or be reached
and apprehended by people except through some
form. Everybody is constrained to be occupying
himself with forms until the final stage when
manifestation and therefore duality is transcended.
There is not a movement of the body but that it is a
question of using some form or ceremony. Taking
a meal is a most complicated ceremony. The
different kinds of food, their preparation and
cooking, their setting out on the table, the elaborate
scheme of eating, mastication and swallowing of
food. If yoU: look at life from that point of view,
you realise that throughout the whole oflour day we
are expressing ourselves in one way or another
through form. There is a science of the economical
and efficient use of forms, and of their co-relation.
This is the science of ceremony. You have got to
use ceremony whether you will it or not. And as
we are obliged to make use of these forms, it is
surely wiser and more sensible to study this whole
matter of self-expression and to decide what forms
enable us to transmit the life within us most
effectively and usefully. An intelligent co-ordination
62 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
•
of forms is a labour-saving device. No body objects
to easy communication by means of an automobile
on the ground that he prefers to do without forms
and ceremonies.
The same principle is at work in regard to the
domain of worship. There are ways of using our
forces which are labour-saving or which make for
great efficiency-to put it in quite plain language,
which makes our efforts more useful. I have pointed
out in a book of mine already referred to, called The
Larger Meaning of Religion, that worship has
three aspects. It means literally the giving of
"worth-ship " to God. And that is its first aspect.
We put into effect the natural tendency that there
is in us to reach upwards to God, that the
partially-manifest Divine Life within us may find
union with the great ocean of the Divine Life that
is also without us and universal. " It is very meet,
right and our bounden duty that we should
at all t imes and in all places give thanks ., unto
God. Secondly, worship or religion (Lat. religare=
to bind back; the binding back of the separat-
ed man to God) is a wonderful and highly
developed science for self·purification and self·
upliftment, and brings to us first-hand experience of
spiritual things. Thirdly, it is a method of bringing
out into expression at various levels of our being
of high spiritual forces, and of pouring these out
over the world for its helping. There is no limit to
the good that such work can do.
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 63
Now in the earlier stages of evolution these
practices of religion are done by routine or rote,
mechanically, without much understanding though
often in pious faith. The prayer wheel is an instance
of this kind of worship. If one examines the
ordinary Church-goer there is often little initiative
or reality in what he is doing. The service is done
for him by the officiant and choir, and ke takes
perhaps a general devotional interest in what is
taking place. One does not want to exaggerate.
There are devoted and entirely sincere people who
do express themselves in Church, but there is little
of definite instruction in all this kind of work.
In the Church to which I belong, if I may be
pardoned for asking attention to this, a more higher
standard of worship is held up. Stress is chiefly
laid upon the giving of what is right and fitting
in the way of spiritual aspiration to God (this
replaces in intention the older idea of supplication),
less stress is laid upon one's own .self-satisfaction or
spiritual development (though this latter naturally
takes place), and more importance is attached to the
sending out of stron~ and noble influences into the
surrounding world for the helping of people at all
levels of consciousness that we can encompass.
To carry all this into effect there are three
factors to which special attention is given (a) the
use of a common liturgy, (b) congregational worship,
(e) the Sacraments. The . Liturgy is the plan
of work. People could express themselves
. ,-
64 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
independently and spontaneously (as indeed they do
in certain parts of the services and in certain non-
liturgical services), but a properly devised plan
common to all not only spells efficiency but also
profits by the great strength of co-operative work.
The Liturgy is carefully devised. It works up
stage by stage, it gives utterance to emotion and
thought that is all planned and conceived beforehand,
and it embodies much knowledge of human
psychology and the manner in which the higher
spiritual forces can be invoked and used. Let us
considerfor a moment words like" love,"" strength,"
"devotion" which suggest master-ideas in passages
of the Liturgy. These in ordinary Church worship
evoke ideas and feelings of appreciation in the mind
of the congregation. But more can be done than is at
all usual. Members can be trained to meditate upon
such leading ideas, so as to be able to become them-
selves at a moment's notice any of these qualities.
It is not a matter of thinking about these things,
but of being them. A man can often feel strong
affection when his eyes fall on one whom he loves,
but it is far more difficult for the ordinary person to
feel the same real and living affection in the absence
of the person concerned. The ability to initiate, to
originate, these virtues from within, and to be able
to pour them out comes, however, as the result of
due effort and training. Our congregations are
encouraged to do this. The Liturgy then gains a
new significance. It is, as I said already, the "plan
GAINING OF SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE 65
of the work." It offers opportunity for the vivid
outpouring of these qualities, and not only in terms
of the individual but simultaneously of all those
present.
I spoke under a third heading of the power of the
Sacraments. I have no time to deal with this here,
nor is this the occasion to do so. But we have to
bear in mind that there are these great channels of
spiritual power at work which enormous! y intensify
all our honest and sincere efforts, so that the Christ
Himself is with us in what we try to do.
COLLECTIVE CONSCIOUSNESS
The last idea I want to leave with you is the
possibility of our learning to grow into a new phase
of consciousness in this kind of work, which I have
here described as collective consciousness. One
may consider the great turning point of the spiritual
life to be the reaching of the stage when one has at
length grown into realisation of the great truth :
that other people and the g~eat problems of life are
vastly more interesting than we ourselves. In other
words, true self-disinterestedness. When we thus
learn to be naturally and normally outward-turned
(or, if inward-turned, above and beyond all self-
centredness) we can touch varieties of experience
that are otherwise a closed book. It is possible to
know at first-hand of the power of the Logos, and
to gain deeper understanding of the stupendous
mystery that underlies our world-the Self-Sacrifice
5
.
r
66 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
of the Logos. Another result of this attitude of our
part is a gradual growth into the realisation of unity
with our fellows. And this can enormous!y be
helped if in all the work that we do in ceremony
we work not as separate individuals, but quite
literally on behalf of the one group of workers, the
body-corporate of participants in the ceremony. We
speak, we think, we express emotion, as the common
expression of all. In this way the result of the
ceremony is marvellously intensified. I know of no
more rapid method of growth into first-hand ex-
perience than this for people who can freely and
happily make use of this method.
I venture to leave with you in closing one idea
for your encouragement. It is that the under-
standing of these things and the gaining of spiritual
experience are not at all so difficult as one thinks.
The difficulty rather is that it does not occur to
people how to get to work at things. This kind of
work requires much perseverance, but it is so full of
interest that it does bring marvellous changes into
one's character and one becomes much more useful
in the world and in one's relations with other
people. The keynote of success is unselfishness.
I know of no more effective way of coming into
personal intimacy with the great Masters Who
guide us to the realisation of our ideals than this
attitude of self-disinterestedness and the becoming
more interested in the welfare of others.
LECTURE IV
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN
AMERICA*
BY C. JINARAJADASA
FIVE centuries ago, Columbus sailed from these
shores of Spain to discover India. Thirteen months
ago, I, a son of India, travelled to see what kind of
people now live in that India which he discovered.
My purpose in this lecture is to tell you what I
found concerning those peoples- descendants of
your race, but having also in their veins something
of the blood of Atlantis.
At the outset, I must apologise for using the
personal pronoun" I". In my lectures on Theosophy,
* The English version of a lecture delivered in Spanish
in Madrid and Barcelona, Spain, in November, 1929.
Later the lecture was delivered in English at the Fifty-
fourth Annual Convention of the Th~osophical Society,
held at Adyar, Madras, in December, 1929. When the
lecture was delivered in Spain, all references to the
Catholic Church had to be omitted or" toned down," at
the request of my Theosophical friends, as the Dictator-
ship of General Primo de Rivera was in full operation. No
mention of Masonry was possible.
o8 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
1 try to expound, as impersonally as I can, what that
great philosophy is ; I deal then with principles and
laws which can be enunciated apart from all person-
ality. But in this lecture, as I take you with me
from land to land, I must necessarily be personal,
if I am to interest you in my impressions. That is
the reason why I shall continually be talking of
what I saw and of what 1 thought, in the seventeen
countries of Latin America which 1 visited.
Let me mention those countries in the order I
visited them, so that you may believe that I certainly
must have seen and noticed a good deal, if I was at
all good at observing. I think I may say that, in
one respect, I was good at observing, because I was
a theosophist and therefore in my attitude a friend
wherever I went, and not a critic.
The countries visited were Brazil, Uruguay,
Argentina, Paragusy, Chile, Bolivia, and Peru in
South America ; Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua,
Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala in Central
America; Mexico ; Cuba, Porto Rico and the Re-
public of Dominica in the Antilles. I was unable to
visit Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela. Except in
Panama, where I was waiting for a week for a
steamer to Costa Rica, I delivered lectures on
Theosophy in all the other countries visited.
When I started from London thirteen months
ago, 1 could speak only Italian and French, but I
could understand to some extent both Spanish and
Portuguese. In Brazil, my lectures were read by a
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 69
friend in a Portuguese translation ; with visitors, I
replied in Italian in answer to their·Portuguese.
But in all the Spanish speaking aountries, begin-
ning from Uruguay, I myself read my leatures in
Spanish (they were translated for me by friends),
even though my aonversation had to be carried on
in Italian. However, thanks to my Italian, I picked
up Spanish comparatively quickly, and after six
months was able to talk Spanish, though my
grammar was faulty. It is faulty still, because I
have not had time to study gr;oammar, in the midst
•
of my lectures and travels.
I started on my tour to South America with a
misconception which is common in Europe among
the Teutonic peoples, that South America is just a
country, perhaps about the size of Spain and France
combined, but only another country. I found that
South America was an immense continent, not of one
people, but of many peoples. Certainly only two
languages are spoken there, and in Central America,
Mexico and in the Antilles ; Portuguese in Brazil,
and Spanish in the other countries. (I omit the
three Guianas, French, Dutch and British, where
I presume those languages are spoken, because the
Guianas are negligible in the affairs of South
America, so far as cultural influences are concerned.)
But each people in South America has its own
marked temperament which differentiates it from
its neighbours. The differences are not so marked as
those between the Spanish and the French, or
70 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
between the English and the Dutch, but there are
stiH differences. The same is true of the Central
American republics, even though they are so
small.
South America is· composed not of one people,
but of many peoples. That is the first fact to note
clearly. Though they all belong to the Latin stock,
being in the main descendants of Spaniards and
Portuguese, and lately, of Italians as well, yet in
the oourse of a few generations they have ceased to
be Spaniards, Portuguese or Italians, and have
become Argentines, Chileans or Brazilians, and so
on. This is partly accounted for by the admixture
of the blood of the Indians. the descendants of
Atlantean peoples.
It is this fact, that new peoples are rising in
Latin America, whi_
ch is of fascinating interest to
the theosophist-of far greater interest to him
than to the general public. For the theosophist
believes that the Aryan race, to which we belong, is
originating new offshoots of itself, new variants in the
United States of America and in South America.
The theosophical scheme states that severs! great
races, called "Root Races," appear in humanity as
civilisation advances ; each Root Race has some
peculiarity in nervous organisation ; and it has
therefore certain cultural possibilities characteristic
of it, lacking in another Root Race. Furthermore,
each Root Race, as it grows and expands, differen-
tiates itself into variants, called "Sub-races".
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 71
Among the peoples of the world to-day, there are
representatives of three Root Races, called by the
theosophist' Lemurian, Atlantean and A.ryan. Very
broadly speaking, the Lemurian peoples are black,
and have kinky hair, like the negroes; the Atlantean
peoples are yellow or red, like the Mongolians and
the Red Indians of the Americas, and have.straight
hair which will not eurl ; and the Aryan peoples are
brown or white, like the Hindus and the Europeans,
and have wavy hair or hair with a ·tenden~¥ to curl.
There were two other Root Races before the Lemu-
rian Race appeared, but all their qescendants have
been absorbed by the negro peoples. The theosophical
-scheme states that the Lemurian Race is the third
Root Race, the Atlantean the fourth, and the Aryan
the fifth. •
This fifth, or Aryan Root Race, has its variants
.called Sub-races, and the theosophist tabulates them
in the order of their appearance as follows : the
first Sub-race, the Hindu; the second, the Arab;
the third, the Persian; the fourth, the Celtic, whose
brilliant representatives were the Greeks and the
Romans; and lastly, the Teutonic, to which belong
all Teutons, Anglo-Saxons and Scandinavians. All
the Latin peoples of Europe- Spaniards, Portuguese,
French, ltalians, Greeks, Roumanians -are Celts,
and belon.
g to the Fourth Sub-race.
Let me mention in passing, that the numerical
order of appearance does not imply superiority
or inferiority. A cultured Hindu of the first
72 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
sub-race, or a cultured Spaniard of the fourth, is not
less cultured than a cultured Englishman or a
German of the fifth of to-day. But each is cultured
in a different way, and all their differences
are wanted in the Divine Plan which guides
evolution.
But the Fifth Sub-race, the Teutonic, is not the
end of the series; there is a Sixth Sub-race, as also
a Seventh. The Sixth Sub-race is already appearing
in the United States of America, as too in Australia.
And though the time for the appearance of the
Seventh Sub-race is still centuries ahead, yet already
there are signs of its beginning in South America.
That is why South America is so interesting to the
theosophist; it is the cradle of the Seventh Sub-race
of the Aryan Race.
The first country I visited was Brazil, and though
I visited sixteen other countries afterwards, my
impression of Brazil is more vivid than that of any
other country. It is not because Brazil is larger
than any other country in South America; it is not
because Rio de Janeiro is the second, if not the first,
most beautiful harbour in the world. It is because
there is an exquisite quality in the Brazilian
character. The Brazilian of Rio is as polished and
as European in attitude as a Parisian ; but he has a
quality of friendliness and brotherhood which
distinguishes him from all other South Americans,
if not from all other peoples. I noted this
characteristic in two ways.
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 73
First, Brazil as a nation makes a cult of Brother-
hood. It has three national holidays of Brotherhood,
inscribed in its Constitution. New Year's Day is the
day of Universal Brotherhood-Brotherhood among
all peoples of the earth ; May 13, the day when
slavery was abolished in Brazil, is the day of
Brotherhood among all Brazilians ; July 14, the day
that celebrates the liberation of all American peoples,
is the day of Brotherhood among the peoples of
South, Central and North Americas. It has in addi-
tion a Day of the National Flag, November 19, which
is of course a day of Brotherhood among Brazilians.
As all expeditions of conquest of other peoples are
forbidden by the Constitution, the Day of the Flag
has no tinge of imperialism. It is a day when the
children, dressed in past national costumes, sing
and dance the national songs and dances, and
commemorate the heroes of the land.
The strange fact is that all this idealism
of Brotherhood was put into the Constitution, largely
as the /-resUlt of the work of a small group of
E.os-rt(vists, the followers of Auguste Comte. Two
Brazilian positivists, Benjamin Constant and R.
Teixeira Mendes, are especially honoured by all
Brazil for the idealistic trend which they gave to
the Constitution. The result is beautiful. especially
in the attitude which the Brazilian has towards the
negro..
To explain this, let me first say that I have been
in the United States many times, and know what is
74 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
the white man's attitude there towards the negro.
The negro there may be by law an American citizen,
but he remains a " coloured man " always ; he is
debarred, if not by law, then by threat, from many
privileges of the higher culture which the white man
may earn. Now, Brazil has a large population of
negroes and mulattos; in their poverty, lack of
education and of culture, they are probably like the
negroes of the Southern States in North America.
But they are radically different in Brazil, because
they are not kept under any social subjection, and
so have more of the dignity of self as a human being.
For the Brazilian does not think of them as
negroes, that is to say, as an unassimilable race.
He does not forget the difference between himself,
the white Brazilian, and the negro. But he looks
upon the negro as a younger brother, and as a
Brazilian who is to be trained to live as a perfect
Brazilian. All thought of difference of colour, to
the point of implying difference of privile~e or
responsibility, is absent. The white man's standard
of living and of manners is held up before the black
man. and the black man tries honestly to live up to it.
Never a single crime of lust against white women is
held up against the negro, that I could hear of ; the
crime of rape, terrible though it is, does not more
characterise the ignorant negro than the ignorant
white.
This certainly is a wonderful achievement ; the
North Americans affirm it is impossible. In India,
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 75
the caste people, whose attitude to the outcaste, or
H untouchable " people, is like that of the North
American towards the negro, similarly scout the
idea of any equality of treatment between the caste
and the outeaste peoples. But it has been done in
Bmzil, and that is why Brazil stands out in my
mind among all the peoples. We theosophists have
as our First Object "to form a nucleus of the
Universal Brotherhood of Humanity, without
distinction of race, creed, sex, caste or colour".
I am delighted to note that Brazilians had an
intuition of this great ideal before theosophists
began their work in Brazil.
This charm of Brotherhood expresses itself in
another form in Brazil. If you see two children
walking along the street, they will have their arms
round each other's necks ; if it is a girl and an
older womB'n, it will be the same. The Brazilian
instinctively wants to show his affection. There is
also one other ;fact which has stamped Brazil deep
in my memory ; nowhere else have I seen sueh
beautiful children, not only among the well-to-do
Brazilians, but among poor Brazilians as well.
An intermixtutte of negro and white is slowly
taking place in Brazil which would horr-ify a North
American. But tn Brazil, the standard of worth
is behaviour, not race. No one considers that all
civilisation is jeopardised if a white man marries a
a woman of .. colour'' ; nobody dreams of social
ostracism. For the Brazilian is very patriotic, and
76 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
immensely proud of the future of his vast country;
to him, therefore, the fact that a man or woman is a
good Brazilian outweighs all question of colour.
And strange to say, this absorption is not
degenerating the race. One does not hear the
statement, asserted as a part of God's eternal laws,
that when two races blend, a higher and a lower,
the offspring invariably show the worst characrter-
istics of both I On the contrary, the Portuguese
character has gained in resistance from the admix-
ture of the Atlantean blood, and in sensibility from
the African. Even such a close observer as the
late Lord Bryce, a scholar who travelled widely, a
statesman who knew men and manners, saw no
signs of degeneracy in the white race in Brazil,
because of its race blending.*
South of Brazil is Uruguay, a small country, but
one that plays a unique role in South America. She
is looked upon by the other countries as the friend
of all, and hostile critic of none. I have asked in
several c_ountries: "Suppose some day a Congress
were to be arranged for a federation of all South
America, which place do you think will give the
most helpful atmosphere ? " Invariably the answer
was, "Uruguay".
Uruguay impressed me with two facts-first, that
there the American dollar is worth less, and so the
country is very prosperous ; and secondly, that
* See the Appendix, at the end, for the remarks of
Lord Bryce. and two o~her writers.
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 77
Montevideo-and when one says Montevideo, one
says Uruguay-does not talk of her prosperity, but
of the fact that she is " a little Athens ". The
Montevideans drive you round,. and show their
beach-the finest I have seen anywhere for bathers
-and a number of special parks they have for
children, all equipped for games. One of the finest
monuments in the city, all in white marble, is that
erected to a man who was a schoolmaster, and who
as a Minister of Education developed education.
That is refreshing, for it is usually the politicians
and the generals who get the statues ; and the
self-sacrificing schoolmaster, who really fashions
the good citizen, is not considered great enough as
a patriot to merit a statue.
Uruguay is keen on education, and on making
experiments to get the best. When I was there, the
Minister of Education, who introduced me at my
first lecture in the University, told me of a scheme
he was going to carry out, which was to remove all
the schools from the city to the suburbs, where the
children could study and play away from the noise
and confusion of the city. Of course, this means
that a special fleet of omnibuses would have to
collect the children in the morning and return
them in the evening-a costly scheme, but this did
not matter, provided it meant better results for
the children.
Montevideo as a " little Athens,'' is naturally
against bigotry. In South and Central America,
78 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
especially where education is little diffused, the
influence of the Catholic Church is strong; but in
Uruguay the current is markedly towards any form
of liberal thought. In several of my lectures, I often
used the phrase, " The Plan of God"; my friends
told me that Montevideans do not care for an
excessive use of the word "God," and that it was
preferable to say the " Divine Plan," rather than
the " Plan of God". There is one paper in Monte-
video which, whenever the word "Dios" (God)
appears in an article, always uses a little "d" t
This surely is going too far.
Let me here mention a fact which first impressed
me strongly in Uruguay, but which is characteristic
of all Latin America, as I later found. When in
Brazil, a few persons had presented me with books
and pamphlets which they had written, containing
poems and essays. But it was from Uruguay
onwards that the avalanche really began. Wherever
I went, from Montevideo to Santo Domingo, it was
the same. So many had written poems, essays~
sketches, dramas, and had had them printed at
their own expense; and as a mark of appreciation
of my services in the domain of culture, they pre·
sented me with the creations of their imaginations.
When I return to India, I shall find one room
nearly full to the ceiling with these presents, they
were so many l
Of course I have not had time to read them before
dispatching them to India. But it was with a deep
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 79
sense of pleasure that I received them, not because
I was gratified at the recognition of my work, but
because the creative instinct is still alive in Latin
America. All is fundamentally well with a country
when its citizens turn to the arts, even if its foreign
exchange is unfavourable for the time. It was with
delight that I welcomed everywhere these manifest-
ations of the creative spirit of man in poems, essays~
dramas. What if many of them are second rate, and
often prompted by mere vanity? At any rate, they
show that the Latin peoples are still aware of the
message of Greece-that man's role is to create
something beautiful in life, something that shall
reveal a few gleams of that hidden glory in man
which we call the soul.
Quite another note is struck by Argentina in the
life of South America. Among the cities of Latin
countries, whether in Europe or America, Buenos
Aires comes next to Paris in size. Every nation in the
world is represented there, and I forget how many
newspapers in foreign languages are published there,
for its foreign residents. Business development is
pronounced in the thought of the people. Two
millions of Italians live in Argentina, and their
industry is a factor in the progress of the country.
Argentina influences all South America in a
profound way; what Buenos Aires thinks gives the
lead to the smaller countries, not only of South
America, but also of Central America. Buenos
Aires has two great papers, La. Naeion and La
80 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
Prensa, as serious and as heavy as the London
Times ; but just because of that fact, they
are reliable in their news, and not rash in
their judgments. What these two papers say is
carefully read by the editors of newspapers in other
countries. These two papers, and La Critiea. and all
the others in the city, interviewed me, giving
me a most friendly welcome. Thenceforward
wherever I went in South and Central America,
Mexico and Cuba, I found that the journalists knew
all about me. and about the enthusiastic audiences
that listened to me in Teatro Cervantes in Buenos
Aires.
Argentina is the outspoken champion of the
Latin spirit, as opposed to the spirit of the United
States. This, added to her financial position, makes
her a powerful factor in the life of all Latin America.
Let me mention in passing that Mussolini is not
liked in Argentina, nor as a matter of fact in any
South or Central American country. I came
across this in a curious way. In one of my lectures
on the civilisation of India, I mention its two
fundamental notes, first Duty, and second, each in
his own place with his contribution to the Plan of
God; and I mentiC'n quite casually that in an
interview which I had with Mussolini, I had presented
him with my Italian translation of the Bhagavad-
Gita, saying that he would find his Fascist ideals
of "duty" and u hierarchy ,. in that book. My friends
in Argentina begged me to omit this reference to
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 81
Mussolini, which of course l did, as it was not
essential to my lecture, and there is nothing to be
gained by irritating an audience. Later I under-
stood why Mussolini, who personally to me is a
sympathetic character, is not liked in Latin America.
All the plazas or garden squares of their cities bear-
statues to their liberators, and there are still living
some who fought for liberty for their land. In such
an atmosphere. men have not the least inclination
to watch dispassionately Italy's experiment with
Fascism, which has already produced better ad-
ministrative results than we find in many othe~
countries. All the same, it is a form of administration
which Latin America does not want, and its opinion
on this matter is frank and open.
The audiences which listened to me in Uruguay
were enthusiastic. But it was in Buenos Aires that
I felt for the first time what I felt in all the other-
countries afterwards, the urgent craving of the
people for Idealism. My presence was an event in
the life of the city, because in some way I gave
the people a vision. They felt that I ~as not
bringing to them in Argentina a foreign product, the
Wisdom of the East, but rather that I revealed to
them the Idealism latent in their own characters.
They felt at heart one with me, because at heart
I was one with them. For there is but one World
of Ideals, and whether one journeys towards it
from Benares or Buenos Aires little matters, since
all come to the same goal. It was in Argentina
6
82 THEOSOPHY. PAST AND FUTURE
that I saw the hunger of the people for ideals-not
ideals which can only be contemplated in churches.
but ideals which will accompany one in the least
little action in life.
And it was there too I saw clearly how that great
and powerful organisation. the Roman Catholic
Church, was doing nothing for the people in their
present need. In South and Central America, I
think most, especially the women, would like to
remain within the Church, if the Church would let
them ; but the Church offers no bridge between
religion and science. between religion and the arts,
between religion and business. And where it enters
into politics, its influence is invariably illiberal and
retrogressive. Now, in these days of education arid
of fraternisation between peoples and between
cultures, freedom of thought and belief is as neces-
sary for us as the air we breathe. But the Catholic
Church lives in past centuries, and not in the
present, with the result that every man and woman
who obtains a little education starves for an Ideal-
ism which the Church does not give. It was because
I proclaimed with unbounded enthusiasm that the
world of Idealism is all the time very near to us
wherever we are, in office or in shop, in school or
in playground, that people came in crowds to
Iisten to me.
Chile is Argentina's neighbour, but the mountain
range of the Andes separates the tw.o countries.
There is in Chile a climate fundamentally different
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 83
from that of Argentina. This is due to a cold cur-
rent of water coming from the Antarctic Circle
which sweeps along the Pacific coast up to the
tropics. This current reduces the temperature
both of the air and the water; though the sun is hot,
.
the evaporation of the sea is small. All along the
Pa.cific coast, there is much mist and cloudy sky,
and except in the far south of Chile, very little rain.
The wind sweeps what clouds there are towards the
Andes, where much snow falls, but there is little or
no rain on the coast.
This cooler temperature of Chile, with less sun,
makes the Chilean temperament, I think, more
introspective. While the Argentine feels more
'SWiftly with the emotions and thinks less swiftly
with the mind, I would say it is exactly the reverse
with the Chilean. He is not less enthusiastic than
the Argentine, but he is less ready to express it.
I noticed that the audiences of Santiago and
Valparaiso in Chile saw quickly with their minds
points in my lectures which produced no particular
effect on the minds of the audiences at Buenos
Aires or Rosario in Argentina.
Chile is proud of the fact that there are some
Indians in Chile who have never submitted to the
white man. These are the Araucanian Indians,
who defeated the Spanish invaders many a time.
Of course now they are Chileans.
Again and again, in the various countries I visited.
I could not help feeling that the Latin American has
84 THEOSOPHY. PAST AND FUTURE
failed to see the significance of the Indian who is
disappearing as an Indian, either because he is
dying out, or because he is being slowly absorbed
into the Spanish race. The Indian may be slower
in intelle~t. but his race gives him a quality or
resistance. Many call this mere apathy, for an
Indian prefers to live and die as he is, rather than
change. But all the same, he is.adding, I think, to
the Seventh Sub-race which is appearin~ in South
America, a quality of perseverance which will
balance the vacillating emotionalism of the Latin.
One of greatest men of Mexico, her liberator, Benito
Juarez, a distinguished lawyer, was a pure Indian.
It is when one passes to Bolivia, ~eru and farther
north, that for the first time one becomes aware of
the shadow of the large hand of the United States
hovering over South and Central America. The
situation is complicated ; for all those countries
badly want capital for their development, and the
United States is only too willing to invest. Then
follow the inevitable consequences- inefficiency and
waste on the part of the politicians, and the
C'onsequent clamor of the foreign investors for the
safe-guarding of their investments. The final result
is financial control and intervention, which in
some cases proceed to a limit which one cannot
differentiate from imperialism. I have lived several
years in the United States, and I can state with
assurance that the average North American is
completely averse to any kind of imperialism. But
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 85
equaJly it is undeniable that his government has
done deeds whi~h one cannot but classify as
imperialistic.
Witness for instance, the forcing of Nicaragua in
1916 to grant a lease of her territory on the Gulf of
Fonseca for a naval ba.se. Now, on this same Gulf
<>f Fonseca lie the territories of Honduras, Guatemala
.and El Salvador. The suciden appearance of the
United States with a naval base in the Gulf cannot
·but be construed as a menace to the freedom of
:action of those republics. It is true that the naval
base has not yet been begun ; but all the same, the
United States is there invisibly, in the Gulf, fully in
the midst of the territories of Honduras, Guatemala
·and El Salvador.
Of course the three countries protested, be-
fore the newly created Central American Court
of International Justice, against this infringement of
their sovereign rights. The Court upheld their
ple.a, but the United States refused to accept the
adjudication. That of course was a fatal blow to
the prestige of the Court, and it was dissolved. I
doubt if one in a hundred thousand in the United
States knows these facts.
Paraguay and Bolivia are linked in my mind,
because I visited them soon after the trouble on
their frontiers. Feelings were of course bitter on
both sides. Both countries need every peso they
can raise for better roads, for more schools and for
sanitation ; yet both feel they must spend millions
86 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
on the upkeep of their armies. Paraguay seems to
need more territory, for now she is the smallest
country in South America; Bolivia is three times
as large, but then so much of her territory is some
three thousand metres, or nine thousand feet,
above sea level, in very unproductive land, and so
she craves for more land in the tropical belt. I
gathered the impression that Paraguay did not want
to fight, but was perfectly ready to do so ; the
Paraguayan has much pride in himself as an excel-
lent fighter, and several other countries in South
America seem to think so too.
Bolivia is a great tableland, at a great height
above the sea ; its principal city, La Paz, has an
altitude of 3,665 metres.* I lectured in Potosi, whose
altitude is 4,040 metres t ; while lecturing my heart
was beating about 110, and I was glad that a stout
table was at my side, in case anything should
happen. Of course the Bolivians are used to the
height.
Both the Paraguayans and the Bolivians gave me
a cordial welcome, and I made a special journey to
Sucre, the old capital of Bolivia, to deliver six
lectures at the University, at the invitation of the
rector. It was in La Paz that the Catholic priests
openly denounced my Jectures ; that of course made
the theatre I lectured in more crowded than ever.
Wherever the priests prohibited the faithful from
*12,024 feet.
t 13,329 feet.
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 87
attending my lectures, all the journalists became
more friendly than ever, and gave long notices of my
lectures.
In Balivia, I felt everywhere a sense of depression
in the people, because the country is hemmed in on
all sides, and she has no o·utlet now to the sea.
Once Bolivia extended to the Pacific, but Chile
defeated Bolivia and took as compensation all the
coast land of Bolivia. Of course Bolivia is now
suffering from the betrayal of her interests by
several generations of corrupt politicians; but she
feels all the same that the world in general should
do her justice, and give her a corridor to the Pacific,
or one to the Atlantic, or both, just because she needs
such outlets. Why the world should go out of its
way to present Bolivia with corridors is not clear,
but that is Bolivia's attitude. One thing is very
obvious to me, though it is not yet obvious to the
rest of South America, and that is, that there cannot
be a condition of stability in South America, which
will ensure a state of peace for all, until Bolivia
does get a satisfactory corridor. Who is going to
make Bolivia the gift of a corridor to the Pacific is a
question to which I see no answer, for abstract
justice is not the rule of conduct as yet for nations.
Peru stands in my mind for its enthusiastic
audiences at Arequipa, Cuzco and Lima. Directly
.
my first lecture was delivered in Lima, two of the
newspapers began to publish each day the lecture of
the evening before in its entirety ; before my visit
88 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
was over, a third paper did the same. I had
delivered four lectures to audiences that packed the
theatre, when on the morning of the fifth and last
lecture, the Archbishop of Lima published in all the
papers a tirade against Theosophy ; and in this mani·
festo he launched excommunication on all Catholics
attending my lectures. As you can imagine, it was
the sensation of the day. That evening the theat~e
was packed to suffocation, hundreds standing along
the gangways right up to the stage. Naturally there
were tremendous ovations to me at the beginning
and end of the lecture. Then ensued something
quite unexpected. The crowd insisted on a public
demonstration, and made me walk with them all the
way to the hotel-a half a mile away-cheering
wildly. So thick was the crowd that several police-
men, helped by my friends, had to make a ring
round me, to prevent me from being swept off my
feet. On arriving at Hotel Bolivar, its great doors
had to be closed to keep out the crowd. Even then
the demonstration was not over, for two thousand
people waited on the square before the hotel until I
showed myself to t)1em from a balcony, and
acknowledged their last cheers.
Of course all South and Central America, Mexico
and Cuba received news of this action of the
Archbishop. From then on, naturally the priests
•
became busy, warning their congregations against
Theosophy ; but all the newspapers were on my side,
and I had all the publicity I needed. As the
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 89
Catholic ·Church is famous for its illiberality, my
audiences were eager to know what it was that the
Church condemned.
From Peru, I went to Costa Rica, but I had to
wait a week in Panama for a. connecting steamer.
This gave me time to visit the old city of Panama,
and alsc to go to the United States Experimental
Station at Summit, on the Canal Zone, to get seeds
of plants and trees which would add to the beauty
of the Theosophical Headquarters in India. From
every country I visited, which had a tropical climate,
I have sent seeds to India of everything new which
I could find of flowering plants, vegetables, fruits
and trees. When I return to this earth in another
incarnation, I fully expect to be forgotten in India
as a Theosophical lecturer, but to be gratefully
remembered as the introducer of agreeable fruits,
magnificent trees and beautiful flowers.
In Costa Rica, the Catholic influence is strong.
My lectures were in the National Theatre, which
was granted free of charge ; but I was asked not to
mention the word Theosophy. So whenever the
word Theosophy occurred, I substituted the word
"Idealism". Personally, I prefer the word Theo-
-sophy, which . means the Wisdom of God ; however,
the word Idealism describes Theosophy well.
In Latin ·countries, in the old world as in the new;
woman's influence, as you are all aware, is negligible,
as a factor in public life. But in the countries of
Latin America, it is an important factor how dee ply
90 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
religious or superficially religious is the wife of the
President of the Republic l Of course all admit that
her influence can go but one way, to help the
Church ; nevertheless I am glad that at least one
woman counts in affairs of state, even if she is but
the mouthpiece of others!
It was my intention to proceed from Costa Rica
directly to Mexico. But there was no steamer for
five weeks, and this gave me the opportunity of
visiting the Theosophical Lodges of Nicaragua,
Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. It was in
Nicaragua that I felt acutely that violent factor
among the Latin American peoples. I mean party
politics. Never have I been in a country where party
hatred is so bitter as in Nicaragua. The Liberals
hate the Conservatives, and are hated as violently in
return. The Church is for the Conservatives, and I
was informed (by the Liberals of course) that during
the last revolution a priest had said from the pulpit,
"Better be a criminal than a Liberal". Most of my
friends were Liberals; just because of that fact, I
arranged to meet a group of leading Conservatives, to
find out their point of view. Just now, in Nicaragua,
the United States is there, "intervening,'' with her
army and her navy. Of both parties I asked the same
question, " Do you not want the North Americans
to go ? " (They are usually called in Spanish
"Yanquis".) Both answered without hesitation,
"No I" I then asked the reason why; and the
reply was that. if the United States withdrew, the
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 91
Liberals now in power would imprison or murder
the Conservatives on false charges; the Liberals said
exactly the same thing about the Conservatives.
Months after in Yuc·atan in Mexico, I met the
Nicaraguan rebel leader Sandino, and heard from
his lips quite another tale concerning both Liberals
and Conservatives. I think I may now claim to
know fairly well Nicaraguan affairs.
The reason for this bitterness was given to me in
Mexico. Referring to the propensity of the Mexican
to take up arms to defend his political rights, rather
than trust to constitutional means, a Mexican said
to me, "You see, a Mexican will far sooner trust an
American than a Mexican." That is about the truth
in most countries of Latin America ; the foreigner is
more trusted than one's own flesh and blood.
There is only one solution to this acute problem.
It is the spread of Theosophy. When every little
town or village in Nicaragua has a Theosophical
Lodge, where the members try to realise the
significance of the divine truth, that we are all sons
of God, and so at all times brothers, whether we
know that fact or not, the whole country will be
permeated with a spirit of goodwill, and soon Liberals
and Conservatives will discover the beautiful fact that
they are Nicaraguans and brothers first, and only
after that Liberals or Conservatives.
After Peru, on arriving in a new country, I used
to ask, " What are the priests like here ? " In
Honduras the reply was, "We are liberal here ;
..
92 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
the bishop's influence does not count for much."
Both these statements I found were true. Perhaps
one reason is that the Masons are a strong and
highly respected body. The President of the Re-
public is a Mason, and was present at a " tenida
blanca "-a "white session," a Masonic gathering
with no ceremonies, at which a select public is
present; I addressed the Masons ana the visitors
on the '' Ideals of Freemasonry".
After my lecture, "The Gods in chains,'' the
students university paper at Tegucigalpa, the
capitaJ of Honduras, wrote, " If we the seniorS are
Gods in chains, it is very obvious that this year's
freshmen are devils unchained I"
In Guatemala the Catholic influence was suffi-
-ciently strong to force the manager of the theatre,
where my lectures were to be given, to refuse the
theatre at the last moment, after he had given his
word and the announcements had been published.
In this difficulty, the Grand Master of the Masons
of Guatemala came to our rescue, and offered the
large and beautiful hall of the Masonic Temple.
In Guatemala, especially in the mountain districts
of Quetzaltenango, I saw very handsome Indians
with delicately formed noses and without high cheek
bones. These Indians weave cloths of very great
artistic value, the most beautiful perhaps in all
South or Central America.
Let me take the opportunity here of warmly
thanking the Masonic Fraternity for the most
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 93
valuable help which they gave me everywhere. I am
glad to know that they realised that I was not the
representative of any cult, but one who was preach-
ing a gospel of Idealism and Consecration-the true
spirit indeed of Masonry. In nearly every country,
the Freemasons arranged for a "tenida blanca,',.
where I could give my lecture on the " Ideals of
Freemasonry". I could point out, as a theosophist,
certain mystical aspects of Masonry which are little
studied by Masons of to-day ; my lecture showed
that the true purpose of Masonry is to release, both
in man and in the universe, divine forces latent
within them, for the helping of Humanity, in exactly
the same way as the Catholic priest releases them
during the ceremony of the Mass. The true reason to
me of the fierce opposition of the Catholic Church to
Freemasonry is that both deal with the same mys-
teries and teach the same truths. The Church will
not tolerate rivals. I owe thanks also in several
countries to the Rotarians, who not only invited me
to address them, but in some cases warmly co-oper-
ated with the theosophists in arranging my lectures.
El Salvador is the smallest of the republics, but
also the most crowded. She is thriving, and
perhaps her prosperity may be due to the fact that
political jealousies are slight, and that she considers
quite antiquated the idea of revolutions as the only
means to change an administration.
The Theosophical Lodges of the republics of
Central America, with one Lodge in Colombia, now
94 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
form the Central American Theosophical Society ;
our rules require at least seven Lodges in a country
in order to form a National Society. As yet there
are not the seven requisite in any one of these
countries, but I expect to see in two or three years
Costa Rica, Nicaragua and El Salvador with
National Societies of their own.
Five days in a steamer from Guatemala brought
me to Manzanillo in Mexico. And immediately on
that Pacific Coast I came on the traces of revolu-
tion. Three years ago, the Catholic hierarchy
rebelled against the State, and many Catholics in
the Pacific states of Mexico took up arms, in many
cases with priests as leaders, in one case with a
bishop taking the field. When I arrived, an agree-
ment had already been made for the priests to return,
but some of the rebels had not yet surrendered. So
each train carried an armoured car and an escort.
These Catholics who rebelled were called by a
new word- '' Cristero ". This is the same as " Cristi-
ano "-Christian-but with a sinister significance.
These Catholics had as their cry, "Viva Cristo
Rey I"-" Long live Christ the King I" I was told
that it was with this cry on their lips that they
charged and shot down their enemies. Hence the
word "Cristero '' to distinguish these faithful of the
Church from those other Catholics (bad ones, I
suppose, in the Church's eyes) who were willing
that priests should be like other citizens, with no
special privileges as the '' men of God ".
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 95
Can you imagine a Catholic country existing for
two and a half years without Mass, without baptism,
without priests to perform marriages or bury the
dead? That was the case in Mexico, because the
priests preferred to leave, rather than to submit to
state regulations which had nothing to d<!> with their
spiritual functions. The country does not seem to
have suffered as a whole, though J do not doubt
that thousands felt deeply the absence of religious
ser-v1ces. Now that the priests have submitted, and
so have been allowed to return, the masses,
especially the women, are glad. But not all Mexicans.
I was in the state of Tabasco, where all the churches
have been turned into schools. each school bearing
the designation " Rationalist School," followed by
the name of a prominent Rationalist. In that State,
an appreciable number of the people are determined
that the priests shall never return, and they are
ready with guns to back up their threat. I have
often wondered, what has the Church done in Mexico,
to make so large a number of Mexicans indifferent to
it, if not acutely hostile to it.
As you aware, Mexico has often revolutions.
In England and in the United States they say
jokingly about Mexico and Central America, that
when the people there are bored and have nothing
exciting to do, they start a revolution by way of a
diversion. Of course this is utterly untrue. But
there is one element in their revolutionary spirit
which Europe cannot understand, but which l
~
..
,
96 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
admire ; it is that a Mexican is at least ready to
sacrjfiee his life for an idea. Industry and making
a fortune are not the only things in 1ife for him.
The Mexican peasant goes gaily to war. following
his " caudillo," his leader, who represents to him an
ideal of national betterment and service. In most
cases, I doubt if the leader deserves the peasant's
devotion ; still, the peasant, even if deluded about
his leader, feels something great in life, and that
suffering and death are minor matters compared to
being true to the dazzling vision before him. As
I told the journalists of Mexico, l think the Mexican
peasant must have an intuitive senseof Reincarnation
-that he is coming back to earth again-for he is so
ready to throw away his life, seeming!y for nothing !
Cuba is the last country of Latin America to free
herself from the Spanish yoke, and her people are
still full of the memories of their war of independence
-1 should say, mo't'e accurately, their wars of
independence. Directly I landed in Habana, I was
conducted by my friends to lay a wreath on the
statue of MartY, the apostle and martyr of Cuban
independence. It was the same in another placet
where in addition the municipal band was present
to play the Cuban national hymn.
Cuba is like the other countries 1 visited; the
people are of course Spanish, with a curious soft
pronunciation which is at first difficult for the
stranger. In Cuba, as also in Mexico, and in Central
America, workmen formed a part of my audience.
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN · LATIN AMERICA 97
For- the manual worker in those countries ts
interested in idealistic problems. In Mexico es-
pecially, the influence ·of trades unions is strong.
·The last President of Mexico, General Calles,
has done much to better the condition of the
workers.
Evidently Catholic influence is strong in Cuba,
for two Habana dailies have a special page edited
by a priest, giving reiigious news. However, the
Church does not meddle in politics, at least overtly ;
and the two papers I referred to published much
about my work. In the provincial cities of Cuba,
the newspapers were most cordial, because they
realised that I had not come to convert anybody,
but to awaken enthusiasm for ideals.
Cuba is also notable for a remarkable social
experiment. There exist two or three large clubs,
like the Centro Asturiano-the Asturian Club-and
the Centro Gallego- the Galician Club. The former
has twenty thousand members, in all the principal
cities. It has in Habana a magnificent building for
the Club, and each town also has a Club building.
But the Centro Asturiano is not only a club which
·provides reading and recreation rooms ; it also
provides for its members, who pay two dollars a
month, all necessary medical attention in case of
sickness. The Club has very fine hospitals and
nursing homes for its members, with special staffs
of doctors and nurses. It has also a school for the
children of its members.
7
.r
98 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
These clubs have originated a modified kind of
Socialism, which is worthy of study ; I believe that
along such lines much can be done to provide
facilities of well·being for all, without having re-
course to the extremes of Communism.
From Cuba it is some five days by steamer to
Porto Rico, but I did it in eight hours by aeroplane.
The first glimpse of the country from the air reveals
the great difference between Porto Rico and the
other countries I visited. Under the guidance of the
North Americans, the country is highly organised,
with scientific agriculture, splendid roads and
schemes of irrigation. So far as material
organisation is concerned, Porto Rico owes a deep
debt of gratitude to the United States for the
methods of development introduced, and for the
prosperity which those methods have brought.
Within the last few years, the Portoricans have
been declared American citizens, and the Stars and
Stripes are everywhere. The flag is found very
prominent in every school. Of course no Portorican,
ehild, man or woman, feels in the slightest degree any-
thing but "Castellano,'' or Spanish, either in thought
or emotion. All the time 1 was in Porto Rioo, while
admiring the excellent organisation of the country,
1 could not help saying to myself, ''What on earth is
the United States doing here?" For the Portoricans
have no intention of ever becoming Americans;
their instincts are all with Latin America. It
s;eems to me that the only solution is for the United
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LA'TIN AME~ICA 99
States to retire gracefully, giving the Portoricans
her blessings, and for the Portorioans, in gratitude
lor past services rendered, to swear to be the eternal
allies of the States.
Porto Rico has most unhappily imitated the United
States in one thing-in the way of placarding her
parks and roads with bill-boards. I regret to say
that one ugly impression which will long remain
with me is the sight of the principal plazas, or
squares, of her towns made into centres of ugliness,
because the stone seats in those plazas bear
in large letters advertisements built i11to the stone.
Porto Rico is a lovely little country ; Roosevelt
called it the "American Switzerland". Its hills
and fields are beautiful, but its plazas, or city
squares, the centres of recreation for its citizens,
are now centres of commercialism. So far as their
response to Idealism is concerned, nothing could be
more whole-hearted; they are like all Latin America
in that respect. All the more I regretted deeply
their lack of forethought, which has allowed
commercialism to spoil the beauty of their cities.
The last country I visited was Santo Domingo,
the capital of the Dominican Republic, and I am
glad to remember the hundreds of eager faces who
listened to me. My first lecture, on Education, was
given in the university; its hall was far too small for
the hundreds who desired to hear me; happily, the
lecture was broadcasted, and a thousand people
heard it outside the hall in the square. The other
..-
100 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
two lectures were in a theatre to audiences of over
a thousand, and this enthusiasm shows how the
Dominicans are like the rest of Latin America, in
the eagerness with which they respond to any
message of Idealism.
Now that I have taken you with me into all these
many lands· which, with the exception of Brazil,
once belonged to Spain, I want to ask you of Spain
a question, which I have asked repeatedly, and
which no one has as yet answered. How was it that
all the sons of Spain in her colonies rebelled against
her ? Why was Spain so brutal to her " criollo ,.
children, her sons born in her colonies? Why did
not the upper classes of Spain, and its statesmen
who represented those classes, never realise that
the Spaniard in the New World was a Spaniard to
admire, and not to crush ? Within living memory, it
was the same in the treatment of Cuba; it was utter
lack of statesmanship, and blunder after blunder.
Did Spain lose her dominions because she lacked the
colonising instinct of England, or was it as a
retribution of Divine Justice for the awful deeds
done against the Indians by the Spanish. invaders,
and by those who came after them ? I can assure
you that such Indians as exist to-day, like those in
Bolivia and the highlands of Peru, have not yet
forgotten.
I have described to you Latin America with one
purpose, which is to show that over there, in the
new world, a new race is springing up, speaking the
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 101
Spanish tongue, but soon to be different in tempera-
ment from the Latin races of Europe. In what
way will it be different ? Before I answer, let me
read you Ruben Dario's well-known poem on
Roosevelt. Darlo was a Nicaraguan, but he-lived in
Argentina and other lands also, and his .poem is the
answer of Latin America to North America. He
describes graphically the forces moulding the new
Latin character which is forming, because of the
infusion into the Spanish of the old blood of Atlantis.
TO ROOSEVELT
It is with language of the Bible, or with verse of
Walt Whitman,
That one must approach thy presence, 0
hunter t
Thou art primitive and modern, simple and
complicated,
With one part of Washington, and of Nimrod
four!
Thou art the United States, the future invader
Of the untutored America that has the blood of
the Indian,
That still prays to Jesus Christ and speaks the
Spanish tongue.
Thou art arrogant and forceful, of thy race an
example;
Thou art cultured, thou art skilful, and thou
hast no use for Tolstoy ;
102 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
And when breaking horses or when massacring
ti~ers,
'•
Thou art an Alexander- Nebuchednezzar.
(Thou art a "Professor of Energy," as the
madmen of to-day say.)
Thy creed is that life is a conflagration, and
progress an eruption,
And that where thou placest the bullet, there
thou placest the future.
NO!
The United States is powerful and mighty,
When she quakes a deep tremor runs down the
vertebrae of the Andes.
When thou declaimest, 'tis as the roar of the
lion.
Once Victor Hugo said to Grant : "The stars
are yours ''-
(But see yonder on the horizon Argentina's sun
is glowing, the star of Chile rising t)
" You are rich, you join to the cult of Hercules
the cult of Mammon."
And blazing her trail with her easy conquests,
Liberty ratses aloft her torch in New
York!
But this our America, who gave birth to
poets
Since the old days of Netzahualcoyotl,
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 103
Who has guarded the footprints of Grecian
Bacchus,
Who of old learned to read the Punic alphabet,
Who consulted the stars, and knew of Atlantis,
Whose name comes to us resounding from
Plato,
This our America who from time immemorial
Lived upon Light and Fire, upon Perfume and
Love,
America of the great Moctezuma, of the Inca,
The fragrant America of Christopher Columbus,
Catholic America, Spanish America,
The America where once the noble Guatemoo
answered,
" No, I am not on a bed of roses,'' •
This our America which rocks to hurricanes
and feeds upon love-
Listen, you men of Saxon eyes and souls
barbarousi-
This America lives, and she dreams, and sh&
loves, and is vibrant,
She is the daughter of the Sun !
Take you heed I Long live Spanish America I
Thousands of whelps has the Spanish lion
bred I
* Guatemoc was the last Aztec emperor of Mexico. He
was captured by the Spaniards and horribly tortured.
While being tortured, one asked him, ''How are you
feeling ? " and his reply was " No, I am not on a bed
of roses".
t04 THEOSOPHY, PAST ·AND FUTURE
Till God Himself, Roosevelt, consecrates thee
as His gunman and hunter,
Never shall you hold us in your iron claws.
And, after all, though ._.all things are yours,
One thing you lack, and that is-God !
If to "lack God" is true of the United States, it
is not less true of Latin America, in spite of all her
many churches. And I do not know that Latin
Amel'ica prays more sincerely to Jesus Christ than
they do in North America. But the Latin American
does respond more swiftly to Idealism, and is there-
fore in some ways nearer to God. This God who
will help the new race is not the God offered by the
Catholic Church to-day.
The new God must be the God within, not the
God without who must be prayed to in churches, and
on bended knees. It will be a new Jesus Christ
who will bring Latin America nearer to God, that
Christ indeed whom St. Paul preached when he
said, "Christ in you, the hope of glory." It is
because I preached the gospel of the God within
who dwells in the heart of each man-a gospel
which sap5t at the foundations of ecclesiastical
authority-that the Catholic priests charged me
with trying to revive Pantheism.
When Latin America discovers the God within
who dwells in the heart of man, even in the worst
of sinners, when she learns to look into the faces of
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 105
her children for the inspiration she needs, then
there will arise among her children new religions,
new philosophies, new arts and new soiences. A
wonderful destiny awaits her, when her many
peoples have been moulded by time into one race-
sensitive, intuitive, flaming in Idealism, and creat-
ing new modes of beauty and goodness and grandeur.
Let me conclude by reading to you the message
which I sent to all the theosophists of the countries
I visited. as two months ago I left Santo Domingo.
Dear Brothers,
Before I leave these lands, I desire to indicate
to you certain impressions which I have gained
from the sixteen peoples among whom I have
laboured.
In this continent of America, two .currents
flow, which are represented on the one hand by
the countries which speak Spanish and Portu-
guese, and on the other by the United States of
America. We who are theosophists know that
each people has to give its especial contribution
to the Divine Plan, and that no one single culture
is more necessary than another. The civilisa-
tions of India and of Greece, on the one side, are
not more important in the Divine Plan, than the
civilisations of England and the United States
on the other. Men born in each nation co-
operate with the Divine Plan, by developing the
culture of their people.
106 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
Now you, who live in the lands where Spanish
and Portuguese are spoken, are the representa-
tives in the New World of the old culture of
Greece and Rome. I hope you will never
renounce this culture, which comes to you from
your ancestors of Spain or Portugal, or Italy or
France.
I know well how Latin America is feeling the
economic pressure of the United States. The
North Americans are building the Sixth Sub-
race of the Fifth Root Race, the Aryan; they
have their particular work, and as they develop
they are giving their contribution, especially of
material well-being and of individualism. It is
highly necessary that all should accept their
gospel of material organisation and develop-
ment, and of well-being in the home. 1 am a
fervent admirer of the United States, except of
that aspect of it which decrees that every busi-
ness man should advertise his goods, by placing
bill-boards everywhere, in the squares and along
the roads, thereby robbing us of Nature's beauty
in our cities and fields. Now, if you mean to
imitate the United States in the expansion of
business, I hope you will never forget the special
message of the Latin Race, which is, that there
is more in life than business. " Man does
not live by bread alone " ; man is a soul who
ever clamours to manifest himself in artistic
creation. You, who are Latin American
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 107
theosophists, must in a very especial way preach
and intensify the gospel of Beauty, because this
creative aspect of the character, which is un-
folded by the arts, is very important for the
manifestation of the Seventh Sub-race.
I discovered in Porto Rico a fine sonnet by
Enrique Torres Rivera which describes graphi-
cally the character of the Latin American.
THE SPANISH AMERICAN RACE
In its "ego," our race is single and triple.
She is the daughter of capital sins,
Fashioned by poniards and daggers,
Amid crashes of hate by brother of brother.
Her birth is from a sea of blood,
When Spain's imperial lions fought the condors.
of the Andes.
Spain endowed her breed with her blood and
her prejudices,
With her might, her traditions and her Homerie:
struggles.
And for this, both in war and in peace,
Still there roam in America
Don Juan, Don Quixote and Sancho Panza.
But you, who are theosophists, must awaken
a new aspect in your character which I shall
call " Don Theosophist," who will possess
the emotional sensibility of Don Juan, the
108. THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
self·sacrifice of Don Quixote, the worldly wisdom
of Sancho, and in addition an Idealism of such
a kind as will inspire reforms in the world, till
each happening here below becomes a faithful
reflection of that beautiful happening which is
in the Divine Mind.
All the future of Latin America is in your
hands. you who are theosophists. This is the
last thought with which I take my leave, thank-
ing you, my Brothers, for the affection with
which vou have welcomed me.
That also is my message to you all here in Spain.
Seek something more full of Idealism than the
negative gospel which you profess to-day, and then
you will find that you as a Latin have still a great
role to play in the world. Your duty is to keep
burning the torch given to you by Greece and
Rome; its light proclaims to the Western World
that men are more than men, the descendants of
the Gods of Olympus, whose heritage is indeed, as
the poet sings, " light, fire, perfume and love ".
This concludes my address to the audiences in
Spain, concerning my impressions of Latin America.
But I desire to say a few words more, here at our
Theosophical Convention, to add another impression
which I gained.
Just now in the world, that conglomeration of
forces which we term " Western civilisation " is
A YEAR'S TRAVELS IN LATIN AMERICA 109
exceedingly powerful. It is producing vast changes
in every continent. But such is the nature of that
..civilisation, that for the moment, it is emphasising
the external manifestations of life, rather than the
internal. Standardisation, and the economic pres-
sure which results from the idea that one cannot be
happy unless one has wealth, are making men more
and more of a pattern ; they are becoming wheels in
a ruthless machine called ''progress". Unless this
terrific speed is minimised, and unless also a truer
set of values as to what 1ife is are emphasised,
Western civilisation will fail to give its true contri-
bution to the Divine Plan.
Briefly put, it is necessary to counteract the evil
effects of Western civilisation by bringing to bear
on it other forces. These new forces are of two
kinds. One is the message of India, which is that the
material world can only be understood in terms of
a supersensuous world. What is termed the
" subjective " view of life, characteristic of Indian
thought, is necessary to Western thought to make
it more balanced.
Similarly, Western civilisation needs to be supple-
mented with a characteristic which is slowly becom-
ing pronounced in Latin America. It is the
recognition that the individual must be a eres.tor.
As poet, dramatist, musician, painter, sculptor,
dancer, or as embodying other aspects of art, the
individual must transmute life with the creative
power of his imagination. This element in life is
110 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
equally necessary~ with the contribution of India, to
enrich European and North American civilisation.
When the ideals which are represented by India,
by Western civilisation, and by the young civilisation
which is bein~ born in Latin America are blended
into one whole, then I think we shall build a
magnificent character.
It is for this reason that the Seventh Sub-race,
now being born in South and Central America,
Mexico and the Antilles, is worthy of our enthusiasm
and our benediction. The theosophists of the ten
National Societies of Latin America have already
pled~ed themselves to be the guardians of their
young civilisation, and therefore I ask of you your
appreciation of their endeavours, and your most
fraternal wishes for their success.
APPENDIX
(I)
(From South America, by James Bryce, New York,
1912.)
A
In the mixed race (mestizo or mulatto) the white
element seems usually to predominate. I do not state
this as a. physiological fact. It may or may not be so;
nobody seems to have investigated the matter. But it
is true as a. social fact; that is to say, the mestizo deems
himself a. white, wishes to be a. white, tries to live and
think as a. wbite, and is pra.cti~lly recognised by others
as a white. This is not equally true of the negro,
because he is, physically regarded, further off the white
than is the Indian. But in Brazil, when the negro is
able to take his stand, so far as edu~tion and property
go, beside the white, he too thinks and acts like a. white
man and is so trea.ted.
The facts just stated make it probable that the nations
likely to emerge when the process of fusion is complete,
perhaps at avery distant date, will be white much more
than Indian nations. Blood is only one factor, and not
the most important factor, in the making of men.
Environment and the influence of the reigning intellectual
112 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
type count for more. In the United States the child of
the Polish or Rouman or Italian immigrant grows up as
an American. He may be a more emotional and impul-
sive, a more violent or more criminal, a more artistic
and sensitive American; but the stamp of the new
country is on him. So apparently will it be, so at any
rate it has been, with the Indian. Tinged however
slightly by the blood of the white race, he will become
a Spanish-speaking man of the colonial kind, which
differs from the European kind at least as much as an
English-speaking North American differs from an
Englishman. These mixed nations will, however, siand
nearer intellectually and socially, to the South Euro-
pean group of nations than to any other white peqples.
(pp. 566-7.)
B
It [the mixed race of negro and white] is well
treated-slavery was seldom harsh among the kindly-,
natured, easy-going Portuguese-and bears no ill-
.will to its former masters. Neither do they feel
towards it that repulsion which marks the attitude of
the whites to the negroes in North America and South
Africa. The Brazilian lower class intermarried freely
with the black people ; the Brazilian middle claas
intermarries with the mulattoes and quadroons. Brazil
is the one country in the world, besides the Portuguese
colonies on the east and west coasts of Africa, in which
the fusion of the European and African races is proceed-
ing unchecked by law or custom. The doctrines of
human equality and human solidarity have here their
perfect work. The result is so far satisfactory that there
APPENDIX 113
is little or no class friction. The white man does not
lynch or maltreat the negro; indeed, I have never heard·of
a lynching anywhere in South America except occasional-
ly as a part of a political convulsion. The negro is not
accused of insolence, and does not seem to develop any
more criminality than naturally belongs to any ignorant
population with loose notions of morality and property.
What ultimate effect the intermixture of blood will
have in the European element in Brazil, I will not
venture to predict. If one may judge from a few
remarkable cases, it will not necessarily reduce the
intellectual standard. One of the ablest and most refined
Brazilians I have known had some colour; and other
such cases have been m~ntioned to me. Assumptions
and preconceptions must be eschewed, however plausible
they seem. (pp. 479-480.)
(II)
(From South America, Past and Present, by Luis
Cincinato Bolio, Retired Director-General of the Civi]
Registry and Bureau of Demographical Statistics of
Uruguay, New York, 1919.)
There is no restriction to the admission of men of all
nationalities and the use of passports is unknown.*
Everybody enters and leaves the ports without permission
of any kind, provided the individual is not a notorious
vagrant or criminal. It is not supposed that the color of
the skin imparts either intellectual or moral superiority,
neither is it feared that the labor of the foreigner will in
any way hurt that of the nativ-e, as is the belief of
• The author describes the pre-war conditions of the entry of
immigrants.-C. J.
8
114 THEOSOPHY; PAST AND FUTURE
the North Americans; Australians and South Africans,
wl1o bar the Japanese and the Gninese. Intellectual
superiority belongs td hiiri who sttit:lies and toils the
hardest.
The member of the small negro populatio11 thllt remains
in the La Plata, is not bnly mentally and morallY the
equal of the average European immigrant, but is fat more
intelligent than the immigrants who collie from certain
parts of Russia, the Balkans and other backward countries
of the Old world. Some of these poor unfortunates are
not only ignorant but almost barbarians, while a. large
number of the Negroes have been brought up in the
homes of cultured people who have given them a thorough
education. Nearly all the Negroes of this region cah read
and write and are unusually refined of manner.
The South Americans have not committed the error
that the North Americans did in building a Chinese wall
between white and black, in the way of barriers in hotels,
barber-shops, etc., and even on railroads where they
arrange to have separate ticket-offices for the colored
people.
Had the blacks intermarried with the whites it would
have taken only a few generations of mulattoes with each
new generation lighter-complexioned than the preceding
one, for the black coloring to bave disappeared as it has
in the La Plata, and as it is gradually disappearing in
Brazil, the Negro being only a small fraction of the total
white population. If the barrier continues, iii time there
will be 15, 20, 30, 40 million and more men who wi1l have
consummate hatred for the rest of their countrymen of
another race, and this causes the weakness of nations.
(pp. 155-6.)
Af>P~NDIX
(III)
tt5
(From Jungle Paths and Inca Ruins, by Dr. William
Montgomery McGovern, Assistaht Curator of South
American Ethnology, Field Museum of Natural History,
Chicago, London, 1927.)
I loafed in one of the cafes until I managed to scrape
the acquaintance of a rather shabby little English clerk,
who proceeded to initiate me into the unofficial side
of Para. With him I wandered through the narrow
crowded streets to the market-place by the side of the
quay, where were gathered queer little craft from up the
river, with sails of every colour . . .
To the Brazilian there is no such thing as race. There
is only nationality. To the Brazilian an Englishman is
an Englishman, and he makes no distinction between a
high-faluting Nordic and a Barbado negro. Within the
boundaries of Brazil a man is a despised savage as long as
he wears no trousers and goes around with a blow-pipe,
but as soon as shirt, trousers, and the Portuguese langu-
age have been adopted, he becomes not a civiiized
aborigine, but a Brazilian. After all, colour is only skin
deep, and who cares about Mendelian laws ?
Strangely enough, in this clime even the Anglo-Saxon
becomes affected by this attitude. My young guide him-
self laboured under a native romance. For months after
coming .to Brazil he had paid but casual attention to the
Portuguese language, but on one of his trading trips far
up the river, he had seen a dusky maiden who had won
his heart. In order to pay the lady a proper courtship,
he had applied himself to linguistic studies, and he was
now a fluent linguist-and engaged.
116 THEOSOPHY, PAST AND FUTURE
A tropical romance truly, worthy of the pen of a Loti,
but when I, not being a Loti, asked for irrelevant details
concerning the lady's race, the only answer was that she
was a-Brazilian, and I was unable to discover whether
white, black, or brown predominated. (pp. 22-3.)
Printed by A. K. Sita.ra.ma Shastri, at the Va.sa.nta Press,
Adya.r, Madras. l·
