{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__buchanan___dominion_of_mind.pdf","mytitle":"Dominion Of Mind","mylang":"de"}
THE DOMINION OF MIND
URIEL BUCHANAN
Aulhor of "The Mind's Attainment," etc.
<l'he Christopher Publishing House
Boston, U. S. A.
COPYRIGHT 1929
BY THE CHRISTOPHER PUBLISHING HOUSE
FOREWORD.
The realities of life and nature surpass all the dreams of
men, both in goodness and beauty . Truth is the eternal
quest of the human mind. Thought rules the world. All
great and enduring achievements are the result of inspira-
tion and faith. Ideals and aspirations light the way to
material and spiritual welfare.
It is the earnest desire of the author that the thoughts
expressed in this book, which he has found personally help-
ful, will lead and enlighten others, that they may find the
work set for them in life's voyage of hidden mysteries, and
be guided and directed in ways of health and happiness.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Universal Mind Meets Every Human Need 9
II. The Way to Truth and Wisdom . . . . . . . . . 18
III. Guided and Protected by the Infinite Power 27
IV. Obtaining Access to Omnipotent Supply 37
V. Entering the Inner World of Thought . . . 47
VI. Attaining Individual Supremacy 57
VII. Self-Mastery Through Meditation and Concen-
tration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
VIII. Divine Realization ... . ....... . 74
TheDominion
ofMind
CHAPTER I.
UNIVERSAL MIND MEETS EVERY HUMAN NEED.
Certain states of consciousness must be awakened in the
individual who aspires to win the treasures of the spirit.
The goal of the mystic is ecstatic union with the Infinite by
means of prayer and meditation. The aim of the occultist,
no less than that of the mystic, is conscious union with the
Universal Mind: but the ways of approach are different.
The method of the occultist is to train the whole nature,
physical, emotional and mental, until it becomes a perfect
expression of the divine spirit within . To the occultist
the repeated observance of certain mental attitudes, affirma-
tions and drills is of great importance, and through the ap-
plication of the power acquired he creates a condition which
invokes the divine light and radiates it abroad for the up-
lifting of the world. The way of the occultist lies through a
graded series of steps to successive expansions of conscious-
ness and degrees of spiritual power. He gets in conscious
touch with the finer forces through intellectual processes
and the use of the cultivated will.
The mystice aspires to ,ecstatic union through intense
meditation to that plane of divine consciousness which his
stage of unfoldment permits him to touch. He reaches union
with the Infinite through emotional and intuitional experi-
ence.
Both paths lead to definite results. Both methods enable
one to awaken and train for use the powers latent within
and to realize far more of the real meaning of life than the
man whose vision is confined to the mere physical senses.
The student in search of hidden truths finds that his prog-
9
IO THE DOMINION OF MIND
ress is governed by the law of justice, which renders to each
man the fruit of what he sows.
There is a great and glorious reality in the invisible world,
ever pressing towards realization, and employing whatever
channels are available for its manifestation. The divine
light is universal, and that light dwells in the heart of every
man. When a man becomes one with the Infinite, he becomes
one with the whole of which he is part; then he can see
the light in every one, however thickly veiled and shut away.
To every man that light is nearer than anything else. He
has only to look within, and he will see the light, from which
all came forth, to which all shall return. It will lead him
from the darkness of the world to the Infinite light, to the
rose which ever blossoms at the heart of the cross, to the
shining star whose radiance will bring peace and strength
and happiness.
The ·last to come in the order of creation is intelligence.
At the beginning intelligence becomes involved, and in the
end intelligence gets evolved. The sum-total of the intelli-
gence displayed in the universe must, therefore, be the in-
volved universal intelligence unfolding itself. The universal
cosmic intelligence is the Supreme Lord. It is He who
is shining as the sun and the stars; He is the mother earth;
He is the ocean:· -
He comes as gentle showers. He is the
gentle wind that we breathe. He is the strength of man
walking in the pride of youth; he is love and devotion in
the heart of woman.
There is but one force in the universe, which is insepa-
rably related to all created things. It is in the whirlwind
and surging !:'ea,in the earthquake and the lightning's flash,
in the cloud and sunbeam, in the growing plant and bursting
bud. It gives brilli;:mcy to the bird's plumage and harmony
to its song. It gives to the animal its strength and beauty,
and endows man with courage and will. Think of the won-
ders of chemistry and the magic of alchemy, to have shaped
from the one primordial essence the infinite variety of
forms which inhabit the universe. The atoms which now
pulsate to every throb of the human heart have responded to
life in other forms-in beast and bird; in plant and stone;
in sea and air and fire-through reons of time. And these
forces bounding through our veins possess the attributes of
THE DOMINION OF MIND II
Infinity~being indestructible, immortal, undying. They
are concentrated in man in great volume and variety of
power, and he has made use of them to conquer the earth
and sea.
Back of all that we see-back of the vast universe of
countless forms-is the self-existent principle which is eter-
nally building and destroying through the agency of immut-
able laws. Invisible influences, sustained by the energies
of nature, are ever working in man to awaken a deeper con-
sciousness and nobler ideal. And he who faithfully responds
to the evolutionary forces which spring up in the heart as an
everlasting fountain will find the true source of goodness
and peace, and his mind will be illumined by the unfading
light of wisdom and love.
The perpetuity of our individual selfhood is maintained
by an eternal process of living and dying, assimilating and
consuming, building and destroying. The outer dies daily
and the inner becomes manifest. All the past is a flow of
life which unites the generations of humanity without a
break-a vast unbroken stream which has flowed from the
primeval and eternal source of the universe. The creative
life that has evolved humanity has never been lost to its
source, and its eternal flow is propelled by the heart throbs
of Universal Nature.
There is a presence which broods in eternal silence upon
the white snow of frozen summits, over the fertile valleys
and upon the face of the deep. Its power is manifested in
the wind and lightning and the rushing waters; in the fair
groves and gardens and mossed fountains. And in the vast
desert, where solitude dwells, men feel this power and take
courage. Like the tide of a fathomless sea whose shores are
planets and suns, it flows forever over the hills and wastes
of earth and floods the hearts of the human race with the
balm and benediction of its love. We cannot fathom the
mystery of this light and this guidance. Yet nearer than
the brain throb and the heart pulse, in the innermost sanc-
tuary where conscioussness itself is enthroned, broods that
mystical power which pervades and enfolds us; and those
who willingly abide in its tranquil presence place themselves
under the sheltering care of the Almighty. Silently as the
approach of dawn the Supreme Power draws near to the one
12 THE DOMINION OF MIND
who is watchful, and breathes softly the message of gladness
and peace. In wordless communion question the oracles of
life, and measure, if you can, the potentialities of your be-
ing. In the hush of that peaceful hour , brought face to face
with the silent guardian which keeps faithful account of
your wanderings, the touch of a divine fire will quicken the
dull brain, and the sluggish heart will become responsive
to an energy which will lift you out of the confines of the
physical and draw you close to the Infinite Source.
The whole purpose of existence is progress. Life is ever
moving forward. Stand still and life around us will pass
us by; we will be destroyed by the relentless forces of na-
ture. To cease to grow is to perish. We should learn to
work in harmony with the Infinite Energy, gather strength
to meet the changing conditions and surmount all obsta.cles.
Universal Mind always has met and always will meet every
human need. If we embrace it, call upon it urgently, rec-
ognize our relationship with it, there is nothing within the
realm of possibility which we cannot do.
Universal Mind makes no distinction between rich and
poor. It is within you and around you, ever ready and will-
ing to respond to your call. No matter how complicated,
nor how simple your problem may be-go into the silence
and ask for help and guidance. Whatever is needed, what-
ever is necessary for you to do-the solution of every prob-
lem is in Universal Mind. To you reflecting the Universal
Mtnd belongs the power to be what you want to be, to get
what you desire. You have unlimited potentialities. You
can learn to use the power which is yours-not only the
conscious part of your mind, but the subconscious mind and
the subliminal or Universal Mind. The subconcious mind
can see without the use of physical eyes. It perceives by
intuition. It can read the thoughts of others without the
ordinary physical means. It warns of approaching danger.
It can heal the body and keep it in health. It is either your
servant or your master. When properly directed, it is most
beneficient. Its destructive force is equally great. If we
train it and direct it wisely it will solve for us easily many
of the difficult problems which have vexed us and hindered
our progress.
The subconscious mind is a vast magnet, with the power
THE DOMINION OF MIND 13
to draw from Universal Mind unlimited power for our ma-
terial achievement. The vast storehouse ·of knowledge and
power of the subconscious mind can be drawn upon at will.
Whatever of good you may desire, it can bring to you.
When the outer senses are trained and developed so you can
intelligently reach your subconscious mind, you can get in
touch with the Universal Mind and awaken to your right-
ful inheritance. Without this intimate relationship between
the conscious and Universal Mind, the better ·part of our
nature sleeps-not dreamlessly, but as one with fettered
limbs in a prison vault, pining for freedom.
We are endowed with. latent talents, faculties and forces
that know no bounds of possibilities. The brain is a micro-
cosm, and as such is a miniature of the universe, reflecting
every conceivable power and attribute. But of what value
is' it to us to know that we are endowed with transcendent
powers if we are untrained and lack power of application
of our gifts. If you believe there is something in the world
worth living for, that there must be a purpose in life, an end
in view, a cherished goal to be reached, you will find in this
book the steps to be taken to rise out of the present chaos
of uncertainties into a state of consciousness which will bring
knowledge and power, health, material success and hap-
piness.
The majority of mankind cling to one oasis in life's ex-
panse, while just beyond the mist of ignorance there are
perpetually green and fruitful lands, watered by sparkling
streams, gountiful with all that makes life beautiful and
desirable.
The possibilities lying dormant in every individual are
indeed marvelous, and all who awaken to this truth, be it
early or late in life, should place themselves in a position to ·
arouse the sleeping potentialities and develop them to the
highest degree.
The first step to be taken in development is consecration.
When the consciousness of higher and nobler planes of life
and thought awakens in the mind, it must set apart its fac-
ulties to gain from the soul plane, or the inner teacher,-
which is the divine principle-what the eternal truths are,
and externalize their teaching in a life devoted to the mani-
festation of truth, of love, of separateness from mere
14 THE DOMINIO N OF MIND
wordly pursuits. If you would take the first step on this
ladder of attainment of your spiritual consciousness, you
must set apart and dedicate your powers to this end. If
you would know how far you have gone in your progress
towards spirituality and the power to order the divine pow-
ers which are given you for your use, you must examine
yourself and learn on what step of the ladder of life you
stand . If you are earnest in seeking for the inner light you ·
will be willing to make a definite promise to your own higher
self, something like the following:
I desire no other love, no other ambition, no other wis-
dom, than that which comes from the living word, the ever-
lasting Christ principle, the Alpha and the Omega; and I
pledge mys elf to earnest living, to making manifest the
Christ life, as far as possible, henceforth and forever. I
pledge myself to prP-sentmy whole nature, even to my body,
a living sacrifice to purity and truth.
If you would take this first step on the ladder of life, you
must be careful lest your feet become clogged with the soil
of earth conditions, which will draw you back to the plane
of sensual living.
The awakened mind discovers that underneath the veil
which external sense has woven, there is a plane of feeling
of which before it has known nothing. This is the power to
sense divine truth . At first this is very feeble, and, like the
consciousness of the infant, it feels about in an indefinite
way. The power of feeling must be guided in the right chan-
nel, or it may lead to dangerous practices . The sincere ear-
nest desire for spiritual light should be the only motive which
guides the seeker after occult or hidden wisdom.
Feeling. includes seeing and hearing. There is an atmos-
phere adapted to these mind senses, and when this feeling
is awakened the mind must take a positive attitude , in order
to shut out the troop of ignorant and .malicious thought
forms that have been set in motion by undeveloped mental
action throu gh all time. These influences within the astral
range of vision seek to find expression through some physi-
cal organism; the sensitive, negative man or woman is held
in this astral sphere; hence the dangers to avoid in the up-
ward march. Over the pure minded , positive, well balanced
person, these thought forms have no power; but the virtue
,~
THE DOMINION OF MIND ts
must be positive in order to repel these influences, as a neg-
ative, passive state of mind is like an open door which in- r
vites their entrance. A:bovethe astral plane are the spirit-
ual thought forms created by mature souls that live in har-
mony with the divine law. Frol)l these influences the ear-
nest seeker receives inspiration, knowledge and power.
Another step is the consciousness of desire; and here is a
critical period in the development of the mind, for according
to the quality of the desire is the attainment. If the mind
has become habituated to the holding of only material
thoughts, the work of changing this state will be very hard;
but it can be done by persistent, steady effort, and keeping
ever present in mind the consecration of the body, mind and
all your are, to be led by the Divine Will. This must be a
solemn compact. Then if you are sincere you will feel that
around you are spiritual influences that will help you in
your moments of weakness. And as the work goes steadily
on, the help and guidance will become more and more sure;
but if the directions are not heeded, the impressions will
grow weaker and finally cease to warn, because the inner
senses become less sensitive by neglect.
The next step is will. You must learn to watch the will,
and if it leads in the wrong direction, change it, turn it into
the right channel. The reason so many are weak and vari-
able, is because they have not learned to use this great spir-
itual force, but dissipate it in so many ways. Will is the se-
cret of all power. On the physical plane human love, at-
tachment and care control its use; on the spiritual plane
divine love governs it. Thought and will dominate the uni-
verse. This force or will flows in from the universal foun-
tain of life, and each individual has only a certain amount
at his command, according to development; whatever is
expended on the physical is so much loss on the spiritual.
Let the will direct the desires and feelings inward and up-
ward, instead of downward and outward. Hold the mind
polarized to truth, and when the power of will is strong
enough to hold the mind in the quiet, still concentration,
knowledge will be received and reflected.
Physical vibrations are born where there is noise. Spirit-
ual vibrations are born in the silence. The secret of getting
the best vibrations is found in the warm heart. Love is the
16 1.'HEDOMINION OF MIND
motive power which draws and gives. Tones change the
heart's action. Some sensitives are killed by harsh words.
Keep your mind poised in the spiritual, then you will grow
all around.
When defective egotism is consumed by the fire of divine
yearning, you will find peace. The mind will turn to the
Ultimate Source and show you the way, carrying a torch in
its hand. When the mind is controlled it becomes merged in
the divine. Then there is no anxiety and unrest. The mind
goes no more out in pursuit of the shadow. This is the only
happiness that is undarkened by the shadow of sorrow. It
is the high consciousness above the body, above carnal pas-
sion, above material things. It is the spirit of unalterable
serenity and peace flowing from the divine fountain of all
virtue, all wisdom and power.
We need to have a close union with the Universal Mind,
and the consciousness of such a union, and communion,
which is the highest form of prayer. This stream of light
flowing from the Great Fountain, and rising with the first
material manifestation of life on our planet, has gone on
and on, deepening and broadening through all time. This
Great Fountain is open to all now, even as it was in the
long ago. The wise man does not search; he listens. The
Mussulman in his devotions has one constant gesture, which
is to place his hands to his ears, as if to listen for the mes-
sage .from the other world. This is the attitude which the
mind assumes if we are centered and have a standing place
above and beyond the stir and confusion and dissipation of
this material world.
The inner life, in its most permanent form, is built up in
the e0nsciousness of the man who has suffered himself to be-
come beautiful and pure. The inner sanctuary may be en-
ternd by the lowliest of men, while it often may happen that
one of vast knowledge who seeks the invisible presence shall
fail to discover the way that leads to the threshold of happi-
ness. The intellect alone cannot lift the veil that enwraps
the inmost consciousness of man, cannot si'i.rveythe sacred
recesses where life abides in the majesty of peaceful repose;
but one who grows nobler in an ever loftier consciousness
and unselfish love, one who is gentle and good, shall receive
the light that will illumine the mind, reveal the way to the
T:tIE DOMINION OF MIND 17
mysterious sources of vision and open the heart to the influx
of profoundest joy.
Have an undoubting assurance that deep in yourself
abides the unlimited power which will give mastery over
every possible condition of material environment. Have no
apprehension of evil, or impending misfortune; for what
appears evil, which you may encounter on life's highway,
will never be greater than the strength which you possess
for protection. Though you may pass through troublous
times, let fear be unknown to your heart. If the mind is
inspired by the principles of goodness and truth, all that
shall happen to you will be fraught with blessings; and
looking through the mists of the uncertain future, you will
see where the waves of seeming adversity break on the final
shores with a murmur that awakens the echo, "All is well."
18 THE DOMINION OF MIND
CHAPTER II.
THE WAY TO TRUTH AND WISDOM .
Life, with all the mysteries that enshroud it, with all
the pain and joy that accompany it, has flowed on in an
ever-widening stream , coursing through the veins of the
rude and uncultured, whose thoughts are only of the visible
things surrounding daily life-on, ever on-awakening at
times to a vague consciousness, to come again with renewed
forces, pulsating now to the heart throbs of genius. And
thus will it continue to flow, until it has scintilated throu gh
every influence that the stream of progression claims. The
love of life is a universal instinct whose aspirations are the
wooings of the Infinite.
Everything points to a. higher goal. Nothing is perma-
nent. Every element in life and nature is seeking a more
perfect expression. The divine elemental fire which is the
source of all aspiration burns brightly in the heart of hu-
manity, and we stand today on the threshold of a brighter
era. The clouds of superstition and ignorance are passing
from the minds of men. We are connected by closer sym-
pathies, inspired by higher ideals and are nearer the source
of all knowledge and power. Above the noise and confus-
ion, those who listen will hear the divine harmonies, and
will feel an irresistible force, which has taken hold of
awakened minds to exert a potent influence over the life of
the world. The human race may soon enjoy the tranquility
and peace for which it has yearned through all the centuries.
We are so near to striking the keynote of supremacy , so
near fo the realization of the truth and beauty of the world.
We know that we have power to break every fetter made by
the mistakes of the errorful past and to create an individ-
uality which will express all the divine attributes of the
higher self. We are learning that the will and mind are
supreme, that we may overcome every limitation, banish
every phantom, conquer every opposing force and win our
THE DOMINION OF MIND 19
way to the goal of every worthy ambition. We are coming
more and more under the direct influence and leading of
the divine nature. We are begining to express the best
that is within us. And as the torch of reason bums more
brightly, we are treading the pathway which leads to the
heights . . The great silent force of nature is urging to larger
growth, inspiring our minds with new thoughts and greater
power. As we advance to higher realms of thought, we are
gaining more confidence, more courage. We know that by
keeping our minds receptive to the higher influences there
will come a constant inflow of happiness and peace.
Will is the moving principle of all life. With the cultiva-
tion of the v11illcomes the power of concentration which
makes knowledge our own to retain and use at need. As the
will is swayed by desire or choice, man becomes a creature
of light or of darkness. When the will governs for good, and
every faculty is employed in the attainment of some worthy
purpose, the passions are kept in abeyance and the senses
become faithful servants instead of unreasonable masters.
With the power to center and direct the will you will be-
come master of your moods, and your emotions will be en-
tirely under contrcl. You will become eamestful and pur-
poseful in all you do. The amount of magnetism which will
be developed through your new habits of living will add to
your forcefulness, and the superabundance of life with
which your being will be charged will overflow and permeate
the atmosphere about you, until friends, acquaintances and
all who come in contact with you will recognize the power
you have gained. With the consciousness that you are com-
ing nearer each day to living the ideal life, there will be
awakened the desire to draw others within the charmed cir-
cle where all is peace and contentment. The love and grat-
itude which will fill your soul will find expression in every
word and act. It will serve as a magnet to draw others
within the bounds of your influence. The honest, earnest
desire of your being to rise to the highest goal will diffuse
about you a glow of deep and abiding sincerity which others
will recognize and emulate . From an unhappy, dissatisfied,
weary toiler in the depths, you will become an eager and
active worker in the glorious light of love, hope and happi-
ness.
20 THE DOMINION OF MIND
There are eight distinct stages of unfoldment. The first
is the practice of certain bodily postures in order to attain
a high state of quietude and contemplation and develop the
moral qualities of gentlenfss, truthfulness, chastity, unself-
ishness and calmness. The second stage is a physical process
similar in nature to the first, with longer periods of practice,
while the mind holds in contemplation the adoration of the
great love of the Supreme Being. The student is here en-
joined to purity, cleanliness, contentment, patience, devoted-
ness, self-denial, ever striving to be exalted and illuminated
by the Divine Mind . In the third stage one must learn the
art of controlling the respiration and circulation, practicing
the d'ivine inward breath , which secures a concentrated
power of will and meditation.
In this stage begins the inaudible pronunciation of the
word OM, or AUM, a certain number of times, so as to enter
a perfect state of abstraction from all surroundings . The
fourth stage is the knowledge and control of Prana, which
is the sum total of the cosmic energy. The little wave of
Prana which represents our own energies, mental and phys-
cal, is the nearest wave to us of all the infinite ocean of
Prana; and if we succeed in controlling that little wave, then
we can learn to control the whole of Prana. It is the vital
force in every being, and the finest and highest action of
Prana is thought. All manifestations of power arise from
the control of this Prana. The fifth stage is the gaining of
power to make the mind introspective. Here ensues a more
perfect control of the circulation of the vitalized life princi-
ple between the outer and the inner man, through the divine
inward breath.. The sixth is called concentration, when the
body can become quite rigid, with all the external senses
perfectly quiescent,-this suspension of all the outer senses
.taking place while the inner senses are consciously awake.
The seventh is called meditation . This is the state of ec-
stasy . Here the soul becomes clairvoyant and clairaudient,
is consciously present in the Primal Light, and instead of
receiving knowledge from the objective world, receives it
by contact with the Universal Mind . The eighth stage is
super-consciousness. Here the student finds the key to the
.mysteries of life.
He who enters upon the path of spiritual power must
THE DOMINION OF MIND 2I
obliterate from his being all selfishness and ambition. He
must live neither in the present nor in the future, but in the
eternal. He must stand alone, desiring peace fervently;
driving out all ambition; all desire for sensation; all self-
ishness; desiring only that which is in the subjective world;
that which is within the higher self. Within your being
is the light of the world, the only light that can be shed
upon the true path. All the different forces of nature will
become subservient to you, according to the degrees in-
volved in the different processes of unfoldment and growth,
until you will finally come to know the Divine Will.
The senses of the normal man are susceptible of infinite
refinement. To attain the high degree of sensitiveness nec-
essary to the perception of very subtle phenomena , it is
highly essential to train the bodily and mental faculties by a
life of seclusion and rigid abstinence from all pleasures and ~
indulgences that are not necessary to the maintenance of
material and physical balance.
Meditation purifies the mind. It strengthens and renews
the memory and brings the soul into a higher state of vibra-
tion whereby it can communicate with the Divine. You
should train yourself to cease desiring the changeable and
to desire only the eternal. Aspire to know the one principle
underlying all science. Seek for wisdom. Learn to think less
and feel more. When you find the center where feeling is,
you will find the place where all power resides; it is a sun
which will illuminate you. To find this center you should
observe the following rules: Concentration; purity of pur-
pose; purity of b_()dy,mind and desire. To hush the Ego,
which means all desires and ambitions for things, your sur-
roundings should be quiet and congenial; you should have
a place where you can be alone. The first thing to be done
is to clear the mind of prejudice. When you have entered
the true path you v,r
ill know it because you will be bound
no longer by material attachments. You will gain freedom
from all your old hamperings . The astral colors will change
about you and become more clear. All lines of separation
will grow dim. Intensity of thought and intensity of pur-
pose help to liberate everything.
The first step to be attained is to bring the soul into a
state of supremacy so that it is not affected by anything
22 THE DOMINION OF MIND
that occurs. This once attained, peace comes, never to de-
part; the soul rises into a new atmosphere, and there can
never again be darkness in this inglowing and outglowing;
intuition is developed and the soul becomes one with its
source. The soul should be the master of all emotions,
instead of which it is affected by every current of thought.
We should not cling to anything that hinders the divine wis-
dom from being manifested in us. The soul should grow
from unconsciousness into a knowledge of its power. The
soul can never be illumined or inspired until it has risen
above the effects of lower thoughts. True interior vision
sees the past, present and future as one.
Astral body means a semi~material substance forming the
denser part of the soul, and connecting the soul with the
physical body. Everything in which the life principle ex-
ists, from minerals up to man, has an astral body, bf!ing the
ethereal counterpart of the external visible form. Astral
light is the memory, or universal storehouse of nature in
which the .character of all things that ever existed is pre-
served. He who can see the images existing in the astral
light, can read the history of all past events and prophesy
the future. Astral light gives color to the plants, life to the
atmosphere and luster to the eyes. It is the vital fluid of all
nature, the reservoir of electro-magnetic power. Astral
light is the soul of the world, and magnetism is the heart.
Akasa is universal substance, a storehouse of the Uni-
verse; and when you have the knowledge and wisdom
needed you can draw whatever you need from this store-
house for use. Tranquility of mind will enhance your power
to draw from the Akasa consciously. Wisdom ena:bles one
to employ invisible agencies to produce visible results. The
agencies that are employed are the influences of emotion,
will, desire, passion, love, faith and thought. There is a
mystic self invisibly enthroned, whose sovereignty the outer
man should acknowledge. This self will guide and direct
the senses, if they do not rebel against it, and lead to truth
and wisdom.
When man keeps his thoughts from self and his desires
from material things, he will gain power to control life's
dual forces and become identified with universal law. In
the degree that man becomes unselfish will he become pow-
THE DOMINION OF MIND 23
erful. To live as the sun lives, radiating energy and love,
with no thought of self, will attract an unlimited force for
the accomplishment of ever good. When man thinks of self
alone, he separates from the infinite supply.
Karma is the law of cause and effect, of seed and fruit-
a subtle thread between the thoughts , the acts and their
cause. As man measures so shall he receive. All thoughts,
words and acts are seeds we sow for future harvests. Karma
is the sum total of man's experience; from its pages we read
his life. Man is today what he has made himself. The
precise position which he may occupy is the environment
required for expression and growth. Every thought you
think is a seed that is going to bear fruit. All thoughts,
speech and acts are seeds which must bring forth a harvest
to be reaped and eaten by the one who sends them forth.
And when your are sitting in the silence trying to get the
highest, you are sending forth a field of seeds you will be
glad to gather.
The brain is a plastic medium for the use of the mind.
When concentration is perfectly attained, the mind is the
master; it rules supreme, beholding yet unmoved. True
illumination comes only to the one who has risen above the
narrow horizon of the personal self and has become con-
sciously united with the Universal Mind. The outer dies
daily and the inner becomes manifest. Human progress is
the continual unfolding and revealing of the inner self.
Wonderful knowledge may be obtained by turning the
mind to the soul for spiritual teachings; and by the knowl-
edge gained and will power developed, comes the power to
do, to suffer and to dare. When the awakened soul feels,
wills and knows its mission as an instrument of the Divine
Will, it is ready to do and dare, and in so doing it will suf-
fer, and through this grow strong. When you reach this
step, beware, waver not, nor hesitate; press on, and when
the way is opened to do, stop not to think of suffering, but
walk bravely on, with eye steadfastly fixed on the ultimate
you wish to reach. At this step you have attained a point
where you know there is a knowledge which may be gained
by earnest seeking; then you will do, suffer and dare, in
order to obtain the "pearl of great price,"-Celestial Wis-
dom.
24 THE DOMINION OF MIND
The Celestial Virgin, who is pictured as the woman
clothed with the sun, a crown of stars on her head, and the
moon under her feet, signifies she has subjugated the dragon
which would devour her. The woman represents the in-
tuitional or soul faculty that is taught of spirit; the twelve
stars, the perfect teachings, or light from every point; the
moon, the intellectual faculties that can only shine from
the reflected soul light, as the moon reflects the sun's rays;
the red dragon in subjection is the type of the animal and
physical desires and passions controlled and overcome, their
force and power transmuted into soul growth and spiritual
power. When you reach the step of doing, daring and suf-
fering, that you may attain this Celestial Wisdom, which
your awakened mind feels, desires and wills to reach, and
knows it is possible for you to attain when the soul facul-
ties are developed, you have reached the step of silence.
Here you feel and know that you cannot ·speak in all places,
and to all people, of this great work that is going on in
your inner life. Avoid argument, anger, and uncongenial
surroundings, as it will destroy your odylic force. Be
patient, ·humble, kind and just. Look for guidance in your
daily life, and in all you do, well knowing it is yours when
you look for it with an earnest, honest heart.
Now comes the round of apathy; and this means that
you have attained unto the state where worldly desires,
appetites and passions have no .power over you, and you
are indifferent alike to praise or blame. Here you learn to
avoid all things which tend to bind the soul in its upward
march.
We are wanderers over the sea of spirit and greatly need
the fixed star of truth to guide us. To find the truth and
keep in its current and let it bear us on is to find eternal
youth. Ever since the world began, in all climes and in all
ages, there have been men whose souls have gained domi-
nance over the claims of mortal sense and have had revela-
tions of the deeper truths of being.
There are two planes of consciousness, the human and
divine. The human consciousness is gained by perception
through the senses. The divine consciousness is developed
by inspiration. It is the light that shines from the higher
ego and illuminates the mind. A knowledge of the divine
THE DOMINION OF MIND
inner self brings man in touch with the realm o.f cause.
We should be to this world what the sun is to the universe,
luminous beings, radiating joy and love. The Divine Spirit
enters the heart of every man as a ray of light. As heat
will change water into steam, so the inner fire, the ethereal
light or divine life principle in man will transmute the gross
substance of the body into a radiant personality.
Every hope and yearning, every noble ideal is but a
prophecy of its possible realization. Mind is the creator.
Thought transforms a wilderness into a world of surpassing
beauty, with every po~sible comfort. In silence and medita-
tion seek guidance from the monitor within. Question the
oracle of life in the deeps of your consciousness. Maintain
a receptive attitude of mind, with the earnest desire to learn
the way out of bondage to the things that have hedged the
spirit in and deprived you of inestimable freedom. Reach
out into the unseen with perfect faith, and ask the Divine
Power to lead and enlighten you. And when the knowledge
is given, a~
-
k for zeal and strength to break away from every
attachment that has held vou to the old conditions of servi-
tude. Walk in the light· and follow the highest leadings.
You will receive power and inspiration and will realize hap-
piness and freedom.
Be master of every emotion. It is absurd for man, the
heir of the ages, to be ruled by tyrant thoughts, by cares
and desires, cowering like a slave under the lash of circum-
stances. The supreme goal of life is to realize happiness,
truth and love; your means to attain them are reason, faith
and experience. The great opportunity of your lifetime is'
now. Today is your ovm. Waste not the hours in thought-
less idleness. The years pass swiftly and are laid to our
charge; and time, like life, can never be recalled. So live
that you can say to yourself each night:
This day I have neglected no opportunity to improve my
condition and help others. I have acted in all things ac-
cording to my best judgment. I have lived true to the
highest and best. Whatever to-morrow may bring, it can-
not deprive me of tlze serenity of the day that is closing.
Think about the deeps of things and your vision will
broaden. Look into the soul of things and the soul of you
will expand and radiate its love and joy. When you look
THE DOMINION OF MIND
for the soul of each thing you will always find beauty abloom
in the flowers and love smiling at you in the face of your
friend. To find the center of yourself is to find the inmost
center of the universe. You can feel the throb of the In-
finite heart deep within the heating of your own. Here you
will find joy. Here you will find perfection of being. The
consciousness will arise to that height of clear vision where
divine love, goodness and justice are seen to be supreme,
all powerful, indestructible . Then that within which had
dreamed and hoped will more gladly and wonderfully dream,
and hope, and seek, and know, and see ever deeper into the
mystery of beauty and truth . There is no dream that shall
not come Srue, no hope that shall ever go famished, no tears
that shall not be gathered into the infinite skies of compas-
sion, to fall again in healing dews.
THE DOMINION OF MIND
CHAPTER III.
GUIDED AND PROTECTED BY THE INFINITE
POWER.
27
There is no possible source for anything outside of the
Universal Mind, for it embraces everything that is. There
is no center or piace which confines it, yet it is not absent
from the minutest point in space. No object or idea can
, have existence apart from it, for it is omnipresent. It is
the only reality of life. It is impossible for the human mind
to fathom the my,,tery of this power, which had no begin-
ning and can have no ending. The more we apprehend of
its workings the more evidence we have that its manifesta-
tion is governed by immutable laws. Every individuality
composing mankind is an inseparable part of Universal
Mind. The recognition and faith in its reality will enable
you to appropriate intelligently and draw upon it as much
as you wili for your happiness and ·success. It is a never
failing force which you may learn to use in all efforts. It
will manifest through you in greater fullness as you keep
your mind in the right current of thought. Cease trying to
geuerate force by a spasmodic effort. Call your wandering
thoughts to a peaceful center within the mind, place your
reliance on the Supreme Power which you feel flowing to
you from the unseen, and use your will only to direct that
power as it plays through you, as you would steer a boat
that is moved by the mind.
To you as a part of the Universal Mind belong knowledge
and wisdom and all things you can receive and appropriate.
You will gain increasing po,
wer to draw from the limitless
supply in proportion to the force of demand . Keep in
mind the_jdea that you are a magnet drawing from the uni-
verse all things necessary for happiness. You are made of
forces which you have drawn to yourself by repeated de-
mands. These forces have been built into your body, and
THE DOMINION OF MIND
have become literally a part of your flesh and blood. If
you have entertained negative, timid , despondent thoughts,
you have a corresponding weak, disordered body. If you
have earnestly dema.nded of the Infinite the things which
will ennoble and give strength and courage, these principles
are incorporated and will act on you for perfect wholeness,
beauty and refinement. Persistent, silent demand of the
Infinite Power for positive, imperative thoughts, for abun-
dant energy, for enthusiasm, determination and courage, if
held in the mind with unwavering confidence, will bring to
you the desired response. Every aspiration which goes out
from the heart as a positive, earnest demand will attract a
power to effect results . By your desire' you can create for
yourself a thought atmosph ere corresponding to your motive
and purpose. If your thoughts are pure and you ask for
wisdom, you will attract similar influences from the unseen
and from kindred minds whose thoughts are in sympathy
with your own.
Aspiration, demand, desire, when concentrated in the
right direction, for the most enduring good, will lift the
mind above all morbid fancies, all hatred, apprehension and
fear, will free the body from physical ills, and give confi-
dence and courage.
As you come into a better understanding of the power of
suggestion in controlling the thoughts and feelings of your
own mind and heart you will gradually gain strength to
influence the minds of others and to inspire those you meet
in daily life with a confidence which will cause them to
trust you implicitly in all you do and say.
One test of your advancement on the path to power is
your ability to maintain a perfect tru st in the harmony and
goodness of the destiny that directs the events of your life
at times when all things seem to go contrary to your will
and desire; when, regardless of all efforts, you feel yourself
held, unable to lift a hand to ward off the approach of con-
ditions that seem to come as relentless enemies which stand
between you and the realization of the heart 's cherished
longings. This is the test: to have faith, to banish fear, to
keep your thoughts calm in the peaceful repose of conscious
strength; to feel that however dark and uncertain the
present may be, you are one with the Infinite, and will be
THE DOMINION OF MIND
led faithfully by unseen forces over the rough places, out
of the shadows, into the light of attainment and power
where all will be well with you and yours.
We must reach out t@wards the Infinite, or we in a
measure close the avenues for the approach of divine power;
and we only move thus towards the Infinite in the degree
that we realize that every faculty of our being is generative
and reproductive, and that our capacity of receiving divine
potency is conditioned upon our promptitude in imparting
it.
Divine Love, the electric power of affinity and sympathy,
is ever working to bring the pure ray of spirit into union
with itself as manifested in man and nature . Divine life
vibrates throughout the universe of manifested being; and
when you are thoroughly awakened and realize the impor-
tance of a knowledge of these higher laws, you will feel this
life pulsating in every cell.
Absolute Force, unpolarized,
Forever veiled from mortal sight,
Yet filling all immensity,
Divides the darkness from the light
In electro-magnetic waves
That vibrate through the shoreless sea,
And with creative heat displays
The deathless, endless Trinity.
Eternal Love vibrates with Light,
And flashing through the azure sea,
It bathes the universe with Life--
Impelling suns and worlds to be;
Filling with life the sparkling streams;
Feeding the soil with rain and wind;
Carpeting hills with lovely green;
Giving to insects gauzy wings.
From Nature's soul come beasts and birds,
To fill the fields with song and life,
Until the fragments of the "Word,"
Veiled for a time in clouds of night,
Evolve from land, and air and sea,
30 THE DOMINION OF MIND
A culmination of the plan,
Foreseen and willed by Deity-
A microcosmic star-crowned man.
Sublime and archetypal man,
Whose time began in lives agone,
Subdues the waves by his command;
Speaks to the winds and they respond,
And harnessed by his magic skill,
The lightnings leap o'er sea and land ;
Sustained by the Creative Will,
An image of the "Word," is man.
There are four mles for the transmutation of the lower
into the higher. First, observe and follow nature; her laws
and methods of Vlork will reveal to you many important
truths. Second: know and then act. Third: use but one
instrument, the mind; but one vessel, the body; one fire,
the spirit. Have unity of will, purpose and means, gov-
erned by the law of use. Fourth: keep the fire ever burn-
ing, for if the metals once cool, the work must all be done
over again.
In the silence of thought repeat this prayer, with the sin-
cere desire of the heart:
0 Light Divine! reblend the scattered rays;
Regenerate this drooping form that dies,
And let me evermore abide in Thee
In peace; for my impatient spirit sighs
To bathe again in Thine eternal sea,
And feel the sunshine of Thy boundless love.
Magnetism is the life of the world. Electricity is motion
without life. Magnetism is life without motion. Union of
the two results in the manifestation of celestial harmonies.
These in a way are the manifestation of the same force;
they are dual. Electricity and magnetism, unitin g in the
physical organism, are constantly generating the vital force,
or human fire. The combination of these three elements
produces an influence :is quick in its motion as light, and as
,powerful as the affini'ty Qf tjii; world systems of the sky.
THE DOMINION OF MIND 31
These forces play through the human organism, charging
every drop of blood with potential force that makes the
heart throb with enkindling sympathy and joy. To arouse
these energies and wisely direct them in the attainment of
your highest desires, is to enter the Temple of the Most
High, and to have opened unto you the gates of the realized
ideal.
Magnetism is the king; electricity is the servant. We
can say to electricity, "You shall run our cars, illuminate
the cities and carry news from continent to continent with
the lightning's flash;" but we cannot say that to magnet-
ism; it will not. be ordered ; we must draw it and suppli-
cate it. We draw it by thought and love; we must know
the law and use it. Magnetism is produced and increased•
by silent meditation. Magnetism gives power to infuse
new life and build new purpose . Who has not grasped the
hand of a magnetic person and felt the magic influence
that the touch inspires, or has not been thriJled by the
,searching gaze of the magnetic eye, or has not seen it mani-
fested in the power of eloquence over the passion of the
multitude, as it now a.rouses them to fury, now subdues
them into calmness; as it animates to war or melts, to love? .
Personal magnetism is the concretion of the most subtle
elements of the body, as is the water-lily of the soil. Mag-
netism is the key which unlocks the storehouse of the In-
finite and gives free access to an ever-present and ceaseless
supply of power for all purposes and demands of life.
The fullest existence and the highest life wiJI be yours
when you learn how to absorb, assimilate and put to use
the magnetism or vital element which pervades the at-
mosphere that surrounds the earth. You wiJI be able to
recreate the tissues of the body and fortify yourself against
disease. You will become impervious to petty annoyances.
By living the higher life and in harmony with nature's laws
you will come nearer each day to the realization of your
ideals, and in your heart wiJI be awakened the desire to
draw others within the charmed circle where all is peace
and contentment. The love and gratitude which wiJI fill
your life will serve as a magnet to draw others within the
bounds of your influence. The honest, earnest desire to
reach the highest goal will diffuse about you a glow of deep
32 THE DOMINION OF MIND
and abiding sincerity wh'ich dthers Wiill 'recognize and
emulate.
Look back over the years that have passed, and think
how little you have done toward discovering your real
talents and powers and developing them to higher uses.
You have allowed yourself to drift year after year, satisfied
with partial success, while the lofty ideals and aspirations
of youth have furled their tired wings, unable to reach the
heights you had dreamed of in life's morning. The oppor-
tunities of being something better than you are, have drifted
beyond your reach and the higher part of your nature sleeps,
indifferent to the voice of destiny that would rekindle the
divine yearning and stimulate a loftier conception of life's
deep meaning and purpose .
The influences that others have thrown around you have
been obstacles in your path that caused discouragement and
weakened your will. You have felt these forces but have
not always known their origin. You should learn the nature
of these influences and gain power to rise above them. It is
possible for your life to emerge from its vale and realize
greater satisfaction and happiness.
Terrestial magnetism is the universal energy of nature.
The following drill, if practiced daily, will enable you to
absorb an abundance of this force, giving brilliancy to the
eyes, color to the lips and cheeks, and great vitality:
Stand with heels touching. Take a full breath, lifting
the right arm above the head, folding the hand in a cup
shape; hold until you feel the astral light tingling through
the fingers; then drop arm quickly. Do this three times
with the right arm and three times with the left, then three
times with both together; each time repeating this prayer
with intense aspiration:
Oh breathe on me inspiring spirit breath. Oh give to me
those heart-revii1
ing, words. Quicken my fading form and
Zift up my soul to its heavenly 1
·est.
Words mean little unless the heart is back of them; there-
fore the good received depends upon your interest.
Another very helpful Logos to hold in thought and repeat
at this time is, "O Thou the Love Supreme, iUuminate me
·with Thry Wisdom, vivif)• me with Thy Love, and granit
that in all I think and say I may more and more resemble
THE DOMINION OF MIND 33
Thee:" This is the Egyptian prayer; one of your own in-
spired thoughts will do as well. When done with the right
thoughts and conditions, this exercise is very helpful. Have
the air in your room fresh and pure.
Before the soul can see, harmony within must be attained,
and fleshly eyes be rendered blind to all illusion. Then the
soul will hear and remember, and then to the inner ear will
speak the "voice of the silence." -
The following rules of conduct should be observed:
The first step is the loss of all desire for sense enjoyment.
The next is right knowledge, which is the road to wisdom,
a fixed perception of the one eternal principle of the cosmqs.
You must perceive it and hold your mind to it.
Indifference has six results or effects:
First: The giving up of all previous impressions; giving
up all erroneous views, to clear the ground for the new
building. You are not ready for the new building until the
wreckage of the old is cleared -away. Then you can begin
to build on that which the mind perceives and knows to be
true.
Second: Restraint over the bodily actions. Not to do
anything you think unwise and to do that which you know
should be done.
Third: The actual turning away from all that attracts
you to bodily senses. There you have a long step to take.
Fourth,; A willingness to part with everything, and the
patient endurance of pain and sorrow. When you lose some-
thing that you value very much, you should be able to say:
"That is all right, let it go; it is a thing and not a principle."
Fifth: Faith in truth and devotion to its pursuits, letting
nothing divert your mind.
Sixth: Where you have attained the possibility of never
deviating from the path, where nothing can ever attract
you out of it. •
There are mysteries of divine truth which cannot be
analyzed by the finite understanding, but can be embraced
by thoughtful and reverent meditation. You should yield
to the impulses of the higher consciousness and look beyond
the symbols to that which they signify-from the human
to the divine.
It is within your power to gratify the cherished ambition
34 THE DOMINION OF MIND
which lies nearest your heart, be it desire for wealth, love
or fame, for health and happiness or high attainment in
any field of human endeavor. The power to realize your
ideals is within yourself; so also are the barriers which
stand in the way of present manifestation. The greatest
enemies to progress are fear and doubt , weakness and ignor-
ance, and belief in limitation . To come into an understand-
ing of the omnipotence of thought will give you the assur-
ance and strength to accomplish seemingly impossible re-
sults. You will have faith in your power to overcome diffi-
culties . You will assume responsibilities and command a
force and inspiration which will insure the success of your
ventures.
In order to come into a consciousness of your relation to
Universal Life, you must have faith, such perfect and abid-
ing faii.h as places with absolute trust your life and destiny
in the hands of the Supreme Power. Faith of such int ensity
places you in harmony with trnth .and with all the laws of
the universe; and if you are truly faithful a divine aura of
such density will gather around you that the projection of
its rays will induce harmonious conditions in all who come
into your presence ; their duration depending upon the
worthiness or receptive attitude of the individual.
The will must be developed. It will give you mastery
over many conditions of matter. This control is not neces-
sarily dependent upon a religious life, for the human will
grows strong through a life-long battle with material con-
ditions; but in order to reach the higher goal of human at-
tainment the human will must be_submerged into the Divine
Will. When divine faith, divine will and divine love are
united in a human being, he has gained great power and
becomes a master. His faith enables him to heal the ail-
ments of the body, his love to minister to the needs of the
soul and lead it to truth, while will gives him the power to
overcome adverse environments.
The self binds itself with chains when it thinks and acts
for self. When you desire from self, you separate from
universal power. Live as the sun lives; self is death. For-
get self by filling the mind with the highest thoughts it is
possible for you to hold. Then the higher forces will flow in.
The next point to be considered is odylic force. This is
THE DOMINION OF MIND 35
an emanation from the brain produced in sleep, and when
one is unconscious or in a semi-conscious state, never when
awake and active. It is absolutely destroyed by anger,
argument , and uncongenial surroundings . We float in odylic
force, and every thought must come and go through it;
therefore try to gather and keep it, if you wish to receive
and send out the higher thoughts. Those who know these
mysteries do not talk idly. You cannot afford to waste
your odylic force; no matter what may happen, try to
keep calm. _.;.
"Every waking hour we weave, whether we will or no;
Every trivial act or word, into the woof must go."
Watch your weaving. After concentration, watch to see
where the mind goes. Do not allow yourself to get ruffled.
When well drilled you can control every atom of odylic
force, the same as magnetism.
Perhaps when a child you had sometime been left alone
in the silence of night in a desolate room. You stood still
for a moment and listened. You heard only the heart's
rapid beating. Then you saw shadowy forms in the dark-
ness. Within your mind there was a nameless fear and the
uncontrollable impulse to escape the solitude and stillness.
You rushed to the room where your parents were. And
perhaps, taking ,a light, they returned with you. Then you
saw there was nothing to fear. The phantoms had vanished
with the darkness.
There are many who are thus haunted through all the
years of their life by phantom thoughts, by needless fear,
dreading some great misfortune that will never come. Flash-
ing the searchlight of reason through the hidden recesses
of the mind, the phantoms you have harbored by thoughts
of fear, .by doubt and ignorance, will pass away, and you
will see yourself dwelling in a universe of truth and love;
will know that you are led by the Eternal Light, that you
are protected by the Infinite Power.
Do not fear. Have faith . Though the shadows of sor-
row and adversity gather about you, do not fear. You are
a child of the Infinite . The Divine Light within will cause
the darkness to liee and the phantoms to vanish. Have
THE DOMINION OF MIND
courage. There is a power within which will make you the
master over every circumstance and condition. Invoke the
aid of the higher potencies. Let the heart be brave, the
hand steady and the will unwavering. Have faith in your
power to attain all that is good, all that is true and de-
sirable.
Listen to the voice of destiny which is being uttered in
subdued tones by the divine monitor within. Develop an
independent judgment; study yourself, your hopes and aims,
your relation to environment and the possibilities that are
yours . Look deep into your being and receive from the
inward source the revelations of life. Lift yourself above
the shadow of pessimism and despair, and bask in the sun-
light of freedom and progress. There are infinite capaci-
ties within the ~elf which simply await our loving recogni-.
tion to bud and blossom into tangible realities . The deep
inward yearning is the progressive spirit of life which im-
pels humanity onward; it is the mute pleading of the aspir-
mg self in search of the destined goal of its mission.
We should have faith in the harmony, the love and the
goodness of the immutable laws which govern life and
destiny and change. Though there are times when we
ignore the monitions of the higher self and grope in the
darkness where we hear but a faint echo of the voice oi
truth and catch only a gleam of the light, if we look more
deeply and listen intently there will come to our vision a
glimpse of the beckoning ideal and a foregleam of nobler
achievements. In the most trivial occurren~es of daily ex-
istence there will come to those who have faith, a whisper-
ing of the voice which calls out in the wilderness and leads
through life's turmoils to the soul's final awakening and
deliverance.
THE DOMINION OF MIND 37
CHAPTER IV.
OBTAINING ACCESS TO OMNIPOTENT SUPPLY.
Concentration is the great law of attaining . It is the
holding of the rays of the mind to a single subject until the
power is so intense that simply by increasing the vibrations
the soul can do what it wills. Concentration will overcome
,these four things: Ignorance, Egotism, Desire, Aversion.
Ignorance is false judgment. It is not knowing the dif-
ference between the true and' the false, between that which
is changing and that which is unchanging. It can only be
overcome by concentration of the mind.
Egotism is that quality which makes you sensitive to
what others think or say about you . It is the conscious-
ness of the outer ego, which says, "This body is I." Con-
centration will overcome this consciousness of the lower
self. The moment you get back into the center you are in
perfect peace. Nothing can touch you as long as you bold
yourself actively and positively centered.
Desire for transitory, temporal things will pass away
when you learn to concentrate, to fix your thought and
heart on the Infinite . Whenever you can cay of anything,
"This too will pass away," it is not worth thinking about.
Everything that can pass out of your life has power to
grieve you, to give you pain and heartache .
True concentration is not spasmodic effort, a forced de-
termination, a blind outreaching and a nervous clutching
after something vague. The greatest power is born of re-
pose; not the repose of negation, of indifference, but the
positive repose that belongs to one who is sure of himself
and kncws that there is a force at his command with which
he may conquer adversity and overcome all things which
bar the way to liberty and progress. Concentration means
the quiet control of one's thoughts and beliefs. It means
the power to transmute the combined forces of man's being
into a dynamic power which may be controlled and directed
THE DOMINION OF MIND
by a trained and invincible will to produce any result de-
sired. There is at your command a limitless supply of
energy which may be transmuted by the mind and will into
intellectual power and greatness. If you desire to make
the best possible use of your talents, to control great in-
terests, to become the leader of great movements which will
help the world to advance to a more idea.Istate of existence,
hold your mind in meditation upon the power desired until
every obstacle in the way of attainment has been removed.
You cannot accomplish much until the will is freed from
material desires. There is a vast difference in killing out
a desire and changing it. Light a piece of paper, it will
burn to ashes and can never be lighted again; so the de-
sires must be changed, but not burned out. You must learn
about the transmutation of force. If you will concentrate
your will upon your work or study you will accomplish re-
sults. Most people are like locomotives with the boilers
full of holes. As soon as steam is gotten up, it commences
to escape, and there is no power left to accomplish results.
If you desire great things and will conserve and concentrate
your forces, great things will come. The will is like elec-
tricity, a force, and should be controlled. An abundance
of will power will make your life brighter and better.
Hypostatic union is the union of the Ego, the divine in
man, with the Universal Mind. According to the strength
of the union and the intensity of desire will be the power of
the individual. By the hypostatic union all personality is
obliterated, all externality is abolished, all thought of the
personal Ego is entirely lost. If the will power is spent on
the physical plane, it is so much loss spiritually, unless you
put spirituality into material acts. Will culture is life's
ladder reaching from the soul to Deity. The use of the will
is all that makes one person different from another. The
only way to develop the will power is to act; each act creates
a new impulse or more will power. There are two kinds of
will; one rises as the lily and grows into the kingdom of
light, and the other sinks into darkness and the desires of
the senses. Examine your will and see whether you belong
to the kingdom of light or darkness . The will that rules
must be drilled and trained and held to its object. Will
enters into many channels. Our purpose should be to con-
THE DOMINION OF MIND 39
centrate the will on the object which we desire. By stead-
fast, unwavering purpose and unswerving and indomitable
will, you can transmute the base metal of your nature, iron,
lead and brass, or the desires, passions and emotions of the
animal soul, into the priceless gems and pure gold of love,
compassion and power divine.
Take some logos or prayer; you should use the same for
months, and at the same hour and place, when convenient .
The following logos is very good:
Oh Supreme Power, Supreme Spirit of Truth and Love,
shed upon me the Divine influence of Thy Presence. I
commit my body and my soul unto Thee; it is in Thee
alone that I rely. I bless Thee, I glorify Thee, I entreat
Thee, by Thy Holy l'I'ame, to banish from my soul the
darkness of ignorance and to enlighten me with the Fire of
Thy Wisdom. Take away from me all evil desires. Lead
me and enlighten me, that I may know the work set for me
in life's voyage of hidden mysteries. Oh, Infinite Spirit,
whose kingdom is fr01'nthe everlasting to the everlasting I
Try to feel every word. You will soon get into vibration
with harmony spheres.
The brain must become a tool for the use of the soul.
When concentration is perfectly attained, the soul sits
supreme, beholding, yet unmoved: until this is obtained it
partakes of every little chapge of mind. The environment
must be harmonious , and the soul must have a sanctuary
where it is free from inharmonious vibrations, where it can
find silence and peace. True illumination comes only by
rising above the fogs of self, and living by principles. The
soul then begins to live in a new atmosphere, and can never
again be wholly in darkness . It is here that intuition is
developed, and the divine torch is lighted . You can then
say, "Come life, or come death, I wilt attain this oneness
with the Divine."
No soul comes to its perfected state except through
anguish, as there is no salvation except through suffering.
But the eternal Christ principle in the kingdom of spirit is
always descending into the heart of mankind to partake of
its suffering. The outer dies daily, that the inner may be
made manifest. Therefore do not feel that you are alone,
for all these phases have to be met.
40 THE DOMINION OF MIND
When in your silent sittings you may by chance see the
symbol of the eye, it indicates that the eye of Omniscience
is upon you, and it represents the two edged sword cuttin g
asunder the good from the evil. In the symbol of the eye
lies the potency of eternal life. The eyelid is said to be the
bridge of life; the eye floats in the rim of Infinity.
Christ means spiritual consciousness, life and light; the
divine element in humanity , which if it manifests itself in
man, becomes the personal Christ in individual man . Christ
means an eternal spiritual, living and conscious power or
principle, with which the highest spiritual attributes of
each human being will become ultimately united . Th e mis-
conception of the original meaning of the word Christ has
been the cause of the most cruel religious persecutions.
Christ originally signifies a universal spiritual principle, the
crown of astral life, coexistent from all eternity with the
divine source from which it emanated in the beginning . This
principle has on many occasions penetrated with its light
certain human beings, incarnated itself in them, and thus
produced great heroes and reformers. As history repeats
itself , this Christ principle will incarnate, to a certain degree,
in all who make the right conditions.
Those who cannot rise to the sublimity of this concep-
tion, look upon Christ as being merely a historical person,
who in some incomprehensible manner took upon himself
the sins of the world. At certain periods an incarnation of
the Divine Light of the Logos takes place upon the earth,
and thus a new savior and redeemer appears among man-
kind , teaching the old and half-forgotten truths again by
word and example; thus.producing a new revival of religious
sentiment. The ancient religions speak of several such
saviors.
The cross is a symbol expressing various ideas, but espe-
cially the creative power of life in a spiritual aspect, acting
within the macrocosm of nature and within the microcosm
of man. It also .represents spirit and matter ascending and
descending. The perpendicular bar represents spirit; the
horizontal bar, the animal or earthly principle being pene-
trated by the Divine Spirit. Universal, as well as individual
man, may be symbolized by a cross. Man 's animal body is
a cross, or instrument of torture for the soul, until the soul
THE DOMINION OF MIND 41
has gained the dominance; but by means of his battle with
the lower elements, his divine nature becomes developed.
The animal elements are to die upon the cross, and the
spiritual man to be resurrected, to become united with the
Christ. · Death upon the cross represents the giving up of
one's personality, and entering into eternal and universal
life. The golden cross represents spiritual life illuminated
by wisdom. It is the symbol of immortality.
The first record we have of the cross was in Egypt where
they placed an upright post at the edge of the Nile; if the
water came up to a certain place it indicated that they
would have sufficient harvest to prevent famine among the
people. It meant safety to them if the water reached a
certain mark, and they placed a cross piece at that point.
To them that cross represented salvation. The cross is the
oldest symbol in existence. There was always the dual
man, and he represents the four points of the compass:
north, south, east and west.
Regeneration can neither be known by the senses nor by
the logic of the mind. It can only be known by the highest
in us, and can only be known by the pure in heart. By
being obedient to the Divine law, the inner consciousness
has been so developed that some have known by intuition
this light of the spirit.
You should live for holiness, for spiritual life, and let
everything else go. Every desire for externalities must be
transmuted into fire. There is no peace, joy and happiness
in the world, unless all is laid at the center of the cross.
In thinking of this dual self which will sometime come to
you as a glorification, all earthly loves will fall away, be-
cause you will not need them. You will find' the flame burn-
ing, but nothing will ever be consumed.
There are seven elements. Four are purely material; the
fifth, ether, is semi-material, while aura and spirit are in-
visible. Four are fully manifested: Earth, representing
primordial matter; water, referring to the realm of soul, the
connecting link between spirit and matter; fire, representing
the realm of spirit; air, alluding to space. Each element
may ~e considered from a variety of aspects. Each element
constitutes a world of its own, with its own inhabitants
called the elementary spirits of nature; and by a combina~
THE DOMINION OF MIND
tion of these elements under various conditions, an endless
variety of forms is produced. These elements are only dif-
ferent rates of vibration, all sent out from primordial sub-
stance, which is the only element that has inherent motion;
everything else has motion transferred from universal sub-
stance.
There are fotir atmospheres; each has its sun, and each
belongs to its counterpart in man. We may inhale ether;
but opening still more the interior powers, we breathe in
aura. The door of each is opened by the key of desire,
purity, intuition and inspiration. The first of these atmos-
pheres, air with the sun, belongs to the physical body.
Second, the ether magnetic light, astral light, which be-
longs to the soul. Third , aura with the spiritual sun for
the center, belongs to the spiritual part of our nature .
Fourth, the celestial. Man is an epitome of the universe,
therefore these elements and atmospheres belong to him, and
when he knows the laws he can use them as he wills.
All the elements are different states of vibration of one
primordial element. Fire is simply a mode of motion . The
fire that burns is not the element of fire. You can never
see the life of the fire, for it is invisible. Fire is simply a
mode of motion which produced air; and air, condensed,
produced moisture which made water; and air and water
fused together by fire produced earth. An element is noth-
ing but soul, which is the life of all things. The elements
are all of an invisible nature. We see only the body of the
element, the outer manifestation. The four elements con-
tain vital essences which permeate every atom of the uni-
verse. The sun is the king of the fire. The moon is the
queen of the water.
There are seven planes of consciousness to correspond
with the seven elements. These seven planes of conscious-
ness, instead of being arrangd one after the other, are in
reality in a circle. We pass from one to the other. The
animal perception draws the mind towards gross ma:tter,
the world that has given it birth; true psychic perception
draws the mind towards the soul realm; and spiritual per-
ception rises to the universal. From the atom to the highest
manifestation there is intelligence to a certain degree; but
THE DOMINION OF MIND 43
only in man does it develop into a consciousness of its in-
telligence.
In the mineral world, life assumes ·the form of a tiny
crystal which attracts to itself, as a center, particles like
itself, and grows by accretion, or addition to the outer . The
!Heat laws of attraction, cohesion and affinity are active in
the microscopic interior point of life, showing divine in-
telligence at work. In the vegetable world a point is gained
which is a little in advance of the mineral. Life is here
enabled to function on a higher plane or state. The rootlet
shoots out in search of the life necessary for its growth; it
obeys the law of gravitation which holds it to the earth,
from whence it draws its nourishment. Then a stem ap-
pears above the soil and begins to obey the higher law of
aspiration, which draws it upw,ard into the air and sunlight,
where it expands and puts forth leaves, buds and blossoms.
But life has still higher flights to make, and the animal
organism is developed by the same great law; first in the
lower animal, in reptile, beast, bird, and lastly man. Life
in its development of degrees constructs a brain which is
capable of responding to thought waves. Thou ght uses a
finer element of life than sound or light. And from this
point in growth begins a new chapter in the history of crea-
tion. This, briefly, is the story of the evolution of life.
The one fundamental law is the radical union of ultimate
essences, from the highest to the lowest-one life pervadin g
all.
Substance is that unknown invisible something which may
manifest itself either as matter or force; in other words,
that substratum of all things, which is energy in one of its
aspects , and matter in another . Every conceivable thin g
consists of matter and motion in space. The three are for-
ever one and inseparable .
Alchemy in relation to substance means the science of
guiding the invisible processes of life for the purpose of
obtaining certain results on the material, astral or spiritual
planes . Alchemy is not only a science but an art, for the
power to exercise it may be acquired. You must come into
possession of certain powers before you can be taught how
to use them; you must know what life is, and learn to con-
trol the life processes in your own organism. Chemistry is
44 THE DOMINION OF MIND
not alchemy. Chemistry deals with what is called dead
substance, while Alchemy deals with the principles of life.
The composition or decomposition of a chemical substance
is a chemical process. But the highest Alchemy is the evolu-
tion of a divine being, out of a mortal semi-animal man.
The brain is nourished by the nervous and magnetic
fluids; they are the energies that feed the flame of the
mind. The mind is a magnet which appropriates the forces
according to the nature and intensity of the desire. Every
desire is an attribute of life seeking expression in the world
of form; it governs the development of the mind, and ac-
cording to the quality of the desire will-be the attainment.
We surround ourselves by associations kindred to our yearn-
ings. Your present environment, to a very great degree,
is the result of the forces you have set into action by your
past desires. Intense desire awakens the power to do and
to dare, and will appropriates the power thus evoked and
expends it in the activities of the personal life. Sow kindly
thoughts an<lacts and you will reap their fruition; sow with
seeds of merit the fields of future harvests. Let your de-
sires lead upward, drawing a:bout you all that is beautiful.
See that there is purity of heart, and earnest desire for
truth.
You must learn to guide the invisible processes of life
for the purpose of obtaining certain results on the material
or mental planes. You must come into conscious possess-
sion of certain powers before you can be taught how to use
them; you must learn what life is, and gain power to con-
trol the life processes in your own organism. Every thought,
aspiration, desire and attachment must be so thoroughly
centered on the ideals you seek to attain that nothing can
cause you to swerve from the purpose. Watch your
thoughts, aspirations, desires and attachments, and see if
you can be turned aside from the path you have chosen.
If you swerve at all, swing back at once. Put earnestness
and energy into everything you do. The pathway of prog-
ress is often obstructed by apathy. You may receive an
impulse of a high and pure quality, but unless you put physi-
cal and mental energy into your work, it will lack the essen-
tial elemept of the practical. This state of apathy which
so many are living in, not only obstructs the currents of in-
THE DOMINION OF MIND 45
spiration in themselves, but the magnetism of apathy which
flows from them paralyzes the atoms of energy in other
organisms, and thu!: hinders the progress of the race.
The great powers of nature which advance upon the field
of human life, advance with so much mildness in their force
that you will apprehend gradually that they have taken
possession of you; and you will discover, as time goes on,
that these forces have flowed into your bosom with hope
where there was despair, delight where there was grief, full-
ness where there was loss. In the conviction of power that
comes upon us we feel that this over abundance of moral,
intellectual and corporeal vigor which we radiate is to be
distributed among the organic forms of men and women
that have less of it; we perceive also that we should know
all that can be known about the laws and forces of our
being, that he may make this knowledge useful; for we
find that in all knowledge there is power to serve, and suc-
cor and release.
The man who would make the highest attainment must
become identified with the world's progressive movement
and give himself freely for the good of the race. The
rightful answerings to all important problems will not be
found in lofty contemplation and abstract knowledge, but
among the common things of life itself. The man who
would become wise must accept the responsibilities of his
position anrl keep in sympathetic touch with humanity.
Every man owes to the world the duty to serve according to
the measure of his best abilitv . And he who bends his
powers to lifting the load and· sharing the burdens of the
many, will unite his forces with the central power of the
universe.
There are those who have drawn themselves away from
the life movement of the race, and plunged into the abyss
of abstraction with an eagerness to gain for themselves the
riches that lie hidden there, and to wrap themselves in the
robe of proud intellectualism, without respect to the burden
of sorrow that enthralls mankind . But the possession of
true knowledge draws man nearer to man, and identifies
those who think with those who toil. It becomes the office
of the truly wise to consecrate their gifts to the useful serv-
THE DOMINION OF MIND
ice of all, and to infuse the light of their wisdom into the
minds of the unawakened.
The man of true power is he who invokes the living
streams of life, which descend from the hills of universal
nature , and compels them to flow through the barren plains
and waste places of earth, as well as through peaceful and
fertile valleys where golden harvests wave. Let us not dam
up the currents of energy that inflow to us, for in the great
reservoir of nature is the essence of all power; and while
reaching up with one hand to receive the gifts that are
bountifully bestowed, let us ever extend the other to those
in the darkness, that they, too, may become conscious of
the deeper realities and receive a foregleam of the higher
de5tiny that awaits them. If we close up the avenues of
our mind through which flow the magnetic streams from
the mysterious deeps, the waters of life will become stagnant
within us. If our life be truly in touch with the omnipotent
supply, there need be no fear of exhausting our forces; the
streams that branch out from the clear fountain of wisdom
will ever enlarge as they flow; the currents will grow deeper
and broader as they blend with other streams from the same
sources of life, finally forming the wide and deep rivers
which carry the burden of many a frail bark, whose white
sails would never have been unfurled to the breeze and the
heavens but for the brooklets that flow from perennial
sources back there in the mountains.
THE DOMINION OF MIND 47
CHAPTER V.
ENTERING THE INNER WORLD OF THOUGHT.
Banish fear and invoke the spirit of courage to give you
strength in the hour of trial. Fear is the canker worm of
happiness. It steals away man's better judgment and
makes him cringe and crawl. There is nothin g to fear. Th e
worst that can happen is death; and death we have no
reason to fear when we learn that the mind is free in its
omniscience. The real self is an inseparable part of that
life which extends from the everlasting to the everlastin g.
To this self there is no disease or misfortune, no pain or
sorrow. It is untouched by the wreck of matter and the
crash of worlds. Beyond the cloudland and shadows is the
real self, which· cannot be affected by anything we do or
leave undone. Place your reliance there.
Enter the silence and come face to face with the Infinite
Power. Th ere you will find the sanctuary where the divine
and human blend. There you will find a refuge from the
world's tumult and will gain strength to go forth with a
living power which will drive from you all that is morbid
or weak. Then you will realize that you already dwell in
eternity, in the real, and that the dazzling dream you have
had of the future, in some mystical world beyond the skies,
may be realized here and now. Then every sense will be-
come alive to the beauties and realities of the eternal pres-
ent. Then you will know that every tree and plant and
flower, the ocean and the vaulted heaven, as well as every
human being, live in the radiance of Divine Love, Truth
and Goodness. And when you feel this to be true, there is
no limit to the power you may draw to you for the accom-
plishment of the things desired .
The symbol of the serpent has an important place in the
magical lore of Egypt, and in the sacerdotal mysteries of all
oriental lands. It -was also used as a sacred emblem by the
primitive races of America and is a prominent figure among
THE DOMINION OF MIND
the surviving works of the Mound Builders. The serpent
has been used as a symbol to represent many things, and
among others it has always represented life. The serpent
in the form of a circle, holding its tail in its mouth, repre-
sents the beginning and end of all things. In Egypt the
Astral Light is represented by the serpent. Mystics always
see in the serpent a symbol of the great first cause. The
serpent represents the spirit and the highest vibrations.
Also just the opposite, matter ever changing, throwing off
the old and taking on the new. The change is always of
thf' outward form only, while the inner remains the same.
When you fully understand the operation of the creative
force in its dual manifestation-the positive and negative,
electric anq magnetic, centrifugal and centripetal, symbol-
ized in the male and female-and' the primal cause of this
manifestation, the mysterious and all-potent magnet which
resides in the invisible focal center of every form, you will
begin to awaken to a realization of the occult significance
of the elixir of life. The same force that went into the
physical operation to generate your body, must be trans-
muted. Then there will be perfect control over self and
consequent illumination. Life force must be transmuted;
if not it becomes a dead weight. Let the fire kindle, but
bring it up into the highest. As the upward, spiritual
growth increases, we stand on reason and intellect; and
reaching up, seek the Divine.
Light comes from two sources: First, the physical sun,
but back of that is the real sun, whose rays you perceive in
the astral light. That comes out of the universal; and the
moment it touches you, it becomes individualized, and for
the time being ceases to be universal. The solar fluid is
the light, and as long as it is held in the individual it is not
free. Developed souls attract this solar light. The Uni-
versal Light is ever existent, and is the cause of the astral
light. The Infinite dwells in the Universal Light, which is
inaccessible, and from which the astral light proceeds. In
the ordinary solar light we see objective things; but in the
astral light we see the causes of everything that exists.
Everyone who grows truly into the spiritual has a revela-
tion as by fire, an experience of intense light. When we
find the divine within us, it is a consuming fire, which
THE DOMINION OF MIND 49
always burns upward, never outward. Frequently the awak- ~
ening comes through great sorrow, though not always. You
will know when you have been born again, because the
fires of your mind and life will always burn upward. Your
attachments will not be to people as they were. You will
not desire things as you did; but all desires and aspirations
will go upward to the source from whence they came. All
running after wealth, fame, beauty, marriage, is in reality
a blind search for the divine. You feel there fa something
lacking, something that would increase your happiness, and
you fondly imagine it is to be found on the material plane.
Everything culminates however in the one great love, the
love of the ideal, the love of truth. Think of truth, long
for it, speak of it and you will know it.
The perpetuity of our individual selfhood is maintained
by an eternal process of living and dying, assimilating and
consuming, building and destroying. The outer dies daily
and the inner becomes manifest. The secret of eternal
youth is found in equipoise, the wise balance between growth
and decay. At the central point, in the inmost sanctuary of
the soul, is enthroned the divine self in which exists the
potentiality of all that the universe contains; and every
soul that has been awakened yearns to manifest the power
which it feels within.
When you are disturbed by the apparent failure 'of your
efforts to accomplish certain results, whether for health, for
success in some special work or for harmony with environ-
ment, sit quietlx at the same time for thirty minutes every
day. Relax· your whole being and ask for guidance from
the inner voice. At first the impressions may be vague and
confused with the distracted thoughts of your overwrought
mind. By persistent effort and holding with steadfast faith
in a guiding power, peace will come; harmony will be es-
tablished between the inner and outer self, and the human
soul will be restored to normal condition.
If you believe in prayer and will pray with absolute faith
that the Divine Power will solve your problem, you will
find immediate peace and will be guided and directed in
ways of health and happiness.
Learn to live in the moment. The troubles and uncer-
tainties of life contract your being to a mere point, to a
50 THE DOMINION OF MIND
mere moment. Numberless wants, like a shoreless ocean,
bring despair to look at them. Concentrate your whole
life on the undoubted duty of the moment, and, as for the
future, fall asleep on the bosom of the Infinite.
Prayer will never be made effective in our lives until we
feel the need of it and for the Infinite. The best things in
life come to us when we surrender our will to the Infinite.
Prayer or affirmation, made in perfect faith for guidance
should take the place of fretful pleadings. We should live
continually in the spirit of prayer and aspiration for some-
thing higher and better than we have realized.- We should
cultivate the mood of trust by recalling the past when the
way seemed dark and uncertain, but things worked out for
our highest good.
Things work by natural law. Primitive man thought
everything not understood was the work of magic.
Phenomena which some call miracles are the result of subtle
and higher laws which the mind cannot understand. We
cannot set aside or change natural laws, but we can utilize
and combine forces controlled by law and produce results
which the forces by themselves would not accomplish.
We are very slow to recognize our own weakness, our own
faults, as long as we can lay the blame upon another. Men
in general lay all the blame of their misfortune on their
fellow men; or that failing, say it is fate . We determine
our own fate. None else has the blame. The wind is blow-
ing all the time; those vessels whose sails are unfurled , go
forward on their way. These which have their sails furled
do not catch the wind. Universal Mind is open to every-
one, at all times, in all places, under all conditions, unfail-
ing, unswerving. Upon us depends how we use it. Upon
us depends how we work it out. When you find yourself
suffering, blame yourself, and try to do better. Stand up,
be bold, be strong. Take the whole responsibility on your
shoulders; know that you are the creator of your own des-
tiny .
The ever living spirit within is constantly pointing us to
a deeper realization of the perfect principle of being and
leading us into closer and more vital relations with the In-
finite Life. The voice within is the conscious ever living
spirit telling us that there is only One Life of the Universe,
THE DOMINION OF MIND 51
and in this pure and all-pervading presence we live and
move and have our being. As we draw nearer to the source
of life we will hear for ourselves the "voice of the spirit."
We will have more faith in the divineness of the world and
of man, and realize that we will never be left guideless in
the dark or unled by the eternal light. Then, truly, prayer
will be no longer expressed in words, but will be as a yearn-
ing so great that, like deep music, there can be no words
wherewith to measure it, but only the breathless unspoken
speech of the soul in conscious touch with the Infinite.
With that old insatiable passion of the soul, we long for
the joys of life, so soon taken from us; long for the divine
call to youth and love; long for the inspiration and zeal
that brooks no interference and heeds no obstacles; but it
comes to us again only as a vague wandering voice, the call
of the unknown, the promise of the unfulfilled. We thirst
for that invisible mystery whose voice floats above the
shadows of the world, and we would drink again at the
fountain of high beliefs and unwavering faith.
THE PRAYER OF THE MYSTIC.
Laid on Thine altar, 0 my Lord Divine,
Accept my gift this day for truth's sweet sake.
I have no jewels to adorn Thy shrine,
Nor any world famed sacrifice to make.
But here I bring within my trembling hand
This will of mine-a thing that seemeth small;
But only Thou, sweet Lord, canst understand
How, when I yield Thee this, I yield mine all.
Hidden therein, Thy searching eye canst see
Struggles of passion, visions of delight,
Fond hopes, longings infinite.
It hath been wet with tears and dimmed with sighs,
Till strength and love and beauty it hath none.
Now take, 0 Father , ere my courage fail,
And merge it so in Thy sweet will,
That e'en if in some desperate hour
THE DOMINION OF MIND
My cry prevail and Thou give hack my gift,
It may have been so changed, so purified,
So fair have grown, so one with Thee,
So filled with peace divine, I may not know it
As my own, but gaining back my gift
May find it Thine.
Nothing is lasting-nothing is permanent; there is birth
and death, and there is pain and passing joy. Everywhere
there is a deep unrest, and a craving which cannot be satis-
fied. Nothing in the world can give permanent satisfaction
except the finding of truth. But be would reach the goal
where truth abides, must first learn to destroy the ~.:!parate
self. For truth leads to the kingdom of happiness, where
separateness is forgotten and each knows himself to be one
with all that lives. The path of separateness leads to sor-
row and pain, and to those fleeting joys which men call life.
He that would reach the kingdom of happiness where
truth abides must learn to sacrifice self and to follow the
inner voice, the intuition, which is the only guide. If you
would do great things-if you would create greatly and live
nobly, you must enter the kingdom of truth. And to do that
you must find yourself; and until you have found yourself,
there can be no peace, no tranquility, no contentment, but
innumerable terrors driving you to your goal. The voice of
truth is ever calling, ever insistent, and the more earnestly
you listen to that voice, the greater will be your nobility,
the greater your strength . When once you drink at the
fountain of wisdom, it will keep you eternally young and
joyous, because you will know all, and the sense of separate-
ness, which is the destroyer of truth, will be annihilated.
Imagination in its application to reason is genius. Imag-
ination is actually as the eye of the soul, and it is therein
that forms are delineated and preserved. By its means we
behold the reflections of the invisible world. It is the mir-
ror of visions and the apparatus of magical life. Thereby
we cure disease and ward off death from the living, be-
cause this faculty exalts the will and gives it power over the
universal agent. Imagination gives wings to contagion. It
bas a mighty power, and it is very important that you un-
derstand this fact. The imagination must be trained and
THE DOMINION OF MIND 53
exalted to image only the highest. The underst:,mding and
will of man have great power and capacity when submerged
in the Divine Will, and the imagination is a faculty to be
used by them. What we call imagination is the inherent
faculty of the soul to assimilate to itself the images and re-
flections contained in the astral light. The soul has the
power to do this, and this is the modus operandi of all
visions.
All forms correspond to ideas, and there is no idea with-
out its proper and individual form. Imagination will bring
you into most intimate relationship with the invisible realm
of cause. It will take you beyond the confines of the phys-
ical and connect you with the infinite storehouse of wisdom
and power. The physical eyesight is necessarily limited in
its range. But imagination opens the door to the inner
world of thought. It reveals to the quickened .vision the
truth and beauty of the universe . The imagination recog-
nizes no possible barriers . It annihilates space and time.
It peoples the mental world with bright creations of fancy,
where it roams at will.
The one who has faith in himself, in his star or his des-
tiny, will attain to a greater relative success than the one
who rejects the finer impulses and is governed mainly by the
crude physical senses. Every great achievement is the re-
sult of a keen perception , a vivid imagination and unwaver-
ing faith . The one who gains a great success, first sees with
"the mind's eye" the possibility of attaining his ideals, de-
sires and plans . He has faith in the invisible world of ele-
ment and power. He makes use of his will to control and
direct the superior thought forces and agencies which re-
spond to his positive command . One who has a belief and
trust in his ventures will assume greater responsibilities than
the man who hesitates through doubt, uncertainty and fear.
And having faith in himself, man will attract greater confi-
dence and courage with every step of advancement. Every
abstacle conquered stimulates the imagination and awakens
new life and power.
To attract things desired, to rise above adversity and sub-
due opposing influences, you must have the power to center
your mind and direct your thoughts with unwavering con-
fidence. You must be able to overlook all barriers and im-
54 THE DOMINION OF MIND
agine yourself as attaining the goal. You must have the
faith and confidence of youth, with the wisdom and strength
of age. With the imagination you may explore the world of
ideas and attract the thought you need. Knowing that you
are one with the Supreme, you may reach out into the un-
known, and by the magic of sincere desire call to you the
things you ,;eek.
Deep in the human consciousness is enthroned the self
that is independent of space and time. That self is an in-
separable part of the Infinite. It is the sanctuary where the
divine and human blend. Entering there with earnest de-
sire and nobility of purpose, you may invoke the power
which will aid you to realize your yearnings. The threshold
of this inner realm is carefully guarded, and none shall enter
except through worthiness and effort.
By freeing yourself from the shadow of doubt and fear,
by having faith in the wisdom and justice of the Infinite
Law, by keeping ever before you the light of high ideals,
you may rise superior to every influence of adversity, con-
quer the instincts of heredity, prolong life and reach the
goal of every worthy ambition.
There are times when our thoughts reach beyond the or-
dinary plane of material existence and enter a realm of en-
chantment. We have all felt the influence of a superior
force surging within us. We felt the possibility of achiev-
ing greatness. Then the pressure of duty and necessity
called us back to the commonplace, the vision faded and
the power ebbed. This inspirational function may be de-
veloped and encouraged by training the imagination . It
would be well to frequently recall the visions you have had
during the past inspirational moments when faith and love
gave courage and confidence. Think of your past successes
and failures, think of your joys and sorrows, and study the
cause of past pleasure and pain. Every experience of life,
whether of happiness or sorrow, whether of loss or gain, has
been the result of forces you have consciously or uncon-
sciously attracted and used. Having reviewed' the past,
study your relation to the present. Measure yourself and
see where you are tending. And do not forget that by your
thoughts and acts you are weaving the web of your destiny.
This analysis of the iµner world of mind will give you a
THE DOMINION OF MIND 55
glimpse of the future and enable you to direct the course
of your life to the haven of success and happiness.
To preserve yourself from bad influences, the first con-
dition is to forbid any over-excitement to the imagination.
Get yourself above fears and vague desires; believe in su-
preme goodness and wisdom. To attain serenity you must
believe in the harmony of natural laws. This faith will
prevent ycu from anticipating evil and being vexed by
things which you cannot avoid. What appears irregular to
us is often the result of forces which we cannot control until
we understand the cause, and then we will know that those
things which seemed adverse were for our ultimate good.
If we practice this we shall find the great secret of resig-
nation. Never disturb yourself by the apprehension of
evil, for what you may call evil which may overtake you,
will never be stronger than the power you will have given
you for protection. Never surrender yourself wholly to
pleasure. While pleasure exists for us, we are not made for
it. Let us be humble, and never imagine that we are great
because we possess a great knowledge, or have profound
thoughts. Always remember that a single dewdrop reflects
all the glories of a beautiful day, yet nothing thereof belongs
to it, and it is thus with our souls; the sun drinks the dew,
and the Infinite can absorb all of our intelligence and genius.
All we have is loaned to us.
Never be overcome by human attachments. Love becomes
a glory when it is universal. Never leave the performance
of your own duties to Providence. The treasures of earth
are embarrassments and never satisfy their owner. The
vulture of Prometheus returns unceasingly to enlarge the
void in the heart of man who is chained to the rock of
power ; for the more he is elevated' above others the more
lonely-he is, and Divine Wisdom presses with an infinite
weight on the isolation of pride. Keep yourself humble,
and never lose your child heart. Do your duty for the pres-
ent, and fear nothing for the future. Be happy when hap-
piness offers itself, as if you had but one day to live, pro-
vided you find happiness in the satisfaction of legitimate
desires. If you wish to have no apprehension for the mor-
row, do not forget today, as good actions are the seeds of
fµtl.jre happiness. Obey the law1 forestall duty, but never
56 THE DOMINION OF MIND
endure slavery. We may be silent in the face of oppression,
but never swerve from our highest idea of right and truth.
Have respect for everyone's honest conviction. Break not
forcibly the yoke of any soul that rejoices in its folly. The
light shines for all men ; but all have the right to open or
shut their eyes as may please them. Ever keep in mind that
the passive nature of the soul is the only means whereby
the active spirit of divinity can manifest itself, and upon
this depends the unfoldment.
.Let fear be unknown to the heart. You may pass throu gh
troublous times, but fear not. The heart must not falter nor
the courage fail because of anything that threatens. Be
strong, but be quiet , calm, self-possessed. Live not in the
realm of sense, but in the realm of soul, of spirit, and the
Infinite will lead you safely through all adverse experiences
to the goal of gladness and peace.
THE DOMINION OF MIND 57
CHAPTER VI.
ATTAINING INDIVIDUAL SUPREMACY.
When man learns his own inherent nature he gains power
to open his prison doors and escapes from his bondage, like
the free bird of heaven, which he really is. First he learns
that he can rise above the body and its passions into a pure
mental and moral life; it is then that he learns that the
body cannot hold him a prisoner, and he unlocks the door
and steps out into the sunshine of his true life. Man is .a
god who is united, through his carnal tendencies, to an ani-
mal nature. The god who dwells within him endows him
with wisdom, the animal endows him with force. As man
carries with him this divine consciousness it is his task to
raise himself above his animal tendencies, and overcome
them by the help of the divine principle within, a task which
the animal cannot achieve.
If each developed within himself the powers of his own
soul, instead of drifting about aimlessly,_ or ignorantly
plunging into dangerous practices, knowledge might safely
be accumulated and the evolution of the soul accelerated.
We crowd the currents in space with the offspring of our
fancies, desires, impulses and passions; and these increasing
in number act on us with ever increasing force, until our
mental life becomes dominated bv these forms held in our
magnetic atmosphere, gradually debasing the man who in-
dulges in selfish and low thoughts, until the mind becomes
less susceptible to the pure rays of the Divine Ego; while
the generous, helpful, elevating thoughts gather around the
man who gives birth to such thoughts, and he finds himself
surrounded by influences of a high order.
When the spiritual man has gained control of the psychic,
intellectual and animal man, he is called a master, and all
the qualities of these different realms are his servants.
When the desire to pursue the study of the occult or hid-
den forces of nature is awakened it marks a stage of de-
58 THE DOMINION OF MIND
velopment, and will not be silenced; the student is driven
to search, and can find no rest except in the highest and in-
most recesses of his own soul. The master in the sanctuary
of the soul is the Higher Self, the Divine Spirit, whose con- ·
sciousness is ba$ed upon and derived from the mind, which
is called the human soul. It is this human personal soul
that suffers, .and is in danger of being dragged down by the
lower animal soul. It is only when animal desire has been
entirely conquered and brought into subjection, that the
master self can vibrate in conscious harmony with both
poles of the human entity. Then the man of matter, puri-
fied, !ind the ever pure spiritual soul-which is called the
vehicle of the spirit-becomes merged into and one with the
Divine Ego.
Sow kindly thoughts and acts and you will reap their fru-
ition. Sow with seeds of merit the fields of future harvests.
Accept the experiences of life cheerfully. Follow the wheel
of duty to all mankind; give light and comfort to all who
seek; and see that there is purity qf heart and sincere desire
for truth, with no taint of selfishness. Seek truth for the
love of it, and not for any personal benefit that may arise.
The chains forged around the Ego by illusion are only to be
melted in the fire of universal love.
Train yourself to cease desiring the changeable. Desire
only the eternal. Stop seeking for knowledge and seek for
wisdom. Think less and feel more. When you find the
center where feeling is, you will find the source of all human
power. The center is a sun which will illuminate your mind.
To find this center you must practice concentration and
meditation; and there must be purity of purpose and de-
sire. Your surroundings should be quiet and congenial, and
if possible you must have a place where you can be alone.
Every center of force in the body has a different vibration.
By the suffering of the outer the inner is set free. Intensity
of feeling and intensity cf purpose will help to liberate you.
The mind should be brought into a state of supremacy so
you will not be affected by anything that occurs. Even the
thought of death should have no power to affect you. This
supremacy of mind once attained, peace will come, never to
depart. You will rise into a new atmosphere, and there can
p.ever a~ain be ~arkn~~:,. Y04 should l;>e
master of ~11e~q-
THE DOMINION OF MIND 59
tions. You must not cling to anything which hinders the
divine consciousness from being manifested. Your mind
can never be inspired until you have risen above the effects
of lower thought.
The following affirmation should be repeated daily as long
as you feel it helps you:
I will hold steadfast to high ideals.. I will use every power
and faculty of body and mind to establish the environment
which will enahle me. to fulfill my highest destiny .. I will
recognize no obstacle, no possible barrier which may stand
in the way. Though frrcsent realization may fail, I will be
patient t!trough c·very trial. I ·will hold with unwavering
confidence to the desires of my heart. My will is unyield-
ing. My command is law. I will cringe before none. I am
a child of the Infinite. It is my birthright to have every
blessing. from this day I shall manifest health, happiness
and prosperity.. All my yearnings for the good and true
shall be realized.. Wisdom guides me. Love enfolds me.
Peace dwells in my lteart.
Much is said about atonement, which is unification with
the Infinite. This should be the aim and object of all men,
as it is of all true religion. To become reunited with the
center is to enter the real, and to become divine. This pro-
cess of regeneration and unification is taught in all the reli-
gions of the East; and although the whole Christian religion
is based upon this truth, it is neverthel,ess misunderstood by
modei;n Christians, who expect to obtain salvation rather
through the merit of another than by their own exertiop.
To understand the process of regeneration and unification
requires an understanding of the real nature of man, and
his relation to nature. What is nature but the external
coating of an internal creative power? The whole of nature
can be nothing else but a thought of the Infinite, having
been thrown into objectivity and grown into forms accord-
ing to the law of evolution. All that is of a phenomenal
nature is transient and impermanent, in contra-distinction
to the real and permanent, and refers to form and outward
::ippearance, and it must be recognized as illusion. You
should look well to the foundation principles.
In the present condition of the universe we have a fortu-
nate and unfortunate prana, a happy and unhappy mind.
00 THE DOMINION OF MIND
In considering these two to be four, the number of the.prin-
ciples of the human constitution may be raised from five to
seven. The unhappy intelligences of the one plane ally
themselves with the unhappy ones of the other, and the
happy ones with the happy. Thus we have in the human
constitution an arrangement of principles something like the
following:
Fir8t, the gross body. Second, the unhappy prana. Third,
the unhappy mind. Fourth, the happy prana. Fifth, the
happy mind. Sixth, the soul. Seventh, the spirit.
Both sets of these powers, the blessed and the unhappy,
work upon the same plane; but the blessed manifestations
tend gradually towards a state of being in which the down-
ward tendencies of the mind die out, and the mind remains
merged in the soul. This is what you are seeking; but the
state is not reached until the higher powers are induced in
the mind by purification and high aspirations. As the mind
becomes strengthened by prayer and meditation, it acquires
divine powers, while the unhappy tendencies die out. The
second and third principles, unhappy prana and unhappy
mind, are consumed by the fire of divine knowledge, and the
state of what is called salvation in life is attained. Finally
the fourth principle, the happy prana, becomes neutral, and
the soul passes into a higher state, and still higher it may
gµ, according to the intensity of its aspirations.
By the manifestation of Egoism on the mental plane, the
soul is often deluded into regarding itself as a slave of the
second and third ,principles, the unhappy prana and the
unhappy mind; but this is not true, and as soon as the
chord of Egoism is slackened to a certain extent, the awak-
ening takes place, and the soul discovers it is a separate
thing from the mind, and is the lord of the mind. Then
instead of the soul being tossed by mental vibrations, the
mind must vibrate in obedience to the desires of the soul.
Is your soul togsed this way and that, in obedience to the
vibrations of the mind? Measure yourself and see where
you are drifting, for by your thoughts and act5 you weave
the web of your de5tiny. See to it that the mind comes
to coincide with the soul, and that the soul remains free in
its omniscience. Have you reached this stage?
Oh Fatherhood/ 0 Motlrerhoodl Spirit of Divine Love,
THE DOMINION OF MIND 61
the Two in ()ne! Absorb me in the quenchless glory of Thy
Immortality. Illuminate my being with the light, and let me
evermore abide in Thee and find in Thee my soul's com-
pleteness.
When you have reached the higher apathy, the mind has
become polarized, so that if sent out by the soul into active
lifo it remains unmoved under any or all conditions; but the
mind cannot reach this condition without the polarity of the
soul; this means fixedness of purpose. To be spiritually
polarized, every thought, aspiration, desire and attachment
must be so thorou ghly ·centered on the fixed star of truth
that nothing external can affect you, no experience of the
outer man or outer world. Polarity includes duality of
principle, Love and Wisdom, and the union of the two in
one. Watch your thoughts, aspirations, desires and at-
tachments, and see if your mind can be diverted from the
center of truth. If you swerve at all, swing back at once.
When you retire for silent meditation you must try to
forget that you are on this little planet we call the earth.
Think of yourself as being at the center of the universe;
here you will receive light and wisdom. The Infinite Spirit
is Omnipresent. Its power surrounds every atom, pervades
every entity; and there is no point throughout the realm of
boundless space more central and more important than the
sacred flame that rises from the altar of your inmost being.
The energy that is written in the sky, that is penciled in the
rose and sparkles in the stars, vibrates within your being
and flows through every nerve. Throughout the reons to
come you can approa ch no nearer the "great white throne"
than now, for "the kingdom of heaven is within," and the
flame th;,.t illumines your soul is kept burning by the fire of
divine love.
The universal life principle forms an ocean, and in this
ocean we float, like fish in the sea. When you possess the
divine natural respiration, this new atmosphere will be more
fully recognized, and it will fill every avenue of your life
with fulness. This new breathing is the center of all the
circumference of your life. Natural atmosphere affects the
tissues irrespective of any moral qualities whatever; but the
new breath wars against disease, expels the evils of heredity,
calms the .mind and preserves the life. To prove that you
62 THE DOMINION OF MIND
have this inner breath, you must know from within that you
have a sense of peace that you cannot have without it. This
new respiration must be twofold; it must breathe you out to
the Infinite, and breathe the Infinite into you. The awak-
ened soul finds itself wanting to go back, like a child to its
mother, to rest; and as you meet the inflowing breath of the
Infinite and it unites with the spark within, you will never
forget the joy; for when the breath within meets the breath
from without, the divine marriage is celebrated, and the
two are one, never to be separated.
Reason, at first rude and untaught, has become radiant
and crowned with jeweled thoughts as beautiful and vast as
the sky of stars. Affection, once narrow and selfish, has
grown to a love and sympathy that is broad and true. Man's
marvelous skill in the fine arts, his wondrous handic rafts ,
his magic power and mastery in every department of nature ,
together with his trained reason and the maturity of his
heart and conscience, rightly place him on a height far up
on the road of attainment.
One of the most potent principles operating to purify and
elen.te huma.nity is the influence of love. It is love that
lightens the burdens of life and animates to ceaseless toil.
Love lights the eyes with an unfading lustre and paints the
cheeks with a magnetic glow. The spirit of love that throbs
in every human heart enables man to see some ray of light
in thf"mind of the most ignorant, some gleam of hope in the
bosom of the most depraved. The man who is dominated
by the spirit of love is like the magnet to fragments of steel;
his tboughts are deep and pure; his words are like the music
of a stream.
We look up into the heavens at night and behold the
countless worlds moving with magical equilibrium through
boundless space, held in their appointed place by the law of
attraction, which is another name for love. We look about
us and see in all nature a manifestation of the silent and
ceaseless power of love, expressing itself in every blade of
grass, giving symmetry and beauty to every tree and plant
and flower.
In all animate creation below the race of human beings
there is the guiding presence of an instinct whose monitions
are unerringly followed by the 1.1ntaughtcreatures of earth.
THE DOMINION OF MIND
We see a manifestation of this presence in the active life of
the bee as it ·gathers honey from flowers in distant fields and
returns in a straight course to its native hive. We see this
presence manifested in the .migratory instinct of birds as
they come and go with the changing seasons of the year.
The carrier pigeon, when freed from captivity, rises and
circles in the air and takes an undeviating flight to its native
home.
There is a voice within which makes itself heard above
the heated centers of commercial life, above the din and
noise of the clashing streets. It is that wordless voice which
whispers from the inmost depths of the heart's sanctuary;
it is that all-pervading interior light which has lighted man's
·way through the passing centuries. To one who listens, it
will make cf life a song; to one who accepts this light as
guide, his career will be a symphony. It is a faculty of per-
ception in the mind which gives one a knowledge not taught
by the academies, reveals truths unknown to scholastic sys-
tems, gives culture without the college, and endows the
mind with wisdom and power. This silent voice, this in-
expressible light, is the highest heritage of humanity. Those
who persistently ignore it and refuse to cultivate it, grow
tired of the years, grow tired of the world, grow old and die.
Those who cherish the light and follow its monitions are
continually renewed from the invisible sources and are given
,,trength to go on with their work and their life, and to pass
from victory to victory. Regarded faithfully, it reveals the
secret of life and indicates destiny's crown. It continually
whispers in subdued tones, "this is the way, come up
higher." It is the one infailible oracle and trustworthy
guide to ways of righteousness and peace. Let nothing on
earth blind you to the interior light and take from you its
leadings. What the world needs is to have this light in-
creased; to inculcate the ideal, to manifest the harmonies
of a nobler and better existence.
Call it what you will-intuition, intellect; conscience,
wisdom, or the dictates of reason-words fail to describe its
attributes. It is nevertheless a presence that is felt by all
at times, and is never absent from the heart where hope
dwells. Where pure life glows, where reason's torch bums
brightest, where truth has its home, and love its shrine,
THE DOMINION OF MIND
there the invisible presence abides; and no harm will come
to those who walk in the shadow of its radiance ; no fatality
can lurk in their hearts , no misfortune attencr their destiny;
for the rays of this light will penetrate and purify the mind
and heart, and its hidden fire will consume all dross.
If you have been given power, use it to help, not to dis-
courage, your fellowman. If you have been given discern-
ment of mind, use it not to belittle those of less favored
growth . You must come in contact with every class and
condition of society, every element and stratum of the in-
habited world. Must feel as each feels; must see as each
sees; must meei each upon his own level and build thereon
for all mankind. The high and low, the rich and poor, the
learned and unlearned, the good and bad, the refined and
coarse, the master and slave-no living, breathing thing,
but you must help to enlighten, to lift up, to heal. Guard
well your footsteps . Keep a bridle upon your tongue that
it draws no invidious comparisons; that it heaps not greater
burdens upon the struggling fragments of divinity. Be
careful, be watchful, be vigilant, to assist a weary-hearted
brother, even though erring he may be. If you have been
given light, blind not with your light the eyes of one who is
in darkness groping for light; but directing a ray from your
soul's effulgence, speed him a gentle "this way brother." Let
the cause of the. oppressed be your cause; the glad acclaim
of the victor over self be your rejoicing. Let the goal of
your wisdom be Omniscience ; your longing for strength end
in Omnipotence; the shrine of your subtle influence, Omni-
present-all animate creation, your brother; all inanima te
receive benefit from your existence. So shall you honor
your Creator, and fill your allotted place in the universe
of life.
The key to all the joy that bursts upon the planet 's new
born cycle is placed in every hand, and those who seek will
find. The great powers of nature which advance upon the
field of hum:ari thought, advance with so much mildness in
their force that you will apprehend gradually that they have
taken possession of you, and you will discover, as time goes
on, that these forces have flowed into your bosom with hope
where there was despair, delight where there was grief, ful-
ness where there was loss.
THE DOMINION OF MIND 65
In every blade of grass, in every grain of sand, there are
unseen potentialities that whisper of love and truth; but
only the trained spiritual ear can hear the murmurings of
the message from the world which wraps us around. Once
in a while, when our spiritual perceptions are especially
keen, we catch the refrain of those invisible choirs resound-
ing through the sanctuaries of our souls. Time and again
we decipher, through the mist, the flutter of those white
wings of ecstatic dreams that waft the dreamer's soul to
infinite peace.
66 THE DOMINION OF MIND
CHAPTER VII.
SELF -MASTERY THROUGH MEDITATION AND
CONCENTRATION.
Sit in meditation for a few moments every day and wait
in open spirit of receptiveness. Opening the receptive, pas-
sive side of your mental nature toward the invisible world of
thought is in reality the true, the highest and most effective
form of prayer. Within the passive, patient mind there is
voiceless longing and tranquil waiting in full faith and si-
lence to receive the help and guidance needed. The ele-
ments of power in the invisible world must be attracted and
controlled through sympathy and insight and a magnetic
will.
Banish from your mind every thought of material things.
Concentrate upon the center of your body and strive men-
tally to find the position of the heart . At first you will dis-
cover only darkness and unyielding density; but if you per-
severe you will enjoy unspeakable happiness, for the soul
will perceiv':!what it never saw before, the radiance in which
Divinity resides; a spiritual light within the heart and soul.
There is an earthly sun which is the cause of all heat, and
all who are able to see may see this sun; and those who are
blind and cannot sec it may feel its heat . There is an Eter-
nal Sun, which is the source of all Wisdom, and those whose
spiritual senses have awakened will see that sun, and be
conscious of its existence; but those who have not obtained
spiritual consciousness may yet feel its power by an inner
faculty which is called intuition.
What is meditation as compared with concentration? In
real meditation you are not conscious of yourself at all. You
· become absorbed in the universal; but in concentration you
are drawing in your rays so you are all there in the center.
In meditation you can fix your mind on the state of con,,
~!;iQ~spessexpressed in .AUM 1 and you will set ba<;:l~
intg
THE DOMINION OF MIND
the Divine Center within yourself into the Absolute, which
is always invisible and must remain so.
There are two kinds of meditation: concrete and ab-
stract. You have unfolded your consciousness, your mind,
your worldly knowledge, little by little, from the center, and
must now begin to draw in yourself by concentration and
meditation. It is not sleep, or drowsiness; but closing your-
self into the center and being wide awake in that center.
Take the unfolding of a rose as an illustration. How does
it unfold? From the center, petal by petal. Suppose it
wanted to close itself up in the form of a bud; it would
have to draw itself in petal by petal, beginning at the cen-
ter and wrapping all the other petals up close about it, until
they are all gradually rolled up into the tiny bud from which
they came. When you meditate, think of the rose and you
will know how to get back to the creative center. The
nearer you get to the center within, the nearer you will get
to the great center of the Infinite. The moment you get
back into the center you will have perfect peace. Nothing
can touch you as long as you hold yourself actively and
positively centered.
Let us try to cast off the needless ideals that cling to the
imaginings of the physical sense mind, preparatory to enter-
ing the atmosphere and feeling the quickenings of the cause
life, and become accustomed to the inviting radiations which
flow from the source of all life. Let us make preparations
to step over the threshold, leaving the outer world for a
background to reflect a superior state of existence,,never to
return to the old haunts of vanity and vexation of mind;
they have served their use. Let the soul be the dominant,
which if followed without reserve will in time open our lim-
ited consciousness to the All Consciousness.
Before this can be attained every vestige of the outer man
must have lost its claim to dominate the soul, and not until
then shall we be able to inspire fully the spirit essence and
transmute it into thoughts worthy of holding as a beacon
light to hungry souls.
As we take a mental survey of the possibilities open to
each individual, do you not see that it requires decision of
character, first to lay aside all broken idols, all mistakes of
the past committed ignorantly or otherwise? Have we not
68 THE DOMINION OF MIND
learned a lesson from them? If so, they were a necessity to
the soul's unfoldment. To have our present state of being
attuned to obtain a consciousness of the Fountain of Life,
pure as crystal, needs a decision on our part that cannot be
swayed by other minds; and this condition cannot be main-
tained without giving time and attention to living and un-
derlying principles . Whatver we desire to accomplish re-
quires us to make a special effort, and the soul always re-
joices when the victory is attained over the outward mani-
festations of life.
.To arise at the dawn of day, placing yourself in an erect
attitude of mind and' body, with the thought active of wak-
ing out of darkness into spiritual light will open the eyes of
the soul to unexpected visions, saying nothing of the holy
calm in the mental atmosphere at that hour.
There is also great help derived from having your mind
concentrated on your highest ideal of the Fountain of Life
as the twilight shades come stealing on; the gentleness with
which the light is blended with the shade will bring to you
a deep spirit of adoration. ·
Never speak of yourself without listening to the inner
voice to be con"inced whether you are speaking from the
soul or from the sensations. By so doing you will find that
you are being introduced to your inner self; you will come
into a consciousness of that self which does not need to be
trained, but is already perfect and acts spontaneously . The
physical condition is what we need to train, that it may be-
come awakened from its mental dream.
On retiring at night, YOU, the spirit, may quicken the
power of the mind by holding the suggestion that YOU
never sleep, that while your body is taking the necessary
rest for your present condition, YOU are in conscious touch
with the universal realm o_
f thought, and are gathering the
knowledge you most desire, knowledge which will awaken
you to your rightful inheritance, your eternal day. The
method of ensphering yourself with the thought, "I AM
SPIRIT," encloses you in a globe-like sphere of mental
motion which enables you, after shutting out every thought
of care and seeming duty, to sense the mighty vibratory
energies, which if understood and used rightly, will drive
out the physical sensations of discontent, selfishness, hate
THE DOMINION OF MIND
and passion in all their varied forms. Let us unite as stu-
dents of natural law to unfetter the bonds which hold the
mind enslaved: let us become masters, not servants. It is
not the law of being that is out of tune; but our own be-
nighted intellect strnggling with the five senses without a
conscious link to the cause life.
We will present another method of unfolding the soul's
consciousness. Directly after the morning meal, go by
yourself and sit where the sun will shine upon your face
from fifteen minutes to half an hour,, with your mind con-
centrated on your highest ideal. If this is followed while
the chemical action in the digestive function is faithfully
performing its part in building thought, you will soon see
the thought reflected upon the temple in which you dwell.
The meditative state is the highest state of existence.
The anim.ai has its happiness in the senses; but man, in his
intellect and in spiritual contemplation . It is only to the
one who has attained' the contemplative state that the world
really becomes beautiful. By the fixed habit of meditation
and concentration, discerning powers can be developed.
When the mind has overcome the material tendency' to con-
sider diverse objects and begins to be intent upon a single
thing, it has attained meditation. By prolonged medita-
tion you can gain the power to understand the mind of any
sentient human being. The training of the soul conscious-
ness begins with perception, continues with attention and
ends with meditation.
Perception is at first from within outward; and then it
is from the without inward. All external perception fixes
your mind on gross matter. All internal perception at-
tracts the Ego to the invisible world, the world of cause.
The mind loosens its hold on the outer world. Spiritual per-
ception indraws the consciousness and fixes it upon an im-
mova;ble center, and through that the mind becomes illu-
minated.
MEDITATION.
I look upward. Life is richer, love is stronger, truth more
beautiful, nature more wonderful, music sweeter, art diviner,
than I have ever dreamed. An eternal unj olding is going on,
70 THE DOMINION OF MIND
which shows infini!P-wisdom, order, foresight and benefi-
cence. Present discord will glide into the harmony of the
future. I am pressing toward the supreme ideal, which in-
cludes wholeness on every plane. I go into the silence and
open my inner hearing.to the "still small voice." The sanc-
tuary of t;,e soul is the holy of holies, the trysting place of
the divine and human. I hereby bury my negation, weak-
ness, fear, selfishness, and all doubt, under a mountain of
positive, intense living truth. I am perfectly sound in mind
and body. Nothing in the universe can hinder my progress.
I am in loving relation to the universal order. I am peace
in all my environment. I am love, and radiate it every-
where. Goodness is flowing into me. I walk in the spi,rit
and in truth .
Meditation enables the highest quality in every individual
to hold communion with the highest quality in the universe.
Silence continually every desire except the one desire to
achieve mastery over yourself. There are three transmuta-
tions. First, we must transmute the body into mind. Sec-
ond, the mind into soul. Third, the soul· into spirit. To
transmute the body into mind, raise the vibrations by in-
tense desire to know the truth. Sit in contemplation to
raise the vibrations and rid yourself of all anger or wrong
emotior.. If there is one quality in your ·body that does not
belong to the divine and you want to transmute it, you
must apply the same process as when you apply heat to
water to produce steam . Intensity of desire is represented
by fire; the moment that is aflame in you, begin to desire
truth. That is the aspiration of the mind first. That brings
you a step higher, and helps you to transmute the body into
mind. Take this on the physical plane where you live. You
must begin there. Understand the laws controlling that
plane and work up from that to the mind, to the soul, and
into the spiritual. It is only step by step that you can gain
the summit. Do not be discouraged if progress seems slow.
If you become angry, you can by a purely mental process
bring that up and conquer it. At first it may be a purely
mental action; but the effort strengthens the will, and finally
you can rise above the physical. Try to get the idea clearly
fixed in your mind, that there is but One Life; there is but
One Mind; there is but One Spirit. This thought will bring
THE DOMINION OF MIND 7I
you in direct communication with the creative forces. You
must train yourself until you attain this universal conscious-
ness.
The turning point in the history of the Ego is where it
turns from one life and begins to live a new life, or when
it distinguishes itself from the body of mere physical things
and places its independence in a region where no mortal eye
can penetrate . There is a vegetable man who responds to
only a few of bis possibilities . There is the animal man
who knows mentally. And there is the divine man who
turns to the universal.
If we seek rightly we shall have the answer; not in voice
or sound, not in a visible light or guide, but in a calm' re-
vealing to the silent soul, when in a peaceful vacancy of self,
when· the soul only acts and is acted upon by spirit, and
will say to each in spirit, "This is the way, walk ye in it."
This guidance is through intuition, which is a pillar of
cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night, going before us
to conduct our march to the realization of our supreme
good.
We must seek to unlock divine truth from the inner con-
sciousness, as it is all there, waiting to be 1
freed from bond-
age and limitation of body to the demonstration of the
mind's supremacy. Can you dwell upon this theme of in-
finity of power and love? Can you analyze it? Can you
seek to understand it? Can you watch the lilies as they
grow, or the birds as they fly and then contemplate this
wondrous iif~-giving -essence, pervading all and bestowing
upon all the power to act its nature, without realizing that
this power is your life, that it permeates each vital function
of your being, without realizing your entire dependence upon
this power for every breath you draw, for every act you
perform? And ought not that breath be in harmony with
the Divine breath and that act in perfect love?
If you desire to live in harmony and peace with the world,
to be just and kind, to be progressive, prosperous and happy,
keep yourself in sympathetic touch with the Universal
Mind. Its hidden light will make your pathway clear to
the realization ot all that is true and good. Can you not
realize the wonderful possibilities at your command, pa-
tiently awaiting recognition? Within your being are sym-
72 THE DOMINION OF MIND
pathetic chords which should vibrate in response to all the
symphonies of natnre. If there are visions of beauty to
which you are blind, and joyous harmonies you have not
heard, and depths of feeling you have not fathomed, know
this for a certainty, that as you open your mind and heart
to the higher and better influences and place yourself in a
childlike attitude to receive, you will draw nearer to the
bright and beautiful unseen world, and the finer forces of
that world will draw nearer to you.
Keep your mind in the thought of truth and purity, of
health and vigor, and become as a magnet in the proper at-
titude of aspiration to attract the element of finer material.
Every thought or desire to be better, more noble, more re-
fined, every determination to rise above all that is selfish and
sordid, arouses an element of strength which works in you
and through you as a magnetic current of ever increasing
power. You will gradually cut off the undesirable thought
currents from inferior minds and will bring yourself in
closer communication with the higher realm of thought and
intelligence where all things needful will come to you. The
mind should be trained persistently to shut out all morbid,
depressing, fear currents of thought, and be ever receptive
to the positive, inspiring thought currents coming from
helpful sources.
Though the unwelcome duties of the hour may cause
unrest, and the barren outlook of the future discourage,
have faith in your power to triumph over all things which
would wrest from your grasp the glorious heritage. Have
faith in the harmony, the love and the goodness of the im-
mutable laws which govern life and destiny and change.
Though there are times when we ignore the monitions of the
higher self and grope in the darkness where we hear but a
faint echo of the voice of truth and catch only a gleam of
the light, yet if we look more deeply and listen intently,•
there will come to our vision a glimpse of the beckoning
ideal and a foregleam of nobler achievements. In the most
trivial occurrences of daily existence there will come to those
who have faith a whispering of the voice which calls out in
the wilderness and leads through life's turmoils to the final
awakening and deliverance.
Journeying with the swift-fleeting years toward that hori-
THE DOMINION OF MIND 73
zon where the evening shadows forebode the coming night,
the degree of man's happiness and worth will not be meas-
ured alone by the hoarded productions of wealth, and the
broad lands he may claim, but by the treasures of knowledge
and the stores of wisdom, by the strength and beauty of his
mind, and by the purity and glory ofithe light which burns
on the altar of the heart's sanctuary. To thirst for knowl-
edge and yearn for the true and beautiful, to enrich the
mind, to feast on the wonders of nature and the beauties of
art , is to awaken in man a knowledge of his rightful inherit-
ance and endow him with that priceless possession which
fire cannot consume nor time obliterate. A noble character
evolved from the imperishable principle of truth is the
white flower of the mind, whose beauty and fragrance will
fill the heart with peace and love.
74 THE DOMINION OF MIND
CHAPTER VIII.
DIVINE REALIZATION.
Every soul is potentially divine. The goal is to manifest
this divinity by controlling nature. Until we free ourselves
from nature we are slaves. He who controls mind controls
matter also. The internal nature is much more difficult to
grapple with than the external, much more difficult to con-
trol. He who controls the internal nature controls the whole
universe. There is but one victory worth the struggle, there
is but one world to conquer; the victory over self, the world
within.
All knowledge is within ourselves. The divine Ego is
alone, so pure and perfect that it requires none else to make
it happy, for it is happiness itself. It is peaceful, ever
blessed, ever perfect. The misery that we suffer comes
from ignorance, from not knowing the difference between
the real and unreal. We appropriate the bad for what we
think is good, and take that which is a dream for that which
is real. The highest philosophy is based upon the fact tha t
the soul is pure and perfect . Isolation is the goal; when
that is attained, the soul realizes that it has always been
alone, and that it requires no one to make it happy. As
long as we require some one to make us happy we are slaves.
When the soul finds that it does not require anything to
complete itself, when it realizes that it depends on nothin g
in the universe, when the mixture of purity and impurit y
called mind has been made as pure as the soul itself, when
mind rellects only the unqualified essence of purity, which
is the soul, then freedom is attained. ·
A man who has attained certain powers through affirma-
tions or through renunciations, still has desires; but the
man who has attained to super-consciousness through con-
centration is alone free from all desires. The practice of
concentration leads to discriminating powers, to clearness of
THE DOMINION OF MIND 75
vision. The veil drops from the eyes; we see things as they
are.
The higher attainment comes through discrimination,
controlling the passions; purity, strength and suppression
of excessive joy. We must discriminate 1
among other
things, pure food from the impure. The materials which
we receive through our food into our body-structure help to
determine our mental constitution . The control of the
gros5er is absolutely necessary to enable one to arrive at
the control of the finer. Discrimination in the choice of
food is necessary for the attainment of the higher state of
mental composition. We get the grossness of food by eating
it; but the real life of it is extracted by the thoughts we
have of it. Thus the body may be gradually changed by
diet; not so much by quantity as by quality; for the will
and mind impart much of any desired quality . One of the
greatest mistakes of modern civilization is over-eating. The
selfish, ravenous multitude is a standing mockery of nature,
a painful, clamorous revolt against Divine Wisdom.
To restrain the internal organs of perception from going
towards the objects of the senses, to control them and bring
them under the guidance of the will is the central virtue in
soul culture. Then comes the practice of self-restraint and
self-denial. The immense possibilities of divine realization
in the soul cannot be actualized without struggle on the
part of the aspiring devotee.
Purity is absolutely the basic work, the bedrock upon
which the whole building rests. Cleansing the external
body and discriminating as to the food eaten is not so dif-
ficult; but without internal cleanliness and purity, these
external observations are of little value . In the list of qual-
ities conducive to purity there are enumerated, truthfulness,
sincerity, doing good to others without any gain to one's
self, not injuring others by thought, word or deed, not cov-
eting others' goods, not thinking vain thoughts, and not
brooding over injuries received from another. We must be
strong, we must be healthy, we must be cheerful. It is the
cheerful mind that is persevering. It is the strong mind
that hews its way through difficulties. The cutting our way
out of the rut of illusion is the work reserved only for great
wills. Excessive mirth should be avoided. Excessive mirth
THE DOMINION OF MIND
make$ us unfit for serious thought. It also fritters away
the energies of the mind. The stronger the will, the less
the yielding to the sway of the emotions. Excessive hilarity
is quite as objectionable as too much of sad seriousness.
The mind should be kept in a steady, peaceful condition of
harmonious equilibrium.
The' grejlt magical means of preserving the youth of the
body is to prevent the soul from growing old. To be-
lieve in the good, to believe in happiness , to believe in
friendship, to maintain the sentiments and thoughts that
keep the heart aglow with the fire of enthusiasm and faith
is to find eternal youth. The realities of life and nature
surpass all the dreams of men, both in goodness and beauty .
By changing the habits of thought you will assuredly change
the habits of the body. Things which make us old are bit-
ter thoughts and disappointments, unfavorable judgments
on others, the fury of wounded pride, jealousy and hatred .
Had we nothing in common with human vice we would not
perceive them. We must learn to know, to dare, to will and
to keep silent. Silence must be imposed upon our disgusts.
If we study duty and live according to our highest ideals of
right, the world's folly will have no power to harm us. It is
not our duty to judge others. The Divine Law is absolutely
just. Man must atone for his folly by suffering and en-
slavement. Let us not add greater burden s to strugglin g
souls entangled in the net of ignorance and illusion. Let us
suspect not evil of any one. If we look deep into the human
consciousness we will find goodness and kindness . A sym-
pathetic smile and a gentle word spoken in tones of kind-
ness will change hatred to love. Wisdom preserves and
prolongs life. Temperance, tranquility of soul, simplicity of
character, faith in the true and beautiful , will not only make
us happy, but will lengthen our existence and make us
strong and healthy. It is by the acquisition of an inwardly
upright mind and a just will, that man can make a com-
plete conquest of his faculties and his future. To under-
stand what is good is to desire it; and, in the order of jus-
tice, to desire is to perform. Men are judged according
to their works. The things we do make us what we are to
an extent so great that our bodies receive from our habits a
modification and sometimes a complete change of appear-
THE DOMINION OF MIND 77
ance. We can make ourselves confiding, loving, generous,
when we sincerely wish to be so. The man who can govern
himself is the ruler of all nature.
We are but trembling and fugitive mirrors, like a drop
of water, and should nature break us, there would be no
void in the universe. Do not believe in delusions. Divine
realities being a thousand times more admirable than man's
dreams, we must never be content to imagine that we can
estimate and know. How should we define the Infinite?
How explain what we cannot understand. Let us reason as
we please on the necessity of adoration, but when we pro-
nounce the name of the Indefinable, let us preserve silence.
Let us bo,v and adore. The Infinite is nothing that we can
see, handle, hear, taste, or describe. It is that which we
should worship in the profound peace of the spirit, and in
the heart's enthusiasm.
Allow no real existence to evil. It is devoid of any real
nature. It does not exist in an absolute manner. That
which we term evil is the shadow necessary to the manifes-
tation of light. Metaphysical evil is error and physical evil
is pain. As for physical pain, it is a preservative and anti-
dote against the abuse of pleasure; it tests the patience of
the wise, admonishes the thoughtless, and punishes the
wicked. Hence it is a good rather than an evil.
Love good for the sake of goodness, knowledge for the
sake of knowledge, the beautiful for beauty's sake, truth
for the sake of truth. The Divine Light illuminates us all.
To fulfill the good towards which it impels us and to avoid
the evil against which it admonishes us-such is the sum of
our duty to life. ·
The finest essences of human life are those that elude all
philosophy and all language. We do not need to be told
that a person is patient, or gentle, or genial. We see it
forming the features, inspiring the actions, or repressing
impatient activity . We know it without words and without
analysis. There is a glorious truth in the economy of human
suffering. The swiftly fleeting years rudely tear away the
illusions of youth and the objective world from every true
man of mature age. The hard experiences of life have a
tendency, when viewed as they should be, to wean us from
THE DOMINION OF MIND
the masquerade of this world, its toys, shows, ambitions and
vanities.
In vain do men talk of happiness, who never subdued an
impulse in obedience to a principle . He who never sacrificed
a present to a future good, or a personal to a general one,
cannot know true happiness. He can only speak of it as
blind men do of color. The truly wise man becomes regen-
erated. In the humility of his inspiration he lives in con-
stant contemplation and knowledge of the Infinite. Virtue
is always pure, and he is virtue; charity is always pure, and
he is charity; faith is always pure, and he is faith; good-
ness is always pure, and he is good; the Divine Essence is
always pure, and he is a portion of the Divine Essence; the
sun's ray is always pure, and his calm presence is like a ray
of the sun, that vivifies all around it. He who looks bravely to
the spiritual depths, leaving the outer superficial life, finds
the only true happiness.
The majority of mankind never get beyond the crust of
things, and never realize life's real aim and meaning. Seek
for the spirit of truth by plunging into the glorious depths
of your inmost being. Seek it by ,testing all experiences
of the outer with the inner , and by utilizing the senses in
order to understand the growth and meaning of individu-
ality. Gradually, as you ask for understanding, the light of
truth will grow bright within your temple, until it illumi-
nates your whole being.
Never despair. The harp shall yet give out strains of
celestial music. Live in the moment. The troubles and
uncertainties of life contract your being to a mere point,
to a mere moment. Never nurse depression; never
be moved by fear. Be mindful of the smallest
details of daily life. Deceitful are all abstrac-
tions. Very vain are most emotions. Words are
mere idle wind. Take care of the little things you do;, the
great things will take care of .themseh:es. Few men know
the· profound adjustment between speech and silence.
Speech is a blight that can suck up the sea itself. Speech
again, like the heavenly winds, causes the overflow of all
noble ideas and sympathies.
Every man is the born master of spiritual riches hid deep
in himself. If you can only learn to gain and use what is
THE DOMINION . OF MIND 79
rightfully yours, you will live and die a prince among
mankind. Know your:::elfand be yourself.
Shutting yourself up you cannot know your true self, nor
by mixing in the thick of the world's noise and bargain.
Intensely communing with nature, with circumstance, with
the divine in all men, you will finally know yourself.
Devotedness , life-long, unflinching, entire, is the secret of
success. However humble your work may be, fear not to
be devoted to it. Bear every reverse, every discouragement,
every trial . Let your devotedness be without reproach or
question. Success comes late, by very slow ·approaches--
sometimes after the worker has passed away. But he who
practices and teaches devotedness, handles the lever that is
sure to move the world.
As culture along the line of soul growth advances, mys-
terious but real correspondence is established, and the whole
universe becomes the property of the thinking man. The
life that is pulsing within us is ever moving towards the life
universal, weaving its thousands of forms, building up new
structure and fabric every hour. Growth is the law of
nature. Harmonious growth and harmony of vibration re-
sult in health . Intense universal love set up in the heart
sends out vibrations which cause waves of light, color and
forces that heal and uplift; this is always true, and is a law;
while emotions of hate , anger or revenge set up discordant
vibrations which cause disease and death. Every natural
manifestation of life is a necessary part of the one great
chord.
"Love took up the harp of life and smote on all the chords
with might,
Smote the chord of self, which trembling passed in music
out of sight."
No unity is possible on any plane of consciousness without
harmony in vibration. In order for two or more people to
find pleasure in companionship, their minds must be at-
tuned to the same desires and pursuits, or polarized to the
same plane of life. The heart once attuned to unity of vi-
bration on the higher spiritual plane, there can be no more
g.escent into the coarser vibrations of the animal plane; and
80 THE DOMINION OF MIND
until we become conscious of these higher rates of vibra-
tion we cannot possibly realize what joy and gladness thrills
through the whole being, uplifting and transmuting all the
lower centers of consciousness. The different planes or
states of consciousness--physical, mental and spiritual-
dwell one within the other. The center and source of all is
the one light of divine love; and until all other states or cen-
ters are brought into harmony of vibration with this one
center, there can be no rest or peace of soul.
The gross forms of matter which compose the physical
plane are not the direct reflection of the one harmonious
center. We may liken them to the broken rays of moonlight
reflected from the troubled surface of muddy water; these
reflections cannot be perfect, for if the water be clear and
at rest, the reflection changes, and we see a nearer approach
to the real ray of light. Each state of consciousness has its
own rate of vibration. The rate on the lowest or physical
plane is slower than that on the mental, where the more
highly refined particles of matter respond readily to the vi-
bratory waves. Science teaches that the medium or par ti-
cles of matter which transmit sound a.re less flexible than
those which transmit light. The one is called atmosphere;
the other is called ether. What we call thought is also a
mode of motion in ether; but the particles of matter used
by thought are far more elastic than those used by light or
sound.
Above and below the range of the ear and the eye a.re in-
numerable sounds and colors which make no impression on
the physical organs yet unadapted by growth to record
them. What shall we say of the rapidity of the transmis-
sion of thought as a mode of motion, governed, as is sound
and light, by the power and force of the thought-w ave,
striking mind as light strikes the retina of the eye.
We may become conscious of the divine principle within,
if we will. We are endowed with the capacity to feel, which
is a more reliable sense than mere physical sight. We say
we feel so and so, which means a vibratory motion has been
set up in that part of the individual self which corresponds
to some of the centers of the physical bod'y. But behind
thought and feeling is the power .of will, and back of will is
desire. We require no logical proof to enable us to believe
THE DOMINION OF MIND 81
that will power exists ; it is the very foundation of our ex-
istence. By the power of desire which governs the use of
the will in man, he relates himself either to the kingdom of
light or its opposite. Motive is that which moves to action,
and motives set up vibrations in our sphere of life ; there-
fore if we make ourselves, by desire and will, receptive to
the higher rates of vibration , such forces will flow into us
and be received even into the atomic structures of our bod-
ies, lightin g up and healing every cell and tissue, and rais-
ing all into harmonious vibrations. We must learn to mas-
ter or become ruler over every emotion and every desire,
bringing all into obedience to the law of universal love.
The principle of universal love, of obedience to divine
law, if set up in the will and affections, will draw all the
lower centers of consciousness up to its own rate of vibra-
tion. The presence in man of this divine principle will
transmute all the baser qualities of his nature into the pure
gold of spirituality and power by raising all rates of vibra-
tion in the different centers of consciousness to the spirit-
ual plane, placing man into the rhythm of higher and still
hiisher rates of vibration .
The real man, the Ego, is spirit; and on this plane it is
harmonious, having but one center and one rate of vibra-
tion. In coming into consciousness of himself as an individ-
ual entity , man finds that he is endowed with states of con-
sciousness which appear to be external , as something apart
from the divine consciousness; thus he gradually creates
different centers, each with its own rate of vibration, wan-
dering farther and farther from the one center of rest.
It is no wonder that the human race is in such discord-
ant vibration with nature , wheri for generations antagonistic
and selfish thoughts have dominated the minds of the
masses. If the animal nature in man dominates, it leads
him into selfishness; but the man who has brought all the
centers of his being to vibrate to the one center-the spirit-
ual-is pure and unselfish.
Look to the divinity within for strength and light . Seek
there and you will find. Follow the guidance that comes
to you from the silent depths of your being. Listen to the
voice of intuiti on. The one who cultivates and recognizes
it has an infallible guide and ever-present and ceaseless
82 THE DOMINION OF MIND
power for aJl the purposes and demands of life. All the
best of life that has ever come to the race or to individuals
has come through intuition, which is the voice of truth, ex-
isting potentially as a divine thought within the soul of
man .
Consciousness is omnipresent. Matter, in every phase of
existence, contains the potency of life. Energy, the actual
nature of which is unknowable, is present in every conceiv-
able form. It is impossible to create energy. All the power
which we obtain is the result of chemical or alchemicaJ
changes which determine the polarity and grouping of cells.
The real nature of the primary cell is the same whether re-
flecting light in the crystal, or intelligence in the human
brain. It is the growth and transmutation in the organic
world, of forces that belong equally to the apparently inor-
ganic and unconscious plane, that constitutes the mystery
and mirade of life.
Underneath the seemingly still surface of the plant or
stone is an incessant interplay of atoms . There is nothing
in the universe entirely destitute of life and motion , for all
things are manifestations of the one life that pervades Infin-
ity . In all things there is intelligence to a certain degree;
but only in man does it develop into self-consciousness and
reason. This ascending stream of life from mineral to man
is unbroken . Nature is governed by the supreme law of
continuity. Pervading all the different manifestations is the
Supreme Power which imbues every particle with impulse
and motioo and the spirit of incessant change.
The universe is filled with subtle and mysterious things
that appeal to the thoughtful. When we have followed the
material path as far as we can, when the light begins to
fail in the shadows, we know the things we have seen with
mortal sight are but symbols which give the hint and fore-
boding of things unseen and eternal. The realm of cause
underlies all phenomena. In every blade of grass, in every
plant and flower, in every visible form is an in-dwelling
power, an idea or thought of the Creative Mind, pictured on
the canvas of substance. When we can realize this unity of
thought with the Absolute, we will come into closer and
more vital relations with the spirit of all life, substance and
intelligence. There is only One Life of the Univer;,e. In
THE DOMINION OF MIND
this pure and all pervading presence we have our being. To
come into an understanding of this sublime truth will free
the mind from physical bondage and enable us to live in
accord with divine principles.
Man, the highest manifestation of existence, who has
conquered the earth, the sea and air, and enchained the
lightnings, who converses with the stars, and traces comets
as they illumine the trackless spaces of the universe and
pass on to sparkle in the silent depths,-surely his existence
is not purposeless in this universe of law; surely he is not
left to wander aimlessly and alone over the earth, with no
exalted purpose and hope to guide him!
The fixed star of truth is the eternal guide of man's exist-
ence, and its rays beckon from afar. Its light flashes from
the illumined spaces toward which humanity moves, and
it sheds refulgent rays upon all created things. It is the
star of truth and life, the beckoning star of wisdom and
love, set in the firmament of the Invisible Ideal where, like
a jewel, it shall adorn the brow of a regenerated world.
