{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__beckwith___black_roadways_study_in_jamaican_folk_life.pdf","mytitle":"Black Roadways Study In Jamaican Folk Life","mylang":"de"}
BLACK ROADWAYS
A STUDY OF
JAMAICAN FOLK LIFE
BY
MARTHA WARREN BECKWITH
K 1 8
w ! C
£. LIBtfeTAS*
CHAPEL HILL
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS
1929
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS
CHAPEL HILL, N. C.
THE BAKER AND TAYLOR CO.
NEW YORK
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
LONDON
MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA
TOKYO
MAMMY FORBES, THE HEALER
COPYRIGHT, 1929, BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BY EDWARDS & BROUGHTON COMPANY, RALEIGH, N. C.
FOREWORD
B,
between the summers of 1919 and 1924 I made
four visits to the island of Jamaica in the British West
Indies with the purpose of coming into direct contact
with the life and thought of the Negro peasant popula
tion of the country districts. With this aim in view I
spent long hours in peasant homes listening to songs
and stories; made several expeditions to the free Ma-
,. roon settlements of Accompong and Moore Town ; at-
\> tended Sunday School picnics where ring-games were
in progress, John Canoe performances at Christmas
time, a revival meeting and a wake at Lacovia, a morn-
^* ing service at Mammy Forbes 's balm-yard ; and sought
} an interview with the healer, Bedward, during the ex-
^* cited period of the Christmas holidays preceding his
^ predicted ascent into heaven and the ending of white
^ rule in Jamaica.
At first little was to be had besides the actual literary
art of the folk—their stories, games, riddles, songs, and
proverbs —but these in very rich abundance. The chil
dren used to offer them by the roadside hopeful of the
penny eventually offered for a new riddle or the three
pence for a song. Later, when the confidence of the peo
ple had been won and my own knowledge widened, I
could question them about beliefs and customs. To three
such informants I am especially indebted —to Wilfrid
Bonito of Richmond, St. Mary (but brought up in Man-
deville), Simon Falconer in the Santa Cruz Mountains
in St. Elizabeth, and George Parkes, also of Mandeville
in Manchester. All three were intelligent small settlers
who owned or managed a piece of land, brought up a
viii FOREWORD
family, and took an active but skeptical interest in the
wisdom of the "bush people," at the same time admit
ting firm belief in the spirit world. They recognized
some hocus-pocus among men but respected the ghosts.
Parkes, the blind man, used to look forward to my vis
its. As a sailor he had traveled even as far as the African
coast and later had served ably as sheriff in Mandeville.
Even now he made his way daily alone to his "cultiva
tion" some three miles out of town, where he once
showed me the proper method of planting a yam hill.
All three men knew my purpose and talked freely,
Wilfrid introducing me as a lady who "want to know
about bush medicine and old-time story and duppy and
all such kind a t'ing—not to do any harm; so you got
anyt'ing for her?"
The approach to the confidence of the Negro peasant
is won through the ruling class, to whom the folk look
for initiative and whose introduction they always re
spect. To all those who made my way easy by their
courtesy and hospitality let me here record thanks.
That I leave them unnamed is due not to forgetfulness,
but to the host of such indebtednesses to no one of which
I would seem inattentive. To them is due whatever in
sight I have gained into the inner life of the folk, and it
is for them to solve the problems arising out of the facts
here described.
From my predecessors in the field I have tried to de
rive every possible benefit and in each case to acknowl
edge such indebtedness. Local authorities like Belisario,
Banbury, Palache, are accessible in the excellent library
for the West Indies brought together under the direction
of Professor Frank Cundall, and housed in the building
of the Jamaica Institute in Kingston. Others have been
FOREWORD ix
found in the libraries of Harvard University and of the
City of New York. For the courtesies extended to me by
the officers of these institutions I here record grateful
thanks. Hickeringill is the only authority I have listed
without myself weighing the value of his account. Prob
ably other names could be added to advantage. I have
intentionally omitted merely disputative writers and
those who describe Jamaica as known to the ruling class
alone. Of modern books I have not mentioned books of
travel, however delightful and informing in themselves,
although including some of the best from older sources.
Two books of fiction, Montagnac's little-known book
of sketches and De Lisser's Jane, I have thought worth
including because of the true picture they give of the
folk life of today. Among local authorities, Professor
Cundall and Mr. Walter Jekyll have made scientific
contributions to Jamaican folklore, and all of Mr. De
Lisser's books are valuable for their sympathetic insight
into the life of the people. Among old writers, Long,
Edwards, and the admirable Dr. Sloane are indispen
sable, and there are many lesser writers like Leslie whose
special interest lies in depicting the folk life. Monk
Lewis's journal from his own plantation in Westmore
land presents a truthful picture of life in the early nine
teenth century before emancipation, from the pen of a
trained writer genuinely interested in the people he
wrote about. Beckford is far too ornate, but his direct
observations are excellently lucid. Of later writers Ram-
pini is an interested, Gosse a trained and competent ob
server. To all these writers I am incalculably indebted
for the light they throw upon folk custom.
It is necessary to deny here any effort to make a com
plete study of social life and religious thought among the
i FOREWORD
whole colored population of Jamaica. What I have gath
ered is emphatically exclusive of the sophisticated col
ored people who ridicule or censure the superstitions of
the blacks and move among the better classes on the
island theoretically upon an equality with the whites.
Their children attend the same private schools, their
younger set the same social functions, the more intelli
gent take an active part in the judicial, legislative, and
administrative machinery of the island. The British
have an admirable quality of working side by side with
the colored man and at the same time preserving their
class and racial distinction. The material here gathered
represents the peasant class —the great majority of the
folk, although hardly the most ignorant, whose poverty
prevents their adoption of British standards. It is em
phatically folklore, not the lore of the colored man. But
its rhythmic melancholy or rollic, its shrewd wisdom,
as even its superstition, penetrate the life and thought
of white and colored alike of the literate classes, and
leave an impress upon their speech, attitude, emotion.
The Jamaica Negro is superstitious. He believes with
all his might in the spirit world, sometimes to his degra
dation but at times also to his supreme exaltation.
Hence the effect of a record like this may be to over
whelm the mind with a mass of irrelevancies under
which is lost any true view of the Negro's generally
quite practical wisdom. Even superstition may, in the
spirit of play and in lack of other emotional outlet,
flower into forms rendered grotesque by a hunger for
aesthetic excitement. Much descends to the African
through Mohammedan contacts, and all lore in Jamaica
today is colored by the social and religious teaching of
the white race which has ruled the island for almost
FOREWORD xi
1
I
three hundred years.
It is this very island isolation and the opportunity it
gives for study of the influence upon a backward race of
contact with more developed peoples that lends such
interest to a close knowledge of folk life in Jamaica as
it exists today. Not African or Indian, east or west;
not Spanish or British, it is a blend of all these into a
fresh product reflecting the material background of
the sunny fertile island itself and the mixed culture
of those alien races who have come to call it home. Dis
tinguishable, too, from every other American group
in each particular art—speech, song, life itself, and the
complex emotional life of the spirit world in which it
moves—all this is individually Jamaican, so that our
own Negroes hold themselves a little aloof from the
Jamaican as "more awesome" than their countrymen.
This is not the whole story of acculturation. But with
the more difficult and in many ways more important
analysis of the sophisticated Negro blend in Jamaica
this study is not concerned. In every case where a so
phisticated and a backward race meet, the problem lies
not with the folk who absorb and re-create but with
the upper classes who absorb and imitate.
*•
CONTENTS
FOREWORD vii
I. THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE 1
Area—Coast line—Surface —Temperature and
Rainfall —Areas of cultivation: sugar cane; ba
nanas; ginger — Ranching— -History ^—Popula
tion: African tribesjn Jamaica; European colon
ists—English rule.
II. THE SMALL SETTLER 8
House plot and ground —Wattled or "ground"
house—Frame house with
'
Spanish" wall —
Fence structure — Communal house —Water
tank—Limekiln —Trees planted about a house—
Folklore of building—The cultivation — Bread-
kind": yam; coco; sweet potato; plantain—Peas
and beans — Corn — Cassava — Coffee — Sugar
cane — Ginger— Pimento — Dyes — Folklore of
planting; influence of odd days of the month; in
fluence of the moon; pumpkin lore: methods of
inducing a rich crop.
III. FISHING, TRAPPING, STOCK-RAISING. . 30
Slight development of fishing on the island —
Equipment: canoe; fish pot—Methods of fish
ing—Kinds of fish—Disposal of fish—Absence
of imaginative interest in the sea and sea life —
Folklore of fishing —Game: its scarcity; methods
of bird-trapping— Domestic animals —The
Pen —Horse-racing: its importance in social life;
folklore of the races —Folklore of the weather;
of lucky days; of special days.
IV. THE MARKET 42
Position and upkeep— Attendance —Stalls of
xiv CONTENTS
particular commodities: vegetables; meat and
fish; tobacco; articles of domestic manufacture;
dry goods—Basketry—Currency values —Street
cries in Kingston.
V. THE FAMILY LIFE 54
Infancy: birth; the midwife; folklore of birth:
the navel cord; the afterbirth; the caul —Ninth-
day ceremonies —Christening—Naming—Gen
eral folklore of infancy—The boy in the home:
his career; education; trades open to him —
Training of the girl for home-keeping —Reasons
for illegitimacy—Wedding ceremony —Folklore
of love and marriage —Etiquette of the house
hold —Folklore of the household —Emotions
controlling social life.
VI. THE BURIAL OF THE DEAD 70
Preparing and clothing the body and placing it
in the coffin—Leave-taking of the dead—Pre
cautions observed to prevent contamination by
the dead—"Riding" by the dead to avenge an
injury —Time of burial—Journey to the grave;
collecting debts to the dead—Precautions in
digging and in filling in the grave— Planting"
the dead to prevent return—Precautions at the
house to guard against trouble from the dead—
The celebration of the "nine nights" —Ceremo
nies observed by old writers: by Leslie in 1740—
Object of these observances —De Lisser's des
cription of a modern wake—Games —Tombing
ceremony —Omens connected with the dead: the
cries of animals; approach of animals to the
house; other unusual occurrences —Taboos.
VII. THE SPIRIT WORLD 88
The duppy—Habits of the duppy—Signs for rec-
CONTENTS '
xv
ognizing a duppy—Precautions against harm
from a duppy—A ghost story—Philosophy of
the duppy—Realm of the duppies —Particular
duppies: Three-foot Horse; Long-bubby Susan;
Rolling-calf —Mermaids.
VIII. OBEAH 1Q4
Obeah defined—Derivation of the word —The
Obeah Man—His method of working—Objects
upon which he "works": objects connected with
the dead; with animal life; with plant life; coin;
pinsticking; padlocks and looking-glasses —The
obeah bundle; burying the obeah—Hair or black
thread —Fire in connection with obeah—Herbs
used for obeah—Animals used in obeah; instan
ces of such use —Discovery and punishment of
theft by means of obeah; guards in the provision
field—Curing sickness through obeah—Setting
obeah to injure or kill another —Calling up a
duppy from the grave —The relation of poison
to obeah.
IX. THE MYAL PEOPLE 142
Myal Men as obeah doctors —Restoration
to life —Invulnerability — Catching shadows
from the cotton trees—Part played by the cot
tonwood tree in myalism —Talismans employed
by the Myal Men to detect obeah—The myal |
dance as a means of communication with spir
its—The gombay used in the myal dance—The
gombay in the John Canoe dance—Christmas
mummers: John Canoe companies; animal
maskers; "set" girls; actor-companies —Relation
between the John Canoe and the myal.
X. THE REVIVALISTS 157
Relation between the Myal People and the Revi-
xvi CONTENTS
valists —Origin of the Revivalists, as described
in old writers —Present-day Revivalists—A re
vival meeting in Lacovia; Margaret Williston's
story —A revival meeting in the Cockpits— The
Isaiahs; Alexander's story —Bedwardism; a vis
it to August Town —Mammy Forbes —Revival
ists as duppy-catchers —Bennet's methods.
XI. THE PUKKUMERIANS 176
Relation to the Revivalists —Pukkumerian meet
ings—Pukkumerian " shepherds
"—Mighty's
story —A visit to Thompson 's yard —Pukkumer-
V ian songs to raise the dead.
XII. THE MAROONS 183
Origin—Treaty with the English in 1739—Loy
alty to the treaty during the late war and in the
uprising in St. Thomas in 1865—Rebellion of the
Trelawney Maroons in 1795—Introduction of
bloodhounds from Cuba to quell the uprising —
Accounts of the Maroons by old writers: their
character and social life—Visits to Moore Town
and Accompong.
XIII. /FOLK ART 198
Facility in expression —Pleasure in names—
Turns of speech —Proverbial sayings —Social
arts of expression: riddling; lying; animal talk—
The Tea-meeting —Song: its non-epical charac
ter; dramatic episode; refrain; work song; the
child's play song—Musical instruments: wind;
string; percussion —The magic character of the
rattle— Dance —Folk tale: dramatic style of ren
dering; tales of magic in the style of the cante-
fable; animal tales—The spider Anansi as hero—
Other characters —Relation of the animal stories
to folk belief —Conclusions.
CONTENTS xvii
REFERENCES 229
INDEX 235
r
ILLUSTRATIONS
I. Mammy Forbes, the Healer Frontispiece
II. A House of Wattles 10
III. Jamaica Hut at Robins Bay 12
IV. Bringing Home Cassava from the Field .... 20
V. Fishing Equipment 31
VI. Waiting for the Fishing Boats at Alligator
Pond 34
VII. Indian Cattle 36
VIII. Selling Beans and Homemade Strainers in
the Market 44
IX. Boy Carrying a Bread Tray from the Bake-
shop 46
X. The Milk Peddler SO
XI. Wilfrid and His Family 54
XII. The Cottonwood Tree Between Whose
Roots the Duppies Lurk 90
XIII. A Duck Ant's Nest in a Coffee Walk 122
XIV. The John Canoe Dance ISO
XV. A John Canoe Dancer about 1837 152
XVI. An Actor Boy of about 1837 153
XVII. A Revivalist Gathering in Westmoreland . 158
XVIII. The Procession to the Healing Stream of
August Town 166
XIX. Church and Cottage in August Town 168
XX. Bedward, the Shepherd of August Town. . . 170
XXI. A Procession of "Mammies" at Mammy
Forbe's Balm-yard 172
xxii. a pukkumerian dancer raising the spirits :
a Rehearsal 182
Map of Jamaica 244
BLACK ROADWAYS
IT'
«&
Chapter I
THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE
JLvike the sheet of paper which legend says Colum
bus crushed in his hand to show the king of Spain the
contour of his new possession, Jamaica lies today a long
crumpled island in the Caribbean, 140 miles from east
to west, and ranging in breadth from 22 to 49 miles as
the crow flies. The sea laps its shores so gently that in
places along the coast scarcely a step divides beach from
roadway, which a stout growth of mangrove protects
from encroaching waters, and at several points along
the railway on the north coast one can toss a pebble
from the car window into the blue Caribbean.
Lying as it does entirely within the north tropic, the
island nevertheless commands a temperature varying
with the height. At the east end the mass of the Blue
Mountains rises to 7,000 feet, and the whole inner sur
face lifts into cool plateau or sharp mountain ridge and
valley throughout the entire length of the island. Where
the soil affords drainage, rivers so-called make a way
to the sea; other areas are seamed or potted by tor
rential rains and the quick weathering of a loose lime
stone foundation. Rainfall varies from thirty inches
on the dry plains about Kingston to a hundred inches
across the mountains to the northeast; in the moun
tainous parts of the central plateau the fall is from
seventy-five to ninety-five inches. The climate is accord
ingly charming in winter anywhere on the island ; in the
summer, comfortable at an elevation, tolerable on the
breezy seacoast, but cruel to dwellers on the fertile sa
vannahs who cannot seek the hills.
2 BLACK ROADWAYS
Owing to this diversity in temperature and rainfall
as well as to differences in soil, particular products are
limited to well-marked areas. From Savannah-la-Mar
at the extreme west of the island around to St. Ann's
Bay north runs the great sugar belt which poured
wealth into the pockets of absentee owners of sugar es
tates in the days when rum and sugar were king in Ja
maica. Another important sugar area occurs on the
savannahs of Clarendon, St. Catherine, and St. Thomas
on the southeast. From St. Ann's Bay eastward as far
as Morant stretches the banana and cocoanut-growing
area, which also follows the railway across St. Mary
into Kingston in the east and patches into the sugar
area about Lucea and Montego Bay in the far west.
Christiana in Manchester is the center of ginger culti
vation, which extends through the hilly interior of St.
Elizabeth and Clarendon where the soil is suitable for
its propagation. These three are today the principal
exports of the island. Other products have a more re
stricted area. The best coffee is grown in the Blue
Mountains. Citrous fruits flourish in Manchester. Pi
mento grows wild through St. Elizabeth and St. Ann.
Logwood for dyeing is cut on the estates of the south- .
west. In the central parishes are the most important
pens for stock-raising, although fancy herds of Indian
cattle have made the "Westmoreland hill pastures
famous.
The history of the island has been for almost three
hundred years one of uninterrupted British control,
and its population today of more than 94 per cent of
black and colored is staunchly loyal. Although it was
with the object of preserving the remnants of the Indian
race that the Emperor Charles V of Spain in 15 17 grant
LAND AND PEOPLE 3
ed to certain persons a patent to supply over 4,000
Negroes annually to the islands of Cuba, Jamaica, and
Porto Rico, when the British in 1656 took Jamaica over
from the Spanish the Indians are said to have been al
ready practically exterminated. It is possible that In
dian features survive in the ruddy complexions and
high cheek bones of some old families of isolated valleys
in the Pedro Plains on the south coast of St. Elizabeth,
in whose caverns the remnants of the race longest held
out against the white invader. The marked type of face
noticeable in Ballard Valley has been so described to
me. Others detect Indian features in the free Maroons
of Moore Town back of Port Antonio, but neither of
these groups has been actually studied. Nor is it pos
sible today, since emancipation has brought about the
free mixture of peoples from different parts of the island,
to separate those Negro groups which writers distin
guished in old slave days.
The first African slaves were brought into England
in 1440. According to Phillippo's statement, between
1655 and 1805 there were 850,000 slaves imported from
Africa to the West Indies. The method was for the
Eux6peah~sTaver to pay a "customs" to the African
king, who then allowed him to trade with African slave
merchants on the coast, these in turn trading with
others in the interior. The country thus covered extend
ed from Senegambia on the north to the Congo on the
south. Writers describe the Mandingoes of Senegambia
and the windward coast as lighter in color than the or
dinary African and without Negroid features —"of bet
ter intelligence," says Long (hence often put to trades),
with a "high spirit" and "a tolerable share of fidelity,
"
but also with a reputation for viciousness such as often
r
4 BLACK ROADWAYS
results when a backward race comes into contact with
a sophisticated one. Mohammedan by religion, some of
the Mandingo slaves could read Arabic. The ablest of
all the Africans brought to Jamaica seem to have been
the Kromanti from the Gold Coast. "Firm in body and
mind, fierce, active and undisciplined in nature," they
were, as potential leaders of revolt, rejected by the plant
ers of our own South and by the Spanish and French
colonies, but accepted in Jamaica, where their tradition
survives today in scraps of song and speech and a repu
tation for magic among the isolated Maroon settlements
on the island. The trickster hero of the animal tales,
the spider Anansi, is a kind of culture god from this
part of the Gold Coast. From further east came the
TSboes and Whidahs, said to have resembled each other
in culture —both practising circumcision, worshiping
reptiles, and making sacrifices of human beings in their
religion. Phillippo describes the Eboes as yellow in color
with out-thrust lower jaw. The "Eboe drum" seems
to be today connected with sorcery. The Whidahs were
on the whole regarded as well-disposed and orderly, ac
customed to agriculture in their own country and amen
able to law. As workmen, however, the duller-witted
Congo Negroes from the Slave Coast were highly prized
for their steadiness and docility. Even today the term
"Congo" refers to one who is the butt of his fellows.
Old writers also tell of a shipload of so-called "Malay"
slaves from Madagascar who were wrecked on the coast
and later joined the Maroon settlements in the moun
tains. But differences of race or culture which were in
earlier days distinguishable among isolated groups rap
idly vanished when, after 1834, the freedom of the is
land was open to the whole population. The present
LAND AND PEOPLE 5
study therefore must consider the black peasantry as
a homogeneous people.
The old convention in the West Indies gave to the
child of the "fourth generation of union with a white
in successive generations" a legal right to rank with the
white. According to Long, the Spanish table of color
passed from black to mulatto, terceroon, quadroon,
mustee, white. Lewis gives the succession in Jamaica in
his day as mulatto, quadroon, mustee, musteefino. The
child of a musteefino by a white (some writers say of a
quadroon) had the right to be called "English, free of
taint." Naturally such cases were not too frequent;
much more common was the reversion to the so-called
sambo by the marriage of a colored with a black. Today
there is a preference for preserving a clear strain, and
the number of those who record themselves in the cen
sus as colored —or brown, in popular parlance —is de
creasing. In 1921 the census showed a population of
over 800,000, of whom about 1.68 per cent registered
white, 73.43 per cent black, and some 18 per cent col
ored. Besides these there is a small percentage of Chi
nese who keep shop successfully on the island but do not
mix with the population, and a more important group of
East Indians, called "coolies," first imported to work
on the estates in 1842 to meet the labor shortage result
ing from the abolition of slavery. Marriage into this
group, especially for an educated colored girl, is not un
known, and it may be that these people have affected
Jamaican folk thought more than can at present be as
serted. An older colonization scheme for securing white
labor has left a few villages of German peasants in the
hills of Westmoreland, said to mix little with the Ne
groes. Nor must it be forgotten that of the earliest Brit
6 BLACK ROADWAYS
ish colonists on the island most were drawn from a va
grant if not criminal class of Scotch and Irish who must
have brought their own superstitions with them. Later
the laws which obliged estate owners to employ a fixed
proportion of white workers introduced a class little
above the slave himself in freedom of action.
Aside from this forced system of colonization, the
Scotch have been among the most successful British
settlers. At one time it was computed that a third of the
whites were of Scotch descent. Very early a group of
Spanish Jews colonized the island, and their descend
ants are important and prosperous members of estab
lished trading companies and leaders in the intellectual
life of the colony. From America are said to have come
the leaders of those dissenting groups to whom the rul
ing class points as the source of certain hysterical waves
of religious or political excitement which have from
time to time swept over the island. French refugees
flocked to the island after the rebellion in Haiti, and
many of the blacks remain as permanent residents and
are looked upon with some awe by the natives as leaders
in taste and in the arts of magic.
Since the abolition of slavery much has been done
to extend participation in the government to the edu
cated colored population. English is taught in the public
schools by trained colored teachers generally under
white supervision. In the church of England black and
white worship together, in some cases under a colored
clergyman. The administration of British law in courts
presided over by the influential whites on the island has
appealed to the Negro love of display and disputation
and perfected a sense of order. Man, woman, or child
can travel alone without fear from one end of the island
LAND AND PEOPLE 7
to the other. "Wish you safe travel, missus," was the
graceful greeting of the folk, and a collector's taste for
visiting in "the bush," however eccentric it might seem
to my white hosts and hostesses, was never challenged
as indiscreet.
REFERENCES*
Bridges, 1 :408 ff.
Cundall, Historic Jamaica.
Edwards, 1:237-315; 2:18-184.
Leslie, 327-29.
Lewis.
Long, 1; 2:403-7; 473-78.
Phillippo, 84, 188, 239-41.
Roberts, "Possible Survivals of African Song."
Sloane, 1: Int., v-xvii, xxxii.
Stewart, 235 ff.
Williams.
*Full titles and facts of publication are given in the list of References
at the end of this volume.
Chapter II
THE SMALL SETTLER
A very large number of Jamaica Negroes are
small settlers who own a patch or two of land upon
which they build a house and raise ground provisions
for their own use and for sale in the market, besides
planting fruit trees and occasionally a hardwood tree
for a future inheritance. The house plot is called the
yard, the field piece is the ground or cultivation. "Gone
a ground,
"
say the folk of their man who has gone to
/ his field piece; the old name
" polinck,
" quoted by Long,
is not heard today. Such "grounds" honeycomb the
most unlikely hillsides between the better lands which
have been absorbed into the large estates, and there util
ize rich pockets of earth which often yield amazingly
to cultivation. De Lisser estimated at 100,000 the num
ber of such peasant proprietors on the island.
The Indians, according to Bridges, made their houses
of wild cane bound to posts by means of withes, which
they called boschichi. The Negroes make what is known
as a "ground house" in a similar way and sometimes
live in such altogether, but with the addition of plaster.
Wilfrid's house was built out of seasoned bamboo cut
when it was partly ripe and would harden, not rot, with
age. He set up the frame and tied the poles firmly to
gether with "China wis," then wattled the sides closely
with strips of bamboo and plastered the whole, outside
and in, with a mixture of red earth and wood ashes,
smoothing it neatly and whitewashing the surface. The
roof he thatched with a kind of high bunch grass called
J
THE SMALL SETTLER 9
guinea grass (Panicum jumentorum), introduced from
Africa, it is said, with a cage of finches, and today one
of the most valuable grasses for stock on the island.
It is a very sweet grass with a blade from three to four
feet in length and a stem ten or twelve feet high. The
fence he twisted out of supple-jack. He thus utilized
altogether local material. The bamboo he had to buy
from some neighboring estate; wild coffee, sweetwood,
whitewood, or candlewood might have served the same
purpose. Had he lived on the south side of the island he
would have used the thatch palm for his roof, which
lasts a lifetime; the guinea grass needs renewing about
every five years. For the whitewash he had but to dig
out a bank where the soft limestone came near the
surface.
Stewart more than a hundred years ago described
such a house as follows :
The houses of the negroes are in general comfortable. They
are built with hard wood posts, wattled and plastered, and
either roofed with shingles (wood split and dressed into
the shape of slates, and used as a substitute for them), or
thatched with the top of the sugar cane, or, if at a short dis
tance from the woods, with the mountain thatch. This latter
when neatly plaited, forms a very handsome roof; and is of so
durable a nature, that, like the English thatching-reed, it will
last for upwards of half a century. The furniture of this dwell
ing which usually consists of three apartments, is a small
table, two or three chairs or stools, a small cupboard, fur
nished with a few articles of crockery ware, some wooden
bowls and calabashes, a water-jar, a wooden mortar for
pounding their Indian corn, and various other articles. The
beds are seldom more than wooden frames spread with a mat
and blankets.
10 BLACK ROADWAYS
The more common house type today is one built upon
a foundation of stone and mortar raised two or three
feet from the ground. Upon this are laid sills cut and
squared from the forest, for which bullet tree, broadleaf,
wild tamarind, and a tree called "proan" are selected.
Posts are then set into the sills two feet six inches apart
and fastened with pins of bullet wood at the top to
plates three inches thick, upon which rest the rafters.
These must be set closer for a shingled than for a zinc
roof. Laths are nailed on for a zinc roof; boards form
the "sauket" for the shingled. Zinc roofing, although
it must be imported, is a good deal used because it is
easy to handle, durable, and makes a good rain catch.
Shingles are bought of men who live near the forest and
make a special business of trimming them, as described
by Stewart, out of the cedar tree, broadleaf, sweetwood,
and Santa Maria. For the board flooring, breadnut,
tamarind, broadleaf, mahoe, or bullet tree may be
chosen. The walls of the house are of wood or more com
monly of a filling of stone covered with lime and earth
neatly plastered and whitewashed, known as "Spanish
wall." The dimensions of such a house, Parkes says, are
30 feet by 17 feet for a house of ordinary size, containing
two rooms and a hall; 20 feet by 17 feet for one room
and hall. Barclay gives the proportion of 28 feet by 17
feet as the common size for a house of three or four
rooms.
About the house yard is set a wattled fence (live wat
tles are no longer to be seen, so far as my observation
goes), or a "takada" (take-care-there) of close-set bam
boo or of some other wood, carrying five rails. Live trees
are still sometimes left standing or planted to form
posts, cedar being, Parkes says, "easiest to grow," but
*%rS
l
^
'
-J 1'
1 *M •.* „'
•
^
' *
i£ .v* .....
'
Bit''■'*'
:-^BH
-
4h I' . •
i v•v
ft , 1i» 1 muftjfc*
. 1
jr.- ;
I- \ .-:(•.
CO
H
h
<
o
CO
o
X
THE SMALL SETTLER 11
"hog-plum," sugarplum, and the smooth red birch
tree being also common. The prickly hedge of pinguin,
a wild cactus plant like a sprangling pineapple, is still
commonly to be seen.
In Kingston and to some extent in the smaller towns,
it is customary to set up a range of low buildings one
room deep and rent the rooms singly to the working
people. The servants in a private home or the unmarried
employees on an estate are thus housed.
In those parts of the island which depend entirely
upon rain water, as in the Manchester Mountains or
Browns Town, a tank is an important addition to the
household economy. Two kinds of tank are in use, the
square and the "kick and buck." The first is used when
the rain water is to be caught and drained from the
roof; the "kick and buck"—a name derived from the
method of finishing —when it is to be collected by means
of a drain or "catchment," as it is called, and thence
conveyed into the tank. The "kick and buck" is gener
ally smaller than the square tank and is cheaper of con
struction. After the hole is dug, a plaster made of equal
quantities of red earth and lime mixed dry and stirred
until sticky is applied to the dampened sides of the tank,
and two men with heavy mallets, one to hold and one
to pound, beat it in hard and level and smooth it with
a trowel. About the top of the tank they build an edge
of squared stones and mortar about three feet above the
ground. For this work a mason must be employed. A
mason also is needed to finish the bottom, after marl
and whitestone (the common limestone or " bruk stone
"
used in mending roads) have first been rammed down
with mallets. This the mason paves off smooth with
mortar and white lime, then polishes with a mixture of
12 BLACK ROADWAYS
marl and cement so that no water can soak through, the
whole finish reaching a depth of one foot in a small tank,
but varying in thickness porportionately to the size of
the tank. The same finish is applied to the catchment,
which is made like a barbecue, only that the floor slopes
toward the tank, one side of which it surrounds, and a
vent is left in the raised edge to conduct the water.
The square tank is generally larger and, except for
the digging, requires the work of a mason. The walls
are built up with stone tightened with small stones and
mortar exactly as in putting up a
" Spanish
" house wall,
except that larger stones are used. The bottom is treated
like that of the "kick and buck," but made thicker to
carry a larger body of water, and the sides are smoothed,
cemented, and polished like the bottom, the finish being
carried up over the edge. A tank of this kind is estimated
to cost about twice as much as the "kick and buck" of
the same dimensions.
About Mandeville, at least, the making of the lime
kiln and firing it for the lime for whitewash is a ceremo
nious occasion. One man alone cannot do this. Some
times he has a party of twenty for whom he must furnish
a feast of dried fish, bread, and rum, sometimes cooked
food also. Parkes says the wood is cut six feet long and
laid about in a ring piled eight feet high with a space
left in the center for a chimney, about which straight
sticks are set up on end to form the funnel. Thomas
Cole of the Santa Cruz Mountains gave the dimensions
of the funnel as 3 feet and of the pile as 15 feet in diam
eter and 6 feet high, using preferably fiddlewood, and
"ricky-rocky" as wood. Marsden says:
A flat piece of ground is chosen by the overseer in a proper
place, and two or three rows of thick pieces of wood form the
1
THE SMALL SETTLER 13
foundation of a circular pile; branches and leaves are strewed
above these, then a layer of limestone and so on alternately,
tapering to the top, and leaving here and there a piece of wood
jutting out by way of ladder to mount the pile.
The stone is packed on top of the wood, and leaves
and branches are heaped over it. Fire is then thrown
down the funnel and the pile left to burn all night,
after which the hot stone must be left to weather into
quicklime. In May a number of these conical heaps
were to be seen about Mandeville, but I do not know
if their building is a seasonal affair. It is considered
proper for every house-owner to whitewash his house
at Christmas time, but I doubt if any but the more
energetic fulfill this obligation.
Almost every Negro house is surrounded by a beauti
ful group of such fruit trees as mango, avocado pear,
ackee, jack-fruit, naseberry, sweet- and soursops, star
apple, coffee, banana, and cocoanut, besides the citrous
fruits—orange, grapefruit, citron, and lime. Long says,
"The negroes are possessed with an opinion of the good
or bad qualities of particular trees when planted near
any habitation, as to the effects their neighborhood may
occasion to the inhabitants." My repeated inquiries
brought very little of this belief to light today. All whom
I questioned agreed that fruit trees were good about a
house with the exception of the pawpaw, which takes
the richness from the soil or the strength from the house
holders themselves. "Never tie a horse to a pawpaw
tree," Parkes affirmed. The "night jessamy," too, if
planted near a house will "reduce you" he said, but
this idea is not general.
Some folklore connected with house-building still sur
vives. Before beginning to build, Wilfrid killed a fowl
14 BLACK ROADWAYS
and poured its blood out with rum upon the ground.
The headman at Burnt Ground first made a feast of
chicken and rum upon the spot where he was going to
build. The custom is to make the front and back doors
exactly opposite each other, the front door facing to the
sunset and the back door to the sunrise. If an addition is
made to the house after it is built some one of the family
will die, but this may be averted by promising the addi
tion to the house at the time of building. Any change of
this kind in the household habit is felt to be disastrous.
A white man who was planning to put a second story to
his house was expostulated with by a friendly Negro—
"Mas' Eddie, you not fe leave downstairs fe go up
stairs."
No small settler need go hungry in Jamaica. His great
est problem is that of making enough ready money for
such things as he must buy, especially for the salt codfish
or herring or meat which he cooks as a relish with vege
table food. As a substitute he may use an edible fungus
called "junjo" which grows abundantly on the trunks
of cotton and fig trees and in damp places. In Browne's
day (1789) this was ''washed, pounded and boiled with
beef in our soups," but today it is little valued: "You
po' fe meat, you nyam [eat] junjo," says the proverb.
Salt cod cooked with the fruit of the ackee or with its
substitute, the sosuma berry, is a favorite breakfast
dish even upon the tables of the whites. So is the favor
ite West Indian "pepper pot," a kind of vegetable soup
composed of a leaf or two of cabbage, callalu, young
chocho vine (a kind of cucumber), pumpkin, broad and
sugar beans, tomato and okra, boiled with salt beef or
pork and flavored with red peppers such as grow in
every peasant's yard. For drink the settler grows his
THE SMALL SETTLER 15
own coffee or cocoa. The cocoa is prepared previously
by cracking off the outer pod, parching the beans (thirty
or more in a pod) over the fire, cleaning off the skin, and
then pounding the white kernels in a mortar until they
"begin to fat," that
is,
to exude oil. The paste
is
then
scraped out and rolled into
a
ball or stick with the hand
and set in the sun to dry. For flavor, the epicure adds
a
dash of grated nutmeg or cinnamon bark from his own
trees, sweetening the drink with juice of sugar cane
from his own patch, ground in
a
hand mill. Cream he
extracts from the grated meat of
a
cocoanut. Oil for fry
ing his food comes from soaking this meat in water and
skimming off the pure oil that floats on the top.
"Bread kind"
is
the name given to all such vegetables
as are used as staples, like yam, coco, sweet potato, and
plantain. Of these, yam
is
by far the most important.
What potato
is
to the Irish peasant, yam
is
to the Ja
maican; but he has
a
very much larger choice of foods
with which to vary his diet. As the Negro prefers hard
food to soft, the yellow or "afoo" yam
is
the favorite
and next to this the yam called the
" negro.
" The whites
prefer the soft, meally white yam which matures slowly,
generally coming in about Christmas time, and which
may, like our own potatoes, be kept six months after
digging as against
a
few days for the yellow and
a
few
weeks for the "negro." The Marzella
is
the largest yam
in size, but somewhat coarse and poor eating. At an
agricultural fair at Spalding,
I
saw
a
Marzella of gro
tesque shape weighing 150 pounds, and
I
am told that
200
is
not unknown.
A
sweet potato
is
reported which
exactly filled
a
half barrel. But such size
is
induced by
excessive manuring merely for exhibition purposes and
does not produce an edible tuber. Ordinary yams weigh
16 BLACK ROADWAYS
from one to ten pounds, though they may attain to
twenty-five or thirty.
To prepare a yam field, the ground must be cleared,
holes dug, and the earth molded up with manure. The
cuttings for planting are taken off the head with eyes
like a potato, three such cuttings being commonly plant
ed in each hill. The hill is covered with trash to keep it
cool, and peas are planted about it to attract the snails
and prevent them from attacking the yam. As soon as
the vines start they must be provided with poles to run
on. The longer the pole the longer the vine and the larg
er the tuber, and the danger of hurricane is so great
that white yams are often planted to run over old trees
which are firm set. The edible part of the yam is not the
head, but a tuber which grows out from the head. This
matures in from seven to twelve months according to
kind and locality, and it may be kept for a long time in
the earth. A good provider will never dig all his yams at
once but leave perhaps one in a hill to four to provide
against hard times. A second crop, called the foot, will
grow from the same planting, but the second growth is
not so good as the first.
Other varieties of yam which occur in Jamaica gar
dens are the Trinidad, Guinea, Lucea, and St. Vincent,
all named after the localities with which they are asso
ciated; others are named for their shape, like the "Pom
pon," which bears "big and round." Folk names are
common;
"
Come-here-fe-help-we
" Wilfrid called the
St. Vincent because it keeps so long in the earth and
propagates itself by seed, so that one planting will
sometimes perpetuate itself for fifteen years and serve
the people in hard times. The yampe is a delicate root
of hard yam whose vine twists from left to right instead
THE SMALL SETTLER 17
of from right to left like the ordinary yam vine. No crop
is more attractive than a field of yellow yam, its glossy,
pointed leaves twined counter-clockwise about evenly
set poles, and no crop in the blossoming season is sweet
er with perfume.
Next to yam in importance of the tubrous vegetables
is the coco, variously known as eddo or tanya in the West
Indies, and as taro and kalo in the Polynesian islands.
It is planted much like the yam and yields, like the yam,
an edible tuber. The baddoo or toaya is a variety in
which, as in Polynesia, the head is the part eaten. One
year after planting, the first "breaking" is ready, but the
head may be moled up for nine months more for a sec
ond breaking, and eight months later the whole is pulled
up for cuttings and the rubbish fed to the pigs. The
great variety of names attached to the coco in different
localities suggests that both nomenclature and variety
have a local range. Wilfrid in St. Mary's grew the hard
"Duke," or "Commander," very popular with the
Negro, the "Sally" and "Minty" and the "Green
'talk," named for its vivid green stalk. In Mandeville
were enumerated the "Lef Hand" as the hardest, the
"Jeremy" as the biggest, and the "White Stalk," "Too
Good," "Sinket," and "Burban" (Burbank), each with
its own peculiar merit. The coco is an extremely deco
rative plant, with its great green heart-shaped leaves
like an immense calla lily's. It is often planted as an
alternate in a young banana cultivation, or in a cocoa
or coffee walk. In St. Mary's parish one may see a co-
coanut grove shading a field of banana or cocoa, and
these trees in turn shading alternate rows of coco plants.
Equally wide are the varieties of. sweet potato. Ac
cording to a Mandeville informant, the "Lewis Daley"
18 BLACK ROADWAYS
is long and big; the "Sarey,
" round and red; the "Stew
art," white "right through"; "Prison Farm," white out
side and pink inside; "Police" is a round potato "with
peg-peg all over"; "Costa Rica" is a white potato;
"Scissors Tail" (named from the shape of the leaf)
bears a whole bunch of tubers.
Plantain is an old staple of the West Indies, brought,
Marsden says, from the Canaries. Because of their pref
erence for hard food over soft, the Jamaica Negroes eat
both plantains and breadfruit green by choice, either
boiled or roasted. The plantain they often grind, into
meal. Wilfrid named the "Horse," "Maiden," and
"Tiger" varieties of plantain. Horse is the common,
Maiden a smaller variety, and Tiger is named from the
stripes on the young stalk.
Peas and beans in great variety make a handsome
showing at an agricultural fair and form a ground staple
beloved by the Jamaica Negro. Red kidney beans, called
"pidgeon peas" by the Negro and used in the famous
dish locally known as red pea soup, are often set out
in alternate rows with corn to make a cover for the
ground, or with sweet potatoes, since they harvest in
nine weeks—by the time the potato vines are grown.
They are popular with the Negro, Long says, because
easy to grow. The Gungo or Congo peas grow not on a
vine, but on a high shrub which spreads at the top and
bears yellow flowers. It is perennial, requiring replant
ing in from two to five years, according to locality, and
may take a ground crop of sweet potatoes. The peas,
which look like large shot of a light grey color, bear in
November, and the crop lasts about three months. An
other popular crop is a small red bean no bigger than a
couple of pinheads, used for the familiar "rice and
THE SMALL SETTLER 19
peas" of the Jamaica Negro. Other varieties named to
day are "Cockstone," "Cow," "Full-mouth," "Sug
ar," and "Bannabis" (Banner bean), the last two men
tioned by Marsden. "Time neber too long fe Bannabis
bear bean," says an old-time proverb inculcating the
rewards of patience, a virtue of which the Negro is by
no means destitute. Rampini names "Red Miss Kelly,"
"Black Betty," "Cockle's Increase," and "Sorrow
for Poor."
Corn is planted from four to six grains in a hole. Af
ter six weeks, the roots are cleaned of young grass and
moled. In six months from the time of planting it is
ready to harvest. The corn ears are spread on a barbe
cue to dry and then shelled with sticks and carried to
the market in bags, those to be used for the next plant
ing being tied together and hung up for drying. Beck-
ford describes cultivations in which corn and coco are
planted in rows as alternates with plantains. Holes are
set in lines ten or twelve feet apart and one large or two
small plants put to each hole. The corn was ripe in five
months, the coco fingers in seven or eight months, and
the heads not for ten or twelve. The plantain took from
eleven to fifteen months to ripen. Marsden (1788)
speaks of the "great" and "guinea" corn, the first
planted between cane rows in April and reaped in June,
the guinea reaped at Christmas.
Corn meal is the staple for a number of popular dish
es. "Dumplings" are made by breaking the young ears
before they are quite dry in the field and mixing the
grated meal with white flour. "Pop," the approved dish
for the sick or for delicate children, is made by boiling
the grated corn and mixing it with milk and sugar. For
"hominy," the dry corn is soaked in a lye of ashes and
20 BLACK ROADWAYS
water, then beaten in a mortar to remove the husk, and
boiled and eaten with milk and sugar. "Brown George"
is parched dry corn beaten fine in a mortar and eaten
with sugar and salt. "Funga" is a mixture of corn meal
and flour boiled in a pot with okra. The Jamaica Cook
ery Book adds "rough cakes made with corn meal and
flour—a gill of salt and a little butter and lard —fresh
pepper freely used," called
"
Stamp-and-go
" because
the country people buy them for a trifle at the wayside
shops with a bit of bread when they travel; and "Duck-
anoo,
" a corn meal pudding baked in a plantain leaf.
Cassava, which seems to be indigenous or introduced
by the Indians into Jamaica, forms a staple starch food
for the dry southside parishes of the middle district.
Large fields are prepared by weeding and holing, and
sticks of cassava cut about twelve inches in length are
set in. A year later, in dry parts, the crop is ready to cut
(but Peart of Mandeville says sweet cassava must be
cut in seven or eight months), and a gang of workers is
employed for the purpose. They pull each stalk by the
root and carefully cut away the bearings, which grow
out like rootlets sometimes six or eight to a stalk. Some
bearings are the size of a man's arm, others only that
of a hand. One exhibited at a fair, which weighed 56
pounds, "was a talking among all the cultivators."
Ogilby, writing in 1671 of his observations in Jamaica
and the other West India islands, says :
The ancient inhabitants used two sorts of bread, the one
made of stamped roots and the other of corn, which is reaped
thrice every year, and grown with such success, that one pint
sown yields two hundred.
They had a strange way to make their cazari cakes of the
root Juca, which keeps good a year. They first pressed out the
IV. BRINGING HOME CASSAVA FROM
THE FIELD
THE SMALL SETTLER 21
juice with great weights, which if drunk raw, occasions sud
den death, but, boiled, is palatable and good.
The preparation of the cassava is sufficiently labo
rious. Each piece must be scraped and grated and the
hard part next the root discarded. As the popular riddle
of the cassava-grater runs: "Me fader hab a whole patch
of cassava; one white-belly rat eat it off.
" If starch is to
be prepared, the meal is mixed well with water and the
whole strained through a towel held between two per
sons. The water which drains through is left for an hour
or two to settle, then poured away leaving the starch.
By this process even if the root of bitter cassava is used
(the juice of which, as Ogilby observed, "occasions
sudden death"), the poison will be poured away with
the juice, and the "trash" which remains in the towel
may be used in various ways for food. Spread out in
the breeze for two hours, then mixed with salt and
baked, it is called "pot bammie." Or it may be dried
for several days, then beaten in a mortar, sifted, and
mixed with flour to make dumpling. But for the choic
est dish of all, the cherished "bammie," the starch must
not be washed out at all. The grated cassava is put into
a "cutacoo," or long, flat basket, shaped like a wall
pocket and woven of thatch. This receptacle is kept
over night in a press extemporized out of a couple of
boards, the lower of which rests on a pile of stones, the
upper fitting at one end into the hollow of some tree,
and weighed down by a rock. Old writers describe ex
actly the same device. In the morning the meal is taken
out of the pocket, beaten, and sifted. The flour thus
formed is mixed with salt and water and baked and
turned like a flapjack on a hot griddle (called an iron).
The edges are cut "round like a wheel" with an iron
22 BLACK ROADWAYS
hook. The Negroes are extravagantly fond of this del
icacy. No choicer offering can be made to an exile to
the wet north side of the island, where cassava is not
grown, than a package of homemade "bammie" from
the drier south.
Coffee grows well in the high parts of Jamaica which
have enough but not too much rainfall, and most small
settlers in these localities have a coffee walk, large or
small, the fruit of which they prepare for market. The
first fruit which ripens in August is called
" Burn Side,
"
because only one side shows red, and is harvested for
home consumption. From September to December, or
later on the north side of the island, the berries are fully
ripe. The three processes of pulping, drying, and fanning
or cleaning are performed with more or less complicated
mechanism according to the size and importance of the
industry. I have seen a community pulping machine,
consisting of a large wooden wheel turned by mule pow
er, which moves horizontally about a circular trough
into which the berries are poured and where they are
crushed under the rim of the wheel, while water pours
in to wash away the pulp. Hand-turned frames are also
made, shaped like a box, with handles on each side which
turn a wooden roller to crush the beans, a funnel at the
top, and a seive at the bottom, through which the grains
fall after the pulp is washed away at the side. For do
mestic use a small mill, something like a coffee mill, is
employed. The berries are put through the pulper sev
eral times until they are as free as possible from the
pulp, then washed by hand in a can of clean water and
spread on a barbecue to dry. They must be taken up at
night and dried by day, turned each day first on one
side and then on the other until they are thoroughly
THE SMALL SETTLER 23
dry, then packed away in bags for marketing. A few
days before marketing they are heated for one or two
days, then put into a mortar and pounded until the
trash is beaten off, and fanned to blow it away. On large
estates a fanner is provided for this process. The grains
are finally picked over clean by hand before selling in
the market, where they may bring from 6d. to is. a
quart.
The Jamaica Negro is fond of sugar and generally
grows a small patch of sugar cane for home consump
tion, which he grinds in a small hand mill. Many small
settlers plant a large patch of cane and construct a mill
which does not differ much today from that described
by Peter Marsden in 1788, with octagonal roof, a main
roller of cabbage tree and two other rollers turning upon
cogs, the whole worked by mules or horses, with a boy
on the shaft to drive who "sang day and night." The
mills I saw in the cockpits had the crusher in the open
and the boiling done under the conical roof, nor did the
boy sing day and night; only the noisy creaking of the
wooden rollers as the forlorn animal made its round
told of the neighborhood of one of these primitive sugar
factories. One man feeds in the cut cane while the mule
swings around the circle. The juice flows through a gut
ter set beneath the rollers and thence into a barrel.
When the barrel is full, the juice is strained and a little
lime water, more or less according to the season, thrown
in to temper it. In a dry season the juice will crystallize
quickly, but in a wet season more lime must be used to
prevent its turning into a spongy mass known as "tie
teeth." While the juice is boiling, someone must keep
it constantly turning with a long ladle to watch its prog
ress, and skim it to remove the impurities which rise
24 BLACK ROADWAYS
to the surface. This scum is called the "dundar,
" a term
used by Marsden, who limits it to the skimming of the
two first coppers, called "St. Hild." Another man at
tends to feeding the fire. The boiling usually takes sev
eral hours. When the juice sugars, the fire is drawn out
from under the pots and the hot sugar ladled into ker
osene cans or into little clay forms about the size of a
pint can, according to the form in which it is to be mar
keted. It is estimated that nine kerosene cans of juice
go to make one can of sugar. Each can holds sixty-four
pounds of sugar and sells at from ios. to 16s., of which
is. 6d. must be paid for the hire of the mule. About six
of these cans are turned out in a day.
There is little difference except in color between the
two kinds of ginger grown in Jamaica, the white and the
blue. Good ginger grounds require a black loam, hence
the cultivation is limited to the high midland sections,
where it is the chief industry; but as the crop quickly
wears out the soil, either fertilizers or rotation of crops
must be. resorted to. Ogilby writes:
Since the Spaniards planted ginger on Jamaica, it hath
grown there in great abundance. The male plant (for it is di
vided into male and female) hath generally bigger leaves than
the female; the stalks, which are without knots, have more
leaves upwards than downwards, and spread along the earth,
still taking root anew; when the leaves wither, then the ginger
is commonly ripe, but it hath not that poignancy whilst green
as when dry'd.
One planting yields two crops, the second or rattoon
crop springing from the old stock which is left in the
ground. The buds must be left in the ground for a year
after planting. They are dug from January to March
and carried to the ginger house where gangs of women
THE SMALL SETTLER 25
provided with knives peel off the skin and spread out
the ginger to dry on wooden frames. This work is done
at night to the accompaniment of song. The ginger
when ready for market looks like heavy branching coral
and sells from 3d. to is. a pound.
The pimento or allspice berry grows upon a hand
some glossy-leaved laurel tree native to Jamaica, and
furnishes a marketable product with very little outlay
except to keep the trees clear of undergrowth. Bridges
says that in his day St. Ann parish supplied "three-
fourths of the pimento which is consumed throughout
the world." The berries ripen from July to October
and are harvested by breaking off the fresh limbs from
the tree and picking off the berries into baskets. They
must then be dried on the barbecue like coffee, kept
from rain, and constantly turned until the seed can be
heard to shake inside the husk. Then they are cleaned
by fanning, the people using one hand for fanning, while
with the other they shake the berries about in a tray
or bowl. Last, they must be picked over by hand to re
move all sticks. The highest price paid is 3d. a pound;
often it sells for only a farthing.
Both ginger and pimento are pleasant crops to har
vest because of the rich spicy smell that accompanies
every part of the process, however tiresome. The pi
mento tree itself wafts a fragrance said to be inimical to
ticks and such evil vermin. Another exquisitely odor
iferous harvest is that of the logwood estates, which in
blossoming season smell sweeter than isles of spice and
attract swarms of bees to a harvest which yields to the
bee farm in February its choicest honey —clear amber
and white, as compared with the dark mango honey
which comes in April or later. The wood of logwood is
26 BLACK ROADWAYS
marketable for dyestuff. The annotto bean also yields
a dye valuable to commerce and is among the market
able products of the small settler, at about is. a pound.
"Best prices paid for coffee, ginger, honey, wax, cocoa,
annotto, goat-skins, pimento, kola nuts, cassava starch,
sarsaparilla," I read in a notice affixed to a provision
store on the south side of the island.
Of the folklore of planting my records are rather sug
gestive of its direction than complete in detail. The
moon plays an active part in planting customs. Cassava
must not be planted "to catch the moon," or it will be
stocky without growing tubers, hence it should be set
out in the dark of the moon or just before full moon so
that the roots will not start until the moon begins to
wane. Yam, sweet potatoes, and cabbage, on the other
hand, should be planted five to seven days before full
moon so that "they may start to root and catch the
full and we get good return.
" Plantain and banana also
are set out "to meet the moon." "Dig up suckers and
wait upon the moon," says Falconer. Several inform
ants assured me that the difference between the dark
and the light varieties of yampe (which are variable
species) depended upon whether the tuber was planted
on a dark night or during moonlight. In some cases my
informants gave rationalistic reasons for moon taboos,
which sometimes even contradicted the sympathetic
magic of the moon. Wilfrid of St. Mary's thinks that
peas and sweet potatoes should be planted on a dark
night so that the worms will not find them, and Falco
ner would plant corn then to protect it from the rats,
unless it is to be planted on burned ground where the
rats can't find it.
Planting customs tend to emphasize odd days of
y
THE SMALL SETTLER 27
the month, especially the fifteenth: "February 15 and
March 15 are beautiful days to plant corn, or August
15 and September 15," says Falconer of Malvern,
who would always plant on the odd days. Parkes of
Mandeville named the eighth, fifteenth, or twenty-
second for planting, especially in March. May seems
to be a poor planting month. Falconer says the crab
runs in that month, and white yams planted in May
will bear
" no bigger than a crab 's foot.
" Other inform
ants agreed that coco planted in May will show soft
scaly bumps called "yaw bumps."
Much lore attaches to the pumpkin, which is a very
old favorite in Negro provision grounds. To keep the
plant from running to vine and to persuade it to go
about its business of bearing fruit and of bearing gourds
with meat instead of a "heavy inside" called "pumpkin
guts," imitative magic is employed. If a person walks
about too much after or before planting pumpkin seed,
the vine will also run about over the ground without
bearing anything. The thing to do is to plant the first
thing in the morning before eating or drinking and, after
planting, to sit down quietly for an hour and do noth
ing at all, or "sit down flat, fold up your legs, and put
a stone on your head.
" If the vine still seems inclined
to run, send a pregnant woman out to tread upon it;
she must "catch the vine and turn it up and down and
walk upon it. " If you point toward young pumpkins
when they are coming out, they will drop off the vine;
instead, gesture with the clenched fist.
Before planting peas, cook rice and peas and eat them
at the field for luck in planting. When a man plants a
new field it will give him luck if his wife runs about it
naked at seven o'clock at night. To keep a neighbor
r
28 BLACK ROADWAYS
from casting a "grudgeful eye" at a fine field crop,
plant the horse-eye bean (Dolichos ensiformis, according
to Gosse), also called "cut-eye bean,
" at the top and
bottom of the field and bury a physic nut in the field, or
plant it all along the side of the field and put some into
a gourd and hide the gourd in the field. For should a
neighbor grudge you your crop, he can wither it by go
ing to the field early while the dew is on the ground and
walking through it until his trousers are wringing wet,
then wringing out the water over the fire. Fire here
seems to play a magical part, just as in the interdictions
mentioned by one of Cundall's informants against
roasting yam lest it injure the vine, or roasting bread
fruit with the heart left in lest the tree bear smaller
fruit.1
'The notes on food and agriculture were printed as Part 2 of Notes on
Jamaican Ethnobotany.
REFERENCES
Houses:
Barclay, 313-17.
Bridges, 1:87.
Edwards, 1:254; 2: 163-65.
Gardner, 180.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica, 253, 256-59.
Long, 3: 738, 740, 767, 803, 852-64.
Marsden, 31.
Phillippo, 220-29.
Rampini, 89-92.
Senior, 40-411.
Stewart, 109, 231-33.
Williams, 100-2.
Cultivation:
Beckford.
f
THE SMALL SETTLER 29
Bell, 118, 119.
Blome, 40-42.
Bridges, 1 : 582-604.
Dancer.
Edwards, 1: 254-57; 2: 232-373.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn, 151-54.
Leslie, 33-35; 331-44.
Lewis, 86-88.
Long, 1:435-64; 3: 681-847.
Marsden.
Ogilby.
Renny, 128-59.
Senior, 50-57.
Sloane, 1: Int., lx-lxii, lxviii-lxix.
2: Int., xviii-xx, lxxiv-lxxvi.
Stewart, 98-110.
Sullivan.
Chapter HI
FISHING, TRAPPING, STOCK-RAISING
ijea fishing is carried on to a considerable extent
in Jamaica, especially on the south side of the island
from Alligator Pond to Savannah-la-Mar. Long affirms
that the Negroes of the Congo and of the Gold Coast
are expert fishermen and excel in making canoes. But
there is little to be seen of fish craft today in Jamaica;
"everything is done the easiest way."
Canoes are dug out of cottonwood trees, the size
depending upon the size of the tree. Cottonwoods rise
to a very great height before branching (Long says
sometimes to eighty or a hundred feet), and the wood
is soft and spongy. Before felling a tree a propitiatory
offering of rum must be poured at its roots "to pay
the old one,
" a precaution perhaps encouraged by the
exaction of a similar dram to quiet the superstitious
apprehension of the men who do the felling. When the
trunk has been trimmed, it is hollowed out with an
axe rather than by burning, for the people seem to
dread the use of fire. An ingenious device employed
to mark the limit of the gouging is to drive small pegs
of hard wood (usually bullet) at intervals into the soft
trunk, so that as the wood is cut away they mark the
point—about two inches from the surface—at which
the cutting must cease.
The finished canoe is generally given a coat of black
paint. Its fittings are of the simplest. Oars are used,
not paddles. A piece of wood "shaped like a tomb" is
nailed to the halyards and pierced in two places to hold
1. Mesh used for fish pots.
2. Top of steering paddle.
3. Cross section of tree trunk showing construction
of canoe.
4. Oar blade showing method of tying.
32 BLACK ROADWAYS
the loops of rope which take the place of tholepins.
Bigelow in 1850 saw this same device used and also
the method of tying the blade of the oar to the loom
or handle by piercing three sets of holes in each and
sewing the two together with hand-twisted cord. The
shaping of loom and blade is often of the roughest.
The short paddle used for steering is either cut in one
piece or has a short crosspiece nailed to the end of the
handle. Sometimes a spritsail is provided.
The fish pot in use today is of the common double
box pattern. Gosse describes the mesh of a single box
shape he saw near Bluefields as made of "strips of very
tough wood torn off about an inch wide and no thicker
than card-board, interwoven much like the cane bot
tom of a chair," and the same mesh is seen today, es
pecially on the top and bottom of the trap, although
chicken wire is fast taking its place. It resembles the
diagonally locked open checker-mat of the Carib In
dians pictured on page 322 of Roth's monograph on
the arts and crafts of the Guiana Indians in the 38th
Report of the Bureau of Ethnology. For bait, fresh
fish is less often used than decaying oranges, bread
fruit, coco head and herring; otherwise the big fish
will break the pot in their eagerness to snatch the bait.
Fishing forms described by old writers I did not see
used, but they may still be employed. Rampini dis
tinguishes two methods of fishing, one the "palenka"
or long line fishing with 1650 hooks attached to a single
line, the other "bateau" fishing. Beckford draws a fine
picture of fresh-water fishing for mullet or
" calapavre,
"
practised from February to April when the rivers are
low. The river is first dammed and fish pots deposited
to catch such fish as escape, then a seine is launched
FISHING, TRAPPING 33
in the deeper parts of the river while divers make ready
to drive back or catch in hands or teeth the fish which
try to escape; others are ready with spears to stab them
from above. Long says that fish poison was used to
stupefy the fish, sometimes branches of dogwood being
thrown into a pool for this purpose. Seine-fishing is
still employed in some bays. The seines are made 300
feet long, either of imported twine or of native cord
twisted out of trumpet bark. A catch of fish in Jamaica
is never more than enough to supply domestic demands.
Fish caught at Little Pedro as listed by Henry James
Eliot, a fisherman from Ballards Valley, include those
varieties caught in pots and on the towing line. Pot
fish are jackfish of the "goggle-eye," "horse-eye," and
''skip" varieties; yellowtails of the "maiden" (small)
and "drop" (large); snappers; mullet, especially the
"queen" mullet; silk of the red "sun-silk" and the
black varieties; pangie; parrot; goat and Caesar. On
the towing line are caught "ocean" and "hard bone"
jack; king; mackerel; ocean piper; grupper; "pot-
cover"; "angel"; "Tom squirrel"; bonito; dolphin
and barracouta. There is no fishing with a seine at
Little Pedro, but a seine is used at Alligator Pond to
catch cobbler; "cavally" (Gosse thinks from the Span
ish cavalho) and "hard bone" jack; snit; drummer and
"mungala" drummer; cat; "cutlass" and "machete";
shad, and even sharks and sea cows. Many of these va
rieties are listed by Gosse, Stewart, and Marsden.
Turtle-spearing is still carried on at night in the
marshes of the Black River by setting fire to the long
grass and driving the turtles to take refuge in the water;
and fresh lobsters, crab meat, and turtle soup are com
mon delicacies on a creole table. Fishing is the common
34 BLACK ROADWAYS
occupation of many seacoast villages. At Alligator Pond
the boats go out five days of the week, at Little Pedro
on four. On the dry Pedro plains it is only by selling
their sea products that the inhabitants manage to live.
The fishermen sell their wares on the beach, and the
vendors hasten with them to the largest settlement with
the fish disposed in trays upon their heads or carried
in a cutacoo or side pocket suspended about the neck.
In undershirt and drawers they trot up the mountain
slopes of Santa Cruz or Manchester nineteen miles to
the town. For a fish horn they may carry a conch shell
which they blow as they run. I have seen fish vendors
from Alligator Pond selling sea products in the mar
kets of Christiana, which must be some thirty miles
from the sea.
Sea life and sea products seem to enter almost not
at all into the imaginative life of the Negro, but this
judgment may be due to the fact that it was in the hill
towns and not on the coast that most of my observa
tions were made. There is no question, however, that
in this respect Jamaican thought differs sharply from
the Polynesian, for example, whose art
is,
like its life,
amphibian. Few folk tales have
a
background of sea
life, nor do
I
recall
a
riddle or
a
song that turns upon it.
Mr. Cundall lists only six proverbs out of 737 which
refer to fish or fishing. Sea creatures seldom appear as
actors in Jamaican animal stories, nor do superstitions
play about sea life such as give interest and mystery
to certain birds, insects, and animals.
I
once heard
a
song chanted by
a
passer-by —
I
think
a
girl—on the
street of
a
hill town, which ran—
I
do not want to go down to the sea,
For the sea
is
so wide and the sea
is
so deep
!
Q
Z
o
(X
Pi
o
<
0
<
<
en
H
<
c
H
O
z
SB
w
X
c
a
z
<
FISHING, TRAPPING 35
Over and over she crooned her lonely reflection to a
chantlike melody. So far as I know, those mysteries of
the spirit world in Jamaica which lave themselves in
watery places are reserved for pools and rivers. The
mind of the African Jamaican remains congenitally
continental, nor has it ever played with the darker
illusions of the sea which bore him hither.
Of folklore of the sea my records are almost desti- ,
tute. Fishermen wear one gold earring in order to sharp
en the sight. Eliot of Ballards Valley had a saying that
"fishermen put two knives together in the form of a
cross to prevent rain from falling," and that "when a
star shoots toward the north fishermen look for stormy
weather." Wednesday is regarded as a lucky day for
fishing, especially if the fisherman happens to be born
on that day. One of Cundall's informants says if you
are going hunting or fishing and anybody asks you to
bring him "one," he spoils your luck.
Of game there is very little left wild on the island, !
but the Negroes sometimes vary their diet by bird-
trapping, and many valuable birds of the pigeon tribe
have been almost exterminated by this practice. The
ringdove was in old days a famous table delicacy, and
today the whitewing, pea dove, baldpate, whitebelly,
"hopping Dick," quail, and partridge are the chief
birds hunted. Traps are used for their capture, at least
for the smaller birds.
The most complex of these trapping methods is the
calaban, made like a rustic flowerpot. Four sticks of
equal size are laid in the form of a square varying in
size according to the size of the bird to be caught, and
bound at the corners with cords which cross inside the
square diagonally and into which the successive layers
i L
36 BLACK ROADWAYS
of sticks are woven until the whole is built up into a
four-sided conical cap. To set the trap, it is lightly tilt
ed upon the point of a stick which rests upon the cen
ter of the raised side and attached to which is a string
extending under the trap where food is scattered. As
the bird pecks at the food, the string is twitched and
the cage falls. The springe and chokie are placed upon
a branch to which a bird is likely to come for fruit.
The springe is made with a piece of pliable stick which
catches the bird when it puts its head through to eat the
fruit. The chokie or "breakneck" employs a string for
the same purpose. The small branches are first broken
away from about the fruit, leaving a single perch for
the bird's approach. One end of the cord is held in the
hand of the concealed trapper and the other arranged
in a loop where the bird will put its head through to eat.
Bird lime made of fustic or cashew gum is employed in
similar fashion. A lump of it is stuck at the end of a
stick, which is then thrust through the fruit so as to
form a tempting perch for the bird that comes to peck
the fruit.
As to the domestication of animals, the small settler
has little experience. Few such families own any animal
besides the dog as guardian of the house, the donkey to
carry produce to market, the goat for milk and meat,
or perhaps a hog for the more thrifty. The pens, as
stock farms are called in Jamaica, are altogether in the
hands of large owners. Many families find employment
on the pens, but I obtained very little specific informa
tion about folk belief as applied to the art of stock-
raising.
Horse-racing is still the favorite sport of the wealthy
pen-owners, a sport which is reflected also in the life of
w
H
<
O
<
Q
Z
FISHING, TRAPPING 37
the folk at the annual parish fairs where prizes are of
fered for horse, mule, and donkey competitions, as well
as in the great meets where only the pens breeding race
horses actually compete, but to which resorts the whole
population within reach of the race course. From 1824
to 1840, Pepper Pen in St. Elizabeth is said to have had
"the largest racing stud in the world" (that
is,
the Ja
maica world), with
a
hundred thoroughbred English
mares and seven English sires. It
is
asserted by the
loyal jockeys that racers from its stud were sold into
England and won on the great English courses. Other
pen-owners with smaller studs were equally able train
ers. The story goes that Watt of Friendship used to
keep his yearlings for
a
day without water and then,
stationing himself by the watering trough to watch
their gait as they came up to drink, he picked out those
fit for training.
Races were held twice
a
year on the Kingston course.
There was
a
two-mile run; after the first half the horses
were rubbed down, and the three leaders ran the second
mile which decided the race. Each of the jockeys wore
the colors of the pen for which he was riding: those from
Pepper Pen were in red with blue sleeves; those from
Harmony Hall, St. Ann, in blue and white. The cele
brated Miss Sarah Salmon Manning, who owned her
own stud and was regarded any man's equal in judg
ing
a
horse, put her jockeys into crimson.
Betting was high, and even white men have acknowl
edged their indebtedness to the mysterious powers of
the "French woman" who occupied (or perhaps still
occupies)
a
house backing upon the Kingston race
course. The tips she gave to her customers are said to
have invariably picked upon the winning horse. But
38 BLACK ROADWAYS
the Negroes had other means of betting on the winner
besides application to a medium. Falconer assured me
that there were several ways by which a man could stay
at home and predict the event of the race. Two men
might name two grains of peas for two of the horses.
One would take one pea, the other party to the bet the
other, and three days before the race they would plant
them at the same instant. The first pea to sprout on the
fourth day (that
is,
the day of the race) was the win
ner. Or they might name two bottles of equal size and
on the day of the race fill them with water and one say:
"Come on, now, and we throw [empty] the water and
the first one that
is
dry, that
is
the winner." Or the two
betters would select two plantain trunks, name them,
and, on the night before the race, go out in the dark
and make
a
cut with the machete As high as they could
reach. In the morning the trunk that showed the high
est mark named the winner. Finally, "old-time people
say that
if
you look at the clouds as they lie along the
horizon in the early morning between four and five—
not later—you will see the color in the clouds worn by
the jockey who rides the winning horse." An old jockey
from Pepper Pen corroborated this statement, and
I
think he believed it.
One of Cundall's informants gives further
a
receipt
for preventing
a
horse from winning the race. Collect
dirt from its hoof, wrap
it
up with asafoetida in
a
cloth,
tie
it
with the "wild slip" plant, and put
it
under
a
stone or other heavy weight. But
if
the owner has taken
the precaution to collect the dirt first and throw
it
away,
the charm will not work.
So far as
I
could find out, there
is
little interest in
the stars or other heavenly bodies among Jamaicans.
FISHING, TRAPPING 39
A few African riddles concern themselves with the stars
and the moon, and a few beliefs of rather unusual char
acter have grown up about them. All of those I heard
came from Falconer.
In starting on a journey, you should look for the
"first runner star" in the morning about half past two
to three; shut one eye and "bring it into two stars."
If the point to the east twinkles when you look at it in
this way, it is unlucky to start, but if not, you will have
a prosperous journey.
If you see stars thick at night, the sun will be hot the
next day.
It is unlucky to say that you see a star shoot—say
you see a "a cow run" or some other animal move. If
a star shoots toward the north, there will be a storm
from the north—"great wind and weather."
Seven stars "come out in May and scatter in June."
It is these stars that cause the heat, and they are called
"clot of blood." The old sign says that if a male sees
the sign first, many men will die during the year; if
a female, many women, and if an animal sees it first
it will be a hard year for the animals. Hence the ani
mals from January to May sleep with their heads turned
toward the east because they don't want to see the
stars; in May they turn their heads right back to the
sea. Falconer says he believes this to be a "positive
fact" because he has himself marked the habit among
the animals.
Beliefs about the days of the week I think derived,
like the traditions already quoted, from European
sources; perhaps English rhymes account for some of
them. I have these from Wilfrid or other informants
from St. Mary. Monday is the right day to start on a
40 BLACK ROADWAYS
journey because you should "never let Sunday catch
you on your travel." But Monday is not so lucky a
day as Tuesday to go out to look for work; should a
man fail to get work on one Tuesday, he will not try
again until the Tuesday following. No one will pay out
money on Monday. Monday is also an unlucky day for
marriage; the two will "quarrel till they part" if they
marry on Monday. Saturday is also unlucky, for the
husband is sure to die. Says Wilfrid, "That I book
down; I know that is fact." Wednesday and Sunday
are the best days for marriage. Thursday and Friday
are the best days to clip your hair.
A few beliefs about special days are also current. If
on Good Friday morning at twelve o 'clock you break an
egg and turn the white into a glass without the yolk, it
will turn red. Or if at the same hour, you go to a physic
nut tree (castor oil bean) and stick a penknife into
it,
the juice that comes out will be blood. Virginia Stew
art,
a
Pukkumerian, tried this, and "it really was
blood."
Plant fruit trees on Christmas day, for they will then
bear heavily.
If on New Year's morning you fill
a
glass with foam
ing soapsuds and place
it
outside your door, at twelve
o'clock
it
will "show you your destiny," but
I
do not
know exactly in what form.
If
you spread
a
white cloth
under
a
fig tree on New Year's morning and put two
glasses there, at twelve o'clock at night the fig tree
blossom will fall into one of the glasses, and two white
men will come and throw down
a
diamond and go away.
If you go up on
a
hill on New Year's morning you will
see the sun dance. One informant says that what one
does on New Year's day one will do every other day of
the year.
•"
FISHING, TRAPPING 41
REFERENCES
Fishing :
Barclay, 323-31.
Beckford, 2:105-11.
Bigelow, 9
Browne, 296, 440-60.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn, 205-16, 268, 271-79,
290-92.
Lewis, 104, 153.
Long, 3:736, 823,867-69.
Marsden, 50-53.
Phillippo, 55-57.
Rampini, 168-72.
Sloane, 2:275-91.
Stewart, 87.
Williams, 79, 80.
Horse-racing and test of fortune:
Cundall, Folk-lore.
De Lisser, In Jamaica and Cuba, 103-6.
Palache.
Chapter IV
THE MARKET
E,
exchange in Jamaica is carried on by means of
open markets held in the larger villages of each parish,
sometimes not more than three miles apart, and open
on fixed days, generally a small market on Wednesday
and a large one on Saturday. In Kingston several mar
kets are open daily, although Saturday is the great
market day when the people of the hill villages send
in their produce and stock up for the week-end.
The market occupies a fixed enclosure in some cen
tral place in the village, walled to prevent free entrance
and provided with covered booths, at least for the meat
stalls and sometimes for the whole enclosure, with a
water supply and a corner for tethering the donkeys.
It is owned by the parochial board, which rents it out to
a private individual for a fixed sum a year. He engages
to keep it clean and to regulate its conduct, and in re
turn collects an admission fee of one penny for a load
carried in on the head, threepence for a donkey-load.
The stalls are rented according to the value of the ar
ticle sold. In Maggotty, St. Elizabeth (the name dates
from Slaney's map of 1678), the market is held in the
back yard of a large provision-shop, and entrance is free
except that each vendor is expected to give a yam or a
coco or some other bit of his produce to the man who
cleans the yard. Here stalls for mutton rent for three
pence, pork for sixpence, and beef for a shilling.
Sellers and buyers sometimes travel great distances
to attend a market where their own products are in
THE MARKET 43
demand or where they can supply themselves with pro
visions which are scarce at home. At the Maggotty
market, ground provisions are cheap because they are
supplied by the industrious small settlers who come
from seven miles back in the cockpit country; hence
buyers from the dry Pedro plains travel as far as
twenty-four miles to supply the markets at home. All
night long the procession moves toward the market,
silently or with song, driving the loaded donkeys.
Those who get in early drop down beside their donkeys
to sleep until morning, when they take advantage of
an early sale to start back with a load to sell in another
market. Others in their festive clothes remain for the
day, dickering with this one and that and getting the
sweet taste of cosmopolitan life and gaiety before re
turning to take up again the round of the week in the
country.
In the market, stations are taken in an orderly way
so that each kind of ware has its own locality and each
vendor his place. Women vend the produce of their
gardens temptingly arranged in neat bunches within
a single large basket or wooden tray, or spread out be
fore them in neat piles on the floor, each vendor's dis
play a green grocer's shop in miniature. At Mandeville,
where many whites come to buy, there are green veg
etables such as lettuce heads, little rolls of string beans
and bunches of radishes and onions, heaps of lima beans,
tomatoes often of great size and excellent flavor, car
rots, turnips, and eggplants. The vendors of these things
have also eggs to sell at a shilling a dozen. There are
little bunches of thyme and mint and sage for flavor
ing, and small round strawberry tomatoes valued for
a relish and grown in every well-appointed yard. Staple
44 BLACK ROADWAYS
vegetables of the "bread kind" are always to be had,
and a pumpkin or fruits in their season —pears, man
goes, and pineapples in the summer; citrous fruits in the
winter; and in the spring, purple or green star-apples,
warty soursop, a dish of brown naseberries so highly val
ued under the name of "sapodilla" throughout the West
Indies, or a basket of that curious, indigenous fruit of
the cashew nut (said to grow "with its seed outside"),
a long droop of red or yellow, acrid to the taste but
palatable in preserve, at whose extremity hangs the
little pear-shaped nut in a hard shell. This must be
roasted before extracting the soft delicate cashew nut
of commerce. In the spring also, when the ackee are
ripe, there are baskets of this brilliant red fruit yawn
ing open to show the glossy black seeds against the
pale yellow pulp. Nothing in Jamaica gardens moves
the admiration more than this African tree, its bril
liant red droops hanging in clusters among the glossy
green leaves, in which state the fruit carries a poison
that disappears only when it is ripened so as to split
open in the sun; hence the Jamaica riddle:
Me fader send me to pick out a wife; tell me to tek only
those that smile, fe those that do not smile wi' kill me.
In another part of the market there are golden-red
corn shelled into bags, the common red kidney bean,
and gungo peas; and where East Indians live there is
rice sold by a pretty delicate-skinned woman with a
gold ornament thrust into the side of her nose, and her
neck and wrist loaded with silver chains and bangles
of fine workmanship. All these wares are measured out
by the quart, pint, or half-pint in the same way as the
white starch of arrowroot or cassava. On the south side
of the island, where cassava is grown, every market has
w
Pi
<:
<
H
in
W
0
<
w
o
Q
z
«*!
<
w
pq
O
t—I
w
CO
I
THE MARKET 45
its row of old women, with trays on their knees or at
open stalls, selling flat white "bammie" cakes as big as
a plate, folded up in white napkins as protection from
the dust. Also sold by measure is the black native sugar
brought down from the hills in kerosene cans slung
across a donkey's back and peddled in the market at
a shilling a quart. It is thus that the sugar-makers from
the cockpits supply it. Clarendon vendors bring their
sugar to market hardened into small cakes and packed
into bales stuffed with banana trash, and these sell for
fourpence a cake. Near the entrance to the market
there is a tempting display of pulled pink and white
peppermint sticks called "John Barley"; cocoanut
cakes called, if cut, "chopped devil," if grated, "grata
brule"; trays of buns and spiced cakes wrapped in nap
kins; bottles of homemade ginger beer; and cakes like
our fudge made of native sugar and ginger, besides
jewelry to beguile the purchaser who arrives with full
pockets or the vendor who leaves with the price of his
wares still unspent.
Besides the meat stalls there may be fish stalls where
dried fish hangs. Fried fish prepared at home for mar
ket is sold out of covered trays, as well as tripe and
pigs' feet, which are a favorite relish of the people.
Tobacco vendors take up a good position, sure of their
trade. The cured leaf, often of excellent quality, is
wound into rope of two sizes called "jackass rope" and
is sold by measure. Rope itself is also to be found in the
market, although rope-making is a less specialized in
dustry. It is twisted out of trumpet bark, or from the
bark of a tree called "burn nose"; from mahoe bark,
or the outside husk of the cocoanut, or thatch, called
"silver straw." That of the trumpet bark is the best,
H
46 BLACK ROADWAYS
thatch rope perhaps the least valuable. To braid the
rope, select a smooth part of the bark and strip it down
from the top, cutting it off smooth at the bottom. The
outer bark must then be stripped off, leaving the inner,
and this inner bark is hung up for three days to dry,
letting the dew also fall upon and soften it. Take three
strands together, loop one end into a "nose," and tie
it with a cord against a tree; then braid it down, at the
same time twisting each strand deftly as the braiding
continues. When finished, the looped end is called the
nose.
Other articles of domestic manufacture such as are
useful in the economy of the household have also a place
in the market. Brooms of thatch or of the coarse parts
of the "jippi joppa" palm leaves after the finer por
tions have been split off for weaving; wooden trays
shaped like meat-chopping trays; starch-sifters plaited
out of narrow strands of thatch, the ends of which are
deftly inserted' and fastened into the pliable bands of
fig wood which form the rim; little round doormats
braided out of banana trash; pannier-protectors for
the donkeys, of the same trash, stitched flat with twine,
and sleeping-mats put together with the same material
and technic; panniers themselves occasionally, although
these are less often seen in the market. Nor have I ever
seen there the flat trays of native wood, rectangular in
shape, with flaring rim, usually without a cover, in
which the more punctilious in the country districts
still carry poised upon their heads the spoils of sea or
garden, the bread from the bakeshop, and the break
fast they are taking to their man at work in the shop.
Water-carriers, too, are hardly to be got in the market.
I suppose they are too bulky for the occasional need.
THE MARKET 47
In old days the calabash and the great clay jar called
"panya" (Spanish) were the common receptacles,
with a gourd for a carrier poised upon the head by
means of a ring-shaped pad of banana trash or handker
chief called a "cotta." Long says that some of these
gourds held from thirty to forty quarts. They are got
from a smaller variety of the calabash tree in which
the fruit grows along the branches instead of from the
trunk like the larger product. The "tooktook" bears
a size halfway between. Today the kerosene can is the
common carrier. I have seen children of eight or ten
carrying such cans of water on their heads from the
brook. The gasolene drum lately introduced is locally
distinguished from the kerosene as the "jo pan" or
"drum-pan." Dealers in cocoanuts display not only
the ripe nut for sale, or a tray full of water cocoanuts
cut young before the liquid has formed into meat, but
also brushes cut from the husks, of a rich brown color,
smooth and soft as velvet, which are used in every well-
regulated Jamaica household to polish the finished
wood floors after they have first been cleaned with a
wash of Seville orange juice. Or the husk may be shred
ded to make rope or to use for brushes or to stuff beds
(called kaiya). Earthen bowls, hand-turned and cov
ered with a rude glaze, are always to be had in the
Kingston market, but they are more rare in the hills
where the old-time "yabba" is being supplanted by
tinware. The pail-shaped tin which constitutes the or
dinary cooking vessel is called a "bu'n pan" from the
black look it gets after being over the fire, and the com
mon name for a silk hat is a "bu'n pan hat" just as we
would say "stovepipe," and the English, "chimney
pot.
" Tinware, drygoods in the shape of cloth and no
48 BLACK ROADWAYS
tions, and jewelry, belts, mirrors, and other articles of
dress or of adornment, occupy a conspicuous place in
the modern market. In Mandeville an entire covered
booth is given up to this and the tobacco trade. Hides
are sometimes sold, and such livestock as are commonly
owned by the people, that
is,
goats, pigs, chickens, and
donkeys.
Hats and baskets are always displayed at the Satur
day market. It
is
in basketry as also in wood work that
the Jamaica Negroes show most technical skill, for
these people must be classed as primarily
a
basket-
weaving rather than
a
pottery-making folk. Their bas
kets are made to carry heavy loads and are woven with
remarkable evenness and firmness. The modern com
mercializing of the industry has developed some new
technics and brought some new materials into use but
has tended to the deterioration of old patterns. In early
days two technics developed according to the material
used, and these still persist. Round baskets are made
of
a
withe called "basket hook" treated like wattling,
for which wild cane or fine strips of bamboo can be sub
stituted to make in the one case
a
more perishable bas
ket, in the other
a
stronger. Two shapes are common in
this technic, the open bowl-shaped field basket, with
a
firm rim of withe or bamboo caught over at intervals
with the hook; or the covered basket, large at the bot
tom and narrowing toward the top, with
a
cover and
generally with handles either applied like loops at the
sides or brought over the top like
a
carrying basket.
Both these shapes may be of very large size and are in
ordinary use for crop gathering and transporting. The
square baskets are plaited close and flat out of strips
of prepared thatch, for which cocoanut or screw pine
THE MARKET 49
may be substituted. Three shapes are common. The
"bankra" is a ground provision basket, about eight to
ten inches square at the bottom and eleven to thirteen
inches in height, fitted with a close cover and a double
handle, very neatly made of two strips of withe over-
bound with thatch and sewed to the bottom about four
inches apart, then brought together up the side to form
a double thickness which bows well up from the cover.
It is the lightest and most convenient of baskets for one
not skilled in head balance, and as enduring as time. An
attractive pattern is worked into it of a darker palm or
of strands dyed orange with annotto or brown with
logwood. The "hang-'pon-me," also of thatch, is a
square pocket hung from the neck. The cutacoo is of
a coarse weave and shaped like a wall pocket with the
strands running diagonally instead of squarely across
it. A sewed basket technic has developed with the de
velopment of the "jippi joppa" palm industry, and very
pretty "lady" baskets are made for a girl's trips to the
city, but they are too delicate to be employed in field
labor.
Some of the price values quoted at the market show
a survival of old usage. The following table contains
names still in use today:
Bit, 4%d. or 9 cents.
Four bits, Is. 6d. or 36 cents.
Mac-and-thru.p fence, Is. 3d. or 30 cents.
Quattie, l%d. or 3 cents.
Gill, 3 farthings or 1J^ cents.
In Stewart's day still other terms were common:
Joe (a Portuguese coin in gold), £5 10j.
Half Joe, or Johannes, £2 15s.
50. BLACK ROADWAYS
Macaroni (an American coin), 25 cents
Spanish dollar, 6s. 8d.
Leslie lists also:
Ryal, 7%d.
Pieces of eight, 6s. 3d.
Pistole, 28 ryals or £1 3s. 9d.
Doubloon, 2 pistoles or £2 7s. 6d.
At times when money is plentiful and prices high, much
coin changes hands at the market and provision stores;
when the market is low, barter is employed, but always
in terms of money value. The chorus of a "hard time"
song runs:
Annotto can't sell, the price is unfair,
Pimento a blossom and drop.
Hard time, hard time,
Hard time a carry the day.
Hard time, hard time,
For they won't put cramouchin' [grudging] away.
The sellers in the market do not cry their wares ; they
save their breath for bargaining. But the street vendors
of Kingston, the "higglers" or "cadgers" as they are
called, have each their own musical cry which rises and
falls with a peculiar inflection, generally with an up
ward turn at the end.
Those who sell ground provisions cry: "Buy yo'
white yam! buy yo' yellow yam! buy yo' green bana
na!" or "Black an' white coco gwine pas'," or in the
pear and mango season as they pass up and down in the
streets—"Nice black mango gwine pas', three dozen
fe quattie!" or "Ripe peer fe breakfas'—ripe peer!"
this last cry referring to a favorite breakfast dish of
the Negro which consists in avocado pear with a bam-
X. THE MILKfPEDDLER
/ -i
THE MARKET 51
mie and a bit of salt fish eaten together like a club sand
wich.
"'Tarch, tarch, a washerwoman's 'tarch!" cries the
starch-seller.
" Cocay-watah ! cocay-watah!" cries the girl with a
tray of young cocoanuts husked and opened at the head
for drinking. Boys go about in mule carts with great
loads of them, trimmed but uncut, from which she re
plenishes her stock. The top is struck off with a blow
of the machete, and after the water is drunk, a little
spoon is cut out of a bit of the shell to scrape out the
soft inside jelly which clings to the cocoanut shell.
"Hot patties an' eras'!" cry the sellers of bread and
cakes.
"Wood aroun', me lady, wood aroun'!" calls the
man who goes about with little fagots of wood for the
fire.
"Coal! co-al! coal!" the second call a note or two
lower than the first and last. This is the man who ped
dles small bags of coal in a cart.
"Fi-ish! fi-ish!" cries the fisherman with a dropping
note. He carries lobster, too, and often fresh-water
shrimps, called jonga, from the mountain streams back
of Kingston, a delicacy not to be had in the market.
"Ho-ys-tah! ho-ys-tah!" cry the vendors of the fa
mous "oysters that grow on trees," the small but well-
fiavored oysters which cling to the trunk of the man
grove trees that stand out in the water of many bays
along the coast.
"Ho-i' ! ho-i' !" is the early morning cry of the cocoa-
nut-oil sellers, who come around before the fires are
built and peddle oil for frying the breakfast.
"No wine pin'! no ale pin'! no soda water bottles!"
52 BLACK ROADWAYS
The vendor of soft drinks sometimes carries them in a
tray on his head, but the handsomer outfits are in the
shape of double-shelved pushcarts glowing with liquids
of bright blue and crimson. At Montego Bay the soft
drink manufacturer uses the native "brown Albion"
sugar and beats in a white of egg when it is boiled down
into syrup, coloring with strawberry or raspberry from
the shop, and Sloane (1707) gives the same prescrip
tion. Wilfrid says a very good bottled market drink at
Highgate is made with "China wis" boiled with a piece
of logwood to make a red color, a drink which in Sloane's
day was also popular. The wood of an astringent withe
called chewstick (because it is commonly used for clean
ing the teeth) is used to bring a soft drink to a head.
Both sarsaparilla and ginger are used for domestic
drinks. Peart of Mandeville says that both China and
"brial wis" are to be beaten up with the sarsaparilla,
the mixture strained, and a little rum put in to keep
it from sliming —about one pint to five quarts.
"Han-y he-egg!" cry the egg vendors, or "Booby
he-egg! booby he-egg! bwoil an' raw, booby he-egg!"
These pretty brown spotted booby eggs, about half the
size of a hen's egg, are a favorite breakfast dish with a
bit of salt which the vendor also carries in her basket.
The yolk when cooked is salmon-pink, and the egg
tastes a little like a duck's egg. They come from the
islands off the Palisades where the birds nest, and are
gathered in season by a contractor and sold to the wo
men, who hawk them in the streets. These vendors take
up their stand on a back street where their positions
are well known. I have bought them of such hawkers
in Kingston early in June.
THE MARKET S3
REFERENCES
De Lisser, In Jamaica and Cuba, 127-36.
Edwards, 1: 254-57, 278-79.
Foulks (currency).
Gardner, 390.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn, 46, 57.
Leslie, 39-11.
Long, 3 : 859-60.
Rampini, 92-95.
Stewart (currency).
Chapter V
THE FAMILY
V>hildbirth among Jamaica Negroes is not asso
ciated with an aristocracy based on family; each child
is merely a fresh link in the chain woven of economic
necessity which binds together the family fortune.
There is on the whole a strong sense of family, and a
folk interest in terms of relationship. Every man is
"brother" to every other, and every old woman is
"nana" (grannie) or "auntie." Literary invention
plays upon chains of relationship, as in the "animal
talk" story which tells how the fowl attracts attention
to its morning egg-laying:
Little bit a somet 'ing
Me tek tell auntie,
Auntie tek tell i' cousin,
Cousin tek tell uncle,
Uncle tek tell i
'
bruder,
Till it become one big somet 'ing.
In Jamaica households the father is emphatically the
head authority. It is true that the respect paid to the
old, which writers have justly observed in Jamaican
folk life, seems to be due rather to an age relationship
than to one of blood, and a writer says that "shipmate"
is the most endearing term one man can use of another.
Nevertheless, among the superstitious it is always the
family spirits who protect individuals against evil,
family protection thus abiding even beyond the grave
and so preserving a sense of solidarity with the living.
<
Q
<
Pi
X
THE FAMILY LIFE 55
At the birth of a child the district midwife may be
called in. She is a paid appointee of the government
to serve on such occasions. Besides the government
salary (said to be fifteen shillings a week in Mande-
ville), she gets from those families who are able to pay
it a fee from four to twelve shillings for her attendance.
The two women of this profession with whom I talked
seemed practical (though superstitious) and kindly.
They knew something about herb medicines as house
hold remedies and were firm believers in the effects
resulting from the disposition of the navel cord of the
infant, of the afterbirth, and of the caul when present.
The navel cord must on no account be allowed to
fall on the floor, or the child will be unable to control
its urine. It must not be left about for the rats to nibble,
lest the child's life be endangered. The mother must
guard it carefully and, from three days to a year from
the time of birth, must bury it in the ground and plant
a young tree over the spot, which henceforth becomes
the property of the child and is called his "navel-string
tree." If one injures the tree one must pay the owner for
it. If the property upon which it is planted changes
hands, a new tree is started from a seed or shoot of the
old tree. Formerly the idea was that the tree remained
the property of the individual no matter if the land
passed into other hands, and writers cite instances of
cases of theft tried in the court which were found to
turn upon this claim. Thus the tree is a symbol early
connected with an infant's career. One of Cundall's
informants says that "if one dreams of trees shooting,
an infant will be born soon who will have a happy life.
"
I could not discover that any further ceremony at
tached to the planting of the navel tree or that the tree
56 BLACK ROADWAYS
was believed to be connected with the life of the child.
It is used rather as a symbol to the child of property
and its returns. A cocoanut is generally selected be
cause it is "the only one you can depend upon" to
grow and to bring in money. Old Hannah French said :
It is to put them [children] in mind that they are to begin
to study just as you studied for them, to be careful in every
thing. That is the beginning of life, to pride themselves in
everything. If they know that it belongs to them, they learn
to sell and make money for themselves —learn to be careful
[saving]. Some think [otherwise] the child will fret and quar
rel and say the parent gives him nothing. It is a birthmark
to show him [the child] that it is the beginning of his life and
he must take care of it. After you christen him you show him
[the tree] again. He has to give to the church. He takes some
of the fruit of the tree to give this money.
The tree, then, set at the beginning of life, has a much
deeper meaning in the Negro mind than the mere "life
tree" of our fairy tales. It is the basis of the idea of
property and introduces the child to his economic edu
cation. The navel cord seems, however, to be an object
suitable for working magic. A digging song given me
by Falconer runs:
Bammie baker, oh, man, beware,
Beware of the cord around your navel!
Tom Peter give you the cord,
He say you mus
'
carry in the tray
Then bammie will sell.
Then beware, bammie baker, beware,
Content people say,
Beware o' the cord around your navel!
This means that "Tom Peter," an Obeah Man, has
/
THE FAMILY LIFE 57
told the bammie-seller to carry a navel cord in his bas
ket in order to insure the sale of his cakes.
The afterbirth or "bed" must be carefully buried
under the house or in some place where it will not be
disturbed by animals, and stones piled upon
it,
lest
the mother suffer. One midwife affirmed that she was
attending
a
case in which the mother, after the suc
cessful birth of the child, began to suffer intense pain.
Looking out of the window, the attendant discovered
that the afterbirth had been carelessly thrown out and
was being tossed about by
a
pig.
The caul
is
also connected with sympathetic magic
of
a
healing, rather than an injurious kind. It should
be removed and carefully parched over
a
hot brick and
a
bit put into the baby's tea to prevent convulsions
due to the irritation of
a
ghost. Pieces ofitare also sold
to other mothers in the neighborhood who are troubled
with restless babies. Banbury says
it
should be sewed
up in
a
black ribbon together with strong-smelling drugs
to ward off spirits.
A
baby born with
a
caul has the
power to see duppies without the duppies' harming
him. Parkes was born with
a
caul and attributed his
frequent visions of ghosts to this circumstance.
The momentous time in an infant's life arrives on
the ninth day after birth, when for the first time he
is
taken out of doors. During the first nine days the
mother eats only soft food, like arrowroot, bread, and
milk. On the ninth day,
a
bath
is
prepared for the child,
a
little rum thrown into
it,
and each member of the
family must throw in
a
bit of silver "for the eyesight,"
or "for luck." To ward off evil spirits, indigo blue
is
added to the bath and the forehead marked with
a
blue
cross. The mother also has
a
bath, and the 'midwife
58 BLACK ROADWAYS
offers a prayer before bringing the baby out into the
air. Negro nurses of white children have been observed
to place the cross at the back of the neck of their
charges, where it will not be observed by the skeptical
white mothers.
The child is generally weaned at nine months of age,
but sometimes not for a year and six months. No spe
cial interest attaches to this event.
The child is early brought into relation with the
established church. The christening occurs at from
one to six months of age, sometimes later. It is an im
portant ceremony, since an unchristened baby "any
ghost can carry away," and, as some think the unbap-
tized become "wandering spirits" and "belong to the
heathen people" (and the ghost of a heathen is "the
baddest ghost in life"), it is evident that the Christian
rite should if possible be administered early. But no
duppy can hurt a person born a twin, especially when
the twins are of opposite sex. The English church in
Jamaica never hesitates to christen a child because of
illegitimate birth. It makes a charge of two shillings
for the christening rite and appoints a special time for
its observance —in Mandeville on the first Thursday
of each month, but it may also take place on the Sab
bath. Sometimes it is followed by a christening party
with wine, cake, and tea. The office of godfather or god--
mother for this ceremony does not place any future
responsibility upon the persons selected for the office.
Sometimes one of the godparents will take the child
for his own after it has reached an age when it is no fur
ther trouble to bring up, and in this case the child may
never notice the parents again after he is grown. Quite
commonly, when the child meets a godparent on the
THE FAMILY LIFE 59
road and greets him by title, he will get a shilling from
his godparent.
According to an old custom recorded from the Afri
can Gold Coast, every child receives at birth a name
depending on the day of the week on which it is born.
The suffix ba distinguishes the names of females, which,
except in one case, regularly omit the prefix Coo, Coa,
or Cooa, with which the male name begins. Gosse an
alyzes the names as they appear in Jamaica as follows:
Sunday Quashe (Cooa-she) Quasheba (Coa-she-ba)
Monday Cud jo (Coo-jo) Juba ([Coo]-jo-ba)
Tuesday Cubena (Coo-bena) Benaba ([Coo]-bena-ba)
Wednesday Quaco (Cooa-co) Cooba ([Coo]-co-ba)
Thursday Quao (Cooa-o) Abba ([Coo]-a-ba)
Friday Cuffee (Coo-fee) Fee-ba ([Coo]-fee-ba)
Saturday Quamin (Cooa-min) Mimba ([Coo]-mim-ba)
These names are generally known, but I could not dis
cover that they were actually used today. Old Hannah
French said the sorcerer employed them in "setting
obeah." They are played with in literary composition
or in teasing competitions, and it would seem as if the
hesitation of some to have their "birth name" known
had no other motive than a dislike of nicknames. The
name in common use is the English name given at
christening. Negroes are very sensitive to the sound
of names and adopt the prettiest and most sonorous
they can find for their children, irrespective of source.
There seems to be no tradition for keeping a name in
a family, hence no names become obviously favored.
Besides these birth and christening names, nicknames
are given which generally grow out of some incident.
A man named Mackensie, who was kicked by a mule,
got the nickname of "Matty Mule." So many Jamaica
60 BLACK ROADWAYS
-
folk tales turn, like our own Rumpelstilzkin, upon the
discovery of a hidden name that I feel sure closer in
vestigation would reveal more traces of old African
belief in sympathetic magic connected with the name.
An old writer cites an amusing incident of a Negro
convert who let himself be baptized with a Christian
name and then waxed indignant when he found he
would still be expected to pay debts contracted under
the old name. He took quite literally the symbolic
"death" of the "old man" and the putting on of the
"new."
Very little incidental folklore has been recorded about
the infancy of the child, and I found almost no current
beliefs except those already recorded. It is true that
whoever sees the baby 's first tooth will not dare to men
tion it without at the same time giving a piece of silver
with the words: "Here's for your teeth!" else the tooth
will rot. If a woman fails to get what she wants during
pregnancy and scratches herself in any part of the body,
the child will show a mark on the same part. A child
born during leap year will be very sensible. Infants un
derstand the language of animals. Cundall says that
moles on the child's body are indicative of character.
A mole on the lip means a lying tongue; on the leg, love
of travel; on the neck, wealth according to one writer,
hanging according to another. White marks on the
finger nails bring good luck or riches. Large ears proph
esy riches, small ears poverty. Open teeth denote lech
ery. Certain acts of the young are also fatal. He who
eats out of the pot will never grow a beard; scraping
the finger nails predicts poverty; one who steals an egg
will keep on stealing until he dies.
Infancy ends at from three to four years when the
THE FAMILY LIFE 61
child begins to take his place in the household and to
share its mature responsibilities. He is taught not to
steal, not to carry tales, especially not to show disre
spect to others. At five years he begins to help in such
light labor as sweeping the yard, picking coffee (espe
cially the "rot-cut" which is not fit for market), in
pulling fresh food for the rabbits and guinea pigs, and
finding feed for the pigs. The boy will follow the par
ents to the provision ground, where he weeds and runs
errands. At about nine years of age he begins to work
a little garden of his own and "try for himself," and
he looks after the flower garden at home. In general,
he follows the older members of the family and shares
their tasks in miniature. Whatever money he earns goes
to the parents; he has no money to handle for himself.
This is true also of the child trained to follow the beg
gar Ts trade. In the meantime he may attend the gov
ernment or church school, attendance upon which is
expected of him up to the age of fourteen, but not com
pulsory. At the age of fourteen or fifteen, "those that
take up manly upon themselves" work on their own
account, giving something to the parents but keeping
also a part for themselves. Or they may be apprenticed
to a trade, in which case the parent must advance to
the master journeyman part of the price of training
and pay the rest at the end of the term. Five pounds
is the usual price. The first year the apprentice earns
nothing but may receive a shilling or two from his
master from time to time. By the second year he is able
really to help the man and is entitled to a quarter of
what the job makes upon which he works. After three
years he is a journeyman himself and may set up his
own shop. These terms are not fixed by law but vary
62 BLACK ROADWAYS
with the individual. The trades open to him are those
of the carpenter, mason, shoemaker, cabinetmaker,
blacksmith, cooper, engineer, mechanic, tailor, tanner,
baker, tinsmith, goldsmith, watchmaker, or apoth
ecary. He may be apprenticed to a doctor, a dentist,
or a lawyer. To teach he must get a college training.
Throughout his course he must take care to treat his
master with respect, or the master will give him only
a general knowledge of his trade and keep back those
little arts which make the expert tradesman.
It is very difficult for a lad whose parents are unable
to pay for the necessary training to better himself, for
the blacks rarely give money to one another; they will
give food willingly, but hardly money. Once gone out
to work for themselves, children are supposed to send
back an allowance of money to the parents as long as
they live. There
is,
of course, no compulsion upon them
to do this other than family feeling, but the parents
do their best to create in the children
a
sense of this
obligation by being kind and generous with them when
they are young. In
a
large family, although some will
no doubt forget their parents when they are old, there
will be
a
few who remember and care for them as long
as they live.
Girls generally marry at eighteen, men from twenty-
two upwards. It
is
considered
a
good match for cousins
to marry—"Cousins boil good soup," says the proverb.
But second cousins should not think of such an alli
ance; that
is,
the children of brothers and sisters may
marry freely, but not the children of such unions.
Girls are taught at home to wash, sew, and cook; the
mother does not leave them to themselves. At about
twelve the children, both boys and girls, begin to go
THE FAMILY LIFE 63
to dances with their elders, and at seventeen they have
their own dances. During the courting period the man
is expected to spend money on the girl. Said Wilfrid
of his first inamorata, "Seventeen pound, fifteen shil
lings, six pence I spend on dat gal, an' she tek it an'
gone to anoder man! But I don' min' because I get a
better gal now.
" Much as in other civilizations, it is
the girl's business to be on the lookout for a man who
will support her in return for her favors and set up a
house for her to keep for him. But she does not neces
sarily insist that the affair become legalized by a church
marriage. She, as much as the man, and perhaps more
than he, hesitates to be bound thus irrevocably, espe
cially as the law forces the man to provide a fixed al
lowance for illegitimate children. Moreover, if she is
faithful to her lover, she suffers no disrespect from her
neighbors. As De Lisser says, the legitimatizing of a
marriage relation by a church wedding distinctly raises
the social prestige of the pair, but there is no social ob
loquy attached to concubinage and considerable advan
tage to be gained thereby, for if the relation proves
unhappy, the two can part without formality. In old
days it was the custom to tear a handkerchief in two
as guarantee of divorcement —"each took a half and
went his way," says Long, who mentions the "cotta"
in connection with this usage. Some writers think Long
means here the ring of banana trash laid upon the head
to support burdens, but I think he is speaking of the
handkerchief or turban which is used in the same way.
When it is said, therefore, that 62 per cent of all children
born of Negro parentage in Jamaica are illegitimate,
statistics should distinguish between those born of par
ents who are living as married folk without the cere-
J
64 BLACK ROADWAYS
mony, and those who come into the world as a result
of mere vagrant passion where no household life is es
tablished.
A church marriage is celebrated with all the circum
stance of an English wedding. The bridegroom (always
spoken of as "the bride") must wear a new suit, the
girl a white dress, veil, and flowers, and there is if pos
sible a carriage and pair to carry the couple away from
the church door. The wedding breakfast is laid in a
booth erected for the purpose and shaded with cocoa-
nut leaves. There is a marvelous cake built in tiers and
cut by the bride, and wine with which to drink to the
health of the couple in a series of toasts serious or comic,
but as overlaid with symbolism as the occasion itself
with ceremony. The other refreshment offered depends
upon the circumstances of the couple and the conditions
upon which the breakfast is given. Often the party
stays for the afternoon, playing games and singing
songs, or there may be a dance given in the evening.
All this the Negro, with his quick appreciation for and
mimicry of form and show, borrows bodily from old
English custom, and I do not detect a single African
idea creeping in to color the traditional observance.
The incidental folklore of love and marriage, too,
as set down by Cundall's informants, suggest a strictly
European origin. If a man turns down his hat when he
lays it on a bed or table he will lead a single life. If a
girl sits on the table she will never marry. If a man finds
another man calling upon the girl he is courting, he
should hang his own hat higher than his rival's. Gifts
between lovers are important. A knife or pair of scis
sors cuts love "unless a pin is bent." A bead is unlucky,
for if it breaks, the love will break also. An umbrella
THE FAMILY LIFE 65
'
is lucky "for when you open it you open love, when
you close it you shut up love.
" A girl should never give
away a handkerchief without putting in a bent pin, lest
love fade, or give a man a necktie, lest friendship break.
Sewing for the man is also fatal, and should lovers offer
money to each other they will soon separate. To test
love, light a knotted thread, and should the flame pass
several knots the love is strong. A man's necktie or a
girl's stocking awry means amorous thoughts from a
lover. The man with a widower's peak, that is with the
hair growing down in a peak over the forehead, will be
twice married. Signs for the marriage day are equally
familiar. It is unlucky to marry in May. Wednesday
is considered the luckiest day for a marriage, and the
hours 8:00 a.m., 12 M., and 4:00 p.m., the most pro
pitious; nowadays, Sunday at 8:00 a.m. is "best of
all." Saturday is unlucky, as the husband will be sure
to die. Monday is also insecure, for husband and wife
will "quarrel till they die." It is also tempting fate to
marry on your birthday. Rain on the marriage day
augurs an unhappy, sunshine a happy marriage. If the
bridegroom forgets the ring or the bride after marriage
takes off or loses the ring, the marriage will be unhappy.
Much closer to the African feeling are the love charms
and love tests which relate to certain herbs well known
to dealers in sorcery. One of Cundall 's informers writes,
"If a branch of a certain yellow weed [no doubt the
cuscuta or 'love weed,' a parasite common along Ja
maica hedges] grows when thrown upon a bush, it shows
that the person whose mind you are seeking is getting
to love you more and more.
"
Nowhere is the feeling of "the man's house his own
castle" stronger than with the Negro peasant. A couple
66 BLACK ROADWAYS
who live together, even when the ceremony is neglected,
like to set up their own establishment. Neighbors may.
run back and forth without ceremony, but etiquette
demands that a stranger obtain permission before pay
ing a visit; even a friend, when the visit is at all cere
monious, should notify his host beforehand of his in
tention so that due preparation may be made. It is not
good form to take a person unaware or to approach
the back door or to act in any way which shall arouse
the suspicion of spying upon his daily habits. "I come
to buy milk, not to count cows,
" is the proverbial dis
avowal. "Ask leave if you want to come in," runs an
old song, and a proverb says, "Stranger no fe walk a
back do'." According to another proverb, "Howdy
come from do'," which means that it is bad manners for
the house-owner to speak until he is first addressed
by his visitor, a rule which is strictly observed. To en
force the etiquette of privacy under living conditions
in which one yard attaches closely to another —only a
narrow footpath is left between as passageway through
the bush from one public road to another —most house
holders keep a watchdog, and "Mind your dog!" is the
visitor's most common greeting.
A good many incidental sayings relate to the daily
life in the household which cannot be directly traced
to spiritism. Some of the more interesting of these which
Cundall quotes are as follows. Of a broom the saying
is,
"Don't take an old broom from one house to an
other," and to dismiss an unwelcome visitor, "Leave
a
broom behind the door and sprinkle salt on it. " You
will "lose your friend"
if
you cut sugar cane while the
friend holds one end, or break
it
across your knee, or
if
you comb your hair at night. Stepping across dirty
y
THE FAMILY LIFE 67
water or sewing dirty clothes or finding a louse on your
head (if it is generally clean) brings illness. Flinging
about a chair while tidying the room or walking on
spilled salt brings a quarrel in the family. Wiping away
perspiration with your hand will wipe away your luck.
Breaking a promise made over running water leads to
misfortune. If you mend your clothes upon yourself,
"people will lie about you and trample on you." Peel
ing an orange by chance without breaking the skin
augurs a new suit of clothes. Sneezing is good luck
to a woman if her first-born is of the same sex as the
sneezer; bad luck if of the opposite sex. Dreaming of
gold means success; of silver, disappointment; to dream
of a nestful of eggs means riches; new boots, a "new
intended"; fire, "confusion."
There is nothing very novel about most of the body
signs listed by Cundall, but they seem to be commonly
known to the people. The "dancing of the right eye"
means laughter, of the left, tears. If the right hand
itches, you will get money; if the left, you will spend
it. If your right ear burns, good is being spoken of you;
if the left, evil. The right ear rings for good news, the
left for bad. If your nose itches you will "kiss a fool";
if the soles of your feet, you will go on a journey; if your
knee, you will change your bed (move your domicile) ;
if your elbow, "soon another will shake your hand."
A sudden and startling movement of the heart means
that you are being spoken of. "When a thrill passes
through a person's body, an insect is crossing the place
where he will be buried."
If we may believe the Negroes themselves, envy,
jealousy, and spite are the leading emotions which con
trol social life. All the outside graces which make Negro
68 BLACK ROADWAYS
intercourse so attractive to the casual observer cover
a caution vigilant to disarm suspicion or resentment.
The Negroes are sudden and vehement in vituperation.
They are extraordinarily litigious and run easily to
court with their grievances, where cases of defamation
and tongue-lashing are as common as those of petty
thieving—more so than of actual assault —and are as
patiently considered by the court, composed as it is of
the best class of resident whites on the island. Negroes
are quick to take offense, and they work not only thus
openly but in secret ways to effect their revenge. "The
black people are cruel to each other," was the emphatic
and unsolicited assertion of more than one Negro in
formant. Another said: "Black people do not help
each other as the white people do." They are "grudge-
ful" of another's prosperity and seek to harm one who
has in any way excited their envy. "That is the reason
they are so poor," added the speaker. Instances of this
attitude of mind will be found common enough in the
study of obeah in Jamaica, but the emotional reaction
itself must be first recognized if we are to put more
than a half credulous faith in the absolute reality of
the resort to witchcraft by the Negro of the bush for
the regulation of his relations with his fellows. An un
popular man, unless he is powerful enough to ignore
the hate of his fellows, would do well to leave a neigh
borhood. "If Mr. Go- 'way no come, Mr. Deat' come,"
is the common saying.
REFERENCES
Infancy:
Banbury, 28.
Barclay, 9.
THE FAMILY LIFE 69
Cundall, Folk-lore, 15:456.
Gardner, 183.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn, 232, 233.
Jekyll, 156; Int., x.
Long, 2:427.
Phillippo, 203.
Rampini, 88.
Williams, 17, 18, 202, 203.
Childhood and Maturity:
Bell, 65.
Cundall, Folk-lore.
De Lisser, Jane; Twentieth Century Jamaica, 93-106.
Edwards, 2:95.
Livingstone, 112-15, 163-225
Long, 2: 413.
Montagnac.
Phillippo, 230-35
Rampini, 75-102.
Renny, 166, 167.
Chapter VI
THE BURIAL OF THE DEAD
A.
l11 the acts connected with the burial of the
dead are based upon a belief in the contaminating
power of death and particularly in the continued ani
mation of the dead and his power to return and dis
turb the living, unless precautions are taken to inter
him properly. Hence fear keeps alive today much of
the folklore which surrounds the rites for the dead.
To prepare the body, two men wash
it,
"work
ing one on each side from the head down to the feet
and both keeping together." Should they come back
toward the head "the dead will laugh." Cundall's in
formants say that should either of them touch the back
with water the ghost will haunt him later complaining
of the cold. The corpse
is
dressed in white —
a
man's
in
a
suit of white flannel or duck,
a
woman's in
a
shroud
of white muslin. Cundall's informants say that in sew
ing the grave clothes no knots should be made in the
thread or the ghost will return. Care must be taken to
cut out or sew up the pockets in
a
man's suit, lest the
ghost come back with its pockets full of stones and
harm the living. All buttons must be cut off and the
clothes sewed or pinned together. After dressing the
corpse, two or more persons take
it
up and lay
it
back
three times before placing
it
in the coffin. Banbury
says the head must be to the west and the feet to the
east during the lifting. Cundall's informant says that
while devotional exercises are conducted the coffin
stands upon two chairs. Throughout these offices the
BURIAL OF THE DEAD 71
corpse will frown "when attended by one it doesn't
like" and "put on a pleasing countenance" for one it
likes.
To prevent the dead from returning to haunt the
family or to harm some member of
it,
no member of
the family must neglect to bid the dead farewell, and
friends flock to the house to perform the same office.
Phillippo says of native burials that "no sooner did
the spirit depart than friends and relatives made wild
and frantic gestures, beat drums and sang songs,
" and
that on the way to the grave the coffin was supported
on the heads of two bearers, a white flag was carried,
and the procession moved to the house of each friend
or relative to "take leave." Today, according to Cun-
dall's informants, each member of the family comes
to the side of the coffin and says
a
few words to the
dead, and every child
is
lifted and passed over the coffin
while its name
is
spoken. Tears must not fall upon the
body or the ghost will return to the mourner.
A
person
who has quarreled with the dead man should on no
account come to make peace with him when he
is
dying,
even
if
he
is
summoned to come, for the dying man may
be merely "humbugging, and intend to take revenge
when he
is
dead"; but, "If you have passed him by,
his ghost must always pass you by and cannot harm
you." "Make peace when you are hearty, not when
you are going to die," says Wilfrid. Those connected
with the dead or with the last offices to the dead should
take special precautions against the ghost's return.
Before the coffin
is
carried out of the yard
a
bereaved
wife or husband should put on
a
"guard" of
a
large
square of black cloth with
a
white cross marked upon
it
with chalk, and should wear this for four or five months.
72 BLACK ROADWAYS
So the barber who shaved the corpse must carry his ra
zor as a guard against the ghost. The carpenter who
fetched the boards for the coffin must cross each one
with a piece of chalk, else as he carries the boards (or
the coffin) upon his head the spirit will ride on them
and weight them down; and in general he should always
carry his ruler or a piece of chalk against a ghost's ap
proach, for as long as he carries them the ghost is afraid
of him, but if he once forgets them the ghost will do him
harm. "A ghost will never trouble a carpenter or a tailor
because they carry a rule," says one of Cundall 's in
formants.
A certain number of practices quoted from Cundall
depend upon the fear of contamination from the dead.
One should not kiss the dead, or his teeth will rot. A
person with sores should not stand upon grave dirt or
enter the room where there is a dead body without
marking a ring with indigo blue about the sore, lest the
wound become worse: "As the body rots the flesh will
rot also." Some believe that a man's yam heads will
rot as his body rots. In sewing the grave clothes care
must be taken not to cut the thread with the teeth or
they will rot. A baker should not enter the room where
there is a corpse if he has set his bread to rise, for if he
does so the leaven will not work. Knives, pipe, and to
bacco should be put into the coffin "for the future use
of the dead," says Cundall 's informant, but there may
be here also the fear of contamination to the living. It
is evident in all these prohibitions that everything is
to be done to prevent such a contamination of the liv
ing by the dead, either by a kind of sympathetic magic
in which the actual physical change taking place in the
body of the corpse is believed to be shared by objects
BURIAL OFTHE DEAD 73
associated with him and to be communicable by con
tact, or by the actual return of the ghost of the dead
to avenge the wrongs done him in life.
It is believed that the dead will return and "ride"
(as in a nightmare) one who has done him harm. "No J
black man dies a natural death," says an old resident
of the island, and all the evidence to be gathered from
the people themselves corroborates this statement.
The Jamaica Negro is firmly convinced that every
death which occurs before the allotted span of life is
completed is due not to natural causes but to the work
of an evil spirit sent by some enemy. When the suspi
cion of foul play is strong, the family will suggest to the
corpse the names of this one and that one who may have
injured him, and concealing a sharp knife, a razor, or a
shilling in his clothing, will say, "Go do your work!"
Or they will wrap up a bit of broomweed in a white
cloth and say, "Go sweep the yard clean!" a saying
which is meant to include the whole household of the
murderer in the ghostly vengeance. One of Cundall's
informants writes, "If they believe that the person is
killed by someone, they will dress him in black for bur
ial, put boots upon his feet, arm him with a knife and a
horse-whip, and put a spur upon one of his boots to ride
and kill the killer when he rises from the dead.
" A wake
game evidently based upon this idea, after calling one
of the players back into the circle from which he has
been excluded while each of the other players takes a
secret name, uses the following dialogue:
Jack! Jack!
Sir! sir!
When you coming home?
Tomorrow evening.
74 BLACK ROADWAYS
What will you ride?
Whip and spur.
What [will you carryj in your left?
Bow and arrow.
Whom do you want to carry you home ?
and if "Jack" guesses any name correctly, the owner
of the name must bring Jack in riding upon his back.
The folklore of such ghostly vengeance does not leave
the "murderer" unprotected. If he drinks or burns
some of the blood of his victim or secures "the first
coffin shaving and the first portion of the sod turned
up by the gravedigger" when the corpse is buried, the
ghost is powerless to " ride
" him when it rises from the
grave.
The burial should take place early in the morning
or from five to six in the evening, never in the middle
of the day. In the warm climate of the West Indies it
follows almost immediately upon death. Care must be
taken that the dead receive no indignity during the
journey to the grave. The body must be carried out
feet first "just as a man walks," and by the frontdoor;
"if you take him out the back way you will never keep
him out of the house." Should one meet a coffin one
should, according to one of CundalPs informants, re
turn some distance with it; according to another, step
aside and break a fresh branch and cast it behind to
prevent the ghost's following; a third writes, "take off
your hat or you will be sure to see a ghost." It is dan
gerous to look through a crack or crevice at a dead
body. If a person stoops down and looks between his
legs at an approaching coffin he will see the ghost sit
ting on the coffin lid and can tell whether it is a male
or female who is dead; but this is also a dangerous thing
BURIAL OF THE DEAD 75
to do, because the ghost may break his neck. Wilfrid
tried it when he was a child and really did see the spirit,
but it didn't harm him. "Perhaps," he said, "it knew
I was a little boy —didn't know much." A very old be
lief refers to the habit of collecting bad debts on the
way to the grave, the coffin by its weight or by strik
ing against something on the way indicating where
these debts lie. Long says that the coffin becomes heavy
before the door of one who has injured the dead, and
such a one must pay the corpse before it moves on. If
the murderer helps bear the coffin it will be impossible
to move it. The same thing happens if the bearers at
tempt to take it for burial to a place where it does not
wish to be laid. Wilfrid knew of a case in which a Man
chester man did not want to be buried at his own place
but at his sister's, and it took some hours to reach the
grave.
The digging of the grave is not entrusted to one man
or to an odd number, but to from four to six men. "The
first chop the gravedigger gives he takes a drink of
rum," says Wilfrid. In old days a cock was killed at
the grave and the blood sprinkled over it. The grave
must be dug to lie east and west, and the body must be
placed to face the sunrise: "if it faces the west some
say it is not yet dead.
" In filling in the grave, says Long,
the diggers must stand with their backs to the grave
and throw the mold in backwards between their legs
until the coffin is covered, in order to prevent the ghost
from following them home, and this custom prevails
today among the more ignorant. Wilfrid says that cala
bash trees are often planted one at the head and one at
the foot to mark the grave (and Barclay also notes this
custom), but Wilfrid would not admit that their pres
76 BLACK ROADWAYS
ence had any significance. True, the calabashes when
ripe will fall and break; "you can never get a calabash
off a grave." But crotans are also used to mark the
place, and "some plant sweet roses all over the grave."
When a dead man's ghost has come back to "ride"
the living and it is desirable to "plant him" so that
he cannot again return, certain expedients are used
to "keep the ghost down," the most common of which
is to plant "pidgeon peas" on the grave, for as the
roots grow downward this will prevent the ghost from
taking the opposite direction. At the west end of the
island they boil the peas because, as the peas cannot
shoot out of the ground, so the ghost must remain in
the ground: the peas "keep him down." In Mande-
ville it is the cut-eye bean that is used to plant down
the ghost. Another expedient described by one of Cun-
dall's informants is to cut down a tree and invert its
head in the grave. Falconer says the people in the bush
take three grains of peas, tie them up in a piece of new
calico, and, going to the grave a couple of minutes be
fore the time of day at which the man died, they dig
a hole, bury the bundle, and say, "You 'tan' deh wid
dis."
Other precautions are taken at the house to guard
against the return of the spirit to his old home. As soon
as the body is taken out of the house, the room must
be thoroughly swept, an observance called "sweeping
out the dead.
" The water in which the body was bathed,
which has been placed under the bed while the body
was in the room, must be carried and emptied with all
refuse into the grave; some say it must be thrown after
the coffin as it leaves the house. Any looking-glass in
the room should be covered in order that the reflection
BURIALOFTHEDEAD 77
of no living person may be cast upon
it,
else the person
will pine away. Some say that water and
a
light must
be left in the room for nine nights and the room left'
unchanged, but the water must be carefully emptied
each morning. Others say on no account leave any water
in the room. Some place water and even food at the
grave. After the proper interval,
it
is
well to rearrange
the room, putting the head of the bed in
a
different
position, whitewashing the walls, and even changing
the position of the door, so that when the ghost re
turns,
it
will think
it
has come to the wrong house.
Other precautions are taken like burning rosemary,
scattering rice, or using any of the methods to free the
house of ghosts which are enumerated in the next
chapter.
The Jamaica Negroes believe that for nine nights
after death the ghost rises out of the grave and returns
to its familiar haunts. Says one of Cundall's inform
ants: "On the last night he visits all his relatives and
associates, overlooks all that are his, and then departs
altogether." Others say that he "rises on the third day
after burial and returns to the house, which he finally
leaves on the ninth night,
" or that he rises in three days
and "will go about and take the shadow of all things
he possessed during life." "After
a
person has been
dead three days," says another, "it
is
believed that
a
cloud of smoke will rise out of the grave which be
comes the 'duppy.'" The idea of the three days' inter
val
is
evidently derived from Christian teaching, that
\j
of the "nine nights"
is
not so clear. During this period
I
every relative and friend gathers at the house of the
dead to entertain the ghost, welcome his return, and
speed him back to the grave. The idea seems to be that
r>
78 BLACK ROADWAYS
should the ghost mark one absentee he might later
harm the recreant member. All "nine nights" are cele
brated to some extent in the eastern end of the island,
the ninth night is that demanding principal vigilance. In
the west the "big wake" is held the day after the burial
and is sometimes repeated for three days, the ninth
night being the occasion merely of a "big singing."
This festival of the wake or "set-up" seems to have
grown out of the burial ceremony at the grave, as it is
described by old writers, at which a cock is sacrificed
with dance and song to the "odious sound of the Gum-
bay,
" and a frantic display of grief is followed by mirth
and feasting. "Like a festival," says Long of the Negro
funeral. "After the interment of a corpse they always
dance and sing dolefully," says Peter Marsden. Phil-
lippo speaks of a "night of riot" and the sacrifice of
fowls at the grave ; Rampini, of the sacrifice of a white
cock, of a feast, and of such games as "hide and seek,"
"hot bran well buttered," "thread the needle," "beg
you little water." In earlier days, Gardner says, "one
or more Negroes played upon the goomba, and another
at intervals blew a horn made of a conch shell; another
took the solo part or recitative of a wild funeral wail,
usually having reference to the return of the departed
to Africa [a belief common to old slave days rather
than to the present day] ; while a party sitting in a cir
cle, gave the chorus." Kromanti Negroes, according
to Edwards, celebrate an anniversary of the dead in
similar fashion:
Each family has a tutelar saint who is supposed to have
been originally a human being like one of themselves and the
first founder of their family; at the funeral anniversary the
whole number of his descendants assemble around his grave,
BURIALOFTHEDEAD 79
and the oldest man, after offering up praises to Accompong,
Assarci, Ipboa, and their titular deity, sacrifices a cock or
goat by cutting its throat and shedding the blood upon the
grave. Every head of an household of the family next sacri
fices a cock, or other animal, in like manner, and as soon as
all those who are able to bring sacrifices have made their ob
lations, the animals which have been killed are dressed, and
a great festival follows.
Leslie in 1740 writes of the Negro method of burial:
When one is carried out to his Grave, he is attended with
a vast Multitude, who conduct his Corps in something of a
ludicrous Manner: They sing all the Way, and they also bear
it on their Shoulders, make a Feint of stopping at every Door
they pass, and pretend, that if the deceast Person had re
ceived any Injury, the Corps moves toward that House, and
that they can 't avoid letting it fall to the Ground when be
fore the Door. When they come to the Grave, which is gener
ally made in some Savannah or Plain, they lay down the
Coffin, or whatever the Body happens to be wrapt up in; and
if he be one whose Circumstances could allow it (or if he be
generally liked, the Negroes contribute among themselves)
they sacrifice a Hog. The nearest Relation kills
it,
the In-
trails are buried, the four Quarters are divided, and
a
kind
of Soup made, which
is
brought in
a
Calabash or Gourd, and,
after waving
it
three times,
it
is
set down, then the Body
is
put in the Ground; all the while they are covering
it
with
Earth, the attendants scream out in
a
terrible Manner, which
is
not the Effect of Grief but of Joy; they beat on their wod-
den Drums, and the Women with their Rattles make
a
hid
eous Noise. After the Grave
is
filled up they place the Soup
which they had prepared at the Head, and
a
Bottle of rum
at the Feet. In the mean Time, cool Drink (which
is
made of
the Lignum Vitae bark or whatever else they can afford)
is
distributed amongst those who are present; the one half of
the hog
is
burnt while they are drinking, and the other
is
80 BLACK ROADWAYS
left to any Person who pleases to take it; they return to Town
or the Plantation singing after their Manner, and so the Cere
mony ends.
In Leslie's day the Papaw Negroes "generally believed
there are two Gods, a good and a bad One; the first
they call Naskew in the Papaw language, and the other
Timnew.
" He writes:
When a Negro is near about to expire, his Fellow-Slaves
kiss him, wish him a good Journey, and send their hearty
Recommendations to their Relatives in Guiney. They make
no Lamentation, but with a great deal of Joy inter his Body,
firmly believing he is gone home and is happy.
It is such a festival, I think, which the modern wake
derives from. In the case of sudden death it is still in
formed with emotion, not for the soul of the dead start
ing upon its return to its native land, but for the ghost
of the dead as an avenging agent in the lives of the liv
ing. "To please the dead" is the object of the wake
among the more intelligent who still keep up the prac
tice, but many no doubt feel that the ghost would never
rest easy in his grave unless certain traditional rites
were performed. De Lisser says, "If this leave-taking
should be neglected, the wraith of the dead person
would constantly hover near her last earthly residence,
and be a source of discomfort and even serious danger
to its living occupants."
The manner of the wake differs in various localities.
Instead of the African dances there are Moody and
Sankey hymns —not church hymns, because the Eng
lish church frowns upon the wake on account of the
license to which the all-night revel is likely to lead, and
reproves its members for attending such occasions.
"Roll, Jordan, Roll" and "Clash the Cymbals" are
BURIAL OF THE DEAD 81
good wake hymns. In a well conducted wake, these
religious exercises will last until after twelve o'clock.
After this comes the supper, which takes the place of
the African feast. I do not think that wakes today ever
countenance animal sacrifice, although one of Cundall's
informants says that the people believe if an animal
dies a human being does not need to die, and the idea
of propitiation must still be strong. There are still be
liefs affirmed in certain signs about the body of the
dead, like dying with the eyes open and the failure of
the corpse to stiffen a few hours after death signifying
that another member of the family is to die. Wilfrid
says some people go back to look at the grave a few
days after the burial, and if the mold has sunk in,
they will not fill it up again until someone in the dis
trict has died, otherwise a member of the same family
will die. The animal sacrifice seems to be a sop thrown
to the contaminating power of the rotting corpse, rather
than to any materialistic idea of the ghost.
De Lisser gives a good description of a Kingston
wake feast which consisted of sprats fried in cotton
seed oil, large slices of bread, picked salt fish and pep
per colored with annotto and fried in oil, together
with bananas and oranges and a variety of native
drinks—coffee, chocolate with cocoanut milk, ginger
wine, and rum. Wilfrid says, "Friends come to sing at
night on the night of a death. For this night the house
people furnish hot chocolate and six shillings' worth
of bread, enough for each guest to have two slices.
The burial takes place the next day. The people be
gin to come about seven and are going and coming
until twelve. They build a booth outside the house
for the company. They make the coffin, and all those
82 BLACK ROADWAYS
who dig the grave or make the coffin are served at
breakfast. The house people boil yam and rice and
fowl and pork and salt fish; there must be plenty of
rum, too, sometimes fifteen shillings' worth. That feast
will cost two pounds. They lay a table and everybody
comes to the feast who has made the coffin or dug the
grave. Again on the ninth night after a death there is
a night of singing and entertainment. At one o'clock
tea is served and bread in the same quantity as before.
No one goes home until four or five o'clock, some not
until seven."
In leaving a wake a person should never announce
his intention, lest the dead hear him and follow him
home; he should merely touch on the sleeve those who
are to accompany h/im. Martial dancing at the grave,
as described by Edwards and Phillippo, is today rep
resented by the games with which the men and boys
exercise themselves during the latter part of the night.
De Lisser says, "tales are told, games played, wrest
ling matches between adventurous youths and ardent
damsels take place." Dancing is not generally con
sidered good form at a wake, but in a back district
near Port Antonio I observed posted at a cross roads
an invitation to a "ninth night—with dancing," each
of the guests to bring his own food.
It is evident that in all these observances the ghost
of the dead is supposed to be present and to be pleased
and appeased by the honor done him. In some wake
customs there seems to be an explicit effort to cheat
the ghost and send him back to the grave from which
he came. If he finds the district merry he will think he
has made a mistake, or if he finds himself regarded as
dead he will himself accept the community verdict.
BURIAL OF THE DEAD 83
JwJ^
In St. Elizabeth they beat the floor with stones on the
night before and after the burial and strew rice. The
beating of the gombay drum is a familiar accompani
ment of death. In the Santa Cruz Mountains they
build a bonfire, about which the men and boys play
games while the women and girls stand by watching
the sport. The occasion is called the "Bakinny" or
"Back in i' [the grave]," as I believe. '
lt*U
John Salmon, him dead an' done,
John Salmon, him dead, oh!
they sing to the endless rhythm of the stone-pounding
game, and they play many athletic games such as
"Riding down the rocky road," "Hill and gully rid
ing," "Thread the needle," with their old English sug
gestion of the journey into the other world, or sing songs
of insult to the dead, like this one from a lad at Elgin:
Go down in the ground
Dig one sulky yam.
When you get it down
Carry him give him room.
Lick him with a stick,
Get up, you brute, blue-foot brute!
Go down a pond say meet Uncle Joe,
Mackerel Joe, herring Joe.
Other games seem to be merely to let off the emotional
exuberance of the occasion; some say "to keep awake,"
for it is very rude (and probably dangerous) to sleep
at a wake. They "dance Calimbe" in an antic caper
upon a pair of sticks held horizontally by two other
players. They "pass the ball" or the candle in old
English fashion and play other games which require
mental rather than muscular agility, such as riddle
84 BLACK ROADWAYS
guessing and "Cardinal's cap." Also the wake is to
day the chief occasion for the recital of the traditional
tales called "Anansi stories," handed on to the whites
through the medium of the old Nana who entertained
her young charges thereby.
One last service remains for the proper burial of the
dead, the "tombing" ceremony, which took place in
old days a month after burial, especially when a be
reaved husband or wife wished to remarry, but which
today allows a somewhat longer interval. Wilfrid calls
this "the last house you get." The object is completely
to cover the grave with an additional mound of earth,
or, if the family is wealthy enough or the ghost one to
be feared in the community, with masonry. As the soil
is so porous in the southwest, six months is the short
est time within which it is safe to tomb a grave with
masonry, lest the mold sink and the work have to be
done over again, nor is remarriage considered proper
within less than a year. In Long's day a feast with song
and dance went with the "covering," and today, if
the bereaved person has money, he will hold a "tomb
dance" in the evening for his friends and kill a goat or
hog for the feast.
Omens of death believed in by Jamaica Negroes dif
fer in no way from European patterns and are most
likely taken directly from the whites, at the same time
that they agree with African lines of thought because
the pattern has been applied to native superstitions.
Certain dreams are ominous; to dream of a tooth,
a new-born infant, a wedding, a new house, the falling
down or division of an old house, or the breaking of a
green bush is a sign of death, not necessarily to the
dreamer, but to some one of the family or neighborhood.
*r
BURIAL OF THE DEAD 85
The unusual crying of animals or of birds or insects
of ill omen is a presage of death; the howling of a dog
or the unusual mewing of a cat when a person is ill, the
lowing of cows or bulls, the cry of the screech owl three
times near a house, the peculiar shriek-like cry of the
"mountain witch" (Geotrygon versicolor, Lafresnay),
the rattle of the cuckoo or "old man bird" (Hyetornis
pluvialis, Gmelin), which also sounds when rain is in
the air, the persistent cooing of the ground dove (Chae-
mepelia passerina jamaicensis, Maynard), the crying
at night of the pond coot, the screeching of a cricket
in or near the house, or the unusual cackling of fowls,
as in the early morning or when going on or coming
off the roost —all these are feared as omens of death.
If a cock crows inside the house it is ominous; if a hen
crows, its throat should be cut at once. Cundall's in
formant writes of the lowing of cattle: "If cows sur
round a bull lowing sadly while the bull ploughs the
earth with its horns, it is an omen of death," and in
Mandeville I found that particular animals, called
" talking cows,
" were supposed to give the sign. Parkes
cited a big Indian bull on the Brumelia property which
always gave warning when someone in the district was
going to die. He also believed in the sign of the screech
owl, pointing out that a few nights after he had men
tioned it to me, an owl had flown past the house cry
ing,
" Creech ! creech ! creech !
" and that night some
one had died in the hospital which directly fronted
his house. One of Cundall's informants gives as form
ula to avert misfortune under such circumstances the
words "Pepper and salt to your mammy!" whatever
that may mean. Probably it is one of those insults by
which evil spirits are shamed into abandoning human
86 BLACK ROADWAYS
abodes, for I think there is no doubt that in all these
cases of animal warnings the idea is that the creature
is not merely what it looks to be, but a messenger of
evil out of the spirit world. Either that or the suppo
sition, common among spiritists of higher culture, that
animals and little children see the approach of spirits
who hover about at death, and give this unmistakable
sign of their knowledge.
Of similar import is the belief that the approach of
certain creatures to human habitations or their pecul
iar action near a dwelling is a presage of death. It is a
sign of death in Jamaica if ants take to a house; if a
partridge flies into a yard; if blackbirds assemble in
large numbers where they are not commonly seen, or
if on flying over a house one of them lights upon the
roof; if a bat or bird flies into the house or a firefly
lights under the bed —although some say these last are
mere signs of a visitor. Suggestion plays an active part
in these signs. If a bug drops dead before a person, it
is a sign of misfortune. Crows flying at twilight or in
"funeral procession" are ominous. If a hog roots the
yard or a dog persistently digs a hole, a grave will soon
be dug for some member of the family. If rats nibble
the clothes or any part of the body, news will come of
the death of a dear one.
It is in some such unusual incident that a soul just
passed makes sign of its presence. If one is eating and
a bit of food falls, a dead relative has knocked it out
for himself. If a wineglass standing on a table breaks
of itself, or a green branch suddenly breaks from a tree
without apparent cause, or a sudden shower falls out
of a clear sky and as suddenly ceases, or if a loud knock
sounds on the door or roof, some one dear to the family
BURIAL OF THE DEAD 87
has just died.
Other acts are to be avoided lest they pay the pen
alty of death in the immediate family. Never add to
a house or cut down an old tree. Never place two lights
on a table. If you plant the seed of a "mammy plant"
or of a pumpkin vine, a relative will die, says one of
Cundall's informants. If two persons say the same thing
together they will die together.
REFERENCES
Banbury, 28.
Barclay, 166, 315.
Bell, 146.
Cundall, Folk-lore.
De Lisser, Twentieth Century Jamaica, 120-29.
Edwards, 2: 85-86, 103-06.
Gardner, 186, 187, 385-87.
Leslie, 323-26.
Lewis, 97, 98.
Long, 2.: 420-23.
Marsden, 33.
Phillippo, 244-47.
Rampini, 84, 85.
Sloane, 1 : Int., xlviii.
Stewart, 250-52.
Vernon, 54, 57.
Williams, 104-7.
Chapter VII
THE SPIRIT WORLD
Th.
.he spirits of the dead are believed to haunt the
living. They come to him in dream, a mode of appear
ance called "dream to me," or in waking vision, spoken
of as "show himself to me," or they may be present
(even though invisible) in and about the house or on
the road at night. They are called "duppies," a word
which Banbury says comes from "door peep," but I
do not know on what authority he bases this fanciful
etymology. The term "jumbies" is more common in
other parts of the West Indies than in Jamaica. The
duppy is commonly regarded as a mischievous spirit,
because, although good spirits also come back to earth
"to make holiday," as some say, only a bad spirit is
"facey" enough to show himself to you. Hence you
may be pretty sure if you see a duppy that he is able
to do you mischief, unless you are properly guarded
against him, and you may suffer mischief even from
friendly spirits if you anger them. One of CundalPs
informants enumerates the powers for harm of a duppy
as "stoning, poisoning, beating, burning, drowning,
and setting a house on fire."
The habits of duppies are well established, accord
ing to those who have the power of seeing them. A per
son born with a caul has this power to see duppies with
out their harming him, although some say the faculty
can be removed by wrapping up a piece of the caul in
black ribbon and keeping it as a "guard." Duppies
cannot hurt twins either, especially when they are of
'\
THE SPIRIT WORLD 89
opposite sex, though I do not know whether such per
sons have also the seeing eye. If you rub your eyes
with the eyewater from a dog's eye, or even look over
your left shoulder, you may see duppies.
Duppies live in the roots of cottonwood trees and
bamboo thickets and feed upon bamboo root, "fig"
leaves, and the gourd-like fruit of a vine called "duppy
pumpkin." The fig tree is parasitic in its growth. It
attaches itself to the trunk of some tree in the shape
of a "poor weakly climbing plant" and sends rootlets
downward which root themselves in the earth and feed
the fig until it grows into a sturdy tree, mingling its
foliage with the other, or, in cases where it has clutched
a tree less vigorous than the cottonwood, sometimes
completely surrounding and usurping the place of the
other. "The Creole in the clutch of the Scotsman," say
the natives of the fig and its host. The cottonwood is
characterized by curious branch-like roots above the
ground. Lurking in the great chambers formed by these
cotton tree roots, or in bamboo clumps, live the ghosts,
and they come out from seven in the evening to five
in the morning and at twelve o'clock at midday, ap
pearing in some dreary place especially in the neigh
borhood of these trees. Parkes, who was born with a
caul and may be considered an expert in ghosts, as he
has no fear of them, has often seen them riding in the
mango walks with their faces turned to the horse's tail.
They are likely to appear in white with their heads
bound up just as they were put into the grave, but they
may also show themselves looking exactly as they did
in life, and in this case it is sometimes hard to distin
guish them from a living person; but by looking care
fully you will see that their feet do not touch the
90 BLACK ROADWAYS
ground. Some say that they put up their feet high in
walking, like a horse. Also the way they have of dis
appearing suddenly proves them to be ghosts, and
when they speak it is in a high falsetto voice. Duppies
have also the power to take animal form, and in this
shape they may appear to man. You may pass one of
these animal duppies in walking and then see the same
one again far down the road.
Other methods of testing an apparition are men
tioned by Cundall's informants. Show a duppy a fire-
stick, and he will laugh. Cursing will drive away a good
spirit and calling the name of God, an evil one; but
some say the evil duppy will vanish only at the name
of Jesus Christ. If you say "Jesus the name high over
all," a good duppy will "help you say it," and an evil
one will run away.
Cundall's informants say if a dog whines or if it howls
at night a duppy is near. If a jalousie drops suddenly
at night there is a duppy in the house, according to
the superstitious, but some say "a visitor is coming."
A spider web across the face, especially at night, is the
sign of a duppy's presence, and when you feel a hot
wave of air as you walk, you know you are passing the
place where a ghost slept the night before, the artifi
cial heat of a fire seeming to be irrevocably associated
in the Negro mind with the doings of the duppy world.
In these cases the duppy's presence is known merely
by sign; he doesn't show himself. Most of my inform
ants are satisfied of the presence of duppies when they
"feel as if there was something troublesome about at
night." It seems to them more "natural" that the
duppy should be there than that he shouldn't. Hence
many precautions must be taken to avoid harm from
1
THE SPIRIT WORLD 91
these restless spirits.
Care must be taken in throwing out water at night
to warn the family spirits who may be near. "Mind
yourselves, me family," or "good people," they cry,
or, "Anybody fe we move!" Never fling stones about
at twelve o'clock noon or at night when ghosts are
abroad. Never sit at the threshold of a door at such
hours or "duppies will walk over and injure you," and
never sit or stand so as to leave no passage at the door.
Throw out some punch on Christmas night for the
duppies of the family and leave water in the house
every night for them to drink. Save a cutting of the
negro yam for the dead when it is dug. Do not throw
a match on the floor at night after lighting your pipe,
lest the duppy get hold of it and "do you harm.
" Never
speak at once of seeing a duppy, or the duppy will hurt
you. This fear of speaking of duppies I found in some
cases persistent when I had a company started telling
ghost stories, for there was likely to be one of the num
ber who reproved such levity and led the talk into
other channels. Before entering an uninhabited house,
say something to warn the spirits who may be present.
It is dangerous to talk or whistle at night, lest the ghost
"steal your voice." If you walk with a dog at night
never let him follow you, "or the ghosts will knock you
down.
" If people speak too much in praise of a horse
or mule, it is likely to pine away, and one should avoid
voicing admiration of a young child.
If you observe all proper precaution, duppies cannot
really do you harm unless they have been "put upon
you," and this is the work of the Obeah Man. But
since you do not know what mischief they have been
incited to, it is wise to carry a "guard" of some kind
92 BLACK ROADWAYS
to "run duppy" if it is inclined to follow you. All
Negroes who are superstitious take such a precaution.
Several have shown me the string or ribbon of black
worn about the neck which is the simplest possible
protection one can wear to ward off the duppy. Orig
inally, I think, it must have held an amulet such as
I have described in another chapter. Parkes advised
tying to it a bit of camphor, garlic, and asafoetida
sewed up in black cloth. Musk powder is good, says
Wilfrid, but if you begin to use
it,
like the carpenter's
rule and chalk and the tailor's tapeline, "if you forget
it
once the duppy
is
sure to catch you.
" The headman
at Burnt Ground wore turkey red as
a
guard at night,
but Parkes thinks duppies like red, are sometimes seen
in
it
themselves, and follow it when they see
it,
but
"take themselves away" for blue. According to Parkes,
thin black cloth will drive them away, but they follow
red, white, and thick black like broadcloth. In the Lee
ward Islands, Udal says
a
string of "jumbi beads"
is
worn, which are red seeds with black spots. In travel
ing alone on the road at night Parkes used to fill his
pocket with rice before starting out, and
if
a
duppy
followed him he would throw
it
behind his back. An
other effectual check to
a
pursuing duppy
is
to mark
a
cross in the road and stick
a
penknife into
it
and leave
it
there without turning back. In the morning, says one
of Cundall's informants, you will find an insect dead
beside it. If you have no penknife, says Wilfrid, draw
off
a
shoe and leave it. Or turn your jacket inside out
or put on your cap the wrong way. Or you may draw
a
hair from the middle of your head and put
it
into
your mouth, or take three grains of gravel out of the
river
(if
you walk beside
a
stream), throw two back
THE SPIRIT WORLD 93
into the river, and put the third under your tongue.
The ghost may also be shamed into leaving you. A man
troubled by a ghost following him should open his trou-
ser front, leaving one button, and a woman should
throw her skirt over her head.
If a duppy calls to you, answering him instantly
will ward off trouble. Before he speaks your name three
times you must answer, "Yes, yes, yes !" and "Cut him
out," otherwise he may "take away the sound of your
voice" or induce fits. If you feel a strange blowing on
the ear, put up your hand trumpet-shape and call the
name of the person you believe is calling you, and
"whether in Kingston or Colon or America," if he is
the one calling you he will stop.
To keep away troublesome spirits from the house/
at night, sprinkle sand or throw rice, grain, or pebbles!
outside the door for the duppies to count before enter- 1 /
ing. "They will try to count them but can never count |
beyond three," says one of Cundall's informants. An
'
X marked on the ground or on the door, or a horseshoe
nailed to the house is also useful, or an open glass may
be set on the doorstep. Cracking a whip with the left
hand is also practised to rid a neighborhood of duppies.
One of the drivers at Burnt Ground was an adept at
this practice because he was left-handed. Cundall's
informants say that the first stroke of a whip must be
with the left hand, else the duppy will paralyze your
arm, but after that you may use the right. A tarred
whip is also efficacious.
Another method, and probably the most successful,
is to burn something in the house to keep away duppies,
especially something that has a strong odor. Horn is
very efficacious. Certain herbs smoked in a pipe or
94 BLACK ROADWAYS
burned in a pan so as to make a smoke, or rubbed over
the body, especially over the face and the back of the
neck, are commonly used at night when something
seems to be abroad in the house. "Rosemary" (Croton
linearis, Jacq.), parrot or spiri tweed (Eryngium foe-
tidum, L.), worm weed, called in Kromanti talk "see-
me-contract" (Chenopodium ambrosioides, L.), guinea
weed (Letineria alliacea, L.), and a water marigold
called by my informant "water weed" (Medilia gra
cilis), are all used for this purpose, and all except the
last are evidently selected for their strong odor; the
last may have this characteristic also when heated.
Nowadays it is customary to use a mixture for burn
ing, such as that proposed by one of Cundall's inform
ants, of cow's hoof and horn, sulphur, bluestone, duck
ant's nest, etc. Another says "rosemary and cow dung."
"To shoot duppy," says another, load the gun with
salt, bluestone, and sulphur as well as shot. In Rich
mond, St. Mary, they gave me the following prescrip
tion "from the doctor's shop" to drive away ghosts:
Take 3d. each of frankincense and myrrh and 2d. of asa-
foetida, throw on a little cold water and shake until
it turns white, then add 3d. hadrow, 3d. oil of life, 3 d.
oil of nohel, 6d. oil of cassia, 6d. oil of juniper, 6d. oil of
death, 3d. oil of concha, 3d. oil of Murray, some Dead
Man's Drops, 6d. oil of turn-back, 3d. oil of carry-on,
6d. oil of tarry." In Mandeville the recipe ran: "oil
of rignum, oil of amber, oil of sweet spirit of ointment,
oil of rose, oil of broom, oil of turn-back, oil of dead
man's skin, oil of dead man's blood, oil of apempe."
At the Richmond drug store I made some inquiries,
to the evident perturbation of the chemist, who as
sured me that they gave the people who asked for these
M
THE SPIRIT WORLD 95
drugs "nothing which would harm them." That
is,
in
the process of civilization the folk have transferred
to the tinctures of the chemist the same beliefs which
they formerly applied to the efficacy of herbs and of
such objects as grave dirt, which were associated with
death.
You may hear the duppies walking at night, creak,
creak, creak, but they can do
a
man no harm unless they
have been "put upon him." In this case, there are
al
ways friendly spirits among the ghosts of
a
man's house
hold who can be counted upon to protect him. It
is
very
hard to get
a
good ghost story from
a
Negro, but this
one
I
had from an old headman on the Flamstead estate
is
a
fair example of the warfare supposed to be waged
between spirits of good and evil:
There was
a
gentleman living at Good Hope named Mr.
Taylor—Good Hope massa —and he had
a
servant named
Robert Walker. One day Mr. Taylor went away to Wilfred
Hall and left Robert Walker alone. While he was sleeping at
night he heard two somebodies,
a
man and
a
woman, come
into the pantry. The man whistled
a
tune [which the old man
repeated]; the woman was singing "Tramping down and we
tramping yet." He [Walker] peeped out but didn't see them.
When he went back the man whistled [the same tune], and
the woman sang "Tramping down and we tramping yet."
He ran out, and they ran out of the yard and ran down the
valley road. Went back and lay down. Came again, same
thing; the man ran up the bush and the woman ran down
the road.
And
a
woman came to him in appearance of his wife
and said: "Walker, get up quick and follow me; put on your
best clothes, Mr. Taylor wants you at Wilfred Hall." He
got up, put on his suit of black, dressed himself nicely. It
was
a
Saturday night. Put on his boots, took his jacket over
96 BLACK ROADWAYS
his arm. I saw the man myself and saw his actions that day.
Wife said—it was the duppy, you know—"Come on, now,
follow me." And the woman turned him from Good Hope
down Dallas. The woman ran and said, "Run, Walker, run!
run, Walker, run ! run, Walker, run !" She got down to Dal
las, was going down to the Fall. The light came now, about
seven o'clock Sunday morning. When he got down to Butcher
Pass, he met up a crowd of dead people, and it was a fight
between this woman and all the dead people. It was his family
protecting him, and they turned him back [or he would have
fallen over the Fall, as I gathered].
We see him come up Flamstead to one Mr. Clough 's yard,
and they gave him some tea. The woman told him not to
drink it. The woman drank the tea but the tea was in the
same place. No one saw the tea but himself. She said,
" Come,
Walker, come !
" and they ran down the mountain, and when
he came to Prince Hole leading round to Good Hope again,
he met up the same crowd of people. An old lady out of the
crowd took Walker and poked him into a stone hole and said,
"You stay there!" and there was a fight between the woman
and this crowd now.
Then everybody began to take notice that there was some
thing the matter with Walker. All went down lo Prince Hole
to rescue him —saw stones flinging about but saw nobody,
only stones flinging. However, they rescued Walker and took
him away to Good Hope. And they got a smart man called
duppy-catcher and he put him [that
is,
the duppy] in
a
bottle,
and when we saw the bottle we saw
a
sort of fly in the bottle.
And Walker got better.
This
is
a
live story;
I
saw
it
with my eyes—can't doubt it;
only doubt
a
story
I
hear, that
is
a
dead story.
The multiplication of objects and acts used to guard
against spirits means an absorbing interest in the spirit
world and
a
diversity of associations connected with
it,
each of which has left its coloring upon the technic
THE SPIRIT WORLD 97
of protection. Long says the Negroes of Jamaica used
to wear the teeth of wildcats and eat their flesh to
preserve long life, and this practice must probably
be thought of as a "guard" (like the rabbit's foot of
American Negroes), just as the Maroon Negroes dur
ing the war with the whites took to wearing the teeth
of their enemies as a protection against being hit in
battle.
The philosophy of the ghost sometimes depends upon
the belief that every man is accompanied by two dup-
pies, a good and a bad, or "a trickify one," as Wilfrid
says. Some say that in sleep the good one stays by a
man and the tricky one goes out walking; until it comes
back the man cannot wake. When a man goes on a jour
ney, the tricky one should precede him. If it falls be
hind him, it is likely to harm him. One of Cundall's
informants says, "If you are walking along a road
through a wood and hear a noise as of something crack
ing you should look back, for there are two duppies
following you, a good one and a bad one, and the good
one is trying to attract your attention, and if you look
back it shows you are the good one's friend, and no
harm will come to you." Another advises you to go
away quickly from a place if you hear a twig crack be
hind you; according to Wilfrid it would seem to be
your own attendant spirit who is playing you the trick.
Sometimes this same tricky spirit will worry a man as
in a nightmare. At death it is this tricky spirit which
remains behind at the grave. Some (the Adventists)
say that it walks for forty days, because Christ walked
this earth for forty days after his death, and then goes
down into the earth. There seems to be an idea that
this tricky spirit is to be identified with the shadow.
98 BLACK ROADWAYS
Wilfrid says it is not safe for a man to "play with his
shadow" or the shadow will play with him all night
and prevent sleep, and the attempts of the Obeah Man
to bottle a man's shadow in order to "set a duppy"
would suggest the same connection. It seemed to puzzle
Wilfrid to think where the shadow of the tree went
when the tree was felled. It had been something, it was
now gone, hence it must still be somewhere. "It's
not the soul" [that makes the duppy], said old Han
nah, caretaker at Butler's, "for the soul goes to heaven,
and it's not the body, for we know that goes away into
the earth, but it's the shadow."
I found that some persons believed in a realm of
duppies lying below the earth arranged much as the
lots lie in a graveyard, where the duppies carried on
the same occupations and bore the same relations to
each other as on earth: "those who had been leaders
of a gang here are leaders in the underworld." Sam
Thompson showed me a sketch of this world as he had
drawn it into his notebook just as he saw it in a dream,
one duppy holding a whip and the rest hard at work.
But I do not know how nearly universal this idea is.
The most malignant duppies, according to one of
Cundall's informants, are "a ghost with a rope around
his neck;" "Rolling-calf" (probably in the same cate
gory) ; "a Chinese or Coolie [East Indian] ghost" (some
say also the ghost of an unbaptized infant) ; two pickney
duppies (probably the "Whooping boy" and "Long-
bubby Susan" of another writer); and the "Three-foot
Horse." Three-foot Horse gallops through the moon
light faster than any living steed, and its breath is fatal
to anyone upon whom it falls, but on dark nights or
under the shadow of a tree one is safe from attack.
THE SPIRIT WORLD 99
Whooping-boy rides Three-foot Horse, whooping like
a human being and dancing on the twigs in the woods.
Long-bubby Susan is characterized by breasts which
touch the ground and which she throws over her shoul
ders when attacked. I heard nothing about these three
duppies, unless Susan is to be identified with Old Hige,
the skin-changing witch of Banbury, or the vampire
women of the West Indies whom Udal describes, and
the Loogaroo (Loup garoux) of Bell. In Granada, Bell
says, "diablenesses" are women in the mountains with
one human and one hoofed foot who lead men astray,
as also women who ride a mule with feet in air and head
down. Old Hige is still a menace to infants in Jamaica,
and it is from fear of her visit that they are guarded by
a blue cross on the ninth night after birth and that a
cross is put on the door of dwellings, or grain is strewn
before the door. But I do not think her name carries
otherwise much fear with it. She is the skin-changing
witch of European folk tale, and the story is commonly
told of the child who watches the witch slip out of her
skin and, while she is away, burns or peppers it so that
she cannot resume it again on her return. The lively
recital of the hag's consternation, her cry of " 'Kin, you
no know me?" never fails to win a roar of merriment
from the delighted audience. Equally uproarious mirth
accompanies the recital of her way of counting when
grain or rice is scattered at the door or an X marked
on the sill—"One, two, t'ree, an' deh a da!" she reit
erates, because, since she can never count beyond the
number "three" and has then to go back and repeat
the reckoning, the tale is never told. Why the poor old
thing has to count at all is part of the mystery.
An even more popular duppy than Old Hige is Roll
100 BLACK ROADWAYS
ing-calf, who is a very bad duppy indeed to meet.
"Rolling" is the West Indian term for "roaming,"
I am informed; the Negroes speak of "rolling 'round
the town." The apparition appears, according to
Parkes, in the form of a hornless goat, black, white,
or spotted, with a collar about its neck to which is at
tached a short chain that drags upon the ground. Its
eyes are red and at night look like blazing fires. Its
tail, unlike a goat's, curls over its back. The front feet
are shaped, one like a horse's hoof and the other like
a human foot; the back feet are goat-shaped, and the
creature leaves a bad smell like that of a goat. Ban
bury says the Rolling-calf may take the form of vari
ous animals such as cat, dog, hog, goat, horse, or bull,
but the most dangerous is the brindled cat, and he adds
that it has power to grow from the size of a cat or dog
to that of a horse or bull. I suspect Parkes was giving
me a composite of Three-foot Horse and Rolling-calf
when he said that if you meet one at night and succeed
in frightening it away you must instantly leave the
spot, for the creature will gallop away, then return to
the same spot, and if it finds you there will "blow bad
breath upon you.
" To frighten away this objectionable
monster, Rampini suggests sticking an open knife into
the ground, and Banbury says, "Flog it with a whip
held in the right hand or with a tarred whip." Unlike
Three-foot Horse, Rolling-calf is afraid of the moon.
Witty tales are told of its discomfiture. One Rolling-
calf which fled from the moon and fell into the brook
complained, "A don' mind fche wet a wet, but de 'prain
a 'prain me_foot!" Another begged the moon^"l)o
[please], me good man, no go fall dun pa me, no go wak
unda me a de holy night!" Whatever the origin of the
THE SPIRIT WORLD 101
Rolling-calf, it is looked upon today as the animal form
assumed by especially dangerous duppies. Obeah Men
often become Rolling-calves and they "set" Rolling-
calves upon people. Murderers and butchers and I know
not how many other reprobates become Rolling-calves
when they die, and go to live not only at the roots of
cottonwood trees and in clumps of bamboos but also
in caves and deserted houses, whence they emerge at
night to follow sugar wains because of their fondness
for molasses, or to break into cattle pens.
There is another sort of supernatural being in Ja
maica well known to Parkes and described by other
authorities such as Bell and Banbury, which can hardly
be classed among the duppies because they are not
thought of as ghosts of the dead. They are the Mer
maids, or "Fair Maids" as the old name has
it,
who
live in deep holes in the rivers and comb their long
black hair at midday on its banks. In the famous obeah
case at Demerara, the Obeah Man was said to have
a
Fair Maid in his basket, but
I
do not know
if
the Fair
Maid of Demerara
is
like that of Jamaica, and
I
have
never heard of Mermaids being employed by Obeah
Men in Jamaica, although Banbury says the Myal
Men used to perform the myal dance at the pools where
they lived and to take them offerings of food. He says
the fish of the place where they lived were sacred, cit
ing Chester Castle in Hanover as one such place; that
if
a
man saw
a
Mermaid before she saw him he was
doomed; and that oxen used to be sacrificed to the
"rubba muma" (river mama) here in Jamaica just as,
in Grenada, according to Bell, dances are performed and
i
sacrifices of
a
white goat,
a
black cock, and silver money
are made to the water-being called Mamadjo who cures
j
102 BLACK ROADWAYS
disease, especially that West Indian form of leprosy
called "yaws." There is a "blue hole" near Lucea in
Jamaica where the Spaniards are supposed to have
sunk "a table of gold" and then murdered a man whose
ghost was set to guard
it,
so that no one has been able
to draw
it
out since. Banbury says
a
yoke of oxen were
drawn into the hole in
a
vain attempt to haul out the
table of gold. This tale
is
still current, but
I
do not
think
it
has any connection with the Mermaids. These
beings, Parkes says, live in deep pools away from where
people pass. There may be more than one in
a
pool,
but they all look alike. The waters were made for them,
and
if
you were to catch one the rivers would dry up.
They have never been human but are the beings of
these bodies of water. He denies that they are wor
shiped by any ritual whatever, for they can do noth
ing for people. They cannot talk, and they disappear
the moment one sees them. He himself saw one sitting
on
a
rock at "Queen hole" near St. Ann's Bay,
a
wide
pool in the banana walk where the Llandovery River
runs through the property of that name. "From an
cient times
it
had been living there with two others."
It had brown skin and long hair down to the waist.
In
a
moment
it
disappeared, and that
is
how he knew
it
was
a
Fair Maid. Mermaids live in other rivers of
Jamaica —one in Black River at
a
place called "Gras-
man" on the right hand side going from Balaclava to
Santa Cruz; one in the Rio Grande in Portland near
Port Antonio; two in Westmoreland, one in the Great
River where
it
runs through
a
bamboo walk at Chet-
tlewood (in
a
hole eighty fathoms deep), and another
in the Cabaritta; and one lives in the Rio Cobra at
a
place called Camena near Spanish Town. These are
THE SPIRIT WORLD 103
all the localities which Parkes can remember in Ja
maica where Fair Maids are known to dwell.
REFERENCES
Banbury, 24-35.
Bell, 27, 28, 161, 171.
Cundall, Folk-lore.
Montagnac.
Rampini, 83.
Udal, 275, 281.
Chapter VIII
OBEAH
W
'e have seen that all Jamaica Negroes believe
in a spirit world. Many think that there are mischie
vous spirits who have the power to take animal shape
and go about making themselves troublesome to men;
these they say are the ghosts of evil men. Even the
ghosts of good men, whose souls the Christian religion
teaches them to look upon as happy in heaven, may
come back to their friends on earth "to keep holiday,"
and may at any time be hovering about the house where
they have lived on earth. There is a general inclination
today to associate these hauntings with the "shadow"
of the dead which lingers about the grave and which,
if properly solicited, may be persuaded to take a part
in human affairs. This "shadow," which is the duppy,
may be tempted out of the grave by a member of the
dead man's family and "set" upon some one against
whom the exorcisor has a grudge, or it may be made
to perform other services to his advantage. The prac
tice of this power over the shadow world is called obeah,
and the so-called obeah religion depends upon the be
lief that such spirits may be employed to work harm
to the living or may be called off from such mischief.
"Working" obeah means to "set" a duppy for some
one; "pulling" obeah means to extract the obeah set
by another.
Early writers derive the term obeah from the Egyp
tian word ob, which means a serpent. There is no ob
jection to this etymology except the fact that it throws
OBEAH PRACTICE 105
no light upon the real meaning of obeah to the Negro
mind. Edwards, describing the Kromanti religion, says
that besides worshiping Accompong, Assarci, and lb-
boa, gods of the heavens, the earth, and the sea, they
worship Obboney, "a malicious deity who pervades
heaven, earth and sea; he is the author of all evil, and
when his displeasure is signified by the infliction of
pestilential disorders or otherwise, nothing will divert
his anger but human sacrifices; which are selected from
captives taken in war, or, if there be none present, then
from their slaves.
" Obeah is,
I
take
it,
Obboney. There
is
a
tendency among the skeptical today to admit the
powers of the Obeah Man but to ascribe them to the
Devil, so exchanging pagan for Christian folklore.
I
recall that Wilfrid offered this solution. In the French
island, voodoo
is
worked instead of obeah. Bell speaks
of "Criboes" in Grenada. In Jamaica, "goozoo"
is
equivalent to obeah; you may say "working goozoo"
as well as "working obeah."
I
do not find, however,
any ruling character or spirit of evil in Edwards' sense
of the word in the modern idea of obeah. If
it
was ever
present in the shape of
a
serpent or ob or Obboney,
it
is
entirely in abeyance today, for not the least evidence
can
I
adduce from the first- or second-hand informers
except
a
line in an old Negro alphabet which runs "G
is
for Goozoo, every niggah pupa [every negro's father]."
When
I
called this line to the attention of an intelligent
Negro school-teacher, he admitted that he had noticed
it,
but
I
was left with the impression that the parallel
with our own concept of the Devil was due rather to
the alphabet-maker than to the Negro's general con
ception. Whatever emotional interest arises from im
personating
a
spirit who
is
the obeah expresses itself
106 BLACK ROADWAYS
today in identifying that spirit with the dead who
walk, and I think this credulity arises from the fact
that the obeah doctrine overlies not only the Negro's
strong feeling for the contaminating power of rotting
objects, especially of the rotting corpse, but also his
perplexity, which we have already recognized, about
the shadow. Such is the curious figurative turn of the
Negro mind that an analogy lives as a fact. Obeah is
merely sympathetic magic.
Practically we know that obeah comes from Africa
and is taught by the powerful Juju and other secret
societies there, which dress up their members as pre
tended spirits and drum and parade and make the
credulous believe that its members are dead men who
have been revived by the power of the Juju medicine.
But nobody is going to believe a thing unless it agrees
with his general way of thinking about life. Here in
Jamaica I am afraid the chief hold the doctrine has
upon its followers is the same as that which so long
satisfied the medieval mind with the picture of hell,
that
is,
the opportunity
it
affords them of satisfying
the emotions of envy and revenge which play so large
a
part in their everyday life. Many of these people are
"heathen" still, and obeah
is
the religion of the shadow
world, the religion of fear, suspicion, and revenge.
To cope successfully with the shadow world requires
special faculties and
a
special initiation.
A
man thus
equipped to deal with spirits
is
called an Obeah Man.
There are Obeah Women too, who have the same power
and are similarly employed. Parkes says the "French
women" have the most wisdom of all and are the most
to be feared. Although anyone may "set" obeah for
another, he will go to an authorized dealer in obeah
OBEAH PRACTICE 107
to get the proper formula; and to "take off" a duppy
set by another, an Obeah Man or Woman must be em
ployed. It is this unique power of the Obeah Man to
control the spirit world which is the source of his ex
traordinary influence in a Negro community. The
Obeah Man first persuades a man that someone is
"working obeah" upon him, and then he offers to
"take it off" for a consideration.
Today it is customary to look upon an Obeah Man
as a crafty knave who practises upon the credulity of
the more ignorant to enrich himself, or as a wicked one
who may be bought to perform secret murder by means
of his knowledge of deadly herbs. A writer in Folk-lore
some years ago, summarizing a pamphlet by Inspector
Thomas of the Jamaica constabulary called "Some
thing about Obeah," divides professional Obeah Men
into two classes. The first class, "generally African by
birth" are dirty, ignorant, and deformed in some way —
with a lame foot or a wall eye, for example—who accept
a small fee for their services. The second class, well-
dressed, intelligent, dapper, who make a pretense of
"duppy-catching," do nothing without a large fee. The
first class seem really to believe in themselves. The
second are conscious of their own fraud. The first class
are perhaps self-hypnotized and often exhibit senile
dementia concealed under a show of profound author
ity. Edwards describes them as men "whose hoary
heads and somewhat peculiarly harsh and forbidding
in their aspect, together with some skill in plants of
the medicinal and poisonous species, have qualified
them for successful imposition upon the weak and
credulous.
"
It is true that as the Negroes become better educated
108 BLACK ROADWAYS
and more intelligent, the spiritist beliefs (upon which
obeah practices depend today) lose their hold upon
the mind; hence a larger and larger number of obeah
practitioners become such for mercenary reasons or
for the opportunity the trade gives them to satisfy sen
sual desires. But the fact that the trade remains lucra
tive proves the persistence of the belief, and there is
no reason to suppose that the practitioner is in every
case more intelligent than the great mass of the people
who employ his skill.
Banbury says an Obeah Man "seldom looks you
in the face," and carries a bancra (basket), bag, or
wallet to hold his "things"; "if these are burned he
can do nothing and usually gets off his head.
" Natur
ally the Obeah Man who is a pure fraud often simulates
the look of the other. Parkes says that men who "deal
in spirits" wear a red flannel shirt, or a crosspiece of
red under their ordinary clothes, and generally gold
earrings. Not all men who wear earrings are Obeah
Men; fishermen, for example, generally wear one ear
ring. The gold is said to "brighten their eyes to see
ghosts," but also a gold earring is put on to improve
the natural sight.
The real Obeah Man, says Wilfrid, must kill one of
his own family—it may be an infant. Wilfrid did not
say so, but I suppose in this way the Obeah Man se
cures the duppy who acts as his "familiar" or "con
trol."
Obeah Men always work by means of particular
objects which they employ like a fetish or charm.
"Set obeah" means to lay a charm to do a person
harm; "work for me" means to use the obeah charm
to do a person good. Any Obeah Man can work both
&.
OBEAH PRACTICE 109
ways, but some distinguish the "doctor" as the man
who "pulls" duppies, the Obeah Man as the one who
"sets" or "plants" them. It is upon this belief in the
power of the Obeah Man to "work" upon particular
objects to produce particular results that his influence
depends. Although the more intelligent Negroes rec
ognize the fraud in particular cases, they nevertheless
believe in the power itself.
The Obeah Man's "things" are the materials which
he uses to "set" obeah. It is obvious that the objects
suggested to him for this purpose are such as are asso
ciated with the dead, such as little carved coffins, bones
(especially of an animal or an infant), teeth, blood, and
grave dirt. Rampini says if an Obeah Man throws grave
dirt at anyone he will die. Grave dirt is drunk with
blood and water by the Kromanti Negroes in order
to make an oath inviolable, and Banbury says a mur
derer may be detected by such a drink, which will cause
his belly to swell, just as he may be detected by letting
some one dance with the coffin lid on his head until it
falls off in front of the guilty man. Long cites the cus
tom of cursing a thief by strewing earth from a newly
dug grave upon a public road so that he may become
"crumpled and trampled under foot like the soil of a
public road." Wilfrid says that when a grave is pre
pared for "tombing," a little earth, taken from the top,
bottom, and middle and moistened with a dash of rum,
may be kept as a guard, and we have seen how a mur
derer may protect himself from ghostly retaliation
by securing the first sod turned in digging the grave
of his victim.
Objects associated with animals of ill omen also fur
nish good magic for the Obeah Man. Feathers and beaks
t
110 BLACK ROADWAYS
of birds, horns, hoofs, and hair of animals and their
bones or shells of insects are among the objects found
in the Obeah Man's bundle, as well as dried herbs and
seeds and dried parts of animals. Falconer related an
amusing story which he heard from a member of the
West Indian regiment in "Serlion," West Africa, of
the obeah sold in that part of the world. It was in
the form of a powder called fanga. This they "parcel
out into a little leaf" which the bush people buy, not
for money but for "wood-seed." Some of the men of
the regiment were out walking with an interpreter
when they met the obeah sellers, and the soldiers, lack
ing the native currency, forced a purchase for money.
"Little blinkie [fire flies] head and wing and shell-shell,
that's what the Obeah Men sell to the country people,"
ended Falconer with indignation; "the one who has the
most wood-seed gets the most obeah!"
Edwards describes the obeah paraphernalia of an
old African woman over eighty years of age, who in
1775 terrorized the slaves on a whole plantation until
her practice was discovered and her cabin destroyed.
He writes of "the whole inside of the roof (which was
of thatch) and every crevice of the walls stuck with
the implements of her trade, consisting of rags, feath
ers, bones of cats, and a thousand other articles." In
a round earthen pot were "a prodigious quantity of
round balls of earth or clay of various dimensions,
large and small, whitened on the outside and variously
compounded, some with hair and rags, or feathers of
all sorts, and strongly bound with twine; others blended
with the upper section of the skulls of cats, or stuck
round with cat's teeth and claws, or with human or
dog's teeth, and some glass beads of different colors;
OBEAH PRACTICE 111
there were also a great many egg-shells filled with a
viscous or gummy substance—and many little bags
stuffed with a variety of articles."
The belief is very common that the Obeah Man can
"work" upon coin so that it can draw away money.
If you take from a man a coin which has been so worked
upon and put it with your own money, it will have "the
power of extracting the other moneys into his pocket.
"
A bright, well-educated colored girl employed as a book
keeper, when she found her account running short a
few pounds each month, believed someone was "work
ing obeah" Upon the coin she received, and instead of
looking about for the thief she took pains as soon as
the money was handed to her to exchange it for bills
or for other coin in order to escape the contamination.
Careful people put corn grains with their coin arid carry
a few kernels in their pocket. Gravel serves the same
purpose, or "loath [load] stones" from the doctor's
shop, or lime juice squeezed over the coin. If someone
asks you to lend him money, says Parkes, either give
him coppers or give it to him freely without expecting
return, for if you ask him for it again he will be angry
and work obeah upon the coin he gives you. It is only
silver coin that is dangerous; coppers are harmless.
Pinsticking is a common means of working obeah.
One of Cundall's informants says the Obeah Man can
furnish pins which will induce deep sleep. If you make
a cotta (a carrying pad for the head), stick two obeah
pins into
it,
and put
it
under
a
person's head, he will
sleep until you awake him. Old Mercilla Hopkins of
Browns Town related that "when Mary Gulla was
dying, all her friends went to see her. She told them
they must stand from the door and let her sins come
112 BLACK ROADWAYS
in. And they must look beneath the bed and see some
pins and needles; they must bring them within view.
So now in every wicked act she had a part she must
confess. A little boy fell off his horse in the race course,
and she confessed that she did it. But she couldn't see
the Lord's face, and she said her soul was lost."
Other objects besides coin and pins are worked upon
by the Obeah Man and sold either as obeah guards or
to "set" for a man, either to "change his mind toward
you"—called "tu'n him yeye [eye]" —or, if you have
a grudge toward him, to do him harm. A modern
guard consists in four padlocks, one for each corner
of the house. These will sell for two pounds, with charge
of two pounds more for the keys. "That is going on
today," says Falconer. Mirrors are a common adjunct
for obeah uses. They are worn by Obeah Men sewed up
on the turban to give "foresight," just as the old obeah
workers used gold earrings. Sometimes the Obeah Man
makes a client set up at his back door a piece of looking-
glass which has been so treated that if anyone looks
into it he is rendered harmless. If a guest comes to the
door who is suspected of treachery, the host calls him
around to the back door, and the moment he sees him
self reflected in the glass,
" he done ! can't do any harm.
"
Obeah bundles are commonly used in the active
practice of sorcery, and these obeah charms are inva
riably made up by the Obeah Men and sold at a high
price. An Obeah Man is very commonly engaged when
a lawsuit is pending in order to secure a successful ver
dict or, in cases when a man fears he is to be discharged
or wants higher wages, "to turn the mind" of his em
ployer. Falconer knew a man of about forty, "quite
a healthy-looking man," who went to law with his
OBEAH PRACTICE 113
brother-in-law about a piece of land and was persuaded
by a friend to make sure of winning his case by con
sulting an Obeah Man. The two men accordingly vis
ited the practitioner carrying rum and three eggs, and
after paying down three pounds as fee, were taken in
to a little dark room where the obeah was kept and
given a small parcel corded tightly. Each took an egg
in the left hand and threw it into the corner of the
room; the Obeah Man sprinkled some rum about and
then told his client to carry the packet home in his
left hand thrust into his jacket pocket, to go straight
home without stopping, to reach there before sun
down, and not to let the rain fall upon him on the way.
The man ran all the way, but it rained, and he got wet.
He took a chill, and in nine days he was a dead man.
"De t'ing what he give him say rain no fe wet him,
sundown no fe ketch him till he get home, dat is de
obeah. So him dead now upon de land. What him wrap
up in a paper was nonsense!" concluded Falconer.
This explanation is very significant. It is the spoken
word, the curse of the song, to which the special magic
clings in all beliefs about obeah practice. However one
may discredit the power for sorcery in the object it
self, there remains fear of the accompanying taboo.
The bundle prepared by the Obeah Man is often di
rected to be "buried" for its victim. This is spoken
of as
" bury a fe you.
"
Very few even intelligent Negroes
like to touch a bundle which has been thus "planted"
for obeah purposes. The foreman of the public works
at Port Antonio saw one of the men come up to his
office, dig a hole stealthily, and bury something there.
He called to one of the employees to dig it up, but this
man had also seen it set and refused to touch it. The
114 BLACK ROADWAYS
foreman himself was afraid to handle it. They asked
a boy to take it up, but when he learned who had put
it there he refused. Finally they called in a man from
the street, and he unearthed a napkin in which some
seeds were folded up. The man who buried it confessed
that he had tried by this means to make the foreman
give him money that he had not earned.
A lawsuit was on between a colored man of good
family and a number of black families who had settled
upon the land he had just bought, and who now found
that their title was illegal. The blacks, finding that the
cases were likely to go against them, tried to set obeah
for their enemy. One night the man's wife had a vivid
dream in which she saw a number of blacks digging
and one old woman, whom she recognized as a friend
of her husband, with her hand to her face weeping.
When she awoke she told her dream and her husband
laughed at her. That morning, observing that a post
which stood directly facing the window of his room
had been disturbed in the night, he ordered the place
examined. A long bottle was found containing some
of his own hair and finger nails and the bones of the
pigeons he was accustomed to eat for his breakfast.
He burned the whole contents and won the lawsuit
brought by the first complainant. Later another bottle
of similar character was found buried. The day came
for the final lawsuit. He must have been himself aware
of the quarter at which opposition was to be expected,
for he awakened in the middle of the night with the
words in his ears —"Start at once!" He obeyed the
voice, wakened his coachman, and set out. There were
two crossroads in opposite directions, at either of which
he could turn into the direct road for the town where
OBEAH PRACTICE 115
the court was to be held. But the horses "turned of
themselves" into a third road which made a long de
tour and brought him to the court just as it opened
at nine in the morning. In the meantime a party of
blacks had been awaiting him with sharpened machetes
(cutting knives) at either crossroads to prevent his
getting through to town. It is likely that the man him
self as well as the coachman suspected such an attempt
on the part of the excited disputants and that the voice
and the turning of the horses were an unacknowledged
response to this suspicion. The story ends pleasantly,
for, once assured of the legal title to the land, the new
owner allowed the blacks to keep their old homes and
live upon the land, employed them when he wanted
labor, and became their best friend. All mourned for
him when he was dead.
In the case just cited, it is evident that parts of the
person if procurable are valuable in setting obeah for
anyone. Hair makes a very dangerous obeah. It is sup
posed to enter the body and to be of a nature to tangle
the spirit and so make a man helpless. An instance
was related to me where a roll of hair thrown into the
waste-jar by a guest in arranging her hair so demoral
ized a part-Negro woman of the better class that she
was induced to pay a visit to an obeah doctor. Black
thread is of the same character. During the quarrel
over the lawsuit described above, one of the blacks
made an image of wood to represent the enemy (whose
name was Samuel Blair) and wound it with a whole
reel of black thread, at the same time winding the name
into the charm by repeating it as rapidly as possible
as she wound. "Sammie Blair, Sammie Blair, Sammie
Blair," she intoned. "Fas'er! fas'er!" urged the spec
116 BLACK ROADWAYS
tators. "Sammie Bl'r! Sam'i Bl'r!" hurried the en
chantress, as she quickened the movement of her hand.
However incredible it may seem to us that a whole
people can be made to believe in a power which can
change not only men's health and material fortunes
but their minds —make an inconstant lover ardent,
an employer well-disposed toward a man, a judge fa
vorable to his case at court —or can pursue with re
venge a thief or a murderer, we must realize that the
whole structure built up by the Obeah Men rests upon
the basis of very ancient beliefs in the relation between
man and natural objects. The Negro, for example, has,
according to Cundall's informants, a number of curi
ous notions in regard to the sympathetic magic con
nected with fire. Spitting in the fire causes the saliva
to dry up; throwing milk into the fire makes the cow
go dry. Burning a person's dung gives intestinal pains.
Burning certain clothing will take off the skin of the
owner. Old Hannah knew a handsome woman whose
face was scarred in this way by someone with a grudge
against her. One of Cundall's informants says that
peeling an orange in the vicinity of sugar works dimin
ishes the quantity of sugar and that the "removal of
the fire sticks from side to side while boiling oil dimin
ishes the amount of oil. " And it must be recalled that
if you show a fire stick to a strange visitor, if he is a
duppy in disguise he will laugh.
Among herbs there are certain weeds which you can
employ to change a man's mind. If a man is angry with
you, rub up "temper-bush" (Amyris —) and box him
with
it,
and his mind will become friendly toward you.
The cut-eye bean planted with
a
crop changes the
grudging eye to friendliness. Another weed, which
^
:
OBEAH PRACTICE 117
Wilfrid called "Madame Fate," if tucked together
with two kinds of grass called Bahama and Apimpe
(Eleusine indica) into the belt of a man who feels dis
posed to work, will make him indolent and indisposed
to labor, or you may bury them in the ground with the
same result. There is a withe which has small pods
"hanging to it like a thread" which a man will wind
about his neck if he has "crick-neck," and if another
asks, "What is the matter with you?" he will pick off
a pod and throw it at the questioner, who will then
have the stiff neck himself. To detect a thief, hold two
sticks of broomweed (Malvastrum coromandelianum)
which have been first dipped in lye, one on each side
of a man's neck, and say,
By Saint Peter, by Saint Paul,
By the living God of all,
and if he is a thief the weed will grow around his neck
and choke him to death.
Plant life is alive with spirit power. All the herbs
used to "drive duppy" are so used because of the re
lation believed to exist between them and the activ
ities of human life. The beliefs Long mentions relating
to the effect of certain trees planted about the house
must have been fostered by such a sense of relation
ship. The tradition of mystery that still hangs over
the cottonwood tree is a part of it. Supernatural influ
ences are abroad in the world, and these plants are the
form in which they appear to man.
And if plant life is so useful for exorcism how much
more is animal life! Certain animals have come to be
regarded as more likely to be duppies in disguise than
others, and these are, of course, the creatures with
118 BLACK ROADWAYS
!A*
which the Obeah Man deals. Edwards complains of
the cruelty the Negroes show toward animals, and I
am afraid they are not much improved in the ways of
pity today. It may be that the fear with which they
are taught to regard the animal world is in part respon
sible for this callousness. "Never to ill-treat a sheep,"
says Wilfrid, "because Christ bore him in his arms.
A sheep is never an obeah animal, but there are seven
devils in a hog."
Beast life is not largely represented in Jamaica, and
there are no wild beasts in the forest. The monkeys have
long since disappeared. There are none left of the camels
which Long says were at one time imported for carry
ing rum and sugar to market and which proved a fail
ure on the hilly island. The wild hogs which furnished
the principal product for export long after the Spanish
were driven out by the English are so scarce now in the
mountains that even the Maroon settlements scarcely
hunt them longer. The wild cattle and horses that
roamed the savannahs are replaced by domestic an
imals of imported pedigree. Small rodents, it is true,
are all too common, and the mongoose is a suspected
animal, as the modern popular two-step called "Slide,
Mongoose" well illustrates; but one does not hear much
about rats and mice in obeah doings, although there
are a certain number of tales about "Br'er Rat" among
the animal stories. In Lacovia it is said that the mice
which run up and down the big cottonwood tree in the
graveyard are the duppies of the dead. Cats seem to
have been in old days most suspected (like the witch's
cat in European folklore), but today puss has fewer
enemies, and the he-goat, the grey hog, and the low
ing cow are the beasts one hears most about in obeah
OBEAH PRACTICE 119
practice.
One of Cundall's informants says,
" If you throw up
a cat and it comes down on its two front feet you will
die like a dog,
" and it is to be recalled how useful the
teeth of wildcats used to be considered as "guards"
and how dangerous was a Rolling-calf in the shape of
a brindled cat. Banbury couples cats with snakes as
the animals most often "set" by Obeah Men. Mrs.
Peart says "a black cat is the greatest luck in a house,
and sometimes people wear an artificial one."
If a horse gallops about a pasture and refuses to be
caught, it shows that the animal is being ridden by a
duppy: "Horse commence a tek too much a him own
exercise, danger no far from him," says the proverb.
To catch such a horse, Wilfrid says, stick a penknife
into the bit of mud it has thrown off with its hoof, and
the horse will stand still trembling, but after you have
put the rope on him you must go back and pull up the
knife, or the horse will die. "Shut the penknife half
way," says one of Cundall's informants.
The lowing cow, like the whining dog, is feared as
a harbinger of evil. I am told in illustration of the
Negro's cruelty to animals that sometimes Negroes
will cut out a cow's tongue and leave the animal to die
unsuspected of its owner, and it is possible this prac
tice has some connection with the fear of the "talking
cow," "Cow read dem law in a dem belly," says the
proverb, and "A no fe want a tongue mek cow can't
talk"; and the quietly ruminating cow is looked upon
by the Negro, not merely as the type of the silent wise
man but as one who keeps the secrets of the duppy
world. Nor is the dog exactly the friendly protector
to man that we regard him. The Negro's dog slinks
120 BLACK ROADWAYS
about as if ashamed of himself and is always held
suspect.
Among fowl, the white cock, the "sensay," and the
"peel-neck" are ominous. The "sensay" is the West
Indian name for the
" frizzled
" or ruffled breed of fowls
with feathers standing out in reversed direction. They
seem to be particularly common in West Indian fowl
yards. "Keep sensay fowl fe pick obeah," is the say
ing; and this means that if one "plants" obeah, the
ruffled fowl will "dig it out." "If you promise sensay
fowl anyt'ing, him wi' look fe it," is a saying which
warns one to keep one's promises in an obeah trans
action. This fear of the ruffled fowl is not peculiar to
Jamaica. One writer tells of a "cenci cock" brought
by an Obeah Man from Martinique to the Virgin Islands
and there sacrificed in order to find hidden treasure.
Old-time people in Jamaica say if anybody bites you,
take the down of a sensay fowl and rub it over the place,
and the biter's teeth will rot.
The eggs of a sensay or of a peel-neck chicken, like
those of certain birds of ill omen, are employed by the
Obeah Man. I am told that those who keep such fowls
in their henyard have great difficulty in gathering any
of their eggs before they are stolen by the Negroes,
presumably for obeah purposes. The egg, says Ban
bury, is "the embodiment of obeah," and I am told
that even a Christian and highly intelligent colored
person will tremble with fear at sight of an egg which
he thinks has been "set" for him. Monk Lewis records
such a case on his estate at Cornwall. One of Cundall's
informers says that if a youth steals eggs, he will al
ways be a thief; and Banbury quotes the belief that
to punish an egg thief you have but to throw the egg
OBEAH PRACTICE 121
into the sea, and "same fashion de sea da rowl, as so
you belly bottom da rowl." Some say dreaming of a
nest full of hen's eggs is lucky: it means money.
Rampini says the Negroes believe that cocks crow.
thrice at night—once at ten o'clock, once at one, and
once at four in the morning. We have already seen
that the unusual cackling of fowls is ominous, and there *
are a good many signs relating to fowls in Cundall's
notes. When fowls put their heads together —kissing,
some call it—visitors are coming, and the sex of the
fowls determines that of the visitors. If cocks crow in
the early part of the night "ships are near"; if near to
the door, "hasty news."
Certain wild birds are looked upon as objects of
mystery. If you break the egg of Gi'-me-me-bit, the
Cuban nighthawk (Chordeiles minor gundlachii, Lau
rence), you will have trouble: "You will break every
other egg," says Cundall's informant. The saying
is,
"Pick up Gi'-me-bit egg you tek up trouble, lay
it
down you lay down you' luck. " The Obeah Man alone
can use this egg to put obeah on another, for he alone
knows how to break
it
so as to bring out sores all over
the other's body. Other ominous birds are the cuckoo
or rain bird (Hyetornis pluvialis, Gmelin), peculiar to
Jamaica and known as the "old man bird"; the crest
ed quail dove or blue dove (Geotrygon versicolor, La-
fresnaye),
a
monotypic bird also peculiar to Jamaica
called the "mountain witch"; two other members of
the pigeon family called whitebelly (Leptotila jamai
censis jamaicensis, Linne), and ground dove (Chaeme-
pelia passerina jamaicensis, Maynard)
;
and the night-
hawk, called potoo (Nyctibius griseus jamaicensis,
Gmelin), also peculiar to^Jamaica. "Ground doves
122 BLACK ROADWAYS
that inhabit particular spots are duppies,
"
says one
of Cundall's informants. The turkey buzzard and the
white owl are also birds wrapped in mystery. Gosse
gives a very full account of their habits. The beautiful
little streamer-tailed humming birds that flit about
every flower garden in Jamaica, with their whirr like
the sound of a distant airplane (Aithurus scitulus, Brew
ster and Bangs, and Aithurus polytmus, Linne, as the
black and yellow-billed are distinguished), are also
something other than mere flecks of bird life. They go
by the name of "doctor bird," and the saying
is,
"Poc-
tor bird cunnie bird, hard bird
fe
kill. " So of the grey
hog the saying runs, "Grey hog
a
de hardest hog fe
dead," but
I
never heard of
a
humming bird's being
employed for obeah. Perhaps even an Obeah Man sees
something incongruous between "setting" duppies and
this vibrating flash of beauty.
Reptiles have
a
particularly bad name as vehicles for
duppy setting. The snake
is
the "baddest of all," any
one will affirm, but as there are seldom to be found
snakes in Jamaica today this takes one back in the his
tory of obeah to the days of ob, to the voodoo, and the
Obeah Man of the past who carried "a staff carved
with snakes or with
a
human head on the handle,
a
cabalistic book and
a
stuffed snake.
" In the past, Ban
bury says, snakes used to be "set" by the Obeah Man,
and the fear of them seems to have been not un
grounded, for, though ordinarily harmless, cases are
reported of their coiling about an animal or even
a
Negro. The fact that the yellow snake in Jamaica eats
eggs and sleeps in hollows of fig and cotton trees
is
per
haps one reason for the fear of eggs and of the duppy-
haunted precincts of the cotton tree.
<
w
w
o
<
CO
Z
<
M
O
D
Q
X
^ ,'
OBEAH PRACTICE 123
Today the toad or frog and the lizard, particularly
the green lizard, are the common tools of the Obeah
Man. Green lizards frequent cottonwood and mango
trees. "Do not knock a green lizard that lives in a grave
yard, for he is a duppy and will hurt you,
"
says one of
Cundall's informants. Nobody will hurt a lizard of
whatever species or a toad that comes into the house,
for to do so "will not be good for you.
" If a lizard drops
upon a woman it is a sign that she will bear a child.
Insects in the house are attended to, like the firefly,
the cricket, and the moth. If a large black beetle flies
in and lights on the floor, then flies off, you will have
good news; if it remains, the news will be bad. To kill
a spider is bad luck: "you will always break crocker
ies," writes one of Cundall's informants. "To catch
a scorpion, say the Lord's prayer and he will stop."
Duck ants are feared as duppies. "If ants take to a
house it is a sign of death," says one of Cundall's in
formants. Gosse and Senior both describe at length
the nests built in huge masses in the crutch of a tree
by these curious insects, and their occasional raids
upon a house. I saw the trail across a sitting-room
ceiling of one of these visiting colonies. The start had
been made somewhere under the rafters and a perfectly
straight tunnel dug across the ceiling and down the
wall, throwing up a mound of sawdust as the digging
progressed. No matter how many times the trail was
knocked away the route was resumed. Senior says the
only way to rid a house of the pest is to "dig a hole
nearly through the top" of the nest and "insert a quan
tity of arsenic and white sugar."
Finally, in glancing through the pages of Cundall's
informants it is clear that the few weather signs quoted
124 BLACK ROADWAYS
in Jamaica are generally animal signs. The cry of the
croaking lizard, the flying of cockroaches, the flight
of swallows in large numbers —these signs are familiar
to black and white alike. But the playing of a hog "with
trash in its mouth" or "the vomiting of a hog in the
early morning" also betokens rain, and if a cock after
a shower flies to a raised place and crows, "the weather
will slack." Wilfrid says that a flock of white crows
following the river stream, or of teal or duck is a sign
of rain in dry weather.
Instances of the belief in this obeah power of an
imals are very frequent. A certain colored clergyman
who had been having trouble with his neighbors lent
his yard man money to buy a sensay cock from an
Obeah Man who was being sent to jail, and the cock
was put into a coop in his yard pending payment.
Suddenly the neighbors began to bring him presents;
when the cock was removed the gifts ceased. The same
man shot a hog that was being persistently allowed
to root in the graveyard. Soon after, he contracted
typhoid and was removed to a more healthy parish.
The story went that he "kill one goat-kid a graveyard
an' de ghost tek him." A woman from Montego Bay
fell ill of a disease of a syphilitic nature and consulted
an Obeah Woman in Kingston. The woman, whom she
had never seen before, called her at once by name and
recalled to her a day when, as she was quarreling with
a woman on the street, she had stepped upon a dead
bullfrog lying beside the gutter. This was the cause of
her trouble—the woman had "set" it for her. The sick
woman recalled the incident perfectly, but how could
a stranger know anything about it unless she had "fore
sight?" She believed in her adviser implicitly, and
OBEAH PRACTICE 125
when she remained uncured accepted the Obeah Wom
an's excuse that if she had had more money to give,
she could have been cured.
In Montego Bay a house on the coast was threat
ened in a hurricane. Neighbors came to the assistance
of the old woman and her children who lived there, but
the woman insisted that an old trunk must first be res
cued. The family were in consequence all drowned, and
when the trunk was forced open there was found a bull
frog with a ribbon tied about its neck. I have heard of
a baker who was suspected of keeping a mongoose "to
lick his bread and make it sell well"; of a shopkeeper
in the country who, having lost some money, kept a
ground dove in his pocket to get it back, and another
who had a pet pigeon which he kept for a similar pur
pose. Any unusual pet
is,
in fact, suspected of being
kept for obeah purposes and often
is
in reality har
bored for this reason alone.
The Obeah Man
is
constantly appealed to, says Ed
wards, not only "for the cure of disorders, obtaining
revenge for injuries, the conciliation of favor," but
also for "the discovery and punishment of the thief
and adulterer and the prediction of future events."
I
have no data in regard to the adulterer, but the appli
cation of guards to
a
provision ground and devices to
detect and punish
a
thief are still employed, although
in many cases the man who employs them must be,
like Falconer who gave me most of my information on
this subject, aware of the fraud he
is
practising in im
posing upon the credulity of the thief.
Through Manchester there
is
a
belief that
a
thief
Afho enters
a
man's field can be made to stay and work
antil the owner comes and gives him
a
flogging. JThe
126 BLACK ROADWAYS
art is called "stand there" and depends upon imper
sonating the presence of a duppy. Falconer says, "You
build you a hut in your ground. You build up a bed in
there, you make up your fire, you put on water, you
look for food, put it down there—no fresh kind, only
salt. When the thief comes now, the duppy that you
left there takes him to the hut and says, 'Now you
must stand there!' Every time he starts to go home
he can't go. When he is hungry he cooks his food, he
lies down to sleep. Then ground massa comes —never
goes near him, goes outside, hides, and says, 'You have
everything you want to eat and drink. Weed grass, do
my work till time I am ready to set you free.
'
In ten
or twelve days he comes and sets him free. To work
the duppy, get a piece of chain, tie it on your foot, and
go about the hut [at night] singing: 'You stan' deh till
me ready to let you go!' He will think it is duppy and
do it."
Falconer told me a number of such "follies" which
he had picked up during a long experience as an inde
pendent cultivator. One he learned "down Pedro way"
was the manufacture of a small coffin which he pre
tended to be the habitation of a duppy. He said, "I
whitewashed it and I took it in the ground and placed
it on a scaffold and put thatch over it to prevent rain
from beating off the whitewash. And I got tar and
blacked a piece of white cloth and put it on a tall stick
and tied it to the scaffold. And everybody believed
that was my plan to kill the thief—I made them be
lieve that the flag would stay steady when a thief was
in the ground."
Another similar trick he learned from "an old black
nager
" who was a friend of his uncle. He killed insects
f
OBEAH PRACTICE 127
and filled a gourd, then corked up the hole and half
buried the gourd in the ground where it could not be
seen. Then "I talked my' words that I would make
Car'n crow [carrion crow] come and tell me when a
thief was there. When I was away from the ground I
opened the gourd, and the crows flew to get at it [smell
ing the insects] and couldn't manage
it,
so they lighted
on all the trees in my ground. When
I
went to the
ground
I
corked up the gourd and kept down the smell
and told the crows, 'go away for
I
am in place,' and
all of them went away."
The Obeah Man will often prepare
a
bundle to hang
in
a
conspicuous place in the field, according to Bell
and other early writers. Falconer saw
a
field of corn
guarded by
a
cloth "written over in
a
strange lan
guage." An old man at the field warned him and the
white man with him "if you go into the ground to steal
corn you will never find pass to come out until the
master of the ground comes.
" The white man went in
and broke
a
stalk of corn, and "nothing stopped him
in the ground yet," said Falconer, by which result he
concluded that "nager
is
short of understanding."
An Obeah Man once offered, at the price of
a
pound
or two, to bait
a
rat trap for him which he was to set
under the bed to spring whenever
a
thief was in his
ground. The trap was promised to catch the thief "be
fore nine days," but, said Falconer, "If the rat trap
flew until today you wouldn't catch
a
thief! They say
if
you owe money you won't get the thief.
"
Another device he had tried with success was that
of setting up
a
scarecrow by dressing
a
banana trunk
with hat and jacket to look like
a
man standing up all
night to watch the ground. But for the success of this
128 BLACK ROADWAYS
trick it is necessary to get up early every morning and
strip the trunk before daylight. A desperate remedy
is that of burying poisoned pegs with a warning that
such are in the field. I have seen such warnings posted
beside provision fields, and Falconer said he had seen
the pegs used. His uncle at Belview taught him how
to prepare them. "I got a wood that I call conto—
short name is lightwood—such as old people make
torches of, and I make pegs with points like a needle.
And I got a piece of soft board and bored the board
with a gimlet —a small gimlet —and I set the pegs by
rows. I might make ten pieces of board, which will
contain about fifty pegs. I got a poisonous thing by
the name of 'dumb-cane,' mixed with it a poisonous
weed by the name of nightshade and a piece of copper—
a poisonous copper. You grate the copper and you get
the juice of the dumb-cane and the juice of the night
shade and put all into a bottle and soak all the pegs
in there. Take the hair from your head, split the peg
point, put a small bit of the hair in the point of the
peg, using a little gum; after that, screw the peg with
a knife round and round. Place the boards about the
chosen food, covered with earth and trash. If a thief
steps on one [peg] he will fall and catch his side or his
hand and he never gets over it. We really did catch
a thief—has to wear shoe-pattern till today. So we
set a notice
'
Beware of peg in this ground
'
and never
set the peg—he will believe it is there; for it is a cruel
trick."
It is evident that these last devices appeal to the
natural fears of the thief rather than to his supersti
tion. "Old-time people" resort to darker methods of
detection. The plant called wangla is believed to have
OBEAH PRACTICE 129
obeah power. So have certain other plants. Wangla
should be planted in the provision ground and the
seeds carefully gathered. If a thief robs the field and
you can find a fresh footstep, take up the earth care
fully in a leaf, measure it with a spoon, and put
" four-
thirds" as much wangla seed with it and put the whole
into a pot upon the fire. Call the name of the person
you think is the thief and if you are right, as many
"bumps" will appear on his foot as there are seeds
that "pop," or "his skin will strip off," says Cundall's
informant; another says he will die. Falconer says the
only thing that can save him is to have previously
eaten some of the wangla seed. Banbury says if one
burns wangla with pepper and salt in a road which a
thief passes, it will give the thief Jamaica leprosy,
called "cocobay." Beating the wangla planted in the
field as you call the thief's name is also effective in
bringing out swellings on his leg. Flog prickly pear in
the same fashion, says one of Cundall's informants,
and the thief "will split up and die just as the beaten
plant splits up." Plant guinea yam with a short stick,
says another, and put a silver threepence in the sod;
when it sprouts, flog off the leaves. But do not let them
fall on you, or your own body will swell. "Pain-cocoa"
and "China-cane" may be treated in the same fashion.
Falconer described more in detail the technic of this
device. He would bore a hole through the money and
tie it to the vine and make a switch of three different
weeds —broomweed, rosemary, willow—and lay it be
side the vine. When the owner finds his ground robbed,
he beats the plant, at the same time calling three times,
"Na-me-do! Na-me-do! Na-me-do!" followed by the
name of the supposed thief, adding the curse —"Never
9
130 BLACK ROADWAYS
you better till you dead!" As soon as he calls the name
of the man who committed the theft, the money dis
appears, and the guilty person will never again be free
from pain. Falconer saw this thing done "down Leeds
way,
" and many people believe in it. The same method
of exorcism may be applied to a duck ant's nest in the
field. Put a piece of silver into the nest and say,
" I pay
you to do your work," and it is a common belief that
the thief's foot will swell in imitation of the duck ant's
nest on the limb of a tree. Another device is to boil
with your own pot water the pot water of all the per
sons you suspect, putting in a silver piece, and "as it
boils the thief begins to swell.
" Or throw into the sea
some refuse from the stolen plants, and "as the sea
rolls, so will his intestines." Or "go to a graveyard at
twelve o'clock at night and push a walking stick into
one of the graves. Say what is your request and take
the stick to the robbed field and stick it up in it.
"
The advantage of the methods just described is that
they carry their own punishment with them. Modern
planters are sometimes satisfied merely to detect the
thief. Falconer knew an Obeah Man who got a piece
of board, fastened it on a stick, put a small looking-
glass on top, and drew a chalk mark about the glass.
When anyone lost something and came to him to learn
the name of the thief, he pretended to be able to tell
it by looking into the glass. But he was a fraud, for as
the man called the names of those he suspected, on the
eighth he would say, "Oh, that's the one!" This was
Sammy Look-up, and "he was sentenced to prison
with 'cat in and cat out' for nine months." "Old-time
stories" contain other standardized tests. A person
who has eaten stolen food cannot jump over the fire
.s*
OBEAH PRACTICE 131
three times without falling into the fire, or pass through
water without drowning. The whites are quick to use
the belief in such magic to devise fresh "follies." A
matron in an institution missed some articles of value.
She called all the girls together and gave them each a
match, bidding them sleep on it that night and bring
it to her in the morning, assuring them that the thief's
match would grow longer during the night. When the
girls brought back their matches, she easily picked
out the thief as the girl who had broken off her match
end.
Bell describes methods of identifying a thief by key
divination and by opening a book at random and point
ing to words with a pin, thus spelling out the name.
Cundall's informant says the Bible is used for this pur
pose with the conjuration "By St. Peter, by St. Paul,"
and adds divination with a gold ring suspended by a
hair in a glass of water and by means of a "curious
kind of smoke which when it rises goes to the house of
the thief." Among the more intelligent of the people
none of these devices has much effect; it is only the
ignorant who still use them and those who are described
as "old-time people."
Obeah practitioners may act as doctors to cure the
sick. Either they may visit the patient in his home,
or they may keep what is called a balm-yard, where
the patient is brought to be cured. In this case they
may be consulted by appointment in their own home.
They generally have some knowledge of herb medi
cine and may prescribe very sensibly for the sick man,
but the dishonest or insane among them use the most
fantastic methods to impress the patient. One of Cun
dall's informants describes the performance of an illit
132 BLACK ROADWAYS
erate healer who marked on paper with a pencil or
hung up strips of white calico and pretended to see
"the duppy appear upon them like the image from a
magic lantern upon the screen." He would cry, "Wet up
the calico, Lord," and direct the people to make all sorts
of motions and beat them if they did not perform these
acts to suit him. For "balm" he "beats the patient with
wet calico and rams the abdomen with clenched fists."
If his audience disturbs him he "jumps out and swears."
The theory of the obeah practitioner is (says Ban
bury) that bottled or tied up obeah has the power of
transferring itself into the body of the victim without
his knowing it until he experiences pain. The conse
quence is that any pain which will not yield to ordi
nary diagnosis is pronounced to be the result of obeah
and must accordingly be "pulled" by the obeah man.
A price is demanded for the service "to pay the duppy,"
and this must always be paid in advance. In case of
failure, the doctor can always say that the duppy did
not get enough money. Banbury describes how the
Obeah Man prepares the object beforehand which he
pretends to find buried in the ground or in the body
of the patient. To locate the duppy he consults his fa
miliar, which resides in a fetish object or "amber,"
marks a circle on the floor, sticks in knives and forks,
and pours ashes and water over the spot, then taking
cottonwood leaves in his hands he digs out the objects
which have been set for his patient and burns them
or treats them with lime juice and ashes, the ferment
of^which, when they are thrown together, proves to
the company the power of his duppy. If the duppy is
in the body of the patient he pretends to locate it by
means of chalk marks, and after consulting the amber
A
OBE AH PRACTICE 153
he makes a cut in the patient's body, sucks
it,
and
shows an object—generally an insect or reptile —
which he has previously concealed unobserved in
mouth or hand.
Falconer described the following performance at
which he was present
:
The doctor had been summoned
to the girl's home. He sent everyone out of the room
and then took
a
number of vials containing such drugs
as drive away spirits and sprinkled them all about the
room saying, "'Tan' deh till
I
come!" Next, he went
out and scalded some rice,
a
little of which he took in
his hand and placed on
a
plate —"five little parcel
right round." Then he ordered
a
sensay fowl to be
killed, caught the blood in
a
small glass that he car
ried with him, and dropped
a
little of the blood upon
each heap of rice. Placing
a
pint bottle in the middle
of the plate, he broke an egg and dropped the white
on one side and the yolk on the other, then he took
a
piece of the shell in his left hand and threw
it
against
the bottle, which shook. Instantly he clapped the other
half of the shell over the bottle mouth and called for
help to hold
it
down. He sprinkled over
it
more liquid
from his bottles and corked
it
up with
a
good tight cork
and melted
a
piece of "black stuff" right down over
it
and tied over
it
a
piece of new calico. "Dat's de end of
de duppy," he announced when he had sent
a
man to
tie
a
stone to
it
and sink
it
in
a
stream where
it
might
never be seen. The girl immediately got up and walked,
but the next day she was just as ill as ever, and the
family consulted
a
physician, who applied
a
blister and
gave her some medicine which in five days led to her
recovery —"quite all right until she marry," Wilfrid
concluded.
134 BLACK ROADWAYS
It is perhaps the old trick of the ferment created
by squeezing lime juice on ashes which has given to
a lime so important a place in the Negro mind as a
means of "running duppy.
" Vinegar was used in a
similar manner in former days and enjoyed a similar
reputation. The bottle-catching trick is popularly per
formed by showing the spectators an empty bottle
and then deftly exchanging it for one filled with smoke
to create the illusion of a duppy, or even more com
monly for one containing reptiles or insects. Another
method is to put the patient into a bath and drop into
the water the creature which the practitioner then
pretends to have exorcised out of the patient's own
body.
In the case cited by Falconer, the blood of a fowl
was used to "feed" the duppy. De Lisser saw near
Kingston, some years ago, a goat sacrificed to take a
duppy from a young girl who was ill. One of Cundall's
informants prescribes sitting on a Bible and jumping
over the fire three times, then sprinkling a goat's or
other animal's blood on the fire, and all present eating
the flesh. In this way the troublesome ghost is supposed
to be disposed of. I do not know of any record in Ja
maica where human blood has been demanded for
such a sacrifice, as it certainly is sometimes demanded
in the voodoo rites of healing, and as sporadic cases
are reported from other colonies. In the famous case
tried in the court of Demerara on June 7, 1918, six
men —four East Indians (or coolies) and two Negroes —
were condemned to death for putting a little white child
to death in obeah practices. The men were afraid of
losing their position. The Obeah Man (who had a
" Fair Maid " in his basket) told them he could change
s
OBEAH PRACTICE 135
the mind of their employer for them if they would fur
nish certain parts of a white child's body for him to
work with—"no black man pickney, no coolie man
pickney, but a white man pickney." The kidnapped
child was found with her eyes gouged out (but pos
sibly by birds), and at certain points in line with the
place where the employer sat at table, tacks were found
driven which were supposed to have been treated with
the hair and other parts of the dead child. The cause
for the murder seems in the reading paltry, but the
coolies' fear of losing their work must have been ex
ceedingly strong.
" It is for life,
"
they told each other.
In the Cuban records of child murder for obeah prac
tices, the cause seems to be also not one of hatred or
revenge but of belief in the curative power of certain
parts of the body in cases of persistent illness.
In the case which appeared in the Daily Gleaner of
Kingston, Jamaica, November 27, 1922, of the finding
of the body of a Cuban child who had been missing since
November 6, with her forehead crushed in by a blow
and the heart and lungs extracted through a wound
under the left armpit, the organs are supposed to have
been eaten and the blood used as a bath in a voodoo
cure for a sick patient. Udal says the voodoos bury
bodies in a stupor and then dig them up again and re
suscitate them to secure the organs useful in cures.
But the superstition that lends itself to child mur
der and animal sacrifice, though sad enough, is not so
malignant as that which seeks through obeah practices
to avenge a grudge by the death of the victim. The
Obeah Man is perhaps oftenest sought by one who
nurses a grudge and wishes revenge. At this Obeah
Man's yard there may be three flags —white, red, and
136 BLACK ROADWAYS
black. The client chooses the white one if he wishes
merely to "turn down somebody can't come to noth
ing," the red one for blood, the black for murder. He
bargains for the price and lays down his money; the
Obeah Man must now perfect the "plan." Suppose
he wants to get land from a man; the Obeah Man will
give him a candle and an egg. He must go at night to
the line between the pieces of land under dispute and
break the egg, and if he wants also to kill the man he
will light the candle. The man cannot go beyond the
point where he breaks the egg; the candle will kill the
man—burn out the life. Bell says that the candles in
the churches lighted as prayers for saints are inter
preted by the people as practices against the life of an
enemy. Suppose you want to spoil a man's crop. The
Obeah Man will take grave dirt, garlic, asafoetida,
animals' teeth such as horse or hog, horse hair, and
blueing mixed with water, catch the shadow of a duppy
and put it into the bottle, add certain oils from the
doctor's shop, and cork it up tight. This must be buried
in some secret place in the cultivation or in the pass
leading to it. A man whose crop fails ascribes the result
inevitably to obeah.
To "put a shadow on a thing" means that the shadow,
ghost, or duppy is put upon it to work for you and
bring you luck. To secure the duppy you should go to
a graveyard at night and visit the grave of some friend
or some member of your family, preferably your mother.
Take an egg, rice, and rum, and mash the egg at the
grave. The duppy will come up and feed upon the egg
and the food which you bring; thus you pay him to
help you. To call up a ghost to set him upon another,
Sam Thompson recommended the following method:
OBEAH PRACTICE 137
Get two wide-mouthed bottles of proof rum (alcohol)
and a bunch of spiritweed tied to a stick, and go naked
to the grave at night. At twelve o'clock you go to the
gravehead, put the rum at the head, strike one, two,
three strokes with the spiritweed, and say: "So-and-so,
come an' mek a tell you wha' fe do." Repeat this at
the foot. Then "guard the head" and take up the bot
tle, guard the foot and take up the bottle, and tell the
ghost what you want of it. He will start upon his er
rand, but you must not look behind you until you get
home, and you must say no word to anyone until day
light, else he will attack you instead of the person you
have sent him after —"come back 'pon you same way."
Old Hannah in the cockpit country said that a lad she
knew got angry with another for meddling with his
lobster pots. The Obeah Man told him how to call up
his father's ghost to set upon the other, but did not
properly warn the lad. not to touch the pots himself.
The ghost accordingly followed his own son and could
hardly be called off. In Westmoreland a similar method
is employed, but the beating of the grave is done with
calabash switches.
The question is often discussed in Jamaica whether
the many cases in which the victims of an obeah curse
seem to die of fear may not really be explained as secret
poisoning. The knowledge of poisonous herbs is well
known to those whcware versed in "bush medicine,"
an art in which the Obeah Man is bound to perfect
himself. Ordinary poisons and their remedy are known
to all but the most ignorant. Banbury says that the
Obeah Man soaks the undergarments of his victim in
poisonous decoctions and introduces maggots bred in
bitter cassava, the juice of which is deadly poison.
138 BLACK ROADWAYS
Peart refused to grow this valuable food plant in his
ground piece lest he be accused of poisoning by his
neighbors, and himself always kept a nut of the anti
dote vine in the house in case of poison. The juice of
the bitter cassava caught under the finger nail is said
to be sufficient to cause death, and there are other sub
tle ways of using these natural poisons which cause
them to act so slowly upon the system that the victim
wastes away without knowing what is the matter with
him or how to combat the evil. Marsden says: "The
general name with the Negroes for these poisons is
obea, which is frequently given to one another upon
any slight cause; they do it in secret and keep it so,
nor is the person who administered it often found out."
Here Marsden goes so far as to say that obeah is poi
son, and skeptical Negroes today say the same thing.
Mr. Beckford Davis, as quoted by Rampini, in evi
dence given before the Royal Commission, defines
obeah as the "art of poisoning combined with the art
of imposing upon the credulity of ignorant people by
a pretense of witchcraft. "
There are, however, very curious cases described
by the whites themselves, in which the evidence seems
to preclude actual poisoning and the coincidence ap
pears too close for the merely fortuitous. A careful
examination of each case might check errors in the
facts as stated, but until this examination is made it
cannot be proved that fear and fear alone does not
actually cause death in some instances. In one case
"which made a talking among all the people," an old
Obeah Woman of Westmoreland paid a visit to an
Obeah Man of her acquaintance without the usual
formality of announcing the visit beforehand. He looked
S
OBEAH PRACTICE 139
upon her as a spy and cursed her "never to go out of
her house again." The woman took to her bed, grew
ill, and died shortly afterwards. An old Obeah Woman
whom a white man had caused to be sent to prison
cursed his Negro workman who had assisted in the ar
rest with death within three months and the master
with death within the year after her release. On the
day from which the curse took date the two were set
ting out a circle of trees about the yard, and the white
man, recalling the incident, jested with the idea that
at least their duppies could come back to enjoy the
shade when the trees were grown. Three months later
the boy suffered a violent chill and died a few days
afterwards in the hospital, and exactly within the
period predicted the master, too, succumbed to a heart
trouble that had long afflicted him and died after some
weeks of intense pain, during which he had believed
himself tormented by ghosts: "I wish they would get
through with me!" he had muttered. The story was
told me by his widow, herself a white woman. Edwards
reports an obeah case on a plantation in the year 1775
in which over one hundred slaves died through the
obeah of a single old woman whose hut was found filled
with the material for setting obeah. He describes the
symptoms of an obeah case as follows: The man "pres
ently falls into a decline, under the incessant horror
of impending calamities. The slightest painful sensa
tion in the head, the bowels, or any other part, any
casual loss or hurt, confirms his apprehensions, and
he believes himself the devoted victim of an invisible
and irresistible agency. Sleep, appetite, and cheerful
ness forsake him, his strength decays, his disturbed
imagination is haunted without respite, his features
140 BLACK ROADWAYS
wear the settled gloom of despondency; dirt, or any-
other unwholesome substance, becomes his only food,
he contracts a morbid habit of body, and gradually
sinks into the grave." Sam Thompson put the same
thing a little more simply: "You may be in good con
dition and they bury something for you. You begin to
creep, begin to creep, go naked. The spirit will argue
with you in your mind. You go to a doctor [obeah doc
tor], and he says something is buried for you, it may
be a nail, it may be a toad, it may be a fly, it may be
anything.
"
By whatever natural means the Obeah Man may
achieve his ends, there is no doubt whatever as to the
faith of the Negroes in his spiritual power. Banbury
says a man will "steal, murder, commit rape, and ex
cuse himself by saying 'dem put him so.'" Barrenness
and abortion are laid to obeah. One of the strongest
arguments against the honesty of the Obeah Man is
the fact that he actually does excite a man to crime
as a condition laid down by the spirit to make his obeah,
work. Banbury says that women are often persuaded
to give up their virtue to the Obeah Man for the same
reason, and I have heard of cases where the influence
exerted by the Obeah Man has led to the breaking up
of a family, the prostitution of the wife, and the put
ting of the husband to all sorts of loathsome tasks,
such as actually eating the rags which the Obeah Man
wore bound about his foot. The fear of the curse of
obeah must be strong indeed when such cases are quoted
from reliable sources today.
REFERENCES
Banbury, 10-16.
Barclay, 190 ff.
OBEAH PRACTICE 141
Beckwith, Jamaican Ethnobotany, Part 1.
Bell.
Bridges, 1 : 100 and note.
Candler, 29.
Cundall, Folk-lore.
De Lisser, Twentieth Century Jamaica, 124-29; Jane,
107-19.
Edwards, 2: 106-19.
Gardner, 187-91.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn, 74-153; Birds of Ja
maica, 118, 228, 299, 314.
Leslie, 346.
Lewis, 136, 145, 329, 350, 390.
Livingstone, 19, 197.
Long, 2:418.
Marsden, 40.
Phillippo, 247.
Rampini, 131, 152.
Renny, 169-72.
Robinson.
Senior, 77.
Stewart, 247, 256.
Udal.
Williams, 141,343.
Chapter IX
THE MYAL PEOPLE
V„
'arious religious sects have flourished from time
to time in Jamaica who claimed the power to remove
the spells of obeah, but always through counterspells
of their own based upon the same idea of spirit posses
sion. It is easy to see therefore that they have only
served to increase the confusion of mind of those whom
they pretend to aid, and that, under the same incen
tives of greed and lust, they may lend themselves to
the same arts as the Obeah Men in duping the cred
ulous. The earliest of these sects is that of the Myal
Men.
Myalism seems to be directly African in origin. So
far as we know, it began in Jamaica in a secret society
composed of men who claimed invulnerability to weap
ons, and power even to raise the dead. To prove this
last claim, they used to give public performances at
which men were supposed to dance themselves to death
and were then revived. Long, writing in 1774, thinks
a stupor was produced by means of a cold infusion of
callalu (an amaranthus cooked commonly as greens
but poisonous in infusion), which could be dissipated
by applying lime juice and vinegar as restoratives.
Monk Lewis witnessed a myal dance in 1818, which he
describes as follows:
He [the practitionerj sprinkles various powders over the de
voted victim, blows upon him, and dances round him, oblig
es him to drink a liquor prepared for the occasion, and finally
the sorcerer and his assistants seize him and whirl him rapidly
THE MYAL PEOPLE 143
round and round till the man loses his senses, and falls on the
ground to all appearance and the belief of the spectators a
perfect corpse. The chief Myal-man then utters loud shrieks,
rushes out of the house with wild and frantic gestures and
conceals himself in some neighboring wood. At the end of two
or three hours he returns with a large bundle of herbs, from
some of which he squeezes the juice into the mouth of the dead
person; with others he anoints his eyes and stains the tips of
his fingers, accompanying the ceremony with a great variety
of grotesque actions, and chanting all the while something
between a song and a howl, while the assistants hand in hand
dance slowly round them in a circle, stamping the ground
loudly with their feet to keep time with his chant. A consider
able time elapses before the desired effect is produced, but at
length the corpse gradually recovers animation, rises from the
ground perfectly recovered, and the Myal dance concludes.
There is no doubt that the Myal Men often believed
themselves really invulnerable. Edwards says the Kro-
manti rebellion in 1760 was instigated by men who
sold medicine to make men invulnerable, and Long
tells of a leader who stood up fearlessly and allowed
himself to be shot in the same faith. But even if a mem
ber doubted the exact nature of the claim, he was
pledged to guard the secrets of the fraternity, accord
ing to Phillippo, in a bowl of blood and water mingled
with grave dirt and gunpowder.
Myal Men of today make no such difficult preten
sions. There is danger for a miracle worker when pop
ular belief sets against him, as illustrated by an ironic
incident, quoted by Chandler in 1740, of an unsuccess
ful practitioner who was bound hand and foot and
left at the edge of a pond so that his eventual drown
ing could not be laid to any man's charge. Banbury
says of the myal art, "Its mysteries and operations
144 BLACK ROADWAYS
consist in the communication with spirits or 'deaths,'"
the peculiar activity of the Myal Man being to find
and free the "shadows" of the living which have been
stolen by means of obeah and nailed to the trunk of
a cottonwood tree; for unless such a shadow is released,
its owner pines away and dies.
A Myal Man is called a "fore-eyed man" because
he alone has the power to see where the shadow is nailed
or the obeah buried. He has this power through a talis
man which he has received from the spirits or "deaths,"
during the course of the myal dance. Originally this
talisman was in the form of an amber bead; it may to
day be represented by a glass marble such as the Myal
Man of Lacovia owned. Says White, "When you dance
the Myal, if Death loves you and you deal with him,
he will give you one . . . you must keep it nice—keep
it clean in a little thread bag,
" and in taking it out to
use, pour rum over it. A second talisman which Death
presents in the dance is a bunch of herbs called "jig-
gey," probably the same as in Monk Lewis's descrip
tion. The dancer goes off into the bush and returns
with the herbs in his hand which Death has given him.
The first thing to do therefore in case of a mysterious
illness which does not respond at once to common rem
edies, is to consult the Myal Man in order to find the
stolen shadow. This located, the doctor and patient
assemble at the tree, the patient dressed in white with
a large handkerchief wound about his head and the
myal people also wearing white cloths over their shoul
ders. They parade about the tree with singing and drum
ming and pelt it with eggs, fowl, and other offerings in
order to persuade the duppies to give up the shadow.
Finally, a white basin of water is held up, and as soon
THE MYAL PEOPLE 145
as the released soul falls into
it,
a
cover
is
clapped over,
and some one runs home with the captured soul and
restores
it
to its owner by binding about his head
a
cloth
dipped in the water. So valuable were the Myal Man's
services in Banbury's day, that although
a
simple mat
ter of obeah could be "pulled" for four shillings, six
dollars was the price to "catch
a
shadow."
The Maroon Myal Man, James White, told me that
not all cottonwood trees are "dealt with" in myalism,
but only those particular trees which have been planted
over
a
grave. Such trees are called "worship cotton
trees" and may well be regarded as tombs of the dead.
Jamaica Negroes fear any cottonwood and will not cut
it
without
a
propitiatory offering of rum. Banbury says
they believe that at night the cotton trees move about
and assemble together. According to Ellis, the West
Coast Africans make offerings to an evil spirit inhabit
ing the cottonwood trees called Sasabonsum. An Irish
woman who had interested herself in Negro supersti
tions assured me that myal itself was the spirit of this
tree, but
I
am disposed to think that this idea
is
not
the prevalent one in Jamaica today as
is
that of Sasa
bonsum among the Africans of the West Coast. The
cult of the dead
is
strongly imposed upon the worship
of the cottonwood, and the animistic idea of
a
tree
spirit
is
less defined than that of
a
ghost of the dead
harboring in its branches. Cotton trees in graveyards
are particularly feared, and mice or lizards that live
in their branches are regarded as duppies of the dead.
The Myal Man may go to the cottonwood tree there
fore exactly as the Obeah Man goes to the graveyard.
Parkes says that when
a
Myal Man sets
a
duppy, he
goes alone to
a
cottonwood with an offering of rice,
10
146 BLACK ROADWAYS
chicken, and rum, and cuts marks on the tree with his
machete or pocketknife in the shape of circles or crosses
which he alone can interpret; then he beats one stone
upon another and sings "in an unknown tongue."
Here the Myal Man has ceased to be a "doctor" in a
beneficent sense and has begun to use the direct meth
ods for soul-catching of his antagonist, the Obeah Man,
but distinguished by a particular technic in which the
spirit of the cottonwood tree plays a part.
Some myal practitioners, however, do not "deal with"
cotton trees. Banbury says that in old days the myal
dance used to be performed for the "river mother,"
accompanied by offerings of food. These are probably
the worshipers who carry a "Fair Maid" in their bas
kets. Some Myal Men hold the dance today at a cot
tonwood tree, others in a graveyard, others at the home
of the sick person they are trying to heal. They may
prove the spirit possession by means of extraordinary
feats of climbing. Said old Forbes, "The Myal Man
and the Queen fly up on the house-top or into a tree—
climb so you wouldn't believe a man could do that;
anything to deceive the people."
When the songs and dance begin, the spirits always
come, but only at night, and only by the initiated into
the myal order can they actually be seen. "You must
dash the rum," White says, "spirits love rum! The
spirits will lead you up into a mango tree and show you
everything; in sickness show you what kind of herbs
to get for bath and tea to cure the sickness and where
the obeah is buried.
" In White's words, the spirits are
induced to "tend the sickness."
Elmira Barrows knew the myal people well. She had
been a member of a band who held meetings in Port
THE MYAL PEOPLE 147
land parish in a dimly lighted booth for the purpose
of summoning spirits. They sang, danced, and clapped .
their hands, and when the spirits rode upon their shoul- 1 /
ders they shook all over and cried, "Hoi', me boy!" \
But the true Myal Man, she intimated, does not
"work" in a meeting. He dances, sings, and drums
about a cotton tree:
He carries a sheppon [big covered pail] and the ghosts fall
down from the tree and he catches them and brings them. He
sees clear away. If the police is coming he will sit down and
wait for him, invite him in and give him food and rum; but
on his way out [to the road] his horse will fall and bruise him.
The Myal man can bring evil to pass. Them is a wonderful
people!
Old Fifee Bogle was one. He lived in St. Mary, at Wood-
side. He wore wheels in his ears.
Bogle was the man that caught Bomshee. Bomshee was
an evil spirit that was with a girl like a besetting something.
She would cry out sometimes as if some one were striking
her, and she couldn't see something in front of her. If the
rain was coming the evil spirit called Bomshee would pick
up the clothes [spread outside to dry] and bring them in. He
had another name as a man—call him Mr. Baker then he
loved you! If you said, "Where is Bomshee?" he would take
up rock stone and smash everything you got, but if you said,
"Mr. Baker,
" oh, my! then he was well-pleased with you and
would do you no harm in the yard. You might put a pot on
the fire and if you lived near the pasture Bomshee would pick
up dung and fill up the pot. If you cursed he would do worse.
Bogle caught Bomshee twelve o'clock out of a cotton tree.
He stood by the tree and did all kinds of queer talk and beat
the drum. Bomshee deh 'pon tree looking. Bogle sang —
De mon i ka sen seh. . .
Somet'ing deh a top 'tan' deh a look down 'pon me.
148 BLACK ROADWAYS
Then Bomshee came down from the tree. Bogle caught him.
Bogle was a wonderful man!
These are exactly the words Elmira Barrows used,
although I have manipulated her tenses, and I echoed
Elmira's murmur of admiration for the astute Bogle,
than whom no psychoanalyst could have handled the
case more effectively.
The crudest method of summoning duppies is to form
a circle about the tree and each one beat the earth with
a stone in rhythm to a song. This goes on in remote
country districts today; it is practised at wakes, and
any group of children will show how it is done. The
Myal Man in the cockpits, however, claimed that two
drums were required for the dance, a big drum called
bon or panya played with sticks, and a gombay played
with the fingers. These two instruments, each with
its own beat, sustain the curious rhythm of the myal
songs and are further supported by "shakeys," held
in a hand of each dancer and consisting in a gourd fas
tened to the end of a stick and filled with the shot-like
seed of the wild canna or with small stones. Such a rat
tle is often reported from Africa as an accompaniment
of war or medicine dances.
As for the gombay, I think it is this instrument which
is supposed to draw into itself the spirit or "death"
of the myal dance. Puckett says that "Li Grand Zombi"
was the mysterious power which "guarded and over
shadowed" the voodoo worship of the serpent.1 In Vir
ginia, according to Puckett,
" '
Gombre-work' means
the work of conjuring. It seems therefore to be equiva
lent to the Jamaican word obeah." Two of the three
■Newbell Niles Puckett, Folk Beliefs of the Southern Negro. Chapel Hill,
1926.
THE MYAL PEOPLE 149
gombay drums I saw in St. Elizabeth were owned by
Myal Men, and the third was in the possession of the
Maroons, but White said he had made it. All were of
the same pattern and quite different from Valentine's
gombay at Port Antonio or from the gombay in Beli-
sario's drawing in 1835, which looks like a box hung
about the neck with a skin fastened over it; nor was
Miss Roberts, who prints an excellent drawing from
the Lacovia gombay now in the Natural History Mu
seum of New York, able to trace the pattern to an Af
rican original. Yet all gombays alike are played with
the fingers with the peculiar rhythm of the myal songs,
and seem to be related to the practice of obeah.
This statement must be made with reservations in
the case of Belisario's drawing. The first notice we have
of the gombay in old writers is in connection with the
mummings, parades, and dances which used to be cel
ebrated during the Christmas holidays by the Negro
slaves on the plantations and by the town Negroes, with
a competitive splendor to which masters and mistresses
lent their aid with contributions for the feast and the
loan of plate and jewelry. During the three days' festi
val, companies of mummers and dancers went about
the streets to collect money for the final feast. Bands
of girls paraded, led by a "queen" and "ma'am," each
band dressed alike in a particular color and carrying
parasols by night as well as by day. In the early nine
teenth century, when these parades reached their
height, the "Reds" and the "Blues" were distinguished
for their allegiance to English army or Scotch navy,
and competition ran so high that a tussle was likely to
follow a chance meeting. Companies of "actor boys"
performed for money, called Kookoo, according to
ISO BLACK ROADWAYS
Belisario, from the chorus they sang imitating the
sound of an empty stomach. Animal maskers paraded,
disguised with the head of ox or horse. Most interest
ing of all, a masked dancer appeared wearing on his
head a gayly decorated model of a houseboat and ac
companied by musicians (one playing the gombay)
and by dancing girls carrying rattles. This figure went
by the name of John Canoe.
According to Sloane, the principal dancers at Christ
mas festivals in the old days used to "tie cows' tails
to their rumps." The earliest mention we have of the
John Canoe figure is in Long, who reports that very
early a man wearing "a mask with boar's tusks and
carrying a wooden sword, went from place to place
shouting 'John Connu' accompanied by drunken women
who refreshed him from time to time with anised
water." In 1769 new masks appeared, and the Eboes,
Papaws, and other tribes had on each plantation "their
respective Connus, male and female, who were dressed
in a very laughable style." The houseboat is reported
much later and may be a pattern derived from Mo
hammedan tomb dances such as those reported by
Westermarck from Morocco, or those of the elaborate
Shiite Muharram festival like the so-called "Hussay,"
so elaborately celebrated by East Indian laborers on
Jamaican estates today.
With emancipation came the decay of this great
folk festival. The "Reds" and the "Blues" are today
forgotten, although their rivalries still live in song.
But in some remote districts traces still survive of the
old mummings. The oxhead has been forbidden be
cause of the fear it inspired, but I saw two excellent
and quite terrible horsehead maskers who danced to
XIV. THE JOHN CANOE DANCE
THE MY AL PEOPLE 151
the music of accompanying musicians. In one case
these consisted in two drummers and a flutist (who
piped delightfully) together with a musician who played
a scraping instrument made of an animal's jawbone
dried in the smoke until the teeth rattled, and played
by drawing a stick across it. The old actor boys are
represented by companies of masqueraders (also known
as "John Canoes"), who pattern their costumes out of
English fancy-dress catalogues and perform a monoto
nous pantomimic dance without words, in which king,
queen, and prince seem to act as principals, just as they
used to do in the old "doctor play" with a Shakesper-
ian setting which two not aged men dictated to me in
different localities from their memories of earlier days.
And John Canoe companies led by a John Canoe dan
cer carrying a model of a house still survive in St.
Elizabeth and St. Mary, and I am told also in the far
western parishes.
In St. Elizabeth, although this is stoutly denied for
other districts, the dance is definitely connected with
obeah practices. White says that before "buiTding" the
house-shaped structure worn in the dance, a feast must
be given consisting of goat's meat boiled without salt,
together with plenty of rum. As the building progresses,
other feasts are given. On the night before it is brought
out in public, it is taken to the cemetery, and there the
songs and dances are rehearsed in order to "catch the
spirit of the dead," which henceforth accompanies the
dancer until, after a few weeks of merriment during
which performances are given for money at the great
houses and at village crossroads, it is broken up en
tirely. For "as long as it stays in the house the spirit
will follow it."
S+
XV. A JOHN CANOE DANCER ABOUT 1837
a tracing from belisario's Sketches of Character
XVI. AfJ ACTOR BOY OF ABOUT 1837
a tracing prom belisario's Sketches of Character
154 BLACK ROADWAYS
I
The Amber Song (as sung at Lacovia)
J= 76
I
» £
Oh, am - ba you! E-do - o - o • o - o-o-
I
iE J J. J. J
^
rn j
oh! am - ba you. You should 'a brought a
*SE
&
fi - ah to us now, oh, am - ba you. E-do -
e-e-e-do -o- do, am - ba you!
iShould 'a bur-ied a' cross-road - a, Look a, am - ba
| -^ J'J- -jj'-i- |Fi jf
you! E - do - e - e - e - do - o, o, am - ba
you. You ought a eat - a a - kee root - a,
0. I
Look a am - ba you, e-do -e-o-
THE MYAL PEOPLE 155
Not only were the instruments which I saw used in
the John Canoe performance identical with those ac
companying the myal dance, but the songs also were
equivalent, either in rhythm or in the very words them
selves. Some, like "Death do [please] know me" and
"Morning star deh come" and the lively "Oh, me am-
bah! . . . Pull i' me ambah, jiggey!" employ the very
phraseology of the Myal Man's art. "Now the spirits
come trooping, massah!" cried old Forbes, proud to
exhibit the myal songs he knew. Others are in the form
of personal satire. "Jane Barnes," who sponges on her
neighbors for soap and blueing when she goes to the
river to wash clothes; Bosey Cooper's woman, who
courts another man because Bosey is too poor to buy
her fine clothes; Lady Dixon, who changes her mind
too often in choosing a suitor —all these girls are held
up to public censure in satirical song. Some songs must
be traditional, for they make use of terminology cur
rent in old slave days. Some are songs composed for
the recent war. Others voice an individual despair.
"Poor Ramsey," who finds himself the black sheep of
his district, laments:
Buddy William, you see wha' country turn 'roun 'pon me,
poor Ramsey? Den a wi' go 'way yere, fe nigger mout' ee.
Fe you see how worl' an' country turn 'roun 'pon me, poor
Ramsey.
REFERENCES
Myal:
Banbury, 19-22, 31, 35.
Bridges, 1:391.
Candler, 28, ff.
Edwards, 2: 108, 113.
Gardner, 191, 391.
156 BLACK ROADWAYS
Long, 2: 416-18.
Phillippo, 247-49, 263.
Rampini, 142.
Stewart, 247.
Udal
John Canoe:
Barclay, 10-13.
Beckford, 1:389.
Beckwith, Christmas Mummings; The Hussay Festival.
Belisario.
Gardner, 99, 184, 383-85.
Lewis, 73-76, 50-59.
Long, 2:423-25.
Marsden, 33.
Phillippo, 242 ff.
Roberts, "Some Drums and Drum Rhythms"; "Pos
sible Survivals of African Song."
Sloane, 1 : Int., xlix.
Stewart, 261-65.
Williams, 19-26, 62-64.
Chapter X
THE REVIVALISTS
Ahe myal people recognized the action of certain
plants upon the human frame and built up an actual
body of knowledge about herb medicines which was
of real service in curing the sick; they also experimented
with poison and did men to death by the use of deadly
herbs. But far from ascribing these effects of health,
sickness, or of death itself to natural causes, they taught
the doctrine of a body of animate ghosts employed in
the dangerous practice of shadow-catching, whom they
alone had the skill to tame and conciliate. The ritual
of conciliation they found in African tree worship.
They employed dance and song, also of African pat
tern, and exhibited such fetish objects as the amber
and jiggey as instruments of intercommunication with
the spirit world. Their secrets were preserved by means
of an oath drunk in blood and the use of unknown
tongues which only the initiated had the power to in
terpret. They made use of prophecy and the phenomena
of hysteria to produce the phantasy of superhuman
possession. In all these ritual ways, the myal people
corresponded exactly with the West African medicine
men and their secret societies as described by Ellis,
Miss Kingsley, and others. The methods familiar to
the Obeah Men of today in Jamaica
—the circles and
crosses they draw, the obeah they "plant" or "pull,"
the "guards" they prepare, the exorcism of the ghost
at the grave— all these are part and parcel of the myal
practice.
158 BLACK ROADWAYS
But another supernatural element besides that taught
by West African religion has entered into the obeah
practices as they persist today, and that is the teach
ing of Christianity. The second religious sect which
has arisen for the ostensible purpose of defeating the
charms of the Obeah Men by the exercise of more po
tent supernatural forces is that of the so-called Revi
valists. Banbury says that about 1842 a wave of myal-
ism swept St. James, Westmoreland, and Hanover.
Beginning at Newman Hall, in Saint James parish,
"'Angel men' believing the end of the world was com
ing, gathered together to pull all the obeahs and catch
the shadows from the cotton trees. They practiced ab
stinence and sang songs with religious phraseology."
Among the songs they sang was also the "Amba do
know me, oh!" of myal practitioners.
The Revivalists are said to date from the great re
vival of 1860, under the influence of the religious en
thusiasm of that period, but they appear in reality a
great deal earlier, and I see no reason to doubt that
they were directly influenced by the myal "angels,"
led by Christian enthusiasts who had received their
inspiration in the free churches. Long, in 1774, ob
serves that the Negroes are more susceptible to the
religious instruction of such systems as have "abun
dance of zest and gesticulation," and Williams in his
"Tour" makes himself merry at the expense of a Negro
ranter with more zeal than wisdom who joined his
company. On the whole the English planters in Ja
maica did not teach their slaves formal religion. Only
when, during uprisings of the blacks, a leader claimed
obeah power, did they see to it that Christian rites
should secure to their own men a "stronger obeah"
OS
O
H
en
OS
w
W
H
<
H
en
<
>
I—
(
>
w
OS
>
X
THE REVIVALISTS 159
than the rioters possessed. Phillippo says that in 1800
there were only twenty churches on the island. He
writes that "at the conclusion of the war with America,
some [Negroes] who had been imported from that con
tinent, mysteriously blending together important truths
and extravagant puerilities, assumed the office of teach
ers and preachers, disseminating far and wide their
pernicious follies," and he goes on to describe some of
these "puerilities." "Dreams and visions constituted
fundamental articles of their creed. Some supernat
ural revelations were regarded as indispensable to
qualify for admission to the full privileges of their com
munity. Candidates were required indeed to dream a
certain number of dreams before they were received
to membership, the subjects of which were given them
by their teacher.
" Events described in the Bible story
they imitated literally; some persons wandered in search
of the Savior "professedly after the manner of John the
Baptist"; at Christmas time they went out into the
bush in groups "to see the angels"; they anointed their
sick with oil. It was natural for them to associate with
the objects used in Christian religion a sense of the
supernatural quite apart from their actual uses; hence
a preacher always held a Bible, although he might hold
it upside down ; and we have seen how the obeah people
use a Bible today, much as the Myal Men employ the
amber, as a kind of fetish for discovering villainy. The
Revivalists are the direct descendants of such objective
interpreters of Christian teaching as Phillippo de
scribes, organized to strive, not against sin, but against
the obeah power of their rivals through their own gift
of communication with the spirit world.
There is an allusion in Rampini in 1873 to "singing
160 BLACK ROADWAYS
meetings" held during revivals in "leafy booths" at
night, and De Lisser describes very fully a Revivalist
meeting held in a back street in Kingston a good many
years ago. Today, he thinks, the influence of the Revi
valists is on the wane. But their bands are still common
enough in remote districts. They march and drum and
sing dressed in white, and hold meetings at night, some
times in a covered booth or, perhaps in imitation of the
Salvation Army, in some open spot on the countryside.
They declare war against obeah and claim the power to
see and cast out duppies. Those who wear white are
the "workers" at the meeting, that
is,
they are per
sons who have received
a
vision and are consequently
endowed with "fore sight." They are ready to put them
selves into
a
hypnoidal condition to receive communi
cations from the spirits whom they worship which will
enable them to administer the proper herbs in cases
of sickness or to discover where obeah
is
buried for
anyone. The women who thus become active Revival
ists are called mammies, the men, soldiers. They are
led by
a
"captain" and
a
principal mammy, often
called shepherd and shepherdess, who in turn may be
directed by
a
head captain and mammy for
a
large
district.
These meetings go on hour by hour until late into
the night.
A
Scotch clergyman told me that he once
followed the sound of the drum to such
a
meeting and
found two or three of the women quite insensible and
foaming at the mouth. He had to strike them smartly
to get them out of the hypnoidal condition into which
their emotion had thrown them. It
is
said that the ex
citement aroused at these meetings works itself off in
sex indulgence, but
I
do not know any facts about this.
THE REVIVALISTS 161
Certainly the insane asylum harbors a good many cases
of ex-converts suffering from religious mania. A white
physician of long acquaintance with the Negro tem
perament says that the emotional instability of the
Negroes, in spite of an impassive exterior which de
ceives the observer into praising their self-control,
would be almost unbelievable to an Anglo-Saxon.
In Lacovia, St. Elizabeth, I visited a Revivalist meet
ing held in a permanent booth set up in a yard some dis
tance back from the main street of the village. The
booth was well lighted by lanterns; there were a few
chairs and benches, and at the side where the leaders
were grouped stood a table covered with a white cloth
on which lay a Bible, a glass of water, and a bunch of
red and white roses. The leader was a soldierly-looking
colored man named Granville, dressed in the costume
of an officer of the Salvation Army except that he wore
a white turban. Near him stood Margaret Williston,
the leading mammy, a stout handsome woman of thirty-
five, wearing a large white turban and a bib-apron
across which was drawn a green shoulder sash marked
with the figures 66 on the front. She carried upright
in her hand a rod of supplejack twisted into a loop at
the end much like the shepherd's crook borne in front
of the officiating clergyman in the English church —
or was it the twist of Ob, the coiled snake? Only a few
other persons present wore the turban and carried the
rod. The exercises differed in no way from those of an
ordinary prayer meeting in a free congregation; that
is,
there were singing and prayer and some words of
exhortation. But the manner of the singing was notice
able.
A
Moody and Sankey tune was begun, accom
panied by the beat of the drum; after
a
bit
it
fell into
11
162 BLACK ROADWAYS
a dizzying repetition of set phrases over and over again
while the audience and the workers rocked their bodies
in time to its rhythm. This was done by raising first
one foot and then the other, at the same time lifting
the arms and letting the body sway into line with the
planted foot. Those who carried rods swayed them up
and down with the rocking motion. Once Margaret
Williston began to breathe with a short sharp intake
that sounded like the bark of a dog, an exercise which
is called "trooping" and which, if persisted in, will pro
duce in the worker that semiconscious condition so
favorable to the communications of spirits, and hence
so coveted at a really successful Revivalist meeting.
Margaret, however, on this occasion fully recovered
herself and soon led in prayer. At another time she
bowed halfway to the ground, and once she revolved
completely around. Such movements are considered
by no means indecorous but are rather prescribed in
dications of fullness of spirit. There was complete order
liness at the meeting, as at all Negro gatherings which
I have visited. The very melodious and pleading voice
with which the Revivalist prayers and exhortations
were uttered and the beauty of the biblical phrases of
which they were composed, as if poured out from a full
receptacle in a stream of intercession, rendered them
dignified and moving. I never heard at any of these
popular meetings those absurdities of invocation which
are so often quoted from our own Negro pulpits. Per
haps I was merely fortunate, or perhaps familiarity
with the ritual of the established church —for most
Revivalists are good church members—has established
a standard for the outpouring of the spirit in Jamaica.
For evidently the gift for prayer, like the trooping and
THE REVIVALISTS 163
the bowing, has a direct value in establishing a claim
to inspiration; the tongue-tied man could hardly be of
use in the serious business of driving duppies.
Margaret seemed pleased to give me the story of
her religious experience, which she repeated in a rapid
singsong as if she were accustomed to its recital in a
general meeting. In writing it down I do not alter her
words, although sometimes the order is changed be
cause some of the facts came out in answer to questions.
I was not a great student. I left school in the first book.
And after that I got spiritual at twenty-five. The Mammy
was from Westmoreland. When there was shouting, I felt
that I was almost shut out of the gate of heaven and I closed
my eyes and I said, "Lord, if it is thy wish that I be separated,
let it be thy will." And I dreamt that I saw an angel, and he
bids me get a Bible and a Sankey and a rod with a double
fold and a lantern which I'm to light on my journey.
I didn't know to pray until I got the Spirit, and the Spirit
teaches me to pray and sends me on the highways and the
hedges to bid others to come and to tell what a sweet Savior
I found. Jesus is Savior in need and Savior indeed. There is
not a friend like the loving Savior.
The angel which I saw had a bunch of flowers in his hand,
white for peace. He bid me get a large turban. He bid me get
one larger, but I can't afford it—to make it five yards. He
bid me make an apron in white. The sash of green with the
number 66 means your shout. You stamp sixty-six times
with your foot. Some have a sash of other colors, some a sash
without apron. All who carry the wand have a sash, but not
all wear the apron. The turban is red or white. The red tur
ban means that you don't feel to work.
Sometimes [at the meetings] as I am in the Spirit, the Bible
drops and falls open at a chapter, and I read and read. I feel
to pray, and there isn't any chance to pray at the time, and I
164 BLACK ROADWAYS
bow to squeeze the prayer-key. When you are in the spirit,
you feel that the world is going around and you turn with
out you want to turn. When the Spirit overflows within you,
you have to shout and shout and shout. You have to shout
with joy. When you feel that you can 't shout with your voice
any more—feel as if it were shut down and locked —then you
cease shouting.
Sometimes when a brother or sister is going to depart [die]
I feel a fullness within me, I have to speak up, I don't get any
ease. But I don't know who it is. If I had the chance to know
who the person was, I would go and kneel and make him
prepared.
Mrs. Williston, although the principal mammy of
this congregation, had by no means reached the height
of Revivalist aspiration. She had attained the gift of
prophecy but not that of healing. And she admitted
subordination to the leading mammy of that district
who lived in Manchester.
Only one other revival meeting have I observed per
sonally, and this was by accident when a band from the
district called Retirement, in the cockpit country, hap
pened to come together at a turn of the road just below
the house where I was staying. As we sat in the dark
on the upper porch the worshipers were entirely un
aware of our presence. A few lanterns cast too dim a
light for us to see anything, but we could plainly hear
the words of the songs and even those of the prayers
and exhortations, and the "trooping" sound was al
most continuous.
Afterwards the leader of the meeting gave me the
story of the visions by which he passed from convic
tion to conversion and by virtue of which he came to
be the recognized captain of the band, a post which he
was obliged to share with an associate "because he
THE REVIVALISTS 165
owns the drum." He explained that some converts of
the Salvation Army join these bands because there is
no regular organization of the Army except in Kings
ton and Spanish Town, but they have not the same
power as the true Revivalists. To the true Revivalist,
"the Lord gives power to see what is going to happen";
to some few he gives further the "power of healing."
He himself had only the first power, that of prophecy:
"I know when a person is going to die in a district; I
don't tell the person himself, but the family; the per
son always dies when the word comes."
It is impossible not to observe how large a part such
"dreams " as Phillippo describes still play in the making
of a Revivalist, and this must often be due to the sanc
tion of the prophetic Scriptures. Just as the visions of
the prophets have entered into our own Negro religious
minstrelsy, so they have been absorbed into the relig
ious experience of the Jamaica Revivalist. The "Isa
iahs " live at the settlement called Try-see, situated on
a hilltop eight miles out of Browns Town in St. Ann,
and are largely composed of the descendants of one of
those early Revivalists of whose literal imitations of
Bible characters Phillippo complains. Edward Alex
ander, the first Isaiah, was converted "just after eman
cipation" and had predicted the revival of 1860. His
son and successor, James, himself now an old man,
believed implicitly that he also was inspired by the
prophet Isaiah. In early days, I was told, the Isaiahs
worshiped in the open with a stone as an altar, where
they sacrificed goats (no doubt to the ghost of the
prophet), but they were taken in hand by the Baptist
minister of Browns Town and have now a tasteful
church of English pattern and a well-kept churchyard
166 BLACK ROADWAYS
s
where stand the original stones of the old Isaiah wor
ship; and the conduct of their services, although the
turbans and crooked rods of the leading members and
the rocking and reiteration in the singing suggested
Revivalist methods, proceeded with great decorum.
Their evangelistic meetings in the neighboring country
side are always conducted by day. In the story of his
experience, Alexander laid claim to prophetic power
and to the knowledge of healing. He said that it was
told him "in the spirit" when one was to die, and "the
spirit" also revealed what medicine he should use for
healing. The story of his call as told in his own words
is as follows:
It is exactly forty-one years since I was converted. I was
called by the spirit of God. As I was called, I was down on
my back in one place in the room eleven months. I couldn't
come out at all, only lying in one place, the spirit taken away
from me and I learning the mystery of God.
Then one day I got Psalms CXVI. Then I rose and came
outside the door and saw my two little boys there, and I
stayed from eight in the morning until four o'clock. After that
I went back to my bed and lay down. And after I lay down,
in the night, I was taken away in the spirit to Browns Town.
I didn't walk 'pon the earth; I flew in the air to Browns
Town, I and the Master in the spirit. And when I got to
Browns Town, I saw the Master. And he had a little book,
and he spread it upon the earth, and I couldn't see. And he
read out of
it,
"Parson Clark, your time
is
up on earth.
" And
I
saw
a
beautiful vessel waiting for him. And then he read
and he read out of that book.
I
couldn't understand, and he
said, "No, indeed, for
it
is
Latin and parable; but
I
will speak
plain that you may understand." And when he spoke,
I
saw
the foundation of the house move off. And he said to. me,
"It
is
finished with Parson Clark." And the foundation of
Browns Town groaned.
o
o
<
c
<
w
04
H
CO
O
<
w
33
a
a
o
H
O
o
c
A,
W
K
E-
X
r
THE REVIVALISTS 167
And when we rose, he brought me to the church in Try-see
and we didn't come 'pon the earth. And we saw a number of
children like sheep. And he said, "Now take charge of these
sheep and mind them for me." And a number of these chil
dren lay down in one place, and some were away off. And I
said, "Some of these sheep are very trespass." And he said,
"You desire to bind these trespass sheep with cords, and the
cords are the word of God." And I said, "Sir, when it be
comes dark, how shall I see to mind those sheep from the
Lion and the Wolf—from the Devil and Satan?" And he
burst out with a great light which passed to the four corners
of the world. Then the Master departed and I saw him no
more.
In comparing many such accounts it is striking to
see how often the gift of healing claimed by the Revi
valist is associated with the flowing of water. The "heal
ing stream" is the literal source of health to the sick,
and many individuals who have attained reputation
as leaders of Revivalist bands have made much of the
healing waters of some stream or spring in the neigh
borhood. I am told that Mother Knott, who started
her Revivalist work at Corn Hill, St. Mary, about thirty
years ago, when she established herself at Black Hill
in Portland, had water brought from a little stream
at Corn Hill to fill the tank where she practised healing.
It was about the idea of baptism in the healing stream
of the Mona River that the most remarkable of these
prophetic groups in Jamaica, the cult called Bedward-
ite, centered. Bedward was born in 1859 and spent
his youth on the Mona estate, where he "committed
every sin but that of murder," but was nevertheless
known as a good workman. He traveled to Colon, there
received his vision, and returned to Jamaica, where he
was appointed successor to the prophet of August
168 BLACK ROADWAYS
Town, a man named Woods who had come from Amer
ica, made his home in a stone hole, and obtained a fol
lowing through the conviction he had aroused of his
prophetic powers. Bedward at the beginning of his pub
lic ministry in August Town dispensed the healing water
to two hundred people, of whom, says his biographer,
only seven had the faith to take it as "medicine," and
these seven were instantly cured. In 1894 the corner
stone was laid at August Town of the "Jamaica Bap
tist Free Church," an attractive building of stone,
which became the established home of "Bedwardism,"
with "camps" for affiliated congregations in other
parts of the island. Bedward was ordained Bishop of
this church with the title of Shepherd, and there were,
besides, two pastors, twenty-four elders, and seventy-
two evangelists, after the pattern of the Apostolic
church, as well as "station guards" and "Mothers,"
after the Revivalist pattern.
It was on the morning of December 26, JQ20, that
I visited Bedward at August Town. This was a critical
time for the Bedwardists because their leader had pre-
j
dicted his own ascension into heaven on the last day
\
of December of that very year, the^destruction of the
whites, and the reign of Bedwardism upon earth. The
faithful were, I think, expected to accompany their
leader into heaven, for they were all selling or giving
away their property and gathering in response to his
call into August Town. In Kingston the wildest rumors
were afloat. Even the intelligent whites believed that
something out of the ordinary was about to happen;
they, too, were hypnotized by the man's enormous
conviction. Many thought he would steal away out
of the country with the wealth he had won from the
A
O
in
O
-J
<
o
u
<
at
L->
U
X
X
THE REVIVALISTS 169
credulous; some feared a Negro uprising. Even the
educated colored people were not without interest;
one wistfully spoke of another Christmas day and of
another prophet who was to the wise foolishness but
whom the common people had heard gladly. The Negro
entertainer on the Flamstead estate on Christmas day,
enumerating the marked events of his life, said to me,
"I remember the St. Thomas rebellion [in 1865] and
the revival in i860. It was taken up by the whole world.
Now today there is Bedward." The Kingston Gleaner
wrote under large headlines:
Yesterday there was great excitement at the Railway. Ev
ery train brought in a large number of people, men, women
and children all bound for August Town. But they come from
Colon as well, on a steamer travelling across seas to see their
'
Lord of August Town '
ascend. In King Street all tram-cars
travelling to Hope Gardens were besieged by men, women
and children, some infants in arms, others hardly able to
help themselves, but they were all bundling in with their
clothes, baskets and fowls. All have sold out to come up and
see the Lord and Master do the disappearing trick. There
are still more to come.
Bedward had at this time changed his title from that
of Shepherd and announced himself the very incarna
tion of Christ. He was to be addressed as "Lord." He
pressed this point with a touch of asperity: "I myself
am Jesus Christ; I was crucified," he insisted. In con
versation, his grievance against the whites came out.
Several times he had requested that his own pastors
be licensed to perform the marriage ceremony in order
that the fees should come into the hands of his own
church. This privilege had at last been definitely denied
him, and he had accordingly decided to bring the world
to an end. He showed me his black hands and told me
170 . BLACK ROA WAYS
how in the new heaven and the new earth they were
to be as white as my own. He was a large fine-looking
Negro with the rapt brightness on his face of a vision
ary clouded by the peevishness of accustomed tyranny.
I looked into his face in vain for any trace of an im
postor.
All was gently, even reasonably spoken except for
that moment of pettishness about his identity with
the Lord. He spoke like a man who says a thing over
until the repetition itself fastens conviction upon him.
Far from being, as the scoffers say, a scheming pre
tender battening upon the credulity of his followers,
he was himself the most duped among them. He was
a dreamer, now so far gone in senility—he must have
been about sixty-two years of age—as to have dreamed
the impossible.
He spoke with great simplicity of the symbolism of
his church rites—the candle as a symbol of the Trinity,
the fast days for the purification of the soul in the spir
itual life as of clothes in the secular. He said, "The tal
low is like God; the wick within the tallow is like Christ
in the bosom of the father; the flame is the Holy Ghost
who came from the Father and the Son." And of the
fasts, "A day for washing, a day for drying and starch
ing, a day for ironing; so the heart is made clean by
the fasts."
That this view of Bedward is correct was later proved
by the events of the fateful thirty-first. He must have
done absurd things those last days. It is said that he
had a woman tied to a tree all day learning to fly and
reproached her that her faith was after all insufficient.
On the morning of the day predicted for the ascent, he
took a chair and stationed himself in the yard in full
XX. BEDWARD, THE SHEPHERD OF
AUGUST TOWN
THE REVIVALISTS 171
view of his followers, who grouped about him dressed
in their fast-day clothes of white. As the hours passed
and nothing happened, he told them that the event
had been postponed. From time to time he set another
date. Still many remained faithful. In May he deter
mined to make a public demonstration of his claims.
On the march into Kingston, the government seized
the opportunity to arrest the leaders for vagrancy,
consign Bedward to the insane asylum, and disperse
the prophet's following.
In some respects even more remarkable than the
Bedward movement in Jamaica, although far less spec
tacular, is the work of the Revivalist healer known as
Mammy Forbes, who keeps a balm-yard in the dry
savannah above Alligator Pond (between Manchester
and St. Elizabeth) and also practises at regular times
near Lacovia. Falconer, who condemns all Revivalists
as persons who deceive the people for the sake of mak
ing money, made an exception of Mammy Forbes; she
did much good with her knowledge of healing herbs,
he thought, and "never tells them to do anything bad."
Within a fenced enclosure not far from her own home
is erected a neat wooden chapel, together with a long
building where the worshipers gather to break their
fast, and one or two outbuildings. The yard in front
of the chapel is set with poles bearing banners of white
cloth printed with scripture texts. Attached to the
right of the chapel a close board fence with an ornately
arched gate, cut to resemble angel wings, encloses a
space about the size of a room, and this is cleared to
bedrock, and washed, like the fence itself, a dazzling
white. Here a well is to burst forth, according to a vis
172 BLACK ROADWAYS
ion. "You will dig a well?" I asked. "No, it is to burst
out of itself."
My visit was made upon one of the four days of the
week when Mammy Forbes holds service in the chapel.
It was about ten in the morning, and the crowd of wor
shipers already gathered made room for us at the end
of a bench facing the altar. The interior resembled an
English chapel in miniature, very tasteful in effect,
with natural woodwork rubbed smooth and left un-
painted. Across the front of the altar stretched a wooden
screen, facing which sat a bevy of girls dressed in white
and wearing white turbans. A dignified looking middle-
aged man in white gown and turban stood at the left
to conduct the singing. This was Mammy Forbes's hus
band. For the moment Mammy herself was hidden
from me by the interposition of a beam, but gradually
I became aware of a large, dark, benignant face under
a spreading white turban trimmed with natural white
flowers, and of an ample bust and shoulders clothed
in white, as she bent above us from the center of the
raised wooden screen. The songs were from Moody
and Sankey, but there was no drumming or rocking,
nor was there anything in the service that differed
much from our own. The Mammy made, in fact, a very
good little talk indeed of a simple kind and prayed fer
vently. At the end of the service she and the girls formed
a procession and sprinkled the aisles of the church and
the spring enclosure, and then everybody flocked out
into the yard. This sprinkling was the only indication
of "duppy driving" visible in the service, but there
were a number of smooth canes thrust into the rafters
within hand-reach which Falconer says are employed
to beat any person who comes to the Mammy with an
Q
Pi
<
I
<
c«
W
SO
a!
o
<
w
<
2
o
c
u
c
oi
Oh
THE REVIVALISTS 173
evil spirit. I suppose the banners bearing Bible texts
are also for the entanglement of the duppy ; at least they
were so used by another Manchester Revivalist with
whose methods Falconer was familiar.
This man Bennet had practised first at Leeds but
was then at Newton, according to Falconer, who once
actually saw Bennet catch a duppy—one David Chad-
wick, a dead boatman from Lacovia. It seems that
David "was looking out for some one and he came un
derneath the banner and couldn't get out again, and
Bennet caught him and shut him up in his Bible and
talked with him.
" I transcribe the exact words in which
Falconer described Bennet's methods:
Bennet was a Revivalist. He could cure plenty of people
in great sickness and speak plenty of unknown tongues.
When anyone goes to him who he says has a duppy, he gets
into great power, jumps and speaks tongues. And he keeps
meeting every morning at five o'clock, says when he beats
the drum it will spoil any obeah that is coming. He gets a
piece of calico and writes out texts from the Bible upon them
and hangs them up like banners, and when anyone comes
to him that has an evil spirit he dances from banner to ban
ner, says he brings the duppy under the right banner. He
has the Bible in one hand and a rod and a small flag in the
other. As he passes under the right banner, he shuts the
Bible and says he shuts up the duppy into the Bible. He
talks with the duppy now, hears what he says and tells him
his name. Takes him to the bath now and bathes him; the
soldiers bathe him, laying the Bible upon his head. Mean
while the patient repeats the psalm after the leader until he
is done bathing.
If an evil person should come who works obeah to kill
people and harm animals and so on, then Bennet gets into
the power and talks unknown tongues and calls all the sol
diers, and they dance round the person and everyone gives
174 BLACK ROADWAYS
him a blow with his rod. When that is done, they get a glass
and fill it and make him drop two and sixpence into it. Bennet
tastes the water and makes him taste it too. And he makes
him sit down at the table and open the Bible with the flag
and the rod in his hand, and everyone that he has harmed
gives him a blow. Then he tries the case for two and sixpence.
When he is done, he tells him plainly in the whole meeting
what he has done to this one and that one. He must not leave
the meeting until the end, and the last thing he must repeat
after Bennet "The Lord is my Shepherd."
REFERENCES
Beckwith, "Some Religious Cults."
De Lisser, In Jamaica and Cuba, 94; Twentieth Century
Jamaica, 130-44.
Leslie, 30, 319.
Long, 2:430. .
Montagnac.
Phillippo, 267-79.
Rampini, 84.
Roberts, "Some Drums and Drum Rhythms."
Williams, 36-41.
p
(Transcribed by E. Harold Geer from phonographic records)
River Jordan
Riv ..... er Jor - dan, Riv - er Jor - dan,
iJor - dan nv - er,
^=PE
> *
If'j. JaiJ
Jor - dan heal - ing stream.
3
Je - sus tize, Je - sus bap - tize, My
m m ! " r a
Je - sus bap- tize in - to Jor-dan heal -ing stream.
*
John did bap - tize, John did bap - tize.
I
P^ULJ * fr
" " I
John did bap - tize
Lomas Land
In a Jor - dan stream.
m-f jjj'jjlj'i j jjjjj]
You no re-mem-ber de year when Rob-ert Bry-an was
i ^ w
kill? Poor t'ing, poor t'ing, dead and gone to Lo - mas land.
j&-Jt j >. J J EiEEtJ J J. J Ffl
Sing Al - le - lu'! Sin - ner sing Al - le - lu'!
4
Chapter XI
THE PUKKUMERIANS
Re
revivalist and Obeah Man unite in the partic
ular religious cult known as the Pukkumerian. The
name is used in derision, say the followers of this cult;
for they are really Revivalists like all the rest. "Pick-
them-here" I venture to suggest as the etymology of
the appellation; that
is,
"Dig here for the buried
obeah," because of the claim this cult makes to pro
phetic powers in detecting buried obeah.
In the banana-growing country and in the remote
districts of the very wild and broken parish of St. Mary,
right back through the hills of St. Catherine, the peo
ple are more backward than in the more open parishes
of the south, where wide savannahs and high plateaus
were early cleared and occupied by the whites, and
where there has hence been more contact between
black and white. It
is
in this wild back country given
over to the real "people of the bush" that the Puk-
kumerians have their home.
The Pukkumerian leaders are called "governors"
or "shepherds." Each shepherd has attached to him
self
a
good-looking young woman (not his wife) who
acts as his confederate under the name of "governess"
or sometimes "shepherdess." The two have
a
secret
code of speech which the spirits are supposed to speak
when they appear at
a
meeting, the words spoken in
frenzy by one being interpreted by the other accord
ing to the formula. One couple
I
visited used the letters
of the alphabet, and this was "a mystery which God
THE PUKKUMERIANS 177
does not give away"; another spoke something which
might have been a Spanish jargon; the Maroons of
course use the Kromanti in the same way. All these
secret languages take their authority directly from the
"unknown tongues" of Pentecost.
The Pukkumerians hold their meetings near a grave
yard, and it is to the ghosts of their own membership
that they appeal when spirits are summoned to a meet
ing. The summoning of the ghosts may happen at an
open or at a closed meeting according to the object for
which they are called; the mode of summoning is the
same in either case. If a "grudge meeting" is called,
that
is,
"if you want something to happen to some
one," only the "working officers" of the band attend.
"They jump and dance and sing and talk in
a
secret
language because the spirits do not talk our language.
"
If
a
member has died, his shadow may be summoned
for the errand of mischief. One of the dancers falls down
as
if
dead and the spirit talks to him. He gets up and
tells what the spirit has said, then he goes by
a
private
way to the graveyard and pays the dead: "Whatever
the dead asks for, that he
is
paid.
" In an open meeting,
"when the ghost comes they stretch out as
if
dead and
the ghost talks to them"; nobody hears but the person
in the trance. After the ghost leaves he comes out of
the trance and tells everything the ghost says. Perhaps
the ghost may say that something
is
buried for
a
per
son. The ghost shows where
it
is
buried. "If something
is
buried for
a
person
it
can't stay, for the good spirits
show it." Both bad and good spirits come together to
a
meeting; both may be living together, "for as
a
man
is
in life so
is
his spirit in death."
12
178 BLACK ROADWAYS
A "good" meeting is one characterized by the pres
ence of spirits. When no one gets sufficiently worked
up to bring spirits to the meeting the gathering is con
sidered something of a failure and the presence in the
group suspected of someone who prevents them from
"working.
" " If someone carries a cut lime in his pocket
the ghosts can't work." Or someone may get a "hog-
meat string [a kind of withe], tie knots in
it,
call the
shepherd's and governess's names, and put
it
down on
the ground or shove
it
into his pocket; then the spirits
can't work." In this case, the good spirits reveal the
trick, and
if
the man who
is
disturbing the meeting has
the temerity to remain, the leaders beat him or "run
him out of the meeting";
if
he has gone away, they re
move the charm, "sprinkle the place with water and
trample
it
down."
It
is
possible that the turban
is
differently knotted
and the color different and that the dance itself varies
when the dances for the grudge meeting are held, but
I
did not get definite information on this point or on the
question whether different songs are sung at the grudge
meeting, although
I
think this may be the case. My
first-hand observations were too limited to speak with
assurance of this matter.
I
first heard of the Pukkumerians in Browns Town,
where bands had been known to appear from time to
time, but the heart of their activities was reported to
be in the neighborhood of Richmond, St. Mary,
a
little
village on the railroad almost entirely settled by col
ored people, although the valuable estates in the dis
trict are owned and cultivated by the whites. Wilfrid
acted as my guide to the yard of Mr. Mighty, one of
the younger workers in the district but "stronger"
THE PUKKUMERIANS 179
than most, according to his own testimony. We turned
off the main road at Cane Heap and followed a muddy
footpath between a succession of unfenced yards until
we came to the brink of an abrupt valley. Mighty's
house stood in the center of the lot. On a level plot just
below the house was erected a rectangular booth, of
which the frame alone was then standing; on another
occasion I saw it covered with cocoanut boughs in prep
aration for a meeting. Above the house on a higher rise
Wilfrid pointed out to me the graveyard, planted with
crotons. Mighty himself had gone across the valley to
help with the laying out of a man who had just died
in the district, and when he appeared he was evidently
laboring under strong excitement, not, I think, induced
by alcohol. For a moment I was myself terrified by his
peremptory manner and absorbed self-control. He was
a powerful-looking man of forty with a black face and
heavy jaw, and the governess was a very good-looking
girl with dignified carriage.
Mighty did not object to talking about himself, for
such testimony is one of the regular exercises of an ex
perience meeting. His occupation was that of a culti
vator. At the age of eighteen he had got the spirit from
God after attending an evening meeting. That night
in his sleep he said, "I was enjoying myself with the
hymns and singing and shouting with my family around
me." From that time he had attached himself to the
Revivalists although it was only four years ago that
he became a shepherd. He taught and preached "in
the spirit." "I feel to dance and sing," he said, "but
I got a mind and I use my knowledge of weeds,
" and he
went on to tell how in a dream he had seen a white man
beckon to him across a valley, and although someone
180 BLACK ROADWAYS
held him back he had come across and stood beside
him. I take it that he referred, in his excited condition,
to the circumstance of my visit. I think the man's emo
tional nature had been so wrought upon by the religious
orgies to which he had accustomed himself that he
really was sincere in his claim to a special inspiration,
and that he played no tricks but merely imitated the
practices of other Pukkumerians, his own confused
mind transferring natural experiences into supernat
ural, just as his own lively emotion carried him out
of himself in dance and song. Wilfrid had a very lively
respect for this man's gifts of divination but thought
it must be the devil who inspired him. He had once
made a remarkable prophecy about the drowning of
a horse and a mule, which happened afterwards just as
he had said. "How could he have known that?" de
manded Wilfrid.
The other Pukkumerian shepherd to whom Wilfrid
introduced me was a quite different character. Sam
Thompson was an oldish man with a simple but cun
ning manner which showed that he was already losing
his mental grip, and as he was afterwards arrested for
obeah and in defense cited my visit as a "consultation,"
I think I am entirely justified in recording that the man
was an undoubted fraud, fully aware that he was play
ing tricks, and, although possibly in a confused, half-
senile fashion, that he was employing them to cheat
the people and get their money. Nevertheless the wo
man who was his confederate gave me much informa
tion about herb medicines, and when a neighbor came to
the house for a bit of clean rag for binding about a sore,
it was instantly forthcoming. We reached his yard after
a stiff climb up and down ridges past flowering yam
THEPUKKUMERIANS 181
cultivations to a crutch on the side of the valley close
to the footpath but closed in by trees. Although I de
tected no graveyard, a large thatched booth was erected
just in front of the tiny dwelling, the posts of which
were set with a few animal skulls. Thompson and the
girl were perfectly ready to entertain me with an imi
tation of the Pukkumerian dance, one singing and beat
ing a tambourine while the other performed, and they
laughed heartily over the comical figure that each cut
in the dance when pretending to stagger under the pos
session of a spirit.
Some of the songs which they used for calling up the
spirits I asked them to sing into the phonograph for
me, and this amused them greatly. Many of these songs
employed purely biblical phraseology like
The Bible is the key to open sinners' hearts,
and
John did baptize, John did baptize
John did baptize into Jordan's healing stream,
but some had specific reference to the summoning of
the dead. In the following song, for example, it was ex
plained that the good spirits of former shepherds —
named Taylor, Nugent, Wyant —are called to come
to the meeting:
Rain, oh, rain, a fall over Gooby, heavy rainfall
Call Shepherd Taylor to come bear me over Jordan,
Heavy rain fall,
What a heavy rain a fall over Gooby!
Call Shepherd Nugent to come bear me over Jordan,
Call Shepherd Wyant to come bear me over Jordan,
Fall, rain, fall, what a heavy rain fall!
Another song, but I do not know when sung, ran:
182 BLACK ROADWAYS
Dry bone gone fe me, dry bone gone
Dry bone gone down the gully road.
Wang go wang, fe go wang go wang
Fe go wang go wang down the gully road.
When me dry bone come, when me dry bone come,
Dry bone come down the gully road,
Wang go wang, fe go wang go wang,
Fe go wang go wang down the gully road.
Thompson called the land of the dead "Lomas land,"
and it was he who showed me that curious drawing of
the underworld which was laid out with plots for each
ghost like a graveyard, the ghosts themselves working
under the whip of the ruling class just as they had
worked in life. One of his songs runs:
You no remember de year Robert Bryan was kill?
Poor t'ing, poor t'ing, dead and gone to Lomas land!
Sing allelu', sinner, sing allelu'!
Absurd, yes, the "Pick-them-here " religion where
Revivalist and Myal Man virtually blend in obeah;
but inexpressibly sad, too, this groping among the
ghosts of the other world for an explanation of both
ecstasy and pain; this culling among graves those nar
cotic herbs which are scattered by nature over the earth
to give visions to mortals, and beloved sleep, but which
may also bring sickness, pain, and death.
1
XXII. A PUKKUMERIAN DANCER RAISING
THE SPIRITS: A REHEARSAL
i
v
Chapter XII
THE MAROONS
V>olonel Henry Rowe of the Accompong Maroons
narrated that when the white men came to Jamaica
they found the Maroons there before them; the Ma
roons had therefore "always been free and were the
earliest settlers on the island." History, however, tells
a more circumstantial story.
The word "Maroon" is derived by Cundall from
the Spanish Cimarron, "wild, untamed," and the first
use of the name he ascribes to the year 1628 when, in
Sir Francis Drake Revived, the "Symerons" are spoken
of as a "black people which about eighty years past
fled from the Spanish their masters." Early writers
speak of them as "wild men," and on an old map, dated
1678, which Cundall prints, the region of the central
cockpits, now Maroon territory, is already marked
"The Banditti —Spanish quarters," indicating that
from the time of the conquest of the island from Spain
in 1656 the English had been unable to bring into sub
jection the colony of free blacks in the interior dis
tricts. Ogilby writes (1671) of "a most pleasant, rich
and fertile part of the country, abounding with cattel
and excellent savannahs," where "the negroes settled
that revolted from the Spaniards, who are endeavor
ing to make some plantations of tobacco and provis
ions, and with them are settled some few English who
have divers walks of cacao.
" Little by little these free
people were pushed farther back into the wilder and
less coveted portions of the island, where they were
184 BLACK ROADWAYS
joined by runaway slaves from the plantations, proba
bly in large part of the Kromanti stock to whom the
Maroons today refer their traditions.
The same movement which took from them the richer
and more arable land also intrenched them in an almost
impregnable position against assault, so that the prob
lem of the "wild Negroes" early became a troublesome
one for the colonists. It was only after years of desul
tory fighting in which the losses fell almost entirely
against the English forces that the Maroon leaders,
Accompong, Johnny, and Quao, signed with Governor
Trelawney in 1739 the treaty still in force which re
serves to the Maroons a great tract of fifteen hundred
acres in the St. Elizabeth and Trelawney cockpits (only
a hundred acres of which Dallas says are actually fit
for cultivation) and smaller tracts in other parts of the
island, together with local jurisdiction over their own
affairs. In return they promised perpetual league with
the whites in case of war and the return in the future
of runaway slaves to their masters. Slaves already with
the Maroons, however, had the privilege of choosing
for themselves whether to remain with the Maroons
or return to their white masters. In this way the Ma
roons became the natural friends of the whites and the
enemies of the enslaved of their own race, a distinction
which they jealously guard today. They look upon the
alliance as a distinct pledge of superiority over the other
Negroes, and although emancipation has broken down
all race barriers so far as intermarriage is concerned,
they jealously guard the privacy of their social group.
Thus they form in some respects a secret society which
excludes all non-Maroons from entrance within the
settlement unaccompanied by a white man or a Ma
THE MAROON PEOPLE 185
roon and which preserves certain so-called Kromanti
customs as a proof of their African pride of blood. Col
onel Rowe of Accompong related to me that the pact
arranged by Trelawney was drunk in old Kromanti
fashion by the leaders' on both sides cutting their arms
and letting their blood flow into a bowl whose contents
was mixed with rum; but historians do not mention
this ceremony, observing merely that "confidence being
established on both sides, the parties intermixed, ex
changing hats and other tokens of congratulations."
However celebrated, the pact thus formed between
the whites and the Maroon Negroes has been loyally
kept for the most part by the Maroons themselves. It
was called into play during the late war, when the
Moore Town Maroons at first refused to enlist for ser
vice overseas, alleging that if the enemy should land on
the island and advance upon Maroon territory, they,
the Maroons, could so disguise themselves in vines and
"bush" along the roadside, as easily to shoot the inva
ders in the back as they passed. It was only when the
nature of Zeppelin air raids was described to them that
their ancient methods of warfare seemed to them for
the first time inadequate. The story goes that when the
leaders surrendered, at the time of the first Maroon war,
one captain was still in the field, and a captured horn
man being ordered to announce the fact of the surrender
to the invisible enemy, as soon as the call reached them
"each Maroon cut with his machete the bush under
which he lay," thus exposing the whole band "arranged
in order."
At the last uprising on the island —that of 1865 in
the eastern parishes —it was the prompt response of
the Moore Town Maroons that saved the day for the
186 BLACK ROADWAYS
English. A lively account of this event from an Accom-
pong Marobn narrated that "Pa Bogle and Garden
were in St. Thomas in the east. Pa Bogle was a black
man. He refused to pay the people and the minister
went to talk to him and he cut out his [the minister's]
tongue. So the parson sent to the governor and the gov
ernor sent to Missus Queen—whether Queen Mary or
Queen Victoria I don't remember—and they sent for
the Maroons. The Accompong Maroons didn't get the
letter. Moore Town Maroons got it. Moore Town Ma
roons, they [are] harsh, especially one named Old Brisco
—that was the baddest of all. First they killed Bogle —
shove the bayonet right through him! Killed Garden
too. After that they killed out the whole district—leave
nothing but one old woman and a ram goat and one
rooster cock!"
An earlier uprising of the Trelawney Maroons them
selves in the late eighteenth century, which ended in
1795 with the exile of the larger part of the western
colony, admittedly arose through the dissatisfaction
of the Maroons over an infringement of their treaty
rights and the failure of the Governor to meet their
discontent in any conciliatory spirit; and the exile that
followed was carried out in direct contradiction of the
terms of the peace signed with the surrendering rebels
by the British officer in command. This was the second
time that bloodhounds were introduced into Jamaica.
Historians say that they had been employed in 1660
after the defeat of the Spaniards, and the mere terror
induced by their second appearance brought about a
speedy surrender without the risk which might have
been involved in letting them loose upon a desperate
people who carried firearms. In his very readable His
THE MAROON PEOPLE 3.87
tory of the Maroons by a contemporary of this period,
Dallas, acting as apologist for his friend Colonel Quar
rel, originator and executor of the scheme, describes
in glowing terms the formal reception when "the wild
and formidable appearance" of both dogs and chas
seurs —the dogs with their rattling chains making fero
ciously at every object and forcibly dragging on the
chasseurs who could hardly restrain them—so im
pressed General Walpole that, although obliged him
self to beat a hasty retreat lest the dogs leap upon his
own horses, he nevertheless gallantly expressed him
self as "well pleased with the review."
The whole adventure of the energetic Colonel reads
more like a popular romance than like flesh and blood
experience of the late eighteenth century. In spite of
the sometimes over-scrupulous rhetoric employed to
justify his hero, Dallas is a good raconteur. He de
scribes in detail how Quarrel set sail for Cuba in a
schooner manned by four British seamen, twelve Cu-
racoa Negroes, and eighteen Spanish renegades who
indulged daily in knifing bouts and, at the first absence
of the Colonel, attempted mutiny. Spain was at the
time under treaty of peace with England, both coun
tries being engaged in war with France. At Trinidad
the boat was delayed by interminable diplomacy to
await a small fleet of transports (bearing the King's
duties), for which the British boat might serve as es
cort. At one passage where there was danger of ground
ing, the Colonel gave orders that the first pilot to run
them aground was to be hanged, and his own boat made
the passage above six feet four inches of water. At one
time he raked with shot an armed vessel before she was
discovered to be Spanish rather than French. At the
188 BLACK ROADWAYS
port of Batabano the Colonel left ship for the overland
route to Havana, accompanied by a train of two hun
dred mules bearing the King's duties. For days he lay
sick of fever, stretched on a bed made of cowhide fas
tened to four posts, and ministered to by the lovely
Marquise de Felippo et St. Jago. At Havana he was
to meet a fresh obstacle. Passports for dogs, yes, but
not for the chasseurs to accompany them. In vain the
Colonel pleaded that without these the dogs were use
less. Eventually a permit for six trainers was signed,
whereupon Quarrel despatched pay for the whole num
ber. Impatient now to be off, he was detained in Ha
vana first by a bullfight and next for the formulation
by the government of a request for help by its British
allies in erecting lighthouses. At Besucal there was a
dance for the Spanish chasseurs led off by the Mar
quise, at which, says the historian, the Colonel's "good
humor and address supplied the place of gestic lore.
"
Finally at Batabano the Colonel encountered an almost
fatal obstacle in the person of an incorruptible official
who detained his visitor while he sent off for fresh in
structions. To set the stage for an escape required all
the Colonel's wit. Dallas relates with complacency how
he engaged a fellow-prisoner to ply his host with wine
and even left his riding coat in order to allay suspicion.
The night was chilly; once his horse stumbled and threw
him. At the landing the dogs had to be carried in men's
arms two hundred yards, scratching and howling, be
fore they could be deposited in the boats which were
to take them to the ship. Once off, it was easy to out
run the two coast guards who pursued them, but that
night the pilots ran the ship aground, a storm came up,
and for three days the schooner pounded up and down
THE MAROON PEOPLE 189
while pandemonium reigned on board. Some of the
dogs got loose and attacked the cattle taken on to pro
vide the dogs with food for the voyage. When calm fell,
the pious Spaniards who had "prayed audibly" during
the storm, insisted upon going ashore at Trinidad to
offer thanks to St. Anthony for their safety, and only
an unfavorable wind prevented this act of piety. Off
Falmouth the schooner sighted a French privateer and
gallantly gave chase, only to run the gauntlet of British
guns into Montego Bay, where she was mistaken for
the very cruiser she had been pursuing. The event has
been already noticed.
Dallas furnishes a precise description of the dogs
themselves and of the men who followed the hardy
profession of chasseur in the Spanish Colony. The dogs
he pictures as large-sized, stronger and heavier than
the ordinary hound, with erect ears (usually cropped),
nose rather pointed but widening very much towards
the after part of the jaw, and a tough skin thick enough
to endure the blows by which they were trained not
to kill the object they were after but to hold it at bay
and seize it only in case of resistance.
The trainers Dallas describes as "a very hardy, ab
stemious race of men whose activity no negro on earth
can elude." They were swarthy, not large but rather
"taut like well-twisted rope," with "the lively faces
of passionate hunters,
" and they dressed in a checked
shirt without collar, wide checked trousers, a thatch
hat, a leather belt, and shoes either of untanned leather
or preferably of raw hide. Each trainer kept three dogs
with two of which he hunted. One or two small dogs
accompanied the hunt as "finders" to start the scent.
A dog was always kept chained and muzzled until he
190 BLACK ROADWAYS
was taken out to hunt, when a strong cotton rope was
slipped on and attached to the belt of the trainer until
the scent was started. Then rope and collar were slipped
off and wound about the waist of the trainer, who fol
lowed his dog, machete in hand to cut away the brush.
Old writers devote much attention to the Maroons
of Jamaica. Dallas commends their superior strength,
symmetry, and intelligence as distinct from the shorter,
yellower, and more Negroid blacks from the lower
Congo. Edwards says, "Their demeanor is lofty, their
walk firm, and their persons erect. Every motion dis
plays a combination of strength and agility. The mus
cles (neither hidden nor depressed by clothing) are
very prominent and strongly marked. Their sight withal
is wonderfully acute and their hearing remarkably
quick." He notes as symptoms of a depraved taste a
preference for "new rum fresh from the still" and for
"rotten beef." The men hunted, the women did the
gardening, even to the clearing of a new ground by
ringing each tree with fire. Jerked hog was the favorite
dish, together with ring-tailed pigeon and land crab.
Vegetables were cultivated in the fertile patches.
Houses were "built in scattered fashion upon the ridges
so as to escape the wash of torrential rains,
"
exactly as
they are to be seen today in Moore Town or the Cock
pits. When a girl was of age to marry she "had hog
killed for her,
" that
is,
she was exhibited in the matri
monial market at
a
feast where hog was the main dish,
although other delicacies were also abundant. In case
of
a
chief, marriage was shared with more than one
wife; but no jealousy was aroused, for
if
a
man gave
a
present to one wife he gave the same to the others.
Each wife had her own property. The husband lived
THE MAROON PEOPLE 191
with each wife two days in turn, leaving her free at
other times to attend to her garden and carry its pro
duce to market. In 1749 Long estimates the number
of Maroons to be 273 men, 211 women, 88 boys, and 92
girls, numbering 664 in all.
The Maroons today represent a kind of secret so
ciety isolated from other blacks not only politically
but by the tradition of mystery with which they con
tinue to surround themselves. This is particularly true
of Moore Town back of Port Antonio, but it holds good
also for the other three settlements still on the island —
Charles Town, whose families mix with Moore Town
Maroons, Scot's Hall in the hills of St. Mary, and Ac-
compong in the Cockpits of St. Elizabeth. Maroon
Town farther north in Trelawney, and Nanny Town
in the ridges back of Moore Town have been aban
doned. Maroon family names —Reed, Wright, Rowe
in the west, and Valentine and Searchwell in the east—
are recognized from one settlement to the other.
No Negro unaccompanied by a Maroon or a white
man dares to enter a Maroon settlement, and my guide
at Richmond even refused to accompany me under
any circumstances to the settlement at Scot's Hall.
The Maroons know "stronger obeah" than any other
group; they are more cunning in herb magic; they com
mand a secret tongue (the so-called Kromanti), and
they know old songs in this speech "strong enough to
bewitch anybody"; they employ old arts which deal
with spirits. I was told that the Accompong Maroons
had a doll figure called "Yumma" which was brought
out and washed and dressed annually at Christmas
time and which represented old Nanny, "Queen" of
the Maroons, at the time of their first treaty with the
192 BLACK ROADWAYS
whites. Rowe said that no bullets could touch their
men during the conflict because old Nanny stood with
her back to the enemy and, attracting all the balle to
herself, caught them between her thighs just as boys
sometimes catch a ball.
In Moore Town at Christmas time I am told one
may still see the festival described by Gardner, when
all gather about a fire at night and drum and sing while
individuals spring into the circle and perform dances.
Old songs are sung in so-called Kromanti, those I heard
consisting in a few lines of recitative, then a few rapid
speech syllables, and a shout, hence exceedingly diffi
cult to get by phonograph. Valentine, the Maroon who
acted as my guide to Moore Town, could hardly be
persuaded to give me a translation. Finally he gave
me some words for a "new war song" as:
We are in war who fight for our country,
War! bring the explosive, let us kill the enemy,
Good-evening !
whose dictated syllables ran—
Ke re wan ke, eh eh eh eh bar me o
Kin ke ne wang kwa ke eh eh eh bar me o
Ho tuck o de me du hin !
and which exhibits the common Jamaican refrain pat
tern. Valentine's wife (not a Maroon) sang me a song
used
" when the kettle will not boil.
" On the other hand
his Maroon neighbor violently opposed my taking any
Maroon songs on the phonograph. A fine old Maroon
woman who had once served in one of the best fam
ilies on the island entertained me cordially with "tea-
meeting songs" but refused to speak of the "days of
darkness" and even reproved the girls when they
L
THE MAROON PEOPLE 193
danced a shayshay. However, I learned from Valentine
that there were three classes of Kromanti songs, the
"jawbone," of a comparatively mild variety; the "new
war songs," of stronger power; and the "old war songs"
most powerful of all. In Moore Town they still send
signals to each other by drumbeats. The story runs
that a captive Maroon working at a blacksmith's anvil
saw some of his fellows landing from a boat and ham
mered out a warning. In Accompong the "horn man"
calls out the name of the dead through a conch, and
everyone listens to the signal. The whole body form a
procession and march to the melody of a strangely wild
and beautiful death song, an excellent record of which
Miss Roberts has preserved.
(Recorded by Helen H. Roberts)
Kromanti Death Song
J = 88
BIS K&- *w~
tm
Jes
. / bi - o
te
(ba-yo
igi s
a^E 3 S3S
die oh,
{-ago
.ta f bi-o
\ ba - yo
Ah, ah we
&¥a«N Jjj^Ep
v3-^
die, oh, fe trees bear-e Ah, ah we
Pff,a,JJ jylrfeUMplii jjj J II
die, oh, <
a
go die, oh, fe trees bear-e oh
Horn, drum, and lute are the musical instruments
of the old-time Maroon. Valentine said the horn was
13
15* BLACK ROADWAYS
called citmf
—■"just Eke saying ah-i!•" and also Hake,
but a third and secret fa^f he world not drndge. It
was lie same with the ircm. whidfc is ta7>fj gombay,
but be refused id tel its sezrei T.E-mf.. Ahb:<nEh also
pbjyed with tie fingers, h was shaped not at all Eke
tie Atrompong garrbay, but was 1-rry £-jd narrow like
an East Indian drum. The i•Jcte,*' wrini 1 had no op-
portuiirtj of seeing• be described as mad* by fastening
two sted wires to a V«"g board and played by two per
sons, one of whom touched the strings with bis bands
while the other. sealed opposite, beat upon a gourd.
A crossbow was until lately in use, and I gathered from
a panromimic gesture that its arrowpccnt was tipped
with poison.
In P~rt Antonio the Moore Tcwn \Iarcccs were de
scribed to m* as "Lardy and independent with great
.krrriTrns for money," and in physical appearance "tall
in stature with Terr black faces and sharp, non-Negroid
features.
" The town occupies a pit-like TaLey near the
base of the John Crow Mountains above Port Antonio,
to which seaport a good road is laid for trucking bana
nas. An English church and a government schooShouse
stand on this side of the bridge, which crc&ses a clear-
fiowing tributary of the Rio Grande ..famous for a fresh
water mussel called hcssit, out of which is composed a
favorite soup) into true Maroon territory. Here a little
group of shops constitute the nucleus of the settlement.
The homes climb along the ridges, the provision grounds
and banana cultivations (worked today entirely by the
men) lying out of sight up the valley.
The settlement at Accompong is less accessible. A
bridle-trail leads ever upward past groves of cocoanut
and banana and patches of sugar cane, until at length
THE MAROON PEOPLE 195
a gateway opens upon the Maroons' reservation. Still
upward on the hilltop lies the village, backed north by
the Trelawney forests and fronting south a splendid
sweep of ranges to the sea. Levels are broken by sudden
pits which serve for the storage of rain water. The high
est and largest level is known as the "parade ground,"
where the whipping post used to stand. Below lie the
church (Scotch Presbyterian) and the schoolhouse.
I witnessed here a village fete day which began with
a double wedding at the church (presided over by the
white missionary pastor), with veil, gloves, and ring,
and a wedding breakfast in a leafy booth, where toasts
were drunk with wine and an architectural wedding
cake was cut by the bride. Later the Colonel donned
ceremonial suit of white duck, and the whole population
turned out, the horn man with his conch in front, the
rest following in pairs to the tune of a lively marching
song. On the parade ground it was pretty to see elderly
dames and young girls joining in the old English dances,
withered little old women carrying off the palm for
stately grace. They took hands at the far end of the level
and advanced dancing and singing up its entire length.
Afterwards the men played athletic games. They might
have been Elizabethans or at latest eighteenth-century
Englishmen at a folk holiday. Many of their songs in
deed are composed out of snatches of balladry trans
formed into the peculiar repetitive style common to |
native Jamaican singing.
Many of these people came to the old estate house
three miles below Accompong, vacant save for a care
taker, and there told me Anansi stories and sang songs
of a haunting melody. Picturesquely perched upon the
edge of an abrupt semicircular valley, the house looked
196 BLACK ROADWAYS
over wave upon wave of mountain range toward the
sea. The aromatic pimento drying on the barbecues;
the flocks of tiny paroquets that came toward evening
to feed upon the berries; the croaking lizards in the
(Recorded by Helen H. Roberts)
One Morning So Soon
J= 88 ..
.*fcij—^k £-— -— i r r *
p *—
i^li—J J g
l 4J—-J fe e U U p^-^—
One maw-nin' so I was walk - in' un-dah
ahr~c ^=* r—r^
shad - y green tree. One maw - nin' so
IjJE rc%r =P=F l* g E k
soon, I was walk -in' un-dah shad-y green
~^ j ••;?
fr-rfr—k
tree. I heah a cher-rybird said un - to me
gjlil j ^s
Wa-yo o' wa-yo wa-yo wa- yo
&Htti\i JJJJJJJ mi
Sar-ah ne-vah walk un-dah shad-y . green tree.
rafters or calling from the trees at night; the crack of
a whip in the early morning echoing from the roadway
across the valley where a cart labored; the swift violent
thunderstorms that descend in the afternoon, darken
ing for a half hour the brilliant sun; the blackness in
THE MAROON PEOPLE 197
which we all sat, with the jalousies drawn while the del
uge fell and the folk sang because it was too dark for
dictating stories; at evening in the big empty hall the
black overseer impersonating the "play-acting" dia
logue of an old "doctor play"—all these things belong
to unforgettable memories of Harmony Hall.
These Maroons are hardy, intelligent, and in the old
English sense aristocratic. They guard too jealously
their old privileges and do not listen yet to the younger
men who want to make an end of degrading supersti
tions. But their stories and songs are the best that I
heard in Jamaica, and their folk art has a grace and
spirit rarely to be found in any folk group.
REFERENCES
Beckwith, Jamaica Anansi Stories.
Bleby, 20.
Candler.
Cundall, Historic Jamaica, 324-39.
Dallas.
Edwards, 1: 522-76; 2: 86.
Gosse, A Naturalist's Sojourn, 395 ft.
Leslie, 359-63.
Long, 2: 338-50.
Ogilby, 30.
Renny, 52-63.
Roberts, "Possible Survivals of African Song."
»
Chapter XIII
FOLK ART
Th,
the Jamaica Negro gives emotional expression
to his inner life through the medium of voice and mo
tion. He does not model or carve or attempt decoration
in any but the simplest patterns. But he does dance
and sing and relate wonder stories and tales of cunning
and uproarious mirth. His loquacity and wit in speech
are employed in the popular art of riddling; in senten
tious sayings which pass into proverbs; in lies, love let
ters, and toasts; and his mobile sense for acting and
impersonation has developed an oral literature of imi
tative animal talk and an immense number of dramatic
improvisations to be produced on wake nights or at
local festivities. He has a multitude of old English
song games which are danced by the children on the
schoolhouse green and by the older folk at Sunday
School picnics and holiday gatherings, and into which
he infuses the zest and freshness of his own African wit
and sense of rhythm.
This easy loquacity of the Jamaican and his pictur
esque phrasing give charm to his intercourse as they
also impart edge to his tantrums. He has a penchant
for naming. Certain plants are called after their uses—
"Heal-it-and-draw," " See-me-contract,
" and "Search-
me-heart" —names referred to as "Kromanti talk."
"Baby-puzzle" is fed as tea to the new-born child; a
vine called "Bat-wing" or "Duck-foot" has web-shaped
leaves. Place names and nicknames often perpetuate
a pun, as the settlement called "Try-see" of the Isaiahs;
FOLK ART 199
or they may interpret the sound of a foreign appella
tive, like a place on the north side of the island, called
"Red Guava,
" said to be a corruption of the Spanish
Oro agua.
Going in and out among the folk one hears such turns
of speech as "Come a little yedda" for "further" or
"nearer," and "A worra you da say?" for "What are
you saying?" "Far enough but not too far" is a com
mon answer to an enquiry as to the length of the road
and implies some distance yet to travel. "Walk good,
me love,
"
says one to another setting out on a journey,
and "Wish you good journey, missus," they used to
say, Elizabethan fashion, in speeding me onward. A
quick pun born of the moment is not uncommon. An
old story is often repeated of the Negro slave who, hear
ing of the efforts made for emancipation by its great
advocate in England, expressed his confidence that if
Wilberforce could not gain from Parliament freedom
for the slave he "will by force." When Lord Burnham
visited the island a few years ago he was greatly amused
to hear a lad on the street say on the occasion of a bad
fire in Kingston, "If dem bring Bu'n'em come heah,
what mus' expect but bu'n'em?"
Among a people to whom the pun in a name or the
utterance of a pithy saying carries almost the deter
mining character of Fate, the proverb or familiar say
ing attains a rich and distinctive development. Almost
a thousand such sayings exclusive of variants have al
ready been recorded from the lips of the folk, and fresh
ones are coining daily. Some have a merely local spread,
and others are known all over the island. Often quoted
is the answer of a slave roused from a nap by the words,
"Dont you know massa is calling you?" who replied,
200 BLACK ROADWAYS
"Sleep hab no massa!" a spontaneous saying that has
passed into a proverb. More studied compositions are
attempted by the young wits of a district, the older en
tertainers generally contenting themselves with draw
ing upon a well-stocked memory. Such proverbs are
quoted as guides in the ordinary affairs of life. They
have a homely and vigorous phrasing more pithy than
elegant. "What maggot do befo' dog get sore yeye
[eye]?" says one who has lost a temporary source of
income. "If fe him stomach no sick, wha' you deh vomit
fe?" means emphatically "Mind your own business,"
or, literally, "Don't vomit when another man is sick."
"No pull out you inside gi' stranger, tek trash stuff
yourself," implies the folly of giving to another and
leaving yourself in want. Or, as an expression of the
philosophy of capitalist versus proletarian, "Rockstone
a riber bottom neber know sun hot.
" Many a proverb
conceals a veiled threat. Such a metaphor is a common
weapon of the weak against the strong. "Cashew neber
bear guava" means "You will get what you deserve."
"A no ebery day rain come light" means "Some day
I shall get my revenge." "Fire deh behin' man, some
time him t'ink a cool breeze," like "Lizard neber know
whe' him deh till him find himself in a puss mout,'
" im
plies retribution to follow, however long delayed. So
"Seben year neber too long fe wash 'peckle off a guinea
hen back," and the famous "No cuss alligator 'long
mout' till you cross riber.
" A variety of analogies often
plays about the same idea. The Aesopian moral of the
sick lion is rendered, "Bull ol', dem tek plantain bark
tie him," or "When Tiger get ol', every dog bark a'ter
him," or "Cottontree fa' down, nanny goat jump
ober it."
FOLK ART 201
In all these cases the abstract idea is expressed in
'
terms of a concrete analogy drawn from the daily life
of the folk and from objects in nature with which they
are familiar. The interpretation may differ in different
localities, but the form remains fixed. Often the analogy
disguises a riddling meaning which only familiarity with
usage can determine. The art differs therefore from
that employed in the folk riddle only by expressing in
the terms of the comparison an observation upon life
rather than a mere object of everyday experience.
The propounding of riddles is a common pastime at
social gatherings. The riddle regularly opens with a
formula corrupted from an old English rhyme —
Riddle me riddle
Guess me this riddle, and perhaps not,
and often sets the stage for the analogy by means of
one or the other of two popular patterns —"Going up
to town" or "My father has in his yard," shortened
to "My father has." Such a riddle takes a longer rhyth
mical swing than one in which the analogy is directly
expressed, for example, the popular analogy for the
umbrella —"Me father have a house stand upon one
post" —as compared with the universally familiar an
tithesis, "Rope run, horse stand up," for the pumpkin
on its vine. Riddles of observation are very common.
"My father has a flock of sheep; touch one, all the rest
die," describes the sensitive plant; "Going up to town
all cry, coming home they are silent," describes the
sound of feet in the damp of the early morning as com
pared with the hot dry afternoon. Almost always the
comparison involves personification, and naming is
popular. "Send boy to fetch doctor, doctor come be
fore boy," is explained as a boy, sent up a tree after a
202 BLACK ROADWAYS
water cocoanut, who throws down the cocoanut before
descending himself. "John Red-man tickle John Black-
man till he laugh 'pooka pooka'" alludes to the kettle
singing over the fire.
A common penalty in forfeit games involves the tell
ing of three riddles or three "lies." Examples of this
last form of wit are easy to obtain from any frequenter
of wakes or tea-meetings where mental dexterity is at
a premium. One may say,
Last night I was going to Mandeville and when I catch to
Pepper I forgot me face upon table in yard,
or,
Last night I stay at home and hear a mosquito turn a bam-
mie at Potsdam,
or,
Pa and I went to work ground, took a gourdie of water,
hung it on the tree. Duck eat the gourdie, leave the water
hung on tree.
Still another group amusement is the imitation in
speech of animal cries. Such so-called animal talk is of
ten reported from African fields, perhaps representing
the breakdown into sport of an outworn belief in the
claim by sorcerers to a knowledge of the language of
beasts. The "cling-cling" or blackbird sings,
Black pan tumble down, ping, ping, ping, ping,
Pick tick off a cow, ting, ting, ting, ting.
Pigeon says,
Coo, co-o, I beg you piece o' pork, I beg you piece o' pork,
ngr-r-r!
Hawk sings,
Hark! hark! hark! pin-ya! pin-ya1
y A
FOLK ART 203
Potoo (owl) cries,
Ah, who-o? ah, who-o-o?
until the frightened darkey answers, "A me, Quaco,
a go 'long wid de demijohn o' rum."
Turkey says,
We poor people, people, people walk barefooted!
Gobbler cries,
Keep up! keep up! you will soon get it!
Swabe of Mandeville, who gave me these calls, per
formed the pigeon, the turkey, and the gobbler to an
applauding audience with perfect imitation of each
bird's characteristic action in calling. Pretty dialogues
also occur in which the song of the mocking bird (called
"nightingale" in Jamaica) is interpreted. One runs:
You see me leg? you see me leg? sickness! sickness!
B'y!b'y!b'y!b'y![boy]
Sah! sah!
You see de cow?
Yes, sah.
Whe' deh?
See 'em yah!
Ca' em come.
Yes, sah.
Oh, ho! tu-we! oh, ho! tu-we! tu-we!
Another,
Jeannot! Jeannot! Jeannot!
Buy yo' meat, buy yo' meat.
Carry come, carry come, carry come.
Can't carry, can't carry, can't carry, can't carry.
Draw
i',
draw
i',
draw i'.
Too heavy, too heavy, too heavy.
Salt
i',
salt
i',
salt
i',
salt
i',
salt i'.
204 BLACK ROADWAYS
Such forms of folk wit develop under the pressure
of social competition as part of the entertainment at
group gatherings. The great occasions for merrymaking
are at weddings, at funerals, and during the special
festivals of the Christmas and New Year season and
(a holiday today going out of fashion) of Emancipa
tion Day on August 2. Dancing parties may be given
at any time in private homes, and these are always ac
companied by a certain formality. All-day picnics are
held in midsummer and all-night "tea-meetings" either
then or more often at the New Year. A single enter
tainer gives this party, to which admission is charged.
At one end of the leaf-covered booth erected for the
occasion, a platform is constructed on which sits the
"chairman" who is chosen to preside. Benches for the
onlookers range about three sides. The girls attend in
new frocks, wearing ribbons and other ornaments all
of a prearranged color. After a succession of formal
toasts and set dances, the "queen" selected for the
occasion is unveiled by the highest bidder for that priv
ilege, and there is an elaborate cake to be sold in slices
or sometimes small cakes in fancy patterns (called
"show bread" or "crown bread"). After this the night
wears through with riddles, games, stories, or other
forms of amusement. In Mandeville there is no queen,
but the men vie with one another in presenting the
girls with "thruppence worth of crown bread," to
which the lady is supposed to make some such witty
acknowledgment as
" I will not eat
it,
I
will not drink
it,
but
I
will send
it
to England to buy
a
belt to put
about my wissy-wassy waist,
" or
" to get
a
pair of shoes
to wear to church, and instead of the shoes crying 'Ne'
pass! ne' pass!' they will cry 'Love! love!'"
FOLK ART 205
Jamaican song has a peculiar style which, so far as
my experience goes, distinguishes it readily from any
Afro-American folk music developed in this country.
In many ways its background has differed from our
own. Something depends upon the African Kromanti
stock, the tradition of whose influence yet survives;
much upon Spanish contacts. The predominance of
the English church music is to be felt in the intoning
effect of the more serious reflective song; the Jamaican
will not class revival songs based upon Moody and
Sankey tunes as "church music." Within the last hun
dred years, too, East Indian melodies must have be
come familiar.
Except for the lack of rhyme, poetic style is less read
ily distinguishable. Directly narrative song does not
exist in Jamaica. Songs composed upon an epic basis
are so allusive and elliptical in character as to be in
telligible only to one who knows the story. The com
poser seizes upon the situation involved therein and
by repetitive increments stresses its dominant emotion.
It is as if he carried on a dialogue with the actors in the
story, permitting them a single reiteration and himself
the office of chorus, as the representative of a sympa
thetic but regulative society. This method is illustrated
when an English ballad is made over into Jamaican
song. For example, the familiar ballad of "Little Mus-
grove" reappears in a popular song which runs:
Lie still, my pretty young man,
Lie still, my pretty young man,
Lie still, my pretty young man,
As my father driving his sheep
All them making a deal of noise.
Who is there goes away,
206 BLACK ROADWAYS
Who is there goes away,
Who is there goes away,
It's a murder will be there
It's a murder will be there.
Thus the native song is normally composed of a reflec
tive solo in prose or recitative which is improvised or
"composed" for the occasion, and a popular chorus in
which all join, generally accompanied by action per
formed in unison. In a completed song this chorus is
represented by a single line (what Jekyll calls the "bob
bin") which is tossed into the song again and again to
bind together its not v,ery coherent parts. Sometimes
an effect is produced satisfying to our own ear, like the
charming
Carry me ackee go a Solas market,
Not a quattie would sell
Lord! not a light, not a bite,
Not a quattie would sell
Not a light, not a bite,
What a Saturday night!
Ordinarily we must trust to appreciation of the irony,
whimsical or philosophic rather than tragic, with which
some homely incident is woven into song. The uneasi
ness of crowns is the theme of this song (from which
the chorus is lost) :
Dunbar plant a white cane,
White cane grow to doubloon,
Doubloon will buy me a long coat,
Long coat will hit me at my knee pan.
Humbug it! Dunbar, humbug it!
In a little domestic tragedy in which a woman weeps
for her man who has been locked up in jail pending
trial, the recitative runs:
FOLK ART 207
Susan a bawl
Wid dem baby in dem han',
Say "Quaco won' come!"
How Quaco fe come?
Fo' dem hab him in a sheckle
Tie han' an' foot.
Susan hab fe bawl
Fe nine days more,
Till we go to sergeant major
Fe gi' him bail.
Den Susan may 'top bawl,
'Top, Susan, fe bawl,
out of which the chorus selects the leading theme:
Quaco won' cornel
Susan a bawl say
"Quaco won' cornel
You have a bawl, Susan,
You have a bawl, Susan.
Work songs are a good example of this kind of com
position, especially the digging songs, sung in chorus
when a group come together to prepare a field for plant
ing. The women tend the fire while one chosen as cook
prepares the breakfast in a common pot. The men line
up at one end of the field resting upon their hoes and
facing the song leader, who stands at some distance
down the field. A familiar chorus is chosen, upon which
the song leader then proceeds to extemporize a ram
bling tale centering about the incident commemorated
in the chorus. At the proper moment the whole line
take up the song and sweep down the field shouting
the chorus over and over in rhythmical unison and
keeping time with the stroke of the hoe until, the spurt
over, they rest again upon their hoes, and the leader
208 BLACK ROADWAYS
takes up the thread of story. One dictated song ran as
nearly like this as I could get it down:
Solo: You write a letter send to the government, and the
government write a letter send to the sergeant to come here
wid handcuff for prisoner d'eh, for
Chorus: John, John buy one corn piece,
Potoo [owl or nighthawk, a bird of ill omen] dine dere.
Solo: Then he sell the corn piece to the next man; so when
this man go in corn piece, this Potoo won't 'low the man to
cut the corn, for
y Chorus: John, John buy one corn piece,
Potoo dine dere.
Another song and chorus from St. Mary, sung to the
tune of "Somebody dying eb'ry day," was said to be
composed by the workers on the railway in that parish
to commemorate a tragedy in "number nine tunnel."
Ten poun' hammer kill John Henry,
Somebody dying ebery day
Tek de hammer and give it to de worker,
Somebody dying ebery day
Number nine tunnel, I will not work dere,
Somebody dying ebery day.
St. Mary mountain is a fruitful mountain,
Somebody dying ebery day
When me go home me will tell me mother,
Somebody dying ebery day
Me no born yah [here], me come from yondah,
Somebody dying ebery day.
A song composed in the cockpit country at the time
of the extension of the railroad from Porus to Montego
Bay which broke the isolation of that section from the
rest of the island, consisted of disconnected reflections
recited rather than sung and a chorus in which all
joined, sung to a very pleasing melody, as follows:
FOLK ART 209
1. From Kingston to Porus extension combine, it's solid
wood and iron!
Chorus: We shall be glad when the train comes down
Over the hills and mountains.
We shall be glad when the train comes down
Over the rocky mountains.
2. The cotton tree on the top of Balaclava tunnel is like a
queen's crown!
Chorus: We shall be glad, etc.
3. When the track reaches Montego Bay, what will be
come of the poor trainmen (how will those who have been
laying the road make a living) ? They will t 'ief and be sent
to the workhouse!
Chorus: We shall be glad, etc.
It has seemed to me in more recent visits that the
spirit of group song was passing out of Jamaican folk
life. The men more often clear ground silently, the
women at their washing by the brook are either voice
less or if caught singing betray self-consciousness. The
loading of boats is carried on without the rhythmic
song which used to lighten labor. In old days satirical
song served as a castigator of social delinquencies more
effectual than the law. Individual lyric must longer
survive. Its place comes very early in the emotional
life of the folk. At least in St. Elizabeth it is the cus
tom for a child to compose a secret song which is there
after his own play song for times of solitude. A Jamai
can version of the Bull-husband tale alludes to this cus
tom. When the little brother who has surprised the mag
ic transformation song from the bull-man begins to hum
it at a family gathering and the bull-husband objects,
the family say, "Oh! let him alone, that is only his lit
14
210 BLACK ROADWAYS
tie play song!" or words to that effect. Never shall I
forget the passion of pride in the tone of one small com
poser when he refused the money we had offered for his
secret song. "My song is worth more than a thrup-
pence!" he said, but he belonged to the capitalist class
in his district and not to the humbler proletariat. Thus
from childhood the folk are accustomed in their mo
ments of lonely reflection to shape their philosophy
into song.
I do not know that poetry is ever attempted in Ja
maica without the accompaniment of music. Instru
mental music is also generally accompanied by song. I
have spoken of the survival, often for purposes of magic,
of the conch horn, the "bon" and gombay drums, the
gourd rattle, and the jawbone vibrator. Common ac
companiments of song are still the guitar and tam
bourine. The flute is the only instrument which carries
a melody independent of the voice.
Its history is very old in Jamaica. Patrick Browne
says of the native flutes made of hollowed trumpet vine
stalks, "I have not been displeased with their sound."
Following a trail in the bush one day I heard ahead a
few delicate notes falling into a kind of tune and met
a child playing upon such a native instrument. The
Jamaican flute which I own is made of the stalk of a
trumpet vine cut twelve inches long and hollowed. One
end is plugged and a hole for the mouth cut at the side,
the other remains open, and six holes, cut less than an
inch apart, are played upon by the fingers. Judging by
the scorched color about the edge, I should say that
the holes must have been burned out with a hot iron.
A brown ring less than an inch wide finishes each end
for decoration. Another modern flute now in the Nat
FOLK ART 211
ural History Museum is polished to a rich mahogany
with cocoanut oil and rum. Beckford describes the Kro-
manti flutes as larger in size and accompanied by the
rhythm of a rattle. He says:
Caramantee flutes are made from the porous branches of
the trumpet tree, a yard in length, nearly the thickness of the
upper part of a bassoon; they have generally three holes at
the bottom; are held, in point of direction, like the hautboy;
and while the right hand stops the holes, in the left is shaken
by one of the party a hollow ball that is filled with pebbles.
The music so produced he characterizes as "the most
melancholy that I ever remember to have heard," the
high notes "uncommonly wild, but yet sweet," and
the lower, "deep, majestic, impressive."
Of stringed instruments the simplest described by
early writers is the Whidah "bender," a late form of
which is perhaps described by Marsden as "a bow with
two or three wires which they struck with a stick."
Beckford says:
The bender is an instrument upon which the Whydow Ne
groes, I believe, in particular excel. It is made of a bent stick,
the ends of which are restrained in this direction by a slip of
dried grass; the upper part of which is gently compressed be
tween the lips, and to which the breath gives a soft and pleas
ing vibration; and the other end is graduated by a slender
stick that beats upon the nerve, if I may so express
it,
and
confines the actual activities of the sound, and these together
produce
a
trembling,
a
querulous, and
a
delightful harmony.
The banjo or "merry-wang" must have been of Span
ish introduction but imitated by the folk with the ma
terials at their command. Edwards calls
it
"an imper
fect kind of violoncello but played on by the fingers
like
a
guitar." Long describes
it
as
a
212 BLACK ROADWAYS
rustic guitar of four strings made with a calabash; a slice of
which being taken off, a dried bladder or skin, is spread across
the largest section; and this is fastened to a handle, which
they take great pains in ornamenting with a sort of rude
carved work and ribbands.
Finally Sloane, writing as early as 1700, describes
several sorts of instruments in imitation of Lutes, made of
small gourds fitted with Necks strung with Horse hairs or the
peeled Stalks of climbing Plants or Withs. These Instruments
are sometimes made of hollowed timber covered with Parch
ment or other Skin wetted, having a Bow for its Neck, the
Strings ty 'd longer or shorter as they would alter their sound.
Drum and rattle are the instruments which touch
nearest to the chord of original Negro emotion. "When
I hear the sound of the drum, my heart is merry,
" said
old Gracie of Lacovia, and by this she meant no feeling
of uproarious mirth but that liberation of the spirit
within the bounds of a regularized personality which
is the gift of art to the individual. Sloane in 1700 de
scribes "Drums made of a piece of a hollow tree, cov
ered on one end with any green skin, and stretched
with Thols or Pins," an instrument forbidden on the
plantations because used for war in Africa. This must
be the gombay of the sorcerer. Frequently time was
kept merely by beating upon a board with a stick or
with hands upon the mouth of an empty gourd or jar.
Gourd rattles, Sloane tells us, were used as fetishes by
the Indians of the Mosquito coast, who mingled with
the Jamaica Negroes of his day. They were made of
calabashes with small stones inside and a stick inset.
The Indians adorned them with feathers and "planted"
them among their houses. Such an object was called
maraca. After "feeding" for thirteen or fourteen days
FOLK ART 213
it would cause roots to grow and would "answer ques
tions."
Stewart says:
The negroes have few amusements nor have they much
time to devote to amusement! Plays, as they call them, is
their principal and favorite one. This is an assemblage of both
sexes, who form a ring round a male and female dancer, who
perform to the music of their drums, and the songs of the
other females of the party, one alternate going over the song,
which her companions repeat in chorus. Both the singers and
dancers show the exactest precision as to time and measure.
This rude music is usually accompanied by a kind of rattles,
being small calabashes filled with the black hard seed of a
plant which the negroes call Indian shot, or with the seed of
the wild liquorice. Nigh at hand, this music is harsh and clam
orous; at a distance, however, it has a not unpleasing sound.
When two dancers have fatigued themselves pretty well, a
second couple enter the ring, and thus the amusement con
tinues. So fond are the negroes of this amusement that they
will continue for nights and days enjoying it.
Some writers describe such dances as dramatic im
personations of a love episode. Many speak of their
erotic character. Sloane says that "their songs [when
they danced on feast days] are all bawdy or tending
that way." Edwards calls the dances "in the highest
degree licentious"; so does Phillippo, who describes
a dance which consisted in "stamping the feet, accom
panied by various contortions of the body, with strange
and indecent attitudes." At one point "head erect or
inclined forward, elbows fixed, pointing from side to
side, hands nearly united in front, and lower extrem
ities held firm, the whole person moved without rais
ing the feet from the ground," or "making the head
and limbs fixed postures they writhed and turned the
214 BLACK ROADWAYS
.
J
body upon its own axis slowly advancing toward each
other or retreating to the other part of the circumfer
ence.
" Marsden writes, "Every Saturday night the
Negroes indulge in dancing . . . They put themselves
into strange postures and shake their hips and great
breasts, their feet beating time remarkably quick; two
of them generally dance together, and sometimes do
not move six inches from the same place.
" The dances
here described are no doubt movements of the shay-
shay, that erotic dance to jazz music which is supposed
to have originated in Africa but which De Lisser thinks
derived from a Spanish dance called mento, bamboula,
or chica and which
" consists of slow movements of the
body, and the point of perfection is reached when, as
in Haiti, the dancer never allows the upper part of the
body to move as she writhes or shuffles over the
ground." The name De Lisser would derive from the
French chasse. The shayshay is danced with a single
partner and always to song. A great many Jamaican
songs set to jazz music are originally improvised shay-
shays, generally satirical, and often conveying an erotic
meaning concealed in symbol. The better-bred Negroes
do not dance the shayshay, but imitate the English in
waltz, two-step, and quadrille. Some stately old Eng
lish steps like the polka are known by the older women.
Of possibly African survivals danced among the folk
one can see individual exhibitions. A servant girl in
Westmoreland did a very pretty clog which she called
"spotting," and some young men in the Pedro Plains
exhibited some remarkable muscular feats to the
rhythm of music. The whole subject deserves much
more careful study.
It is in story-telling that the folk best exercise their
FOLK ART 215
powers of artistic production. Dance, song, and dra
matic impersonation here find free scope.
The earliest recorder of the narrative art in Jamaica
is Monk Lewis. One of the stories written into his
journal more than a hundred years ago is told in al
most identical form today. This was a borrowed story;
two others closer to the native experience still survive
in part. Lewis found two classes of stories common in
his day—"wonder tales," in which the supernatural
element prevailed, and "nager tricks," in which some
stupid fellow served as the butt of his fellows. In one
form is expressed the tragic element in folk feeling, in
the other the comic. Today the last class scarcely sur
vives other than in an occasional noodle story told of
a "Congo nager," like that of the slave who, sent to
bring home a clock from the repair shop, kicked it to
pieces because it persisted in striking, or of the Congo
man who, seeing that the tree he was chopping was
about to fall upon his head, adjusted his cotta to break
the blow. Of the first class many fine survivals are re
lated today, although modern European or East Indian
tales are fast taking the place of the old tales of magic
based upon the belief of the folk. Lewis remarks how
this kind of story is characterized by the snatch of song
upon which the tale turns and for which the action it
self often serves as mere background for the repeated
intervals of song. Thus the narrative bears to the song a
relation corresponding to the song leader's recitative to
the work chorus, or, as in our own ballads, the narrative
to dialogue or refrain. Sometimes the song takes the
form of a mere nonsense refrain, as in the case of the
magic song by which the bull-husband effects his trans
formation; sometimes it voices a call, lament, command,
216 BLACK ROADWAYS
which shows incremental variation in accordance with
the dramatic progress of the story. To the weird effect
of this song, with its haunting melody, is added the awe
of the supernatural; it is as an instrument of magic that
the song finds place in the action, before whose tragic
compulsion human volition is helpless. As a romantic
element it is used to invoke aid from some member of
the family group or from a lover; more tragically it
voices the forces of the supernatural world. In one story
when a boy breaks the taboo which his mother when
living has imposed against setting traps on Sunday,
her spirit creeps into the trap in the form of a snake,
which, under repeated compulsion, he is obliged to take
home and cut up, then build up the fire, put on the pot,
lay the table, draw up a chair, and eat the fatal food.
After this he is further instructed to dig his grave, make
his coffin, and take to his bed, or whatever else the in
genuity of the recounter of the cantefable can devise
to prolong the gathering doom. Competitive magic is
expressed in song, as in the story of the witch who sings
a magic song as she chops against the tree in which her
victim has taken refuge, while he bears the tree up with
a counter formula. Again it may be used, as in one of
Lewis's recitals, to prolong the tension in the execution
of some retributive fate. His story is based upon the
belief that water will rise and cover anyone attempting
to cross who is guilty of thieving, but it is not always
clear whether the song is sung as a lament by the vic
tim or as a means of magic compulsion by the avenger.
A quaintly immoral story from the cockpits shows the
natural indignation of "Massa Jesus" against the lad
whose charms have betrayed his wife into forgetting to
take in his clean clothes from the yard before rain fell.
.
FOLK ART 217
"And Massa Jesus said dat de wife tell him dat Sammy
de Comferee is prettier 'an him dat made him." Hence
Sammy is condemned to climb a red-hot rod where, un
der the magical influence of song, he gradually melts
away to a heap of fat. "An' all de pretty men dat come
into de worl' get some of Sammy de Comferee's fat, but
all de ugly ones don't get none." Again a magic song,
learned by stealth, betrays the fish lover into the hands
of his enemies —in Grimm, in a similar tale of the elf
lover, the call is made by striking against a rock. In the
Jamaican wolf and kid story it is a song that opens the
door to "the prettiest girl in and around that country."
Old Conch sings a magic song that causes timber to
"pick up himself and mek one leap in two mile." Song
induces the dumb child to speak. By means of a magic
song the bird monster is vanquished. A bird in the tree
betrays the murder of the girl in the well, but this is a
European story, as are also the song sung by the mur
dered wife who returns at night to suckle her child, and
that by which the bride in the Beauty and the Beast
story recalls herself to her lost husband.
This last story illustrates two important character
istics of Jamaican story-telling. The ingenuity of the
Negro in rationalizing a situation whose symbolism is
foreign to him is to be observed when the true wife
achieves the washing test for the symbolic "three drops
of blood" with which the husband's shirt was stained
at his departure: "Well, den, only cut a lime an' queeze
it pon de t'ree drops a blood an' wash off!" It is this
immediate visualization of the action which fills the
stories with local allusions true to native experience.
When Cinderella is summoned from the house by the
persistency of the prince, she sits down on a grocery
218 BLACK ROADWAYS
box to try on the slipper. In the second place it is sig
nificant that the wife is supposed to recall herself to
the memory of her husband through the pronouncing
of his secret name, "for nobody knew that his name
was Bull-of-all-the-land.'" Stories based on the secret
name theme—of which our "Rumpelstilzkin" is the
unique European example—are fairly common in Ja
maica. This happens because in West Africa the be
lief in the influence upon a man's life of the secret
name is still as active as ever—a belief recorded back
in early Egyptian times. The wife keeps the secret
sacred, and words in common use which happen to
correspond with the name must be replaced by others.
In Hawaii a man fears the discoverer of the secret
name because its knowledge proves another's com
mand of a stronger god than his own. Probably the Af
rican idea is similar. In Jamaica "Grandy Do-and-do"
refuses food to her servant unless the girl can call her
name; "Brar Able" falls and breaks his neck when he
hears his secret name in song; girls agree to marry any
one who can guess their secret name; not the boy who
destroys, but the boy who can call the name of a mon
ster is rewarded; a man retains a food supply from his
family through knowledge of its name; the mention in
counting of a number identical with the queen's name
causes death.
During the recital of these cantefables the audience
sometimes joins in the song. Or a comic story may end
in a song of rejoicing to which the audience gets up
and dances, but I think this is less common than form
erly; I heard such forms only from very old narrators
and generally accompanying an animal rather than a
wonder tale.
FOLK ART 219
Now that the old "nager trick" tale is dead, the an
imal tale, of which Lewis knew nothing, has taken its
place for witty comedy. Most of these stories center
about the figure of the spider, Anansi, from whom in
deed the whole art of composition is named. Anansi
is a little bald-headed man with a falsetto voice and a
cringing manner in presence of his superiors, who lives
by his wits and treats outrageously anyone upon whom
he has the chance to impose his superior cunning. He
is a famous fiddler and something of a magician. In
some stories he has the form of a man, in others that
of a spider, and in still others his transformation into
a spider at the moment of supreme danger is pointed
to as the explanation of spiders and their habits at the
present day. He has a wife and a family of children
who share his exploits, notably a quick-witted son who
eventually outdoes his father. The name Tacoomah,l
said to distinguish another form of spider from the true '
Anansi, is applied sometimes to his wife or to the quickl
witted son, but more often to a neighbor, his accom
plice in strategy, and butt of his knaveries. "Tiger"
is the dull-witted bully whose misfortunes at the hands
of the quicker-witted Anansi are always applauded.
But not always does the trickster thus preserve the
sympathy of his group. There are some story-tellers
who, like the immortal Uncle Remus, revel in the idea
that "Anansi trick them all; nobody can trick Anansi,
only Brar Death !" In a very great number of tales, how
ever, retributive justice intervenes, and Anansi him
self falls into the pit he has digged for another. He fools
the domestic animals, but Goat or Monkey or Dog,
more astute than others, refuses his trap. Tiger and
Monkey, with Assono (a huge unknown), are the only
220 BLACK ROADWAYS
actors in the story not local to the island. Parrot, Black
bird (as Cling-cling), Ground dove, and some domes
tic fowls appear; of insects, Duck ant, "But-but" (but
terfly), Tumble-bug; of reptiles, Snake, Lizard, Turtle
and Old Conch the Snail; Cat, Dog, and Rat have a
group of stories to themselves, and Cock and Cock
roach appear as protagonists. A good many European
trickster stories not primarily animal tales have been
worked into the animal cycle with Anansi as substi
tute for the legitimate hero.
The rendering of such stories is exceedingly dramatic
and lively. Stories as taken down from dictation are
only a conventionalized record of what really happens
when a clown-like lad stands in the midst of the circle
at night after the work of the day is ended, and with
pantomime and change of intonation proceeds to act
out rather than narrate the witty happenings of the
story in a dialect completely unintelligible to the stran
ger. Only a word here and there assures him that he is
listening to an English folk rendering. This is the mod
ern story method. A single plot or incident is told, and
there the story ends, often embellished (when a song
does not conclude the recital) with a familiar proverb
or an explanatory ending, according to the taste of the
narrator for moralizing or for natural philosophy. Oc
casionally an old-time narrator will string one adven
ture upon another without any special coherence, but
on the whole the single plot is universal. Almost every
one seemed able to try his hand at a story, but in every
district there were narrators especially able who had
the reputation of entertainers and who knew the most
and the best stories. Especially in the Cockpits old tales
FOLK ART 221
were told me by the Maroons that I did not hear else
where on the island. There was, however, no esoteric
hoarding of a story form, and hence the same story was
told in very much the same way all over the island.
The tales of magic in Jamaica respond to a definite
belief in the supernatural powers which determine the
action of the story. The "nager tricks" record the stu
pidities of the less quickly assimilative in meeting new
conditions of life; they are such real if exaggerated in
cidents as occur in any close community sharing an
artificial environment. Has the animal tale any rela
tion to folk belief and to the- life of the folk ? There is
no doubt that the animal stories are often told with a
distinct sense in the mind of the narrator of the animal
form. "Horse fling up him tail over him back gallop
go," says one narrator; another. paused to explain,
"Anansi was a man in this story." Like the spirits of
the supernatural underworld, these actors in the an
imal stories have the power of form-changing. They
live lives like those of human beings on earth and so
measure their wit against the strong and crafty. Is
there any relation in the mind of the folk between this
animal world in which Anansi moves with his fellows
and that underworld of shadows in which the dead live
in a manner corresponding to their life on earth? Anansi
himself takes his origin from the spider god of the Gold
Coast, where Spider acts as hero to the Tschi-speak-
ing natives, corresponding to Turtle of the Ewe-speak
ing people and Rabbit of the farther coast. He is
thought of as a magician. A kind of religious awe at
taches to him. It is regarded as "not good" to tell An
ansi stories (the term includes the whole range of folk
composition, including song or riddle) before dark or
222 BLACK ROADWAYS
t
on Sunday. Such recitals are especially connected in
the minds of the folk with gatherings for the dead. An
old-time pen-keeper on a remote estate in Westmore
land even asserted that Anansi was "headman" in the
underworld, but I do not think this idea is common.
Nevertheless, the animals which occur in the stories
belong also to beliefs about the form-changing powers
of the dead. Old tales of witch and sorcerer convey an
emotional excitement which shows the realistic imag
ination under the spell of real mysteries of the spirit
world. I believe that actually an underplay of reality
has given to the comic situations of the animal stories
their audacious wit and lifelikeness —that audiences,
or at least individuals, really believe themselves shar
ing in the happenings of this underworld; that the be
lief in a ghost world filled with the shape-shifting dead,
which plays so strong a part in the obeah faith of the
present day, expresses itself also in the popularity of
the animal folk tale as it took shape in the magic won
der tales of the past.
It is impossible to conclude this study without some
observations upon the future of folk life in Jamaica.
The knowledge of the belief of the folk and especially
of its outer expression in life and art, while it leaves
much to deplore, also gives encouragement for the fu
ture. We find a lively, imitative race with a strong
practical philosophy and native wit. Especially we ob
serve that genius for outer form which goes to the mak
ing of a harmonious social life and to its dramatic ren
dering in song and art as a means for stabilizing the
inner passions. Much has been done to encourage that
sense of order through the imposition of British law and
British social and religious patterns. More must, how
FOLK ART 223
ever, be done to bring the great mass of the folk out
of their present social isolation into a more robust and
wholesome way of thinking and living.
At present the native folk ways are losing their hold
on the people. Poverty since the war has become a more
pitiful reality to the masses, however the opportuni
ties for the more able may have improved, because the
prices of foreign commodities have risen out of pro
portion to those of the folk products or of wages for
the small earner. The supply is always too great to
force a commensurate market price. The comparative
ease with which a man can raise his own food puts him
at a disadvantage in competitive foreign markets. Fur
thermore the standard of value has been completely
demoralized since the war, first by the immense fluc
tuations in the market, which dropped from the height
of dizzy opulence to the level of destitution, and sec
ond by the influx during the period of the blockade of
American tourists with their easy way of throwing
money about so as to awaken disproportionate expec
tations among the ignorant masses. On the other hand
the practice of the ruling classes to keep down folk
prices to the folk level instead of stimulating excellence
by paying commensurate prices may be equally de
moralizing.
Besides their poverty, another cause for the rest
lessness of the folk is to be found in the withdrawal
of the whites and the educated colored from interest
in their sports and pastimes. Thus left without the
stimulus of an aristocratic sponsorship such as used
to cheer on the parades and dramatic performances
of the old days, the people, especially the young, lose
respect for their old activities. Some seek an outlet in
224 BLACK ROADWAYS
the school dances and athletics after the English pat
tern, which the more intelligent of the native school
teachers encourage among their pupils. Others less for
tunate turn to the emotional outlet of religious orgies
or to the airing of social antagonisms in the law courts.
It may be said for the poverty of the folk that what
the Obeah Man leaves, the lawyer exacts. Even the
improving conditions of education, while opening the
way for a few able, leave the great masses bookless
with no means of satisfying any possibly awakened
curiosity. Too much cannot be said in praise of the
work of the church among the folk; but the church
itself stops at spiritual enlightenment; it does not take
responsibility for the material order. I have seen the
wealthy colored mistresses of an estate pride them
selves upon the large sum their church was contribut
ing to foreign missions while their own laborers were
emaciated and in rags.
It is a common habit to lay all such outward signs
of poverty to the shiftlessness of the folk who know
better than they do. This accusation is no doubt en
tirely justified. The black is shiftless and allows his
house and water supply to go to ruin through pure in
ertia. This is also true of many an educated Jamaican
of the better classes. I lodged some weeks at a country
hotel of good reputation for which all the bath water
had to be drawn from the common village drinking-
pool and that for drinking brought bottled from the
town twelve miles distant, merely because the colored
owner had neglected to repair the pipes which should
have fed the admirably constructed tank during the
rainy season. The same carelessness leads the folk to
carry water on their heads from a source of supply
FOLK ART 225
miles from home rather than to provide for such an
emergency by means of a little labor.
The British doctrine of individual liberty hesitates
to apply paternalism to the problems of folk shiftless-
ness and the degeneration of healthy popular enter
tainment. But the institution in each district of or
chestras, competitive chorus singing, dramatic com
panies, and daytime dancing on the open green would
do more to wipe out obeah than all the court proceed
ings on the calendar. It is necessary that not only a
few picked athletes, a chosen group of girl scouts be
trained in healthy activity, but that the whole com
munity participate in such amusements as are pecul
iarly adapted to their racial genius. It is essential that
the upper class sponsor such activities. It is also pos
sible that the inertia against thrift might be met by
means of such paternal regulations. The appointing
of festival days for each district during which all re
pairs to houses and tanks and the putting in order of
yards and fences were to be attended to, with proper
provision for inspection, prizes, bands, and feasting,
might in the course of time produce a spirit of eager
and healthy competition among the folk as a whole
which would result in a new sense of cooperation and
a new love for household dignity. Possibly the sums
gathered in the churches for foreign missions might
for a time be well devoted to such a cause. Enthusias
tic and tireless and wise leadership should be in the
hands of trained social workers under government em
ploy. The native respect for the government and for
the white ruling class is a healthy sign in this little is
land group of African immigrants which augurs well
for its ultimate solidifying upon a higher plane of gen
15
226 BLACK ROADWAYS
uine folk culture.
REFERENCES
Story:
Bates.
Beckwith, Jamaica Anansi Stories.
Jekyll, 1-156.
Lewis, 2S3-S9, 290-95, 301-8.
Milne-Home.
Musgrave.
Rampini, 115-30.
Smith.
Trowbridge.
Wona.
Loquacity and wit:
Edwards, 2: 100-3.
Phillippo, 200-2.
Rampini, 88.
Williams, 202 ff.
Proverbs :
Banbury, 39-43.
Bates, 38-42.
Beckwith, Jamaica Proverbs.
Cundall, Jamaica Negro Proverbs.
Frank.
Rampini (appendix), 175-82.
Riddles:
Beckwith, Jamaica Anansi Stories, 183-221.
Games:
Beckwith, Folk Games.
De Lisser, In Jamaica and Cuba, 126.
Jekyll, 190-215.
Rampini, 84, 85.
FOLK ART 227
Music:
Beckford, 1:215-17; 2: 121.
Beckwith, Folk Games; Christmas Mummings.
Browne, 110.
Edwards, 2: 101-6.
Gardner, 183, 386.
Jekyll, 157-228.
Long, 2:423-25
Renny, 168 ff.
Roberts.
Sloane, 1 : xlviii-li.
Dance:
Beckford, 1:390.
Bell, 29-37.
De Lisser, In Jamaica and Cuba, 107 ff.
Edwards, 2: 103.
Gardner, 183 ff., 383.
Jekyll, 217-77.
Lewis, 79.
Long, 2:474.
Marsden, 33.
Phillippo, 241-44.
Stewart, 261-65.
Williams, 19-27.
r *
REFERENCES
Banbury, T., Jamaica Superstitions or The Obeah Book; a
complete treatise of the absurdities believed in by the people of
the island, by the Rector (native) of St. Peter's Church, Hope
Bay, Portland. Jamaica, 1894.
Bangs, Outram, and Kennard, Frederick, Birds of Jamaica.
Kingston, Jamaica, 1920.
Barclay, Alexander, A Practical View of the Present State of
Slavery in the West Indies. London, 1826.
Barham, Henry, Hortus Americanus: containing an account
of the trees, shrubs, and other vegetable productions of
South America, and the West-India Islands, and partic
ularly of the Island of Jamaica. . . . By the late Dr. H. B.,
to which is added a Linnaean Index, etc., edited by A. Aik-
man. Kingston, Jamaica, 1794.
Bates, William C, "Creole Folk-lore from Jamaica: 1. Pro
verbs: 2: Nancy Stories," Journal of American Folk-lore,
9: 38-42: 121-26. New York, 1896.
Beckford, William, A Descriptive Account of the Island of Ja
maica. 2 vols. London, 1790.
Beckwith, Martha W., Christmas Mummings in Jamaica
(Publications of the Folk-lore Foundation). Vassar College,
1923.
Folk Games in Jamaica. Vassar College, 1922.
Jamaica Anansi Stories (Memoirs of the American Folk
lore Society, 17.) New York, 1924.
Jamaica Folk Lore (Memoirs of the American Folk-lore So
ciety, 21.) New York, 1928.
Jamaica Proverbs. Vassar College, 1925.
Notes on Jamaican Ethnobotany. Vassar College, 1927.
"Some Religious Cults in Jamaica," American Journal of
Psychology, 34: 32-45. Cornell University, 1923.
"The English Ballad in Jamaica," Publications of the Mod
ern Language Association of America, 39: 455-83. New
York, 1924.
230 BLACK ROADWAYS
^
The Hussay Festival in Jamaica. Vassar College, 1924.
Belisario, L. M., Sketches of Character in illustration of the
Habits, Occupations, and Costumes of the Negro Population
in the Island of Jamaica, drawn after Nature and in Lith
ography (2 numbers). Kingston, 1837.
Bell, H. J., Obeah: Witchcraft in the West Indies. London, 1889.
Bigelow, John, Jamaica in 1850. New York, 1851.
Bleby, Henry, Death Struggle of Slavery. London, 1853.
Blome, Richard, Extracts from a description of the Island of
Jamaica, etc. Published in London by Richard Blome, in
the year 1678; reprinted by W. M. Anderson (pages 38-46).
New York, Kingston, London, 1851.
Bridges, George W., The Annals of Jamaica. 2 vols. London,
1828.
Browne, Patrick, The Civil and Natural History of Jamaica.
London, 1789.
Candler, John, Extracts from the Journal of John Candler
whilst traveling in Jamaica. London, 1840.
Census, 1920, Census of Jamaica and its Dependencies. April
25th, 1921. Kingston, 1922.
Cundall, Frank, Folk-lore of the Negroes of Jamaica, " Folk
lore, 15: 87-94, 206-14, 450-56; 16: 68-77. London, 1904,
1905.
Historic Jamaica. London, 1915.
Jamaica Negro Proverbs and Sayings. Kingston, 1910.
Jamaica under the Spaniards, abstracted from the archives
of Seville. Kingston, 1919.
Dallas, R. C, The History of the Maroons, from their origin to
the establishment of their chief tribes at Sierra Leone; includ
ing the expedition to Cuba for the purpose of procuring Span
ish chasseurs; and the state of the island of Jamaica for the
last ten years; with a succinct history of the island previous to
that period. London, 1803.
Dancer, Thomas, The Medical Assistant or Jamaica practice
of Physic, designed chiefly for the use of families and planta
REFERENCES 231
tions. 3rd ed. London and Kingston, 1819.
De Lisser, H. C, In Jamaica and Cuba. Kingston, 1910.
tions. 3rd ed. London and Kingston, 1819.
Jane. Kingston, 1913.
Twentieth Century Jamaica. Kingston, 1913.
Edwards, Bryan, History, civil and commercial of the British
Colonies in the West Indies. 3 vols. 3rd ed., London, 1801.
Observations on the Disposition, Character, Manners and
Habits of Life of the Maroon Negroes of the Island of Ja
maica; and a Detail of the Origin, Progress, and Termina
tion of the late War between those People and the White
Inhabitants; first published separately in 1796. Appendix
to History. I: 522-76.
Foulks, Theodore, Eighteen Months in Jamaica, with recollec
tions of the Late Rebellion. London and Bristol, 1833.
Frank, Harry A., "Jamaica Proverbs," Dialect Notes, 5: 98-
108. New Haven, 1921.
Gardner, W. J., A History of Jamaica from its Discovery by
Christopher Columbus to the year 1872. London, 1909.
Gosse, Philip H., A Naturalist's Sojourn in Jamaica. London,
1851.
Birds of Jamaica. London, 1847.
Hickeringill, Edmund, Jamaica viewed: with all the Ports,
Harbours, Soundings, Towns, and Settlements thereunto be
longing, with the nature of its climate, fruitfulnesse of the
soile, and its suitableness to English complexions. 2nd ed.
London, 1661.
Jekyll, Walter, Jamaica, Song and Story, with an introduc
tion by Alice Werner (Publications of the Folk-lore So
ciety, 55). London, 1907.
Leslie, Sir Charles, A new and exact Account of Jamaica. 3rd
ed. Edinburgh, 1740.
Lewis, Matthew Gregory, Journal of a West India Proprietor
kept during a residence in the island of Jamaica (1815— '17).
London, 1834.
232 BLACK ROADWAYS
Livingstone, W. P., Black Jamaica: a study of Evolution.
London. 1899.
Long, Edward, The History of Jamaica, or General Survey of
the Antient and Modern State of that Island with reflections
on its Situation, Settlements, Inhabitants, Climate, Products,
Commerce, Laws, and Government. 4 vols., illustrated. Lon
don, 1774.
Macfall, Haldane, The Wooings of Jezebel Pettifer\ London,
1898. Reissued 1913.
Marsden, Peter, An Account of the Island of Jamaica. New
castle, 1788.
Milne-Home, Mrs. M. P., Mama's Black Nurse Stories. Edin
burgh and London, 1890.
Montagnac, Noel de, Negro Nobodies: Being a series of
Sketches of Peasant Life in Jamaica. (Overseas Library.)
London, 1899.
Musgrave, W. S. A., "Ananci Stories.
" Folk-lore Record. 3 :
part I, S3, 54. London, 1880.
Ogilby, John, An Account of America or the New World by
John Ogilby, Esquire, Master of the Revels in Ireland; first
published in the year 1671; reprinted by William Wemyss
Anderson, pamphlet, 14 pp. Kingston, 1851.
Palache, J. Thomson, Jamaica Stud Book. Jamaica, 1892.
Phillippo, James M., Jamaica, its Past and Present State. Lon
don, 1843.
Rampini, Charles I. G., Letters from Jamaica. Edinburgh,
1873.
Renny, Robert, An History of Jamaica. London, 1807.
Roberts, Helen H., "A Study of Folk Song Variants based on
Field Work in Jamaica," Journal of American Folk-lore,
38: 149-216. New York, 1925.
"Possible Survivals of African Song in Jamaica," Musical
Quarterly, July, 1926. Schirmer, New York.
"Some Drums and Drum Rhythms of Jamaica," Natural
History, 24: 241-51. New York, 1924.
REFERENCES 233
Robinson, May, "Obeah Worship in the East and West In
dies: in Jamaica," Folk-lore, 4: 207-13. London, 1893.
Senior, Bernard Martin, Jamaica as it was, as it is, and as it
may be. London, 1835.
Sloane, Sir Hans, M. D., A Voyage to the Islands of Madera,
Barbados, Nieves, S. Christopher and Jamaica, with the Nat
ural History of the Herbs and Trees, Four-footed Beasts,
Fishes, Birds, Insects, Reptiles, etc. 2 vols., illustrated. Lon
don, 1707, 1725.
Smith, Pamela Coleman, Anancy Stories, illustrated. New
York, 1899.
"Two Negro Stories from Jamaica," Journal of American
Folk-lore, 9 : 278. New York, 1896.
Stewart, John, An Account of Jamaica and its Inhabitants, by
a gentleman long resident in the West Indies. London, 1808.
Sullivan, Caroline, The Jamaica Cookery Book. Kingston,
1893.
Trowbridge, Ada Wilson, "Negro Customs and Folk-stories
of Jamaica," Journal of American Folk-lore, 9: 279-87.
New York, 1896.
Udal, J. A., "Obeah in the West Indies," Folk-lore, 26: 253-
95. London, 1915.
Vernon, B. J., Early Recollections of Jamaica. London, 1848..
Williams, Cynric R., A Tour through the island of Jamaica
from- the western to the eastern end in the year 1823. 2nd ed.
London, 1827.
Wona (Mrs. Jaffrey Smith Wilson). Selection of Ananci Sto
ries. Kingston, 1899.
v
INDEX
Ac
Lckee, 44.
Actor boys, 149, 151.
Africa, obeah derived from, 106; se
cret societies in, 106. See Slavery.
Afterbirth, disposition of, 55; lore of,
57.
Agriculture. See Cultivation; Plant
ing.
Amber, in myalism, 144, 157; song,
154; used by Obeah Man, 132-33.
See Guard; Oheah Man.
Americans, in Jamaica, 6.
Amulet, worn against duppy, 92. See
Guard.
Amusements, on group occasions,
202ff. See Games; John Canoe;
Song; Story.
Anansi, 4; among Maroons, 195; at
wake, 84; beliefs surrounding, 222;
character of, 219; in stories, 220.
Animals, and stars, 39; and weather
signs, 124; as duppies in disguise,
117-18; as omens of death, 85;
bones of, in obeah, 109; domesti
cation of, 36; evil spirits sensed by,
86; forms of taken by Rolling-calf,
lOO; in group amusements, 202
ff;
in obeah, 110, 125ff.; in proverbs,
200; in stories, 54, 118, 219, 220,
222; language of understood by in
fants, 60; masks of in Christmas
mummings, 149-50; sacrifices of,
81; wild forms of scarce, 118.
Annotto, 26.
Ants, as omens of death, 86, 123.
Apparition. See Duppies; Ghosts.
Art, forms of, 198ff. See Chap. XIII.
Asafoetida, used against duppies, 92;
used in horse races, 38. See Guard.
Ba
laker, avoidance of corpse by, 72.
Bakinny, 83.
Balm-yard, 131-32, 177. See Heal
ing; Revivalists.
Bammie, 22; sold at market, 45; song,
56.
Banana, cultivation of,
2;
folklore
of planting, 26.
Banjo, 211-12.
Baptism, as precaution against
ghosts, 58; relation of to Bed-
wardite cult, 167.
Basketry, 48-49.
Bat, as omen of death, 86.
Bath, lore of baby's first, 57-58;
mother's, 58.
Bead, in love, 65. See Amber.
Beans, 18-19; in the market, 44.
Bedward, story of, 167ff.
Bender, 211.
Betting, lore of, 38; on horses, 37.
Bible, employed to catch thief, 131;
in obeah practice, 134, 159; phrases
from in Pukkumerian songs, 181;
used at Revivalist meetings, 161.
Birds, as objects of mystery, 121-22;
as omens of death, 85, 86; beaks
and feathers of used in obeah prac
tice, 110; imitated
in
folk games,
202ff.; trapping of, 35-36.
Birth. See Childbirth.
Black, cat, 119; cloth, 71; ribbon,
88, 92; thread, 155.
Blackbirds, as death omen, 86.
Blood, in drink, 74; in obeah, 109,
134; of cock over grave, 75.
Bloodhounds, 186 ff.
Blue, cross on baby's forehead, 57-
58; indigo in baby's bath, 57; pro
tection against duppies, 92.
Body signs,
in
death, 81;
in
infancy,
60; lore of, 67.
Bones,
in
obeah, 109.
Booth, at market, 42; at myal meet
ings, 147; at Pukkumerian meet
ings, 179; at Revivalist meetings,
160, 161; at tea meetings, 204; at
wake, 81; at wedding, 64, 194.
Boy, training of, 61-62.
"Bread kind," 15; at market, 44.
British, control by, 23; law,
6.
See
English.
Broom, lore of, 66; sold at market,
46.
236 INDEX
Broom weed, in detecting thief, 117;
in vengeance, 73.
Bundle, buried in obeah practice,
113-14; used by Obeah man, 110.
Burial, basis of acts connected with,
70; behavior of family at, 71; dis
cussed by old writers, 78ff.; dress
for, 70; folklore of, 70; time for,
74-75. See Dead; Ghosts; Grave;
Tombing Ceremony; Wake.
Burning, as precaution against dup
pies, 93, 94; clothing, 116; person's
dung, 116. See Fire.
Buttons, of corpse's clothing, 70.
Bush people, 110; and Pukkumer-
ians, 176.
VJakes, sold at market, 45.
Calimbe, danced at wake, 83.
Camels, 118.
Canoe, for fishing, 30ff. See John
Canoe.
Carpenter, precautions of against
ghost, 72.
Cassava, at market, 44—45; cultiva
tion of, 20; folklore for planting,
26; poisons of used in obeah, 138;
preparation of for food, 21-22.
Cat, as Rolling-calf, 100, 119; sus
pected in old days, 118; unusual
mewing of, 85. See Black.
Caul, disposition of, 55; general lore
of, 57; used as protection from
duppies, 88.
Charms, in love, 65; in obeah prac
tice, 108-9, 112, 115-16; in secret
language of Pukkumerians, 176-
78; laid on races, 38; songs used
as, to raise spirits, 181, 191; to
catch thief, 1 17, 13 1 ; to detect mur
derer, 73-74; to test or do away
with presence of duppies, 90. See
Guard.
Childbirth, lore of, 55-57.
Children, christening of, 58; legiti
macy of, 58-59, 63-64; murder of
in obeah practice, 135; relation of
to parents and godparents, 58-59,
62; training of, 61; weaning of, 58.
Chinese, in Jamaica, 51.
Christianity, in obeah practice, 158-
59; supernatural interpretation of,
159; teaching of, 77, 158. See Puk
kumerians; Revivalists.
Christening, 58.
Christmas, celebrated in former
times, 149; Maroon observances
of, 192; merrymaking at, 204. See
John Canoe; Mummings.
Church, attitude of toward illegiti
macy, 58; attitude of toward
wake, 80; membership of Revival
ists in, 162; of Isaiahs, 165-66; of
Maroons, 194.
Circle, as a magic form, 132, 157.
Circumcision, 4.
Clothing, burning of, 115; mended
upon one's self, 67; of corpse, 70;
of Obeah Man, 108.
Coco, 17, 19.
Cocoa, 15.
Cocoanut, area of cultivation of, 2;
sold at market, 47, 51.
Coffee, 2; cultivation of, 22ff.
Coffin, in obeah practice, 109, 111;
in thief catching, 129-30; lore of,
70ff.; 74ff.
Coin, as guards, 112; in obeah, 111;
values of, 49—50. See Money; Sil
ver.
Colonel Quarrel, story of, 187ff.
Colonization, of Jamaica, 4-6.
Color, gradations and status of, 5.
Competitions, literary, 59.
Congo, special meaning of, 4.
Contamination, by dead, 70, 72; re
lation of to obeah, 106.
"Control," in obeah practice, 108.
CoolieSj 5.
Corn, in obeah, 111; in the market,
44; methods of cooking, 19—20;
planting of, 19.
Corpse. See Dead.
Cotta, in divorce, 63; in obeah, 111;
worn on head, 47.
Cottonwood, for canoes, 30; in my-
alism, 145 ; lore of felling, 30; mice
about, 118; myal dance at, 146;
the home of duppies, 89; the home
of Rolling-calf, 101.
Courtship, 63; lore of, 64ff. See Mar
riage.
Cousins, marriage of, 62.
Cow, in obeah, 119.
Cross, as guard, 71, 99; in obeah
practice, 157; placed on infant's
INDEX 237
neck, 58; to check pursuing dup
pies, 92.
Crows, as omen, 86.
Cultivation, lore of, 26ff.; of small
settlers, 8.
Currency, values of, 49-50.
Curse, of enemies in obeah practice,
139; of song in obeah practice, 113;
of thief, 109. See Charm.
Cut-eye bean, for obeah uses, 117;
for planting ghost, 76; for over
coming "grudgeful eye," 28.
Da
"ance, at Christmas time, 149; at
grave, 82; at Maroon wedding,
195; at tombing ceremony, 84; at
wake, 83; described by older wri
ters, 213ff.; in detection of mur
derer, 109; in John Canoe perform
ances, 150; in myalism, 101, 142-
43, 144, 146, 147; in obeah
practice, 15 1 ; of present day, 2 14ff . ;
of Pukkumerians, 181; of young
people, 63; the jhayshay, 214; to
Mamadjo, 102.
Days, for fishing, 35; for marriage,
65; for planting, 27; influence of on
names, 59; special, 39ff.
Dead, basis of acts connected with
burial of, 70; behavior of family
toward, 71; care of before and at
burial, 74; contamination by, 70,
72, 106; objects associated with in
obeah, 109; preparation of for bur
ial, 70; return of feared, 73 ; special
precautions against return of, 71;
spirits of, 88; treatment of, 74, 77-
78. See Burial; Duppy; Ghosts;
Grave; Obeah.
Death, cause of when premature, 73 ;
dreams presaging, 84; other omens
of, 85, 86, 87, 123; precautions
against, 87; spirit after, 97. See
Duppy; Ghosts; Grave; Myalism;
Obeah.
Debts, collected by the dead, 75.
Devil, and Obeah Man, 105.
"Diablenesses,"99.
Digging, song for, 56; of grave, 75.
Dirt, as protection to murderer, 109;
in charm on horse races, 38; in
cursing thief, 109.
Divorce, method of, 63.
Dogs, and duppies, 89, 90; attitude
of folk toward, 119-20; howling of,
85; to protect privacy, 66.
Domestic articles, sold at market,
47-48.
Dreams, in obeah, 114; in Revival
ism, 159, 165; of eggs, 67, 121; of
fire, 67; of new boots, 67; of tree
shooting, 55; presaging death, 84;
spirits of dead in, 88.
Drinks, sold at market, 52.
Drums, among Maroons, 192, 193;
beaten at wake, 83; in myalism,
148; in Revivalist meeting, 162;
significance of in folk music, 212;
the Eboe, 4. See Gombay.
Duck ants, feared as duppies, 123;
in thief-catching, 130.
Duppies, amulets worn against, 92;
and lime juice, 134; animals re
garded as, 117-18; bottles for
"driving," 115; color preferences
of, 92; disguise of, 116; driving of
by Mammy Forbes, 172; habita
tion of, 89; habits of, 88ff., 95;
harmless to those born with caul,
57, 88; herbs as protection from,
117; in healing sick, 132-33; in
thief-catching, 126ff.; locating of,
132-33; mice as, 118; origin of
name of, 88; particular kinds of,
98; payment of, 132; philosophy
of, 97; powers of, 88-90; precau
tions against, 89ff., 97; realm of,
98; rising from grave, 77; securing
of, 108; signs for recognizing, 90ff.;
twins safe from, 58; voice of, 90;
ways of summoning, 148; ways of
"taking off," 106; ways of testing
appearance of, 90. See Ghosts;
Long-bubby Susan; Myal; Obeah;
Rolling-calf; Three-foot Horse;
Whooping-boy.
E;tarrings, worn by Fishermen, 35;
worn by Obeah Man, 108, 112.
Eggs, as "embodiment of death,"
120-21; in myalism, 144; in obeah
practice, 121-22, 136-37; sold in
market, 52; stealing of, 60.
238 INDEX
Food, 14-15; at wake, 82ff.; at wed
ding celebration, 64; preferences
in, 18, 50-51; saltless at John Ca
noe feast, 151; stolen, 131.
Fowl, as omens, 120, 121; blood of
used in duppy driving, 134.
French, in Jamaica, 6; women, as
obeah workers, 106.
Friday, best for clipping hair.
Ga
Emancipation, 4; and decay of folk
festival, ISO.
English, administration by, 2-3, 6;
customs of prevalent, 83; dances
of at Maroon wedding, 195; little
formal religion taught by, 158;
song games of danced by children,
198; tradition of observed at wed
dings, 64; treaty of with Maroons,
184.
Evil spirit, causing early death, 73;
protection of children from, 57-58.
See Dead; Duppies; Ghosts; Myal-
ism; Obeah.
Exchange, method of, 42.
Exorcism, animal life in, 117; plant
life in, 117. See Duppies; Ghosts;
Myalism; Obeah.
Eye, grudgeful, 28; seeing, 89.
l/air Maids, lOlff.; in myalism, 146;
in obeah case at Demerara, 135.
See Water-being; Mamadjo.
Fairs, agricultural, 18.
Familiar, in obeah practice, 108, 132.
Family, organization of, 54; spirits
of as protection against evil, 54.
Fanga, in African obeah, 110.
Fear, as basis of lore surrounding
death, 70; operation of in obeah,
137-39.
Feathers, used in obeah, 110.
Festivals, at Christmas time among
slaves, 149; decay of after eman
cipation, 150; wake derived from,
80.
Fetish, in healing, 132; in myalism,
159; in obeah, 108. See Amber;
Amulet; Charm; Guard.
Fig tree, and duppy, 89.
Finger nails, used in obeah, 114;
white marks on, 60.
Fire, and sympathetic magic, 116;
in cultivation, 28; in dreams, 67;
in proverbs, 200; relation of to
duppy world, 90. See Burning.
Fish, kinds caught, 33; sacredness of
at Mermaid's home, 101; sold at
market, 45, 51.
Fishing, 30ff.
Flute, 210-11.
Foresight, 112.
ame, scarcity of, 35. See Birds
(trapping of).
Games, at social gatherings, 202; at
wake, 73, 82-84; at weddings, 64.
Germans, in Jamaica, 5.
Ghosts, and caul, 57; and nine nights,
77; danger of to unbaptized child
ren, 58; earrings as aids in seeing,
108; habits of, 89-90; method of
calling up, 137; of dead, 70ff.; of
good and evil men, 104; "planting
of," 76; precautions against, 74-
75, 76-77, 92-93; presence of, 82;
propitiation of, 82; "riding" by,
/6; summoned at Pukkumerian
meeting, 177. See Duppies; Grave;
Obeah.
Gifts, between lovers, 64-65.
Ginger, 2, 24-25.
Girls, training of, 62-63.
Gombay, beaten at death, 83; in my
alism, 148; of Maroons, 193. See
Drums.
Goozoo, 105.
Gourd, as water carrier, 47; for mu
sic, 212-13.
Gravel, in obeah, 111; used against
duppy, 92.
Grave, dancing at, 82; digging of, 75
dirt of, 108-9; examination of, 81
food and water placed at, 77 _
ghosts called up at, 136-37; prep
aration of for tombing, 109; shad
ow of dead at, 104; trees planted
at, 75-76. See Duppies; Ghosts;
Obeah.
Guard, caul as, 88; coins as, 112; in
myalism, 157; padlocks as, 112;
teeth of animals as, 97; various
objects as, 92.
Guinea grass, 9.
INDEX 239
Ha Instruments, of music, 151, 193. See
Chap. XIII.
Invulnerability, in myalism, 142,
143.
Irish, in Jamaica, 6.
Isaiahs, 165-66.
Itching, of hand, 67.
*3 amaica, abolition of slavery in, 6;
African slavery in, 3-5; British law
in, 6; colonization of, 4-6; freedom
of travel in, 6-7; future of folk life
in, 222ff.; geography of, 1, grada
tions of color in, 5; history of, 2-3;
population figures of, 5; present
status of folk in (summarized), 223.
Jewelry, sold at market, 45.
Jiggey, 144, 157. See Talisman, in
myal.
John Canoe, performances, 150ff.
Juju, 106.
Jumbie6, 88.
Ki
.ingston, 2, 11; horse races at, 38;
houses in, 11; markets in, 42.
Kromanti, as slaves, 4; celebration
of wake by, 78-79; oath of made
inviolable, 109; songs of, 193. See
Maroons.
Le
-legitimacy, distinctions in, 63-64;
in relation to church, 58-59.
Leprosy, 102.
Lime juice, 111, 134.
Limekiln, 12-13.
Livestock, sold at market, 48.
Lizard, used by Obeah Man, 123-24.
Logwood, for dyestuff, 2, 25-26;
honey from blossoms of, 25; in
drink, 52.
Long-bubby Susan, 98-99.
Loogaroo, 99.
Love, incidental lore of, 64-65.
M.
lair, of animals used in obeah,
110; of humans used in obeah, 115;
used against duppies, 92.
Handkerchief, as love gift, 65; in my-
alism, 144. See Cotta.
Hat, 64.
Hauntings, prevention of, 71; of liv
ing, 88. See Duppies; Ghosts.
Healer, Mammy Forbes, 171.
Healing, by Myal Men, 144-45; by
Obeah Man, 125, 13 Iff.; by Revi
valists, 164, 165, 166ff.; import
ance of streams and water in, 167.
See Balm-yard; Herbs.
Herbs, as love charms, 65; employed
(against duppies), 94-95 (in de
tecting thief), 117, 129 (in myal-
ism), 144, 146 (in setting obeah),
110 (to change man's mind), 116—
17; magic of known to Maroons,
191; medicines of known to mid
wife, 55; poisons in, 137-38; reasons
for use of in duppy driving, 117.
Hides, sold at market, 48.
Hog, as obeah animal, 122; as sign
of death, 86; as sign of weather,
124; scarcity of wild, 118; symbol
of girl's readiness for marriage
among Maroons, 190.
Honey, from logwood blossoms, 25.
Hoofs, in obeah practice, 110.
Horn, burned as precaution against
duppies, 93-94.
Horse, ridden by duppy, 119. See
Three-foot Horse.
Horse-racing, 36ff.
Horse shoe, 93.
Houseboat, worn by dancers, 150ff.
Houses, care of after burial, 77; de
scription of, 8ff.; trees used for
building, 9; folklore of building,
13-14.
Household, folklore of, 66-67.
Hymns, at Revivalist meeting, 161-
62; at wake, 80-81.
Infancy, lore of, 60.
Insects, as signs of coming events,
123-24; in Anansi stories, 220;
shells of in obeah practice, 110.
amadjo, 102. See Fair Maids.
Mammies, in religious bands, 160-61
240 INDEX
Mammy Forbes, 171ff.
Market. See Chap. IV.
Maroons, 3, 4; and knowledge of
obeah, 191; Christmas celebration
among, 192; described by old wri
ters, 190ff.; history of, 183ff.; mus
ical instruments of, 193; settle
ments of, 193-94; songs of, 192;
visit to wedding ceremony among,
194-95.
Marriage, attitude toward legal, 63;
ceremony, 64; customs of, 62; Eu
ropean origin of lore of, 64-65; in
church, 64; of cousins, 62. See Ma
roons (visit to wedding ceremony).
Masks, of animals in festivals, 149-
50.
May, unlucky for marriage, 65.
Mermaids, lOlff.
Mice, as duppies, 118.
Midwife, 55; tales of, 57; treatment
of new baby by, 58.
Mirror, covered in house of dead, 76-
77; in obeah practice, 112.
Moles, on child's body, 60.
Monday, favorable for beginning
journey and hunting work, 39-40;
insecure for marriage, 40, 65.
Money, rarely exchanged between
Negroes, 62; unlucky as love gifts,
65; used in obeah, 111. See Coin;
Silver.
Mongoose, obeah powers of, 125;
suspected, 118.
Moody and Sankey hymns, 80, 161.
Moon, and riddles, 39; feared by
Rolling-calf, 100; general lore of,
26.
Mummings, at Christmas time, 149ff.
See John Canoe.
Murderer, detection of, 109.
Music. See Drum; Flute; Instru
ments; Song; Story; Wake.
Myal Men, activity of, 144ff.; and
Mermaids, 101; consulted in ill
ness, 144—45; in relation to duppy,
145-46; invulnerability of, 143.
Myalism, African origin of, 142; as
sect to remove obeah, 142; basis
of, 143-44; dance in, 101, 142ff.;
Fair Maids used in, 146; poisons
in, 157; practice of, 158. See Dup
pies; Obeah; whole of Chap. IX.
Naames, belief in secret, 210; given
according to birth day, 59; in
obeah setting, 59; lack of family tra
dition in, 59; penchant ofJamaicans
for, 198-99; secret, in story telling,
218; sensitiveness to sound of,
59; sympathetic magic connected
with, 60.
Navel cord, care of, 55; as instru
ment^ magic, 56-57.
Necktie, as love gift, 65.
Negroes, approach to confidence of,
viii; attitude of toward each other,
68; belief of in spirit world, 104;
blending of cultures in, xi; charac
teristics of, 68; cruelty of towards
animals, 118; fears of, in obeah,
113; Indian strain in, 3; supersti
tious nature of, x-xi; technical skill
of, 48.
Neighbors, etiquette of, 66.
Nicknames, 59-60; in folk wit, 98-99.
Nine nights, 77-78, 82. See Wake.
Ninth day, after birth, 57ff., 99.
Number three, lore of, 99. See three.
Oa
ath, made inviolable, 109.
Ob, as derivation of obeah, 104-5,
161.
Obboney, meaning of, 105.
Obeah, animals connected with, 118—
19, 124-25; as sympathetic magic,
106; barrenness laid to, 140; basis
of, 104, 116; birth name employed
in, 59; case at Demerara, 101, 134-
35; combatted by Revivalists, 158-
59; connection of with poison, 137—
38; definition of, 104; derivation
of according to older writers, 104—
5; finger nails used in, 114; formula
for setting, 107; gombay related to
practice of, 149; "gombre" work
similar to, 148; hair used in, 115;
John Canoe dance connected with,
151ff.; operation of fear in, 138-39;
operation of in a lawsuit, 114-15;
pinsticking common means of work
ing, 111; plants in, 129ff.; practice
of known to Maroons, 191;
"pulling," 104; relation of to
Christian teaching, 158-59; re
INDEX 241
lation of to folk tale, 222; relation
of to Pukkumerians, 176; sold in
forrn of powder, 110; taught in
Africa, 106; "working," 104. See
Duppies; whole of Chap. VIII.
Obeah Man, aid of sought (for con
ciliation), 125 (for curing sickness),
125, 13 Iff. (for punishment of of
fenders), 125ff. (in lawsuits), 112—
13; bundle of, 110, 112-14; cloth
ing of, 108; connection of with
shadow, 98; duppies "put upon"
by, 91; duppy secured by, 108;
eggs employed by, 120, 121; Fair
Maid in basket of, 101; faith of
Negroes in, 140; fitness of for work,
106-7; fowl employed by, 120-21;
grave dirt used by, 109; gravel sold
by, 112; in form of Rolling-calf,
101; mercenary motives of, 108;
mirrors used by, 112; navel cord
used by, 57; parts of animals used
by, 110; power of over coin, 111;
present-day status of, 107; rela
tion of to Pukkumerian cult, 176;
reptiles common tools of, 123;
snake once used by, 122; source
of power of, 107; "things" of, 109.
Obeah Woman, 106; instances of ac
tivities of, 124—25.
Occupation, training of youth for,
61-62.
Old Hige, 99, 100.
Omens, given by insects, 123; of
death, 84, 85, 86. See Signs.
Orange, peeled before sugar works,
116; peeled without breaking skin,
67.
Owl, as omen, 85.
Oxen, masks of, 150; sacrifice of, 101.
.Tain, attributed to obeah, 132;
caused by burning person's dung,
116.
Patridge, as omen of death, 86.
Pawpaw, undesirable about house,
13.
Peas, cultivation of, 18; in the mar
ket, 44; planted against ghost, 76.
Pens, for stock-raising, 2; in hands of
large owners, 36.
Perspiration, wiped away with hand,
67.
Pimento, 2, 25.
Pin, in obeah, 111-12; bent to pro
tect gift, 65.
Plantain, 18, 19; folklore of planting,
26.
Planting, folklore of, 26-28; of
ghosts, 76; of obeah bundle, 113.
Plants, obeah power of, 129ff. See
Herbs.
Pockets, of corpse's clothing, 70.
Poetry, and music, 210.
Poison, in catching thief, 128; in
obeah, 137-38.
Pools, the home of Fair Maids, 101—
2.
Prayer, of midwife, 58; of Revival
ists, 162, 163.
Prescription, for duppy driving, 94.
Promise, broken, 67.
Property, symbol of, 56.
Proverbs, about marriage, 62; as folk
wit, 199-200; of daily life, 66, 67;
200-1; of visiting, 66.
Pukkumerians, bands of, 176; meet-
. ings of, 177, 178ff. See Chap. XI.
Pumpkin, and duppies, 89; general
lore of, 27.
Ra
.ain, in obeah practice, 113; in
Pukkumerian song, 181; on mar
riage day, 65. See Weather.
Rats, 86. See Rodents.
Rattle, 148, 212.
Red, liked by duppies, 92; worn by
Obeah Man, 108.
Reptiles, in curing sick, 133; in
duppy setting, 122ff.
Revenge, sought in obeah, 135-36.
Revivalists, activities of, 160ff.; basis
of bands of, 157; gift of healing
used by, 167; Isaiahs among, 165-
66; origin of, 158; relation of to
Pukkumerians, 176; waning influ
ence of, 176.
Rice, in the market, 44; scattered to
ward off ghost's return, 77; thrown
to ward off duppy, 92.
Riddles, at social gatherings, 201ff.;
at wake, 83; concerned with stars
242 INDEX
and moon, 39; in folk wit, 198; of
ackee, 44; of the cassava, 21.
"Riding," by the dead, 73-74, 76.
Ring, in marriage, 65; of blue around
corpse, 72. See Circle.
Rivers, home of water-beings, 101-2.
Rodents, 118.
Rolling-calf, 98, 100, 101; in form of
cat, 119. See Duppies.
Rope, sold at market, 45.
Rum, at wake feast, 82; in baby's
bath, 57; in calling up ghost, 137;
in grave digging, 75; in house
building, 14; in myalism, 144, 146;
in obeah, 109; in tree felling, 30,
145.
Rumpelstilzkin, 60, 218.
vjacrifice, at grave, 78; at wake, 81;
in healing, 134-35; to Mamadjo,
101-2.
Salt, stepping on, 67; left out of food
of John Canoe performers, 151.
Saturday, market day, 42; unlucky
for weddings, 40, 65. See Special
days.
Sayings. See Proverbs.
Scissors, in courtship, 64.
Scotch in Jamaica, 6.
Sea lore, contrasted with Polynesian,
34; relative absence of, 34-35.
Secret name, in wake games, 73-74.
See Names.
Secret societies, in obeah, 106.
Sensay fowl, in obeah, 120.
Serpent, 104, 105. See Snake.
Setting obeah, 59, 104, 106, 108-9.
Sewing, for corpse, 70; for lover, 65;
on dirty clothes, 67.
Shadow, and duppy, 98; and haunt
ing, 104; and myalism, 144-45;
method of "putting on to" a per
son, 136-37; perplexity arising
from, 106.
Shakie, 148.
Sheep, freedom of from obeah, 118.
Shepherd, as name for religious lead
er, 160, 176, 180-81.
Sickness, curing of, 132. See Heal
ing; Myal Men; Obeah Man;
Revivalists.
Signs, for the marriage day, 65; given
by stars and other heavenly bodies,
39; insects as, 123-24; of spirit
presence, 86, 90; of misfortune, 86;
of visitors, 86. See Body signs;
Omens.
Silver, given to protect baby's teeth,
60; thrown into baby's bath, 57;
dangerous in obeah, 111; to catch
thief, 130. See Coin; Money.
Slavery, abolition of, 6; African, 3-5.
Sleep, induced by Obeah Man, 111.
Snake, in duppy setting, 122; in
obeah, 119. See Ob.
Sneezing, 67.
Song, Amber, 154; at Revivalist
meetings, 161-62; at wake, 83,
148; at weddings, 64; chorus in,
206; derivation of from English
ballads, 205; distinguished from
Afro-American folk music, 205;
for digging, 56; for hard times, 50;
in myalism, 148, 155; of Maroons,
192ff.; of Pukkumerians, 181-82;
relation of to story-telling, 215,
218ff.; secret, 209-10; themes of,
206-7; waning of in group, 209;
work, 207-8.
Special days, lore of, 39ff.
Spider, Anansi, 219; web, 90. See An-
ansi.
Spirit World. See Chap. VII.
Spanish Jews in Jamaica, 6.
Stars, signs of, 38-39.
Stocking, awry, 65.
Stock-raising, 2, 36ff.
Story, Anansi, at wake, 84, 219ff.;
"animal talk" in, 54; based on se
cret name theme, 218; bull-hus
band in, 209—10, 216; form-chang
ing in, 221-22; ingenuity of, 217-
18; of skin-changing witch, 99;
pantomime in, 200; relation of to
belief in supernatural forces, 221;
rendering of, 200; superiority of
folk in telling, 215; types of, 215—
16.
Streams, importance of in healing,
167. See Revivalists.
Street cries, 50ff.
Sugar, 2; making of, 23ff.; quality
of diminished by peeling orange,
116; sold at market, 45.
Sugar cane, cultivation of, 23-24;
lore of, 66-67.
*
INDEX 243
Sunday, best for marriage, 40, 65;
for christening, 58.
Supernatural beings. See Chap. VII.
Sweet potato, 17-18; folklore for
planting, 26.
Visiting, etiquette of, 66.
Voodoo, human sacrifice in, 134-35;
in comparison with obeah, 105; Li
Grand Zombi of, referred to by
Puckett, 148; snake in, 122.
Xable, sitting on, 64.
Taboos, in story, 216; of moon, 64.
Talismans, in myal, 144. See Amber;
Jiggey..
Tea-meeting, 202, 204; Songs of,
among Maroons, 192.
Tank, importance of, 11; method of
building, 11-12.
Teeth, danger to from contamina
tion by .dead, 72; dream of, 84; in
obeah practice, 109; open, 60; of
enemies, 97; of wildcats, 97, 117.
Temper-bush, 116.
Three, days, 77; counted to as duppy
protection, 93, 99.
Three-foot Horse, 98-100.
Thursday, best for clipping hair, 40;
day for christening, 58.
Tobacco, sold at market, 45.
Tombing ceremony, 84.
Trapping of birds, 35-36.
Trays, sold at market, 46.
Trees, for house building, 9-10; for
fences, 10-11; for limekiln, 12; in
myalism, 145, 157; navel-string,
55-56; planted head down at
grave, 75-76; planting of about
house, 8, 13, 117; the calabash,
47, 75-76; the trumpet bark, 45-
46. See Cottonwood; Logwood.
Tuesday, lucky for hunting work, 40.
Twins, safe from duppies, 58, 88-89.
Wk
umbrella, lucky in love, 65.
Visions, hauntings in, 88; of ghosts
57. See Ghosts.
rake, 78; attitude of church
toward, 80; dances at, 83; de
scribed by old writers, 78-80; dup
pies summoned at, 148; fea3ts at,
81-82; games at, 73, 78, 82ff.;
manner of, 80ff.; object of, 80;
origin of, 78-80; precautions in
leaving, 82; riddles at, 83; stories
recited at, 84. See Burial; Games;
Ghosts; Grave; Song; Story.
Water, and dead, 70ff., 76ff.; and
duppies, 91; and preparation for
burial, 70; and Revivalist healers,
167-68; boiled to catch thief, 130;
in myalism, 144-45; stepping
across dirty, 67. See Healing;
Pools; Springs.
Water-being, 102.
Weaning, 58.
Weather, lore of, 38ff.; signs of in
animal behavior, 124-26.
Wedding, celebration of, 64; dream
of, 84. See Maroons (visit to wed
ding ceremony); Marriage.
Wednesday, for fishing, 35; luckiest
for marriage, 40, 65; market day
42.
Whooping-boy, 98-99.
Witch, 216. See Old Hige.
Witchcraft, 68. See Maroons; Myal
ism; Obeah; Revivalists.
Workers, among Revivalists, 160.
Working, in obeah, 104.
Worship, 98-99.
lam, contamination of, 72; im
portance of, 15; lore of planting,
26; varieties and cultivation of,
16-17.
4
i
i
ye^o'
JAMAI CA
SCALE OFMILES
30
18*
30'
S.E. Point
<5
5 E A
76°30 1329
'Vic/
"""S!"?"*.^™,^
'■mTiiiTiiu
uu um IUU11II
^
76°30'
JAMAI CA
SCALE OFMILES
10 30
18'
30
S.E. Point
76°30
i/iiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBllllll
7G°30'
JAMAI CA.
SCALE OFMILES
20 30
18*
30'
S.E. Point
76°30
