{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__estep___super_mind_science_with_keys_to_christianity.pdf","mytitle":"Super Mind Science With Keys To Christianity","mylang":"de"}
Super Mind Science
with
Keys to Christianity
By
PROFESSOR W ILLIAM E ST E P
Founder of
Super Mind Science.
President of the National University S. M. S.,
Pastor of the Parent Church of Super Mind Science, U. S. A.,
of 51 Sproat St., Detroit, Mich.
Founder of the Super Mind Science Observer,
Author of Master Teachings of Inner Mysteries (Occult
Masonry), Works of the World Teacher, The White
Prophecy, etc.
Copyright, 1925-1929
By
W ILLIAM ESTEP.
All rights reserved, foreign and domestic.
Publisher
TH E SU PER M IND SCIENCE PU BLIC A TIO N S
The Super Mind Science Temple,
51 Sproat St., Detroit, Mich.
1
1 /
T A B L E OF C O N T E N T S
©©«$
Page
Super Mind Science Truth.............................................................................. 10
Atonement and Salvation .............................................................................. 15
Super Mind Science versus ChristianScience .............................................. 19
Super Mind Science versus Spiritualism, Theosophy and New Thought 23
Super Mind Science Revealed ....................................................................... 27
Keys to Christianity........................................................................................ 37
Exodus ........................ 56
Symbolical Meaning of the Worship of the Levites................................ 58
The New Testament ..................................................................................... 59
Revelation ......................................................................................................... 72
Book of the Seven S e a ls................................................................................ 77
Keys to Christianity Summary .................................................................... 86
Bibical Recapitulation ................................................................................... 103
Divine Unity .................................................................................................... 117
Super Mind Science H ealing............................................................... 123
Lesson No. 1in Super Mind Science........................................................ 129
Lesson No. 2 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 142
Lesson No. 3 in Super Mind Science................. 148
Lesson No. 4 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 153
Lesson No. 5 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 164
Lesson No. 6 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 169
Lesson No. 7 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 185
Lesson No. 8 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 186
Lesson No. 9 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 193
Lesson No. 10 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 198
Lesson No. 11 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 207
Lesson No. 12 in Super Mind Science........................................................ 213
Light on Masonry .......................................................................................... 221
Symbolic Glossary .......................................................................................... 240
The Great Work ........................ 257
Recapitulation ................................................................................ 263
Ten Virtues for Children........................................................................... 275
Fruits of Wisdom -777
SUPER M IND SCIENCE W ITH
KEYS T O C H R IST IA N IT Y
By Prof. Wm. Estep,
President of S. M. S. National University
PREFACE
T o those who desire to demonstrate the works of Christ this
Science will prove a great blessing. Belief is but a mental ges­
ture. Faith without work is dead. The Star of the East has
risen over the earth to guide those of the faithful to the Truth
of the Christ. Even as the pale star of the East guided the
Master Mental Scientist to the Bethlehem Babe, who later be­
came the Christ. He whose demonstrations has proven that
God gave man a power to overcome every enemy.
Sickness, death and delusion fell as He showed to the world
the doctrine that the Spirit is strong, but the flesh is weak.
He is the Ideal of those who desire salvation and healing. His
work of healing the sick, raising the dead, and last of His
wonders, the proof that death does not come to those who
do the will of the Divine Father— stands out today before the
world like a star shining in the dark of night. It is a beacon
to those who study, meditate, master themselves, and over­
come the world. He is the Star. His works, the way and light
the path of the Divine Mental Scientist to eternal harmony
and peace.
The time for truth has come. Time honored systems will
fall before the demonstration of His works. Those who claim
rituals more important than powerful works of the Spirit will
be proven false prophets. Ignorance is sin and is not a step­
ping stone to Heaven or God. The only guarantee of eternal
life is an earthly life of good deeds. Nationality or creed is
man made and has no standing before the God of Universal
Love in the lives of those who dare to do. The light of God
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
shall shine. Babylon is now falling. Truth is now dawning.'
This book only introduces a scientific way of doing the w
orks
of the Christ, but many will disbelieve even when they se
t
them accomplished. The future will prove this either to b
e
true or false. If of God it will endure— if of man it will decay,
but those having a desire to prove this teaching will not fail
if sincere.
Since the Author discovered the power of the mind an
d
Spirit of Man to overcome matter by control of energy and
will, he has seen every manner of disease and sin healed, includ
ing blindness, deafness, cancer and internal diseases of every
kind, but in order for one to reach the supreme attainment it*
this science they must live a life in harmony with Divine Love
Not enter it just to be healed, then return to their ignorant
practices. If they do their state will be worse than the first, for
the law of compensation never forgets. As ye sow, so shall
ye reap.
When mind and divine spirit rules in one’s life, the Chrisi
comes into their thoughts and deeds. There is a quandary it
the minds of people at this time over the issue. Does sin exist:
The Author says Yes. Where ignorance is, there sin is also,
for it is the absence of the Truth—-light and love— which
Jesus demonstrated as the light of the world. Another ques­
tion is— does matter exist? The answer is Yes. In the absence
of Spirit, or where Spirit is not master, there is the flesh, but
when Spirit and Mind rule, matter becomes only a shadow of
the real essence of man-Spirit.
Super Mind Science reveals mind and spirit as one, energy
as a manifestation of mind,'matter as a force only where spirit
is not,T>y the application of mind as one with spirit controlling
the life energy. Disease is as impossible as darkness when the
sun shines. Sin as impossible as darkness in the presence of
a bright light, but one must learn the positive direction of
these powers before they become efficient in demonstrating mind 1
over matter— spirit over death— success over failure and truth
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 7
over ignorance. Super Mind Science has proved that this is
practical and possible. The Author began this work in 1918
when he healed himself of a serious disease, also of blindness.
After search of the Scripture and comparison of several Bibles
he began to experiment with the Health energies and Divine
Infinite Spirits1Power. He demonstrated that they were the
powers used by Jesus and has performed wonders with them
since this great discovery. Several schools have been started in
various parts of the world at this writing, which make a re­
vision of the teachings necessary since the Author has devel­
oped the principles on a higher plane of thought.
The first textbooks consisted of six small pamphlets copy­
righted in 1925. These were infringed upon by an unscrupu­
lous woman who libeled the Founder, but like Christ he bore
the burden. Previous to this first printing the Founder had
demonstrated over every manner of disease. He had many
persecutions but came out victorious through the application
of the divine laws now herein offered to the seeker of true
light.
In the first years of the Author’s mission after the Divine
Spirit revealed the means of mastery of disease which was to
become his life’s work,''he was called a Spiritualist by those of
that faith and persecuted because he said all their powers were
simply mental and not spiritual.'" Attacks came from Medical
Science which he openly defied to prove that they could or
ever did heal the sick, asserting that God and Nature alone
could heal. The mind being the means used by the Divine
Father to direct these forces.
His first great persecution came when he healed a Catholic
woman of blindness. For this Christly demonstration he was
taken to court and accused of almost every evil by the Ortho­
dox, ignorant minds of that time. Later he was poisoned by
unknown persons in the same city, but the lady who received
her sight was also healed of other diseases, and she remained
his friend through all the persecution.
A
8 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
Blessed is He that Overcometh— Jesus. Since those days this^
Science has spread to many parts of the world. Thousands oi
testimonies have been received of the blind receiving sight—th
e
deaf hear— the lame walk, and many of the works of Christ
% never equaled since the earthly life of Jesus.'' In the light of
this Science, disease, poverty, and sin have no place and cannot
exist. Over twenty thousand students have been healed and
helped already by this Science and a University for the training
of teachers is now being opened with four hundred promised
enrollments in the Super Mind Science Temple of Detroit,
Michigan.
Super Mind Science claims all healing is the result of Spirit
working in mind. No matter what system is used— whether
Christian Science, Spiritualism, Auto Suggestion or Medical
Science. There are many methods, but only one Supreme
healing agent, Spirit in Mind. So our System is a means of
immediate results using the one and only healing agent. In
five minutes this Science can direct more healing power and
energy than any other System can demonstrate in as many
months. That is the type of healing Jesus demonstrated and
taught His Disciples.
The first systematic promotion of this healing was com­
menced in The Super Mind Science Temple, 51 Sproat St.,
Detroit, Michigan, where a clinic was established with a Medi­
cal Doctor in charge, who had renounced medicine as a healing
agent. The Temple and Clinic opened on June 1st, 1929—
also the First Church of Super Mind Science of the U. S. A. in
its own building opened at the same time, the Founder being
the Pastor. There was also established in this Temple a vege­
tarian cafeteria for the students and public since God hath said,
Thou Shalt Not Kill. In this Temple hundreds were healed
the first few months of the Clinic work. It was proved unbe­
lievers could be healed as quickly as the believers, which proves
that this is a Divine Science. The mission of this Great Teach­
ing has only begun at the writing of this book, for truth must f
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 9
win. In the spirit of a True Disciple of Christ, the writer com­
mends this book to the reader, knowing that good seeds bring
forth good deeds. Sow seeds of good deeds and blessings will
come to the reader.
PROF. WM. E ST EP ,
Founder of Super Mind Science.
10 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
SUPER M IND SCIENCE
T R U T H
Jesus answered and said unto them, “ Verily I
say unto you. If you have faith and doubt not, Ye
shall not only do this which is done unto the fig
tree, but aslo ye shall say unto this mountain, be
thou removed and be thou cast into the sea. It shall
be done.”
The power to do these wonders were left with the people
after Jesus demonstrated them. Not taken away to leave th
e
Earth in darkness. The sinner is the ignorant one— one with­
out faith or power— when all he needs is demonstrations and
study to overcome his ignorance, then he will learn. All things
are possible to them who know God. Unselfish love unlocks
the store house of divine power. Mental Science gives a key
to their control. Enter ye into that kingdom not made with
hands. Inward prayer, self illumination, combined with re­
nunciation of sin and ignorance is the key to complete spiritual
understanding and liberation from misery.
Through selfless love all things come into being, making
God, the Supreme Giver. The sun gives its light— also the moon
— the planets their influence— the stars their light. Jesus gave
His blood and life of His body to prove Divine Selfless love-
eternal and immortal— indestructible, the highest realization of
God. But previous to this he had studied the mastery of dis­
ease and poverty, the overcoming of the flesh. Self immolation
and renunciation of the world and all of its false show and de­
lusions for a life of healing the sick and teaching the truth.
Our silent thoughts are God’s seeds being sown to bring forth
divine deeds. Silent prayer is correct prayer. It will go forth
through the seven Heavenly Spheres and return with our in­
ward desire if we pray, knowing this to be true. T o know w
e
must first demonstrate over our lower nature by gaining true
knowledge of our will and its relation to God— also how it
can control life and health energy and demonstrate the works ^
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 11
1 of Christ. For this knowledge we must have a wonderful
teacher who can point the way— then step by step learn mind
2 and spirit is all in all. Matter is only a cloud to pass away.
When our body sleeps we can travel the Heavenly way knowing
3 God is good. With our spiritual senses functioning thus prov­
ing immortality a fact while living on earth.
4 Jesus said, “ I can destroy this temple and in three days re­
store it again.” Our body is not as our spirit is. Seek therefore
5 to see beyond matter. When you dream matter has no knowl­
edge of it, yet you see, hear and feel. Does this not prove that
6 matter never sees, hears, or feels? Only mind contains sensa­
tion. Mind, also'spiritual identity is of an immortal nature.' *•
7 Matter only is mortal. If you live a spiritual life, doing the
works of Him who sent you, you become as immortal as
8 your deeds. God knows your needs before you ask Him. He
only waits for you to use his immortal law, then through an-
9 other law He supplies. 'Jesus said, “ Whatsoever ye ask in My '
name, believing in Me, shall be given.” This means doing his
10 works— not repeating words which say you do, yet your deeds
say you do not. Never implore God. Will and obey His laws, •
11 knowing you shall receive and results will be forthcoming.
Jesus said to health seekers, “ Be it according to your will.” If
12 our will could not demonstrate he would never have said that
to the sick.
13 Learn the power of your will, but effort must be added to
will. Faith without works is dead. Inaction and inertia is the
H greatest sin of omission. God finished His work on the seventh
day— meaning the seventh cycle of Creation. Now we must
'5 finish ours by obeying the law of the Divine Kingdom, which
is heal the sick,'cast out evil spirits, meaning influences," teach • •
16 the truth to the poor, meaning ignorant. We are God’s instru­
ment to accomplish this. His principles to do it are just as
17 accurate as mathematics, but we must operate the principle, not
expect it to operate us. “ Blessed is he who doeth the will of my
18 Father” saying of Jesus. The doer is blessed. The one who
12 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
waits is lost, for time does not exist in the fourth dimension, t
nor does relationship. There will be no marriage or giving in
marriage in My Father’s Kingdom, according to the Great
Teacher.
Pray silently, then go on to accomplish. Don’t pray to b
e
seen of men, then fail to make the effort which is your part of
fulfilling the law. Never ask God to pardon willful iniquity,
for, can you persuade him who is all love to be unjust. Him
who is all wise to do something foolish or can you persuade
the Author of the Supreme law to be unlawful? If you want
to please God, do His works and bless every new understand­
ing of truth, love and light. His supreme law is selfless love .
which exists with perfect balance and harmony. Its very
existence produces friction with lower elements. This we term
material creation. The law is above sect and sex action and
nonaction, personality and material laws. Our Science leads
us on and on to contact the great law. Then we will say it is
not I that doeth these works but Him that sent me. This
realization of God inward, or the perception of ourself a
s
image of God is the supreme understanding of the great law,
Selfless love. People who admit theoretically that Christ did
His wonders, but who scorn the practical demonstrations are
hypocrites and fall under the denunciation of the Great Teacher, '
Jesus. Only those who do the work— workers in the Vineyard,
will get the reward. Those who do not, He will say, “ Depart
from me ye workers of iniquity, I know you not.” 'And even
though you do the works, unless you live the great law, there
will likewise be no recognition.' Those who live in lust and
matter will also die in it in sorrow. Live not for temporal
glory, but store up treasures in Heaven by doing good deeds
through selfless love. Matter and all its so-called good is noth­
ing but passing show and illusion. Those who live for it only,
live in death. Come out from among them, Paul says. This
means those who desire only selfish comforts and have mental
delusions as their Paradise. f
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 13
1 The wages of sin is death. Sin is ignorance. The wages of
sin is also sickness of every form. T o destroy sin we must also
2 destroy sickness. No one is so foolish to believe that knowl­
edge of God will permit sin or disease to exist in the one who
3 fully comprehends his Divine law. Long deceiving prayers ut­
tered in the market place does not deceive God— only deceives
4 those who utter them. Silent prayer is its own reward. Every
sorrow is a lesson to one to forsake the babble of the unlearned.
5 Unlearned means those who never studied their mind, their
body and soul. Revelation comes from meditation on one’s
6 divinity and connection with the Universe. In the presence of
divine selfless love, sin melts away and love of humanity blos-
7 soms like a beautiful flower. Purity of thought is a sure sign
of one being saved, while humility is the key to bliss or eternal
8 life. God does not obey man, but His laws are subservient to
a spiritual will power exerted by man. Forgiveness only comes
9 with enlightenment preceded by remorse for having done
wrong. Salvation only comes at the end of a well behaved life,
10 after having done the will of our Father. Eternity is now and
not after we die. Immortality and an invisible life is just as
11 much now as ever. Death never improves a man— it only causes
flesh to decay and be out of his existence. Life is one scene
12 before death while after it is the same drama with another
scene. Memory of good only remains and consciousness is
13 measured by good deeds done while in the body. Be ye perfect,
even as your Father in Heaven is perfect. This means to develop
14 your understanding from a low imperfect plane to a higher
perfected plane. A method of development must be employed,
15 not just denial of some things and affirmation of others. Never
affirm that which is not a proven fact.
16 Some people say long prayers with a corrupt heart and in­
sincere mind. Jesus called them hypocrites and compared them
II to sepulchers— white without, but corrupt within. Attain per­
fection within. Never try to assume an attitude of piousness
18 outwardly for those who are pure within express it well enough,
14 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 others feel it and do not need to be told about it. If we re- T
ceive a rebuke it is most times because we merited it. We reap
2 what we sow. Let every mistake become a lesson. The Author
has learned many a lesson from drinking from the bitter cup
3 referred to by Jesus, The Christ. Try to do the will of Him
who sent us and lose yourself in helping others. This is the true
4 way to happiness. He who does not have time to do the work
of Christ, will not be found among the elect, for Christ will
5 likewise ignore them. Walk ye after the eternal light, and for­
sake the light of men. If you believe in prayer— pray silent,
6 for God seeth the desire of men’s hearts and needs not be in­
formed. Jesus says let your communications be Yea and Nay—
7 in other words, say little, think much. This develops the con­
sciousness. Even silent prayer cannot change the law of sowing
8 and reaping, nor persuade God to do wrong, for God is all
love, truth and light. When you desire more earthly goods,
9 give something you possess away to one needy, then bless
them. Thus you sow and will reap. If you desire health— heal
10 others. If you desire truth— then teach what you know to be
truth to others. Act according to the light that has been given
11 you. Those who know God is ever present and conscious of
His Divine love only need to think and their thought is
12 answered. i
T R U T H
13 Thought swiftly to its course doth take,
Arrests time and controls fate.
14 Brings peace, happiness and power,
T o needy mortals in their dying hour.
15 When we pray as material beings, our prayer is not answered,
*• but'if we pray as Sons of God, it is answered at oncef 'Every
16 day visualize yourself as Son of God, having power over dis­
ease and death and sorrow. What your mind mirrors__your
17 body will be' The body says the soul does not exist. The soul
speaks truth and says^the body is not man— it is only a house
, 18 in which he dwells. 'Man, spiritually, is God’s image, while
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 15
1 materially he is the opposite. Spirit and mind is one, while
the divine Trinity is spirit, mind and God. When one sees
2 mentally this Trinity as one, he gains a vision of his divine
Sonship. Ignorant people believe God to be one thing and man \
3 another. This is corporeal darkness. Learn to say, I and my
Father are one^ He who hath seen the Son, hath seen the
4 Father. Jesus said, “ I am the Son of God and ye are also. Now
when you begin to think in those terms, truth dawns and error
5 or belief disappears. One reaching this state actually demon­
strates the powers of the Christ, such as is demonstrated in
6 Super Mind Science. Every day visualize yourself as a moving
spiritual force, then concentrate, breathing slowly on this men-
7 tal image. Thus teach your consciousness the truth, then dis­
ease will disappear, also evil or ignorance. The I am then
8 becomes the reality, the body is absorbed into this spiritual
power and force, thereby producing long life, happiness and
9 bliss, through truth, love and light. Then only we become as
a light set upon a high hill. This truth illumines the life of
10 man, and eternal life begins here and now. Will and energy
are only manifestations of the mind, which when controlled by
11 concentration with Spiritual knowledge produce all things good.
Pray, concentrate on spirit silently and let your light so shine
12 that all may see your good works and glorify your Father in
Heaven or the Invisible world.
A TO N EM EN T AND SA LV A TIO N
13 “ Blessed is He That Overcometh”—Jesus
14 Atonement is At-one-ment, Unity of God and man, the
spiritual contact of divine harmony, entering into a continual
15 communion with God. This rights all wrong, seals all vows,
liberates the soul. Whereas sin is separation of mortal man
16 from a mental standpoint with God. At-one-ment is the op­
posite, meaning divine Unity, Jesus was tempted to sin—
17 separate— but went into the wilderness (symbol of physical
f
•
9
0
16 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 body) to overcome his body and mortal will. This he did, t
then he established Unity with his heavenly or invisible Father
2 by overcoming his desire for sin or separation. He termed this
overcoming the flesh or the world. The natural result was di-
3 vine harmony which later proved death to be of such nature
that man in his state of At-one-ment can master it and ascend
4 consciously to the Heaven or the Invisible, this being the re­
sults of atonement. Jesus carried through His mission even
5 though he gave up the Ghost (that which seems to be life) in
order to demonstrate His supreme atonement. This true atone-
6 ment is the example of our Master, and how far beyond the
ritualistic priest, both of the time of Jesus and today. Jesus
7 rebuked them by saying, “ Oh ye generation of vipers,” because
Jesus knew well that rituals only, make a man with a vile
8 mind more careless about his life and thoughts by the demon­
stration of his open attack on the hypocrite and priest of his
9 day. He leads us on to battle for truth. What has a crumb of
bread and drink of wine to do with eternity? He wants work-
10 ers in the vineyard of men. Real Prophets, healers, and teach­
ers— not academic snobs who measure goodness by outward
11 appearance, for can you cleanse a dish externally and leave it
filthy within, yet call it clean?
12 When one enters a state of divine consciousness and remains
in that state a thorough cleansing within is the result. No
13 ritual is then necessary in order for people to know you sin
no more, for you radiate the divine healing, cleansing principle
14 — your mind and consciousness becomes the abode of God.'
Long prayers are not necessary, but just sincere desire to do the
15 will of Him who sent us. Return good for evil and love your
enemies, is the remedy to gain the power over sin. This is act-
16 ing according to divine law. Never harbor malice for it is
iniquity of the lowest type. The illusions of a sinful life will
17 sooner or later bring sorrow to the one who seems to enjoy it.
Learn to direct your mind toward spirit and away from matter,
18 if you would avoid the pitfalls of sorrow of those who follow
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 17
1 after carnal pleasures, or sensual illusion. A wise navigator
steers his ship according to his compass, toward his goal. Our
2 reason, or spirit, is our compass— our life, the ship— At-one-
ment is our goal.
3 The At-one-ment of Christ was in His mastery of His body,
which will save all the world if they look at it in a practical
4 way. The idea that the murder of Jesus atones for all sin,
making it unnecessary to find God within, is a man-made in-
5 vention— also that God wanted Him killed is another man­
made theory. The organized Church of His day opposed His
6 demonstrations over death, sin and disease, which proved their
teachings to be false. Just as the Orthodox Church opposes
7 Super Mind Science, which proves it to be teaching a doctrine
that brings disease and death to its followers. They fill insane
8 asylums, hospitals, and prisons, because they are ignorant of
God’s laws, which their mind was prejudiced against by the
9 false teachings of these Orthodox Churches.
They know nothing of the true At-one-ment which Jesus
10 experienced when He overcame carnal lust. If they did they
would have saved themselves from this type of destruction.
11 Anyone who says, I can atone for your sin, is a false teacher
and prophet, for each man, woman and child must work out
12 their own salvation. Faith without works is dead, and a vis-
carious Atonement is an illusion. Only spiritual knowledge
13 with works of Christ and divine At-one-ment can destroy the
effect of evil deeds upon the conscience. This then, is the proof
14 of real Atonement. No ceremony is needed. Only silent sacri­
fice of lust and evil desires, consumed in the fire of our eternal
15 spirit. Learn of the healing, cleansing currents of life in Super
Mind Science— become master of concentration— then learn to
16 see truth, love and light in your mind, body and soul. Jesus
said, ‘‘If you love me, keep my Commandments,” which are
17 heal the sick, raise the dead, meaning those in ignorance, preach
truth to the poor. If you are persecuted and suffer that is your
18 At-one-ment, but be not weary in well doing, for the Sun shall
18 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 rise on a brighter day. If you are a demonstrator over matter, f
you are a follower— an imitator of Christ. No matter how
2 many hymns you may sing, nor prayers you may say, you will
not get the reward of a demonstrator unless you are one. The
3 idea of one man’s death taking away all sin from the world,
and his blood being ransom to a divine God, is not only im-
4 possible, but horrible teaching that places God in the position
of a bandit, who holds for ransom a human being, then kills
5 him to pay the ransom. Dogma and creed are the stairways
to perdition, and can only bring ruin to those who follow it
6 blindly. Hierarchies of men cannot dictate to God, nor forgive
those ignorant of his laws. They only develop hypocrisy and
7 murder, also disease and crime. All those who do their bid­
ding end in sorrow and pain.
8 Those who profess to believe in Christ, yet when they hear
of a Healer and Teacher who does his work and scorns him,
9 they are on the road to ruin. He said the cities who did not
receive his teachers and healers were cursed, and it would be
10 more tolerable for Sodom and Gamorrah. These are cities
which were destroyed. Spirit cannot be killed by matter. It is
11 the ax that cuts into the tree of life, and controls all the lower
branches. Our demonstrations in Super Mind Science proves
12 that concentration of mind, energy and will overcomes every
lust and evil desire. When they are all mastered, then comes
13 our Atonement. This we gain by doing the divine will of Him
who sent us into the world.
14 Joseph was guided in a dream. When matter sleeps, mind
speaks. The true dream reveals God in mind! If one is united
15 in their life to Christ no profession will be necessary. They can
and will do His works. Good works atone for bad works; good
16 thoughts for evil. Good deeds are good seeds; Ye shall know
them by their fruits. Means by those who demonstrate over
17 death, sickness, poverty, sorrow and ignorance. Those who try
to attain Atonement with God for divine Unity should not
18 eat flesh or kill God’s creatures, but love every form of Creation
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 19
and bless it, for is not every creature a prototype of its Creator?
Let not man put asunder that which God joins together,
means do not kill that which you cannot restore to life. Be not
a destroyer of God’s Creations, but a Comforter of all living
things. Thus Christ comes to earth through you. You become
a vessel of His divine spirit. Seek ye therefore the Kingdom of
God (Invisible powers) and all things shall be added unto you.
Divine Unity and truth and love is that real Atonement which
Jesus demonstrated.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE
Versus
CH RISTIA N SCIENCE
The Author being a mental Scientist of the divine type, has
often been asked, “ Is this work of yours Christian Science?
It sounds and reads similar.” All Sciences of the divine mind
do seem similar to the public who cannot discern the points
of difference, but Super Mind Science demonstrates where all
sciences fail and in this way is very different from Christian
Science. Mrs. Eddy says in her Science and Health, that disease
does not exist; that it is mortal error. Then the Author asks,
“Why does she claim to have healed disease?” She says, “ Matter
is not in existence, never was and never can be.” Then for
what purpose does she deal with the problems of matter. She
says, “ Carnal will has no healing power.” Yet Jesus said to
the sick, be it according to thy will. Yet she claims to be fol­
lowing in the footsteps of Christ. In Science and Health on
Page 70, she says, “ Mortal existence is an enigma, meaning
mystery.” It may have been to her, but is not to those who
reason instead of deny, about the facts concerning life. She
says also, "The corporeal senses cannot inform us about what
is right and what is wrong.” She has no evidence in her writ­
ings of having developed spiritual senses which could reveal
the truth to her. Then according to her own writings Christian
„v;
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
i
Science is unreliable She appointed practitioners, who were
supposed to heal her followers of disease, yet says there is no
disease. She says there is one God, one spirit, one mind, that
identity after death is just a belief. Yet Jesus arose from the
dead with a corporeal presence and appeared to His Disciples.
Mrs. Eddy promised to do likewise to a select group of students,
but failed to appear even though they waited twelve days to
see the body rise. Anyone desiring proof of this needs only to
go to Boston, where they will find some of those students still
waiting for the Mother of God, as she termed herself, to appear.
Such ignorance in the twentieth century is almost unbelievable.
They still keep her chapel just as it was, thinking she will re­
turn, and preach a sermon after being in Heaven. This is as
preposterous as the doctrine of Mohammed, who says he rode
a horse to Heaven and St. Peter acted as stable boy, holding the
horse while he visited God, and all the notables of Heaven.
Clement Wood, who wrote The Truth About Christian
Science, gives all the data to any seeker. It was published by
Haldeman-Julius, of Girard, Kas., in the year of 1928. Chris­
tian Science is a belief for those who have not learned to think
they cannot heal an unbeliever. Yet they claim the works of
Jesus is one and the same as Mrs. Eddy’s. In Super Mind Science
an unbeliever can be healed as easy as a believer, and thousands /
have given testimonies of results. Super Mind Science says the
body exists. Anyone who says matter is non-existant is ignorant
and to some extent, weak minded. That matter is a lower
manifestation of mind is true, by concentration of the energy
in the body and concentration of the mind, the cause of disease
can be removed. The cause being congestion, contraction causes
pain. Energy directed by mind produces expansion. This stops
pain instantly, and then healing begins at once.
The Author has proven this to thousands who came to see
the great demonstrations of Super Mind Science performed.
This process of expansion requires a knowledge of mental laws
as well as some knowledge about the body. Then divine spirit J
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 21
1 can heal using the energy so directed.
Mrs. Eddy never mastered concentration of the mind. She
2 could not heal herself of epileptic fits, which she had all her
life, yet claimed to be a Mental Scientist. Hundreds of her fol-
3 lowers, who were blind and deaf and diseased have been healed
in Super Mind Science. Whenever the Christian Scientist finds
4 out this has been accomplished they humiliate the ones healed
and church them, which means expell them, in disgrace, because
5 they went out of Christian Science to be healed. This is how
they practice divine love. Super Mind Science heals all who
6 apply it, but in case they get healed in any other way we do
not condemn them for Good is Good, and God is God, no
7 matter in what form it manifests. On Page 161 of Science
and Health, Mrs. Eddy says the ordinary practitioner examines
8 bodily ailments and tells the patient he is sick according to
physical symptoms. This naturally would induce the very dis-
9 ease he is trying to cure. Many hundreds have been so diag­
nosed by the medical profession, and came to Super Mind
10 Science. We never discussed the name of the disease but told
them they had a congestion, produced from violation of natural
11 laws, then taught them a method to relieve it by use of energy
and mind, and in every case we have effected a cure. Christian
12 Science says to them, your disease does not exist. This insults
one’s intelligence, and arouses antagonism, which makes the
13 case even worse. Next by Science and Health they are told to
repeat the Scientific Statement of being over and over like a par-
14 rot. This will induce self hypnosis and the patient, in some
cases imagines the ailment gone, in others dies hopeless, in
15 others becomes partially insane.
The Author knew of a case where a man repeating this so-
16 called scientific statement for Health, became totally blind,
because it opens up all negative mental centers, he became insane.
17 A little later he died, leaving a fortune to a Christian Science
Church. This is only one of the hundreds of cases of negation,
18 developed by this form of ignorance called Christian Science.
.
22 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 The Author may be attacked by those who profit by this three
million dollar book selling scheme, but who can speak or write
2 Truth without persecution. Here is her scientific statement of
being from page 468, Science and Health. There is no life,
3 truth or substance in matter. All is infinite mind, and its in­
finite manifestation for God is all and all. Spirit is immortal
4 truth. Matter is mortal error. Spirit is real and eternal matter
is unreal and temporal. Spirit is God and man His image and
5 likeness— therefore man is not material, but spiritual. Anyone
believing matter contains no substance and does not exist, is a
6 deluded mortal. Also after she says matter has no substance,
she states it is temporal, or has existance. Contradicts her own
7 idea in the one statement. Only an undeveloped mind could
write such conflicting nonsense. A man who claimed to be a
8 Christian Scientist, but out of the church, taught his classes in
many eastern cities. His great argument was, I am not speak-
9 ing, this is God speaking. You say I exist, but I do not exist,
only God exists. So one morning after he had repeated this
10 statement he was found dead— killed by his own powerful sug­
gestion. He went the way of many Christian Scientists. They
11 do not live very long, because they deny matter, yet God created
matter as a Temple of the living God. Those who use affirma-
12 tions, no matter if Mrs. Eddy or another wrote them, either
become self-hypnotized, or mildly insane.
13 The Author hereby solemnly warns all health seekers not to
use the negative affirmations. They are the worst type of
14 deadly mental poisons. Study first positive concentration, and
direction of mental energy and force before using any negative
15 mental powers. Mrs. Eddy says the will is evil on Page 206,
Science and Health, yet just before that says there is no evil.
16 Does she forget Jesus saying to those He healed, “ Be it accord­
ing to thv will.” The Author hart a —i ___
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 23
1 Super Mind Science and received her sight. At this writing she
is a member of our National Temple at Detroit, Mich. She has
2 renounced Christian Science. Her husband had taken 240 treat­
ments for asthma from a Christian Science practitioner, without
3 getting any results. He is now nearly well, and is a teacher of
Super Mind Science. When he learned positive and negative
4 mental laws and concentration, he soon recovered, using the
energy direction method, given in the last part of this volume,
5 Lesson No. 1 of Super Mind Science. Nature uses methods, also
God, therefore man cannot deny God’s methods without deny-
6 ing also God. Christian Science demonstrates only ignorance of
natural laws, and denial of God. Those who are its deluded
7 followers are forbidden to read other books on mental science,
because an honest investigator soon proves it false and unreli-
8 able. Where is their system of healing by laying on hands.
Jesus used such a system. Why don't they heal those who are
9 not Christian Scientists? Super Mind Science can and does
do so.
SU PER M IND SCIENCE
Versus*
SPIRITUALISM TH EOSOPH Y AND NEW T H O U G H T
10 Spiritualism is a negative teaching, which creates its own
spirits my magnetism and thought forms, and self hypnosis
11 through auto-suggestion. Its followers are a deluded group of
mortals, who are sinful, jealous and hungry for money, selling
12 readings which vary in price from fifty cents to hundreds of
dollars. It preys upon the credulous, gullible public, claiming
13 to reveal communications from the dead, who have the power
to prophesy because they are spirits. Death does not improve
14 the individual. In some cases it destroys them, depending upon
how they live on earth. The power that moves tables and raps
15 on walls is mind and magnetism contacting the strength of
matter. The forms that appear when not faked, are the
16 thoughts of mortals clothed with magnetism, and illuminated
24 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
by the life energy of matter, but in most cases it is the form of
the medium, which is dressed in phosphoresence that appears
to those who desire and pay for such shows.
Super Mind Science teaches that these thought forms are but
creations of the mind of the medium, because man has no
power to govern that which is spiritual and on a higher plane
than himself. There are seven planes of mind. On the three
lowest are thought forms, beyond the fourth which divides
mortal beings and immortals, there are spiritual beings not sub­
ject to the dictates of matter or mental powers. These lower
planes create mental powers and force according to the image
concentrated upon. The creating and control of these mental
entities has nothing to do with life hereafter. Nor does it
require a spiritual person to create them. A criminal can do
so if he uses concentration.
Super Mind Science warns the student to see mind as a
manifestation of God, and use it as such. Anyone who lets a
mental entitity control their consciousness has taken the first
step toward the insane asylum. Spiritualism has been the means
of many deluded mortals losing their sanity. Its followers are
usually of the low mental type, while its mediums are nearly
all uneducated. They depend on spirits for everything and be­
come mental weaklings. It was founded by two children, the
Fox sisters, and is as childish as its founders. The Author can
duplicate all of their unexplainable feats using nothing but
mind and magnetism. We are warned in the Scriptures of
those who possess a familiar spirit, meaning one who reads all
about your private affairs. We are told they are evil and to
avoid them. Christ said, let the dead bury the dead. Be up and
care for the living. No one possesses a finite spirit, except their
identity. Spirit is infinite and one with God. It is not inter­
ested in oil wells and ones personal affairs. It is impersonal
since spirit consists of divine intelligence. The mind being uni­
versal in its very essence may see some one at a distance or
hear a voice uttered a thousand miles away, but this is only
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 25
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
mind in its true manifestation. It has no connection with dis-
carnate spirits. Even back in the seventeenth century, Hester
Ann Rogers in her religious experience written in England, says
she knew a girl who dreamed she had attended a ball and had
fainted and died, that she went to Heaven where people were
singing hymns. She did not like the place, so in her dreams
some one cast her out of Heaven and she began to fall down,
down and down through an intense fire where souls were being
burned. She asked her clergyman to explain it, since she was
to attend a ball the next night. He prevailed upon her not to
go, but she went. So during the ball, she fainted just as she
had done in her dreams. They carried her out and rushed her
home, but she died, just as she had in the dream. She was very
religious, but had dreamed she had descended to Hell, so you see
dreams are a manifestation of the mind. Her Inner Spiritual
mind, called the super conscious, had shown her her end of
mundane life, also that the Hell she believed in may be her lot
if she was not pleased to be where beings praised God. All of
this was a mental reflection of her belief and her future death.
It was not a case of visiting the spirit world, as spirituaistsl
would believe. All things have their being in mind, even spirit
exists in mind. "There can be no distincton or separation of
spirit and mind." Spiritualists had better study their mind and
how to gain self-control, instead of how to give up their con­
sciousness to a supposed-to-be spirit.
Next of the harmful negative ideas is Theosophy, a degenera­
tion of the Hindu religion. They make no effort to improve
their mentality while living, but expect to have seven incarna­
tions, and on the seventh attain wisdom, while in a higher
state of spiritual consciousness. They talk about concentration
and mental science, but their political leader, Anna Besant says,
don’t learn about your mind. You will go insane. Just wait
and reincarnate to reach perfection. Her following consists of
a few lazy minded people who want to put off their duty to­
day until tomorrow. They promoted a young Hindu, Krishna
26 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
1 Murte as the Messiah of this age, the vehicle of the world 1
teacher, but he himself said, “ I am no Messiah.” Mrs. Besant
2 had taken him away from his parents by suing his father for
custody of the boy in an English court in India, where no
3 Hindu gets justice. After this Krisna Murte remained with
Mrs. Besant who later proclaimed him as the Messiah of this
4 age. He never gave a demonstration of divine power, so she
could not convince the world of his divinity. A press report
5 said an English theosophist gave over $1,000,000 to the new
Messiah so he would not be poor like Christ.
6 The Author never met a Theosophist who could heal the
sick or who had attained self-control, but has met many who
7 were ignorant and diseased. Theosophy is a negative road to
self-hynosis, insanity and sorrow. They use affirmations like
8 the Christian Scientist. Super Mind Science teaches honesty
first, therefore being a positive teaching warns the student
9 against Theosophy.
New Thought is another negative teaching, which helps
10 only the negative people who are subject to suggestion. Super
Mind Science uses no suggestion or hypnotic methods to induce
11 power, or to weaken the physical resistance of the student. It
uses only positive powers which are first, will power; second,
12 energy; third, concentration of the mind, and fourth, divine
realization. These positive powers develop mastership over
13 all negative conditions, such as sickness and sorrow and ruinous
habits of the carnal mind. Negation is absence of knowledge,
14 mental darkness.
Jesus said judge teachings by their fruits. This means dem-
15 onstration, not belief. One belief is as good as another, but
demonstration over sin, death and poverty are the works of the
16 Christ. Those who profess belief in Christ but do not do His
works are either hypocrites or ignorant. Salvation is the re-
1 1 suit of divine demonstration. No one who is spiritual believes
in sitting down and repeating affirmations like: I am God’s
18 perfect child, etc. If they are God’s perfect child, then they 1
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 11
1 can do His works. Repetition develops inertia. Why tell your
consciousness over and over what to do? Jesus told His only
2 once, and it obeyed. Speak with authority and believe in His
divine works, and whatsoever ye ask in His name shall be done.
3 These lower negative teachings using suggestion have retarded
the cause of truth many years. Seek the Kingdom of God or
4 Good, and all things shall be added unto you. See the material
world as nothing. The spirit of God as all in all. Develop
5 your positive mental powers and resist evil, then life will un­
fold before you like a beautiful rose unfolding its bloom.
6 Super Mind Science will lead you to perfect health, happiness
and true immortality, through attainment of spirituality. New
7 Thought, Theosophy and Spiritualism claim the divine powers
of God, yet use negation as a means of attainment. This is the
8 opposite of God and mastership. Open all positive centers and
become a Creator. Close all negative centers and avoid evil.
9 This is the teaching of our wonderful science which helps
thousands to attain divine Sonship of God through self mast-
10 ery, which completes atonement.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE R EV EA LED
11 Question: What is Super Mind Science?
Answer: Super Mind Science is a science of life, self-control
12 and spiritual realization, through performing the works of
Christ. It consists of methods to stimulate energy, and direct it
13 to parts of the body where disease exists and thereby overcome
the cause of disease. Every student becomes a healer, also gains
14 knowledge of the laws of life leading to self-mastery, which
proves matter to have no sensation or feeling, and spirit to be
15 the ever-present reality manifest in mind which causes man
to be immortal, and the Son of a living, ever-present God,
16 omnipresence, omniscience, and eternal. It unlocks the powers
in man to give him definite knowledge of this divine presence,
17 by unfolding his spiritual consciousness.
.
28 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
a *
4?
10
11
12
13
14
Question: How does it perform healing?
Answer: When one learns the keys to the science they can
open the centers of energy where the life healing fluid enters
the body, then by concentration of the mind, which contains
divine power within, it causes an expansion which relieves the
congestion in the region treated, then asserts the will power over
the ailment seeing it mentally perfect. This performs instant
relief. Our science treats all disease by these principles. Meth­
ods are similar for all diseases, in some oxygen is also used.
These are nature’s healing powers.
Question: How do other systems heal?
Answer: All systems use these same powers. We direct
more energy in the same amount of time than any other healing
system. This proves our system is the most logical, also the
one used by Jesus and His disciples. We direct scientifically by
exercise of body and mind. He directed energy by spiritual
powers, but the same energy was used.
Question: What is God?
Answer: God is Spirit, love, truth, supreme infinite power,
manifest in mind. The inner or soul principle, creation and
self-existant/
Question: Has the power of God any divisions?
Answer: No; he is one supreme incorporeal force having
many manifestations, but no divisions within himself.
Question: Scientifically state what is being?
Answer: Being is a manifestation of the God Principle and
idea, consisting of mind individualized through the law of
friction, yet containing the God essence within, which heals
all disease and controls matter, that spirit within, being the
immortal being called man. Matter is but a lower manifestation
of man which must be overcome by mind imbued with spirit.
Therefore man is immortal if he lives in his higher nature and
does the will of His divine Father god.
Question: What is substance?
Answer: Substance is the life force called matter, consisting
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 29
1 of a group of cells, nerves, brain and blood. These being a
lower manifestation of divine mind. Matter is a substance
2 spirit vibration. This substance manifesting seeming intelli­
gence, suggests a power unseen which is the cause of its seem-
3 ing intelligence, suggests a power unseen which is the cause
of its seeming intelligence, which really belongs to mind.
4 Question: What is human life?
Answer: Human life is the expression of God. Truth, love
5 and light in a compound form called individuality. The indi­
viduality is eternal and immortal— therefore it is the image or
6 Son of God. Those gaining this knowledge and living in the
Divine light, become immortal identities with individuality be-
7 yond the fifth heavenly sphere, where no friction exists.
Question: What power is termed intelligence?
8 Answer: It is God manifesting as spiritual light. It is om­
nipresence and omnipotence in manifestation. It is the light
9 of divine infinite spirit.
Question: What is mind?
10 Answer: Mind is the expression of God or infinite intel­
ligence. It is a universal force. There is but one mind con-
11 sciousness and identity, a manifestation of the one supreme
immortal mind. Just as a limb of a tree is not the tree, but a
12 part thereof, human consciousness is not this sum total mind,
but being a branch thereby exists in unity, or in totality. God
10 is in mind likewise. What we term spirit and soul is mind,
there being seven planes of mind which creates these higher
14 and lower aspects. The seven mental planes are within the one
supreme mind like seven layers of bark may grow on a tree.
15 The seven planes are as follows: Conscious mind plane: sub­
conscious mind plane; super conscious mind plane; transma
16 mind plane, dividing spirit and matter by a conflict of vibra­
tion; then comes the spiritual mind plane. This plane contains
IT our highest consciousness from an individual standpoint. Next
is the Christ mind plane, the plane of high aspirations and love,
18 also of sacrificial and spiritual powers. Next and last the
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
30
1 seventh plane or the God mind plane. The desire for Heaven ^
and immortality comes from this plane. It is the plane of self-
2 less love. Mind consisting of these planes becomes within itself
Omnipotent and Immortal and self-existent. It has no depend-
3 ence on matter. Concentration governs its manifestation. By
use of this power man can become master of invisible life while
4 still living on earth. He can do anything he conceives possible,
for nothing is impossible to God, who is in manifestation in
5 the human mind.
Question: Are dogmas and creeds an aid to salvation?
6 Answer: No. They cause one to live carelessly, also to be­
lieve they can enter Heaven by belief only. They oppose spir-
7 itual growth, and hold the soul in bondage to a ritual having
no power. They develop selfishness in man and deny the
8 proofs of divine science. They make hypocrites of men by in­
ducing false beliefs about immortality. They do not practice
9 the works of Christ, but scorn those who do so. These are
modern Pharisees, the same type Jesus rebuked. They try to
10 climb up to Heaven though they do not live a Christ life. Con­
tented yet full of disease and sin, they affirm the creed. Self-
11 hypnotized into believing they will go to Heaven because the
preacher said they would do so. Salvation is the result of ,
12 doing Christ’s work, not in the belief of a creed or dogma.
Super Mind Science teaches each and every one to do the
13 healing and other demonstrations of the Master Jesus. It also
teaches how to overcome the flesh, which is the true practical
14 Christianity. Those who scorn the works of Jesus, He will
scorn before His father in Heaven. For as we sow, so shall we
15 reap. Seek the Kingdom of God or invisible knowledge, and all
else shall be added unto you. This includes salvation and im*
16 mortality of soul.
Question: What is sin?
17 Answer: Sin is ignorance of divine mental science, which
produces sickness, sorrow and death. One who violates God’s
18 immutable laws is a sinner. Only wisdom and development can
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 31
save one from the results of sin which can even destroy im­
mortal identity. When one ceases sin they are pardoned if they
cease sin. Salvation begins which develops divine powers by
a contact of God through love of humanity. Sin is the ab­
sence of Good, not a force or permanent reality. When good
manifests sin is no more. The atonement for sin is to live
a life of doing good. Such a life Jesus demonstrated. Error is
ignorance of divine laws. It is also a manifestation of sin or
ignorance.
Question: What is the devil?
Answer: The word comes from the Greek of the New Testa­
ment. It means adversary, or one who opposes Good or God.
The translation of Satan as a personality is due to the ignorance
of the translators. Any evil person or influence— seen or un­
seen— is the Devil or Satan power. Those who are ignorant of
divine laws are the legions of the invisible world, which cause
obsession by their very existence. Evil thoughts may also be
termed angels of Satan.
Question: What is man?
Answer: Man is the Son of God, and also the Son of Man.
If he masters flesh and delusion and lives as a Son of God
he becomes the image of His divine father: if not, he suffers as
the son of flesh. In Super Mind Science we see man as the per­
fect spiritual image of God, and teach him how to live as such.
He must be taught the laws of mind, body and soul before this
divine Sonship can be revealed. No religion or belief can make
this transformation. Man himself must do the divine works
to make his higher self the Son of God. Jesus said, do my works
for the very works sake. Super Mind Science demonstrates
this wonderful soul satisfying work.
Question: What difference is there between body, soul and
spirit?
Answer: Body is the lowest manifestation of mind belong­
ing to the animal kingdom. It is the Temple of the living
God, or life principle, which Jesus said destroy it, and the
32 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 Spirit will build it up again in three days, showing that man
is not his body, but the dweller therein. Soul is the contact
2 of the seventh plane of mind. The God plane of mind within
the consciousness. It is a spoke in the Divine wheel we term
3 man. 'Spirit is God, or intelligence, manifesting as the sum
total of knowledge on all planes of mimD It is the spiritual
4 sun of the Universe which shines on the good and evil alike.
It is also the divine light, which illumines the way to higher
5 mind manifestation or immortality. ' In spirit there is one in­
separable trinity on all planes. They are Truth, Love and
6 Lights They cause all evolution and growth by manifesting
God principle.
7 Question: Is mind in matter or matter in mind?
Answer: Back of mind there is the God principle. Mind is
8 the instrument of that principle. It carries out the divine pro­
gram of God. Back of the brain there is the mind. It alone
9 thinks, feels and senses. All sensation is in the mind, not in
matter. Matter or brain is just an instrument of mind. It is
10 not mind any more than a piano is the music it plays. Our
being is at all times in mind, not in matter. That is why we
11 can inherit immortality. Brain carries out the order of mind,
while the body carries out the order of the brain. Thus when
12 mind power is concentrated perfectly, matter has to obey, for.
it is only the instrument. This is why inner mind can open
13 the eyes of the blind, and do the wonders of Jesus Christ.
Like notes are the keys to musical harmony— Super Mind
14 Science is the key to divine mind. It gives the technique to
apply mental power to any problem as well as to control all
15 physical energies. Thus it masters disease, poverty and all ills
of the flesh and solves the problem of spiritual consciousness,
16 which leads to immortality of the soul. Be ye spiritually
minded, is the advice of Paul. This means to see, know, realize,
17 spirit in mind. All intelligence exists in mind, not matter.
Otherwise intelligence would die with matter, and it could not
18 be an eternal, universal force. When mind is concentrated, the
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 33
will governs matter. For instance when one is worried, or
anxious, they often lose their appetite and cannot eat, which
shows that mind forces matter to imitate all of its sensations,
and therefore when the musician (man) spirit and mind is dis­
turbed, the instrument (body) cannot function perfectly. It is
this power over matter controlling energy that heals all manner
of disease in Super Mind Science.
Question: What is the law of healing in Super Mind Science?
Answer: First learn concentration of the mind with the
breath controlled. This is to direct energy. Second, learn the
passageways of energy in the body, opening and closing of
energy centers in Solar Plexus. Third: Energize the section
where disease exists, expanding the tissues, cords and muscles.
Fourth: Take control of divine mental power by concentra­
tion on a mental picture of perfect health. This subdues and
banishes all disease. We control these powers by metaphysical
methods, we term mental exercise. This being scientific. Jesus
controlled them with His spiritual will power. They are the
same powers He used in healing the sick.
Question: Does this science use suggestion, or mesmerism,
or hypnotism, or deny the existance of matter as an aid to its
metaphysical healing?
Answer: No. This science does not use suggestion to the
sub-conscious mind. This is a negative process. It uses instead
will power, a positive mental power. It does not need mes­
merism when it has all the divine powers of Christ at its dis­
posal, which it teaches how to use with the law of concentra­
tion. It does not deny that matter exists like so-called Christian
Science. Anyone with intelligence knows that it does, but it
exalts mind over matter, and forces the body to respond to the
perfect mental picture, by control of life’s healing energies. All
of these so-called sciences demonstrate only a small amount of
this energy, which accounts for the results they get. Super
Mind Science demonstrates control of the entire circulation of
this energy. Ths accounts for its superiority in the healing
34 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 field.
Question: What is belief?
2 Answer: A mild form of mental illusion belonging to mat­
ter and mortality. Only demonstrable truth is a reality. Be-
3 lief is also the first step in self-hypnosis, where one becomes
the tool of those who suggest the belief to their mind. The
4 only true evidence of truth is works to prove the claim. If
works are not in evidence the belief is false. Works confined
5 to belief is also false. Jesus demonstrated to those who saw
Him the first time only. The conversion comes after the dem-
6 onstration of the truth, not before, if it is facts, not theory;
truth, not belief. Truth is unchangeable. Eternal, beliefs can
7 be changed over night. They are mortal.
Question: What is will power?
8 Answer: Will power is the positive power of Spirit, or
God. Jesus said to the sick, be it according to thy will. Also
9 I do the will of My Father. When man surrenders his carnal
illusions, and desires, his will power becomes the power of the
10 Father, a divine instrument to accomplish good. When one
loses their will power, insanity is the natural result. Without
11 will the control of divine mind over matter could not be so.
With it all things are possible to them who use it to express
12 Truth, Love and Light. In Christian Science Mrs. Eddy says,
Will is an animal propensity, which shows her ignorance, also
13 her disbelief in Christ, as a mental scientist. Many of her fol­
lowers come to Super Mind Science to learn how to develop
14 their will power, because her teachings opens all the negative
centers in the brain and lessens their mastership of themselves.
15 Question: What is disease?
Answer: It is only contraction produced from congestion of
16 life energy. It is brought about by ignorance of mental laws
and nature. When energy and expansion is applied by concen-
17 tration of the mind, it disappears. This you learn later in the
Key to Super Mind and Science. Disease is of matter. The
18 mind controls matter and eliminates disease, but the one sick
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 35
1 must learn how to cease the violation of the laws producing it,
if they desire health. After you have been healed, awaken the
2 mind from the delusion that you have to be sick. See yourself
perfect mentally, even as God Mind is perfect. Remedies of
3 the medicinal nature never heal, only exercise of the body and
mind can control Nature’s healing fluid.
4 Question: How may I master Super Mind Science?
Answer: First reject all belief in a personal God. See God
5 within your consciousness and in mind. Learn its techniques
of directing the mental forces and physical energies. Practice
6 the divine idea of thinking good thoughts. Use the healing
method in Keys to Super Mind Science to heal the sick. Study
7 yourself. Introspect and the Science will be revealed as God’s
greatest gift to man, for you can prove by demonstration, every
8 technique is truth, thereby discard all beliefs, and direct your
mind by concentration toward health and away from sickness,
9 toward spirit, away from matter. This science is mind over
matter. Its methods give proof of its mastery. Learn to prove
10 it to others. Live in truth, love and light, and you will grow
into the wisdom of Super Mind Science. It is practical Chris-
11 tianity.
Question: What are the religious tenets of Super Mind
12 Science?
Answer: They have no dogma or creed, but adhere to certain
13 divine principles, termed demonstrable facts. They are:
First, The Bible is accepted as the inspired word of God, de-
14 livered through mental laws to those ancients who were
spiritually developed.
15 Second, We adore God as divine mind, all-seeing, all-know­
ing, omnipotent and eternal life principle manifest in all
16 living creatures.
Third, We believe in the sacredness of life, both of animals
1 ~ and men. We deplore killing of any of God’s creatures
and consider that sin unpardonable.
18 Fourth, We accept Jesus as the Son of God, but believe also
36 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 that those doing His works become like Him, also the
Son of God. His atonement, we accept as a symbol of
2 divine unity through overcoming the flesh.
Fifth, The resurrection, we accept as proof His doctrine of
3 eternal life, attainable by all men, applying their minds
to doing His divine works, we believe only in the ap-
4 plication of His teaching to life. Can there be salvation of
the soul and eternal life?
5 Sixth, We believe that faith without works is dead, and
those not doing the works will fail to attain immortality
0 of the soul, since one’s belief is only a reality when ap­
plied to the problems of life.
y Seventh, We believe in consciousness after death for all those
having that mind which was also in Christ Jesus, living in
g their higher nature, doing the will of the Father and
being master of matter.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 37
PA R T II
SUPER M IND SCIENCE
KEYS T O C H R IST IA N IT Y
Fear them not therefore, for there is nothing covered
that shall not be revealed, and hidden that shall not
be known.
— Jesus.
When one understands the Scriptures from a Spiritual stand­
point, they take on a new meaning, and reveal the power of
^ divine mental Science in the early days before education in its
present form existed. This shows the superiority of spirit over
5 matter. The Old Testament has some wonderful messages of
truth infolded in Symbols, which mean little to the mind of
6 Materialistic Theologians, but much to one with the inner
vision of life. God gave His lessons to those prepared to re-
^ ceive them, just as He does today. Many are called, but few
are chosen. This accounts for the great misunderstanding of
8 the Scriptures by those who are self appointed to interpret this
inspired Book for the good of man. Those who interpret these
9 symbols must be aided by soul vision, since they contain a
deep mystery, not perceived by the ordinary person. Super
I® Mind Science throws a new light on the word of God, proving
it to be a practical lesson in life and how to live, instead of
II just what to believe.
Genesis 1st. In the beginning God created the Heaven and
12 the earth.
Infinite spirit evolves all things from the center of its divine
^3 mind which expresses creation. All creation is but many re­
flections of the thoughts of this supreme creative mind called
^ God. This supreme mind is the one and only Creator. Man is
38 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 likewise a manifestation of Him, a reflection, the divine image
of this all powerful mind.
2 Genesis 1st, 2. And the earth was without form and void
and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the spirit of
3 God moved upon the water. The absence of the divine spirit
causes darkness, also there is no form in the absence of spirit,
4 either to earth or man. Divine mind shapes the being like a
potter molds his clay, and the spirit of God moved upon the
5 waters means, that the divine spirit sent forth germs of in­
telligence into the waters, which later we find produces life.
6 Genesis 1st, 3. And God said, let there be light and there
was light, illuminating all Creation by intelligence, producing
7 forms of beauty, full of the goodness of the Divine Creator,
illuminating all Creation. No darkness is born of God— either
8 mentally or physically.
Genesis 1st, 4. And God saw the light. That it was good,
9 and God divided the light from the darkness. God sees the good
and divides it from evil. He recognizes only light and good.
10 Genesis 1st, 5. And God called the light day and the dark­
ness He called night and the evening and the morning was the
11 first day. The light which here manifested was before the
Creation of the sun, moon and stars, and it tells of the light
12 of divine mind, which by the process of thought evolved all
things, giving them the different names by which they are
13 called. God is the originator of all things, man is but an instru­
ment of the divine Creator. Divine mind contained all forces
14 used in the Creation, which proves that the idea of a physical
Creation is wrong, and could not be since life is proved to be
15 entirely mental, proceeding from the eternal light through
the cycles manifesting different forms of the one mind.
16 Genesis 1st, 6. And God said let there be a firmament in the
midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.
17 This symbolizes the separation of individual identity from the
divine mind. Also spiritual truth which solves all mysteries of
lg our existance, here and hereafter. Truth being taught correctly
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 39
1 reveals man as the same divine mind, or God. It is a case of
a division in the waters of life.
2 Genesis 1st, 7. And Cod made the firmament and divided
the waters which were under the firmament from the waters
3 which were above the firmament, and it was so. The higher
forces of life manifest separate from the lower, there being the
4 higher self, and the lower self— both products of divine mind.
God recognizes the higher as above the lower, making the law
5 of sowing and reaping a reality. This verse of Genesis clearly
symbolizes the recognition. Truth, love and light guides us
6 to the higher and away from the lower. The false and true,
the lower and higher, are only discernible to those with devel-
7 oped mentality. It is confusing to those who try to test it by
mechanical devices. You cannot measure either sunshine or
8 darkness. Only the mind beholds them when manifest. The
mind likewise guides us to higher wisdom. No human can
9 progress without knowing this truth.
Genesis 1st, 8. And God called the firmament Heaven and
10 the evening and the morning were the second day. All things
proceeded from divine origin by cycles of progression, number-
11 ing several thousands of years, said by seers to be seven hundred
thousand to each cycle. Divine spirit working in harmony
12 created its own elements, earth, air, fire and water, and from
these four elements created all things, each cycle producing a
13 manifestation of growth. Thus the earth and invisible world
came into being. The lower elements constitute the corporeal
14 world; the higher invisible elements, the ideal or spiritual world
beyond the fourth mental plane.
15 Genesis 1st, 9. And God said let the waters under the Heaven
be gathered together unto one place and let the dry land appear,
16 and it was so. God gathers together the elements, then through
positive and negative law creates all things. He opens and un-
17 folds the seed of life in the elements by the heat of His universal
meditation.
Genesis 1st, 10. And God called the dry land earth and the
18
40 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 gathering together of waters called He seas and Cod saw that
it was good. All Creation was planned and unfolded by the
2 divine mind, even to the minutest detail. All things created
was good. Evil is the absence of God. It is void of force and
3 power. Dry land symbolizes body while water is the symbol
of the soul. Between body and soul is the manifestations of
4 the Motherhood and Fatherhood principle.
Genesis 1st, 11. And God said let the earth bring forth grass.
5 The herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielded fruit after its
kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth and it was so. The
6 divine spirit created all things with the idea of universal pro­
duction, to serve a purpose or to do good. This productive
7 principle is the compound idea of spiritual creative power,
which God manifests. Infinite mind creates and governs all
8 from the atom to the largest particle of life, from the lowest to
the highest manifestation. The beauty of nature is the artistry
9 of God. His universal laws of creation forming even the small
blade of grass, giving it life and charm through the principles
10 of truth, love and light. Mortal or material creation is but an
instrument of this divine, infinite mind, and little comprehends
11 its universal power and force. Only a spiritual mind living on
the higher planes observes its beauty, and realizes its power of
12 containing all things within it. Seek, Oh Mortal, to contact
this mind.
13 Genesis 1st, 12. And the earth brought forth grass and herb
yielding seed after its kind, and the tree yielding fruit whose
14 seed was in itself after its kind and God saw that it was good.
All works of God are a success, producing and creating after its
15 kind. God is the Father of positive and negative law by which
He controls growth and production of all things. Super Mind
16 Science teaches mastery of that law.
Genesis 1st, 13. And the evening and the morning were the
17 third day. All creation grows by degrees and cycles. Nothing
just happens. It comes into an existance through the operation
18 of divine law and order. This third day symbolizes the im-
JB
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 41
1 mortality of mind, God’s immortal agency of Creation. Three
also is the number of God or Diety, since God is three-fold,
2 also the amount of time between the death and the actual
resurrection of Our Lord, Jesus Christ, who appeared to His
3 Disciples or students. Our science understands this to be an
actual demonstration of the triumph of mind over matter.
4 This knowledge is the light of the world. It raises man to a
greater understanding of life than a belief in a mysterious
5 death.
Genesis 1st, 14. And God said let there be lights in the
6 firmament of Heaven to divide the dag from the night and let
them be for signs, and for seasons and for dags and for gears.
7 Even the minutest details, as to the seasons of the years were
created by thought of the universal mind. All that which is
8 solid came from a thought form. Truth, love and light pre­
ceded all creation, being of the higher planes of mind. Mor-
9 tality is of the four lowest planes of mind, where division
exists, while God is of the three higher planes, where no divi-
10 sion exists. Knowing the science of creating by thought power,
Jesus healed the sick, multiplied the loaves and fishes and raised
11 himself from the dead. He lived on the higher planes of mind,
thus giving His thought, power over all corporeality. Seek to
12 transcend these planes of divine and mortal sense.
Genesis 1st, 16. And God made two great lights, the
13 greater to rule the dag, the lesser light to rule the night. He
made the stars also. Thus He made the laws of positive and
14 negative light and force. The sun symbolizes the spiritual soul
wisdom. Also it is the positive creating animating physical
15 power. Its light is greater than the light that shines at night.
Means that spirit is the true light that illuminates our con-
16 sciousness. Night symbolizes the body, the light of the moon,
our corporeal sense perception which is a lesser light. Geology
11 cannot explain the invisible creating force, nor can physiology
explain that which causes the heart to beat and regulates its
18 every movement. Spiritual wisdom and mental science alone
42 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 can open the veil of mystery, which must be rent in twain in
order for man to behold the greater light. As a Son (sun) of
2 God let your light so shine that men will glorify your good
works. Be a creator of all that is good through thought power.
3 Mind evolves all forms and produces all growth, which is the
essence or seed of life, which comes from the divine source of
4 creation. Matter is only an instrument of that growth and
evolution.
5 Genesis 1st, 17-18. And God set them in the firmament of
Heaven to give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day
6 and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness.
And God saw that it was good. In the science of mind one
7 must observe the fixed laws of creation, and master them. They
are the divine laws of God. Belief does not affect them. To
8 control them one must learn concentration and mental purifica­
tion through absorbing the greater light of spiritual wisdom.
9 Super Mind Science teaches the mastery of these forces in order
to demonstrate over matter and all corporeal forces of nature.
10 Genesis 1st, 19. And the evening and the morning were the
fourth day. The fourth day symbolizes the complete physical
11 creation through the four elements, earth, fire, air and water
which composed all bodies and things. The fourth cycle of
12 time also is the birth of the universal consciousness on the
corporeal planes of mind. All things progress by cycles and
13 evolution of God’s divine ideas. Thus birth, death and decay
also fulfills this law of manifestation, giving place for another
14 manifestation.
Genesis 1st, 20. And God said, Let the waters bring forth
15 abundantly the moving creatures that hath life. And fowl
that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of Heaven.
16 Water is the symbol of soul, soul being the cause of life. Crea­
tures that hath life, all living forces and entities, graduating
17 in intelligence from the insect to the mortal being man. Soul
like an ocean embraces all forms of life, smallest to the greatest.
Air is the symbol of mind, flying things, thoughts. Since all f
18
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY
creation comes from a fixed law, all things are a higher or lower
manifestation of the law. The symbol given herein is the
higher creatures flying above the earth, symbolizing mind over
matter, on a higher plane than matter, evolving creative thought
forms. Some are of the positive masculine gender, others of the
receptive female gender, some of the divine or neuter gender,
which symbolize the higher thoughts of truth, love and life,
soaring above the thoughts of corporeal sensations.
Genesis 1st, 22. And God blessed them saying be fruitful
and multiply and fill the waters in the seas and let fowl multiply
in the earth. God the divine mind created all beings and things
according to positive and negative law, which made it possible
for them to multiply after their kind. Thus all things emanat­
ing from the one divine mind, became eternal through the law
of continued self-reproduction. Thus fulfilling the divine
eternal will. He who doeth this will, becomes eternal likewise.
Genesis 1st, 23. And the evening and the morning were the
fifth day. This cycle ends the evolution of God in the lower
forms of intelligence. This cycle corresponds to the spiritual
state of mind, so on this same day, or in this cycle comes also
the creation of man— God’s highest spiritual ideal— made in
His image, and given dominion over all other creatures. Five
is the number of realization and cognition. Our five senses are
of the evolution of the first five cycles of creation.
Genesis 1st, 24. And God said let the earth bring forth the
living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and
beast of the earth, after his kind and it was so. Earth symbol­
izes the body wherein germs and decaying processes exist, but
mind can destroy them, even as its inner powers gave them
being. Cattle symbolizes the animal nature, which divine mind
must dominate. Creeping things symbolizes evil ideas, which
unseen creep into people’s consciousness and poison and destroy
them. Yet if one can use mental powers scientifically they can
prevent all these bad effects of God’s lower creations, for man
has dominion over every creature, including germs, and decay-
&
A
t
-*■
&£
10
11
ing energies, and negative forces. Super Mind Science gives the
methods of this mastery.
Genesis 1st, 26. And God said, Let us make man in our
image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the
fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle,
and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creep-
eth over the earth. Man was to be the Supreme Master over all
forms of life, including his own flesh. Divine Mental Science
reveals the practicability of this mastery. Man in God’s image
means every movement of man— when he has divine under­
standing— is also a move of God. Similar to a reflection in a
mirror. Man must realize this divine Sonship. if he becomes
the master of this corporeal world. Mental Science is to man
what a beacon is to a ship on a dark night. It lights the way
to eternal life through self-mastery.
Genesis 1st, 27. So God created man in His own image, in
the image of God created He him. Male and female created H
e
them. Man is both positive and negative. No generic term can
describe him for he is both. By the operation of positive and
negative mind force— he like God— is a creator, even in the
image of God. The masculine form is not man. It is only a
dwelling place for divine spirit. When man concentrates on
himself as this divine image, he soon manifests Godly powers,
and force. The personality of God is universal, and is trans­
mitted to man by reflection. The physical consciousness sees
many personalities, but they are only images, reflections in the
mirror of life. God is the reality, the one personality. When
man overcomes sensations of mortal mind, he realizes he is
God, essence and spirit immortal, not mortal. Only delusion of
senses presents any other view of man, the dual being, God's
own image.
Genesis 1st, 28. And God blessed them, and God said unto
them, be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and
subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over
the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 45
1 upon the earth. Man was made a master, not a slave to nature.
Only ignorance of this original divine mastership keeps him in
2 bondage to corporeal sensations of pleasure, and pain, likes and
dislikes, disease and sorrow. Mental Science is the seal of God
3 in nature that makes man a true image of his divine Father.
Jesus realized his divine Sonship, He said it is not I that
4 doeth these things, but Him that sent me. He who hath seen
the Son hath seen the Father. Here is a true reflection of God
5 in the words of Jesus, the world’s greatest divine Mental
Scientist. And God blessed them, and gave them the power of
6 self reproduction which is eternal manifestation.
Genesis 1st, 29-30. And God said, Behold I have given you
7 every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth,
and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed. To
8 you it shall be for meat and to every beast of the earth, and to
every fowl of the air, and to everything that creepeth upon the
9 earth, wherein there is life. I have given every green herb for
meat and it was so. Man was given fruit for meat, not animals
10 which God created to live on the earth. He was intended to
be a vegetarian. Yet the Christians kill animals and eat de­
ll cayed flesh, thus violating a supreme divine command. Also
they violate the right of the animal to live on the earth. They
12 take life, but cannot give it. Love says thou shalt not kill.
Truth says thou shalt not kill. Light condemns the killer.
13 Anyone who kills will never succeed in divine Mental Science,
which requires love as well as a method of attainment. Love
14 ye one another pertains to all of God’s creatures, product of the
one supreme divine mind. In a divine sense all forms of life
15 are brothers, children of the same Father, Mother, God. Jesus
said before the beginning of the world, I was in the bosom of
16 my Father. He realized this divine creative fatherhood principle.
Genesis 1st, 31. And God saw that everything He has made,
17 Behold it was good. And the evening and morning were the
sixth day. The sixth cycle dawned with man in complete mani-
18 festation designed to rule Creation. This cycle corresponds to
46 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
the Christ consciousness plane of mind. Six is the number of
divine realization. Six brain convolutions in man’s brain mani­
fests divine powers of the higher planes, while six manifests the
lower forces of the lower planes, thus he has the higher and
lower nature. Twelve is the number of convolutions of the
brain, and is the symbol of divine unity of God and man, also
the number of Disciples of Christ, who gives the message of the
Master to the world. God made all things good. Only ignor­
ance becomes the manifestation of evil, the absence of God.
Genesis 2d, 2. And the seventh day God ended His work,
which He had wade, and He rested on the seventh day from all
His work which He had made. Seven is the perfect number,
the advanced cycle. When all creation becomes self existant,
also during this cycle, man progresses and developes his spiritual
senses and becomes more of the invisible world than the visible.
Finally he will cease to be incarnated in matter through him
becoming its master. Then corporeal existance will await an­
other beginning of Creation in the next cycle, which is again
the first cycle. Since seven is the last cycle perfection of God s
ideal, this seventh cycle corresponds to the God or perfect men­
tal plane of mind. Everyone who develops the higher mental
and spiritual powers, also passes through these seven steps, or
cycles of progression, and they influence the growth of all
things. The idea of having Sunday to worship God, and as
a day of rest comes from the imperfect idea of these cycles of
progression, when God manifests from the lowest to the high­
est form of life.
Genesis 2d, 9. And out of the ground made the Lord God
e ovah to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and
good for food. The tree of life also in the midst of the garden,
and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Man was made
to eat the fruits of trees as this verse states. The rest of it is
sym o ica . ree of life means the physical powers of genera-
tion and refers to the spine, where the generative fluid is lo­
cated. The spine in ancient times was pictured as the tree of
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 47
1 life. The tree of knowledge of good and evil is the carnal ideas
of creating without consulting divine wisdom and power. The
2 tree of knowledge also means the tree known as (Arbor Vita)
medical science, in the back part of the head, where the ideas of
3 comparison develop. It was forbidden that man use carnal rea­
son in his creation of offspring, because he has divine powers,
4 which he should have used for this purpose.
Genesis 2d, 15. And the Lord God Jehovah took the man
5 and put him in the Garden of Eden to dress it and keep it.
Eden means pleasure and happiness, showing man’s original
6 state where sorrow was unknown. He was made master of all
creation and placed in a garden of delight, to keep it in that
7 beautiful state, but later he became carnalistic, and this created
separation from God and brought about his great downfall,
8 producing sorrow and sin and death.
Genesis 2d, 16-17. And the Lord God Jehovah commanded
9 the man, saying of every tree in the garden thou mayest freely
eat, but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil thou shalt
10 not eat of it, for the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely
die. Here God warned man against partaking of carnal reason-
1 1 ing and appetite telling him if he creates by the flesh, he will die
by the flesh, which is reasonable. Man could have created by
12 controlling physical energies through divine wisdom, and will,
but he listened to his lower nature, which caused God to later
13 curse all of his flesh creations. This shows corporeal man’s
lack of wisdom, also his disobedience to divine creative law.
14 This is originally caused by carnal passion and lust.
Genesis 2d, 19. And out of the ground the Lord God Je-
15 hovah formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air,
and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them
16 and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the
name thereof. This is the birth of matter. The ground sym-
17 bolizes flesh. It shows God as the originator of matter. After
the first divine Creation, this gives the lie to Christian Science
18 which says matter never contained spirit, and in regard to this
48 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 verse of scripture, Mrs. Eddy called it a lie. This shows her
ignorance, trying to contradict the Bible on one page, and then
2 using it in her own argument on another. Matter is lower
mind and does exist as a corporeal power, but mind only is
3 immortal, since matter must die. Matter is almost as great a
miracle as spirit. It is the school of individuality, where the
4 soul learns the lessons of truth, love and light.
Genesis 2d, 21-22. And the Lord God Jehovah caused a
5 deep sleep to fall upon Adam and he slept, and he took one of
his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof. And the rib
6 which the Lord God Jehovah had taken from man made He a
woman and brought her unto the man. God uses man positive
7 force of creation as a subject, and entrances him physically while
he performs a surgical operation on Adam through mental and
8 spiritual powers. This verse is a symbol seen by the seer who
wrote Genesis. It means that man contains positive and nega-
9 tive life forces, and that out of man evolved a force or energy
which the divine Father used to form woman. When woman
10 came into being, she was negative and less powerful mentally
than man. So she fell from grace by taking the suggestion to
11 partake of the tree of knowledge of right and wrong. From
the serpent suble (psychic influences) of the lower mental
12 planes, this brought about physical creation, also physical death.
By mastery of mind powers and lower nature, Jesus proved
13 that even this death may be avoided. Mental Science alone ex­
plains the Modus Operandi, making this marvelous feat of at-
14 taining eternal life possible.
Genesis Id, 1-3. Now the serpent was more subtle than any
15 beast of the field, which the Lord God Jehovah had made, and
he said unto the woman, Yea hath God said, Ye shall not eat
16 of every tree of the garden, And the woman said unto the
serpent, we may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden. Bat
17 of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God
hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, last
18 ye die. This verse is also a symbolic representation of the sub-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 49
1 jective mental influences, that caused Eve to sin. Serpent means
low mental influences, since science has never discovered a
2 talking serpent. The influence came from the vibration of the
lower animals, suggesting Creation by sex, instead of divine
3 control of energy, or Immaculate Conception by direct God
influence on the creative forces within woman. This serpent
4 also symbolizes the birth of evil, through psychic suggestion,
and should teach everyone to master their emotions, and trans-
5 mute their creative powers from physical to the divine, thus
avoid and gain eternal life.
6 Genesis 3d, 4-5. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye
shall not surely die, for God doth know that in the day ye eat
7 thereof, then your eyes shall be opened and ye shall be as God,
knowing good from evil. The subtle psychic entity said, arouse
8 your passions of lower nature, which are evil and then your
eyes shall be opened, because a contrast would result showing
9 good and evil to both be real forces, whereas the truth is, evil
is not a force. This was the deception which caused sensation
to be desired more than spiritual power and wisdom. The
woman listened to this subtle influence and did partake of the
11 physical fruits of life, sex, only to be sentenced to death by
spirit for only a creation by spirit can endure eternally. Many
12 people still make this same error. They follow after flesh sen­
sation to death, and ruin, yet spiritual wisdom is available to
13 every man, if he will only cease to listen to his low psychic
nature and attain spiritual dominion over matter. Man must
14 learn he is not his body, any more than he is the house he lives
m. This knowledge is easy to demonstrate in Super Mind
15 Science, the beacon of eternal life. Health, happiness and pros­
perity, for all attainment comes from proper knowledge of
16 mind.
Genesis 3d, 9-10. And the Lord God Jehovah called unto
17 Adam and said unto him, where art thou? And he said I heard
thy voice in the Garden and I was afraid I was naked and I
18 hid myself. This verse is a symbol, for would God who knows
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
all have to ask mortal Where Art Thou? Reason tells us, he
would not. So the symbol shows that man had developed fear,
a carnal instinct. Also shame, a carnal instinct, because he
had partaken of flesh appetite or sex sensation, which was his
first sin. He feared the divine inner voice, and hid from the
sight of God, whom he had regarded as a person. This shows
guilt was on his conscience, because he had violated the Com­
mandment against the arousing of lower emotions and creating
physically, when he should have created only through divine
powers. This was the fall of man.
Genesis 3d, 11-12. And He said, Who told thee that thou
wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded
thee that thou shouldst not eat? And the man said, The woman
who thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and
I did eat. Here man lays his fault on woman, the more nega­
tive of the two first persons. He admits his error, but makes no
effort to overcome it. This is the case with many to this day.
They say, Yes I sin, but my husband, or wife, they make me,
but God does not become the crutch of those mentally weak,
instead he curses their very offspring, also the low influences
that beguiled the woman to sin. This symbol shows God never
accepts excuses of any kind.
Genesis Id, 14-15. And the Lord God Jehovah said unto
the serpent, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and
between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head and
thou shalt bruise his heel. Here God sees the opposite forces of
nature. They are working on the mind of mortals. He gives
woman intuitive powers of discernment. She becomes the foe
of evil, low psychic suggestions, and low entities will be ruled
by woman, because of this war between the two, woman today
is more psychic than man, and resists the voice of the tempter
when man would not. She symbolically bruises the head of
the serpent evil influence by subduing her lower nature, which
originally brought sin on her offspring, resulting in physical
18 death.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 51
1 Jesus was born of divine power and thus avoided the fleshy
or corporeal death, demonstrating this teaching of spiritual
2 creation as the truth. Man still possesses his original spiritual
powers, and can redeem himself by doing the works of divine
3 spirit as demonstrated by Jesus Christ. Super Mind Science
proves they can be demonstrated the same today as two thou-
4 sand years ago, thus master the effects of man’s first sin.
Genesis 3d, 16. Unto the woman he said, I will greatly
5 multiply thy sorrow and conception in sorrow. Thou shalt
bring forth children and thy desire shall be to thy husband and
6 he shall rule over thee. This symbolizes the result of creation
through sin, and shows the cause of sickness and sorrow to be
7 sin. Also whereas women created physically she now must bear
children through pain. As ye sow, so shall ye also reap. This
8 is the divine law, which has always been and always shall be.
If you follow lust and sex emotion it will lead to ruin and
9 perhaps death. Divinity is the force to let manifest in your
life, thus gain immortality.
10 Genesis 3d, 17-19. And unto Adam He said, because thou
hask harkened unto the voice of thy wife and hast eaten of
11 the tree of which I commended thee, saying thou shalt not eat
of it, cursed is the ground for thy sake. In sorrow shalt thou
12 eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns also and thistles shall
it bring forth to thee. And thou shalt eat the herb of the field,
13 by the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return to
the ground. For out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art
14 and unto dust shalt thou returneth. This is the beginning of
the war between matter and spirit, the curse placed upon man
I '5 for falling into sin through temptation, God’s rebuke to matter
and material creation, in divine understanding. It is merely
16 dust. Man gave up divine creation in order to partake of flesh
sensation, which caused his ruin. All of the curse on matter has
I 7 been proven to exist. Man must forsake following matter if he
expects mastership or dominion over all forms of life. Re-
18 demption was made possible through Jesus showing the way.
52 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
O
O
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
the truth and the light.
Genesis 3d. 22-24. And the Lord God Jehovah said, Behold
the man is become as one of us. To know good from evil and
now lest he put forth his hand and take also of the tree of life,
and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God Jehovah
sent him forth from the Garden of Eden to till the ground from
whence he was taken. So he drove out the man and he placed
at the east of the Garden of Eden, Cherubims and a flaming
sword, which turned every way to keep the way of the tree
of life. This shows the way of the transgressor is hard, man
not being trusted by the divine Father after he had sinned.
This verse is an allegory, which symbolizes the result of sin,
also that there is a hidden power called tree of life, which man
may partake of and become as God. This power is mental
science and the control of life’s forces and energies. God in this
verse says, one of us which shows that there were many or more
than one godly being. These higher beings are but archangels,
or those with identity beyond the corporeal planes of mind.
Jesus existed in that state just after death and appeared to His
Disciples. Then he ascended, raised his vibration to the plane
of His Father, Universal divine infinite Father, Mother, God,
and there as a positive power, he sits on the right side of His
Divine Father, in the universal creative power, which evolves
all forms of life.
Genesis 4th, 1. And Adam knew Eve his wife and she con­
ceived and bare Cain and said, I have gotten a man from the
Lord. This is a child borned of sin, yet the mother asserts she
has gotten a man from the Lord, recognizing spirit as God,
or author of all creations, including those coming through sen­
sual contact, and relationship, but flesh is not divine until
mastered by spirit. This is proven by Cain later murdering
his brother Abel through jealousy. Those who say they are
saved from sin, yet lack self mastery, are onlv deluded mortals,
who lack knowledge. Jesus said, The flesh is weak, but the
spirit is strong.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 53
1 Genesis 4th, 3-4. Cain brought of the fruit of the ground
an offering unto the Lord Cod Jehovah, and Abel, he also
2 brought of the firstling of his flock and of the fat thereof. Cain
symbolizes sin and material nature, while Abel symbolizes life
3 and the spiritual nature. Most people lay two types of offer­
ings on the altar of sacrifice. If jealousy enters their mind then
4 they become the worst of sinners. Cain and Abel here sym­
bolizes two opposing forces in nature, both yielding to God
5 or divine love.
Genesis 4th, 4-5. And the Lord Cod Jehovah had respect
6 unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and unto his
offering He had no respect. God recognizes the spiritual nature,
7 but not the physical. A spiritual offering such as good deeds,
truth, love and light He respects, but God is not fooled by
8 material gifts or hypocritical charity. Sacrifice therefore spirit­
ually through love.
9 Genesis 4th, 8. Cain rose up against Abel his brother and
slew him. The physical nature kills the spiritual nature. Jeal-
10 ousy is the motive. The erroneous following of passion led
Cain to become a murderer.
'1 Genesis 4th, 9. And the Lord God Jehovah said unto Cain.
Where is Abel, thy brother? And he said, I know not. Am I
12 my brother’s keeper? Here the sin instinct prompts Cain. He
rebels against God and even refuses to accept as his duty, the
13 knowing of his brother’s welfare. He here manifests the hard­
ened heart of the criminal.
14 Genesis 4th, 10-11. And He Jehovah said, The voice of
thy brother’s blood crieth unto me from the ground, and now
15 art thou cursed from the earth. Here we learn that mortal can­
not lie to God who knows his sin. Life is spiritual. This being
16 why God knew of the whereabouts of Abel. Why cannot the
human race today hear God speak? Like Cain probably, they
17 follow after their lusts so much that their mind will not re­
ceive it. Their killing, sinning nature invokes the wrath of
18 the divine laws, through the operation of the law of compen-
54 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
8
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
sation. The material man must be overcome by the spiritual,
otherwise he will produce self ruin.
Genesis 4th, 15. And the Lord Jehovah said unto him,
Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on
him seven-fold. And the Lord God Jehovah set a mark upon
Cain lest anyone finding him should kill him. This condemns
capital punishment. The mark of Cain is guilt, but God wants
him to live. He places a curse on him for his crime, but still
defends him, and says, those who kill him will be cursed seven­
fold. The material minded judges and juries who take human
life will be cursed seven-fold, according to this. These so-called
Christians, who vote death to their brother is the same as Cain,
who said, Am I my brother’s keeper? Every one who takes
part in a killing, no matter if they call themselves the State,
the Court or the Jury, the Hangman or Warden of the prison,
all of them are murderers, and are cursed seven-fold by God
Almighty. They will never see immortality. They will reap
sorrow and destruction. Take not that which you cannot
give. This being human life, also animal life.
Genesis 4th, 16. And Cain went out from the presence of
the Lord, and dwelt in the land of Nod. The sinner flees from
the divine, even hates it and tries to go far away where sinful
companions may be found. Land of Nod is a place that did
exist since we find later that Cain found a wife there, and later
became the father of Enoch, who builded a city. It seems here
that he lived down his sin, which is possible, if the criminal
is given a chance to live, but when a state murders a helpless
criminal, the state becomes also a criminal, and lowers itself
into perdition. Each sinner, no matter if he is a killer, has a
right to prove his worth, and live down his sin. Those who
clamor for revenge are blood-thirsty murderers themselves, who
have not killed, because they fear the consequences of their deed.
T ey are the first to say, hang him, or electrocute him, for re­
venge. God is love, not hate. Truth, not ignorance, and light,
not darkness. Cain finding a wife in the land of Nod, shows
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 55
1 there were others on earth other than Adam and Eve. They
were such as dwell in tents, we are told. Then it must be that
2 Adam was the first spiritually created Son of God, but others
lived who had evolved from lower beings. A city was builded
3 by one man, the Son of Cain. Now it required several thousand
to inhabit a city, therefore others existed before this divine
4 creation. Later Jesus came into being by the laws which failed
in Eden, and he proved that man, when master of matter, is
5 immortal, thus fulfilling the original divine plan of a spiritual
creation. Jesus practiced mental analysis, healing and teaching.
6 He traveled about the country teaching all who would come
seeking the truth, by his divine wisdom. He overcame the world
7 (his body).
This divine birth does not mean that all who attain master-
8 ship be borned by divine power without sex manifestation.
Jesus said, Ye must be borned again, meaning one who is a
9 materialist may be born into spiritual knowledge by his fol­
lowing in the footsteps of truth, which Jesus enunciated to
10 the world. Namely they are to heal the sick, raise the dead,
preach the truth to the poor. Why preach truth to the poor?
11 Because truth heals poverty and all other types of disease. The
modern interpretation of truth as given by the churches, breeds
12 poverty by teaching people to lean on Jesus, instead of working
out their own salvation. They breed disease by telling the
13 people that it is all very well to kill and eat animals, then when
they become sick from carnivorous practice, they take medicine,
14 even in the Church’s own hospital. Yet Jesus used no hospitals,
nor medicine, nor did he eat flesh, because a Prophet saw a
15 vision where animal life was, and heard a voice say, as in Act.
10:13. And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise. Peter slay
16 and eat. They tell their children to eat whatever their appe­
tite craves, then when disease comes, they say God sent it, and
17 when through their ignorance of natural law, death comes upon
them, they say Our Loved one has gone to Heaven. They were
18 taken by The Lord. Such teaching is the curse of humanity.
56 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 bringing sorrow, death and disease, at the same time denying
that the works of Jesus can be demonstrated this day and age.
2 the same as two thousand years ago. Has Jesus and His teach­
ing become the partners of vice, sin, disease and falsehood, when
3 he proved they healed all these products of ignorance?
KEYS T O C H R IST IA N IT Y
EXO D U S
4 In the Book of Exodus, we learn the great power of the
Universal, Omnipotent God. How the children of Israel were
5 enslaved physically, but were blessed spiritually. The Egyp­
tians became afraid of them, because they were multiplying
6 fast, so planned to kill all male children born to the Hebrews,
but the conscience of the midwives interfered with their plans
7 for carrying out this wholesale murder. This shows the power
of divine mind to assert itself in the consciousness of people.
8 Now divine mind desired a great leader, so in Exodus 2, we
learn of the birth of Moses, a great teacher and leader of the
9 Hebrews. How he was concealed in the flags by the river, then
adopted by the King’s daughter, who came to bathe and found
10 the little ark in the flags. This is a great symbolical lesson.
It is a symbol of the birth of divine consciousness in the being,
11 man. Born in a lowly place symbolizes the Solar Plexus,
where the God center is located. The river symbolizes matter,
12 and especially symbolizes the nerves in the spine. Found by a
princess is a symbol of reason, finding divinity in mind, also
13 in matter. The flags symbolize matter, the water mind.
Nursed by his Mother, symbolizes developed by the human
14 will and consciousness. Moses later grew to manhood, sym­
bol of development. He performed miracles before the King,
15 symbolizing the spirit, doing wonders before the mortal mind.
ringing plagues upon the Pharoah, symbolizes lusts and sin,
16 overcome through concentration of mind and spiritual power.
Later Moses leads the children of Israel out of Egypt This is
17 a symbol of spiritual power leading humanity to victory.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 57
1 Crossing the Red Sea. Red symbolizes the body, crossing over­
coming, meaning overcoming the body. The drowning of the
2 Egyptians, symbol of materialism, destroying those who follow
after their base desires.
3 The fact that Moses, when first starting out in the world
killed an Egyptian, whom he caught fighting with a Hebrew,
4 shows that even though a man may be a criminal in the sight
of man, he may be a leader in the sight of God or divine mind.
5 In Exodus 3, we learn God appeared to Moses in a burning
bush. The bush burned with fire, but was not consumed. This
6 shows this to be entirely a mental manifestation. This symbol­
izes God speaking through the medium of conscience to matter.
7 In Exodus 3-5, And He said, draw not nigh, Hither put off
thy shoes from thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest
8 is Holy Ground. Divine spirit commands through mind. Put­
ting off the shoes on Holy Ground was the Egyptian custom,
9 which Moses well knew. When he obeyed the command, then
he received other communication from divine mind in symbols,
10 visions or occult powers. This was to prepare him to lead the
children of Israel out of Egypt into the Promised Land. Each
H one seeking wisdom soon finds God’s commands entering the
consciousness, through mental vision, When we obey, success
12 will come to us in the fulfilling of any divine law. Later we
learn Moses had a brother Aaron. The two brothers symbolize
13 spirit and matter. Moses doing the wonders, symbolizes spirit,
while Aaron, being the spokesman for Moses, symbolizes mat-
14 ter, doing the bidding and expressing spirit. Pharoah being
obstinate about letting the children of Israel go, symbolizes
15 the stubbornness of material conditions to bend to the power
of spirit. The rod of Moses symbolizes human will, which is
16 the staff of power. By raising this staff one can master all ob­
stacles, and even the elements obey the word of man. Also his
17 body when will is concentrated.
Moses ascending the mountain to talk to the Lord, is a
18 symbol of raising the vibration of the consciousness to the level
—
58 5L/P£K MIND SCIENCE
1 of divinity, where contact with God is made, and one receives
the tablets of the law or knowledge of right justice, truth, love
2 and light through divine wisdom. Thus we learn a great les­
son from the inner meaning of the liberation of the children
3 of Isreal from bondage, symbolizing complete spiritual illumi­
nation through following the divine teacher to whom God has
4 revealed divine spirit. When either minds or bodies ares in
bondage or both, God raises up a leader to show the people
5 the way to realize God. Some are wise enough to know these
inspired leaders, while others are not. When the student is
6 ready, the teacher appears, is an old maxim. Seek and ye shall
find, knock and the door shall be opened unto you. Mind con-
I tains the essence of divine spirituality and in that field of in­
vestigation, only can the truth be discerned. The symbols of the
8 Bible, and their interpretation are the highest and most spirit­
ual meaning, that being the reason the Author gives the sym-
9 bolization of the Book of Exodus. (See Light on Masonry).
SYM BOLICAL M EANING OF T H E WORSHIP
! n _ . OF TH E l e v i t e s
a ernacle symbolizes a state of mind, unity of God and
11 man' seven candlesticks used on the altar, symbol of the
seven arc angels ruling seven cycles of time. Altar of sacrifice,
symbol of giving up carnal nleasnTO C AIf'ir r\f mronco
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 59
1 whom Jehovah said should be offered as a sacrifice unto him
were descendants of a mystic order, known as the Order of
2 Melchisedec, which was established among the children of
Isreal by the King of Salem and Priest by that name. All of
3 the practices were distinctly oriental and probably came from
Egypt, land of the Captivity. Members of this order were al-
4 ways known as the priest class in every nation where it flour­
ished. The voice of the Lord God Jehovah which spoke in the
5 Tabernacle, seems very much like the ancient oracles of Greece
and Egypt, where people journeyed to offer a sacrifice and
6 converse with the Logas, or Lord. Jesus became a high priest
of this order, we learn in Hebrew 7. The teaching of this order
7 was to heal the sick by divine power, and to have face to face
contact and communication with God by means of hearing a
8 universal cosmic voice. How far this doctrine seems to be from
the Churchanity of today, which says Christ was not a Mental
9 Scientist or Mystic. They should trace the history of this Noble
Mystic Order and they would soon learn it was a brotherhood
10 of mystic saints which still exists in Egypt, India and the Holy
Lands. It teaches how to do the divine works as is taught by
11 the author. Not just what to believe and who to believe.
T H E NEW T E ST A M E N T
12 The New Testament is really the basic doctrine of Chris­
tianity and contains the ideas upon which are founded the mod­
i'! ern Christian churches. This interpretation is written to ex­
plain its deep mysteries, and to lead the student along the path-
14 way to truth, that he may find the key to the demonstraions
of the Great Master, and High Priest of the Order Melchisedec,
15 Jesus Christ.
Matthew Id, 1. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of
16 Judea in the days of Herod the King, Behold there came wise
men from the Eeast to Jerusalem. The wise men were Mystic
U Mental Scientists. One from India, one from Egypt and one
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
from Persia. They were members of the Order of Melchisedec,
skilled in Astrology and the laws of healing and concentration.
The Author was initiated into the same Order secretly while
traveling in Northern India. There he found the true history
of the wise men of the East. They are called by the simple
name. Brothers, when before the public. They know the secrets
of divine mind and how to divine the future, as well as to
heal the sick instantly.
Matthew 2d, 2. Saying where is He that is King of the Jews.
For we have seen His star in the East and are come to worship
Him. They knew about a star which meant nothing to others,
which told them of the birth of a divine teacher and master, as
all mental masters know when they have had proper initiation
into the mysteries of the mind, the body and soul and the con­
trol of the mind as taught in Super Mind Science.
Matthew 2d, 3. When Herod, the King, had heard these
things, He was troubled and all Jerusalem with him. Material
minded Herod is an example of those who oppose spirit believ­
ing. It may deprive them of their temporal glory.
Matthew 2d, 7-8. Then Herod when he had privately
called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the
star had appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem. And said,
Go and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have
found him bring me word again that I may come and worship
him also. Herod here tries to mislead wise men who were great
mentalists and mystics, seeking information that he may murder
the infant who threatened his power as king, but mystics, or
wise men gain knowledge from unseen sources and do not de­
pend upon material laws for information as to what is in one s
mind.
Matthew 2d, 9. When they had heard the King they de-
parted and Lo, the star which they saw in the East went before
them till it came and stood over where the young child was.
This star is a six pointed star, which is a divine insignia. It
symbolizes God and man are one, or I and My Father are one.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 61
1 Anyone who has traveled in the far East has seen it on the
shrines and sacred places of the Hindus, also it is known in
2 Egypt and Persia. It is called the ancient emblem of the Broth­
ers, and has a still deeper meaning to the Initiate. When it ap-
3 pears in the elements it means the birth of the Prince of Peace,
incarnation of the divine mind.
4 Matthew 2d, 10. When they saw the star they rejoiced with
exceeding great joy. The star means much to those who know
5 its great divine mystery. It is the seal of truth, love and light.
Every member of the Order takes his oath before it. Jesus later
6 did this when he became High Priest of the Order of Melchi-
sedec. Super Mind Science reveals this mystery of I and My
7 Father are one.
Matthew 2d, 1 1 . And when they were come into the house
8 they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell
down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their
9 treasures they presented unto him gifts, gold, frankincense and
myrrh. This presentation to an infant is an old custom of the
10 Orient. The gifts are the ornaments of the sacred altar used in
the mountain retreats of the Brothers of the Order. They have
11 a deep symbolical meaning. Gold is the symbol of mind,
frankincense of spirit, and myrrh symbolizes body. This is the
12 meaning of the lower triangle, which forms His star in the
East, it being two inverted equal lateral triangles, which is
13 used to this day in the Order of the Brothers, also it has been
copied by free Masonry.
14 Matthew 2d, 12. And being warned of God in a dream that
they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own
15 country another way. When one dreams they are conscious,
out of their body and can receive any knowledge they desire.
16 Master Mystics know how to attain this dream state at will.
Many of them have developed it to the point where they never
17 are unconscious. Their body sleeps but their spirit is ever
conscious, and God can contact them in any emergency, yet
18 people often say, there is nothing in dreams, but in divine mind
r£
• j
r>
a
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
all things are good, even dreams. There is no evil. Nothing
just happens. All is governed by a law, which mortals may
understand. Super Mind Science teaches the key to enter the
astral world, consciously study it and see the results.
Matthew 2d, 13. And when they were departed, Behold
the Angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying
Arise and take the young child and his mother and flee from
Egypt, And be thou there until I bring thee word, for Herod
will seek the young child to destroy him. Here is some very
definite information given in a dream, proving that what many
call dream state, is in reality a plane of consciousness similar to
the physical plane, yet beyond the delusion of matter. Joseph
was probably a natural born adept of this state, selected by
divine mind to be a Father to Jesus, the Prince of Peace. Egypt
being an abode of the Brothers and home of one of the wise
men, the Angel who was also one of the Brothers, probably in
the body sent Joseph there with Jesus. This dream state is
called astral conscious state of mind by those skilled in mental
science and the divine mysteries.
Matthew 2d, 16. Then Herod when He saw he was mocked
of the wise men was exceeding wrath and sent forth and slew
all the children that were in Bethlehem and all the coasts thereof
from two years old and under, according to the time which be
had diligently inquired of the wise men. Material mind is al­
ways mocked by spiritual knowledge. Herod typifies the greedy
materialist who would murder to protect his throne, the source
of his income. The wise men having contact with God and
Angels, or great invisible teachers, could not be fooled by a
greedy king.
Matthew 2d, 19-20. But when Herod was dead, Behold an
angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt.
saying arise?, take the young child and his mother and go into
th
uelariC!.f0f !treal’ for they are dead which sought the young
child s life. Here again is the truth about that invisible knowl­
edge to be gamed on the astral plane, which church and science
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 63
1 says does not exist. Joseph disregarding this dream became
afraid to enter the Domain where Herod’s son was ruling, came
2 and dwelt in the city of Nazareth that it might be fulfilled,
which was spoken by the Prophets. He shall be called a Naza-
3 rene. Joseph was now fully conscious of the fact that Jesus
was to be the great master and tried to fulfill his duty as a
4 father, and protect him from all harm. In fulfilling this duty
he was aided by invisible beings while his body slept, and he
5 was in the dream state. Many people have dreamed and found
it to be true afterwards, which proves our dreams are products
6 of our thoughts. By thinking correctly and knowing concentra­
tion, dreams solve the mystery of immortality.
7 The Author was instructed in a dream state while writing
this book and has had his life saved by knowledge gained, while
8 in this state. Dreams are the consciousness operating free from
matter. That state is as real as our wake state, but must be
9 studied to be understood. See Keys to Super Mind Science in
this volume for further information on this sugbject.
10 Matthew 3d, 1-2. In those days came John, the Baptist,
preaching in the wilderness of Judea, and saying, repent ye for
11 the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand. John had perceived that
God and Christ were one. No one had told him. No one had
12 to tell him. He learned it from some invisible source, probably
while in meditation in the wilderness. He proclaimed the King-
13 dom of Heaven at hand, because in his spiritual vision he had
foreseen the miracles of Jesus. He was also one of the Brothers
14 of the divine order.
Matthew 3d, 4. And the same John had his raiment of
15 camel’s hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins, and his meat
was locusts and wild honey. This food locusts was a fruit of a
16 tree. Wild honey has long been the food of great spiritual
mystics. Camel’s hair is used in the Oriental garbs of Holy
17 Men, and a girdle is also a part of that dress. This proves
who John, the Baptist, was. He was also a member of the
18 divine order, one of the Brothers. His food was that of a
■ •€
♦ l
m
m
H A
B <
l
1 /
I * Ì
I%
|A
64 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
vegetarian of the spiritual order. Members of the order never
eat flesh as it is unclean. Yet the orthodox Christian expects
to go to Heaven eating this unclean food.
Matthew 3d, 5-6. Then went out to him, Jerusalem and all
Judea, and all the region round about Jordan, and men baptized
of him in Jordan, confessing their sins. People attracted by the
spiritual power and illumination of John, the Baptist, came
to be baptized, this being the ending of this type of baptism,
for Jesus was to come and be so baptized, and fulfill that law
of material baptism.
Matthew 3d, 11. I indeed baptize you with water unto re­
pentance, but He that cometh after me is mightier than I whose
shoes I am not worthy to bear. He shall baptize you with the
Holy Ghost and with fire. This is the prophesy of the end of
water baptism. Jesus came to raise the standard to the mental
and spiritual plane. Holy Ghost means life principle, fire
means spirit. The two typify a psychic experience of contacting
divine power and spiritual illumination. Such baptism of bliss
and divine peace is experienced by the initiate as he enters divine
mental states of consciousness of God. Where life and spirit
become one in divine mind.
Matthew 3d, 12. Whose fan is in his hand and He will
thoroughly purge his flour, and gather his wheat into the
garner, but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
Whose fan is in his hand, means that the power of healing the
sick, and applying divine powers where necessary would be in
the hands of Jesus, according to His will. Purge his flour
means to demonstrate the foundations of His teaching, namely,
heal the sick, perform what the ignorant term miracles. Gath­
ering his wheat into the garner, means selecting Disciples who
are to receive the truth and go forth as teachers. Burning up
the chaff, means the destruction of evil or ignorance. Divine
power shows the only reality and destroys the pillars which
evil and ignorance rests upon. Demonstrations prove, and no
one can deny that which many see happen.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 65
1 Matthew 3d, 13-14. Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to
Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him. But John forbade
2 him, saying, I have need to be baptized of Thee and comest
Thou to me. John shows here his ability to understand the
3 illumination of Jesus, without being told, which proves he was
a master of Mental Science and a reader of character.
4 Matthew 3d, 15. And Jesus answering, said unto him. Suf­
fer it to be so now, for thus it becometh us to fulfill all right-
5 eousness. Then he suffered him. This is Jesus fulfilling the
law of material water. Baptism, changing it to a spiritual ex-
6 perience. Yet the churches still baptize in water and are afraid
of the real or spiritual baptism which Jesus demonstrated. They
1 call it the works of the devil. In Jesus’ time they called it the
works of Belzebub.
8 Matthew 3d, 16-17. And Jesus when He was baptized went
up straightway out of the water, and Lo, the Heavens were
9 opened unto Him and He saw the spirit of God descending on
Him like a dove, and lighting upon Him. And Lo, a voice from
10 Heaven saying, This is my Beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased. Heavens is a word meaning invisible. The invisible
11 world then was opened to Jesus. This means what the Mystics
call illumination. And He saw the spirit of God descend on
1“ Him and light. He perceived His divine atonement with God.
It came to Him in a symbolical vision. Dove symbolizes peace.
13 Light on Him, Prince of Peace. This voice from Heaven means
spiritual hearing opened up and the voice of spirit acclaimed Him
14 the Son in whom he was well pleased. This is the new baptism.
The kind that Jesus desired to inaugurate, but materialism did
15 not accept, so only a very few people have ever received this
real divine spiritual baptism. Only a few can hear the divine
16 voice, because the materialists say water washes away your
sins. Yet sins are of the mind. Can one wash his mind with
17 water, or does it require a recognition of divine spirit?
Super Mind Science teaches one how to open their mind to
18 divine spirit, thereby attain divine recognition, and experience
66 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
spiritual baptism, but one must seek it, otherwise it will never
be attained. Before one can attain it they must cease to kill
and learn love and truth. Eat clean food and think pure
thoughts, then concentration will open the invisible world to
the seeker. Seek and ye shall find, is the divine promise. Knock
and the door shall be opened unto you.
Matthew 4th, 1-2. Then Jesus led up of the spirit into th
e
wilderness to be temped of the devil, and when he had fasted
forty days and nights, He was afterward enhungered. And
when the tempter came to him He said, if thou be the Son ot
God, command that these stones be made bread. Devil is a
term, properly translated it means any evil being, either man or
entity. In this verse we see that Jesus had to fast before H
e
could contact this tempter. This was necessary in order for
His mind to present to His consciousness an entity which had
no corporeal form. A creation of the mind of mortal or matter.
In demanding that stones be bread shows it to have been a
mortally conscious, yet unseen entity, suggesting that which is
foolish as a test of divinity. This was to overcome the faith of
Jesus and convince Him He was no Son of God. This form of
entity talks to the consciousness of every saint who renounces
the worldly pleasures for the divine, but a strong mind over­
powers the evil suggestion.
Matthew 4th, 4. But He answered and said, It is written
man shall not live by bread alone. But by every word that
proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Here we learn that food
is a small part of life, while divine consciousness of the will of
God is the spiritual food upon which man should feast and
live.
Matthew 4th, 5. Then the devil taketh Him up into the
Holy City and sitteth Him on a pinnacle of the Temple. This
was a mental experience— not a physical reality. Jesus had
fasted and left the body while He was tempted in the invisible
world with the lower entity, which obsesses the mind of those
who fast when possible. They are thought forms from selfish
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 67
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
minds. After the temptation of Jesus and the evil being found
that earthly Kingdoms did not appeal to Jesus He was rebuked
by Jesus and departed from Him. In this lesson we learn that
evil thoughts only influence those who receive them. That
when they are rebuked they depart and with them all satanic
powers go also.
Matthew 4th, 11. Then the devil leaveth him and behold,
angels came and ministered unto Him. After repulsing evil
beings and thought forms, or entities, then good forces and
beings are attracted by this mastership, and they contribute to
our health, prosperity and happiness. He who rejects evil, at­
tracts good, and evil must be rejected from one's mind before
good can manifest. Good dispels evil like light dispels darkness.
The light and the good is the forces and reality, while darkness
and evil are only negations or absence of their opposite. People
who believe in a physical devil should read the Bible more care­
fully, for reason teaches that Jesus would not have fasted had
He been looking for a corporeal adversary or personality. If
devil is translated evil influence that would be as was intended
by the writer of Matthew.
Matthew 4th, 17. From that time Jesus began to preach
and say, Repent for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand. This
is to say the invisible world is here, not elsewhere. Repent
means to cease doing evil deeds, and be sorry for past evil com­
mitted knowingly. When people cease to think of Heaven as a
far-off place and find that God is within themselves, they will
understand some of the great messages of Jesus the Christ. The
physical is one state of divine mind, while Heaven is the intang­
ible state. Vibration only separates them.
Matthew 4th, 18-19. And Jesus walking by the sea of
Galilee saw two brethren, Simon called Peter and Andrew his
brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers, And He
said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Jesus was a reader of character and knew instantly those who
would follow Him. He selected certain types of men who
.
68 WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY
-d.
10
11
12
13
could perceive the truth when it was taught to them. He did
not select academic trained preachers, but workmen of the fisher
type, because they were humble, and were willing to receive
His message and do His works.
Matthew 5th, 21-22. And going on from thence, He saw
two other brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John, his
brother, in a ship with Zebedee, their father, mending their nets
and He called to them, and they immediately left the ship and
their father and followed Him. This shows the great wisdom
of Jesus. How He could call men away from their home and
work and add them to His staff of student Disciples, and they
began the tour of teaching and demonstrating the powers of
spirit. This is what every teacher of his work should be able
to do. Faith without works is dead.
Matthew 4th, 23. And Jesus went about all Galilee teach­
ing in their synagogues and preaching the Gospel of the King­
dom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of dts-
ease among the people. Here Jesus enters upon His mission of
teac ing people how to live and healing and traveling through­
out the country. In the meantime He was training his four
iscip es by practical experience in the healing arts and in teach­
ing t e aws of the divine kingdom. This is the works of fol-
ers o esus. This is His mission. Learn how to perform
this work in Super Mind Science.
hen Jesus sent forth His Disciples He gave them powers
^ diS£aSe of the body and even power over life
. 3n Un<dean spifits. He sent them to teach, preach
of r h / r t ^ u ^ 6’ des‘re was to convert the lost sheep
special m ti " than the Gentiles. He had a
istic to rece°n 1-^ 6 £W
1Sh race- but they were too material-
Rabbis o r f° Ur ed th£ adVke ° f o heH
Science healing ,-u • , as PeoPle today see Super Mind
i - S i : : : : r - - - ?
t
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 69
1 to receive His mission. The Gentiles also have failed to ac­
cept it, for if they believed it they would practice it, but when
2 they are sick they run for medicine, just as they did before the
time of Christ, and when one is obsessed they place him in
3 prison.
Well did Jesus say, Oh faithless generation. The spirit will
4 not always strive with the flesh. Super Mind Science shows the
way to apply practical Christianity to disease and master it,
5 also to the problems of life, but those who scorn Christ will
not come. Many are called, but few are chosen. Are you one
6 of them? If so, you will learn and perform these works. Time
will prove, if this be the truth, it will endure, but if false it
7 will be proven so. Test all things, and hold fast to that which
is good.
8 Matthew 27th, 1. When the morning was come all the
chief Priests and Elders of the people took council against Jesus
9 to put Him to death, and when they had bound Him, they
led Him away and delivered Him to Pontius Pilate, the gov-
10 ernor. We learn here that it was the Priests and Preachers of
the people who accused Jesus. A crime in the name of the
11 people. Such crimes by Priests and Preachers of the orthodox
schools of thought in the name of the people have been common
'2 throughout the ages. Why was Jesus accused? Because His
demonstrations proved the Priests and Preachers to be human
13 parasites, who live off the people, keeping them in ignorance
of the truth which heals disease and lifts mankind above the
14 level of sin and ignorance. When one comes to teach and heal,
they are to this day persecuted by these ritualistic hypocrites.
15 who would have people believe that all good works are the
operation of the devil’s powers. Thus they try to deceive the
16 very elect. They teach people to kill for revenge, eat flesh and
take medicine when sick, yet none of these medicines can cure
17 a disease, only God and nature heals. Man can only apply the
energies and powers of transferring them from His hands to
18 the body of the sick. The transference of these powers have
h
70 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
i l
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
been termed healing by laying on of hands, but those who
having ignored the control of healing energies and tried to heal
like Jesus did have failed to help most whom they tried to heal.
Only those with a negative mind received results from their
suggestions. Those of a positive mind have never been healed
by faith. Scientific understanding of life is necessary in order
to master its healing powers. Jesus was accused by the ig­
norant, even as the author has been so persecuted, but blessed
is He that doeth the will of the Father, for He shall inherit
eternal life, peace and bliss.
Matthew 27th, 3-4. Then Judas which had betrayed Him
when he saw that he was condemned repented himself, and
brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief Priests and
Elders, saying I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent
blood and they said, What is that to usd See thou to that. The
Priests and Elders of the people have always played politics in
order to persecute their adversary who came to teach people the
truth. They even resort to employing criminals to carry out
their persecution of those who do the works of Jesus. No matter
if they call themselves Christians or some other name. They
are the same today as they were in the time of Christ, and
many a church is a political arena, where the elections are de­
cided in favor of the orthodox church. In some countries they
send you to prison for not going to church on Sunday, even in
this 20th century. Judas typifies the crooked politician of to­
day, doing the bidding of the Priest and Preacher. The Protes­
tant and also the Catholic church of today are both anti-Christ,
and are both doomed to be destroyed through divine power,
for forsaking the sick and teaching falsehood to children, for
becoming political bodies and financial institutions, instead of
houses of God where the works of Christ are performed.
Matthew 27th, 5. And He cast down the pieces of silver in
the Temple and departed and went and hanged himself. Those
who do evil bring death upon themselves. The conscience is a
sure way of punishment. The mind is the judge Nature
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 71
1 destroys those who violate her laws.
Matthew 27th, 35. And they crucified Him and parted His
2 garments casting lots, that it might be fulfilled, which was
spoken by the Prophet. They parted my garments among them
3 and upon my vesture did they cast lots. Before Jesus was born
there were men spiritually developed who were called Prophets,
4 they having spiritual sight foresaw all the events which were
to happen and wrote them in a book. Some of these prophe-
5 cies we have in the Old Testament while there are many which
we do not have. Most of the prophets were members of the
6 Order of the Brothers in some places called the Order of Melchi-
sedec, in others the Order of the All in One. At a still earlier
7 date the Sons of the Solitudes who builded temples of worship
on high mountains, especially in Greece and the Island of
8 Thorace. Later this order became known as the Builders, or
Masons. They having studied mental science and developed
9 Seers and Prophets were in possession of all the facts pertain­
ing to the life teaching and death of Jesus, the Christ. They
10 still exist unknown to the worldly people. The author as has
been stated was initiated into this great brotherhood in the far
11 East. Super Mind Science is but a modern science embracing the
wisdom of the ancient Seers and Prophets of whom Jesus was
12 one. The author received great honors as a teacher in the order,
but being a modest man will not mention what they were, for
13 he was taught silence. The healing accomplished by Jesus, the
raising of the dead, and His own resurrection are but a demon-
14 stration of teachings thousands of years old, which were once
kept a secret because of the ignorance of the people. His appear-
15 ing to His Disciples after death, has been accomplished by other
great teachers. That is performed by teaching the Disciples
16 spiritual sight and hearing, and an imparting of the secrets of
concentration of the mind by the teacher.
17 The instruction which Jesus gave to His Disciples opened
up certain powers. They were not mere beliefs or theories
18 without a Modus Operendi. These instructions have been given
72 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
34
15
in part by other great prophets and teachers. The author re­
ceived them and later opened the eyes of the blind, healed the
deaf, and demonstrated life over death by saving the life of sev­
eral patients, as well as having successfully appeared to students
of this science while he was in India. So journeying with other
Teachers, Prophets and Brothers of the Order, in turn he im­
parts this knowledge freely to all who come seeking and they
likewise have demonstrated over these illusions of the flesh.
The list of thousands who have been healed and helped, who
were given up to die, would fill many volumes the size of this,
yet the Priest and Preacher will say this cannot be done.
That all great demonstrations ended when the churches cruci­
fied the Savior. What an empty belief to think Jesus took all
the good He had accomplished into the Valley of Death. Truth
must triumph, sin must die. Light must be given to the people,
if we are to save this great civilization which has been builded
up. God will not always be mocked by matter. Spirit cannot
always be concealed. A great light has come to those who sat
in the darkness. It is Super Mind Science leading the way to
demonstrate the powers of Christ conferred upon His Disciples
overcoming disease, sin and death. Will you only give it a
trial? That is all the author asks. God will do the rest.
KEYS T O C H R IST IA N IT Y
REV ELA TIO N
He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come
quickly. Amen, even so come Lord Jesus.
— Rev. 22-20.
Rev. 1st, 9-10-11. I, John, who also am your brother
companion in tribulation and in the Kingdom and patiena
Jesus Christ, was in the Isle that is called Patmos for the w
of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. I was in
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 73
1 spirit on the Lords’ day and heard behind me a great voice
as of a trumpet, saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and
2 the last. What thou seest write in a book and send it unto the
seven churches which are in Asia. Here we learn John is one
3 of the Brothers. He is out in the solitude of the Isle of Patmos,
meditating to contact God, also for a testimony or contact with
4 Christ. He had completely overcome his body by the practice
of Mental Science, possibly concentration, his object being this
5 divine contact. When he was in the spirit or out of his body in
the unseen world he accomplished his desire. The great uni-
6 versal voice said, I am Alpha and Omega, meaning I am Om­
nipotent Spirit, eternal, the absolute. Then it proceeded to
7 translate thoughts into a great voice. The voice was a mental
phenomena. It told him to write what he saw. This was be-
8 cause the mystery of life, death and immortality was about
to be revealed to him, which is a demonstration that only a few
9 people ever receive. By this verse we learn man can contact the
voice of God, and actually attain that divine manifestation
10 upon which we have centered our mind by meditation or con­
centration. Also we can enter and leave our body at will, in
11 the flesh one minute and in the spirit the next.
A master of Super Mind Science can perform this when he
12 seeks and so desires. Thus Heaven is now, here and forever
in this science. It is not a far-off place to be reached when we
13 die. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and the door shall be opened
unto you.
14 Rev. 1st, 12. And I turned to see the voice that spoke with
me and being turned I saw seven golden candlesticks. This is
15 the symbol of the seven archangels governing the manifestation
of all creation. The seven cycles of time, which is the age of a
16 civilization. Also these seven manifestations of power compose
the one or three fold God Head having the three functions of
17 Father, Son and the Holy Ghost, or truth love and light. No
one could see the being of God, so therefore John saw his sym-
18 bol as used in Cave Temples of the Brothers. For many thou-
74 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
sands of years the seven golden candlesticks have sat on the right
side of the altar, while one candlestick sat on the other, symbol
of the divine unity of the seven powers ruling the entire Creation
of God.
Super Mind Science teaches the seven manifestations of these
universal powers in the mind, and how one can become master
of their forces and powers within themselves. See the keys to
Super Mind Science, this volume.
Rev. 1st, 13. And in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one
like the Son of Man. clothed with a garment down to the foot,
and girt about the paps with a golden girdle. This is to show
the Atonement of Jesus, Son of Man, with these seven powers,
the means by which He overcame death and triumphed over
the grave.
This is possible for anyone knowing the true teachings.
Rev. 1st, 14-15. His head and his hairs were white like
wool, as white as snow. And His eyes were as a flame of fire.
And His feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace
and His voice as the sound of many water. White head, symbol
of pure thoughts. Eyes as a flame of fire, symbolizes great
spiritual powers of leadership. His feet like fine brass, symbol
of mental and spiritual culture or development. His voice as
the sound of many water— His teachings universal. This is a
description of Christ, the Universal Teacher of the Brotherhood
in symbolical manifestation.
Kev. 1st, 16-17-18. And He had in His right hand seven
stars and out of His mouth went a sharp two-edged sword and
His countenance was as the sun shineth in His strength, And
when I saw Him I fell at His feet as dead and He laid His right
hand upon me saying, Unto me, fear not, I am the first and
the last. I am He that liveth and was dead and Behold, I am
alive for evermore. Amen, and have the keys to Hell and
Heaven. Only one who has been initiated into the divine mys-
tenes can interpret the above. Those who learn what follows
will be well prepared to journey into the unseen world.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 75
1 First: And He had in His right hand seven stars. This
means He controlled the seven divine powers with His will,
2 symbolized by His right hand. And from His mouth went a
sharp two-edged sword, meaning His teachings wound those
3 who do evil. The flesh is cut, rent asunder, exposed as illusion
by His infinite spiritual wisdom. Countenance like the sun.
4 He was spiritually illuminated by divine understanding of a
universal character. His strength— the might of a perfect will.
5 I am the first and the last. Meaning He reached At-one-ment
with God. I am He that liveth and was dead, meaning He at-
6 tained immortality. Having the keys to Heaven and Hell, by
having a universal mind He may penetrate at will the lower or
7 higher regions of human existance, both in the seen and unseen
world.
8 Rev. 1st, 20. The mystery of the seven stars which Thou
sawest in my right hand and the seven golden candlesticks. The
9 seven stars are the angels of the seven churches and the seven
candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. Accord-
10 ing to this verse, there were or are seven churches teaching a uni­
versal doctrine of truth, love and light, and demonstrating the
11 works of Christ they became a part of this universal symbol of
the mastership of the seven divine powers. These churches
12 were not all Christian churches, but were churches which had
knowledge of the divine works of Christ. They were all estab-
13 lished by members of the Brotherhood, who journeyed through
Asia, especially India, preaching and demonstrating over sick-
14 ness and death. Those churches have now become small schools,
with only a few in attendance, while materialism have taken
15 their place with the masses.
Rev. 2d, 2. I know thy works and thy labour, and thy
16 patience and thou const not bear them which art evil and thou
hast tried them which say they are Apostles and are not and
17 hast found them liars. Here the master of the seven powers, or
stars, tells of the degeneration of the first seven churches, where
18 fakers who could not demonstrate, claimed ministry of God.
76 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
They are rebuked for leaving their first love in the next verse.
This first love is demonstration of the works.
Rev. 2d, 5. Remember therefore from whence thou are fallen
and repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee
quickly and will remove thy candlestick out of place, except
thou repent. Here the churches are threatened unless they dem­
onstrate the first works which are healing, seership, casting out
evil spirits and preaching truth to the poor, or the doctrine of
prosperity. The threat is that the candlestick or spiritual wis­
dom will be withdrawn from them if they do not. This was
done later as threatened, and in the 4th century after Christ,
the Christians murdered all who would not accept their
theology. The catacombs of Paris with its torture cages and
rack to break the bones of those whom they could not convert,
are mute testimonies of this horrible state when the candlestick
was removed from the churches of Asia Minor, and the original
churches were no more. This was the beginning of the down­
fall of the Church of Rome, for he who takes the spiritual
works from the people will die in the darkness of his own
creation.
Rev. 2d, 6. But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of
the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate. This is an organization of
black magicians and evil doers.
Rev. 2d, 7. He that hath an ear let him hear what the spirit
saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh will I give t0
eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of
Cod. Overcome means to master the flesh, the lower nature
regardless of the church. He will eat of the tree of life or im­
mortality provided however, that he doeth the first works men­
tioned previously. Super Mind Science teaches how to do these
words. Study well the keys to Super Mind Mind Science.
Rev. 2d, 11. He that hath an ear let him hear what the
spirit saith unto the churches. He that overcometh shall not be
hurt of the second death. There are only two deaths possible;
first the one of the body; second, the one of the identity, or
f
Ì
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 77
1 personality of the self.
Now if one masters the body, he experiences the closing of
2 the curtain on one scene and the rising on another. One of the
means of overcoming is the doing of the divine work, or will.
3 Such as is practiced in Super Mind Science. Heal the sick, over­
come the lower nature, cast out evil or ignorance. Learn the
4 science of mind purification.
Rev. 2d, 17. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the
5 spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcometh will I
give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white
6 stone, a new name written which no man knoweth saving he
that receiveth it. Here those who master the body are told they
7 will get spiritual food, hidden manna. This is experience in
contacting spirit and knowing the invisible world. This sat-
8 isfies the soul and creates a sweet nectar which flows from the
glands and nourishes the saints while they are on a fast.
9 The author has tasted this hidden manna. The white stone
is knowledge of the soul, called the philosopher’s stone. Each
soul has a name similar to the name the body has, in the invis­
ible world. He will be known by this name. No man that
is on earth can know this name, only those to whom it has
been revealed. This is termed spiritual initiation by the Broth-
ers. The author received his after a thirty day fast with a con­
centration on the soul as a source of revelation. This is an ex-
1o
perience of all who overcome the flesh and attain spiritual
illumination and mastery. After one has practiced the divine
14 works of Super Mind Science, then they must use the same
methods to attain complete self mastery, and thus be one who
^ overcometh, that shall rule the nations and all the living crea­
tures of the earth by power of thought.
KEYS T O C H R IST IA N IT Y
TH E M Y STER Y OF TH E BOOK W ITH SEVEN SEALS
R evelations, Ch a pter 5
This book writen within and sealed with Seven Seals, was
16
78 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
known to mystics thousands of years before John, the Revel-
ator, spoke of it in the book of “ Revelations.” This part of the
“ Revelations” is in Chapter 5, Verse 1, and reads as follows:
"A s I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne,
a book written within and on the back side sealed with seven
seals.”
1 he meaning of this passage of the scripture is, that the
Master of this Universe has in his control, a book containing
secrets of nature. These secrets are within man, as the verse
clearly relates: and if they are known and made use of by
man, they are very powerful as they are closely related to the
Universal God who is described as “him who sat upon the
throne.” This throne signifies the pinnacle of spiritual wis­
dom, which is the intelligence guiding man on to his destiny.
In Chapter 5, Verse 2, the Revelator says: ‘‘And I saw a
strong Angel proclaiming in a loud voice, who is worthy to
open the book and loosen the seals thereof.” This clearly states
that Angels have, or did at that time, charge over the secrets of
the seals. This is Occult Knowledge and known to all adepts
who overcome the flesh consciousness.
As we continue reading in this chapter of “ Revelations,’ we
learn of John s grief over the fact that no one was able to open
the book. Then we learn of his conversation with an Elder,
while he, John, was in the spirit.
Being in the spirit means out of the body. This Elder said
that the book would be opened by the Lion of the Tribe of
Judah, which was Jesus, and that he would open the book and
loose the seals thereof. This was done by Jesus when he mas­
tered his body and took it into the heavens.
He next symbolized Jesus, by the lamb that was slain. This
lamb had seven horns and seven eyes, which he said meant the
seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. This part of
the Revelations shows that the book with the seven seals was
connected with the seven spirits of God and since the author
is an adept he can truthfully say that this is correct. He will
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 79
} 1 reveal their connection so the reader may have proof of his
revelation of the seals. These seven seals represent the seven
2 negative or spiritual principles of life and if you develop them,
they bring you spiritual experience which gives you the keys
3 of life hereafter. There are fourteen secret principles of the
ancient adeptship. The seven seals are the negative, while the
4 seven spirits of God are the positive, and together they repre­
sent the seat of positive and negative force of the universe.
5 When they are operated for divine purposes they can create al­
most any spiritual state of being and can open up such a vast
6 supply of power that it is impossible for one to conceive their
greatness as creative principles. They can make one so saintly,
7 if lived up to, that physical death would mean only liberation
from confinement of being. All the great masters have been
8 masters of these principles which represent practical knowledge
of man and God. The knowledge contained in this book within
9 is man’s only escape from death of identity. He can by
their uses develop such a spiritual mind that he will never feel
10 pain; but would be transported from this plane to that of high
Angels without going through the usual course of development
11 that is required of those who do not know the secret of this
two-fold mystery. This is the knowledge spoken of by John,
12 the Revelator, when he says, “ And there shall be no more
death or sorrow and the devil and hell shall be overcome and
13 there will be a tree having leaves which will heal the sick of
the nations.’’ You are now about to receive these mysteries,
14 and be far advanced of your time, in knowledge.
TH E FIR ST SEAL OF T H E BOOK IS T H A T
SU BLIM E SEA L OF LO VE
15 Love means that you must practice loving and helping
everyone who needs your help, so you may open up this power
16 within your own soul. This power is love’s emotion and if you
really are sincere, you will soon have power to heal, advise
17 and teach others the laws of life. This is the development of
80 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 the first of the seven seals.
You must do this by actual physical, mental and spiritual
2 service to others, otherwise you can never be a master adept of
the ancient mysteries of the soul and body.
TH E SECOND SEA L IS LIG H T
3 Light means that you must try and satisfy that desire for
knowledge which is within you. When you seek this con-
4 tinually and prayerfully, your desires will soon manifest in
reality. The veil will then be lifted from your eyes and you
5 will see, through the power of your soul, far beyond this
temporal, material sphere. The perfect light which comes to
0 you, is the light that illuminates the way for the adept, until
he crosses the threshold of immortal knowledge into the realms
7 unknown to material mind. Cultivate this light and seek more
of it, so that you may behold the beauty of the Kingdom of the
g Father and learn the feeling of that light within your soul. It
is the light that should radiate around you and if you open
9 your soul to divine love, it will be ever with you. You must
try to speak the truth and scatter the seeds of knowledge every-
10 where you go and forget your own self in your task. If you do
this faithfully and dwell only on facts proven to you by the
11 demonstration of wisdom teachings and forsake the babble of
the unlearned and uninitiated, you will open the second seal
12 of light in your soul and great power will come to you. Know
of the true understanding and tlever violate the inner teach-
1 3 ings. This is the true light of the ages. It is the light of God,
the one Oversoul, that sits upon a hill, and it shines within
14 your own soul.
TH E TH IRD SEAL IS T R U T H
] 5 Truth pertains to that fact of being which we are conscious
of and it also gives the feeling that we are in some vague way
10 divine, because of the truth of our conscience. This principle
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 81
1 must be practiced if you want to open the seal; for those not
practicing truth can never open up the powers of the soul.
2 This is a Universal law and is therefore unchangeable. If you
try every day to be more truthful, the realization of truth will
3 soon come to you and you will have an inward power opened.
This power will give you more and more truth until you be-
4 come an expounder of the cause of truth or a worker for the
Ancient Wisdom. It deals only with facts which can be demon-
5 strated and proven to anyone who desires their proof. No
one can ever open this seal if they believe in theories; they must
6 know before they speak, and speak only that which to them is
a proven fact. When this is practiced, the adept soon breaks
7 the seal containing the knowledge of truth in his soul and
then he learns of glories never to be experienced by the untruth-
8 ful. This is the one and only way of actually opening up this
section of the book containing the truth of the soul, the ever-
9 lasting truth that never dies, the revelations of this universe,
and the grand laws of creation. T o be a true adept you must
10 not cease in your investigations of truth and you must not
accept anything for its substitute. If you do, you will never
11 break the seal. Don’t trust your feelings in this matter, but only
trust your actual experience; for it is experience that brings the
12 rewards of victories won over weakness of mortal self.
TH E FO U R TH SEA L IS L O Y A L T Y
13 Loyalty holds great power and makes up one section of the
book with seven seals which is within your soul. T o open it,
14 you must sacrifice all, if necessary, before you would betray a
brother. You must not persecute any human soul, for all are
15 united by the one great spirit and to be loyal to the spirit you
must be loyal to one another. If you harm your brother for
16 any purpose you are disloyal to the God spirit within your
brother and as long as you do this or have this in your nature,
17 you will never open this seal of the book. This is the reason
82 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
• f
10
11
12
13
14
15
the true adept radiates love and will never take an issue against
anyone whatsoever. By this explanation, you can demonstrate
the powers of the “ Book of the Seven Seals.”
Jesus, the Master, gave an example of this seal when he told
the one without sin to cast the first stone at the woman who
was taken in the act of adultery. There was none good enough
to cast the stone, so they left the Master and the woman alone.
Jesus then said to the woman, “ Where art thine accusers?"
And she replied, “ I haven’t any, my Lord.” So he then said,
“Neither do I accuse thee, depart and sin no more.”
If you have the power of this seal opened within you, this
is the way you have to meet every issue of this kind. The loy­
alty of the Master was demonstrated when he did not accuse
the woman. Can you pay that price for this power? If you
are a true adept, you will have to do so even though the flesh
says not to, for you must obey the voice of the spirit. This is
the secret of the great power of the Masters and their ability to
lead the people and heal the sick.
TH E FIFT H SEA L IS U N D ERSTA N D IN G
Understanding is the seal that caused you to seek the knowl­
edge of the brotherhood. T o open this seal you must study
and develop your finer qualities and you must spend much of
your time studying the feelings passing through your body
and mind. You must learn to see the good in all things and
to understand all things from a divine standpoint, otherwise
you can never open this seal within your soul. You must try
to understand all people by the promptings of your soul and
never judge hastily, for if you do, you often judge from ap­
pearance and not from the promptings of your soul. When a
struggle comes between the forces of the flesh world and the
forces of the Kingdom of the Father, you must rely on the
understanding of your soul and not the voice of the outer
world, which is only a shadow of the perfect world. If you
do this, you will go toward real adeptship and you will surely
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 83
1 solve the mysteries of this life. When this seal is broken, great
will be the understanding of your soul, for the great law of this
2 seal is, “Don’t believe, but know.’’
TH E SIX T H SEA L IS HONOR
3 Honor contains the secret of dealing with man and God. If
you would open it, you must be as fair with your fellowmen as
4 the judgment of your conscience, and never violate your inner­
most promptings of conscience. You must strive to think hon-
5 orably, for to think otherwise is to dishonor the God intelli­
gence of your soul. If you do not overcome dishonor in your
0 dealings with men, you can never know the secrets of this force,
which this seal opens within your soul. You must honor all
7 human beings the same as if they were your own relatives, for
the Spirit of the Oversoul dwells in each one alike. As the
g sun shines on both the good and the evil, so does the Spirit
of the Father dwell in all the same, and to do an act of injustice
9 against anyone is to do it against that Oversoul within them.
If you wish to open this seal, be careful of your thoughts, for
10 around your soul, there is a record of each of them. The adept
who opens this seal will be honored and “ as ye sow, so shall
11 ye reap.’’ An adept is an honorable person in every respect; so
may you open the force of power which is for those who comply
12 with the rule. “ Think of others as ye would have them think
of you.”
TH E SEV EN TH SEAL IS WISDOM
13 T o open the seal of wisdom, you must act wise, think wise,
and always seek wisdom regarding your trinity of mind, body
14 and soul. You must always seek higher wisdom and do not
be contented with anything other than the perfect wisdom of
15 the soul. Wisdom may be compared to a pyramid. Its base
is reason, which wisdom rests its weight upon. Its support is,
84 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
facts on the right side and activity on the left side. By con­
tinually acting wise and reasoning out that which you do not
understand and comparing the facts at hand, your soul begins
to develop and soon you break the seal of wisdom by your
continued effort. The true wisdom of the soul then becomes
a force and unites to help you create, and thus you have opened
the perfect seal of the book written within.
Anyone living in accordance with the teaching of the Seven
Seals will attain God contact and salvation, for such is the
divine promise. Jesus opened all seven. We may open at least
five by a diligent study of Super Mind Science. This insures
immortality and we will avoid the second death.
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
KEY S T O C H R IST IA N IT Y
(Continued)
Rev. 13fh, 1-2. And I stood upon the sand of the sea and
saw a beast rise up out of the sea having seven heads and ten
horns and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his head the
name of blasphemy. And the beast which I saw was like unto
a leopard and his feet were as the feet of a bear. And his mouth
as the mouth of a lion and the dragon gave him his power.
And his seat and great authority. This is the beginning of the
Orthodox churches, which sprang from the Roman Empire,
which had seven kings and ten lesser rulers under them, who
enslaved the nations. Their powers came from evil, the dragon.
They were and still are animalistic, therefore symbolized by the
beast. Mouth like a lion, means destructive teaching. Body like
a leopard means devours people’s souls by taking the scriptures
from them and placing them at the mercy of a priest. The off­
spring of the beast is called harlots, meaning all Protestant
churches which sprang from her.
Rev. 13fh, 3. And I saw one of his heads as it were wound­
ed to death. And his deadly wound was healed, and all the
world wondered at the beast. One of his heads wounded, loss
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 85
1 of Temporal Power of the Pope in 1857. Restored in 1929
by Italy.
2 Rev. 13th, 4. And they worshipped the dragon which gave
power to the beast and they worshipped the beast saying, Who
3 is like unto the beast, who is able to make war unto him.
Worshipped the dragon, idolized the Premier of Italy who
4 formed the Latern Treaty, giving the Pope military powers,
so he could make war as a king. He, the Pope, caused an un-
5 successful war in Mexico, by exercising his powers secretly on
his agents.
6 Rev. \3th, 7. And it was given unto him to make war with
the saints and to overcome them, and power was given him over
7 all kindreds and tongues and nations. He, the Pope, was re­
ferred to by the Italian government as a universal sovereign,
8 appointed by God Almighty to rule over people of all nations.
Rev. 13th, 8. And all that dwell upon the earth shall wor-
9 ship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of
the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. Meaning
10 those who accept him as infallible and the Vicar of Jesus
Christ on earth, lose immortality of the soul. They inherit the
11 second death or purgatory darkness, spiritual destruction, an­
nihilation.
12 Rev. 13th, 18. Here is wisdom, let him that hath under­
standing count the number of the beast, for it is the number
13 of a man and his number is six hundred three score and six.
Meaning six hundred and thirty six. The Latin title of the
14 Pope when translated into Roman notation and added up gives
this number. Let him that doubts this interpretation of Reve-
15 lations add it up and see for themselves.
Rev. 14th, 11. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth
16 up for ever and ever, and they have no rest night or day who
worship the beast and his image and whosoever receiveth the
17 mark of his name. This predicts the loss of immortality to all
who accept his doctrine and who receive his name. Catholics
18 worship his image, the image which they call Christ on all
i
86 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
Catholic altars. The people have no understanding of Christ,
yet mentally worship His image.
Rea. 14th, 8. And there followed another Angel saying,
Babylon is fallen, is fallen that great city because she made all
nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornications. This
predicts the fall of Rome and the beast because of her false
communion, where she uses wine instead of the true spiritual
and mental communion of the saints. This fall has already
begun, but the healing of the wound will delay it a few years,
until a great leader rises up to fight the beast. Then will come
a war, then the downfall of Rome, also Italy who healed
the wound of the beast. This revelation dooms all people who
follow orthodox belief without works to the second death.
Super Mind Science teaches the works. It is the means of
mastery alone and no belief can take its place. No belief can
heal the sick, overcome sorrow and poverty, only the opera­
tion of divine powers can do this. Those who desire salvation
must earn it, not expect something without effort. A living
faith must produce a life of action and good deeds, not sitting
down while divine work goes undone. Corporeal life is only
a school where higher learning may rise one above earth and all
of its attendant evils. T o those who overcome, the great light
illumines their way to eternal peace, to that New Jerusalem, the
city that had no need of light of the sun— neither the moon to
shine in it for the glory of God did lighten it. And the Lamb
is the light thereof.
14
15
16
KEYS T O CH R ISTIA N ITY
SUM M ARY
Almighty. Omnipotent spirit all pervading.
Angels. Beings which overcome the body, and live conscious
beyond the fifth sphere of mind. Invisible, Godly beings with
the mental attributes of man.
Ark and 7 istimony. Symbol of spiritual safety, also im-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 87
1 mortality and conscious contact with God.
Balaam. A worship of the male principle or sex. Symbolized
2 by a bull. Typifies those who worship sexual sensation. This
worship was practised among the children of Isreal, contrary
3 to the instructions of Jehovah. Symbolical of materialist.
Babel. Material confusion, which will produce a divided
4 kingdom which cannot stand.
Tower ol Babel. Materialist trying to reach Heaven.
5 Baptism. Man’s At-one-ment with God. Consciousness of
divine infinite spirit after mental purification, only can be at-
6 tained by seeking for it. Seek and ye shall find.
Believing. A state of mind reached after proof has been re-
7 ceived. Consciousness of a fact demonstrated. That which is
not proven, is not believed. Belief without proof is a mental
8 illusion.
Bride. Symbol of the negative creative principle, which is
9 joined to the positive to complete creation. Symbol also of the
soul joined to the body.
10 Bridegroom. Male or positive principle. Symbol of con­
ceiving power, creative and fatherhood power. The body
11 joined to a soul. Symbol of marriage. Jesus at the marriage
feast, symbol of joining your consciousness to divine mind
12 through doing his works.
Christian. One who does the works of Christ, healing,
13 preaching the truth and casting out evil influence. Belief is
a small factor in the practice of Christianity.
14: Christian Science. A belief that matter does not exist, a de­
nial of spirit in matter. A denial of the works of Christ and a
15 system of malicious affirmations, founded by a woman with
an undeveloped mind.
16 Christian Church. A place where the works of Christ is
performed; an unorthodox universal creedless association of
17 people, where only divinity is discussed. A place of prayer
and succor for those in distress, not confined to denomination,
18 creed, sect or sex. A place of spiritual education and demon-
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 stration.
Church Member. One who performs the work of the church
2 and aids in its development, regardless whether or not he has
been confirmed by ceremony.
3 Creator. Supreme mind, divine spirit, the animating prin­
ciple in creative energy. The force that forms beings from
4 positive and negative contact of the elements within beings
and without, as well as all forms of life in the Universe. A
5 being having life, a manifestation of the Creator.
Casting Out. A process of erasing from the mind any harm-
6 ful influence, used by Jesus to cure insanity.
Day. The period of light, symbol of immortality; mani-
7 festation of the divine spirit, truth and love; the time of devel­
opment and improvement; a material manifestation of the
8 eternal day or spiritual illumination.
Death. A sleep of the individual. Jesus said the daughter of
9 Jarius, was not dead, but sleepeth. A period of transition be­
tween mortality and immortality; a test as to our ability to
10 exist in the immortal regions; a state of mind preceding either
complete annihilation, transmigration or spiritual conscious-
11 ness, according to our deeds while in the body and our spiritual
development. Only by doing the works of Christ can we attain
12 development. Only by doing the works of Christ can we enter
the eternal kingdom. He says, I am the way, the Truth and
13 the Light. Belief has very little influence on our future state.
Deeds and development decides our plane of existence.
14 Disease. A violation of natural laws; a congestion produced
by ignorance of the laws of mind and energy.
15 Devil. An evil adversary, either seen or unseen. An intelli­
gent, malicious influence having evil intentions or designs; a
16 tempter of those who do divine works. Thought forms used
in black magic or mental affirmations which are unjust, produc-
17 ing illness or evil. The devil which tempted Jesus was an
entity of the astral world opposed to good. A product of nega- 1
18 tive and positive evil thoughts of men, not a being who tor-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 89
1 ments the departed spirits of mortals. The correct definition is
adversary. Those who study incomplete mental sciences which
2 use affirmations release these evil entities, through a selfish
desire to succeed at others cost. All evil minds produce their
3 unseen prototypes which torment the consciousness of those
who do good.
4 Dove. A symbol of love, peace and bliss attained by spiritual
illumination and baptism in divine mental science. The spirit
5 of God descended on Jesus in the form of a dove, and a voice
said: This is My Son, in whom I am well pleased.
6 Duty. That which one’s consciousness impresses them they
should do; that which seems just and good.
7 Ears. Organ of sense; perception by sound; animated by
spiritual intelligence, which is the real power to perceive. Spirit-
8 ual hearing is performed entirely by mental contact, without the
use of physical organs or dependence on corporeal understand-
9 ing. Let him who hath ears, hear what the spirit saith to the
Churches.— Revelations.
10 Earth. A sphere of creation; substance formed from thought;
produced by the infinite spirits; control of the elements; a pro-
11 duct of sun and moon energy; a plane of eternal life without
beginning or end. Solidified.
12 Elias. A great prophet. One of the brothers of the divine
order. Predicting the coming of Christ with power, symbolizes
13 the advent of Super Mind Science, which reveals man’s divinity
and mastership over matter, the scientific carrying out of the
14 message of Jesus.
Error. That which one believes but cannot prove; a false
15 concept that one who sins is the Son of God; the mistaken idea
that all is good; inability to discriminate right from wrong;
16 the beliefs of those who have not studied mental science in
salvation through belief, void of works.
17 Euphrates. A river in the Garden of Eden, symbol of man’s
body since it was of four branches proceeding from one head,
18 symbolizing arms and lower limbs of the human anatomy.
— — — — — -
90
10
11
12
13
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
The river flowing through a garden symbol of the body exist­
ing in divine mind.
Eve. The spiritual ideal of Motherhood originally who was
seduced by an unseen mental entity in the form of a serpent,
thereby creating sexuality instead of spirituality, thus bringing
upon man death of the body. She typifies those who obey their
animal instinct and do wrong in order to satisfy their grosser
sensations. The Creation of Eve from Adam’s rib is symbol­
ical. She is the manifestation of the negative life principle,
which was the sustaining power in Adam. Man has two sup­
ports: positive life energy, and negative life energy. Eve is the
manifestation of the negative. When one sleeps, negative energy
is in control of their body. Hence a deep sleep fell upon Adam
while Jehovah created the woman, and gave her to Adam.
There were other people on earth before this spiritual creation.
It was the dawn of a new cycle; not the very beginning of time.
It was the dawn of the sixth cycle. So Adam was created on
the sixth day of Creation, which means cycle.
Evening. Time of relaxation; preparation of rest; the end
of a period of work development activity. Symbol of the fin­
ish of a spiritual life.
Eyes. Organs of transmission of spiritual vision, not ma­
terial but spiritual.
Entity. A being visible or invisible produced by both the
mind of divine spirit, also by thoughts of man. Every thought
becomes an entity according to its kind.
Enlightenment. That which is a fact imparted to another
person; knowledge of something not previously known.
Father. Eternal spirit which evolves all life forms. The idea
at our parents are our Creator is erroneous. God is our
father. Jesus said, I doeth the will of my Father in Heaven.
Heaven means the invisible.
Fear. An emotion common to ignorant people; the working
also of a diseased conscience. Fear produces disease of the
nerves and stomach. It is a harmful force generated in the
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 91
lowest plane of conscious mind.
Fire. One of the four elements which compose our being,
earth, of our body, air of our mind. Fire of spirit correspond­
ing to the generative principle. The law of friction under which
matter exists. It is not on the spiritual planes. John, the
Revelator, says: “ There was a city lighted by neither sun or
the moon, but by an eternal light.” The manifestation of God
has three principles: Truth, Love and Light.
Firmament. The invisible dividing line between seen and
unseen: opposite of matter and substance.
Flesh. Matter materialized or solidified vibration from posi­
tive and negative friction. The temple of the living God,
which Jesus said, “ Tear it down and in three days I (that
which is within) will rebuild it again.” It is the corporeal
abode of man, a spiritual being.
Firm. A state of positiveness, firmness, one of determina­
tion; creative state of mind and consciousness.
Formation. A composite thing produced first by the
Thought, then by combining of elements. Energy and concen­
tration of thought may either produce a formation in the body
or dissolve one already formed.
Gad. (Jacob’s son ). A prophet who was author of the
book of Gad, telling the mental methods and wonders per­
formed by the mystic teachers of that day and time. It was
discarded by the translators because they could not understand
how those things were possible. He was a member of the
Brotherhood of Ancient Prophets, who formed the priest class
of the children of Isreal. Gad means fortune; symbol of rich­
ness in spiritual understanding.
Gethsemane. Scene of Christ’s agony. Symbol of the war
between spirit and matter; the taking of the bitter cup or re­
nunciation of the world, and all its attractions and attach­
ments; the place in unfoldment where prayer and meditation
is needed. Every student of mental science passes through this
crisis. Some go on, while others become faithless, losing the
92 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
*1: r
*0
%
\<F-
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
pearl of great price, immortality.
Gideon. Destroyer of materialism; the altars of Baal; mes­
senger of the light; one who spreads truth, love and light to
others.
Ghost. A mental creation of magnetism produced by a
thought form or belief, using the currents of the body as a
means of illumination; a product of mortal mind without
spiritual or divine understanding; can be produced by concen­
tration, affirmation and belief. These thought forms being
subject to mortal mind, sometimes are released by dying per­
sons, who visualize themselves becoming apparitions after
death. They are unconscious, unintelligent, and subject to the
belief of those who see or hear them; an illusion clothed with
vibration.
Gilah. Exile, men of Gilah; those who go into exile, or the
wilderness to meditate and pray. There was also a city of
Gilah, the exiled city of Judah.
God. Omnipotent, eternal life principle; all pervading; all­
knowing, both within man and without. Sustainer of the
universe, the intelligence which pervades matter.
Gods. Archangels having dominion over aries of influence;
giving forth their radiance and selfless love; directing planteary
and astral powers, which manifest and rule lesser beings of
consciousness. Some of these Archangels have appeared under
the name of Jehovah, the Lord God, and the Angel of the
Lord, they inhabit the sixth mental or heavenly sphere, and
have the likeness of Christ. As there are higher and lower
trees, so likewise there are higher and lower beings; as we have
charge over lesser things, they have charge over greater.
Good. Works of God; divine thoughts; acts and ideas.
Greed. A state of mortal mind opposed to divinity; selfish­
ness and desire to satisfy the flesh rather than the spirit; the
cause of people neglecting divine works.
Heart. Center of blood circulation; an organ under control
of Odic force; the universal pulsation; center of emotions which
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 93
1 vibrate in the vacuum center. Heart of the being man is the
Solar Plexus, where all central energies and thoughts enter.
2 Planetary centers can be controlled by concentration in Super
Mind Science.
3 Heaven. A state of bliss; identity without flesh. An exist-
ance beyond corporeality, which is a manifestation of divine
4 mind in which man can develop his spiritual senses and be­
come conscious. The soul exists continually on this plane of
5 mind; corresponds to the sixth or Christ sphere.
Hell. The state of mental torment resulting from sin; the
6 sting of conscience. It came from the word Sheol, meaning the
grave, but was never meant as place of departed spirits. (See
7 any Bible dictionary.) It is self imposed suffering, resulting
from ignorance and belief.
8 Holy Ghost. Derived from the words (Phneuma Matacon)
meaning, life principle or nervous energy, which is the healer
9 and comforter of man. It has two aspects, positive and nega­
tive, and can be controlled by breath and concentration. The
10 body is the temple of the Holy Ghost. When this energy de­
parts from the body, death takes place. It can be demonstrated
11 by anyone who studies Super Mind Science. It is one of the
Trinity of the God head; Father, divine mind; Son, Christ con-
12 sciousness; all compassion; Holy Ghost; life energy; healing
the wounds of the nations; comforting those in sorrow. See
13 keys to life’s energies in Keys to Super Mind Science, this
volume.
14 Holy Spirit. The intelligent manifestation of life energy
brings mental contact with God. Peace, bliss, all-seeing knowl-
15 edge responds to intense desire, prayer and meditation.
Holy. A state of mind of those who have developed self-
16 control and ceased evil deeds; corresponds to living on the
seventh, or perfect, plane of mind.
17 I. Ego, not matter but spirit within matter; the eternal
being; Son of God, called man. The image of God indestruct-
18 ible, which when men realize saves them from self-destruction,
1
2
3
4
5
6
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
annihilation, transmigration or mental laws of decay.
I Am That I Am. The Alpha and Omega of life; the first
and last cause; the one and same spirit or Holy Ghost individ­
ualized in man; the inner consciousness meaning the eternal
reality.
In. A term, meaning that which is within. Used with ref­
erence to God, it means the inner reality or indestructible spirit,
with which we should unite our mental identity.
Intelligence. A universal, all-conscious force or power, which
is unlimited. Manifesting in part in all things which live;
opposite to ignorance; all power, knowing all things.
Infinite. Eternal, the opposite to finite. The nature of God,
without beginning or end; opposite to corporeality; state of
being called immortality, also a quality within man.
Jacob. A seer, prophet and leader, who repented of his sins,
and became an instrument of divine mind. Symbol of man s
regeneration through mental science. Positive mastering, nega­
tive, spirit overcoming flesh.
Jerusalem. A city of Palestine. Typefies the New Jeru­
salem, or life to come. It has been destroyed, but has risen
again on a higher intellectual plane. Seemingly a prophet dies
but he rises again on a higher plane, in a New Jerusalem, in
infinite spirits realm.
Jesus. Master of the Mystic Order of Melchisedec; incarna­
tion of omnipotent infinite spirit; demonstration of God in
the flesh. The fact that he had a physical body proves the
existence of spirit in matter. God in man. This proves Christ­
ian Science false, which says matter is a lie and an illusion and
non-existant. God never existed in matter. Jesus said, “ I and
My Father are one. He who hath seen me, hath seen the
Father. The kingdom of heaven means also God is in matter
as well as mind. This also proves orthodox theology false,
which says God is in Heaven, but not on earth
Joseph. Corporeal father of Jesus, member of the invisible
brotherhood, guided by dreams in his caring for the Christ
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 95
1 child. An adept of the astral or invisible knowledge; a natural
born mystic.
2 Judah. Land where the children of Isreal lived; the prom­
ised land. The place of the birth of Judaism, a belief or religion
3 which fell from grace by not accepting the master teacher,
Jesus; also by convicting him when he was innocent. This act
4 destroyed all the spiritual value of Judaism as a culture to attain
soul immortality.
5 Kingdom of Heaven. A state of being, bliss, peace, where
soul and spiritual intelligence are manifest free from matter;
6 where beings conscious of being in the invisible sphere of divine
mind exist. State of immortality; the plane corresponding to
7 mental perfection in divine wisdom. Symbol of divine mental
illumination, where matter has been overcome and mastership
8 attained through doing divine works, or will of him who sent
us.
9 Knowledge. Corporeal understanding. The results of prov­
ing that which is studied, an aid to attaining soul wisdom, but
10 far beneath it. Knowledge is limited whereas wisdom of soul is
unlimited.
11 Lamb of Cod. A symbol of meekness and purity; sacrifice
of the physical for the spiritual. Innocence. Jesus said the
12 lesser among you shall be greater in Heaven.
Lord. An invisible Angel, or Master, of the laws of life.
13 The Lord God Jehovah of the Hebrews was such a being,
having the power to speak, appear and disappear. He did not
14 claim to be God of the entire universe, only the Lord God Je­
hovah of Isreal. He was known by other names before contact-
15 ing Moses. Other entities who claimed to be the Lord or the
Angel of the Lord or Lord God, appeared to prophets of dif-
16 ferent ages. They are angels of a high order; supervisors of the
affairs of people. The infinite spirit pervading the universe has
17 never taken individual form, nor been seen or heard. Jesus said,
“ God is within, or at hand.” Making God in man, a living
18 reality, not a new belief. This will establish direct contact with
96 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 this supreme power.
Man. God’s image, Son of God, reflection of divine mind
2 Infinite spirit manifesting in the flesh. A universal power of
all-seeing, all-knowing, all-pervading, intelligence, of which
3 man is only partially conscious. God or infinite spirit and
mind are one. Infinite spirit conceives, mind creates. Man is the
4 crucible of this creation; the composite idea of divine mind, im­
bued with infinite spirit. Matter and mind are one— thus man
5 is joined to God. Back of mind is infinite spirit; back of the
brain or matter is mind. Most powerful in matter is the brain,
6 which is the instrument of mind.
Miracle. That which undeveloped mortals term super-nat-
7 ural, but natural to one who is developed mentally. A phe­
nomena of divine mental science accomplished by anyone who
8 studies Super Mind Science and applies it to healing and psychic
and spiritual problems.
9 Morning. Beginning of light. Symbol of one entering Men­
tal Science and realizing they can contact God by applying the
10 methods. This is the dawn of understanding.
Mortal Mind. Mortals have a consciousness but not a mind,
11 since mind is a term used by the unenlightened. The term
mortal mind is only a misnomer for mortal consciousness,
12 which is the cognition of man on all the different planes of
thought and vibration. It can be either divine or evil, depend-
13 ing on the plan of operation.
Moses. The great teacher of the Hebrews who received the
14 law from Jehovah, the Arch Angel. Master of the mental
magic of the Egyptians, who overcame the elements by spiritual
15 power. He symbolizes one who having a spiritual awakening,
contacts God and overcomes the obstacles of life by demon-
16 stration of mental power, or white magic. He came into his
knowledge by inspiration and phenomenal demonstrations
17 caused by Jehovah.
Motherhood. The divine principle of conception carried into
18 the flesh, which expresses God through forming a child or
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 97
1 manifesting the laws of creation. The negative polarity of the
two divine principles of positive and negative, representing the
2 law of reproduction. Also symbol of regeneration or basis of
growth or birth.
3 Nabab. Hebrew word meaning generous; the principle of
giving. Give and you shall receive.
4 Nahshon. Hebrew for Sorcerer. One who uses mental
science for selfish purposes. Ignorant of positive and negative
5 mental power. A user of affirmations to the sub-conscious
mind. One who deals with mental entities and regards them
6 as spirits of departed. User of mental malicious influence. Ob-
sessor of one’s fellowman. Those who suggest to their con-
7 sciousness that matter does not exist, then makes an effort to
use divine powers for selfish ends.
8 Night. Symbol of darkness; the absence of light. Symbol
of the state of the ignorant who never study the divine mys-
9 teries.
New Jerusalem. The state of immortality to be attained by
10 those who master their body. A city not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens. Symbol of divine understanding
11 through mental science.
Ordination. A ceremony to create ministers or priests of a
12 religion. A ceremony made by man with no spiritual signifi­
cance. Spiritual ordination is when man is called mentally by
13 divine power to the service or works of God.
Oren. Hebrew for fir or cedar tree. Symbol of growth,
14 development and contact with God.
Pharisee. The church people of the time of Christ, whom he
15 termed workers of iniquity, and said a harlot could enter heaven
sooner than they. They typify the orthodox church of today
16 which claims a belief in Christ, yet persecute those who do his
works. Those who claim to believe that Jesus can save their
17 soul, yet when they are sick resort to drugs to heal, instead of
the method used by Jesus, the Christ.
18 Prophet. One whose mind is spiritualized so their spiritual
98
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
senses contact the invisible world, through the all-seeing sight.
A master of concentration and the law of spiritual consecra­
tion, which is to give up all hindrances to spiritual God con­
tact. One who lives— truth— love and light.
Paradise. A state of bliss beyond the confines of matter,
where freedom of being is realized. Jesus said to the thief,
"Today shalt thou be with me in Paradise.” A conscious state
in the invisible spheres beyond the plane of Transma. The
fourth plane of mind.
Paran. A desert between Judea and Sinai, where prophets
journeyed to meditate and pray. This was a practice common
to Egypt and India and was a practice, which the Hebrews
probably learned from the Egyptians while in captivity.
Resurrection. Raised to life on immortal planes of conscious­
ness through doing good deeds. A spiritualization of being. A
conditory plane of righteous beings or servants of God.
Redemption. A state of being in heavenly harmony after
being rescued from disease, and sin through a knowledge of
Mental Science.
Red Dragon. Symbolizes physical, dragon evil. The teach­
ings of devils, hell and a physical heaven and God is the red
dragon of humanity mentioned in Revelations.
River. Symbol of life, also of thought coming from on
high, flowing into the conscious mind of man. River of life—•
immortality, truth, love and light— through divine mental
science.
Rock. Symbol of truth, solidity. Jesus said unto Peter,
Thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my church
and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.” Matthew 16:
18. This means the rock of truth, the fact of identity that Peter
was Peter or demonstrations that cannot be disputed since
reason proves them to be true. No belief was incorporated into
his church, only facts. Jesus never founded the Catholic
Church or any Orthodox Church of belief. They came into
existence in the third century after Christ, and started their
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 99
1 work in murder and taking the blood of those who disagreed
with them. Those who kill by the sword, shall die by the
2 sword, is the great law of compensation.
Salvation. Knowledge of demonstration of the powers of
3 mind over sin, sickness and death. A consciousness of God’s
presence. Immortality through doing divine works.
4 Serpent. Symbol of wisdom. Eve contacted knowledge of
evil through a vision of a talking serpent. This serpent was
5 her own animalistic mind taking the form of a serpent. She
became sex conscious through this vision, then violated the
6 command of infinite spirit and created by power of the phys­
ical organs, bringing physical death to her offspring. This
7 act of Eve’s gave force and power to evil and negation over
her; whereas evil would have had no force or existance in either
8 she or her offspring. This brought upon her the curse of Je­
hovah, the Arch Angel who looked after the first spiritually
9 created human beings on this earth. Had Eve not yielded to
this malicious vision, she could have created her children spirit-
10 ually and all would have possessed the powers Jesus had, who
has created through this spiritual process of creation. The ser-
pent was a low psychic, manifestation of the subconscious
mind of Eve.
12 Sheep. Symbol of innocence, meekness and one who gives
all they possess only receiving existance in return. Those who
13 accept their leader.
Son. The offspring of infinite spirit in a seeming finite
14 form, encased in matter, which proves the existance of spirit in
flesh— God in man— Son of Man. One who reaches universal
15 consciousness.
Spirit. The infinite mind in manifestation in several forms.
16 That force which we term life— a composite manifestation of
positive and negative intelligence. The sum total of all divinity
1” and mental manifestation, one within the other. Divine unity
and harmony.
18 Spirits. Individualized infinite spirit, having a corporeal
1 body but possessed with an immortal consciousness. Beings
living beyond the fourth plane of mind— beyond the dividing
2 line of demarkation. They cannot communicate with mortals.
Those who believe they do only talk to mental entities creat-
munication is but the activity of mortal mind, or conscious-
4 ness using magnetism as a means of manifestations. Immortal
spirits are beyond the reach of mortal mentality.
5 Sun. The positive creative heat and life force. A planet of
fire and friction. Symbol of the giver of life, the soul in man.
6 Spiritual illumination. Male principle of God. Eternal with­
out beginning or end. It manifests in six of the cycles of time
7 on each of the planets. Its light does not shine in the seventh
cycle since the light of God only illuminates that perfect cycle
8 and flesh ceases to be, for spirit infinite mind will not always
strive with the flesh. It is truly called by the Prophets, God’s
9 ephemerial, or the light of God’s day.
Sword. The instrument of death to the flesh. Jesus comes
0 as a two-edged sword, meaning he brings truth and love, which
kills the effect of sin and disease.
_ - -- ~~~***j^ w
iiva m c u n a u u i i . U Liuc j / 1
“
13 bol of the body, a dwelling place of God. Matter animated
by spirit. The body is the temple of the living God.
14 Thummin. Spiritual receptivity. The negative polarity of
infinite spirit, Urim and Thummin, of Aaron’s breastplate
15 were marks of concentration for positive and negative spiritual
forces. One understanding these DOWPre rcj n ro n t-irt
100 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
3 ed by their own belief and magnetism. All seeming spirits com-
Tares. That which is separated from the wheat. Symbol
of truth separated from falsehood. Truth symbolizes wheat,
12 tares, falsehood.
Temple. A place of worship and meditation. A true sym-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 101
1 divine mind.
Tithe. One-tenth of one’s earnings, which they should sac-
2 rifice to promotion of truth; spreading of divine mental science
to those who need help.
3 Tina. Hebrew for fear. The state of mind of those ignorant
of divine mental science. The power that grips those who are
4 ignorant before death. A desire to escape just punishment.
Orthodox minded people fear God because they are ignorant of
5 the fact God is love, truth and light.
Ucal. Hebrew for I am strong. A point of concentration to
6 overcome weakness, used by the children of Isreal. Prov. 30:1.
Unbelief. A state of mind or delusion, caused by having no
7 spiritual experience. Many people are in this state of mind, yet
assert they believe. People who die in this state of mind never
8 pass beyond the Transma, or plane of confusion, being torn
asunder by impacts of vibration.
9 Uncleanliness. Unsanitary either in body or consciousness.
Those with low, debased thoughts, such as contain malice,
10 hatred and anger. It has long been a custom with eastern
people to bathe before prayer or spiritual sacrifice. This is to
U symbolize a clean mind, also to suggest it.
Ungodliness. Those opposed to all things divine. Materialist
12 or material minded people. Those who can never enter the
divine kingdom are ungodly.
13 Unknown. The occult side of nature. The spiritual truths
perceived by one who seeks. Unknown to the material minded
14 but all things are known to the spiritual minded. Those who
regard God as unknown are ignorant of the manifestation of
15 God within. They search for that which they already possess.
They pray to that which is in their own mind.
16 Urim. Positive polarity of divine spirit, the positive side of
the Urim and Thummin worn by Aaron, Mystic high priest
17 of the Levites. The stones were believed to give forth divine
light but this was entirely a mental demonstration. Mental
18 science is the Urim of today. It illuminates the aspect of divin-
102 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
ity and shows man how to demonstrate the truth, which tran­
scends all religious belief and works like magic for those sin­
cere in knowing its divine secrets.
Valley of Hinnom. A valley back of Jerusalem where the
refuse was burned. This valley became the symbol of perdition
and the ancient story of hell fire came from reference to it as
a place where refuse was burned. It symbolizes sorrow and
destruction. There was no belief in a literal hell in the times
referred to. That is a little later appellation.
Veil. A mode of concealment, used by Jewish women to
hide their beauty from abductors; also as a symbol of com­
plete submission to their husband. This custom was later
adopted by Mohammedan women. It is called Purdah. It is
a relic of barbarism and should be abolished since the face was
created to be seen as a means of recognition. The veiling of
women is an act of selfishness and hypocricy, which Jesus re­
buked along with other symbols of oppression and ceremony.
Ceremonial religion martyred Jesus and He proved it to be
false in its claims. He rent the veil of the temple in twain, then
arose from the dead. This proves ceremonial religion false
and a murderer of the Son of God.
Verified. All the truth of mental science as demonstrated by
Jesus and His disciples.
Wilderness. Symbol of the flesh. A place for spiritual medi­
tation where matter is overcome and the divine powers present
truth to the spiritual senses. John in the wilderness, symbol­
izes man in the flesh, preaching the truth. Void of the con­
science. Speaking to man’s carnal nature saying, repent from
your evil deeds. Jesus overcame the body by a forty day fast in
the wilderness, where He passed through mental temptation.
Will. The motive power of man. It has two qualities, posi­
tive or spiritual will, negative or carnal will. Jesus said to
the sick, “ Be it according to your will,” which shows it to be
a divine power. One who develops a strong will need to have
no fear for they will master every obstacle.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 103
Wind. Symbol of the mind. An invisible force which when
harnessed by intelligence moves great obstacles out of the way
and acts as a means of transportation of a benefit to man.
Symbol of man’s divine mental power which overcomes sick­
ness, sin and death.
Wise. One who has developed intuitive knowledge. Witness
of God. The conscious mind of man.
Year. A fraction of time of a cycle. A moment of eternity.
A part of the fourth dimension or eternity. Passing of the sun
through the twelve signs of the Zodiac around the sun. A
symbol of the life of Jesus and His example to His twelve
Disciples.
Youth. The springtime of life. Symbol of the beginning of
wisdom through a study of mental science. A new unfoldment
of spiritual powers. Beginning of responsibility.
Zabbud. Hebrew for Giver. One who gives to the world.
Giver of truth healing life, light and love. One adored by
divine mind. Symbol of eternal life.
Zeal. A mental force which indicates enthusiasm. The
power which causes one to be true and constant to a trust im­
posed.
Zion. Symbolical of immortality. Spiritual foundation.
The state of existance beyond the mortal planes of mind.
BIBLICA L R EC A PIT U LA T IO N
The Bible was written by mystics, who had the gifts of
All-Seeing Sight. Astral traveling, and the phases of develop­
ment commonly known to adeptship throughout the Far
East. These men lived at a time when there was no skepticism
predominating on the earth. They developed these powers
through fasting, prayer and meditation; thereby coming in
contact with the Invisible Master, whom they often referred
to as the ‘‘Angel of the Lord,” ‘‘the Lord,” or ‘‘God.” The
word "G od" in the Hebrew scriptures is a plural word, being
—
: i
*>
104 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
spelled “ Elohim,” and never was intended to be used in a
singular sense, such as we now know it to be. Many of these
mystics who saw the visions recorded in the Bible and wit­
nessed the powerful demonstrations of their day, could not
interpret those mysteries by the power of their conscious mind,
owing to the fact that they had a very poor material educa­
tional system, so they gave us a record telling their psychic
experiences the best they possibly could, yet leaving thousands
of unsolved mysteries to be solved by a psychic mind of one
who practices going into different states of mind as prophets
of those days practiced.
Theologians ^3Ve tr*ec* t0 exP^a^
n by material laws these dem­
onstrations. Not being competent because of lack
of spiritual development they have caused an almost disbelief
in the Bible; their explanations being so unreasonable that even
their own congregation in many instances have turned almost
to atheism.
Cl,_ „ i r j c ■ declares that the Bible must be read with
a spiritual eye, and that no one without
having unfolded his powers is capable of interpreting it. Also,
there must be a power of discrimination exercised by the minds
of people who interpret the Bible, as many things in the Bible
are good and many things would be absolutely against all
laws of reason and morality of this day and age. So, with a
keen sense of discrimination and unfolding psychic faculties
one may perceive in reading betwen the lines the deep mys­
teries in the book of divine knowledge. By these mysteries we
learn the great lesson of life. It is not our desire to put forth
a new belief in regard to the Bible, but simply assert that the
Bible is not a material book, that it cannot be understood by
materialists, it never has been and it never will be. It is a
book to be understood by adepts of the Inner Mysteries, having
a free, unbiased mind and the ability to discriminate through
the power of reason, so, knowing these things to be facts, we
set forth many of the truths of the Bible, having been dis-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 105
1 covered through the adeptship and unfoldment of the founder
of Super Mind Science in periods of cosmic consciousness when
2 his powers and faculties were concentrated on opening up,
through the Aquasiac Record, the true meaning of these mys-
3 teries.
^ _ , , The Laws of Creation and the Creation
The Four Books of , „ . , , . . D , ,
4 „ „ . of the barth, as set forth in the book of
Moses, Genesis „ . . t i n ,
Genesis, is symbolically correct, but liter-
5 ally incorrect, as symbols are the form of ideas and not actual
happenings that took place on the physical plane. The seer
6 who beheld the vision of creation, as recorded in Genesis, was
in the state of mind known as cosmic consciousness where his
7 power of vision and the cosmic voice showed him the mani­
festation of all life and the period of growth and creation. He
8 was a mystic who lived many years previous to Moses, and
this account was an old book when Moses was born. Being in
9 a state of mind where he saw visions and heard the cosmic
voice, he was out of the vibration of space, place and time,
10 and therefore, could not have cognized definitely the amount
of time according to material conception required for the crea-
11 tion of the earth and all things therein. So he saw a vision, the
vision passing before his eyes probably in a few minutes’ time,
12 showing him six periods of creaton, when the light, and the
water, and the earth, and the animal kingdom came into being
13 simultaneously. Then he was shown a divine period of time, a
time when the laws of physical creation rested. These laws
14 of creation have long been understood by the adepts of all the
different countries of the globe to be governed by cycles of
15 time. Each cycle of time numbering 700,000 years. Six cycles
of time is the age of a civilization, all life forms, and develop-
16 ment of physical beings, including man and animals developed
during these cycles to the highest state of perfection, possible
17 for them to reach on the physical plane. The seventh cycle
of time being the perfect cycle when all physical manifestation
18 of life is completed through unfoldment and development, then
106 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
the supreme creative force of the universe, which is the Super
Mind, and the seven creative spirits before the throne, as far
as physical creation is concerned, rest. This is the perfect cycle
of time. This perfect cycle of time being represented in the
Book of Genesis as the Sabbath, or the day upon which the
Gods of Creation rested, is the period on the physical plane
during which no physical life manifests, and all forms of life
being born in the mental and spiritual vibrations have reached
perfection physically, and therefore have a complete invisible
existance.
During this period, as taught by all masters of the Occult
Science of the Far East, the earth undergoes a cosmic night,
because of the absence of physical intelligence on the earth, and
then another round of creation takes place in its due course of
time. Thus, we understand when a man’s mind is in a rate
of vibration where it neither cognizes space, place nor time, it
is possible for him to think that these periods of time are days
of twenty-four hours each, and thus write in a book a cosmic
doctrine which causes great discussions to take place as to
its reasonability in future years to come. This wisdom is taught
in the great schools of esoteric wisdom in what is known as the
symbol of the seven-pointed star.
Adam and Eve ^ ' s science seeks to explain the presence of
Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, by
pointing out the fact that in the 4th chapter of the Book of
Genesis, we find an account of Cain finding a wife in the
Land of Nod among people who dwelt in tents. Undoubt-
ably there had to be people in the Land of Nod, dwelling in
tents or living in some way, for Cain to find himself a wife
there, this being conclusive proof that people did exist on the
earth before the creation of Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve,
as understood by many masters of the Occult and deeper mys­
teries of life, were a specially created pair of individuals who
were supposed to create their offspring through the powers of
Alchemistry independent of the physical laws of creation and
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 107
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
bring up a perfect race of individuals to guide the materialistic
race that were then throughout the earth. These people did
not have a very high spiritual conception at that time, so this
special creation took place something like six thousand years
ago, as our Bible relates. But owing to the fact that the man
and woman thus created were too physical in aspect and sub­
ject to physical influences, these specimens of the human being
did not prove an entire success, as Eve was commanded not to
partake of the Knowledge of Right and Wrong from a physical
standpoint by the Angel of the Invisible Realm, but Eve would
not take this advice, and thereupon used her own judgment as
to the laws of physical creation and did partake of the knowl­
edge of right and wrong, and thus brought about a physically
created race, but of spiritually inclined parentage, which is now
on the earth. They fell short of the original intention of the
Supreme Being that performed or caused this creation to take
place. People coming from that generation are the White race,
which symbolizes more soul power, and the dark races are
descendants from those people who lived in tents when Cain
found his wife in the Land of Nod.
rp. n , , „ , was situated, we are told, at the head of a
river which had four branches, the River
Euphrates being one of the rivers. These rivers have been dis­
covered to be located and proven to be in that part of Arabia
to the northwest, and the story of the Garden of Eden has
been proven as far as its actual existance is concerned by numer­
ous seers, astral travelers and mystics throughout the world, to
have been correct. But the world has looked at this creation in
a wrong light, forgetting that spoken newspapers have been in
existance in China for fifty thousand years and spoken Bibles
in existance in India for thirty thousand years. They have
tried to impress the world with their own materialistic concep­
tion of this creation and to make people believe that this earth
is only six thousand years old, but this theory has been dis­
proved by every branch of science, including the recent in-
108 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 vestigations on the Mongolian Desert, as to the origin of man.
Moses W3S 3 highly developed prophet guided by an invis-
2 ible master who had appeared to his forefathers and had
vowed to liberate the children of Isreal from the Pharaohs of
3 Egypt. This invisible master never claimed to be God of the
universe, only claiming to be the God of Isaac, Abraham, Jacob
4 and Moses. He pronounced his name to Moses, Jehovas, which
when interpreted from the Hebrew language is the name of
5 a personality pronounced Yahweh. In tracing back through
the annals of history, in the Egyptian symbology we find that
6 a kind-hearted king had lived one time in the history of Egypt
whose name was Yahweh, or Yahwah, and upon his death
7 he made a statement that he had lived and developed and pro­
gressed and hoped to reach a state of being in the invisible
8 where he would be able to influence the liberation of the chil­
dren of Isreal and all slaves of Egypt who might be bound by
9 the Pharaohs and thus rid his country of the taint of slavery.
Whether or not he is the same Yahweh in the form that ap-
10 peared to Isaac, Abraham and Jacob, and also unto Moses, is
to be conjectured upon. But this Yahweh which appeared to
11 Moses did liberate the children of Isreal and carried out the
plans of the ancient king by that name. Undoubtedly Moses
12 was selected as an instrument which could be handled by an
invisible master to perform all the mysteries that were to be per-
13 formed by the powers of Alchemistry, and he was probably
selected because of his receptivity. But, being so negative, he
14 could not even impress the people as a speaker, and so his
brother Aaron had to function for him in that capacity. This
15 shows that Moses was entirely under the control of unseen
powers and was not a positive master of the physical plane, but
16 more a negative master of the astral and spiritual planes.
There is no reason to believe that he wrote the four
17 books attributed to him, because in one of these books— the
Book of Numbers it tells us of Moses’ death and the children
18 of Isreal mourning for him thirty days and how he was buried
ft;:*:*-:-—
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 109
in a place where to this day his sepulcher is unknown. This
being the fact we are convinced that Moses could not have writ­
ten of his own funeral and that undoubtedly some other mystic
of the children of Isreal must have been the recorder of these
remarkable events. In the Egyptian history, the account of
Moses stated that he could not write in the Egyptian char­
acters, neither could he write in the Hebrew characters, but
was a man who lived by inspiration and did not have any of
the arts, especially the art of writing, which is attributed to
him. Therefore, this science understands Moses as a highly de­
veloped mystic of the White Brotherhood that guided people
from physical bondage to physical liberty, and having estab­
lished an Oracle in the cloud where the voice of the Cosmic
would speak and guide the children of Isreal in their journeys
in the wilderness, we think of Moses as a great proof of the in­
visible power of the White Brotherhood to liberate all people
in bondage. We look forward to the day when the White
Brotherhood through some invisible power will continue its
policy which it is now doing until a leader is selected to liberate
the masses from their mental bondage, because where they were
once sold to physical masters and kept in physical bondage,
they in this day sell themselves to masters of certain creeds and
dogmas and are in mental bondage. So may the example of
Moses liberating the children of Isreal apply to this day in a
mental sense and may many people be delivered from the op­
pression of false conceptions which are given to the people in
the name of religion by undeveloped minds, and ignorant
people who are incapable of leading people to spiritual attain­
ment.
Symbols of the Bible.
There are many symbols in the Bible,
such as the Wheel of Ezekiel having a
deep mystical meaning. In the case of this wheel we are taught
a lesson about the four elements governing the universe: earth,
air, fire and water; and how they are lifted up by intelligence;
intelligence being symbolized by the wings on the wheel. The
110 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
winged wheel is an old Egyptian symbol to be found in the
Hall of Columns in Egypt and in many cases it has been
carved on the tombs of ancient Pharaohs. It symbolizes that
the soul has taken flight from the physical plane and that it is
free from bondage and is now in a state of immortal existance
in a higher rate of vibration. The four wheels together sym­
bolize the four elements which are earth, air, fire and water,
composing the mind, body and soul of man, and the symbol
teaches that by the soul power or spiritual intelligence and
through the laws of transmutation and development man is
lifted up.
0 n . The symbols in the Book of Revela-
tions should have a deep mystical mean­
ing. The Seven Spirits before the throne being spirits that
guide the manifestations of creation from the lowest point of
vibration to the highest, and the seven golden candlesticks being
the intelligence put forth by these seven spirits which manifest
in all branches of nature and human life.
The symbol of Him that sitteth upon the throne symbol­
izes the pinnacle of spiritual wisdom, which is the All-Seeing
Mind of the Universe.
The Vials of Influence symbolize the influence or guiding
power of these seven spirits which cause developments to take
place on the earth many times through the laws of creation and
as well through lessons of sorrow to mankind.
The symbol of the Tree which has leaves that will heal the
sick of the nations and overcome death and the doctrines of
hell, symbolizes the human spine, the life of this tree being
the life energy at the base of the spine rising in man to where
he will have an understanding sufficiently to know that hell is
a state of suffering and sorrow and not a material place and
the discovery of this tree and its powers is now taking place
in many parts of the globe as meta-physicians are gradually
converting people to use the power in their own bodies and
their own nervous energy to heal themselves and to keep them-
I l l
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY
selves in a perfect state of health without resorting to drugs and
other numerous harmful methods of treating the body. These
metaphysicians are teaching the people that man has a stomach
capable of digesting only such foods as fruit and vegetables of
the earth and that he cannot expect his stomach to digest dead
flesh of animals and corrupted foods if he would heal his body
with the power of his cerebro spinal system or his governing
intellect, and this is gradually bringing a state of universal reali­
zation that will eventually heal the sick of all nations and do
away with physical death, sorrow and doctrines of hell that
are now being preached, keeping people from discovering that
tree within their own selves.
T,, T . , The author of this science in this narrative
The Immaculate . ,
. gives the story of the birth of Christ as seen
Conception. 7 , . , , , ... ,.
by him on the astral plane while reading
the Aquasiac Record, or the Memories of the Universe.
The higher powers of Creation saw the necessity of teach­
ing the people that they have both a visible and invisible body
and that they would escape sorrow and suffering by uniting
their minds with the Supreme God of the Universe, so decided
or willed to cause the incarnation of a personality which would
demonstrate what everyone should be, or an example of the
highest developed human state, and there appeared on the earth
in a perfect physical form the Angel Gabriel who had the power
to create a physical body and to take it back into the elements
at will. This Angel Gabriel desired to put forth an effort
to lift up mankind, and so created through the laws of father­
hood and motherhood a perfect son of the Supreme Being. In
seeking a receptive person who could function as a mother of
this Divine Son he found the most suitable woman to be the
Virgin Mary, who was the wife of Joseph. So he willed, or
caused the Virgin Mary to remain in her state of virginity until
such time as he could appear in a physical form and cause the
creation of a perfect son. Mary was taken into a trance state
by this high invisible master and while in that state there was
112 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 performed the necessary function of motherhood and father­
hood between this Angel Gabriel and the Virgin Mary. Being
2 unconscious physically she did not perceive what had taken
place until she later discovered that she was to become a mother.
3 This being before she had functioned as the wife of Joseph she
was in a state of excitement, so the angel appeared and explained
4 to her that she was to have a son whose name was to be called
Jesus, who was to demonstrate the laws that would save man-
5 kind from themselves. Joseph became angry at the turn of
affairs, and the Angel had to contact him on the astral plane
6 and explain what had taken place to him. Joseph undoubtedly
was an astral adept from birth, the same as many hundreds of
7 people are at this time. After having explained to Joseph on
the astral plane, the Angel also cared for the child by contacting
8 Him on the astral plane and telling Him when to leave Naza­
reth and go into Egypt. Egypt was the seat of the wisdom
9 teaching many centuries before it was manifest in India. It is
easy to understand why the Angel sent Joseph and the Virgin
10 Mary with the Christ child into Egypt. After going to Egypt
this Angel many times, not recorded in our Bible, came to
11 Joseph instructing him how to train the Christ child so he
would be able to function as a supreme example to humanity.
12 He was taught that many things in life were the fulfillment
in physical manifestation of certain symbols that were in the
13 cosmic and had been there since the beginning of time. The
Master Jesus was trained in the carpenter trade, symbolizing
14 he who builds, or a master builder of the Ancient Masonic
Mysteries. The result of this training was that he also was an
15 invisible builder having an intuitive power and reasoning power
not common to ordinary individuals. He was found later in
16 the temples discussing with doctors the laws of life and astound­
ing them with his wisdom. These doctors were mental and
1” magnetic healers of Egypt and this temple was one of the great
mystical temples of Egypt, and these doctors having the power
18 of seership perceived this child was highly inspired and they
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 113
1 saw the glow of His aura or light shining around Him and
were greatly interested in His psychic powers and spiritual in-
2 tuitive knowledge and they became His first disciples. He re­
mained in Egypt until He was taken from Egypt by Joseph.
3 The Angel instructing Mary and Joseph in the astral to take the
child into Isreal. Later a seer guided Jesus into the monasteries
4 of Tibet and there Jesus studied and familiarized himself with
the Buddhistic philosophies. He signed His name to a docu-
5 ment which still reposes in the Sacred Shrine of the Llaman
High Priests in the City of Lahasa. From there Jesus went
6 into India with the same seer, and there studied the methods of
the Masters of the Himalaya Mountains, just on the outskirts
7 of the Indian territory. One of the temples He visited in India
was the Holy Temple of Benares, where He corrected many
8 of the views of the theologians and gave them a spiritual con­
ception of their own philosophy. From Benares He went to
9 Elorra, India, to the Temple of Indra Sahab. There He went
through the mystical initiations and meditated in the silence
10 and instructed the priests of the temple in many laws governing
the universe which they still teach and hold to be sacred. Jesus
11 remained there until He had been through the highest master­
ship of body and mind control, getting all of His instructions
12 from the Invisible, and very seldom asking or consulting with
anyone on the physical plane so far as teachings were con-
13 cerned. After going through Samadi, which is the highest men­
tal mastery, He then prepared Himself for His ministry. T o
14 symbolize the triumph of God over materialistic ideas. He
went back to Palestine where He was later killed by the organ-
15 ized churches of that time by being crucified. He was a fore­
teller of the future, a highly developed mystic, baptized by the
16 spirit and the fire. He never belonged to any creed or dogma,
and never established a church in the visible, having established
17 a church only in the Invisible, of which He is still head. All
mystics and seers are able to contact Him on the astral plane
18 and receive wisdom from Him, because He can lower and raise
114 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
His vibration as did the Angel Gabriel when he visited Joseph
to give instructions to care for the Christ child. This Invisible
church is known as the White Brotherhood, and is in existance
and always has been known to the mystics of this earth. All
students of ancient wisdom who are initiated on the astral
plane, come in contact with this brotherhood and its power­
ful teachings, which are still being taught to those who are will­
ing to go into the Upper Room of the super conscious mind
and close their physical consciousness or the doors of the cham­
ber to all outward physical manifestations and commune with
them who come through locked doors to meet the disciples of
the Master Jesus. Locked doors symbolize the physical con­
sciousness. Thus, we have the true mystical understanding of
Jesus, the Christ, and this is the saving knowledge He gave
unto mankind.
Religious Dogmas Many creeds and dogmas seek t0r ^
and Creeds people together by the powers of fear.
Using this as a means of education has
always proved to be a failure as anyone who is a deep student
of languages and familiar with the original writings of the
Bible knows that much of the horrible teachings of the hell
punishment for souls of the departed are not only misinterpre­
tations but are misused terms as well.
For instance, any Bible dictionary will tell you that the
word Hell was interpreted thirty-three times as a dark passage­
way, thirty-three times as a pit, and three times as a trash incin­
erator used to consume rubbish outside of the City of Jerusalem,
the Holy City. The word Hell in the Greek language is “ She -
ole” meaning a burial place for the dead. Since the Bible was
translated by material minded people, it is only natural that
we get material translations of spiritual writings.
The translators conceived the idea that the word “ filthy”
applied to the state of being in the hereafter that man would
have to endure if he did not follow the church’s creeds of fear
in the days when the Bible was being translated.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 115
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
The dogmatic churches in the time of the Biblical translat­
ors controlled the minds of the translators and saw that noth­
ing that was translated would interfere with their program of
holding the people in mental bondage and subservient to the
powers of the Priestcraft, and to this day they are still bluffing
their followers with the same misapplied term “ Eternal pun­
ishment,” yet they claim to be teaching a God of love. Love
and torture by the self-same God— who is he that could use
his reason and yet believe in such a combination in a God? If
God is love then that in itself is the opposite of torture to help­
less souls, no matter what revenge God would have to take out
against a soul. Another thing that the creedalistic denomina­
tions have overlooked is the fact that if God would have re­
venge, it would make Him a material being; yet they themselves,
say that He is a Spirit.
„ _ n , T o be saved, live an unselfish life like
How to Be Saved. , x„ T , . , ,
the Master Jesus, every day in the week
and not only on Sundays.
Learn to know thyself in its real sense. Fast, meditate, pray
and unfold the powers of Him who sent us, by being about
His work, which is healing the sick, preaching truth to the
poor in spirit, and raising the dead consciousness of everyone
you meet by speaking words of power and love. If you do this
after a complete development, you will soon contact the King­
dom of Heaven or the Invisible as spoken of by Jesus.
Be truthful and learn to see your own weaknesses and over­
come them. Belief alone has never saved anyone and it never
will; you must work, in order to earn the reward of immor­
tality.
The Holy Ghost.
The Holy Ghost is a phrase that is taken
from the Greek language, the original
meaning being “ Spiritual Life” and the real meaning being
the divine principle of life within all, making us Sons of God.
The Greek term was Pneuma Matecon. Pneuma means Spirit­
ual, and Matecon means life or Germinating Power. There is
-— usas
116 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
. 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
no such thing as a being that could be called Holy Ghost, such
as is taught by some of the orthodox sects, because if it was a
being then it would be of omnipresence and could not func­
tion as part of the divine trinity; so we should not sin against
our spiritual life by refusing to recognize God in our daily
affairs.
God is a Universal Spirit and Intelligence. Omnipres­
ence and Infinite is in all life in the form of the prin­
ciple of divine intellect and can be felt and known by anyone
reaching God-consciousness. God manifests in three principles:
the first is Truth, which is the reality of all things; the second
is Love, the cause of all creations; the third is Light, the mani­
festation of all things. T o teach God as a being of anger, malice
and envy, is a sacrilege, and all creeds doing so, sentence their
followers to spiritual darkness through misunderstanding of
natural laws.
The Second Death.
The second death spoken of by Jesus, the
Christ, is a state of oblivion when the
soul leaves the spiritual body which dies for lack of the soul's
power, the same as the body dies when the spirit leaves it. This
happens only to people who have reached the state of spiritual
responsibility and after doing so willfully live in sin and dark­
ness. 'This to the Mystic is worse than the Hell of the orthodox
beliefs.
Immortalitv *s a state ^eing when one is conscious after
physical death and this can only be accomplished
by those willing to merge their physical consciousness with
their soul by doing good deeds and by developing their spiritual
body and powers to withstand death of the physical body.
One s religion and beliefs have nothing to do with the attain­
ment of this state; only one’s development affects it, so to
develop these powers is to live after this life.
The Astral Plane. The. Astral plane is a Plane where the
manifestations of consciousness are entirely
governed by the conscious will of the individual. It is the in-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 117
1 visible plane between the physical and spiritual and the place
where the mind is subject to all kinds of vibrations. If one’s
2 intentions are good, the person can go and come from the astral
plane of consciousness at will, providing that they know how
3 to leave and enter their body. While away from the body, one
can learn anything that one wills to learn. This plane is also
4 the plane of trials for the soul after death. If the conscience is
light, the soul goes upward to a high heavenly vibration; and
5 if it is heavy, it sinks into a low miserable vibration and the
memory of sin and identity, or flesh consciousness dies. Thus
6 the astral plane is the plane of trials and tribulations; but on
the other hand, it is the plane of great wisdom, for if you are
7 master of your consciousness, you can attain any state you de­
sire on the astral plane and you would never experience death
8 of consciousness; and the other changes of form, such as phys­
ical death, would only be a relief from duty on the lower planes
9 of life, and ascension to a higher plane.
DIVINE U N IT Y
Seek and Ye shall find.— Jesus.
10 SUPER MIND SCIENCE is a science founded on the prin­
ciples of PO SITIV E and N EG A TIV E Mind Force and the
11 control of the body by a PER FEC T CO N CEN TRA TIO N
M ETHOD now being introduced by its founder.
12 There are few sciences today that can satisfactorily explain
the process of human “ mentation,” yet they claim to possess
13 the methods that will produce a healthy mind and body.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE stands alone today with a method
14 of Concentration and Mental Control which cannot fail, be­
cause it is founded on the principle that the thoughts enter the
15 SOLAR PLEX U S from the Universal Mind. One-half of the
thought is Negative, the other half is Positive.*^ When each half,
16 carried by its current, goes to its respective center, there then
118 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 is a break in current; which causes a contact between the Male
Center of Spirituality and the Female Center.
2 SUPER M IND SCIENCE has a method of developing these
two centers and training the Subconscious Mind to use them
3 to bring health, harmony and happiness into one’s life. It also
has a method of demonstrating the LIFE CU RREN T, so that
4 you can feel it within an hour after using the method. This
current recharges mind and body with ENERGY, making one
5 feel alert and able to enjoy life to the fullest extent. By regu­
lating the D ESIRE C EN T ER one can destroy all harmful
6 habits and be M A STER of one’s self. Thus this science offers
a way of escape from all kinds of mental and physical slavery.
7 The founder of SUPER M IND SCIENCE has made a study
of every occult and metaphysical science known today, under
8 the greatest masters, and has combined all the world’s greatest
and most practical methods into this science, bringing these
9 great teachings to the American public in a simplified manner,
incorporating only those methods that will bring practical re-
10 suits. These teachings have all been verified through Cosmic
Consciousness by the author.
11 This science embraces a method of developing the psychic
faculties of the mind so perfectly that one can obtain results
12 with two days’ practice. Many of the students of this great
movement have obtained results within so short a time that it
13 is almost unbelievable. The author is the first American master
to find a way of demonstrating to an entire class, definite and
14 powerful results, the very first lesson they take in SUPER
MIND SCIENCE.
15 Though the methods of SUPER MIND SCIENCE conform
to the basic laws, and have been used for years and found prac-
16 tical, the movement of SUPER MIND SCIENCE as a science
apart from any of the other so-called meta-physical and occult
17 sciences, is still young. However, it has such a large following,
even now, because of the practical results obtained, that centers
18 are being established in every large city where the students
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 119
1 meet regularly and practice the teachings. Some of these stud­
ents were physical wrecks when they entered the work, but have
2 now regained their health, and with it peace and harmony has
entered their lives.
3 SUPER MIND SCIENCE has developed so many students
into DIVINE HEALERS, PU BLIC SPEAKERS and INSPI-
4 RATIONAL W RITERS that hundreds of them are going to
devote their lives to its promotion. Others get demonstrations
5 along other lines, such as M IND READING, COSM IC H EA R­
ING, COSMIC SIGH T, IN SPIRA TIO N A L M USIC, E T C ..
6 and meetings are held at least twice per week in order to give
all of them an opportunity to demonstrate their powers.
7 The Bible has taken on a new meaning to those who have
studied SUPER M IND SCIENCE, for many of them have
8 seen the blind and deaf healed and the Truth preached to the
poor, which means the dawn of Christ Consciousness upon this
9 earth. This science teaches that Christ had power to heal the
sick and that He left instructions for all of his true disciples
10 to heal the sick and to perform demonstrations of power, and
that no one can scorn these teachings unless he also scorns
11 Jesus of Nazareth.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE comes today to do the work of
12 the Master. Those who are seeking knowledge and power
will be with us now, others will awaken to the fact that stud-
13 ents of SUPER M IND SCIENCE have a power they them­
selves have not attained, and will regret that they did not heed
14 the call of this science when it was first offered. The teachings
offer facts only, not mere theory.
15 Do you want power to heal yourself and others? Do you
want power that you can feel all over your body? Do you
16 want a strong mind? Do you want to speak to GOD and get
an answer? Are you tired of doing what you are told to do by
17 others? If you desire to create circumstances instead of having
them master you, then this is the science that can not only
18 promise you results, but can guarantee you absolute success
120 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 in its operation.
If you could hear the testimony of hundreds who were in
2 pain, living in a hell on this earth through suffering, thanking
GOD that the teachings of this science has shown them how
3 to overcome their misery, you, too, would be drawn into this
great movement. There should be an end to creeds and dogmas.
4 The salvation of this world is a remedy for the ills of hu­
manity. Why waste time with a doctrine that is dead and void
5 of power! ‘You were born a free citizen of the universe and a
child of GOD, therefore you must learn to be a master, even
6 as Christ was master.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE brings to you the greatest teach-
7 ings of the world at large, explained by a master teacher and
demonstrator who has hundreds of letters of testimony from
8 students in all walks of life. No one can disprove its claims,
for its very foundation is REASON. It is the true Christian
9 faith, restored to man, for it teaches that unless you attain
“ Christ Love” for your fellow man, you cannot develop to
10 receive the great things in store for you. The kingdom of all
power is in man and is reflected in his being, so let us under-
11 stand this when we pray, “ Thy kingdom come, Thy will be
done, on earth as it is in heaven.”
^ Ignorance menta^ anc* physical laws is a sin, and you can­
not succeed if you do not know the law. In this
13 world there is an abundance of power and plenty for all. If
you are not getting what rightfully belongs to you, then give
14 SUPER MIND SCIENCE a trial. This science holds a record
of keeping the students who have taken up its teachings, for
15 here they find food for the soul and that peace and bliss that
“ passeth all understanding.”
16 Super Mind Science br.
mgs out a11 the Power to do good there
s in man, for its power is unlimited. It
17 has the greatest healing method of any science or religion ever
discovered by man. Its founder has demonstrated this with-
18 out fail, has made the deaf to hear and the blind to see. In
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 121
1 his free healing meetings he averages about sixty per cent in
cures and constructive help for the remaining forty per cent,
2 which means that it surpasses any method yet discovered in the
way of divine or mental healing.
3 SUPER MIND SCIENCE can give a true interpretation of
the Bible through its knowledge of the symbols in the Bible,
4 and through its understanding of COSM IC CO N SCIO U S­
NESS. This Christ Consciousness can be gained through
5 SUPER MIND SCIENCE in a surprisingly short time by
means of a method the shortest yet discovered.
6 This science also teaches that when the PO SIT IV E and
NEGATIVE currents of the body are stimulated, dormant
7 brain cells are awakened which results in a wonderful clearness
of mind and spiritual power. The body grows healthy and
8 becomes receptive for the good things that are man’s rightful
inheritance.
9 At the base of the spine there is a small center that releases
a fluid which causes mortality. This flows up the spine to the
10 twelve nerve centers and from there to all parts of the body.
By stopping the flow of this poison, one’s life can be prolonged
11 at least one-third, the body will be rejuvenated and an appear­
ance of youth maintained. This same method awakens "the
12 serpent of wisdom,” at the base of the spine, creating great
mind-power and executive ability.
13 SUPER MIND SCIENCE comes with demonstrations to
prove its claims; supported by its many enthusiastic followers,
14 it has risen as the sun rises in the morning after a night of dark­
ness. It appears as a beacon light, bringing to humanity: Heal-
15 ing, the awakening of Physical Power, Spiritual Knowledge
(Cosmic Consciousness), and the true interpretation of Jesus
16 of Nazareth and the Bible.
This science brings to man a new light on life, a means of
17 keeping well, a method for awakening power in the body, and
for awakening cells to keep both body and mind powerful.
18 Those who grasp this Truth will find pleasure in living
122 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 on this planet instead of misery, for they will discover their
real purpose in life, when through knowledge all former be-
2 liefs and superstitions will have been supplanted.
These teachings do not tell you to imagine that your body
3 is not in existance or to deny it, but we say to you, "Master
your body and then GOD will be revealed unto you.” We
4 teach you how to get definite results by combining the forces
of MIND, BODY and SOUL, the inseparable trinity. When
5 you have REALIZED that POW ER W ITH IN YOU you can
say as the master did: "It is not I that doeth these works, but
6 He that sent me.”
Come, be one of us, and let us prove our claims. Then you
7 will know that the ‘‘A N C IEN T W ISDOM ” has returned, and
will agree with us that SUPER M IND SCIENCE IS THE
8 “ LIG H T OF TH E W O RLD !”
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 123
SUPER M IND SCIENCE HEALING
1 It is a known and accepted fact that Nature has given to
man a method of healing the body and of overcoming any
2 violation of the laws of Nature without the use of opiates or
drugs. For many centuries, man has searched for a Divine
3 method that would heal his body and one that could also be
used successfully in healing the body of another, some method
4 which would eventually bring back the great healing demon­
strations that were made by Jesus of Nazareth and his disciples.
5 Many of the discoveries of the last century, along this line,
have proved very beneficial to mankind and many thousands
6 have been benefited by their application, but all seems to lack
power to go beyond a certain limit, the limit usually being the
7 one recognized by the founder of the method or science in ques­
tion. The great success of SU PER M IND SCIENCE in at-
8 tracting these thousands of its followers, is no doubt due to
the fact that the healing method used by this science reaches
9 all cases when applied properly, with practical and definite
help for the patient, both mentally and physically.
10 The founder of SUPER M IND SCIENCE, by the applica­
tion of its healing method, has stopped pain instantly, healed
11 hopeless invalids, restored hearing and sight and has proven
to the satisfaction of the sick and the world at large that we
12 have discovered the laws and the operation of them, that have
been used by the great healers of all ages. In this method we
13 first overcome all opposition to the healing, by diverting the
attention of the CONSCIOUS M IND of the patient from the
14 ailment; next we overcome the consciousness of the patient to
a certain extent with our Will Power; finally we exert Spiritual
15 power through our knowledge of CH RIST CONSCIOUS­
NESS within.
16 The more positive the healer using this method and the more
receptive the patient, the greater will be the results obtained.
17 The healer should keep his own body in good condition, by
124 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 daily taking up the exercise of storing up SOLAR ENERGY
in the body, so as to have this surplus energy at his command,
2 which then can be used by the W ILL POW ER to give heal­
ing and strength to others. This exercise should be taken in
3 the morning for about fifteen minutes with a suggestion to
the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND of storing up SOLAR ENERGY
4 to be used in healing demonstrations; a healer should also
understand the operation of A U T O SUGGESTION, which
5 can be applied with good effect when the Determination and
Will Power of the healer are strong, for, by the use of this law,
6 you can treat the patient both physically and mentally. A
healer should practice trying to feel that there is an impulse
7 directed by the Will Power to compel the healing of the patient.
KEY T O SUPER M IND SCIENCE
CO NTRO L OF LIFE CU R R EN TS
8 Man has two brain lobes, which are on the opposite side
from the side of the body they control. One of these brain
9 lobes is positive, the other negative, which proves man to be
both a positive and negative creation. Mental science must not
10 ignore these two vital pillars of truth, if it is to solve the prob­
lems of existance. Now there are two powers which enter the
11 body in the Solar Plexus. They are drawn in by the inhaling
and exhaling of the breath. They are termed life currents
12 because they keep the body animated, and give it the power
to be moved by thought. They are both mental and physical,
13 since they are vibration, which is unseen, but can be felt as
they circulate. They enter the Solar Plexus, go back to the
14 spine, then up the nerves to the head, where they contact the
two glands. The positive enters the pineal gland, while the
15 negative enters the pituitary gland. From there they enter
nerves of the brain, vibrating the thought centers, since all
16 thought is carried through the current passageways, coming
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 125
1 direct from the divine mind.
Now these currents are charged with thoughts similar to a
2 message traveling over an electric wire. These thoughts enter
with the currents as fast as the consciousness translates and
3 uses them. If there is no congestion in the passage of these cur­
rents through the body, then the mind has a strong grip on the
4 body and one is healthy and therefore positive. If there is con­
gestion in the passage of the currents through the nerves, then
5 nervousness, contraction and pain is the result; also the mind
becomes slow to produce thoughts, resulting in mental inertia,
6 lack of concentration and a negative state of mind. There are
several causes for this congestion. One can be too negative, or
7 victim of evil suggestions. Another cause, the eating of flesh,
or the wrong combination of foods, or improper breathing.
8 Super Mind Science has discovered a way of drawing into
the body, a surplus amount of these currents, thereby replen-
9 ishing the part of the body where they are deficient. This meth­
od causes an expansion to take place where there was contraction,
10 resulting in immediate ease or healing. When the woman was
healed by touching the garments of Jesus, this was the currents
11 termed virtue, which passed from Jesus to her and healed her,
also these currents are the life principle, or the Holy Ghost re-
12 ferred to in the Bible. They are also the givers of life, for
without them no being can come into existence, and no one can
13 live after the currents depart from matter. No matter what
method is used in healing, these with other life energies ac-
14 complishes the result. A direct control of them is naturally the
quickest way to overcome disease, sin and the evil effects of
15 mortality.
When these currents are uncongested, they produce a state
16 of bliss, a state of mental ease. They also inspire confidence in
one’s self when they are felt flowing through the fingers of the
17 hands. This soon develops great healing powers and the works
of Christ can easily be accomplished when one masters the
18 generation and control of these vital currents. Those desiring
_
• If;
126 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
ki
.1
10
11
12
quick results from them must not eat flesh of any kind since
that congests their passageways. When one breathes fast, these
currents flow fast. When breath is slow or suspended they can
be controlled, or directed and used to heal any part of the body
diseased. Thus these two life energies become the basis of all
healing demonstrations. Wherever healing takes place, these
currents manifest, no matter what system is used— drug or drug­
less— but Super Mind Science opens the doorway of conscious­
ness to the practicability of controlling these currents by a scien­
tific method; thus this science becomes an accurate healing
science. All laws of nature are either governed by the divine
mind, or the mind of man.
Since man is God’s image, these laws must obey him, when
he complies with the divine laws or science of nature in his
application of these powers. Even as God does not violate the
laws of positive and negative, man must learn to do likewise,
for no creation can take place, unless these laws are complied
with.
The ground being negative, the sun positive, vegetation is
made possible. Without this polarity, the earth would not be
fruitful, neither could mankind multiply and replenish the
earth; therefore any religion or science, ignoring these vital
powers can never prosper long or endure, for nature destroys
those who violate her fixed laws. When man masters positive
and negative life energies, he soon manifests as Son of God.
He becomes the divine creator, who willed or spoke the Universe
into existance.
Positive Mind. Positive mind force is a determined state
and is the first creative state of mind to be applied before a
creation can take place; therefore determination to succeed in
mental science is the first requisite before results can be ex­
pected. Positive life energy enters the Solar Plexus, flows up
the right side of spine to the pineal gland; thence downward to
the finger tips and end of the toes.
Negative Mind. Negative mind force enters the Solar Plexus,
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 127
flows up the left side of the spine to the pituitary gland. Both
of these glands are near the center of the head, the pituitary
slightly lower than the pineal gland. From the pituitary gland
this negative mind force circulates downward to the tips of
fingers and toes. When using the method of generating the
currents known as Technique No. 1, you can feel the currents
contact between the fingers similar to electricity. This contact
gets stronger as one breathes faster in a pumping movement.
This movement opens and closes the Solar Plexus centers rap­
idly, thus causing a surplus amount of life energy to enter.
Now when the body is well charged one can feel the vibration
in the Temples, the fingers and the back of the head in the
center of the medula oblongada. This increase of energy gives
the mind greater power over the body, cleanses the system from
a vibratory standpoint, and expands or heals any diseased por­
tion of the body affected by any pain or disease.
T hese currents carry all thoughts from the universal mind to
the brain and in this method one learns to stop their mental
processes on one idea or to concentrate perfectly by ceasing the
pumping movement; thereby stopping thoughts from entering
while the mind becomes concentrated or one pointed on one
idea. Thus in Super Mind Science one becomes master of con­
centration.
The first law of mental creation is anyone receiving negative
thoughts may close them out of the consciousness by concentrat­
ing against them entering with breath suspended. Soon such
negative thoughts as can’t and impossible, will cease to come
and one learns the secret of “ I am that I am,” or, I am the
Godhead manifesting perfect mastership of the laws of positive
and negative mind force.
Some of the essentials of Super Mind Science to perform
demonstrations over disease, sorrow and failure, are concentra­
tion, strong will power, positive determined consciousness or
mind; also sincerity and the ability of one to conceive God in
the form of these two sustaining and healing life energies;
—
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
strong executive ability or mental force to rule one’s affairs,
and personal magnetism to attract success and divine conscious­
ness, which explains life on the several plains of manifestation.
T o understand life one must study it in physical, mental
and spiritual aspect; not repeat affirmations like a polly parrot
to their lower or animal mind, such as is done by those un­
fortunate people who follow Christian Science, Unity and
Theosophy. Those people open the negative centers in their
brain and become obsessed and many times insane.
The author has seen many a sad case of this amateur practice
of Mental Science. The founders of those beliefs were not
masters, nor can their followers master. Those beliefs are the
direct road to negation, sorrow, sin, sickness and death and
many a poor soul is deceived by them; therefore Super Mind
Science herein declares its opposition to all such Negative pro­
cesses. No one can even master their appetite and follow them,
since they contain no scientific method of doing the things they
claim to do. Their founders never were known to heal the
sick or do the Christ work. They substitute suggestion for
method; thereby doing away with the methods used by Jesus
and His disciples, which was transference of energy and divine
power by laying on of hands to overcome sickness, sin and
sorrow.
Super Mind Science has proven that it teaches the scientific
way of doing these divine works.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 129
KEY T O SUPER M IND SCIENCE
LESSON NO. 1
1 There are two states of mind: PO SITIV E and N EG A TIV E.
Anyone wishing to learn the laws of life, must give these his
2 first consideration. The PO SITIV E is the Fatherhood Prin­
ciple and the N EG A TIV E, the Motherhood Principle. No
3 creation can take place without passing through PO SIT IV E
and NEGATIVE MIND FORCE, for even the vegetable king-
4 dom is governed by this law.
All things are either governed by the mind of GOD or
5 man, and since man is the image of GOD, the laws of N EG A ­
TIVE and PO SITIV E must be the same in both instances.
6 When the SUPREM E MIND creates all things, we must realize
that both NEG A TIV E and PO SITIV E law is employed. Man
7 is also mentally negative and positive, though physically he
represents o nly one of these two principles and can therefore
8 apply them.
Positive The frrst ^aw to contemplate is that of POSI-
9 Mind Force T IV E M IND FORCE, as it is the first force
to be applied by the mind, to bring about a
10 creation. The seat of the PO SITIV E POW ER is in the center
of the head slightly to the left. From this center the mind
11 draws all of its positive power, which is supplied by the cur­
rent of FLUID, known in the Occult Science as positive life
12 energy, and located on the right side of the spine. When this
center is fully developed, the student will receive great inspira-
13 tion and will be so positive that his concentration power will
be greatly increased.
14 When the above has been accomplished, the first law of
mental development has been complied with, giving one cer-
15 tain creative powers of the mind. When you meet a person who
is efficient in business, a good executive, and one who can
16 gain the confidence of those he comes in contact, you will find
130 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
8
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
that he has been favored by nature, by having a better develop­
ment of the Male Center of Spirituality. These people are
usually good managers, aggressive and inspire confidence.
Others believe what they say and rarely doubt their word be­
cause they are so PO SIT IV E that they create confidence in
their ability to carry out their plans.
One who develops this center will never say, “ I can’t,” but
will ever be alert and ready for the task that confronts him.
The only time that such a person will change his mind, is
when it is proven to him that what he is about to do is against
all reason. The positive-minded person is one who, when con­
fronted by some hard task, will go on to the very end of en­
durance for he does not believe in defeat. This is the "Empire
Builder” type of person.
If you want to be a success, you must learn how to master
the Male Center and be full of energy. Do not let this great
power lie dormant within you but awaken it and see that it is
put to work. This means that you will free yourself from being
imposed upon by others. This force can also be used to rebuild
the tissues of the body, when it is used under the power of the
W ILL, and will cause an inflow of vitality. It will draw
SOLAR ENERGY into your body, and is always used where
mental force is necessary. When you are sick, the POSITIVE
FORCE is able to heal you when used in connection with the
LIFE CU RRENT, as explained in the following methods.
All thoughts are received by the Positive current first, through
the Solar Plexus, and are taken into the body as we breathe.
When you take in breath, you draw one-half of the thought
from the UNIVERSAL MIND, through Postive Mind Force,
which goes up the spine to the PINEAL GLAND center. There
it awaits the slower vibration and force of the NEGATIVE
PRINCIPLE which, contacting with the POSITIVE
THOUGHT SEED, becomes a creation and forms a perfect
thought.
If you receive the wrong trend of thought you must over-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 131
1 come this by teaching the SUBCO NSCIO U S M IND not to
let that kind of a thought come into your Conscious Mind
2 through the SOLAR PLEX U S. This can be done by using
the law of suggestion or the positive exercise of increasing
3 POSITIVE ENERGY, always using the perfect concentration
method as outlined in the exercises. The only way to concen-
4 trate perfectly, is by retaining your breath, because the mind re­
ceives thoughts, when you are breathing, other than the one
5 you are concentrating on. This is a method that has found its
way to this country for the first time in the teachings of the
6 author.
7 M The next important step in SU PER M IND
Life E VC SCIENCE is the knowledge of the NEGA-
g nergy. y j y g FORCE and principle. Through the
slow vibration of this force, we receive most all of our influ-
9 ence from the SEVEN C R EA TIV E Principles can be made
manifest in us, they must vibrate slower than the conscious
10 mental vibration. Therefore they must be stored by nature
in the subway of the mind, the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND.
U There is a continual circulation of Mind Force coming from
the SUPER CONSCIOUS M IND into the vibration of the
1^ CONSCIOUS MIND, then going into the slower vibration
of the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND, where the thoughts re-
13 act upon our physical intelligence, when the Subconscious Mind
sees the need of reminding us of them through the medium of
14 the Conscious Mind.
15 Nature has given the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND control
over the body, but as it knows not good from evil, and will
16 absorb as much evil as good, unless we safeguard it and put into
it only constructive material upon which to build, it behooves
17 us to train it, using the CONSCIOUS M IND to instruct it
as if it were a child so that we can construct an ideal material
18 and spiritual future.
132 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Positive and
Negative Laws.
Up to this time, most of the philosophies
that have been taught about the education
of the Subconscious Mind, have fallen short
in their methods of training it. SU PER MIND SCIENCE
aims to teach it by the application of the PERFECT CON­
C E N T R A T IO N M ETH O D as taught by the author. If we
are perfectly concentrated there can be no failure, for the Sub­
conscious Mind is like a wall of soft plaster, every touch leav­
ing its mark upon it. However, if you touch it with a rod
of iron of a certain shape the impression is there in its fullness.
If the iron is sharp at the point, it leaves a more decided im­
pression. Thus when we use a perfected method with the mind
concentrated to a sharp point, we not only make a perfect
impression on the Subconscious Mind but we set up in us a
PO SITIV E CEN TER. A positive Center in a Negative Vibra­
tion can attract great power and success because the law of
Positive and Negative Mental Force has been complied with.
Many of the people are working for success, yet are only
applying one of the great C R EA TIV E PRINCIPLES. This
cannot create what they desire because they are only applying
one law instead of the two, which are required to make a per­
fect creation. Here we also see the failure of many religions
and philosophies in their explanation of God. Why has not
someone tried to define what is termed “ Nature,” for if GOD
is in nature then there must be the intelligence of an impersonal
nature back of it.
Positive and When one sees a “ Male Tree" and notices
Negative Creation. that k does not. bear fruit’
. the" ^
thought comes into our mind, Why
does nature create a male tree?” My answer is this: God mani­
fests in two principles, through contact we get the results of
God s presence, which is a physical creation, and since both
principles are in the trees, one must be the extreme vibration
and the other must be the opposite extreme.
The male, the highest, representing “ tension and strength,
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 133
is POSITIVE; the female, the lowest, representing “ receptiv­
ity,” is NEG ATIVE; thus it bears by its receptivity.
This is explained by the reply of JE SU S of N A ZA R ETH
to his questioners when they asked the Master, “ Are you male
or female, or are you both?” In the “ L O ST SC RIP­
TU R ES,” recorded in the Holy Temple of Mount Nilgril, of
India, this account reads as follows: "He looked on them with
pity and said, “ Do ye not know that to attain spirituality I
must be both male and female? Within I have love and toler­
ance, and patience of the woman in man, but without I have
the form of the man, because I could not lead men if I was not
in form. When this world unites woman and man in Mind
Principle, then will all strife cease and the Kingdom of My
Father be established on earth.” This is a portion of that part
of the Scriptures discarded at the “ Conference for the Interpre­
tation of the Bible.”
How to Dev 1 The author has discovered that the seat
Will Power ^ ^ T L POW ER is in the sense centers
directly back of the temples, and by charg­
ing it with the Life Current and by Positive Suggestion, you
awaken new cells in that center. These awakened cells are cap­
able of receiving more life current than before and the mind re­
ceives more Positive Will Force Vibration than it did when
the cells were lying dormant.
When you have taken the ENERG Y EXER CISE No. 1 as
taught by the author wait until a perfect current is generated
before you attempt to send it to the W ILL POW ER C EN TER,
in order to obtain the best results you should feel it. Many
who have taken the exercise claim that their Will Power was
increased 100 per cent within the short period of a week, as
well as their power of resistance to disease and other discordant
conditions, for when the W ILL is weak there is less opposition
to these conditions and this allows “ Germs” to take effect on
the body, which otherwise would be immune to their assault on
the tissues.
—
134 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 An individual’s will power must be strong if he is ever to
attain mastership over his body and leadership over others in
2 his particular vocation. When one’s will power has been devel­
oped to its highest point by this method, as explained in the
3 SUPER M IND SCIENCE lessons, it can be felt manifesting
in all of the senses, by an increased vitality flowing through
4 them, making them obey the EGO, or higher self more and
more until the EGO obtains a full grip on the sense centers.
5 This will bring you into great power and make you capable of
resisting all evil thoughts and desires so that you will be dealing
6 with Constructive material instead of “ Destructive.”
Whenyou have practiced this method for about ten days,
7 you can take up the method of mastering the Male Center of
Spirituality and the Female Center, for by this time your will
8 power will be sufficiently developed so that the current sent
out will be so strong that it will have a definite effect on the
9 various parts of the body, awakening the dormant cells and
strengthening the tissues. Meat or fish should not be eaten
10 at this time, or at any time, by the student who desires to
obtain perfect results with these methods, for these foods have
11 a tendency to destroy and stunt the cells, of which there are
millions, and to break down the tissues of the body.
12 The Male Center After awakening the WiU Power Center,
of Spirituality ^ neXt one to awaken *s tkie Male Center
13 of Sprituality. T o do this develop energy
and send the currents into this center just as you sent it to the
14 seat of Will Power. When the dormant cells of that center
are awakened, you will find your executive ability greatly in-
15 creased and the more you practice this exercise, the more your
executive ability will develop, for you have practically the same
16 number of cells in the male center as any strong executive
has, the only difference being that the cells in his brain are
17 more highly developed. You can awaken just as many dormant
cells as it is possible to awaken, for you have been given the
18 only logical method known to man at this time.
1
2
3
4
5
ß
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 135
When the cells begin to awaken you will discover that you
have acquired an ability to manage and plan, which you did not
possess up to that time, and a positive, decisive mind power
as well as great resourcefulness will help you to carry out the
things you have long desired to do, but which until you have
tried, you lacked the power to accomplish. You will soon dis­
cover that the centers, like certain parts of the body that lacked
exercise, were undeveloped, until watered by the currents of life
they have awakened and with them, “ T H E POW ER
W ITHIN.”
This “POWER W ITH IN ” begins to grow like the flowers
begin to bloom after a draught, for each awakened cell draws
more energy from the sun and the U N IV ERSA L M IND into
the body, which means that there can be no such thing as failure
when POWER is developed by the method as taught in SU PER
MIND SCIENCE.
Through the development of the Male Center of Spirituality
great inspiration also comes to the mind, as the character of
that Principle is to be: Inspirational, Protective and Powerful.
A person who has awakened the dormant cells of the Male
Center, will easily overcome his body, for, that being the PO SI­
TIV E side of nature, it can become so strong that the entire
body becomes subjected to its overpowering influence. Not only
are the flesh cells awakened, but there is a new Etheric Current
of Power manifested in the student for the A ST R A L BO DY
is interwoven with the physical. It is claimed by the great
Masters of this science that the unseen parts or attributes of man
far outnumber the visible parts of the human body.
t,, „ , „ After developing the Male Center to its
. highest state, we next consider the re-
y' male Center of Spirituality so as to equal­
ize our power of Mental Creation as well as Perception, for
Perception must be first Positive then Negative before it comes
into actual existance, just as any thought must go through these
stages of vibration before it can become a perfect thought. If
136 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 these Creation Centers are highly developed, we create thoughts
of a high quality, or constructive thoughts. If undeveloped,
2 the thoughts we create are of a poor quality, or destructive.
Now the Female Center is known to Physical Science as the
3 P IT U IT A R Y BO DY G LA N D and, as such it is known to
be located somewhat lower than the Male Center, and is directly
4 connected with the Negative Current on the left side of the
spine. It resembles greatly an electrical coil, and is a wirelike
5 nerve coil that receives only the Negative Current. When all
cells in this center are awakened and function properly, there is
6 produced in the body a quiet and restful feeling, with an atti­
tude of tolerance and patience towards all things, and there is
7 seldom if ever an unusual tension of the nerves. It produces in
the body that influence of “ motherhood” which is tolerant of
8 all things and does not condemn, it is the seat of that child-like
simplicity so characteristic of all Master Adepts of Occult and
9 SUPER M IND SCIENCE.
T o develop the Female Center, take the same exercise you
10 take to develop Will Power, except that when you take in the
current, breathe in Negative Current as you are taught to do
11 by the author. When you exercise the current on the left side,
by using the left side exercise, you force an awakening of the
12 cells in the Female Center of the brain as it is directly connected
with the left side current. As a result there is manifested in
13 the body a drowsy, sleepy feeling, as the exercise stimulates
the cells in the body that cause us to lose consciousness and go
14 to sleep. If you pursue this exercise, it will make you receptive
to the SPIRITU A L VIBRATION, and by developing this
15 center your mind will become very creative, for you will be
able to go into a perfect Negative state of mind. Having first
16 developed the Positive Center and now the Negative Center,
your thought becomes very creative, and you will soon begin
17 to notice that you can now accomplish many things, both
physically and mentally, that heretofore had been impossible to
18 accomplish.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 137
1 A correct understanding of the laws of Negative and Positive
thought cannot fail to create the proper thoughts for success
2 in anything you desire to do, be it material or spiritual; re­
member, however, that none of the laws of Creation, or the
3 power you have developed, should be used to harm another, as
every thought sent out comes back to the sender through the
4 law of Solar Vibration, and destructive thoughts sent out work
more harm on the sender than on the one for whom they were
5 originally intended.
Those who have developed the Female Center to its highest
6 unfoldment will retain consciousness after death, the A S­
TRAL BODY gains strength as fast as you develop the
7 physical side of the body, and one becomes more closely related
to the Astral Plane of Life where all things pass through mental
8 creation before they manifest in the physical. This law alone
proves that we must develop the Male and Female Centers in
9 our brain in order to be able to create mentally. Many people
are working against the very thing they want to accomplish
10 by their lack of knowledge of these two centers.
Positive and Negative Most people have developed these
11 Centers Must Be centers in a haphazard way, develop-
Equally Developed, ing the Negative Center more than the
12 Positive so that they are subject to everyone’s suggestions and
have no thinking power of their own, as they merely absorb
13 everything in the way of vibration they may come in contact
with. Others have over-developed the Male Center and are so
14 very Positive that they often lose many opportunities of receiv­
ing the good things of life, as they are not receptive enough.
15 When both the Male and Female Centers are equally developed
by the student he becomes alert or calm as the circumstances arise
16 and have to be met.
Many so-called geniuses have developed their Positive and
17 Negative Centers to create success in one thing by concentrating
their mind force upon their work. They have awakened cells
18 that function for that one thing at their highest point of ef-
■
138 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
ficiency, but why not make the same law develop centers to
create whatever one may desire, and to acquire power to create
successful thoughts under the direction of the Will Force.
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
D The SUBCONSCIOUS MIND will
Power of The , , ,
0 , cause the centers to create successiul
Subconscious Mind. , , , , . , . ., •
thoughts about anything you desire, it it
is taught by using the Perfect Concentration Method of SUPER
MIND SCIENCE, for the power of the Subconscious Mind is
in the form of reaction, as if you had thrown a rubber ball at
a wall, it comes back to you with the same force it had when
you threw it. This causes one who permits himself to think
evil, to eventually do evil, therefore when developing the Male
and Female Centers of your brain, send the life current into the
centers with the concentrated thought that those centers will
only create thoughts for perfect knowledge, perfect health and
Spiritual Power. If this is done by a positive suggestion to the
SUBCONSCIOUS MIND, with breath controlled, the power
of the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND will react upon the centers
and will prevent them from creating thoughts that are detri­
mental to you. Thus you will have built up cells for the ac­
complishment of good.
Phenomena Based on This NeSative and Positive power can
Negative and Positive als° be Used in varioUS Phenomenal
L aw ways when developed to its highest
degree. It is this power of Mental
Creation which gives to the “ Fakir” of India the power to
create in the imagination of the people the vision of the boy
climbing the rope, forcing them through the power of his will
to see this with their physical eyes. Fie has a superior develop­
ment of these centers in the brain and has made use of the laws
of Negative and Positive Mind Force. This is only one of the
many demonstrations that can be made through the application
of this universal law.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 139
Development of
Magnetism
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Spiritual Knowledge.
Another proof of the power of this law in
nature, we see demonstrated by the cat.
The cat will awaken from a Negative state
of sleep and immediately stretch its body, thereby going into a
Positive state, thus complying with the two great laws, Nega­
tive and Positive. During the exercise, the cat does not breathe
which causes it to be in a naturally concentrated state of mind,
which draws magnetism into its body. This is why the cat
is so quick in action and so full of life energy.
After you have taken the exercise of sending the life current
into the Positive and Negative Centers, for some time you will
discover an alertness of mind, and will feel the magnetic cur­
rent flow through your body, which gives to you a conscious­
ness of power within you, never realized, until you began tak­
ing this exercise.
From these centers you send the cur­
rent into the ATM A, top of the head
(The Divine Mind) and awaken the dormant cells, which
when awakened contain knowledge of the universe and all of
the many laws of nature. The A TM A has been termed “ The
Thousand Petaled Lotus” because it has millions of cells which
no human beings have been known to awaken and cause it to
manifest its full power in influencing the mind and body. It
is the great enigma of the human body but SU PER M IND
SCIENCE has proved successful in awakening these cells which
have brought tremendous knowledge, almost unbelieveable, of
nature and Cosmic Consciousness to the student.
Through the author’s experience as a teacher, he has observed
a remarkable change in his students, caused by the awakening
of the cells in the ATM A, some becoming healers, some in­
spirational speakers, and others developing great psychic powers.
This they accomplished by sending the Positive and Negative
life current into the ATM A, using the same method as in send­
ing it into the Seat of the Will Power. The center of the
ATM A is directly on top of the head.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
KEY T O LESSO N NO. 1
m
The Laws of Positive
and Negative Mind
Force.
10
11
12
13
14
There are two currents running up
each side of the spine. One is positive,
the other is negative. The positive
current entering the SOLAR PLEXUS
goes up the right side of the spine to the Pineal Body Gland,
near center of head. This is the Male Center of Spirituality.
The left side is the negative side. The negative current comes
in through the SOLAR PLEX U S, goes up the left side of the
spine to Pituitary Body Gland. This is the female center of
Spirituality. Every thought that enters the Solar Plexus is
carried to the brain by these two currents, half to the negative
center. The Subconscious Mind controls a break-in current
which operates between positive and negative. By this cur­
rent, contact is made and a perfect thought is formed.
By controlling the breath, as is taught in SUPER MIND
SCIENCE and inhibiting any thought entering the Solar
Plexus, other than what we desire to concentrate upon, we
CAN D EVELOP PER FEC T CO NCENTRATIO N. The
method of generating the positive and negative current, as is
taught by the finger-tip exercise, with breath under control,
develops a clearness of mind and cleanses the physical system.
This negative and positive current is used also to heal the body
through the Subconscious Mind so that, when you generate the
current by this method, you not only cleanse the body and the
mind, but automatically cause the Subconscious Mind to heal
any portion of the body that may be defective. Thus we have
the key to a clear mind, a healthy body and perfect concentra­
tion, by using the finger-tip exercise.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
1
hmshmbnh ¿Sa&wäiSäääsaääks
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 141
TECH NIQ U E T O LESSO N NO. 1
CO NTRO L OF LIFE EN ERG Y
First. Place finger tips together so they contact just enough
to feel vibration between them.
Second. Breathe deeply, mentally drawing the Positive Cur­
rent and the Negative, into the Solar Plexus then up the spine
through the brain downward to the finger tips. You should
after breathing a short while, feel a little vibration between the
fingers. This is the Positive and Negative life currents. Do this
about five minutes.
Third. Retain, or breathe very little and control breath,
thinking only of the current getting stronger and stronger un­
til you feel it. This is the most perfect of all concentration
methods, then using the same method of breathing very little
and willing the currents to heal any portion of the body, or
send it out to produce what you desire by thinking of it going
where you desire to send it. Persist until you feel satisfied you
have succeeded.
The Development Next comes the D EV ELO PM EN T OF
of the Will. THE W ILL POWER. This is accomp­
lished by using the same method as used in
the Technique of Lesson No. 1 for control of energy, then by
placing the thumbs in the seat of the W ILL POW ER
(Temples), with breath controlled and a perfectly concentrated
positive thought of awakening all dormant cells in the seat of
the W ILL POWER (Temples). You must feel determined as
you take this exercise, as the feeling impresses the Subconscious
Mind more than just saying the words mentally. Always use
your positive suggestion to the Subconscious Mind with the
breathing very little and all thoughts other than what you are
developing, inhibited from entering the mind. Touch the
temples lightly in this exercise so as to feel the current as it
h
S f I
142 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
» 1
enters the temples from the thumbs, holding finger tips together,
thumbs in temples. This will give you the physical effect of
the results of the exercise by making it possible to feel the cur­
rents there.
In this exercise, we use the perfect concen­
tration method, but send the current and
blood by filling the lungs to the seat of
the executive power in the forehead. Re­
member not to hold this position too long— just long enough
to feel the current and the blood surging in that center. Each
time you feel the surging motion, use your positive will and
perfect concentration on gaining greater executive ability to
master every mental difficulty.
Executive Ability
Method of
Development.
10
LESSON NO. 2
Overcoming Physical All physical defects in the body are
Defects. caused by either a lack of the Life
Current or Solar Energy, or by eating
the wrong kind of foods. The first thing to regulate is your
appetite, by using your Will Power to develop a fondness for
vegetables and raw foods, and overcoming your desire for meat
and fish. When you have accomplished this, you have ceased
to destroy the live cells and tissues of the body as far as the
destructive power of the wrong kinds of foods is concerned.
The next consideration is to see that the body is well supplied
with LIFE CU RRENT. If you teach your subconscious mind
that your body can be healed by the use of this current, the
current becomes a valuable “ medicine” for the overcoming of all
kinds of disease, and the building up of the tissues and the
awakening of the health cells, which not only stops pain, but
gives you greater vitality and mental force. This should be ac­
complished by generating the current as you were taught, then
sending this current, with the breath controlled and the mind
perfectly concentrated, into any part of the body having 3n
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 143
1 injury or defect, at the same time holding the thought that this
current will accomplish what you desire.
2 The thought entering through the Positive and Negative
thought center of the brain, has a healing effect as well as the
3 current itself. This method not only overcomes the defect or
condition, but sets up a center in the mind and body to at-
4 tract health to that part in the future. This again calls to your
mind what I have said previously about the reaction of the Sub-
5 conscious Mind and should bring to your attention that every
wrong thought likewise sets up a center which attracts an un-
6 healthy state.
About 60 per cent of all illness is caused through ignorance
7 of the effect of thought upon the body, a fact which has been
overlooked by many of the health sciences. SUPER M IND
8 SCIENCE teaches the student how to exclude all destructive
thoughts, which are injurious to the body, by closing the
9 SOLAR PLEX U S to all such thoughts, by controlling the
breath and training the Subconscious Mind with positive sug-
10 gestion. This method has proven its efficiency by gaining
health and vitality for thousands of people who have applied it.
H m, . „ I wish to call to the attention
Destructive Thoughts React , . , ,
Tr„ _„ , of the student, that the quality
10 upon Mind and Body. , , , H . ’
ot thoughts finding expression
in the mind is determined by the manner in which the subcon-
13 scious mind is trained. If you have your conscious mind trained
to exclude any idea or thought which would bring you bad
14 health or misfortune, you will soon discover that it is impos­
sible for you to receive any thought other than what you have
15 trained it to allow to become manifest. All harmful carnal ac­
tion is caused by the manifestation of selfish thoughts, for that
16 is the nature of the flesh self.
If you desire to overcome this bad action, which usually is
17 the cause of many different forms of ailment, train your mind
to think pleasant and unselfish thoughts and try to see in
18 others the perfection you desire in your own self. This, through
144 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
The Subconscious Mind
Can Be Trained to
Heal the Body.
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
the law of attraction, will soon draw to you, your ideal, be it
in health or good fortune, for this is a law that operates through
the process of automatically setting up within yourself, centers
to attract to you that which you admire in others.
When you have practiced sending
the currents to all defective parts of
your body, you will discover that
your subconscious mind will auto­
matically send currents to any part of the body where it is
needed, and therefore bring about a condition of perfect health
to those who use this exercise and really apply themselves to the
practical demonstrations of SU PER M IND SCIENCE. You
may test yourself to see if you have accomplished the training of
your mind, by using the Egyptian Posture you are taught in
Lesson No. 2. Many people have weak or sore spots in
their bodies, but do not realize this until they take this exer­
cise. If, during this exercise, you also control the breath while
holding this position, any mental weakness you may have will
come to your mind with a positive thought as to what that
weakness is. All weaknesses in the body can be overcome by
repeating the exercise of sending energy into the affected part,
if you continue for a reasonable length of time. All mental
weakness can be overcome by controlling the breath and sending
positive suggestions to the Subconscious Mind to counteract
the weakness, if used with positive will power.
Mental Gymnastics. After yoU have Practiced this remise suf­
ficiently and have attained success in driv­
ing out discordant conditions, you will be able to develop any
portion of your body without the aid of muscular exercise,
simply by willing how you want it developed, and giving a
positive suggestion to the Subconscious Mind to send current
to the part you desire to develop. This will strengthen the
tissues and build up the muscles as quick as any physical exer­
cise could possibly do it and with less strenuous effort. This
process continues while you sleep as the Subconscious Mind
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 145
1 has full control of the body during that time, and the sugges­
tions which you gave it manifest much stronger, as at that
2 time there is no opposition to the suggeston from the Con­
scious Mind.
3 Some of the Adepts of India have used this method to de­
velop the body to a high point of efficiency and have been
4 known to jump twenty feet into the air.
5 Method for Overcoming Test the body out by using the exer-
Physical Defects. cise known as the Egyptian Posture
6 as taught in this lesson. Drop feet under the body sit in a
kneeling position; then throw head backward. Stop the breath,
7 and all the muscles will be tense. Soon you will discover a
number of sore spots in the body. Each of these sore spots if
8 allowed to continue will eventually cause you trouble, but this
method locates them and gives you plenty of time to heal them
9 before they have developed into any serious ailments. When
you have located them slow the breath and send the current
10 of Negative and Positive energy into the part of the body where
the soreness manifests itself. Continue this method until you
11 have overcome all of the physical defects in the body and you
will discover that the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND will soon be
12 educated to the point that as soon as a sore spot or ailment
manifests itself in the body, it will automatically send the cur-
13 rent to the part of the body affected and heal it.
By using the above exercise, and blanking the mind at the
14 same time, any mental weakness will show up in the form of
an impression. In that case send the current into the part of
15 the brain where the center of the weakness is located. For in­
stance, if it is the will-power that is weak, send the current to
16 the seat of the will-power, etc. All of these methods work
physically, mentally and spiritually; therefore use them accord-
17 ing to your best judgment and you cannot help but succeed.
146 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
EX ER CISE K EY T O LESSON No. 2
Method of T esting the Body for Defects
1 First. Kneel down on knees, then place the hands on the
floor, leaning backward.
2 Second. Throw body and chest high.
Third. Tense every muscle. If you feel sore spots remem-
3 ber where they are. Then place fingers together breathe deep
and develop contact of the currents and treat the body where
4 the sore spots are.
Fourth. Stop breath. Will that they go to the sort spots
5 and heal the body there. If no sore spots or stiffness is felt
then the body is in good condition and therefore needs no
6 treatment, except one for health in general.
TH E LU N A R CIRCLE
7 Method of Mental and The right side has the positive power
Positive Creation and the left side the negative. The
8 Power. negative center in the body is in the
LU N AR CIRCLE and positive center
9 in the SOLAR PLEXU S. By taking the shoulder blade exer­
cise, holding your thought while at the highest state of positive
10 tension on the subject and object you desire to create, you exer­
cise the positive center; then when you go into the lowest state
11 of this same exercise you exercise the LU N A R CIRCLE which
is the receptive chamber of the body and through that center
1 2 you receive that which you create mentally, be it perfect health,
prosperity, harmony or whatever you desire to receive into the
13 body and the mind.
This exercise should be used only where you desire to make
14 a creation within yourself— as other exercises for creating with­
out, and much more affective for that purpose, will be given
15 in the other lessons of this course.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 147
1 First. Draw shoulders together clenching fist until the
shoulder blades meet.
2 Second. Raise ribs up by raising hands, this opens the posi­
tive center in the Solar Plexus, letting in positive vibration.
3 Third. Will that this positive vibration creates whatever
you desire.
4 Fourth. Lower the arms slowly, letting in the receptive
energy in the circle between the shoulder blades.
5 Fifth. Visualize or think of perfect results.
Develop currents until you feel them
6 Method to contacting between the finger tips;
Visualize. }Y deep breathing, next stop or slow
7 the breath as you are taught in
SUPER MIND SCIENCE; fasten the mind upon the object
8 desired, inhibiting all other thoughts but the thought of that
one thing desired until you feel the satisfaction that you have
9 accomplished it in its perfection. Hold mental picture of suc­
cess several minutes. Thus you have complied with the laws of
10 negative and positive concentration. Be determined when you
apply the above method.
11 This method is held by the greatest critics of mental science
to be the most perfect concentration method ever introduced
12 into the United States.
Perfect Health Ten Minutes Daily,
13 Concentrate Prosperity Five Minutes Daily,
n ' Spiritual Wisdom Fifteen Minutes Daily.
14 Wonderful results will be attained.
J L
148 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
SU PER M IND SCIENCE HEALING, LESSON No. 3
1 It is a known and accepted fact that Nature has given to man
a method of healing the body and of overcoming any violation
2 of the laws of Nature without the use of opiates or drugs. For
many centuries man has searched for a Divine method that
3 would heal his body and one that could also be used success­
fully in healing the body of another, some method which would
4 eventually bring back the great healing demonstrations that were
made by Jesus of Nazareth and his disciples.
5 Many of the discoveries of the last century, along this line,
has proved very beneficial to mankind and many thousands have
6 been benefited by their application, but all seem to lack power
to go beyond a certain limit, the limit usually being the one
7 recognized by the founder of the method or science in question.
The great success of SU PER M IND SCIENCE in attracting
8 these thousands of its followers, is no doubt due to the fact
that the healing method used by this science reaches all cases
9 when applied properly, with practical and definite help for the
patient, both mentally and physically.
10 The founder of SUPER M IND SCIENCE, by the applica­
tion of its healing method, has stopped pain instantly, healed
11 hopeless invalids, restored hearing and sight and has proven to
the satisfaction of the sick and the world at large that we have
12 discovered the laws and the operation of them, that have been
used by the healers of all ages. In this method we first over-
13 come all opposition to the healing, by diverting the attention
of the CONSCIOUS MIND of the patient from the ailment;
14 next we overcome the consciousness of the patient to a certain
extent with our Will Power; finally we exert Spiritual power
15 through our knowledge of CHRIST CONSCIOUSNESS
within.
16 The more positive the healer using this method and the more
receptive the patient, the greater will be the results obtained.
17 The healer should keep his own body in good condition by
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 149
1 daily taking up the exercise of storing up SO LA R EN ERG Y
in the body, so as to have this surplus energy at his command,
2 which then can be used by the W ILL POW ER to give healing
and strength to others. This exercise should be taken in the
3 morning for about fifteen minutes with a suggestion to the
SUBCONSCIOUS M IND of storing up SO LAR EN ERG Y
4 to be used in healing demonstrations; a healer should also under­
stand the operation of A U TO -SU G G ESTIO N , which can be
5 applied with good effect when the Determination and Will
Power of the healer are strong, for, by the use of this law, you
6 can treat the patient both physically and mentally. A healer
should practice trying to feel that there is an impulse directed
7 by the Will Power to compel the healing of his patient.
T. There are two kinds of healing energy which
8 16 urrents- can be use(j very effectively by a SU PER M IND
SCIENCE HEALER. One of these is the life current, which
9 we feel when taking the energy exercise, as taught in the first
lesson. It can be stored up in the body by training the SUB-
10 CONSCIOUS MIND to take in more energy than you need
for your own use. The effect that this has is to train the
11 SUBCONSCIOUS M IND to take in EN ERG Y and healing
power. There must be born in your mind a consciousness of
12 healing power, which will eventually develop you to be a
master-healer if you will continue the method and the healing,
13 using Positive Concentration.
„ . The other energy which can be employed is
!4 b0 ar Knergy- SOLAR ENERGY, which is stored up in the
FIRE CEN TER at the base of the spine. This, you store up by
15 taking the SOLAR ENERGY EXERCISE as taught in SUPER
MIND SCIENCE, the only difference being that when you use
16 this exercise for the development of healing power you hold
your thought on receiving power to heal the sick during the
17 tense position in the exercise. This develops a greater flow of
energy in the CANAL in the spine, and is a higher degree of
18 healing power than the LIFE CU R R EN T, as it is of a more
150 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
IO
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Spiritual Nature being used by the great master healers of the
world at large.
The Masters teach that this D IV IN E ENERGY will awaken
a center in the Sacral plexus which gives a tremendous healing
influence to the healer and heals almost instantly. The healer
must learn to feel the energy as it goes through the body of the
patient and overcomes the physical ailment, leaving the patient
in a state of health. This is the greatest of all methods known
at this time for the development of healing power.
In giving advice to your patients, impress them with the
thought that all sickness is caused by wrong thinking, and
wrong food combinations and that they should not eat any­
thing extremely sweet or sour nor any meat or fish, if they
desire perfect health, as that conteracts through a violation of
the laws of Nature, the basic laws of Mental and Spiritual heal­
ing. If they desire health more than the satisfaction of their
appetite, they must abstain from these things at all times.
T » The next important rule for them to
magma^icm^ ieates 0j3serve ¡s to curb tjjC
jr IMAGINA­
TIO N , as the imagination, having its
influence of the ATM A, the Divine Mind, has great power over
the body and is the first LAW of Creation when they imagine
they are sick, they have taken the first step in creating that sick­
ness; therefore, they should be very careful of the images they
cast in the imaginative chambers. As ye sow, so shall ye reap,
is a law which never fails.
As you probably know, there are certain methods of healing
being taught which consist principally in the patient imagining
he or she is well, and in many cases, this accomplishes the cure.
This is an example to show you the powers of imagination.
People have also been known to become healers and have had
remarkable demonstrations by simply imagining they would be­
come great healers, without knowing any of the basic laws of
healing, which again calls to your attention the fact that the
imagination is creative in its power.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 151
Another very important method which has
Healing Throug USC(j successfully by the founder of
this science is to have the patient silently
will that he will be cured by the healer. This produces a har­
mony of thought which has the tendency to open the door of
consciousness to the power of the healer and creates a faith in
his power as a healer. This method has also been used by many
healers of India and has been brought down to a more simplified
method by some of the great Hindu priests. These have con­
structed sacred pools and the people are taught to have faith in
the power of their waters so that when they bathe in them they
will be instantly healed.
In these pools you can see thousands healed in one day by
the power of their will and their faith in the sacred pools—
which proves this to be a practical method of healing. One of
the greatest aids in this healing is the fact that the water gives
the patient a shock, thus taking his mind off of his particular
ailment or sickness long enough to permit his faith to heal him.
tt j- T, , During the healing demonstration, when
t
-v
- * t, s you have diverted the attention of your
patient and placed the fingers on his tem­
ples to send the current through his body to heal him, stop your
breath by the use of the Perfect Concentration Method; then,
while the patients breathe deeply and are in a receptive state of
mind, project your power; after the treatment have them silently
realize the healing that has been accomlished in the body by
visualizing perfect health. Finally, give a positive suggestion to
his CONSCIOUS M IND that he is well, through Divine
Power. Thus you have used the four-in-one method of healing,
as used in SUPER MIND SCIENCE.
First Diversion of attention;
Second. Auto-suggestion when you say “POW ER” ;
Third. The projection of the life current through the body;
Fourth. T he projection of Christ Consciousness through
the patient.
— www— wiwr
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
SU PER M IND SCIENCE HEALING M ETHOD KEY TO
LESSO N No. 3
First. Divert the attention of the patient. Tell them to
think of power. Ask your patient ^o sit in a chair or sit up if
possible. , *
Second. Have them raise chest high and place hands, backs
together, down the spine, elbows high.
Third. Have them breathe deep and think of heat waves
entering the Solar Plexus going to the spine up to the head.
During this step healer is to hold his hands on the patient's
head, mentally drawing heat waves upward.
Fourth. Now healer can feel heat force in the patient’s
head. As his hands lays on the head the heat wave can be felt
under the hands.
Fifth. Now healer places one hand on the head and one
where the body is affected. Then will the heat wave to be
transferred from head to affected part of body. Patient breath­
ing deep. Visualize this energy entering the part affected and
expand it, thus destroying the disease and healing the patient.
Then send currents through by generating them by deep breath­
ing. Grip the hands, place the thumb in the temples. Stop the
breath and will they flow into the patient and heal them.
Sixth Patient must silently will to recover.
Solar Energy Method to Develop Healing Power
First. Place the hands, backs together, down the spine.
Second. Raise chest and breathe deep.
Third. Visualize heat waves from the sun entering the
Solar Plexus, going up spine to head until head is very warm.
Fourth. Stop breath, will to energize every cell with this
healing energy. Lower arms slowly and you will feel a wave of
warm energy spread over the body. This is nature’s great heal­
ing power which regenerates the body.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 153
LESSON No. 4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
_ . , , _ Since the beginning, T H E
ereating Through the Power LAW S Qp CR EA TIO N deter-
oi the Subconscious Mind. . . ,, , . ,
mine that all things created
must first be conceived either in the Uinversal Mind or the mind
of man. Now, a mental conception has to go through the pro­
cess of negative and positive as well as anything else that is
created. The idea comes first in fast vibration, which is the
positive, this being the vibration of the fatherhood principle;
then it slows down in vibration, when going into the negative
state of mind, where it undergoes the process of being compared
with other similar ideas until it finally becomes a perfect idea;
next, it manifests on the physical plane under the direction of
the Subconscious or Negative state of mind; finally the physical
appearance comes into existence as soon as the Subconscious
Mind strongly impresses the Conscious Mind. Thus all things
are born in SUPER-CONSCIOUS V IBRA TIO N , then lowered
into SUBCONSCIOUS V IBRA TIO N , where they grow more
perfect, until they manifest in the physical.
The student desiring to learn the art of creation by the power
of mind must learn to conceive the object of the creation by
using the mind properly. When the body is tense, we stimulate
the positive current. During this tenseness, we can give the
fatherhood principle to a mental creation; then by relaxation
and the stimulation of the negative current, we give the object
of our creation, the motherhood principle; finally, by visualiza­
tion, we cast the image of our creation into the SU BCO N ­
SCIOUS MIND, where it has a reactive power through the
subconscious channel, and is brought into existence by the
powers of the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND.
When this exercise is performed
before retiring at night, the SU B ­
CONSCIOUS M IND continues
You may find yourself in a dream
Subconscious Mind Works
While You Sleep.
to create while you sleep.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
state actually doing what you desire to create, which will give
you the consciousness to see your own creation before it comes
into the physical. Some of the Hindu Adepts have been master
of this art for many centuries. It is said that they can go into
the positive state and then into the negative and actually create
the food they eat.
The Masters never carry food when going into the moun­
tains, which gives one a good reason to believe that they do
know the LAW S OF CREA TIO N . Of course the Oriental
Adepts do nothing but study during most of their lives, for to
them the kind of life we live in this country is void of all great
things and is simply illusion.
Now, the founder of SU PER M IND SCIENCE has studied
their methods of teaching the Subconscious Mind to create, very
thoroughly, and has found that this power can soon be acquired,
at least to a certain degree, such as creating power for spiritual
demonstrations, and for creating health, harmony, success in
business, etc., if the method of development as outlined in this
course is followed. T o be successful, the student must use his
W ILL POW ER T O ST O P A LL non-creative thoughts, and
only permit creative thoughts to come into his mind. This can
be accomplished by the use of the method of inhibition of all
thoughts not in harmony with the Seven Creative Spirits of
God, which are:
How to Create in Harmony ^ rst go ^
nto t^e Perfect Concen-
With the Seven Creative trat*on State, controlling the
Principles. breath and using positive will that
you will only let thoughts come
10
11
12
First. Strength. 13
Second. Honor.
Third. Glory or Divine Bliss. 14
Fourth. Blessings.
15
Fifth. Power.
Sixth. Riches.
Seventh. Wisdom. ' 16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 155
into the Solar Plexus which are creative and in harmony with
the above seven principles, one at a time. For instance: If a
thought of weakness enters the mind, it is contrary to the prin­
ciple of strength; if a thought which is dishonorable enters the
mind, it is contrary to honor: if a thought of some trouble en­
ters the mind, it is contrary to bliss: if a thought of selfishness
enters the mind, it is contrary to blessings; if a thought of
spiritual weakness enters the mind, it is contrary to power; if
a thought of gaining solely for the sake of self enters the mind,
it is contrary to the spirit of riches; if a thought lacking in­
telligence enters the mind, it is contrary to wisdom; therefore
purge your mind of all non-creative thoughts not harmonizing
with these principles, and your thoughts will become creative
and will produce results in anything you attempt.
Every failure you have is due to the fact that you are out of
harmony with these Seven Creative Principles. Learn to go into
the deep silence and say mentally with the breath controlled:
“God within me can create what I desire.” Say this positive­
ly. This teaches the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND that you
can actually create, and it will continue its work until you have
succeeded. It is like planting a seed in the Subconscious Mind
which grows and bears fruit like a seed planted in the ground.
For instance, when you plant a grain of corn, the seed is dry
and hard. The hard substance is positive. You plant this seed
in the ground; the ground is soft and receptive; thus you bring
the law of Negative and Positive together; all then that is
needed to create this plant is energy. The sun supplies the posi­
tive, the moon the negative energy, and the plant grows and
bears fruit.
Thus you see an example of the PO SITIV E and N EG A ­
TIV E CR EA TIV E LAW S, which proves the method in this
science to be natural and constructive. The main object of
SUPER MIND SCIENCE is to train the SUBCONSCIOUS
MIND to use Nature’s creative laws to build your success. If
you desire to understand it and be master of it, then study
156 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Nature and the operation of the Law of Negative and Positive,
and remember that your mind, when it works in harmony with
these laws, cannot fail to succeed.
One Who Is Too Positive or We often hear pcople say they
Too Negative Cannot Succeed. “ n.not succecd That is because
their mind has become receptive
and negative to failure and their mind has functioned in only
one of the two principles. Had they thought in a positive state
of mind their thoughts would have created what was desired
and they would have received a greater success; for we are too
often in a negative state and do not practice the positive state
enough. You should learn to understand the operation of your
mind and know when to be positive and when to be negative.
Always meditate upon any plan you have in mind in order to
determine whether Positive or Negative Mind Force is required.
Then as you concentrate on the positive, be very positive in
your concentration; and on the part that is negative, be very
negative in your concentration; thus you will avoid the clashing
of these two forces, and by harmonizing them you will succeed
in whatever you attempt.
The water you drink brings negative power to your body
while the food brings positive; thus, your very life depends
upon these laws harmonizing. When you want to draw power
from the sun, you must get your body in rhythm with the sun
and vibrate your thoughts first in the positive state and then the
negative state. This SOLAR ENERGY then will give force to
all your creations and they will find physical expression in your
i e. If you comply and harmonize with these forces, your deal­
ing with others will be much more pleasant and successful.
Your Power Should Only Be When y °u meet a person who is
Used to Create “Good.” very negative, if you desire to
... , ., impress him, you must be posi-
lve, an i you md one who is very positive, and you desire
a; r ^ y: C 20 e ne8at^
ve- In this way you will never clash
wi eir natures, and almost anything you plan with them
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 157
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
H
15
16
will be a success.
When you use your mental creation power, consult your con­
science to determine whether it is in harmony with the law of
right, for if it is not, after it has had ill effect upon someone,
it will rebound against you and cause you twice the trouble you
caused the other party. You should use your power only to
create and obtain that which is rightfully yours, and N EV ER
for wrong or selfish purposes, for the Law of Compensation
metes out its own reward.
/ You should be positive in regard to your own mind and
should not allow your mind to be influenced in any way by
suggestions other than those complying with the law of right.
You should be positive against bad and negative to all good. If
you follow this rule, it will be impossible for you to fail in
finding happiness and success in this life, and peace and under­
standing of the next life, for we know, as we comply with the
laws of Negative and Positive in this life, even so, we must
comply with them in the next, the only difference being that
the laws of this life have a physical aspect, while in the next
they have a psychic, spiritual and mental aspect.
À
KEY T O LESSON No. 4
Creating Mentally Through
The Powers of The Sub­
conscious Mind.
First. Breathe in current, enter
High tension by gripping the
hands. Body tense-mind positive.
Hold position. Will to create
what you desire. Gradually lower your position until you reach
Negative State sending out breath slowly. Will again in the
Negative State, then visualize the Creation in its Perfection.
This method is used in creating success, health, spiritual power,
harmony, and all things which we desire in life. The more
efficient you become in these exercises, the greater will be the
results.
158 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
The Law of Progression. All mental processes that lead to the
understanding of any subject, involve
the act of Concentration. The great progress of invention dur­
ing the past fifty years, particularly in our own country, has
been made because intelligent men, living in an age and country
that gave encouragement and promise of great rewards to fear­
less investigators, concentrated their ability and energy upon
some specific problem.
Difficulty, hardship, disappointment, ridicule, all were met
and turned aside by the force of wills so determined that nothing
short of success would be accepted as final and conclusive.
There is an ancient maxim passed down by the generations,
“As above, so below.” Like the inventors, those who hope to
make progress along the path of Spiritual attainment, must first
of all determine upon a course of study that will extend over
many years.
This work will require close observation, careful analysis and
painstaking, concentrated investigation. Progress will depend
upon the student, who, if he perseveres, will fill for himself the
i
truth of another ancient maxim:
“When the Disciple is ready, he will find the Master wait­
ing.”
My part in this great work is to aid, so much as I can, all
those who have undertaken or have detrmined to undertake to
tread the PATH OF A N CIEN T WISDOM. I would not dis­
courage anyone, but I do wish to give solemn warning that this
is not a subject fit for triflers.
We offer no plea of vicarious atonement: we have no plan
of salvation, save that of earnest, persistent, determined individ­
ual effort. We know that no one ever saved another, excepting
by advice, counsel and high example; and these we give, gladly
and without limit; for it is written, “As ye give, even so shall
ye receive.”
During the period covered by written history known to Euro­
peans and Americans, six SUPREM E TEACH ERS OF MAN-
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
159
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY
KIND have appeared and contributed to the elevation and en­
lightenment of humanity. These great leaders are Zoroaster,
Buddha, Confuscius, Jesus of Nazareth, the author of the plays
attributed to Shakespeare, and Abraham Lincoln.
Each of these great Universal Spirits brought to Earth a mes­
sage such as none but he could give to his country, and each left
an impress still potent for good, providing it be interpreted in­
telligently.
The message of each was substantially the same, but modi­
fied, especially to the needs of the people to whom it was first
delivered. In a larger sense, each repeated the message of his
predecessors for the benefit of those he taught directly and
through them passed it on to succeeding generations.
In every case it was a new declaration of the Ancient Wisdom,
brought from the EIG H TH SPHERE by a M ESSENGER OF
TH E LIGH T.
ALL OF TH ESE and many others whose work made bril­
liant the pages of histories, long since lost in the wrecks of war
and the night of time, were but links in the great chain of
COSMIC IN TELLIG EN C E; their messages were given out in
order that all who so willed, might come into harmony with
THOSE WHO KNOW TH E LAW. All were engaged in the
noblest work of man, aiding to bring humanity from the dark­
ness into the light.
As the human physical body is the tool of the brain, so both
body and brain are the tools of the human Soul, on the Earth
Plane.
T o the primary senses— sight, hearing, touch, taste and smell
— common to the higher animals, man has added speech and
reason— these two marking his advance beyond the level of the
brute.
Man is now developing the Sixth Principle, IN TU ITIO N .
Complete possession, use and understanding of this principle in
Nature, marks the line between the man without it and the
Master of the Wisdom, as speech and reason, mark the line
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
between man and the brute. Intuition is the Key to the Path
of the Ancient Wisdom.
IN T U IT IO N when fully developed, enables man to com­
plete his Earth Experience, and thenceforth he is not under
obligation to return here, but may do so by the action of his
own will. Those who so return are the Great Teachers and
Guides of humanity. Jesus of Nazareth was one of these
G R EA T SPIR IT S OF T H E UNIVERSE, perfected in the
SEV EN TH PRINCIPLE, in Nature; for the SEVENTH lies
beyond the SIX T H and still beyond that is the EIGHTH
PRINCIPLE, the SU PREM E GOAL OF HUMAN EVOLU­
TION.
Thus SU PER M IND SCIENCE comes to emancipate the
soul and set it free from dogmas and creeds. It is the Ancient
Wisdom.
'ru »m. ^ ^ is very essential that we have a thorough
The Three States , . ' , , ,. c
c n . knowledge and understanding ot tne
of Consciousness. THj^££ STAXES OF CONSCIOUS-
NESS, if we would be Master and not mere FOLLOWER:
CREATO R instead of CREATIO N. First we will consider
the CONSCIOUS MIND. Each particle of matter is ruled by
MIND, and is therefore connected to M IND and must have in
its composition, MIND SU BSTA N C E. This is called "Chitta”
by the Hindus. These numerous particles of matter compose
the Human Mind, each having some CONSCIOUSNESS, and
when they operate in harmony, as a group, we think of some­
thing which they are conscious of.
The weaker, as is always the case, is ruled by the stronger;
for instance, if we think of GOD, the particles of matter become
more concentrated with the other particles that are more con­
scious of GOD. The outward manifestation of this is seen in
the wrinkles of the forehead, when we are thinking deeply.
Now the ones that are strong, through the LAW OF A T ­
TRA CTIO N , draw the weaker ones to them through the
power of PHYSICAL M AGNETISM , bringing them all to
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 161
focus upon that which we are concentrating on; thus both
PHYSICAL and M EN TA L EN ERG Y are concentrated upon
accomplishing the thing which the mind is most interested in.
Now SUPER M IND SCIENCE recognizes that, by per­
fectly concentrating the mind, and drawing together all the par­
ticles of matter in the brain to a certain point, there is a
PHYSICAL and M EN TA L ST R E N G T H produced which
cannot fail to bring success to the one using this method. Un­
less both PH YSICAL and M EN TA L FORCE is combined in
our effort of CO N CEN TRA TIO N , it will be very difficult to
realize results on both the PH YSICAL and M EN TA L
PLANE, therefore the application of the two forces, working
in harmony is the basis of our great success.
Many teachers have been trying to reach the PHYSICAL
PLANE OF LIFE by concentrating the CONSCIOUS MIND,
but few of them produce results, because they operate through
one source only, that being the M EN TA L. Not realizing the
importance of the corresponding PH YSICAL LAW S, many of
them, forgetting that we live on a PHYSICAL PLANE, were
trying to create success through the elevation of the CON­
SCIOUS MIND above the PH YSICAL PLANE.
We find that in order to master the PH YSICAL LAW and
bring success to students, it will be necessary for us to work on
the PHYSICAL PLANE, fully recognizing the importance of
mastering it THROUGH TH E HIGHER M EN TA L LAW S,
and causing harmonious contact between the M EN TA L MAN
and the PHYSICAL MAN in all walks of life.
The harmonizing of the SPIR IT U A L LAW S in CONCEN­
T R A TIO N is also very important. If the CO N CEN TRA­
TIO N has a SPIR IT U A L PURPOSE, it brings to bear
SPIR ITU A L FORCE to aid in the success of the one applying
the law. Concentration of the CONSCIOUS MIND means the
focusing of the mind to a certain point and the concentration of
all the particles of matter to that point also, having a spiritual
purpose back of it, accomplishing whatever we desire to accom-
162 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 plish. Thus the powerful machinery of the CONSCIOUS
M IND is set into motion with the combination and harmon-
2 ization of the law of the inseparable trinity, MIND, BODY
and SOUL, or PH YSICAL, M EN TA L and SPIRITUAL.
4 stored up for use, by comparison, and which has great power
when properly trained. Its power is of the reactionary type.
5 When you plant a suggestion in the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND,
this suggestion, is powerful and effective. This part of the
6 M IND can only be developed by the use of POSITIVE and
N EG A TIV E M IND FORCE; then its power becomes one’s
7 life, through its power of reaction. The SUBCONSCIOUS
M IND can also be trained to overcome all fatique in the body
8 and to heal the body; in fact, it can do most anything it is
trained to do, through reacting upon the CONSCIOUS MIND
9 and controlling it. It is used by some of the Adepts of India as
a means of reading the minds of others, being also used in this
10 manner by the founder of SU PER M IND SCIENCE and his
thousands of students.
11 This is a definite and practical explanation of the SUB­
CONSCIOUS MIND, and can be controlled through the ap-
CONSCIOUS M INDS that which we desire to react upon us.
13 For instance, if we put malice and hatred there, they will react
upon us and give us in return malice and hatred, but if we
14 store up in this great subway, LO VE AND HELP FOR
OTHERS, this will result in our receiving LO VE AND HELF
15 FROM OTHERS.
Thus through the LAW OF T H E SUBCONSCIOUS RE
16 ACTION, we get out of this life just what we put into it
The SUBCONSCIOUS MIND can be called the great hiber-
1 1 nating, refrigerating warehouse— continually storing up some­
thing, that will change our future and influence our affairs by
18 creating new conditions. It is also our AQUASIAC RECORD,
3
The Subconscious Mind
is the SUBW AY OF MEMORY,
where all deeds are recorded and
12 plication of practical laws. We should only put into our SUB-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 163
1 for it contains both a record of our SO U L and our BO DY, and
therefore has to be a part of the “ LA M B’S BOOK OF L IF E ,”
2 mentioned so many times in the B IB LE ; therefore be careful
what you store up in the SUBCO NSCIO U S M IND, as every
3 thought produces its own result.
, is that faster vibration which many
. The1Superconscious Mind . .
4 times saves our lives, by causing us
to jump when an accident seems inevitable. It foresees and also
5 knows every danger along life’s pathway. If we would develop
a strong SUPER CONSCIOUSNESS, we would not make so
6 many mistakes in life. We also would be aware of every viola­
tion of the LAW S OF N A T U R E through the misuse of our
7 PHYSICAL ORGANISM, viz., having abnormal desires and
appetites. We can also develop this part of our M IND to the
8 point where we are able to draw into the CONSCIOUS M IND
many things from the COSMOS, in fact almost any SE C R E T
9 OF TH E UNIVERSE.
We will soon learn that GOD is within us and that the
10 SUPER CONSCIOUS M IND is GOD IN T E L L E C T , and that
to develop GOD POWER, we must develop the SU PER CON-
11 SCIOUS MIND, so that it will correct our mistakes and unfold
to the vision of our CONSCIOUS M IND, the mysteries of
^ the teachings and examples of the great master M ETAPH Y-
SICAN, JE SU S OF NAZARETH . This will further aid us in
13 the protection of the CONSCIOUS AND SUBCONSCIOUS
MINDS, making us free from all evil influence.
14 By developing the SU PER CONSCIOUS M IND, we will
also become conscious of all that is good in every one and every-
thing, for bad is only man’s distorted view of good, and the
misuse of D IV IN E LAW S. When one becomes aware of the
43 law, he will cease to desire to violate it, and SU PER M IND
SCIENCE looks forward to a union between science and re-
17 ligion through IN TELLIG EN C E and the APPLICA TIO N
OF N A TU R E'S LAW S.
164 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
HOW T O D EV ELO P M AGN ETISM , LESSON No. 5
1 It is the ambition of every progressive person to be magnetic
and draw unto him the things he most desires. Magnetism is
2 that power of attraction which is the more subtle part of
SOLAR EN ERG Y under control of the sun. By developing
3 M AGNETISM , we surround the body with a healthy and at­
tractive influence, and as magnetism is in the aura of the body,
4 the mind subconsciously uses Magnetism to draw us to what­
ever we desire most. SU PER M IND SCIENCE has discovered
5 a method of causing the mind and body to vibrate in harmony
with the sun, and getting the thoughts to so harmoniously con-
6 tact the magnetism of the AURA that with a few minutes
exercise, a neophyte can obtain results.
7 This magnetism that is felt vibrating through your body
while in the SUPER M IND SCIENCE CLASS has a great
8 deal to do with deciding your future; for, if it is strong, it will
reach out and bring you opportunities to succeed and will be
9 one of the greatest aids in your dealings with others. It also
has equal power to reach out into the COSMIC and draw to you
10 the purifying power from the COSM IC that causes a healthy
mind. Upon the development of this magnetic influence, you
11 will discover that opportunities will come to you almost as fast
as you think, but you must learn to feel, when you take the
12 exercise, that you are drawing to you that which you desire.
The more of a drawing sensation you can conceive in your mind,
13 the greater will be the power of the mind to use this magnetic
influence to bring to you the object of your desire.
14 Magnetism Used to This ma2netic influence can also be used
, _ Sensitize the Body. sensitlze the body. You can direct it to
the sense centers and under the direction
of your will power, use it as a means of drawing to the senses,
16 a knowledge of Cosmic activities. This will bring you in
rapport with wonderful Cosmic Consciousness if you persist in
17 the exercise. Some of the students have testified that they have
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 165
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
had serious financial difficulties and by using this exercise only
once, have obtained immediate financial success, which shows
the great drawing power of Magnetism when ruled by PO SI­
TIVE AND N EG A TIV E M IND FORCE. We can so sen­
sitize the body that we can feel our magnetic influence reach
out and attract something or someone and can feel the course of
events shaping our success in dealing with them. Many individ­
uals who have been great artists and geniuses have died without
this world knowing of their talents because they did not have
the magnetism to attract a financial success. Many wonderful
and gifted people would like to go out and spend their life aid­
ing humanity, but are not able to attract to themselves an
opportunity of doing so.
By developing M AGNETISM as taught in SU PER M IND
SCIENCE, the author is positive that the student can overcome
this difficulty, for out of several thousand testimonies he has
received, many deal with the development of magnetism, some
expressing themselves as follows: “ I consider the knowledge of
MAGNETISM gained in SU PER M IND SCIENCE, the
greatest knowledge that has ever come into my life, and some­
thing entirely new on the subject” Certain people, because
they have not understood this force, have said, “ It is animalis­
tic and have referred to it as animo-magnetism, yet it is no
more animalistic than the life-current itself which runs through
the body and keeps it in a state of animation. If anything, it
is more subtle and of a more spiritual nature than the life-cur­
rent. It being a vital part of our existence, it could not be any
more animalistic than any other part of our mind or body.
Power of Magnetism to Produce ™ S “ “ “ d“ S ” ° ' COn‘
Sound as Is Done in Spiritualism. “ J ' h“ g " hf
discovered, but seeks to
solve its purpose, and use it in a constructive way. It is not the
desire of the founder of SUPER MIND SCIENCE to take away
any knowledge that is good from the people, but it is his desire
to add to this knowledge so that they may receive all things that
166 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
are good. M A G N ETISM has been very poorly understood and
has been the subject of much discussion by people who do not
seem to be able to determine its good qualities. For instance:
When M A G N ETISM is projected from the body, through will
power, it can produce sound, sometimes of a rapping nature,
sometimes a voice, these often being reproduction of thoughts
that are in the mind of the person who is near. These sounds
sometimes produced by M A G N ETISM are caused by the Nega­
tive and Positive operation of the mind without one being con­
scious of the fact that the mind, by using M AGNETISM, can
produce a sound outside of the body.
Sometimes these mysterious noises are attributed to spirits of
the dead, when in fact, they were the operation of the WILL
POWER and the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND, using MAGNET­
ISM as a means of expression. The same condition is to be
found in the elements when a whirlpool of energy of a positive
type meets a whirlpool of energy of a negative type, producing
a flash of lightning, using as a means of contact the universal
or elemental magnetic current. Thus you see that PERSONAL
M AGNETISM has been poorly understood up to this time.
The founder of SU PER M IND SCIENCE, after many years of
investigation, has discovered that magnetic action is independent
of spiritual manifestion and is simply a means of attraction
and a drawing force under the control of the SUBCONSCIOUS
MIND.
Magnetic Force Must Magnetic force is only one of the seV'
Be Understood. eraI ener8lcs and forces of the human
body that can be used by the SUB­
CONSCIOUS MIND in a constructive way. One must realize
that in dealing with a subtle force your success is governed by
the conception of the force in your mind. If you can con­
ceive a strong unseen magnetic force vibrating around your body
in a circle, continually widening the circle and vibrating in and
through everything in which you have your interests, then you
will get greater results than if you had a poor conception of this
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 16 7
force.
You will learn after operating the force of magnetism under
the power of the will that it will do whatever you will it to do,
but you must exalt your W ILL POW ER in your estimation
of yourself above every weakness and every failure that you
have had in life. You must recognize the fact that had you
understood W ILL POWER and M A GN ETISM , you would
not have failed so many times. You must also learn that sev­
eral centers of vibration are outside the anatomy, yet a part of
the personality. The centers are held intact by the power of
MAGNETISM, and the Law of Attraction. They are also
governed by the W ILL POWER. Some of them, when awak­
ened, will perform miracles, using M A G N ETISM as a means of
connection and as a means of operation.
,, .. „ .. M A G N ETISM is that subtle influ-
ences of attractiveness which shows to
our fellowman the qualities of our personality. If you have a
pleasing personality, your magnetic influence casts out a great
pleasing vibration and if you are of the opposite, then your
magnetic influence will cast out the opposite; so we must not
only learn to develop a pleasing influence, but you must learn
to CAST O U T a pleasing influence through your M A G N ET ­
ISM, for many people upon meeting you analyze your qualities
according to your magnetic influence, through their intuitive
faculty. Therefore, try to vibrate the best qualities in your
personality through meditation and the SU PER M IND
SCIENCE M ETH O D of controlling M AGNETISM , and you
will find that success will attend your efforts in any line of
work you may pursue.
. ___ , When you retire at night, tell your SUB-
j-. „ CONSCIOUS M IND, with your breath
uring eep. controlled, that you will use that mag­
netic power, which you develop in the circular exercise, to bring
you prosperity, health and happiness and to draw to you the
mysteries of the Cosmos and a knowledge of the Deity of the
168 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Laws of the Mind.
Universe which has its center in your being. Learn to feel
Spiritual Bliss and to perceive that M AGNETISM is not alone
confined to the physical realm, but has its higher expressions on
the mental and spiritual plane as well, for every energy and
force given to man orginally came from the Cosmos and then
manifested itself in the physical.
It is these forces that are unseen to mortal
eye which change darkness into light and
bring to man the knowledge of how greatly he is blessed by the
creative force, viz., that all of these laws are under the control
of his mind— May you develop your magnetic influence and
receive the best that is in life, is the sincere desire of the founder
of SU PER M IND SCIENCE, for on your success, also rests
the success of this Science. You are only one among the millions
that can be benefited by these great teachings, for SUPER
M IND SCIENCE is coming to this continent like the sun
rises after a night of darkness and will illuminate and guide man
to his final mental destiny, viz., a knowledge of the bounties
and the plenty that is in the Kingdom of the Father.
Man was destined to obtain the things in Life that he should
have, to enjoy his earthly existence, but, through ignorance of
the laws governing mind and body, he has strayed away from
this knowledge and by many different creedalistic ideas, has
been led away from the Truth and has violated the laws of the
Universe; he has lost his real individuality and willingly gave
it up because of some belief, not knowing that he was cheat­
ing himself of the very thing which the Father intended him to
have. Remember the sayings of Jesus: “ I have all that is in the
Kingdom of My Father.” This means that we have it, but lack
a realization of the fact and in the lack of realization, we fail to
conceive it, our ideas and that which is not conceived has a poor
chance to grow, for all things must have their conception in
mind first. When drawing to you the power to solve some dif­
ficult problem or to come in rapport with some one who can
help you, remember that the law of conception must be com-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 169
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
plied with if you succeed.
After learning these laws, life and the world in general will
take on a new meaning to you and you will find that all trouble
and discord and sickness come from the fact that you are not
using your God-given qualities to overcome them, so do not
resign yourself to your lower nature by saying: “ I can’t,” but
elevate your consciousness to your higher self by saying, “ I
will.” Thus you will learn the meaning of “ Thy will be done
on earth as it is in Heaven.”
KEY T O LESSO N No. 5
First. Place fingers slightly together similar to life energy
method.
Second. Breathe rythmic and rotate the body in a circular
movement.
Third. Each time you rotate the body think of it becoming
a magnetic center to attract magnetism from the sun.
Fourth. Visualize this magnetism drawing to you any­
thing you desire.
Fifth. Sit very quiet and you will feel it drawing and pul­
sating.
Sixth. Develop it every day to become Magnetic thinking
of attracting people and opportunity to succeed.
Seventh. T o Magnetize a chair simply stop the breath, rub
finger tips over it and think of every one entering this influence,
being in perfect harmony with you.
LESSON No. 6
Controlling the Center The IM AGINATION CEN TER,
of Imagination. which is many times the cause of
failure, can be developed and controlled
by the W ILL POWER, and can be made a wonderful faculty
of the mind. This is done by the awakening of cells in the
170 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 IM AG IN ATIO N C E N T E R as taught in the methods of
SU PER M IND SCIENCE. These cells being located so far
2 inward, it is necessary to use both blood and Energy to awaken
them. The Hindus, for many centuries, have held the key to
3 this secret, which accounts for their great psychic ability, as the
IM AGIN ATIO N is trained by the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND
4 to foresee. For example, when planning to build a house, as
you turn the problem over and over in the SUBCONSCIOUS
5 M IND, you imagine how the house will look, many times re­
ceiving a correct imaginary vision of the building in its com-
6 pleteness. This is proof that the natural tendency of the IM­
AGINATIO N is to visualize the future, and SUPER MIND
7 SCIENCE only seeks to develop to a greater degree of effi­
ciency a natural tendency of the IM AGINATION.
8 By awakening strong cells in the IMAGINATION
CEN TER, and developing them through the Power of the
9 Will, which will only allow us to imagine what is correct, we
are able to bring great knowledge to our mind, of events of the
10 future; but if the IM AGINATION is not controlled by the
W ILL POWER and undeveloped, it will visualize only that
11 which we want and not what is a fact; in that case it is ruled
by desire instead of being under the control of the will. The
12 IM AGINATION should be purged and cleansed from imagin­
ing things that are harmful to the mind and body, and the
13 IM AGINATION C EN TER should be safeguarded by the
awakening of strong cells that are directly influenced by the
14 power of the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND.
15
16
17
18
The Imagination
Must Be Trained.
These cells cannot be influenced by the
SUBCONSCIOUS M IND unless the
SUBCONSCIOUS M IND is trained by
positive suggestion and the Perfect Concentration Method used
in SUPER MIND SCIENCE. The IM AGINATIVE FAC­
U L T Y , being a part of the mind, is universal in character and
can be trained as a method of Occult Vision to gain knowledge
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 171
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
of the Cosmic part of the Universe. Thus you can use the
IMAGINATION as a constructive aid in your quest for knowl­
edge, for man is made in an image or an imagination of God.
If God or the Universal Mind has created all things by the cast­
ing of an image in the Universal Mind, then surely this U ni­
versal Mind must have also an imagination chamber and our
imagination is a part and portion of this Universal Imagina­
tion, for we have our being in God and God has His being in
us. This calls to mind the sayings of Jesus: “ I am in the
Father and He is in Me. It is not I that doeth these works, but
Him that sent me.”
Train your IM AGINATION by sending the positive cur­
rent from the right temple to the IM A G IN A TIO N C E N T E R ;
then from the left temple send the negative current to the
IMAGINATION CEN TER, saying in a positive attitude to
the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND: ‘‘I will only imagine that
which is true, that which is honorable and that which is pleas­
ing in the sight of GOD CO NSCIO USNESS.” By doing this
you will soon, by the use of the W ILL POWER, be able to
eliminate all of the worthless and destructive imaginative
visions, and you will comply with the first Law of Creation
by linking yourself to all that is good in this Universe.
There never has been a wrong wil­
fully committed unless it was first
imagined. Therefore, if the IM ­
AG IN ATIO N was properly con­
trolled by all people, there would be no crime and less need of
stringent laws. However, instead of purification of the mind
and the practical training of the physical and mental faculties
of the mind, we have been taught numerous doctrines of con­
demnation. Few of these doctrines embrace even the slightest
idea of commendation. It seems that without offering any
solution to the problems of the masses, they simply seek to con­
demn those who are unfortunate enough to make mistakes, and
it is also rather peculiar to note that nine-tenths of these doc-
Every Manifestation Was
Conceived in the
Imagination Center.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
trines are the works of imagination and the poorest quality of
imagination at that.
If individuals had their IM AGIN ATIO N trained to see only
good and think only good, there would be less trouble and
sickness in this world; therefore it is the object of SUPER
M IND SCIENCE to control every faculty of the body and
mind for the upbuilding of the human being and to afford a
method of improvement for those who have erred in the ways
of life. We do not seek to condemn those who do not under­
stand our philosophy, but do seek to help and to build up those
who are willing to listen to the reason and the practical methods
of application of this teaching.
T . . TT „ J „ If the IMAGINATION is
Imagination Uncontrolled Causes ,, , . „ .
„. , , _ allowed to go uncontrolled,
Sickness and Failures. ,
it will cause much sickness,
for by just thinking of sickness and then imagining it, we create
sickness, which in some future time will react upon us when
our body is receptive to that kind of a physical condition. So
the IM AGINATION should be guarded very closely and not
allowed to cast images of things and conditions which react
through the SUBCONSCIOUS CH ANNELS upon our wel­
fare, and to our detriment.
It is a very easy matter for one to work against his best inter­
ests and the IM AGINATION has a quicker reaction power,
when mis-used, than any other faculty of the mind. By con­
trolling it, you can vibrate in harmony with your surroundings,
raise or lower your vibration and through this method of har­
monization have success in all your enterprises. But remember
that it must be trained according to the laws of Negative and
Positive mind-force and sub-conscious mental reaction and not
by promiscuous beliefs. The IM AGINATION is like a flower,
and, if attended to properly, will bloom forth with great mental
and spiritual success, but if not watered by knowledge of life
and the laws of Negative and Positive, it will cease to be a
faculty to aid us and will be a great hindrance to our mental
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 173
Imagination Capable
of “Foreseeing.”
growth.
When the IM A G IN A TIO N is devel­
oped to its highest state, it is capable of
reading the minds of others through the
application of Negative and Positive Will Force and the control
of the Imaginative vision. For example: You can go into a
positive state, controlling the breath, and will to imagine “ what
is going to happen tomorrow,” and very often succeed in get­
ting a true imaginative vision of what will actually take place.
Thus we use the IM AGIN ATIO N in this manner in a mystical
way to foresee, and develop the power of seership, one of the
greatest powers given to mortal man by the Creative Force.
May you so train your IM AGIN ATIO N that it will only let
you create harmony, peace, bliss, health and prosperity.
KEY T O LESSO N No. 6
8 Imagination Control. First: Generate Energy as in Lesson
No. 1; send it from the right temple
9 to the IM AGINATION C E N T E R in back of head at base of
brain with positive suggestion to the SU BCO NSCIO US M IND
that you will control your Imagination and will only imagine
what is true.
Second: Send Negative Energy from left temple to IM AG­
INATION C EN T ER with the same SUBCONSCIOUS sug­
gestion. Take these exercises ten minutes per day until you can
imagine what will happen in the future and get the vision cor­
rectly. In this way you will overcome all of the bad effects
and misguidance that come from wrong imagination.
Center mind on person in question.
Stimulate right or Positive current,
then stop breath, willing what you
desire to influence them to do— positive state. Then relax,
exhaling on negative side, left nostril and send the influence.
Feel that you have accomplished what you desired.
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
To Influence Another
To Do Good.
174 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 Never use this exercise to harm anyone. If you do, as soon
as it has taken effect it rebounds on you and harms you twice
2 as much as it did the person you wrongfully influenced. This
is one of the methods well known to the Master Adepts of the
3 great E ST O T E R IC SCHOOLS of the Himalaya Mountains.
„ . . There is an energy in our bodies known as
4 SOLAR ENERGY, which » . take in
through the SOLAR PLEX U S. This energy is a vital part of
5 our existence, and when we learn how to use it, it will prolong
our life at least one-third. Part of this energy goes upward
6 through the spinal column to the brain, thence through the cir­
culation of the blood to all parts of the body. This energy gives
7 warmth to the body, promotes health, and heals the body when
it is injured, this being the first healing law of nature. The
8 energy which is not used in this manner, is taken into the body
as we breathe, and goes to a center at the base of the spine
9 known to the Masters of India as the KHUNDLINI, or the
storehouse of SOLAR ENERGY. From this storehouse the
10 SUBCONSCIOUS M IND draws energy at different times, and
sends it to various parts of the body, where it is needed.
11 In the teachings of SU PER M IND SCIENCE which the
author has founded, after many years of research and study,
12 he has demonstrated a way to bring about a greater intake of
this energy into the center, and by training the Subconscious
13 Mind, one can continually renew the body, and thereby over­
come all physical defects. It is a known fact, that through
14 a provision of the Universal Mind of Creation, which is the
center of all knowledge from which we draw all Divine In-
15 spirations and higher thoughts for our progression, while in
the body here on earth— we are able to awaken in the
16 human system, all of the hidden forces of nature from time
to time, according to our intelligence and capability. This
17 energy is being used very successfully by those who learn to
control their thoughts, for it is the Will Power and the thought
18 force that sends it to the different parts of the body.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 175
1 The first training necessary to accomplish this, is to bring
the Physical Senses under the control of the Will, so that they
2 will not interfere with our direction of the energy. When one
is not receiving enough of this energy in one's body, the in-
3 dividual becomes very nervous and of an unsettled state of
mind, frequently attracting to himself numerous diseases, which
4 continually shorten his life. The medical profession seeks to
heal your diseases and your infirmities by giving you a drug
5 or an opiate, which you should know is not Nature’s way of
healing the body.
6 SUPER MIND SCIENCE comes before the world today,
and, contrary to the laws of training which your forefathers
7 have had, stands as an exponent of health, by developing Mind
and Body through the increase of Solar Energy and the use
8 of the Life Currents known as Life Energies. It seeks to teach
you how to live and be healthy, for if you live right, giving
9 your body the proper food, the proper energy and thoughts,
excluding all poison or misleading Mental Force of your own
16 being, and not be a slave to conditions, you will soon cease
to need a healer.
11 The very fact that so many sciences and religions seek a way
to heal the body by faith or drug, is an admission on their
12 part, that they have not succeeded in giving to humanity a
METHOD of keeping the body well and healthy with the
13 glow of youth, as they should have done. The people in
India who have used this force for rejuvenating the body have
14 been known to live from one hundred to five hundred years
of age, according to the records; yet the American calls the
15 Hindu ignorant, because he does not dress and live the way the
American thinks he should, overlooking the fact that the Hindu
16 has overcome all desire for personal aggrandizement and is able
to live on this earth for five centuries enjoying to the fullest
1" extent all the pleasure this life holds for one, who has a well
developed Mentality. The Adepts have developed this SOLAR
18 ENERGY to the extent that they can see in the darkness, and
176 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 can illuminate a room with this light by the power of their
W ILL, the light casting no shadow, which proves it to be the
2 real SO LAR EN ERG Y that animates and revives the human
body.
3 Next in importance to SO LAR ENERG Y is the Life Fluid,
which flows on the right and left sides of the CANAL OF
4 SOLAR EN ERG Y in the spine. This canal is called SUSH-
M UNA by the Hindus, and lies between NEGATIVE and
5 PO SITIV E ENERGIES. This is an electrical energy and does
not radiate heat, but radiates vitality. When this energy is
6 brought into the body by the Will Power, there begins in the
body a development known as the awakening of dormant cells,
7 which brings back the color of youth and a greater Concen­
tration Power to the Mind. Students, who have applied this
3 energy, testify that in one week’s time their entire view of life
has changed, their bodies and minds becoming alert and sensi-
9 tive to a greater POW ER and U N D ERSTA N D IN G of NA­
T U R E than they ever had before. This can be stimulated
10 by the control of the thoughts entering the body.
We take in thoughts each time we breathe— first the Posi-
11 tive half of the thought, then the Negative half comes through
the SOLAR PLEX U S and passes up the canal in the spine,
12 the PO SITIV E HALF going to the M ALE CEN TER of
SP IR IT U A LIT Y in the center of the head, the NEGATIVE
13 going to the FEM ALE CEN TER, just below the Male Center.
The Male Center is known to medical science as the Pineal
14 Gland, and the Female Center is known as the Pituitary Body
Gland, and a contact is formed between these two centers
15 through a current known to the Hindus as OJAS. By stimu­
lating this current and bringing it under the Power of the Will,
16 all thoughts that are contrary to the circulation of Energy will
be destroyed by the Will Power, thus sending Energy freely
17 into the body, wherever it is directed.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE teaches the student the control
18 of SOLAR ENERGY and the LIFE FLU ID S, bringing to
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 177
1 their understanding a practical, demonstrable knowledge of the
two greatest R EJU V EN A TIO N EN ERG IES known to man-
2 kind. The methods we use are very simple and can be learned
by any alert student in one day. Students have had such won-
3 derful success in the application of this knowledge, that they
have gone on to the higher development, using it to awaken
4 the PSYCHIC FA C U LT IES, thereby receiving wonderful
demonstration of COSMIC CO NSCIOUSNESS. The world
5 today is in need of this U N D ER STA N D IN G and can not af­
ford to be without it, because there is not a day of one’s life,
6 that some vital LAW OF N A T U R E is not violated, and with­
out COSMIC CO NSCIOUSNESS one is unable to tell when
7 such a law has been broken. Thus this Science brings youth,
vitality, and understanding of humanity, and no one can af-
8 ford to be without it. The above laws are only a small part
of SUPER M IND SCIENCE, which teaches the development
9 of perfect control of the body through the M IND, by using
POSITIVE and N EG A TIV E M IND FORCE. Methods of
10 control are titled Key to the lessons.
12 ter, we gain greater POW ER OF M EM ORY. In this method
of development, we use both BLOOD and ENERGY, sending
13 them to the M EM ORY CEN TER, with breath and thoughts
controlled, as taught in SU PER M IND SCIENCE. By ap-
14 plying strong W ILL POW ER to awaken the cells the surges
of blood and energy goes through the head similar to the
15 swells in the ocean. The more positive we are, the more cells
we will awaken.
16 When these cells are fully awakened, you will begin to
understand where your CONSCIOUSNESS goes when you are
17 asleep, and you will soon be able to project your consciousness
where you desire, and retain M EM ORY of what you learn in
18 your SPIR IT U A L CONSCIOUSNESS. No one should live
The Memory Faculty and
The Door of Soul.
The seat of M EM ORY is back
of the top of the head, and, by
awakening new cells in that cen-
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
continually in his body, as the body is only a dwelling place
for the SO UL, during its earthly existence. When the cells
in the A TM A begin to retain memory of the many things
you do, while in SP IR IT U A L CONSCIOUSNESS, you will
soon discover that your mind is more active when your body
is asleep than it is when your body is awake, and that you can
utilize all of this knowledge gained in that high state of CON­
SCIOUSNESS, and eventually, do away with promiscuous
dreaming, through T H E ELEV A T IO N OF CONSCIOUS­
NESS.
The object of SU PER M IND SCIENCE in the training of
the M EM ORY FA C U L T Y and the CONSCIOUSNESS in
this way, is to give man a higher means of education than that
which he can get while in the FLESH CONSCIOUSNESS.
The founder of this SCIENCE, having gained much of his
knowledge, while in the SPIR IT U A L CONSCIOUSNESS,
realizes that humanity, as a whole, should understand this
important part of its being. And be aware of the fact that
many people are absent from their bodies in CONSCIOUS­
NESS during sleep, and learn many things at that time which
are a detriment to them, the author more fully realizes that
the masses need a knowledge of SU PER MIND SCIENCE,
which gives a solution of these mysteries.
All activities so recorded are stored
up for future use of the CON­
SCIOUS M IND in the way of
comparison, and the greater the M EM ORY, and the stronger
the cells in that center, the more powerful your judgment by
comparison will be. The student of this Science who is earn­
estly trying to develop all of his latent powers, should realize
that MEMORY must be trained and that it must be in a strong
and healthy condition in order that we may function as SUPER
MEN and SUPER WOMEN in the affairs of our daily exist-
You should not allow any cells to lie dormant in the CEN-
A Strong Memory Solves
Many Problems.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 179
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
TER OF MEMORY, that would be of benefit to you in gain­
ing knowledge of either the PH YSICA L or SP IR IT U A L
PLANE OF LIFE, for your struggles with the obstacles in
this life, surely have taught you that you need to understand
every faculty of your mind and body, in order to cope with
the many conditions and situations that confront one. The
better your MEMORY, the greater the SU BCO N SCIO U S
MIND for the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND is that reservoir of
MEMORY wherein is recorded all of the deeds of the body
and the thots that pass thru the mind.
The founder of SUPER M IND SCIEN CE knows very well
that if you follow this method of the development of the
MEMORY faculty, it will retain a clear record of every thot
and feeling that permeates both mind and body. By stimulat­
ing the MEMORY C EN T ER in the brain, the founder of this
SCIENCE has revived or brought back instances which hap­
pened years ago and made them as clear to his CO NSCIO U S­
NESS today as they were then.
i\/r,„ n/r t-u- , T Nothing is ever lost. Every thot or
Man Must Think In , , . , . , . ’
T
T * . _ deed is stored up, either in the MEM-
Umversal Terms. v a/-
ORY of man or in the AQUASIAC
RECORD of the U NIV ERSE, and when your M IND becomes
universal and thinks in universal terms, and your M EM ORY
FA CU LTY is developed to its highest state, YO U W ILL BE ­
COME CONSCIOUS OF T H IS U N IV ERSA L RECORD,
called by some of the Prophets “ T H E M EM ORY OF GOD.”
Here we find recorded all of the activities, thots, and deeds in
the evolution of man, since the body developed from a single
cell, struggling and struggling and finally gaining CON­
SCIOUSNESS thru the development of senses in the body, un­
til he reached his present state of development.
In this struggle for existence and the education of the SOUL
of man, we find that there was always some remedy for his
ills, and that there has always been a higher means of educa­
tion than that which is under the limitation of PH YSICAL
m
a
m
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
LAW . It is the aim of the founder of SUPER MIND
SCIENCE to give to his students a method for the develop­
ment of the M EM ORY FA C U L T Y and SPIRITU A L CON­
SCIOUSNESS, so that they may gain knowledge of the
progress of man, of the past and the future, so that they may
solve and become master of their own destiny. One’s destiny
is not decided by fate, but is measured by KNOWLEDGE, for,
without KNOW LEDGE and SP IR IT U A L EDUCATION,
we cannot cope with the situations of this world, nor can we
cope with the situations of the next.
If we would find A T-O N E-M EN T with the absolute and
feel your connection with the AQUASIAC RECORD, it must
be thru the education gained in SP IR IT U A L CONSCIOUS­
NESS, but this knowledge thru SP IR IT U A L CONSCIOUS­
NESS can be gained much more readily if we have the KNOWL­
EDGE or CONSCIOUSNESS of being able to leave the body
in SPIR IT U A L CONSCIOUSNESS at will. This can be
done only thru the KNOW LEDGE OF T H E DOOR OF
SOUL, which we will now consider.
The door of Soul is that aperture of the
skull which has been such a puzzle to MED­
ICAL SCIENCE of this modern age, lo­
cated directly over the temples, for they could see no reason for
an opening in the bones of the skull. However, for fifty
thousand years, the A D EPTS of the great Esoteric Schools
have known the secret of the DOOR OF SOUL, which is called
by the A D EPTS and HOLY MEN, “ TH E SACRED DOOR.”
SUPER MIND SCIENCE now comes to give the entire human
family a logical and practical explanation of the use of the
DOOR OF SOUL.
We must first realize that there is no portion of the body
that is not under the control of the W ILL, the DOOR OF
SOUL included, and that, if we would master our body, we
must also master the entrance and exit of our CONSCIOUS­
NESS thru the DOOR OF SOUL.
Where the Ego
Leaves the Body.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 181
Super Mind Science Reveals
Simple Methods to Gain
“Spiritual Education.”
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
During Sleep Man’s Consciousness When we go to sleep at
Is Absent from the Body. night our CO N SCIO U S­
N ESS goes out into the
unseen realms of the U NIV ERSE. This has been proven by
all the M ASTER A D EPTS and JE S U S OF N A ZA RETH ,
for that is how he appeared to His disciples. Our CO N SCIO U S­
NESS of the unseen realm is at all times active, doing something
or learning something; sometimes good, sometimes bad, de­
pending entirely upon the thoughts of the individual.
The student should bear in mind
that the founder of this Science
has been through most of the long
drawn out methods that have been
taught by the Yogis and Chelas and Masters of India, and that
after comparing all of these, he has done some investigating of
his own, thereby discovering the numerous mistakes made by
those who understood the operation of the DOOR OF SOUL,
and has finally had revealed to him the simple method which
he now teaches. This method is simple and practical and can
be operated by anyone who will follow instructions carefully.
THE DOOR OF SO U L is used to leave the body in CO N­
SCIOUSNESS, and to go to any part of the Universe desired,
and to learn, whatever we will to learn, while the body sleeps.
This can be done very effectively when you have used the LIFE
CU RRENT, as taught in the previous lessons, to awaken the
SPIRITU A L SENSE CEN TERS. This is a wonderful way
to get a SPIR IT U A L ED U CATIO N , and is the method that
is used, by the Master Adepts, to attain the A T-O N E-M EN T
with the GOD CONSCIOUSNESS, that has been talked of
and written about so much in this country.
T _ , _ . There is another use of the DOOR
Influence of the Cosmic.
OF SOUL, namely, dealing with
INFLUENCES of the COSMIC. When you have something
difficult to accomplish, you can open the DOOR OF SO U L
through your W ILL POW ER to an IN FLU EN CE, which
182 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
will aid you in whatever you desire to accomplish. This IN­
FLU EN C E may be in the form of a Perfect Idea taken in from
the U N IV ERSA L M IND or it may be in the form of an
Entity! created by the SUB-CO NSCIO U S MIND by an
Image being cast in the IM A G IN A TIV E CHAMBER of the
MIND. Regardless of how the IN FLU EN CE is brought into
the body, its quality and intelligence will be under the direc­
tion of the W ILL POWER, which will force it to do what
you desire.
Caiijn In an The founder of SU PER M IND SCIENCE
T has had some very remarkable experiences
Influence. . . . . . . . ,
in his class rooms, when teaching the opera­
tion of the DOOR OF SO UL, using one of his students for
the demonstration; for instance, he has taken students, who
were suffering from pain in some part of the body, and has
called an IN FLU EN CE into their body, through the DOOR
OF SOUL to stop the pain and to heal them, and otained im­
mediate results. He has also instructed his students how to
call in an INFLU ENCE, that will bring “ PRO SPERITY”
and some of them have reported wonderful success within a
few days after they had tried the experiment. These examples
are conclusive proof that the Operation of the DOOR OF
SOUL is one of the most powerful methods for GUIDANCE
ever introduced to this world.
This knowledge is just as effective and the results, if any­
thing more wonderful, when used for SPIR IT U A L purposes.
For instance, some of the students would call in an IN FLU ­
ENCE from the COSMIC, asking for a revelation through
that INFLUENCE OF GOD CONSCIOUSNESS. In a few
days they would report having had a wonderful vision, which
explained to them, in its completeness, the operation of GOD
CONSCIOUSNESS in man, and they were the happiest people
on earth, having found out the secret of “ God in Them,” and
the operation of that Power in a practical way. After such
an experience their minds will no longer be clouded by doubt
J L
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 183
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
and the misunderstanding of the H U M AN SO UL.
The method of the DOOR OF SO U L as
taught in SU PER M IND SCIENCE, will
bring back to man that confidence in the
Lost Wisdom
Regained.
CREATIVE FORCE and KNOW LEDGE of the H EA V EN S
experienced by so many of the PR O PH ETS of old, for none
of this WISDOM has ever been lost to man; it has only been
hidden for a time, to be revealed again by some Master, se­
lected by the great IM M O RTA L FR A T E R N IT IE S, This
is only the beginning of a U N IV ER SA L SCIENCE and R E ­
LIGION, and the founder of SU PER M IND SCIENCE will
give his life to the promotion of these SC IE N T IFIC
TRU TH S, for in them lie the solution to crime, evil and
strife that is, now rampant in all the earth.
CH RISTIA N ITY must either produce a proof of its claims
or take a back seat among the religions of the world. When
JESU S told His Disciples that anyone who came in His name
would be able to heal the sick, open the eyes of the blind, and
preach the T R U T H to the poor, He meant just what He said;
yet we are sorry to note this is the part of C H R IST IA N IT Y
that is now being ridiculed by almost all R ELIG IO U S IN ­
ST IT U T IO N S, who though using the name of C H RIST
as a means of attraction, are scorning His W ORKS. Some
say these WORKS were the operation of a LAW of H Y P­
NOSIS and IM AGINATION and are not real.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE comes to the world today, ex­
pounded by a teacher who is a Master of this Science, and sends
a Challenge to Humanity to disprove the real existence today
of the POWER D EM O N STR A TED BY CH RIST. This
power can be demonstrated by any T R U E disciple and has
been witnessed by the general public at the free healing meet­
ings which are held, wherever SUPER M IND SCIENCE is
being taught. It is the only SCIENCE known to man that
has ever guaranteed results to those taking up the study, and
thus far has succeeded in proving its claims. It stands open
184 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
Door of Soul Great
Occult Secret.
to investigation by the most exacting critics and is confident
that it will succeed wherever REASO N prevails.
The teachings of the DOOR OF SOUL
in the side of the skull, has been one of
our greatest SP IR IT U A L TRIUMPHS,
and as people grow in the KNOW LEDGE of this great OC­
C U L T SEC R ET, their “ Joy in living” will increase and
they will discover that the gateway to life and the COSMIC
is in the PH YSICAL BEING— MAN, and that one can
enjoy the KNOW LEDGE of the HEAVENS without wait­
ing to die. Through COSM IC IN TELLIG EN C E they can
then prove to themselves that the so-called “ Dead” are merely
people who have passed through the DOOR OF SOUL into
A ST R A L CONSCIOUSNESS and that they really are just as
“ A LIV E ” as they ever were if they merit immortality. If the
student desires to prove this to his own satisfaction, he should
concentrate his mind on someone who has passed from this
life, using the SUPER M IND SCIENCE method of LIB­
ERA TIN G TH E CONSCIOUSNESS from the body to con­
verse with the one in mind. The author has received many
testimonials from students, who have actually accomplished
this, and are able to leave their body at will.
Thus SUPER M IND SCIENCE solves the mysteries of
success in this life and of the life hereafter, as well, and the
DOOR OF SOUL as taught in this SCIENCE can be used
just as effectively on the PHYSICAL PLANE as it can be
used on the A STRA L PLANE. By the same method by using
a stronger W ILL FORCE, the student can project his CON­
SCIOUSNESS beyond the PH YSICAL and ASTRAL
PLANE into the SPIR ITU A L REALM OF T H E SOUL.
A LL T R U T H S pertaining to man operate on the three
planes, man being PHYSICAL, M EN TA L AND SPIRIT­
U A L. Therefore, a law which applies to one plane, when
extended by the W ILL POWER applies to the other planes.
T .1 • ntmrin » ___ _._
SCIENCE differs from all ES-
18 In this SUPER MIND
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 185
1 TOTERIC SCIENCES heretofore discovered by man, and
the DOOR OF SOUL is only one of the many teachings in
2 this SCIENCE, for the development of the M IND, the BO DY
and the SOUL, TH E DOOR OF SOUL.
KEY T O LESSO N NO. 7.
THE DEVELO PM ENT OF T H E M EN T A L FA C U L T Y
3 The seat of Memory is back of the A TM A , top of head,
where the Spiritual Mind is located.
4 First. Send BLOOD AND EN ERG Y to top of head, lungs
inflated, which forces blood up to the head, using SU PER
5 MIND SCIENCE Concentration Method and W ILL POW ER
to develop MEM ORY of “ where your CO NSCIOUSNESS
6 goes when you sleep” Hold lungs full until you feel the force
in the memory center.
7 Second. Send BLOOD AND EN ERG Y IN A PO SIT IV E
STA TE OF MIND T O TH E DOOR OF SO U L (side of
8 skull) W ILLING to open it to any IN FLU EN CE you desire
to come in, lungs inflated; then relax to N EG A TIV E ST A T E
9 while INFLUENCE comes in. Visualize results.
Third. GO IN TO PO SITIV E ST A T E , USING W ILL
10 POWER, BLOOD AND ENERGY. Close the DOOR OF
SOUL to all IN FLU EN CES that cause sickness, failure and
11 trouble. OPEN T H E DOOR OF SO U L— USING POSI­
TIV E ST A T E , BLOOD AND EN ERG Y— to all IN FLU ­
ÍA ENCES T H A T BRING SUCCESS, H EA LTH and happiness.
Fourth. T o leave the body in CO NSCIOUSNESS through
13 TH E DOOR OF SO U L: Stimulate the PO SITIV E C U R ­
REN T in the right side by BREA TH IN G very deep, then stop
^4 breath; willing where you desire to project your CON­
SCIOUSNESS before sleep; then go to sleep in this manner.
15 You will awaken with a clear CONSCIOUSNESS of having
been where you willed to go in the A ST R A L M EN TA L
*6 ST A T E . This is the same state one enters at death.
186 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
LESSO N NO. 8.
HOW T O OVERCOM E A LL BAD HABITS AND
DESIRES.
1 There is a center in the human body that is known in
the Orient as the CRU CIFIXIO N C EN TER, and it is claimed
2 by the great A D EPTS, that the reason JE SU S was predestined
to die on the “ CRO SS,” was because this CEN TER in the
3 body has always been used as a SYM BOL of ATTAINING
CH RIST CONSCIOUSNESS, many thousands of years before
4 JE SU S OF N A ZA RETH died on the Cross. They claim
that the great U N IV ERSA L M IND predestined Him to so
5 die in order to symbolize “ T H E CRU CIFIXIO N OF THE
FLESH .”
6 This CEN TER OF CRU CIFIXIO N is located in the back
of the neck. This is where the N EG A TIV E and POSITIVE
I currents of the body “cross” and when operated by the WILL
POWER it takes immediate effect upon the DESIRE CEN-
8 TER , located near the M ED U LA OBLONGADA. SUPER
MIND SCIENCE offers to the world the greatest method
9 ever discovered for the CRU CIFIXIO N of all BAD HABITS
AND DESIRES, by controlling this center through the opera-
10 tion of the W ILL POWER and the N EG A TIV E and POSI­
T IV E LIFE CU RRENTS.
11 Method of Crucifixion following » the method used;
Center Lhe student generates the POSITIVE
12 ‘ CU R REN T, using the SUPER
MIND SCIENCE method of Concentration to draw it through
13 the SOLAR PLEXU S, then through the right half of the body
until a circle is formed, as demonstrated in the class room.
^4 This same operation is repeated on the left side, using the
N EG A TIV E CU RREN T to form a circle. Finally both
15 circles of current are sent to the CRUCIFIXION CENTER,
with a PO SITIV E suggestion to the SUB-CONSCIOUS
16 M IND that you are crucifying all “ Bad Habits and Desires.”
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 187
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
You will find that if you struggle with the habit in this man­
ner, using your W ILL POW ER to overcome it, the struggle
will be of short duration, because you will have overcome the
DESIRE back of it.
D .. One of the greatest faults to be found in
eigon o 0 ay tke present systems of RELIG IO N and
ot practical. so_called C H R IST IA N IT Y , is the fact
that millions of people who supposedly are Christians, are still
slaves to numerous habits and desires which impair the health
and destroy the mind of the individual. We also believe that
these habits and desires often destroy the entire CO N SCIO U S­
NESS of the individual on the A ST R A L PLA N E both here
and hereafter, which fact prevents them from enjoying the IM ­
M ORTALITY OF T H E SO U L as expounded by JE SU S.
The young people of today have somehow lost faith in
the RELIGION of their forefathers, because they regard it
as not being practical; even some of the older adherents of
CH RISTIANITY fail to regard RELIG IO N any more as a
means of practical salvation. This leaves the field open to
SUPER MIND SCIENCE which promises to become the
greatest organiaztion of its kind in the world, for the simple
Mental Slavery.
reason that its C H R IST IA N IT Y and its PHILOSOPHY,
M ENTAL and SPIR IT U A L and PH YSICAL, makes it op­
erative on all the planes of man’s existence.
Man can never 'become a M A STER as
long as his mind is still a slave to some
petty habit; therefore, he must declare his FREEDOM by
learning a PR A CTIC A L M ETH O D OF OVERCOM ING
THE H ABIT. A habit is the result of the training of the
SUB-CONSCIOUS M IND to desire a certain thing. After
the DESIRE is established, there is set up in the brain, a center,
through the awakening of dormant cells, which intensify the
desire for whatever the H A BIT may call for.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE not only has a method of
CRUCIFYING T H E H A BIT by the SH O RT C IR C U IT
188 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
M ETHO D, but has a method of awakening cells which have
heretofore been lying dormant, that will counteract the influ­
ence of the cells that operate in favor of the WEAKNESS or
H A B IT ; thus the liberation from the habit is made per­
manent.
The tobacco habit is an evidence of mental slavery and
it has been found that nearly all of the exponents of SUPER
M IND SCIENCE readily overcome the desire for the weed.
This habit is the cause of much of the skin trouble and the
poor circulation of the blood that predominates among its
addicts. In fact, it has done far more towards injuring the
mental power and the general well being of the user than the
liquor habit.
Flesh Desires Must
Be Overcome.
These habits should be controlled by
the W ILL POWER of the individual
backed up by the sensible use of NEGA­
T IV E and PO SITIV E M IND FORCE, which was given to
man by the CR EA TIV E POWER, instead of being con­
trolled by LAW -M AKING BODIES, for, as long as the de­
sire is in the mind of the individual, a violation of these laws
will continue. Man must be ruled by reason and not by
force. CH RIST ruled through LO VE and not through CON­
DEM NATION. He who cannot love his fellowman to the
extent that he will not condemn him, can never expect to be
known as a T R U E FOLLOW ER OF TH E GREAT
M ASTER.
The world today needs a RELIGION and PHILOSOPHY
which goes from the lowest plane of life to the highest plane
of IN TELLIG EN CE, for there are people with many dif­
ferent ideas and degrees of IN TELLLIG EN C E to be dealt
with. Just recently a man stood in the pulpit of a so-called
HOUSE OF GOD,” and told his parishoners that they were
not followers, in the true sense, of the meek and lowly JESU S
OF NAZARETH for their minds were saturated with de­
sires of the flesh which had to be overcome before they could
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 189
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
God Consciousness Must Be
The Student’s Guide.
even aspire to the great knowledge expounded by JE SU S. He
further told them that the churches must open their doors
to the poor, and place there a D IV IN E H EA LER who should
have GOD-GIVEN POW ERS to demonstrate the DOC­
TRINES OF CH RIST. This man was persecuted and was
tried for being a heretic, and was expelled from the so-called
“HOUSE OF GOD” by his employers, the “ millionaires.”
Every student of SU PER M IND
SCIENCE must be a testimony
against this selfish spirit, for all
of them must be healers and expounders of the T R U T H . As
a Son of God, we will control our M INDS and BODIES.
We will declare who and what shall visit our house— our
bodies— and who shall not, and will raise up the BANNER
OF T R U TH to all the world, free from H A B IT and M EN ­
TAL SLAVERY, true followers of JE SU S OF N AZA­
RETH and CITIZEN S OF T H E U N IV ERSE. No fetters
shall bind our expression of common sense and BR O T H ER ­
LY LOVE, no creed will halt the healing of the sick and the
performing of the A C T S OF M ERCY in our TEM PLES.
No preachers, priests or other leaders will be accepted as au­
thority in this great work of ours, but the GOD CO NSCIO US­
NESS W ITHIN US, which we will develop through the
methods of SUPER M IND SCIENCE, shall be our guide.
v , , „ As long as you are a slave of the five
~ R senses and a slave to habits formed by
o He Master. ^ SUBCONSCIO US M IND you
can never glimpse the great pleasures that are in store
for those who attain M ASTERSH IP. By the proper use of
this method of “ OVERCOM ING,” as taught in SUPER
MIND SCIENCE you can successfully stop all worry and be­
come indifferent to failure, which will eventually mean your
SUCCESS in practically everything you attempt. By master­
ing this H A BIT CEN TER, you will soon be conscious of the
fact that you are developing habits that will keep you young
190 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
and healthy instead of, as before, fighting habits that were
harmful, for when the M IND is free to operate as it should
over the body and not kept in a condition of slavery by DE­
SIRE AND H A BIT, the M IND itself will REJUVENATE
T H E BO DY and gradually CHECK T H E FLOW OF MOR­
T A L IT Y in the body.
You will live longer and have a greater nowledge of the
POW ER W ITH IN YO U by mastering your weaknesses, for
no one can ever know the power of resistance in his body until
he has put it to a test. This method of overcoming HABIT
and DESIRE is one of the quickest ways ever discovered by
man, but it will put you to a test to prove if you are worthy to
become a M A STER. Remember, that in M ASTERSHIP there
is no weakness, no “ cant’s,” and no excuses; therefore, if you
aspire to become a M A STER, you must learn to say “I
W ILL,” “ I CAN ,” “ I AM STRO N G ER THAN ALL
H A BITS FORM ED BY M Y SUBCONSCIOUS MIND.
M Y SUBCONSCIOUS M IND W ILL BE A SLAVE TO
TH E ‘I AM ’ W ITH IN M E.” When you have gone through
these trials of OVERCOM ING T H E FLESH, you will be
better fitted to be A LEAD ER OF H U M AN ITY.
T j , „ . The day is dawning when all LEAD-
, h
" ° L Huma,
m' y ERS OF H U M A N ITY will have .0
be an example of the high teachings,
in order to lead humanity to that goal of attainment which
the great M ASTER, JE SU S OF NAZARETH, desired them
to attain, and SUPER MIND SCIENCE is the stepping stone
to this M ASTERSH IP that has so long been misunderstood
and misinterpreted by the mental students of the West. One
of the great prophets of the EA ST declared that when the
WISDOM of the far East would meet the practical mind of
the West, the dawn of the M ILLENNIUM and CHRIST
CONSCIOUSNESS would be established. In the class room
where this WISDOM has been taught the expression on
the faces of those who were trying to attain this great knowl-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 191
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
edge, proclaimed that the T R U T H S OF SU PER M IND
SCIENCE are a remedy for the ills of man, and that it will
be but a short time when it will be recognized as the L O ST
ANCIENT WISDOM, returned to man with its great power
for doing good and its absolute success in gaining knowledge
for its adherents. This means the EM A N CIPA TIO N OF
THE HUMAN MIND ON this continent, when once more
happiness and true FREEDOM of T H O U G H T will be estab­
lished on this earth.
rp, f-s j r r, , So remember that when you work
The Creed of Super Mmd su p E R M [N D SCIENCE and
Science Is Love. . , . , .
its success you are working tor the
CHRIST ideal, for it is not bound by the fetters of misunder­
standing, and has no limit set by mortal man. Its creed is
LOVE: its object is to give the LIG H T OF U N D ER ST A N D ­
ING OF GOD to man, and the power to foresee the events
in his life: also a method of healing for mind and body. What
higher ideal could any science have?
So the founder of SUPER M IND SCIENCE wishes to leave
these thoughts with you; “ BE FREE FROM A LL H A BIT,
GAIN COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS AND KNOW T H A T
WITHIN YOU IS POW ER T O M A STER EV ER Y
W EAKNESS.” Do not make excuses, but go on and on, for
no Master ever attained his greatness without a struggle to
overcome obstacles. “ The harder the struggle, the greater
the victory.” Always say, “ I CA N ,” “ I W ILL,” and SU C ­
CESS will surely come to you.
KEY T O LESSON NO. 8.
HOW T O OVERCOM E A LL BAD H A BITS AND
DESIRES.
16
First. Generate Positive ENERGY on right side by breathing,
drawing it up the spine, through the right side of the head
and down the right arm, forming a perfect circle, with breath
192 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 under control. Repeat this until you have a perfect circle
formed on the other side, generating N EG A TIV E ENERGY
2 the same way. The Positive and Negative, form separate circles.
Second. Then become PO SITIV E, thinking intently of
3 what you desire to overcome; stop the breath and send both
circles of ENERG Y up to the CRU CIFIXIO N CENTER,
4 with concentrated thought of OVERCOM ING TH E HABIT
BY CRU CIFYING IT.
5 Third. Take exercise as in the first part of this key, with
the thought of OVERCOM ING A LL BAD HABITS, think-
6 ing of each habit separately. Do this for ten minutes, then
set up strong centers in the A TM A to counteract your desire
7 for the habit by concentration. T H IS IS VERY EFFEC­
TIV E.
8 Fourth. D ESTR O Y A LL H A BITS T H A T CAUSE
YOU TO W ORRY, AND ALSO T O HAVE FEAR, AND
9 BE A SLAVE T O TH E FIV E SENSES. In doing this you
will be FORMING A H A BIT OF “ OVERCOMING,"
I 0 which will result in the A T T A IN M E N T OF MASTERSHIP
OVER TH E FLESH CONSCIOUSNESS and a DEVELOP-
I I M EN T OF CH RIST CONSCIOUSNESS.
Fifth. Use this method also to overcome likes and dislikes
12 and personal feelings, because, from these develop all DARK
PRINCIPLES, such as malice, hatred, envy, jealousy, etc.
13 TH E MORE IMPERSONAL YOU BECOME AND THE
MORE U NIVERSAL YOU TH INK, the greater will be your
14 success in life and your happiness, for A LL HAPPINESS
COMES THROUGH SERVICE T O O TH ERS AND IN
15 DOING GOOD TO TH E UNIVERSE, OF WHICH YOU
ARE A PART.
__________ WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY__________ 193
LESSONS 9 AND 10.
OVERCOMING HARM FUL T H O U G H T W AVES.
1 HARMFUL TH O U G H T W AVES are the emanations of
thoughts from the lower self and are detrimental to the growth
2 of the mind and the body. When you overcome them, you
also overcome sorrow, disappointment, and all of the trouble-
3 some conditions that usually arise in the life of one who is
undeveloped. These W AVES of thoughts usually generate
4 in the flesh body itself and do not come in through the SOLAR
PLEXUS from the COSMIC mind. The first thing to do
5 in overcoming them is to practice taking all of the thoughts
into the mind through the SOLAR P LE X U S from the COS-
6 MIC. Any thoughts coming into the mind which suggest
malice, hatred or envy are thoughts of flesh, and are not
I thoughts of the Universal Mind or the Ego. In order to ever
attain great spiritual bliss, you must overcome all manifesta-
8 tions of the lower TH O U G H T W AVES.
9 These TH O U G H T W AVES produce in man all of the
brutal qualities common to the lower animals of the uni-
^9 verse. The desire to kill, coupled with greed, is no doubt the
cause of many of the wars we have had, and, when they op-
11 erate under the principle of jealousy, they are very often the
cause of murder and all manner of crime. Many of the stud-
^2 ents of SUPER MIND SCIENCE have successfully stilled these
WAVES OF TH O U G H T by going into a deep state of medi-
13 tation, thinking of the beautiful things of the universe and
feeling their connection with the God-center in all things. By
14 doing this, they set up centers in the brain that attract Divine
thoughts and repel the W AVES of EV IL TH O U G H T. The
1^ students have testified that, while taking this meditative exer­
cise, a wonderful feeling of bliss would sweep through their
18 minds.
Ji
»ssswoosc;:-: iiiiEisS;!!!!
194 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
U. :
Cosmic Consciousness. This is the beginning of COSMIC
CONSCIOUSNESS. Soon you will
learn, if you pursue this kind of meditation, that you are never
alone, because you are a part of all things, and when you go
down in deep concentration, into the subway of mind, and this
feeling of bliss comes over you, there comes with it a new
understanding of the universe and soon you will hear the voice
of the EGO speaking in the silence for the WAVES of EVIL
T H O U G H TS are all that prevent you at this time from hear­
ing the VOICE OF TH E SILEN CE and receiving knowledge
of the EGO.
In some of the great Esoteric Schools of Tibet, this symbol
is given to the student: “ Your body is like the ocean, continu­
ally being disturbed by waves. The waves are the thoughts
from the Lower Self. But your soul is like the deep of the
ocean— it is quiet and calm, and when you still the Waves
of the LOW ER TH O U G H TS in the ocean of self, you will
begin to perceive the beauty of the calmness and peace with­
in; for in the center of your SOLAR PLEX U S sits the MAS­
TER , robed in white, and when you give in to the Waves
of EV IL TH O U G H TS, the Master-self, the EGO, speaks
to you and gives you a word of warning. And when you
master the Waves of Thought, the Master, EGO, speaks to
you and says, “ Peace be still,” know that "I AM ” is within
thee: and that you, through the “ I AM ” are stronger than all
thoughts that generate in the flesh body.”
“ Blessed Is He That In the 3uietness of Your own soul y0U
Overcomes.” are then gradually gaining power over the
lower nature and exalting the higher na­
ture of man. Soon the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND will be
taught by your CONSCIOUS MIND to still the WAVES
OF EV IL TH O U GH TS before they take effect upon you;
and the physical body, under the power of your W ILL, will
become like clay in the hands of the potter. This quality of
M ASTERSH IP is the quality which SUPER MIND
10
11
12
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 195
1 SCIENCE desires to bring to man, and with it comes the
greatest and most pure understanding of true CH RISTIA N -
2 ITY that man has ever received; for it is indeed the teachings
of CHRIST, for when Christ said, "Blessed is he that over-
3 cometh,” He meant the overcoming of the T H O U G H T
WAVES and the Mastership of the Lower self. Then you
4 will know the meaning of the saying, "It is not I that doeth
these works, but it is He that sent me” for as soon as you have
5 stilled the thoughts of your lower self, you will become con­
scious of a great power within you, which will operate under
6 your W ILL for the healing of the sick, for hearing the Voice
of Intuition and for spiritual sight, spiritual hearing and many
7 other kinds of phenomena.
The price of all of these great gifts is to overcome the lower
8 self. Then there is nothing to interfere with their operation,
for they are manifestations of the power of the EGO. When
9 you make a mistake, the EGO always warns you in advance,
and if you have overcome your lower self by stilling the
10 WAVES OF TH O U G H T you will receive that warning with­
out fail. All that keeps anyone from receiving that warning
11 are the Thought Waves and thoughts that come from the
darker principles of man.
Symbol of ^ ^ ere is a symbol used in some of the great
The Ladder Esoteric Schools of a ladder pointing upward;
13 ‘ the steps on this ladder symbolize desires of
the flesh, thoughts of the flesh, and their manifestation in man.
14 Each time you overcome them, the symbol teaches that you
advance a step up the ladder, facing a blinding light; in this
15 blinding light you develop spiritual hearing and spiritual sight
through the control of the senses. And the teaching is that
16 you cannot do this as long as you are a slave to any thoughts
of LOWER SELF, for the light will continue to blind you
17 and keep you from ascending until you have mastered these
lower manifestations of the flesh. When you have mastered
18 SELF the light will become more subdued to you, and you
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
will become more conscious of having attained the most de­
sired goal of man— T H A T OF M ASTERSHIP— and from
then on you will always be where there is PERFECT LIGHT.
This light will continue to blind those who are still at the
bottom of the ladder, struggling in the web of flesh thoughts
and lower principles which they will have to overcome if they
ever ascend the ladder. This, dear student, is one of the teach­
ings that the founder of this Science has received and had he
not paid the price of OVERCOM ING, you would not be
reaping the benefits of this wonderful science that he is try­
ing to give to the world. May your ascension of the ladder
by overcoming material desires and thoughts be more pleas­
ant than his, and may you rest secure in the knowledge of the
fact that SUPER M IND SCIENCE is the shortest road to the
attainment of this great M ASTERSHIP.
Man Is Both Physical A11 ,thingS ° j 3 Phy‘ ical “ “ *
, o . .. , simply a crude reflection of the same
and Spiritual. , • . . . . „
thing in a spiritual way. For instance,
the radio is a duplication of the ear, and by using your hear­
ing center as taught in SUPER M IND SCIENCE, you hear
the music of the ether the same as you do when using a radio
receiving apparatus. The more you still the Waves of Self,
the more beautiful will be this music, and finally the thoughts
of the mind will become audible to you as sound in the hear­
ing center. This proves that every thought sent out from the
brain produces its likeness in sound in the hearing center, and
by development of this faculty, as taught in SUPER MIND
SCIENCE BY TH E DIRECTIN G of your consciousness you
will soon be able to hear the thoughts of others expressed in
words in that center. This is called Spiritual Hearing, be­
cause its operation depends entirely on the hearing of the spirit­
ual self and the thought waves in the ether.
The founder has seen over two hundred people assembled
in a classroom using this method of SUPER M IND SCIENCE,
out of which many received demonstrations, the first time they
L M I 3 . m-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 197
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Super Mind Science Is
Practical Christianity.
had used the method. This alone is one of the great proofs
that SUPER MIND SCIENCE can give to man that power
and knowledge which no other science up to this time has been
able to give Him. So develop this faculty to its highest
technique in use, for your spiritual hearing is just as important
as your physical hearing, and all are gifts of the same God­
being.
In order to function as a perfect personality, you must be
spiritual as well as physical; for if you are only half developed,
be it either spiritual or physical, you cannot function as a com­
plete person. When you have stilled the T H O U G H T
WAVES, and overcome the thoughts that harm others in your
mind, the great value of this lesson will be plainer to you.
Remember that when you meditate
upon stilling the Waves of Thought,
you should use the Perfect Concentra­
tion Method as taught in SU PER M IND SCIEN CE; other­
wise, the tempter, viz., evil thoughts, will enter your divine
meditation. Beware of thoughts of selfish gain and attain­
ment for flesh self. While they are a part of the great illu­
sion of flesh self, they will have to be overcome with all the
other injurious thoughts that come from the ocean of flesh.
Always try to succeed in this divine attainment— for the good
you can do others and for your love of the God-being, for this
is true devotion which must accompany your seeking for spirit­
ual knowledge. This meditation will also help elevate your
thoughts to the highest pinnacle of Spirituality, which means
your spiritual success.
When you have followed out the .instructions of prac­
tical divine science as taught in SUPER M IND SCIENCE,
you will find that you do not need any other religious teachings
in order to attain the Christ-consciousness, which is practical
Christianity. May you be one of the bearers of the White
Light, the symbol of spiritual purity of this Science, and exalt
it above all materialistic and selfish ideals; for its success means
198 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 your success, and through your duty to others you owe the
utmost devotion to the ideals of this great WISDOM TEACH-
2 ING.
KEY T O LESSON NO. 9.
HOW TO OVERCOM E H ARM FUL TH O U G H T WAVES
q
First. Generate life current, Negative and Positive; center
the mind on the Solar Plexus; will out all thoughts from the
^ mind except Divine thoughts that come from the Universal
Mind, concentrating on the Solar Plexus.
Second. In positive attitude, speak to the SUBCON­
SCIOUS M IND and tell it that you will not receive any
® thoughts that come from your lower nature, having the quali­
ties of malice, hatred or envy.
Third. In receptive state, let feelings of bliss go from the
forehead to the SOLAR PLEX U S and feel you are at one with
Universal God-consciousness, and that you are all powerful.
This will overcome disease and weaknesses of the body and
® mind.
10 Tourth. Place your mind on something of a Divine Char­
acter; inhibit all thought not on that subject. Do the same
thing when you desire material success; then relax and feel
you have accomplished it. This will bring you succses in
all walks of life, since it closes out the thoughts of lower self.
LESSON NO. 10.
12 The Awakening of The EGO CEN TER is called by the
The Ego Center. adepts of India the “ Sacral Plexus” and
is one of the seats of the KHUNDLINI,
.. . SPIR IT U A L ENERGY. In the Sanscrit language it has
been known as the Muladhara Chakra. It is also referred to
by many of the Oriental Masters, as the Bride of the Lotus
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 199
Centers, because it has a great deal to do with the awakening of
the Spiritual Sense Centers in the spine.
This center is at the base of the spine and receives all of the
surplus energy of the body. It also receives a great force of
power from the EGO. It is said by the great teachers of the
Himalaya Mountains, that those who have awakened this cen­
ter, are God-beings, having all power to do good, knowing
the secrets of the Universe, and having no material desires what­
soever. The senses which were once physical now become
spiritual; the eyes which formerly beheld everything from a
material standpoint, now see from a spiritual standpoint.
It is the desire of the founder of SU PER M IND SCIENCE
that the American people learn the great value of the EGO
CENTER to the spiritual self and to their progression when
they leave this mundane sphere. By using the method taught
in this lesson of SUPER M IND SCIENCE, you must really
feel the awakening of this center, and then you will find that
the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND will never cease in its power
of reaction until it has fully awakened that Center.
r> r pn, t~
, When you have begun to awaken
I he Power of The Ego. , 7.. ,, ,
it, the first effects that you will
notice on yourself will be a change of ideas; for, where you
formerly thought only of yourself and your physical welfare,
you will now think of others and their spiritual welfare. With
this change comes a great desire to do good, which is followed
by an awakening of the Spiritual Senses. You will probably,
while in a relaxed state of mind, experience beautiful visions
and the Voice of Intuition will become audible so that it seems
like the voice of another person speaking to you when the
EGO is giving you knowledge. The EGO being in a high
rate of vibration, is conscious of almost everything in the
Universe, and when this EGO center begins to vibrate so that
its powers vibrate the physical body, as was demonstrated in
the SUPER MIND SCIENCE class room, there can be no
question as to the success of the method. It is and will con-
202 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 doing so, you will feel a Great Spiritual Awakening and prob­
ably will experience some psychic manifestations. If you con-
2 tinue this for a few months, you will obtain great results.
KEY T O LESSO N NO. 10.
T O AW AKEN EGO CENTER.
3 First. Extend arms outward, throw shoulders back as far
as possible, think of the center and determine to awaken the
4 KH UNDLINI, SPIR IT U A L ENERG Y and cause it to pass
up the canal in the center of the spine. (The Ego Center is
® just back of the Solar Plexus.)
Each time you succeed in your concentration, the body will
® jerk forward without the effort of the conscious will. Con­
tinue this until you have a current circulating in your fingers.
7 This develops COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
Second. Have a sacred feeling while dealing with the
® KHUNDLINI. If you awaken it and it passes up the canal
only one inch during your entire lifetime you will have suc-
9 ceeded in solving many great spiritual problems.
FOR D EVELO PM EN T OF SPIR IT U A L SIGHT.
10 First. Close the eyes and you will observe the golden light
under the eyelids. Start the generation of the current by deep
11 breathing and send current to the eyes, using your Will Power
to see anything you desire, with the eyes closed. Visualize
12 some object, a flower, for instance. Will to see the outline of
it, and you will see it in a transparent form.
13 Second. Practice thinking of something and through con­
trolling the breath and the use of the current, the WILL
14 POWER will form the object you thought of, in the golden
light. Do this until you can see anything you think of. This
15 is Spiritual Sight.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 203
M ASTERIN G FLESH SELF.
GOD IS SPIRIT, all-knowing and all-seeing. The great
MIND of the universe is in everything that moves and creeps
upon the earth, CREATO R of night and day and the universe,
and is composed of or expressed in three great principles,
TRUTH, LOVE and LIG H T.
The RULING FORCE is unseen by material eyes, because
PHYSICAL MAN cannot understand the things that are
Spiritual, ALL IN TELLIG EN C E that is unseen is only ex­
pressed in the SPIR IT and to the SPIRIT. GOD IN T E L L I­
GENCE is the U N IV ERSA L SO U L and the C R EA TO R of
lesser Individual Souls. A LL SO U LS come into being before
there is a manifestation in the lower earth vibration, as that
law is without beginning and without end, being a law of the
UNIVERSAL GOD-HEAD.
Now man is POWER, likened unto GOD, for he likewise
is a Creator and expresses his creative power in the image of
the FATHER. By the same law he was given dominion over
all of the earth in the beginning, for he is the son of the
CREATOR OF T H E EA RTH . The FA T H ER rules
through the SEVEN C R EA TIV E PRIN CIPLES OF T H E
UNIVERSE, and through them has given man POW ER
over the weaker or lower life upon the earth, for man has com­
munication with the FA TH ER and the power which lower
beings have not.
Man from the beginning was guided by the ANGELS and
still is, for that is the manner of protection that was given
him by the FA TH ER. The story of the “ GARDEN OF
EDEN” related how man did not heed the voice of the true
messenger, but indulged in the pleasure of the flesh, thus open­
ing the way to Deceiving Influences that stand between him
and the FATH ER, GOD, which condition still prevails. So
man began creating evil, by following the desire of FLESH
CONSCIOUSNESS, and FLESH CONSCIOUSNESS IS still
2Ò4 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 misleading him and cheating him of his right to the KING­
DOM OF T H E FA TH ER, which is within.
2 There is at this time a great liberal movement sweeping the
earth, preparing man to receive the C H RIST CONSCIOUS-
3 NESS in the SPIRIT-—that being the true SONSHIP CON­
SCIOUSNESS and the only guide to M ASTERSHIP.
4 There are several branches of the Occult Sciences that are
working for the development of the SOLAR MAN or the true
5 SON OF GOD. These sciences are to be the leaders of the
“ BACK T O GOD” movement of the world. When the
6 Prodigal Son will return to the bounties of the “ KINGDOM
OF TH E FA T H E R ,” the prophesy of JE SU S OF NAZA-
7 RETH , “ That God will choose His people from all kinds and
creeds,” will be fulfilled.
8 This prophesy was also made and explained by JOHN THE
R EV ELA TO R, on the Isle of Patmos, when he wrote, while
9 in the Spirit, the 5th, 6th, and 7th verses of the 21st chapter
of the BOOK OF R EV ELA TIO N S, as follows: “ And he
10 that sat upon the throne said ‘Behold, I make all things new,
And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and
U faithful, And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that
12 is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. He that
overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and
13 he shall be my son.”
The above means that those who overcome the flesh will
14 partake not of the second death, which is the D EATH OF
ID E N T IT Y , the loss of all CONSCIOUSNESS and MEM-
15 ORY.
In India, for thousands of years, they have been teaching the
16 OVERCOMING OF TH E FLESH ” and those that have
overcome have the power to heal the sick and to know all things
17 pertaining to the KINGDOM OF TH E FATH ER, which
is in the SPIRIT, and not in the flesh.
18 There are three PRINCIPLES that may interfere with
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 205
1 knowledge on the part of reader, viz.: selfishness, hatred, and
envy, for all of the flesh life have these in them from birth,
2 until they overcome them through knowledge. Many are
strong in the flesh, but are weak in the Spirit, because they only
3 observe those things concerning their objective life and body.
Man was first created in the SPIR IT , but as he becomes
4 less SPIRITUAL, HE BECOM ES W EAKER in the SPIR IT .
The SPIRIT SEEKS to mould the flesh, but the flesh does
5 not always give in to the influence of the SPIR IT , until it
becomes hopeless and helpless. Then it cries out in the wilder-
6 ness of misunderstanding for help from God, though it scorned
GOD when it was strong.
7 You must present your body, holy and acceptable unto
GOD, not in a dying condition, if you would survive the
8 change called death. Many people leave the body and never
regain CONSCIOUSNESS because they violated the laws gov-
9 erning SPIRITU A L CO NSCIOUSNESS while on the earth
plane.
10 There are no people of material minds that can agree on any
doctrine, for the flesh has been in error from the beginning,
11 that being the reason for so many churches and creeds. Some
hold up heaven as a reward. Others hell as a terror to those
12 who do not accept their particular theory of life and death, but
only those who have overcome the influence of flesh are posi-
13 five of their destination after the change called death, for they
experience after they have passed over the portals of the great
14 "UNKNOW N.”
The flesh man will never understand the SPIR IT U A L
^ MAN, until there is unity through the knowledge of the laws
of nature that govern the two counterparts, and harmony is
1® established between the two. The greatest obstacles that
stands in the way of this understanding at this time is “self-
11 ishness,” as many seek the solving of life’s mysteries for no
i other reason than selfish gain and satisfaction. The ambition
1^ of the Soul is "D IV IN IT Y ” : the ambition of the material
___
206 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 body, however is “ material riches.” When you overcome the
flesh you must also overcome the desire for selfish gain and ma-
fulfilled His mission as a representative of the creative
3 FA TH ER GOD.
We must be free in D IV IN E W ILL FORCE in order to
4 perform the mission of HIM who sent us, if we are to be one
of the “E L E C T ” to stand in the presence of that great SPIRIT,
5 JE SU S OF NAZARETH . Some think they will behold his
presence immediately after death, but the author feels they will
6 be disappointed, as many will have to progress beyond selfish
desire before they can behold the glories of One so perfect.
7 JE SU S OF NAZARETH was an objective example of the
CH RIST SPIR IT in each human soul, which is tolerance it-
8 self, expressed in the flesh. He who condemns another human
being will not tread in the footsteps of the Master, for he con-
9 demned no one; neither does the “ SPIR IT W ITH IN” which
HE represented, condemn, “For as ye judge so will ye like-
10 wise be judged.”
Those who aspire to knowledge of the “ M YSTERIES OF
11 LIFE should be sure of a good motive for their investigation,
for the motive determines the results gained. The first thing
12 to be learned is to be silent, when silence is needed, for all
great deeds are born in the silence of one’s own soul, only to
13 manifest when the appointed time comes, through the evo­
lution of the circumstances.
14 Everyone is endowed with some natural gift, and in some
-- -------- 0--,
instances, with several. T o develop these, determines the in-
15 dividual’s success in life. As it is only through the LAWS OF
N A TU R E that we received these gifts and not through some
16 mysterious agency, we must develop and cultivate these gifts;
otherwise we are disobeying the LAW S OF N ATURE, and
17 through the LAW OF COM PENSATION we will suffer the
consequences fo this neglect, just as our bodies suffer physical I
18 pain when we disobey a physical law. Since we have both a
2 terial riches. Had not JE SU S done this, He could not have
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 207
1 PHYSICAL and SPIR ITU A L BODY, we must cultivate the
best in each, in order to function as a perfect human being;
2 and since it is a proven fact that we have a SP IR IT U A L
BODY, we must learn how to use it, just as we learn to use
3 our earthly body. Christ demonstrated His SP IR IT U A L
BODY when He arose from physical death. He proved
4 that victory over death lies in mastery over the flesh body.
LESSONS 11 AND 12
5 Thought Transmission. As we go back in history, we find
that T H O U G H T TRA N SM ISSIO N
6 has always been a fact, and was possible with anyone who had
a development of psychic power or Spiritual Understanding.
7 Nearly all of the prophets of the Old Testament period had a
knowledge of TH O U G H T TRAN SM ISSIO N , for each army
8 at one time maintained its prophet who was accredited with
powers of mind reading, and who was supposed to reveal the
9 movements and plans of attack of the enemy. This was one
of the earlier uses of TH O U G H T TRAN SM ISSIO N , but as
10 we read the works of Daniel, how he was able to draw from
the COSMIC the interpretation of a king’s dream and how he
H was able to foretell the future, we have to recognize that
THOUGHT TRANSM ISSIO N was a practical knowledge to
12 Daniel, and as we go on through the Bible we find numerous
cases of the foretelling of the future, which in many instances
13 was made possible through a demonstration of TH O U G H T
TRANSMISSION.
14 Sometimes the prophet or seer himself was not conscious of
the fact that he was reading another person’s mind. One of
15 the examples of this power of TH O U G H T TRANSM ISSIO N
was when the Master, Jesus of Nazareth, met the woman at
16 the well and told her that she came to get water of this life,
but the water that He gave would bring everlasting life to
17 those who drank of it. Then, following this assertion, He
,
S§
1
5
,Ì3
K
S
&
M
Ì!K
sisltf''
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
gave a demonstration of T H O U G H T TRANSMISSION by
telling her how many husbands she had had, and that the man
she was then living with was not her husband. This goes to
show that all real Masters have a practical knowledge of
TH O U G H T TRANSM ISSIO N.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE teaches this science of
TH O U G H T TRA N SM ISSIO N because it is time for man to
receive a knowledge of his higher self, as he is now capable of
learning the possibilities of his own mind. Radio and wireless
telegraphy have overcome a great deal of skepticism on this
subject, and man is less blinded by prejudice at this time than
he was before their invention. It is the desire of the founder
of SUPER M IND SCIENCE to give to the world the greatest
teachings of the MIND, BO DY and SOUL that it is possible
to know at this time, and this being one of the great subjects
of this Science, his sincere desire is that you develop this art,
as it will save you much trouble in life.
When you can read the thoughts of others you are not so
easily deceived by them. At the same time you will know in
what way you need improvement to gain their confidence.
The founder of Super
Mind Science has placed
b e f o r e the American
public experts of this art, whose demonstrations have been the
cause of many people seeking a higher knowledge of God and
man, which in itself is a great thing to be accomplished by this
branch of our Science. Now, when you are using your method
of TH O U G H T TRANSM ISSION, remember that pressure on
the sense centers and control of the breath is all that is neces­
sary to blank the mind; then take in a little breath and the
first thought will bring you exactly what you have centered
your mind upon in the way of knowledge.
If you use the method as taught in this lesson, there can be
no question as to your success in demonstrating THOUGHT
TRANSM ISSION. You must have patience and persevere.
Many Super Mind Science Students
Practice Thought Transmission.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 209
1 This is the quickest method and will bring more rapid results
than any other for the development of this power, so therefore
2 you need not look for any other method, but seek to perfect
this one.
3 _ . Next in importance to the power of T H O U G H T
The s r TRANSM ISSIO N is the knowledge of T H E
4 6 ienCe‘ VOICE OF T H E SILEN C E as taught in
SUPER MIND SCIENCE. T H E VO ICE OF T H E SILEN CE
5 connects your CONSCIOUS M IND with your EGO and
makes it possible for you to receive information from the EGO.
6 This is the higher occult phase of T H O U G H T T R A N SM IS­
SION, except that it deals with your personality only. The
7 EGO usually speaks /through feeling, but it is the object
of the followers of SUPER M IND SCIENCE to so develop
8 the VOICE OF TH E SILEN CE that we may receive the in­
formation from the EGO in "words” spoken to the senses, that
9 are silent or mental, instead of receiving them through the sense
of feeling only.
It will be necessary to connect the A TM A , the Spiritual
Mind, with the GOD-CENTER, WHICH IS IN T H E SOLAR
11 PLEXUS, in order to receive this voice intelligently. The
founder of SUPER M IND SCIENCE after experimenting in
12 many different ways to develop the VOICE OF T H E SI­
LENCE, so that it would be understandable, has finally found
18 the method as taught in this lesson to be practical, and nine of
his students out of ten have given testimonies to the effect
14 that his mehod is successful.
When you can feel the GO D-CENTER connected with the
1® ATM A, top of head, there is a feeling of power manifested in
the body, and, as you go into a positive state, asking the ques-
18 tion of the EGO, and then relax, the answer immediately comes
into the mind. If this answer is unselfish and contains broth-
17 erly love and consideration for others, it is directly from the
EGO; but if it does not contain these qualities and manifests
18 malice, hatred or envy, it is not from the EGO. Therefore,
210 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Fatigueless State
Of The Body.
when you receive the highest and best advice, you are contact­
ing your higher self and the GOD-CENTER. The object of
SU PER M IND SCIENCE in giving to the world this method
is to give sincere seekers after Truth and Knowledge a method
that develops the qualities of the higher self and overcomes the
principles of the lower self.
Next in importance in this lesson is training
of the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND to pro­
duce a fatigueless state in the body, so as to
cause the mind to be continually alert. This will give the
student an opportunity of developing the mind more readily
because of a restful feeling in the body. No one can success­
fully study with a tired body, as the mind then does not
function clearly. Fatigue also makes the body age and decay
and impairs the flow of SOLAR ENERGY. For this reason,
SUPER MIND SCIENCE teaches this effective method of
overcoming fatigue. By its application you will be able to
increase the power of the mind over the body and lengthen the
life of the body by overcoming any soreness or tiredness in the
body immediately upon jts manifestation. This is the one
great method chosen out of hundreds by the founder of SUPER
MIND SCIENCE.
Its object is to teach you how to live; for, if you know how
to live you will not suffer a premature death. Many scientists
have come before the world teaching humanity a method of
how to die; some promising great rewards after the change
called death, but few have come before the world teaching a
correct method of how to live, promising you the reward of
its teachings while you are on this earth.
The founder of SUPER MIND SCIENCE feels that during
the next century Science will be engaged in studying methods
to gain longer life and a more peaceful existence while on this
earth. The quest for this knowledge will be keener than it has
ever been since the beginning of civilization on this plane, and
during the progress of humanity through the influence of the
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 211
SPHERES OF CREATIO N ruled by the SEV EN C R EA ­
TIVE SPIRITS of God and man. When you produce a
fatigueless state of your body and train your mind in the
high technique of this concentration, you are increasing your
mental power and opening a way for your mind to be master
and triumph over the weakness of the flesh.
This lesson also teaches the development of
the A LL-SEEIN G SIG H T, which is ac­
complished by using the “ U N SPEA KA BLE W ORD” with a
mental Concentration to open up that center. This gives one
the UNIVERSAL M EANING of a thought instead of a
vision, in a material way.
This ALL-SEEING SIG H T C E N T E R should be developed
to give you a broadminded conception of life and the manifesta­
tion of God in all things.
All-Seeing Sight.
KEY T O LESSO N 11.
M ETH O D NO. 1.
® How to Read Minds, or Place the fingers on Seat of Will
Thought Transmission. Power in temples with hands over
your head. Send EN ERG Y into
W ILL POWER Seat; in Temples from fingers hold breath.
Then blank mind, using pressure as taught in SU PER M IND
SCIENCE then release pressure, inhaling and taking in thought
of person whose mind you desire to read. This cannot fail
if you practice it feeling that you will succeed. Remember
13 that the SUBCONSCIOUS M IND is trained by feeling the
results and not by the mere use of words.
M ETH O D NO. 2.
^ Development of the First. Concentrate on SOLAR
Voice of Silence. PLEXU S, then send current by breath-
15 ing from SOLAR PLEX U S to the
212 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 A TM A , top of head, with breath controlled. Feel a connec­
tion between the G O D -CEN TER and the ATM A.
2 Second. Begin breathing slowly; ask question mentally as
you breathe; then stop the breath suddenly and the first
3 thought that comes into the mind is the answer from the EGO.
M ETH O D NO. 3.
4 Overcoming Fatigue. First. Sit on the floor, spine erect,
with soles of feet together, in a per-
5 feet concentration state. Breathe inward, then direct your
W ILL POW ER to that part of the body that is fatigued, send-
6 ing the current there, and holding a positive attitude to over­
come the tired feeling. Repeat this method until you have
7 covered all the limbs and other fatigued parts of the body.
Second. Send the current from the top of the head to the
8 bottom of feet, with positive affirmation to the SUB­
CONSCIOUS M IND, “ I will overcome every tired feeling in
9 my body as quick as it manifests itself.” This should be done
twice a week. About fifteen minutes should be given to this
10 method.
M ETH O D NO. 4.
11 For Development of Inspirational First. Put mind on subject
Speaking, Writing, Etc. you desire Inspiration on,
12 holding peaceful receptive
attitude.
13 Second. Slow the breath, go into Positive Attitude, and
will to receive thoughts on that subject only.
14 Third. Relax and let the flow of INSPIRATIO N begin.
It is best to use a pencil and write down what you receive.
15 When a thought comes to you foreign to the subject you de­
sire, slow the breath and enter into the PERFEC T CONCEN-
16 T R A T IO N state again, until you have overcome the opposing
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 213
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
thoughts. This will develop great Inspirational Powers.
M ETHO D NO. 5.
How to Develop the First. Place teeth together; send the
All-Seeing Sight. OM Unspeakable Word upward to
place on high in forehead hold teeth
together hum the word. Try to feel an opening between that
center and the ATM A, top of head. Do this until the uni­
versal meaning of anything you think of, comes into your
mind. This is called by the Adepts “ seeing mentally” or A LL-
SEEING SIGHT, for with this method nothing is hidden to
the mind.
Second. Practice this by thinking of something in the ani­
mal, mineral or vegetable kingdom and receiving into the mind
instantaneously the universal meaning of anything you think
of.
LESSO N NO. 12.
Odic Force. I wish to state for the benefit of the student
that my knowledge of ODIC FORCE was
given to me by some of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom
in periods of COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS, recounted here as
a personal experience and not copied from someone else’s idea
on this great subject. ODIC FORCE is the force which causes
the heart to beat, the earth to move on its axis, the swells in
the ocean, and such manifestations of Divine Power as is neces­
sary in order to keep this universe in activity and motion.
Now, this force being so prominent in the human body, in fact
being one of the vital activities that causes life, SUPER MIND
SCIENCE seeks to develop it, so that the student can learn
to control it with the W ILL POWER, and use it as a powerful
means to awaken dormant cells and overcome all weakness of
the body and mind.
214 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
It is said by some of the great teachers of the Ancient Wis­
dom that in the days when the Great Pyramids and the
Sphynx were built, the people in ancient time used this ODIC
FORCE in some manner yet to be rediscovered by man, to
raise the large stones which compose these structures. These
stones measure sixty feet in length, nine feet in height and seven
feet in width, and there is no machine today which would be
strong enough to hoist them to the height that they occupy
in the Pyramids. This is one of the great feats attributed by
the Materialists to what they term Lost Knowledge. They
forget the fact that the Wireless and the radio of today were
also once “ lost knowledge” but have been re-discovered because
man became aware of the possibilities of their discovery. For
the same reason ODIC FORCE and its operation is now being
re-discovered and taught, by those who are interested in the
highest development of the MIND, the BODY and the SOUL.
It is not the aim of the founder of SUPER MIND
SCIENCE to create the impression that he is expounding a
new religion, but he does wish to create the impression that he
is teaching facts and not a religion; for religion is a belief void
of power, while facts, or the Truth, is a science based on dem­
onstration. A new religion is not needed, but facts pertaining
to the Soul of man, his mind and his body are necessary. More
of these facts and Truths are embodied in this short course of
lessons than have been given out to man, in all the philosophies
combined in the last thousand years.
Knowledge of O D ESITY and its relation to the human
body is necessary, in order to unlock a rate of vibration, that
will permit the student to ascend to unknown heights of under­
standing in this philosophy. This is the revival of a Science
that was taught three hundred and ninety-four centuries ago,
when this earth had reached the stage in evolution which it is
now reaching again. The scientists of that far-off time were
Adepts in astronomy, chemistry, electricity, sea and air navi­
gation, and all sciences known today and many others now un-
\
*
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 215
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
known to humanity, including full knowledge of ODIC
FORCE, harnessed by mind, which knowledge became the basis
of their civilization.
When the heart is pressed by filling the lungs with breath,
and the mind is perfectly concentrated as taught in SU PER
MIND SCIENCE, it is ODIC FORCE that you feel surging
upward through the body, like swells in the ocean. By train­
ing the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND, each time this force surges
through your body, there will be an awakening of cells of
strength until finally through ODIC FORCE great strength
and power will be manifested in you.
Spiritual Illumination. By "SP” ' “ 1 7
mean that the LIG H T of the
SPIRIT OF GOD which is within man, illuminates your
CONSCIOUSNESS and overcomes all doubts and fears. Many
of the Occult writers, of ages past, have spoken of the great
Esoteric Fraternities as the “ Illuminati,” because those who
understood the meaning of SP IR IT U A L ILLU M IN A T IO N
and the contacting of God, were members of those great
Fraternities. These Brotherhoods were really schools, teach­
ing a secret technique of the Development of the M IND, BODY
and SOUL, and finally the ILLU M IN A TIO N of the CON­
SCIOUSNESS of the Adept. SU PER M IND SCIENCE is
the first science to demonstrate to the Western Sphere, that the
teachings of these great schools were practical, and that it is
possible for anyone to successfully demonstrate the basis laws,
thereby attaining ILLU M IN A TIO N .
Many students of this science have testified to a great
SPIRITUAL ILLU M IN A TIO N of CONSCIOUSNESS in
a remarkable short time, because the founder knew, from a
Psychic standpoint, the methods of the Esoteric School for the
development of Illumination. However he has improved and
Americanized these methods and introduced a shorter cut to
SPIR ITU A L ILLU M IN A TIO N and GOD KNOW LEDGE
than the world up to this time has ever known.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
— — PEI
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
Because of the fact that the founder of SUPER MIND
SCIENCE has discovered, that by the projection of the
A ST R A L LIG H T from the sight center, over the body, a
SP IR IT U A L effect in the student is produced— these methods,
if persevered in, will bring to the student, within a few months,
the ILLU M IN A TIO N OF CONSCIOUSNESS which it took
the Adepts of the older schools years to accomplish.
The method, as outlined in the key to this lesson, will pro­
duce these results if you practice it and connect it with the
teachings of the GOD C E N T E R as taught in SUPER MIND
SCIENCE. LEARN T O FEEL that you are receiving IL­
LU M IN A TIO N when you use the key.
KEY T O LESSO N NO. 12.
KEY NO. 1.
Developing Odic Force. First. Slow the breath, and get
mind in harmony with the pulsa­
tions in the body. Feel your pulse in your wrist. As you
think of the pulse beat, be positive and say to the SUBCON­
SCIOUS MIND, “ I will use ODIC FORCE to overcome every
weakness in my body.” Hold the position as long as possible
repeating the words.
Second. Relax and say in a passive state, ‘‘I have power to
do all things through ODIC FORCE and through it I am suc­
cessful, letting your mind center on your body while thinking
of the pulse beats.
Third. Vibrate the GOD CEN TER by stretching that Cen­
ter as taught in SUPER MIND SCIENCE, stretch chest up­
ward, raising the ribs. Say mentally, “ I will be faithful to
the teachings of this Science. I will be faithful to God and
to my fellowmen. I will never use this power for evil.”
Spiritual Illumination. F,rst- Contract the SOLAR
PLEXU S and draw inward lungs
empty, press it against the spine. Close the eyes and
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 217
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
you will notice that as you contract the SO LAR P L E X U S the
light under the eyelids becomes brighter and brighter. Use the
WILL POWER and T H E LIFE C U R R E N T to send this
light up and down the spine over the sense centers. This will
illuminate the senses.
Second. Feel that you are receiving power from the
SPIRITUAL SUN and that you are ‘‘drinking in” its rays
Psychic Power.
through the SOLAR PLEX U S. Visualize the Sun.
The CONSCIOUS M IND is the seat of
PSYCHIC POW ER and not the Spiritual
Mind. A PSYCHIC D EM O N STR A TIO N is an unsual
functioning of the FIVE PH YSICAL SENSES or of some
one of the five. This unusual function is caused by the
PHYSICAL SENSES contracting the SP IR IT U A L C E N T ER
OF THE SENSES, but the D EM O N STR A TIO N that takes
place is in the PHYSICAL SENSES and not in the SP IR IT ­
UAL. The same principal operates when N EG A TIV E and
POSITIVE CU R R EN T meet and produce an electric light.
The contact between the two is the light.
IN SUPER MIND SCIENCE there are numerous ways in
which the PHYSICAL SENSES contact the SPIR IT U A L
CENTER and causes a demonstration, such as COSMIC
HEARING, TH O U G H T TRANSM ISSIO N, and so forth,
the object being to train the PH YSICAL SENSES to be
PSYCHIC and observe many things outside of the physical
body and surroundings.
This is the great knowledge which the world at large has
been seeking, but individuals have, in many cases, misunder­
stood the difference between a PSYCHIC D EM O N STRA ­
TION and a SPIR IT U A L D EM O N STRATIO N , conse­
quently in seeking a PSYCHIC D EM O N STRA TIO N they be­
lieved it could be accomplished through the use of SPIR IT U A L
LAWS, which proved a failure.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE has proven that there are PH Y S­
ICAL LAW S T H A T can and do produce PSYCHIC DEM-
218 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
O N STR A TIO N S, when they are used properly. These phys­
ical laws will educate the SUBCONSCIOUS MIND so that
it will be strong enough, and capable of performing these ex­
traordinary demonstrations of Psychic Power and Force under
the CO N TRO L OF T H E W ILL, which in many instances
will bring one a knowledge of the future and of things that
have been a great puzzle to you, previous to receiving the
demonstration.
Now in order ever to attain a higher demonstration than a
PSYCHIC ONE, individuals must SPIRITU A LIZE THEIR
BODY AND M IND by a desire to help others and a radiation
of BR O TH ER LY LOVE. Otherwise they will never behold
the SPIR IT U A L D EM O N STRA TIO N S spoken of in the
BIBLE, and by the G R EA T M A STER S OF TH E ANCIENT
W ISDOM: FOR T H E Y COME FROM TH E GOD PART
of the U NIV ERSE and can only be beheld by the GODLY.
So remember, students, that all can have PSYCHIC DEM-
UJN8 1RATIO N S in SUPER M IND SCIENCE, but those
who get the SPIR IT U A L will have to overcome all selfish­
ness and preference and so SPIR ITU A LIZ E TH EIR MINDS
T H A T T H E Y CAN SEE GOD IN EVERYTHING, and
by so doing attain the great height of AD EPTSH IP that is so
well known among the Hindus.
Many people have been seeking this through the ordinary
channels of advanced PSYCHOLOGY, but have failed to at­
tain it, because they dealt only with a M EN TA L LAW, not
recognizing nor combining the corresponding PHYSICAL and
SPIR ITU A L LAWS, which they would have to do to at­
tain this great height of understanding.
As you know, in this Science, the first knowledge is of the
C U R REN TS and SOLAR ENERGY, which is the PHYS­
ICAL D EM O N STRATIO N of our PHILOSOPHY and the
means used to develop the PHYSICAL SENSES TO GAIN
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS by sensitizing them.
Next comes the awakening of the cells in the ATMA, the
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 219
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
SPIRITUAL MIND, which will bring PSYCH IC M A N I­
FESTATION. Many of you have attained this and are now
succeeding along those lines, but if you desire the greater, which
is the SPIRITUAL M A N IFESTA TIO N , then begin to prac­
tice your HIGHEST CO NCEPTIO N OF C H R IST IA N IT Y
as interpreted by this philosophy, for unless you do the
WORKS OF C H RISTIA N ITY , you cannot reap the reward.
Your leader wants you to know that his thoughts are with
you, and that we are beginning a great movement through
which the world will benefit and be better off for our exist­
ence in it.
So let your thoughts be elevated above all personal gain, that
you may attain the D EM O N STR A TIO N OF T H E SP IR IT ­
UAL by OVERCOMING T H E PH YSICAL, and so gain
MASTERSHIP over the PH YSICAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
TH E LAW OF COM PENSATION.
The law of compensation is caused by the element of Justice
and reaction in the divine mind. If one is held guilty before
their conscience, sorrow or remorse lowers one’s vibration
into the realm of sorrow, sickness and death. For every
evil deed one commits who has developed Conscience this law
provides a punishment. Most of this punishment happens on
the Earth plane of life. Only those whose conscience is de­
veloped so as to know right from wrong falls under the lash
of this law. There are germs of life which inhabit the body
brain and being of man, which governed by astral powers in­
flict this chastisement. Those who live on earth caring noth­
ing about God or spiritual development attract around them
ignorant life germs which combined form a force. These
forces await the weakening of the body and its death, then by
friction they destroy the memory of such person, producing the
second death. They exist on the Transma or plane of con­
fusion, which is the dividing line between mortality and im-
,
ta
220 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
mortality. Those who live a material minded life can never
cross this plane, thus they are mortals only. Seek ye therefore
the kingdom of God and all things shall be added unto God.
Laws of Incarnation. Thosc who have died when infants
have never developed conscience, there­
fore they are not responsible to the law of compensation. There­
fore they exist under the law of Incarnation. This law pro­
vides that all who have not attained the state of responsibility
under the law of Compensation must reincarnate in another
body and grow up, since every soul whom God wills to be­
come a developed mortal must fulfill his will, for God is no
respecter of persons. Now this same law applies to those who
become diseased through obsession before reaching the de­
veloped conscience state— also to those borned insane or in a
state of imbecility. This provision of another incarnation
under better circumstances fulfills the teaching that God is
just and is as a loving Father, but those who willfully violate
His laws knowing right from wrong, having their own free
will to follow good or evil, are not favored by this law,
since the conscience becomes the instrument of their destruction.
This same instrument has caused many mortals to commit
suicide by continually picturing to their mind the crime they
were guilty of. For the Judgment of God is sure and cer­
tain, and the law of divine Compensation never forgets. Every
deed like every tree must bear its fruit, good or evil, the law is
t e same immutable, unchangeable, forever eternal.
n t e law of Incarnation wealth or social position does
not count, only development of conscience is considered. Re-
îgion un er the law of Compensation matters not. It is what
conscience says. Are you guilty or not guilty,” and the
rongs of the flesh are magnified a thousand times by spirit.
17 do the works"of J e s Z . ^ ^ ^ PUHfy HeaI ^ ^
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 221
LIG H T ON M ASONRY.
1 The Ancient Mystery Once Masonry was taught as a
of Masonry. Divine Science by highly developed
2 masters of Mental laws. Its mys­
teries still contain reference to these great Masters who solved
^ the mysteries of life, death and immortality by processes,
at that time kept secret except when it was revealed to the
4 Prince Adepts or Initiates. Now Masons who desire the real
initiation of their mysteries are told to search the Universe
5 and that it will be found in the sciences of the mind, which
originated in India in the early days. SU PER M IND
6 SCIENCE like Masonry has supreme secrets to be revealed to
those who use the methods and practice the Philosophy. These
" great results will never come to those who do not practice, this
being the way these mysteries are guarded from falling into the
k hands of those unworthy. For in this Science words are some­
times used as a feeble gesture to explain something beyond ex-
9* pression, but in the interpretations of the divine symbols of
Masonry one finds the truth of SU PER M IND SCIENCE
to be the keys which unlocks the inner chambers of the Temple
(body) used as a symbol in all the rites of Masonry. The
ancient teachings of Masonry go back much farther into the
remote past than the history of the lodge now known as Free
Masons are able to trace. It is as old as civilization, and as
staunch as truth itself. Any Free Mason who was Master of
the wisdom expounded in initiation would be a Master of
SUPER MIND SCIENCE. Masonry says, will is a force.
Thought is a force. Prayer is a force. This is the teaching
of SUPER M IND SCIENCE in as much that man cannot pray
0 without thought; therefore the force of prayer and thought
are one and the same. Concentration is the lever operating
^ both, therefore we begin a translation or interpretation of the
symbols of Masonry with this in mind.
222 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 Ancient Symbols. The Lodge of Masonry is symbolic of
some part or the whole of Solomon’s
2 Temple, which was a Temple of wisdom or Mental Science,
where divine mysteries were demonstrated for enlightment of
3 mankind. Solomon was a member of the Order of the Uni­
verse, a branch of the Order of Melchesidec of which Jesus
4 was high priest. God was referred to as builder of the Uni­
verse which included man, that being the beginning of the use
^ of the word builder or Mason in this age. Before that time in
the Orient they were called the Sons of the Solitudes, because
6 they met on the top of high mountains to discuss nature’s laws
and phenomena. This symbolized the highest wisdom. They
1 also builded Temples in the rocks on these high mountains
where they placed the emblems of nature, such as the sun, the
® moon and the stars. This was the birth of the Zodiac and
the first knowledge of the constellations. The Ursa Major
^ and Minor was traced upon the walls of these stone temples.
^ These temples were presided c?ver by hermits who were mas­
ters of mental science. Now they are called Yogis. They
^ initiated the Brothers of wisdom or Masons into the divine
secrets by a series of rituals which they kept secret lest they
12 ^ f °unc* out an<J killed by the Priest class of that day. Each
thought of the other as he would his Son and met each other
2^ with the Salutation of My Son, later becoming Mason, the
builder, the divine architect who studied the Universe from a
24 builder s standpoint. This was the prohibited teaching since
the Priest of that time taught the Creation as a super natural
15 manifestation. The Sun was the symbol of light and ancient
Masons regarded it as the giver of health and wisdom. Moon
20 was t^ie sYmbol of Motherhood and psychic powers. Osiris of
Egypt was worshipped as God of the Sun, symbol of the male
principle. His seat is the pineal gland in the brain. Isis was
the Godess of the Moon. Her seat was the female organ in the
brain, now known as the pitutary gland.
Symbolic ceremonies were performed in adoration of these
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 223
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Gods, which formed concentrations. These powers could even
control the seasons of the year and the high Priests were said
to have Oracles that they could consult and find out any
secret from a divine voice. Pilgrims journeyed from all over
Egypt to be accepted as Initiates so they might consult the
Mystic voice. This voice symbolizes reason, in the center of
the brain which solves all problems. The cleansing or puri­
fication of the Adept enabled him who had faith to hear the
voice of his own reason which seemed outward but was an
inward manifestation. (The voice of the Silence of SU PER
MIND SCIENCE.) The great Hermes became the master of
Egyptian mysteries which originally had come from India
through a secret order known as the All in One. Kurum is
his representative and is one of the lights of the Lodge to this
day. Hermes was master of the positive and negative life
energies. (See Lesson No. 1 in SU PER M IND SCIEN CE.)
He held the key to the symbols of life and deity. He con­
cealed these in mystic numbers and signs and symbols which
can be interpreted only by an initiate, who has trodden on the
hot sands of the desert seeking the all wise sage. This re­
quirement has been met by the writer. That accounts for the
knowledge herein. The Columns of the lodge of Masonry
are force on one side, beauty on the other. Symbol of Positive
and Negative life energy, symbolized by two officers, the
Senior and the Junior Warden, who support the lodge.
There are three columns in all. One is the interior. This
is a symbol of wisdom, making strength or force, beauty and
wisdom the three great columns of the lodge. These also
symbolize Father, divine wisdom, universal mind. Son
strength positive Mastership, Holy Ghost, the Inner wisdom life
energy, the concealed column. Will plus universal mind, and
life energy and Christ love overcomes the world, meaning
disease, sorrow and death. Wisdom and Power is the Positive
and Negative principles of God. God the Supreme Architect
places these strong pillars in the construction of every being
224 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 which exemplifies His divine wisdom. Building these beings
by these divine plans using nothing but thought and universal
2 mind force, is a symbol of the mystery of the Sphinx, which
stands the test of time. The two columns where one enters
3 the lodge is the symbol of the two opposites. Spiritual, phys­
ical mind and matter. Good and evil which must be overcome
4 by the initiate who when he lives above their contention could
see God even before mortal death. In SUPER MIND
5 SCIENCE one is taught to master the lower self lest it master
them. Then one can see good or God in all things. In
G mastery of these opposites by the inner teachings of a master
one s consciousness rises and lowers in vibration, symbol of the
7 descent of Bakchos who like Osiris God of the Sun (Positive
life energy) died, descended into hell and rose to life again.
8 Symbol of progression through the cycles from lowest to high­
est state. The celebration of the victory over the flesh by
9 positive mental powers were celebrated at the Vernal Equinox
in ancient mysteries to symbolize Atonement of positive and
10 negative, the divine mental state.
The two columns were also known in ancient times as
1 1 Kurum the Sun by Tyrianan the artist and master of symbolism.
He said they were the same as those of the temple of Malkath
1^ in the city of Tyre. One symbolized the positive element fire,
(spirit) while the other symbolized the receptive element, wind
13 (mind). The Hebrew word Jachin has always been used in
Masonry as the name of the first or positive pillar, meaning
14 He that strengthens, while the other pillar is known as Boaz,
meaning might or refuge or source of strength. Kun is a word
15 used, meaning He stood erect or positive energy, in SUPER
M IND SCIENCE positive life energy, while the other name
16 Boaz or Baas means Permanence.
In the Hindu religion these are Shiva Production and
17 Brahma permanence while in SUPER M IND SCIENCE the
1 s higher interpretation is finite positive and active force, Recep-
78 tive or permanent force, infinite Spirit.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 225
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
The temple of Masonry is said to be also the universe whose
canopy is the Heaven by which he will enter by the theological
ladder containing seven steps which Jacob saw in his dream.
In SUPER MIND SCIENCE T H IS M EANS T H E CO N­
TROL OF TH E SENSES AND D EV ELO PM EN T of the
super senses, Intuition and intelligence. Methods of develop­
ment are provided in the advanced work not included in this
volume which also defines the seven steps as the seven Arch
Angels of Creation. The powers ruling the seven mystic
planetary powers used to divine secrets of Nature, They are
the Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars. When
one becomes an initiate they can use this knowledge to know
the future.
The Seven Soul Spheres The ?ncients ta“ ght tha‘ ,
‘h" e,
were also seven spheres or cycles or
progression through which the soul must pass on its way back
to infinite spirit. One of these spheres is a dividing line be­
tween mortality and immortality, where the candidate would
undergo trials and tribulations, but if his conscience was clean
and mind purified he would be victor over death. These
seven spheres are symbolized by the seven golden candlesticks
on the altar of the ancient temples of Initiation. In SUPER
MIND SCIENCE they are seven mental planes to be mastered
while one is on the mortal plane. Clemens of Alexandria
Egypt reveals in the Stromata an account of the teachings of
these seven planets and spheres. Many thousands of years
ago in early Oriental religions, the mystic seven has always
symbolized this fact. The Book of Revelation is an elab­
oration on this divine mystery. The mysteries of the Mithraic
religion which once ruled Rome required that Initiates pass
through symbolized gates into a cave where on the wall was
the ladder coming down from the heaven to earth, symbolizing
the souls descent from God. While on the other side was
Seven gates, one for each planet through which the soul must
pass back to God. The four points of the Zodiac were marked
226 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 with the points of the compass, symbolized universal infinite
spirit. Their celebrations were given at the conjunction of
“ these planets when each planet was honored by a symbolical
dance and drama. This custom is still prevalent in parts of
3 India and Egypt. In SU PER M IND SCIENCE these seven
planets are used in a Zodiac for the purpose of reading char-
4 acter, since they represent the seven traits of human nature.
The four elements are earth, air, fire and water which compose
5 man.
The pyramid of brick builded near Babylon was builded ac-
6 cording to the seven step ladder, each step was a different color,
symbolical of the seven vibrations in nature, corresponding to
7 the seven step ladder and the seven soul spheres. The wheel
of Eskiel of the Bible, a wheel within a wheel, means the seven
8 spheres, each containing seven planes, that being the mystery
of seventy times seven, the number of times to forgive a Brother
9 in the Order of Melchisedec, of which Jesus was high priest.
This is the total number of planes cycles and spheres in the
10 universe. Some are known to mystics while others are not.
1 j The Square and Compass N ° lodge is comPlete in Masonry
and Book of Law. Wlthaut these indespensable tools
of the order. They are the furni­
ture of the lodge. The square is used in geometry measure-
I° iyents ^ e physical plane only while the Compass measures
w/u-iSP^ereS ° r *mmortal regions symbolizing the Spirit.
1 . * e. t^le Book of the law explains how man may
T , 1’^ rnortadty or journey through this life and the next.
^ All Bibles in Masonry are Books of the law. These three tools
° in SUPER MIND SCIENCE are the three States of Conscious-
ness. The Conscious state is the square. The super conscious
state, the Compass. The Book of law the memory or Sub-
conscious state, because it contains the record of divine deeds
1 performed in the flesh. The student is told to perform these
divine deeds, the works of Christ in this science. That is the
key to Initiation. The book of the law is this volume which
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 111
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
contains truth from all ages, revealed as a practical means of
Salvation, the goal of all religions. But each student must
be a seeker, remembering sincerity as the light of this science.
The sublime lights of the lodge of Masonry is the Sun (Posi­
tive state of mind), the moon (Negative state), the master of
the Lodge, (Teacher of the laws). The first lesson in SU PER
MIND SCIENCE teaches the means of controlling the ele­
ments by concentration of mind on these powers that is the
elements of life, termed life energy. By controlling these cur­
rents of energy the student is told he may become master of
self. This is fulfilling the divine mystery.
Ancient Symbols of
Sun and Moon.
Sun is the symbol of the deity in all of
the allegories of the Oriental wisdom
teachings. It is the giver of life, Osiris
of the Egyptians, Shiva of the Hindu. Isis, Goddess of the
Moon symbolized the giver of life, Motherhood principle.
Horus of Egypt, Son of Osiris and Isis who was said to be
master of life. He symbolized Man. The same principles in
the Hindu religion is Vishnu God of Production. In the
Christian mysteries it is, Father Diety. (Sun), Son (finite
spirit) symbol of the moon. Holy Ghost (Giver of life)
of which man was filled on the day of Pentecost (life ener­
gies, neuter gender) representative of eternal life. For by these
energies one attains health, happiness and eternal consciousness
which ensures immortality. The ancients of Mithras mys­
teries regarded the deity of Baccus (Positive) Mithras (Nega­
tive) as the giver of light, life and truth. In the lodge of
Masonry the symbol of the Sun is the master. The moon is
symbolized by the Wardens who are supposed to give light
to the Brethren. The sun, moon and stars also symbolize
Osiris. Isis and Horus symbolized by an equalateral tri­
angle in the center of which was God. The sacred word of
Creation. In SUPER MIND SCIENCE one learns that Om
is being continually sounded in the center of the brain, be-
— — — —
228 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
U
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
tween the lobes (Positive and Negative) and that man is sym­
bolized by a triangle which means mind— body— soul. Point­
ing down the Om sound represents the vibration of infinite
spirit which brings all beings into existence is the symbol of
SU PER M IND SCIENCE. Om is symbolized by a bar in
the center of the divine emblem which every true disciple
wears on his person. The two triangles inverted mean posi­
tive (Sun), Negative (m oon), or finite spirit, by the triangle
pointing down and infinite spirit by the triangle pointing up.
In our national temple this sacred emblem hangs over the
head of the speaker as a symbol of divine unity. A means of
self mastery, while it is also used as a seal on documents and
is on the cover of all books on the science. This emblem of
the interlaced equallateral triangle is also seen on our charts as
an emblem of the All-Seeing sight in the center of the fore­
head, where there actually exists a formation of a star in gray
matter from the brain. Its illumination comes from reason and
divine infinite spirit. Here it represents Omniscience Omni­
presence, eternal knowledge of life, death and immortality. In
the keys to SUPER M IND SCIENCE will be found a method
of developing this sight which sees beyond space, place and
time. This is the solving of the mysteries. Contacting the
Supreme light of mankind. Divine energy, drawing it from
KHUNDLINI, the fire center in the spine to the forehead cen­
ter of reason in the brain. This is the divine pilgrimage of
spirit, fire and power.
The Dot in The Circle. The ,true symbolization
* n u t o y i i i u u i i z , c X L i c m w t t i i * .
within the circle is the individua
vviimn me circle is rne inuiviu
or finite spirit, surrounded on every side by the perfect or in
finite spirit. Infinite spirit is to govern the deeds of the tru
initiate by doing the will of him who sent us. After perfectioi
we are told the dot returns to the circle, or man goes back t<
God. He climbs the seven step ladder by the development o
spiritual senses by which he discerns the angels ascending am
descending the ladder, Incarnating and re-entering immortality
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 229
1 God spirit in the center of the universe which radiates His
perfection is also symbolical of the dot within the circle. The
2 deeper meaning is God in the third ventricle of the brain, called
in India the Brahma Rundun or Holy of Holies. The skull
3 forms the perfect circle. The circle also is the sun. In the
center of its head is a reproducing energy or fire having intelli-
4 gence of reproducing according to the laws of nature. There
was in ancient times two perpendicular lines within this circle,
5 meaning the winter solstices which is when the sun crosses the
tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. This symbolizes positive
6 and negative energy within the circle. This energy control
was forbidden the apprentice, because he may misuse it, but
7 it is the two great pillars or columns of SU PER M IND
SCIENCE. Man is now wiser than in ancient times, there-
8 fore he can use this power intelligently. God is defined in
Masonry as Supreme Intelligence, Immutable Wisdom,
9 Exhaustless love. It is identical with the meaning of God as
given in SUPER M IND SCIENCE. Masonry is a foe to
10 Priest craft and so is SUPER M IND SCIENCE.
Selfless Love SUPER M IND SCIENCE says selfless love
. is the key to salvation. Masonry says, “ I
give you a new Commandment. Love ye one another,” but
12 these virtues are to be found only in the Scottish rite. The
York rite, and the Templars of Masonry and to some degree
13 in higher degrees above the 14th degree. Most Masons do not
know their philosophy when they hear it. They judge by
14 name only. While some have gleaned the inner light of their
morals and Dogma, which like SUPER M IND SCIENCE was
15 borned in the religions of the remote past before falsehood and
insincerity were manifest as they are today. The mind that
16 would be free must be independent of the dictates of despots
who rule the ignorant in the name of religion. Truth sets
11 free, it does not hinder or limit man. Symbols were used in all
the ancient religions to express that which words could not
18 portray, and many times they have been the undoing of Priest-
230 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 craft, who could not explain their mysteries to seekers of truth,
who would later wander away into the mountains to seek the
2 Hermit or Yogi who had the inner vision to explain human
life.
3 Even in Masonry seldom is there anyone who can solve
the problems of her mysteries and give the student the soul
4 satisfying wisdom he seeks, but mental science opens the door­
way to consciousness. It opens the sealed vault of human
5 understanding and crown’s wisdom, king of the mundane
world. Masons should seek this wisdom, so as to be a light
6 in their lodge. Then Masonry will succeed in overcoming
Priestcraft and spiritual ignorance, which is her divine mission
7 in this world.
Man is supreme over institutions, including churches, and
8 not they over him, is the doctrine of Masonry, that being the
bone of contention between Masonry and Catholicism, which
® says man is inferior to the church and the Pope is infallible and
^ cannot sin. SUPER M IND SCIENCE condemns this doc­
trine, that being the reason the founder was persecuted in
^ states where Catholic officials ruled the affairs of the people.
But did not Christ have the same obstacles to overcome? He
^2 never desired temporal power. The evil one offered it to Him,
but he said, “ Get thee behind me, Satan; thou shalt not
tempt the Lord thy God.” The Pope claims temporal power,
the opposite to Christ, thereby becoming anti-Christ. This
view causes Masonry and Catholicism to be natural enemies,
and at this writing in Italy the Masons are meeting in base-
15 men*-s in order to escape being murdered by the Pope s hench­
men.
16 True religion is not in opposition to Masonry, nor is Ma­
sonry in opposition to it. Only despotic doctrines of the in-
17 feriority of one man to another and selfish financial interests
cause a friction to develop between Masonry and religion, for
18 Masonry will never bow to error and the despotism of kings.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 231
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
1 It has a greater mission than to become a political instrument
for the oppression of the poor. Nature recognizes but one God
2 of immortal form. Then why should man bow to another
mortal? SUPER MIND SCIENCE, like Masonry, condemns
3 this. A man with a yoke on his mind becomes the symbol of
the oppressed. The very lowest creature mentally in the hu-
4 man domain of mind, while freedom symbolizes development,
the progress heavenward of mortal man.
■
r) n „ r TT. In the reign of despots who were the
chamberlains to the Pope, is the
6 darkest pages of human history— Louis IV of France was a
devout hypocrite who kidnapped young girls to satisfy his
7 lusts, while he filled the prison with those who were decent-
minded. He was the paramour of Madam DuBarry, who was
8 a known prostitute. The Cardinal De La Roche Ayman and
the Pope’s Nuncio knelt and kissed her feet as she rose from
9 the bed of adultry, while religious prisoners who were sick
of being ruled by religious despots and hypocrites had their
bones broken one at a time in the dungeons of Paris for the
amusement of the Catholic dignitaries. The torture chambers
are still existent in the Caves de Torture of Paris, and the
author visited them in the year of 1928. Not only in the past
but the darkest pages of history compare favorably with the
torture now in the year 1929 of Masons falsely accused in
Italy, where no court of justice exists, only a court of oppres­
sion, run by the Pope’s criminals.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE, like Masonry, raises its feeble
voice against this great system of autocratic despotism, now
made stronger by the acts of the Premier of Italy.
This symbolizes the development of
energies and intellect, which frees man
from the oppression of ignorance. It forms a set of tools which
man can use to carve out his destiny, taking off the rough spots
of the rough ashler. By energy and intelligence he prepares the
rough stone (his body) to become the perfect cube (spiritually
The Mallet and Chisel.
232 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
developed) so as to fit in the universal temple.
Meaning of the “G.” Ge° met/ y, is a science of exact m£asure'
ment of planes symbolizing knowledge of
physical energies and states of mind, which when mastered
opens the Gateway to God. The higher meaning of the G,
also means Glory the sphere of divine presence, gained only by
victory over selfishness and the lower passions of mankind. The
G originally made like a wall, symbolized the foundation of
wisdom. Its opening toward the east is symbolical of wisdom
coming from the Masters of light, who sits in the Far East,
also the Cave of the world teacher in the Himalaya Moun­
tains, where he is continually sending out thoughts of wisdom
and radiating the three virtues, truth, love and light, the quali­
ties of infinite spirit.
Pathagoras said the science of Numbers of the wisdom schools
formed a spiritual Geometry, whose mysteries could be learned
only by the Adepts, but claimed it demonstrated all divine
truths, and solved all problems of influence and mortal exist­
ence. In the higher works of SUPER MIND SCIENCE one
learns the Goemetry of the mind, and art of ancients by which
they can read the thoughts of others. This is the revival of the
idea of Pathagoras of the higher geometry, of the G. When this
is learned by the Inniate he may penetrate any mental secret
by calculation. He can reach the true explanation of the value
of thought.
Sword Symbol one knows the truth and speaks it—it
of Peace CUtS t^
2e ^
8norant consciousness like a two
edged sword. Therefore those in authority in
the Ancient Lodges carried a sword as a symbol of truth, and
with it won victory over all low conditions and evil minds or
enemies of truth.
Two, or the Dual ^ asonry this is the symbol of the two
opposites, male and female, positive and
negative, good and evil. These are to be harmonized by the
supreme union of Man and God, thus they become neutral. In
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 233
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
ancient times they were symbolized by Cain (Positive) and
Abel (Negative) Jachin (Positive) Boaz (Negative). These
are mental states as well as physical forces which can be ruled
by proper concentrations of the mind. In SU PER M IND
SCIENCE this art is the basis of demonstration over evil, dis­
ease, sorrow and death.
Three or Triad is the symbol of diety, expressed in three
colors, red, yellow and blue, which when
mixed, produce seven colors in all. Symbolical of the seven
mental planes, which have within them the supreme power of
infinite spirit in the principles of Truth, Love and Light. The
three principles of the triangle pointing upward in the emblem
of SUPER MIND SCIENCE.
Four Number mteT^
ace(^ triangles contain the number
of Elements ^ ements ° f the body, mind, and soul. They
are earth, air, fire and water, which man can
control when he becomes an initiate of the divine mysteries.
Earth symbolizes body, air the mind, water the soul, fire the
spirit. They also are symbolized by the four rivers of the Garden
of Eden. Pison, Hiddekel, Gihon and Euphrates, which proceed­
ed from a common head (G od). These elements are studied in
Advanced SUPER M IND SCIENCE as a means to purify ones
self and control obstinate conditions in life.
Five Number of Symbolical °f tEe five senses. Also the five
0 planets which govern the senses. Mercury,
the Senses. T . , „ ,,,. . ,
Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Which are in turn
governed by the Sun and Moon, the powers of positive and
negative, which added to five make seven, the number of mental
planes, to be studied for mastery of SU PER M IND SCIENCE.
These planes are governed by these mentioned seven planets.
Jesus fed the multitude on five loaves and two fishes, complet­
ing the number seven. There were twelve baskets of fragments
taken away, symbolical of the twelve disciples and the twelve
signs of the Zodiac; also twelve convolutions of the brain ruled
by the Atma or Christ Mind. Seven has always been the sacred
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
234
10
11
Nine, The Square
of Three.
number. The number of days to fast, the number of days for
the anointing of the Sons of Aaron, High Priest of the order
of the Levites.
Eight is the number of the cube. The cube is the symbol of
perfection which can be placed in the universal temple (In­
finite Spirit). It also means harmonization of positive and
negative powers on four planes, four times two are eight. The
planes are mental— physical-spiritual divine, each having the
same influence in one’s life, forms the cube.
This is the number of man. Nine months
to be born into the physical. The mani­
festation of God on three planes, mental,
physical and spiritual, which gives the square of three which is
nine. The three powers in each of the three spheres is Truth,
Love and Light, making nine times or manifestations of God
or divine light, since three times three equals nine.
The Number Ten. Symbo1 of Divinity since it includes all of
the other numerals. Just as God includes
all the faculties and forms of man. One used in the first part
of ten, means supreme power, while 0 in the last part means
perfection. Ten is also the number of the Commandments, re­
ceived by Moses from God on Mount Siani.
The Number Eleven Eleven is made with two figureS’ whicJ
are identical, symbol of two forces, both
creative and having the same spirit meaning positive and
negative.
The Number Twelve. The number of si8ns in tbe Zodiac.
The number of the Stones in the Breast­
plate of Aaron, the High Priest. Number of the disciples of
Christ. Christ himself added makes the mystic thirteenth.
Symbol of the lost tribe of Isreal. The mystery of the thirteenth
is the supreme mystery of divinity or finding that which was
lost, namely, God in man, Spirit in the A TM A which is sur­
rounded by twelve convolutions in the brain. These brain con­
volutions are the twelve gates to the Invisible city, meaning
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 235
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
mental development through the art of concentration of mind
and energy as is practiced in SU PER M IND SCIENCE.
SPIRIT, or the word of spirit, is derived from Latin, the
word of Spiro, which means breathe. The key to spirituality
is control of the breath which also controls all mental processes.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE gives the keys to this control, which
if one practices it, gives them great inspiration and developes
perfect concentration, which is the key to all spiritual attain­
ment. The breath passage is called the Holy Spirit entrance in
Eastern schools of thought.
KHAIRUM. This word used in Masonry means free bom.
It comes from the Parse word, KHUR, meaning the sun whose
light is free and illumines the lower worlds while the higher
sun illumines the immortal spheres. Lower Egypt is called
KHORA, meaning the sun, external symbol of God.
Sun in SUPER M IND SCIENCE is the source of Solar
Energy which is used to heal all disease by controlling its heat
force with breath and will power, its energies is used to stop
pain instantly, and its force is the lord of disease and Master
of physical inharmony. Study well Solar Energy if you would
become a great healer. The full meaning of KH AIRUM is
raised up by power of the sun. Thus it is the symbol of SU PER
MIND SCIENCE healing, which has raised up thousands by
use of Solar energy. HIRAM is derived from KHURUM ,
meaning King of the light or morning. Another name for the
sun. The secrets of controlling the sun’s rays of life energy can
be learned in SUPER M IND SCIENCE and one can through
it, solve the mystery of Hiram. The murder of Hiram is wasting
of Solar energy which hastens death. SU PER M IND SCIENCE
teaches one to conserve this energy, thus prolonging life, for each
person accused of the murdering of Hiram or Khurum by in­
finite intelligence will be put to death by their own ignorance.
This is a symbol of a developed master or
The Grip of The mental ^on, symbolizes a spiritual giant.
Jesus was called Lion of the Tribe of Judah.
Lion’s Paw.
136 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 When he raised the dead He demonstrated the Lion’s Grip.
One who can control his pulse and beat of the heart, also sus-
2 pend animation at will is Master of the Lion’s Grip. The writer
demonstrated this mystery to his own satisfaction in India,
3 while studying the spiritual meaning of Masonry and her
symbols. Anyone who masters themselves can demonstrate
4 immortality, while yet alive. The ancients iniated all advanced
students into this supreme mystery. A study of mental science
5 must precede this under a master such as is found in Advanced
Super Mind Science.
6 _ , , , , , , This is the sacred word which had a
The Sacred A. U. M. T . . . .
7 thieves who murdered Hiram. It is connected with the two
Hebrew words, Yelmbal and Yehobal of Masonry. It had
8 powers which could raise the dead, but these were lost when
the two thieves killed Hiram and stole the Scroll containing the
9 true secret. The thieves are positive and negative mind force.
Hiram is the sun. The secret was a sound which could control
10 the revivifying rays of the sun, pronounced OM, vibrated by a
movement of the tongue known only to Adepts. Every Mason
11 is accused of this theft when he enters the lodge. Why? Be­
cause he is mortal mind or man, which stole the divine secret.
12 SUPER MIND SCIENCE has restored the word and demon­
strated its power.
region of the oblong gata. This is the center of creative energy
from the dead. Hence the symbol of eternal life. This is called
lb KHUNDLINI energy by theHinduand EGO current in SUPER
M IND SCIENCE. This plant is known for its ability to exist
m any condition and grow, thus becoming a fitting symbol of
immortality. It grows in a desert. The crown of thorns of
18 Jesus was made from this plant. It is of the evergreen type.
secret power. It was stolen by the two
13 This is a symbol of eternal life (the
arbor vita) of medical science, meaning
14 tree of life. It is located in the center of the cerebellum in the
15 in the brain. This is also, the center of energy that raises man
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
237
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY
This is symbolical of one who becomes so
Master Kurum. positiye that they manifest the Very creative
rays of God and the sun. One who controls all conditions and
chooses his destiny.
„ . , . Masonry was once the world's greatest
Masonry, A Worshrp. o[ worship and ^ is yet ro
those who can interpret its inner meaning. Those who attain
the things it describes, becomes masters of mental science. Yogi
or Holy men possessing the key to divine union, symbolized by
the ancient sacred word, Hebrew, Horn Hindu-Om. This union
solves the mystery of life and those who attain it, sends their
message back to earth, through the cable tow, symbol of divine
communication through astral powers and influences. The tem­
ple receives this great message and writes the name of the de­
ceased in letters of light on the river of life in the ritual for the
department brethren. This is a definite symbolical teaching of
immortality, symbolized by the one candle on the coffin, which
also means one God, one salvation. This same symbol is used
in the Hindu religion as symbol of Brahma, the oversoul. In
SUPER MIND SCIENCE IT SYM BO LIZES infinite spirit
and divine light, which shineth in the life of every man.
Masonry is one of the world's greatest religions, since it sees
the good in all religions and tries to exemplify their highest
ideals. It practices brotherhood and charity more than most
religions do, and more people find in it the ideals of their own
faith than could be found in any other fraternity. The sad part
is the lack of faith and sincereity among its own followers, but
still in its symbols are the divine dramas of all the ancient
brotherhoods from times of antiquity. SUPER M IND
SCIENCE is a gesture towards practical Masonry.
Masonry teaches that the wisdom of
Solomon’s Wisdom. §0iomon was written at Alexandria by an
Inniate of the Egyptian mysteries, possibly Philo learned in the
secret wisdom of Oriental religions and himself a great seer and
prophet. This is believed because the temple of Solomon con-
238 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
IO
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
tained the vessels used on Egyptian altars of Osiris, the God of
the sun, as well as the temple itself, being of Egyptian design in
its architecture. The gold being carried from distant lands shows
the power Solmon had over people, also his great ability as a
mystic to produce prosperity. His wisdom was intuitive, or a
mental development common to all great Adepts.
, , T . . Moses as the grandson of the Pharoah was
compelled by Egyptian law to become an
initiate of the mysteries of Osiris. Later he used his great powers
to liberate the children of Israel from bondage, also to produce
the plagues. He demonstrated over earth, air, fire and water
and contacted Jehovah, God of Israel an invisible master.
Pharoah’s daughter who raised Moses, was high Priestess of
Hathar and Neith, the two great Gods of the mind of lower
Egypt and the inscription on her tomb, shows her to have been
a highly developed mystic, since the symbols of a master of posi­
tive and negative were placed there as a signal honor to the
Princess, who was devoted to the mysteries. Moses Egyptian
name was Moshah and Aaron’s was Aharun. These names have
deep meaning in Egypt and was given in Iniation. There was
a strict line of demarkation drawn between Priest and Layman,
which Moses followed by creating the order of Levites with
Aaron his brother, the High Priest. The worship of the Levites
was very much Egyptian. In Egypt the order to which Moses
belonged as an initiate was known as the order of the word.
It originated in India and was called the order of Om, meaning
All in One. The writer belongs to that order, having been
initiated at the place called (Gateway to God) in India, where
many of the world’s greatest initiates took their vows of the
high priesthood of the divine order.
AMUM. This was the name of the God of lower Egypt
where Moses was initiated. It means truth or Holy of Holies.
The bearer of light on hidden secrets of life. His name was
always inscribed on the Breastplate of the High Priests of the
order and was later used on Aarons Breastplate which contained
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 239
1 the twelve stones and the Urim and Thumum. The secret
of positive and negative mental power. The priests of this
2 order were great mind readers and prophets. They adored their
God by the use of symbols and ceremonies, which later became
3 a part of the worship of the Hebrews. The idea of the Ark
and Covenant was identical with that of the Holy Oracles of
4 Egypt. The breastplate was used as a divining symbol as in
Egypt, the Ram was the symbol of the God AM UM , symbolical
5 of propigation and reproduction. His thought, power or con­
centration was said to be the cause of Creation, and his being
6 was without beginning or end. He controlled all spirits and
mortals by his thought or will, and the Egg was the symbol
7 of the Mother of God or AUM UM , meaning He came from a
germ of life which was nutured by the primitive light. The
8 egg is also a symbol of reproduction in the Brahman religion of
India, therefore it is seen at the doorway to the shrine, the Egg
9 of Vishnu. This is probably where the Egyptian idea of Au­
mum originated. The symbol of the celestial light was the
II* dot within a circle (.) which shows the connection of Masonry
with these mystic mental sciences of the Far East. The mystics
11 of the Brotherhood of Aumum believed in the seven cycles of
creation, also in the seven states or planes of mind within the
' 2 cycle, and they observed this teaching by fasting seven days
before initiation, also by symbols on their altars.
^ The L' This beast was a symbol of Upper Egypt known to
6 10n‘ the followers of Athom-ra. It symbolizes spiritual
^ strength, and also the overcoming of matter, which was a part
of that ancient religion. In SUPER M IND SCIENCE this
1^ symbolizes mind over matter, or power of concentration. The
Lion is also symbolical of the age of spiritual wisdom. The
16 last cycle of a Manvantara or age of civilization.
This symbol was used in the religion of Athom-
17 Eagle. ^ as SymbQj of thoughts flying through the air,
which initiates were able to intercept when they were master of
18 the mysteries. It also symbolizes victory of the higher powers
240 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 over matter, the lower or physical powers. In SUPER MIND
SCIEN CE one must become conscious of these higher powers
2 before they can ascend the heights of wisdom and master the
science. They must learn to see God in their thoughts mentally.
3 Our Science comes from the great mysteries of all ages, proving
their truth to be real as well as scientific, for truth is the sam
e
4 forever, eternal and the belief of man cannot change them one
iota.
5 „ , , Masonry teaches that the Magi of
Babylon was expounders of figurative
6 mysteries, also astronomers and divines. These practices were
Oriental in character and were in all probability borrowed from
7 the Parsee followers of Zaroaster of Persia where they lived for
several years. The word Parsee was later pronounced Pharisee,
8 and they were undoubtedly the ones among the Hebrews who
followed the religion of Zaroaster and was rebuked by Jesus,
9 and Saint John, the Baptist. Among the Hebrews were also
the Essences, who were another type of mystics. They practiced
10 healing extensively and Jesus never rebuked them or said an
unkind word about them. They had no money, each sharing
11 share and share alike all that the community possessed. They
practiced fasting and prayed every morning before sunrise. They
12 accepted Jesus as one of them, although they were Hebrews and
adopted his teachings into their philosophy. Our New Testa-
13 ment of Christianity is probably their Chronicle of Jesus and
His disciples. Some of them were fishermen and lived in Gali-
14 lee. Peter was possibly a member of their order, since He came
from the same locality, also it is believed by historical writers
15 that John the Baptist was one of their order who received
illumination and divined the coming of Jesus. The raiment he
16 wore was common among them, who practiced self abnegation
and pennance. There were two sects among the Essenees.
17 One settled at Galilee and one near the Dead Sea. They per­
formed many types of mystic demonstration and practiced forty
18 day fasts.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 241
1 Some writers have claimed Jesus belonged to the Essenees,
but no reliable proof of this has been found. In Hebrews we
2 learn He was High Priest of the Order Melchisedec which was
almost identical with the Order of Levites which was a con-
3 tinuation of Egyptian and Hebrew Mysteries. During the twelve
years not accounted for in the New Testament He probably
4 functioned as High Priest of the order and no one outside the
order knew what was done inside the walls of their temples
5 because they were a secret order who guarded their mysteries by
Solem oaths of secrecy. These are things which those of low
6 intelligence will deny, but Truth comes only to the seeker. The
law is seek and ye shall find. Not find and ye shall seek as
7 Othodox people seem to believe. Seeking means study and prac­
tice of the sciences of life and correct living.
8 c ross + This smybol has been the sacred emblem of many
nations and even tribes of people. Its inner mean-
9 ing is creative wisdom. In Greece it meant the Logos or word
of creation, and was adored as an emblem of the diety, by the
10 mystics of Delphi. Mithras which was the Mother of the
Roman church signed his soldiers on the forehead with a cross.
H The cross is also the mark of the six hundred, the number of
the divine incarnations of the Orient. It was also the staff of
12 Osiris used in divine demonstration of power. Krishna of the
Hindus was said to have died on a tree in the form of a cross
13 pierced by the arrows of the enemy in battle. The Cruxansata
is the oldest symbol of positive and negative joined together
14 known to man. The Lama of 'Tibet also wears a cross. The
interlaced triangles is regarded as a most ancient cross and
15 symbol of divine regeneration. It is the emblem adored as the
symbol of highest truth in SUPER M IND SCIENCE. A cross
16 of a different type to that of Christ was worn by the Priests of
Horas, the Saviour of ancient Egypt. Also one was the sign of
17 Fo of the Chinese mysteries. The cross was also symbolical of
the resurrection of man. For man who follows truth must be
18 persecuted, and after trials and tribulations fast and master him-
J i
242 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
self. Then the Great Father blesses him with immortal con­
sciousness. Those who crucified The Lord are the prototype of
the narrow mind of today. They seek to kill that which they
cannot comprehend.
c , Christ was said to be borned of the Virgin Mary.
Saviours of , . . . . . . . . 7
nr u hie lived the life of an initiate, and gave initiation
The World. , T. ,. . , , ’ ° ..
to His disciples on the mount of transfiguration.
He became High Priest of a mystic order, was crucified and arose
from the dead. Chrishna of the Hindu was supposed to be
borned of a Virgin Mother, also to have raised the dead de­
scended into the infernal regions. He was also said to appear
to Disciples after his death. Horos of Egypt was supposed to
have had heavenly parents. Osiris God of the Sun was his
Father while Isis Goddess of the Moon was his Mother. He
was said to have performed many wonders. This similiarity of
Saviours shows that probably they were all the incarnation of
one divine idea. The perfect initiate Master of body, mind and
soul, the ideal of mental science, Son of God and Archtype of
humanity. Saviours have always been of the common people
living a life of humility.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE is an effort to make the great
teachings of Saviours practical so humanity may profit thereby.
It embraces all the truth in all of the different religions of the
world, but rejects all narrow creedlistic doctrine which would
make a ritual superior to the will and consciousness of man. It
asserts the supremacy of divine mind science over beliefs void
of power, and raises its voice against killing and blood sacrifice
which is a pagan idea, which humanity has outgrown.
The Zend Avesta Bible asserts the truth of the existence
of Persia a Primitive light, which was pure spirit
from it, all forms of life evolved. Ormuzd,
the king of light, was the directing power of the Universe. His
word was the cause of creation. His thought the intelligence
of the world. Ahriman is the principle of evil, which is the
tempter of mankind. For twelve thousand years there was war
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 243
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
1 between good and evil, because the tempter caused the fall of
man, from his divine heritage, the Paradise of Ormuyd or God.
2 It teaches that this war ends by a purification of the world of
Angels and spirits, and the end of evil. This teaching is
3 similar to the Book of Genesis and it is believed that the early
Gnostics got much of their doctrine from the Persians where
4 some of the Hebrews lived for centuries.
Those who followed the divine sciences of the Orient formed
5 the Brotherhoods of Essenees, also the Therepute and school of
Mysteries of Philo, among the Hebrews. From these mysteries
6 which were symbolical mental science Masonry gathered her
allegories so-called, but to the mystic, the allegories are mysteries
7 of life told in parables.
. , . This great seer said that life proceeds from
3 n ^ „ divine origin. That birth and death are seem-
Great Seer. . 6 , . . , ,
ing states of intelligence, while the fact is
} that one divine essence experiences all these phenomenon; in­
dividuality being only a manifestation of this divine mind or
essence, like a wave is a part of the ocean. This is a very good
idea for reflection, but man becomes what his thoughts develop.
He is a free agent to choose between good and evil. Low
thoughts that kill or high thoughts that builds. The means of
realizing atonement with this divine mind has always been a
mystical process. In India it is Yoga, while in Persia, Adora­
tion of the fire in Egypt. The ancients used symbolical mental
practices while the Christian repents of his sins. The proper
way is to cease doing evil and purify the mind by divine
meditation.
believed in God as a divine essence of
energy, ever evolving forms and practiced
fasting and contemplation as a means of divine contact. When
this divine contact was established man became at once a divine
being or angel through a complete change of consciousness.
They also believed that miracles were the child’s play of God,
and that for greater manifestations of His wisdom would come
The New Platonist.
244 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 to those mentally pure when they escaped mortality through
death. These ancient mysteries all contain a deep lesson for
2 the student of mental science, who can see in them a certain
element of truth, which reason teaches to be true. Also they
3 show the power of intelligence to reveal the truth of God to
all races and civilization in advance of the educational develop-
4 ment of their time.
5 Pathagoras This great teacher taught that God was beyond
cognition of sense, Universal intelligence. He
6 said His embodiment is light and his soul is truth. This is
indeed a very beautiful expression as to the meaning of God.
7 He also said his spirit pervades and diffuses itself over all crea­
tion, and he is the source of all life. This is the same idea which
8 is expounded in SU PER M IND SCIENCE which says, God
is the light of the world. Those, who do His will becomes His
9 son. They inherit eternal life, truth and love. All light eminates
from the principle of fire and heat, which no one can live
10 without. This fire was adored by Pathagoras also by followers
of Zoroaster. It was held sacred. Jehovah appeared to Moses
11 in a burning bush, and Elijah ascended to heaven in a chariot
of fire. In SUPER M IND SCIENCE this is Solar Energy, the
12 producer of health and the energy that prolongs life. Will
power, intelligence also correct teachings are the means by which
13 man gains control of this divine life energy. Pathagoras taught
the transmigration of souls to lower realms in order to expiate
14 sins committed in this life. He taught this as speculation, but
his followers received it literally like Jesus, who gave a symbol-
15 ical last supper and asked His disciples to partake of His flesh
and blood in the symbol of the wine and bread, but now the
16 Christians take this symbol as a literal instruction from Jesus,
and use it as a sacrament. Its real meaning was that His dis-
17 ciples became one with Him, mentally and spiritually, but those
who have eyes see not, and those who have ears, hear not.
18 Reason alone solves the mysteries of life.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 245
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
The S hinx ^P^inx was once a temP^c initiation,
" ' where candidates were taught the secret of divine
concentration. It stood on the shore of a sea, which was where
the desert now is. Its name was said to be Mahatras, meaning
the Magnetic Sea. At that time the continent of Atlantis was
where the Atlantic Ocean now is, and a civilization very ad­
vanced in science existed at that time. This was the cycle of
wisdom of the last Manvantara before this civilization. The
mysteries were then being demonstrated in what is now Egypt
by a great woman teacher, known as Kasan. She was a native
of Atlantis. She was using her powers to purify this earth
before the end of physical creation came. She established schools
of initiation throughout the land and later became queen. Her
teachings were a means of controlling the elements through
mental science. She was greatly beloved by her people who
worshipped her as a saviour of the world. She told them the
end of matter striving with spirit was soon to come, and for
them to prepare to receive the final demonstration before the
sun withdrew its light from this planet. She predicted that
after she died this would happen and there would be an eternal
memorial to her great work erected; a monument not builded
by hands. So she dropped dead according to the legend on the
shore of the Sea and a great light came from heaven and rested
on the waters. Then the sand and water under control of a great
power formed the image of Kasan’s face on the body of a lion,
which is the symbol of spiritual power. This remains today.
It is the Sphinx of Egypt.
n The mysteries of Mythraism which
Constantine a Murderer. became a par£ of thc Roman church
were celebrated at Rome. The seven hills of Rome caused that
city to be a sacred place of pilgrimage, and huge temples over­
looked the city. Christians came to Rome preaching their
Gospel in the Third Century after Christ. Constantine was
ruling Rome and was a great enemy of Christianity. Every
where Christians were murdered when found teaching about
-------- -
246 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 Christ. This was done at Constantine’s orders. The catacombe
were a place of refuge for the Christians, where they lived
2 among the dead. Constantine had murdered many of his rela­
tives in order to have all the wealth of Rome as his own. H
e
3 was a devoted follower of Mythraism, a worship of the stars,
sun and moon. By some means the Christians converted him to
4 Christianity. One reason being that the Priests of Mythra
would not let him celebrate the mysteries because he was a mur-
5 derer. So he was not hard to convert to a religion teaching
redemption for sins. He ordered several of the Mytharc initia-
6 tions changed so as to partially meet the approval of Christians.
They were the celebration of the Saturnalia (season of Saturn)
7 on December 25th. This he designated Christmas, birth of
Christ, because it symbolized life eternal and the dawn of the sun
8 or springtime to follow Holy Water used by Mythriac Priests
as a forgiving ritual and was retained by him. The confes-
9 sional was then casting of Horoscopes or astrological predictions
by the Priests of Mythra. This was changed to its present uses;
10 anointing the dead and preaching funerals were rites of Mythra,
as also of Hindoostan while the burning of incense in the censers
11 were of Egypt and Mythra. Easter was in Mythraism, the
Spring Solstice, symbol of eternal life. This was changed to the
12 day Christ arose from the dead. The Holy days of Lent were
days when planets were in bad aspects, for earthly enterprises,
13 therefore it was changed to conform to Christianity. The Robes
of Priests were copied from Mythraism, also the black dress
14 of the Nuns, which symbolized the coming of the Angel of
Mercy to the infernal region of torment. The idea of Priests
15 not marrying came from Mythra. The reason was that spirit­
ual masters had to live the life of an ascetic in order to dem-
16 onstrate the powers of mind. Many of the Roman Saints were
still worshipped after Constantines conversion who were of the
17 Mythriac Priesthood. Christianity under Constantine was the
most cruel of all religions and the most intollerant of those who
18 did not believe in it. Those who refused to be converted was
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 247
1 often killed or mutilated. Racks of torture were made to break
the bones one at a time of those who adhered to other religions.
2 Some of those racks are still to be seen in Paris and in other
museums of Europe. At the entrance to the Caves de Torture
3 of Paris is an ancient Catholic church with its torture cage on
the outside of the door where a victim was placed so he could
4 not move without being stabbed with a spike of steel. While
inside they prayed to a supposed God of love, but the mass of
5 people love falsehood and murder in the name of truth and
justice, through ignorance. They have never thought for them-
G selves. That is the curse of this world. Atrocities in the name
of religion are still being committed all over the world, but
7 because the so-called Christians do those things which reason
condemns. That in no wise casts a shadow on their great
8 teacher, but the shadow is cast on His followers, whose lust
and evil ideas condemn them to sin, sorrow and death. It does
9 not dim the great light of the teachings. Love ye one another.
Cast out evil spirits, heal the sick, raise the dead. That had
10 echoed down the centuries to the mystic. This is the light of the
world. It prefigures mental science which follow in his foot-
11 steps in demonstrations over the flesh and the doctrine that the
flesh is weak but the spirit is strong. Seek therefore the King-
12 dom of God. All things shall be added unto you. Seeking
means study, learn, develop mentally, add mental science to
13 Christian Theology and the result is perfect in the sense that
every command of the Master can be fulfilled by the follower.
14 _ . . In the mysteries of Egypt is the legend of the
e£Uil oi ° sins- Death of Osiris, who was supposed to have
15 lived on earth as a king, also a teacher. He had a brother Typhon
(meaning serpent) who was the incarnation of evil. He
16 coaxed Osiris to enter a coffin, then threw him into the river
Nile. His wife, Isis, searched for the body, which she found
17 and took it to a great forest. Here she was spied on by Typhon,
who when she left the body cut it into fourteen pieces and threw
10 it again into the river. Isis hunted the second time and found
248 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
1 thirteen of the pieces. The fourteenth was not found. It was
said to be the Organs of Generation. (Symbol of Creative
2 mental power). The thirteen pieces were buried at Phile, and
over it was erected a great temple of Osiris. This tempting of
3 the serpent is symbolical of the laws of physical knowledge or
creation by sex. The drowning of Osiris in the Nile, is symbolic
4 of secrets of life, always symbolized by a river. The finding
of the body by Isis means Intuition. The means of one finding
5 their spiritual nature. The evil one (typhon) symbolizes ignor­
ance of laws of life. The thirteen pieces of the body of Osiris,
6 symbol of the twelve disciples of the Master. The twelve planets
through which the sun, the thirteen planet passes. Also the
T twelve convolutions of the brain, grouped around the ATMA,
spiritual mind. The fourteenth piece lost is a symbol of the di-
8 vine creative wisdom concealed from those that were not initiates
of the Inner Wisdom. When found it rebuilds, regenerates and
9 makes a new person or one is borned again. This divine wisdom
is the power of infinite mind in the process of human menta-
10 tion. Typhon or evil, was slain by Horas, Son of Isis and
Osiris. Then he became God of the Sun (dispencer of light)
11 creative mind. This same legend is to be found with variations
in almost all of the religions of the world, which shows the
12 necessity of understanding symbols if one is ever to comprehend
the mysteries of religion. Positive and negative were always
13 symbolized in all religions of the ancients in Egypt. It was
Osiris, positive, and Isis, negative. Ceremonies and dramas were
14 enacted to portray their powers to create life. These powers
are also pillars of SUPER M IND SCIENCE, which like
15 Masonry was born of the mysteries of the Far East, yet an
expression of true Christianity, for in Our Science Christ was
16 the one model for all. We read of his miracles and then reflect.
He is the Messenger of light, the Star of the East, the greatest of
17 All Master Initiates of the mysteries.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY ' 249
f
’ SYM BOLIC G LO SSA RY
Acacia. Symbol of eternal life giving principle.
Adept. One skilled in mental science. Master of the powers
of the mind. Initiated by a teacher of the divine mysteries.
Allegory. Truth enfolded in a parable.
Atys. Sun God of the Grecian mysteries, who was symbol­
ically buried at the Winter Solstice.
Appolo. Sun God of Greece, who was said to have been
killed by the Polar Serpent. (Symbolical of heat, life.) Cold
(death). A part of Grecian Initiation at Delphi.
Aries. Planet whose symbol is the Ram (regeneration) head
of the fire triplicity. Its celebration in the ancient mysteries
was one of purification at the altar of fire.
Bacchus. A God of light of the Grecian mysteries, symbol­
ized by the sun worshipped in a sun ritual. He was supposed
to have been slain by the Titans, descended into hell fire, but
because of being of the light he was resurrected from the dead.
His mystery was an initiation into three days in hell (mental
torture). This symbolizes the fourth plane of mind, where
each mortal must undergo a trial which determines their state.
Cybel. Mother of the sun Gods of Greece. Ruler of the
passive principle in the mysteries. Corresponds to Isis of Egypt.
Mahadevi of India Negative life energy in SUPER M IND
SCIENCE.
Crescent. Symbol of illumination pointing up, immortality
— downward, mortality. This symbol marks the forehead of
a master. It points upward.
Cross. Symbol of overcoming the flesh. Its color should be
golden, symbolical of the mind. In SUPER M IND SCIENCE
it symbolizes self mastery. The works of Christ. Divine
wisdom.
Crux Ansata. Ancient symbol of positive principle or sun
energy. A part of the Egyptian mysteries. Oldest symbol of
regeneration.
250 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
Danayal. Chief teacher of the College of the Magi at Baby­
lon, instructor of the Hebrews in Mystic Mental Science.
Druids. The ancient British who emigrated from the Orient
and settled in England. They built temples in the form of a
cross and celebrated the astronomical dieties or powers. They
regarded the sun as a symbol of God Omnipotent light. They
were mental healers, astronomers and mystics. Most of their
mysteries seem to be of Persian origin.
Elensis. A religion of the Grecian mysteries whose priests
preached eternal damnation to those uninitiated into the
mysteries of Delphi. Symbolical of reverence for good.
Evergreen. Symbolic of eternal life.
Enoch. An ancient Mason built a city. Spiritual symbol
of progression, prophet, seer.
Finite. That which has form and limitations. A state of
being before At-one-ment is realized. Symbolized by the square
of Masonry. Mortal consciousness in SUPER MIND SCIENCE,
which can become infinite and also immortal.
Gad. An ancient initiate who wrote the Book of Gad his­
tory of miracles which were performed by Adepts of the Chil­
dren of Israel. Member of the Order Melchisdec.
God. Symbolical God is the perfect circle of Omnipotent
intelligence. Active universal life energy. A dot within a circle
in man surrounded by infinite spirit on every side.
Gateway. Symbolic of entrance into divine wisdom. The
Masonic G symbolizes Gateway to God. Entrance to divine
initiation in the mysteries of life, truth and love.
Hierophant. High Priest of the ancient mysteries. Inter­
preter of Cosmic symbols. Instructor of the candidates for ini­
tiation. Symbolized by the sun, meaning Master of light.
Hierogliphic. A symbol of a principle which is beyond
description. Used in ancient schools of mystery, interpreted
by a teacher. They revealed life’s deepest secret. The ancient
Bibles were written in Hierogliphics and symbolical characters
which words could not explain.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 251
Ho. A symbolic God of the Stellar constellation of the
British Druids. He governed the seasons and was said to possess
the keys to life hereafter.
Initiate. One skilled in the sciences of the mysteries, who
has received an initiation. Master of the divine mysteries.
Initiation. Symbolic instruction into life’s truths. Inter­
pretation of mystifying symbols into practical meaning, which
reveals manifestation of God in man, divine mental science.
His symbol is the all-seeing eye.
Intuition. Mental perception. The sixth sense symbolized
by the sixth round on the ladder of seven steps in Masonry.
Also in SUPER M IND SCIENCE Intuition is the means of
gaining knowledge of divine mysteries.
Judgment. Symbolized by the scales in Masonry. The super
divine mind presenting wrong committed in the body in the
form of a vision to man after the death of the body. If guilty
he convicts himself and goes to destruction through remorse.
If not guilty he passes over the threshold to immortality. He
crosses the fourth plane, a state of confusion.
Justice. Symbolized by an angel robed in white, meaning
purity, justice and love.
Judas. Symbolized by a black cross, also a dagger being
held by a hand, the person holding it concealed. In Mental
science it is one who enters the study class only to defame it
and lower it in the eyes of others. Judas, the false disciple of
Christ hanged himself in the temple where he was bribed by
the preachers to betray Christ. Each betrayer of mental science
hangs themselves spiritually when they become the tools of
Priestcraft.
Julius Caesar. Give unto God that which is God s and
unto Caesar that which is Caesar’s, shows and symbolizes matter
or material existence. T o it we owe certain obligations. We
also owe higher duty and obligation to God.
Kabala. The numerical and symbolic mysteries of the
Hebrews. Also studied in Masonry. It explains the existence
----— -------- --- ■
252 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
•
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -
<
of God in man or mind. It also holds the key to Mastership *
of Alchemistry and seeks to solve the mystery of the phil­
osophers. Stone (soul). Its symbol is the six pointed star,
meaning unity of man and God. Male and female. God is
explained in numbers as follows. The number 10 is God
animating matter. God's symbol is O, the perfect circle. Add
1, meaning man, and we have 10, the number of Man and God.
The unit 1 is a symbol also of the word in the flesh or Christ
divine harmony between matter and Spirit. One candle is his
symbol.
No. 2. Symbol of man and woman creators.
No. 3. Trinity God Head. Three states of mind in mental ^
science, conscious, subconscious, superconscious.
No. 4. The four elements, earth, air, fire and water.
No. 5. Intelligence added to elements. Matter.
No. 6. The cube or perfect idea divinity in man.
No. 7. The seven sacraments and seven planes of mind.
No. 8. Number of the God sphere in the universe.
No. 9. Number of months for birth, number of mortal
man.
No. 10. In the Kabala. Symbol of the two units Pairs,
Positive and Negative.
No. 12. The twelve apostles. Foundation of the Holy
City. Number of convolutions of the brain to be developed in
mental science, which opens the twelve Gates to the Holy City.
The keys to the Gates is concentration or effort. Seek and ye
shall find. The Kabala explains how these numbers previously
given can be mathematically used to solve the mysteries of
nature and divinity.
Koran. The Mohammaden Bible written by a Jewish
Rabbi, but credit given to Mahomet, the so-called prophet. It
is looked upon by the highly developed Masters of the Far
East as the lowest and most misleading of all Bibles. It teaches
war, murder and lust and puts a premium on evil. It teaches
poligamy and immorality. The symbol used by its followers
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 253
is the Crescent.
Lunor Circle. A center of negative energies where they enter
the body between the shoulders. Its symbol is a half circle in
the form of a crescent. SU PER M IND SCIEN CE teaches one
to close it to negative influence and at the same time open the
SOLAR PLEXU S to a very positive influence. The exercise is
by drawing the shoulder blades together and slowing the breath
and then willing out the negative influence first. Then willing
in the positive last.
Manna. The sacred manna coming from heaven to feed
those hungry in the wilderness is symbolical of divine energy
flowing down from the A T M A or Soul mind down the spine,
healing and nourishing the body. It produces a sweet nectar
(saliva) which comes from the glands when the mind desires
health or food through divine power.
Magism. Mystic teaching of demonstration of unseen
powers. The wise men of the east were of that order.
Mythra. An anciet astrological religion which had a center
in Rome, where the constellations were regarded as divine
powers ruled by a God whose symbol was the sun source of
light. The Roman Church adopted its ceremonies and symbols
also many of its rituals, giving them Christian interpretation.
Their teachers taught in sacred caves and believed in mental
purification through exercises and the abstaining from eating
flesh. Their philosophy came from India. The symbol of
Mythra’s Solar God was symbolized sitting on a bull. Former­
ly Shiva’s bull of India. He carried a sword in his hand, mean­
ing power to destroy life as well as give it.
Mythology. A parable which teaches a symbolic truth,
which was understood by initiates only. Jesus spoke in par­
ables. He said to those who were sincere that to them it was
given to know the meaning of the parable. Mythology conceals
divine truth from the profane.
Minerva Mundi. A treatise on mental science written by
the great ancient teacher, Hermes Trismegitus. It explained
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
254
the ability of an adept to control the elements with his will
power when he had the proper instruction into the divine
mysteries. Minerva was supposed to be a God of the mind,
producer of all the thought in the world. Also Minerva was
supposed to be God of positive and negative energy. The divine
alchemist. Symbolical of the will.
New Jerusalem. Smybolized by the Holy temple where the
candidates enter bliss or Nirvana. Also symbolical of immortal­
ity. A city not made with hands.
Night. Symbolized by the color black Negation, the absence
of light. Symbolical of ignorance.
Osiris. A great teacher of Egypt who became Master of the
male principle and God of the sun.
Oil. Symbolized by life energy in the body which produces
inspiration and godliness.
Parsee. Follower of Zoaroaster. Their religion is a worship
of fire as spirit, the source of life. They were driven from Persia
by Mohammadens. Their main settlement and temples is at
Bombay, India. Their rites are secret and no outsider is allowed
in their temples. One must be born into their religion. They
do not believe in conversion. They are proud charitable and
prosperous people. Their dead is buried in the towers of Silence
where vultures consume their bodies. Their symbol is the sun
which is adored in ceremonies.
Pharisee. A people among the Hebrews whom mystic phil­
osophers believed to have been one and the same as the Parsee
of Persia. Jesus rebuked them for their hypocrisy. They pre­
figure the Orthodox church of today, who profess religion, but
do not practice the divine work of Christ. Passive Atheist.
Rama. A mystic lover whose bride was Sita of the Hindu
Ramayana religious history of India. Many miracles were at­
tributed to the two whom bandits tried to separate. Many
dramas of India are based on these ancient lovers. Their symbol
was the swan who carried messages to Rama from Sita, when she
was held prisoner by bandits.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 255
The author has unfolded only a few of the deep mysteries
of Masonry, enough to show to the consciousness of the student
the value of symbols, which it has been the will of God to
contain the secrets of nature. Study Super Mind Science well
and you will be a Practical Mason.
Ritual. A ceremony symbolizing Truth.
River. In Masonry it is symbolical of life. The ritual in
honor of the dead depicts a river, in its center is the names of
the departed brothers. In Super Mind Science it is a channel
of thought.
Spirit. Symbolized by fire of the elements, which is sym­
bolized by the four-way cross of Masonry.
Sun. A symbol of light; also God, the sustaining power of
the Universe.
Symbol. A prototype of some truth existant in the mind or
consciousness of mortal man.
Tracing Board. Symbol of the laws of life, which gives man
a divine conscience as a guide.
Triangle. Symbol of the Trinity, Father, Son and Holy
Ghost. Also a symbol of man’s mind, body and soul, or his
three-fold being.
Truth. Symbolized by the book of the law which is on the
altar of initiation in all lodges of true Masonry.
Unity. Symbolized by the interlaced triangles of Solomons
Temple. Yod, or God, is in the center, showing man to be
a son of God. Used in the higher degrees of Masonry, it is
the emblem of Super Mind Science.
World. The lodge of Masonry symbolizes the world and
the globe on top of the column of Solomon’s Temple. Also
symbolized the world; also the universe.
Word. The lost word of Masonry is the Om of India,
which when sounded restores the hearing to the deaf and is
256 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
said to raise the dead when sounded by seven initiates.
Work. Symbolized by the beehive in Masonry. One is told
to be industrious and to keep busy hewing his rough ashlar.
Zeus. A god of Egypt who was worshipped as the God of
the Soul and Immortality. He was supposed to endow his
followers with supernatural powers and to have risen from the
dead.
Masonry was originally a religion but has been changed and
its true teaching concealed, thereby becoming a fraternity of
the social order. Its mysteries were once demonstrated by
masters of mental science for the good of humanity. Its tem­
ples were once places of worship for the initiate of the deepest
mysteries of life. Her secrets have been misapplied and her
purpose, that of mental freedom, almost forgotten, but the
writer predicts that some time it will once again become the
light of humanity.
Super Mind Science may be termed practical Masonry, also
Christianity, for they are one and the same. It strives to fullfil
Masonry’s ancient obligation, that of demonstrating the pow­
ers that control life and destiny. We seek to heal the sick,
raise the dead and preach the truth to the poor. Is this not
the Masters work? In this science all men are equal and all
mentalities must become free, otherwise man is in bondage.
All Masons should endorse this science. We have not re­
vealed pass words or grips or other material secrets. We have
simply thrown a practical light on Masonry.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 257
TH E G R EA T WORK
The great work is to perform the wonders of Mental Science
by knowing how to control the elements. Using the will to
generate the positive powers and suppress the Negative, being
a beacon of light to suffering humanity, willing to lay your
hand on the sick to overcome with energy and divine mind
their pains. In these works one will soon discover a great power
aiding them and can feel a vibration similar to a sweet aroma
of flowers to the nostrils. They often can even hear the divine
voice within them saying, “ Arise, take up thy bed and walk.”
A great soul power comes into their lives. This uplifting power
is called the Absolute, for which the adepts of old searched.
It has been called the Universal Medicine which restores life
and heals the sick and solves the mystery of heaven. This is
alchemistry turning common metal (the body) to gold. The
purifying of the flesh is separating the dross from the gold.
Within man is the soul, the inner reality. When one does
the soul manifests all the powers of the Godhead. This
finding of the soul is called in the ancient sciences, the finding
of the Philosophic Stone, the Magis of old, some of them found
it but a continuous quest has ever been going on by deep think­
ers to find it. No one except those who do the great work have
ever found it. It is a reward for service, a fellowship degree
in the higher lodge of life, Super Mind Science, reveals the way
to find this great light and power. It teaches everyone to be a
healer and demonstrator of the powers of nature which is the
cause of life, truth and love, demonstrate it and learn the great
secret.
Hermes said there was a magical substance in man. He called
it Prima Materia, that it could transform disease into health,
poverty into prosperity, and make of man a God. He termed
it the Universal Medicine of the alchemist. There is no doubt
that this great substance is the life energy of Super Mind
Science, also it is the Prana of the Hindu. The ancient teachers
258 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
were searching for a means of controlling it so they could do
the great works. Super Mind Science in Key to Lesson No. 1,
teaches this method which they tried to find. The author had
a revelation in the days of his discipleship which solved this
mystery and stands today as the greatest key to energy known
in metaphysics. There were two hermetic operations, one ma­
terial, the other spiritual one dependent on the other. They
are the positive and negative life energies. This is the force of
nature upon which everything depends. It is a universal life
fluid. The ancient alchemists attributed the existence of gold
to the sun, it being the precious light or rays of life which
mixing with the moon the source of silver causes life; thus they
enfolded the mysteries of alchemy in the symbols of these
planets. From these chemicals they said all life eminated. The
great work was to discover the circulation and abode of these
forces in man. They taught that they could be controlled only
by the adept who had attained the sovereignty of the human
will. In this process of evolution one becomes the agent of the
sun, creator of life, sustainer of humanity. When this is ac­
complished one can then perceive the astral light where all events
of man are reflected, past, present and future. This mixing of
positive and negative and seeing the astral light is divine
alchemy. When one becomes a divine alchemist and agent of
the sun, they demonstrate the absolute science. Become the pos­
sessor of the philosophical stone, attain the supreme unalter­
able reason, and can compose an invisible substance which can
produce a form of life unknown to those who have never studied
the absolute sciences of nature. This science says the ancients
were those who demonstrated it by the contact of logas, or
lord, who raises the dead and performs miracles. This same
science demonstrates the elixir of long life and youth, but one
must do the great work and find the stone first, thereby show­
ing their willingness to obey the master of the sun. Kurum
in masonry, Osiris in the Egyptian mysteries. There was a
word pronounced Od, meaning the astral light and fluid which
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 259
was held as the reward of adepts in the ancient ceremonies of
Egypt. They were told that a man who was a slave to dogma
and priest could never find the stone, all prejudice must be
overcome and a broad mind attained.
See the absolute in the infinite and the infinite in the
finite, thus solve the mystery of the sun, by doing the great
work one masters positive powers and inherits the crown sym­
bol of the masters. They also attain the stone. They must keep
it away from the gaze of the profane. We are told by Hermes
it is meant only for the initiate of the mysteries behind the
veil of life. Another way of finding the stone is to operate the
divine mysteries which forms a mathematical science which
reveals all secrets, even the thoughts of others. This science is
taught in the higher branch of Super Mind Science. It was
known by ancient masters as the Hermetic Science of the Sun.
Using it, all things can be known about nature. The author
taught it to a few hundred who became an illuminati of Amer­
ica. They demonstrated its profound mysteries perfectly and
found the stone of the philosophers in the laws of equation
and vibration. That work has been carefully preserved for the
advanced student of Super Mind Science. It will be difficult to
attain because a sacrifice must be made by the candidate in order
that he be mentally prepared to learn it. Before he attains to
that he must master the symbolical teachings of the author
known as master teachings of Inner Mysteries. This is to be­
come master of the secrets of the laws of vibration and learn
the secrets of the brothers of wisdom. After this he may then
be initiated into the higher work known as the adepts’ secret
knowledge, both the symbolic work and this higher work was
once Masonry, but has been lost to them because they use the
word speculation when speaking of the divine work. They
should say practical for the truth of Masonry and the mysteries
is a practical truth, as is proved by Super Mind Science. Liberty
of thought must be attained before one can use the great powers
and do the great work Jesus said, “Know the truth and the
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
4
truth shall make you free.” Jesus also said, “ Ye are the salt of 1
the earth, showing he was an alchemist of the divine order.
It is the great aim of the author that he explain the divine mys­
teries and establish the great work. But if his students are not
loyal the work will suffer. If they aid him illumination will
come quicker to all concerned, but they must depart from ig­
norant religions and accept this as their religion. They must
worship God with deeds not belief, do the great work, renounce
those false religions which teach people doctrines of falsehood
and send them to hospitals, prisons and war. Learn the reli­
gion of love, light and truth. Purification of the soul and im­
mortality comes only to those who do the great work. To the
ignorant the sun does not give his light nor does the moon
shine forth at night. They have eyes, but cannot see, ears but
cannot hear. In Masonry, the candidate is taught to be purified
on seven planes as in Super Mind Science. Those who do the
great work go beyond the fourth plane of tribulation after this
life, those who do not become confused in the astral light and
seek another means to climb up but lose their way, the ladder
is as follows:
260
God Consciousness
Christ Consciousness
Spiritual Consciousness
Transma Consciousness
Super Consciousness
Sub-Consciousness
Physical Consciousness
These different planes are also the seven heavens of the He- i
brews, the fourth plane is the state of torment in the world
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 261
of divine mind, it is the division within the waters of life.
Jesus said, “ Some seek entry into heaven as a thief, but
they cannot enter.’’ They close the doorway on themselves by
ignorance and the belief in dogmas instead of doing the great
work. The student of Super Mind Science should be ever
aware of this ladder and remember that only those who become
positive and do the great work can climb to the top. Excuses
do not perform deeds. God is not fooled by man’s selfish­
ness, nor is divinity blind to the opportunity one has to do
the great work. The reader of this book is asked to learn from
memory the meaning of the great work, which is: Heal the sick,
comfort those in sorrow, preach truth, light and love, in your
home, your business and by good deeds be a champion of truth
and study the laws of divine mind. In order to be able to per­
form the great work, increase your demonstrations of divinity.
The older you get in order to develop life’s finer forces, search
diligently for the White Philosopher’s stone, strive to become
the perfect alchemist, don’t stop study for any reason, go on in
Super Mind Science to the last degree of the work, there you
will learn the ancient science of the Magi and find the stone of
reason and master the law of vibration. The four elements
used by the divine architect in building the temple not made
with hands are Fire, which produced his spirit and his mind,
Water (life substance), his soul. These elements with Earth
and Air, properly mixed, produced intelligence, which is the
light of the world. This intelligence in substance is the divine
stone of identity upon which Jesus builded his church and said,
the gates of hell shall not prevail against it, meaning the con­
tinuing of identity beyond torment, or hell. Jesus descended
down the ladder to this state, passed through it and then arose
from the dead, which demonstrated the power of one who
does the great work over this state of torment, also death.
Each one must seek his own salvation. No one can save an­
other except by teaching them truth.
The ancients said that great mysteries were even concealed in
4 :
262 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
colors which, when learned, would open up a new branch of
science. This has happened, but they also said that the principle
of male and female was of the mind and that they contained a
great secret which some day would change religion from a be­
lief to a natural science. That is beginning now and Super
Mind Science inaugurates the new era. No one who honestly
studies this great science can say it is other than the divine door­
way of consciousness which leads one to the goal of true under­
standing of God. The ancient mysteries are quoted to show the
antiquity of this science, not to mystify the reader. This
science is a positive science, not a negative system of hypnosis.
We don’t condemn other mental systems, we only point out
their weakness to protect the honest student from their nega­
tive methods. This science demonstrates its teachings, therefore
it is truth. Seek and ye shall find, means study and demonstrate,
not to sit and suggest. The student is warned to keep their
mind positive and avoid such systems of study as New Thought,
Unity, Christian Science, Spiritualism, Hypnotism and other
forms of mental magic which open up the negative brain
centers and retard the spiritual unfoldment of the student.
Super Mind Science develops only positive centers, which makes
one become more of a master each time the laws are used.
The practice of Super Mind Science keep all of the life ener­
gies flowing in the body, keeps the mind or consciousness alert,
and develops mastery over all negative conditions, also sickness
and sorrow. Its concentration system has never been equaled,
nor has its healing been duplicated by any other science. The
rough Ashlar in Masonry is an undeveloped person, while the
square cube is a developed person. Super Mind Science is the
tool of the craft of Masonry which is used to make the rough
Ashlar smooth. When one can demonstrate this sublime science
then he becomes developed mentally and can do the great work
and becomes favored by the sun (G od). He lives a happy life
here and passes on to a higher life in the immortal planes be­
yond Transma, where no more transmigrations or sorrows ever
' '— ------------------------------------------------------------
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 263
effect him. This is the true Christ science, which in knowledge
and power transcends all other ideas and sciences. The author
spent his entire life in the studies of the divine mysteries, was
an initiate of the mysteries of the Magi of India, and Brother
of the Hierophants of Egypt. In India he is called Master Soul
Teacher in one of the most ancient orders. In this volume he can
only explain a few of the divine mysteries. The revival of a
lost and forgotten science of mastership over sin, disease and
death, yet he in all humility recognizes the good done by the
ancient teachers. Also by Masonry in preservation of the mys­
teries of the schools of adepts, and for the teaching of freedom of
the mentality to search for truth and not bow down to any
mortal man and call him father or God, for there is but one
God and one heavenly father.
R EC A PIT U LA TIO N
Mind. Mind is a universal power which has within it the
creative power of positive and negative life forces.
Each one possesses some of this mind power. This we term
individual consciousness. No one has a mind of their own, but
has a consciousness of their own. There is but one mind, it is
universal; one God in mind, which is also universal. Concentra­
tion of the mind is the focusing of the consciousness on one
thing, thereby concentrating also infinite spirit, God or spirit
in mind produces the result of concentration. Mind is positive
and also negative. One must know these laws in order to con­
centrate. When one breathes very little and their thought is set
on one thing, they are positive, also they are concentrating.
They restrain mind power and direct it to the thing which en­
gages their attention. No one can concentrate properly with­
out restraining the breath, as that is the key to being positive.
When one concentrates they should not repeat over and over
their desire, but hold their thought on their desire, avoid af­
firmations or suggestions as they often break the thought cur-
-------------- -------------
264 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
rents and disturb rather than aid concentration.
Matter. Matter is substance, a low manifestation of mind,
consciousness becomes divine when purified. When matter be­
comes subservient to mind and spirit, it takes on godly qualities,
also its existance is prolonged through divine contact. Unless
love of humanity pervades the consciousness of man, also his
body, he is not pure spiritually. Mind over matter involves
concentration, directing life energy to eliminate disease and
depression. Mind over matter is a practice, not a belief. When
matter is overcome, man grows spiritually. Matter is just as
real as mind, but must be controlled and purified to become
Godly. Anyone who says matter don’t exist is ignorant. They
lack common reasoning power which divides man from lower
animals.
Disease. Disease is congestion caused by a violation of Na-
and disease are one and the same. When one generates life
energy and treats the body, this causes expansion and relieves
congestion. This produces healing. See Super Mind Science heal­
ing method in Lesson No. 2, Keys to Super Mind Science. Dis­
ease is real but can be overcome by mental development and
control of life energy, also by concentration of mind and
spiritual forces and energies. This science recognizes disease
but it shows how to master it. Only the ignorant deny the
existence of it, since it is a manifestation caused by ignorance
of natures law. As long as ignorance exists, there will be dis­
ease and sin. Super Mind Science shows the way to master sin,
disease and death, by positive and negative laws of concentra­
tion and energy control.
when purified it becomes also divine, like mind or
ture’s laws. This violation is a sin, therefore sin
Healing. Healing in Super Mind Science is performed by first
directing solar energy into the location of the disease
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 265
(see Lesson 2, Keys to S. M. S.). Next by the will power and
life energy directed by the healer, with concentration to elim­
inate the disease, then by the healer realizing I and My Father
are one. No disease can persist when this energy is directed
against it. Healing will result quickly and the patient will
testify to results. Solar energy often termed the heat wave,
enters the solar plexus as one breathes deeply and goes direct
to the head where the healer rests his hands from there it can
be directed where the disease is located by the healer placing
one hand on that section of the body, while the other remains
on the head of the patient, the heat wave can be felt under the
hands as it circulates through the body. When this is finished
the healer should work the muscles up and down so as to
spread the energy through the muscles. This will stop pain
instantly. Treat until the patient is well energized. Treat daily
until they recover.
Magnetism. In Super Mind Science we learn that magnetism
is a power of attraction coming from the sun.
One who is magnetic usually are prosperous, one who is not
prosperous should practice generating magnetism by a rythmic
breathing exercise while you rotate the body in a circle, think­
ing of becoming a magnet to attract prosperity or whatever one
may desire. The magnetism can be felt in the finger tips when
held slightly together it produces a drawing sensation between
the finger tips, also throbs in the temples. Practice daily until
perfect results are obtained. Magnetism can be used to attract
health, wealth or opportunity.
Door of the Soul. With knowledge of this brain center one
can become conscious of where their con­
sciousness goes while the body is asleep.
Soon they begin to learn the secret of cosmic consciousness, to
know is better than to believe. Immortality can be proven and
experienced before death of the body. Jesus taught his disciples
266 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
to enter a room and there await his appearance after the cruci­
fixion. This they did and he appeared to them. This was a
proof of immortality while they, the disciples, were still in the
body. The writer has appeared many times to his students,
even though his body was far away. This type of manifesta­
tion is called Astral Traveling by those who perform it. Since
we have the same invisible body, also senses, before death which
we possess after there is no reason why one cannot use them
while in physical life. If they learn this interesting demonstra­
tion then they will know all about the state of mind called
immortality. No one should leave this life without knowing
something about the next. This being the reason Super Mind
Science demonstrates this art which has been lost to man for
centuries.
Imagination Control. Super Mind Science teaches one to con­
trol the imagination so as to prevent it
from forming the wrong kind of visions which influence the
mind to do that which is harmful instead of that which is
good, also many people imagine they believe something which
when reason sheds its light upon it, they do not believe. This
is a form of mental negation. Unless one overcomes this they
will be in spiritual darkness and finally be torn asunder by
vibration they are not acquainted with. This is the reason why
Super Mind Science teaches the control of imagination. The
way to do this is in the lessons of Super Mind Science this
volume.
Ego Current. This is a spiritual force which is stored in two
centers in the spine, one the ego center back of
the Solar Plexus, the other the fire or Khundlini center at end of
the Coxxix bones in the spine. When this current flows freely
one develops greater wisdom and spiritual perception, which
soon makes it possible to understand God in the universal as-
pect. The method used in Super Mind Science is a safe one,
■
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 261
but it is no subject for amateurs in mental science. The student
is warned to follow the method outlined in this science to the
letter if they desire success. Don’t accept other methods since
they may prove to be metaphysically wrong and cause one
trouble. This branch of our science is to develop the student
spiritually and intellectually.
Concentration. The art of concentration is a subject worthy
of all the study which a student may give it. In Super Mind
Science one is taught that the thoughts enter the Solar Plexus
as we breathe, then travel to the two glands, pineal and pitui­
tary, in the brain where they contact and a thought is then
born. Now when breathing deep these thought centers are
pulsating fast. One is taking in different thoughts each breath,
therefore it is impossible to concentrate while this condition
exists, but when the deep breathing is stopped and the Solar
Plexus center ceases to vibrate, then one can retain one thought
only in the brain centers. As they increase their positiveness
the mind concentrates on this one idea. The mind stuff in the
body becomes conscious of this idea, thus bringing the entire
system into a concentration, then the mental waves of the con­
scious mind become longer and stronger as one wills to succeed
finally, they reach the vibration of the object or condition con­
centrated upon. Each time one concentrates on something with
this method they become more positive and stronger mentally.
The students of Super Mind Science have written thousands
of testimonies of results in success in business, healing and
demonstrations over stubborn conditions in general. Concen­
tration is the great key to mental science, which unlocks its
treasure chest. Those becoming master of the art of concen­
tration become master of life and its problems.
Solar Energy. Super Mind Science is the first mental science
of the west to demonstrate this great rejuven­
ating power which comes from the rays of the sun. It also
SUPER. MIND SCIENCE
enters the Solar Plexus when we inhale similar to the life ener­
gies previously spoken of in the keys to Super Mind Science,
by raising the arms over the head and raising the ribs one opens
this energy center, then by deep breathing can draw the waves
of heat and energy to the top of the head. After a few min­
utes the head becomes very warm, then one can stop the breath
and will that this energy flows down through the body to heal
it or energizes every cell rejuvenating the body and promoting
health in general. This energy then begins to flow where it is
so directed if it is a disease or pain it is immediately helped.
Since an expansion takes place in that center at once. Wherever
this energy flows proper it is impossible to have a disease or
pain, since they require congestion in order to manifest. If one
keeps it flowing freely in their body, they will be at all times
in perfect health and no symptoms of old age such as body
deposits in the blood stream, will develop. The key to control
of this energy is in Lesson 3 of this volume. The student is ad­
vised to study it well and master this great energy. In the Super
Mind Science healing method the student will find a method of
directing this energy through the patient’s body to stop pain
by placing their hands on the patient’s head and on the affected
part of the body. By control of solar energy and the life
energies, one can demonstrate over any disease if they will
take the methods often until relieved. This science has healed
every disease common to the people in a very short time by
the control of these energies. This is nature’s way and God s
way to heal the body. The body was never intended to be
drugged with poisons. It is the temple of the living God, there­
fore should be treated as such.
Other Mental The reason the founder of Super Mind Science
Sciences. is opposed to the other so-called mental
sciences is that they have no methods which
are scientific. Their results are haphazard, their founders were
undeveloped in most cases, and they seek to use belief instead
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 269
of science to overcome the ills of mankind. They open and de­
velop negative centers in the brain by their use of hypnotic
suggestions and their negative way of entering the silence. This
is very harmful to the student and is not scientific. Such teach­
ings as Christian Science and Unity are founded on hypnosis,
not on science at all. Their founders could not demonstrate their
claims, neither could their followers, but people become deluded
by their negative teaching and do not realize they are develop­
ing backwards instead of forwards. Many of them become ob­
sessed especially in Christian Science. The founder was obsessed
and hypnotized into the belief that her body did not exist,
that matter as a whole was a belief and non-reality. It is a
known fact that she was hypnotized by a Mr. Quinby, who
was the real author of her book, Science and Health. Her fol­
lowers are a deluded group who have sold their soul to a false
teacher. There are also many so-called psychologists who are
teaching suggestion and auto-hypnosis to the public. This of
course produces results, but also produces negation, which later
brings sorrow. Science does not depend on reaction, but depends
on action. Science is something capable of proof, not belief, or
suggestion. Most of these so-called teachers are people who have
read a few books which anyone can buy at the book stores.
They copy a course of instructions, not knowing if they are
right or wrong, then attracted by material gain they travel and
teach. Many do not even know how much harm they do, or
the correctness of their views. They are generally incompetent.
The writer knows one who used to be a railway mail clerk in
Kansas City, Mo. He learned an eye exercise, then copied a
little from different teachers. Next he was before the public as
an eye specialist. Many who tried his method became worse
off by the experiment. One of his favorite subjects was that
mental science was impossible. This of course exposed his ig­
norance. Super Mind Science healed many of his students which
he failed to help. One of them was blind, but has now recov­
ered his sight. Another menace to this science is the Hindus
270 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
who come to America as laborers, then hear about the American
interest in the Yogi philosophy. Soon they have dropped the
tools of labor and assumed the title Hindu Master. Next they
are teaching Yoga, which they never were interested in in India,
but bought books written by American writers on the subject
and became over night great masters. They of course are fakes.
The writer knew one who came here as a laborer. He got a
position as street sweeper in Chicago. Later he attended a col­
lege of chiropractic in Los Angeles. After two years of study
and work as a servant, he became a half educated chiropractor,
then he found he had tuberculosis of the lungs and could not
practice his art, so he began to take lessons in Yoga from an­
other Hindu who was making an easy living. Next the writer
noticed a large ad in a newspaper, announcing in glowing terms
the Great Hindu Master, Yogi will lecture on the spiritual
powers of India’s masters. The public, who like to be fooled,
went to hear him, only to find he could not even talk English
and had infected lungs. However, he charged forty dollars for
breathing lessons and what he termed the law of Moses, but
which was a Brahman prayer taught to all Hindu children.
The people saw he was tall and very thin and believed him to
be a great saint and Yogi. Later when he was about to die of
infection in Los Angeles, he called twelve disciples who were
all spiritualist mediums from different states and appointed
them to carry on the law of Moses. They were all negative
fanatics who imposed the imposition of the fake Yogi on the
public and at this writing they are still fooling the people in
many states. There are so many of these types in America and
no real Yogi teachers that the writer warns the student to be­
ware, lest they become the victim of an imposter. Our science
has in it all they contain and more than many of them contain,
so why look elsewhere?
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 271
Religion. Super Mind Science is the practical application of
religion to one’s life, if one heals the sick, teaches
the truth and helps humanity in general, they will grow spirit­
ually, for they are following the examples of Jesus. They need
no other religion when following this science for it is the
world’s greatest religion. No one can let their mind become a
slave to creed and yet master mental science. Religion is an
empty shell from which life has departed long ago, as far as the
churches are concerned. No one can save another except by high
example and good council. Everyone must save themselves,
otherwise they will be lost. If one knows nothing of the invis­
ible while alive, how then can they know of it when the body
is dead, for death does not improve one nor bring them closer
to God. Only a good life of good deeds can do that. If the
reader wishes conscious immortality, they must become con­
scious of it while alive, not wait until they die. Jesus said,
‘Those who deny me and my works on earth, I will deny be­
fore My Father in heaven.” Religion has always offered a pen­
alty to those who don’t believe and heaven to those who do,
but can God be bribed or can one obtain that which they do
not deserve? The science of living is the most sublime of all
sciences. From it all other sciences were born. Religion is but
the claims of the glories of this science as lived by masters, but
can one neglect the divine work yet get the reward, or can one
neglect a garden and yet get full return from the seeds sown.
Our science proves the claims of orthodox religion unjust, un­
reasonable and reveals them as the makers of physical and men­
tal wrecks. The churches are guilty of making such wrecks
in mind and body because they do not teach mastery of human
ills; they teach dependence instead of independance. Know the
truth and the truth shall make you free, is the injunction of
the master. This means free from belief, hypocricy, disease, pas­
sive atheism, by not practicing the work of Christ, dependance
by wanting someone to save you, instead of saving yourself.
As you should do. Atonement is at-one-ment with God, not a
272 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
blood sacrifice. No one needs to eat the flesh of Christ in a
literal sense just to do his works. Flesh is a symbol of doing
his works materially, blood doing it spiritually. Being born
again is to quit doing wrong, and become mentally purified,
not becoming a fanatic as some people seem to believe. Heaven
is here at hand, not far away. God is here, and his kingdom is
at hand, or handy. He is not up in the sky; Heaven is a state
of mind, not a place; hell is a burning conscience which con­
demns its possessor. Truth is facts, not belief. The Bible is a
good book, but is not perfect, since only God is perfect. The
Old Testament is a history, not in any sense a divine book,
written by God Almighty. The New Testament is nearer per­
fect, but some of its writers did not understand their subjects
so wrote according to their wisdom. God inspires all good
books, but has never written one. Books are the product of
man. Religion is man’s creation. A minister is ordained by man.
God never ordains, for those who do the works of God are
ordained by the work’s power.
Worship. T o worship God one must concentrate the mind on
God alone, sit quiet and pay reverence with all your
mind to God. Soon God will be revealed to the worshipper.
It is impossible to worship God in a church, because when the
preacher speaks, one’s mind is on the preacher, not on God.
When the singers sing, one’s mind is on music, not on God.
If one prays, their mind is on what they want, not on God.
Therefore, to worship, means to think of God alone. Thou
shalt have no Gods before me, means reverence nothing by your
thought before you pay reverence to God. Seek and ye shall
find, means to concentrate and it will be revealed to you. For
you only get out of life what you put into it. No ceremony
can improve you. You must improve yourself. Super Mind
Science is the practical Christianity, also it is the most practical
of all great religions, like an ocean is the source of all
streams of water, Super Mind Science is the source of many,
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 273
in fact, all religions. We regard all great teachers as the sons of
God. Ignorance is sin, also it is hell, since it produces disease,
poverty, and all kinds of torture. Those who are ignorant do
not need to go to Hell after death. They are in Hell before
death. Creeds have nothing to do with God, therefore they can­
not say who will go to Hell. God needs no evangelist to run
the universe. It moves in accordance with set laws, according to
divine will. God does not respect personalities. He is no re­
specter of persons. He judges all men by the principle under
which they live. Every day is judgment day. The dead will
awaken only in another cycle of time. People who teach chil­
dren these falsehoods will be damned by their own ignorance.
The law of compensation will collect in full from them. The
child will also suffer, therefore they must not forget that God
is not fooled by hypocrisy and deceit on the part of men who
want to advertise how good they are. God knows how good
they are. They need not go to Church to inform him. Does the
all-seeing mind need instructing, or is there any secret, hidden
that will not be revealed. Live a good life and do the works of
the master. Heal the sick and help your fellowman, but don’t
be a party to hypocrisy in any form. Super Mind Science will
some day be known by all as the light of the world, and the
perfect explanation as to how one can save themselves.
What to Teach Children should be taught first to sit with
Children. the spine straight at all times. Second, to
breathe deep, 15 minutes daily. Third, to
retain the breath and will to remember. Fourth, that God is
within their brain observing everything they do, and therefore
they should be good. Fifth, to tense their body and will to
avoid evil 10 times every day until they refrain from evil deeds.
The training should be from 6 to 12 years of age, before that
just correct posture and breathing. Sixth, They should be
taught to concentrate on learning every lesson in school perfect,
by slowing the breath and tensing the body and willing to do
274 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
it, then they should be taught to memorize their books. Sev­
enth, They should be taught never to kill or eat flesh, but to
love all of God’s creatures. They should attend healing serv­
ices instead of Sunday school. Also they should be taught to
desire spiritual development, as by that development alone they
can obtain happiness. They should be taught to repeat these
simple sentences everyday until they learn them well.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 275
T H E T E N V IR T U E S
First. I will to do good and avoid evil.
Second. God knows everything I do.
Third. I must develop my will power.
Fourth. T o be healthy I must breathe deep and sit straight,
I must never eat meat or fish.
Fifth. I must concentrate the mind on my studies and mem­
orize every lesson I am taught.
Sixth. I and God are one. There is no evil in me.
Seventh. I must do the works of Christ to prove to myself
and the world that I believe in him.
Eighth. I must never kill or injure any of God’s creatures.
All people are brothers, therefore I must be a brother to all.
Ninth. Every day I must think of God and good.
Tenth. I will learn to heal myself and avoid drugs.
By teaching children to repeat these sentences and to breathe
and sit correctly, their mentality will be molded by these high
ideals and thus develop self-mastery in them. These teachings
will train the child to think for itself and avoid evil, also trains
them to understand mental science. If all children were taught
as here instructed, there would be very little disease or crime in
this world. The failures of mothers and fathers to learn the
truth sends many children straight to perdition. The child
should be taught to read the Bible and reason it out soon as
possible. He should be told that it contains the record of great
saints who lived a good life and learned the way to supreme
wisdom.
276 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
The Higher Work. This volume contains but the stepping
stone to greater truth, but the student is
warned to learn it well before advancing on. However, there
are higher courses of instructions in Super Mind Science, not in
this volume. The following chapter is on the wonderful heal­
ing and results in general of this science. The testimonies re­
veal the great success of the teachings of Super Mind Science
How it heals the sick, teaches the truth and helps it followers
to overcome sorrow and sickness. It is the work of a lifetime
of the founder, who has been persecuted, but victorious; trav­
eled the world and lived among foreigners for years and studied
He gave up the things that most people hold dear that this
science may be born. He was many times ridiculed by the press
who said he was a heathen and accused him of being in sym­
pathy with foreign religions, but this was due to their ignor­
ance. He just said let God deal with them and went on to
success. No great science has ever been born without a struggle
and this one was no exception. The people have been living
in delusion and falsehood so long that truth sounds strange.
The reader is asked to read carefully the preceding paragraph
which is the proof of the value of this great science of the mind,
holding as its ideal the three great manifestations of God:
Truth, love and light.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 277
F R U IT S OF W ISDOM
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils,
freely ye have received, freely give.— Matt. 10:8.
The injunction of the master to his disciples was to prac­
tice the divine works, not just believe in them. A few of the
testimonies of the results of Super Mind Science are herein sub­
mitted to prove to the reader that his science has helped thou­
sands to be healed of all manner of disease. Its healers are true
disciples of the great master. They are obeying this instruc­
tion: these are only a few of the thousands of testimonies re-
278 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
H EA LED OF D ISEASE AND POVERTY
It is with great pleasure that I testify to the great beneficial
results Mrs. Lenz and myself received through the study of
Super Mind Science.
In the first place I want to say that we received these benefits
in the order of how we most needed them, and as we are of
different typs, we succeeded in developing first the most needed
different faculties by the steady application of Super Mind
Science and the natural laws which this mental science reveals.
It is impossible to outline here all the details which account
for our present state of development in body, mind and soul,
so I will only mention the outstanding accomplishments.
Before taking up Super Mind Science about five years ago,
Mrs. Lenz was physically as well as mentally very ill, and on
the verge of a collapse. Having had constipation since child­
hood, low energy, weak eyes, easily irritated and enough worry
to make her life a burden. Now all these things are corrected
permanently, including the elimination of her eye glasses, and
instead of a burden life looks to her a continuous pleasure. Not
only because she gained her own health and knows the purpose
of human existance, but she also can and does heal many
people, drive away their worries and makes them happy.
As to my own development I may state this: My eye sight
became stronger so I don’t use my eye glasses, which I used all
day. I became so sensitive as to receive vibrations from people
unknown to me at any distance, so I can tell the exact seat of
any bodily disorder they may have. Furthermore I learned to
use many laws which prompted me to do the right thing at the
right time, of which the result is an ever-increasing prosperity
without having made any special effort for the latter.
T o sum up all the benefits derived from the study of Super
Mind Science I would like to give the following illustration:
Just as the forces like steam, electricity, etc., if not led into
the right channels, will not only be wasted, but will most cer-
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 279
tainly destroy the machine to which they are attached; so will
the more subtle forces of the human mind such as Thought,
Force, Will-Force and many other vital forces not only be
wasted, but will destroy body, mind and soul if not properly
understood and connected up right and led into the proper
channels to effect the desired results.
This is exactly what Super Mind Science is accomplishing,
and to the degree we expend our effort we develop and come
nearer to the realization of the famous words Jesus the Christ
spoke: “Know Thyself.”
For continued success,
Sincerely yours,
A. B. LENZ, S. S.,
R.R. 2, Bothell, Wash.
A m
------------ ■
280 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
T H E BLIN D HEALED
T o the Public:
I was blind for a period of sixteen years until I heard of
Super Mind Science and its great founder. At that time I was
in Christian Science and had been treated by them for twelve
years, yet I could not see my hand in front of my face. I knew
I could be healed, but believed I had not found the correct
method, but when I came to Super Mind Science I was told
how to direct energy into my eyes. Also taught to exercise my
eyes and concentrate on sight and really know mind over mat­
ter. In just three weeks I saw the light, both physically and
spiritually, for which I thank God and Prof. Wm. Estep.
Now I can do my housework and tell colors of people’s dresses
and my eyes are being rapidly restored to normal. I also can
read the large print in newspapers for the first time in sixteen
years. I hope and pray that all those who have an affliction will
give this wonderful science a trial. I also hope more of the
Christian Scientists will learn their mistake— that of denying
existence of disease and depending on belief alone.
Sincerely yours,
MRS. E. P.
Detroit, Mich.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 281
FORM ATIO N IN BODY HEALED
Prof. Estep:
I wish to acknowledge the wonderful benefit I have received
in your study of Super Mind Science.
I had a formation in my body which has been relieved
through the methods used in this Science and for which I am
most grateful.
My sister has been greatly benefited also in the strengthen­
ing of her eyes, as the lids were practically paralyzed and are
now strong.
We wish to express our gratitude to Prof. Estep for this
wonderful Science of knowledge and health.
Most sincerely,
E. and C. McKUNNIS,
Detroit, Mich.
The above testimony proves that operations are not always
necessary if one learns this science, since will power energy plus
divine power can remove a growth in a much better and more
pleasant manner than the knife.
— The Publisher.
II
282 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
A M IRA CLE OF HEALING PERFORMED
Never equaled in any science since Jesus demonstrated over
disease and death.
Prof. Estep:
Dear Sir: For the benefit of the readers of the S. M. S.
paper you are publishing, wish to state that my present health
and success are the result of the powers of your teachings and I
am pointed out by the members of our happy band here in
Seattle as a good demonstration of the result of their united
efforts in healing concentration.
In 1926 I came to Instructor Coleman’s home on 1138
Broadway, a weary stranger about to die of lung trouble. They
took me in, nourished me and taught me the S. M. S. way to
health and life. My name was on the list for so long both
here and in Tacoma class that the members became very well
acquainted with Merle by contact, though none had seen m
e
in person.
In 1927 1 was examined and found my right lung filled
with pus and 6 fistulas. Five ribs were removed and drained,
but the largest fistula refused to heal. I was discharged from
the hospital the first of June with the fistula still unhealed
and a large ugly gap in the outer opening where the ribs had
been removed, but I was free at last to go to lodge. You were
then making your way to the coast and I felt I must be entirely
healed before you reached the city that I might prove the
worth of your teachings. So at one of the meetings Mrs.
Coleman insisted that the members call upon the Divine Powers
for my instantaneous healing as Christ healed when on this
earth plane.
As I sat relaxed for its reception a feeling of Divine bliss
Seattle, Wash.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 283
swept over me and at the same time an electric thrill starting
from the solar plexus and permeating my whole system, then
the drip, drip, drip on the very location of the fistula and I
realized it was healed and sealed at that moment and the fact
was verified by my much surprised doctors.
Today I am mistress of this very same home on Broadway,
1138, which Mr. Coleman turned over to me the first of the
year, they having moved, and it also is a demonstration of the
power of mind, being run daily on the S. M. S. plan.
I expect to bring about the means by which I will be en­
abled to accomplish my healing mission. I am indeed grateful
to you, Brother Estep, for opening our inner sight.
M ERLE FORSHAM,
Seattle, Wash.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
H EA LTH AND M IND CO N TRO L DEMONSTRATED
Seattle, Wash.
Prof. Wm. Estep.
Dear Teacher:
I want to thank you for all the good I have received through
your class work in Super Mincf Science, although I have only
been in the class a short time.
My health has been very much improved, and is steadily im­
proving, and have also gotten rid of worry.
My husband has had a wonderful improvement in his mem­
ory through taking your lessons.
Your method of concentration is most wonderful because it
really brings results. I've taken other methods of concentration,
but never could get my mind off of other things while going
through them.
I am glad I found Prof. Estep and Super Mind Science.
Sincerely,
(M rs.) EMMA HARLANDER,
Seattle, Wash.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 285
DEAFNESS HEALED
To the Public:
I had a serious growth inside of my ear. I was told an
operation was necessary, but had heard of Super Mind Science,
since I am related to the founder. I came to Detroit where I
was treated by Prof. Wm. Estep. I was healed almost over
night. The abcess bursted after two treatments, then healing
was rapid. I had taken up medicine with the medical corps of
the army, and had had sufficient training so I could have be­
come a medical doctor, but when I witnessed this I saw the
light, that Super Mind Science was the proper way to heal dis­
ease. I gave up medicine, both as a study and a healing science,
and since have become a healer and teacher of Super Mind
Science, which I believe to be the light of the world.
Yours sincerely,
DR. E V E R E T T B. ESTEP,
Detroit, Mich.
286 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
VARICOSE VEINS
T o the Public:
I was unable to walk from being inflicted with vericose veins.
Doctors gave me up. I tried all kinds of medicine. Slowly I
became unable to walk until I was very near an invalid, then I
heard about Super Mind Science and its great demonstrations of
healing. I took a course of instructions under Prof. Wm. Estep.
Soon as I applied its energy methods and used its concentration
method I healed in a very short time. Now I am teaching this
sciecne to the public, having become an authorized teacher. I
thank God for the revelation of Super Mind Science.
Sincerely,
FLO RENCE COOK,
Pitsburgh, Pa.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 287
Prof. Wm. Estep.
My Dear Teacher:
I want to relate to you the following to prove the remark­
able results obtained from your teachings, the experience I had
with a man who had a tumorous growth.
I had given a lecture on S. M. S. in Vancouver, B. C. (Can.)
After I had finished speaking, my attention was drawn to a
young lady who was in a disturbed condition. I walked to­
ward her to see if I could help her in her trouble. As I talked
to her she told me the following story.
Her father, Mr. B— , was in the employ of the C. P. Rail­
way , and had been an active worker for some years. These
last few years he had been slowly losing strength, until he had
reached the point where he could no longer work. Upon going
to the company’s office for a final examination, for he had had
many previous ones with different physicians, he was told he
had cancer of the digestive tract and that there was nothing
more could be done, but for him to go to Vancouver to rest
and perhaps the climate would help him some.
Before leaving his home in Nelson he visited a local physician
who informed him that there was nothing he could do, as Mr.
B— had reached an acute stage, so that even milk could not be
digested. It was after relating the above that I was asked to
treat him. I did, through your method of concentration. It was
about 5:30 P. M. when I treated him, and at that time he was
on the train bound for the coast. The following day I met
Mr. B— who informed me that while on the train he had
drank and retained two quarts of milk.
This demonstration of the power of concentration did not
seem to convince him, for he still sought medical aid as a means
to rid him of his growth.
Some weeks after being in Vancouver I met him on the street
288 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
one day and inquired after his health. He assured me he was
just the same and felt the doctor he was being treated by could
help him, and requested me not to treat him any longer.
I left Vancouver the following day and did not return for
some weeks. Upon my arrival home, I was asked if I would
treat Mr. B — again, as he was very sick. It appears he had gone
to a specialist that day with his daughter and the doctor had
informed the daughter he would not live two weeks, as the di­
gestive tract was practically closed and that he could not oper­
ate, as that would kill him.
Around 12 P. M. that night I concentrated on him. He re­
ceived the treatment for it awakened him and calling to his
wife he told her he was going to get better. She thought he
was delirious and next morning had the daughter take him to
the specialist. He told the specialist he was better. Upon
examination he found the cancer had disappeared, and turning
to Mr. B— ’s daughter, exclaimed: “ Do you believe in prayer?
She assured him she did. He replied by telling her that a miracle
had been performed, for her father was cured.
Mr. B— is now gaining weight and building up rapidly.
So, Prof. Estep, accept my humble thanks for the teachings
I have received from you, and I sincerely hope that this humble
message may be an inspiration to others to study S. M. S., that
they may be of servie to their fellowmen.
Your devoted student,
F. FRASER,
Vancouver, B. C.
P S.— There are many thousands of such demonstrations as
are herein recorded, which space will not permit to be published,
but enough have been given to convince any sincere seeker for
the truth.— The Publisher.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 289
H EA R T T R O U BLE HEALED
To the Public:
I want to say a few words about Super Mind Science and
what it has done for me. I have been troubled with palpitation
of the heart for seven years, which was pronounced incurable
by numerous heart specialists. I have had severe pains over the
heart at times and was subject to weak spells. My condition
has improved 100 per cent; the pains over heart and weak
spells have vanished completely by using the methods of Super
Mind Science, and I am so thankful for the knowledge and
good it has done for me, which I value very highly.
My suggestion to everyone that is in ill health is consider
taking this course, which will lead you to success, health and
happiness.
I thank you.
From a devoted student,
GEORGE ROSENBERGER,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
All manner of disease is being healed by this wonder science.
Many cases were given up by the medical profession.
— The Publisher.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE
T O T A L BLIN D N ESS HEALED
I was totally blind, had to be led by my son everywhere I
went until I heard of Super Mind Science and obtained the eye
method from Prof. Estep. After using it for two weeks my
sight began to return. Now I go up town alone and transact
business. Mind energy and God, the S. M. S. way, is healing
me. I am for this wonder science and pray God to bless our
teacher, Prof. Wm. Estep.
(Signed) T . KRUSE,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
’ This is another case of Super Mind Science healing blind­
ness. We have hundreds of testimonies on file where eyes were
helped and healed.— The Publisher.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 291
H EALED OF TU M O R
I was a sufferer from an internal growth which doctors
said must be cut out, but they feared I could not recover. I
attended a meeting of Super Mind Science, learned of its miracu­
lous healing powers, although a skeptic I entered a class and
studied this great science. I was completely healed as a result
and have since taken up this work as a teacher and have helped
many a sick person to gain their health. Give and ye shall re­
ceive is my formula for success in health, also happiness and
prosperity. Yours, B. A., Indianapolis, Ind.
292 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
SERIO US STO M ACH T R O U B LE HEALED
I was a sufferer from the utmost agony in the region of m
y
digestive organs for years. I had not digested a meal success­
fully. I was underweight also. I studied Super Mind Science
under the inspired founder and became a vegetarian. Now I am
well and have gained to normal weight, also I am a lecturer and
teacher of this great science. I gave up a valuable position to
enter this glorious field and have through this science helped
hundreds since I entered this great work.
B. W. M AXW ELL,
St. Louis, Mo.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 293
BLIN DN ESS AND DEAFNESS HEALED
I think the course instruction in Super Mind Science is in­
valuable. I was nearly blind and deaf. Now I see and hear as
good as anyone, thanks to this wonderful Christ teaching. It is
like walking up a stairway to glory and a higher life. I am
now well and happy and hope all sufferers learn this great
science and become well also. Yours,
W ESLEY W RIGHT,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
294 SUPER MIND SCIENCE
H EALED OF ASTH M A
I was afflicted with asthma for years and could not be helped.
I tried doctors of all descriptions, also Christian Science, but I
became healed in Super Mind Science of poverty and the asthma
is about gone. I ask that all people will try this wonder
science.
Sincerely yours,
MR. M. C ,
Denver, Colo.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 295
National University S. M. S.
Prof. Wm. Estep, President
Offers you an opportunity to succeed in life. You can become
a Master Teacher of Super Mind Science, Master Psychoanalyst,
Psychologist, Mental Scientist, Philosopher, Lesturer and
Writer, in any of the above fields. There are wonderful finan­
cial returns and the public is in need of this type of worker
more than any other at this time. You can also become a great
healer, having the ability to stop pain instantly. There will
be side courses in Public Speaking, Personal Magnetism, Elocu­
tion, Analogy and Salesmanship. There are three chairs in
this great school. They are Super Mind Science Anatomy, Com­
parative Religion and Theology. The degrees obtainable are:
One Year— Bachelor of Arts.
Two Year— Doctor of Philosophy.
Three Year— Doctor of Divinity.
Enrollments accepted at any time. Call or write,
SUPER M IND SCIENCE TEM PLE
51 Sproat St., Detroit, Mich.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 297
Publications
The following publications are of value to students
of S. M. S. and should be obtained and studied to
aid in their advance in this study of life, love, truth
and God.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE OBSERVER
Monthly Tabloid Metaphysical News Magazine
containing articles from famous writers the world
over as well as news of Super Mind Science World
Movement. $3.00 per year.
SUPER M IND SCIENCE PUBLICATIO NS
715 Oak St., Excelsior Springs, Mo.
TH E PA TH OF LIG H T, 50c
A Treatise on Oriental Philosophy
By Prof. Wm. Estep
TH READ S OF WISDOM, 50c
A Volume of Lectures on Mental Science.
By Prof. Wm. Estep
TH E W HITE PROPHECY, or G REAT
REV ELATIO N
Life After Death. A Wonderful Book— $2.00
By Prof. Wm. Estep
For Sale by
TH E SUPER MIND SCIENCE PU BLICATIO N S
51 Sproat St., Detroit, Mich.
WITH KEYS TO CHRISTIANITY 299
Silent Healing and Aid
A Demonstration of the Power of Concentration
may be obtained by anyone needing the help of the
National Staff of The Temple of S. M. S. to obtain
Success in Business
Success in Healing
Health Concentration, or
Help in Solving a Problem
Address
TEM PLE OF SUPER MIND SCIENCE
51 Sproat, St., Detroit, Mich.
No charge. Free will offering accepted.
We have helped thousands, why not you? k
