{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__doyle___pheneas_speaks.pdf","mytitle":"Pheneas Speaks","mylang":"de"}
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Direct Spirit Communications
in the Family Circle
reported by
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE, M.D., LL.D.
NO COPYRIGHT
{U.S.A. excepted)
2/6
NBTT
Copies may be obtained from :
THE PSYCHIC PRESS AND BOOKSHOP,
Abbey House, Victoria Street, S.W.,
Telephone : Franklin 6~,
THE PHENEAS CIRCLE
Taken in 1y2o shortly before the beginning of the Script.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
DIRECT SPIRIT CoMMUNICATIONS
IN T1IE F..UOLY CIBOLB
RBPORTBD BY
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE, M.D., LL.D.
NO COPYRIGHT
(0 .S.A. EXCKPTBD)
THE PsYCHIC PRESS AND BooKSHOP
Ass&v HooSE. VIcToRIA STRKET, S.W.
Tel.: Ff'anklin 6248
TRADB AGENTS :
SDIPKIN, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT AND Co ., LTD.,
STATIONERS' HALL, E.C. 4
\
PREFACE.
It is no easy task to edit such a volume of
home-circle communications. They are in their
very nature so intimate and personal that one
·has a hesitation in presenting them to the world,
and yet some of the teaching is so helpful that
it was clearly me~nt for a wider circle. It is
impossible, however, to confine the account to
su"h passages, as to do so would be to lose that
setting of beautiful comradeship which conc~rns
itself with the smaller things of life as well as
_
with the greater, and turns the Communicator
into a dear brother as well as an august teacher.
Our family life would lose something very
precious and essential if the bright presence
of Pheneas were withdr~wn. This, however,
is a. calamity which, ~ are assured, will never
occur.
Great excisions have to be made in this record.
A large part of them consist of prophecies as to
the immediate future of the world. All this
must wait until its publication should seem
advisable, and may form a second volume in
the future. Let it be briefly stated in regard to
5
J
them that any earth changes are remedial, and I
introductory to the happiest era which has ever
been known.
Apart from these excisions, there are many
minor ones which contain matter which is too
personal for publication, or too remote to eit.her
interest or instruct the reader. Only about one-
third of the entire script is includ~d in this
record.
It is now five yea!s since t_
he great gift of
inspired writing first came to my wife. In her
intense hones-ty and deep mod~sty, she somewhat
retarded it at first by holding back her impulse$
in .the fear lest they sho.uld come fr<?m her own
.
subconscious self. Gradually, however, the
unexpected nature of the messages_
, and the
allusions to be found in them showed both her
and me that ·there were forces at work which
. . .
were outs.ide herself. Sentimen~~ were expressed
quite foreign . to our own. .Information was
given whic~ _
was sometin;tes mistaken, but 'in '
many c;ases,. as will be shown in the text, was I
absolutely correct, inclu~ng ma_
ny prophecies as
to world eyents, which were l~ter fulfilled. As to
themistakes,itiswellthatthereadershould realise'"
if he does not already do so, that even a high
spirit is not omniscient, and.that the knowledge
which ~e has is conveyed to .him, and so to.us~
in partic~l~r ways .which may lead to misunder-
stan4ing. it is for this reason.tha~_the .re~i.pients
6
I
I
.-
I
of such.messages should always test ~ach ass.ertion
with their own God-given reason, aDd apply to
them all .the _
usual safeguards of common sena~.
Ou~ first writte~ communications, dating from
early in 1921, ~ere from relations and friends
who had passed beyond the border. Occasion:ally
also _we . had ·visits from strangers who ~ere
attracted by what they called " the light ,
-~ common o~her-~orld description of .the
psychic .atm~phere of .a seance. This family
intercourse, an·d the incidental interventions
' . . " ...
have been treated shortly, as they are of second-
, .
ary interest to the reader. Foot-notes have
. . .
been freely used throughout to enable the reader
to understand the situation. Here and there a
. .
name has been. chang~d, whic_
h is bet~er than
that us~ of alphabetical letters which t_~kes
the human reality out of any narrative.
0~ :p~cember Ioth, 1922, Pheneas, my guide,
came through for the first time, and from th~~
.onwards he too~ chief' ~ontrol, . tho~gh 'by ~o
means to the total exclusion of the others.
. .
In April, 19_
24, the writing mediumship changed
to semi-trance inspirationa~ talking. The Medium
never completely lost consciousness, · but her
hold upon her <?Wn o_
rganism was slight. .The
ey~s were ~ightly closed, a~~ never. opened
until .the power ·
had left her. This has.been the
usual method of communication up to the present
day, and careful readers will observe how the
7
;
messages increased in power as fuller control was
gained.
I repeat that the sentiments expressed by no
means represent those of the Medium or of
myself. Speaking for both of us, I may say
that though we share the admiration which the
whole world feels for the life and teaching of
-Jesus, we neither of us realised H.im in the vivid
overwhelming fashion which was characteristic
of some of these messages. I have personally
often felt strangely unworthy of the role allotted ·
to me of broadcasting things which se.emed to
come from so high a source, and were worthy of
a far more spiritual messenger. I have found it
impossible for this reason to transcribe many of
these communications, but their general tenor is
not affected by the omission. I would stress the
fact, howevet:", that much of the te)lching is
absolutely foreign to my wife's conscious convic-
tions, or to my own.
It has pleased our Guide not {)nly to give
glimpses of the life in the other world, but to
touch upon the conditions which }Ve may
personally hope to find. I hesitated to include·
any of this, but I reflected that there was nothing
to show that such conditions were not common to
many ·others, and thus. there is no special merit
claim~d by their attainment. They are interest-
ing as very closely corroborating other descrip-
tions of the other world which my wife has, I am
8
'
..,.
1,..
I
I
~
I
sure, never read of, so that they could not have
lingered in her subconscious memory.
Our three children, Denis, Malcolm, and
little Jean, whom we call "Billie," vvere respec-
tively thirteen, elev~n, and n~ne when the
Mediumship began, and it covers the gap between
childhood and early adolescence. I explain
this as it accounts for the tone and substance of
the messages which the Control has sent them,
sometimes. playful, sometimes practical, always
loving, like a wise and tender elder brother.
To all of them he has been a guiding star in their
young liv~s.
There are some no doubt who would feel that
-such intermediate relation-s take something from
that whole-hearted Communion which should
exist between man and his God. This is the
argument which the Unitarians use as to the ·
worship of Christ, and it is one which should, I
think, be very seriously considered. But the
Christ conception brings an unthinkable God
within the limits of our finite brains, and in this
way enables us to be in mental touch with some
concrete image instead of a mere vague out-
reaching of the soul. The same argument
applies, as it seems to me, to all those higher
Spiritual beings who may exist between ourselves
and the level of Christ. They are the steps of God
leading ever upwards, the lowest step no less
part of the whole than the highest. Protestantism
9
abolished the old saints, many of whom no
doubt may have well deserved such abolition,
but they placed nothing in their stead. The old
idea that a Francis of Assisi, or a Vincent de
Paul was near us, taki~g an interest In our
,. actions, and ready to respond to an appeal seems
/ ...to me to bring actual religion into our everyday
" life in a very practical and intimate way. We
do not neglect God by honouring one whom ·we
look upon as nearer to Him than we are ourselves.
Thai is the ·view·which I take of ·
such _
high
Spiritual Guides as Pheneas. If our thoughts
turn to him in everyday lif'e it js that
he stands . for everything that is high,
and that he is a near and a familiar
figure. Let us compare a man's.position under
the eternai·with that of an Indian villager under
the British Raj. When he is in trouble, or claims
redress~ he doe8 not make a pers~rial appeal to
the kiqg. He turns to the king's representative,
who may be no more · than the local po~ce ~~
inspector. If the matter is more than can ~e
dealt with, it goes back·to the local magistrate,
to the district commissioner, to the provincial
governo~, to the viceroy, finally to the high
authorities in London. So it seems to me a
very human and reasonable scheme that our
immediate Spirit Guides have others behind
them, and yet others, extending in an infinite
hierarchy through' such a great Spirit as the
IO
Christ up to the unthinkable centre of life and of
love, and that the lowest vibration may, if
needful, be transmitted ~o the highest. Such
teaching has come from the beyond, and seems
to be borne out by all that I can learn of the
true functions of such · a teacher as I have
described.·
Let it not be thought that such Communica-
tions are easy' and that we can at will get what
we desire of help or knowledge. There have
been months on end when we have longed for
Pheneas, and sat awaiti~g him with every
condition favourable, and yet he has not come.
Then at another time, unexp~cted, unannounced,
in the midst of conversation, in the course of a
meal, he will suddenly, with altered voice and
sweeping Oriental gestures of greeting, make his
presence known. He is always a high gentleman,
howevt:r, and never intrudes at a time when his
presence might put the Medium in a difficult
• •
posltlOD.
Any further difficulties which the reader may
find, or explanations which he may seek,
may perhaps be dealt with in the script itself,
or in the notes .attached. We shrink from the
·
sending of it forth, for it is all very sacred to
ourselves, and yet we appreciate the satisfaction
which it would be to us if we knew that it brought
comfort or knowledge to others. We would
beg the most orthodox reader to bear in mind
II
.-
that God is still in touch with mankind, and
that there is as much reason that he should send
messages and instructions to a suffering and
distracted world, as ever there was in days of old.
No doubt the picture presented of a coming
world which is arranged upon the same general
lines as this one will .seem revolutionary, and
possibly repugnant to many readers. Those
who are psychic students, however, when they
have passed the kindergarten of physical
phenomena, and gone on to the vital messages·
beyond, will find with very few exceptions' that
the same sort of life is depicted. The reader
who desires fuller information upon the point
is referred to the works of Swedenborg, Andrew
Jackson Davis, and George Vale Owen; also
to many .more recent volumes of personal
posthumous experience.
Crowborough,
Decemh", 19z6.
ARTHUR CoNAN DoYLE.
12
\
PHENEAS SPEAKS
PART I.
SoME CoMMUNICATioNs RECEIVED APART FltOM
THE PHENEAS MEssACES.
As specimens of the Family Communications
received in the early days of mediumship I
take the following (beginning at July.ztst, tgzt).
My brother-in-law, the distinguished novelist,
E. W. Hornung, had passed over a short time
before. Getting into touch through my wife's
mediumship, with my eldest son, Kingsley, who
passed in 1918, I asked how it was with Hornung.
Are you in touch with WiUie Hornung 1
Yes, he came over all right to us.
How is her
He is heavy and tired. But he will improve.
Already he is better. His mind is more open.•
He is sorry, and he realises things now.
A long pause.
I am Willie. I am here. I am so glad to be
here. Arthur, this is wonderful. If only I had
known this on earth, how much I could have
helped others.
•He bad been intolerant about Spirit Communion in bil
lifetime.
13
PHENEAS SPEAKS
However, it is too late. I am with Oscar.
[His son.]
It is so glorious. I am working and feel so
well.
It is so nice to be free from my asthma.
rou are happy then '
It is a wonderful .life--so high and fine in all
ways. Worth living for.
lf only people knew !
There· is such heaps and heaps I want to say
to.you, Arthur. First of all, to tell you that I
love you all. I have learned a lot since I came
over here.
Is your present work litn'ary ?
Yes, of a kind. . It is mpst inter-esting. I
prefer it to my work in the world. It is so much
more vital. It really counts.
Could I finish any ofyour work htf'e P
Not much, thank you. It does not matter.
We will leave it so.
I wrote a preface about you in your posthumous
f!olume.
·I saw it. For a time it is better not to speak
to my people about this.
rou remember that Os(ar sent messages 1•
S.everal times. But we would not listen.
Oh, the pity of it ! Oh, the pity of it !
•The son had sent evidential messages through us, but the
~arents bad turned them down on religious grounds. •
PHENEAS SPEAKS
If I had my time over again how different I
would be. But it is too late.
f'he knowledge was not git~en you.
No, but I'll progress here. I am doing so.
Well, I always adm.ired yo-u.
Yes, I ~now yo~ honestly admired parts of
me. It's .hard to break off. It is such a joy
to come back the first time.
rou are fJery welcome.
Thank you, dear old fellow. My love to all.
What's the use ? .They won't believe it.
Never mind. Plod on. You will win through.
Right is might.• Goodbye. God bless you !
Some days later E. W. Hornung came again.
This is good.
I had been hoping to get through again. I
I
feel rather selfish, for there are so many others
who wish to communicate, but they made me
come.
Would you come to the medium, Miss Besinnlt,t
and show yourself1
We have seen her. She is a fine medium and
a good source.
Is my teaching right?
It's fine what you say
'
and just right and
•This was very characteristic. He was fond of little jests
and inversions of this sort.
tA famous American materialist.~ medium who was vilitioc
tlae Psychic College in London.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
true-all of it. I am in the third sphere-home-
land. I am glad I am in it.
Shllll we come there 1
Rather. I have learned much over here. I
am longing to be really cloSe- to you both.
So do we.
That's so lovely. I wanted that to complete
it. The pity is that we can't see each other face
to face.
'lhe Medium had a dream of a lovely place.
Yes, it was your future home. We felt it
would do her good to see it.
She finds it ha1'd to realise.
She must believe it is true. She will one day
live in it with you and your dear ones.
It is a very sweet place-full of charm. There
is water near-and great peace.
You have no idea how much we are round
you all, or how we associate ourselves 'vith your
daily lives.
How about Innes 1•
. Fear not. He will come through very soon.
He is still resting. He needed it very badly, they
tell me. He told me he had seen you, Arthur.
·1 was awa1'e of it. It was like a vivid dream.
•Innes was my only brother, fourteen years younger thaD
myself. He died as Brigadier~neml and Assistant Adjutant-
General of the 3rd Corps, so worn out with his war duties that he
had no reserve power to meet the pneumonia, Qontraded just
after the Armistice.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
We are, of course, all together, but he is not
doing much yet.
I am so glad you have taken this up.
I am ·fearfully interested. I hate !O think
of not having had it all this time, but now I am
going to make up..
HafJe you active amusements?
Rather. And I am no longer handicapped by
my horrid old asthma: You would not recognise
me. I am much improved in appearance.
Any good my telling Bute? [A relative.]
None whatever. He is even worse than .I
was. He will learn in time. But a little too
late.
Could·you help in psychic photography ?
I'm ftOt sure that I can. ...
Hornung came again some months .later. I
take ~s conversations in sequence, but ' there
was much between.
Hullo ! I'm Willie. This is good.
rou enjoy coming?
Isn't it natural that I should, considering that
I have been cut off from you all ,so long. I do
so love getting through to you, but I am so new
at it all. Jean* has two fine guides-one a
very high guide who has come to help her in
this work.
So many are here.
•The Medium.
t8 PHENEAS SPEAKS
. .
By the way, there is ·a fellow here who played
cricket with you upon earth. He has just.come
over. He has never.seen or heard of this earth
telegraph and is greatly interested. ·
Can you get the name ?
Names are terribly difficult. You see a name
does not represent any sort df an idea. It is an
indigestible chunk. You can't sugg~t it to the
Medium's brain. But I will try.
Cfhe- Medium then Wf'ote a sequence of letters
which made no sense, but ended with CINI.
If that is a name it is an Italian name. I
never kne.
w an I talian who playetl good class
cricket.
Well, he is here and sends'his regards.*
After our first American tour .Hornung came
again at a seance. I had a message from him
through a medium at Toledo, and I had actually
seen his·son Oscar plainly materialised.
I am Willie Hornung.
Hullo! I hafJe not touched you since Toledo.
It is true, old man. We were there.
Should we go_to A1ft,eri~a a,gain 1
Yes, rather. The seed needs sowing in many
places.
*This was most evidential. faravicini, who played for
Middlesex, had died two days before, and neither the Medium
nor I were aware of it. I can't remember playing with him, but
it may have been so.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
You know that I saw Os(ar ?*
. .
Yes, he was awfully pl~ased that you saw him
then, and that you are always so ready to get
into touch with him.
He is getting on so well over here in many ways•
.What about Cynthia ? [A living relative.]
I fear it _
is no good, old chap. She is too
much in the grip of the church. Alas! She
will be so dreadfully sorry.
God bless you a thousandfold and keep you
in His care-all of you in this blessed home, the
centre for all of us on this plane.
From that time onwards we heard occasionally
from Hornung, always in the same _
characteristic
strain, but presently th~ advent of Pheneas
displaced the oth~r Communicators.. I will now
give some specimens of Communications received
in those early days from my brother-in-law,
Malcolm Leckie, D.S.O., a splendid young
doctor who gave his life under heroic circum-
stances at Mon~. His messages are characteristic
of his own sunny, lightheart~~ and modest
character. ·
Dear old chap. It is good to be here.
-
We lofJe to have you.
I don't often come because there are so many
others who need it more.
•I saw his materialised form with every feature clear u
plainly as ever in life.
20 PHENEAS SPEAKS
I am so happy, and life is very full here and so
interesting.
I go on with my medical work, but it is mu~h
more vital, and means much more to me now.
I am helping some on your plane. At Guy's
Hospital ~here is a good man whom I impress
with my greater knowledge. He will be well
known some day. Names ~re so difficult. You
will be very happy when you come here.
We would be glad to come if we could all come
wgether.
No, you are needed so badly where you are.
You are gr~atly privileged in carrying the
banner--Christ's banner.• We'll see to your
health-never fear.
Ask about anything, dear old fellow.
What about Sp,irit healing ?
It is great-ever so. great. Spread the news.
The .
world needs it so.
rou would have called it quackery.
But I know better now. They (the doctors)
will get past that, and we will be able to work
through them then. If only they would have
open minds, and receive this great truth and
knowledge.
What about this drought?
We are so sorry for you-on the .top of the
'var. Humanity has had much to bear.
•This is the sort of message which honours but embarrasses-us.
I
PHENEAS SPEAKS %1
'1hey wiU not get down to the truth.
Yes, you are right, Arthur. We all feel that.
But times are changing. Soon you will see
proof of that.
What about your mother P
She is so young looking, and very happy. She
is full of laughter here. It is good to see it. We
are helping to prepare your home. We know
just what you both like. It is already looking
sweet..
At his next visit he said-
It's I, Malcolm.
I should so much like to send dear old Pater
all our loving birthday greetings. We have all
been with him so much.
.l{ingsley is Denis'* special guide.
He loves him devotedly, as we all do. He is
sent direct to do good work in the world. He is ~
great trust. Guide hin1 well. He is encircled
with power l-vhich will lead him ever upwards,
helping, strengthening and guiding him. We
love him and you greatly. Malcolm and Billiet
are fine.
In your old world you do need bucking up so
badly.
Can we believe all this 1
We tell the truth, dears. We could not do
otherwise.
*The elder of my two living sons.
tMy younger living son and my younger daughter..
22 PHENEAS SPEAKS
rou died like a hero.
I simply did my duty.
(.A step was heard at this moment o~t.ride the
Joor. I knew it was Mr. Leckie, Malcolm's
fathe,, who was not in sympathy with . Spif'it
Communion. " :That .was Pate'T.")
Yes, I saw him. It is such a pity that he can't
sit too, so that I could have the joy of speaking
to ·him again.
Shall we say soP
Yes, do, from me.
Other messages from Malcolm Leckie will
be found later in. their due sequence. I would
now give some early messages from my son
Kingsley, and from my brother Innes. Neither
of them were in sympathy with Spiritual~sm in
their lifetime, and both of them came back
through several mediums to deplore the fact.
The same applies to my mother,- some of whose
.
messages are gtven.
July 31, 1921.
Kingsley is here.
The power is good. It could n~t be better.
There is so much I wan~ to say ·in so short a
time:-
Where are you ?
I am very·close. I can see you all clearly.
How fine that is.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
. .
Yes, it is great. . I hear you clearly. You will
be able to s,ee us soon. Jean's mother is here.
.She thanks you for those flowers. (These had
been put on the grave.) · We are a great party,
all one and so happy. ·
The Mam (my moth.er, A.C.D.), understands
·all about ·this great truth now, and only regrets
she didn't when with you.
She could not know.
. (Her~ my mothet' bro_
ke into the dialogue.)
Yes, but I <;>ught to have trusted your judg-
ment, my own son.
Poor dear Mammie.
Not poor now-just the opposite.
You did all co~~ected with my affairs just
as I should wish. .
(Noise was heard of Billie at the door.)
That's my Girlie·
. (This was my mother's
typical word.)
We live in our own homes.
This is such a help. The bridge is found for
us all.
Leslie is all well, living near us, wor~ing out
his own line. Barton• is not quite in sympathy.
He·does not approve. He will grow in strength.
We all do. It comes.
*Inclined to rationalistic materialism in life, though a most
excellent fellow . Leslie was my brother-in-law. a distinguished
officer of Engineers•
PHENEAS SPEAKS
(A friend, Lily,• intervened.)
Jean, you are awful at not believing. It is
really wrong, old girl. It is not your subconscious
self. Do, for Heaven's sake, get that out of
your head. Trust more. We are too close to
allow any intruder.
Were you at my 111eeting?
We all were. We always come to hear you
whatever we may be doing. You·did good work.
You influenced some good people there who will
help the movement greatly, so it was a rich
. .
eventng tn many ways.
[Kingsley returned.]
It is a joy to be with you. I am always near
·him, Jean, helping and building him up. The
sun shines ahead. Let the reflection come now.
Our loving arms are round you all, and God
is in His pl~ce.
Why do you not call me wkat you did in life 1
I do in my heart still, but somehow it is so
difficult to get any names through, especially
what we feel in our hearts.t ·
How about Innes ?
I was with him to-day. He is getting on well,
making great progress in every way.
Will you help in psychic photography 1
*Lily was a high soul upon earth and my wife's intimate
friend. She died in 1916.
tThe Medium of course knew perfectly the name which the
Spirit failed to convey.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Yes, I am keen on that branch of S(;ience. It
will go far in proving immortality.. The Medium .
is tired. Good-night. God's -blessing he on you
both.
My.brother Innes came for the first time.
l am so glad to be here. It is so grand to be
in touch like this. Arthur, we have been with
you at both your lectures. You did better work
than you -r-ealise.
Can you see John P (His son.]
Rather. I am always with him and my dear
ones. Thank you so much for your love towards
him. It makes me so happy. He is going to be
a grand man. I'm so proud of him.
rou were his age when you came to me.
Dear brother, I remember it all so well. We
will see heaps of each other in the time to come
-such a happy time awaits you all. No more
partings then.
I saw you in a dream.
Yes, but it wasn't a dream. We ~'ere realty
toget~er. We often are when you are. asleep.
That is our meeting time. But you can't bring
it back with you on account of your earthly
work.
August 2, 1922.
A stranger came. He said-
Soon great things will happen-so that the
whole world. will see for itself how true all this
PHENEAS SPEAKS
is. · No one will laugh then. Only regret will
be felt for the foolish stupidity of the ignorant.
I wish I could tell you what it is. It would
gladden. your hearts, and give you greater
cour.
age.
For God's sa~e, Sir Arthur, strike ·hard at
these people-these dolts who will,nof believe.
The world so needs thi~ knowledge.' I~ I had
only known this on eartb it ~ould have so
altered my life--the sun would have shone on
my gr~y path had I known what.lay before m~.
,
()_ctober IO; 1922.
On this day an undeveloped .spirit came who
said he did not believe in God.• I talked to him
and said we would do what we could to help
him.
Then Lily came-we told her we had ·tested :
the spirit.
Always do so, .dear ones. He heard you.
You have helped him. He is coming again, h~
says, to talk to you. He says you are the only
humans who have ·ever helped him since he
died. We will help also. He is earthboun~, so
you can help him best.
He has not been over very long. He will
soon get on. ... He has a good circle wor~ing for
.*The prevalent idea so often put forward by our clerical
opponents that an evil spirit should be avoided seems to me
most immoral and un-Christian. If a thing is evil one should
stri\'e to make it Jess so. ·
"
PHENEAS SPEAKS
him. (His family, no doubt.) The light will
soon shine for him also. He is standing near
and heard you. He is very pleased. ·
·Don't hurt the Medium.
~he Spirit.
Friend,.thank. you with all my heart. I will
not abuse your trust.
Lily. ,
Bless you both. So many of us are .here
to-night. Mother was called away, but she has
come back. She stands ·by you, Jean, and
·strokes your face. Trust us always in all matters.
Our love is so great for you, that it surro~rids
your daily life, and if you leave yourselves open,
we can then guide and help you more.
Your own guide puts an atmosphere all round
you whenever you are to be used as a cha~nel
between the two worlds~Look upwards only all
the time. · ·
Shaliwe go to America to spread this ·teaching?
Go, and God's blessing go with ·you every mile
of the way. · ·
Shall we take the children ?
You could not !~ave them. They, too, in
their own way work well for the cause. We saw
that in Australia. They sowed good seed for
the cause. We will see to all arrangements. Never
fear. All will be arranged for the best for ·you
all. You are ambassadors for God, and humanity,
PHENEAS SPEAKS
in the world, so never worry about the trifles.
Trust everything to us. We - know~ We can
see all right, but when we are together ·don't
lose a second. Trust us, dear old Arthur. We
will help you all right. You will find it quite
easy. The veil is thinner all the time because of
the perfect unity.
H'hat do you do in your world 1
We develop our gift for music, and we look
after the orphan children, loving and mothering
those whose hearts hav.
e been starved upon
earth. Far, far more to do here than on the old
grey earth. Nothing in people round ever
jars. -It makes everything happier and more
complete.
~ell us more aboutyour world.
'It is lovely. I never saw. any home on earth
to compare with ours. So many Bowers, a
blaze of colour in all directions, and they have '
such wonderful scents, each one different, and all
blending so deliciously.
Can you.see other homes 1
No, it would spoil the peace if one could.
Nature only sometimes one wants. Every home
is an oasis, as it were. Beyond is wonderful
scenery ~nd other sweet homes, full of dear
sweet, bright people, full of laughter, from the
mere fact of living in such wonderful surround-
ings. Yes, it is beautiful. No earthly mind
PHENEAS SPEAKS
can conceive the light and wonder of it all.
We have rooms as on earth, but so much lovelier..
'The colours are so much daintier, and the
fabrics so much more delicate. The whole
scheme of the horne life is so much more radiant.
Flowers cover my home. Such roses. Jean
saw a piece of her future home.• Bless you,
dears. God's great love fills every heart with
its own desire.
October 11, 1922.
I had given the·undeveloped spirit an app6int-
ment for eight next evening. He came.
I hope you are happier.
You have helped me already. Please go on
helping me. You are the only being who has
since I left the earth. And I do need help eo
very badly.
We will see you through.
Bless you for saying that.
Can you heat us ?
I hear every word. I see you too in this
wonderful and sweet home. I want to say that
I did not believe in a future life. And now I
know I was all wrong, and I am all at sea in
finding myself over here..
PHhaps_tJJt can makt it tltarer to you.
Please say anything that will help me,
friend. I am ready to listen, for my eyes are
•In a dream vision.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
opened. It is all grey. Yes, that's the awful
part of it. One's surroundings are so horrible.
I hope you will soon get out.
For God's sake tell me how.
rou beliefle £n God then ?
Oh, I do, I do. 1 ~·ee it now _
for n1yself.
rOU'll SOOn C011te along.
Bless you for saying so. I'll try.
[I encouraged him and explained things t,o him.]
That would indeed be great. May it be better
soon.
Will you pray with us .
?
I'll say a prayer with you now. [We prayed.]
I just didn't care. But oh, how deeply I regret
it. But your words have encouraged me more
than I .can say. Bless you a thousand-fold
for all you ar.e doing for me.
Can you tell us ofyourselfl
Not now. Please help me in my present
plight. My mind is open now to any idea.
It is no longer closed.
Be unselfish. ~ry and help the other
unfortunates.
You encourage me so. I shall feel less
lonely if I talk to you as often as you can spare
the time. Thank you with all my heart.
'Iell us ofyour surroundings.
In good time that may come. Let me get
right first. Already it is easier. A little light
seems to glimmer through the darkness.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
[My moth~r came.] . .
You have already done that p~r man great
good. There _
are many like him through that
dreadful materialism. Dear one [to ·me], don't
work too hard. · (I smiled because this was
characteristic.) pon't laugh at me, you naughty
boy. I'm much younger.
rou were thought once to be my wife.
Yes, wasn't it fun. God bless you, my own
dear son, and .my·own beloved Jean.
October 19, 1922.
The grey spirit came.
Oh, I am so m\lch better, dear good friends.
I am trying very hard to go up hill.
What about God?
I begin to see how wrong I have been in
that direction. My ·mind is learning many big
truths. I have seen my own cleat mother, who
passed over ·many years ago. She says she
has waited for me. '
Did you not see her before I spoke to":you ?
. .
No, not until_then. I was in too dark a
place for .even her to penetrate. ,
rou must help others.
I have already been able to help ope poor
lonely soul over here, and he is better, too.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Whm 4id you die P
I have lost all sense of time. I don't know
how to say how long it is since my death.
Who was king 1
Oh, George. I will tell more later on if you
V\rill only keep in touch with me.
rout" mother can do all that.
Yes, but you can help me so tremendously.
Some day I hope I w.ill be able to repay you in
some small \vay for all you have done for me.
Do you mind my coming to you ? I could
not resist speaking to you. I want to tell you
how I am coming on. It is all thanks to you.
Oh, I am so much better and happier. I have
travelled far. All thanks to your guidance.
Yes, thank God, my mother has reached me.
Before, the darkness was too deep to penetrate.
Are you level with our people ?
.
Not yet. But before long I will be in their
"vonderful homeland. Let me just say this.
God bless you and the medium, and this dear
beloved home of light.
[We learned from this spirit that the vibrations
are so different between different grades of
spirit life that he could not see our own people
vvhen they were with him in the Circle, but ~nly
a light. They, however, could see him.]
•
,
• •
•
PHENEAS SPEAKS 33
June I, I 922.
[My mother came. ·The· children being
present.]
Oh, my dears. I am so glad to be with' you
all. God bless you, darlings. Why, of course
it is I, Jean, my beloved. I am so glad, dearie,
that you brought the lambs• to-night to meet
us. My son, you are tired. It grieves me to
see you so. Do rest more. But I know Jean
will see ·to that. God bless her for talcing care
of my dear, beloved son. There are many
here all drawn by a great love.
Were you at Miss Besinnet's.ft
It was Jean's mother and Lily, but I was
there too.
Uncle Henry is here. All the uncles and all
the other Catholic relatives are very much i:n
sympathy with you now in your work.
[To the children.] Bless you, my treasures.
Your guides are very noble souls, high and lofty,
and when you try to do your best in your daily
life you please them beyond words, an~ make
their work easier. Their names would convey
.nothing to you, but still you will know them
very soon.
Yes, Denis, he sent th~ name (Sebastian)
through to you. He is so sweet a spirit, beloved
•This was a characteristic phrase .
tWe had a seance with this great American medium.
•
B
34 PHENEAS SPEAKS
by everyone over here, and Denis takes after
him. He is so proud of the way the boy is
developing. You, too, Malcolm, dear one, have
so lofty a guide, noble and very high of purpose.
He loves you greatly, and wants you to realise
his presence in your daily )#e. You have the
power to reflect his greatness upon ~arth, live
up to his beauty of character, and make the
place you fill in the world great. God bless you!
Bless the sweet child (Billie). She i·s greatly
loved by all over here. She· has two guides,
one a child, and one a very lovely spirit who
has been over here some time, and whose j.oy
it is to work upon the earth plane by training,
and by influencing those whom Christ ·has
given him charge of.
Another spirit came.
I am John Delane.
What, the editor of " 7'he 7'imes " 1
Yes, of course. This is grand, Doyle. Really
I am so glad to talk to you; old friend.
r ou surely mistake me for my grandfather 1
I knew him, but I know you too. You see
we can make friends from this side.
What do you think of Northcliffe's wOt'k 1
It has been very good on the whole. He is
an honest man. But-it has all been too much
for him.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 35
Will he be here long I
Not on your plane.• He will continue to
do good work for the old country when he gets
over here.
Do you edit a paper now 1
Th.ere is no need here. We know everything.
It is like wireless in the air, and all so much
bigger and larger and so splendid. It is great,
this life.
Do you ~now Hornung 1
Yes, we have met ~once, but we are both very
busy, and we have not much in common.
Sir John Robinson?
Yes, rather. He is so fine. A greater man
over here than down below.
W emyss Reid ?
No. I have not c6me across him yet. But
if you wish it I will endeavour to get into touch
with him.
James Payn ?t
Yes, we are in close touch. Our hom,
es are
close together. Our sympathies are close. That
is why. It is the rule over here. Nothing
jars over here. There are no cross currents.
I am interested in many things, mostly human
•This came true. He died within a few months. We had no
reason to think that he was mortally ill. I may add that the
name and reputation of Delane were quite unknown to my wife.
tThese were thr~ old friends. Robinson was editor of the
Dail1 News, Wemyss Reid of Tlze Speaker, and Payn of CM'nllill
M t1f41ifle .
'
PHENEAS SPEAKS
now ; the progress of human development,
above all the regeneration of the earth plane.
I ·am one of those who are working for _the
cause on this side, hand in glove with you. ·
A pleasant home is being prepared for you!
Not only by your own people, but by all those
others over here who sympathise. They are
working at it too, and it is beautiful. beyond
•
words, so glorious and peaceful, and sweet,
and flowers-flowers-everywhere. And water,
and trees--such trees !
[~he Medium.] .Is .
it /01" me, too 1
Why, what a silly woman you are to ask
such a question !
It is for you, too, that it is prepared-all from
love of you both, and of all those around you.
A complete whole. God's blessing rest upon
you all in this dear and beautiful home. .,.
Will all be well with the movement ?
Yes. Never fear. The light will be the
greater for the darkness you have passed
through in fighting for truth. It will come very
soo~, as God wills it. ..Nothing can stand against
that. No powers of darkness can_stand for one
minute against His light. All the crowd working
against it will_be swept away. It has been ~
pleasure to come and to know your dear home
circle~ Thank you so much!
PHEN~AS SPEAKS:
KiD:gsley came. (Children present.) _
Dears ! Dears ! Dears.!
Bless you all,.oh, so much.
37
I am so. often with you, but you do not know
it.
. I am continually in the ·house, and .in the
garden. I watch the children play, and so.me-
times play with them, bu~ unfortunately they
do not know it.
Denis. Where are the snakes with you ?'*
In their own place, old· chap. We are so
proud of you, Denis, a~d the way you are
developing in every way•
.Have you games?
Yes, old boy. Much more than on earth.
You have your work on earth to do before. you
can come here-God's .work. Prepare yourself
all the. time, Denis, darling, for that. We love
you .greatly, and-watch over you all the time.
What about Malcolm P
Bless him, the dear fellow. We are with him.
continually helping and guiding him. We want
him to realise that and to help ~us all we can.
He has a great chance to ·do. very great work
in the world._ He must always have that
thought before him to help and ~spire him
to make a great effort to achieve what he
can do.
*Denis was a great lover of snakes.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
The children will be well guarded~ All is
"'·ell. Trust more, dear. They are guarded.
The power over them is so strong.
Denis will be clairvoyant. The whole family
is very mediumistic.
(At this point my elder sister, Annette, who
passed thirty years ago, took control.]
Yes, it is I, An.nette. Tell the children
that I love them all so much, and it·is one of
my most precious duties and joys looking after
them, and helping dear Jean in her training.
They are so beloved, and will do you both great
credit, and will bring joy to your hearts,
and a golden light to your life. God's blessing
rest upon you all, my dears.
Whl're are you 1
It is difficult to explain to you the conditions
over here. I am where I would most wish to
~
be, that is with my beloved ones, and where I
can keep in...close touch with you all upon the-
earth plane.
rou will be out of our reach.
Never, dear Arthur.
HafJe you food over there 1
Not in your sense, but much nicer. Such
lovely essences and wonderful fruits, and other
things besides which you don't have on earth.
Much awaits you which will very n1uch surprise
you, all beautiful and high, and so sweet and
PHENEAS SPEAKS 39
sunny. Life was a preparation for this sphere.
It helped .to prepare me for · it. Without
that training I should not have been able to
enter this glorious and wonderful world. The
earth is the training ground where we learn
our lessons, and this world is our great reward,
our true and real home and life--the sunshine
after the rain. Good-night all, my great dears,
whom I love so. Please remember that I am
continually in your beloved home, working with
you and through you, and guarding you all.
Novembtr 15, 1922. [With my ~istn- D.
.]
In the newflat.
Of course it is I-Mammie.
My darlings, it is such a joy to me to be with
all you dear ones in this dear new home. Bless
it and you, and all who enter its doors. You
see I am s~ happy to get into touch with you
that I use too much energy I suppose.•
D., my darling girl. I am so glad to talk to
you once more. Try this yourself. You will
have the power also. I see you as plainly as if
I were sitting in this arm chair.
Oh, do go on, Jean, dearie. Time is so
precious, and there are so many here wishing
to talk. I do so wish you could see ine.
Oh, Arthur, my boy, my own beloved son,
this world is so wonderful. All that yo·u are
*She was writina too swiftly.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
telling the people about this life is tf'ue, tf'tu.
. My one regret ~ that I did not ~lly realise
what you were doing when I was with you, but
now I .know; and I am overjoyed ~t being able
to work with you from this side.
Poor Cynthial so good and kind, but alas!
her Church is filling all he~ thoughts and her
life to the exclusion of all other ties. You
·can d~ no more, my son. Leave the .rest to
God.
D. might learn to Wf'ite.
Oh, my dear, that would be such a joy to
me. We will keep in close touch then, and
I ca~ help and advise her as I long to do, and
wiU do.
What about the undnJeloped spirit 1
I know. Yes. He is getting on. I want
just to tell you this, that I am happy, happy
beyond all the words that I coul4 use. There
are no words to describe the wonder and joy
of this life-the peace of it is past all under-
standing. Oh, that me,n could ]Qlow wh~t
lies ahead of them, what there is to work and
live for. All would be so much easier for them
then. They could
_ endure more if they knew.
~y child, there are oceans of things I want to
say, but I must not tire you, my lamb.• God's
*Cbuacteriatic,
PHENEAS SPEAKS
great blessing rest upon you all, and keep you
in perfect peace. All i& .well. Good-W.ght.
December 28, i922.
[Alec, .a, nephew by marriage, killed in .the
wa_
r, c~me, accompanied by my son, ~ingsley.]
Kingsley. I had .to come. Alec was so
anxious to come. He is beside me now. I am
with you all ~he whole time. Tell Mary• sh~
must keep up her music. She will b~ so glad
when she comes over h~.e if she has used her
gift to the highest and fullest. Let that inspire
hex:_. Tell her I am with her _
continuaHy. Alec
wants to speak.
Alec. This is good. I do wish you all had
better eyes and could see me. ·The power is
going, so be quick. I was at the Cenotaph,
and so was Kingsley. We we11t together with
some of our dearest pals. I don't know if I
was photographed. But _
you go to Mrs. -Deane
and be photographed, _·and I will ~e with you.
Then you will know how close I am with you
in all that you do. My work over here, thank
God, is to look after my people. I only wish
I could give you ~11 so~'e _
of my happines~,
• •
1t 1s so great.
•My elder daughter-my wife's step-daughte~-Kingsley's
aister. · '
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Jatuury 18, 19z3.
I am here. Mother.
Did you see tbejlOfiJers 1
Yes, I saw them, and I loved you both for
buying them for me. I loved also those fr?m
your dear home. [We had put _some on her
grave.]
Dear ones, your tour in America will be a
~ery great success. - Strength, en:ormous strength,
will be given to you, dear. (It was.) It makes
me so happy to see you both. So it will be
for all eternity.
Jean, darling, if I had planned my future
I could not have thought of sucll perfect happi-
ness, such joy.
You cannot fail. The power behind you is
too great.
F1lwuary I 1, 19z3.
[A dark soul came. Made a motion of
doubt and despair when we asked him if he
believed in God. I consoled him.]
I was a very old man.
How long ofJer 1
It seems an eternity. This is a wonderful
home. If I had had such a home I would have
been diffetent. I will come again-
. Thank
you so much, my new good friends.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
What name 1
Just a " dark soul."
rou will soon be 'fight, ! hope.
·With God's help.
Oscar Hornung came.
r ou 1'emembt1' the LonJ.on sitting1
Rather. I loved heari~g the children's voices.
1 know you saw me. I'll show myself again
to you both. ·
I have ntfJtf' seen you1' fatht1'.
And you won't for a long time.
r OU1'-motht1' will learn, I hope.
It won't be very long, I am thankful to
say. .
Of course I know Cyril.• I am· very fond of
him still. We'll be with each other a lot when
he comes over here. Tell him not to worry
about anything. A lot of happiness lies ahead
of him. Things will be better for him than
they have been for years. .
The power is --not so strong to-night. The
vibrations of last night are still in the room.
(Some people, who were. rather material,
had been there.) Soon the ~tmosphere will be
cleared again.
H'ho are the children's guides 1
When the time comes you will know. All
of you will know and see your guides one day.
•My brother-in..Jaw.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Bless you all. We will be at your side. With
this great knowledge at _
your heart you are
greatly helped. Therefore help others. all you
can. Look ever upwards, and just try your
best day by day, and that will lea~ you here in
the end, right up to this glorious world.
.. F4bruary 13, 1923.
. .
The·dark spirit came.
I feel that I have now someone who is interested
in my condition here, and that" iS a g~eat help to
me. With your help and encouragement no
doubt I shall progress into som~thing better.
What was your creed P
I never thought of such things. T~a:t is why
I am· here. .It_is very g~ey and lo~ely. I only
hope you will never find yo~rselves here.
· Could you tell us ofyourself1
. Not yet. I should 'like to very much later.
I was a snob in life. I wish I had known more
people like you, real humans, not just society
fluff. .
My father was pretty high up from a social
point of view.. ·My .mother also. They passed
on many years ago.
Have you seen them 1
No, not yet. They did believe in God.
Thank you for keeping this appointment. What
you have told me heartens me beyond wordsJ
PHENEAS SPEAKS 4S
tJ'here is mercy for aU.
Thank you for your help. Now I will go
ahead. There is something to live for after all.
Bless you all. I do already feel happier.
Are you still there 1
Yes. Do you think I.want to go l Rather
not.
Can you see our people 1
I can see a wonderful light round you. That
may mean them.
Don't hurt the Medium.
No, I promise you on the word of a previous
gentleman.
Did you lifle in London 1
Yes, for the season.
I shall never be able to repay you for this.
[Shortly afterwards this dark spirit c·ame and
thanked us for helping him.]
·The mist is not so thick.
Are you on the earlh surjac1 1
I cannot tell.
[A second stranger said.]
This is the first time I have been back, and
I have been over many years. I want to .say
that Spiritualism is changing t~e world. The
whole tone of life will be changed as a result of
its teaching. God bless you all!
[A friend came.] · What about our wireless
experiment l '
--
\
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Of course we know it and are pleased. We
can't use it yet. Conditions are not ready yet.
Our side is not fully prepared. In a very
short time we shall be ready. There is only
one link missing in the chain. There is a big
band over here working entirely upon it. They
and we realise how very important it is to the
human race.
(Kingsley, speaking of this, said:-)
We have a very wonderful instrument over
here, but it is not quite perfect yet. There
i~ one vibration wrong which will not work with
your waves.
Will it soon be right I
Yes, we hope before very long. It will first
come through an outside source, and will cause
a great deal of talk in London.
(My mother came.]
My son. My beloved son. Who else should
come if I, your own mother, did not l
Any message for Denis going to school P
Only this. He must trust always in God,
and know that so many dear ones are always
round him guarding and guiding him very
· closely all the time. Kingsley, too, has special
charge of him. He has arranged many _
things
for his welfare and happiness. You need not
worry about anything concerning him. All
is well, and God's blessing goes with him
PHENEAS SPEAKS 47
all the ti~e. I lay my hand upon his dear
head an~ say : " Neoer -fear anything--only
in ·your thoughts look upwards to all_that is
beautiful, happy and noble. Go ingreat strength
to school, knowing that all will be well and happy.
Work in the world awaits you. Prepare yo~r­
sel£ for it. Live up to the great privilege which
has been granted you to do this noble and
uplifting work for the world.
" God bless and keep you in His loving care."
[To Malcolm-my second son :-]
Tell the dear laddie that we love him very
much and watch the development of his character
with close attention. He has a noble and very
dear guide who loves him greatly, and he asks
me to tell him that he will watch over him
very closely through the term. He says he
wants him to try very,.very hard to have a high
and gentle influence,-an influence that will
be felt through all the school.
Malcolm's guide made a great name for
himself at his own school when on earth. He
was greatly loved for his high moral standard,
and left a great reputation behind him. And
he is most anxious that Malcolm should follow
in his steps. God's rich blessing goes to him,
and our love.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
There are twenty-two people here round
you to-night, all loving you greatly ; some
you have never met in life.
October 12, 1923.
Mother came.
I .am a thousand times more joyous. th~p
when on earth. I .want to say this, dear, that
the world is nothing, and all that is in it is only
a make-believe. This is the real life where
we can express ourselves to the fulle~t, where
love prevails, and where _
all sorrows flee away.
We have ~ll been helping in .Japan.•
Are there many spirits present 1
More than the room will hold.
Mrs. Blatchfordt is often with you. She is
in your circle. Not now. She is with a daughter
who is n9t well. [This proved to be true, and
is highly evidential.] ,
Listen to me, dear one. There. will be great
changes shortly in the spiritual life of the
co}lntry. There will very soon be a great an~
good man who will come to help you in the
fight. He is almost through the mists now, and
will soon be at your side.
•There had been an earthquake with great loss of life.
tThe d~ wife of Robert Blatchford, the well-known
Publicist. ·
--
~HENEAS SPEAKS
October 29, 1923,
A half-hearted spirit came.
Do you belilfle in ·God 1
49
Ye.-, in a way._ [I gave him some advice~]
Thank you for what you have said. .
.Are you the dark spirit we used to know 1
No, he sent me. He comes down here to
help us. I will . try to go ahead. Money is
the ·curse of the world.
I don't want to leave· the warmth and happi-
ness of this wonderful place-but I will go,
as··you say I must, but may I come again, and
will you promise to help me?
rou can stay here.
You are indeed good and kind. I will if I
am permitted to-do so.
~ December 3-o, 1923.
A strange spirit came.
Do you belilfJe in God 1
I did not u~til I came here, and then my
eyes.were opened.
I am two above the earth plane. 1 simply
thought of money. I realise that now .to my
cost.
r ou will he all right in time.
Bless you for sayi~g that. It is not so dark
now.
Mothet came.
so PHENEAS SPEAKS
I should like you both to ~ave a little holiday.
You should take care of your health. .
My darling, I carried off s!lme of the flowers
you put on my .grave, and ·had them m· my
home at Christmas in memory of my own little
girlie.
'Ihm you keep Christmas 1
Very much more here than on earth. It
is so happy for all. A time of great rejoicing
and love everywhere.
Is Lily there 1
I see her every day. She tries to fill your
place until you come. Her home is near.
Your home is very, very near, and so glorious.
Like this one 1
No, ever so much more beautiful and graceful,
and so full of flowers and all that is lovely, and
then we have our own atmosphere.
February 14, 19z4.
[Rev. Vale Owen and wife present.]
I am Ellis Powell.• This is great to meet
you both again. The work is going on splendidly.
Far greater strides have been made than you
have any idea of. Very soon you will have
evidence of this.
What about that hig man 1
He is hovering on the verge. He can't
•A well·known Spiritualist and Great Scholar.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
quite make ·up his tnind to come out int·o the
open.
'Io the Yale Owens :-
They are to go on with their noble work.
All will be well with them. In all ways. They
are blessed from the other side.
From Mrs. Napier.• [A friend recently dead.]
I want to thank you with all my soul for
what you did· for me on earth the night you
dined with us.
I cannot tell you how ·happy I am with all
those I had lost. Now I am living.
Do you appf'OfJI OU1' wof'k ?
Yes, in every way.
Will you help the wO,.k?
It is my great joy to do so in a very humble
way. You have got a most wonderful body-
gu~rd round you.
Please give Lady Cowan my love.
Mother came.
May 25, 1924.
S1J happy, dflrling. We live in a most
wonderful home. This life is very wonderful,
so full and happy and peaceful. Such bright
faces everywhere, all living at their best. We
long for humanity to realise what lies ahead of
them. The earth life would be so much easier
•This lady had been told .th.e truth of Spirit Communion
before her death.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
to live, for hope would always be in everyone's
heart. Tell the people, Arthur, not to fear
death, but to live. with it in their thoughts,
knowing ·that if they just in their daily lives
try to live straight, clean lives,·t~ey will look
back with thankfulness when they reach the
portals of death-the entrance gates to this
wondeiful -existence. Tell them that Love is
the keynote of life-let your hearts radiate
out tenderness for all who need it. If there is
love and ·unselfishness, sunshine will illuminate
the whole world, and every shadow .will flee
away.
Willie Hornung came.
We realise things over here, and would give
a great deal to have our time over again. We
are blind on the earth plane to our great chances.
If humans only realised that self does not
count, then how different lives would be.
What about t.his new house idea 1•
It is most important. We war:tt yo~ to..go
to see it again, and _
we will impress you then
with what we want you to do ,in th~ matter.
It is a wonderful place. The atmosphe~e is
perfect. You were led there. For some time
we have had that place in our _
minds for you.
We shall arrange it all for you in such a way
that it will seem quite easy.
•We wanted to find a place near to nature.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 53
. [A famous medium, who . was present, said
that while Pheneas was addressing him, he saw
a bright light all round the Medium, and that
it filled him with such awe that he wanted to
kneel.]
Fresh spirit came.
The vibrations· grow thinner and thinner
until we shall soon get so close that they will
cease to exist.
Who are you 1
I am a friend who is working with you. Yes,
I believe in God with all my soul, for I have
seen His glory. I am one of your guides. Yo:u
have many.
rout name?
I am a man who made good. I was a rotter
upon earth.
I would like to say that when I came over
here I realised with sorrow and humiliation
the mistakes I had made-the lost chances.
I saw that my earth life represented nothing
but failure. I was stricken to the very soul
for many years. I struggled upwards. It was
a hard fight. But as I got nearer to this
wonderful world I saw a light in the distance,
and round this light I began gradually to see
figures, and there were my dear ones waiting
for me. Then I joined them in a glorious
-such a glorious--home. My task was done.
54 PHENEAS SPEAKS
I had made good. My one desire, my one
prayer was that I might do some work for
God and for humanity~ So they let me help
you. And they told me I might come and
speak with you. May I call you a friend l
I am proud to be so called.
God bless you all ! May His angels surround
and keep you till we meet.
..
PART II.
THE CoMING OF PHENEAs.
December 10, 19zz.
J.C.D. and A.C.D.
My mother came.
I am so happy, my beloved son. We all
know and love you for the thought. [We
were about to lay flowers on her grave.] But
not while you are so busy, dear ones. I can't
bear you to tire your dear self.
What about the undefJeloped spirit 1
Your guide says you did him untold good.
He has progressed far. H~ is almost here.
His mother guards and helps him· onwards and
up. Your guide is such a high soul! He
loves you beyond words. You are of.ten with
him at night. He helps and instructs you over
here. The name is Pheneas. He is a very,
very high soul, sent especially to work through
yqu on the earth plane. He died thousands of
years ago in the East, near Arabia. He was
a leader among men. He wants me to say,
dear one, that there is much work before
you.
ss
PHENEAS SPEAKS
1n this wMltl 1
Why, of course, my darling, it is here on
this grey earth that you are needed. Your
guide is here. He places his arm round you and
kisses your brow and blesses you, and blesses
you both.
It gives us such joy over here to see the
love light always round you in your own dear
home. It is out' earth centre. We are happy
in that sweet atmosphere. Bless and keep
you all, my dears. Your·guide is here.
I am proud to hafJe such a guide.
Pheneas speaking.
We are brother~. Your Wife is invaluable
to us. We use her a great deal.
Do I wof'k on f'ight lines 1
You are right. Go on as you are doing.
You are doing· far more than you have any
idea ot It is far-reaching, the effect of it.
·shall we·go to Amef'ica 1
It is· God's will. It is ordained.
. .
~h-e child,.en too?
Yes, emphatically.· Yes. You-~re aU nee~ed,
each in your _
own way doing work for the
cause.
What a~out the Medium's guide.? _
·We are old, old friends, so it is.grand working
togeth~r. He is so dear and sweet a soul,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 57
beloved by all who· come near him. Julius,
his name.
This has been a happy evening for me. I
have often wanted to come to you, for you see
you are so much to me, and it hurt that I meant
nothing _
to you. Now we are close. It . will
- '
be easier for me to work through you in
consequence.
[The Medium asked if she did wrong in
being angry with persecutors of the Cause.]
Quite right, my dear soul. We, too, were
furious, so how can we blame you for being so.
But they too will know the truth very soon.
I~ will be the biggest thing that has ever happened
in the earth's history. But great blessings will
follow. All the shadows will flee away.
. December 15, 1922.
J.C.-D. and A.C.D.
Pheneas came.
You beloved brother-you new brother.
I said good morning to you.
I know. I have heard yo\1.
Look afte-r G.P.O.
.I will. He is in God's hands.. You need not
feel responsibility.
Shall I write about Stacey 1 [This was a
young clergyman who needed help.]
...
PHENEAS SPEAKS
Wait a while. Things will change. Very
soon. [They did.]
Did you get into the photo p•
I tried to.
Was the othl'r Julius ?
No, not he, but someone else who helps you
greatly-who takes care of you physically.
I should thank him.
You need not. He sees your gratitude.
I fear I gifJe him trouble.
No, you are quite sensible.
Come with us to the United States.
Yes, but a much stronger guard than I will
be with you upon the whole journey. They
are very, very High. They are amongst God's
chosen band. ·
I have only ·this to say. We bless you,
we b.less the medium, we bless this house,
we bless all belonging to you, we bless your
home, we bless your beloved children, we
bless this circle of light of which you are the
centre. God's power be upon you and yours.
[The Chosen Band of whom he spoke were
afterwards independently seen and described
by a medium in Los Angeles.]
•I had got two faces, vague and misty, in a spirit photograph
by Mrs. Deane.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
December zS, 19zz.
Pheneas-
speaking.
It is I.
Can you ~ear me !
59
Most assuredly I do. Every word. Every
thought.
What about Major Bates? [Thls was a
Spirit Communicator reported from another
circle, who seemed rather inflated, and used an
Apostolic name.]
He thinks he is in one of the high spheres.
The disciple theory filters through to each
plane, so that in the lower spheres a teacher
might use the name. If he is so self-satisfied
he is not on the higher spheres.
Can I do 1n0re ?
You could not do more. Never fear. Just ·
go ahead. We are all at the back of you. We
planned your coming here. We know the dear
place and we love to see our dear ones in it.
This is a great centre for us and those on the
grey earth plane.
God bless each and all.
March 8, 1923.
(1.C.D., A.C.D.)
Pheneas speaking.
I am an Arabian.
'Ihe best of races.
6o PHENEAS SPEAKS
Thank you, dear friend.· Naturally, I think
so. I lived at Ur.•
Did you live at the time of Abraham?
Before then.
Do you know Mrs. Carpenter's prophecies ?t
Quite well. It is all part of the scheme. to
dilute the world with this knowledge.
Ought I to spread it ?
Not. yet. We will tell you when. Tell no
one. There is so much I want to say, but the
time is not yet. .
You can say as much as that, but do not tell
the exact source ·yet.
Never fear. Soon the things which are done
in God's name which are cruel and wicked will
not be able to exist. All shams will be swept
away by then, and only truth will live. Love-
love-love. England won't be like the.present
England then in any way.
I am able now to keep in much closer touch
with you both. Lily is very, very close to you
always. It is. her special duty to look a~er
you and the children. God bless you, my
dears. This has made me very happy. Keep
peaceful. All is well.
I fear the world is hopel~ss. Even after the
fearful war, humanity is no better. It mu$t
•It is stated that the lower part of Mesopotamia was settled
from Arabi~. Vide Browne's StOYy of the ] ews, p . 22.
tThis lady had some information about. the future. .
PHENEAS SPEAKS
change,. and a new world be built up on real
Christianity.. This which. you are preaching
is the .foundation of ,what is coming. All
cruelty will vanish,. because mankind will know
and realise things then. Love will prevail,
and so God's Personality will live everywhere
instead of darkness. Go right on with the
work you are doing, for many more must
learn.
October 20, 1923.
[The long interval was due to our absence
and · constant preoccupation in our second
American tour.]
I· am your guide, Pheneas.
What is the Arab salutation P
From the forehead. My best of brothers.
Call me by the name you think of me by. ·I
was with you at the Californian seance when
they described me.• I was with you, working
with and through you.
On my health P
I will make you rest.
· [N.B.-Three days later I was knocked down
by a bike, and had to lie up.]
You are to do what we say. Rest will'not be
time wasted, but gained. You attempt too
much all the time. Let things w~it. No harm
will be done.
• Amedium had described a very noble Ara.bian figure behind us .
.
6z PHENEAS SPEAKS
You are to walk a mile morning and afternoon,
whatever the weather is like. No tea. No
work before eleven, noi after six. Dr. Westcott
will work on you at night. Take bismuth
twice a · day. The hut is good. Don't have
the 'phone there. The tired feeling will then
quickly go. You must. Yes, it is vital.
January 19, 1924.
(Before the boys returned to school.)
I am your beloved son's guide. I shall be
with you continually, my own dear boy (to
Denis), helping and strengthening you in every
way. Now I want you to realise this-that
to win great things you have to make an effort,
so try hard to look upwards. Realise this, too,
that you also have great work to do upon
earth.. Prepare yourself to be worthy of the
privilege. Brace yourself up in all ways, and
remember the love of many unseen dear ones
is always round you; so you can never,
and should never be lonely even when far
from your beloved home. God's blessing
rest upon you all through the weeks. Try
hard, dear boy, to win what we have put aside
as a great reward for you.
You each have a strong guard round you.
All will be well with you if you only do bravely
what comes to you on life's road.
1
PHENEAS SPEAKS 63
.
You each have certain things marked out for
you, and .if you ~ach .. try to do your real best
in them, there are certain very great joys and
happinesses in store arranged for you '!hen you
come to your wonderful home· and life over
here. Then how thankful you ~ b~ t~at you
did make the effort and did not miss these
things ·which.will gladden your hearts so much.
Try, my beloved boys, with all your might to
be pure 'and to be stron,g. ·Do what you have
to do with· all your strength~ and be happy,
realising all that lies· ahead of you, and of how
- blessed you are ahove your fellows in your
great knowledge.
(Denis) Why should one sometimesfeel troubled?
That is just what the whole of life's training
is for-and in return one has the tremendous
happiness arid. rewards which await humanity
over here. Be worthy in every
/ way to deserve
it. Just try in your daily life to do your simple
duties as they come-that is all that is required.
You will be greatly helped in every way. Never
fear or doubt.
Sebastian is my spirit name, my beloved
boy. Kingsley is very busy on an important
work far from here.
Gird up your strength to do all that we
have set our hearts on this term.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
We are more proud of you than I can tell
you, iny beloved charge. -·You more than
fulfil all our hopes. We were · so happy
that you realised our presence and nearness.
The veil is ever thinner, so we can help you
more and more.
We meet often over here at night.
I was an Oriental-an Arabian~nd. I lived-
some time after your father's .guide.
You come over here at night. It is a joy
for us to take you. We do so because y~u are
doing so well on the earth plane. ·
(Denis) Do I go to Loon Lake and Jasper in
my sleep?•
You go to both, but so quickly that they
blend into one. I never knew a brother love
another more than Kingsley loves you. There
is a glorious home awaiting you all over here.
•
Ma,.ch 8, 1924.
(J.C.D., Denis, A.C.D.)
I am your guide. It was my deputy who was
seen near you at the service.
I was preparing a very great work which is
to be done before long on the earth. the time
passes, so I had to be there to superintend.
It is part of the awakening to prepare peoples'
minds, to clear away some of the cobwebs ~rom
•Placea we visi~ i.nd loved in AmeFica.
I
j
J
PHENEAS SPEAKS
their clouded brains, so that the light when it
comes, will shine through.
Is our idea right about the future 1
Yes, it is. 0£ course, dear friend and brother,
I shall be by your side. ·
About ·America?·
We will let you know later about that. / Those
over here who are working with you have two
or three plans in their heads. As soon as they
have worked out their future scheme of action
we will at once let you know, so that you can
make your plans accordingly.
You are very well looked after, so have no
anxiety. We all rieed your help, so of course
great care will be taken.
[Then came a wonderful gesture of soothing
and peace.]
Another spirit came.
Do you believe in God ?*
I do. I do. I do.
Who are you?
You talk to a man who used to know Pheneas
as a boy on earth many thousands of years
ago.
Where?
Near Arabia.
Pheneas was a magnificent man when on
earth. Honoured by all who knew him.
•We always ask this as a safeguard, as advised by St. John.
c
66 PHENEAS SPEAKS
He is a great power over here.
He is here now. He stands by you. But
he wished me to make your acquaintance.
What name?
That may come in time.
We will call you Pheneas's friend, and mine.
That is grand.
In this room at this moment are some very
high spirits.
1
The light is great. Even I can hardly bear :
it.
Pause.
I should not have said ''Even I." That was
not worthy. Christ would not have said
"Even 1." Nor would Pheneas.
r ou meant no harm.
No, I didn't. Truly, truly I didn't.
Very great power is collecting round you at
present.
Because of what lies ahead of you.
May I be worthy.
The day will come when all men can see.
Some will then be stricken to their souls, others
will be upli~ted, others ashamed, and others
will fall on their knees with joy. The truth
will be written large in the Heavens so that
all can see. ,
What practical steps should I take to spread
this truth P
PHENEAS SPEAKS
We will tell you when and how to move.
It is advisable meanwhile to use your own
Judgment and to speak with those whose minds
seem to you to have a window which may admit
light.
W f'itten in Winchester Cathedral, Sunday,
April 6, 1924.•
Pheneas writing.
Beloved. Before long the real spirit of God
will come into this-His house. All will be
changed and the people will come then. It
is an empty shell now. Soon it will be filled
with God's radiance.
You shall be guided.
Peace be with you and yours, and God's
sun shine over you all. The shadows already
are falling upon the earth. Signs will come more
and more rapidly, so that the eyes of the people
will soon be opened. Their unbelief will fall
as a dark garment from them.
Look upward always. God is in heaven
and all is well.
April 19, I 924-.
J.C.D. was taken by spirit control (Pheneas)
and spoke.
•we were kneeling in the dim cathedral when the urge to
write came upon the medium.
68 PHENEAS SPEAKS
He said:-
That all would ever be well with us. That
great changes were at hand.
After some hesitation he said that the time
was not yet ready for me to speak. When I
did it should be bit by bit.
He said that God would be manifest upon
earth.
He said people would be softened. All
hypocrisy and pretence would vanish. Spiritual-
ism would come into its qwn. ·
It was all most wonderful and impressive.
April 27, 1924.
Pheneas speaking. ....
Each of you has his work ordained (for that
time), to help and guide those who know nothing.
You must all prepare yourselves for that great
responsibility, to be worthy of the glorious
work God has selected you for.
The period will not last very long, though it
may seem long to those who go through it.
What could the children do?
..
They could even now teach many clergymen.
Mr. A. says it will he mental.
He knows nothing.
What should we do exactly?
You will be instructed.
Listen to this. Years ago in Jerusalem was
PHENEAS SPEAKS
a man, and he was great, and the world would
not know him. But the day is at hand when
all the world, all colours and creeds will bow
to Him, and every knee will be bent.
You will love the work when it comes. You
will be happier than ever. So will all your .
circle. Your psychic powers will be developed
,
then, and you will yourself see as you have great.
psychic power, but we do not encourage it, for
'
we are sure you would rather work for others.
At your lectures your halls are crowded
with earthbound spirits.
In reply to the usual test question. 4t
I believe in God, for I have seen His glory.
We shall go with you to Bromley,• beloved ,
brother. All the time you are working for the
cause.
We guide you always. It is best not to
press .things, but to leave them in our hands.
We have our plans all arranged, and as the
time approaches we impress you, and you will
have no trouble or doubt. The difficulties will
be smoothed away in all directions.
This was so.
May 31, 1924.
(A.C.D., J.C.D.)
Great things are approac.hing. All that has
•I was lecturing there next day.
-
PHENEAS SPEAKS
the slightest glimmer of spiritual life in it will
be cultivated, either in this. world, or in the
higher or lower spheres. '
God will come into His own at last, and aU
shams will fall away and all wolves in sheep's
clothing be exposed. The last will be first,
and the first last in the eyes of all men.
But all the sects will react to it.
Every sect is done for. The people know
too much. The churches· have failed in the
past, and people will turn to those who have
been in direct spirit communication.
The Medium knows this. She senses it. He.r
powers will develop greatly. She is, as it
were, a small bridge between two enormous
countries. There is a deep chasm, but you can
clasp hands over it.
Take all this down. We are most anxious
to have a record, as it will be invaluable.•
Through this knowledge they will have
consolation. They have been like sheep, rushing
about in all directions, beating their foolish
heads against a blank wall in their
attempt to find the door of death. They
all missed it, and died stunned, but Spiritualism
is a great, wide open gate, which leads to all
that is glorious.
We must keep close, for people can't do big
*I lodged a complete record at my bank.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
work without hope and confidence, and anticipa-
tion of great happiness. We are always in
close touch with you.
June Is, I924.
Family-Cyril, our clerical relation.
Pheneas speaks.
We have been waiting for you to sit. Time
is short, and there are few channels for us to
tell so much that is important. Don't lose an
•
opportunity.
I want to say this. A new ·world will arise
-new in all ways. Then all the shadows
and darkness of the present world will be extinct.
If humanity knew how different the world
.
could be. Waken up their sluggish minds.
You are helping all the time.
Everyone has their part to play. What a
thing to live for ! What a privilege !
The veil will be rent, and all shall see their
dear ones. It is essential that you should teach
them that the dead are alive.
'Io Denis.·
A new spirit is coming to help you. He is
lofty. He will help you while you are at
school until you are back with your people.
He is a wonderful guide. He will help you
greatly. He comes for that special purpose,
7Z PHENEAS SPEAKS
He is a wonderful spirit. Have no fears. All
is well.
q-o Malcolm:
Remember-God's blessing rests on you. Live
up to that in all ways. You are meant to do
work for Him. Try to work .towards that.
You are going to have a great opportunity.
We are pleased with your progress. Go on.
You have a fine guard round you. You can be
great. _
Billie is grand. She, too, will have a lot
of work to do when the time comes. All the
children are blessed in their knowledge. .
Look forward with infinite peace of heart and
soul.
The sunlight is on the path,and your shadows
are all past.
How· shall we know Christ.?
How could anyone fail to know Christ ?
Yes, the chosen will see Christ. Every soul
will see Christ eventually.
Every soul will grow until only the Christ
Spirit will be ther.e.•
This message has already gone to a certain
number. We are now using every channel,
but don't want it preached. We want it to
come to full tide.
•This corresponds with St. Paul'~ saying that every man has
a Christ in him. ·
PHENEAS SPEAKS 73
It is essential that you sit more often.
The big man I told you of is held back by
worldly weakness.
There are many leaders doing good wor~.
There are noble saints in all creeds.
[At this point the light became too low for
me to write.]
Pheneas went on to say that among the Chosen
would be many savages, and others who had
been good men. They had a better chance
than bigoted theologians. The state of the
churches was a scandal, and a cause of deep
shame and sorrow to those on the other side.
They were .really against God rather than for
Him. Where was the warmth of love which
should exist in them l
July 5, 1924.
When the great change comes to humaJ!ity
then all creeds and churches 'vill cease to exist,
for the people of all nations will realise how they
have utterly failed them in their hour of need.
All, all, every colour and sect and nation will
turn to spiritualism, and so the world will b~
changed, and the shams will be swept away for
ever. Then comes the Millenium. When.you
come over here to the land of your dreams you
will find that only love prevails, and the sun
shines, and all, ~11 is beautiful, and the heart
74 PHENEAS SPEAKS
is never hurt. From here you will see the
progress of the world under the new conditions.
it will all be most interesting and wonderful
to behold. The crop is nearly due, the seeds
are almost all in, the rain is now to come, and
then the sunshine. It is the greatest thing that
could possibly happen for humanity. God
bless you and your beloved soul's mate, your
boys, your girls, all those yol}love, or who have
ever been kind and loving to you.
Is it Pheneas ?
Yes, it is indeed, my most beloved brother.
You must take care of yourself. To-morrow
keep warm, and rest, and we will work upoa
you.
(N.B.-1 had a chill.-A.C.D.)
[2""o my wife.] There is no need to worry or
be anxious about him.
Can you hear us P
Yes, a!ld I can alsa see y9u all.
I told him of the Brahan Seer.•
Thank you. It is most interesting. That
has no doubt been all made up to him.
One always gets lefJell
Always, always, always.
How about Cynthia 1 .
(Here Pheneas departed, and presently another
took his place.]
' •He was a Scotch prophet of the 16th ~ntury. •' Tlte
Prophecies of.the Brahan Seer ' ' are now published .
-·
PHENEAS SPEAKS 75
He has gone to enquire, but he left me to
keep the vibrations open for him. I am on
guard. I am Johanna. I work for Pheneas.
He is indeed a very, very high spirit.
Not Johanna of Arc 1
No.
Has she ever hem near us?
She has several times·. Your book and your
interest in her brought her to you.
She is a. very great leader and force over
laere for the proclamation of this great truth
- upon the earth. She is one of those who will
meet you upon your arrival in this glorious
world of life.
[To Denis.] Go on trying in all ways, my
very dear boy, and you will be glad and thankful
afterwards, besides making many of us very
proud and happy about you over here. God
bless and guard you, one and all, in this dear
home circle. -
July 8, 192~.
Pheneas speaks.
My beloved ones-You had closed down
by the time I got back. Johanna is my
right hand.
Cynthia is progressing, they told me.
She will soon he all right? ·
Yes, it depends upon her own efforts.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
I want really to say many things to you. So
much that is of importance to the world has
been decided upon here of late.
Oh, my God, what a good thing it will be wnen
the dross-the dross-will be swept o~ the
earth. The make-belief, the poison, the sham
gods that have been created, the theology which
has arisen like a great cloud between humanity
and God, the Father and his children. That
has got to disappear. The face of the earth
must be cleaned.
Not only the lower humans, but the earth-
bound spirits must be cleared off the su~face
of the earth. The whole thing must be ·pure,
new soil for humanity to grow in. The
atmosphere must be new. Otherwise it would
be like taking a new, frail, delicate plant, and
putting it into old, worn-out soil. So that is
one of the reasons why even ground which
seems only to hold nature must still be renewed.
It will be wonderful afterwards-far more
beautiful than it has ever been in the world's
history.
The time is coming when Christ will proclaim
Himself.
Will He preach Spiritualism P
He won't ~eed to preach it. The world will
see the ' truth of it, and bitter will be their
• regret.
..
...
PHENEAS SPEAKS _ 77
How shall we know Him 1
The world could not fail to recognise Him.
This time He comes into His own. It is not
like last time, when He was obscure.
How about many other.. sects having the same
idea offuture happenings 1
We want light in the house. It· matters not
whether a servant, a slave, or a wise man
pulls up the blind.
As sure as the dawncomes to-morrow, so surely
comes the New World.
July 17, 1924.
Pheneas speaks.
We are glad you have come to the New
Forest.• ·It is a good place for you. Nature
is wonderful .there. Her vibrations are more
unspoiled in the New Forest than anywhere
in England.
[Here Pheneas begged us to darken the
room more. I had to write in the dark.]
When the light is wrong it is like a wrong
note in a chord. It breaks the harmony.
The power of the love of the angels is round
you alL We long to have you with us on this
side.
I want to tell you this. Christ will only
announce Himself as Christ when he comes
•wehad taken a furnished house for two months,
PHENEAS SPEAKS
in His glory. Only a chosen few will know of
Him when He is here as a human being.
This is a good house.
We would not have allowed you to come into
it if it were not.
The owner, then, is a good man?
Apart from him, and he is a good man, there
was somebody who lived here many years ago
who was a saint upon earth.
I hafJe been reading that Christ will manifest
through many different people. Is that so 1
He will be here as an individual. But
through His presence on earth there will radiate
out from Him to those who are themselves
spiritual and Christ-like in temperament, a
still greater power and spirituality. In that
sense your informant was right. Christ is like
a battery which sends out power to smaller
batteries. which can give brighter light from
this reinforcement from the main battery.
What about these messages from another cir£le
which are sent me ? 7'hey want me to write •
preface?
Your name must not be put to that. It
would do harm. Their communications are
from a pompous soul on this side. He has
too much brain and not enough soul, as is the
case with so many good men upon earth. The
subjects show that it does not come from a
PHENEAS SPEAKS 79
very high source. Surely this world needs
help in a practical way at this time. Humaaity
needs balm and c9mfort and inspiration, and
not talk of dead things.
Still it is useful for them. They are being
prepared for something better. It is like opening
up a new soil, taking off the grass and the old
surface, then you will get to the real soil under-
neath. They are being prepared, these people.
What about the spirit control 1
Brother, I am sorry to say I don't know
much about him. We have more vital work
to do.
There are many things I want to say to you.
[Then followed long, detailed descriptions of
coming events.]
And what of England 1 .,..
England is to be the centre to which all
humanity will turn. She is to be the beacon
light in this dark, dark world. The light is
Christ, and all humans will strive to get to that
light in the great darkness.
Should I publish all this 1
We will let you know about that. I advise
that you prepare your material and have it
typed, but not in final form, so that you can
add what is to come. Then it would be ready
when it is needed.
8o PHENEAS SPEAKS
Do not do it through the press, but as a
continuous thing which people can take home
and read. Publish at the lowest possible price
that all may have it.
But it would startle people. ·
No, they will already be startled by other
things. · It· will have a soothing effect.
What about Scandinavia ?•
Our plans are- not yet fixed. We are very
much of two minds. we feel that you are
needed more here in England.
England leads the world, and if England
quickly accepts this then it paves the way for
every other country.
You dissipate your power by going away
now at this time. While the iron is hot you
should strike in this ·country.
But I shall lecture here this winter.
We want yori here, not there, but we may
arrange it so that you sh~ll not go.
I am in your hands.
We see further than you can do. We are like
people with a telescope. We see ahead with
longer sight.
I will take your advice.
You always ,do. That is why you are so
helpful to us. Good-bye, and God bless you.
•r had planned to lecture there:
,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 81
[Before this last remarkable sitting a spirit
came, who said-]
I only know you through SOIJ?.eone you have .
helped. It was my mot-her. You helped her
by giving her other world knowledge when she
was broken-hearted. I was killed in the war.
My mother and I have once been in direct
communication. . She is going to pass over
sc;>on. She knows _
a great deal, and is happy
now, but she owes it all to you originally. I
know your broth~r-in-law, Leslie. I was an
officer in his corps-a Royal Engineer. Leslie
told us all about the sit~ing.• He was amazed.
It was all quite new to him. I will look for
Bart~n. In return for what you ~ave done for
my mother I will help him.
August 9, 1924.
Pheneas speaks.
Oh, I am_
so happy here.
The light is all right.
I am full of love and joy. I love our talks.
I was with the Medium this morning. I had a
message. I am in close touch with the Medium
all the time.
Do you alone influence the Medium ?
Sometimes it is her own guide.
*I had for the first time got in direct contact with him at a
seance.
'
PHENEAS SPEAKS
There is a man in France who will come
to the fore, and will be a great leader in this
movement in that country. He has brains,
and position from a worldly point of view.
You do not know his name.
The earth is in a very strained, tormented
condition at present. It is like a pot boilin~
over with the lid on it. It may thrust the
lid up.
You can do nothing at present. You wt
'U
know when the time comes.
What about the Churches ?
They have pulled themselves down. They
have not kept in touch with the spirit world.
Theyhaveproved themselves utterlywanting,and
when put to the crucial test will offer people a
stone instead of bread, and the people will
see that they have been worshipping false gods.
In a flash they will realise the emptiness, the
soulless teaching of the religion which their
theological teache.rs and leaders have been
offering them in the past. They will turn to
this light--a light from the other world.
Will the M1dium be at my right hand? ,
Of course she will. You must see it, friend,
from· her point of view. She does not think
herself so essential, and therefore she has fears.
She will be close to your side, as she has been
in the past, in the fight for the spreading of this
PHENEAS SPEAKS
great knowledge and comfort. She will come
into her own with you and with her dear ones.
I wanted to tell you these things to-night.
I am so glad you feel glad that I come to
you and feel stronger for it.
Could you please describe yourself?
I am tall. I am broad. My eyes are
large and brown. Features are what you
call regular. I dress in flowing robes, as
I stand by you now in this room. The colour
is hard to describe. There is green and there
is gold, and a wonderful shade of mauve.
God bless you ! (Three times.) And the
children, and may His Angels have close charge
over you and all under this roof.
.August 18, 1924.
(.A.C.D., J.C.D., Billie.)
Pheneas came, and saluted.
Medium complained of warmth. Window
was opened.
1s the light right, Pheneas ?
[Three hand claps.]
God bless you! (Three times.) This is a
good house. A man lived here many years
ago who ~vas a Spiritualist at heart. lie wa8
born in the house-in this room. He has
watched you from over here. l-Ie guided you
here, and he says it is his house, and you can
PHENEAS SPEAKS
stay here as long as you like. It is his home,
and he is glad to have you under his roof.
Will you thank him ?
I will. He is so delighted that you like the
place, because he loved it. (God bless you !)
That was he talking. He .was a Spiritualist
before there was any such name ; but he was
a very spiritual man, and a medium.
[Former occupant took control.]
I am under my own roof, and I intend to
take great care of you all while you are under
my own roof tree. The house was built by my
grandfather.
And you love the Forest ?
I adore it. I lived here for years.
I hope you are happy.:.
Happy is not the word,
. It is bliss.
Are there forests in the other world 1
Yes, beautiful forests. FuJI of everything
that is lovely in the way of flowers, .trees,
animals and birds.
Shall we be young again and find. ourstlfJes in
such a forest ?
Yes. Yes. Yes. Everything beautiful is
repeated. -
Is there an ~;xact reproduction ~
There is a reproduction of the New Forest,
but without any ugly elements. You could
. PHENEAS SPEA,KS .ss
find Boldrewood, or the Queen's Beeches. But
you would find more flowers about, and no ugly
buildings.
I will tell Mr. Y achell.
Yes, tell him that, for it is true. There will
be no motor cars or noise to disturb the wonderfuI
beauty there.
This is the Medium's true home.
What do you mean?
I mean that her heart and soul are here tn
the Forest. That the vibrations are attuned
to her.
May I ask your advice?
You are now talking to your guide, who has
been standing by the late owner of this house.
My hand is on his shoulder as I talk.
Advise me.
Our plans are formed. You will soon be
instructed. It will be quite simple, and will
work without difficulty.
Then we- need do nothing 1
We will impress you as to the line to take,
which will lead into the w-ays of peace.
r ou are good to us.
It is essential that you should live while on
this earth in the right surroundings, so· that we
can reach you most quickly and easily. And-
and-the Medium's soul should be like that
(a grand upward gesture) and not like that .
86 PHENEAS SPEAKS
(downwards). · She is so intensely ·
sensitive
an instrument that the vibrations play on her
like a thing attuned, therefore the key-note
must be right to produce the harmony with
us.
I quite undef'stand.
It is so important now, when there is so much
for us to communicate to you.
Our being so fa,. jf'om London would not
matter P
All that matters is the upliftment, the power,
the combination, and the spiritual forces.
Distance is nothing.
We have theflat in London.
That we provided years ago. The mediuin
was made to look at the very place, and did not
know it.
Now listen to me.
Is it still you ?
It is I-I-I.
Do you helilfle in God ?
With all the soul that is in me. But you
were right to ask. My soul is not big enough
to contain my love of God.
I love coming. This is my earth home. I
often say, "I am going down home,'' much to
the envy of many others. · You know, as I
told you some time ago, your fighting days a.re
over. You are through.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
I don't feel it.
You will see all the stragglers coming in
soon, COI).quered by truth.
I don't feel it.
We can hear the tramp of them on the road.
I haoe just read "·'The Witne.ss."
Yes, we highly approve of that book. · It
will do a great deal of good.
Will you come to meals sometimes ?
Will you put a chair for me ?
res, on all·high occasions.
Thanks. How envious the others will be
-envious of course, in a good-humoured way.
I should like to do that. I am glad you
mentioned it.
God bless you! God bless you! I lQve
being with you. I am one.of the family in the
hotne circle.
God bless you-and you, little one. We
are very pleased with that little one. She is
coming rapidly towards the homeland in her
actions. I will guard over you in this house
as long as you sojourn in it. That is a word
the Medium never uses. She is very tired
to-night.
r ou do her go6d.
I know it, because she is attuned to the
spirit world, and therefore when she comes in
touch with it, she is revitalised.
88 PHENEAS SPEAKS
We love her. We have chosen her for this
work. God bless her. (Four times.) God bless
you all, my own dear family. Good-night !
August 24, 1924.
[We were all sitting with Mary round the
dinner table when Pheneas suddenly spoke.
The servants having left the room, I had
been reading about his teaching. He came to
endorse what I had read. He said-]
Mankind has long been on a road which
sloped down hill. It often "'seemed bright
enough, but it was really going downwards.
Soon it enters a tunnel, black, black. When
it comes forth ·from the tunnel it will break ·
into roads in various direetions, some up,
some down, to the darker spheres. Some
human souls are so crusted over that there
is hardly a spark of God left in them-gross,
gross. These would have to work up through
sphere after sphere until at last they would
r€acn the sphere of Love where indescribable
happiness prevails.
Oh, do not lose a day in getting this know-
ledge across. Poor humanity has much to
suffer. But there is no other way. All know-
ledge is turned by it to evil ends.
What matter about Mars ?• It is alf trivial,
~Mars was at its nearest at that time, and the papers were full
of it. '
PHENEAS SPEAKS
trivial. Soon they will have -other things to
think-of.
Be unselfish. Th~t is everything. Look up,
and forget self.
I -q_m often with you. I would speak, but I
fea~ to intrude. (r ou cannot do . that.) Very
well, I will speak oftener, but you must promise
me that if ever I am in the way you will say so.
I will not be hurt.
Septetnber 4, I 924.
Pheneas speaking.
I was in Mesopotamia, but I felt that the
Medium was tired and needed me. Her life is
so busy.
r ou lived down there when on earth. will it
not be sadfor you if any etJil comes to it?
So long as spiritual nee~s are served nothing
else matters. Would you like to know of
Scotland?
res, it is my birthplace.
After the change I see a time of p~ace when
those who should own the land shall be back
upon it, and the valleys will be full of she'ep,
and the barren hillsides will be peopled, an-d
happiness will reign.
'Ihat is very like what the Brahan' Seer said.
He is now a high spirit. He is over here,
and he is specially working for Scotland.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
We look outjM signs.
I know you do.
I was with you, and heard all you said with
Lodge.
He is a wise and good man.
It was good of you to put a chair for me.
I was not there, but I was told of it by my
representative. Of course I do not need a
chair, but it was nice to think that I could have
it if I wished. '
I wish we could do more /Of' you in tetuf'n fo,.
your kindness.
You devote your life to the Cause. So does
your wife. What more can you do ?
September 5, 1924.
Pheneas speaks (alluding to some unsuccessful
sitting).
The vibrations were wrong.
Any one coming must come with humility,
gentleness of mind, and soft vibrations, other-
wise it tangles the wires .of communication.
It is a' great honou,. when you come. We
appreciate it.
Are you the'fe ?
All the -
time.
There is a great deal going on in America at
present. You need have no fear whatever of
the ultimate outcome.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 91
The evil forces are very strong, but the forces
of light, -and of Christ, are stronger. Truth
always prevails.
Some are centres of evil like a whirlpool
with its eddies, dashing humans to destruction.
I am so tired. Why am I so tired to-night ?
•
Because we all are.
I would have you sit with the trumpet when
the conditions are right.
I should not always use that means. I
would use the Higher. But I am anxious to
develop mediumship in all directions.
It is like widening a railway line when you
wiah to run more traffic down it. You lay
extra rails.
Well, we are in your hands.
I will always direct you.
I should like to come again soon when my .
roadway has not so many obstacles. I love you
all with all my heart. You are my earth
family. When you are tired, I am tired. I am
going to bring an extra helper to give the
Medium greater power, and guide her. We have
great work for her this winter. Many will be
brought in her path for guidance. All difficulties
will smooth out as a hill does when you approach
it.
God bless you all!
PHENEAS SPEAKS
September Io, 1924.
Pheneas came, but seemed unhappy and could
not get started. He said: "Wait half an
hour. \Yait till the boys come."
In exactly half an hour the boys came in.
We then sat again. Pheneas came through.
He said:-
1 was with you to-day. Why did you not
think of me when you went over the new
house~·
I did.
I wanted to impress you. It is easier when
you appeal to me.
I did not appeal.
We like the house. We are in touch with
those who know about it. We will, howevel',
make further enquiry.
What about former tenants?
They seem all to have been third sphere
people.
Is not the house too isolated? Should I not
be working among men? .
What are distances, with modern means of
locomotion, compared to vibrations, and the
sweetness and peace of soul ?
You should drift along now, and be happy,
and all will be ·smoothed for you.
tiV/e we~e looking for a house in the New Foi'at where we
could find nature's vibrations.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 93
No one else shall take the house till you have
settled.
Work will come to you soon which will
be very easy and congenial, so that you should
not tire, and should be all ready for greater
work which will be placed upon you very
soon, and which you should easily bear.
M,
eanwhile be restful.
There is a Cross which was in two pieces,
and will soon be buried.
I don't understand that.
There will be a memory of it. There.. will
be no further need for it. In the new world
there will be no shadows. The cross idea will
have passed. The new religion will be all
beauty and sweetness. It will be based on
universal knowledge of the spirit world.
But it will be Christian ?
Yes, but the memory of the Cross will be
gone. People will have seen Him in His glory,
and all that will not be wanted. It will be the
thought of the glory of the Christ that will
pervade the world, and not the thought of His
ancient death.
There will be a great change in the manner of
life in the world. It Will be simplified and
uplifted. There will be no more hypocrisy
in religion, or in daily life. People will1
live
94 PHENEAS SPEAKS
for real things, not shams, for God and for their
neighbours.
There will be very close and constant com-
munication with the spirit world.
It is essential for us-apart from you-
that you should be in the right vibrations, so
that we can come easily to you.
The line must be left clear. This is all
•
Important.
Where, then, shall we go?
I should advise you to let us choose a spot
which shall be in all ways desirable.
We wouU like your opinion.
VVe have not turned the one you inspected
down. It is grand in many ways. We could
get at you all ways. But there are the human
elements which rise f~om the ground like a
fungus.
We are watching this. Decide nothing until
we form our opinions. Then we will let you
know. I want you to go to-morrow. I will
be with you. I shall not decide yet. Let us
three sit together and commune.
And Billie 1
Billie too. She is beautiful.
We want this boy. (Denis) to be trained as a
speaker. We like him to live with that thought
in his mind-to be a helper in the great fight.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 95
He is to stand by your side and. help you
1n all ways. He was born for this.
We want the other to train also. He has the
voice, and the strength, and many noble qualities
which the woes of the world will bring out.
God bless him. May he remember in daily
life that much is hoped from hi·m.
I am so sorry if I have stayed too long.
rou can never do that.
[He Fingered the Medium's dress.]
I used to wear a 1ong thing like this when
I was on earth.
Tell me when to go. I won't be hurt. I
am one of yourselves. I am here much oftener
even than the Medium knows.
I know you love me, for we always know
truth over here.
Good-night. God bless you all; and those
two dears upstairs.
October 1, 1924.
Pheneas came suddenly. He spoke of a
barren sitting for physical phenomena last
night, and said it would interfere with his
coming. " You cannot run two trams on the
same line.'' He said lhe Medium might sit
for drawing. '' That is a branch line/'
He said the scientific world would presently
learn of an instrument opening up a new line
PHENEAS SPEAKS
of science. It would be a combination of
colours, of high vibrations, and an electrophone.
With all my soul I believe in God. This
world would be a dark pit without God. All
blackness, and no after life.
Have you seen God P
I have seen the reflection of His glory.
(I asked Pheneas about a script where a
child saw God. He said it was an impression
on her mind of some great leader.]
But Kingsley did see the Christ?
All your circle will, if they just cultivate those
qualities which are essential in a soul which
goes into His presence.
What are they ?
Tenderness above all. Humility, unselfishp.ess
and the love for Him. Just the love of a child
who trusts a tender mother. A gentle, tender
spirit radiating- out to all on earth is the entrance·
key, the passport to Christ's presence.
We want you to reserve your energy for
work ahead of you.
Is that my book ?
You have the idea up to a point, but it is not·
.complete. More is to be added. You are on
the track.
Don't hurry it. We don't want your brain
so occupied that we can't get at you and impress
you.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 97
Things are already working, but the human
eye cannot see it. In a storni yoY. only hear
a far-off rumble at first, and then it comes on
and on till it is roaring overhead.
There is a very fine man coming shortly into
your life. He will be a great help to you and
the movement.
He is fearless, clear-headed, a good speaker,
a born leader among men. A number of
unseen spirit people are in the room to-night.
October 8, 1924.
Pheneas spoke. .
He said that he had c;>nly been my guide
since 1 took up religious work.
He had been especially sent for this.
He had not visited the world for centuries.
This was only the second time since his death.
He would not speak of the world's affairs
save to say that all was going well.
He said the psychic vibrations were not
good, and it was hard for him to get through.
Very thick and heavy. He then gave a beautiful
address to the boys, who go to Eastbourne
to-morrow. They were' to remember how
privileged they had been, and act as 'examples.
There was work for them to do there.
•
D
PHENEAS SPEAKS
He remarked that high spirits could usually
only touch earth through intermediate spiri~s.
He was allowed to touch it direct.
October 8, 1924.
Pheneas speaks.
We have gained greater power over the
earth conditions of late. Mr. Withall• is all
right. He had the essential thing, which is
to know the conditions here.
This is a good place. (Our flat.) We like
• •
you m 1t.
We are pleased with your health. We had a
council meeting yesterday, according to your
time, which was held in a great hall. In that
hall were gathered the greatest scientists-
spiritualists-and lovers of humanity. Also
some very wonderful forces-messengers, or
rather Powers-from the higher world linking
all these worlds together, forming the great
central force which is to influence the earth.
There will come a wonderful dawn of inanite
peace, when all the shadows will have··flown
away-the calm after storm, the harbour,
peace, a renewed people, God's radiance over
all, and the sun of happiness in all hearts.
Good-night, and God bless you all abundantly.
·•Mr. Charles Withall, a life-long worker for Spiritualism
had recently died.
PHENEAS SPEAKS
November, I 924.
(J.C.D., A.C.D., Billie.)
99
Pheneas said not to worry about the low
forces.
Go your own way, doing your best, and leaving
all in God's care, who will never allow His
children to be hurt.
The slightest human sound breaks the current.
Do not speak.
The vibrations are better. I am happier.
To-day we had a meeting about you, for it is
all-important, lest we break the private tele-
phone. We have arranged that you shall be
in a most wonderful spot, where the vibrations
are untouched by human auras. We will bring
this place to your knowledge very soon. In
the meantime a certain number of loving workers
on our side have been set apart to deal with
Psychic questions. Leave it entirely in our
hands. You know our love and our care. We
have proved it.
You know we are so happy the way tnings
are going-our plans, our work, have been
successful beyond all our highes~ hopes.
God bless you, dear child. (To B.]
The dawn is very near. The sun has nearly
risen. Humanity will shortly come to a great
cross road, and on the sign-post will be" Tender-
ness " and '' Cruelty and Selfishness " on the
1oo PHENEAS SPEAKS
two arms. And each will automatically follow
their own sign, for they must be true and
honest at that moment.
Can we trust all you say 1
We could not descend on the earth and
say what is not true. The truth is God. Untruth
is the lower force.
I wanted to talk to you, dear and beloved
brother, because I have been in the ·East-I
love the East, the warmth and atmosphere,
but not the shadows. But there are shadows
everywhere. There won't be after your world
has become clean. All will then be sweet and
happy.
Tell the boys-my missing links-that I
love them, and watch over them.
God's love will radiate out through and in
humanity-His tenderness, His sweetness, and
His sympathy.
The little soul seeds which have a touch of
divinity in them, which remain in the sieve,
after God's hand has shaken it, will live and
blossom forth into what God originally intended
this earth to be.
May God's blessing descend upon you, _
and
His radiance be round you.
The dark forces are now matched against
higher powers over the earth plane, in face of
PHENEAS SPEAKS 1or
whom they cannot exist. God is in heaven,
and all is well.
God bless you ! We will meet face to face
when the veil is rent, and the rebirth of humanity
takes place.
T. will live in a home which is covered with
lovely jessamine, not far from yours. His
soul's mate is already in it, and has prepared
it with loving care. He will be intensely happy,
for the grey shrouds of the old theology will
have dropped from him, while all that is true '
and good remains, and he will live in God's
radiant sunshine. [T. was a clerical friend.]
[The following came after my sitting with
Mrs. Leonard, when Kingsley spoke of the
future.•]
Most dear brother-God bless you ! I was
standing by you all the time. K.C.D. was
delighted-chuckling. He was made very happy.
Many relatives were round who shared it. You
know K. is a very noble soul, and he is pro-
gressing at a great rate. He does not know
all that has been arranged for the world. When
a General is forming plans for a great war
he does not take every lieutenant, <;aptain and
major into his confidence. He tells them
roughly the work they are require~ to do, so
•At thJs seance with Mrs. Leonard , my son Kingsley, showed
acquaintance with all that Pheneas had sajd, but differed on
eome points.
roz PHENEAS SPEAKS
they can fit themselves for it. K.C.D. is a
very trusted messenger between his Colonel
and his people. I know more. I see, because
I have been told by those higher than myself
from whom all life originates.
I spoke of the hook.•
We are so happy. Please don't go ahead
of us. Let us get ahead. Give us time to see
to the machinery.
Yery well. May I use you,. name?
No, you must pever mention me till the
script comes out, which won't be long.
I am so happy here. You have your own
vibrations. Nothing ever enters your door
to bring grey or evil vibrations. Therefore I
find you and the Medium in a big space, as it
were,.so that I can be comfortable, and talk in a
bigger atmosphere, which helps the vibrations.
I'm very pleased to be here again. I want
to tell you that we are pleased beyond words
at the way things are going. God's hand is
approaching the world. Evil forces are dis-
mayed at the strides with which we are
encompassing the earth with our power.
My God, how lovely it will be to have you
here! Out of the mud! Out of the mire!
My Medium has a garden full of beautiful
flowers, representative of the sunshine that
*My novel of psychic things-· • The Land of Mist. • !
PHENEAS SPEAKS 103
she has brought into the lives of many by her
tenderness. She loves flowers. And the
animals, and so her name is beloved in their
world. And life will be very wonderful for you
all when you come over here-in a material
sense apart from the beautiful spiritual world
you will live in. You need not trouble about
the density of humanity.
It will be happy work. You will be feeding
a hungry multitude with bread that is satisfying,
and that is joyous work; it is not fighting.
You have too much of that, you deserve rest.
[I asked about the Chalet.•]
[He laughed in triumph.] You've got it.
We are forming a ring round that spot, and
getting very wonderful vibrations th~re.
It is the place that I meant.
It will be pure nature.
We are very pleased about a certain docu-
ment which has been discovered. You will
see it published shortly.t It has to do with the
great truth of Spirit communication.
You have both been through a windy, wild
night, and you were footweary and tired from
the fight for truth. The daylight seemed
a long way off, as if it would never come,
and psychic truth never be understood.
*We were in negotiation for a chalet in Switzerland for
Christmas.
tThis may have been the Cleophas Script.
104 PHENEAS SPEAKS
The ground was so heavy and thick. The
feet at every step were weighted. And now
the soil is nearly firm, a wonderful light appears
in the sky-a dawn, a resurrection. Life, tull,
rich, radiant, takes possession of what was
nothing but a skeleton befor~ and blossoms
out into God's own bea.utiful and wonderful
sunshine. Instead of deep gloom, it rises
radiant in a 3unnse which will never set-the
sunrise of God's love permeating all humanity
upon the earth plane., And God's Will will
then be done on earth as it is in heaven. It
will be the end of the Lord's Prayer.
In the cathedrals there is going to be a
clearance of all ritual, of all forms, of all cere-
monies. They will be simple- meeting places
between humanity and God.
NofJember I 2, I 924.
Pheneas speaks.
Clairvoyance will come to you.
I've been a long journey-very long and
very important.
Where did you go ?
I went to the East, and I went to America.
Great preparations have been made in both
parts by the forces of Light.
I can't say more about that at present.
\
PHENEAS SPEAKS 105
I left my lieutenant in case you needed
me.
How good ofyou I
I would never leave you so long as you are
on this earth. I am always in touch with you,
either directly, or by my representative. You
are helping me in my own progression.
I was standing on the right of you on Sunday.
That service marks an epoch • The Spirit
world is iubilant over it. It will have far-
reaching effects. Things are going magnificently.
I shall be very glad if you would prepare yourself
for some work for us, which .will be on entirely
new lines.
What lines I
You will know when it comes. They are
congenial.
How can I prepare P
Look after your health. You are like an
instrument ~hat a great master has to play upon.
The strings inust not be stretched to breaking
point, or the master will.not be able to play the
full chord.
It is only your health-your superabundant
energy must be kept in check.
There was an upheaval to-day in Austria.t
•The QJJeen's Hall armistice service.
t This tumult in Vienna was in the papers next day.
DJ
•
1~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
The vibrations are very low, so I cannot
speak with you much.
I suppose we are tired.
Yes, and the vibrations are thin.
It is the place.
We did better in the Forest. I will come and
visit you in Switzerland. Sometimes your wire-
less is not satisfactory, the batteries are low,
you can't hear. So it is with me. But I am glad
to be with you once more.
You m~ght try music for the vibrations.
God bless you ! God bless you ~11 ! I would
like to come again soon. I have much to tell
you. Very soon I am going to take you both
with me to a house which we are very anxious
that you should inhabit. There is a wonderful
atmosphere in it. The vibrations round it are
unspoiled. It is the place that you will go to
for soul refreshment during stres~ and storm.
We sent a search party out for an earth dwelling
that would be suitable for you both to resid~
in, and they have found this, and I have been
taken to see it, and I strongly approve their
choice.• ~
.Are you pleased?
Very pleased.
God bless you! r go now. Good-night.
*This proved eventul;\lly to be a cottage in the New Forelt
which amply fulfilled all the promises.
PHENEAS SPEAKS ~~
NofJnnber 13, 1924.
Pheneas came through in greater exultation
than I have ever known him.
Oh, I am so happy. We are all so buoyantly
happy ! Because everything goes so well. The
edge of our vibrations has struck the medium,
and that is why she is so happy. The end of
the long pilgrimage is near. Your brother is so
busy over here rushing about. We all laugh at
him, he is so keen, but all your people are in a
state of delight.
Why can we not lofJe erJtryone 1
You cannot get magenta and crimson to
blend. If you two think of a thing I feel it also
and make the triangle complete.
I comethen and love to talk. Honestyis a great
and true quality. You cannot harmonise with
everybody-as in the case of red and magenta.
Miss Stead is a very good woman. Don't
worry about the treatment of Mrs. Deane.
Those responsible will be dealt with. God
does not allow an insect to stand in His pathway.
N ofJember 22, I924.
Pheneas speaks.
All is well in all ways. To-morrow there
will be strong forces with you at your meeting.
You will do great work.
108 PHENEAS SPEAKS
I know it would be good to take the shop.•
You must have a perfectly free hand in running
it. Let no one find money save yourself. It
must be run on high good lines of Spiritualism
only. We have to simplify everything now-
adays, so keep to your own standard. Don't
mix it.
That's our shop.
It will be a great centre, like a spring which
suddenly pierces through the dark brown earth
-a spring of living knowledge. Many will
drink, and their souls will waken. It will be
the fountain of life to many.
His Will be done upon earth as it is in Heaven.
The Spirit world is approaching rapidly to
this dark earth. The space is lessening between
God's radiance and the shadow of evil.
Animals will be saved from all future suffering
and when the spirit first touches the earth that
particular suffering will at once be eliminated.
Following that, God's messengers will inform
humanity of the secret of life in all that God
has created, and they will no longer destroy that
life which is sacred, as it is created by Him.
I will come to you again. It is very important
that we keep in close contact. The line must
•we were thinking of opening a central bookshop for psychic
subjects only. This has fulfilled all that Pheneas prophesied.
\
1
PHENEASSPEAKS ~~
not be broken at this important stage of the
events.
God bless you! I like this place. There is
peace here, and beautiful vibrations. We· all
love it. God bless you (five times). I am always
within call. If you send a call to me I will
always come to banish anything which may
stand in the way of your peace of soul, or
spiritual progression.
The same applies to the Medium. No evil
shall come near our work.
God's blessing rest on you and all you love.
Many of the holy days which the so-called
Christians celebrate really in Christ's eyes
are not so holy because they had not the rich
results which some other occasions of His life
had, when many souls were brought to the
knowledge of God's infinite love. Those were
the truly holy days.
I knew that I had a great deal to say to you,
and that was why I fussed about the light.
I will massage you whenever you are tired,
and need Spiritual magnetism. I can always
do it through the Medium. She is a Medium
of rare and wonderful vibration, through whom
I can work in perfect harmony of one accord.
It is like virgin soil. You put the plant in, and
it grows a beautiful specimen. So with our
power, the vibrations between us of harmony
110 PHENEAS SPEAKS
are complete. Therefore I can come to you
without fear of any outside force polluting o~
touching my channel. I will · send a special
guard on your holiday so that it may be beneficial
in all ways.
We are coming to Switzerland. It is your
preparation of physical strength, so that you
may do the work you are called upon to do.
We would like you to be guided by us when you
are there. It is essential. Please don't go
ahead of us, but work a little behind us in all
matters of daily life.
In the future-very near future-there is
to be a great strengthening of a being who is
at present deliberating upon this vital and all-
important subject. He will come out and
help you.
We need the Medium as a bridge for mourners,
and for those who are heavily laden.
New crops come upon earth. They have
been dandelions in the past. Soon they will
be lilies and ros~s. No weeds. No poison
berries. No evil shadows.
Can these future happenings be averted?
Can a wave be stayed when it is curling to
break?
He spoke beautifully of tenderness t~ all, and
to the dumb animals. God's love embraces all
equally.
PH·ENEAS SPEAKS I I I
We should have a fine time in Switzerland,
and the journey pleasant. We should meet -a
man who would play a great part in Arabia in
the crisis.•
There were very few rocks on our path now.
The rocks would become pebbles, and they
would become sand, and then the golden shore
lay beyond.
December 24, 1924. (Switzerland.)
Pheneas speaks.
They keep Christmas better in the other world.
The Christ visits all centres.· Each represents
love-tender love for Him, and that is the bond.
He loves all your circle, and would have each
one of you an outpost for him in the enemy's
country-a shining light to those around,
an advance guard. Don't fail Him. Don't
let Him come to one of the outposts and find the
guard asleep-asleep in the daily life.
At present our plan for the world is like a
fine and wonderful machine that is being put
together. The parts have been assembled. They
are being put into place. When all is ready,
then the power is insulated, and the world's
journey has begun which will lead it into heights
and scenes and glory unimagined. It has
been standing in the mire rotting.
•This I could not trace ; I naturally meet many people.
\ ,
112 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Now God bless you all ! And this won.derful
spiritual awakening which is coming to humanity.
No more suffering. No more sor~w. No more
self. Only a giving out in every human heart
that remains. And no dumb creature shall
have anything but love and tenderness and
understanding.
And both arms will be held out to lift up,
to comfort all who pass along the same road of
life-both arms. Love will prevail.
It is definite. Those on our side are working,
working, working. They feel that they have
not a minute to waste. The stir, the bustle is
tremendous._ They work because they feel that
their efforts may yet save many, who in their
daily lives are walking straight into that
blackness.
The people have to become more spiritual.
Does this apply to Switurland P
It is like this. If you do up a house, and
you spring clean, paper and paint fifteen rooms,
you don't leave two just brushed and dusted.
You clean and paint, even if they are not quite
as dirty as the others. The whole world must be
cleaned for God. So Switz.erland must be cleaned
wher.e it needs it. They need cleaning much
less than the Latin races. They have not so
much of the poison in them. Where it is it
:
•
PHENEAS SPEAKS 113
must be eradicated. It would never do to
.-
leave one centre of disease in a body.
I speak metaphorically.
Long words don't matter. We use short
ones over here, which are better.
I was telling you about the microbe centre.
We don't want any in the new world. They
would spread about the beautiful new world.
Therefore where the poison lies, the pruning
knife must come and cut out the bruised and
poisoned part, and let fresh life take its place,
life full of simplicity, full of God's tenderness
and understanding, and kindness, and unity
with His children.
This is a good atmosphere. We brought you
here.
The house is very psychic. There is a
beautiful atmosphere in these heights.• It
makes the veil very thin. It was like living
in a house with thick walls, and now we come
to thinner walls, as we go higher.
Should we go higher?
You do very well as you are. No height
could make it _
much thinner. I can if I get
my right vibrations, get through at once. It
is like a private telephone.
We are anxious that. you should allow l}S to
inspire the Medium, and instil into your mind
•Grinqelwald is over 3,ooo feet high.
114 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Gertain points, which we are very anxious should
be put right through your book.
All humanity must have appreciation of art
in Nature's beauties, because that is an expres-
sion of gratitude to God for the gift. A human
is like an octagon with eight sides, an appreciation
of all the different qualities and gifts.
God bless you ! I should like to say one thing
before I go. We want to tell you that there is
to be a prolonged disturbance in a place that has
always been regarded as safe-we have a strong
battery placed there. On a given date much
generation of power will be released to batten
down the evil forces which dominate and
permeate the earth's surface.
I know nothing of the Swaffer meeting.•
I can't be everywhere.
Throw overboard all that is not needed, so as
to have a clear space to carry a valuable ~argo.
Get your ship trim. The finest coal on board for
the journey is health. ·
This is the place we found for you. We
wanted you out of England while things were so
uncomfortable. (The weather was awful.)
Before starting a journey prepare yourself
for it-build up. Don't work. We will see
•Mr. Hannen Swaffer was about to hold a meeting at the
Queen's Hall to show the strong evidence of Lord Northcli:ffe 's
return. His book, ' ' Northcliffe 's Return, ' ' deals with the
same subject. My wife and I knew, of course, all about it .
PHENEAS SPEAKS 115
that you do it, but at our own time. We hav~
prepared a time for you ahead, when you can do
it at perfect peace. Don't anticipate it.
Please do as we ask. We have it all arranged
for you. We have prepared the vibrations and
the time. All is set.
Your work is all mapped out to the finest point
absolutely. We need your strength. We rely
on it. Don't weaken it. Build.
God's blessing surround you all-this house is
beautiful. The Lunns are beautiful people.•
There are no bad vibrations in it or near it.
January 12, 1925.
Pheneas greeted us.
God bless you! I was away the other day.
We thought you had left us.
Never. Such a little never.
'Ihen all goes well?
Better than our brightest hopes.
Tell every sufferer that death is life-the
opening of the door to life.
Then one should not grieve.
There is no need to grieve, for the time is so
short. The parting is not long.
I want to tell you something else. There ia
not going to be much trouble about the League
of Nations. They will automatically fall into
*My landlords.
116 PHENEAS SPEAKS
the position of a jury, representing the spirit of
God's love, sympathy, and tender anxiety for
mankind. In the new world, that is.
January 20, 1925.
Pheneas speaks.
When you come over I will have a holiday, for
I also have been overworking. I mean to take
you to Arabia. I want to show you my old life,
and my people, and all that went to the making
of me. People can never love like brothers unless
they understand what has gone to the formation
of each other.
I see that Arabia once was the centre of life.
Ah ! you are coming on. You are learning.
I · can show you much in Arabia which will
•
surprise you.
The Medium's great heart yearns over what is
weak and the suffering animals. She will have
hundreds of animals--oh, yes, hundreds of them.
The Medium is like an envelope, and I drop
messages for you into it. Sometimes you think
there is nothing there, but she knows, and can
read the message.
You noticed about Kamscatcha in the papers.
I told you about that.•
•Pheneas had mentioned Kamscatcha as one centre of aelemic
aotivity. Great.upheaval there, February 15th, 1927.
PHENEAS .SPEAKS 117
You wouldn't believe how delicate the con-
nections are between our worlds. Wireless is aa
elephantine line compared with that between the
spirit world a.nd yours.
rou get through wonderfully.
Because I bring a great force. But only you
can adjust the receiver.
Such a cloud of your dear ones are present.
Lo.ve from all!
They want me to tell you what they have
prepared. Imagine in a beautiful circle, like
that place in Greeceyou saw years ago, tiers of
seats made of marble (only this is made of such
a lovely opalescent, almost transparent marble),
and there are roses about, smelling so deliciously,
of all colours, and in the centre is a stage, raised,
of marble. On it will stand all the great teachers
who have on this earth really spread the love of
God. To that spot will be brought those who
arrive from the earth plane, bewildered, fright-
ened, and they will go away strengthened.
And that is one of the places you will be most
fond of over here, where you will see the souls
waking to their new life.
January 31, 1925.
Pheneas speaks.
To some extent we use planetary time. We
118 PHENEAS SPEAKS
will tell you bigger thing& aoon. They want me
to tell you.
Who are " they " 1
They are guides who have to do with the
leadership of the advanced forces. It is
extremely difficult to peel off the husk neatly of
knowledge that we may give you time by time.
If you had to pare off each layer you would find
it difficult, and so it is with me giving you a
certain amount of knowledge always, and not
being ahead with it.
It is like trying to get through clay. Get the
atmosphere full of trust.
There is much I want to tell.
I have been anxious for four days to come
through.
I have many messages.
I want to tell you that you have been chosen
for some big work in the near future.
There is a great company here-all sending
love.
Your friend, that man who belonged to the
club, and was interested in the subject•-he
sends you greetings.
You light a beacon light when you sit, and it
gets brighter all the time.
•General Henderson , an old friend .
PHENEAS SPEAKS 119
. I will come very shortly, and will arrange that
the telephone room shall be empty.
Sleep in peace !
After a long pause Pheneas came through in
great strength.
He said:-
The Medium has strong healing powers.
There is a doctor who is anxious to work through
her, and help humanity. He passed over many
years ago.
You also have great power, but you have
enough to do without that. When the time
comes it will be brought out.
February 1, 1925.
Pheneas said we must not repel any change
as evil, but rather stretch out a welcome, for
it was the end of all the rotten, shining, dark
things, and the beginning of an age of peace
and love.
Power would be round our people like the
scent of the flowers.
When in doubt or trouble we should summon
him. He would come. He had been with us
in our morning walk.
All was going well.
120 PHENEAS SPEAKS
The black cloud over the world would be rolled
back and the sunshine pour through.
The word religion would not be used in the
coming world. It was too associated with forms
and cruelty and evil. They would talk simply of
Love-God's Love.
The egotism of brain would pass, and the
simple mind of the child would hold the truth.
Man disengaged from cruelty, etc., would
cast off his weights which drag him down
and would bound upwards.
He asked me not to question him, or to force
his hand, for he would t,
ell as he could.
He said : The veil grows thinner. It is .so
t!UUl. .
All troubles in our mission would be soon lifted
from us. A particular band were looking after
that.
The bookshop• was like a new spring of truth
which had opened up in London. When the
need came, it would be crowded with those who
sought for knowledge. The spirits had entered
it and arranged it long before we had done so.
[The Medium was very deep. Almost in
trance. He alluded to her very affectionately.]
The flowing spring from the bookshop would
come when the land was parch-ed, and most
needed moisture.
. •I had opened a depot f?r th~ ~ale of psychic books and as a
ltbra'ry at Abbey House, Vtctorta Street, S .W.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 121
Remember that the power of God is so great
that nothing evil could live in the rays of it.
Felwuary 18, 1925.
Pheneas speaks.
I have been with you all day. I wanted to be
with you on this last day befor~ you finished your
book.• I was in the shop too.
Great things are going on here. You
would be amazed if you could see. The
rest houses are being enlarged and increased
all over the different vibratory spheres.
About your home here, all your friends are
clamouring that I should tell you more about it.
It is good that you know these things, for it
sows little hope seeds in your mind. Your eyes
have never seen any form or colour so lovely as
your home-beauty, peace, sweetness, flowers,
nature, sunshine, all vibrating with golden light.
Anq it is full of the spirit of home. Peace is the
keynote, and love its counterpart ; inspiration is
its body, and tenderness its heart, and joy its
spirit. Christ's spirit is its driving force.
·[Here Pheneas seemed much moved-put out
his arms with awe.]
You do not know who is so close to you.
[There followed some moving passages which
I
I forbear to repeat.]
•I was writing " The Land of Mist."
122 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Angels of light and inspiration and power help
and guard you, and keep you always in a channel
unbroken with the above.
February 22, 1925.
The Medium had bad earache. Pheneas sud-
denly came through, and made energetic passes,
with her own hand, greatly relieving the pain.
The illness turned from that moment.
Your address did great good. It pulled up the
blinds, and let in light to many fine brains in the
audience.
Mary's music is a God-given gift. She will
win a name, and do som,
e great work.
Your ship will sail in smooth and opalescent
waters, until it reaches the golden sands.
7'hen I will meet you ? ~
No, you can rather describe me as a fellow
passenger.
March s, 1925.
Pheneas speaks.
I have been reading of K ish.
My grandmother liyed there. I visited there
as a boy.
It seems to have been all of brick. •
But they were glazed outside, so it did not look
like brick. Yes, I saw the great pillars.
I should like to see that land.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 123
You will take on no more worJ<, and have a
rest. Then you will be ready to prepare our
book, and publish it when it is needed.
Blessed are those who, reaching down into the
dark, clasp hands which are clutching upwards.
I will speak to you presently, and tell you-
I. About a great scientific discovery which
·,will be reflected upon your plane.
2. Upon the evolution of man.
What about the sphere immediately abofJe the
earth?
They are the cabbages who are not quit~
cauliflowers.
They are not wicked, but the dull, heavy people
who mean no harm, and do no good. It is below
the earth plane that the really wicked are.
The earthbound are really not yet judged.
They are in suspended animation. When they
break their bonds they will go up-or down.
There will come a cyclone in Jamaica, with
loss of life.•
March 25, 1925.
Pheneas said :-
That six from the other sine were working
upon a certain detrimental factor, and that it
would speedily be set right. .
*This may refer to the great cyclones of 1926 which ravaged
Cuba and are said to have devastated the Cayman Islands near
Jamaica.
124 PHENEAS SPEAKS
That my idea of giving publicity to these
messages was so important that he would like tQ
refer it to a council, and then to let us know. On
their side they looked down on things, and
therefore might not judge as well as we about
things on our own level.
That all was smooth before us now, and the
golden sands in sight.
(Children present.)
God bless you all. May God's beautiful power
descend upon ·an my dear earth family. I love
you all. I am going to tell you chil4ren some-
thing. Your guides knew I was coming. They all
asked me to tell you both that they are pleased,
and to say that every effort made by you is
registered. Also that they hope, in view of the
small, small bridge that lies between you and our
world, that you shall lose no time, no oppor-
tunity, in getting ready to meet your great and
beloved Master so soon. Leave no stone un-
turned, so that, looking back, you will not have
regrets. Each day He sends you a little love
work to do for Him. Do not fail Him. Prove
yourselves worthy of His tender love and regard.
God bless you, you have wonderful guides helping
you. Keep the atmosphere clear round you, that
they ,can get near and help you upward, holding
your hands.
)
PHENEAS SPEAKS 125
So soon you are to meet. You will have that
privilege.
The more you strive for Him, the more you
will be able to look upon His wonderful and
tender countenance.
You know when the world is reborn we will
n.ot have these troubles of vibration. It is all
like fog now.
Just as you get smoke from the factories, so
we getthose greymists from the evil of humanity.
God bless those on our plane or yours, who are
bringing the new time nearer, and have done
something to lift that pall from humanity.
Great reward is theirs.
I have been in the East all day. We had some
evil vibrations to dissipate, and we have done it.
Do not think of self. That is the Christ soul;
helping everyone upward, everyone who has
failed. Everyone is a beautiful child in Christ'$
eyes, and if He sees one stumbling and down,
His heart rushes to him. He would have all
humanity so. That is how He will greet you,
with two hands held out, and only love on His
exquisite face.
[Here I asked some question, but he said he
Gould not answer small things while the vibration
of the Christ was in the air.]
I will never allow one of my earth family to be
in danger. I wip leave my guards t{) see that all
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
is well, and you are all together to do God'a work,
and help humanity.
Each has an allotted task, and each is now
preparing to be worthy of it. A special work
lies for each. Do it in sucb a way that He will
say" Well done," and you will feel His hand on
you, blessing you. Earn that. Do not fail
Him.
In Christ's presence the ·other night, by a
shaft of His exquisite ~ght I was enriched so that
I gained several steps of promotion. That is
always so, and that is why there is such joy in
the spheres when He passes through, because
they know that from His heart, full of nothing
but tenderness, they will all get upliftment.
(1'o the children.)
You have been greatly privileged in being
allowed to live in this greatest period of the life
of man, and being allowed to be helpers in this
human change and upliftment.
You have been greatly blessed. Let that
blessing radiate in your daily lives. It is not by
chance. You have been carefully chosen, and
you should be full of a deep thankfulness to God
for His infinite goodness in selecting you.
The day is very near when you will each step
on to the path God has made for you.
Your home is so sweet over here, so bright, so
lovely. The sky is so beautifully blue, the air
PHENEAS SPEAKS ~~
scented with w9nderful flowers. It is the haven
of love. Birds, butterflies, all living things,
know they are loved, and come of their free will,
because love is the welcome.
We have got a most beautiful-oh, beautiful !
-space of green grass, very open and large,
where they have wonderful games, every game.
The poor boys and men who have never had a
game on the earth-it will be your joy to go
among them and organise, and teach them to
play. You will get beautiful teams of them.
For the first time they will have happiness.
That is. what that ground is for.
I am going to some islands north of Australia.
They will be greatly affected.•
April6, 1925.
Pheneas came in great strength.
He said:-
The ·Medium is used too much as a trellis work
by other people, but they must learn to grow in
their own way, and leave her free so that she can
console those who come in her path.
I am going to Persia to-night where great
preparations are being made. They want you
to be told about them.
I wish I could go with you.
*In 1926 the Dutch Islands north of Australia were shaken
with earthquakes.
1~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
Well, later we will go over the·ground together,
and I wiJl explain it all to you.
I said I would take you on an excursion one
night, but all your strength is needed now upon
this earth.
There had been a set back in France because in
the South the gambling cities were centres of
dark force, and these had gained the upper hand
for a time. It is all right now, however.
[He assumed a very reverent attitude for
some time, and made us understand that the
Christ ray was near us.]
He said that he was working out his own
advancement by worki:ng with us, but that this
work was so pleasant that he did not feel that he
deserved promotion for it.
"I have been in the South Seas since 1 spoke
last."
April 8, 1925.
[We had a beautiful sitting. The room see.med
to be full of spirits, whom Pheneas kept address-
ing. The Medium seemed to be outside her body,
and Pheneas addressed her also.]
He said that Malcolm was here, a dear, smiling
spirit, and that he wanted to say that his godson
was a ·fine fellow, and wou~d do well.
He said the world would now be spiritualised.
Just as su.ccessive gauze veils are lifted on the
stage of-a theatre.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 129
He said that we could flow with the current
now, instead of swimming against it, as we had
done in the past.
He said the brave, good, solid folk of earth were
like the strata of flint we saw among chalk and
sand-a binding force for the whole.
He addressed the assembled spirits, and told
them:-" Be gentle and tender and kind; be
happy in the knowledge that a glorious life lies
ahead of you. Cut away from the past. Live in
the future."
April 12, 1925.
Plreneas spe.aks.
Gad· bles-s all-even those who· don't realise
His shining love. .
Conditions are excell~nt.
In Jerusalem a vibration descended recently
which will be felt in many directions in a way
that people are not aware of, but which willhave
a de~p effect.
.God prepare you (to Denis) for what lies ahead
of you, that you may be worthy outposts.
I would like to-please l want to say this.
The people are struggling against a force that is
crushing them, and a pit of evil has been growing
deeper and deeper in the world, and its forces·
have been dragging down humanity. So we
have made a central battery to prevent the
E
130 PHENEAS SPEAKS
destruction of mankind. There are pits covered
with beautiful green that seem safe to walk on,
but they are fatal. That is why we must
interfere, to cut out those dangers for mankind.
You understand it is just like a microbe in the
body-a little, wee thing, but centres grow and
grow till the whole beautiful body is destroyed,
and is not as God made it. So with the human
race.
Much has to be swept away with the rubbish
heap of humanity. It is like the ashes you put
on soil to do it good. Those experiences will be
a living memory ofwhat to avoid in the newborn
earth, where Love will prevail in days to come,
tenderness, simplicity, and the fulfilment of all
that God meant humanity to be.
It is like this. A man is on a rugged pathway
on a mountain, and a··mist comes down, and he is
lost, and he is cold and afraid. Darkness comes
on him, and his soul ·cries out:· " 0 Lord, deliver
me!" But the dawn comes-and ·such a
dawn! There is no mist, but a golden sunshine
ahead, and a pink radiance, and he looks and sees
down there-ah! so fair a thing, so wonderful a
country ! And as he looks he sees the face of
one whom he loved greatly once in the valley
whence he came, and he meets her there in that
country, where the light is golden, and there is
no cloud. He is walking with all those he loved,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 131
and had lost awhile, and someone may come.to
him and say : "Would you go back to that valley
that you thought was everything ? " And he
will suddenly see that he has been blind, and that
he now sees and lives for the first time-and thus
will it be with all those who have made use of the
talents God has given them, and have not buried
them in the mire, but used them for the good of
humanity. Therefore, the mist that seemed so
dark is a glorious blessing-the tiny tunnel
connecting black with white.
Do you know that great crowds are round you
at the present moment ?
God's love is soon-so soon-to permeate the
earth. It will be electrified with love, so that no
evil cloying force can come near it.
All your dear ones are coming together in a
group, and no nasty tunnels at all. Just a
beautiful meeting, and hands held out from all
who love you.
They will all draw you up. There is a con-
spiracy. They have made me promise not to
tell you the b~utiful secrets of their loving
preparations for you.
(To'Mary.) She is to get something she once
thought of-such a scheme as her heart will
rejoice at.
Prepare ! The time is so short, the reward so
enormous. God wants you all in the place He
132 PHENEAS SPEAKS
has prepared for you. Love with sympathy and
unselfishness is the key that opens the door to
that elorious life. And all that ia against His
aquiaite fatherhood of man is from now onwarda
coing to be wiped from oft His earth by those
who have been set aside,His lieutenants of power.
We are at present meeting continually, first
to discuss the reports from those who have certain
tasks upon the earth, secondly to send out to
the centres instructions respecting the latest
developments in the chemical world from hereto
the earth plane. Our people have been to study
the conditions in different parts of the world.
They have readjusted every mechanism. This
has been circulated round to those who deal
with the various districts-this is done from our
Central Committee. Then there are those who
report on the evil forces on their plane ; then
there is above that the great power descending
from a very high sphere, with instructions to all
as to what each unit is to do, and prepare for.
The receiving stations in the homeland have to
be ready. Then above that are wonderfulmes-
sages of inspiration, coming to revitalise all of us,
ao that we may be channels of His great light to
descend upon earth, and to the intermediary
, -
~pheres, like a battery of electricity.
[W-e were much interested at this time about
the Crandon circle,-in which Houdini, the famoua
: '
PHENEAS SPEAKS 133
conjurer, had been a disturbing element, and
ha~, as many thought, not played fair by them.]
What about the Crandon.s 1
They will be greatly blessed for their splendid
work.
And their persecutors 1
Houdini is doomed, doomed, doomed. He
will not be allowed to stand in the way of God's
progress.•
After a time dawn will come-a new sun will
shine forth-a sun that has more warmth and
health in it.
The earth will grow green once more. The
flowers will appear. Humanity will awaken to
a world reborn. The old things will have passed
away, and the earth will know them no more.
God will have come into His own. The tangles
will. have been disentangled. Each thread of
humanity will be on its right reel, winding up to
one Central thread. One pathway, the path-
way of love, leading through all the coming ages
of eternity.
The darker eouls will be together, and the-
browns and greys ,and mauves, as in a paint..box.
They will not be mixed as they are at present
on the palette of the earth. Each to1
his own.
' I
•This terrible prophecy was only too sadly fulfilled 8.8 Ho11tii i '
died suddenly in October. 1926. "
•
134 PHENEAS SPEAKS
That is the dividing place each to his own-
so that all the contradictory forces · will be
neutralised, and only one vibration allowed upon
the earth.
You mean that the lower go to primitive spheres,
the high to high spheres, and some are left on
earth?
Exactly.
'Ihen who will be left 1
Those who have it in them to be better, and
who will shed their husks during that great time.
It will be the world for those who are to have
a second chance on this plane.
There will eventually be no human left in the
lower spheres. All will work upwards, for all
are God's children, however evil.
As the higher spheres are reinforced with
power, so in proportion will be the rescuing
operations descending to the lower spheres.
We thin~ in pictures over here very often.
That is why we give them.
April 18, 1925.
[Pheneas came through, but I have no very
aact record.]
He said that the.re was a man with psychic
gifts in the North-East of Scotland,inAberdeen-
shire, who would soon come forward and have
much influence. (This we traced.]
PHENEAS SPEAKS 135
He eaid there was someone present who wished
to thank me for building a bridge between him
and his mother, and she would write soon to
tell me.
When I asked him for dates he said :-
Our time measures are different, as your French
and English measures are, and it is as hard for
me to translate one into the other.
..
April 24, 1925.
Pheneas came for a short time. He said there
was an evil strong material influence in. Central
Africa, but they had built a wall rbund it to
contain it, but this had taken away from their
force.•
Otherwise all else had gone well.
April 25, 1925.
(Children present.)
Pheneas speaks.
I ·was with you to-night. (At a cinema of
Chri~t's life.) It was a good description of
what has been very imperfectly handed down
to humanity.
We are progressing, and things will soon be
shown so that your hearts will be glad, and you
will know that your faith has been justified.
Get a small red light to write by.
•There was an article next week in a weekly paper aBout
the evil work of Bolshevist mis..CJionaries in Africa.
136 PHENEAi SPEAKS
res, I wiU.
You know that Christ never said unjust things
to anyone on this earth.
[We had disliked his reference in the cinema
to his mother.]
Your folk are all here, and want to send you
a heartening message.
Evil will soon pass away, and the world will
know it no more.
This room is so full of people it is hard to keep
control.
Say just "Pheneas" and I will come quicker
than if you said a number on the telephone.
All is easier on our side than in this moth-
eaten, muddy world. This is like a very hideous
br~wn ghost-form of real life, which is much more
solid. When we visit it, we say : " Surely I
could not have liked that. Don't tell me there
was ever a time when I wanted to stay in that. .....
It is inconceivable."
We have all you have, without the shadows.
All the best you have is intensified with us. All
the beauty, but no ugly human elements. No
selfishness, no anger, nothing ugly. Only beauty.
You will meet all who have love and sympathy
for you. '
If you do your simple quty as God means you
to do it in your daily life, you will be in this
, · beautiful place.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 137
You can pay visits in the next world, and then
return to your spirit home.
We have beautiful golden sunlight, and there
are sweet shadows and softening effects, pinks
and greens and mauves, which give a contrast.
Nothing is black, so we have no night in that
sense.
You can hav~ any earth condition you want
over here if you go to the right place. You ar~
living in a box at present.
[Malcolm said fie liked voyages.]
Your boy wants to carry the coal and dust
and seasickness into this world.
If you want to go swiftly, the vibrations of
love take you in a moment. If you want to
dwell on a journey that also can be done.
What about Spon?
You have not the necessary elements to
develop many of our sports. .Our lives are far
fuller.
Our difficulties in sport are much the same as
yours. If we did a game always well it would
be very tame. The spirit of a_ game is the
uncertainty. Everyone wins on their merits.
You only have the husk of game elements
with you. ..
You have to work for all this on the earth
plane. Each has to write his own examination
El
138 PHENEAS SPEAKS
paper. We want the complete circle over here. All
the rooms are ready. Don't leave a room empty.
It means daily effort.
We note. We have a recording journal.
It all depends on whether you are giving out
to humanity, or whether you are passing
them by.
There are a lot of poison centres in the world
at present.
HafJe you $een our new dog P
We sent him. The dog could see a little of us,
but nothing to disturb him.
Some dogs are more mediumistic than others.
May 6, 1925.
Pheneas came through for a short time. He
explained very graphically how the Medium was
a bridge, holding out his left hand to show how
she touched the spirit world, and his right to
show how she touched humanity, her body being
the central pillar of the bridge.
We want our bridge in a place where her centre
'
pier will be planted, not in marshy, stagnant
water, but in firm ground. Look for such a
place. We will impress you. It is most
•
tmportant.
Do not ·make plans. Keep the slate clean.
Then we can write upon it.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 139
May 18, 1925.
Pheneas speaks.
God bless you! You do not open your front
door to everyone, and show them in. So with
us. Ask a sign first.
Do you b~li~o~ in God ?
I have known God's power ever since I was a
little child in Ur.
Was it you y~st~rday ?
I was there, but the vibrations were very tired,
and I was so immersed in earth conditions I was
cross. I have been to those people, and begged
their pardon.•
It was not serious.
It brought a grey cloud. We must always
wipe out grey clouds that we form.
You see the keynote of life here is love and
kindness. Therefore any smudge that we make
must be wiped out.
I carried with me from this earth earth con-
ditions, irritation, and that made me speak as
I did.
They are here. They forgive me. You do, do
you not?
They tell me that there is a. place which is
reserTed for you on this earth plane.
•He had spoken with some asperitv to some spirits in the
room.
14-o PHENEAS SPEAKS
They have been for a long time working on it,
and they aay that there is in that particular place
a aource of psychic power which will form a
pillar of ~ttrength to you, and to our brid&e,
when the bridge should be at its strongest.
God bless you ! It is essential.
You should be circulating in an atmosphere
irresponsive to earth conditions. We want your
soul to know that. We are the torch-bearers to
your party. You tread on ground you have
never seen. We know it. We have been the
prospectors.
'!here are practical human difficulties.
I can assure you that no human· difficulties
stand in the way of what will benefit humanity
and the spirit world.
There will be a sign which you will at once
understand, and you will never have one
moment's uncertainty after that. Your whole
soul will know that it is just right and beautiful
when it comes. There will be no points to cross
over. It will seem a continuation, it will be so
clear. {This came to pass as predicted.)
What is the sign for 1
About the concrete foundations of our trans-
• • •
mttttng stations.
That OUt' change is right?
When it comes.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 141
So many Irish people are here who want to
thank you for what you have done-bringing
sunshine into so many grey lives.• They are
going to do all they can to reinforce your con-
ditions so long as you are on this grey, muddy
horrible earth.
He then went on to say that when he was on
this plane he went to Galilee to refill his batteries.
The mere fact that the Christ had been there
made it a great centre of spirit power.
Finally he turned his back on me, and made a
long, moving address to the spirits present,
telling them to go onwards and upwards.
[I said I failed on individual cases.]
An admiral of the fleet is not down in the
stokehole.
Any news?
Only that will suffer badly very shortly.
q-hat is hard.
It would be harder for unborn generations if
it were otherwise.
At certain se~sons gardeners turn up the soil.
They replant. They take up the weeds, and
throw them away. Every bed needs it. Some
more-some less. So with the world and
England. It nee~s replanting for the spring and
summer· of the world's history which is now
coming. It has in the past been the winter.
•'¥e had inst returned frotn lecturins in Belfast,
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
Someone was present who had received light
from me at a Queen's Hall meeting. He had
died since and wished now to thank me. His
name was Harry Ponsonby.
He wished me to divide up my work more.
When you have sown a field of oats, put a good
hedge round it before you go on to sow a fidd
of grass.
I should be at present like a pillow, lying on a
bed.
Please rest more.
May 31, 1925.
(Children present.)
Pheneas speaks.
You know I've not been near my whole family
round the camp fire for quite a long time.
Join hands for a while.
Denis's guide is here.
He wishes to say there are three lines of
power coming down to him. The vibrations are
very fine. Electricity is coarse beside them.
They are easy to break.
(To Denis.) I am very proud of you. You
walk on a muddy road, but you are picking your
stepi, .and we are proud of the effort you are
making.
You have been t~ld of the work you will do
when you cross. Your present inclinations are
PHENEAS SPEAKS 1~
helping, and you are very happy when you come
across at night.
You had a great game with Kingsley the other
night. You did not want to come back.
We have .no clock.
Love reaches us at all hours. A cry reaches
me at all times.
Only say : " Pheneas, I want you."
You need sleep because you live in an atmo-
sphere that tires the sp~rit. We live in the
sunlight, and the vibrations are light, and the
spirit is happy. We do not tire. We get rest
sitting among the flowers.
(To Malcolm.) Y~u have a great work set
apart for you to do; it is a beautiful work, and
once a discussion took place as to who should do
it. They named you. If you do it, it will bring
you enormous advancement of soul.
What work is it?
You will get great advancement in the other
world through it.
That work wants special qualities.
Where shall it he done?
In this world-soon-but you must be ready
for it. You are in many ways equipped for it.
It was decided ages ago. You should know this
that you may not fail us now. Yo'u were sent
here for it.
It is a big work.
I# PHENEAS SPEAKS
You are in a training colleee for it at preeent.
Your real life lies ahead.
Develop the capacity, the strength, the self-
command needed for this work. Try all you can
· to get the needful qualities. Giving out, and
lifting up others is essential.
Billie has a wonderful place over here, with
animals running about. She has such a most
wonderful-(here the light spoiled the vibra-
tions). She comes over here at night with that
brown dog of hers.
I fear that you do not welcome me unless I
have a bulging knapsack of news. But I like to
come just to be with you, and with no news in
my knapsack.
rou are always fJery welcome.
Oh ! but you want news always. You are
like a fish-not a tarpon-no, a whale, always
gaping for news. ·
Presently you will have all you want-and
more. Now I ·am going to help in a dark, dark
place. God bless you all.
The conditions are very good to-night. The
Medium stands close behind me as I speak, so
that we can join up in an instan.t.
What about Lady Isobel ?
She is a very high s~ul. It is not chance that
she has been brought into this matter. We
•
PHENEAS SPEAKS 145
~rranged it so, for she also has great work to do
in those wonderful times which lie ahead of us.
We are glad about the articles in '' The Morning
Post." They will influence hundreds oi thou-
sands. I only heard of them to-day from one
who arranges these things.
Delane?
Yes, it was he. He is the one who influences
the Press. Yes, he has instructed Northcliffe,
and is helping him. He was twittering with joy.
He arranged all this before you knew anything
of it.
Yes, I could ·materialise, and I will, but you
must let it come naturally.
Yes, you may give forth my teaching, and
call it " Pheneas Speaks." But you must deal
only with the teaching, and take my advice as
to what you say. Remember that I am not ashes
to be brushed off the end of the pen, but it is I
who hold the pen.
I am going now to Kamschatka.
~hat is a long way.
But I will be there long before you are in your
bed.
I will come and see the house with you Wc
want God's vibrations.
Nature? .
Yes-God's vibrations, not man's. Then we
can always reach you.
t¢ PHENEAS SPEAKS
You will both come excursions with me when
you come over.
Yes, I hear what you say about doctors, and
obsession.• We have a college working upon it.
They will be glad to hear this news.
As to the Future, it is so big a thing that you
can't count it to an hour or a day or a month.
· What about that Indian control ofMrs. Barkel's1
He put the time hack.
An insect crawling on the clock does not alter
the time. It is God's time.
1"hen it is not altered ?
No, it is not.
You have been like people toiling across a
desert, not quite sure of your road. This
is an oasis. There will be just one more
oasis, and then you will have arrived.
The Medium knows. We work through her.
You must not overtire. You must be guided.
She is like the spike in the front of your shield.
The power is not strong to-night.
You will walk through the desert with more
hope now you have had the oasis. One more,
and then you will see what lies before you.t
•I bad been reading Dr. Wickland's remarkable book
'' Thirty Yean Among the Dead.''
tBy the I
1
Oasis' ' he meant that more definite information
about the world which cannot yet be printed, came through
than was usual.
PHENEAS SPEAKS ~~
Every man as he comes upon earth is like an
unexposed .cinema film. He has his pictur.e to
make. If he makes it as it was ordained, then
all is well with him. If he spoils his picture then
he has to go and mend it on a lower sphere of
•
extstence.
July 3, 1925.
The Medium had been telephoning about an
overworked horse. Pheneas came through in
great strength.
It is right. You must protect them. These
animals belong to God. Everything that moves
--one leg, two legs, three legs, four legs-all are
the children of God. It is for you to protect
them. Give nothing-receive nothing.
With all my soul I believe in God. God bless
all my dear ones-my special family.
I have been to many places since I last spoke
to you. Don't trouble about little things. Have
faith and never doubt us, for we love you too
much to allow any evil to come near you.
Now I want to tell you. A man is here who
knew you many years ago. His name was
Johnson. He was a patient of yours. You
played bowls with him. ·He says that a nephew
of his has been helped by what you have taught.
You are badly needing a lift up. Faith in the
desert when you are very hungry does not satisfy
your hunger.
148 PHENEAS SPEAKS
I think of using your Script.
Yes, it will show the people what is to be
gained and what a personal Spirit Communion
means in the home.
"Spirit Communications in a Home Circle."
That is your sub-title.
[He tried to materialise, but failed. Says
there is hope later.]
The noise troubles me. It is not possible to
keep the circle of power together.
Would another medium help 1
I will tell you later.
What about Hampshire 1
Send me a call, and I will come. Oh ! you
know, it is quickening up between you and the
spirit world.
I would like to sit with that big boy of yours
He would see me. He is very psychic. A
bridge which will be used greatly.
He will be your right hand.
Fifty per cent. is taken off from anyone's debt
after death. God allows them that much-when
they come over. So that if anyone suffers, it
means that a heavy debt was owing.
God is so good-He is like a mother forgiving
a child up to .a point. So all humans have a
great deal deducted from what they owe.
How lon.g does it take for a man to wipe off
sin 1
f
PHENEAS SPEAKS 1~
It depends upon his mentality. If his men-
tality was pr·oud, arrogant and self-satisfied, and
the eyes of his soul were not open to aee the ugly
pattern of his actions upon other human liTet
on the earth plane, then he must wait until they
art open-until his soul does realise, and does
grieve over the black shadows which he has left
instead of the sunshine, the golden light, which
.. he should have left in the lives of those with
whom God brought him in contact on earth.
Do you tfltr see Northcliffe 1
I saw him once when· he was brought up to
our sphere to be shown something which would
open his soul wider.
He has done good work. He will do much
bigger very shortly.
At the proper time he will control, or influence
three big papers.
He feels that had he trained his own papers in
his lifetime they could not have gone back as
they have done, so to that extent he is
responsible. He knows it, and that is his
punishment.
What of the others 1
They are like tadpoles, neither one thing nor
the other. Northcliffe ia true to what hia Maker
made him-a·man.
The evil forces are running about in every
direction distracted. , They know now that
150 PHENEAS SPEAKS .
we have begun an invincible advance. All is
going wonderfully well.
Presently we shall meet you and all your
little group, as people are met at a station at the
end of a journey.
Always test a spirit whether it be of God when
my medium is being used. It is like taking a
ticket at a gate, or else you get the riffraff in.
Is there much riff raJ!1
The air is thick with it. Think of the count-
less generations who have passed on.
Surely they haoe risen ?
Many have never tried. That is why the
earth is so evil-on account of the thick cloud,
the enormous aura of humans who surround
the earth.
That is what is going to be cleared away.
How can a change. do that 1
The vibrations. They will sweep them off.
Where to 1
Their right place.
Away from the earth P
A place where they will work out their own
progression, but have not the power to damage
any other human life.
The vibrations tcrnight are good to a point
The ~ridge ha~ been sagging a little.
rou should see to that.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 151
Yes, indeed. It is the horrible old earth,
with its · noisome vibrations. And she works
too hard. We can't help that, you see, we are
not down there. But it will be all right.
[Pointing to the dog.] There are several
over her~, so jealous. They feel that she
(Billie) belongs to them. But they have to
progress like humans, and learn that love is
always beautiful. They are jealous because
you can't see them, and can see Paddy. [The
Irish terrier.]
. Lord Northcliffe has ·come here to see you.
What about P [A. rich man recently
dead, of whom we have sad reports.]
Lord N. says it is true. ·
Why is he so unhappy P
Lord· N. says it is because money was his
main, and only idea in life. · It was a craze,
and he gave no attention to helping humanity.
What use is the cheque book in.the other world?
The money was a trust, and he did not.live up
•
to 1t.
Any message?
Kingsley is one of Lord's N's chief helpers.•
He said so himself.
People have to tell the truth over here.
•In Mr. Hannen Swafier's .f Return of Northclifie," my SOD
is mentioned as having helped Northcliffe, whom I knew
slightly, on the other side.
152 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Dr. EUis Powell helps also, I suppose?
My work only lies with you and the homeland.
It is only when people come up to you that I
know something.
The dear Medium is.like Father Christmas-
all weighed down with packets, large and small.
We marvel at her. When she drops one she
lifts another.
Teaching is what people want. They have
had so little first-hand information. They
hunger for knowledge as to where they are
going, their destination, and that of their qear
ones-and as to the power of God in a real·
human living sense upon the lives of humanity.
They want to know the junction of life which,
on one line, leads to destruction, or, on the
other, to peace, to happiness, to the fulfilment
of all the soul desires. Give them that, and the
stars will shine on their souls, even if they do
not in the sky-the stars of hope. It has
been night, night, night, in many a soul that
will come and listen to you on Sunday. Give
them the dawn of hope.
We hold a conference to-morrow as to the
condition of Italy.
Who are "we" 1
.' Those who have been deputed to organise,
,ontrl()l, guide, and prepare the world.
'
\
PHENEAS SPEAKS 153
Shalll give some of this to the world 1
If you gave it to the world too soon it would
be sowing valuable seed on stony ground. It
would be blown away and the stones would not
receive it, for the mentality and the soul capacity
of the human race are shrivelled up. There-
fore, the ground must be shaken up to allow the
beautiful soil underneath to come up, in which
to sow the seeds of truth, of knowledge and of a
great awakening.
I should like to tell you something. It is
about the welfare of the savage races. That
vibration strikes a very strange stratum.
Their ignorance is not always diabolical, but it
is a sign of the utter failure of the "educated"
human race in propagating the spirit of Christ.
If religion had been a real living vital thing,
and the true teaching of Christ had prevailed,and
His tender love was radiated out, it would have
penetrated in a few hundred years to the darkest
parts, whereas such a lamp of theological egotism
and power and pride has been lighted amidst
humanity that it has been blinded, and the
spirit of love, of tenderness, which should,have
been spread abroad in the hearts of humanity
has died like a plant that has been starved of - I
water. That is one of the pictures on the
film which has got to be rubbed out by those
who are responsible.
\
154 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Think of the churches, the golden imagea, the
jewels, the pornp and ceremonies-think of the
lives wasted in vain worship. If tpat money had
been spent in working among backward races and
winning their love and respect-not teaching
dogmas-then in two or three generations these
would have been loving, beautiful people instead
of savages.
It is one of the greatest reflections upon the
Churches which have gone in for show and pomp.
Their day is done. They have to account now.
Every item of the bill has to be rendered in
full.
Christ's bitterest tears have been shed over
the misrepresentation which has been made of
Him. His understanding of human frailty,
his tender, all-enveloping love, has been repre-
sented as if He were a great, and terrible judge
giving sentence to a prisoner. His guiding Hand
to happiness has been twisted by priestcraft till
it pointed to Hell. The Church which prates
of Him thus is His worst enemy. The accountant
is now ready for the account and all must render
one.
You humans know so little of what goes on out-
side your own yibrations. - You are like men
standing in a wood surrounded by very dark
trees, which are obstructing the sky and the
surrounding country, and everything that counts,
..
PHENEAS SPEAKS 155
and you judge the outside world from that
point of view.
Humans are like little antswhopokeoutof their
holes sometimes and think they see everything
from their ant heap. You would laugh at the
conceited ant, and so we, from our higher
position, realise the great limitations of human
soul sight.
July 26.
(A,C.D. had given an address.)
Pheneas said that the earth-bound spirits, a
vast audience, of different spheres, were listening.
The poor earth-bound people realised for the
first time what their position was, and about
Christ and His wonderful love, and so they
are going upwards from to-night. They are
happy, with a new heart for endeavour.
The spirits seen by some in the audience were
not the earth-bound, but higher spirits.•
I \Vant nothing changed. It (the address)
was as I wish it.
God bless you ! I love you ! You never
ask about your home over here. You are a
non--conductor.
If you could expand your soul and mental
interest into the o~her world it would give you
•several of the audience deposed to seeing tuminous 6gurtl'(;
upon the platform.
156 PHENEAS SPEAKS
a new vitality. It is another vein of life whica
would give you generating power here. The
Bridge likes it. I can get across information,
and it reinforces her s.pirit, which reinforces our
power.
But I AM interested.
We need a natural eagerness. You can't
sham interest. There is no use being near the
bell. You must press it.
I will tell you many things about this Restland.
Another time you shall have it.
24th August.
Phene~s came through, but the power was
not strong. H~ said that man's soul was eight-
sided in its qualities. He would not give the
eight sides, but Tenderness was the chief one,
and then came Sympathy, Love, Unselfishness,
and Humility.
He said that there was a Mountain of Hope
which was always visibl~ from the grey sphere~,
and that the sight of it cheered up the dark
souls.• ..
•I find mehtion of this mountain in Judge Edmund's vision
of the lower spheres and a.lso in the Rev. Vale Owen '1 •' Paul
and Albert."
PHENEAS SPEAKS r57
Septembe,. 4, 1925.
A spirit whom we thought to be' Pheneas,
came and gave us some disturbing messagea
about our approaching journey to France, saying
that there would be an accident on the line, but
we should not be injured. He asked whether
we could not go by motor and seemed much
worried in·his mind.
While we were discussing this Pheneas himself
broke in, saying that the other was only his
forerunner and spoke without authority. (There
was an accident but not to our train.]
Nothing can go wrong with our messenger,
and you are both one. I_will be with you every
inch of the way. All will be well, and you will
come back safely to your loved ones;
He said that the Medium had the mother
love which was the mpst akin to God's love of
all the forms o£ love.
And that Mother was a most unselfish,
beautiful and wonderful spirit, and now she
was radiant-radiant.
Mother then came through in great beauty
a-
nd strength saying that she wished to be near
her dear one who had always been such a help
and comfort to her in life.
She said that she would come aiain when we
reassembled at the flat after Paris.
She spoke of coming changes.
158 PHENEAS SPEAKS
iVlay I tell anyone ?
No. We epeak here&! one speaks in families.
We do not speak to Fleet Street. God will
speak to Fleet Street.
Will the change affect the Bookshop (
The Bookshop ! It should be big indeed
to meet the demand upon it. It will be like a
great flare in a peasoup mist.
How is it with Innes ?
He is happy. But he is not quite adjusted
to our conditions yet. But he i! happy. He
lives with a man whom he knew and liked in
earlier life and whose mind is in the same state
of development as his own. No. I cannot
give earth names.
Mother said that Pheneas was called "The
Star of Hope" over there, and that they
rejoiced when he came near their spheres for
he left a trail of joy behind him.
Pheneas said he wanted to speak to me about
the development of the soul and the higher
conditions beyond.
He said that he was not at our meeting
because he had to be in Arabia, but that we
had some very strong spirit forces there who
dissipated the evil forces which had meant
mischief.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 159
At present all the nations are like so many
rooms with the blinds down. Soon the blinds
will be up and frightened faces at the windows.
Tell the Medium that you will all go home
in safety. We do not break our promises.
[During our very remarkable week of spiritual
work in Paris we hardly heard from Pheneas.
On our return, he came and said how pleased
he was that we were all together again.]
September 16-17.
We thought you had left us.
I will not leave you until the end of eternity.
Do not act on your own too much. We
are three, the Bridge, you, and I. When ·you
get loose on your own we are like a cart where
one trace is loose and one is fastened.
You are really like a wheel of the. cart, and
someone else is driving. you will be well
looked after.
He then ·spoke beautifully to each of the
boys, and said of my own efforts that even in
the greyest spheres my words had penetrated
and had brought comfort.
HafJe you no news ?
Whale ! Soon you will have news enough.
But I like .to come with an empty knapsack
just to see tny dear earth family.
too PHENEAS SPEAKS
A bout a week ago in the Malay Archipelago•
there were some strange happenings. But these
things do not find their way into the papers.
There will be a disturbance in the valley of the
Rhone.t
All is well. You are well protected.
Septembe'f' 28.
Pheneas speaks.
Ask ! Ask ! Why don't you ask l
Do you belieoe in God 1
With all my heart. But ask. Yeu throw
yourself open to any imposter.
Also hold the Medium's hand as she returns,
as tight as the rope is held which binds a ship
to the quay when it reaches port. Let there
be no division b~tween my leaving her and your
holding on to her.
All is going splendidly. There are forces
of which I can ·give you no conception-great
forces of good which are contending with gr~at
forces of evil. But light wiii always defeat
darkness. All is well. There are new vibrations
being released from the depths of the collective
human aura which will become a positive force,
and as such will defeat the negative forces and
will play a great part in the events to come.
*This became a centre of seismic activity soon after.
tThis wast~ case in the autumn of 1926.
I
,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 161
I trust you absolutely.
That is what makes me so strong. The rope
which connects us could not be strong if it were
sagging at your end.
October 3·
Pheneas speaks.
You travel (the Medium) such a lot at night.
A sweet band of loved ones come-giving
teaching that has been sent from a high centre
of knowledge.
In your record my expressions should be used.
I do not like paraphrases.
I wish you to go and lecture in a place where
they sorely need you.
My Medium has a vision of a little spot in
your homeland. It was like a long front of
.steps which lead to a lake side. There is a
silvery light over the steps and the trees meet
overhead. Just a little vista.
She is worried because she thinks the idea of
steps in the other world ridi~ulous.
The steps represent the ladder of life up to
the homeland. It is symbolical. It is a spot
that others will be taken to, to show them and to
encourage them.
It is so hot!
When I come· down here I get into the ,old
stagnant atmosphere. I can hardly breathe.
F
1& PHENEAS SPEAKS
Sometimes when I have been with you for a
long while and I go back to my beloved land
I have to rest. Loving dear ones surround
me and bring me renewed power-so great is
the draw, as it were, upon my vitality.
For each time that I come and help and guide
you my soul vibrates out greater strength to
those I meet with.
Now dear, dear brother, I would give you a
word of advice. It is this. Relax your vibra-
tions when I come and do not send out quivering
antennz for information. Be like a soft wax
plate on which I can write.
Talk in a general way and keep the vibrations
•
go1ng.
The call for your lecture will come. Let us
direct you to it.
I don't think I efJer failed you.
No, God bless you ! Never.
No evil shall ever come to yo.ur home.
There will soon be a tremendous oblivion of
all the teachings of the past. They will be like
trees struck .by lightning, green one moment,
but brown the next, withered and dead. And
then a lovely exquisite light appears which
draws out the spark of life in what appeared
to be brown and dead.- And that spark grows
and blossoms out into wonderful flowers full
PHENEAS SPEAKS 163
of the scent of love that is symbolical of what
will happen to the world.
You know I would like to tell you of your
travels in this world at night. You don't ask
enough questions on such points. You must
start the vibration down the cord. I can't
be at both ends at once.
I want to explain. We have many messages,
and the power is not strong, and it is like pulling
on a cord which wobbles and gives way.
I will tell you this-the vibrations are not
always very strong-I like sometimes to talk
about your home in the higher life. Keep as
many lines as possible.open.
Only those who would add to your happiness
will be on the other side.
October 4·
We had a communication from another Spirit
source which was not entirely in agreement
with Pheneas.
Pheneas speaks.
I love to be with you. For you are the
stepping stones of my own spiritual advance-
ment.
Referring to our informant, he said: That is
a good young man-a fine young man, but he
is in a preparatory school. What would it be
thought if a Professor of Oxford, should be
PHENEAS SPEAKS
contradicted by one wh-
o was in a preparatory
achool. He haa put his own advancement back
by this.
He meant no harm.
He has done harm. Anyone who takes
upon himself to give spirit information when
he is in truth ignorant does harm, for he misleads
and confuses the world.
What he has done is as if an ignorant man was
to try to uproot .a fine and rare plant, long
tended and reared, so as to put a buttercup in
its place.
(He then gave a beautiful and wonderful
address to some spirits present, telling them to
cease brooding over their failure-s, and to have
confidence in the wonderful love of Christ which
would help them if they would only look up.]
October 14.
I asked Pheneas whether I might go over
in my sleep and bring back some remembrance
of what I saw. He said he would ask leave.
That night I had a very vivid dream. I
found mrself in an enormous city. It was
built on rolling hills, and you could see it extend-
ing .away to a great distance. I saw no end.
Her~ and there were raised hills with large
building's on the top. At one time I had an
l
PHENEAS SPEAKS 165
impression of New York, and at another of
Rome.
There was one very old ruined building
which I saw very clearly. The road wound
past it. This certainly was not New York.
I saw some rather fine isolated· villas, rather
like the kind of house you get in Edinburgh
suburbs. I can remember no people at that
point, but there were some very fine paintings
on the wall.
I remember also being in a sort of club-a
large room, finely built, with pictures. There
were several men. I did not recognise them,
but saw them so clearly that I would know them
again. One was dressed as Romeo, a gorgeous
medizval dress. I remember joking him about
it. His face was dull, heavy and rather sinister.
I had at the end a feeling of being lost and
of hurry. Altogether it was a very curious
•
expenence.
October 13.
A strange spirit came-
. We had some doubt
about him, but finally allowed him to W
fite.
You are well guarded and guided. I only
came because I might help you. If you were
to go to a place where the vibration• are free
from humanity, then it would increase your
powers and therefore your message would be
strengthened to the people. ·'
1~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
I am one of those who love you and therefore
I would greatly like to advise you in any way.
Pheneas does adfJise us.
He said I might come.
Do you know our other friend 1
I know whom you mean. You have a world
full of friends here.
Were you an Englishman?
Yes, I lived in the West Country.
When?
Time is like a fleeting shadow over here.
Were you in the low spheres when you passed
on?
I was very low, but I have come up through
the agency of dear ones who loved me enough
to seek me in the dark. I am now with them
in the light of God's smile, the golden light
of love.
Are yqu happy now?
More so that I could ever express to you.
What was that town I saw in my dream ?
It was what we call the probationary sphere.
My work over here at present is to report the
progress made by a certain centre of activity.
What do they work at ?
The way of truth-the opening of the eyes
of humanity to what pertains to their future
life. You do this yourselves.
We do what we can.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 167
Did you liv1 one hundred ytaf's ago 1
Less, by far.
Good-night, and thank you both for allowing
me to come to your beloved home.
October 21.
Pheneas came at night. He said :
Many of us are eager that you should have
some completely quiet place irr which the
Mediu1n would have clearer vibrations.
If you were there you would also be impressed
with a message, a volume, which would stir
humanity very deeply.
I am the vibrant link between you and God.
You know I never will leave you. Forget
that thought which has pressed into your
brains.
The vibrations of love are the cause of God's
universe, binding it together.
There is much teaching waiting to be given
to you for the human race-folios of it.
The light is better. Do not break the
conditions.
Pheneas then said that he would like a room
of his own-mauve colouring-in the cottage.
Power would vibrate out from such a room.
(This was the cottage we had just bought in the
New Forest.]
168 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Do you rememb~r that I told you that they
had a place for you. This is it. The world
there is as God made it. We will bring volun-
teers to spring-clean its psychic atmosphere
as soon as you are ready for it. Also one or
two beautiful guards. When you come down for
refreshment of soul the battery will be filled.
Sunshine is written over it-Soul's Sunshine.
(pause) My power ran down. There is a crowd
all pressing to come. The light is shining from
this centre, beating up through the spheres of
darkness into the sphere of light. Crowds
gather at each stage, anxious, clamouring,
beseeching, imploring admittance to the vein
of light and life between spiritual humanity
and the spirit world. And so when the pressure
is great, my message becomes weakened. Do
you understand? Great power, great help-
Oh, my God, I thank You for it !-is going out
to these poor souls who clamour at the different
stages of the lift of Life.
God bless the sleeping world--{it was mid-
night)---:sleepiqg in darkness, in ignorance, in
evil. God save it and uplift it. God bless all !
What about your own life on earth ?
I do· not care to talk of it much, for so long
has passed and so much greater experience,
that it is like looking with a telescope through
the wrong end.
..
\
.
l
PHENEAS SPEAKS 1@
I carry the impression of. much love and
sorrow and trial.
The Churches, are now much exercised over
the Spiritualist advance, and they are holding
council what to do. Their present idea is to
adopt it, but under some other form or name
which will save their faces.
Novemher I 4, I 925.
Pheneas came.
[The clock struck eleven.]
We have no horrible noises like that with us.
Everything is sweet and musical.
1"hey have the other sort in lower spheres, I
presume?
No, no, they would welcome it there. It is
deadly silent. And dark. The conditions are
indeed terrible. There are many Ecclesiastics
there. They are shown pictures of the lives
of those whom they have influenced for evil
by getting in the·way of God's message. That
is among their punishments.
You will help these poor people when you
come over. Love is the ladder which leads
down to the lowest hell. Pray for and pity
those who are in trouble.
I am thinking of the poor fellows in that
submarine.•
•A submarine had just sunk in the Channel.
11'1
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
Do not pity them. All is well with them.
God has blessed them. God has welcomed
them. It is for their poor loved ones that you
may send out a wave of pity.
I fear it was a hard death.
No, no, it was not. There came very rapidly
a psychic state, and all earth conditions were
submerged. They are now through all their
trouhies. But God send balm to the wounded
hearts of their people-the mother hearts who
loved them!
(He then turned to the dark -side of the
room and gave a wonderful sermon to some
Spirits. The Medium's tears were pouring down
her face, for she took on the grey conditions.]
Mother came · earlier in the evening. She
intimated that the difference of the spheres
were differences of vibrations rather than of
distance.
November 20, I 925.
An artist guide came.
Do you like our. cottage ?
Yes, it is wonderful. I should like to draw
there. The vibrations are wonderful. I do
wish you could see me and know how real
I am.
You will b7 able to see vast crowds of spirits
in time. You have all the power undeveloped.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 171
Things will be arranged for you as required
by the spirit world.
You see, any troubles you have, have apurpose,
though at the time it seems undiscoverable.
Under every difficulty there is golden love and
light-the germ of immortal happiness.
You have a man helping you who is greatly
honoured over here.
1"ry and get that name.
Names are extraordinary. They are like a
bubble that is burst. You cannot get the
parts together again, because they are not.
I see a very beautiful tower in the East which
is near a famous well mentioned in the Bible,
and that conveys the name of the helper who is
round this beloved star of light.•
We never want the wrong vibrations to come
near us or our Channel. It is far more important
than people realise yet, the good or evil of
vibrations, which are attracted to all and
everything they come near.
It will be a real pleasure to me to show you
over my gallery. Every artist has one. Nothing
is wasted. Each gift is as a gem from God,
shining with its own particular light and colour,
making up the vibratory cord of God which is
an all-embracing power coming from the Divine
Centre.
•w e could make nothing of this.
172 PHENEAS SPEAKS
There will be a ireat cyclone in America
before long.•
December 20, 1925.
We were sitting (tenth time) for the voice.
Pheneas came.
You will get phenomena. (This was so.) The
mantle of power descends. The Medium is like
the high pole of the wireless-without her your
wires would all be on the ground.
r our similes are wonderful.
I have lived long. My brain has been
sharpened.
Dr. Lamond is a great vibrant soul. Tell
him from me that the long lane is near its
turning.
You need not ask for miracles all the time.
We cannot build a house with a few bricks.
All we could do was to collect and store the
bricks. The Medium is the brick factory.
Guard your health in view of the work soon
to come upon you. God is descending upon
mankind and upon all the strata of His creation.
I will tell you one little thing more-another
picture.
Your home in the other world is ready for
you. The human forces which are to make it
a perfec~ creation have been selected. There
'. *Miami was destroyed, 1926.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 173
is a round, small building in the grounds -
which
is filled with exquisite coloured vibrations into
which you go when you want soul's rejuvena-
tion. It stands a~id trees. There is a lovely
terrace outside that home with- flowers every-
where. Flowers and creepers are all round
the home-and there is an oblong pond round
which coloured birds will come to drink. It
is quite close-opposite.
All is going well.
You are like travellers in the last few hours
of a railway journey, who are weary, hungry,
and dirty. The time seems very long. But
you have just to reach tJte black tunnel ahead
of you. Then you will run in to the most
beautiful of all lands.
I supposeyou see things in pictures ?
I see them as one in an aeroplane would look
down and see a train and the various stations
which it would pass. The stations are the
events which we foretell to you.
We wait for the day when we shall meet upon
the threshold of infinite peace, progress and
immortality. And the Crown of. Life Immortal
•
ts peace.
January to, 1926.
A new spirit came.
God bless you,
174 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Then you believe in God ?
I do. I did not, but I do since I have been
in the lower grey spheres.
A friend of yours brought me here who has
been very good to me.
His name is Raymond.
Lodge?
Yes.
I can see the light shining through the gateway
of life eternal.
<Jhe room is very dark.
Not as dark as it is here.
A.re you in the city I saw 1
Yes.
It was grey.
Terribly grey.
Is it on rolling hills ?
Inaccessible hills.
rou w.ill soon win out.
That is what Raymond tells me, too. He
comes here from time to time.
Janua,.y 26, 1926.
Pheneas speaks.
God bless you !
I turned offthe lamp.
What a relief. The light hurts. It is like a
weight.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 175
Where hafle you be4n 1.
I have been very far away.
We felt that.
My connection with the earth plane was
broken.
Not our fault, I hope.
It was like a snapped wire which had to be
joined.
Love is always between us, but I have to have
my material landing place, and that is effected
by the vibrations that you two supply. I must
have those right.
My bridge has been up-like your roads.
I can't get across when it is up.
We have been much pre-occupied from
Christmas.
You see my Medium knows, and she finds
it difficult, because I want to say that impressions
that we imprint on her are vital.
(He complained of the smell from the candle.]
We had sweet oil lamps in my day.
Don't let my roadway be blocked. The
enemy is always at the gate.
Keep a lookout like a man who watches at
night lest a thief enter. Be wise.
Any word of dear Auntie?'*
I have a message for you both whom she
loved.
*This dear Jady had died a week or two before .
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
It is this : She is so full of joy-so full of
thanks to God for His infinite goodness in
bringing her to this wonderful world, and she
begs me to tell you that she is happy beyond
any human description. She implores me to
say that in spite of her heart's fulfilment the t
bond of love, and of closeness to you and her
beloved niece is greater, not less, and that she
is going to petition that her work may be on
this side of the veil, with the guidance, the
protecting care, the home love over you all
until you physically meet again in our lovely
world.
Any word to ?
He would not understand. It is too sacred
for an appeal to the mind of a human who
has the blinds down to God's truth, or to
knock at the door for admittance when the ·bolt
is shot.
We have wept over her loss.
Every tear is a flower of love round her, and
already a new garden of flowers has grown.
You see it is the amount of love within you
which regulates the spiritual development on
this side of the veil.
I want to keep very close for the next short
lap of the w~y.
We will do all we can.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 177
I don't want shut windows in my Medium.
I want every window ,
open.:-no shutters. So
that I can come and give the message.
God bless all !
What about the direct voice ? Do you approve ?
I've been so very far off I do not know about
your direct voice. I will find out and let you
know.
You must be a better gate keeper. You
must keep the bridge for the messengers of God
only.
I don't want to go-it is so long since I have
been. You are like a plant with the roots a
little dry. I stay to put in sap. I will come
again to .do it soon. Then my beautiful plant
will have many flowers, and humanity will
feel and sense them. We must get the sap so
that the flowers blossom.
It is a very muddy earth at present, and very
hard·for us to breathe in it. There is not much
spiritual oxygen. I realise how deeply grateful
we must be to you and your beloved one in the
work that you are doing in so stifling an
atmosphere.
There is no death. There is a lovely portal
with " Welcome " written over it.
All is well. God bless you.
'
178 PHENEAS SPEAKS
F1b1'JI,Itry I~, 1926.
A Friend came
God bless you! The vibrations are very
thin at present.
Where is A untie ?
She is resting. But she was told that you
were communicating, and sent you a message
of her dear love. She wished me to say that
she realised now how much she might have
learned from you had she only responded u-
pon
this subject.
She is intensely happy. Love is everywhere
round her. She has a home which is only a
little way off. We can meet continually.
Pheneas speaks.
My dear Medium was not at all comfortable
because others came to use her. She is not a
main road, but a private way.
These subtle human elements smother the
connecting cord, and we have to bring great
forces to check those evil vibrations which
intervene between you and the beautiful spirit
world.
God bless you.
A lantern has been lighted, and a wick has
gone out. You must light the other. The light J
is dimmer than it should be.• ·
~ I
•This referred to the psychic bookshop. ~
PHENEAS SPEAKS 179
May greater power descend upon you and
those other lamps which are shining on the
waters of tribulation.
But you do not always understand the
ground on which you put your feet. I mean
that you walk among vibrations that you are
not aware of.
And now listen. You must remember that
the signal that goes out from our representative
is from our higher knowledge. When people
pass by in gorgeous colours, but are black
beneath, ~er eyes penetrate the outer covering.
February 15, 1926.
Pheneas came in the dark, and could not be
reported verbatim.
He gave us a good deal of advice upon business
matters, and made a prophecy and a promise.
"Leave it to me. I will arrange everything.''
(He did.]
[I asked if the Cleophas script was that of
which he spoke two years ago?]
I have not been in close touch, but I think
it is. I will make enquiry among the messengers
of the outer circle, who have charge of such
things.
He said that he had been with a wonderful
man in the East.
1~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
The earth now is like a kaleidoscope. The
same old pieces, but in different combination.
I will come soon with a special message about
something you have to do.
Should I girJe forth the Northcliffe message ;•
When people are in the sunshine there is no
use telling them to put on their mackintoshes.
They will not listen. Wait until the first drops
begin to fall.
The bridge which crosses the stream of
death, should have six planks. They are Faith,
Hope, Charity, Forgiveness, Kindness, and
Humility.
Everything is going on exactly as God would
wish it.
I see this circle as light amid the dark, muddy
colours of earth. Soon something very happy
is coming to you all.
In this country ?
I may not say.
Your sittings for the voice are each useful.
When you make a wireless here you have to put
up a pole, aerials, etc. It is the same with us.
When I come, each of your guides gives me
an account of what goes on.
Do not worry at all _
about things, for you are
very near the end of your tiresome stumbling ..
•A message of warning had come purportins to be from LoTd
Northcliffe,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 181
road, an·d it clears soon, and all will then be
easy, and you will live at your fullest.
It is ordained.
[Tommy came.•]
Do you like your home 1
It is a paradise, not upon earth, but upon
Heaven's foundations. No greyness enters that
sphere. Kingsley and I are chums in the
same tea~s. Lily has found her affinity.
[A new spirit came.]
Do you believe in God ?
I believe in Him because I see His glory every
minute of my life.
I am Holman. You knew me in South
Africa. I was a lieutenant in a mounted
corps.
Were you in our hospital ?t
For one month, and you saved me. But
not for long. I died of influenza. It was
promotion for me. You have such a cloud of
people round you that it is hard to distinguish
them. Frank Holman. My home was in the
North. An orphan.
Shall we get wireless with you ? J
A great discovery is shortly to be made in
that direction. A machine is being made in
secret. A .bridge is being made.
•A young officer killed in the war.
tI served in the Langman Hospital in the Boer War.
182 PHENEAS SPEAKS
[Another apirit.]
He hesitated to aay he believed in God.
I was a rotter upon earth, but I see now a
little light before me. What it means I do not
know. Perhaps it means there is a God, and
in that case I do believe in Him.
Are you in a grey place?
Fearfully so.
[We spoke to him and consoled him.]
Pheneas speaks.
We have been very busy in Dalmatia to-day.
All these preparations. are like the scaffold
poles one fixes up all round some building which
• •
one 1s erecttng.
I am going this afternoon to the Euphrates.
We did not call it that of old. We had an Arab
word for that land which meant " The Garden
of Flowers."
March 25, 1926.
In a little time there will be a great discovery
of an electric nature made by spirit power by
a man who knows nothing of electricity. It
will mean seeing and hearing by means of
electricity.
This spiritual knowledge is coming into your
world in little rills all from a source which
is inexhaustible. Soon these rills will unite
-
i
,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 183
and form pools and lakes, which will submerge
everything.
Conditions are mixed to-night. There have
been workmen and others in this room who have
mixed the atmosphere.
You must understand the difficulties.
Electricity is as coarse as lead compared to these
fine psychic vibrations.
All is well. There is a very great man on
our side who will inspire you at your address
to-morrow.
Humanity will soon be staggered at the
enormous power shown from on high.
_
The result will be to lower all the bridges of
thought in the direction of the spirit world. You
Spiritualists will have to get busy, all of you,
in helping to lower those bridges, and giving
the tickets of entrance to those who would
pass over to a greater conception of faith,
thought, and knowledge.
A gardener in a conservatory, when he sees
a life-killing fly destroying the plants that he
lovingly cultured .and tended, will spray those
plants with an anti-death toxin. So will the
great Gardener when He sees His beloved
flowers being destroyed by noxious growths.
God bless you !
Let your mind be very open to us-to our
directions-in the next twenty-four hours. Don't
184 PHENEAS SPEAKS
shut the doors and windows. Let us in. Don't
get it too tight. You understand.
April 10, 1926.
(Pheneas came-begged us to be very careful
that no one personate him.]
Put a double lock on the door.
Your lectures of the last week have roused up
several who will be captains and leaders in the
future.
It is very important that I keep the line open
now. It will be so ip1portant soon.
Now I go to the Hebrides. There is a
development of power which will eventually
show itself there. I am being shown it because
I am one of those who are in touch. with the
central wells of power.
Why don't you test me l
You are rathet like a ticket collector who
never takes the tickets.
Do you beli4fJe in God ?
With all I am I believe in Him.
My Medium has been made clairaudient to
our powers lately. The veils of sound are being
lifted between us and her.
It will uot be long before you see my face.
Yo~ have seen it many times at night. You
1
•
PHENEAS SPEAKS
know me well. It is always blotted out when
you return to the earth plane.
What a pity !
Because all that comes to you on the earth
plane is so vital that you must have no after
glow around your daily life. It must be free
of the vibrations of the spirit world, so that
you can concentrate your human energy entirely
upon what you have daily to perform upon the
earth plane for God, humanity and the various
spheres.
~ark that last ! You are not only preaching
to the very narrow earth stratum, but to the
intermediary ones all the time, every day.
Your work is repeated through each stratum
unseen by you of those who crowd to listen,
. and to learn.
I'll tell you something. It is like this.
Take it all down. I don't like telegraphic
forms. I want to talk to the heart of men, not
dot, dot, dash.
All is well. Wherever there is a shadow
there is sunshine ahead. All is well. On
entering into the spirit world there will be
a ·wonderful golden pathway of love, of
sweetness, of joy indescribable, and of light-
ness of soul, for her and for all those whom
she harbours within her heart-for what she
has done for your mission, and for those dark
186 PHENEAS SPEAKS
shadows of humans who have crossed her path,
for the arms that have held up, for the heart
that has loved, for the soul that has gone out
to all those creatures of suffering.
[The Medium partly regained consciousness,
but Pheneas again took control.]
The forces of God are descending rapidly·
upon the world, and they are encompassing
it. Then will come the conflict between black
and white, but white, as always, will win.
Those in the movement are being judged
one by one.
[Here the Medium went through the action
of picking up one after the other, some replaced,
some thrown down.]
..
Ap,.il z6, 1926.
[Denis present.]
Pheneas speaks.
This Medium is concerned about her piccaninny
getting cold. Light the fire.
Am I " de trop " ?
No, indeed.
They say you (Denis) must try to develop
on a very high sphere in a way that.will be given
you, because there is going to be an upliftment
of psychic force in your direction which will
have most beneficial results upon you in every
way. Give us the key-note. We look to you.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 187
We watch you. Tender loving eyes are on
you.
He volunteered for work upon the earth
plane. He was told before he left that wonderful
sphere the road would be rough, that the rocks
would cut his feet-the difficulties of life. He
answered "The Glory of Christ reigns in my
soul and my heart and my being. I have
courage. I can succeed." And Christ's blessing
was on him as he left the spirit world, and
the Angel forces blessed him as he passed on
to the earth that needed him. Soon the call
will come. The memories, dim memories, of
the life immortal, linger at the back of his soul,
with the blind down-a Venetian blind, as
you would say, which lets the light in.
What form will the call take?
It is like the tuning up of wireless, and then
the inspiration can come through. If it is
switched on to earth only earth can come.
What about the work ?
He has work to do with the regeneration of
certain souls that walk, as it were, on a tight
wire, balanced. He is to meet those people,
and by his own influence he will pull them up
and keep them from falling into the abyss.
Those people will in turn do enormous work,
and all on account of his help to them. Great
will be the glory-the glory of life immortal.
t88 PHENEAS SPEAKS
Love is Joy, Love is Happiness. Love vibrates
out in all directions.
You are put a little through the fire so that
you maymake the effort-and you make it, mark
you.-1t is ordained. Trim your wick a little,
and soon the wick will not require trimming.
All is well with you. All is beautiful. All is
holy. All is as it should be. Tremendous
power will descend from wonderful sources to
you before long, which will bring a light, a
happiness, an upliftment, a joy past all under- ·
standing. I mean the beautiful life which is
to emanate from Him to those around him, and
which will react on him in a way which will fill
his very being with happiness which he has
never imagined.
In the next world P
No, here, and there also.
Do not pity the so-called dead. They are the
lucky people. If you saw a place that had been
stricken with disease, would you say "poor
people," because they were going to a land
where there was no suffering ? Where all
had enough and more t.han enough, and where
joy filled . the heart instead of sorrow. You
would say "lucky people." So it is with
those who hav-e given out kindness and unselfish·
ness and who have tried their best in doing
-
PHENEAS SPEAKS 189
~ their every-day work in the earth plane. That
is the flower of religion.
We don't have meat here. We love all living
creatures because God made them, and He
loves all that He has created, for in each there
is a spark of God, and that is love-for their
mates, their little ones, for something.
I get troubled when I see the creatures
sacrificed to the appetite of man. But their
days are numbered. Comparatively few more
will be sacrificed, because in the new world
humanity will have awakened to the sense of
the enormity of the action which they take
when they absorb a life that God has not done
With-1 mean when they kill creatures to fill
their own bodies.•
Your hearts are full of love for the animal
world, and· you will be glad at the ~emory
that you had sympathy on the dark earth
plane.
We see the difficulties of dietetic change:-
soon you start a new era-you begin life
instead of existence. Now you come up to
the top story when, for the first time, you will
see things as they are. Humanity will be like
the worms when they come up to the surface.
rou have wandered away.
I have my own way of getting at my subject.
•We are none of us Vegetarians.
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
We wiU do what WI can. I can't promu1
anything.
When I come and manifest, I bring a com-
municating cord with me so that the power I
use from you is replenished at night by a
revitalising spiritual and physical power, so
you are the gainer.
The balance is always in your favour when I
use you, you are the gainer.
I uplift the soul and strength of the Medium
when I come. I build up the vital force to carry
on in the path she treads, carrying the banner
of light, and holding out the hand to those who
need it, on the little path of life that is left.
May your circle all realise the Angel world
that surrounds and envelops them. May they
realise the blessings that come from it and ever
look upwards.
[Another came.]
I am your guide (the Medium's). I believe
in God with all my soul. All that I am, all that
I ever shall be, is founded and created by Him.
I am Julius-yes, her guide.
God bless you, my dear one.
What about the future ?
I leave all that to Pheneas. It is his province.
You will do an enormous work in that dear
home in the Forest. It will have most far-
reaching effects.
-~··-
.. PHENEAS SPEAKS
We. are eager now that you should get ~here.
Where is dear Pheneas?
He is in the darker spheres, suppressing evi]
forces.
It is intermediate, between the lower spheres
and this earth.
He was most anxious that I should come in
his stead.
[Another came.]
I never knew you on earth, but I love you both
very much.
Why?
Because you have shown me the light.
Who are you?
I was a Norwegian.
How long dead?
A century.
Were you in the dark ?
Yes, I was a materialist.
And are you happy now?
I am a well spring of joy.
were you an artist ~
I was a singer-first a doctor, until I found
I had a paying voice.
I ~as at your Leeds lecture. There was a
crowd of us. We all came away new men.
May 8, 1926.
Pheneas spoke of the strike. He said :
England is our chosen land. We are lighting a
1~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
light there, but when you light a light you get
smoke from the wick. This is the little smoke,
but it will soon clear, and then you will get the
light.
The world is very black, but East and West
there is more attention to the ideas which you
have preached, and that will be a help to them
in the days to come.
The world will now come out of the kinder-
garten, and i1_1to the grade one class. This
fourth dimension which is spoken of so myster-
iously, is only one more step in the ladder of
evolution.
May I asIt a question ?
Certainly.
Do I understand thai when the climax comes,
some fo!k will pass over spontaneously, and a ·
large number will carry on, and the rubbish will
all be destroyed ? I
That is correct. Ask me more if you like.
If we pass on spontaneously and our bodies
lie behind, how does it differ from death 1
It will come when your .psychic senses are
open, and you can see us around you. You
will drop your body as a man with many coats
might drop one without knowing. When you
look back and see the old worn coat, and ~nd
yout are in a better one, you will not regret it.
~r
I '
~·
c •
""
.J'
'
...
....
'
PHENEAS SPEAKS 1~
Will many other Spiritualists pass on ?
Yes, many.
[There followed prophecies as to the fate of
individuals.]
We must have another meeting soon. We
have some important orders from on high
for you.
Could you give them now ?
:; Across them is written-' the time is not yet
~ come.' When that writing disappears we will
i: give them.
He then SP.oke of our home in the spirit land.
Built by loving hands and loving hearts.
[A very clear and remarkable sitting.]
May 1~, 1926. ..
!I
Pheneas said that \;he would presently send
a healer to give us both mor.e strength. He
was a very sweet soul. He, was ~tudying the
root of all diseases so that microbes might be
extirpated in the ne~ earth world.
He had been taken by my mother and others
recently to see our beautiful home. The scent
of the flowers was a living thing, for those flowers
represented help that we had given to various
people in life. r
.
I will come soon in the flat. I will not come
- in the cottage until you are alone there.
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
Several ~f the opponents of the movement
are beginning to feel very uncomfortable about
their position.
We address unseen mortals here, those who
ruined their opportunities o~ earth-would not
see or hear-who turned a deaf ear to humanity's
cry for help-and now their hearts are full of
bitterness, the bitterness of regret. They have
come to this bright home like drowning souls
clinging to any plank of hope.
Now I would tell you a little thing about
your home. Thelittle whales like it.
Give me more air. Air has many vibrations
which come from nature, and so some is vital,
and some all dried up. Open the window.
Things are going wonderfully well in the
East-far better than we had contemplated.
There is also a strong vein of power being
crea.ted in the Eastern hemisphere, which will
greatly affec~ Central Europe in an unexpected
way.
For good P
All is for good eventually. It is being
·created by our side against the evil forces
prevailing in that part.
The rubbish heap is ready for them. The
world is in the state of a. honeycomb. The
holes are filled in some places, an~d seem solid,
- ----- --.
I
"'
-
PHENEAS S·PEAKS 195
but there is nothing at the back of them, and
when the pressure is put they all collapse.
My power runs low. I wanted to come on
the eve of your birthday.
I'll come soon again.
Why do we get sofew messages about the future?
They have been told by the higher powers
that it will be better for them now to leave what
they have told you to sink into your minds.
Do not be afraid that they have deserted you.
That is out of the question. Whenever you
need their help in any way just call to them,
and they will be there.
And you?
Always until the end, or rather the beginning
of life eternal.
June 26, 1926.
I should like to say, don't think I am not
with you because I don't come often. The
reason is that there is great pressure over here
at this moment, and we depute our representative
to guard and watch over those who we are
intimately responsible for, and when the need
comes for our presence, they signal and we
come, so our line is always in touch with your
conditions.
The whale has been hungry. There are
tit-bits for the whale.
.-...........~===~----
--
·-
-
::::
-
·-
197
I have an
y helpers
, and give
s for you.
n for you
ne came.
at present.
"
tny Maker,
I ha11 ever
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
1 coultl do with mof'l.
I have a sack load, but the time of delivery
is not yet.
All is as God has planned it.
There are tunnels, but you come out into the
sun.
Only a wee while, and the door will open into
.
a world so sunny and beautiful that you will
almost be blinded by it. It is Life written in
big letters. The other, the prelude written in
grey.
It is all right. It is all right. Our bridge
is the link over which much valuable traffic
must cross. Therefore we look after our bridge,
a·nd angelic power shall be felt, to revitalise the
vein of life, which is thin at present.
All God's blessings surround you, and make
you realise that the day is at hand when we shall
all meet and say " God be with you."
You will put the nasty old journey away into
the background when you arrive home.
August 5, 1926.
Pheneas, after a long absence, came through
for a short time. He said that the Medium
had been busy and this had hindered him.
How is everything ?
Splendid.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 197
I shall come soon for a long talk. I have an
invisible room in this house where my helpers
always are, and I will come sometimes, and give
you all strength.
I have more than a knapsack of news for you.
I have a whole cart full.
This Forest home was marked down for you
as long as twenty years ago.
August 16, 1926.
We waited in vain. Finally someone came.
Do you believe in God ?
I do.
Upon my word I do.
Why do you come ?
Because I wanted to.
What brought you HERE ?
Your light.
Can we help you?
Many thanks for .kind wish. Not at present.
Are you happy?
Very-now.
I only came to say "God bless you."
Do you know Pheneas?
No.
4ugust 17, 1926.
Phenea1 sp_eak~
I am here. I do believe in God, my Maker,
my Inspirer, all that I am, all that I shall ever
198 PHENEAS SPEAKS
be. God guard and bless you, my two dear
ones. Your thoughts reached me far away.
I came at once. I knew I was needed. His
Angels' wings surround you with all power.
Fear not. All is well. Great care is round
you.
We always know the conditions prevailing
on earth.
The time is approaching when the flood gates
will be opened to spirit power, for God's message
to descend to a very troubled earth.
You have not long to wait, even from your
point of view.
I shall very soon want you to take down a
message in cipher for me, which will be very
evidential.
There is a man coming into your life who
will be a tremendous aid to you in many ways.
Later came Pheneas again with cheerful
words.
All is well, he repeated, but would give
nothing definite. He said he was needed at
once at . a place where the dark forces were
in growing strength.
You can pack up your things. It won't be
very long now. The Medium does not want to
be bothered by any more boxes. But it will
be easy now. Spirit robes don't crush.
PHENEAS SPEAKS ~~
Ff'iday, August 27, 1926.
At last Pheneas came back in full force. He
began by writing.
God bless you, my dear ones. I will tell
you something. It is this. When I was a child
I had a horror of God, because I was taught
to fear Him. Then I passed through the river
of Life, and I saw all the rocks of religion,
which were marked " God," and I hated Him.
Then I came here, and I saw the love of God
prevailing everywhere, the glorious happiness
radiating out through that love, and then I
knew God's love, and I realised that the
Theological .wolves in sheep's clothing had
deliberately led me down the by paths away
from Him, and His tenderness. Arthur, will
you tell the world pee ple this, that on earth
at this time there is a force which will trans-
form the earth. That there will be an up-
heaval (a change) of unprecedented force which
will transfigure the earth's surface, sa that it
will be as God originally intended it to be.
Pheneas then began to speak.
You should be more careful in testing who
comes to you. You s}lould first ask : " Do
you believe in God ?'' And then ask: "Are
you Pheneas?" Remembering what is said in
the Bible. Test the Spirits.
I will be more careful.
-
2oo PHENEAS SPEAKS
I have told you this before. It is very
important. You expose the Medium to harm.
1 would not do that.
It is good to be here.
We feared you had left us.
Never. You need never fear that. But I
am like a captain who has to visit the ramparts
continually, though he can always be recalled.
Do not ask too m~ny questions. Let me give
my own message else you make my landing
stage more bumpy than it needs to be.
This house is splendid, and the place is
wonderful. We have got it now as we want it.
The great trees of this Forest• shed out a power,
an aura, which man has not yet recognised.
A beneficent power ?
Yes, entirely so. You will get a fountain of
power built up in this house which ·will affect
everyone of you, and strengthen your spiritual
powers and vibrations.
How are things going ?
All is well. . The dark forces have set a
movement going in order to check God's power,
which they see approaching the earth. They
will fail.
.These forces are evil, and must go. You will be
appr6ached soon by letter by another, who will
•We were in QUr forest cottage.
PHENEAS SPEAKS ZOI
claim to be a Spiritualist, but who plots evil.
Be on your guard. We have our eye on him.
There will come much good from a spirit
source, a me~ium, who has been regarded with
. .
some susptcton.
Tell the Medium when she wakes that the
matter she is wondering about will be all right.
I will tell her.
She will be wonderful. She has God's great
work to do. Tear-dimmed eyes will look up at
her, and they will lighten in joy as they see the -
power that God has given her. So long as she
uses those powers no harm can touch any of
you.
What shall! do about the book I am preparing
on your teaching? •
We shall always let you know the .Medium.
Pery good. It is delicate work.
You will be instructed. Much must be
withheld, for the world is not ready yet. I
shall come back soon, for I have a message for
someone near h_
ere, who needs it badly.
May God's blessing rest upon you all in this
house, and upon all whom you love.
September 1, 1926.
(Children present.)
It is I, Innes. We shall soon be very close. .
HafJe you news·of the future P
*The present volume.
Gl
202 PHENEAS SPEAKS
We in ouT sphere are never told what is
to happen in detail and tinie. We only have
a general knowledge. Never press matters.
Let things come about naturally. Do not be
ahead of the coach. Be on it.
We should like you to observe the following
directions :-
I . To be ready in health.
2. To be ready in knowledge, accumu-
lated.
Then we would have you understand this,
that you must all realise that at present
there is a very vital force surrounding you all,
to determine which is capable and worthy of
the work Christ may send to your group to do.
This is the testing time. You are all
unconsciously putting on your armour nOfiJ.
Be ready. In God's name, in Christ's name,
be ready. Do not wait till the bugle sounds
from on high. CJ'hen it will be too l~te. Be
prepared. In all our names we beg, we iO?-plore
you to do this, for upon your present efforts
our great united meeting depends. Do not
fail. All else is as the sands of the sea, unseen,
unknown, of a great uselessness. We are
tremendously excited, and · hopeful, and our
hearts reverberate at the thought of the great
assembly of all our beloved ones. God is in
His Heaven, and all is well. Never fear, how-
PHENEASSPEAKS l~
ever the dark clouds of opposition surround
you. The circle is God-sent, God-preserved.
God be with you all, my dear earth people.
Pheneas speaks.
I do, God bless you, I do.
I have seen His glory.
I am your guide.
Have you been with me long ?
Yes, for many years, watching your develop-
ment along the line ordained.
Do you like this house 1
We have found it for you. It is the ideal
place for much power to be transmitted through
it. It will be a receiving station for much
knowledge.
God bless you in all peace.
September 17, 1926.
(Children present.)
Pheneas speaks. After the usual tests.
Was that message right about a delay 1
Yes, in a way it was right.
But all is well.
I will come soon and tell more.
rou seem to have left us.
You have this idea of your book in your
mind, and it blocks me. We are like two
people meeting on a plank. One or other has
to give away.
2~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
Wtll, it is your book, not mine.
You have been the pen. I, the writer.
Exactly, hut I hafJt to arrang1 all about whm
t() publish and so on.
It will all arrange itself.
Wait until it is really needed.
I will read it and let you know.
But it takes three months in the press.
Well, you could have it printed, and then
hold back the edition.
- J7ery good, I will do so.
Do not trouble. All will be easy.
If you make the sign of the cross on your
foreheads when you lie down to sleep you help
the good spirits.
rou seem to hafJe some fJery R.C. ideas.
Yes, they know the signs, but not always the
spirit.
THe then gave Denis some advice.]
Why do we get nothing at our fJoice sittings 1
It is not yet ready. You can't get an apple
dumpling ti~l you have the apples. You might
say that we have the crust ready now.
September 2·8, 1926.
It is. like this. When the vibrations are
low, then you fighten them up by .another
·cord which is created by the earth's vibrations.
~ Some day I-:will tell you how to get the most
PHENEASSPEAKS 2~
sensitive vibrati~n on earth, so that we, can
almost see each other.
We thought you had gone. We h•oe been
lonely.
Do not ever feel lonely, for I am always
within call.
I wonder if a Dictaphone would not be
desirable to save you writing.
I will consider that.
As to my absence you must realise that it is
difficult sometimes for me to penetrate the
barrier which gathers round you. In this
place there was an entity who was a very
strong materialist when on earth. He brought
others of the same sort to foregather in his
old home. We have now banished him to his
right place. _We wanted a battery of human
power here to release those who had originally
owned the spot. We have the right vibrations
now.
We have also entire control of the Forest
House-entire control. It is what your very
practical wife would call " spring-cleaned."
God's mark is in every room.
Our sentinels are replenished with power
-I mean our leafy sentinels. Those who
protect Nature in our sphere haye been busy
spring-cleaning them also.
zoo PHENEAS SPEAKS
You have had long sight by· which you can
visualise the Coming Country towards which
you and humanity have been walking. You
have told them, and they have jeered, because
they could only see the stones at their feet.
But many are looking up now, and can see
dimly an outline, and these are handing on
what they see. Before long they.will see what
is now the horizon close up, and will acclaim
you.
I want no acclaiming.
My power is running down.
I wish you to throw out your vibrations
to the Homeland, as it makes a double cord·
You must take a real interest in your future
home. Otherwise those preparing it lose heart.
I do take interest, but I am very busy here.
September 29.
In the evening Pheneas's guard spoke to us.
He then seems to have called Pheneas, who
came very cheerily. After the usual password,
he said:
I now can come_down with great ease. You
have made me a good. landing place. This
whole forest may be called our landing place
upon e.atth, an unspotted place.
PHENEAS SPEAKS -Jo7
You cannot think how I am pulled to pieces
by human vibrations when I have to come to
you amid crowds.
We lQok on you as a stand~rd for C\Ur
aer~al. That standard must be plumb. It
must be held up by supports. These are
humility, bravery, knowledge, tenderness, open-
mindedness. If the standard is out of plumb
our message won't get through.
I have a room in this house. From the
window I look out on the great tree sentinels.
We are greatly honoured.
You must think more of what we are doing
for you in our home.
How can I, with so much before us?
All is going on well-more than well.
All beautiful things down to the smallest
berry or flower are from God, and act as God's
servant.
There is one here who was earnest and good in
life, but now that he has passed over he realises
that he really missed everything. He is horrified
to find it so, and his one desire now is to make
good by helping you. He has attached himself
to your forces.
Yes, get a Dictaphone. Use it for all purposes.
For above all, it is needful to get an exact
record of what we say when we consider its
importance in the days to come.
~~ PHENEAS SPEAKS
Octob1r 10, 1926.
God bless you. I wanted to come to-night
especially.
Yes, I believe in God, because I have seen
His glory. No, I am not Pheneas. I am an
Arabian. I go with him always to the East.
Any news of the future?
Only this. That we are very expectant.
(Another spirit came.]
'
Are you happy orJer there ?
I am, and have been for some time since my
dear wife came over here, and helped me to
join her.
Did we know your wife ?
No, but you helped her greatly when she was
distressed over my passing, so I have come to
thank you and bless you with all my heart.
ferhaps you can help our children.
I will do all I can with all my heart.
(Pheneas came.]
I will try to write direct. It is strange for
me to write. When I was on earth we used to
write through pieces of leafy stuff. This is
quite different.
(The wnting became very rough.)
Ydu know that I am coming with you all
the way until we meet at last in the great
beyond.
PHENEAS SPEAKS ~~
[Pheneas then began to talk. He said that
the conditions were always very thin because
I would not show interest enough in the other
world, but only in the future of this world.]
Seeing that I was rather hurt by what seemed
to me to be unnecessary criticism, Pheneas
came back and spoke very beautifully. He
said he was very eager to get through some
teaching about the spheres which had never
before been given to humanity. It was this
which he was anxious to give me.
Further messages carry down to November 16.
He said:
If trouble comes it is not a case of "poor
people." Those who are even a little good
will come into what is a little better. As to
those who have misled others and stood in the
way of God's light they will be removed. There
is no one, however humble, who has not a special
guidance from above, one little ray shooting
down to him, and to all living things, from the
centre of love. No one is neglected. There
is a glowing cord of love.
All these disturbances of Nature are like the
sire_
ns which in your world would summon
the workmen to their work.
Novemher 26.
(Aspirit came.)
Do you believe in God ?
210 PHENEAS SPEAKS
I do, because ever since I ~me to this wonder-
ful world I have seen His love everywhere. I
am an Arabian.
A friend of Pheneas P
Yes, his cousin. Pheneas has a great band
round him.
Did you also lifle at Ur P
No, I lived many miles apart from him.
Was he a King or ChiefP
He was a leader among the people, respected
and beloved.
Was he a warrior P
He won a great battle against odds. That
was what first drew the people's attention to
him. Then it was his glorious character.
Humanity lives in a closed box at present,
knowing nothing of the great spirit world
outside, so full of radiant vibrations.
What shall we ciJll you P
You can call me Josephus.
T'hese are Eastern, hut hardly Arab names.
We care nothing for our old earth names.
I suppose it is thousands of years since your
earth life.
Time is as a puff of wind over here. It is
not. Your own time will very soon be the
same.
PHENEAS SPEAKS 21 1
Pheneas came.
Have you any message 1 · ...
·Just this. It is the·great fight of good against
evil. What we want is not that folks should
be frightened, but that they should begin to
change themselves and to develop on more
spiritual lines. We are ·not trying to make
people nervous but to prepare them while there
is time. The world could not. go on as it has
done. It would destroy itself if it did.
~or_ the sake of unborn generations a new
right understanding of God, the great, tender
Father ·of all, must be given to humanity, and
the old theological misconceptions of God as a
Judge must be swept away. Love, not fear,
must reign in each heart. Humanity must
know the kind of existence they will lead in the
lower greyer spheres if their lives are selfish and
evil in the earth plane. Knowledge of where a
man's actions are leading him will help and
inspire him to live at his highest and _wh~t to
av id: The knowledge of the real and human
hap ~ness in the higher worlds ahead will give
a man courage in facing sorrows and difficulties
on this earth. The hope and joy of great
happiness and the fulfilment of all his heart's
ideals will make life here so much easier to bear,
and so much more radiant. When beloved ones
have their promotion to the Higher life, Death
212 PHENEAS S:PEAKS
will have lost all its sting, all its tragic sorrow,
when those left on earth know that through the
infinite love and goodness of God a bridge of
communication has been made and that the
dear ones have not been cut off, but can still
make their presence known and can help and
guide and influence by their newly gained know-
ledge of the Higher life. Humanity's tears will
thus be dried and a new hope and anticipation
of a greater life will inspire men and women to
greater love and understanding of each other
and to Him, the great Father of every living
thing. The world will then be as He meant it
to be. The shadows· will flee away and God's
love will radiate through all.
Those who have stood in the way of God's
truth are being swept aside. Soon, very soon,
the light will be seen in the sky, God's untainted
sky, and great will be the fear. Great also the
rejoicing of those who have kept their lamps
burning against the coming of the bridegroom.
Tell the people this that they will be forced
to realise God and life immortal. The autumn
leaves of the world's history have fallen, the
winter frosts are approaching; Then the dawn;
Then the spring of eternity. And above all,
~hen the sunshine of love-God-Just that,
God! \
T HE END,
PHENEAS SPEAKS 213
A LAST WORD
I would now add one or two comments upon
the teaching of Pheneas. First of all, I would
ask any Roman Catholic or Plymouth Brother
or Bible student, or other ultra-orthodox critics
whether any traces of diabolical origin can be
seen in the teachings or influences of Pheneas.
I would also ask agnostic critics whether the
script bears out their oft repeated assertion
that nothing but rubbish comes through. Fin-
ally, I would beg those who accuse Spiritualists
and Spiritsof beinginimical to Jesus of Nazareth,
whether the conception of the Cosmic Christ,
and of Him as being one of the representatives
of it, does not make His wonderful career and
influence more intelligible and more universal.
This view of the matter, with Pheneas's assertion
that the same or a similar great Spirit is about
to manifest Itself once more in the world's
history, is a matter which is utterly foreign to
our own minds. So, too, is that ·conception
of coming events which is dimly outlined here-
PHENEAS SPEAKS
the time has not yet come for fuller detail-
and which has been corroborated by not less
than a hundred independent communications
from all parts of the world. To speak of such
revelations as coming from our own sub-
conscious minds is a mere playing with words,
since we are at once faced with the questi~n
as to what inspires the sub-conscious mind with
such definite information and original ideas.
No sub-conscious theory touches the fact that
so much correct information has come through
which, was beyond our knowledge.
Let me sum up in a short epitome the teaching
which we have received under the general
guidance of Pheneas, supported, as will be seen,
by many other less exalted beings. His whole
message breathes intense reverence for the
Christ Spirit, which he realises as a sort of
spiritual prism which focusses the Divine rays
upon the world. He proclaims that the world
must prepare itself for great changes, physical
and spiritual, all leading to a higher level of
human existence, which would seem, so far as
we can trace it, to imply a more equal distribu-
tion of wealth, greater simplicity of life, far
greater humanity both to fellow creatures
- \
PHENEAS SPEAKS 215
and to animals, abstinence from 'flesh diet, and
the end of all dogmatic religions, forms, and
rituals, inspiration coming direct from constant
contact with the spirit world, so that the two
spheres will act in close harmony and co-
operation. Such is the future as Pheneas
foresees it.
As to the general tendency of the teaching,
the removal of the fear of death, the mitigation
of sorrow on the death of others, the addition
of knowledge upon vital subjects, the increased
reality of our spiritual life, the help and beauty
of this angelic contact-all this must be left to
the discernment of the reader.
A small meeting was held at our Bat on
Feb. 8th, when a few friends were taken into
our confidence over the Pheneas revelations.
From this meeting Mrs. St. Clair Stobart went
straight to a seance which she had fixed with
the well known medium Mrs. Barke!, at the
Psychic College. Pheneas at once came through
to her, said that he had come on account of a
meeting just held, and that he wished to
.confirm all that I had said. He added that
"it could be averted if people would become
more spiritual.'' This message from Pheneas is
216 PHENEAS SPEAKS
entirely independent of us, for no one at the
Psychic College knew of our meeting nor was
there time for anyone to have carried news of
it. It was a definite proof that Pheneas is an
independent entity and a ·powerful confirmation
of the weighty messages and warnings which he
has given to the world.
A.C.D.
'
Whilat tb~ book was in the press two great disturbances
were teported from Dalmatia and Kamscatcha. Both these
out-of-the-way places have been mentioned in the Script as
centres of coming trouble.
MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BBITMX
BY
JosEPH WoNES, WEST BaoxwicB.
PSYCHIC BOOKS
By ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.
THE NEW REVELATION. 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.
• THB VITAL MESSAGE. 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.
WANDERINGS OF A SPIRITUALIST. 12s. 6d.
OUR AMERICAN ADVENTURE. 1os. 6d.
OUR SECOND AMERICAN ADVENTURE.
lOS. 6d.
THE MYSTERY OF JOAN OF ARC. 7s. 6d.
(Translated from Leon Denis.)
THE LAND OF MIST : A Psychic Romance.
7S• 6d.
THE HISTORY OF SPIRITUALISM. £2 2s.
(Two Vols., IDustrated).
BRITISH COLLEGE OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE,
S9, Holland Park, W.
Members have a Library, Lectures, and the
opportunity of seances with select mediums. Apply
Hon. Sec.
LONDON SPIRI'FUALIST ALLIANCE,
16, Queensberry Place, South Kensington, S.W.
The Alliance has now a large and commodious
building with every amenity, and it aspires to be the
world centre and Mecca of psychic knowledge.
Library, Lectures, Advice. One guinea per annum.
Spiritualist Services are held every Sunday
at II a.m. and 6-30 p.m. (Rev. George Vale Owen,
the Pastor) at the Grotrian Hall, Wigmore Street.
Also at 6-30 p.m. at the l&lian Hall in Bond
Street. ~ are welcome.
•
THE PSYCHIC BOOKSHOP,
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
[Proprietor : Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.]
This central depot for knowledge was estab-
lished to meet the fact that psychic literature, the
most important literature in the world, found hardly
any place upon the shelves of the ordinary book
seller.
What advantages does it offer ?
1. It contains a splendid stock of psychic books,
which is always kept up-to-date, and
includes the old literature as well as the new.
2. It has a circulating library from which these
books, which are often expensive, can be
taken out at 2/6 a month or a guinea a year.
Provincial customers are served by post.
3. It has a psychic museum which is unique.
4. It gives advice and direction gratis.
Come and inspect or write for Catalogues.
PSYCHIC BOOKSHOP,
ABBEY HOUSE, VICTORIA STREET, S.W.
Telephone: Franklin 6:~48.
Telegrams: "Ectoplasm, Sowest."
-·
Remember!
THAT THIS PSYCHIC QUESTION IS
A VITAL ONE AND INDIVIDUAL TO
YOURSELF. A COMPREHENSION OF
IT CHANGES ONE'S WHOLE OUTLOOK
ON LIFE. ONE NEGLECTS IT AT
ONE'S PERIL.
HOW THEN MAY YOU KNOW MORE?
There are many avenues open :
THE LONDON SPIRITUAL ALLIANCE,
16, Qu~ensberry Place, S.W.
THE PSYCHIC BOOKSHOP &: LIBRARY,
2, Victoria Street, S.W.
THE PSYCHIC COLLEGE,
59, Holland Park, W.
THE STEAD BUREAU,
S, Smith Square, S.W.
THE GROTRIAN HALL SERVICES,
Wigmore Street, W.
THE AEOLIAN HALL SERVICES,
Bond Street, W.
And Spiritualistic Services in every
Quarter of London,
But above all,
READ, STUDY, REFLECT.
