{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__behrend___attaining_your_desires.pdf","mytitle":"Attaining Your Desires","mylang":"de"}
Attaining Your Desires
ByLettingYour Subconscious Mind
Work for You
By
GENEVIEVE BEHREND
L. N. FOWLER lie COMPANY
7, IMPERIAL ARCADE, LUDGATE CIRCUS
LONDON, E. C., ENGLAND
Published by
THE ELIZABETH TOWNE COMPANY
Incorporated
HOLYOKE, MASS., U. S. A.
COPYRIGHT, 1!!2.i
BY
GENEVIEVE BEHREND
P rinted in U.S.A.
DEDICATION
"There shall never be one lost good/ What was,
shall live as before."
-Browning.
"I know that, whatsoever God doetli, it shall be for-
ever: nothing can be put to it, nor anything
taken from it. That which hath been is now;
and that which is to be hath already been,· and
God requireth that which is past."
-Ecclesiastes 3: 14, JS.
These pages, the outpouring of a full heart, I lay
reverently upon the memory altar of a man who was
sage and saint, teacher and guide, and my dearly
beloved friend, Judge Thomas T. Troward.
ATTAINJNG YOUR DESIRES 5
FOREWORD.
'"All we have willed or hoped or dreamed of good,
shall exist, ·
Not its semblance, but itself."-Browning.
"The thing that hath been, it is that which shall
be; and that which is done is that which shall be
done."-Ecclesiastes 1:9.
THE sages of the centuries, each one
tincturing his thought with his
own soul essence, have united in tell-
ing us that, "As a man thinketh in
his heart, so is he." It has been estab-
lished by the experience of the ages
that always the law is the same. But
HOW shall one think in his heart, so
that only goodness may blossom and
ripen into rich deed and rare result?
What is the apparently mysterious
secret by which life's dull. metal is
transmuted into precious mintage?
It is my purpose to tell you in this
little book. I desire to crystallize the
heart-coinings of my revered master,
Judge Thomas T. Troward, as reflected
6 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
hrough the mirror of my mind and
soul. I have adopted as my means of
expression, the dialogue style, familiar
to all students of that greatest of all
speculative philosophers, Plato. I am
convinced, through years of study of
this almost superhuman mind, that
this literary form is the one most
nearly calculated to convey the mo.
st
subtle shades of meaning, the richest
depths of soul-sounding. I know that
my readers will agree with me that if
they will put themselves in my place,
as students, and let me answer them as
my master answered me, it will clarify
their interest and intensify their joy in
these lessons.
What I wish particularly to convey
to you within these pages is the method
of scientific right thinking, and to
awaken! nyoutneClesire to try to
use this method in order to form the
habit of thinking ONLY the thoughts
you wish to see crystallized in a worthy
achievement or result. In addition, I
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 7
• want to direct your thoughts toward
a better understanding of that Spirit
of God, or Good, which points the way
to the roseate dawn of a new civiliza-
tion. The rapidity with which the
ideas of man are changing causes
humanity to realize that this \new
civilization is already manifesting itself
through a clearer understanding of the
relation between man and his Maker. ··
The epochal keynote of the present
generation is that mind is the kingdom
in which man reigns supreme. As
the poet says, "A brute I might have
been, but I would not sink i' the scale."
In endeavoring to make conscious use
of thought-power, causing it to pro-
duce desired material results, man-
kind is beginning to understand the
' indispensability of absolute control/
My chief idea in sending forth this
message is to make it easier for you to
live in hourly consciousness that you
have been given dominion over every
adverse circumstance and condition
~"s ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
which may arise. The conscious use
of the creative power of thought to
protect and guide you, as well as to
provide for you, is only attainable
through understanding the "patural
relations between mental action and
w ateriaJ conditions.'~· .
Your reading of these lessons should
be with a steadfast determination to
think rationally and effectively on every
word, in order that the full meaning/
of each thought may be thoroughly
grasped and comprehended. Thought-
power is the kingdom of God in us,
always creating results in physical
forms corresponding to our normal
sustained thought. As Troward has
..., .said, "Thought is the only action of
the mind. By your habitual thoughts
you create corresponding external
physical conditions, because you
thereby create the nucleus which at-
tracts to itself its own correspondence,
in due order, until the finished work
is manifested on the material plane."""'
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 9
This is the principle upon which
we shall proceed to work out a simple
and rational basis of thought and
action whereby we may bring into
outer expression any desired goal. Let
us work together to this end.
G.B.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 11
TROWARD-
PHILOSOPHER AND SAGE
ONE of the really great minds and
s.ouls of modern times-and
indeed of any time-was Thomas
Troward, late Divisional Judge of the
Punjab, India. Of his writings, the
late William James of Harvard said,
"Far and away the ablest statement
of that psychology that I have ever
met, beautiful in its sustained clear-
ness of thought and style, a really
classic statement." The Boston Tran-
script editorially stated, "The author
reveals himself as easily the profound-
est thinker we have ever met on this
subject." The late Archdeacon Wil-
berforce, when writing to Troward,
signed himself, "Your grateful pupil."
Responding to the many requests
from Troward's friends and admirers
for a more intimate glimpse of this
great man, I am pleased to present
to you a few phases of his daily life
12 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
\
as I saw them while studying with
him. These may be all the more
interesting because of the fact that I
· enjoyed the unique privilege of being
the only pupil to whom he ever gave
personal instruction.
THE EARLY LIFE OF A GENIUS
Thomas Troward was borri in
Ceylon, India, in the year 1847, of
English parents and Huguenot ances-
tors. When quite a young boy he
was sent to England to be educated
at Burmshtead Grammar School, but
was most unhappy there, as he could
not fully adapt himself to the humdrum
life of the English schoolboy. Later
on, when he continued his education
in the beautiful Isle of Jersey, its
charm entered into his blood, and he
was thoroughly contented there. Per-
haps the old Huguenot strain in him
found a congenial element in the
semi-French environment of the col-
lege. At the early age of eighteen
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 13
\ he natural bent of his mind began to
assert itself, and he won the Relford
College gold medal for literature!"'
When his studies were completed,
Troward went up to London for the
Indian Civil Service examination, a
very stiff one, which he passed with
high credit. He returned to India
at the age of twenty-two in the capacity
of Assistant Commissioner. An inci-
dent which occurred during the course
of his examination foreshadowed the
trend of the life that was to replace
the regulation judicial career when
the twenty-five years of service had
expired. -
"YOUR HEAD IS N 0 COMMON ONE,
YOUNG MAN
71
One of the subjects, left for the end
of the examination, was metaphysics.
Troward was quite unprepared for
this, having had no time for research
and no knowledge of what books to
read on the subject, so he meditated
vR J<Ast ~:J·l~
v
14 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
'upon it in the early hours of the morn-
ing, and filled in the paper with his
own speculations. The examiner, on
reading it, was amazed, and asked,
"What text-book did you use for this
paper?"
"I had no text-book, sir," Troward
answered. "I wrote it out of my
head."
"Well, then, young man," was the
examiner's comment, "your head is
no common one, and if I am not mis-
taken, we shall hear from you again." -
During Troward's career in India
his official work kept him very busy.
His recreation was often spent with.
canvas, paints, and brushes. He was
an artist of no mean ability, especially
in marine subjects, and had won several
prizes at art exhibits in England. He
loved to study the tomes of sacred
Indian lore, or the scriptures of the
Hebrews and of other ancient peoples.
While studying these profound sub-
jects, there was unfolded to him, as in
ATTAINING YOUR bESIRES 15
) a vision, a system of philosophy which
ca~ried with it not only peace of mind,,..,
but also physical results in health and
happiness.,..
When relieved of his burdensome
official duties in the Indian Court, he
returned to England, where a manu-
script of some hundred folios slowly
came into existence. At that time
he had no knowledge of Mental Science,
Christian Science, New Thought, or
any of the "isms" of modern thought.
His views were the result of solitary
meditation and a deep study of the
scriptures. The first edition of the
now famous "Edinburgh Lectures"/
was published in 1904. It was received
with the almost unanimous opinion
that its value could not be over-
estimated, as was true of his subsequent
volumes. "Bible Mystery and Bible
Meaning'' provel-especially attractive
to churchmen. His books, by sheer
worth, have found their way almost
all over the world. In the United
16 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
\
States alone, more than 50,000 copies
have been sold. Perhaps no one was
more astonished at their warm recep-
tion than their simple-hearted, £un-
loving author.
AN INTIMATE DESCRIPTION
In physique Judge Troward was
not the usual English type, but was
more like a Frenchman, of medium
stature, and not over five feet six or
seven inches. He was dark complex-
ioned, with small, bright eyes, a large
nose, and a broad forehead. When I
knew him, he had a drooping mustache
sprinkled with grey. He had.the bear-
ing of a student and a thinker, as is
indicated in his writings. ·
His manner was simple and natural,
and he exemplified a spirit of modera-
tion in all things. I never saw him_
impatient or heard him express~ an
unkind word, and with his family
he was always gentle and considerate.
He seemed to depend entirely upon
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 17
Mrs. Troward for the household man-
agement. Only in the intimacy of
his home did he entirely reveal his
charming geniality and radiating
friendship. His after-dinner manner
was one of quiet levity and a twinkling
humor. He would enter into the con-
versations or· parlor games of the
family with the spirit of a boy. He did
not care for public amusements.
.One evening, after an excellent dinner
of soup, joint of lamb, vegetables,
salad, dessert, and wine, he rolled a
cigarette, and, to my great surprise,
offered it to me with the query, "Do
you smoke?" Receiving a negative
reply, he began to smoke it himself.
Noticing my poorly concealed expres-
sion of surprise, he remarked, "Why
should you be shocked at anything
which you can thank God for? I
can thank God for one cigarette after
dinner, possibly a second, but never a
third.'' After he had finished his
smoke, his youngest daughter, Budeia,
18 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
' played the violin for us. I observed
that he became completely absorbed
in the beautiful harmony. He told
me afterwards that, although he was
intensely fond of listening to music,
he was in no sense a musician.
Although Troward did not indulge
in outdoor sports, he loved nature, and
would sit for hours by the sea with
his sketch-book, or tramp the lonely
moors in solitary meditation. He said
there were times when he obtained
his best inspiration while walking in
the open. He often invited me to go
with him, although frequently he
seemed to be unconscious of my pres-
ence, being entirely absorbed in his
own thoughts.
1• ''
TRUTH FROM THE TRANCE
At times he would lapse into a
trancelike swoon (his Maltese' cat on
the table by }lis side), the swoon
sometimes lasting for hours. At such
times the members of his family would
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 19
\
take particular care not to disturb
him. When he emerged from these
lapses of the senses, he would write '
down the truths which had been re-
vealed to him. Once he wrote on his
memorandum pad, " 'I A~ is the word
of power. If you think your thought -
is power ul, your thought is powerful."
It may be interesting to recall that
such authorities as Barnett and the
new American Encyclopedia, in their
biography of Socrates, mention similar
trancelike experiences of his. While
serving in the Greek army, Socrates
suddenly found his feet seemingly
rooted to the earth, where he remained
in a trance for twenty-four hours. He
awakened~ with a~piritual ~kno~ledge
that transformed his life, and, later,
the lives of many others. The simi-
larity of the life of this Athenian
philosopher to that of Troward is that
both relied chiefly upon intuition and
common sense for theu:-'tlfeor y and
system of living. J '.
20 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
"- A difference between Troward's
teaching and that of Christian Science
is that he does not deny the existence
of a material world. On the contrary,
he teac es that all physical existence
is a concrete corresponding manifesta-
tion of the thought which gave it birth./
One is a complement of the other.
I once asked him how one could im-
part to others the deep truths which he
taught. "By being them," he answered.
"My motto is, 'Being, and not possess-
ing, is the great joy of living.' "
FOLLOWING A TRUSTED GUIDE
Judge Troward, although modest
and retiring in his habits of speech
and slow to express a personal opinion,
was always willing to discuss any
current subject, but extremely reticent
and diffident about his own writings/"
Never, to my knowledge, did he men-
tion them unless approached on the
subject. As a teacher, he was posi-
tive, direct, and always impersonal.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 21
When our lesson was given indoors,
he always sat in a large morris chair,
and, seeming not to be aware of my
presence, he would think aloud. To
follow his thought was like following
a trusted guide through the most
difficult places, the darkest and least
explored regions of thought. As I
followed, the personality of the man
became obscure, and I was only con-
scious of the clear, commanding voice,
and the light of the inward torch
which he bore. It was beyond doubt
quite natural that he who made so
clear the true meaning of individuality
should in his teaching betray little
of the personal or emotional element.
After I had been carefully guided
to the most comforting conclusions,
in the same quiet, unassuming manner
as in the beginning of our mental
journey, my guide would gently remind
me that he had given me a few sug-
gestions which I might follow if I
felt inclined, but which were o:ffered
22 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
"'only in the friendly spirit of a fellow-
traveler. He always tried to impress
upon me that every effort to accom-
plish mental control (which, in turn,
meant control of circumstances) should
\ be undertaken with absolute confi-
dence of success.~ .
The length of a lesson depended
upon my ability to absorb what he
was telling me. If he were convinced
in fifteen or thirty minutes that I
understood quite naturally the reason
why, for example, "If a thing is true,
there is a way in which it is true,"
that lesson was concluded. If it took
me ap. hour or more to get into the
spirit of his thought, the ~esson was
prolonged. At the end of a lesson he
would quietly remark, "Never forget~
that 'seeking' has 'finding' as its cor-
relative: 'knockini,' 'opening.'" With
this reassuring statement, he would
light his lantern and step into the
denseness of the night to walk three
miles to his home.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 23
"
'A HOME-LOVING PHILOSOPHER
Being a home-loving man, Troward
delighted in his flower garden, and in
the intimacy of his home, which he
had provided with every comfort. He
particularly enjoyed the seclusion of
his studio and his study, which were
arranged to meet his personal needs and
moods. His studio was in the most
remote part of the house, and here he
would spend hours of relaxation with
canvas and paints. His study, how-
ever, was on the ground floor, and to
it he would retire for meditation and'
research, usually in the early hours of
the morning. He rarely worked at
night....
He had spent the greater part of
the day he died sketching out of doors.
When he did not join his family at
the dinner hour, Mrs. Troward went
in search of him. She found him in
his studio, fully dressed, lying on the
sofa in a state of physical collapse.Y
About an hour later he passed away.
24 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
The doct~r said that death was caused
by hemorrhage of the brain. I am
sure that Troward would have said,
"I am simply passing from the limited
to the unlimited." He died on May
16th, 1916, in his sixty-ninth year,""
on the same day that Archdeacon
Wilberforce was laid at rest in West-
minster Abbey. It was no ordinary
link that bound these two men, as
you will note in the reproduction of
the letter which follows, Troward's
last letter to me. _,,
Thomas Troward regarded death
very much as he would regard traveling
from one country to another. He re-
marked to me several times, that he was
interested in the life beyond and was
ready to go. His only concern seemed
to be the sorrow that it would cause his
wife and family. When the time came,
his going was exactly what he ·would
have wished it to be.
I hope tha.t these few intimate
touches will give to Troward's friends
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 25
' and admirers the information they
desire concerning him. I will add a
more personal touch for you by pre-
senting herein one of his first letters to
me with facsimile of his handwriting.'
DEAR MRS. SWINK,
31 Stanwick Rd.,
West Kensington,
8th Nov. 1912.
I think I had better write you a few lines with
regard to your proposed studies with me as I should
be sorry for you to be under any misapprehension
and so to suffer any disappointment.
I have studied the subject now for several years,
and have a general acquaintance with the leading
features of most of the systems which unfortunately
occupy attention in many circles at the present time,
such as Theosophy, the Tarot, the Kabala, and the
like, and I have no hesit; tion in saying that to the
best of my judgment all sorts and descriptions of
so-called occult study are in direct opposition to the
real Life-g~g Truth; and therefore you must not
___.,,...__--= ~
expect any teaching on such lines as these. We
hear a great deal in these days about "Initiation"; /
but, believe me, the more you try to become a so-
called "Initiate" the further you will put yourself
from Living Life. I speak after many years of careful
study and consideration when I say that the Bible
26 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
and its Revelation of Christ is the one thing really
worth studying, and that is a subject large enough in
all conscience, embracing as it does our outward life
of everyday concerns, and also the inner springs of
our life and all that we can in general terms conceive
of the life in the unseen after putting off the body at
death.
'1 You have expressed a very great degree of con-
fidence in my teaching, and if your confidence is
such that you wish, as you say, to put yourself
entirely under my guidance I can only accept it as a
very serious responsibility, and should have to ask
you to exhibit that confidence by refusing to look
into such so-called "mysteries" as I would forbid youV
" to look into. I am speaking from experience; but
the result will be that much of my teaching will
appear to be very simple, perhaps to some extent
dogmatic, and you will say you had heard much of
it before. Faith in God, Prayer and Worship,
Approach to the Father through Christ-all this is
in a certain sense familiar to you; and all I can hope
to do is perhaps to throw a little more light on these
subjects, so that they may become to you, not
merely traditional words, but present living facts. I"'
I have been thus explicit, as I do not want you to
have any disappOintnlellt; and also I should say
that our so-called "studies" will be only friendly
conversations at such times as we can fit them in,
either you coming to our house or I to yours as may
be most convenient at the time. Also I will lend you
some books which will be helpful, but they are very
few and in no sense "occuit."
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 27
\
Now if all this falls in with your own ideas, we
shall, I am sure, be very glad to see you at Ruan
Minor, and you will find that the residents there,
though few, are very friendly and the neighboll'hood
is pretty. But on the other hand if you feel that you
want some other sort of learning, do not mind saying
so; only you will never find any substitute for Christ.,,,.
I trust you will not mind my writing to you like
this, but I don't want you to come all the way down
to Cornwall and then be disappointed.
With kind regards
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) T. TROWARD
28 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 29
CONTENTS
Page
DEDICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
FOREWORD .......... .. . . ........ 5
JUDGE THOMAS T. TROWARD, Phi-
losopher and Sage. . . . . . . . . 11
LESSON I-Interpreting the Word. 33
LESSON II-How to Get What You
Want ... . ......... . ...... 39
LESSON III-How to Overcome Ad-
verse Conditions.. .. ....... 65
LESSON IV-Strengthening Your
Will...................... 97
LESSON V-Making Your Subjec-
tive Mind Work for You.... 113
LESSON VI-Hourly Helps ....... 145
LESSON VII-Putting Your Lessons
into Practice.............. 153
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 31
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
AS TOLD BY
THE SAGE TO His PUPIL
THE SAGE: T. Troward's philoso-
phy as taught to his only personal
pupil, Genevieve Behrend.
THE PUPIL: Humanity at large.
~-- ~ - - --....
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 33
LESSON I
\ INTERPRETING THE WORD
FEELING that an explanation of
some of the words employed in an
unusual way in these lessons may be
helpful to the student, I herein offer
a list of such words, together with my
interpretation and references from
Troward.
Absolute
"That which is free from limit, restriction, or
qualification." (Webster.) "An idea from which
the elements of time and space are entirely absent."
(Troward.)
Example: Thinking in the absolute would be
simply dwelling upon the intrinsic qualities of love
witlwut reference to whom you love or the various
forms through which love expresses itself.
Mind is absolute because of its self-reaction. /
~ '
Being
Life, that unformed power of life which controls
circumstances and conditions. Read Troward's
~'Bible Meaning and Bible Mystery," pages 77-79. r
Belief
A certain quality in the creative power of thought,
which manifests on the external plane in exact
34 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
\ correspondence to the quality of belief entertained
D )
If you believe that your body is subject to disease, ,--
then the creative power of the thought of disease '--
results in a diseased body. Read Troward's,
"Edinburgh Lectures on Mental Science," page 14;
Body
The instrument through which thoughts and
feelings are expressed. The envelope of the soul. ,;
Brain
The instrument through and in which the action
of the Universal Parent Mind expresses itself in
specific form as individual thoughts. Brain is not
the mind, but the ~d's ip~trument. ,._,
Christ
A state of consciousness which is altogether good,
and a quality of feeling which manifests in physical
form. The most perfect spiritual concept. ""
Circumstances
The outward effect which corresponds to the
inward tendency of thought. .·
Conception
William James says, "... denotes neither the
mental state nor what the mental state signifies,
but the relation between the two.'Y
Concentration
"Bringing the mfudint~ ; condition of equilibrium
which enables us to consciously direct the flow of
spirit t.o a definite, recognized purpose and then
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 35
'carefully to guard our thoughts from inducing a
flow in the opposite direction."-"Edinburgh
Lectures on Mental Science," P3:,ge 88. (Troward.)
Conditions
The result of mental tendencies. Harmonious
thought produces harmonious physical and material
· conditions, which still further react to sweeten
-~ught.
Consciousness
Activity of mind which enables it to distinguish
itself from the physical form in which it manifests.
Create
To bring into existence. Thought is creative,
because it always brings into physical or objective
existence forms which correspond to itself. ,,.
Death
Absence of life. Loss of consciousness, with no
capacity to regain it. Example: If a thought has
been absolutely eliminated from the consciousness
and cannot be recalled, it is dead to YO'\J.
Faith
"The divine promises and individual faith are
correlations." Combine t,hem, and there is no limit
to what you can do through the creative power in
this quality of thought.
- "Essential thought. Therefore every call to have
faith in God is a call to have faith in the power of
your own thought about God." (Troward.)
~ -- - ------..... ·,
I
II'
36 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
' A confident, expectant attitude of mind. Such a
mental attitude renders your mind receptive tc:i the
creative action of the spirit of life. Have faith in the
force of your own thought. Y~u have many times
experienced what it will do. Jesus' statement,
"Have faith in God and nothing shall be impossible /
unto you," is not a mere figure of speech; it is a
scientific fact, simply stated. Your individual
thought is the specialized_working of the creM_ive
power of life. (All Life.)
,-__..-.
Intelligence
The Universal Infinite Mind. The highest
intelligence is that mind which understands itself
as the instrument through which the Intelligence·
which brought it into exist~nce operates. ,,..,
"'"' ~ ,Joi;
Law
Universal Life and Universal Law are one.
The law of your being (your life) is that you are
, made in the image of God (the Creative Power which·
\ brought you into existence) because you are God's
, very self specialized. ~ . . .
The law of your life is that your mind is "the
individualization of Universal Mind at the state of
self-evolution in which your mind attains the
capacity for reasoning from the seen to the unseen /
and thus penetrating behind the veil of outward
appearance. So because of the reproduction of the
divine creative faculty in yourself, ·your mental
states or modes of thought are bound.to externalize
themselves in your body and in your circumstances."
(Troward.) ______________.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 37
\ Spirit
It is impossible to analyze the nature of Spirit
(or Life), but we can realize that whatever else
Spirit may be, it is a self-creating power which acts
and ,reacts upon itself, reproducing itself in incon-
ceivable forms from the cosmos to man. (Just as
your mind acts and reacts upon itself when you are
'\. memorizing.) ,,,,.
Origin of all visible things.
As it is independent of tim!) and space, it must be
pure thought, the emliodimeiit of ·stored c~nsciOu.;
nes8:-· . ,
A self-acting and self-reacting non-physical crea-
tive power or force. Its action can only be thought,
because thought is the only conceivable non-physical
action. ,,.-
Thought
The specialized action of the original, creative
Spirit or Mind. I"'
Truth /
That which lives in you is truth to you. C-
Visualizing
Inward or mental vision. (Visioning.) Life's
'creating power taking particular form. The act of
. producing in your mind the picture of an cont~'
· lated idea.
Word
Your individual thought is the specialized word or
~tion of the originating mind-power itself. ·
38 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
·\ That which starts the etheric vibration of life
moving ir!._a s ecial direct~oJl,'' corresponding to the
word, which origmates special movement/
''The seed which gives rise to the thing." Plant
your word-seed in the S~jective Mind of the
' universe, and you are sure to receive
a co~sponding
thing, just as truly as poppy seed produces poppies.
Faith gives substance to things ·unseen. ('.the
unseen worn or thought.) .,,- .- - .
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 39
\
LESSON II
How TO GET WHAT You WANT
"Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall
make you free."-St. John 8:32. ,,..
SAGE: If a thing is true, there is a
definite way in which it is true. And
the truest thing in Life is that it con-
tains inherent within itself absolute joy...,.
and liberty of mind, body, and affairs.
- ~
PuPIL: Do you mean that my
understanding of Life's laws can give
me the realization of perfect liberty
in my individual life? '
SAGE: Yes, providing you do not
make the common error of judging
everything from a material standpoint
only. Recent research in physical sci-
ence has established the fact that there
is enough power in a lump of clay to
destroy a city. All the average mind is
able to see is the inert clay, whereas, in
reality, it is the physical instrument
which 9ontains the invisible 2ower.
, ~ . ~ .
40 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
\ PUPIL: Then when I understand
the law of vibration, I can get any-
thing I want; achieve anything I
desire'? _,,.
SAGE: Life fills all space, and
through the understanding and use of
Life's laws, you can give direction to a
particular quality of creative force, /
which, if held in place by the will, is
absolutely certain to reproduce in a
corresponding physical form. What
every human being wants is more
liberty and more joy in life. From
whatever angle you study the sub-
ject of Life, you will find that degrees
of livingness and liberty are invariably
manif~sted by varying degrees of intel-
ligence. What you would term inani-
mate life represents the lower forms
of intelligence; in plant life you recog-
nize a higher degree of .intelligence.
To illustrate this, look at a flower.
Is it not beautiful? Does it not prove
to you the indisputable presence of a
Great Intelligence which is expressing
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 41
itself as beauty, form, and color, and,
above all, joy?
PUPIL: Yes.
SAGE: Still you will not find it
difficult to recognize in the animal
kingdom a quality of Life and Intelli-
gence which is greatly in advance of
that manifested in the flower. Then
the intelligence which expresses itself
in the mind of man as the power of
initiative and selection is the highest
expression of Intelligent Life. Thus
you see that the inanimate, the plant,
the animal, and the human all represent
the same Universal Life, the only
difference being in the varying degrees .
of intelligence. For example: You are
expressing a very high degree of intelli-
gence in desiring to understand the
laws of Life. When you have dis-
covered some part of these laws, you
.will ascend the scale of intelligence as
you make practical application of your
discoveries. Another example: Two
42 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
men leave college with the same
degrees and situated very similatly
relative to social and financial posi-
tion. Both study the laws of Mind;
both are obliged to struggle. One, by
making a great mental effort, keeps
mentally above the discouraging con-
ditions, and finally comes into a smooth
road, while the .other one becomes
disheartened and ill, barely eking out
a miserable existence. You can
readily see where the higher form of
intelligence was manifested in these
two cases. Intelligence was there, but
it could only grow by being used ·con-
structively.
How DEGREES OF INTELLIGENCE
PROVE MAN'S PLACE IN THE
UNIVERSE
SAGE: The greater your intelli-
gence, the more easily you can call
into action the highest order of crea-
tive energy. The more highly you
develop your intelligence (and I do
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 43
not mean by this intellectuality or
book learning-I mean self-education)
the more you will find your old limited
ideas of what you are not, cannot be,
do, or have, imperceptibly slipping
away. By using your intelligence and
resting upon it to guide you Godward,
you will come to recognize that. you
are as much a part of the very highest
Intelligence as a drop of water is a
part of the ocean. This steady recog-
nition on your part, carried into your
everyday affairs, will give you control
over adverse circumstances, which you
realize are, after all, only effects of
lower degrees of intelligence, and will
deliver you from falling a victim of
a material universe. You are not a
victim; you are a part of the Universe.
PUPIL: Just what do you mean
by "effects of lower degrees of intelli-
gence"?
SAGE: I mean, by a lower degree
.-JI intelligence, one that is unable to
44 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
recognize itself as being one of the high-
est forms of life. The highest degree
of intelligence is that form of life which
is able to recognize itself as related to
all existing Intelligence. For example:
You can easily recall the last difficult
situation you came through. It was
the expression of the highest form of
Intelligence which enabled you to think
your way out of that.
THE INTELLIGENCE WHICH DIST1N-
GUISHES US FROM THE APE
SAGE: You recognized your diffi-
culty, but you also recognized your
intelligence as being able to draw to
itself, from out the whole Universe,
ways and means of meeting that per-
plexing problem. The Law is· ever
the same. When you are convinced
that every physical circumstance or
thing has its origin in corresponding
activities of the mind (thought), you
are able to conquer adversity in any
form, because you know you can
ATTAINING YiOUR DESIRES 45
always control your thoughts. You
must always be determined to do your
own thinking.
PuPIL: It is not difficult for me to
understand that the flower is.the result
of some invisible power, which must
be Intelligence, but for me to realize
that this same life and intelligent
power is my life is not easy. I had
not been taught to think in this way.
However, you have made me realize
that if I wish to learn, I must put
into practice the directions you have
given me. So when I needed to have
five hundred dollars at a certain time
and could not see any possible means
of getting it, I tried to follow your
instructions by mentally seeing myself
as doing the thing I wished to do. I
visualized myself paying my obligation,
and in some way, which is still a mys-
tery, I was able to feel quite calm
about it. I made my mental-picture
and actually forgot to worry about
the ways and means, and the money
46 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES .
came. I did not quite understand
then, and I do not now, just how it
happened. All that I am able to
realize is that, by my obedience to
your teaching, the day was saved for
me, and I shall not forget it.
Now I would like to know if we
inherit our tendencies of mind?
SAGE: Most of us inherit our
thoughts, just as we inherit the color
of our eyes. If you intend to under-
stand "the relation existing between
mental action and material condi-
tions" sufficiently well to control your
circumstances, you must think for
yourself, and in your own way, irre-
spective · of what your ancestors
thought, even though some of them
.might have brought desired results.
PuPIL: That seems as impossible as
reaching the horizon. However, if you
tell me that I can arrive at the place
where circumstances and conditions
ATTAINING YOtJR b'.ESIR~S 47 ·
will be under my control, through a
steady and determined effort to find
out the truth along these lines, I shaU
do my own thinking from this moment.
:My present condition, however, seems
beyond the control of any human being,
much less myself and there have been
times when I did control certain condi-
tions, but at other times the same con-
ditions were beyond my control. Why
was that?
THE SECRET OF CONTROLLING YouR
LIFE FORCES
SAGE: The reason you succeeded,
without understanding the power
which you possessed, was that you
used it unconsciously, according to
the law of its own nature, and reached
harmonious results (as in the incident ·
that you have just related). Your
ability, at all times, to use the unfail-
ing power which is yours depends
upon your recognition of its presence.
48 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
The reason for your times of failure
is that the distressing condition so
wholly absorbs your attention that
you are unable to think of anything
else. At such times you entirely lose
sight of the fact that your individual
mind is the instrument through and
in which the very highest form of
intelligence and unfailing power is
endeavoring to express itself. Also,
that it always takes the form of your
habitual thought. Therefore, when
you believe that a situation is beyond
your control, so it is.
PuPIL: Which means that my con-
trol of circumstances is entirely
measured by my capacity to know
that the life and intelligence in me is
the same Life and Intelligence which
brought me into existence? The same
Life lives in the trees and all nature,
and I tune in with all Life? Will
this steady recognition give me direct
contact with all the power and intelli-
gence which exists? Would simply
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 49
dwelling on this thought solve any
situation which might arise?
SAGE: No. "Faith without works<
is dead." God without expression is
a nonentity. Thought without action
is powerless. But your recognition
that you are inseparably connected
with the joy, life, intelligence, and
power of the Great Whole, unwaveringly
maintained and carried into practical
application, will solve any problem,
because your thought calls into specific
action ideas of the very highest degree
of intelligence and power, which
naturally controls the lesser degrees.
"The lesser modes of life are in bondage
to the law of their own being because
they do not know the law." Therefore,
when you know the Laws of Life, this
knowledge gives you ideas which enable
you to control all adverse circum-
stances and conditions.
PuPIL: This is all so new to me, I
do not quite grasp your meaning. Will
you please give me an illustration?
50 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
How To LIGHT THE PATHWAY OF
YOUR LIFE
SAGE: Well, suppose you were in a
room where every comfort had been
provided for you, but the room was
in total darkness, and you were unable
to locate the things you desired,
although you were conscious of their
presence. You were told that the
room was electrically lighted, and
instinctively you began to grope your
way along the wall, where you were
accustomed to look for a light switch.
For hours you passed your hands
up and down the walls as far as you
could reach until you were quite
fatigued. You were about to give up
the search and make the best of a
bad situation, but, overlapping this
thought, there came the resolve that
you would not abandon your effort
until you had located it. You were
determined to enjoy the good things
awaiting you, so you renewed your
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 51
search with the feeling of assurance
that ultimately you would find a way
to turn on the light.
After more fruitless endeavor, you
paused to rest, and to wonder where
that switch could possibly be. "It
must be here, and I shall find it," you
said to yourself, and again you passed
your hands over the walls, although you
felt certain that you had gone over
every inch you could reach. This time
your thoughts and movements were
not quite so tense, although equally
determined. As your hands moved
slowly up and down, your mind caught
the idea that the switch might not be
on the wall at all. You paused a mo-
ment, and the suggestion that it might
be on the floor registered in your con-
sciousness. But reason stepped in and
argued, "Impossible. Who ever heard
of a light switch being placed on the
floor!"
"But," the suggestion persisted,
"why not try? You have gone over
52 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
what first seemed the most reasonable
places to find it. Try the floor."
So then you began to reach out
uncertainly with your feet for some
projection on the floor which might
be a light switch.
FINDING THE LIGHT
Almost instantly your feet came into
contact with an unfamiliar object.
You put your hand on what seemed
to be a push button, and you pushed
and pulled, but no light appeared.
Nevertheless, you now felt quite sure
that you had located the switch. You
paused, and involuntarily asked your-
self, "How does this thing work? It
won't push and it won't pull." Back
came the answer within yourself like
a spoken word. "Sidewise." You
·moved it sidewise, and the room was
flooded with light. Your joy at thus
finding a responsive intelligence within
yourself could not be expressed in
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 53
words. It was a rapture of the heart
which many have felt at times:
PuPIL: Oh, I am so glad that the
switch was found through clinging to
the right mental attitude! Does such
persistent effort always meet with
such a satisfactory reward?
SAGE: Yes, persistent, confident
endeavor always brings satisfaction.
In order to give you a complete
picture from which you may logically
reason in the future,_let us consider
the same situation from an opposite
angle.
Imagine yourself in the same room
under the same conditions. After
several attempts at feeling around in
the dark, you begin to feel tired,
more or less discouraged, and you
reason with yourself thus, "Oh, what
is the use? There may be a light
switch in this room, and the room
may contain everything I require, and
again it may not." But something
54 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
indefinable in yourself convinces you
that not only is the light there, but
so, also, are the things you enjoy and
desire. You answer right back to
yourself, "Well, if everything is here
which I need and would enjoy, what
a pity that I cannot find the switch!
What a strange and unreasonable way
some people have of doing things!
I wonder why the light was not already
turned on for me."
PUPIL: You make it seem that
one almost involuntarily and invaria-
bly blames circumstances or people
for his failures!
"THE FAULT, DEAR BRUTUS, LIES NOT
IN THE STARS, BUT IN OURSELVES,
THAT WE ARE UNDERLINGS"
SAGE: You must admit that it is
rare to find anyone who realizes that
the cause of his failure or continued
misfortune lies within himself. The
reason for this is an almost universal
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 55
lack of understanding on the part of
the individual that a certain quality
of thought brings to the consciousness
a recognition of an intelligent power
capab~e of attracting to him, and
directing him to, the fulfillment of
his purpose and the attainment of his
desire. On the other hand, the inver-
sion of this same power effects a
negative result.
PUPIL: You mean that a certain
-quality of thought enables one to do
and be what he wishes, while the
misuse of the same power seems to
thwart one's purpose?
SAGE: Yes. The idea is to use ·
your power of thought and feeling
positively, in order to attain ,positive
results. Use it negatively, and you
get negative results, because the
unchangeable law is, "Intelligence
always manifests in responsiveness."
The whole action of the evolutionary
process of Life, from its first inanimate
56 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
beginning up to its manifestation in
human form, is one continual intelli-
gent response.
If you would induce yourself to
recognize the presence of a Unjversal
Intelligence which permeates all
nature, you must also recognize a
corresponding responsiveness hidden
deep down in all things-in the trees,
the weeds, and flowers, in the animals,
and, in fact, ' in everything-which is
ever ready to spring into action when
appealed to. It will respond to your
call as a child would obey when bidden
to come and play.
In your first experience in the dark
room, your all-absorbing thought was
not so much about the darkness as
about· the light, and how it couUl be
turned_
on. The positive "I will" qual-
ity of your thought brought up from
the depth of your inmost soul a steady
flow of intelligent power, which finally
penetrated through to your intellect
and guided your hand to the switch. ,.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 57
PuPIL: But the second time when
I also thought I must find the switch,
there was no enlightened response.
It seems to me that this is one's
everyday experience. The first case
seems like a miraculous coincidence.
DON'T LOOK FOR COINCIDENCES IN
LIFE
EVERY EFFECT HAS ITS CAUSE
SAGE: Oh, no. All is Life, and
all is law and order. There are no
coincidences in reality, no "happen
so's." You will realize this if you
will recall some of your own experi-
ences similar to the ones used in the
illustrations. You often feel that you
must have "light," and, after several
attempts to avail yourself of it, your
thought and feeling settle into the
"I cannot do it" groove; "it may be
possible for those who know how, but
I don't," etc. The best method of
learning the truth about this is to
58 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
live your past experiences over again.
Analyze what your thoughts and feel-
ings were when you succeeded, and
when you failed. Then draw your
own deductions. No written or
spoken words equal this kind of
instruction.
Remember that all space is filled
with a responsive Intelligence and
Power ever ready to .take any form
which your sustaining thought-demand
creates. This power can work only
in terms of the thought instrument
through which it operates. Humanity
generally admits Jesus' ability, Jesus'
power to use the spirit of intelligent
life to produce material conditions-
as in turning water into wine, but
they doubt their ability to use the
same Power in themselves, in spite
of Jesus' assurance, "All things are
possible unto you." Now this state-
ment is either true or false. If true
it is because your mind is the instru·
ment in and through which this
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 59
intelligent Principle of Life takes initi-
ative action, and this action, in turn,
is always in accordance with the laws
of life, which are subjective in their
nature.
. LIFE'S GREATEST PURPOSE IS TO
EXPRESS Joy, BEAUTY, AND PoWER
'PuPIL: Am I right in concluding
that this lesson in life, which is an
ever-present, limitless, intelligent
power, is ready at all times to be
guided in any direction that my sus-
tained thought may give it? If I
permit myself to be anxious, dis-
couraged, dissatisfied, I bring into
action repelling, destructive forces?
Life's purpose is to give expression
to Its joy, beauty, and power, through
Its particular instrument, my thought.
Is this right?
SAGE: You have grasped the letter
of the lesson in a remarkable way.
Now it remains only for you to
experience the happiness of what you
v.:i
~ have learned. Do this putting by your
~ knowledge to practical application,
1:: never losing sight of the fact that no
~ J matter what justification you may
t think you have at the time, any feeling
~of <f::i:§s;.f!!:!!,agement) dissatisfaction, or
\ c nxiety causes the fulfillment of your
· right desire to recede further and further
away from you. Whereas, by persistent
and determined endeavor to trust your
own desires and ambitions as the
specific expression of the universal
loving, guiding, and protecting Prin-
ciple, you will find that your supply
for their fulfillment will unfold to you
greater and greater liberty in every
direction.
PuPIL: When one does not wish
to entertain negative thoughts, how
can the sense of discouragement and
anxiety be shut out? I am sure that
it is not because one enjoys feeling
worried that it seems so difficult to
eliminate it. Do you mean that it is as
possible to snap out of a thought one
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 61
doesn't want as it is to step from one
room to another? I should like to
know how that is accomplished, as I
have many unwelcome thoughts which
I am wholly unable to·dismiss at the
time. After a period they leave, but it
seems to me they use their own sweet
will about it. I have honestly tried to
rid myself of thoughts, which seemed
to cling all the tighter when I tried to
throw them off. It would be wonderful
to cast off a thought as one would a
garment! How can it be done?
SAGE: By keeping a positive atti-
tude of~mind regarding your innermost
desire as an accomplished fact, whether
it be for a state of mind or fo~ a thing.
You cannot think positive and nega-
tive thoughts at the same time.
PuPIL: Oh, is that true? It seems
to me I have often been speaking to
someone on a certain subject while my
thoughts were on an entirely different
one.
62 ATTAINI:N"G YOUR DESiRES
You CAN AcTUALLY THINK OF ONLY
ONE THING AT A TIME
SAGE: You were thinking one thing
and saying another. You had only
one thought. You automatically said
one thing while thinking another. In
short, your words were not the expres-
sion of the thought in your mind.
Suppose you give yourself a test; try
to think of yourself as a success and a
failure at the same time. You will
find it impossible to think positively .
and negatively simultaneously. In our
next lesson we will take this up more
extensively and prove why it is true.
Also why you, as an individual, can
control circumstances, whether they
be mental, physical, or financial,
through the understanding of your
personal relationship to the Intelli-
gence which governs the universe.
PUPIL: I know that what you say
is true, but just what method should I
· employ to accomplish this? There
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 63
are times when I become cross and
impatient with myself because I give
way to anxiety and fear (the very
things which I know now will cause
my defeat). And yet I will do it,
just as I will eat something I like even
though I know it will disagree with
me. Could you give me a formula to
use at such times?
How TO DRIVE .ANx!ETY OuT OF
YouR MIND
SAGE: When the triad of enemies-
fear, anxiety, and discouragement-
assails you, poisoning your mind and
body, weakening your power to attract
what you want, begin instantly to take
deep breaths, and repeat as fast as you
can, aloud or silently, the following
affirmation, which is an antidote to
the poison and a powerful assurance
and attraction of Good:
The Life in me is inseverably connected with all
the life that exists, and it is entirely devoted to my
personal advancement.
64 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
If you are alert and can make this
affirmative thought overlap the nega-
tive, anxious suggestion, you will very
soon free yourself. If the tendency
to dwell on these erronevus beliefs
keeps recurring, go where you can be
alone, repeat your affirmation, and
endeavor ·
;to lift your mind up to your
words, much as you would lift your
breath from the bottom to the top of
your lungs. Never be impatient with
yourself because you do not quite suc-
ceed in your every endeavor. It is your
intention that counts, not necessarily
the absolute fulfillment of the letter.
The ALL-KNOWING POWER
THAT IS understands and rewards
accordingly. Be diligent and patient,
and you will surely succeed.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 65
LESSON III
How To OVERCOME ADVERSE
CONDITIONS
"There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking
makes it so."-Shakespeare.
SAGE: If you wish to overcome
adverse conditions or to maintain a
favorable one, it is necessary to have
some knowledge of the fundamental
or originating Spirit, and your relation
to It. The true order of these funda-
mental principles of life which you are
endeavoring to understand does not
require you to deny the reality of the
existing physical world, or to call it an
illusion. On the contrary, by admitting
the exi:.§,~CdfLQJ.. the physical, youthereby /
see the completion of a great invisible,
creative process. This enables you to
assign physical manifestations to their
proper places in the creative series,
which your former way of thinking
did not enable you to do. You now
66 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
\ ealize that, while the origin of life
is not in itself physical or material,
it must throw out physical and material
vehicles through which to function as
its means of expression, in varying
degrees of intelligence, such as the
vegetable or the animal kingdom,
and the human, as illustrated in our
last lesson. All are forms of life,
because of that inner Principle of
being which sustains them. The Life
Principle with which you are primarily
concerned is the life of thought and feel-
ing in yourself. You are a vehicle or
distributing medium of the creative Spirit /
of Life. If you understand this, you
will have some idea of what the origi-
nating Spirit of Life is in Itself, and
your relation to It as an individual.
PUPIL: Since thought and feeling
are the origin of all things, would it
not be necessary to get into the spirit
of their origin in order to control cir-
cumstances? Is it true that my
thoughts and feelings are the same as
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 67
those of the limitless Power and Intel-
ligence of the universe?
How You CAN CoNTROL CrncuM-
STANCES AND ERRONEOUS
CONDITIONS
SAGE: In essence they are the same.
You are able to control the circum-
stances and conditions relative to your
individual world, of which you are the
center, by making your thoughts and
feelings correspondent in quality (at
least in a degree) to what you believe ·
are those of the originating, intelligent
forces of life.
PuPIL: Is it true that the life in
me contains everything that I, as an
individual, could ever require? Are
my thoughts and feelings the central-
izing power of my particular world?
If so, then Browning explains the
situation when he says, "We carry
within us the wonders we seek with-
out us." If I know and practice
this great fact, the wonder of Life's
68 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
understanding power will come forth
in me by its own divine right, and
assume command over all my problems
in exactly the same degree that I
recognize it. Is that correct?
SAGE: Yes, Browning has voiced
the truth in that sentence. The divine
Principle in you is complete, and is
the only Life there is. But this should
not lead you into the error of believing
that you are not to exert yourself~
' Remember that the life-germ in you is
an Intelligence which can call into
specific action all of life's forces from
out the entire universe, but it can
only work through your intelligence
in correspondence to what you con-
fidently believe it can and will do.
Therefore, be practical in your reason-
ing, and diligent in your deeds.
Suppose I give you an example:
You have a glass of dirty water. In
order to have the clear water, you
would continue to .pour the clean
water into the· glass of dirty water
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 69
until every drop of the dirty water
had flowed out of it, wouldn't you?
The same rule applies to adverse
conditions. Pour into them a steady
stream of confidence in the power of
God in you to change them, and they
will change, correspondingly./
PuPIL: I understand. You mean
that I should use my common sense,
coupled with a steady faith in God
and earnest, concentrated mental
effort?
COMMON SENSE AND YouR MENTAL
FACULTIES
SAGE: That is it. Use your com-
mon sense and all your mental faculties
as far as they will take you. How-
ever, you should never try to force a
situation. Always allow for the Law
of Growth. Remember that condi-
tions will grow into the correlative
shape of your firmly held mental
attitude "under the guidance of the
All Creating Wisdom." If you will
70 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
'follow this method of reasoning, you
will soon form the habit of examining
your own attitude of mind for the
key to your progress and enjoyment
of life. Endeavor to keep before your
mind's eye the thought that every
physical or material condition in your
life corresponds to your habitual
thought tendency, and your thought
tendency will eventually become the
reproduction of the way you regard
your personal life, as related to all
life.
PUPIL: Shall I be able to overcome
one limitation after another, as I
develop the knowledge and feeling of
regarding the Life Principle in me as,_...
the source of all physical experience?
As I advance along these lines, shall I
grow into the liberty of enjoying life
in .my own way?
SAGE: In studying the law of your
own being, the important thing to
realize is that you, as an individual,
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 71
are a specializing center, through
which the power or essence of Life
takes forms which correspond exactly
to your most habitual conceptions.
Try to realize more and more thor-
oughly, both in theory and in prac-
tice, that. the relation ·between your
individual mind and the Universal
Parent Mind is one of reciprocal
action. Grasp the principle of reci-
procity, and you will comprehend why
you fall short sometimes of enjoying
life, and how you can attain to full
enjoyment; just as the law of gravita-
tion shows why iron sinks in water,
and can also be made to float.
PuPrL: It is rather difficult for
me to understand what you mean
by t.he reciprocal action between my
individual mind and the Universal
Parent Mind. Suppose I am facing
a big financial problem, and I endeavor
to bring my mind into a state of con-
fident expectancy through meditating
upon the ever-present supply in all
72 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
forms of life, and by repeating an
affirmation which seems logical.
Would that do it? Where does the
reaction come in? And how? If my
happiness in life depends upon this
understanding, and upon living in a
state of · conscious reciprocity with
the Parent Mind, it seems just now
that it is a long way off, because I
do not grasp your meaning. Should
I feel a reaction within myself when
striving for a certain state of con-
sciousness?
How YouR MIND Is RELATED To THE
UNIVERSAL MIND
SAGE: We said in our last lesson
that your mind was an outcome of
the great Universal Parent Mind which
brought you into existence for the
direct purpose of expressing Itself
through you. The reciprocal action
between your mind and the Parent
Mind might be compared with ~ tree
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 73
and its branches. Your mind is the
specific expression of the Universal
Mind from which it draws its power
to think, just as a branch of a tree is
a specific part of a tree, not apart
from it, but a part of it. Thus,
between the Universal Mind or Life
and its own specialized expression
(which is your mind), there is a
perpetual interaction, as with the tree
and its parts; its branches and its
leaves are continually drawing sus-
tenance from the parent trunk. Your
thought action is the specialized, iden-
tical action of the Universal Mind.
· Example: Imagine yourself feeling l
a bit downcast, when suddenly you
are handed a telegram with the news
that the one person in the world whom
'
you love the most is on his way to
see you, and the messenger of some
wonderful news! Can you not imag- 1
ine what a definite reaction you would
have from news like that! Well, you
can stimulate the same quality of ·
_..,_... --
74 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
thought, that same feeling of joy and
surety between your individual mind
and its source, through mentally pic-
turing yourself as doing the things '
~Y.Q.-g enj~y. See yo urself happy,/
and lift your mind up to it by con-
~ ~- ____.,,,.- - - -- ...
stant,!Y . r~pe~ting .~.-
happy:_ affir~a-
tion, and you will readily realize the
·reac ion in ~([......:- ·
Pu;I~;-· I ~ee. The way that ad-
verse conditions are to be overcome
is through my recognition of the recip-
rocal action going on continually
between my mind and the One great
Universal Mind, which brings about
the same kind of a reaction that I
would have from an agreeable experi-
ence on the physical plane. I used
to think that conditions were over-
come by ignoring them, and setting
aside the inherent law that caused
them. I begin to realize now (theo-
retically at least) that the laws of.._life
@~9t bej gnored :ngr_d.§§tr:.oyed, but;
on the contrary, must be made to
....___..............._ ~ ...
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 75
work for us to produce a harmonious
existence. --~·- -··~ ,, · - ' ~-
SAGE: Adverse circumstances are
overcome by reversing the originating
cause, which is your own thought.
Anxiety and fear-always att ract con-
ditions of their own . kind. Reverse
this tendency and entertain only those
thoughts which register harmony and
confident assurance, and the adverse
circumstances will recede, and in their
place will appear the conditions which
correspond to your changed mentality.
PuPrL: Am I to regard my mind
as a branch of the Universal Mind
from which I draw all my substance?
SAGE: Yes. You now have a fairly
goo<!_g~J!dea of the two ultµnates:
the Universal and the individual,- and
their relation to each other. I think
we should now consider the process of
specialization, that is, how to make
nature's laws produce a particular effect
which "could not be produced under
76 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
the simple generic conditions spontane-
ously provided by nature."
How TO REMEDY NATURE'S SHORT-
coMINGs
PUPIL: How can one create con-
ditions not provided by nature?
SAGE: Do not overlook the word
"spontaneous." By consciously and
intelligently arranging your thoughts
in the new order, by loo]ting_ within
yourself for the sollitfons of your
problems, instead of without, y~u Will
certainly find that ideas will come to
you, which, if followed, will produce
new conditions other than those pro-
vided by nature.
PuPIL: How can I do this? Is this
brought about by causing my thoughts
to correspond to those which I think
the Universal Mind must have?
SAGE: Let me give you an illus-
tration of what I mean. Take the
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 77
case of a miller who has been grind-
ing his grain by hand. His instinctive
feeling is that there should be a more
efficient yvay of grinding grain, and he
meditates a good deal on what this
way might be. One day, while walk-
ing in the country, his attention is
attracted, for the first time, to the
power in a stream of water as it rushes
past him. He pauses, and reflects
on how this power could be utilized for
his particular purpose.
"Why not harness it and make it
grind my grain?" he asks himself.
This unexpected inspiration thrills him
through and through, not only because
of its possibilities, but because of
his feeling of assurance that it can
be accomplished. Immediately, the
desired result begins to picture itself
in his mind. By the side of the
stream he sees his gristmill working
under new conditions, with a great
wheel attached to it revolved by the
force of the running water, and thus
78 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
grinding his grain. The force of the
water spontaneously provided by nature
has not been changed; it has been
specialized to meet an individual re-
quri;-ment./ ··-
,_,._ ,,..... .
How NATURE WORKING THROUGH
MIND CAN GRIND THE GRAIN
PUPIL: Naturally the power of the
water could not of itself have ground
the grain, but through the interaction
of the individualized Universal Intel-
ligence in the miller's mind, he made
this power "spontaneously provided by
nature" do his bidding, just as Bur-
bank specialized nature's laws by
making cactus grow without thorns,..-
and blackberries without seeds.
SAGE: Yes, you have grasped my
meaning. Your comprehension of the
interaction between the water-power,
1>f nature, and the individualized Intel-
ligence in the mind of man is scientifi-
cally correct. You see now th3;_Litj sJtll
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 79
entire rever~aLQ.Lxour old conception.
Formerly, you took orins ancf'con-
ditions as symbols, and inferred that
they were the causes of mental states
and material conditions; now you
are learning that the true_<;.>_!d~~ .Pf
the creative process is exactly the
reverse, that thought and feeling are
the originating causes which form cor-
responding external conditions. This
is the foundation principle upon which
you can specialize the generic law of
the whole creative process, and cause
it to bring all of its Intelligence and
Power to bear, in meeting your particu-
lar necessity.
SHOWING THE SILVER LINING OF THE
CLOUD
PUPIL: You are right. I have been
inverting the order of cause and effect.
It always seemed to me that condi-
tions both created and controlled my
thoughts, that is, I involuntarily
80 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
accepted the thoughts which the con-
ditions suggested.
For example: Suppose I want to
be at a certain place at a certain
time. My appointment is important
and I shall be late. What a terrible
thing it will be! There seems nothing
to be done. That is the way I used
to think.
Now, in the new order of thinking,
I shall endeavor to mentally see myself
as keeping my appointment, etc. I
shall get into the spirit of the thought
that nothing can impede my progress
or thwart my purpose, and I am sure
that a way will open enabling me to
materialize this thought on the physi-
cal plane. I am sure that in some
unforeseen way my engagement will
be kept, satisfactorily to myself and
to the other person. In fact, I have
experienced similar episodes.
SAGE: Yes, almost everyone has
had such experiences as you have
related, but very few profit by them.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 81
The law is, "As a ma thinks so it
( - ..... ~
he_!lom.~
...:." If you wish to withdraw
from an undesirable situation, you
must adopt the scientific method of
affirmative thinking, and follgw it _
u_
p
as a permanent factor in life.
qj --You will -find ~-that the universal
·::: causative Power (call it what you
"g.. will) always manifests as supreme Intel-
t ligence in the adaptation of means to
'>· ends. For instance, there is some-
f_ thing which you wish to do-build a
~ house, sell something, or do a kind act
,for someone. It is this supremel:ntcl= '
ligence manifested through you that
guides your activities. Without it, you
would be unable to outline your inten-
tion, much less accomplish your pur-
pose. Your intelligence is the instru-
ment through which the One Great
Intelligence of the universe is constant-
ly taking specific form. This being
true, every idea which registers in your
mind was first formed in this One Infi-
nite Mind. A continual recognition of
82 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
this fact will enable you to find your
way out of any sense of limitation
which may arise in your individual
experience.
I once heard of a man who had an
intense .~esire to do big things. He
aSked his .teacher ~ta· think with him
along the lines just discussed-that
the Intelligence of the universe was ·
taking specific form in his individual
1
intelligence. His teacher agreed pro-
viding the student's desire was great
enough to force him to~e e"\[.ery
mqrning and~ .:take .a two-mile walk,
meanwhile meditating upon this inter-
a_cf~ ,be,tw~~~ ..the Univ.~rsal .~n~e!Ji-.,1
-gence and its special form, his mind!'"
Tile student also was iristruct~ to
form the practice of mak'ng mental
pictures for the precise purpose of
developing his i:o.tuition and imagina-
tion. One suggestion was that he:
should mentally see himself walking
along a beautiful, ci~~r, flowing river,
hearing the rippling water, and seeing
,,,______ . . ..,.... --· ,_ -·
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 83
the reflection of the trees on its clear
Siirlace7' and then to transfer his men-
tal Ricture to ~p.e~ .d-epicti~g his~~wn
desire. After following this. practice
'forsii months, an idea of almost over-
whelming magnitude came to his mind.
This did not seem unnatural, however,
as it was so completely in accord with
his !_e_c~ habit Q.Cpi~turirtg '""his all-
~bsorbing qesir:e. He joyously con-
tinued his walks, his meditation, and
visualization, and finally the Univer-
sal Intelligence manifested in its specific
form (his mind) by giving specific
directions to bring the big idea into
successful operation.
PUPIL: Could his mind have cap-
tured this big idea without the help
of a teacher?
ALWAYS LEARN To Do YouR OWN
THINKING
SAGE: Certainly. The idea did
not come through-the teach; r's...mind;
- ...-.-.1 ....~.....).l ,. • • ~··. • • '_.,.,,. .... • -
84 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
he simply started the student on the
right track. No one can think for
another. It was the result of his
determined effort to recognize his own
individual intelligence as the instru-
ment in which the Greater Intelligence
was constantly taking form. All that
the teacher did (all that anyone could
do) was to help him to hold his thought
along the path he desired to go. The
help of the teacher strengthened his
conviction and faith in the power in
himself.
PUPIL: Is this origtn~ting. power of
life a forming power as well as a
creating and directing one, and did
the teacher's 'thinking along the same
lines steady the student's thoughts?
Without the support of a more
advanced mind, could anyone suc-
ceed in a great undertaking?
SAGE: Certainly. If you are suffi-
ciently convinced of {he absolute truth
of your method, you do not need any
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 85
sustaining force outside of your own
conviction. You miss the point of
your relationship to the great whole if
you do not realize that it is n9t only
all _~riginating, but also a formillg
P.Ower. -Do you not recognize its form-
ing power throughout nature? You
would not think of trying to make a
lily a rose. If you know that the same
Power that created the flowers also
made your mind for th~ specific pur-
pose of operatirig in it, you would soon
learn to trust its formative nature in
it~ ope~ati~ii"-thro~gh.your'intelligence. ;...
PuP1L: t understand. ·-It is -the
power of Life in man which originates,
creates, directs, and forms. In reality,
there seems to be nothing whatever
for man to do in this great scheme of
things except to enjoy life, if he can
only learn how!
~n_a~P CoMPAN-I!-
H'rn.-.J1tc. :
SAGE: The Law of Life is God and
Company. . You are the Company,
86 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
and you cannot in any sense be an
idle partner, if you wish to profit by ,
the partnership. Your part is a big
one, and there is plenty for you to do
in providing a concrete center around
which the universal divine energies
can operate.
· PUPIL: Does this mean that to
realize my oneness with the joy of
life I shall not find it as simple as it
seems?
SAGE: No doubt there will be times
when you will find it difficult to
transfer your thought from externals
to the interior realm of the originat-
ing principle, and to joyfully hold it
there until external conditions corre-
spond with the ideas you have in mind,
but there should never be any strain/
You are attracted to the Universal
Mind as your source of supply, along
the lines of least resistance. That is
to say, along these lines which are
the most natural_to your individual
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 87
and particular bent of mind. In this
way you infuse into the Universal
Mind your desires and ambitions, thus
intensifying your power of attraction
(relative to the desire uppermost in
your mind) from the infinite forces..,..
For instance, let us suppose that
you feel very much alone, not al-
together lonely, but alone (there is
a difference, you know), and yearn for
. congenial companionship. At a cer-
tain time night and morning, go where
you will not be interrupted, and men-
tally picture yourself walking with a
companionable friend (no person whom
you know, but an ideal one); then
see yourself riding with this same
friend, and the two of you_ doing
many happy things together. Keep ,
your picture ill mind until all sense ·'
of aloneness has disappeared, and you ;
}§.el an ~~Sia~~b!~ . !3~!,1~~.. Of . COW- .
panionship./ Let that feeling register ·
in Y.Oilr consciousness:· ancf- t~y .·.to
recall-·ff 'at ·will. If you will practice ·
88 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
in this way, you will very soon realize
that this is the reciprocal action be-
tween your mind and the Universal
Mind. Once this recognition is well
established, your ideals will begin to
express themselves in form.
PUPIL: Then one's efforts should
be wholly directed to the attainment
of a higher degree of intelligence,
rather than to the acquiring of mate-
rial things.
"GQQ.._
WILL ~:i;tOV:I:Q_E _
T?E ]'ooD, BUT
HE WILL NOT CooK THE DINNER''
...........- ' li>i?.... - -
SAGE: Such a purpose is the very
highest, and aspiratio'iis a1ong this line
would surely externalize correspond-
ing things. Under no circumstances
should you allow-yoursel( to.-..fo
rrr'l'the
--- IIabito f idfe dreaming: Tne"niaterial
t" sid~ of life_~hould not_be despised, for
it is the outside of a corresponding
inside, and has its place. The thing -
to guard against is the acquiring of
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 89
material possessions as your ultimate
aim. However, when certain external "'
facts appear in the circle of your life,
you should work with them diligently
and with common sense. Remember
that things are syr:g_bols, and that tlie
.,. "' '~•"" .~ . I
t mg symbolized 'is more important ~
than the symbol itself. "God wfll pro-
videth~ food, but He will not cook the
dinner.''
PUPIL: My part then is to cook
the dinner, so to speak; to use the
intelligence with which I have been
endowed, by making it a power to
attract, from out the universe, ideas
that will provide for me in any direc-
tion that I may choose to go, according
' '
to law?
SAGE: Yes, if you choose to go
with life's continual, harmonious move-
ment, you will .. find that .the more
you use the law of harmony through
progressive thinking, .the more inti-
mately acquai~teci"" you will become
I
90 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
with the law of reciprocity. This
law'Corr;p~~dsto 'lie sa:ri1
e principles
which govern physical science; that
is, "nature obeys you precisely in the
same degree as you obey nature."
is.~n9wl~gg~~~lway:~J~~<!~Ji~lip~rty.~
PUPIL: How does nature obey me?
SAGE: Nature's first and greatest
law is harmony. You see the results
of harmonious law in the beautiful
world around you. If you obey
nature's·suggestion, and follow :the law
you will be the recipient of all the bene-
fits contained in this law of harmony
that nature has to offer, such as health,
strength, contentment, etc., for all of
her laws bring freedom and harmony.
You will find nature responding along
the same lines, to the extent that your
thQ!!g!J.tvnP.~~acts are in~accordance
with her perfect laws.
,.._,..-......-;• -- -,~-;.. --.....
PUPIL: Is the power of thought al-
ways creative, and does it always cre-
ate conditions corresponding to itself?
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 91
Can one know this law sufficiently well
to cause it to respond immediately?
FIFTEEN MINUTES NIGHT AND DAY
ARE NOT ENOUGH
SAGE: Thought as thought is
always creative, either good or bad.
The length of....,time reguired for theJ
c~~P.oll..dmg~ r.P-.~~isa1 ..co~diti9!is.. to .~
appear in the circle of ·your foaividual
' •. . • . -• ·r , ·•· .....,.,....-".~f:'I" ·.~ ~
environment depends.. en~ire~y upon ,1
your ""ability to recognize that your j
desired course is ·a, nori:n,al, ''"already.....
existing, i;nental_f~It is noti~~h ,
to get into the ~pirit.£LY.!Y!:lr i:~as~~g ~
for :fi teen minutes night and morn- 1
ing,~;nth the. inwai:<l' conflde'iice ...that
you are._drrecting'~a -~irtaini Uniailirig
power·toward a desired physical mani-
festation, and then spend the remain-
der of your waking moments in goubt
and fear. The whole question is, how
doesy our particular sustained thought
affect you? If it stj.mulat~s your fe~l:­
!Dg oJ_faith, the response is immediate. ~
-
-- .........,~ ....... ... ~-· · · ""·
92 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
PuPIL: Could you give me some-
thing to memorize which will help me
to eliminate doubt and fear?
· SAGE: Yes. The thought I use
most frequently myself is this:
"My mind is a center of divine operation. The
divine operation is always for expansion and fuller
expression, and this means the production of some-
thing beyond what has gone before, something
entirely new, not included in past experience,
though proceeding out of it by an orderly sequence of
growth. Therefore, since the divine cannot change
its inherent nature, it must operate in the same
manner in me: consequently, in my own special
world, of which I am the center, it will move forward
to produce new conditions always in advance of any
that have gon? before." (Dore Lectures)
You should memorize this passage
and meditate upon it, endeavoring
to make your mind a "center of divine
operation," by entertaining only such
thoughts as you feel are reflections of
God's thoughts. Whenever you sense
that your way to freedom is obstructed,
make a stronger endeavor to live with
the spirit of your affirmation, and you
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 93
will soon fip.d your mind receiving
ideas, which, if followed, will guide you
into the path of absolute liberty.
THE DEVILS OF DOUBT AND FEAR
PUPIL: Doubt and fear are the
devil, are they not? Is not fear the
most destructive of all wrong elements?
It seems to me that it is ever present
in one form or another. Can this
monster be entirely eliminated from
one's mind?
SAGE: Surely. Although fear is the
most destructive of all the mental
enemies, and, as you say, seems to be
ever present, yet when you realize
that your fear is just as certain to
materialize as is your faith, you will
grow more and more guarded as to
the quality of thought which you
harbor. Practice makes perfect.
PUPIL: Try as I will to inhibit fear,
I am unable to succeed at present. At
94 ATTAINING YOUR. DESIRES
times I utterly fail, and I am over-
whelmed with it.
How To DRIVE OuT FEAR
SAGE: The moment you begin to
feel fearful, get into the open if possi-
ble, walk briskly for a mile or two,
taking deep breaths, and holding your
chin in and chest up. Think of your-
self as a monarch of all you ·survey
and assume a corresponding command-
ing attitude. Repeat with every
breath this affirmation: "I am breath-
ing in the Life, the Love, and the
Power of the universe RIGHT NOW!"
Hold the breath a second, with the
affirmation in the center of your mind;
then expel the breath with the same
thought and send it out to mingle
with the ether of the universe. "I
and my Father of Love are ONE."
If you cannot get out into the open,
assume, wherever you are, the same
attitude. Take deep breaths, repeat
the affirmation, and you feel certain
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 95
that you are protected and supplied
with all the love and power which
Life has to give, fear will disappear,
and you can resume whatever you
were doing.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 97
LESSON IV
STRENGTHENING YOUR WILL
"All we have willed or hoped or dreamed of good,
shall exist;
Not its semblance, but itself; no beauty, nor g9od,
nor power
Whose voice has gone forth, but each survives for
the melodist,
When eternity affirms the conception of an hour."
-Browning.
SAGE: The importance of the will
is so frequently misunderstood that I
think we will consider its true nature
and purpose for a while this morn-
ing. Almost everyone is conscious
that willing is not ,imagining. What
the function of the will is, for the
most part, baffi.es and escapes our
reasoning.
PuPIL: I understand that most
schools of mental science teach that
one should not try to use or even
understand the will, because to make
conscious use of will-power leads one
astray.
98 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
SAGE: It is most important that
you should have sufficient knowledge
of your will not to misuse it, or to be
led astray through lack of understand-
ing its place and·power.
PUPIL: Is it a compelling, creative
power?
SAGE: Correctly speaking, the will
is neither one. It is in no sense crea-
tive. There are times, however, when
a strong will can compel certain exter-
nal combinations.
PuPIL: If will-power can produce
certain external results, why not use
it to that end?
SAGE: Because it was not intended
to be used in this way. Conditions
brought into existence by mere force
of will lack vitality; consequently,
the situations brought about by simple
will-power disappear as soon as the
will relaxes.
PuPIL: Do the things which are
forced into being through the power
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 99
of a strong will disappear simply
because they lack vitality, or because
the compelling power relinquishes its
hold?
SAGE: Both, because of the lack
of any real life in them, and because
the energy of the will which sup-
ports them is withdrawn.
PuPIL: I have read a great deal
about the function of the will. What
does it mean?
THE ACTION OR FUNCTION OF THE
WILL
SAGE: It depends upon what you
have read about the different kinds of
will. The will k_th~ power-control
i:g__your mind, which holds your thought
in ~given d!!'ectipp. until a_result has
~ accom Ii bed.
For example: Suppose you wish to
go to a certain place; without the will
to go there, you could not even start,
nor could you retain the thought of
the place long enough to arrive. You
100 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
would start in the right direction, and
then, because there was no sustaining
power in the thought, you might turn
and go in another direction.
PUPIL: So it is the will which
holds thought to a given purpose
until it is consummated; or keeps an
idea in its place in one's mind until
it is objectified in form. It might be
termed a thought-stabilizer.
~ ~ ~·"
SAGE: Just so. It is the will which
holds your mental faculties in position
relative to the creative power which
does the desired work. Thought is
always creative, as I have explained in
'\.. my book, "The Edinburgh Lectures
on Mental Science,". page 84: "If,
using the word in its widest sense, we
may say that the i1Eagina1ion
_i~.
cr~~tiy~ u
l!Q&Q...
n, we may call the
Will the centralizing principle, its func-
tion being to keep the imagination
centered in the right direction." The
will has much the same place in our
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 101
mental machinery that the tool-holder
has in a power-lathe. ToIeyilllnd
this-
ist he Will~ ~ ·
_,. ........
PUPIL: It is a wonderfully clear
statement. It means that success or
failure is contingent upo~-
but - o~e
thing·: -~~~i~L ~pr1:
~~l, and the will
is this controlling factor. <:.. ·
...•"- . ..__.. .,:. - . .... ~
~
SAGE: The business of the will is )
always the same, that of keeping your
mental faculties where they will do}
the work you intend them to do../ '
PUPIL: Suppose I were conducting
a business, but my thoughts were
more on an anticipated vacation than
on my work. Naturally my business
would suffer. How could my will
help me?
PRACTICE ' ' WILL EXERCISES''
-- ~-"' .-C··
SAGE: The case you relate illus-
trates a weak will. You know that
your thoughts·slioli'ld be kept on your
business, but y:our will is too weak to
~ ... - 4. . . . . . . . . .
102 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
do it. You should practice will exer-
cises to strengthen your mental ener-
gies. These Will ·help 'you to focus _
your attention on business or any
desired activity.
-- .
PUPIL: If one concentrated his
entire attention on business during
business hours, would he be able to
relax it later and enjoy his home and
play?
SAGE: With a properly trained
will, you can pick µp a thought at
choice, hold it until it has finished its
work, let it. go again, and then pick
up another thought, repeating the
process again and again if you choose.
In short, you can work when you work
and play.wlien you play. · "
PUPIL: No doubt it can be done,
but it seems to me now that it would
be a terrible strain.
SAGE: On the contrary, the well-
trained, de;-
eioped ~will . m~intains any
-
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 103
position you desire without any strain
on the nervous system, and its use is
n~~er followed by a sense of fatigue.
PuPIL: I have always found it a
great strain to hold on to any thought
which did not abide in _
my conscious-
nes~ naturally...
SAGE: This is an indicatio:::i of a
\weak will, which should be strength-
;enel through exercise, the beginning
\ of which should be "a calm, peaceful
. determination to retain a c~rtaill men-
:tal attitude in spite of all temptations
\ to the c1::m~rary, knowing that by
·dofng so,·th~:7~d~
~ired,J:esult. will surely
apg.ear."
PUPIL: Is the will intelligent?
"A DEVELOPED '\7iILL. IS THE HAND-
~ID O
F.INTIJ)JdLIG~
~QE"~ ' ' .,. '
SAGE: The developed will is the
handmaid of Intelligence.
PUPIL: What do you mean by that?
//;
( (
104 ATTAINING-YOURDESIRES
SAGE: In training your will, you
will become conscious of the presence
of a tremendous power which acts
on the plans of ~the_ ver~ _,beg{qning,
or .firsJ._cause, of every so-called physi-
cal thing. This nower is the _
Priinary
~iving ,, Intelligence of the universe.
Tell yourself what you desire in a
clear, concise way, confidently know-
ing that it is C@'tain to externalize
it ~ as an objecti e_fact, because
your will acts upon the unformed
creative, or ~~ry, ID:~]Jjg~E.9~' and
causes it to take the form that you
have determined upon.
PuPrL: That does not sound so
difficult. Of one thing I am certain,
that is, that my entire environment
is the result of my habitual tendency
of thought. Also, that when I know
that I should turn my thoughts into
other channels, but do not, simply
letting them run along the lines of
!~ast_resistance, it is becalise my Will
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 105
is weak and untrained. Will you please
tell me the quickest way that this
can be remedied?
y OU ACQUIRE ENER~X, AS WELL AS
AMBl_'!'ION, BY EXERCISING THJ!l.:W:ILL
SAGE: I will give you a few exer-
cises for developing the will, and from
these you can fashion others to suit
your own requirements. In the first
place, it is important to realize that
any tendency to strain will be detri-
mental and must be avoided. Such
exercises are not only interesting,
but stimulating, and if persistently
practiced will keep your ambitions
f!:Q...~-)~gging. They.. will. ~ve "'<you
n~w
_jmJ?~ses, renewed energy, and
determination to be and to do some-
thing better and greater than any-
thing in the past. Once you are
fully consciqg~ of the pla.pe and P.Q..w.;er
of yolJ!__
wj.11, in .the mental realm,
to keep .the. cre_
ative e_
nergy at work
m formulating your desires, you will
·.;',-.
'l'~l''r~ /
If
l
106 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
realize that it is very susceptible to
training, and you will never again be
content to live without its constant
use, for it would be like living only
half a lifa.~ ·· - ·
PuPIL: May I ask a question right
here? I am a fairly good pianist but
dislike to begin my practice, and,
although I enjoy it once I have begun,
to start is always a struggle. If I
were to compel myself to practice
on the piano at a certain time every
day, would that develop and strengthen
my will?
SAGE: lt w9uld help, but the
greatest benefit would be in the direc-
tion of making.you a _
?etter m_?sician.
The best way to strengthen your
wiJl is" to practice exercises for the/
sole purpose of strengthening the will,
always remembering, while taking
'\hem, that your effort is for self-
tJ'aining and self.:'contro1, to"'the.. end
that Y
!m ~ay realize yowself as a
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 107
part of the great universal whole::'
In thiSw ay you gain a peaceful
9entralization, which, thougli _main-
~afil.~<.LPY~..~~<?.n~scjoui;i act ..of the will,
is the very essence of rest. With a
well-developed, trained will, your
thoughts will never wander from the
consciousness that "all is life, and all
is good, and nature, from her clearly
visible surface to her most arcane
depths, is a storehouse for goo~.·"
You have the key to her great
treasures, and whatever appeals to
you most at any particular time and
place, is that mode of the universal
Living Spirit with which you are at
that moment most in touch. Real-
izing this, you draw frop:i. out_ the
universe streams of ;y,it~l energy, which
make the very act of living a joy,
which radia e from you ·vibrations
that can turn aside all injurious sug-
gestions. This is surely a good and
sufficient reason for developing the
will.
-·Jr!
, !
t
. I
\~
\
108 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
EXERCISE FOR STRENGTHENING THE
WILL
The will is weak because of lack of
exercise. Training the will is very
much the same as training the muscles. \
Its development is gradual. Only will
can develqp --
~; .conseq
.. uen.tly, you l
begin with 'Yhat wjJJ _yo~ 4ave, and {
expand and ~sirerigthen :lt'·through its t
action upon itself.,· The weak will \
manifests in two phases~ ~ o er-action I
and und_e~~iwti9n; thev former as im- \
pulsiveness, impetuousness, and the f
like, and the latter as lethargy, phleg- I
matism, etc.
It is good to ,t>_egill__e_~Qh._
d~y with a
r~sO~l!#Q:P.~ no.L ~o h,_.
urry, and ~.JE_
leave an task unjj,nished. E:ffort in
this direction is~ of~Inestiinable value.
There should be only-;~object in
your mind with reference to your
exercise - the development and
str_engthening ~Qf yQur~ will. At the
time have no thought of your improve-
ment as a musician, for if there is any
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 109
CuLTIVATE THE FEELING OF CON-
TENTMENT .
' Cultivate the sense of contentment, .
and b_!jgin·: Y.Q~;t,'.e~~rcis~~--;ltli..,that \
feelin..g, determining to do it. in a r
iWi>.xJr~m;..Q
fm
msL Th{i_~$ 'impor- }
tant. Take your exercise at the time I
.of ~ day when interruptions are least !
likely to occur, for seven consecutive i'
<J~y~, t@_cQ.p§~.91ltiy.e. ini;µ; s. ~:
<!ay. ;::::_
If an interruption occurs <luring the
exercise, start·all over again. If you
forget the exercise for one day before
you have finished your course of seven
days, begin the entire set again and
go throllguwiijl-i'~~iiintfili~'Pt~dly.<.
Place a notebook and pencil b y
your side before beginning. Now take
fifty matches, beads, buttons, bits of·
paper, or any other small objects,
and drop them slowly and deliber-
ately into a box one by one, with a
r110 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
feeling of contentment and satis-
faction, declaring with each move-
ment, "I will t~ will." The o~e a~d
/ most important thought is that you
are training your will for.the partimP,ar
advantage- of having a trained' Will,
and this is- why' you should ctiltivate
the feeling of contentment. The only
'method by which you can study the
development of your will is by self-
analysis and introspection, so, when
you have finished your practice, ask
yourself such questions as these:
"What did I think about the exer-
cise whiJ.~_ .Lwas . doing it? Did I
believe it would really cultivate my
will, or did I do it just because I was
told to? Did I actually conq~ntrate
on dropp_
ing_ the matches into 'the
box, or was I more concerned with
their arrangement, or was I distracted
with other thoughts, good or bad?
Was I watching the time i:i;npatiently,
or was I conscio.!l~!Y _engaging in
thoughts or ~atisfaction and content-
ATTAlNlNG YO-OR DESIRES 111
ment? Did I have a sense of strain,
or did it brace me up? Do I believe
that it will really train my will if I
faithfully follow it up long enough to
prove it?" etc., etc.
Write down this series of questions
and answers in your notebook. You
will find it both interesting and encour-
aging to keep this record and thus
watch your progress.
STIMULATING AN INTEREST IN YOUR
WILL EXERCISE
You can stimulate interest in your
exercise by varying your resolution
or intention. That is, one time hold
a conscious attitude of joyously willing
to will, another of power/ully willing
to will, another of peacefully, and
another contentedly, etc., etc. These
variations in the exercise with the
suggestions for introspection, which
hav e been slightly changed, were taken
from the best authority, as far as I
know, along the lines of will-training,
112 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
and I am positive will bring th~ a~~ain­
ment of af4'm, strong will, and an
intelligent use of it.""'-
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 113
LESSON V
MAKING YouR SUBJECTIVE MIND
WoRK FOR You
"The most potent force in the universe is the)
influence of the subconscious mind. The proper.
training of the correlation between the subliminal
and the objective faculties is the open sesame that
unlocks the richest of all storehouses,-the faculty of
remembering. And with remembering there follows
natural reflections, vision, knowledge, culture, and
all that tends to make of man a god, though in the
germ."-Dr. Edwin F. Bowers.
PUPIL: The subject of the sub-
jective mind greatly interests me. I
am sure that had I understood what
you have said concerning it, I would
have realized that all that was neces-
sary to obtain my desires was to
think out exactly what I wanted,
consciously place it in my subjective
mind, and it would at once begin to
attract ways and means for its cor-
responding physical or material ful-
fillment.
SAGE: Indeed the study of the
114 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
subjective mind is ~11-~_EsQ.f!?ing
subjei;t. I may be able to enlighten
-~d help you to make working reali-
ties out of what now seems to b~ vague
and even mysterious. But it will rest
entirely with you to put vitality into
these suggestions, and that can only
be accomplished through using them.
PuPIL: You mean that by making
practical use of your suggestions, I
will be able to attain practical results
which will help not only myself but
others also?
SAGE: That is the idea. It has
always seemed to me that the average
person prefers the satisfaction of giving
to another what he requires, rather
than helping or teaching him how to
attracttl:ie-desired thin gs to himself,
which would . give him in addition a
feeling of assurance and liberty. You
\vo~i'd"linque~tio~~bly enjoy ·giving to
others, and the recipient would like-
wise enjoy receiving, but, as a rule,
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 115
it tends to pauperize the spirit of "',,,,.,.-
inde~e?d~n~e.
PUPIL: If I were to put into my
subconscious mind a definite idea that
all people have the same ·power in
their subconscious minds to attract
to themselves the things they desire
through their own efforts, would that
thought register in their subconscious
minds?
SAGE: That would be the intelli-
gent way of impersonally , helping
others to con ct_
with theic l.im!tle:;;s
s~pply.
PuPIL: You have told me before
that there was a definite way of
impressing the subconscious mind with
a particular thought. Would you
mind explaining this again?
"GET INTO THE SPIRIT OF YOUR
,,,,,..~ 1~ ' - •
DESIRE"
SAGE: The process is quite differ-
ent from that of retaining an idea in
116 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
the so-called intellectual mind. It is
necessary, above all else, i{Q get into
t~e spirf,t .?f your desire,J and an effort
to feel relaxed and confident will
help you to do thls. -,.'The spi.i-it of a
thing is that which is the source of
its inherent movement." For example,
if you wish to impress your subcon-
scious mind with the sense of content-
ment, YQ...l! must meditate on the
quality_of contentment. See how that
' ~ffects y:9u. If in response to your
meditation you feel relaxed and con-
fident, you may be sure that your
subconscious mind has been impressed
with that thought. This is getting
......-.."into th_
e,spi!.,it" of contel).tment; not
/ because of certain physical reasons,
but because of y:our_r,e_
Q.ogni}_ion.. of
lif
~ ac.tio~ .in you in this specific
direction.. You have the whole of
Universal Mind to draw from. There
is no limit to the creative power of
your subjective mind once you have
impress~ it with your inteIJ:t!on. This
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES. 117
example applies to everything great
or small.
PuPIL: Since my subjective mind
is a part of the Universal Mind, if I
impress it with an idea or desire, does
this impression pass automatically into
the Universal Subjective Mind?
SAGE: Your subjective Inind is in
essence the -
same as t he Univ~rsal
S~bi~cti:ve .· ..Mind'· w!tµ
_:~·~whl~h - i~~ is
inseparably co~ected. It should be
understood that your subjective mind
receives its ~pressions from the objec-
tive mind and never from material
things·
. It is therefore necessary to
~~Y-
Q]Jr tJl_o!!g,~t froIE: the mate-
rial or physical thin{! you desire, and
to 'mentally dwell upon -t he_§72iritual .
symQ.of 9f )t, which . is the i.n4erent
SQurce-of its form~tion. ·
How To VISUALIZE AND OBJECTIFY
THE MENTAL IMAGE
All this may seem somewhat involved
to you, because it is the study of the
118 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
int~ngible rather than the tangible,
but it will unfold to you as we go on,
and it will 'Seem quite simple. All
w
~ kno
~_Q.L J;h.~invisible is gained
froillWhat we see it'd.O:'nonJ he plane
of the ViSible. Perhaps an illust~a­
t10n.·Will give you a clearer idea of ·
that interior part of your b~ing, which
is the support of all that which must
naturallysubsjst-in the uniyersal .here :::::,
and the eve~las~ing now. .
First, endeavor to realize yourself
as pure spirit, the essential quality
of which is good. Pllre S
.Qj!!t ,.is.J>Ur~
life~~
~, _ n~tµrally, the only thing it
could desire is to manifest more and
more life,-Without reference to the
forms through which the manifestation
takes place. Consequently, "the purer
your jntention, the more readily it is
pla,P.ed in ..your subconscious mind,"
which instantly ~ passe8 it into the
Universal Mind. ·
For example: If you want a house, a
certain .kind of a chair, a sum of
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 119
money, or ~nything else, you should
first ponder studiously on how the
desired object origin.ated. Meditating
thus on the original spirit of the.·thing
in- question starts the creative ··power
of your subjectiy~ mind (which is in
touch wij;h all __the creative energy
which exists) operating in that specific
direction. ·· · ·
·suppose it is a house you desire.
You will go back to the original con-
cept of it. The idea of a house had
its origin in a primary need for shel-
ter, protection from the elements,
and comfort, and out of these origi-
nal desires there grew our present
dwellings. So you proceed to build a
house in your own consciousness first,
thinking only harmonious, construc-
tive thoughts regarding it. This kind
of thinking (or building) gives your
subjective mind definite material to
work with, and because of its amena-
bleness to suggestion, coupled with its
native creative power, it will go ahead
/ I
" /
120 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
and eventually bring the house into
manifestation.
PUPIL: If I earnestly and right-
eously desire a certain kind of a home,
how shall I proceed?
PROJECT THE PICTURE OF YouR HousE
SAGE: You should first form a clear
conception in your objective mind of
the sort of a house which you desire;
whether one, two, or three stories;
the number and size of the rooms;
how many windows and doors; in
short, you should mentally picture
the completed house, both inside and
out. Go all around the house; look
over the exterior; then go indoors and
examine it carefully from cellar to
garret in every detail. Then drop
the picture and dwell in the spiritual
prototype of the house.
PuPIL: I do not fully understand
what the spiritual prototype is.
G
SAGE: The si!;nplest me~hod _ ot
nd~~-- ~ spiritual prototype of any
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 121
object i_
s to ask YQ,tirself tp what use
it)s:J;oJ~{pu~, what~~~j~_sta!1<!fo~,
in other words, what is the reason for
its being?'· ·As we have beensajing,·a,
house- is a place of shelter,:comJort,
protection. It might be called a
ref~ge.
PuPIL: Then if I want a house
(really a home), and there seems no
ordinary way of my having it, I am
to impress my desire upon my sub-
jective mind, by mentally picturing
the type of house I want, in con-
junction with the ideas of shelter, com-
fort, and p rotection,"' and mentally
live. :ip. that state of mind, while, in
order to supplement a i:µental atmos-:
pher~, gf "pure intentio].!," '1 ~dmlt no
thoughts of discord, such as anger,
jealousy, doubt, fear, etc., but enter-
tain thoughts of love, joy, beauty,
and harmony. Would this not be
literally living in my true mental
abode? And could I not expect to
see it objectified in a material home?
122 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
WHAT THE HOUSE SYMBOLIZES
SAGE: Yes, because every physical
or material thing is the result of an
idea first possessed in consciousness.
These ideas, which are universal by
nature, are specialized by your mental
picture, and your concentrated effort
to inhibit thoughts which concern the
operation of the laws of life. This
habit of thought-formation, if ne!-
sisted in, opens the way for the physi-
cal manifestation of the mental pic-
ture,·whate~er ~_~t rn.ay be, the case in
point being a house. A house is an
effect of a need for shelter, com-
fort, protection, and the like.
PuPIL: I have never thought before
of what a house really symbolized.
It seems quite natural now to think
of it as an externalized object of an
inward originating idea of ·comfort,
shelter, and protection, which you
have taught me is its prototype. Now,
~... ·--· ;..\. -~ ~.
my natural impulse would be to go
AT'l'AININO YOUR DESIRES 123
into the house and bolt the doors and
-----.,___ .... ..........,, , . ·-
windows, if I were afraid of some out-
side invasion and wanted to protect
myself. Yet this might not always
give me a feeling of security. From
where does that sense of real, protec-
tion come?
~-·..... u
LIVING IN THE SENSE OF PROTECTION
SAGE: The first necessity would
be for you to have the house to go
into, before you could bolt the doors
and windows against unwelcome intru-
sion or impending danger. After hav-
ing acquired this refuge, it alone
would not insure complete protection.
The feeling of protection is established
within yourself through your knowl-
edge that you ar~~egi;ed by the
Almighty, Ever-Present, Intelligent
:P~wetof Life. · Surely you know you
are alive, and this understanding
brings a sense -of security which
locked doors or barred windows can-
not give.
124 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
PuPIL: It would be wonderful if
one could constantly live in that
thought of protection!
SAGE: It is to this end we are
~
journeying. As we have seen, in the
mind of ~,al). tb~re is a power which
enables him to contact the unlimited
umversaJ. J>ower of .G~d, Spiri~? and
1
thereby envelop himself in it. One
Iof the most satisfying and comforting
.feelings possible is this one of being
( protected from within oneself.
-------·- --~·............-· "'.... . - .
PUPIL: I see. One should endeavor
to kee the ..flJJ.mstjgµ ~.of oa_
e~s<>;i:~~l
self, which i,s one~.s Je~l ,_.:protec~i~n,
constantly in mind; that self which
is one with all Llfe and all Intelli-
gence, which not only preserves but
provides for all.
To return to the subject of the
house. It being, then, the outward
fulfillment or manifestation of a desire
or need for ~. shelter and protection,
the mode of procedure necessary to
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 125
procure it would be to get into the
spirit of Life's intellige:µt protection,
and it' ill turn would attract the neces-
sary con~itions·..to 9r~ng into·· ta:n,gible
being a house, or whatever form of
refuge w~ most .reqmred, and y:,is-
ualized?
SAGE: Mentally entering into the
spirit of Life's amenable creative force,
it will take any special form your
desire gives it, which is mentally
pictured or visualized. The house is
only an illustration.
PUPIL: I understand. Now sup-
pose one wanted more money or better
health. What would be the proto-
type for these? -·{~
SAGE: It is always best to find
one's own prototype. Let -us refer
to the-- "
suggestions I have already
given you. What does money sym-
bolize? For what is it to be used? /
For myself, I find that the prototype
for _
Ip.Oney is Substance, and my
126 ATTAINING Y'ODR b:ESIJtES
method for manifesting more money
is to mentally picture the sum I
require for a particular purpose, either
in bank-notes, check, or draft, which-
ever seems the most natural. Aft~r,
making_ a _cl~ar, distinct picture, I
enlarge my vision of money as the
symboJ oLlif~'s substance, as applied
to the use I intend to put it to. I
believe that money is the greatest
factor for constructive exchange that
we have today __
How TO DEVELOP HEALTH AND
HARMONY
In the case of money, you would
hold firmly in your mind the fact
that the Substance of Life fills all
space. It is, indeed, the starting
point of all things, whether it takes
the form of desired sums of money or
of something else.
For physical health you would
endeavor to keep your thought as
harmonious as possible, and mentally
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 127
picture yourself as well and doing
the useful, happy things in your daily
life that a healthy person would
naturally do, always understanding
that the originating Life Principle in
you must act harmoniously upon itself
in order to produce harmonious physical
results.
PuPrL: Then the most important
point in demonstrating health is not so
much the mental picture, as the control
of thought in a definite center, irrespec-
tive of conditions or symptoms-really
living in the prototype,a wholly perfect
and harmonious expression of God the
Father Spirit, the source of health and
life?
SAGE: Exactly, and this is where
your trained will comes in to help you
to lwlil your picture and to stead-
fastly live in your prototype. The
mental picture is the seed you plant,
so to speak, and the quality of thought
which you entertain most persistently
128 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
impresses-itself upon the subconscious
mind and starts the creative energy
moulding itself into the form of your
mental picture.
PUPIL: Then Life's only creative
power is Subjective Mind, which repro-
duces on the outward or physical plane
the idea with which it has been
impressed. What a field of possibilities
this stupendous fact opens up if one
could only prove it!
SAGE: To obtain continuous good
results it is a necessity to properly
understand your relation to this great
unformed, highly impressionable power
you are dealing with. "Never try to
· make yourself believe what you know is
· not true." Unless your faith is built
conviction, you will never be abl~ to)
make practical use of it.
PuPIL: This solid foundation of
conviction,-how can it be established
permanently? One day I feel sureof it,
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 129
and the next my assurance seems to
have turned to stone, and nothing I can
do will bring it to life again!
USE YOUR CREATIVE POWER
CONSTRUCTIVELY, NEVER
DESTRUCTIVELY
SAGE: You give your unqualified
consent that you possess this creative
pow~~~en you use i~ constru,gtiyelyj
instead of destructively. Remember, 1
that the creative energy has only
one method of operating, which is its
reciprocal action from the Universal
~ to .your subje~tf~;-rin.d, 'and
then fro J; youfSlioje'cti~~·"'
mind back
into~~~·::J!~y~r.~~1-Jfobf~~iv~""'.¥~.nd
which is its source, and which unfail-
ingly corresponds to the thought which
originally generated it. Your greatest
aim_.,shoµlii,_ b~ to irrev,,9~~2!x ..£,~pvj.}~ce..
Y<?u~se~f t1!,at ~~~ ..Q~~g!E~Y~Kr-fuliri.~
wliich brought tlie whole world. i:p,to
existence IS"""the r~t ofyour indi~id~
ualitY';: ~Therefore, it iS ''e~e;~e~2G~ ·to
~ ..,."¢ ...~.......~,.,_..,,,-..
> /
.··. '1
I
\
I ·1
. .... '·~--·
'· '"
130 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
conti~u
! j~~ creati.v~ a.ction.. thr,ough
you." Just as soon and just as fast as
yo'u provide th_ese.,_thought channels, you
unll)iricl"' yourself the possessor of an
unfailing rep1·oductive power. ~-
PUPIL: I suppose I am not unlike
others, in that I am always willing to
take all the credit for the good which
comes to me, and unwilling to take the
credit for my miseries, placing the
blame on somebody or some condition
over which I believe I have no control.
How can I overcome this wretched
tendency?
SAGE: I can only repeat, by (
endeavoring steadfastly to remember
that the only creative power there is /
has but one way of working, which is \
that of reciprocal action. There is
1
only one primary cause; the Universal I
Subjective Mind, of which your own f
subjective mind is a part. To gain in '
understanding, it is necessary to be'
persistent in impressing your sub-,
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 131
iconscious mind with the fact of its
' relationship to the unlimited whole.
f Bring your every thought and feeling
i into obedient connection with the best
!there is in you. This old saying has a
) world of truth in it: "What thou see'st,
1 that thou be'st; dust if thou see'st dust;
l God if thou see'st God."
HoLD THE THOUGHT OF WHAT You
ARE, TO GurnE You INTO WHAT
You WANT To BE.
PUPIL: Which means, I suppose, that
the law is always the same. The
thought I maintain becomes a fact in
my mental as well as in my physical
plane, so I must hold the thought of
what I r"eally ·am iri 'order -to become"'
wna t ·I woma1lke to be?
-- '""-..... . ' .... "'""'
SAGE: Yes, endeavor never to lose
sight of this fact.- - · ·· ~-.
PuPIL: Like the illustration you gave
of the house, it has its birth in th,e idea
of protection, irrespective of any physi-
cal form?
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
SAGE: Protection is an inherent
quality of life; consequently it fills
all space, ever ready to be called into
any form of expression. If you get
into the spirit of that idea, you will see
how quickly corresponding results will
appear. Because the quality of the
subjective mind is the same in you as it
is "throughout the universe, giving rise
to the multitude of natural forms with
)which you are surround
..
e.d, also.. giving
--....... \r!s.~ to. yourself," i_t_r~ally_j§~~the sup-
~'PorteJ_ oL your individuality. Your
e ~.... ""'....,, ·:c ·~. - ~·
~ i.gdiyidu~l _ . ~ubj~ctiye _"mind is your
( :r,al t_in.. t~,~ _gr~~t wE-ole, as I have
~ declared before. The realization of
this will enable you to produce physical
results through the power of your own
thought.'" .. ·
PuPIL: That reveals to me your
meaning in ''The Edinburgh Lectures,''
page 33, where you say, "One should
regard his individual subjective mind
as ·'H1-;Qrga~ ~(the ·ab~~l~te; and-his
objeCtIVe--irllnd'~a~.., the_, organ of the
. .. ""......... ·~ -;
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 133
relatiye." I will never forget that fact
again.
CULTIVATE THE IDEA OF PROTECTION
SAGE: The idea in the absolute is
the very beginning (or nucleus) of the
thing, regardless of the form through
which it expresses. For instance, the
pure idea of protection exists in life
itself (is one of its innate qualities)
and has no relation to a house or any
building erected for that purpose.
PuPIL: Then it is my objective mind
or intellect which suggests to this self-
existing, absolute power the idea of this
relationship?
SAGE: Quite so, and if you will
pattern tlie thought you have just
expressed, telling your subconscious
mind over and over again that it is the
one and only creative power, which
always brings into physical manifesta-
tion corresponding forms of the itj.eas
with which it is impressed, you will
realize the joys of success.
134 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
PuPIL: I "see through a glass
darkly." Is there no way to develop
a keener sense of just how to awaken
the~subconscious mind so that it will
respo~d more ql:lickly?
SAGE: I will be happyJo give you a
copy of a letter I once wrote in response
to a question similar "
to·yours. This
letter was considered so helpful that
the men to whom it was written had it
put into pamphlet form, now out of
print. It seems to me that the main
..""- thing that I ~aid in that letter was,
,.~ ~on't j;r.Y,!" .,
PuPIL: Why! I thought that trying
was to be my main endeavor, even
though it was difficult!
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 135
A LETTER OF GOLDEN LEAYES
The Sage's Letter
"To answer your question as to how a 'Keener
sense of the subjective mind may be awakened,'
the answer is 'Don_)._try. Don't try to make
things what they are not.' Subjective mind is
subjective just because it lies below the threshold of
consciousness. It is ~h,_e Bujlder of the Bo~,v, but we
can neither see, hear, nor feel it building.
Jus~e in.yo~ _consciql,ls mind a quiet, calm
expe.ctation_thi:i,t subje<;tlve mind is alway.sat war~
in accordance with the habitual thought of your
objective mind ... and t~jective·m.iii'd will
take c~e of itself.
Then the question is, how to keep the conscious
thought in a life-enjoying and life-giving current.
My answer to this is very simple, though perhaps
old-fashioned. It is, keep looking at God. Don't
trouble about theology, but :!!Y._JQ.J ealizi:i .the
Universal Divine Spirit as p.ei:p.e.t.Q~ owing
throug\. w.!_ t@lgs; through insensible things as
atomic energy; thr~~ma,Is as ~t~~ct; through
IPW :;i,§...thq_ught.
If this be so, then your manifestation of God
will correspond with..yg,lp' habitua~ thought of _
God.
Quietly contemplate the Divine Spirit as a contjng_al
f!o;ing ·of Life; Light; I~t;llig~~~~; Lov~, ···;~d
Power, · and you will fin this current' flowing
through you and manifesting in a hundred ways,
both mentally aiid physically, in your affiirs.'
. ,• ' 11'''"'
/
I ,
- •.· j
/ J
,/ ,:
136 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
You do not make this current, but you prepare
the conditions which will either cause it to trickle
through thinly and weakly, or flow through strongly.
You prepare the conditions on the interior side by a
mental attitude of looking into the light (God is
Light) with the expectancy of thence receiving life
and Illumination, and on the exterior side by not
denying in your work what you are trying to hold
in your thought,-for yourself the simple Law of
EnjoYJl'.l.ent of_Ml that you can enjoy, ed by
moderation, and toward others the equally simple
Law of~Honesty and Kindne!!f!· ~
I know you have heard these things ever since
you were a child, but what we all want is to realize
our connection with the building power within.
The connection is this: that the Spirit, as it flows
- througp. you, b_gc.ome:Ly:ou, and it ecom~in~you
- --~"" Just wliat·Y:ou take it for, just as..water takes the
shape of the pipe it flows·through. It takes shape
from your tllought. It is ex~eedingly sensitive--
how much more, then, must the pure Life Principle
itself be sensitive,? Think over this. Thl
nk it over
and then -think. Think of it kindly, lovingly,
t111stfully, and as a welcome coriiparJ.ion. It will
reB'pond exactly. Think of it as a Liyjn~ Light1
"'continually flowing t ough youand vivifying.you,
and it will respoy.d exactly.
If you ask why it does this, the answer is because
''"':; IT is the I 'te of your Real Self. Let this answer
" suffice you. Y~~ll oiily darken the Light by try-
ing to analyze the Divine Spirit. You cannot
dissect God. This"'doesn't mean being impractical,
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 137
b~fil:.!."B.ngJ9,§._~..:v~ry rgot of t1yl~,,r.>ractical. We
have our ordinarybusiness to do, but, believe'me, it
is the scientific method to bring everything into the
DivineJ;igllr.--·--- - • ·- ~ --~- · ~..
Theµ_l~ Y.21ll' iqeas l:)e d!)sir~s to see it in the
Dj_yine L.ight, let your ideas regarding it grow
quietly of themselves, and you will see it in its proper
and true light whatever the thing may be. Then
when you have seen what the thing really is, go on
and handle it in accordance with the four principles
of Cheerfulness, Moderation, Honesty and Kfudness::i:. ·
Don't worry;and do~'t try-to f~r~~ things; iet.them '
grow, because, by recognizing the continual flow of
the Spirit, you are-·p1:~.:viding "
Tile ' conditions,··-fo~
Life·is the Light which Will -majrn the~ grow the
right ~~y. - ' •
Don't bother about subjective mind and objective
mind, or theories of any sort, or description, either
mine or anyone else's; but just do what I have said
anil.try. itj or six months, and I think you will find
you have got hold of the :P<!wer that Works, and,
after aU,-th~tG ;hat;,.~ want. ., . _,,.. .·· .,.._
It is all su~ed up in this: Liv naturally with
the Spirit and don't WQFf"Y. Remember,'"you and
yoll!, ~irit areJ)ne;~d itis all quite n!J,tural. You
will perhaps say that this is too simple. Well, we
don't want to introduce unnecessary complications.
Try practicing ap.c~)eay~ .~11.e_, th~gry J-?~tM,,~.,,.care ~f_,.,.
itself. Livi~g Spirit is no~ t~. b~_fotgi~1L
n ~.)B,g_
k." '-.
SAGE: Many have written me from
all parts of the world voicing your
138 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
expression. Once a lady in New York
City wrote asking me to explain to her
exactly what I meant in the pamphlet
about ~pirit,..bepo~g you. Thinking
you might like to see a copy of my
reply, I brought it along fqr you.
PuPIL: Thank you so much. Am I
at liberty to keep these letters?
SAGE: Quite.
THE LETTER OF THE MASTER
"With regard to the sentence in the pamphlet on
the Subjective Mind about the Spirit becoming you,
I really don't see how to express·my·tneaning any
more ,clearly. What I mean is that in a cat it
becomes a cat; and in a cabbage it becomes a
cabbage; but in man, who is conscious, living
intelligence, it]l_~mes cons.p~ous, li\'.iP.g intellj.gen.c.e.r
And if so, then, since the Spirit is 1nfiniteyou can by
pra:yer ]J!dJileditatjon_draw upon it for increased
living iJ;!telligell:~e, i. e., aifdepends on your mode of
recognition of it. \
In the sentence you quote, 'It is exceedingly
sensitive,' etc., I am not re0ging_t9 thE)
_wa~~r, but
the Spirit. I mean that if subconscious mind in
ourseives·· is sensitive to suggestion, the creative
principle froip. w;!P_gh it l:?P!P?_g~ ~ust ~e stµ! more so, I
and takes shape from your thought ·accordingly. _
But you must remember that the pamphlet was not
-·--
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 139
written for publication. It was merely a private
letter, and I was never consulted on the subject of
publishing it, or perhaps I should have worded it
more carefully. .
Suppl¥ ~nd d~~~~d.Js 3:. very, large subject, but
eventually you will always have to come back to the
teaching of JesuS:-'Ask and-·ye shall.· receive.' We
maymlte volumes on the subj~ct, but ill the end it
always comes to this, and we have gained nothing by
going a long way around. I am coming more and
more to see that the teaching of Jesus is the final
embodiment of all that writers on those subjects are
trying to teach. In the end we have to drop all our
paraphernalia of argument and come back to His
statement of the working method. All the Bible
promises are based <?.!l ~he din ne knowledge of yol}r
mental constitution, and by simple reliance on it we
therefore :lfford centers through which the Creative
Power of the Universe can act in correspondence
with our recognition of it. 'According to your
faith so be it unto you.' Our faith is our real
thought. If our real thought isexpeCtation of disease
a.Jtd poverty, that is our faith- and we have faith in
this power of disease, and so open the door to it.
The whole purpose. of the Bible is to direct our
thought (which is our J aith) in the right way,
inst~d of leaVm.gu;'to form it in
~e y. There-
fore, as the basis for our faith, the Bible gives us
Promises. Pin your faith to the Promises, and you
ne ed not bother yotir b~ains .t-;-ar~~ about it.
The more you argue, the mq,r~you will pi!\ your ~
faith to your own argument and your understanding
--· -----····~·- • '"oft
140 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
of the law; and as a logical sequence you make
the fulfillment of your desire depend on your correct
arguing and exact knowledge, so that the result is
you are depending entirely upon yourself-and so you
are·'no forarder' and are just where you were.
On the other hand by simply believing the Divine
Promises, yqu~transfer_t~-~ y;Ji9le 9perl'!-tion tp .the
Divine Spirit (your subjective ~nd), and so you
hav~ agood w~uicl~.<?L ex:ge_s:t~ti~n, and by your
mental receptive attitude you become a 'fellow
worker' with God. You allow the All Creat
mg
Spiiit~to work ill, for, and through you. . This i's .tlfe
conception'St: Paul always had iiihis epistles, in all
of them showing the weakness of relying on Law,
and the strength of Faith in Promises. This also,
I think, was Jesus' ~eanh~g when He said: 'Blessed
is he that hath not.see~ and yet hath believed.'
we
U17ii>e t hat thes~few remarks wmoeusefttlt~
you, but I am wondering how this point of view will
appeal to an American audience, and that is another
reason why I am rather doubtful about coming over.
The more I think on this subject, the less I see in
trying to make 'Supply,' 'Health,' and all the
usual Nevr_ThoJ;Ight topics the subject ~ set of
m~~l rul~ likll, t4.e.. J~s. o{..arithmet1c~-It
throws the burden back on yourself, wliile your
!]ao!e g_bj.~ct i§ to g_et rid of it. It is the old tempta-
tion of Eden over again-the Tree of Knowledge,
reliance on our own acquisition of Knowledge; on
the Tree of Life,-reliance on God's own nature and
His desire for expression in us and through us, which
is t~
jl~ng of all the progi,i~s. The former looks
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 141
clever but isn't. The latter looks childish but is the
f tilfillme;J,of all law, and is Zife.
If you see things in this light, which I am sure is
the true one, th11 model you will have to take for the
'School of the 'Builders' is 'The stone which the
builders rejected has become the head o
fth; co~er.'
The reference is"to the great pyramid aii'd the t~p­
most stone-also to our crowning stone in West.
minster Abbey-and of cou"is; it refers superlatively
t o Christ. But properly instructed builders do not
reject this stone. On the contrary, they recognize
it as both the Foundation and the Apex of the
Bµilding of the Temple. You remember how
St. Paul calls himself a wise master-builder.
Is it any use for me t~ c~me toA~erlc; to teach
these things, which in some form or another have
been taught there ever since the arrival of the
Mayflower? Of course, I can talk about Vibration,
Nervous System, the PyramUl, and the like, and the
WQ!
~g o~Natural _
Lf]ws; but the Creating Principle
is apart: 'A worshipper of God and a student of
Nature' is what one of our old thinkers called him-
self. The Power is ofGod and is received by Man and
Man exercises it upon nature. That is the true
order..-: ··~ · 7/.~.: ' l ," -t. f
One meaning of the Masonic symbol of the five
- pointed star is that everything returns to its starting
point. Start from the apex of the triangle and trace
the line around and you come back to the apex. ,......
If, then, your starting point is in Heaven, you go
back to Heaven and the Divine Power, and so get
rid of the burden; but if your starting point is on
142 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
earth (i. e., your own acquisition of knowledge of
laws), you get back to earth, which is indicated by
the inverted triangle.
~---- __..... ..
You will find the Promises of man's power over
Nature, Conditions, etc., fully stated in Mark 11: ,r;
" 22-25, and no teaching can promise mor.e than this."
GOD HAS RIPENED A GREAT MIND
PuPIL: No words can express what a
privilege I feel it to have you thus
unfold and make clear to me the
truths I have struggled so hard to
understand. God has surely blessed
you with one of the greatest minds of
the present generation.
SAGE: ~t ~ll. There are many
who know much more than I along
these lines. For myself, however, I
am certain that there is but one God,
·! - ,,.., • - ~~ 'I., '.\_ -.... ~ ri ~
that God and man are one, and that
my- mincf, is . a center of Di;ine
Operatior1;"' this in·itself i~- ~ blessing~· ·
Much has alrea y een-saia'"
arid written '
on these subjects; it is all so simple.
PuPIL: I know it is simple to you, but
to us, who are struggling between
ATTAINING YOtJ!t DESIRBS 143
certainty and uncertainty, it is a rare
benefit to be able to sit and listen at
the feet of certainty.
SAGE: I am happy indeed that these
lessons have been helpful. It has been
a great pleasure for me to have
exchanged ideas with you, and I know
that you will pass them on to others
wherever you feel they will be helpful.
It seems to me that you now have all
the material necessary to build for
yourself a foundation and superstruc-
ture of absolute faith in God and of the
power of God in you, which is your
subjective mind. This knowledge,
well established, gives you dominion
over every adverse circumstance and
condition, because you are in conscious
touch with your _ limjtle~s supply.
"Only believe in the God within, and all
things ar~ possible unto you."
fJ.C~c::=c:!:s ~ c::=C!:I C!:I ~ c:!:s ~ !:>~
1 Orders tor this book promptly tilled by 1'
J n
~ PYRAMID BOOK SHOP u
J P. 0. BOX 245. OWENSVILLE, INOIANA n
J . I 'o l1
S. Price, - ,including postage. ll
·-===========--~
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 145
LESSON VI
HOURLY HELPS
SAGE: I want in this lesson to give
you, in the most practical form, the
means whereby you may meet the dis-
quieting things of life-the things which
wear soul, spirit, and body almost to
the snapping point. I want you to
take these admonitions and instructions
into your most intimate life and keep
them bright and shining by daily use.
They will help you hourly in over-
coming destructive elements, and in
attracting constructive ones.
Anger
When anger begins to stir you, take deep breaths;
hold your thought on the inflow of breath as being
rays of light, breathing deeper and deeper. Con-
tinue the deep breaths until you have taken twenty-
five inhalations; hold each one while you count
seven. Then expel slowly, keeping your thought
steadily on the inhalation, mentally seeing it go
all through your lungs, and penetrating every part
146 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
of your body as rays of light. Then meditate upon
any real live thought about yourself, such as being
one with all Zife and good. A little practice in thls
way will soon relieve you of the tendency to anger.
\. Anxiety
When conditions are not to your liking and you
find yourself thinking more and more about how
unhappy you are because of them, stay out of doors
in the open all you possibly can. Endeavor to walk
at least two miles every day, breathing deeply of the
fresh air with this thought: "I am breathing in the
Life, the Love, and the Power of the universe,
right now." Do not permit your thought to slip
back into the old groove. Fill your mind with this
declaration about yourself. You have been given
dominion over every adverse condition through your
power of thought. Persist in your steady recogni-
tion of this fact. Tell yourself over and over again
that all is well right now in your thought and feeling;
consequently outside conditions must and will
correspond.
Disease
\ If your body is the expression of thought, then
disease must be the result of a belief that your body
is subject to disease. Tell yourself many times a
day that all physical disease is the result of dis-
cordant thoughts, and when you have actually
accepted this statement as a truth, youwill be careful
to entertain only healthy, harmonious thoughts
for yourself or another. For example, if you feel a
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 147
headache coming on, begin at once to take deep
breaths, and repeat with each breath that breath is
Life, and that life is perfect health. "I am alive, so
the health of life is manifesting in me right now."
'\ Disappointment
"\ This subtle destructive power should be shut
out at all times by the recognition of your <Urect
contact with all the joy there is, because you are at
one with its Source, Universal Good. If the joyous
life does not express itself through the exact channels
which you expect, know that it will do so through
others. Life wants to express joy through you, for
it made you an instrument in which and through
which to do it. Because you are here for that pur-
pose, you can and do enjoy all the good which Life
has to give. Take some physical exercises while
holding that thought. A good one is to sit on a
chair and take a deep breath; then slowly exhale,
and as you exhale, gradually bend at the hips until
you can touch the floor with the tips of your fingers.
Repeat this seven times with the affirmation:
"The joy of God is fl.owing in me and through me
right now."
Discontent
·, When this enemy to peace and happiness begins
to advance, sing, sing, sing, right out loud if you can,
or else do it mentally. Sing anything you like.
Watch your breath control, and every night put into
your subconscious mind the thought that God
brought you into existence for the purpose of
148 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
expressing all of Life's harmonies, both in you and
through you, and it is your divine right to BE
harmony and to be harmonious in your daily
experience. Meditate upon the harmony you
see expressed in nature and endeavor to apply it in
your thought, and then express it.
Discouragement
""\ This is failure on your part to recognize the
Almighty limitless Source of Supply (God) as your
never-failing, co-operative partner. When you are
assailed with the thought of discouragement,
immediately ask yourself, "What kind of a power
was it that brought me into existence, and for what
purpose?" Then repeat slowly and thinkingly, "I do
believe and I am persuaded that God is an ever-
present, never-failing source of protection and
supply." Watch your thoughts lest any contrary
to this affirmation be lurking around in the corners of
your mind, and stick to it with all the will that you
have, and you will break down the suggestion that
there is any power in discouragement.
EnmJ
'" Envy is due to a sense of separation from God,
Good. Endeavor to realize that where there is
life, all that life has to give is present in its entirety
at all times and in all places, and will come into
visible expression through the persistent recognition
of this grand fact.
Fear
One writer has said that fear is the only devil there
is. Certainly it is the most destructive power one
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 149
can entertain. When fear comes to assail you, close
the door of your mind against it with this positive
thought: "The only creative power there is, is
thought. All things are possible to him who believes
that the God which brought man into existence did
so ~~e.pllrposE;i ~f,expres.sil!g His Fatherly lC!.ve and
protection in His child. I · believe in God, the
Father Ahliighty,·as'my life, my intelligence, mani-
festing jg .P.?
:Y .con~~i_m-\~n~ss_ :now.'' As you think
this, walk briskly cir'take strenuous exercise. When-
ever you sense fear returning, inhibit it instantly
by substituting any thought which affirms the power
of God in you. In short, fear is absolutely overcome
by wit)ldrawing you_r thought from the physical
reason or' ar gµmeiit which would cause you to
iJ'elieve in a power other than God, and the spirit of
Life and Love as your birthright.
Indecision
" This is a lack of the realization that your intelli-
gence is the instrument through which the Intelli-
gence of the universe takes specific form. An effort
to realize this fact should be a habit of mind, rather
than spasmodic attempts made only when the
ne~essity for ~ecj~!gp, arises.
"- Jealousy
This is love's greatest enepiy, and if permitted to
dwell within your cons"ciousness, will ultimately
destroy your ability to enjoy your life. It is the re-
action of the fear of loss and can be overcome through
prayer and watchfulness. Reason along these·
lines: "God is Life and God is Love. I am life !llDd
150 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
I am love. I cannot lose Love any more than I can
lose Life." When you are tempted to feel jealous,
walk long distances as frequently as possible and
keep your thought on Love itself, not on any one
person whom you love, but just Love and its
attributes. J'bink ot God_as..Loye. Keep all
thought of personality out of mind, and you will
find that love will spring up in you as a fountain of
everlasting love and life and fill your consciousness
through and through.
Self-Condemnation
\ The instant you begin to blame yourself for having
done the wrong thing or for not having done the
right thing, put this thought into your consciousness
to the exclusion of every other: "Infinite Intelligence
and Wisdom are expressing themselves in me more
and more right now." Take the exercise of bending
the body from the hips (without bending the knees)
so that you can touch the floor with the tips of your
fingers, inhaling as you lift the body, and exhaling
every time you bend. Repeat this exercise sixteen
times, accompanied by the affirmation just given.
Self-Indulgence
1...... This is brought about by lack of. will-power:
an evidence of a weak will. It means failure, .
because you have no thought-power to give the
unformed energy of life the particular thought-
material necessary to produce desired results.
Absolute mental (thought) control is the one and
only thing which is necessary for you to do, to be, or
\
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 151
to h've what you want. Without it, you scatter
;ypur forces. .._ '
·ifyoii-permit your thoughts to run riot without
restraint, the conditions of your life will become cha-
otic. For example: A friend does something of
which you do not approve, or perhaps your present
circumstances are undesirable. Refuse to let your
thought dwell on the injustice of your friend, for
dwelling on it would only produce greater unhappi-
ness for :you. Control your thought and do not
think of your friend in this connection. Instead,
consider the many fine attributes of friendship, and
this will restore harmony. Do the same in regard to
your unpleasant circumstances. Don't picture
them mentally and say to yourself, "How dreadful
they are!" But repeat the glorious truth which I
have previously referred to: "My mind is a center
of divine operation," etc., and divine operation is
always for greater advancement and better·things.
You will experience this if you cling faithfully to this
line of reasoning.
Sensitiveness
A highly sensitive mind is simply a "self-mind,"
a form of unadulterated selfishness. Your feelings
are htirl because someone says"something which
you do not like, or does something which displeases
you. Or conversely, he fails to say or to do what you
think he should. To eradicate this baneful thought-
habit, use the same methQd..of. argument.~ for s_
elf-
ind~gei;ic~ and if faithful in your mental work, your
efforts will be rewarded, and you will free yourself.
152 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
Unhappiness
'- A continually unhappy state of mind is the direct
result of constantly viewing life from the physical
standpoint as though that were life's only reality.
Every night, before you go to sleep, put well into
your subconscious mind this thought: "There is but
One Mind to think about me or to make laws over
me, and that is the Mind of Divine Love and Divine
Power." Every morning meditate upon this
thought. Use it as your shield and buckler at the
first suggestion of any sense of unhappiness. You
will soon find that the tendency to be discontented
and unhappy will vanish, and happier conditions
will come into your experience.
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 153
LESSON VII
PUTTING YOUR LESSONS INTO PRACTICE
'
JUST as I am completing this manu-
script for the printer, the idea
suggests itself that it will also be helpful
to give a definite idea, in formula
form, of how to be and have what you
want.
First, you should endeavor to learn
to be as near the perfect reflection of
your own idea of God as possible, in
thought and action. It may seem
impossible at first thought, to even
approach such a goal, but reflection
upon the thought that God made you
out of Himself, because ~e~
wi§!?.~d tg
see~~el _Hi!ns~lf in xou, will- help
you to persevere. When you first
began to learn to read, no doubt you
felt in your childish way that it would
be wonderful to read as well as the
grown-ups could; you kept on trying
and then you read.
154 ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES
Perhaps you have a big desire which
you would give your life to have ful-
filled. Iii-reality it is only necessary for
you to give a few moments each day to
earnest effort, in getting into the spirit
of this idea of God and living in it
every waking hour. Then endeavor
to find th~ S.piritual Prototype for your
(ijs.i e. By this I mean inhibit all
thought of the physical side of your
desire.
If you desire a true companion, close
your mind entirely to all personality
and physical being, and dwell ~g
thought and feeling on the spirit offuve~i' ~
and prue comradeship, without refer-"
ence to aey
_ .PE:YSical _
person. The
person is the instrument through which
these particular qualities manifest, and
not the qualities themselves, as we
often learn too late.
w - o~ you may desire improved financial
condition. Here again it is not mere
money you desire. J :Li§_ that which
m.on~y symbolizes-Substance, Liberty,
ATTAINING YOUR DESIRES 155
Freedom from lack. Therefore, you
shoulclgo-alonellight and morning (or
any time when you are certain you will
not be disturbed) and meditate first
upon your own t:rue relation to God.
After ym:;;·feeling has been stfu;ul~w·
to the point of certainty, then :meditate
upon the ever-present, never-:-failing
substance and freedom of God. Try
not to lose siglit of the fact that the
gr~~st .:m~gn~_! f?r.~cgujri:r;ig ,
:i;noney is
I eas. There is every reason that you
should capture one of these big money
ideas, if you will persistently follow
the suggestions given.
I r you 'do thiS·, ·you will not only
capture the idea, but also the ,C(ourage
to put the idea into practical applic?--
tion. This courage, put to positive
-!JSes, will bring you to the goal of your
desire-substance, love, friends, health,
happiness, and the peac~ tP,at. pass~tp
all unc:l~rstapding.
May all these come to you in richest
measure.
SELF-HELP BOOKS
HOW TO CHANGE YOUR CONDITION: By S. Vaid-
ianathan. Flexible covers. Price $1.60 postpaid.
HOW TO TURN YOUR DESIRES AND IDEALS
INTO REALITIES. By Brown Landone. Flexible
covers. Price $1.60 postpaid.
THE SUCCESS PROCESS. By Brown Landone. Flexible
covers. Price $1.60 postpaid.
THE LIFE POWER A.ND HOW TO USE IT. By
Elizabeth '.rowne. Flexible covers. Price $1.60 postpaid.
FREEING OUR MENTAL FORCES. By Marie Win-
chell Walker. Flexible covers. Price $1.60 postpaid
DIRECT HEALING. By Paul Ellsworth. Cloth bound.
Price $1.60 postpaid.
THE SUBCONSCIOUS MIND. By Gertrude A. Brad-
ford, Ph.D. Flexible covers. Price $1.60 postpaid.
WHAT AFFIRMATION SHALL I USE? By Elizabeth
Towne. Paper bound. Price 55 cents postpaid.
RESULTS THROUGH SELF-ANALYSIS. By Marie
Winchell Walker. Paper bound. Price 55 cents postpaid.
HOW TO DEMONSTRATE HEALTH, MONEY,
FRIENDS. By Gertrude. A Bradford, Ph.D. Paper.
Price 55 cents postpaid.
CONVERSATION AND A MAGNETIC PERSONAL-
ITY. By E. Gwendolyn Stimpson, LL.D. Paper. Price
55 cents postpaid.
FASCINATING PERSONALITY. By J. I. Billman, M.
S., M. A. Paper, Price 55 cents postpaid.
HOW TO HEAL YOURSELF AND OTHERS. By
Mrs. W. Y. McConnell. Paper. Price 55 cents postpaid.
THE HEART OF HEALING. By Mizanna Wolff. Paper.
Price 55 cents postpaid.
JUST HOW TO CONCENTRATE. By Elizabeth Towne.
Paper. Price 28 cent's postpaid.
The Elizabeth Towne Co., Inc., Holyoke, Mass.
