{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__spivey___national_insanity.pdf","mytitle":"National Insanity","mylang":"de"}
National Insanity
A Virulent Disease
The horrors of National Insanity, in its endless variations;
its treacherous intrigues; its cunning machinations, and its un
natural cruelties, are beyond ordinary human comprehension,
because they are the poisonous spume of an invisible power
directing our controlling human governments.
The People are being grossly deceived and misled!
The original purpose of this Nation has been abandoned!
National control is commercialized !
Published and Distributed by
Thomas Sawyer Spivey '
ii
Beverly Hills, California
Copyrighted
1928
By Thomas Sawyer Spivey
National Insanity
a Virulent Disease
A WARNING TO HUMANITY
This essay involves:
The Christian Churches —
Determined to conquer all nations.
Civil Administration —
Insanely intent upon throttling the masses.
The Army and Navy—
Blind instruments of government force.
Commerce —
Bent upon monopolizing national energy.
The Professions —
With savage intent to mulct humanity.
Political Parties —
The curse of the nation.
And a multitude of sycophant, parasitical strap-hangers,
hiding their predatory character beneath a false-pretense of
charity.
These are all standing together against the struggling, pro
ducing masses, the products of whose energy they greedily
absorb.
13% of the population of the United States possess 87% of
the wealth of the nation.
The purchasing power of the dollar paid to the producer is
less than 61 cents.
The producer buys his own energy at $1.80.
And gibbering idiocy laughs.
INSANITY!
What is it? By what rules may human sanity be measured?
It is naturally potential, or in some degree active, in every
human being.
Do not grow peeved or impatient that I put this plump up
to you; anger is a specific symptom of acute insanity.
You may take issue with me if you will, but I can convince
any logical, reasoning person, by his own conscience, and ex
perience, that an absolutely sane person cannot exist under
646237
4 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
present human living conditions, irritations, restraints and
persecutions.
For the convenience of those who are interested, we give
the technical meanings of the words sane, sanity, and insanity,
as they apply in this connection.
Sane —From the Latin sanus and the Greek saos, whole,
sound, safe; being in a healthy condition; not deranged; act
ing rationally; mentally sound, possessing a rational mind;
having the mental faculties in such condition as to be able to
anticipate and judge of the effect of one's actions in an ordi
nary manner. These refer to mind and body under normal
conditions.
Synonyms—Sound, healthy, underanged, unbroken.
(Webster)
Thus are physical health and mental balance co-ordinated.
In a rare old analysis of words by George Crabb, M. A.—
Universal Technological Dictionary, London, 1826, we find the
Latin word sanus is from sanguis, the blood ; because, in that
lies the seat of health and sickness, mental and physical.
Sound, sane, and healthy are synonymous terms. Sound, when
used in this sense, signifies "the absence of symptoms of decay,
or mixture of corruption."
"He hath a heart as sound as a bell, and his tongue is its
clapper, for what his heart thinks his tongue speaks." (Shake
speare.)
Dr. Roget's Thesaurus, London, 1852, gives the most thor
ough analysis of the words Sanity and Insanity.
Sanity.—Soundness, rationality, sobriety, lucidity, retention
of reason and possession of one's faculties.
Insanity. —Disordered reason or intellect ; diseased, obnormal,
unsound or deranged mind ; falling under insanity, lunacy, mad
ness, mania, fear, mental alienation, aberration, dementation,
phrenitis, phrensy, frenzy, raving, incoherence, wandering, de
lirium, calenture of the brain, delusion, hallucination, lycan-
thropy, fanatacism, infatuation, craze, oddity, eccentricity,
monomania; klepto-dipso-mania ; hypochondriasis, melan
cholia, hysteria, imbecility, egoism, rambling, doting, boasting,
strutting, posing.
These are all symptoms of degrees of insanity. We may
add to these technical symptoms the common evidences with
which we are in constant contact.
Vanity, conceit, anger, hatred, jealousy, greed, covetousness,
trickery, dishonesty, deceit, envy, and a multitude of others.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 5
So-called love or desire is prolific in breeding insanity, cul
minating in suicides and murders.
Not even a dead man may be declared free from all the
symptoms of insanity, because unhealth and decay are basic
evidences of an "unsound" mind.
It is officially declared, that, eighty per cent of our whole
population are physically defective, and, in that degree, men
tally deficient, ranging in degrees from harmless imbeciles to
raving maniacs.
Now, with this before you to knock the abnormal conceit
out of you, we may discuss the subject with some degree of
sanity —this is no place for politeness.
Every functioning body is composed of living, individual
units. There should be a reciprocal exchange between the
basic units and the functioning centers of the body, to estab
lish the equilibrium and natural balance of body and mind.
Any abuse of the basic units develops internal resentment, in
degrees from petty irritation to rebellion, and this sets up
unhealthy conditions which effect changes in the bodily struc
ture, manifesting in the eccentric and unnatural conduct of the
body functioning as a whole. Conflict is set up between the
body and its structural cells, because of lack of natural har
mony. In brief, an unhealthy condition arises, and unhealth
is a form of contagious insanity, transmissible from unit to
unit. This is a basic process of nature en masse—the germ of
insanity is a living thing. *
A nation of people is such a body; the people are the indi
vidual units or cells, and the health and sanity of the nation
rests solely upon the soundness of its units. History proves
that the fatal error in the development of human governments,
and the establishment of nations, was the ignoring of the
individual units in the building of national thought. The sole
object, and no one can successfully refute this charge, was
to establish a thinking class to rule, and an unthinking mass
to produce. The purpose was to crush the producing class into
a plastic, unyielding mass, to be ruled and controlled by force.
That this was an ecclesiastic theory is found in the first ten
words in the Bible.
"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth."
(Gen. 1:1.)
In the original manuscript, "God" was in the plural, "the
Gods." In the original Sanskrit, the word God signified good.
6 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
Therefore, "the goods" meant the rulers personified as gods,
and the good were those obedient to drastic discipline.
The original intent was to induce the masses, through ig
norant superstitious fear, to worship rulers as "Gods," "Lords
of Lords" and "Kings of Kings." This succeeded to the limit
of cowardly humanity licking the dirty feet of high priests
like trained curs.
The name Eclesia is derived from the legislative body which
ruled ancient Athens, called the Ecclesia. Therefore the true
significance of ecclesiasticism is a form of Theocratic govern
ment.
All authorities agree that the word heaven signifies ecclesias
tical government, and the word earth, in the same verse, sig
nifies producing humanity. Adam symbolizes mankind and
the earth, signifying the producer. This is adroitly concealed
from the ignorant masses by a code understandable only to the
initiated priesthood.
We are trying to awaken the individual units of humanity
to the fact, that they have been cheated out of their birth
right by as mean a band of knaves as ever infested the earth,
and that is of the right of individual, initiative thought and
understanding. To this day, ecclesiasticism is viciously antag
onistic towards scientific education in the masses, because it
exposes its hypocrisy, deceit and pure, premeditated meanness.
Its contempt for the common herd is unconcealed. It is con
stantly urging upon legislative bodies oppressive, restrictive and
coercive laws.
We need not go back of the time when christianity was
first introduced. Previous nations merely represented the battle
royal between two forms of government, which came into our
period as Church and State, responsible for our own national
insanity. Our constitution declares that the nation is not, in
any sense, founded upon religion or church.
We may readily distinguish between the two forms as the
so-called spiritualistic and the materialistic. The one to control
the mentality, and the other the physical body of the nation,
a palpable usurpation of nature's prerogatives by selfish, de
signing men.
It goes without argument that anything which attempts to
co-ordinate human mentation contrary to the natural trend
of thought engendered by human experience gathered in natural
ways, is trifling with sanity —nature is not insane.
An analysis of the dual form of government, which is always
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 7
struggling for the mastery, reveals the origin of national in
sanity, arising from abnormal exaggeration of emotions in
the unthinking masses. Brooding rebellions and revolutions are
constantly menacing civilization.
The civil government controls by open force and concealed
mental training in so-called free school systems, secretly con
trolled by invisible powers.
The church government attempts to control by open ethical
training, and concealed militant discipline of its forces, as
cruel to its own people as is the execution of the civil laws
towards the masses, the theory holding that cruelty is an essen
tial agent in human control. Cruelty without vindictive hatred
is impossible.
Humanity cannot serve both masters and pursue a sane
course, because they are diametrically opposed one to the other.
This engenders a confusion which is conducive to insanity in
many forms.
The usual interpretation of insanity merely takes into con
sideration the safety of personal freedom.
Babylon symbolizes the composite nation, and Babylon means
mixture, confusion, tumult, and all the exciting and irritating
mental and physical conflicts which foster national insanity.
Nations, as bodies, become insane, precisely as human indi
viduals lose their mental equilibrium. Insanity, like a tree,
spreads out its branches to cast a shadow over the earth out
of which it has its growth. As we have previously stated,
in the ecclesiastical code earth means the producing masses,
the seat of national insanity. This is the soil in which the
seeds are sown, and out of which the tree has its growth.
A composite nation is victim of many ailments, which arise
as foreign elements are injected into its body politic, exactly
as foreign germs engender new diseases in individual organ
isms, and a nation is no stronger than its average unit. A
homogeneous nation cannot be made from a heterogeneous mass
composed of unlike units.
The nations sending their overflow to the United States do
not send their strongest, but their weakest units, and this
lowers the average value of the unit here.
It is in the execution of a multitude of criminal laws that
occasion arises for the criticism of government on the part of
the harassed, unreasoning masses. Revolutions do not arise
from lax enforcement of the law, but rather from over-zeal
in enforcement causing reaction.
8 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
It is a christian policy to corrupt those who will not place
themselves under church discipline by bringing them under
criminal laws. (Matt. 12:33.) Governments turn to church
policies because of political influences.
Insanity is acquired or inherited. The United States in
herited national insanity from her composite parent, England,
with her high statistical insanity developing out of her mix
ture of races. This basic taint is enhanced by the introduction
of foreign elements, and irritating and illogical theories of law
and government.
Before the alleged birth of Christ, when Rome was a hope
lessly insane, hybrid republic, England was a desolate waste
of marshland and forest, inhabited by a savage tribe, not far
removed from the ape, who fought with clubs, wore skins
of animals, and stained their bodies with the juice of the
woad. These aboriginal English were named Britons.
Right here is the evidence of inherited traits which border
on insanity ; warfare, vengeance and human sacrifice were the
foundation element in their religion. England inherited these
and has always been a war-like nation. Vengeance in the
name of God and the law was born in the English blood.
Added to this primitive stock are the Saxons, Normans,
Danes, Picts, Scots, Welsh, Irish, Gauls, Romans and Jews.
Does any sane person believe this mixture would produce a
high order of national sanity? Well, it did not. and the his
tory and statistics of England prove it did not. Basic insanity
is not curable; moreover, it is contagious and transmissible.
Next to England, the United States stands out conspicuously
as a composite nation. She is the melting pot of nations, but,
her beginning was English, and her foundation elements the
offal of England. All the high-flown blather about the land
ing of Pilgrims at Plymouth being the foundation of the col
onies is pure bunk. Hudson landed his cargoes of English
convicts in the north, and Oglethorpe founded his colony at
Savannah, consisting of the most desperate and forlorn con
victs ever deported from England. Strut and pose as we
will, we cannot deny that many of these were the ancestors
of the people of the United States. Moreover, they sowed
the seeds of insanity in this land. They had suffered tortures
in English prisons which are indescribable, and potential within
them was a vengeful hatred for humanity that it would permit
such inhuman practices on the part of so-called civilized gov
ernments. That hatred laid the foundation for American juris
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 9
prudence which has always been notoriously eccentric, and
lacking in true humane justice—vengeance of the law is in
carnated in peevish, ill-natured, shallow-minded magistrates.
In the United States humanity has been specifically legis
lated into states of criminality, merely to bring the people
wholly under statutory control. Very early in the beginning
of this nation. Blackstone's common-law practices were aban
doned for drastic, and only too commonly, vicious, intrusive,
and inquisitorial statutes, which irritated men beyond endur
ance. This was a clear case of legislating insanity, as well
as crime, into the masses of people. The main object was to
inspire the people with awe and fear of government, and
fear is the first foundation stone of insanity. Cultivated ig
norance, and enforced slavery, have completed the task, and
smile and boost as we may, the fact remains that our people
are chained to toil.
The irritating persecution by the endless laws in the United
States, equals the Spanish inquisition in their intrusive inter
ference with personal rights and freedom. The temptation
to abuse the powers of law enforcement for the profit this
yields has filled the land with systematic and organized graft
under high-sounding titles, hiding behind the cloak of fake
charities and a false patriotism.
Taxation has become a refined system of confiscation, and
extravagant and profligate governmental expenditures are con
suming the nation. Hopeless bankruptcy confronts the people
in the not far distant future. At this time national bankruptcy
hovers in the background.
Did the United States originate this abnormal system? No,
she merely inherited an insane desire to outdo the older nations,
with the results that Europe hovers over her like a cloud of
poisonous gas, ready in her jealous rage that America is reap
ing greater profits from her previous examples of bleeding
humanity, to smother her. The nations of Europe stand as
one in their hatred of the upstart which has dared to dictate
to them. No one can even approximate the bitter resentment
felt towards the United States by Europe. The greatest polit
ical crime ever committed by America was intermeddling in
European affairs, and opening wide her doors to her criminal
offal.
It is in the execution of her criminal laws that the United
States has imitated England. She could not exceed or excel
the viciousness with which the mother country executed her
10 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
criminal laws through the centuries. Cruelty beyond human
belief was heaped upon the accused for the most trivial mis
demeanors. Those who executed the laws had no conception
of humane sympathy. They became as ravenous beasts in
their vengeful desire to cruelly persecute and punish the ac
cused. Usually accusation meant conviction without discretion
or mercy.
The English debtor laws were a disgrace to civilization. The
English are beasts in human cruelty. It is a species of in
sanity born during the Catholic period in England, the cruelties
of the Catholics merging into the Church of England under
which the nation was taxed into abject poverty. England has
suffered greater poverty in its' masses than any other nation.
The alleged two pillars to human civilization and national
life are the church and state, but when these combine to harass
and plunder the producing masses, civilization becomes a curse,
and national life becomes a system of slavery. Insanity is
the natural offspring of such a condition.
Both church and state have been coercively impressed upon
humanity by an organized, usurpative power, rather than by
choice, natural growth, or initial adoption by the masses ; hence,
from the beginning of community life, there have been two
widely distinctive classes—the governing, and the governed.
The rankest failure with which man has been identified has
been this false-pretense called civilization, with its cruel re
ligions; its usurpative governments, and its desolating wars,
all for the glorification of individuals, and the enrichment of
ravenous institutions, which render no adequate compensat
ing services to the common masses of mankind, for the tre
mendous personal and material sacrifices demanded.
The true purpose of national life should be, peace without
sluggish impotency ; prosperity without profligacy ; happiness
without dissipation, and the broadest opportunities for mental
development and the acquiring of education and useful knowl
edge. The full realization of this should bring the true joy
of associated human life, requiring few laws and little stress
in their enforcement.
History does not record any such nation. There is only
one such Elysium, and that is an adjunct to hell, as described
in Greek mythology, and one must die and go through hell
to attain the life. This is vindicated by the christian theory
of heaven and hell, plagiarized from paganism.
There has not been a moment of universal peace since men
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 11
first banded themselves together in so-called community life,
this very act presuming the necessity of defensive co-operative
warfare against common enemies ; hence, peace is a fallacy.
Even christianity declares war an essential of national life.
(Matt. 24:6.)
National prosperity fluctuates to meet the requirements of
the monopolistic elements of production and distribution, with
little reference to the individual convenience, and necessities
of the laboring masses.
Happiness is an unknown quantity to the average man, be
cause the word implies a condition or state of permanent
equilibrium of mind and body, impossible under our mixture,
confusion, tumult, jealousy, hatreds, greed, selfishness, and
dishonesty. Mankind has been taught that these vicious atti
tudes are essential to live, thereby fostering a beastly coercion
of the law of the survival of the fittest, contrary to reason
which prompts human co-operation and mutual effort.
The meanest and most contemptible animal on this earth is
the egotistical fool who gloats and poses over high position in
public office or church; he is an impostor and a self-worshiped
humburg, striving only for mastery over men.
We propose to cast upon the screen a composite picture of
the causes of national insanity in so far as this nation is con
cerned. England originated the governmental policy of rule
by unsympathetic force and the most cruel forms of coercive
laws, which were adopted by the United States —our first law
books were English. The first centuries of English develop
ment were filled with eternal warfare, and bloodshed, engender
ing in the English people an insane desire to administer and
witness cruelties. All human sympathy was crushed out of
the administration of the law, and those who executed the laws
vied with each other in introducing obnoxious cruelties. This
was the origin of the usurpative, discretionary powers of judges
and magistrates in the United States., who commonly vent their
spleen, petty ill-temper, and illogical and illegal private opin
ions upon the hapless victims who exhibit the slightest resent
ment towards their arbitrary attitudes. A very large propor
tion of court decisions in the United States are without founda
tion of law as defined by the federal constitution as were the
decisions in England in defiance of her Magna Charta.
Viciousness and undue cruelty in the administration of the
laws, in the United States, especially so-called criminal statutes,
is a species of insanity inherited from the English practice in
12 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
jurisprudence. The English judge is as vengeful as the chris
tian God. No inquisitorial cruelties exceeded the horrors of
English, so-called administration of justice during the periods
of protestant persecutions. England is not proud of her church
or state record in this connection.
I happen to possess the records of the great English trials
of a period replete with church and political intrigue, when
the power of the courts was merely an adjunct to party pro
motions. Justice was tempered to the whims of political
leaders, and church and state were one. During this period
the infamous "Benefit of Clergy" and the brazen false-pretense,
the "neck-verse" laws, were in force, by which convicted
thieves, confessed murderers and other criminals escaped free,
through the intervention of the church, while untold numbers
of innocent persons were persecuted to death by vengeful
courts.
The nearest approach to this in the United States is the
"plea of insanity," the "insanity expert" and the "complacent
judge," who is called "the court," having tremendous dis
cretionary prerogatives, and opportunity for favoritisms or
abuses.
I will quote a preface from an extraordinary volume pub
lished at London, England; in 1776. The title page of this
book is sufficiently interesting to reproduce. The tendency
towards a drastic application of the laws in the United States
is rapidly approaching this early English malpractice.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 13
A .
Complete Collection
of
STATE-TRIALS,
and
Proceedings
for
High-Treason,
and other
Crimes and Misdemeanours ;
Commencing with
The eleventh year of the Reign of King Richard II.
and ending with
The sixteenth year of the Reign of King George III.
with
Two Alphabetical Tables to the whole,
To which is prefixed
A Preface
By
Francis Hargrave, Esquire
1776
For convenience we are eliminating the old style English
print for the modern, although we do continue the peculiar
spelling of certain English words.
In the preface of this remarkable volume we find admission
that prisoners in England were denied the advantages given
in other countries.
"In Scotland very considerable advantages are allowed to
the prisoner, which we in England do not enjoy; he has what
counsel thinks fit, and a copy of the charge in his own lan
guage; his counsel are permitted to inspect the depositions
against him before he is brought to trial ; . and they are so
little in haste to dispatch a state prisoner, that the trial often
lasts some months, giving to the accused every possible oppor
tunity to clear himself without rotting in gaol"
Here is definitely charged unfair treatment of the accused
in the English courts.
Another clause specifically says there are judges who are
unfair through prejudice in favor of the crown. This is a
14 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
serious fault in our own courts, manifesting in a pompous,
bombastic, fanatical bigotry as to the sacredness of the law.
"It has not always been the good fortune of England to
have the bench adorned with excellent judges. . . . The reader
in the course of these trials will find instances wherein the
judges have delivered opinions in direct contradiction to the
known fundamental laws of the nation, and as far as in them
lay, sacrificed the constitution and liberties of the kingdom to
the pride and ambition of an arbitrary monarch. This has at
times caused the downfall of judges, and the ministers whose
tools they were."
Is this clear? It is in defiance of true justice.
"Others there have been, as the reader will learn, who, re
gardless of right and wrong, and all the solemn oaths they
have sworn, have under color of, but yet in open defiance of
natural justice, made no scruple to murder the innocent, and
by foul, unwarrantable practices to acquit the guilty, just as they
received their directions from, or thought it would be best
pleasing to those above them : to such a monstrous and bare
faced iniquity were they arrived, that they stuck not to deter
mine the same point different ways at different times, usually
turning it to the destruction of the person tried before them.
"These volumes will impartially transmit their memory to
posterity with that reproach and infamy, so deservedly attend
ant upon traitors and murderers, and the hectoring bullies, who,
without regard to the decency of character, used their authority
to no other end than to silence reason and truth, and by blus
tering and clamour to worry the innocent to death.
"And the counsel, equally vicious, with rude and boisterous
language, abuses and reviles the unfortunate prisoner, taking
every advantage of ignorance, weakness and innocence, and,
by force or stratagem, disabling him from making his defence.
He brow-beats his witnesses as soon as they appear, doing
everything in his power to put them out of countenance, and
confound them in delivering their evidence, leaving the im
pression that it is his duty to convict every one brought to
trial, right or wrong, guilty or not guilty. Such methods are
below men of honor, not to say men of conscience. In the
perusal of this work many such examples appear, not exempt
ing the great Lord Chief Justice Coke in the trial of Sir
Walter Raleigh."
Does not this come home to those familiar with the ruffian-
like tactics of prosecuting attorneys in the United States?
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 15
Which do you prefer to call
it,
a
species of insanity, or plain
contempt for justice?
I
believe the usual contemptible methods
of prosecuting attorneys but reflect
a
type of bravado to bolster
their courage. Look at them, nearly always with bilious, sal
low faces, and purple lips, the very image of one going against
manhood. Cruel harshness
is
practiced to cover up manifest
dishonesty. Instead of holding the accused guiltless until he
is
proven guilty, the prosecutor brands him with the most
infamous guilt in the very beginning, combating furiously all
evidences proving the innocence of the accused. The origin
of this
is
found in the English practice before prosecutors were
known in America.
"In his adroit and artful turns and insinuations in his plead
ings before the court or jury, the prosecutor blinds them to
the truth thus suppressed or misunderstood
;
and the innocent
accused
is
driven into a state of insanity to see himself thus
sacrificed to
a
sordid desire to convict regardless of the truth."
In the United States the prosecutor's reputation rests upon
the number of persons he convicts and sends to prison. No
one ever expects politeness or consideration for personal feel
ings from
a
prosecutor, unless
it
is
in the form of sarcasm.
He always plays to the gallery.
"In the matter of civil suits, the miscarriage of justice, and
the imposition of useless costs, are as great an evil as in the
criminal cases.
"The ecclesiastical courts are as guilty as the state court
procedures.
"In cases of High-Treason (political),
it
is
more difficult to
make
a
defense than in ordinary criminal cases, and conviction
carries more severe punishment. The fatal engine employed
against the accused
is
the sycophant desire on the part of cor
rupt and wicked ministers to trim to the needs of the crown.
Some of the noblest and bravest patriots in England have
fallen victims to this type of dishonesty, their most praise
worthy acts being construed as treason and rebellion."
The Magna Charta of England offers many personal safe
guards, but when
a
man
is
accused he usually rots in Gaol be
fore he
is
tried. The stench of rotting debtor-prisoners, chained
to dead companions, or those eaten with loathsome, contagious
diseases, left to die before trial, will smell through eternity.
The taint can never be eradicated from the legal garments of
civilization.
16 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
That is the Alma Mater of American jurisprudence—selfish
ness overtops honor.
Every nation has certain types of criminals which should
be permanently removed from contact with the people for
safety's sake, and misdemeanors should be suitably corrected.
The individual is responsible for his acts to the community,
but this does not justify declaring all the people criminals until
proven innocent. Innocence is utterly impossible with the
nation smothered under a blanket of hundreds of thousands
of criminal laws, driving the people into a state of hopeless
bewilderment and insanity. Men known as respected citizens
today, find themselves converted into criminals by some over
night law. They are respectable in one state and find them
selves criminals the moment they cross the line into another
state. Eager eyes of savage officials await their missteps, and,
like hyenas, pounce upon them to rape their reputation and gut
their pockets. The vicious practice of multiplying the petty
laws to harass and mulct the unwary masses has assumed a
tremendous system of graft throughout the United States.
In the false-pretense of saving one individual they sacrifice
thousands. There is no pretense of justice, human sympathy,
or respect for character. Desperadoes, respectable people,
women and children are cast into the same net. Without
discretion or discrimination, accusation by the law is disgrace
regardless of innocence.
This disregard for human decency was once based upon
the theory, and intent, to make the people fear the law, but
long ago it was discovered that, morality cannot be coerced
into the people by drastic application of a multitude of laws.
It was also discovered that, these same laws could be com
mercialized and turned into a source of tremendous profits.
It is safe to say that the penalties and costs to the whole
people, of executing the laws throughout the nation, exceed
all forms of direct taxation, were the inside facts obtainable.
Officials are daily charged with corrupt and dishonest prac
tices, and only too often escape through corrupt favoritism.
The outcome of this deplorable situation
is,
we are living
under
a
thin covering of cheap veneer; national pride dons
a
robe of meaningless patriotism, born of fear; officialdom
struts in
a
pompous pretense of righteous importance, and the
people are so inspired with awe they are prone to give vent
to their pent up mental strain by abnormal and inconsistent
support of
a
system which they do not understand, and which
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 17
they hate within their hearts, fear alone being the visible rul
ing power. The men who assume the responsibility of making
and executing the laws are of an inferior caste, uneducated,
and indifferent to refinement, and natural, moral responsi
bility. Long contact with the legal mechanism causes them
to become hardened to mercy and pity, and developes an utter
hatred towards all civilians.
It will be interesting to laymen and lawyers alike to know
some of the customs and practices prevailing at that time
because of established abuses and unhindered custom. There
was not an honest, conscientious fibre in any individual con
nected with the courts, the law or prisons. Gaolers were
mere brutes clothed in human forms and permitted to torture
prisoners to death if they did not pay to avoid this. Thousands
of prisoners died in prison, untried.
1. It was common for judges to render opinions in direct
contradiction to the known fundamental laws of the nation,
and reverse these opinions in other cases when occasion
required.
2. All cases were decided to meet the whims and pleasure
of higher-ups and the crown, regardless of justice.
3. The judges were recognized as the tools of ministers and
political powers.
4. If needs be, the innocent were condemned to death re
gardless of right or wrong, in defiance of justice. It was
treason to criticise judges.
5. It was the privilege of prosecutor and counsel to bully-
raggle, and frighten the accused, and their witnesses, into
a state which prevented a defense, and these tactics were
sustained by the presiding judges.
6. The accused was openly declared guilty until proven in
nocent, and, if it were possible, evidence proving his
innocence was barred.
7. Regardless of character and decency, witnesses were so
thoroughly outraged by the bullying of lawyers they were
disgraced upon leaving the court.
8. These practices were not alone confined to the lower court
officials. In the trial for High-Treason of Sir Walter
Raleigh, Lord Chief Justice Coke disgraced the cloth
beyond repair, by his utter disregard of truth, justice and
common decency. This was a typical case.
18 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
9. It was a common practice to promote injustice and wrong
by mean insinuations to discredit principals or witnesses,
and a wilful suppression or disguise of the truth, know
ing that none would dare criticise the conduct of the
prosecution or the attitude of the judges.
10. In other countries convicted criminals sentenced to death
were executed in private, but in England they were exe
cuted in public as examples of the "necessity of vindicat
ing the law," and "meeting the ends of justice," in order
to deter others from committing like crimes (a heinous
theory which never worked out).
11. The charge of High-Treason was commonly preferred as
a means by which objectionable persons could be disposed
of. An example is found in the outrageous abuse of
justice in the trial of Sir Walter Raleigh. Many of
the greatest men England had produced were thus sacri
ficed—in plain English, murdered.
12. Much show of liberal, protective laws was made in the
Magna Charta. The write of habeas corpus was an Eng
lish invention, available in cases except treason or felony,
which were unbailable. This was evaded by expressing
in all possible cases the word felony. The alleged purpose
of the habeas corpus was to prevent prisoners becoming
"worn and wasted with long waiting in prison for trial."
Under the debtor-laws nearly as many died in prison from
vile diseases and starvation as were brought to trial.
13. The precaution of the habeas corpus and the King's writ,
was overcome by secretly losing the subject by sending
him to some remote or private prison, by which he lost
the benefit of such writs for want of knowing to whom
to direct the writ. A pretense of correcting this was made
by passing a law that no English prisoners should be sent
beyond the seas. Nevertheless, England was honey
combed with so-called insane asylums filled to overflow
ing with "unidentified" prisoners kept there by liberal pay
ments to the keepers. England was guilty of more "public-
sop laws" than any other nation. Her court practices were
utterly lawless. Frequently favoritism sent persons out
of the country as "messengers" or "ambassadors," which
placed them under the protection of the king and beyond
prosecution. An attempt was made to save Sir Walter
Raleigh by this process, but his enemies were too strong.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 19
14. Press-warrants were common, taking men by force to serve
on the sea. Many persons were prevented from going
to the common Gaols by "messengers" being sent to take
charge of and imprison them in their own homes, where
they were detained sometimes for months without hear
ings. This was a violation of the expressed law. There
are no records of such cases ever having had a judicial
hearing as to their legality.
15. It was a common thing for judges to destroy persons far
more righeous than themselves. The law itself was a
dead letter. Judges interpreted it as they saw fit, until the
laws became intolerable from sheer misinterpretation.
(This is a warning to the people of the United States to
take heed of the tendency of judge interpreted laws. All
of the lower courts, especially magistrates' courts, are
abusing the law of discretionary power by rendering opin
ions having not the slightest basis of legality. Punish
ment for contempt of court is not legal because appeal
is denied. It is a mere instrument of savage vengeance.)
16. Modifications of the drastic methods of the English
judges were absolutely necessary to prevent revolution.
17. The English law at that period required juries to unani
mously agree before they gave in a verdict; if they did
not, they underwent greater punishment than the accused
himself, being confined in one room without meat, drink,
fire or candle, till they were starved. This custom often
worked grave injustice by forcing verdicts.
(A large number of verdicts rendered in the courts of
the United States are just such forced agreements. The
man whose conscience honestly opposes conviction on the
evidence, and is forced to render a verdict against his best
judgment, is the man whose mind begins to lean towards
insanity. Fear impels him to blindly follow the majority,
and swallow his resentment. This enforced suppression
embitters his whole being.)
18. The practice in the English courts, of rendering indict
ments in the Latin tongue, was wholly detrimental to the
prisoner, because he did not know with what he was
charged. He could have no voice in any reasonable excep
tion to the indictment. but was wholly at the mercy of
uncharitable prosecutors, and only too often indifferent
counsel.
(Perhaps the meanest maxim in law is that which is
20 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
distinctly English, Ignorantia juris non excusat : "Igno
rance of the law is no plea." Apply this to the United
States, with hundreds of thousands of laws on the statute
books, and from ten to twenty thousand new laws being
ground out annually, and you will grasp its absurdity and
rank injustice. It is safe to declare, that, under this
drastic theory, more innocent persons are convicted than
real guilty.)
19. It was a common practice to exaggerate the charges
against the accused by concealing them in Latin phrase
ology, the theory always being, that the accused was
"guilty as charged," unless proven otherwise by over
whelming evidence. A large proportion of the convic
tions were based on concealed charges, in the Latin indict
ments, which were foreign to the case, and not under
stood by the accused or the jury, but well understood by
the prosecutor and the judges. Usually these inserted
words were intended to bring the word felony into the in
dictment. making it a non-bailable case, and not subject
to the crown writs, to prevent application for them.
Thus it is seen that the law and its machinery were
avowed enemies of the people, and always sought to draw
the innocent as well as the guilty into their nets.
(In the United States this legal sentiment against the
people, born of a cultivated prejudice, is growing stronger,
and a similar indifference and disregard for human interest
is manifesting, especially in police departments and petty
courts. Police officials brazenly violate the laws to set
snares for the people.)
20. A large number of prosecutions were for blasphemy —
reproachful reflections upon God and religion. Most of
these were malicious and brought convictions without
proof of vicious or evil intent on the part of the accused.
21. A cruel and senseless practice in felony cases was .that
the accused was not allowed a copy of the indictment, the
names of jurors, nor the aid of counsel. This, evidently,
is why it was so important to get the word felony into
indictments. It was a fact that persons were allowed
greater privileges in defense of property than in defense
of their lives. This evidences the utter contempt held
for human life by the English law and courts.
22. Conviction for petty theft, or pocket-picking was con
viction for a felony, and drew the same death sentence
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 21
as the murderer of a household. Theft and murder were
classed as the same. It was proven that the frequency
of crime, as emphasized by these death penalties, removed
the terror of it and increased crime, death was less dreaded
than the living death of the galleys, or Gaols.
Nothing could be more repugnant than inflicting the
death penalty for pilfering and petty offenses common
even to children. Compare this with adultery, for which
there was no criminal prosecution. Compare the invasion
of a man's household, and the stealing of the affections of
his wife, and the mother of his children, with the steal
ing of some petty household article, and you will realize
the absurdity of English laws. The one act may be to
satisfy ravenous hunger, and the perpetrator dies for
it,
but the other
is
to satisfy the cravings of
a
vulgar lust
which could easily lead to murder, and no criminal prose
cution follows. What protection has an honest, decent
man against such
a
thief? The idiotic excuse for this
is
that "theft
is
a
public matter" while "adultery
is
a
private
matter." Thus property
is
held above the national virtue
and honor.
Posing as
a
great religious nation, as England does,
how does
it
reconcile this with the Mosaic law making the
same offense punishable by death? Have the judgments
of pot-headed English jurists superseded the judgment of
their own christian God? Even under the ancient laws
of Rome the adulterer who invaded the home of another
was put to death.
23. As to misdemeanors, the judge was
a
law in himself,
using his own discretion as to the punishment he inflicted
upon culprits. This led to tremendous abuses, due to
favoritisms. A fine which might be
a
mere trifle to one
man might mean the ruin or prison to another.
(Here we have the origin of the abuses so manifest in
our own petty magistrate courts. The tremendous vol
umes of petty fines assessed by magistrates run into un
known millions in this country. Magistrates are openly
accused of
a
flagrant abuse of office to mulct the public.
The meanest attitude taken by many of our courts
is
the
perfect indifference shown toward character and reputation
in their alleged punishment of the most trivial offenses.
It
would seem that the law-making machinery, and the
courts of the land, are bent on destroying all respectability
22 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
in the nation. This unnatural tendency, like the early craze
concerning witchcraft, at Salem, may be charged to the
fanaticism of English so-called jurisprudence, which was
nothing short of the extension of the inquisition, that
hellish Catholic institution established to discredit civil
governments in the hearts of their citizenry.)
24. Discretionary judges indiscriminately abused their priv
ileges to gratify their private revenge, or satisfy the rage
of a party, by inflicting indefinite or perpetual imprison
ment, excessive and ruinously exorbitant fines and un
usual and cruel punishments. They possessed the extraor
dinary privilege of venting their ill-nature or revenge as
they pleased, placing those accused of trivial misdemeanors
in a more precarious position than had they been accused
of felonies, exposing them to perpetual imprisonment, and
unlawful punishment worse than death. An English prison,
with its vermin and filth was a living tomb. Extravagant
fines, wholly beyond the ability of the accused to pay, were
excuses for subjecting them to cruel corporal punishment,
notwithstanding the Magna Charta forbade unusual fines
or punishments.
(We have an excellent example of this unjust and un
lawful practice on the part of vicious, conscienceless men
without regard for justice and honor. Our constitution
specifically forbids unreasonable fines and punishments.
The greatest opportunity for graft ever developed in any
nation, is in the endless, petty, and often contemptible,
laws pretending to regulate automobile traffic in the United
States. Fines beyond all reason, and the promiscuous
smirching of good reputations without sufficient reason, by
ignorant asses posing as magistrates, is bringing all law into
bad repute. The most universally hated men in the coun
try are traffic officers hovering in clumps of bushes or
under bridges, waiting to pounce upon the unwary traveler
technically overstepping some trivial regulation. Taken
before a heartless magistrate he is mulcted of an incon-
sistant fine, and perhaps disgraced by a prison sentence.
Many of these laws accomplish nothing in the way 61
public safety.)
25. Lord Chief Justice Coke himself declared that the hated
star chamber, was the most honourable court in the Chris
tian world, consisting of the chief officers of the king
dom, and dealing with cases which required secrecy. Its
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 23
chief end was the abuse of authority to wreak vengeance
on particular persons, and vent the malice of court fac
tions. No limits were observed in the execution of its
jurisdiction, nor injustice in its sentences; when their
judges became a disgrace to human nature by their bar
barous and cruel butcherings. punishing pretended libels
by perpetual imprisonment, with indescribable physical
tortures, and branding of the faces, and mutilating of
their victims. Fines and punishments were so monstrous
they could not be concealed except by star chamber pro
cedures. Humanity should curse the names of Barnardis-
ton, Hampden, Oates, Dangerfield, Johnson, and their ilk.
26. The Pillory was an especial instrument of torture tinder
the English system, exposing the victim to public shame,
infamy and disgrace, forever branding him as a Cain, to
be reviled and shunned by his fellowmen. This was an
open sop to the irresponsible mob, to gain its favor and
approval of an act revolting even to the judges them
selves. The pillory was always the resort of fanatical
magistrates to vent an unnatural spleen and vengeance,
born of judicial insanity, anger and hatred. It invited
the insults and assaults of the ignorant. unthinking, big
oted mob, and frequently resulted in the death of the
pilloried victim, for which the contemptible magistrate
was morally responsible. Supposedly in the hands of jus
tice the victim is deliberately handed over to the mob.
The pillory was his disgrace, but personal injury was a
wilful transmission of physical punishment to the unlaw
ful mob, for which these judges should have been held
liable for damages, but such was English discretionary,
judicial custom.
27. Another thing showing the defect of English procedure
was, the packing of juries, one of the most disgraceful
practices on the part of the prosecuting machinery, render
ing it next to impossible for accused persons to receive
just trials. This practice made accusation practically con
viction, and a large proportion of the trials mere vengeful
persecutions.
28. The most despicable things in England were the hardened
gaoelers. Their oppressions, persecutions, extortions and
numerous forms of blackmail, were an open disgrace to
the nation. There seemed to be no remedy for this vicious
abuse of opportunity. No criminal who ever entered their
24 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
Gaols could be so low and contemptible as these human
dogs. But, why drop them below the equally despicable
authorities whose duty it was to check the outrages of
these beastly Gaolers? Men were not only forced into
these vile prisons, but were compelled to pay for living
there. Inability to meet the demands of the ravenous
Gaolers meant unheard of cruelty and starvation. The
guilt or innocence of prisoners had not been determined
by trial. Sometimes they remained there for years with
out trial. Their inability to pay inconsistent costs and
fees, even after they were acquitted of criminal charges,
left them in prison indefinitely. These practices on the
part of sheriffs and Gaolers were definitely contrary to
the law, but custom had annulled the law.
29. The filth and nastiness of the Gaols, due to overcrowding,
was beyond description. They wreaked with vermin, con
tagious disease and unnamable offal. Infection even pene
trated into the courts when the prisoners were brought
for trial. It is a matter of history that in the twentieth
year of Queen Elisabeth at Oxford Assizes, the prisoners
brought such pestilence with them into court, the Lord
Chief Baron Bell, the sheriff, several counsel, almost all
the jurors and nearly three hundred others, died within
the space of forty hours after
it,
from infection.
The theory of corrective laws
is
that punishment
is
to
reform the persons sentenced to prison, therefore,
it
is
clear that this outrageous prison system and practice de
feated the end of the law, and degraded still more the
persons committed for correction. This was well known
to English authorities, but the "vengeance of the law"
was more desirable. The Gaols were schools for hardened
crime implanting in the hearts of men an equal desire
for vengeance on society and its mechanism.
30.
It
was the unchecked practice of Gaolers to extort from
prisoners every cent they could pay to avoid being loaded
with fetters and irons, or chained to other prisoners dying
with loathsome diseases. So many died
it
was
a
common
thing for
a
prisoner to be chained to a corpse for days
before the Gaoler would release him. (This was shown
in Oglethorpe's report.)
31. It was the practice of fiendish Gaolers to thrust new
prisoners into stinking, disease-infested dungeons in order
to extort from them all they possessed to be given other
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 25
quarters. To force them to a compliance to their de
mands, they loaded the prisoners with fetters and irons,
the sole excuse being that they were answerable for the
prisoners, therefore they should use such means to secure
them as they saw fit. Nevertheless, they relaxed their
cruelties in proportion to the amounts the prisoners could
pay for relief. Shackling and fettering had no other
purpose than to extort money from the prisoners. This
practice was notoriously open, some of the Gaolers waxing
wealthy, living in palatial homes filled with liveried ser
vants.
The law specifically provided that prisoners should not
be punished, tortured or injured by Gaolers. Neverthe
less, a large proportion of English prisoners died in prison
without trial, after being imprisoned for the most trivial
offenses.
32. Lord Chief Justice Coke took his ideas of justice from
Rhodamanthus, the judge of hell, who first punished and
then asked the nature of the charge, or from the chief
captain who first heavily chained St. Paul, then asked
him who he was, and what he had done.
33. "There is one thing more regarding the English laws,
their multiplicity of statutes and their incoherent char
acter, a single law often treating of several subjects. The
policy of not repealing old laws when new laws on the
same subject were passed, caused constant conflict and
clash.
(Here is the origin of the policy of endless laws in the
United States. This is the most vicious, inconsistent
system of trickery known to civilization. A clique of
men desire to attain certain advantages and they im
mediately begin to intrigue to have certain laws passed
to that end, regardless of how unjust and irritating these
measures may become to the whole community. Political
intrigue, by church and political parties, in the United
States, is one of the great national evils.)
34. The attempt to inculcate into the public mind such a
blind veneration for the law is to invite abuse in making
laws. The blind support of the law merely for the law's
sake, regardless of justice, common sense or reason, is
neither natural or honest. A very large proportion of
the laws are obsolete in their original intent, and are en
26 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
forced only at the pleasure of those who can invoke them
for profit or revenge.
(Here is an excellent example of the so-called obnoxious
blue-laws in the United States. Moreover, the insistence
that the law is a "sacred thing" is a fanatical disease, in
spiring in the minds of uneducated, uncultivated, petty
officials the idea that they are the embodiment of the
law, with the right to accuse, arrest, punish, and even kill
persons, without due process. Where England's practice
of cruelty towards accused persons was concealed behind
the prison walls, arrogance, insolence, insult and assault
are commonly in the open when making arrests in the
United States. The one is born of bitter hatred, and a
desire for vengeance ; the other is to exploit, and adver
tise to the gaping mob, the importance of officials of the
law, a personal strut, wholly inconsistent with the intent
and purpose of justice. This custom in the United States
has two results: It cultivates in the thoughtless mob
indifference to personal self-respect, and respect towards
others; in the thinking classes, with some regard for
national refinement. it develops a disrespect for the
law, and an utter hatred for cheap, theatrical, official
conduct. )
A decent respect for struggling humanity has no place in
legal jurisprudence. The same bigoted, intolerant, insane
force, which butchered humanity in Europe, is concealed be
hind the legislative powers in the United States. Officers of
the law openly violate the law to ensnare people who have
no intention of overstepping the arbitrary restrictions which
manifestly intrude upon their natural personal rights —the
right to measure their acts by an honest conscience.
The theory that ignorance of the law is no defense is a brutal
snare, and a senseless accusation of purposeful violation of
the law.
The criminal accusation of persons for accidental infringe
ment of the law, without premeditated intent, is a criminal
abuse of power on its face, and should be drastically sup
pressed.
The men who are chosen to enforce the laws should be held
strictly to the intent and purpose of their selection, and they
should be drastically punished for overstepping their specifically
defined prerogatives. An office should hold no pets.
Naturally, after one has reviewed the tragic murder of Sir
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 27
Walter Raleigh by his country, through a coterie of imbecilic
national politicians, we pat ourselves upon the back because
we are above such utterly insane practices. But, are we?
and, are they insane?
What is the difference between the distinguished Sir Walter
Raleigh, and the multitude of petty individuals who are daily
the victims of our own court maladministrations? Our ter
ritory is so vast, and our population so great, as compared
with that time, we may overlook the fact that, daily, thousands
are getting the benefit of raw deals in justice. At the time
of the conviction of Sir Walter Raleigh, the population of
England was only about 4,800,000, and the ideas of national
honor were of little consequence, measured by the needs of
the rulers of that time. Through centuries of church intrigue,
men had lost all respect for personal honor in the necessity
for trimming to the will of their masters —the common herd
did not count.
What we desire to impress upon the people of the United
States today
is,
that we are drifting towards maladministra
tion of justice, and our people, in consequence thereof, are
developing mass insanity, which blinds them to the fact that
they are being exploited, and deliberately misled by designing
forces. A disastrous reaction
is
as inevitable as the law of
"reaction
is
equal to action"
is
true in physics.
Every human act
is
being penalized, and the people are
being put under
a
system of commercialized liberty, involving
licenses, and fines, based upon the principle of indulgences.
Those who cannot pay exorbitant fines are disgraced by im
prisonment. The untold millions taken from the people by
this process, exceeds, perhaps, all forms of national taxation.
Moreover, the dispensation of justice
is
farcial because of
the endless laws, and the temptation on the part of magistrates
to abuse their legal power for the profit this yields. The
federal fines alone, in administering the prohibition law, ex
ceeds $50,000,000 annually.
Law officers have become insolent and abusive from sheer
freedom. No pretense of politeness or respect towards the
public
is
exhibited. Strutting in elaborate regalia, with blun
derbusses strapped to their hips, men of the commonest type
are permitted to parade about the public thoroughfares with
the pompous airs of conquering heroes, ever watchful for
an opportunity to give vent to their desire for bravado and
intrusive rudeness. Civility and respect towards the people
28 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
are things of the past. The abnormal conduct of officials
becomes the example for the conduct of the people.
This was not the original intent in the establishment of this
nation; on the contrary it reflects a trend towards national
insanity, because of the absence of natural sentiments of honor
in the men chosen to make our laws, and the low type of
intelligence in the men selected to enforce the laws. The re
sult of this defect has been to eliminate all refinement and
human sympathy from our system, leaving but a gross brutal
instinct to govern, instead of an intelligent and jealous guard
ianship. The system does not grant individual intelligence
as an agent.
The example which has shaped our policy in jurisprudence
is one thing, but the cultivation of insanity in the national
units, the people, is quite another. The subtle influence of
the church in making and executing the laws directly affecting
the masses of people, is a sinister thing. Inconsistency is as
apparent in the church attitudes as those of adverse decisions
on the part of English judges. The influence of the church
power upon shaping public opinion is beyond dispute, yet the
utter disregard for consistency is rank. Let us review some
of the well known facts regarding the church pretense to being
a just and proper agent of morality.
War is the one bugaboo of nations, hence it is a pet theme
of the church, sometimes for and sometimes against. Its at
titude in its attempts to influence national policies, are not
only illogical because of reversals, but are wholly illegal, and
they should be given short shrift in their elimination from
public affairs.
It is a matter of record that the church trims to the political
party to which it looks for support and favors. The alleged
public opinion, as portrayed in the newspapers, is usually the
opinion of the church backing up some secret policy with which
the masses of people have nothing to do.
When this country was dragged into the late world war
by "public opinion," the church howled its patriotism and
favored war. This only corroborated the teachings of the
christian Bible at a time when war was popular. God Himself
was favorable to war.
"The Lord is a man of war: the Lord is his name."
(Ex. 15:3.)
"And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars : see that
ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 29
"For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against
kingdom." (Matt. 24:6,7.)
In the issue of the Los Angeles Times of October 31st,
1927, this article appeared:
"Churches Seek Peace on Earth.
"Council Urges Members to Study Outlawing of War."
Here is positive evidence that the alleged dictates of the
christian God are merely the whims of men. This is in line
with the contemptible prohibition laws passed at the dictation
of church forces, absolutely contrary to the teachings of the
Bible. Their God is not only a "man of war" but their Christ
was a maker, drinker and a dispenser of wine.
In the body of this article regarding peace we find these
remarkable statements:
"We pledge ourselves to enthrone Christ in. the counsels of
the mighty in the foreign policies of the nation."
Here the church shows its hand in politics, for Christ sym
bolizes the church.
"Let us remember that the abolition of war and the attain
ment of peace wait upon a quickening of the conscience of
the church of Christ, regarding the futility of war to estab
lish justice."
Now does this not shock you? A confession that the power
to make peace has been dormant in the conscience of the
church through all the centuries, yet it has stood idly by and
permitted war to continue through every day since its intro
duction.
"But, what is of vastly greater significance, the positive
power of Jesus' way of life."
What folly is this? Their Christ Himself makes liars and
fools of them:
"Think not that I am come to send peace on earth : I come
not to send peace, but a sword.
"For I am come to set a man at variance against his father,
and the daughter against her mother.
"And a man's foes shall be they of his own household."
(Matt. 10:34, 35, 36.)
'
■
Here their Jesus Christ pledges Himself to violate the most
sacred human ties.
Reader, are you satisfied to be posed as one of the simple
minded individuals who is willing to believe all the preacher,
or these christian fanatics, say? Do you know what they are
talking about when they speak of Jesus Christ?
30 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
I am going to tell you the truth. If you honestly believe
in christianity, doubtless you want to know whether or not
you have been misled and deceived.
You are not a Jew, are you? Well, why, then, do you
profess to worshiping a Jew character?
The name Jesus is merely the Greek form of Joshua, hence,
Jesus is a Jew, and was an alleged Jewish deity. But this
is not all. Joshua himself was a symbolic figure. Jo is an
abbreviated form of Joseph, meaning increase. The word Shua
means wealth. Therefore the Jewish name for Jesus, Joshua,
means, that increased wealth was the savior of the Jeivs. You
may verify this for yourself, by reference to the proper dic
tionaries —James P. Boyd's Bible dictionary is in common
use. Look for the meanings of Joseph, Joshua, Jesus, and
Shua. At the same time look at Mary, the alleged mother of
Jesus, and you will find this secretly means rebellion. Yet
she is named the "mother of God" —the God of war.
The word Christ is not a proper name, but is derived from
Kristos, the Greek form of the Jewish Messiah, which merely
means an installed official or priest.
Don't you feel a little foolish upon learning the truth? Just
put this under the impudent nose of your preacher or priest;
either he will lie to you, and say this is not true, or he will
slap your face and tell you to attend to your own business.
It is sufficient to cause any "good christian" to feel a bit
batty to find what an utter simpleton he has been.
I shall now line up the mind racking stuff paraded before
the public daily by the newspapers, in turning out the grist
of imbeciles amidst whom we must live. Every man has the
right to draw his own conclusions as to whether the youth of
the country are benefited by such criminal practice. I do not
hesitate to say, that the newspaper policy of the United States
is part of a despicable game to irritate and torment the people
into a state of hopeless insanity.
This is the underlying cause of our national insanity, visible
in every contact we have. There is not one ray of intelligent,
constructive progress in our national trend, and our national
statistics vindicate this conclusion.
The following headings and quotations will clearly reveal
why we are drifting away from reason, common sense, and
logical thinking. They are intended to work upon every human
emotion to produce given effects, being closely censored by an
invisible, guiding mind.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 31
I have not culled papers over a long period in gathering
these items; on the contrary I have taken the larger part of
them from a single, average, daily newspaper, covering hut
a few days.
In four columns of the Los Angeles Times of October 24th,
1927, these headings appeared. (See page 18) :
"Boy Caught by Rip-tide Saved After Battle."
"Society Women Back Charity High-Jinks."
"Ex-visitor Poison Victim."
"Stabbing Ends Liquor Bout."
"Boniface Recovers Bride." — (Silly sensation.)
"Rocks Used to Beat Off Park Bandit."
"Mexican Woman Held for Deportation Bears Son."
"Pneumonia Gowns." — (A fake.)
"Clubman's Own Hand Ends Life."
"Physician, Here Years, Succumbs."
"San Franciscan Shoots Self in Pershing Square."
"Doctor Studies Auto-diseases."
"Slaves in Africa to Be Given Freedom."
"Rat Killing Success."
In the same issue there were 29 items referring to crime.
I have quoted this to show the widespread education of the
reading public in crime, semi-crime and sensationalism, as the
cause of national aberration. There is nothing educational
in this and it appeals to the grossest human sentiments, en
couraging thoughts along lines which can only excite and in
flame the mind.
I will analyze some of the more important items appearing
daily :
Times, September 2, 1927.
"Earthquakes Called Holy-Land Foe."
"Area Menaced for Thousand Years."
Here we have the land which God gave to His chosen
people continually threatened with destruction, intimating
conclusively that God never intended that humanity should
live in peace and safety.
Times, September 4, 1927.
"Anglo-Saxons Rule Forecast."
"Conquest of Palestine Called Part of Fulfillment."
"Palestine Was Never Promised to the Jews."
Here we have a specific denial of Bible history.
32 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
Times, September 8, 1927.
"Catholics Scan Crime Problem."
"Socialization of Penal Work Urged."
"Luncheon Social Feature of Day's Program."
"Hysteria on crime waves which called for more drastic
legislation deplored. 'The nation was crime ridden 100
years ago.' Quoting a statement by a writer in 1820,
'Half the number of convicts are youth.' In 1908 a
southern bar association stated that there were twelve
homicides in New England to one in London, and in
California seventy-five to one.'
"This is a clear bid for the criminal classes by the
Catholic church."
Times, September 9, 1927.
There were 79 divorce decrees granted, and 59 notices
of intention to marry.
This proves it is easier to divorce than to marry. Both
encourage contempt for marriage.
Times, September 14, 1927.
"Useless Laws Flayed by National Exchange Club."
"We Must Get Back to Fundamental Things in Government."
"It would take ten hours a day for a policeman to read
the laws he is supposed to enforce."
Cincinnati Com. Tribune, September 29, 1927.
"Charge Two Patrolmen with Murder."
"The trial was held up because one of these officers
had to take his vacation."
Isn't that a fine specimen of coddling and favoritism?
Cincinnati Enquirer, September 30, 1927.
"Lone Pint Brings Life Sentence."
"Had a Pint of Gin in His Home When Raided."
This occurred in Lansing, Mich. It matters not whether
this man deserved such a sentence on general principles,
the reason for so gross a sentence was not sufficient, and
this kind of stuff irritates the public mind and begets a
vicious resentment against the law. The supposition was
that he had duly suffered the penalty for previous dere
lictions or else he would not have been at large.
Cincinnati Com. Tribune, September 30, 1927.
"Marshall Bill Tempts Graft."
A bill presented to the Ohio state legislature was clearly
in the interest of grafting by country magistrates and
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 33
justices, yet it was openly advocated by the church ele
ment simply because it could be applied to automobile
cases and to prohibition —the most prolific sources of graft
the world has ever known.
Times, August 30, 1927.
"Council of Los Angeles to Attend Catholic Luncheon."
This is a rank betrayal of the protestants.
Cincinnati Com. Tribune, September 30, 1927.
"Jury Ponders Fate of Girl Bank Robber."
"Girl 22 Years of Age Held up Bank."
A clear case of youthful insanity born of cultivated
desire for sensation and notoriety.
Cincinnati Enquirer, October 5, 1927.
"People Pray All Day in Kentucky Town for Relief from
Infantile Paralysis."
It seems beyond reason that. in this supposedly enlight
ened age people would manifest such tendency to im
becility.
Cincinnati Times-Star, October 11, 1927.
"Ohio Justices Are Denounced as Grafters."
Cincinnati Times-Star, October 11, 1927.
"Librarians to Discuss Banning of Books."
"Must Determine What Is Morally Fit."
Here is a menace to the first privilege of education, the
right to apply to a neutral agent, the public library, for
uncensored and unbiased information on any subject. This
censorship would be a crime against humanity.
Cincinnati Times-Star, October 12, 1927.
"Cardinal McConnell Forbids the Singing of the Popular
Song, 'Beautiful Isle of Somewhere,'
"
because it casts doubt
on the christian heaven."
Cincinnati Times-Star, October 12, 1927.
"Girl of 12 May Choose Husband."
So decided by an addle-pated ass of a judge at Laurel,
Mass. He permitted this child to marry a boy of 17
against the will of the parents.
Kansas City Times, October 13, 1927.
"Husband in Prison for 150 Years, Wife Divorced."
This man was given this sentence on a forgery charge
in El Dorado, Kans.
34 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
El Paso Herald, October 14, 1927.
"By a decision of the U. S. supreme court Michael
Faltin is to hang for murder after having spent 15 years
in state's prison, and in the state insane asylum."
This would make English courts blush. Nothing could
bring the law into greater contempt.
L. A. Times, October 17, 1927.
"Pay Highest in America."
"Earners Under Hand of Gold."
The value of the American dollar at this time is about
61 cents. We are prone to boasting.
Times-Star, October 17, 1927.
"Singing Is Requisite in Heaven," says Methodist Bishop
Edwin Holt Hughes, at Chicago.
Can you beat it?
Times, October 17, 1927.
"Pioneer Takes Life While in County Jail."
Sam Dattle could not stand the disgrace of being placed
in jail as a vagrant because he could not find employment
with thousands out of work.
Times, October 19, 1925.
"It Requires $22,000,000,000 Annually for Food."
With about $10,000,000,000 to pay for
it,
according to
official statistics. The alleged national income of
$90,000,000,000
is
a
huge joke.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Crime Wave Recedes to Only Ripple."
Express, October 20, 1927.
"Crime Wave Fails to Ebb."
Express, October 20, 1927.
"Fails to Aid Injured Dog; Sent to Jail for 20 Days."
Can you beat it? English courts have nothing on
this.
Times, October 20, 1927.
"Because he refused to be pressed into fire fighting service,
fined and sentenced to jail."
Why accuse English courts of abusing their power?
L. A. Herald, October 20, 1927.
"Dispensation of Charity Money Accused of High Cost of
Administration."
Twenty-seven per cent held out for expenses of dis
tribution. Where did $334,946 go?
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 35
Express, October 20, 1927.
"Community Chest Authorized to Collect $2,750,000 for
150 Charity Agencies in Los Angeles."
Some poverty, in a proud city.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Judge at Santa Ana sentences man to attend church four
Sundays each month for five years, because he possessed
liquor."
Could English courts exceed this imbecilic act?
No law justifies judges making asses of themselves on
the bench.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Mrs. Chaplin Sees Coolidge" (?)
On the same date there were sixty- four divorce decrees
granted, and thirty-eight new applications, in Los Angeles.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Answer to 'What Price Glory'."
"Board of Public Works asks $293,460 to decorate rooms,
lay carpets, install clock, water filter and refrigerator in
new City Hall. This is in addition to the original appro
priation of $5,000,000 for marble pillars and hallways in
the new City Hall. The council also has a special commit
tee at work listing the new furnishings and desks the
councilmen want in their private offices, and those of their
secretaries, and this committee will soon present its ad
denda to the bill of the Board of Public Works." "The
cost of decorating the council chamber is estimated at
$30,210; decorating lobbies at $41,340; painting walls and
ceilings, $74,200; carpets, $15,000; steel filing equipment,
$90,000."
Do you gasp? What is the answer? The Community
Chest must go out and bulldoze and bluff money out of the
people to take care of "more than 400,000 charity sub
jects," and "250,000 cripples" in Los Angeles, and taxation
is sent skyward, and still there are those who declare there
is no cause for insanity. Who couldn't strut and pose
with the power of coercive confiscation at their disposal?
What if it does require 150 so-called charity institutions
to care for the paupers?
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Teachings of Catholic Church Unchanged Through 1900
Years."
36 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
No one will dispute this. And, we may add, there has
not been a single day of universal peace during that period.
Moreover, the billions of church property, taken out of
poverty-stricken humanity tells a grewsome story. While
humanity slaves to be mulcted by just such extravagances as
we have previously quoted, the church, with a myriad of
alleged charity institutions following in the shadow of her
skirts, to further intimidate the weak minded to give up all
they so badly need for their own comforts, harass the
producers.
Nothing can conceal the vital fact that all these luxuries
must come out of the producing masses. All wealth is
coined out of human energy. Call it taxation, charity or
what you will, the sweat of the brow of helpless humanity
produces
it,
and the strutting, posing, egotistical scoundrels
who absorb
it
are parasites, and hangers-on of the pro
ducers, rendering no adequate services to humanity. If
they cannot get what they want by coercive taxation, in a
multitude of forms, they assume the garb of beggary, thus
they milk every human emotion.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Drop of Liquor in Sink Jails Ex-Policeman."
"A few drops of whiskey recovered from the kitchen
sink of his home sufficed for
a
jury in
a
municipal court
yesterday to convict
a
former policeman on
a
charge of
possessing liquor, and he was sentenced to ninety days in
jail."
Oh, England, watch your laurels.
The man who reads this without
a
sense of contempt for
every element involved
is
no better than the skunks who
took part in the dirty trick. There
is
no animal below
men that would stoop to such contemptible meanness, and
a
magistrate who would lend himself to such work
is
not
worthy to be called
a
man. A jury of men who could be
bribed or bulldozed into such
a
verdict are mere tools of
such forces.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Charity Quiz Action Due."
"Grand jury decides today
if
asserted startling disclos
ures will be given to public."
Here
is
a
fine item appearing in the same issue of the
newspaper with the foregoing one. A man
is
sent to
prison for drinking his own liquor, in his own home, and
it
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 37
is a question on the part of a dignified judge if he should
give out the facts concerning the questionable distribution
of $334,946 of money belonging to so-called charity funds.
The superintendent of the distribution of these funds, no
doubt, feeling sure of his position, turns up his impudent
nose and declares he is "not interested in grand jury pro
ceedings." This impudence is in keeping with the coercive
manner by which the money was accumulated. We have
heard of no subsequent action.
Times, October 21, 1927.
"Atheism Advocates Denounced."
This was the theme of a trickster who addressed mem
bers of the "Junior Chamber of Commerce." The speaker
was either ignorant or else he was a falsifier, for he de
clared that faith in the Christian religion was the founda
tion of our Constitution, a thing disputed by all the early
Presidents, and by the Constitution itself, which declares :
"The Congress shall make no laws with respect to the
establishment of religion." Washington , Jefferson and
Madison vetoed numerous bills sneaked through the Con
gress by cunning political workers trying to trick the gov
ernment into a recognition of the Church. Instead of send
ing men to prison for drinking liquor in their own homes,
these hypocrites should be suppressed, even if they have to
be jailed.
Times, October 23, 1927.
"False Arrest Upheld."
The infallible town marshal of Red Bluff, Cal., arrested
and held in jail, for seven days, an innocent man on the
request of an equally important official of Oregon looking
for a man for non-support. The outcome was that the
boob at Red Bluff had to cough up $1,000 damages. If
more of this kind of justice could be dispensed, some of
the impudent conceit would be kicked out of these tin
pie-pan toters.
Times, October 24, 1927.
"Rail Cars Now Face Padlocks."
Can you beat it? The whole nation must be put in ball
and chain to appease the fanatical skunks who are attempt
ing to enforce the nefarious prohibition laws.
"A recent decision by the Supreme Court which upholds
the padlocking by enforcement officials of any cafe, hotel
or other public place, whether the liquor is brought in by
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
the patron or furnished by the waiters, is reaching out for
the Pullman cars." "It is held that this decision applies to
club cars, dining cars, smoking cars and any cars open
to the public. The government is empowered to padlock
any car and run it on a siding for a year."
"Let no man judge you in meat, or in drink, or in re
spect of the Sabbath day" (Col. 2:16). What blather
we find in the Bible!
"Wine maketh glad the heart of man" ((Ps. 104:15).
"Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and
wine unto those that be of heavy heart" (Prov. 31 :6).
"Let him drink, and forget his poverty and remember
his misery no more" (Prov. 31:7).
"Ho, everyone that thirsteth come buy wine" (Is. 55:1).
"I have drunk my wine with my milk" (Sol. Songs 5 :1).
"Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy
stomach's sake, and thine often infirmities" (I Tim. 5:23).
"And in this mountain shall the Lord of Hosts make
unto all people a feast of fat things, a feast of wine on
the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the
lees well refined"
'
(Is. 25:6). (Mountain means the
church.)
Noah drank wine, Lot drank wine, David drank wine,
and David is named the father of Jesus Christ. (Matt.
1:1.)
"Christ is come eating and drinking and ye say behold
a wine-bibber" (Luke 7:34).
Christ Himself made wine for the joy of a wedding
feast, bidding the servants to draw it out and serve to
the governor of the feast, who pronounced it better than
old wine—today they would hang Christ as a bootlegger.
"This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Gali
lee" (John 2).
"It was the mother of Jesus who bade Him make the
wine" (John 2:3).
"Therefore take no thought, saying, what shall we eat?
or what shall we drink?" (Matt. 6:31).
Now, you bigoted knaves, step to the front and explain
these things. Have you repudiated your God, your Christ,
and your Bible? Don't start your yawp about the sacred-
ness of the law and its enforcement, these glaring rebukes
are of vastly greater importance. Why did the corrupt,
dishonest promoters of the prohibition laws exempt the
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 39
clergy and the Jews? I am going to tell the world why.
The Constitution specifically repudiates religion, declaring
that: "Congress shall make no law respecting the estab
lishment of religion." It was written into our treaties with
foreign nations that "the United States was in no sense
founded upon religion." Neither the word God nor Christ
is mentioned in any of the foundation documents.
For more than a century the intriguing churches have
striven to sneak into legislation a recognition which would
annul this important constitutional provision. Not until
this nefarious prohibition amendment was passed did they
succeed. The clergy and the Jews were exempted on
religions grounds, thereby recognizing religion, contrary
to our Federal Constitution, which it brazenly violates.
This is something to think about in your lucid moments.
Times, October 24, 1927.
"Grand Jury Report Accuses County Charity Head."
There are, it is alleged, one hundred and fifty so-called
charity organizations clawing at the public for contribu
tions in Los Angeles. What a possibility!
Times, October 24, 1927.
"Bishop's Bible Rap Answered."
Purporting to be a controversy between the Bishop of
Birmingham, England, and the Archbishop of Canterbury,
but in fact is a hash-up of the same old bunk which has
gotten their names in the newspapers times innumerable.
This church tommy-rot is getting tiresome, nevertheless it
remains the strongest evidence of our theory of universal
insanity, the whole thing being but a strut of words with
out sense or reason. It leads to just such foolishness to
gain notoriety as is found in the succeeding item.
Times, October 25, 1927.
"Autoist Gets Horse Laugh."
Ancient unrepealed ordinance, referring to the leaving of
vehicles in the streets without horses, is invoked to em
barrass autoists. This was in Buffalo, N. Y. This is on
a par with the so-called blue-laws dealing with the "dese
cration of the Sabbath" by the purchase of gasoline, or
necessary medicines to save life, from a corner drug store.
And yet there are those who take offense at the sugges
tion that these are rank evidences of insanity.
40 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
Times, October 25, 1926.
"Lloyd George of England forecasts war, practically on the
tendency towards international insanity."
Times, October 25, 1927.
"Guilty, But Does He Know it?"
A deaf, dumb and illiterate person was arraigned before
a typical smart-alex magistrate at Rutland, Vermont, for
a trivial violation of the traffic laws. He was asked if he
was guilty, and the arresting officer took it upon himself
to plead guilty for him. The "judge" fined him $21.50,
the accused not knowing what it was all about. They
searched his pockets and took all he had, $11.07, and dis
charged him. Name it if you can.
Does this arouse your ire?
Times, October 25, 1927.
"Y. M. C. A. Exceeds Million Mark."
This organization has wholly stepped out of its original
purpose, now being a highly organized business proposi
tion, having amassed hundreds of millions of surplus funds
and supporting thousands of highly paid officers. It is a
supposed charity institution, yet it is now competing with
legitimate lines as a highly profitable money making
scheme. Yet they are listed to participate in the easy money
of the Community Chest.
Times, October 25, 1927.
"Former postmaster of Hialeah, Fla., pleads guilty to
embezzlement of $50,000 from government, is sentenced to
five years in the Atlanta Federal penitentiary."
Compare this sentence with the life sentence given to the
man in Lansing, Mich., in whose house was found a pint
of gin and see if you find any evidences of vicious in
sanity on the part of nut-headed judges.
Times, October 26, 1927.
"Girls to Have Smoking Room."
"Vassar Seniors Raising $1,000 for Ventilating Fan and
Furnishings."
Can you beat it? Do you suppose these young women
will make fit and sane wives and mothers? Of course
you do not!
Times, October 26, 1927.
"State W. C. T. U. Policy Outlined."
This policy is to bullyraggle future candidates for pub
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 41
lie office to think their, way in relation to radical and irri
tating laws.
Organized political influence is the curse of this nation.
Again we find the Bible repudiated, although they use
the name "Christian." Evidently they do not know the
true meaning of Jesus or Christ.
"Suffer not a woman to teach, nor usurp authority over
the man, but to be in silence" (I Tim. 2:12).
Times, October 26, 1927.
"Six Grid Teams to Be Arrested."
Blue laws of 1794 invoked to punish them for play
ing football on Sunday.
"Let no man judge you in respect of an holy day or of
the Sabbath days" (Col. 2:16).
Times, October 26, 1927.
"All Creeds Pledge Aid for Chest."
And all have a hand in the pie, Catholics, Protestants and
Jews. Of course they favor it in Los Angeles.
In the list of distributions of the Community Chest
monies the Catholics appear twelve times, the Jews eleven
times and the Y. M. C. A. six times.
Yet the City of Los Angeles is placing before the grand
jury charges against the dispensation of charity collections.
Are the county and city officials less to be trusted than
these freebooters of the "charity" game?
Herald, October 20, 1927.
"
'Showdown' on Dry Law is Planned."
Speaking of nerve, this proposition is the limit!
Allegedly, the "National Committee on Law Enforce
ment," a merely nominal bunch of notoriety seekers, pro
pose to cross the continent in a spell-binding effort to
coerce the nation to commit itself on the prohibition ques
tion. It has neither moral nor legal standing. If you de
sire to know the origin of this idea, here it is:
"The New York State Woman's Committee for Law
Enforcement, in co-operation with the national committee,
will hold its meetings on November 12 and 13."
There will be services in the churches.
Now wouldn't that shock you?
What have these women or the churches to do with the
enforcement of the laws of the nation? What are we pay
ing the officials of the nation for? If they do not know
their business they are unfit for official positions.
42 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
No! This is merely the offensive attitude of a lot of
meddlesome women who neglect their home duties to stick
their intrusive noses where they do not belong.
But don't get gay with this thing.
The National Committee for Law Enforcement, it is
stated, has a total membership of 10,000,000. Do you be
lieve that?
There are in the United States about 40,000,000 native
white women. Not more than 30.000,000 of these are over
twenty-one years of age. About fifty per cent of these live
in the country, and a large proportion of the others are
working women. Now, in view of this, do you believe, for
a moment, that 10,000,000 educated, intelligent women are
understandingly organized and banded together for any
purpose? Of course you do not. This is a dream of
female conquest. The leaders may be found in the "Pea
cock Alleys" of the big hotels in the United States, trying
to convince the world of their vast importance, a pathetic
yet provoking evidence of national insanity.
Herald, October 20, 1927.
"Report 76 Bombings in Chicago for 1927."
There you are ! Is this any evidence of national insanity ?
Surely you do not believe that sane men would indulge in
this pastime. Men are driven to do such acts by some
abnormal pressure. Men do not respect the law when they
believe they are getting the worst of it. Have a care, this
is very natural.
Times, October 25, 1927.
"Red Cross is Banned From Navy Yard."
The arrogance of the Red Cross forces is well known,
but despite the fact that the President is ex-officio Presi
dent of this aggressive organization, they became so ag
gressive that the Navy turned them down hard, and for
bade further solicitation at the navy yards.
Times, October 27, 1927.
"
'Humoresque' Player Minus His Wife Now."
"Because her husband played 'Humoresque' on his violin
too often to please her, Mrs. Helen Holmerson was granted
a divorce on the grounds of acute cruelty." (This occurred
in San Francisco.)
Now, which of these three exhibits the greater mental
aberration, the musician, the wife, or the addle-pated
judge?
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 43
On the same day, at Los Angeles, forty-eight divorce
decrees were granted. Most of them on equally as absurd
grounds —Reno has lost her reputation. How much money
do you suppose is involved in twelve to fifteen thousand
divorces granted annually in Los Angeles? This is not a
pie, it is a pudding.
Times, October 27, 1927.
"The director of the Columbia University School of Journal
ism deplores filthy newspaper sheets."
In an editorial the Times says :
"He is right, as the experience of the Times in its policy
of playing down scandal proves."
This is a joke ! It will be observed that nearly all of our
quotations have been taken from the Times, and only
cover a few days. They may play down vulgar scandal,
but they do play up sensation, and especially those things
which irritate and excite the public mind. No modern
newspaper could live without exaggerated sensation. The
bare facts may be sufficient to arouse the public without
adding to. It is neither logical nor true that the public
demands sensation. The newspapers pose as censors over
moral public opinion, nevertheless, they loudly proclaim
their inability to trim their sensations to truly sane and
moral facts. It is no excuse that the average reporter is a
cheap sap-head with no other idea than to make his "stuff"
stick. Newspaper men generally are frank to say : "To hell
with public morals, give them what they want," and we
must admit that it is the national idea. The newspapers are
but a single element in a tremendous national force. Along
with politics, religion, sports, amusements and commercial
gambling, they merely urge the public mind to greater
indiscretions.
There is no greater evidence of the greed for sensation,
on the part of newspapers, than the constant assaults of
authorized reporters upon people chosen for slaughter. To
assault a traveler for news is a virtue, to assault an impu
dent reporter is a crime. While denial pretends to relieve
the newspapers of the whole responsibility, the fact remains
they are closer to the daily home life of the nation and exer
cise a more intimate influence upon the developing thought
of the people than any other national agent, and they send
out their hunting dogs for any game they can bring in.
44 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
"Negro preacher goes to prison ten years for manslaughter.
He was charged with murder, but the jury rendered a
compromise verdict."
I wonder by what right of law a jury may change the
charge upon which a person is being tried. This sounds
like the old English practice of favoring the church.
Times, October 30, 1927.
"Drys Discount Church Ballot."
It's funny to hear them disputing among themselves. The
Protestant Episcopals are hoplessly split on prohibition.
Times, October 30, 1927.
"Police Arrest Serenaders" (Eugene, Oregon).
"Fifty students of the University of Oregon were under
arrest because the police wanted to break up a long practice
of serenading. A truckload of students with an orchestra
was taken in and charged with disorderly conduct."
Can you beat it ? England had nothing on this. Music
no longer "hath the charm to soothe the savage breast."
The police are getting mighty particular.
We must charge up against the Times the raw publica
tion, item for item, of some twenty-five to thirty-five daily
burglaries in Los Angeles over a period of a month. We
wonder why they stopped it.
Times, October 30. 1927.
"Rum Auto Used for Gospel."
Here is an excellent example of the utter disregard for
decency and self-respect on the part of the church opera
tives. Cars confiscated in the apprehension of prohibition
law violators are bought up by the preachers, who thus
benefit by their own activities.
This is in keeping with the policy of the United States
to demand tainted money from gamblers and bootleggers
under the excuse of income tax. Truly all money looks
alike to the tax gatherer. Money may corrupt men, but
men cannot corrupt money.
It is a law in nature to cultivate that which gives it
maintenance.
Times, October 30, 1927.
"The Church and Peace."
"There will convene in St. Louis November 9 the twelfth
annual meeting of the World Alliance for International
Friendship Through the Churches."
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 45
Here is the same old gag that the churches are for peace.
During the late war they loudly demanded war, and, dur
ing the war, they waged a bitter campaign of easy graft,
collecting a billion dollars from the hard pressed people.
Times, October 31, 1927.
"Churches Seek Peace on Earth."
Now what kind of a bluff is this? It is contrary to the
alleged declaration of their own Jesus Christ. Who de
clared He had come to violate the most sacred human ties.
"Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I
come not to send peace, but a sword.
"For I am come to set a man at variance against his
father, and the daughter against her mother, and the
daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
"And a man's foes shall be they of his own household."
(Matt. 10:34, 35, 36.)
If we let them run they will repudiate the whole Bible
and the bottom will fall out of the whole church
exploitation.
By what authority do they dispute the teachings of their
own Bible, and take it upon themselves to bring these into
ill repute? With whom is God in consultation?
"Ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars ; see that ye
be not troubled; for all these things must come to pass.
"For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom
against kingdom." (Matt. 24:6. 7.)
In view of this it is the rawest hypocrisy and false pre
tense for the church forces to talk of international peace.
They can do much more by keeping their intrusive noses
out of such matters, which have nothing in common with
the Christian religion.
Times, October 30, 1927.
"Juryman Ruins Trial with New Court Conduct."
This is a hot one. Even a simple-minded person can
sometimes blow up and do a sane act. This juror, recog
nizing the absurdity of the usual court tommy-rot and be
ing inexperienced, took it upon himself to teach the pre
siding judge his manifest duty by arising in the jury box
and exclaiming: "If the lawyers would stop their eternal
objecting, the jury might get at the facts of the pending
case."
Now, if any sane, thinking person can see the justice of
46 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
what followed he has a peculiar idea of the fitness of
things.
The judge decided that this sensible suggestion voided
the whole proceedings, to the detriment of the plaintiff
who had brought the proceedings. Could an English court
go further than this?
Times, October 31, 1927.
"Twenty-five 'Bombers' Ordered for Army by Government."
(Why?)
"One Million Bibles Ordered Printed by the New York
Bible Society."
This is a sinister sign, one of the big church money-
making schemes during the late war was the sale of Bibles.
Times, October 31, 1927.
"Wealth Shirks Tax Obligation."
"Fifty Per Cent of Property in Slacker Class."
It is officially claimed that 13 per cent of the people
possess 87 per cent of the whole wealth of the country,
therefore it is a self-evident fact that the richer class pays
87 per cent of taxes assessed on property.
This is a mean, contemptible slander upon the taxpayers
who support the government. It proves itself. Taxes are col
lected beyond the normal needs of the government, in an
amount exceeding a half billion of dollars, necessitating the re
funding of a vast sum, yet a bunch of smart-alecs, desiring only
to further irritate the people, see fit to broadcast this slander.
Always accusing the people of dishonesty, they proceed to ac
cuse them of wilfully avoiding their just tax obligations, for
getting that they are accusing the tax assessors who are the
officials entrusted with this work. By what legal authority may a
so-called commission stick its inquisitorial nose into the private
affairs of any community, and by vulgar insinuations smirch
the good names of the taxpayers at large? If they would closely
scrutinize the purposes to which tax money is put by those en
trusted to conduct the public expenditures, and make known
their findings, they might serve some good public purpose. It
is not necessary to inquire the legal status of this inquisitorial
body; anything which openly challenges the honesty of the
community en masse is intrusive and improper as long as daily
accusations of mal-administration of public officers are being
broadcast.
The sob stuff about "penalizing the poor, willing taxpayer,
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 47
who cooperates with the tax-collecting authorities, and the work
ing of hardships on widows and orphans" is sickening blather.
By what measure do they determine the honest poor from the
dishonest well-to-do taxpayer? Since when have widows and
orphans been contributing to the rich man's taxes? Somebody
has paid more than was necessary. This eternal accusation
of the rich with dishonesty and the poor with overhonesty is
no part of the equalization of the differences in condition be
tween the rich and the poor. That is a deeper national
problem.
They admit that the property value of the United States
is $300,000,000,000, and that taxes are paid upon $124,000,-
000,000, on its face a preposterous imposition, making life one
great burden.
The questionable character of such arbitrary mass valua
tions renders these estimates useless in determining tax matters.
Taxation is always a local problem, which does not concern in
quisitorial committees appointed only to irritate and harass the
people by searching out new methods of plundering them in the
name of taxation.
There are vastly more important matters than tax collec
tions to be considered. The non-payment of taxes never bank
rupted a people, whereas excessive taxation has already plunged
this nation into hopeless insolvency with an alleged credit turn
over of $550,000,000,000 on a property value of $350,000,000,-
000 in this country, there are bottomless sinkholes which make
taxation look like child-play.
What is being done with the untold millions now collected
throughout the United States in licenses, fines, penalties and
the endless forms of indulgences with which the people are
penalized ? These are the things which mulct the poor, and work
hardships upon the widows and orphans, not ordinary taxation.
Find out where these monies go and you will do something
worth while. The concealed graft in the United States would
run the whole world.
It is a sinister thing to learn that a supreme court decision
temporarily interrupted a colossal graft by county magistrates,
and to find the preachers demanding a law to restore this
system, as they are doing, at least in Ohio.
It isn't tax "slackers" that require investigation. There
has never been a time when the people, both rich and poor,
have not been milked of every available dollar under the iron
hand of the taxing power and new forms of taxation are con
48 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
tinually being put in force. Local tax collectors may not be
accused of laxity in tax collections. Since the Bible first set
the example of placing "Levi the tax gatherer" at the gate, so
that none could escape, the church deifying him as St. Matthew.
No man has escaped taxation in some direct or indirect form.
It has been the curse of poor humanity. Ashamed of Levi the
tax gatherer, the ecclesiasts changed his name to Matthew, sig
nifying giving of gifts. This was the point where taxation by
coercive laws became the prerogative of civil governments, and
taxation by coercive moral suasion became the privilege of the
church. During the late war the hard-pressed people of this
country gave up a billion dollars to the churches under this
obnoxious system. There are many forms of coercion, moral
suasion is the strongest resource of the bunko-worker.
It is the systems which render the masses too poor to pay
taxes which should be probed, the greatest of which is the
tempting of those who cannot buy luxuries for cash to pawn
their very souls by buying on credit. The so-called credit sys
tem is breeding more dishonesty than any other scheme being
worked in this country. The prisons are full of those who
have been accused of abusing the installment system. This will
surely lead to the horrors of the English debtor-laws.
There is an annual deficit in the cost of living in the
United States of approximately $15,000,000,000 which may
definitely be charged up to installment and credit buying and the
temptations of "moral suasion."
The chances are that the grafting upon the producing
masses, of every form, will equal this amount. One single item,
officially announced from New York, places fake charity
solicited throughout the country at $100,000,000, or nearly one
dollar for every man, woman and child.
Why do not the busy-bodies correct these abuses, instead
of accusing the people of evading taxation? Why do they
formulate plans for greater taxation, with the government
clamouring to pay back hundreds of millions ? It was the over-
zealous taxgatherer who placed the Treasury in this awkward
position, and it is the same influence which is trying hard to
keep the money. What kind of national honesty is this? Why
sing tedeums of thankfulness and spout patriotisms under such
conditions ?
I know, from experience, that when one overpays to the
government, it is difficult to get a refunder. Why should such
examples of greed be set for the people?
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 49
In view of these gross indiscretions on the part of those
who should protect the people from the abuses by over-zealous
officials, evasion often seems to be justifiable.
The very origin of taxation was coercion at the point of a
gun. There is very little difference in the holding up of an
individual at the point of a gun and demanding all or a por
tion of that which he has earned by the sweat of his brow,
and the demand upon the whole mass of people by the threat
of the law. Since men first assumed the power to collect
tithes, taxing forces have striven to advance taxes to a ten
per cent basis by an abuse of power. The temptation to profli
gacy in public expenditures, because of the power to enforce
the payment of excessive taxes, is a notorious scandal the
world over. The people at large do not understand the bigotry
and intolerance involved in the execution of the laws. Offi
cials are thoroughly imbued with the belief that they are
divinely appointed to persecute the people as a means of engen
dering awe and fear of the sacredness of the law. There is
a clearly defined mob sentiment held well in hand by invisible
controlling forces, which may be depended upon as claquers
at times when a sane public opinion arises in anger to resent
oppression. It is a matter of history that, when secret control
of that militant mob was lost," and it joined with the objectors,
rebellion, insurrection and revolution followed.
It was natural for the ecclesiasts to include a tithing or
taxing system in their enterprise, for they plagiarized their
name from the legislative body that ruled ancient Athens,
called the Ecclesia. The first tax levy directly on the people
was by Solon, the first Athenian legislator, 540 B. C. It prac
tically confiscated all the popular wealth.
The next direct levy was a land tax by assessment, by
Darius, the son of Hystaspes. It was so confiscatory and
odius, his own subjects derided him by calling him Darius the
Trader. This was in 480 B. C.
Taxes in specie was a form of arbitrary confiscation first
introduced in England by William I., 1067, and for three hun
dred years exorbitant subsidies were arbitrarily exacted on
wool, corn, leather and other standard products of the coun
try, binding the nation in abject poverty. Later even the
window openings in houses, which gave light, air and health
to the nation, were taxed to a point which prevented the
people indulging in the luxury of windows.
Our own history warns us. The first taxation of the British
50 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
colonies in America, in 1764, produced vicious resentment in
1765, forcing the stamp act repeal in 1766. But the stamp act
was re-enacted in 1767. The tax on tea in the colonies caused
the rebellion in Boston in which the 340 chests were cast into
the sea. leading to the Revolutionary War.
Those who may indulge in the luxury, may find the type
of houses built, to avoid the window tax, in the town of Nassau,
on the Island of New Providence, a British possession in the
Bahamas, and a fitting but gruesome description of the place
may be found in English encyclopedias.
"Great resort of invalids. It has a lunatic asylum, and a
leper-house. It is defended by two forts."
I have dwelt at length upon this subject of taxation, to
warn the people, that the power to make coercive laws, and
the craze to levy taxes for the tremendous volumes of money
it takes from the people, encouraging a temptation towards
government extravagance, and engendering a contempt for
those who are penalized, has developed a dangerous and vicious
type of national insanity, which must. in due time, lead to
the same national defaults which have previously resulted
from identical abuses of power.
Reaction is equal to action —an inevitable natural law. Na
tions cannot assume orbital motion; they must follow the
motions of the pendulum, which compels their ups and downs.
The attempt to usurp a permanent seat at the axis of the
pendulum has caused all the world wars.
Directly in line with that which we have said above is the
following item:
Times, October 23, 1927.
"New Gasoline Tax Nets More."
"Asserted vast amount of gasoline wrongfully gained ex
emption from tax under old law."
"Difference under new law revealed by comparison. In July,
taxes were $96,908. In September, $161,078."
Pause to consider this impudent accusation of purposeful
evasion of taxes, when the situation required new laws.
"Where there is no law there is no transgression." What
blather !
"The new law should give the state $2,000,000 annually."
The means employed to increase the returns is to compel
buyers to pay the tax first and then file a sworn claim for
refund.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 51
Do you get the constant insinuation that the public is made
up of cheats, thieves and liars? In what manner was the
expenditure of this vast increase in income so quickly pro
vided for? If it is expended, it must be for some unexpected
luxury, but if it is not expended it must be lying idle some
where with some institution getting the use of
it,
usually the
favored banks where state moneys are deposited.
The unthinking masses would be amazed to know the vast
profits realized by depositories where state, county and munic
ipal funds are deposited. Under the checking systems, and
clearing systems, tremendous volumes of actual money remain
unchanged in the banks as available funds for the banks. Who
benefits by this favoritism?
Some estimation of the fabulous expansion of credit in the
United States may be drawn from the following authoritative
statement
:
"Credit
is
the vital energizing force in our business today."
"In 1927 the credit turnover will be at least $550,000,000,-
000."
Now, pause and ponder this.
The stock of money available for circulation in the United
States
is
about $5,000,000,000, or
a
per capital circulation of
about $42.
Upon this narrow cash basis rests the colossal inverted
pyramid of credit. No business institution on earth could
be in
a
solvent condition with debts of about one hundred times
its cash capital hanging constantly over it. Sudden cash liqui
dation would involve
a
loss of more than the estimated wealth
of the nation, therefore, liquidation
is
impossible; hence, in
solvency
is
a
national disease.
The credit system in the United States
is
a
fatal thing.
A national tragedy hovers over us like
a
poisonous gas.
Is
it
any wonder that "financial crime, and its suppression,
cost the people of the United States $2,500,000,000 a year"?
After all, should we class
it
as crime under such criminal,
national example?
Men close their eyes and their conscience when under such
stress, and take
a
gamble on saving themselves and getting
away with
it,
by violating the ethics of as bold
a
gambling
system as was ever invented by insane men or nations.
52 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
ANNUAL LOSSES BY FRAUD IN U. S.
Stock frauds (enterprises which fail) - - - $ 500,000,000
Merchandise frauds - -- -- -- -- 500,000,000
Robbery, theft and hold-up ------ 250,000,000
Credit frauds 265,000,000
Insurance frauds 200,000,000
Embezzlement frauds - - 125,000,000
Forgery - - - 100,000,000
Real estate frauds 100,000,000
Cost of prosecution, prevention and punishment
of crime 500,000,000
The total stock fraud loss in U. S. is placed at 1.000,000,000
Fake charity schemes - - 100,000,000
Does this awe you?
It is a self-evident fact that this is a negative part of the
great national business system, therefore, the nation is respon
sible for these vast derelictions.
But, it is perfectly safe to add to the above, seventy per
cent to cover a multitude of protected grafts not classed as
crimes. The fee system covers a multitude of respectable
thefts.
Is it any wonder that "excitement" has just now been
classed as evidence of insanity?
The numerous so-called charity raids upon the people are
wholly dependent upon working upon human "emotions" for
their success. Fake pictures of children on crutches, deformed
and emaciated characters, and weeping, pleading* pictures. To
reach another class of emotion, pictures of cunning, beautiful
children are portrayed. Pictures of beautiful, pleasing young
girls as solicitors are used. In selecting their collectors they
choose characters exactly suited to every human emotion.
Frequent exposures of graft is placing the people on their
guard and each year finds it more difficult to realize their
so-called "quotas."
This game encourages the very things it pretends to cover
as charity. It should be suppressed by stringent laws. A very
large proportion of the alleged worthy institutions are not
charity subjects, and it is an imposition to irritate, tease and
torment the public by these periodical raids.
None of the foregoing takes into consideration the tremen
dous amounts involved in the support of lodges, clubs and
innumerable so-called social organizations, which render no
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 53
adequate compensation in proportion to the amount involved
in their support and upkeep, and giving soft places to tens
of thousands who should be engaged in some productive
calling.
In a single issue of the Kansas City Times we find the
advertisements of 20 lodges holding their meetings on October
12 and 13, 1927, and this in a single city.
Thus we see that the whole nation is being milked, in some
manner, of its surplus. All of which must be produced by
human toil, the expenditure of the national energy.
Before this surplus may be realized the nation must be
fed, clothed and medicated. To feed the nation alone re
quires $22,000,000,000; including other requirements a total of
about $70,000,000,000 is necessary.
It is estimated that the total national income, as measured by
dollars, for 1926 was $80,000,000,000.
But, the actual purchasing power of the dollar, at that time,
was variously estimated at from 48 cents to 60 cents. At
60 cents the true income was $48,000,000,000, an annual deficit
in the cost of maintenance of $22,000,000,000. This is ab
sorbed into credtis.
We said we would draw a composite picture of the causes
of national insanity. If what we have shown does not con
vince, it is useless to add a myriad of collateral things to en
hance the picture. Every man has enough of his own private
reasons for discontent to make a background, foreground, or
frame, for the gruesome exhibit. The time is close at hand
when men will understand from sheer contact and experience,
and then the land will ring with the angry shouts of men gone
mad, and crucified humanity will rot for want of burial.
"And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the
rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men will
hide themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains."
(Rev. 6:15.)
Mountains mean churches.
Rocks mean places of refuge.
Dens mean monasteries, insane asylums, and prisons.
Governments are to disappear.
The head of the united churches will be "Lord of Lords"
and "King of Kings."
This is the picture painted by the christian church, the prime
cause of all human default.
Will humanity awaken or will it fall?
54 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
With our daily newspapers thrusting into our faces endless
crime, much of which is exaggerated misdemeanor of half
witted people, driven crazy by the irritating intrusion of end
less, senseless laws, the public has not a moment's waking
peace.
With state governors being sent to the penitentiaries, and
other high officers caught red-handed in real crime ; with great
financial leaders fighting to keep out of the prison; with
preachers being tried for murder, rape and betrayal; with
the fiendish prohibition snoopers shooting to death private
citizens, and unlawful raids and arrests being made every
where by ignorant asses in uniforms, is it any wonder we hear
the laugh and chatter of insanity about us?
Do you believe our picture overdrawn? Then you are not
informed of the true conditions. Your indifference in itself
is a symptom of creeping insanity.
We make this prediction!
If some sane body of men, if such men are possible, does
not take in hand the work of halting the illegal raids being
made upon the people, by tempering legislation, and by arbi
trary and drastic disciplining of over-zealous interpretation of
the laws by noodle-head officials, in a decade chaos will reign
supreme in the United States. The people will go mad and
resist the encroachment of the laws upon their natural, per
sonal prerogatives.
The fact cannot be overlooked. A fatal mistake in judg
ment, or criminal influence on the part of bigots and intolerant
fanatics, caused this government to smother the people with
a blanket of laws, making felonies of manifestly trivial mis
takes and misdemeanors which are common to all nations of
people. This theory and practice has cultivated crime, and
the charge may be made that a multitude of laws are com
mercialized for the profit they yield.
What was the origin of this insane desire to criminalize
men by wholesale ?
"Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else
make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt; for the tree is
known by his fruit." (Matt. 12:33.)
This tree is mankind.
.This is the commercializing of civilization.
I do not hesitate one moment to charge ecclesiasticism with
this crime against nature and humanity. It is up to the people
of the world who are involved, to jerk officialdom up with
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 55
short shrift, and teach it manners. The government of every
people is its official force, chosen to conduct the executive busi
ness of national and community life. The sole object of
national life is the safety, happiness and mental and physical
comfort of the people. Search as you may, you cannot find
one of these objects in tact. The servant has assumed author
ity over the master, and the producing masses are slaves to
a bombastic, egotistical and self-exploiting officialdom which
openly struts and poses in its contempt for the people who
employ and pay them. This will lead to revolution in due
time. Resentment is inevitable when the end of endurance
comes.
There are certain basic reasons why it is logical and proper
to call for an accounting in the conduct of human affairs.
1. Christianity has, for two thousand years, posed as a
super-moralizing force in the development of human affairs.
It openly confesses failure, and statistics prove beyond dis
cussion that it has not accomplished its professed purpose.
Its God has not been omnipotent, and its own practices have
not been above reproach.
In simple, christianity has proven itself to be a gross fake,
and false-pretense. Its original purpose did not contemplate
a moral influence over humanity; it specifically designed a
conquest to control civil governments, acquire super-governing
power and amass wealth, and this involves the betrayal of
humanity.
2. Governments have, during most of that period, groveled
at the feet of ecclesiastical humbuggery, blindly followed the
lead of bigoted, intolerant fanatics, and trimmed human con
trol to their whims and dictations.
3. The theory that poverty and ignorance were essential
agents of complete human control caused the ecclesiasts to
antagonize education in the masses, and its examples of con
fiscatory taxation to become the taxing systems of national
governments.
4. The theory of superiority of the governing over the
governed is a gross false-pretense born of ecclesiastical ego
tism and vainglory, and is the cause of vicious abuse of power
on the part of civil officials elected and paid by the people.
A definite symptom of insanity is egoism and vain pride, which
vent themselves in over-zealous intrusions upon human rights.
The vainglorious strut and pompous parade of ecclesiasticism
are as intrusive and impudent today as they have been through
56 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
the centuries. Our newspapers eagerly encourage these, in
order to fill their pages with sensational pictures of Catholic
tinsel and gew-gaw. Pompous, over-fed, big-paunched and
saggy-jowled archbishops, cardinals, bishops and priests strut
our streets with flaring brass bands, and armed forces carry
ing regulation army guns, without protest. It is the fanatical
mob which is entranced and hypnotized by this frivolous fan
fare that constitutes the class to be watched in this country.
The determination to elect a Catholic president is a mania.
Wherever the Catholic church spreads its political intrigue,
rebellion, insurrection and revolution have raised their savage
heads.
Mary means rebellion. She is the alleged mother of Jesus,
symbolizing the body of humanity.
Joseph, the alleged adopted father of Jesus, means increase,
or increasing numbers.
Increase and rebellion carry Jesus, the people, into Egypt,
meaning trouble and oppression. Jesus, the people, takes refuge
in separation, and flees to Galilee, meaning revolution. He then
takes refuge in Capernaum, meaning repentance, located on
the boundary of Galilee, revolution—in simple, the church.
Do you grasp the full import of this conspiracy concealed
in the ecclesiastic code?
If your priest or clergyman tells you this is not a true inter
pretation, he is a wilful liar, and hypocrite. Moreover, when
he arises in his pulpit and preaches to his congregation Jesus
Christ as a personality Who once lived as an individual, he
is deliberately perpetrating a mean falsehood, and he knows it.
This is quite sufficient to create a demand for a showdown,
to determine the true character of the greatest influence in
American politics, which is doing everything in its power to
re-establish the old Bible myth, fable and romance, that the
repentant people may take refuge in the church as an arbitrator
between the government and an overpressed people. This is
why the church favors a multitude of drastic and oppressive
laws, and vicious taxation. They are driving the people again
into rebellion, Egypt and Galilee.
4. Let me bring home to the people who have retained the
power of consecutive, constructive thought, the grave danger
hidden in a foolish, child-like pride, which listens with tear
ful eyes, and gulping throats, to the inspired haranguers of
paid claquers, who wave the national flag and shout patriotism.
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 57
It merely exploits some pet hobby of selfish organizations.
That is not love and respect of one's country.
The purpose of all loud-mouthed, so-called patriotism is to
lead the unthinking masses into some form of trap, usually
to create a popular shout to conceal some ulterior propaganda.
The country is literally taken by storm by this vicious prac
tice, to arouse enthusiasm preceding wars, and it always in
volves the levying of money taxes, or great personal sacrifices.
5. I have said that we inherit our greatest weaknesses from
Europe. Let me make this clear. I know many will feel in
sulted that any reflection should be cast upon the respectability
of those who allegedly founded the United States. To those
I will say, I can boast of a direct ancestry back to 1684, in
America, when the flag of the brooding nation was a snake
with thirteen rattles, on a crimson ground. It was not until
1777 that the flag of thirteen stars, white on blue field, was
adopted as the national emblem, signifying the birth of a
new constellation in the sky of nations. A long and careful
study of the early colonial period does not change facts which
stand out as vividly upon the map as the states themselves.
England chose to make of North America a criminal colony
to relieve her own bursting prisons. Later, ambition, and an
over-zealous desire to develop a great nation, caused the States
to throw wide open her gates, and all the nations of Europe
seized upon the opportunity, and the United States became
the reformatory of Europe. Her criminal and semi-criminal,
ignorant and poverty-stricken rushed in as a flood. With the
result that instead of a new constellation, we became a chaotic,
heterogeneous mass of whirling human nebula. Out of this
mass of widely differing elements we have striven hard to
construct a composite nation whose units would function in
unison with our national aspirations.
It is a law in nature that, when you bind a decaying body
to a healthy body, the disease of decay is transmitted to the
healthy body.
When you mix white with black the white is bemuddled.
We need not point out a greater error than the attempt to
put the highly developed white race in the United States, on
an equality with the negroes. Only imbeciles could have con
ceived such an unnatural and degrading thing. The theory of
sacrifice does not imply degradation and debasement of char
acter, for others, it means a material sacrifice to appease per-'
sonal needs. Charity can mean no more than food and cloth
58 National ^nsanity, a Virulent Disease
ing, therefore it is an imposition for other nations to send
their effete population to the United States to be fed and
clothed, instead of elements which could reflect some benefit
to the intellectual and moral stamina of the nation.
We are daily reminded by the newspapers that it is the
foreign elements which give us most trouble. They find here
a freedom which they do not understand and they go crazy and
run amuck. Never before in the history of nations has there
been criminal statistics to equal those of the United States
today. The people do not seem to understand that the con
stant addition of laws to our statute books is systematically
criminalizing the better elements to reach the guilty class.
Thus we are sacrificing the nation to punish the criminals sent
here by other nations.
This comes of a determination to perpetuate a rule or ruin
policy, laid down by the ecclesiasts centuries ago, which re
quires the crushing of the common people into a senseless,
ignorant mass, to do the bidding of lords and masters. The
contemptible idea that men must have masters like dogs is a
church proposition which should be viciously resented.
We put this up to the thinking people, not as an exploitation
of propaganda. The day of that most villainous of all human
invention, "chivalry," with its rottenness, filth and irresponsi
bility has passed. Then, crime strutted, in an ecclesiastical
garb. Today, animalism, with all its cunning and perseverance,
urges men to secretly compete with the law which irritates,
restrains and, in many ways, persecutes them. Crime, begin
ning in a feeling of necessity and self defense, becomes a
sport and men revel in doing forbidden things. As the people
are restrained, petty officials assume more impudent attitudes
towards them.
Church and state are infallible, and cannot do wrong. Men
resent this theory because they see terrible wrongs to humanity
concealing themselves beneath this cloak.
I am not so egotistical as to suggest a remedy for the evils
which I have tried to make plain; that is not a one man task.
But. I am frank to express an opinion that there is no remedy.
We have postponed the day of correction too long. The laws
offer no remedy; on the contrary, they have assumed an
irritating theory of vengeance, which only adds to the con
fusion. Rebellion stalks our midst; a disappointed people
scowls and growls at the law enforcement, which depends too
much upon the impudent presumption of a low type of men
National Insanity, a Virulent Disease 59
chosen as law officers, and no attempt is made to enlighten
the people as to the real intent and purpose of national and
community life. Instead of being banded together for pro
tection against harmful elements, they find themselves merely
herded as cattle and constantly under the yoke and the goad.
It is definitely agreed by all competent authorities, that
morality and good citizenship cannot be enforced by a mul
titude of offensive laws, intended to narrow the personal liberty
of the individual unit. Control en masse is a colossal failure.
What will be the end !
Bankruptcy, poverty, ignorance, and crime are already com
mon national diseases. Who disputes this?
What is left?
National insanity and human slaughter, as far as humanity
at large is concerned.
Ecclesiasticism has won.
Hold ! Nature speaks !
The ecclesiasts, in their utter contempt for common humanity
hath said:
"What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is
born of a woman, that he should be righteous?" (Job 15:14.)
"Vain man would be wise, though man be born like a wild
ass's colt." (Job 11:12.)
Here is a cold-blooded confession that it was at no time
intended that men should be clean, good or wise.
Nature gave to the ass a faculty which now becomes man's
last resort in self-defense. When the ass is loaded beyond his
natural capacity he lies down in the road, blocks all traffic,
and you may knock him in the head with an axe and he will
not arise until he is relieved of his excessive burden.
If every man, woman and child in the United States should
agree with Job, and refuse to do any kind of work for one
week, state, church, commerce, politics and the army would
kneel at the feet of the people and plead for a compromise.
It would be a peaceful readjustment.
Job himself would laugh and apologize.
The Referendum is the last resort of the people.
Don't make a farce of—"A government of the people, by
the people, and for the people." Demand that every state
law be declared strictly and explicitly in accord with the fed
eral constitution before it is permitted to go onto the statute
books. A logical construction and interpretation will eliminate
one-half the state laws now so irritating and provoking.
60 National Insanity, a Virulent Disease
It is in the power of the mass of producing people to enforce
justice, if they take advantage of the very means by which
they have been brought to a plastic state. The non-producing
people cannot oppose the producers, if the latter act en masse.
The prohibition laws are fit examples of persecuting laws.
The Volstead act is brazenly unconstitutional. Its basic pur
pose was to smuggle through the legislature a constitutional
recognition of religion. Subsequent enlargement and inquisi
torial abuses of this law are collateral results, and have been
the cause of more major crime than any other law passed
by any legislative body in this country, and today yields un
known volumes of graft.
To finish my discourse I must declare a deep respect for
government, and sane logical laws is a sacred duty on the part
of every citizen residing under their protection. Support of
such a government is the basis of healthy national life. I
am not, in any sense, opposed to such a government, and am
wholly in favor of normally correct laws, but I am bitterly
antagonistic to the abuse of the legislative powers for the
benefit of favored classes or strong political bodies, or to foster
one class over another. I am opposed to the drastic enforce
ment of law merely for the law's sake, regardless of right
and justice. I especially regard a multitude of criminal laws
as an open accusation that the whole nation is criminal, and
must be accused by the law, that is contrary to national asso
ciation and community life.
I have no fanatical views; no issues to support; no propa
ganda to forward; no financial, political or social aspirations,
and I speak solely upon my own beliefs and convictions, born
of logical and reasonable investigations, without the advice
or consultation of anyone.
I especially do not seek notoriety, but I feel constrained to
point out manifest derelictions as I see them. The people of
this nation were given free speech to express a natural liberty
of thought, and there is no intimation in our constitution pro
hibiting the expression of the freedom of speech in the criti
cism of the government itself, and those selected by the people
to execute its laws, and guide its functions, should occasion
suggest that good could come out of such criticism. There
fore, I feel that I am fully within the rights of a law-abiding
citizen in all that I have said.
I submit my brief to the judgment of those who compliment
me by perusing these tedious pages.
Thomas Sawyer Spivey, Beverly Hills, California.
The Last of the Gnostic Masters
By
Thomas Sawyer Spivey
A Thrilling Novel
A. Challenge to Christianity
Price, $2.50
Other Books by the Author
Lavius Egyptus (2 vol.)
Jane and I
Dr. Paul Micklm
The Hoosler Widow
The Seven Sons of Ballyhack
The Caverns of Crail
The End of Human Endeavor
Is This a Dying World
Speculative Anthropology
The Light of the Nation
The Revelation (660 pages), $4.00
Dealing with the translation of the Bible
The Resurrection (illustrated), Price $2.50
Gnostic Origin of Christianity
Visible Evolution (520 illustrations), Price $ .50
Christianity and Mythology (illustrated), Price $1.50
Ecclesiastical Vocabulary and Code $1.50
All prices postpaid
Published and distributed by
Thomas Sawyer Spivey
Beverly Hills, Col.
Ask Your Book Dealer
