{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__brittan___an_address_delivered_in_bridgeport.pdf","mytitle":"An Address Delivered In Bridgeport","mylang":"de"}
AN
ADD RE SS,
DELIVERED IN
BRIDGE P 0 RT, J UN E 1 5, 184 2,
----BEING THE
ANNIVERSARY OF PEQUANOCK LODGE, NO. 4.
BY REV. SAMUEL B. BRITTAN,
N. G. O~ S.AMA.IUTAl'f LODGE, NO. 7, OF DA.NBVRY, COl'fN.
PUBLISHED AT THE REQUEST OF PEQUANOCK LODGE.
NEW HAVEN:
HITCHCOCK & STAFFORD, PRINTERS.
1842.
Digitized by Google
'6\2.~11t
. 0
Digitized by Google
ADDRESS.
BROTHERS OF THE INDEPENDENT ORDER OF ODD FELLOWS :
AGREEABLE to the polite request of your Committee, I rise
to address you. But as I look around me upon this large and
intelligent auditory, and witness the apparent interest that is
manifested upon this occasion, I cannot conceal the apprehen-
. sion, that in my imperfect remarks I shall come short of your
expectations. I am, however, encouraged by the considera-
tion, that I am to address a band of brothers, associated in, and
laboring for the promotion of a common cause. I am cheered
by the pleasing reflection, that I am standing in the midst of
those with whom I am united by the sacred ties of" FRIEND·
SHIP, LovE, AND TauTu;" who have assembled here for a higher,
a nobler object, than the mere gratification of the passing mo-
ment, and who will readily make every allowance that the pre-
sent circumstances require, or I have a right to expect. Breth-
ren, I rejoice in being permitted to greet you upon this interef!t-
ing occasion. It gives me pleasure to meet so many of the
. friends ofour Order, in ~hose countenances I read the generous
emotions which warm their hearts.
It has been observed, by a distinguished member of our fra-
ternity, that "every age has had its IDEA." It is true, also,
that every age and nation has its MONUMENTS. To be satisfied
of this fact, we have only to glance at the page of history, or
to look around us upon the mouldering relics of by-gone days.
The classic traveler feasts his imagination upon the thrilling
Digitized by Google
4
associations that come up, as he wanders among the melan-
choly ruins of ancient times. He loves to linger there, to
muse on the glory of other days-to study the history, and to
learn the character of departed nations, from the monuments
j
,..,, they have left behind.
I have already observed, that every age and nation has its
monuments ; and I may add, that from these we may learn
much concerning the character of the people. Rome has left
the shattered ruins of temples and palaces, of broken arches
and crumbling mausoleums, to attest her former greatness.
The barren soil of Attica, the land of Miltiades and Pericles,
has its monuments, and the great names in Grecian history
will long live, the admiration of the world. ·Egypt is re-
nowned for her magnificent ruins. Thebes could boast of her
splendid temples, and Memphis of her lofty pyramids. Chal-
dea was famous for the walls of Babylon and the stupendous
tower of Shinar's plain.
But what are works like these 1 They are but the monu-
ments which pride and ambition have reared I They neither
evince the wisdom or benevolence of those who laid their deep
foundations. True, there are those who are dazzled by the
splendor, and not the merit, of human actions-who are charm-
ed with the magnitude of man's works, instead of their useful-
ness; those who are captivated by the extent and grandeur of
human schemes and projects, instead of their real importance
and practical utility-who may point to these as the evidences
of national greatness and glory.
But a people truly great, a people distinguished for genuine
intelligence, for true intellectual and moral refinement, can
have no desire to copy the example and imitate the splendid
creations of those whose noblest works furnish evidence of a
corrupt taste and a barbarous age. Well may we rejoice,
that we live in an age of superior light and intelligence ; that
ours is a period in the world's history, distinguished for works
Digitized by Google
of a nobler kind-for monuments of wisdom, of humanity and
benevolence-monuments that will outlive the pyramids, and
call down upon their founders the benedictions of future gene-
rations, when the black night of oblivion shall overshadow the
pride and glory of antiquity, and the destroying hand of time
shall leave no memorial to tell of the greatness and the glory
of the past I
In our day, there are strong hands, enlightened minds, and
feeling hearts, engaged in works of righteousness, which have
for their object the proper elevation and true dignity of man.
Thousands are laboring, faithfully and successfully, to improve
the physical, moral, and intellectual condition of our race ; to
increase the measure of human happiness, and to relieve the
distresses of sorrowing humanity. We rejoice that their la-
bor has not been in vain. Numerous institutions have been
established for the benefit of the sick and distressed, the poor ,
and the unfortunate. The widow's wants have been supplied,
and the helpless and unprotected orphan has found secure re..
treat. The deaf and the blind-those whose eyes are closed
to the beauties of this lower workl:._those who never heard a
single note in creation's anthem of praise-have found an asy-
lum at the hands of CHARITY, where their minds have been
developed and their understandings improved ; where they
have received the elements of a moral and religious education,
and been taught to love and reverence the Author of their be-
ing. These institutions are founded upon a broad and diffusive
benevolence, which seems to be the peculiar characteristic of
the present age. They merit, and should receive, the appro-
bation of every. good man ; and especially should the Chris-
tian feel it to be a duty incumbent upon him to countenance
and sustain them. They exert an influence for good-an in-
fluence that will be deeply and extensively felt by millions yet
to come.
These are the noble monuments that the present generation
'
Digitized by Google
6
will leave behind; and as we value the cause of humanity....;
as we prize that charity that "never faileth"-it becomes ttS
to remember the weighty responsibility that rests upon us.
Be assured we greatly err, if we imagiµe that our influence is
not to extend beyond the brief period of this transient exist-
ence. It is for you, (in a measure,) by your wisdom and en-
ergy, to establish, and by your prudence, zeal, and fidelity, to
preserve, those sacred institutions, which shall remain to bless
your posterity, and to mould the character of succeeding gen-
erations. Then, as you would render a lasting service to the
world-as you would promote the cause of God and humanity
-as you would have your children wise and useful in their day
and generation-see to it, that the great principles of benevo-
lence and charity are early and deeply implanted in their
hearts. Then will they strengthen and garnish the works
which you have reared, causing them to remain and flourish
in all their majesty and beauty, when generations yet unborn
shall have passed away, and the accumulated dust of ages
shall conceal the last monument of departed greatness.
The time was, when the spirit of charity and good will
among men was feebly manifested, or scarcely perceptible, in
the intercourse of human society. Men lost sight of their re-
lationship to each other; they forgot that they were mutually
dependent; they ceased to exercise the feelings of humanity,
and neglected the performance of those kind offices which are
ever due from man to his fellow-man. Thousands were
doomed to feel the iron rod of the persecutor, and to groan in
chains and darkness. Oppression seized upon his victim, and
there was no strong arm to protect the poor and down-trod-
den among the children of men. There was none to drop the
tear.of sympathy, in view of the sufferings of humanity ; no
Good Samaritan, to bind up the wounds of his neighbor, or to
apply the healing balm to the sorrowing spirit. The unfortu-
nate were left to weep over the wreck of their hopes ; the
Digitized by Google
7
thoughtless multitude were unmoved by the tears of the
mourner, or the sighs of helpless innocence. The lone widow
and-the offiipring of her heart's affections, were left to poverty
and wretchedness, with no kind, soothing voice, to speak the
words of comfort and consolation, llnd no earthly hope but the
eold charities of an unfeeling world. _
But this dark and iron age has passed away, and the com-
bined energies of thousands are now put forth for the allevia-
tion of human suffering. The present is emphatically an age
of benevolent feeling. The holy, sanctifying influences of a
pure and spiritual religion, are beginning to be more deeply
felt, and its.sacred duties are more generally practised. There
are many who have hearts to feel for others' woes--who are
exquisitely alive to the generous emotions of sympathy-who
can "rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those
who weep." Throughout the civilized world, the friends of
humanity a.re actively employed. In our own country, much
has been done. We see and feel the workings of that spirit
that has gone forth, in the power of its might, to reno-
vate, to bless, and to save. It has supplied the wants of
the destitute, causing the helpless orphan to be glad, and the
widow's heart to leap for joy. It has found its way to the
abode of cheerless wretchedness, and kindled the fire on the
cold and desolate hearth, to warm the shivering sons and
daughters of poverty. That spirit has visited the captive in
his cell; it has penetrated the deep and loathsome recesses of
the .prison-house; it has offered the fervent prayer at the bed-
side of the sick and dying, and carried its gentle sympathies
to the despised and friendless.
n is a truth which no one will dispute, that there are cer-
tain evils in this world, to which all are exposed. · They over-
take the wisest and best of men. They will doubtless be the
portion of many in this assembly. Should life be spared, the
time will soon come when the manly form will be bowed
Digitized by Google
8
down, and old age will trace its deep furrows upon the brow.
That period will be far more intolerable, if we have no kind
friend to sooth and comfort us. · This may not be the lot of
any individual here: I pray God it may not. Yet we know
full well that thousands, when deprived of health and 11trength,
have been reduced to poverty, and, forsaken by the world,
have been left to die alone and unmourned. And since it is
true, that "what has been may be again," it becomes us to
make a proper use of all laudable means, that may tend to se-
cure us against the shocks of fortune. Exposed as man ne-
cessarily is to the various commotions which agitate the great
ocean of life, it is but natural for him to desire such auxilia-
ries as may serve to insure his safety, when calamity, with her
tempest breath, shall bid the sleeping elements awake I Pos-
sessed of a precarious existence-a state of mingled pleasure
and pain, and endowed by nature with a physical constitution
subject to weakness and infirmity, even common prudence
should direct him to seek some friendly shelter from the storms
and ills of life. Indeed, it is a duty which every man owes to
himself, as well as to those whose interest and happiness are
identified with his own, to resort to such alliances as will ~na­
ble him, by the blessing of God, to stand secure-in seasons of
misfortune, when the dark clouds of adversity gather thickly
around him.
There are many institutions rising up around us, which serve
to demonstrate the progress of benevolent principles. But
among them I know of none that deservedly holds a more
conspicuous rank, than the Institution known as the fraternity
of ODD FELLows. As this Institution presents its claims to the
confidence and approbation of this community, it becomes my
duty, on this occasion, to speak of itl principles, the moral pre-
cepts it inculcates, its leading objects, and the means by which
it aims at their accomplishment. To present the subject in all
its various ramifications, would far exceed our present limits.
Digitized by Google
9
We can only give yon a summary and imperfect view of an
Institution which, in oar judgment, is doing more to mitigate
the sufferings of poor humanity, than any of the splendid cre-
ations of the age in which we live. I may remark, generally,
that the principles of Odd Fellowship are humane and charita•
bk. Its objects are such as Christianity approves, and the
means used for their attainment have thus far been crowned
with abundant success. It calls for the performance of no
duty that is not most solemnly enjoined by the moral precepts
of the gospel. It requires no service that is incompatible with
the faithful discharge of our duty to ourselves, to our fellow-
men, to our country, or our God. It requires every man, as
his first and most important duty, to live in obedience to the
requisitions of God's law, and never to speak of Him but with
that reverence which is due to the Judge of the whole earth.
It bids us yield a cheerful submission to the laws of the land
in which we live ; to respect the rights of every man, whatev~
er may be his rank or station in society ; to guard against
every species of intemperance and excess ; in short, "to do
justly, to love mercy, and walk humbly:" and whoever does
not live in the constant discharge of these duties, fails to come
up to the spirit of those principles which he is bound to sup-
Port·
MuTUAL RELIEF and CHARITY are fundamental principles of
our Order-Charity in its broadest and most comprehensive
sense. The application of the deserving brother is never in
vain. He finds a generous sympathy, that looks with melting
eye over the wide earth. It stops not at the artificial barriers
of sects and nations. It is not chilled in its warm impulses,
nor circumscribed in its sphere of operation, by the narrow
prejudices that so frequently rear high and impassable walls
between man and his fellow.
As members of this fraternity, we have all a common object
for which we labor. That object is the WELL-BBING oF ou&
2
Digitized by Google
10
RACE, THE WIDE DIFFUSION OF HAPPINJISS, AND THE RELIEF OF BU~
MAN BUFFERING, WHEREVER IT EXlB'I'S. While we are required
to do all the good we can to ALL MEN, we.are especially bound
to administer to the wants and relieve the distresses of our
own brethren. If a member is sick, he receives from .
the
funds of the Institution a sufficiency for all his wants. If his
circumstances require it, his brethren, each in turn, w.atch over
him during the night, to see that his wants are all supplied,
and to cheer and comfort him with their presence. If he dies,
the Institution is bound to defray the expenses of his burial ;
his brethren follow him to his final resting-place ; and when
he has received the last of human attentions, their duty is not
done : they must go to the house of mourning, to comfort the
lone widow in her affliction, and ,to provide for and educate
her orphan children.
But it should be remembered, that our Order carries with it
a great moral power-an influence which has been productive
ofnnich good already, and from which we have reasoB to expect
the most important results. The various duties which we owe
to ourselves, to our families and friends ; those which we owe
to mankind at large, and to the land of our birth ; the duties
we owe to that Being whom we are bound to reverence and
adore, are all urged upon our consideration from week to
week, in the interesting and impressive charges and lectures
of the Order. These tend to cultivate and improve the social
faculties, to elevate the moral nature of man, and to strength-
en the common bond of union which binds him to his fellow-
man. We also claim and exercise the right to watch over the
conduct of our members in their intercourse with the world,
to admonish them in the spirit of kindness, when they wander
from the path of duty, and to withdraw our fellowship from
those who wickedly violate the sacred principles of the Order.
Thus united by Heaven's own attributes of Friendship, Love,
and Truth, every feeling and sentiment which tends to make
Digitized by Google
11
men charitable and humane, and to unite them more closely
in feeling and purpose, is sedulously cultivated and improved.
Our Order has the effect to level the distinctions of sect and
party, and to unite in harmonious union men of the most dis-
cordant political and religious opinions. Not that a man is re-
quired to saerifice his principles, or to countenance what his
judgment fails to approve. By no means. We have no desire
to restrict the mind in the exercis~ of its freedom. A man
may think, and hope, and believe, as he pleases. We ask no
one whether he is of our party, or whether he bows with us
at the same altar. On the contrary, we leave every man in
the peaceable possession of his political and religious faith.
In these maUers men have a right to differ.
" In faith and hope the world may disagree,
But all mankind~s concern is Cw.RJTY."
Here we can all unite heart and hand. Here we can meet
and deliberate, and act in concert with reference to a common
object. But, although a man is privileged to entertain any po-
Jitical or religious opinions'which may best accord with his
own judgment, yet our laws do not admit of the discussion of
these subjects, 01· even the expression of a party sentiment or
feeling, in any of our deliberations. When we pass the por-
tals of our temple, we must leave our sectarian animosities
behind. There we must meet as friends and brethren-as co-
workers in the cause of humanity. And let him who would
enter there remember, that " merit is the qualification of an
Odd Fellow." He must be a good man. He must reverence
God and obey his laws. He must l-0ve his fellow-men and do
them good.
Such are the leading principles and objects of the fraternity
of Odd Fellows. As an extensive and effective plan of real
benevolence, it merits and should receive the encouragement of
every philanthropist and Christian. As a system of mutual re-
Digitized by Google
12
lief, there is perhaps no institution on earth that provides so B?We..
ly, and at the same time so effectually, against many of the com-
mon misfortunes to which all are liable in this uncertain state.
It affords a refuge for the unfortunate, and the stranger finds a
home with us. He may come up from among the busy multi-
tude that move u}>on our Atlantic border, or from the deep soli•
tudes along the shores of the Westem Sea; he may come to
us from the far North, where the pale Laplander drives o'er
drifting snows, or from the sunny South, beyond the reach of
wintry winds, where the Nile rolls its fertilizing waters, and
the dark Nubian finds a shelter from the scorching rays, be-
neath the spreading palm-tree : in all cases he will find those
who will receive and treat him as a friend and brother-those
who will watch over him in sickness, and admini~ter to all his
wants-who will smooth his dying pillow in a land of stran·
gers, or drop the tear of sorrow upon the green sod that
shields his breast. Ah I how dear to the stranger is that
Friendship that can stand the test of the darkest hour..! How
sweet to the 'Unfortunate is the voice of Kindness and the gen-
tle breathings of Sympathy, whose tender tones quiet the
troubled spirit and dry up the falling tear! To the weary
wanderer on the shores of time, they impart new life and
vigor, and spread beauty and cheerfulness along his rugged
way. They speak to the aged Sire bending under the weight
of years, and his trembling voice assumes the firm, deep tone
of manhood, and for a moment he forgets his sorrows. The
down-trodden and oppressed listen to their mild accents, and
hope again revives. They pour their soft music on the ear of
woe. The moumer forgets to weep, and the radiant smile is
seen, like the sun when the storm subsides, pouring his splen-
dors through the dark drapery that veils the sky I Such is
the power of Sympathy--such the influence of Kindness and
Love ! They are angels of light, sent to cheer and to bless.
Without their holy ministries, the moral world would be
Digitized by Google
13
dark and cheerless-little better than a howling wilderness or
barren desert, with no bright oasis where the poor traveler
could find sustenance and repose. _
But there is a misconception relative to the circumstances
which gave birth to our Order, which should be noticed upon
the present occasion. The opinion seems to prevail exten-
sively, that the Society of Odd Fellows dates its origin within
a few years pa8t, which has led many to conclude that it took
its rise upon the decline of another ancient institution. Let no
one apprehend, that in this allusion to the Masonic Fraternity,
I design to step aside from my duty, to indulge in invidious
remarks concerning others. I trust I am not of the number
of those who love to speak evil of the things they understand
not, and who are wont to condemn without knowledge and
without mercy. For one, as I know little or nothing of the
institution in question, I have nothing to say, but simply make
the allusion in order to correct the false impressions which ex-
ist in the minds of many, in regard to our own Order. For
the sake of truth and justice, I would have the people under-
stand the facts in the case ; and I am confident that every
member of that ancient brotherhood will agree with me, that
the truth should be spoken in reference to this matter. We
need not bring up the records of past ages, or go to foreign
lands and se{U'ch for evidences of our antiquity, to satisfy ev-
ery ingenuous mind that our <'rder is not founded upon the
"ruins of Masonry," as many seem to suppose. To settle
this point, it is only necessary to observe, that at the time il
was instituted in this country, (which was in the year 1819,)
Free Masonry was quite as popular in the United States as at
any other period of its history. And besides, it is a well known
fact, that it continued to prosper for some years after the intro-
duction and establishment of our own Fraternity. I may fur-
ther remark, that there is no connection between·the two in-
stitutions-that they are and have ever been entirely indepen-
Digitized by Google
14
dent of each other. But I shall perhaps be told, that, although
this may not be " Free Masonry in the disguise of another
name," it is nevertheless a "secret society," and is therefore
" opposed to the genius of our republican institutions, and
dangerous in its tendency." As this is the most prominent ob-
jection that will be likely to arise, it may be well to examine
it for a moment. And is there any thing so terrible in the
idea of secresy, that men are startled at the thought 1 Dost
thou deem it a crime to keep the secrets of thy friend 1 And
can you expect to find all that is valuable entirely exposed to
the public view 1 Vain hope I The flower that loads the
breeze and feasts the sense with its rich perfume, is often quite
concealed ; and the radiant gem that decorates a monarch's
crown, was taken from its secret hiding-place far down in the
bowels of the earth. Does not even virtue often find its hal-
lowed sanctuary far from the haunts of busy life, in the cot-
tage or the cell? And is not the pure offering that Heaven re-
quires, to be made in secret, in the retirement of the closet 1
But in what respect (permit me to ask) is ours a secret Insti-
tution 1 Certainly not in the sense usually understood by those
who raise the objection. Not only have we endeavored at
this time to make you acquainted with its principles and ob-
jects, by presenting it in the light of truth before you; but
our articles of compact, and all the rules and regulations of
the Order, are made public, and may be examined by all who
have any interest in the matter. So far, then, there is evi-
dently no secresy-all is made known. We have, moreover,
numerous periodicals devoted to the exposition of our princi-
ples; and if, with these facilities for acquiring information,
men are still unacquainted with the Institution, we can only
say, that the fault is not ours.
We have used our feeble -efforts to enlighten the public mind
upon this subject, and so far from wishing to conceal our prin-
ciples, we indulge th~ pleasing hope, that the time will come
Digitized by Google
15
when they will be universally known and practised-when
every good man will be willing to unite his influence with
ours, to mitigate the sufferings of humanity, to dry up the wid·
ows and the orphan's tear, and to carry joy and gladness to
the abodes of wretchedness and despair. It is indeed true,
that we have certain well known sign8 and tokens, which are
understood by the members of the Order throughout the civi-
lized world. And will some one be kind enough to tell us
what iniquity there is in thi'S 1 Have these secrets proved an
injury to a single individual of the human race 1 If so, let the
fact be made to appear. But if, on the contrary, the fruits of
the Institution have been only good, by what authority is it
condemned, as corrupt in its nature and dangerous in its influ-
ences 1 Would you pronounce that tree a corrupt one, the
fruit of whioh you had found to be sweet and pleasant to the
taste 1 Think you that the fountain is filthy and unclean,
whose pure waters impart health and strength and life to all
who drink of its crystal streams 1 Such a judgment, from
such premises, would better become a pagan than a Christian !
But to return : Our secrets are simply such as are absolutely
essential to the prosperity and usefulness of the Order. In-
deed, you can hardly fail to discover, that if we would ad-
vance the benevolent principles of which we have spoken, and
render our system of mutual relief altogether effectual, we
must be able to distinguish our brethren of every nation and
tongue--we must have some infallible test, which will enable
us at an times to recognize a worthy brother, or to detect im-
posture. It is also true, that we sit with closed doors. So do
your literary and scientific institutions, and yet their motives
are never called in question. The guardians of the public
rights are willing to trust them alone, and no one fears that his
liberties are in danger. In fact, even an itinerant conjurer
or a company of stage players, whose influence is scarcely
better than a moral pestilence, and whose vulgarity constitutes
Digitized by Google
16
the very charm that draws around them the lowest class of
human society, may exercise the right to close their doors,
and to prescribe the terms of admission to others, and yet there
are no fears expressed. But if a number of men think proper
to meet together for charitable purposes-to devise means for
the relief of the sick and the unfortunate of their fellow-men,
there are those who seem to be greatly a'larmed, and affect to
think there must be treason wherever there is secresy I
But we must bring our remarks to a close. While many
have been engaged in unworthy efforts to dissolve our social
compact, and to bring reproach upon our Order, we have been
constantly progressing in numbers and influence, and the In-
stitution has been actively employed in the great work of" Hu-
MAN MBLIORATioN." A vast amount of happiness has already
been diffused and enjoyed through its benign agency. It has
fed the hungry and clothed the naked ; it has visited the sick
and the prisoner, and furnished a home for the stranger; it has
educated the fatherless child ; it has softened the widow's grief,
and wiped away the orphan's tear; it has delivered many a
child of sorrow from the misery of blighted hopes; it has
saved thousands from pauperism, and thus spared community
at large the expense of their support. Whether such an In-
stitution is subversive of your rights, and calculated to place
your best interests in jeopardy, is left for decision to an en-
lightened public.
But I must not forget to observe, that the branch of our Or-
der in this city is in a highly prosperous condition. One year
has just elapsed since its organization, and it now numbers
OM hv.ndred and ten members. During the last six months,
more than one hundred dollars have been expended for the re-
lief of sick and distressed brothers, and there is now remain-
ing in the hands of the Treasurer an ample amount for benev-
olent and charitable purposes. These facts, together with the
moral worth and influence of those who compose the lnstitu-
•
Digitized by Google
17
tion in this place, give flattering promise of its future prosper-
ity and usefulness.
To the public generally, and especially to the ladies, we re-
turn our sincere thanks for the honor of their presence on this
occasion. We have presented our claims to your confidence
and approbation. We humbly trust you will consider them
impartially, and then give or withhold your influence as reason
and conscience shall dictate.
Brethren of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows :-Ere I
conclude, I 'must congratulate you on your past success and
present prosperity. Our increase has been (both in numbers
and moral influence) far more rapid than we had reason to
expect. We have but to remain true to ourselves and to each
other, and the time will soon come when the benevolent prin-
ciples of our Order will triumph over the selfishness of human
nature. Our Fraternity has passed through the furnace of op-
position. It bas braved the fury of the storm. We have now
become great and prosperous, and our sky is radiant and clear.
Yet I warn you against the false notion, that we are no longer
exposed to danger. That period will not arrive till man shall
cease to err. Remember that we are safe no longer than we
practice what we profess-that we are strong only in the eter-
nal principles of Virtue. Then, as you love the Institution-
as you value the sacred principles upon which it is founded-
let me exhort you to be faithful in the discharge of your duty.
Let the cry of the poor and the unfortunate come up in re-
membrance before you. Forget not to feed the hungry, to
clothe the naked, and to visit the sick : and "the blessing of
Him that was ready to perish" shall be yours, and the widow
and the fatherless will plead your cause at the altar of the Ma-
·esty on high.
Brethren :-My closing admonition shall be in behalf of our
beloved Order. See to it, that you preserve its moral purity-
that you watch over its dearest interests with a vigilance that
never slumbers.
3
Digitized by Google
ODES,
8U1'G AT
THE CELEBRATION OF PEQUANOCK LODGE, NO. 4,
BRIDGEPORT, JUNE 15, 1842.
BY MRS. C• .M. SAWYER•
..J.uld Lang Sym.
OH ! who are they who ever stand
Along life's rugged way,
With pitying heart and gentle hand,
Misfortune's tear to stay ?
Who from the pleadings of the poor
Ne'er turn their ear aside?
Whose footsteps often seek the door
Where woe and want abide ?
'Tis the generous band, who, hand in hand,
From graybeard to the youth,
Have sworn, they side by side will stand,
In Friendship, Love, and Truth !
See, stretched on yonder bed of death,
A widowed mother lies ;
"My orphan babes!" with struggling breath
And faltering voice, she cries :
" Oh! who your young and tender forms
From sorrow's grasp will save ?
Or shield you from life's crushing storms,
When I am in my grave ?"
Peace, dying mother ! friends are nigh,
Who'll guard their tender youth,
And round them twine the hallowed tie
Of Friendship, Love, and Truth !
See, lone and friendless, on our shore,
An exiled wanderer stand :
Oh ! where are they who came of yore
To meet his eager hand ?
Far-where he bends his streaming eyes
Across the ocean's foam,
Digitized by Google
19
Till his sick heart within him dies,
With yearnings for his home !
But, lo ! with warm and sudden clasp,
A friend is near, to soothe
And cheer him with the well known grasp
Of Friendship, Love, and Truth !
Speed on, ye faithful brothers ! speed!
And blessings with you go !
Still aid the widow in her need,
And soothe the orphan's woe !
Still by the heart-sick stranger's side,
With words of kindness, stay,
And bid the deep and troubled tide
Of sorrow pass away!
Ye generous band ! long may you stand,
The graybeard and the youth,
Shoulder to shoulder, hand in hand,
In Friendship, Love, and Truth !
BENEVOLENCE.
BY BR. P. DONALDSON, NEW YORK.
FAIR, lovely daughter of the skies !
Bless'd attribute.of Deity!
To thee our cheerful thoughts arise,
And fain would rest awhile on thee !
Thy deeds. oft dwell upon our tongues,
And find a place in our glad songs.
Within thy smiles fair FRIENDSHIP lives,
Sweet LovE exists where thou art known,
TRUTH to thy cause her blessing gives,
And KINDNESS dwells beneath thy throne :
And peaceful HARMONY is found
Where'er thy voice is heard to sound.
In lowly cot, or palace hall-
On land or sea-in desert place-
Where'er thy gladsome footsteps fall-
Thy bland address, thy smiling face,
Cheers up the drooping mourner's heart,
And bids his fears and cares depart.
Digitized by Google
•
/ '
, .....
Thy,gifts are scattered wife' and far ; ··
Where'er we tread, thy deeds we trace ;
Thy bounteous, kindly hand of care, _
Is ·stretched o'er man's afflicted race,
To cheer him in his rugged road,
And lead him safe to heaven.-
and God.
Oh! let thy light beam on him-still, -
Still may he heed thy gentle _voice,
Till the whole world is freed from ill,
And all mankind in LovE rejoice;
Till the dark reign of woe is o'er,
And pain and grief are felt no more,
BY AHEllBER OF MERCANTILE LODGE, N. Y.
God Save .America.
FATHER! supreme above!
Thou God of Truth and Love !
Smile on us here :
Bless this our natal land,
Cherish our social band,
Grant us thy aid, to stand
Firm and sincere.
Friendship we pledge to all ;
On whom misfortunes fall,
Those we assist :
This shall our motto be,
"Truth, Love, and Charity,"
Till our fraternity
Cease to exist.
Cheer we the wounded heart,
Bid pining grief depart,
Touched by our wand.
Widow and Orphan's tear
Dry-there is naught to fear,
Brothers and friends are near,
Help is at hand.
Now the loud chorus roll,
Spread it from pole to pole,
Wide earth around :
Sing how the " GoLDEN CHAIN"
Bindeth in Love, again,
Friendship and Truth shall reign
Where man is found.
rn911ized by Google
_
,
