{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__tingley___voice_of_the_soul.pdf","mytitle":"Voice Of The Soul","mylang":"de"}
~bt
l'oict of tbt ~oul
BY
Jlatbtrint ttinglt!'
LEADER AND OFFICIAL HEAD
of the
UNIVERSAL BROTHEltHOOD AND THEOSOPHICAL SociETY
Published by the
WoMAN's INTERNATIONAL THEOSOPHICAL LEAGUE
PoiNT LoMA, CALIFORNIA
U.S. A.
TBIC ARTAN 1'11E080PBICAL PaE88
Point Loma, California
TINGLEY
THE OPEN-AIR GREEK THEATER
INTERNATIONAL THEOSOPHICAL HEADQUARTERS
PoiNT LoMA, CALIFORNIA
The first in America, built in 1901. The
Theater has been called "a jewel on the brow
of beauty." Its acoustics are perfect, and it
has been proclaimed by world-travelers to be
the most beautiful Greek Theater in the world.
l.ltbitattb to tbt
~rtat c9rpban, J)umanitp
THEOSOPHY is the very spirit of true
Religion; and if man's body is kept clean and
strong and healthy, and the mind is rightly
trained, and the soul is free to grow and
aspire, Theosophy will fill the life naturally.
CONTENTS
SECTION I
THE VoicE oF THE SoUL
The Soul is the Real Man . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
A Child's Spiritual Heritage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Imagination, a Divine Attribute of the Soul . . 9
The Challenge of the Soul . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 11
The Courage and Joy of the Soul . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 13
Theosophy the Key . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Theosophy and Criminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Redemption and the Voice of the Soul . . . . . . 19
The Natural Path to Wisdom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
The Training of Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Self-Directed Evolution . . . .......... . .. ~ . . . 29
Beware of Counterfeit Theosophy . . . . . . . . . . 30
Man Religious by Nature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
The Optimism of Theosophy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
M ' E . I D' ..
an s ss~nba IVImty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Childhood Impressions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
The Search for the Soul . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Now is the Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
The Great Impediments to Spiritual Progress 50
The Beauty of a Perfect Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
The Eternal Fulfilment of the Law . . . . . . . . 56
Soul-Power . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
X CONTENTS
The Value of Life and the Soul's Opportunities 58
Inner Illumination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
The Kingdom of Heaven Within . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Life a Superb Challenge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
"B · s· ,, So 1c 11
orn 1n 1n vs. u - ourage . . . . .. . . .. . .
Warfare and Brotherhood . . ..... . . . , . . . . . . . 74
Setting our own Houses in Order ... . ..... .
Self-Knowledge and Common Sense .. . .. . . .
RAja-Yoga ..... . . . .. ...... .. . . . . .. . . .. .. . .
SECTION II
75
77
81
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY: A BRIEF SKETCH
OF HER LIFE AND OF HER MISSION
A Russian Noblewoman of Marvelous Spiri-
tual Power .. .. . ... ... . . ....... . ...... .
"The Greatest Spirit of the Nineteenth Century"
H. P. Blavatsky and W. Q. Judge , . . .. . . .. .
H. P. Blavatsky's Childhood .... ..... . . .. .
Her Spiritual Awakening .... . .. .. . ..... .... .
She Comes to America . .... . ... . . .. ... .. . . .
Founding of the Theosophical Society ... .... .
Her Message . .. . .. . ...... .... ..... ... .... .
The Spreading of Theosophy . .... . . . . . . . ... .
M ' E t " 1n· · ·t
an s ssen 1a lVlnl y . ... .. . .. . . . . . ... .. .
Re. t"
1ncarna 1on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
"Touching the Fringe of Truth" .. . ..... ... .
The Appeal of Theosophy . . .. . . . ... . .... . .. .
87
88
89
92
94
95
98
99
102
103
106
108
109
•
CONTENTS Xl
SECTION III
AN INCIDENT OF THE FmsT THEOSOPHICAL WoRLD-
TouR, 1896-7: A STRIKING PRooF oF
REINCARNATION
Meeting with the President of the Khedive's
Tribunal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Rameses the Second's Tomb Discovered .. . . 120
Egypt's Great King Honored by Modern Beduins
with Ancient Rites ... . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . 127
Egypt Older than India, America Older than
Either . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
The Promise of Reincarnation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Crime and its Prevention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Another Chance for All . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
Reincarnation brings Enlightenment . . . . . . . . . 139
SECTION IV
THE PERFECTIBILITY OF MAN
The Preciousness of the Moment . . . ........ 147
Proof of the Perfectibility of Man . . . . . . . . . . 149
My Meeting with the Teacher . . . . . . . . ... . . . . 151
The lllumination and Force of the Teacher•s
Presence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155
The Challenge of Theosophy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159
The Consciousness of the Soul-life . .... . ... . 163
Real and Counterfeit Theosophy . . . . . . . . . . . 166
00
XII CONTENTS
SECTION v
THE INTERNATIONAL THEOSOPHICAL IIEADQUARTERS
The International Theosophical Headquarters,
Point Lorna, San Diego, California . . . . . . 171
The Spirit of Lomaland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .182
SECTION VI
THE THEOSOPHICAL CONCEPTION OF LAw AND ORDER
Theosophy the Enlightener ............. . . . . 195
Theosophy Offers Truth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
~o Harsh ltemedies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
The Hickman Case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
SECTION VII
THE DRAMA
"The Eumenides," April, 1927 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217
SECTION VITI
THE ~EW DAY- EASTER, 1928
Easter .. .. .. ......... ..... ...... . ......... 225
Resurrect the Divine in Man . . .............. 231
Theosophy and Christianity ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
A Day of Challenge ............... . . . ..... 235
~ature's ltesponse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
Knowledge of Theosophy Essential . . . . . . . . . 243
The ~ew Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
CONTENTS Xlll
SECTION IX
UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD
Salutations to All the People of the World . . . . 249
A New-Year's Message to the Resident-Members
and Students at the World's Theosophical
Center, Point Lorna, California . . . . . . . . . 250
Universal Brotherhood ..................... 253
A New Quality of Optimism Needed .. . . ... . 255
Black Marks on America's History .......... 257
No Self-Deception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260
The Place of Reason . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
Human Duality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264 ·
SECTION X
HERE AND THERE
On Lomaland's Perennial Charms . . . . . . . . . . . 269
On "Mothers' Day" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
On White Lotus Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 276
On Optimism . . . ....................... . ... 279
On the Immortality of Genius . . . . . . . . . . . . 284
On "The Life of Pythagoras," by lamblichus
(Thomas Taylor's Translation) . .... .. . . 285
On "Letters from a Chinese Official" . . . . . . 286
On Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh . ... . . . . . . . 286
To A Conscientious Mother .... ..... .. . .... 288
On Friendship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289
On Inner Peace ..... . .... .. ......... . .. ... 290
.
XIV CONTENTS
Light from the Mountain-tops . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
"The Caravan Moves On" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291
On Self-Confidence and Courage . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
On the Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical
Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294
On the Sacred Obligations of a Theosophist . . . 295
On the Value of Time and Theosophical Re-
sponsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
A Heart-Message to the Little Folk all over
the World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
PREFACE
I HAVE just finished reading the proofs
of Katherine Tingley's latest book, THE
VoicE OF THE SouL, and even more than
all the others of the present Theosophical
Teacher's works, does this book impress me
with its deep and tender pathos and its strik-
ing imagery of thought.
Good books are so rare; helpful ones
rarer ·still; rarest of all, perhaps, are books
like this one in which a truly sublime teach-
ing is given without any pretense whatso-
ever towards a usage of those artificial and
meretricious literary formulae which offend
more often than they please.
Great thoughts need no artificial orna-
mentation. Jewels of the soul have their own
inner fire, and sparkle with that divine light
which springs from the inner fount ~f man's
spiritual being; and I think that this charac-
teristic of unspoiled beauty is the noblest
-..
•
XVI PREFACE
literary form, and I recognise that this,
Katherine Tingley's new book, has it.
We have here a literary work which re-
quires no labored explanation: because its
appeal, coming directly from the spirit-soul
of the author, travels inwards directly to the
spiritual soul of the reader; and there is in-
stant cognition that what the writer says
is truth.
The keynote of THE VorcE oF THE SouL
is compassionate wisdom, cleanly expressed.
Such was the form which the Messages of
all the world's Teachers took, without a single
exception known to me; and for this reason
have those Messages endured through time,
and have become the cherished companions
of thoughtful minds. At the fireside, by the
bedside, in the study, one reads those works,
and receives from them the peace and quiet
of mind and the elevation of soul which men
and women are so anhungered for.
The world is restless because it feels this
hunger of the soul; the burly-burly of the
frenzied thoroughfares of our cities kills all
••
PREFACE XVII
inspiration, and replaces it with the fevered
quest for more and more, ay, ever more, satis-
fying of the appetite for sensational diver-
sions of many different kinds. Indeed, it is
a marvel how men and women today can
keep for themselves steady brains and clean
minds and sweet unpolluted thoughts!
For these reasons is it such a relief to
turn to a book like this, and like Katherine
Tingley's other noble works, and find in their
teachings such sweet repose, and the soothing
and tranquillizing influence which emanates
from a true Teacher's heart.
Such teachings are the highest mysticism,
for the reasons that I have above said, and
are expressed in the best mystical form, be- .
cause free from adventitious and distracting
ornaments, so-called, which but embarrass,
indeed cripple, the wings of one's own soul
in its search for truth and light.
Katherine Tingley's books make me think
of beautiful flowers. They are silent, yet
they speak in the Silence with tones of powe~.
Look, when next you cross a flowered
•••
XVlll PREFACE
field, at the beautiful blooms springing in
profusion under your footsteps; or pass a
cultivated garden, pluck therefrom one of
the blooms, gaze deep into the heart of it,
and you will see a revelation that is priceless
-if you have but the eyes to see! Yet it is
there for ·all who will see it; and such is
this book, THE VOICE OF THE SouL, in par-
ticular. . It is a noble Flower of Thought.
As the eye passes over the pages, the
mind drinks in, as it were, the liquid fra-
grance of the spirit, and one's whole nature is
braced upwards and invigorated by the feel-
ing that one is touching, indeed has passed,
the frontiers which separate the things of
the spirit from those of the flesh.
There is no prating in these books, no
mere preaching of fine themes, in which there
is no appeal to live the lessons taught. On
the contrary, there is intellectual and spiri-
tual stimulation, and moral help. Best of
all, perhaps, the perspicacious student finds in
them refreshing rest and peace and inspiration~
The entire tenor of Katherine Tingley's
•
PREFACE XIX
books, and of this one in particular, I think,
is the iteration in precept and in lesson, and
its reiteration of these, that all the secrets of
life are in man's spiritual heart: for there is
the fountain of virtue; there is the source of
inspiration; there lie greatness and goodness:
and what is all this but the teaching of the
sages of all the ages?
On page 70, the Theosophical Teacher
has the following paragraph:
"Continuous and confident virtue comes
from the knowledge of one's soul-life. It is
the expression of the strength of the inner
man- that part of one which does noble
things, aspires to do them, and is ever restless
until one has done them."
This is the keynote of the present book,
it seems to me; at least I so construe it, for
that is the appeal it makes to me personally.
On pages 63 and 64 of the proofs which
are before me, I find the following very
noble thoughts:
"My endeavor is to give you a conception
XX PREFACE
of the importance of a man's life when he lias
found that he has an inner nature, and that it
is wholly dependable; that he has within him-
self those rare and wonderful resources for
self-restoration, so to speak. In the inner
chambers of our natures there are wonderful
mysteries. If we could fathom these, we
should have a true companionship with the ·
inner Self, and that inner Self is of abiding,
eternal character. ·
"Do not try to fashion yourselves like
others. Dare to think sufficiently long and
sufficiently deeply to receive a revelation from
within. Make clean self-analysis a regular
habit. Take ten minutes with yourself every
day, and absolutely surrender your mental
self to your Higher Self. Then you will open
for yourself a book of revelations."
Anyone who has any knowledge whatso-
ever of ancient literatures will recognise in
the foregoing extracts from THE VoiCE OF
THE SouL, the very core of the meaning of
the injunction given by golden Apollo through
•
PREFACE XXI
his oracle at Delphi, and which was so famous
in the ancient world: MAN, KNow THYSELF!
Likewise does the sacred literature of ancient
Hindt1sthan teach the same secret of being,
pre-eminently in those noble works the Upa-
nishads, and there also the emphasis was laid
still more strongly upon the fact of the death-
less Self, a ray of the Universal Self of the
•
universe.
When a man knows himself he knows the
inmost secrets of being, for he has within
himself, nay, is himself in his inmost essence,
the Universal Self, as I have just said, and
therefore can draw upon his inner nature
from inexhaustible streams of wisdom and
knowledge.
There are no riddles which the aspiring
spirit of man may not solve. There are no
secrets of Nature or of man's self which a
courageous research into the recesses and ar-
cana of his own inner fora will not give him.
How extraordinary is it not then that men
should turn away from that fountain of all
truth, and seek truth in sources outside of it!
..
••
XXII PREFACE
The inmost of us is at all times a Poet, a
Sage, a Philosopher, a Genius, a Revealer,
a Savior, because ever drawing upon those
Pierian Springs which arise from the Fountain
of Universal Being.
Put in philosophical language and philo-
sophical terminology, this expresses the teach-
ing of this book, THE VOICE OF THE SoUL.
I know it because I have found it there.
These books by Katherine Tingley are my
constant companions, and every time that I
take one of them up, it seems to me that I
pass a step farther forward into those won-
drous realms of the frontierless consciousness
of the spirit, of which I have just spoken.
I suppose that no thinking human can
find anything to object to in the strangely
appealing manner in which Katherine Tingley
has written in this book, and indeed in her
other books; I doubt if the veriest bigot,
whose atrabilious temperament, through mis-
education, views things alway awry, could
see in this noble work aught that could be
successfully criticized, or reasonably objected
•••
PREFACE X:Xlll
to, from the standpoint of wisdom or truth.
How different is the series of books,
which Katherine Tingley has given to the
world, from the ordinary religious or philo-
sophical writings of the day, in which the
authors seem bent upon producing material
for controversy, or the airing of personal
views rather than the delivery of sheer truth.
Student: man, woman, or child; Reader:
religious or philosophic or scientific: drink
freely of these Pierian Springs!
I have said enough: here is the book itself.
G. VON PURUCKER
International Theosophical Headquarters,
Point Loma, California,
April, 1928.
SECTION I
~be lJoice of tbt 6oul
"The human heart has not yet fully
uttered itself."- H. P. BLAVATSKY
THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
IF the soul of man could be recognised in
the truest and fullest sense, there would The Soul
be the revelation of a new life, new is the Real
trust, new understandings; and then in se- Man
quence would follow a change in the lives of
all humanity for the better.
How few there are who approach the
question of man's soul and grasp it with the
understanding that would naturally be theirs
if they had the slightest idea of the existence
of the soul!
The real message of the soul, and its
divine mission, are not sufficiently understood
to enable man to know himself; for as soon
as the mind is enlightened by soul-forces that
are appealed to through the mentality, there
comes the revelation that I teach, and the
answers to our questionings which we are
craving to hear.
How little is said or taught about the
soul-life, and its complete identification with
4 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
the human being! To most men the soul is
something apart from themselves, that is only
to be talked of and trusted in on special occa-
sions; there is no real companionship, no inti-
mate affiliation, between men's minds and
souls in their every-day existence. Now, ac-
cording to the teachings of Theosophy, there
is in every man a divine power, and when that
divinity, which is his real Self, is acknowledged
and understood by the mind, it takes a very
active part in man's life; indeed, it should
fill at the very least one-half of his thought-
life.
When we have this full view of the iden-
tity of man with the soul clearly in mind,
then we move outside the ordinary way of
thinking and find ourselves on a new path,
daring to think towards the unknowable, the
seeming.impossible. In doing this, we bring
into action the soul.
According to my philosophy, every nor-
mal child -when it is born is enveloped and
- covered and protected so to speak, with soul-
forces, though invisible. We must not think
A CHILD'S SPIRITUAL HERITAGE 5
of the soul as something apart from ourselves,
as something that occupies a special compart- A Child's
ment in our brains or in our thoughts; for Spiritual
every time a child is born, through the opera- Heritage
tion of those sacred and wonderful laws of
Nature which men do not yet understand, it
has the spiritual backing, the spiritual sup-
port, the divine enfoldment, of the soul; and
if the child is rightly understood, this spiritual
part will be at least as fully recognised as
the material part.
How many children, alas, go wrong! How
many dear parents wear their lives out trying
to bring their children up rightly! When I
think of the failures along this line, it looks to
me as though the ignorance, the stupidity, the
selfishness, and the egoism of the age had
turned the children directly away from these
soul-forces and launched them out into the
world without their support. We cannot see
these refined and wonderful forces of Nature;
we cannot easily describe them nor can we ful-
ly measure them. It is not for us to understand
them fully, yet we all catch glimpses of them.
6 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
If we would spend one-half as much time
in thinking of our future from the standpoint
of ourselves as souls, essentially divine, as we
do in thinking of our material wants and needs,
we should be so free from many of the trials
and difficulties that we have to contend with
that we should think we already had found
the Kingdom of Heaven on earth.
A child should be nourished with spiritual
food and care, as much as with material food
and care.
Every true mother has at least some
understanding of the spiritual laws of her
own being from the beginning of the gestation
of the child. With her love and care she
carries the child, envelops it, holds it, and
serves it with what knowledge she has; and
when the child is born, in her innermost
thoughts she knows that there are two sides
to the little one entrusted to her care: on the
one hand there is the immortal, the divine,
the eternal and real essence of the child's
character brought over from previous lives;
and on the other hand there is the material
A CHILD'S SPIRITUAL HERITAGE 7
body, itself produced in a mysterious, almost
magical way, from a tiny ·seed.
Some day our courageous scientists are
going to find out and reveal to the whole
world the truth of what I am now saying.
It would take a great deal of courage for one
of them to step out at present and talk as I am
talking. He probably could not do it and
hold his position before the world. But it will
not be more than twenty-five or fifty years
before some of these wonderful secrets of hu-
man nature which have thus far been ignored
will be understood and generally accepted.
I hold that the soul of man is seeking to
utter itself from the time of its physical in-
carnation. It knows its birthrights; it knows
more than ·is apparent. But it is thrust into
the world under very adverse circumstances;
and the child is fed, cared for, loved, and
nurtured as a physical being and as little
more, with the vague possibility of having
a future life somewhere or somehow.
But Theosophy teaches us that we are
sacredly and divinely made and built for this
8 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
life; and only by understanding the lives of
our children, approaching and reaching them
from the standpoint of spiritual knowledge,
can the soul speak.
Now some people may say: ''All this is
too abstruse, it is too far_away, and we have
no way of proving it.'' Well, there are thou-
sands of things in the lives of men and women
that cannot be proved; they do not even
understand themselves, and are mysteries to
themselves. When a child is born, can the
father and mother explain the profound mys-
teries of how that soul came into physical
incarnation- of the processes that took place
when from a seed the child stepped out into
our universe, radiant in its spiritual poten-
tialities, although not visible to the human
eye- and became a part of the human fami-
ly? If we know so little about the creation
of physical life, how can we expect parents
to have the information needed for them to
do full justice to their child in the spiritual
sense?
Our great scientific thinkers accomplish
IMAGINATION, A DIVINE ATTRIBUTE 9
wonders in very many ways; but unless they
dare to face the unknown, unless they have Imagination
imagination that stretches out beyond time a Dioine
and space almost, unless they recognise the AUrihule of
higher imagination as a spiritual and divine the Soul
attribute of the soul instead of a faculty useful
only for the play of fancy, to entertain or to
give pleasure, they will never hear the Voice
of the Soul.
Let us reach basic truths. We must study
causes. We do not study them enough. The
usual way is to study effects - especially with
the unfortunate. We put them in jail, keep
them locked up there, and then, supposing
ourselves to be the great authorities on earth,
we assume that we have a legal right to de-
stroy their bodies sometimes and to violate
their souls nearly always. Yes, the Twentieth
Century still allows such things!
Humanity is drifting, drifting, drifting_
!
Something must happen to bring about a
change in the chaotic life that we are leading.
Twenty years ago we would have been terri-
fied to read once a year of the shocking,
10 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
outrageous crimes that now we hear of al-
most daily!
We may not see it ourselves, but the
fact is that we men and women of the great
human family are at present retrograding, we
are going down-hill, we are neglecting our
most sacred duties, we are losing our way:
we are ignoring the soul, we are turning our
backs to the light, we are afraid to step out
and venture in thought, in action, in will-
power and determination, into the unknown,
and with imagination to visualize the dig-
nity of the soul of man.
Let us seek to awaken in our growing
children a consciousness of the nearness of this
affectionate, indescribable something which I
have called the Soul. Teach them that they
are not thrown out into this world alone, that
they are not ignored, but that they are en-
veloped in the soul-life and possess the inner
wisdom with which they were born. Then
with the environment that our children can
have through the intelligence of the parents,
and with the noble examples that should be
THE CHALLENGE OF THE SOUL 11
set by every man and woman on the face of
the earth, the voice of the soul would be The Chal-
heard and recognised. lenge of the
We should not have to address prayers Soul
to a personal God, or to make any of those
woeful sacrifices that so many people think
they must make in order to 'square up their
accounts with the Creator.' What is neces-
sary is that we should all challenge ourselves
with the questions: "Who am I? Why am
I here?"
The closer we come to the beauties and
realities of Nature, the more quickly shall we
begin to feel the power of the soul-life. But
alas! there are so many distractions and allure-
ments in the world. Then, too, there is the
bread-and-butter question that has to be
solved. There are poverty and suffering and
vice and crime that must be faced; and these
things are not lessening, they are increasing.
We must dare to do something more than
we ever did before, not dare to do anything
dishonorable or out of place, but we must
dare to step up higher, to climb. We must
..·
12 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
dare to do it alone without public heralding
or recognition, but just within the silence of
our own soul, of our own conscience. This
superb opportunity is right at hand for all.
With all the scientific discoveries and
ideas that are being constantly brought out
concerning children and human nature gener-
ally and a thousand otlter subjects, it is only
a very, very few scientists who have sufficient
imagination or daring to attempt to penetrate
into the realm of the seemingly impossible,
and to bring back with them for the benefit
of humanity something really worth while.
So, in spite of the great mass of scientific
facts which have been accumulated, we go on
day after day drifting and drifting, until we
have drifted beyond all likelihood of recover-
ing our anchorage in this lifetime. Then,
alas! what regrets and tears and despair!
There comes the question: "Why has
not somebody done something?" It is be-
cause nearly everybody is waiting for every-
body else! In spiritual efforts we do not
need to wait for unity. Let every man and
THE COURAGE AND JOY OF THE SOUL 13
every woman act for himself or herself ac-
cording to the individual evolution and en- The Courage
lightenment. One must have the disposition anJ joy of
and the daring to act alone, indifferent to re- the Soul
suits so far as they affect himseH or herself,
so long as the motive is pure.
When we reach this 'state of mind, we
shall see more smiles on the faces of the
mothers and fathers, less anxiety on their
features. We shall see new cheer in the
world, new evidences of purity in the lives of
men and women, and consequently more puri-
ty and more joy in the children of the masses.
This is the way to reach our children and to
enable them to hear the Voice of the Soul -
of that divine part of us that is our real Self.
We could not exist without it.
But, on the other hand, there is the pic-
ture before me of how this innate divinity is
ignored, how it is thrown aside, and how it
takes nearly a lifetime for people, even of the
highest intelligence striving to do their best
in order to gain knowledge, to reach the first
fundamental idea of their own soul-life. It is
14 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
true that we have the opportunities for won-
derful scholastic education; our country as a
whole has plenty of wealth, great territory,
and an over-abundance of public laudation of
our outer material progress and prosperity.
But the inner life - that silent power that
speaks to us as the Voice of the Soul - is
very largely ignored.
No one of us can find the meaning of real
affection, of spiritual love, unless we find it
alone. I am referring to that deeper love,
that spiritual companionship of the soul which
is ours at our best and highest moments.
Mothers sometimes have it in their experience
of motherhood. It speaks to them without
words. The Voice of the Soul whispers to
them in the silences. The brain-mind does
not fully comprehend it, and consequently
the pleadings of the Voice of the Soul are not
always heeded.
To me one of the most beautiful experi-
ences in life is to retire into the inner sanctu-
ary of one's own being, away from all the
rush and so-called allurements of the outer life,
THEOSOPHY THE KEY 15
and in the silence to listen to the Voice of
the Soul, to hear its pleadings, to know its Theosophy
power, to clasp hands with the spiritual soul, the Key
the Higher Self, so to speak, to work with it
and walk with it and live with it. A man
must do this before he can be absolutely sure
of anything.
Hence it is that I dare to say that Theo-
sophy is filled with glowing fires of helpfulness
that cannot be found anywhere else in fullness.
There is no question that there are many
beautiful ideas in all religions, and among
their adherents are very splendid people who
make most praiseworthy efforts. But they
have not the key that would give them the
wider knowledge and the deeper wisdom;
and without this key they can go only so
far and no farther.
Consequently, if one studies the inner
condition of some of our great religious or-
ganizations, one w.ill find in them a deteriora-
tion; they are falling down. Indeed, there
are numbers of strong men and women within
their ranks who dare to come out openly and
16 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
admit as much. The majority have been so
carried away with the letter of their religious
teachings that they have lost sight of the
inner spirit; they have been living so much in
the forms and the formalities of the~r religion
and away from the truth of the inner life, that
decay is in the air.
It would, of course, be not only unjust
but absurd to say that there are not good and
noble principles in the heart of every man·and
woman and at the core of every sincere reli-
gious system. But we want the better thing;
we want the complete thing; we want the full
knowledge that belongs to us in this life.
If I go to school, I am entitled to a full
educational equipment, provided I reach out
for it. But I must get it by application and
conscientious work. So it is with the wider
schooling of each earth-life. I must get it by
devotion, by understanding the fundamental
principles and ideas upon which I hope to live,
and by a harmonious relationship with my fel-
low-men and my environment. Then I may
know something about the Voice of the Soul.
THEOSOPHY AND CRIMINOLOGY 17
I am very much interested in the minds
of men and women and in their serious Theo$oplay
thoughts. One finds, of course, very beautiful and Crimi-
ideas in the literatures of the world. But I nolo1y
have made a life-long study of criminology,
not for my amusement, but for the know-
ledge that I might gain in order to help those
whom I worked for: I was very actively
engaged in work among prisoners and un-
fortunates even before I was identified with
the Theosophical Society.
I am always looking for evidences in my
reading of something said or done that shows
intelligent human understanding of and sym-
pathy for the most degraded, the most for-
gotten, the most ignored,- and according to
the old dogmatic religious idea the most
damned. But I am sorry to say that I do
not find much of su<;h understanding and
sympathy. On the other hand, everywhere
there is severe criticism, cries for harsher
punishment.
Recently I was reading in a newspaper
that some of the authorities representing
......
18 THE V.OICE OF THE SOUL
the State of California, I believe, in the
prosecution of young Hickman, called upon
him in his cell - this unfortunate, pitiful
specimen of a promising youth gone wrong -
in order to find out from him his choice(!)
as to how they should dispose of his body
· after he shall have been hanged- whether it
should go to his mother or to some medical
institution for an autopsy!
Now, when our public conscience has be-
come as callous as that; it is time that we
went to school; it is time that we acquired
some of the spiritual knowledge that I speak
of; it is time that we hearkened to the Voice
of the Soul so that we might find the way to
Light. Because of the lack of this knowledge
and of the part that the soul takes in the
growth and evolution of humanity, our civili-
zation today is all awry.
I was talking with a lady a few days
ago and she asked me: "How can the soul
be redeemed?" I told her that I had never
given any thought to such a question, for the
reason that the spiritual soul itself is so potent
REDEMPTION 19
that it will redeem mankind if people will
only hearken to its voice. Redemption
We do not have to fashion any special and the
form or way of bringing people to redemption. Voice of
Just give them the opportunity to be them- the Soul
selves- their real selves, their higher selves.
Do not try to dictate to them; do not drive
them; but challenge them! Cowards are they
who do not make the effort to liberate their
souls from the bondage in which selfishness
and weakness hold them!
It is the inner laws that are the realities;
and because humanity does not know about
them nor understand them, it has been fight-
ing the realities!
Enlarge your vision! Dare to climb!
Dare to go forward! Dare to think for your-
selves and to look ahead! Question! Put
yourselves in order! When you do this, reve-
lations will come to you - not in any magical
way with visions or messages from 'on high,'
nor anything of that sort. But let me illus-
trate by the growth of children. If one sees
them from day to day one is hardly aware
-r'
20· THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
that they are growing; yet to those who see
them only at long intervals their growth is
very evident.
The fact is that the divine forces and
processes which bring a child from a seed-
so small that a hundred of them can be placed
on a one-inch strand of a spider's web- into
babyhood, and from babyhood through child-
hood to manhood or womanhood: these pro-
cesses, so delicate, so infinitely and spiritual-
ly refined, are taken care of by the laws of
life, which are only partially understood even
by our most learned scientists. But I cannot
conceive how they are to be fully understood
without studying Theosophy. Still less can
the process of man's spiritual growth and un-
foldment be understood without some know-
ledge of the Ancient Wisdom, Theosophy.
There is no attempt on the part of a
true Theosophist to 'convert' anyone. We
have no method of 'conversion.' We cer-
tainly never use any influence to persuade
anyone to join our Society.
And most assuredly we never menace
THE NATURAL PATH TO WISDOM 21
people with the threat that their souls will be
lost if they do not accept our teachings. We The Natural
do nothing of that sort. We simply tell Path to
people: "Here are our books. From them Wisdom
you can gain much knowledge." But the
real inner knowledge comes from the coura-
geous stepping out of ordinary ruts into the
great broad blue of life, and from looking at
Nature as it is- courageously.
Study the trees and the flowers, and the
ocean, and the wonders of the life around you.
Notice the growth of a tree. During the
spring-time it will put forth green leaves, then
its exquisite blossoms, and in the summer-time
it will bear its fruit. Mter a while it is
bereft of leaves, blossoms, and fruit- of
everything that was beautiful and attractive.
It appears dead. But the inner life is con-
tinuing all through the season of quiet and
rest. The processes of inner growth are tak-
ing place. How wonderful in the spring-time,
when the tree bursts forth into beautiful foli-
age again! Who can question that preparation
was going on all during the sleeping-season?
r
22 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
So it is with the flowers that cover our
fields and fill our homes and beautify every-
thing. In them we can see the wonderful
working of the Divine Law. We must feel it
and know it and find our lessons in it, not
simply admire the outward beauty.
But you cannot feel it by study alone.
You can get a touch of it only by daring to
step forth and to think thoughts quite apart,
if necessary, from anybody else's. Then you
will be really climbing in the spiritual sense.
Seek the companionship of the Silence,
for the Silence is the most precious com-
panion in the world.
Some day expectant mothers will go forth
into their retreats, as they used to do in an-
cient times, living the most abstemious and
beautiful life, in touch with Nature; not tied
down with family difficulties and cares and
cross-purposes and poverty, and so forth, but
filling their souls with the music and the joy
of Nature- calling out the Voice of the Soul.
When that time arrives, then we may honest-
ly talk of a new and far better generation.
THE NATURAL PATH TO WISDOM 23
That will be the answer to the woman
who asked what were the processes by which
we could redeem the soul. It is the soul that
will redeem humanity. There are as many
processes as there are human beings- each
must work out his own salvation according to
his environment and his enlightenment.
In the deepest spiritual sense we are all
united, though not on the outward plane.
But because we have differed so much and so
long, and have moved so far away from the
great principles of life, we have lost the secret
of living together ·in outer harmony. Yet in
the inner life we are still working together in
unity, in harmony with the divine laws,
_understanding them and obeying them in the
dignity of true manhood and womanhood.
Let us teach our children the better way!
No more jails! No more prisons! No more
reformatories! But let the children hear every
day in their own home the Voice of the Soul!
Those adults who are single and have no
homes, can make a home for themselves in
their own hearts, in their memories; and the
24 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
divine power of the soul can enlighten them
and impress the m~d with better things.
Two things cannot occupy the same place
at the same time; and if the mind is filled
with high incentives, beautiful principles,
royal, splendid and uplifting efforts, the Voice
of the Soul speaks, and the evil and weak-
nesses born of the undeveloped and selfish
side of our human nature cannot come in;
so they will die out. Then we shall not have
to punish or hang our fellow-men or do any-
thing of that sort.
I am very sure that if we could scour
the country today, we should find more cul-
prits and criminals still free and unrecognised
than behind the bars. It is the vices and
insincerities of these stealthy 'respectable'
criminals that are the deathly destroyers of
our homes and of our civilization.
It is distressing to me at times to think
of our children growing up in the public
schools. Certainly the teachers there are do-
ing their very best - indeed, they do wonders,
I think, when one considers the gap there is
THE TRAINING OF CHILDREK 25
between the school and the home, and the
little support and co-operation that the teach- The Train~
ers frequently receive from over-indulgent or ing of
ignorant parents. Children
But even where there is co-operation by
the parents, the teacher's influence and ability
to help the children individually is very
limited; first, because of the large number
that each teacher must look after, and second-
ly, because the teacher cannot be responsible-
for what goes on outside of school-hours.
Children, you know, are very susceptible
to all kinds of ·influences - good ·and bad,
helpful and undesirable, whatever happens to
come their way. A hint for parents and
teachers: whenever you see children forming
into little coteries or cliques, the members of
which try to be together whenever they can,
if you understand human nature as well as
I do from my long experience in supervising
the education of children, you will be on the
lookout. Children in such coteries are nearly
always drifting in the wrong direction.
It is a dangerous symptom when either - ~ ..
26 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
children or adults become dependent upon
any particular acquaintance for companion-
ship. Beware! Friendship must be based
upon something deeper and nobler than special
attachments and mutual admiration and flat-
tery, which generally lead to unwholesome
personal relations.
It is difficult to recognise the soul, to
hear the voice of the divine in man, until
you have found Theosophy. This I declare.
The Voice of the Soul is the Voice of the
Universe, in all its wonderful manifestations.
How remarkably and clearly and divinely it
speaks to us through all the days and nights
of our lives! And yet, to a very large degree,
we heed it not. The Voice of the Soul is also
the divine quality in every human heart; and
it is this aspect of my subject that I refer
to more especially.
I have often referred to the birth or the
coming into incarnation of little children.
The laws of Nature, or 'the laws of God'-
in either case the Divine Laws- have pre-
pared everything for the incoming of souls;
THE TRAINING- OF CHILDREN 27
but is it not possible that we humans with our
limited knowledge of divine things, and our
still more limited practice of them, have failed
to accentuate or to emphasize the divine side
of life for the little children?
I suppose that every mother who has
any spiritual aspirations at all, knows intui-
tively that her little one is a ray of the Divine
in essence, that it is a spiritual soul. But it
must be admitted that far more time and care
are given to the child's material needs than are
devoted to its spiritual unfoldment; and it
cannot be denied that many, many parents
are pitifully unprepared for the reception of
the souls that come into their homes. Every-
where there is ignorance or inadequate know-
ledge. The result is that from the beginning
of its earth-life the child is bereft of one-half
of its rightful heritage.
A child will develop as naturally in har-
mony with the divine laws as with man-made
laws, customs, and practices, many of which
are far-fetched and quite unessential. If the
soul-qualities of man were undisturbed from
28 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
the very beginning of childhood, we would
have a higher and a better expression of baby-
hood, of boyhood and girlhood, and inevitably
of manhood and womanhood.
Think of the wrecks along the way -
of the many boys now behind the bars who
were once mothers' darlings. Most of these
may have been fairly well taken care of in
the physical sense. But morally they are
lacking. This does not necessarily mean that
the parents neglected doing anything that
they knew they should do; but not having
been educated themselves to understand the
importance of depending on the moral and
spiritual laws, they cannot impart what they
themselves have not in their own makeup.
This may possibly explain in a satisfactory
way why humanity is all awry.
There are thousands going or striving to
go the right way; but, alas! there are also
thousands going the other way. There is
little harmony in the great human family.
One may find harmony in the flowers, in the
trees, and in the silence of Nature, and in
SELF-DIRECTED EVOLUTION 29
the stars above us; but in human life it is
nowhere to be found. People may have their SJf.
aspirations, their prayers, their desires; they Directed
may also have a splendid scholastic educa- Eoolution
tion; they may even be ranked as geniuses;
but the one great thing that humanity is
hungering for, asking for, pleading for, and
yearning for, is not to be found in the deep-
est sense.
If I had my life to live over again, and
could be free from some of the responsibilities
that are mine now, my whole aim in my teach-
ing, my writing, my lecturing, and in the
example of my life, would be to lead people
on to the path of self-directed evolution, in
order that we humans might bring into every
act of our daily lives the high, noble, and
splendid things that are right at hand, and
can be taken in at any moment.
There is no question that thousands are
striving and have the disposition to make
worthy efforts; but they are all fettered by
the lack of knowledge. They have not the
one great key that H. P. Blavatsky brought
30 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
to the modern world. This key is Theosophy,
Beware of the Ancient "\'Visdom-Religion. It lifts the
Counterfeit veil; it opens the way; it answers your ques-
Theosophy tions; it dispels your doubts and your fears.
The keys to real knowledge, which Theosophy
offers, are so simple that any normal child
of intelligence can understand them.
Now, while the Universal Brotherhood
and Theosophical Society, which I have the
honor of directing, is the original Theosophical
Society founded by that glorious and splendid
woman, H. P. Blavatsky, in New York in
1875, still we cannot hold any monopoly of
the name 'Theosophy.' Though, as already
stated, her message, Theosophy, was really
the Wisdom-Religion of Antiquity, it was new
to the modern world. Hence it was sometimes
seized upon by fanatics of different kinds, who
chose to use it for self-aggrandisement- in
order to attract personal devotees, and in
some instances in order to make money.
So, pitiful to relate, pseudo-Theosophy
has been taught in nearly every large city
throughout the world in the most absurd, out-
COUNTERFEIT THEOSOPHY 31
rageous, and distressing manner, far removed
from the original teachings of pure Theosophy.
Thus many serious-minded truth-seekers have
actually been turned away from the light of
genuine Theosophy, because they have come
into touch with these pseudo-theosophists,
who through their sensational advertising have
used the name in spreading their own wild
teachings, which generally appeal to wonder-
seekers alone.
One of the latest of such efforts has been
to impress people all over the world with the
fantastic idea that quite an ordinary Hindti
lad is "a coming Christ"-"a new Messiah" !
This attempt, however, was rather too much
of a strain on people's credulity, and the
plans failed in the truest sense. Nevertheless
there are still many people who have been
caught up in this vortex of misunderstanding
everything that pertains to man's higher life
- to the beauty of life, the harmony of life,
and the justice of life.
For this .reason, perhaps, the earnest
members of the Universal Brotherhood and
32 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Theosophical Society work so hard to present
Man Reli· to the public the real teachings of Theoso-
.giou1 hy phy; likewise we aim to practise extreme
Nature patience and genuine -love for humanity.
Think of the isms, the fads, the fantastic
notions, and the madnesses that have been
presented to the world in the name of Religion!
But this last effort that I have referred to as
being made in the name of Theosophy is
about the worst. No wonder that these isms
make people lose faith in religion, in their
consciences, and in their duty! No wonder
that they lose faith in their God! No wonder ·
that they ignore the lofty teaching of man's
essential divinity, and are misled!
Yet according to the teachings of Theo-
sophy, we are religious beings by nature, the
soul-life being an essential part of ourselves
- the real, eternal man. The rest of man
dies when the body dies, including the brain-
mind upon which we all depend so much,-
and upon which we should indeed depend to
a large degree. All the mental faculties, in-
cluding personal memory, die when the phy-
MAN RELIGIOUS BY NATURE 33
sical man dies. But the real man, the spiri-
tual man, lives on forever.
Man's spiritual nature is difficult to
understand for most people, because it is
supposed to be difficult to prove. But there
are thousands of things in the world today
that are true and we have to accept them,
even though we cannot prove them. Man's
spiritual nature is so refined and so ethere-
alized in a sense, that it is difficult to prove
it formally. Nevertheless it is visible to the
.
Inner eye.
But you must have the vision to see it;
you must have the ears to hear its message:
and you must know what you are seeking.
You must reach out for it, and your life must
be in harmony with your aspirations; you
must not play angel today and demon to-
morrow; you must not do good today and
tomorrow deceive yourselves and your friends.
You must be true to the inner quality of
.your own nature - the divine spark, the ray
of the Universal Life. Be true to that,
and all other good things will come to you.
34 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
The great human race must see more
than it now sees, must hear more than it
now hears, must know more than it now
knows. But the difficulty is that for thou-
sands of years we have been held back by
false teachings which have given a backward
turn to human nature. If our blood could be
analysed by a spiritual chemist, we should
find that the very atoms of our body are
tinctured with the errors that we have been
taught all down the ages. The result is that
when our hearts might urge us to leap forward
in search of spiritual truth, or when we might
feel a touch of divine inspiration for the
moment, there comes the contrary impulse
of the doubting nature that shuts out the
light.
There is a thousand times more to be
discovered in human life than we know al-
ready. There is enough light in this great
universe of ours to bring to the whole human
race a song of eternal peace, of a quality that
would keep humanity always together.
In the truest sense we are all members
THE OPTIMISM OF THEOSOPHY 35
of one great Universal Brotherhood, we are
all of 'God's great family.' But in the out-
ward sense we are frightfully divided.
The power of Theosophy and its divine
touch are to be found in the help that there
is in it for men and women, in the guidance
that it provides, and in the enlightenment
that it gives.
In looking into the teachings of Theo-
sophy, one who is seeking for more know-
ledge soon reaches the conviction that he is
treading the .right road; he feels that there
is something ahead; he hears the Voice of
the Soul. But there must be continuity
of effort.
Think for a moment of the creations of
our men of genius. If they had stopped and
turned back in doubt at the time when the
divine impulse touched them, we should have
no grand music, no beautiful paintings, no
inspired art, no marvelous inventions. These
splendid, uplifting, creative forces originally
come from man's divine nature.
If we all lived in the consciousness and
The Opt;..
mi&m of
Theo&ophy
36 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
the conviction of our own great possibilities,
we should realize that we are souls, and that
we too have divine privileges far beyond any-
thing that we know of or even think of. Yet
we throw these ·aside, because they are not
acceptable to our limited, personal selves.
They do not fit in with our preconceived·
ideas.
So we forget that we are a part of the
divine Scheme of Life, that the meaning of
life is sacred and holy; and we allow our-
selves to drift back into the vortex of mis-
understanding, misconception, doubt, unhap-
piness, and despair.
Theosophy, on the other hand, is opti-
mistic. The moment when its teachings
touch the heart of a man or a woman, there is
a lifting of the spirit; there is a new fire burn-
ing within; there are new pulsations in the
heart; there is a new brightness in the eyes;
there is a new joy for that soul. It may not
perhaps be spoken of or described, but some-
thing has come into that life. That soul
steps out on the path of self-directed evolu-
MAN'S ESSENTIAL DIVINITY 37
tion - evolution directed by his own higher
nature; and he moves along that road with Man's
a conviction that the ultimate relative per- Essential
fection of man is assured. Di1inity
A soul that starts on the path that I
have spoken of, finds the companionship of
his own essential divinity. He is conscious
of an increasing knowledge, so delicate, so
refined, so subtil, and so far away from the
senses, that no language can express it. It is
something akin to that mystical quality that
touches the human heart when the word
'love' is devoutly uttered- a touch of the
divine.
Along this path of self-directed evolu-
tion one meets of course many crossways.
Disappointments visit him. But think what
an appeal there is to the brave man.to con-
tinue the journey! He is marching on in
response to the challenge of his own soul,
of the divine quality within himself.
As he moves forward, he will begin to
find the reality of things which he had for-
merly ignored. Sacred blessings will come
38 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
to him without money and without price.
He will find the beginning of great joy, the
beginning of a new life, the beginning of
sublime efforts, and a quality of courage that
will enable him to proclaim from the house-
tops and the mountain-tops, anywhere and
everywhere, that man is essentially divine:
and that is the voice and the music of the
soul, seeking expression in the hearts of men.
Humanity is hungry for its spiritual food,
for that quality of soul-nourishment that
should have been given in childhood, but is
given only occasionally when the mother is
at the height of her aspirations for her child,
when she is thinking in the silence and pray-
ing to her God for something better. Then
she hears the Voice of the Soul. But the
pity is that she cannot hear it continuously -
from lack of unison between the inner and
the outer life.
There is little co-operation but much
fearful division in the minds of men and
women, and in the forms and customs of
society. These things are the enemies of
CHILDHOOD IMPRESSIONS 39
.our progress as long as we allow them to be.
The Voice of the Soul is seeking expres- Chi/JhooJ
sion in the outer world, in order to bring to lmpru$iom
the recognition of men the real spirit of
brotherhood, that spiritual unity that be-
longs to us, that inner fire which marks us
as religious in essence, religious by birth, reli-
gious by heredity, religious because it is in-
stinctively felt that justice and truth will
ultimately manifest themselves.
By listening to the Voice of the Soul
one becomes not only a good man, but a
noble man, a holy man, and a blessing to
all the world.
I lived during my childhood in Massa-
chusetts. My home-life in the summer-time
was in the woodlands on the banks of the
beautiful Merrimac, immortalized by Whit-
tier. Much of my young life was spent in
the company of a very great man, and yet a
very simple man, quite unrecognised by the
world for his remarkable virtues. He was
my grandfather, who, under peculiar circum-
stances, had asked for and had finally obtained
40 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
the right personally to control my education.
I have no recollection of anything irk-
some or hard that I had to learn from him.
I always felt that my real teacher, if it can
be called a teacher, was within myself. Even
as a child I used to talk in this way, which
led my father to fear that by the time I was
twenty-one years of age I would be some-
what demented, or something of that sort!
Nevertheless, the conviction that my real
teacher was within me, was very strong.
When I was four or five years old, I
used to disturb my people by telling them
that I heard the trees sing, and many things
along that line, which seemed very uncanny
to people of those days in New England,
where the power of dogmatism and conven-
tion was very strong. So all through my
childhood I led quite an isolated life, except
for the inspiring companionship of my grand-
father.
It was not the intention of my father or
mother that I should mark my life with any
eccentricities or peculiarities. So the path
CHILDHOOD IMPRESSIONS 41
that I should follow ·was laid out with con-
ventional precision. My father secured the
services of the best teachers and mu~icians,
but I never could learn from them. I do not
mean by this that I was anything remarkable
at all; on the contrary, I was considered a
sort of freak.
But sometimes I improvised, and at
other times I had very clear mind-pictures
of the future: one of which was of the 'White
City' that I should some day build in the
'Gold-Land' of the West, where I should
gather together children of all nations and
teach them how to live rightly.
In communion with my grandfather,
there was one thing that impressed me very
strongly, small as I was, and I have never
forgotten it: the most beautiful memory I
have of him is that what he preached he lived.
My father too was a very delightful and
splendid man; I loved him dearly. But he
was a materialist, and had little in common
with my thoughts or my grandfather's.
To a very large degree, my grandfather
42 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
and I understood each other, and our under-
standing was expressed more in the silence
than in words. Whenever I think of him,
I am always impressed with the fact that
the soul of that man was so much alive that
he was ever conscious of its presence and
guidance.
When I grew older I said to him: ''Is
it because I love you so, or am I right in
feeling that when you speak, something be-
sides that great intellect of yours is speaking
- something different from what I hear and
see?"
In a very simple way he answered: ''It
is the Voice of the Soul that you hear. The
soul could speak in all men did they but keep
the conscience clear, trust in the Divine Law,
and live for a high purpose."
"What is that purpose?" I asked.
"There are a great many high pur-
poses," he answered; "but the one purpose
above all others, is so to live as to be a bene-
fit to humanity."
He was my first ideal of a great character.
CHILDHOOD IMPRESSIONe 43
He was the first outward proof that I had
that man in his innermost nature is divine.
I remember when I was a little girl, I
worked very hard to avoid going to an ex-
tremely orthodox church. On account of this
I was considered very eccentric, and so I was
let alone, and that was the happiest time
of my life.
When others went to church, I would
skip out into the woods with my dog. It was
there that I learned some of the great secrets
of life.
I think that every lesson that I received
came first through the woodlands, from the
birds and the flowers, or from thoughts stimu-
lated by being there. It was there that I
found myself; it was there that I found the
little spiritual strength that I had. It was
there that I had the vision in a sense that
real life was wonderful and beautiful, but
that humanity as a whole was living in
the valley of the shadows, because as a
people we had not reached up higher, we
had not trusted ourselves, because we had
44 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
been hemmed in by the false teachings of
The Search the past.
for the Soul Many things that I read in the Bible
I found very interesting, but there were other
parts that I could not accept at all. I never
had accepted the idea that we were born in
sin, nor from that time until now have I
ever believed in a personal God. Neverthe-
less, my thoughts dwelt very much upon the
spiritual side of life.
We have quite enough of the outer side
of life all the time; in fact, we are oppressed
with it, we are actually persecuted by it. But
when we seek to find the soul of things, we
must search for something within ourselves,
so that we may gain confidence in ourselves.
When we have this, and carry with us daily
and hourly the beautiful, uplifting, and en-
lightening thoughts that come from such trust
and such confidence, Theosophy teaches that
everything else is cared for.
There is nothing that is right but what
is permissible.
In the deeper sense there is no such thing
THE SEARCH FOR THE SOUL 45
as chance in life; but everything is a part of
the universal laws. As far as we choose to
work with them, to clasp hands with them,
or embrace them, so to speak, though we see
them not, we feel them in our innermost na-
tures, in our hearts, and their light shines
through our eyes. Thus we work in har-
mony with the divine qualities within our-
selves, and we make the. great wheel of hu-
man evolution move more rapidly forward
towards the goal of ultimate perfection.
We Theosophists hold that man is some-
thing more than -
most of us ever dream of
being, and that the divine qualities of man are
seeking to express themselves in every hour
that we live, almost in every breath that
we take. But the larger number of people
have depended so long on the mentality alone
that spiritual knowledge has been to a large
degree ignored.
The mind of man is indeed a wonderful
power. When rightly used it can be a guide
and a help; but it is not the highest part
of man's nature. When this higher part
46 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
impresses the mentality with those inspira-
tions that distinguish real men and women
from merely human beings, it brings joy into
life to replace the travesty on real life that
we see all about us.
Then one can speak of the soul of man.
Then one can know how beautiful, how superb,
how grand, the spiritual things in life really
are. Then one realizes that just as today is
an experience, and tomorrow another experi-
ence, so is a lifetime just one experience in
the progress of the soul of man towards per-
fection. It is not the only one; there are
more and more, and still more.
Thus the soul advances, becomes strong,
grows powerful, and at last has the foresight
to direct its own destiny.
If a man will set his feet firmly on the
path of self-directed evolution, believing in
the eternal verities that make life joy, that
make life peace, that make life powerful and
just, then he will begin to hear the Voice
of the Soul.
Years ago I once heard Henry Ward
NOW IS THE TIME 47
Beecher speak. Some time afterwards he
went through a great trial. There was a Now is the
shadow in his church; there was talk of hav- Time
ing him depart because he had been indiscreet.
But no one could ever make me believe that
there was anything wrong about him, for
that man had the light.
He had a wonderfully impressive mind.
He was spiritual in his nature. I have seen
his face light up like a god. I do not think,
however, that he often gave outward expres-
sion to his spiritual inspiration, especially at
those times when I have seen him preaching
to a fashionable audience, some of whom were
half asleep, others busily fanning themselves,
and just a few listening. He probably knew
that such was not the time to speak.
But there is a time to speak; and I hold
that now, while we are suffering still from the
effects of that dreadful world-war, and from
the indiscretions and the vices and the crimes
that afHict our civilization, it is high time
th~t humanity as a whole should awaken.
Dare to believe that tomorrow can be
48 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
made better than today! Never be discour-
aged! Go through life unafraid! In this way
you will hear the Voice of the Soul. In this
way you will dare and conquer, and move
onward to_
ward _
ever greater achievements.
Even as a child, instead of feeling dis-
dain or dread because I myself had so little
real knowledge, I learned to love humanity.
Perhaps that is one of the reasons why I am
here today, seeking to impress the minds of
men with the fact that as yet life is only half
lived when you depend upon the mentality
alone.
Unless you have a solid foundation on
which to build your character, life is a farce
or a tragedy; the shadows are heavy, every-
thing is discouraging, pessimism reigns, lead-
ing in extreme cases to suicide, and more
than all else· to the terrible crimes that coli-
front us day by day in ever increasing num-
bers. A great deal of this I know is the
result of the world-war.
Thinking of these things, we have a
tremendous duty to perform. We cannot
NOW IS THE TIME 49
afford to lose one moment in moving away
from the light of truth in our own inner
natures.
Where did Jesus tell us that the Kingdom
of Heaven was to be found? Did he say it
was up in the skies? Did he not tell you that
the Kingdom of Heaven is within you? This
answers ~early all suggestions that might be
made in oppo~ition to what I have said about
the Voice of the Soul, provided of course you
accept Jesus as a Teacher, which I do. .J
look upon him as a very great T'eacher, an
inspirer, an initiate, but not as a special son
of God.
In the truest sense, Theosophy frees the
human mind from thraldom. It enables one to
meet the tomorrow without fear, and to look at
death as something beautiful. We should not
be afraid to think of our dear ones who have
passed on. In the real sense they are still liv-
ing, still loving, still faithful, and still devoted,
for real love is eternal. If it is eternal, and
if it was yours here, it is yours forever.
Have a little more confidence in your-
50 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
selves! Do not be so dependent upon your
The Great worldly position, upon your intellectual at-
lmpedimenb tainments, upon your environment, or upon
to Spiritual your personality! Find the Silence within
Progrus you! Find the peace and quiet of Nature
away from the rush and whirl of daily ac-
tivities! Thus you will be free to know the
inner mysteries of life, and you never can
do it until you take the first step in that
direction.
Meet these teachings half-way, and then
apply them to your lives. It is the applica-
tion that counts. Knowledge is only half-
knowledge until it is applied.
One of the greatest impediments to the
human mind's grasping its sovereignty or
understanding the power of the spiritual life
and thus overcoming all difficulties, is the
belief in only one earth-life. Here is where
the real trouble lies. In all my teaching I
am constantly reminding my listeners of the
importance of the doctrine of Reincarnation.
I also repeat over and over again that
two things cannot occupy the same place at
IMPEDIMENTS TO SPIRITUAL PROGRESS 51
the same time; and that if the mind is op-
pressed from morning until night not merely
with the actual duties of life but with count-
less non-essentials, it finds itself in the old rut
of limiting existence to seventy-seven or a
hundred years.
The only reason why people interested in
human progress do not rush to Theosophy by
the hundreds of thousands, is that they do
not want to give up so much - as they ima-
gine; but as a matter of fact all they have to
give up is the non-essentials that hold them
in slavery to this idea and that, to this opinion
and that, to this convention and that, to
this dogma and that.
But of course in every age there are a
few progressive minds whom we will not at-
tempt to name here, who dare to step out-
side the beaten path and to take great long
breaths of spiritual life. They dare to be-
lieve that there is something more in human
life than they already know. They dare to
acknowledge to themselves that in their si-
lent, their most aspiring, and best moments,
52 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
there is something beyond this one earth-life.
· The soul of man in its dignity, in its
sovereignty, in its royalty, gives us the beau-
tiful vista of the continuity of spiritual life.
We are assured that man does not die
in the real sense, for the real man, the spiritual
entity, is an eternal entity in the great Scheme
of Life, and he only seems to die.
But most people in western lands are
so absorbed in the delusions of the outer life
that they think that they themselves are mere-
ly the bodies which they inhabit. They are
so. psychologized by this idea that when they
reach the age of forty-five or fifty they are
already planning for the disposal of their
worldly belongings and beginning to think
just how the end will come.
In the old days when I lived in New Eng-
land, it used to be quite a habit among some
of the dear old ladies to show one quite a little
outfit of frocks which they had prepared for
their exit from this earth!
To me there is something pitifully sad
about this attitude, because it is such a re-
IMPEDIMENTS TO SPIRITUAL PROGRESS 53
flexion on the human mind. It is such an
insult to the dignity of the soul. It is such a
denial of man's highest hopes and aspirations.
Let us have common sense and illumina-
tion enough to believe that we are something
more than we seem, and that in the wonder-
ful universal Scheme of Life there is a great
destiny in which we are to be very active,
in which we are to live and work, fully con-
scious of our own essential divinity.
One of the greatest secrets of life is for a
man to believe in his own divine qualities,
in his power to surmount all difficulties and
to overleap all conditions - especially to over-
leap the irrational and gloomy picture of death
which so many people hold.
How readily one can conceive that from
those who are conscious of their own essen-
tial divinity the Voice of the Soul is heard!
And while this voice should not be taken for
the voice of the Great Universal Soul, it is
at least an echo of it, a reflexion or ray of
it, so to speak.
We must begin early to teach our children
The Beauty
of a
Perfect Life
54 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
the idea of the eternity of the spiritual soul,
the divinity of the real man, and remove from
their minds the horrible harrowing picture
of death and funerals.
Let us teach humanity the true story of
Nature; that when the body dies- being
physical and material and of the earth only,-
all that belonged to the body returns to its
material elements; but the well-spring of
man's being, the enlightener, the invigorator,
the great life-giving urge, the spiritual soul,
is part of Eternity and cannot die, but goes
on and on upon its evolutionary journey.
Nature is very gentle and kind and allows us
to leave behind us all sad memories.
There is a mightiness in the thought of
the spiritual power of even one single human
being in this world, and greater mightiness in
the thought of the thousands who are all
moving on, though, alas! as yet unacquainted
with their spiritual heritage.
But in spite of all our aspirations, we
still move on with our eyes downwards. We
do not keep them up to the grand possi-
THE BEAUTY OF A PERFECT LIFE 55
bilities of another life and of still other lives.
We do not look out into the future and
visualize the possibilities of a man who wins
his victory, not only with one or another
kind of self-control, but of one who finds
his true place where he can shine out in the
glory of his life and send back to us the story
of the beauty of a perfect life!
And how easy it is to attain! How much
sweeter would human life be, if we could only
fulfill our missions here! How much happier
we should all be! How much better we could
then all keep united and live out our lives to
the fullest point of perfection for this one life!
We are not declaring the glory of the
spiritual soul until we can stand upright and
recognise our superb possibilities and future.
There is so much meaning in some of the
very smallest things we do. But we do not
often speak of or believe in their importance
until they come home to us on such an occa-
sion as the parting with our loved ones.
Each one evolves according to his under-
standing of the facts of Nature and according
The Eternal
Fulfilment
of the Law
56 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
to his education and his environment; so
each has his own way of learning, which is
different from that of everyone else, because
no two have evolved to an equal degree.
The beauty of Reincarnation is that it
gives every man another chance. I repeat
this over and over again: it is one of the
brightest and most beautiful doctrines that
I have ever been able to present to anyone,
even to the condemned in prison: yes, there
is another chance for all.
The Laws of the Universe or 'the laws
of God' are eternal and universal. One cannot
escape them. Try, therefore, to reach a con-
ception of the spiritual life and then apply
it to the daily life. It means nothing unless
it is applied. Carry with you every day as
you go through life the idea of the eternal
fulfilment of the law and man's perfectibility.
Only those who hear the truth from the
Voice of the Soul can understand these things
and apply them fully; yet they are so simple
that a child can comprehend them in degree.
Unexpected things must evolve where
SOUL-POWER 57
there is a body united in a grand purpose, in
universal, unselfish purposes. Something must Soul-Power
be growing, something more than you can
say or do, something within the air, from the
very Source of Life, the great wonder of life,
that inexpressible Source and Center where
we sometimes go in our silent moments.
It is to me very truly a fact that something
then happens, that something noble then
grows out of our natures; we cannot describe
it; we can hardly echo it; but somehow it
has come to stay. We shall find new ·light
and new life, and a better understanding, a
sweeter and nobler unity, and more com-
prehension.
It is the unspeakably beautiful things
in the simple efforts of noble living that make
life possible. When we do our duty well and
we have the opportunity to gather about us
those who love us, we mark time for some
new and splendid events.
Be willing to struggle, if there is struggle;
be willing to be disappointed, and be willing
to suffer and be willing to be misunderstood -
58 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
anything in the world that will give you the
Tlae Value chance to throw away all personality and
of Life and bring home to yourself the realization that
tlae Soul', Soul-power is the only thing that will make
Opportu- life livable.
nitiu We have only to think just a little deeper
and look a little farther away from our per-
sonalities, and take into our ·understanding
the grand and royal and sublime examples
we have had in H. P. Blavatsky and William
Q. Judge, to realize the mightiness of life and
to feel our closer association with the higher
possibilities in our own natures, and a rising
quality of sincerity.
This is what is needed more than any-
thing else to awaken humanity to deeper
thinking and to a realization that man is in
essence a mighty creature; and that a human
being with all his possibilities, with all that
Nature has given him and with all that lies
within the soul, is afforded rich gifts con-
tinuously.
As we push forward, as we think more
deeply, as we enlarge our conception of life,
THE VALUE OF LIFE 59
and our conception of duty and grow ever
nearer to its fulfilment, we challenge our-
selves again and again. It is beautiful to
think that we are ready, that we have the
opportunity of challenging ourselves.
I wonder if all of us attempt to reach
sufficiently towards the depths of our natures
in one lifetime ever to keep on doing, to per-
severe, and to hold firmly in the spirit of the
nobler efforts? Thus we cannot fail to push
forward with more trust and more confidence
in the larger life; and in this determined push,
throw ourselves out to what seems impossible
to our human minds now. If we do this, we
shall have a key that will open the door to
such splendid and undreamed of realities for
us before we go on to another life, that we
shall surely think we have passed through
several incarnations in one!
We have our hearts touched very deeply
when we undergo the experience of the passing
away of those whom we love dearly. There
are always compensations, of course, in the
thought that they ·have gone to a condition
60 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
that is better for them,- to a larger develop-
ment. But we should also stop and realize
that there is then a sacred demand made upon
us to cancel our indebtedness not only to hu-
manity but to the Divine Law working for us
and in us in this earth-life.
This brings me again to the subject of the
value of life. In view of all that happens to
us, and all that we see, and know, and feel, and
desire, we ought to realize that we have a duty
that is so sacred that it would be cowardly to
turn away from it. We must answer the chal-
lenge and realize the soul's possibilities. We
must step out and daily do our grand and
superb duties in such a way that the history of
our Theosophical Work in after years will
be a revelation to those that follow.
We are not working just for today or
tomorrow, but we are working for all the days
to come and the _
months to come and for the
people to come, and for the souls that will
return here. So take hold of the Now as a
great omen, a very splendid promise that
has come from somewhere, we need not ques-
INNER ILLUMINATION 61
tion how, to bring us to the point of awaken-
ing where we shall find ourselves fully alive, Inner lllu·
fully up to our duty, and full of that great mination
love which the Higher Law demands.
Man undervalues himself. I do not mean
in the worldly sense, but in the spiritual sense.
He undervalues his own inner nature. He
undervalues his responsibilities, and there-
fore he is very apt to undervalue his neigh-
bors.
If, on the other hand, he begins to
value his inner life and the spiritual side of
his being, he is bound to reach a quality of
his nature that will bring him to more con-
scientious thought of his neighbors.
Pursuing this line farther, we shall find
ourselves working out a grand scheme of jus-
tice for all men to each other; and we shall
begin to have some idea of the splendid
promises that are written in every moment
of our lives.
The consciousness of real manhood and
womanhood we must have, if we are to do jus-
tice to our Cause, justice to our Theosophical
62 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Work, and justice to the purpose of our lives.
We do not have to follow beaten tracks
in any of our efforts to help humanity. We
must begin in a new way. We need to
think of the new-born day. We need the
new-born man and woman, the new-born
hope, and the new-born promises. We need
many things which we have not, because
we do not reach out for them.
Nothing is more pitiful and more shock-
ing to me than to find a person so tied up
in his selfish personality that he cannot move
outside of his own narrow horizon. This
to me is committing a crime against the
Holy of Holies in oneself.
Men look upon life too lightly. They
lack that deeper and more serious tone that
must come into their lives if they are ever
to reach those higher levels of .self-directed
evolution which Theosophy has made pos-
sible for humanity.
The preciousness of the moments lies
not so much in the actual physical work
that one does, but rather in feeling through
INNER ILLUMINATION 63
every fiber of our being something that will
strike a higher note for a brighter tomorrow.
It is essential that we attend to the
small things in life - the small duties and
responsibilities, and the small demands that
are made upon us by the very laws of our
being. The seemingly small things in my
life have often led to the greatest opportu-
nities. It is often the small things that carry
us to our goal.
My endeavor is to give you a conception
of the importance of a man's life when he
has found that he has an inner nature, and
that it is wholly dependable; _that he has
within himself those rare and wonderful re-
sources for self-restoration, so to speak. In
the inner chambers of our natures there are
wonderful mysteries. If we could fathom
these, we should have a true companionship
with .the inner Self, and that inner Self is
of abiding, eternal character.
Do not try to fashion yourselves like
others. Dare to think sufficiently long and
sufficiently deeply to receive a revelation from
The King-
dom of
Heaoen
Within
64 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
within. Make clean self-analysis a regular
habit. Take ten minutes with yourself every
day and absolutely surrender your mental
self to your Higher Self. Then you will
open for yourself a book of revelations.
I assume that everyone is at times touched
with unhappiness. But the shadows and the
disappointments will stay by you and they
will grow, and you cannot undo them until
you find within yourself the key, the energy,
and the inner enlightenment and inspiration
that come from a man knowing himself and
bringing himself to the point of adjustment
where he is willing to face the world with a
quality of optimism such as only the Theo-
sophists have.
Bring humanity into this state of ~ind,
and then think of the possibilities of mother-
hood, and of the possibilities of the children!
Then think of the possibilities of eternal life
- of never-ending progress towards an ever-
expanding perfection through many lives!
Even if one does not believe in Rein-
carnation, that does not make it untrue.
THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN WITHIN 65
One may not find it out until, in a sense, it
is too late - until he passes on. But the
teaching takes nothing from you and it gives
everything to you; and it is as old as the
ages and has stood the fiery test of time.
If you spend all your time thinking of
the outer aspects of life, of this one little
earth-life: if you keep away from the large-
ness of your own inner nature, if you have
no faith in your essential divinity and no
trust in it, the light is not with you. Conse-
quently you lose the things that you really
most need.
These things of the spirit are greater than
all the money or success that can come to
you, and greater than all the outward facts
of your existence, because they touch your
inner nature.
I am not telling you anything new.
All the greatest teachers, and savants, and
writers, who have attempted to do anything
really good for humanity, have taught of the
inner life of man. Jesus in his time, and to the
people he taught, did so as fully as others.
66 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Are we not looking for something better
than what we have now? Have you all found
happiness? Have you all found your places
in life? Are you satisfied with life as it is?
Are you ready to go on and on and see chil-
dren born in ignorance, unwise marriages and
tragic divorces, and murders and unnamable
crimes sweeping in to the very threshold of
-
your own homes, and not turn for knowledge
to these higher laws?
Certainly something is lacking; and that
lack can be met by each of us, if we can have
courage enough to believe that we are some-
thing more than what we seem in our merely
physical aspect; that we are a part of the
divine Scheme of Life, and that we have with-
in us those latent powers which Jesus re-
ferred to when he told us that the Kingdom
of Heaven is within us. Interpreted Theo-
sophically, that is a magnificent teaching for
helping humanity.
You may have glimpses of a solution
of life's problems in your own mental atti-
tudes; you may have touches of it in your
LIFE A SUPERB CHALLENGE 67
hearts; but the world does not propose-
according to our present form of civilization Life a
so-called- that you shall grow spiritually. Superh
The general opinion of mankind today Challenge
is that man is weak, vacillating, and has no
spiritual basis upon which to work. But
Theosophy steps to the front and says:
While it is true that we are all subject to the
Iaws of change in evolution, still, life is a
superb challenge if one knows how to meet it.
The idea that man is born in sin and is
helpless is nonsense. There is nothing reason-
able in it. The teaching of Theosophy, on
the contrary, which every noble-minded man
and woman must ultimately entertain, is that
man is essentially divine, that he is a part
of the Eternal Plan, and has within himself
the key to the mysteries of the Universe and
therefore of his own nature; if he hasn't it
consciously, he should find it: Theosophy
gives it.
I do not talk very much about humility.
I do not believe that a man or a woman
should be humble in the ordinary sense.
..
68 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
On the other hand, I believe that they should
find the strength of their own characters.
They should analyse themselves cleanly, find
out whence they came, what they are here
for, and what life means. They should chal-
lenge themselves and move away from the
nonsense that they have been taught for so
long about being such dreadful sinners. Move
out into a great world of superb thought and
universal ideas!
If a man lose faith in himself, can one
expect him to believe·in his neighbor? Mter
all these ages of a certain quality of educa-
tion that has been given us from childhood,
we still have not our hands on the oars that
will carry our boat into port.
If we are not sure of our spiritual im-
mortality, if we are not sure of the divine
life within us, we cannot live it and we cannot
act in accordance with it, though it is there.
The inner life is the real life.
When you come to the point where
your bodies are tired and you are ready to
throw off the worn-out overcoat of flesh,
LIFE A SUPERB CHALLENGE 69
then the truth will be revealed to you. But
by that time you are speechless in what the
world calls death, but which Theosophy calls
rebirth.
The revelation of these inner mysteries
can come only to those who will receive them;
yet every man and every woman can have
glimpses of the truth, day by day, and hour
by hour, without price. Spiritual truths are
not purchasable.
You are either going up or you are going
down. You do not ever stand still. You
are something more than you seem.
Love is the greatest power in the world,
and self-control is the magic talisman. With
love in our hearts, and self-control, we are
on the path that leads to the relative per-
fection of man.
Mere reason and brain-mind arguments
keep humanity away from the richness of
the inner life that belongs to all. When you
have that truth, you will know how to live;
when to speak and when not to speak; when
to act and when not to act. You will be so
70 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
conscious of your essential divinity that you
will have the strength to dare to do a thou-
sand things that you thought yourselves in-
capable of doing. You will remove your-
selves from the negative psychology of the
age and become characters of true positive
nobility. Your whole life depends upon your
character.
Continuous and confident virtue comes
from the knowledge of one's soul-life. It is
the expression of the strength of the inner
man - that part of one which does noble
things, aspires to do them, and is ever restless
until one has done them.
When you find a man of real character
in his manhood, and a woman of splendid
womanhood, you may then know that they
have touched the fringe of Truth. They have
in some way, though they may not know it,
reached a part of the superb and glorious
teachings of the Ancient Wisdom, Theosophy,
which H. P. Blavatsky brought to the west-
ern world, but which she never originated
or invented. She brought them to us that
"BO:RN IN SIN" VS. SOUL-COURAGE 71
we might learn the importance of character-
building in the education of the boys and "Born in
girls and the young men and women, that Sin" os.
they might know their strength, their power Soul-
to fashion their own characters nobly, and Courage
thus live in the perfect confidence of the
spiritual life and find the real joy of living.
Theosophy teaches that this life really
is joy. It is pure joy! Find it!
People do not stop to think how hu-
manity has been psychologized for ages with
the old idea that man is 'born in sin.' How
much real soul-courage can one expect from
a man who is burdened and weighed down
with that old dogma and carries it with him
night and day - eats with it, sleeps with it,
and lives with it? There is degradation !
and
humiliation in it. From these follow lack
of courage, lack of confidence, until life seems
a farce, if it were not for the tragedies and
heartaches everywhere.
If one accepts the idea of only one life-
time, he loses sight of the grandeur and
beauty and inspiration of the idea of Eternity.
72 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
H man as we know him today is the
highest aspect of creation, then it is easy to
believe that there has been some mistake
made somewhere along the way. For thou-
sands of years these teachings have been in-
stilled into the minds of our ancestors, until
we have got the poison of them in our very
blood and we· carry it in our faces. It has
made men timid and doubtful of their own
abilities. It has limited the courage of even
the bravest heroes and lessened the power of
the greatest statesmen and the most splendid
men and women who have accepted the idea
o( man's original sinfulness and the limita-
tion of one earth-life.
On the other hand, let us face the man
who knows that he is born under the divine
and wonderful laws of nature; whose life is
a series of awakenings through babyhood,
childhood, boyhood, into manhood, with a
consciousness of his own essential divinity.
Now this divinity is not such an abstrac-
tion as many imagine. It is not so very far
away. To believe that the All-Powerful,
"BORN IN SIN" VS. SOUL-COURAGE 73
All-Loving, Ever-Serving Center of Light,
the Great Source of Life -'God'- has de-
signed or had any part in a work that would
bring degradation or despair to 'His' own
creation, so to speak, is an insult to our
manhood and our womanhood; it is an in-
sult to our time and to our intelligence and
to our civilization.
If we could only spend less time talking
of men's weaknesses and of our children's
weaknesses and move out into the great
broad view of life which Theosophy gives!
The mother's soul would speak and say,
"Nay, never, never was this wonder, this
child of mine, this mystery to me and mys-
tery to the world, never was it born in sin!
It is only to be explained by accepting the
divine laws of Nature; and it came to me
for a great purpose. The soul is full of
richness, full of possibilities, full of potential
qualities, and the Divine is in every man."
If our children could grow in this idea,
we might bring our youth up to such a high
standard that we should all look at life in
74 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
an entirely new light. Could it be.possible
Warfare that there would be so many disasters and
and terrible crimes and shocking evidences of
Brotherhood man's inhumanity to man? No, it would
not be possible. But we have grown negative;
we have lost to a degree- or at least we
have overlooked,- the strength of our own
souls; the power of the inner life.
In this world of ours, with all our wealth
and our great territory and our so-called
culture, we cannot honestly call ourselves a
civilized people as long as there is even the
suggestion of warfare near us, nor so long
as there are the dreadful aspects of human
depravity which fill our newspapers with the
horrors of man's inhumanity to man.
As the days go on, I feel the woes of
the world~ so to speak. And my only con-
solation is to think: Well, even if I have
only done a little and I have done it well,
that is better than doing nothing at all.
This is why I continue striving, and why
I am still here; and I hope that whatever
may be said by me you may know that it
SETTING OUR OWN HOUSES IN ORDER 75
comes from an honesty of purpose and from
a determination to make clear the truths of Selling our
Theosophy. The will of the writer is to Own Hou&e&
assist humanity to find the secrets of its own in Order
life and the panacea for all the ills that
affiict human nature; to endeavor to clear
the air and purify the thought of men with
the idea that man is his brother's keeper.
When we reach this point, we shall begin to
know something about ourselves and some-
thing about the meaning of life.
Study Theosophy conscientiously and you
will find that something is happening in your
own nature: you will recover yourself, reno-
vate yourself, readjust yourself, rebuild your-
self; and in doing this, you refashion your
own character.
I am as certain as I live, that if the
teachings of Theosophy were in the homes
of all the people of the world, or if even a
portion of the doctrines were understood as
H. P. Blavatsky attempted to teach them,
it would not be long before some of our prison-
doors would open; and after a while we would
...
76 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
hear less of horrible crimes and less of death-
ly, unnatural things; -we are having much
more of such things since the war. We would
have less anxiety about our children. We
would have absolute surety about the foun-
dation of our homes; and more than these,
we would have a superb trust that would
make tomorrow bright.
All will be right if we are right ourselves.
But we must be in place. We must meet
these teachings at least half-way. We must
look at life differently.
If you have no other teacher in the world,
study Nature, and Nature will tell you many
of these things that Theosophy teaches. She
will bring you new life and new light.
I am absolutely assured of the essential
divinity in man, of his power to conquer
conditions and to make the whole world
•
over again.
I am trying to lift the veil for humanity,
to make the vista more beautiful and more
encouraging, by ingraining into your minds
those great principles of Theosophical opti-
SELF-KNOWLEDGE AND COMMON SENSE 77
mism upon which I live. I rise with it in
the morning; I cannot move away from it; Self-Know-
an~ that is the beauty of living the Theo- ledge and
sophical life. Common
The great key to the solution of life's &rue
problems is: "Man, know thyself"; bring
thyself to the knowledge of thy essential
divinity, of thy strength and thy real purposes
and thy hopes and thy visions. The will
which makes a man a good man and brings
these things into realization is the spiritual
will, whereas that will which makes him lose
his way, is the will of the personality, of the
body only, and dies when the body dies.
In twenty years from now, when science
shall have done more for us, we shall find that
we have had more lunatics outside the insane-
asylums than we have had in them.
The great beauty and charm of life is
to hav~ knowledge - not just belief and faith.
All your disappointments, and trials, and ap-
parent injustices will not disappear imme-
diately, because the basis of most of them
was sown by yourselves; but they can be
78 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
so well understood and so intelligently met,
that you can rise above them and soar be-
yond them, and bring out before the world
the richer and deeper meaning of your life.
Even the most critical savants today in
studying H. P. Blavatsky's books, particu-
larly The Secret Doctrine, are amazed at the
depth and the breadth of her knowledge.
They cannot understand or explain where
she found it. It is marvelous!
There is nothing in Theosophy to carry
one outside the world of reasonable thought.
It keeps one on middle lines; not going to
extremes; no fanaticism, no nonsense; none
of the stuff that ·some of these people who
call themselves theosophists have been talk-
ing about in connexion with a 'coming Christ,'
and all sorts of rubbish - not at all! The
Theosophy which H. P. Blavatsky brought in-
volves common sense applied to human needs.
When she came to America she did not
know what would be the attitude of mind of
very many people, who represented conven-
tional religion, towards any innovations. So,
SELF-KNOWLEDG~ AND COMMON SENSE 79
although in time her work had a magnificent
triumph, in the beginning it was decided by
those who wrote her up in the newspapers,
that she was· an impostor, a charlatan, and
that she was fanatical and .queer, and per-
haps somewhat dangerous!
So one can readily imagine that her ideas
of th.e freedom and liberality of the American
people suffered quite a shock after she had
been here a short time and read the preju-
diced accounts of her own life in newspapers
from north, south, east, and west, which
heaped upon her obloquy and ridicule. That
was the reception she received in America.
I have had quite as warm receptions in
different parts of Europe as H. P. Blavatsky
received in my own country. But, as with
her, my enthusiasm has carried me through.
It is a mighty thing to know that there
are laws, so infinitely and divinely true and
just that if we will reach out to them in
aspiration, we can find ourselves in a new
world of thought; and when we are dis-
couraged or despairing, we can fill our lives
80 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
with a royal optimism; for we can take in
the grandeur, the beauty, the mercy, and,
above all, the superb justice of life.
We can look into our own hearts and go
back to the aspirations of our youth, when
we were trying to do some of the grand things
that earth-life offers us opportunity to do,
and we move away from the limited concep-
tion of one short life on earth and see the
vision of another chance, and another chance,
in repeated incarnations.
The students connected with the work at
our International Headquarters and the mem-
bers identified with the Universal Brother-
hood and Theosophical Society throughout
the world, are very much in earnest.
There are no salaries to be earned in
our Organization, no selfish honors to win,
nothing but the consciousness of having found
the great opportunity of knowing Theosophy
and of applying it to their lives, of moving out
into a world of thought that all people need,
and of giving this message, simple as it is,
to tired humanity, with an earnestness and
A
RAJA-YOGA 81
a spirit of devotion that bespeak the truth
of what we say. When they find this, then
they have some hope for the future, for them-
selves, for their children, and for the world.
In studying some of the Eastern litera-
ture, I discovered the name 'RAja-Yoga'-
a Sanskrit word meaning literally 'Kingly
Union,' and signifying the perfect balance of
all the faculties, physical, mental, and spiri-
tual; and as this expressed the ideal of the
school that I was about to found, ~ gave to
it this name.
There was one thing I found when a
child; and that is, that we must live and
let live. I believed then in evolution, al-
though I did not clearly define it; but I
knew that we had all developed in different
degrees and under different circumstances.
And Nature to me was always so beautiful,
and love was so grand and superb. 'God'
was in everything - in the song of the birds,
in the voice of the waters nearby, and in
the cold winds as they swept in froni the
sea. All these things used to talk to me.
Raja-Yoga
•
•
'
82 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
I discovered even as a child that the
essential need of humanity is a deeper ex-
pression of love for every human being. I
grew up in this thought, living in a little
world of my own; but my opportunity to
declare myself did not come until I met, under
very remarkable circumstances, William Quan
Judge, who was H . P. Blavatsky's Successor
as Leader and Teacher in the Theosophical
Movement. He was born in Ireland and
educated as a lawyer. He had met her as a
young man and became deeply interested in
this philosophy which she brought.
He told me of H. P. Blavatsky, who had
already passed away, and showed me her
book called The Secret Doctrine. I was then
grown to womanhood, and when I read that
wonderful book, and later read her other
books, that woman's life became to me a
glorious and sacred memory, that had come
out of the past and would stay with me for-
ever. It fired my blood, warmed my heart;
and stirred my mind all these years under per-
secution, in order that I might tell my story
A
RAJA-YOGA 83
to the world. And that is how at last I came to
found the Raja-Yoga School at Point Lorna.
The secret of the Raja-Yoga system, for
those who know how to apply it, is: gentle-
ness, kindness, firmness, never allowing a
child to give way to a temper or to have its
own way in anything that is wrong, but pa-
tiently helping it to see what is right and
directing its energies into useful channels.
Cross words on the part of the teachers are not
allowed; and never are the pupils punished.
Even our little ones of six and seven
years of age very soon learn that they have
two natures, and they can and do explain in
a rather wise way, yet very childishly and
beautifully, the difference between these two
natures. We strive never to ingrain into
them any ideas that will overstrain them.
We keep them close to Nature. They grow
up just like the flowers grow, under wise
. .
supervision.
The Raja-Yoga education, among other
things, gives to the child an opportunity to find
itself, and to find true knowledge within itself.
. SECTION II
J}tltna lBttrobna Jjlabatiik!'
''He who hearing his brother reviled and,
keeping a. smooth face, leaves the abuse un-
noticed, tacitly agrees with the enemy as if he
admitted the same to be proper and just. He
who does it is either mouse-hearted, or selfish-
ness is at the bottom of his heart. He is not fit
as yet to become a 'Companion.' "
- FROM THE ANCIENT TEACHINGS
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY
A BRIEF SKETCH OF HER LIFE AND OF
HER MISSION
I RECALL my first knowledge of Helena
Petrovna Blavatsky, this Russian noble- A Ruuian
woman of marvelous spiritual power, Noble-
who founded the Theosophical Society in womanof
New York in 1875. Beyond all question, MarHlous
she had a great inner spiritual urge. Spiritual
There was something very remarkable Power
about this woman; and I really think that
it would be a ·great injustice to her and
possibly also an injustice to you, if I did
not tell you something about her. Many
Theosophists seem to be afllicted with a sort
of half-timidity or over-modesty in proclaim-
ing their wonderful truths; and I perhaps
have been one such myself in some ways.
I feel sure that the more you know of
H. P. Blavatsky and the more you discover
and discern of her life, her character, and her
..The Greal-
ut Spiril
of the
Nin«unth
Century''
88 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
teachings, the more will you come to the same
conclusion that I have found inescapable; and
that is, that she herself was a convincing
proof of the doctrine of Reincarnation; be-
cause it was utterly impossible that the know-
ledge which she possessed and which her
books demonstrate could have all been ac-
quired in one short lifetime.
A noted German critic, Karl Bleibtreu,
speaks of her greatest work, The Secret Doc-
trine, as "a revealing deed - a compendium
of unparalleled knowledge in various branches
of science still more marvelous."
I advise those who are unfamiliar with
her teachings, to read first her Key to Theo-
sophy, which ~as written by her for inquirers.
There are other books also and a large num-
ber of articles written by her. They all re-
veal the woman and the motive and pur-
pose of her life.
Her work was truly a phenomenal one
and must appeal to every intelligent human
being who has the welfare of humanity at
heart. I have known many former ma-
H. P. BLAVATSKY AND W. Q. JUDGE 89
terialists, who have changed about from their
set and limited view of life simply through H. P. Bla·
studying H. P. Blavatsky's writings; they vab~ and
found therein the key of life. So it is of her W. Q. judge
that I shall speak.
Much has been written about her child-
hood, and I received a great deal of direct
information from William Quan Judge, my
predecessor, who succeeded H. P. Blavatsky
as Leader and Teacher of the Theosophical
Movement throughout the world. He knew
her better than any other person with whom
she was associated, and she expressed com-
plete confidence in him at all times.
The following is quoted from an official
letter written by her to the Convention of
the Theosophical Societies in America in 1888:
"To WILLIAM Q. JuDGE, General Secre-
tary of the American Section of the Theo-
sophical Society:
"My dearest Brother and Co-founder
of the Theosophical Society:
"In addressing to you this letter, which
90 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
I request you to read to the Convention
summoned for April 22nd, I must first present
my hearty congratulations and most cordial
good wishes to the Society and to yourself
- the heart and soul of that body in America.
"We were several to call it to life in 1875.
Since then you have remained alone to pre-
serve that life through good and evil report.
It is 'to you chiefly, if not entirely, that the
Theosophical Society owes its existence in
1888.
"Let me thank you for it, for the first,
and perhaps for the last time publicly and
from the bottom of my heart, which beats
only for the cause you represent so well and
serve so faithfully.
"I ask you also to remember that, on
this important occasion, my voice is but the
feeble echo of other more sacred voices, and
the transmitter of the approval of Those
whose presence is alive in more than one
true Theosophical heart, and lives, as I know,
pre-eminently in yours."
Further, H. P. Blavatsky, in December
H. P. BLAV:ATSKY AND W. Q. JUDGE 91
of the same year, wrote the following:
" As Head of the Esoteric Section of the
Theosophical Society, I hereby declare that
William Q. Judge of New York, U. S. A., in
virtue of his character as a disciple of thir-
teen years' standing and of the trust and
confidence r_
eposed in him, is my only repre-
sentative for said Section in America, and
he is the sole channel through whom will
be sent and received all communications be-
tween the members of the said Section and
myself, and to him full faith, confidence, and
credit in that regard are to be given."
On October 23, 1889, H. P. Blavatsky
wrote:
"The Esoteric Section and its life in the
U. S. A. depend upon W. Q. Judge remaining
its agent and what he is now. The day W. Q.
Judge resigns, H. P. Blavatsky will be vir-
tually dead for the Americans."
H. P. Blavatsky's early childhood was
in some ways not unlike many other children's
H. P. Bla-
vauluJ's
Childhood
92 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
of her station in life. She was born in 1831
of a very distinguished family at Ekaterino-
slaff, Southern Russia. She was the daughter
of Colonel Peter Hahn, and of Helena Fade-
yef. On her father's side, she was grand-
daughter of General Alexis Hahn von Rotten-
stern Hahn (the representative of a noble
family of Mecklenburg, Germany, settled in
Russia). On her mother's side, she was the
grand-daughter of Privy-Councillor Andrew
Fadeyef and of the Princess Helena Dol-
goruky.
Her family were known for their patriot-
ism and their ireat ability along literary and
other cultural lines. They were very humane
and unusually broad-minded.
Helena's earliest childhood tells of nothing
remarkable. But as she grew older, she was
full of questions. The most interesting thing
about her questions is that they ·were fre-
quently of a kind that her parents and gover-
nesses could not answer. She would then
often surprise her elders by answering the
questions herself. She was very much shel-
H. P. BLAVATSKY'S CHILDHOOD 93
tered and protected during her tender years
and knew very little about life - especially
about its suffering and its cruelties.
But at an unusually early age she began
to puzzle over the contrasts that she saw in
Russia. Why, she asked, were some people
happy and others miserable? Why were some
poor and others rich? Why was Nature so
bountiful and beautiful and yet why were
there so many uncertainties and inconsis-
tencies in human life? These questions must
have come to her from her own inner per-
ceptions. There is no other way to account
for them.
It was very plain to her family that she
was an unusual child, and they felt that
she was destined to a great career of some
kind; but I am certain that they never
dreamed what would be the future of their
beautiful daughter whom they loved and
cared for, not only in.the ordinary way that
most good parents do, but as a precious being
of wonderful promise.
Her first experience that is recorded as
94 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
having made an indelible impression upon
Her her, occurred on one of her father's estates.
Spiritual She was very fond of the out-of-do<?rs life and
Awa~ening spent much of her time alone in communion
with Nature. But on this special occasion
she heard dreadful screams and cries of agony,
answered by brutal shouts of c~mmand. So
she rushed over to the side of her father's
estate bordering on the roadway, whence the
cries of distress were coming. She climbed
upon the hedge and looked over. There she
beheld a number of prisoners being sent to
Siberia in charge of officers who were beating
them, dragging them, cuffing them, throwing
them down and striking them. Their cries
of pain and exhaustion were unavailing.
Now I am told that Helena screamed in
horror at the awfulness of the moment, and
then fainted.
Mr. Judge assured me that from that
time ·something very remarkable came into
her nature. Though previously of a happy
and buoyant nature, it is said that she did
not smile for months after that time. She
SHE COMES TO AMERICA 95
became oppressed with the idea that she was
not in the right place in her beautiful home of She comu
wealth and comfort, when elsewhere there was to America
suffering. Young as she was - I think she
was then about fifteen- it was very hard for
her parents to keep her from going out into
the world in order better to understand and
thus to lift the burdens of the people.
Mter a while, following some bitter per-
sonal experiences which were forced upon her
by her well-intentioned relatives, she set out
upon her world-travels at her father's ex-
pense, in search of truth and in search of
some explanation for the world's suffering and
some remedy for it. She visited nearly all
the countries of the world. In 1851-2 she
was in America for about a year.
Without following in detail her many
travels in Europe, Asia, Mrica, and America
- all the way from Tibet to Cairo and Cana-
da, and from Java to England and Mexico-
I will skip to the early seventies, when she
came again to New York imbued with a spirit
of helpfulness that became more and more
96 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
apparent as time went on; and with a de-
termination of will that was iron in its power.
Here was a noblewoman of unusual re-
finement but with little knowledge of the
English language, with very limited financial
means, because, as she drew away from the
worldly life which her family had intended
for her, their support of her became less and
less, until it ceased altogether; so she had to
pull along as best she could.
But think of the vision that she must
have had at that time in her love of hu-
manity and in her faith in the infinite power
of the inner life! Think of the trust that she
must have had in the Higher Law, and the
confidence that she had in the strength of
her own soul! There must have opened to
her inner eyes a wonderfully beautiful and
uplifting vista, which gave her the never-
failing enthusiasm that she was noted for.
She came to America with almost a
childlike confidence in 'the land of the free' !
But she had scarcely touched our shores be-
fore she found that newspapers all over the
SHE COMES TO AMERICA 97
country were alive with the spirit of persecu-
tion against her. I have the files of many of
these periodicals; and they are a living dis-
grace to our 'free America.' It is a dreadful
record of narrow-minded persecution.
She had not come to America to meddle
with our politics; nor did she come to dis-
turb anybody who was sincere in his religious
convictions. All she asked was the oppor-
tunity to come to this 'land of liberty' and
deliver her message. She said that she had
one, and we all know now that she did have
one, and it was very simple. It was nothing
that she had invented or fabricated or any-
thing of that sort. She did not claim it as
her own, but emphatically said that it was
the Ancient Wisdom and as old as think-
•
mg man.
One cannot tell what her vision was, nor
what the many visions were that she had in
making this great effort. But there was some-
thing in her life that showed that she would
not live very long and that she must accom-
plish a great deal in a short time, if she was
98 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
to fulfil her great mission. She aimed to
Founding spread her message - the sacred teachings of
of the Theo- Theosophy - all over the world, and she
&ophical chose this country to launch it in, because,
Society as .I have said, she thought that here there
was more of the spirit of liberty, more progress,
more open-mindedness.
...
Imagine her disappointment when she
found that scarcely a day passed that the
newspapers did not contain not only criti-
cism but the most outrageous and ridiculous
charges. She was accused of being a charla-
tan, an impostor, and all that sort of thing.
But the remarkable thing is that she
never faltered; she never turned back. And
yet this is not so remarkable to one who knows
her as I feel that I do, though I have no per-
sonal memory of her. As a matter of fact
it was impossible for her to give up what she
had started out to do.
She founded the Theosophical Society
in New York in 1875. She wrote and she
traveled all over this country - and later
throughout the world. In less than a year
HER MESSAGE 99
she had gathered into her thought-atmosphere,
into her heart-life, and into the sphere of her Her
influence, of her energy, of her wisdom, and of Mu$afe
her intense yearning for the salvation of hu-
manity, some really wonderful people. Many
of them represented the best intellects and
the most honorable and dignified lovers of
humanity in this country.
The Theosophical Society was soon known
all over the world. It is now called the Uni-
versal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society,
which is nearer to what she at first wished to
call it than merely 'The Theosophical Society.'
H. P. Blavatsky's message teemed with
a spiritual virility that we are all hungry
for, because it is something that the whole
world is seeking and has not yet found. She
presented her message in the simplest and
most beautiful way. Her logic is unanswer-
able. I challenge you to read her books, not
just for your entertainment, but perhaps in
order to prove that she was wrong.
I have yet to find one competent person
whom I have directly challenged in this way,
100 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
who has accepted the challenge and then has
declared that she was wrong. On the con-
trary, after studying H. P. Blavatsky's writ-
ings, these critics have turned towards our
philosophy and have found in it new life
and new hope.
And this is also the reason why I am
here: to accentuate certain Theosophical
principles that would cause my listeners to
dig down into the deeps of their natures
and find this new life and this new hope,
which not only their minds but their very
souls crave. No one can question that the
world needs just this message, and needs
it badly.
The influence of Theosophy is spreading
very rapidly; the teachings which H. P. Bla-
vatsky brought to the western world are now
known and understood by thousands every-
where. They are the essential truths of life
that were forgotten, almost thrown aside, in
the past, especially since the beginning of
the Christian era. They were supposed to
be out of place, because they _
gave man too
HER MESSAGE 101
much liberty of thought; they taught him
that he was essentially a divine soul instead
of a miserable sinner; that he was free to
make his own destiny, to adjust his own fu-
ture, to make of his life a blessing or a blas-
phemy, to create his own heaven or his
own hell.
With an understanding of H. P. Bla-
vatsky's message comes the blessed realiza-
tion of the lifting of a heavy weight from the
heart, of the dispelling of the shadows that
are over our unfortunate humanity, groping
to find its way, to raise the veil, and crying
in its despair: "0 ye gods, open the way that
we may know!"
But the answer, though always there,
was not recognised until H. P. Blavatsky
brought it and taught it openly.
The more you study her teachings, the
more you will realize their antiquity, and the
more you will appreciate the vast possibili-
ties of human life; because, I repeat, she
accentuated above everything the fact of
man's essential divinity:. If she had done
102 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
nothing more than this, if she had passed
The Spread- away without writing a· single one of her
ing of great books, she would have performed a won-
Theosophy derful service for man's spiritual liberation
in emphasizing that one doctrine and fact
of being.
The philosophy which H. P. Blavatsky
brought has slowly made its way into the
hearts of the people of America and of all
other countries: especially since the world-
war has there been a manifestation of un-
usual interest in the teachings of Theosophy.
The war ushered us into a questioning
age. Before that time many people went
through life without serious thought of any
kind. They questioned very little; they ac-
cepted what they were told or what they
read; they looked upon this one earth-life
as all there was to existence; they were not
very sure about the tomorrow, and did not
concern themselves much with it. So spiri-
tually they did not grow; they did not in-
wardly expand; they did not enlarge their
vision; and many lived without hope.
MAN'S ESSENTIAL DIVINITY 103
But Theosophy brings even to the most
hopeless, the most doubting, and the most Man'$
uncertain, absolute facts about himself and &&entia/
the world he lives in. If one cannot take Dioinity
them in quickly and with enthusiasm, one
will nevertheless find, if he studies them at
all carefully, that he will be completely over-
come by the wonderful logic used by that
great Russian woman in presenting these
truths so that they might be accepted.
I love to think of what the inner life of
that woman must have been.
We all1rnow a great deal about the outer
life of people. The material existence of
everyone is very much in evidence. We all
have the bread-and-butter question to solve.
But there are not so many, I think, who have
that inner knowledge which comes from a
real consciousness of better things or from a
recognition of the fact that man's spiritual
soul is immortal.
So, as I have often said before, it is a
wonder to me how men stand on their feet
at all and how human beings hold together
,..
104 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
even as well as they do without destroying
one another.
What is it that preserves hum~nity? It
is that spiritual part of us, that divine spark
- not very active in most of us, but still our
inspiration; and it is that essential divinity
in all men that keeps humanity from de-
stroying itself.
Let us be thankful that we have not all
lost our consciences yet; for just as long as
the conscience is recognised and followed,
there is always human growth and better-
ment. But unless ·we have the teaching of
the spiritual nature of man as the basis for
our conduct, I do not see how we can pos-
sibly reason ourselves into any state of real
•
Inner peace.
One might think that in saying this I
was urging people to throw aside their own
spiritual beliefs that are acceptable to them;
but it is not so; for it is only the forms, the
methods, the dogmas, and the falsehoods
which have sprung up among the followers of
the great World-Teachers that have obscured
MAN'S ESSENTIAL DIVINITY 105
and undermined the beautiful truths which
they gave to humanity.
The effort of H. P. Blavatsky and the
effort of all true Theosophists is to bring
home to man the consciousness of his essen-
tial divinity, of his spiritual possibilities, and
of those potent qualities within him that come
from the divine side of his nature, which give
him the power to discern the right from the
wrong, to know when to speak and when
not to speak. The intuitional powers of hu-
manity must develop before we can expect
to have better conditions in life.
The timid, frightened, 'miserable-sinner'
conception of human life·has ruled men long
enough! What has Theosophy to offer in its
place? More than all else it has the en-
nobling and inspiring teaching that man is
essentially divine; and it shows how his
divine nature does evolve forth, and thus
causes him to grow, to progress, through
different earth-lives!
How can we talk usefully of our aspira-
tions, of our loves, of our devotion to principle,
106 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
of anything permanent, so long as we accept
Reincar- the old idea that life on earth is limited to
nation seventy-seven or a hundred years, more or less?
But once accept the doctrine of Rein-
carnation, and we are conscious of having
found an inner anchorage. When we have
this, all the rest will be revealed - not written
in golden letters and big tablets on the wall,
but right in our hearts, in our minds, in our
own characters. Then all the questions that
are now so puzzling will be revealed and an-
swered- although not in a day, nor even in
one lifetime completely. ·
When a man recognises his own essential
divinity, and trusts in it, he will understand
the law of evolutionary progress. He will
find himself every day knowing a little more.
He will advance in self-directed evolution on
lines of least resistance.
Even what H. P. Blavatsky openly taught
must be very little in comparison with what
is known by one who advances and advances
through many lifetimes, climbing and climb-
ing ever nearer to the goal of perfection. That
REINCARNATION 107
is the beauty of the teachings of Theosophy.
One's aspirations grow ever higher and higher;
the light comes into the soul, and man finds
the Kingdom of Heaven in splendor. Did
not Jesus say the Kingdom of Heaven is
within you? Who will contradict him?
We Theosophists look upon Jesus just
as H. P. Blavatsky did. We do not accept
him as being born in an especial way, but we
do accept him as a great Teacher, a great
Initiate, a Helper and Savior for the people
of his time. We love him and we love his
teachings.
Theosophy has ta~ght us very clearly
how to discriminate between what Jesus did
teach, and what some of his followers have
since taught in his name. His actual teach-
ings are so Theosophical that we cannot move
away from ·them. They are eternal verities.
Earnest people everywhere, even non-Chris-
tians, can accept these. But not the dogmas
that have been fashioned about him. And
yet, even among professed Christians, proba-
bly more than half of them are in doubt,
"Touching
lhe Fringe
of Trulh"
108 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
though there are very many well-meaning,
noble, and splendid people in their ranks.
Think what Reincarnation will bring to
you! It is a key that will open the doors to
reality. Study it for yourselves! You need
no teacher; you need no revelation; you need
no sava~t to instruct you. Just find the
understanding of it within yourself!
All the deeper spiritual things that your
souls have been yearning and craving and
aching for are right within yourselves. But
how to find them?- that is the great secret
which Theosophy offers you. It is a matter
that is not to be argued about at all. It
comes about in mysterious ways.
Perhaps I can best describe what I mean
in this manner: Many of our greatest artists
have begun very early in their lives merely
with a tendency towards artistic productions.
After a while they astonish the world with
some wonderful achievement. Later, great
masterpieces are created and the artists win
renown. And yet they have but touched the
fringe of truth. Somewhere or somehow they
THE APPEAL OF THEOSOPHY 109
have received inspiration. It did not come
from the brain-mind but from the truly spiri- The Appeal
tual part of man's nature. Then behold!- ofTheo$ophy
a work of genius!
Spiritual knowledge manifests itself in all
real artistic creation. You will find it every-
where. Whenever art is not up to its highest
standards, you will find that the one great
secret that is lacking is knowledge of man's
own essential divinity, which brings him into
his own.
Believing of course as we do in evolution,
it is not to be expected that we shall all be
artists. We all begin our present earth-lives
under certain hereditary conditions and en-
vironments, which affect v~ry largely our de-
gree of evolutionary progress. Yet we can,
through the mercy of the Higher Law, or
through the courage of our own hearts and
hands, swing into line with Theosophy.
We Theosophists alone cannot adjust the
terrible conditions that confront us today.
But we can begin to open the way, to plow
through the doubts and the fears and t~e
--
-.....
110 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
mistakes of mankind, reach out our hands to
all, even to the most wretched; we can sow
the seed of brotherhood and implant it in
the minds of men, so that ere long the whole
psychological nature of humanity will change.
The psychology of this age is death to
the soul of man. Yet it is not the product
of this age alone. It has passed down through
the ages from our ancestors, and there is no
other power but Theosophy that can over-
come it. It is everywhere. The thought-
atmosphere of the world is filled with it.
It seems to me that the more humanity
suffers, the more does it turn to added misery,
rather than turning towards the light which
would reveal the meaning of life. This is
not far-fetched.
I am striving to interest you sufficiently
so that you will look into Theosophy and
challenge it, if you will. No Theosophist
would ever attempt to 'convert' you, as this
word is generally understood, for we do not
believe in such conversion. The only con-
version, if it may be so called, that we ac-
THE APPEAL OF THEOSOPHY 111
cept, takes place when a man accepts a truth
and makes it a part of his own nature, his
own character, his innermost being. Ordi-
nary 'conversion' is often the result of emo-
tion rather than of thought.
The essential thing is to find yourself.
Find yourself and you will have the key to
life's mysteries, and that key will be Theo-
sophy- pure Theosophy, ·mind you, not the
pseudo-Theosophy that deals in psychic phe-
nomena and other forms of extreme nonsense
which impair the intellects of men and ob-
scure the truth.
Theosophy is aiming to clear the way and
to bring home to man his divine right, which
is the knowledge of his spiritual heritage. In
that state of mind life is beautiful and joyful.
Some people think it is sacrilegious and
sinful to be happy! Well, we Theosophists
are not happy over the condition of the
world; yet we are happy in spite of it, because
we rejoice over the good karma that gave us
the opportunity to discover the glorious teach-
ings of Theosophy and to find out for our-
112 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
selves the fact of man's essential divinity
and the truth of Reincarnation, and to pass
it on to others.
Real Theosophy brings joy; it brings ·
hope; it brings knowledge; it brings truth;
and with all these things, it brings peace.
If each one who receives these teachings holds
to them faithfully, and works continuo~sly
for human betterment, in time we may have
the kingdom of Heaven on earth, which has
been promised to us by Jesus and all the
·great World-Teachers.
If you wish to find inner peace; if you
wish to breathe the fresh air of spiritual
knowledge into your souls; and if you wish
to live a new life tomorrow, have the cour-
age to look into Theosophy and challenge
its teachings. The first book you should
read is not H. P. Blavatsky's monumental
work, The Secret Doctrine, but her simpler
book for inquirers, The Key to Theosophy.
There she declares herself; there she tells
you who she is, and what she is aiming
to do. She calls black black, and white
THE APPEAL OF THEOSOPHY 113
white; and above all things she gives to
man a confidence born of knowledge - a
confidence which he must have before he
can call himself a man in the truest sense.
SECTION III
an Jntibtnt of tbt jf'ir~t
~bto~opbicall»orlb=tEour
1896=7
"Knowledge is the food of the soul."
-SOCRATES
AN INCIDENT OF THE FIRST THEO-
SOPHICAL WORLD-TOUR, 1896-7
A STRIKING PROOF OF REINCARNATION
I HAVE been importuned by several friends
to ma.ke a statement at some time in
reference to the world-tour of Theo-
sophists which I led around the globe in
1896-7 from New York City. The account
of this tour has never been published, aside
from sketchy reports sent in to our New
York Headquarters while we were on the
journey. It was certainly replete with re-
markable experiences all along the way.
I have thought that at some future time
I might write about it, though I shall shiver
a bit from fear of the unthinking criticism
that possibly will be aroused by some of the
very remarkable stories that would be told.
Recently many of my friends have spoken
of this world-tour ~f 1896-7, and realizing
Meding
with the
Pruident
of the
Khedioe'1
Trihunal
118 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
that full justice has never been d.
one to those
who assisted me then- there were seven
members of my staff who went with me from
New York - I think I shall be able to make
a very interesting report.
But here I want to refer to an experience
that impressed me perhaps more than any
other that I had during that tour. It was an
incident that among many others absolutely
proved to me, and proved to those to whom
I told the story, the truth of the doctrine
of Reincarnation.
It happened in this way. When in the
early part of October, 1896, we left Athens,
in Greece,- where very remarkable work had
been done by our party during our stay there
- after a short drive down to Piraeus, we
took a small boat which carried us out to
the steamship that was to take us to Egypt.
When I was on deck, and before I could
go down to my cabin, I was approached by
a gentleman in Oriental dress, who handed
his card to me as a representative of the
President of the Khedive's Tribunal.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE TRmUNAL 119
Thereafter I met the President every day
during the short trip crossing from Greece
to Egypt. He told me many of the experi-
ences that he had had in his official position,
and he spoke particularly of a time when
his father was the Governor of Thebes, when
he himself was twelve or fourteen years of age.
He said that then was the time when
the remarkable discovery was made of the
tomb of Rameses II, containing not only his
mummy, but the mummies of a dozen or
more other royal personages of ancient Egypt.
The history of that discovery was a most
interesting one; and the story as told by
this Egyptian gentleman was very graphic.
I cannot do full justice to it here; but at
least I can tell you some noteworthy features
of it.
As I suppose you must know, the history
of ancient Thebes was for many centuries
a most splendid one. The temples which
then were built and which still stand in a
more or less ruined condition, are even yet
wonderful. Other buildings and houses of
120 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
which we know something from the sketches
Ramesu the of ancient Egyptian life which still remain
&conJ's to us, tell us a little at least of w:b.at a great
Tomh Dis- and important city it must have been.
cooered Thebes is now but a mass of ruins, a
scene of devastation. It was some 3,200 years
ago that one of the greatest of the Theban
kings, Rameses II, lived.
My distinguished Egyptian fellow-travel-
er told me that, at the period of which
he was speaking, great excitement suddenly
spread all over Egypt, because of the find-
ing near Thebes, in a ·certain part of the
province under his father's jurisdiction, of
the mummy of Rameses II, which archae-
ologists had always hoped to find, but which
had never been discovered up to that time.
You know that it was an ancient Egyp-
tian custom, after the lapse of a certain
number of years, to move the mummies of
important personages and of royalty especial-
ly, which were held most sacred in those
days, to places other than where they had
been buried, on account of the fear of tomb-
RAMESES' TOMB DISCOVERED 121
breakers and the desecration of the sleeping
dead.
The mummy of Rameses II had never
been found; and the following is the story
which my Egyptian acquaintance told me
of the finding of that mummy at the time
when his father was governor of that province.
Two young brothers were one day walk-
ing over the plains or fields on the western
side of the river Nile, at a place where there
was no evidence of even remnants of temples
or anything of that sort. They were amusing
themselves kicking stones about, when they
happened to strike a large one which fell
into a bush. Their attention was attracted
by a noise that the stone made as they heard
it fall into a cavity. So they looked farther
into the matter.
After digging around on their knees for
some time, they found in looking more close-
ly that they stood at a small opening in
a great rock.
The next day they returned with a rope
and the older brother went down, while the
122 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
other held the rope; and after a while the
first of them was pulled up by the other
and brought with him some of the smaller
specimens of the wonderful treasures that he
had found. He brought out what he could
on his back.
For a month he and his brother secretly
returned at intervals to the tomb and gathered
together as many of the portable finds as
they could, and hid them from everyone. Then
the elder brother, carrying his treasures in a
bag on his shoulders, would go at different
times to Cairo, which was some four hundred
miles from there, and in Cairo he managed
quietly to dispose of his finds.
Now the following was the manner in
which they were found out, and their secret
discovered. Near Shepherd's Hotel in Cairo
- which was also the hotel where I stayed,
when I arrived in that city - there was a
spot where two streets ran together, and there
stood an old-fashioned building with low eaves
- so old that it looked as though it would
fall to pieces. It seems that the young man
RAMESES' TOMB DISCOVERED 123
brought his treasures here at midnight in a
canvas bag on his back; he would go in
through the rear door, and sell them for what
he could get for them to the dealer who lived
there. The man never asked him any em-
barrassing questions about them, and sold
them to people who were staying at the hotel
or elsewhere in Cairo.
The excitement created in the. city by
the exhibition of these beautiful, genuine an-
tiques in the dealer's windows, I was told,
at last attracted the attention of the officials;
so the government - not the Turkish govern-
ment, and not the Khedive's officers, but the
British government- followed the matter up.
The officials planned to watch this young
man, and at last they caught him in the very
act of taking his bag of treasures into the
back door of the dealer's shop.
He was told that he would have to go
to prison for years if he did not tell where he
had found the antiques which he had been
selling and which he then had in his pos-
session. So he finally told the whole truth,
....
124 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
much as I have described it here. Then
the government officials went south to Thebes
and apprehended the other young man, hold-
ing him also. The two brothers were com-
pelled to conduct the officials to the place
near Thebes where they had made their dis-
covery. A thorough investigation was then
made of all the circumstances.
By referring to my notes I can later
give further details of the discovery, which
was admittedly one of the most wonderful
finds in the history of Egyptian archaeology.
Not only was the mummy of Rameses II,
one of Egypt's greatest kings, found there in
the tomb by those who afterwards investi-
gated, but also the mummies of his wife and
his child and of a large number of other Egyp-
tian royalties, as well as mummies of cer-
tain ones of his officials.
There seemed to be no limit to the trea-
sures in antiques that were there found. The
government took immediate possession of
these things, of course; and for various
reasons the discoverers of this remarkable
RAMESES' TOMB DISCOVERED 125
treasure-house of ancient mummies and ar-
chaeological objects were released.
There was a great deal of talk among the
government people as to what they were going
to do with the mummy of this famous king.
They would not leave it where it was found.
Some of the highest officials in this depart-
ment of the government, and other influential
people, declared it should be removed and
placed with the mummies of the other kings
under immediate governmental supervision
and care. For some time the matter was
discussed; and at last it was decided that
the mummies with the other treasures should
be brought down to Cairo and placed in the
great governmental museum of Bulaq.
But when they were about to do this,
to their amazement the officials found that
the proposal to remove these treasures and
bring them down to Cairo for safe keeping
in the museum there, aroused an unsuspected
opposition on the part of the Beduins and other
natives who lived along the borders of the
Nile. And the most interesting thing about
126 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
this is that these were not of ancient Egyp-
tian descent, but of Arabian ancestry.
These people declared that the mummies
were those of their former great kings, and
especially so in the case of Rameses II; that
he had lived at ·such and such a time, and
that they felt that they had the right to pro-
test against the sacred body being removed.
There were even dangerous symptoms of a
local insurrection among these Beduins if the
officials persisted in doing what was so strong-
ly opposed.
So some time was occupied in preparing
a feasible plan to impress the people peace-
fully to let them bring the mummies down
the Nile.
These people lived in little villages along
the Nile. They were poor creatures, struggling
to obtain a bare physical existence. Much
pity is due to them, battling for a mere liveli-
hood under such distressing circumstances.
The government sent out its messengers
from village to village, with a really wonder-
ful pronouncement, which was made, I think,
EGYPT's GREAT KING HONORED 127
by the Khedive's Tribunal. The people were
told that the plan was to show the mummies, Egypt's
and particularly that of Rameses II, the Great King
greatest official honors - the same honors, in Honored hy
all essential respects, that were shown to the Modern Be·
royal dead three thousand or more years ago. duins with
They had a ship built approximating in many Ancient
respe.cts to the type of one of the old Egyp- Rites
tian Nile-boats. It was said that never had
anything been seen in modern times equal
to it in magnificence.
The plan was that there should be a
great pageant; they turned the occasion into
a gala-time, devoted to pleasure and bounti-
ful feasting, and so forth. On a special day
set apart in honor of the ancient Kings of
Egypt, the procession started northward from
Thebes.
But the government-people and the ar-
chaeologists themselves, as well as others, all
wondered and questioned why it was that
these modern Beduins and the natives general-
ly, very largely of alien stock, should be satis-
fied to have such official attention and .devo-
128 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
tion shown to the mummy of a king of Egypt,
who was in no way connected with them or
their own ancestry. It was too much for
those in charge; they simply could not make
it out.
When the time came for the procession
northward, and sounds of the old Egyptian
music resounded over the Nile, and when
that splendid ancient Egyptian ship with all
its wonderful appurtenances, its magnificent
display of colorings, with the government
officials and many invited guests aboard,
passed by the various villages along ·the line
of its course down the Nile, the bare-footed
Beduins - old women and little children,
aged men and the youth, indeed thousands
of this class - came down to the banks of
the river, and there was a great raising of
human voices in salutation to the ancient
Theban king.
Then, at a certain time, the music changed
to a beautiful doleful strain, more appro-
priate perhaps for the removal of a king's
mummy, which the great crowd on either
EGYPT'S GREAT KING HONORED 129
side of the Nile gazed at in silent admiration
- the body of one who had done such great
things for his country in his own time.
These Beduins along the banks of the
river wept and tore their hair, and they
dropped upon their knees. They went through
the ceremonies which one reads of in the
Egyptian books and sees painted in the tomb-
pictures, illustrating the ceremonies used when
the ancient Egyptians buried their kings. It
is said there never was anything so remark-
able in modem Egyptian history.
Upon reaching Cairo, all the great city
was lighted up.
As I recall the story, the bodies were
brought down about fifteen or sixteen years
before I arrived in Egypt on that occasion,
which was, as I have already said, in 1896.
I was told that there was scarcely any limit
to the effect in various ways of the action
of these simple natives.
Many of the more open-minded and ad-
vanced scholars, who realized the extraordi-
nary significance of this native demonstra-
130 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
tion, turned their minds to seeking any know-
ledge with which they were conversant that
would explain the incident. "Why/' they
asked, "should these illiterate people of non-
Egyptian ancestry follow out the customs
and ceremonies. of the ancient Egyptians in
honoring their dead?" They found an ex-
planation, or at least could easily have found
an explanation, of these things in Theosophy,
which many of them at that time knew some-
thing of, of course; that is, in the doctrine
of Reincarnation.
There was no other explanation that I
could give (and this explanation was accepted
by many of the scholars of that time), than
that the sympathy and the sorrow that these
illiterate modern Beduins had manifested, and
the determination they had to show honor
to the mummies of the ancient monarchs of
the land- that all this, I say, was due to
the action of sleeping memories of other lives
imperfectly coming to the surface in them.
It was in some respects the greatest proof
that the scholars could have had of the truth
EGYPT's GREAT KING HONORED 131
of Reincarnation. Many of the people along
the Nile believed that King Rameses II was
the king of their own ancestors - indeed, that
they had themselves lived before in Egypt
during his time, and that that was doubtless
why they were carried away in their feelings
of devotion to his mummy.
I tell you the strange tale in substance
as it was told to me by this distinguished
gentleman of the highest authority in Egypt,
the Minister of the Khedive's Tribunal, who
met me on the steamer and was, as said, my
fellow-traveler until we reached Alexandria,
and who, during that time on the steamer
spent many hours in telling me of the soul
of the Egyptian people and of their old his-
tory. His official position made his words
carry great weight. You can depend upon it
that his story in all essentials was absolute-
ly authentic.
At that time he looked upon America
as a very old country, although new in modem
records. I told him that America was in-
deed very old, in fact older than he imagined.
132 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
I told him that Egypt was older than India
Egypt Older of historic periods, and that the results of
than India, the excavations of archaeologists in the next
America quarter century or so would be so marvelous,
Older than that America would be proved to be the oldest
Either of all three. There is no question that Ameri-
ca as a geological continent is older than
Egypt or India.· That is a fact; and the won-
derful archaeological finds that have been
made in recent years, even in the last ten,
strongly confirm the statement that in civiliza-
tion it may also take the senior rank.
The tale that I have told you exemplifies
human ignorance on the one hand, and hu-
man unrest and pain; and on the other hand
the working of the soul of man. We are all
the children of the universal life. That is
our comfort, and we must understand this
truth.
If we as students of human life could
place ourselves where we belong in the great
Universal Scheme of Existence, the enlighten-
ment that would come to us as a result thereof
would so broaden our views as to bring about
THE PROMISE OF REINCARNATION 133
a veritable transformation within ourselves,
thorough, clear, and satisfactory. The Promi3e
What is the explanation of the unrest of Rein--
that the people of the world everywhere feel carnation
today? It is the hunger of the soul for more
knowledge, for more light, for an explana-
tion of the How and the Why of life. For
centuries past the human family has been
taught that an individual human life lasts
for only about a hundred years, more or less.
But within the realms of your own inmost
being and in your silent moments, you can
find an explanation of things that can come
in no other way and that you never had before.
You will find that people have drifted
away from and lost sight of some of the great
teachings of the Ancient Wisdom, particular-
ly of Reincarnation, which gives man the
promise of life after life on earth in which
to attain ever higher degrees of perfection.
Without egoism or conceit or self-love, the
man who faithfully pursues this inward search
for light realizes that there is within him more
than he had dreamed was possible before.
134 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
How can any human being hope to ap-
Crime a1ul proximate even relative perfection in one short
ib Preven- earth-life of about seventy-five years? Why,
lion at that age, most of us are just beginning to
read the ABC's of real existence! How little
we know of it!
Turning to the subject of crime and its
prevention: If we had the means of carry-
ing on such an investigation, I think we would
be able ·to place the beginning of the criminal
instincts which are observed in the prisoners
now behind the bars, in pre-natal conditions,
in the unrest of the parents also, and in the
unrest of the parents' own mothers and fa-
thers: in theiF strains and anxieties over the
dollar-and-cents question and in their long-
ings and their disappointments and their ig-
norance about the real and the unreal things
in life.
Should we be surprised that many of our
boys and girls go wrong, and are in prison
today, when we realize that they grow up
entirely unfamiliar with themselves and their
possibilities, and the meaning of life, which
CRIME AND ITS PREVENTION 135
after all is the only knowledge worth having?
True, many of them have probably had loving
care from their parents; but the spiritual
life was not understood at all. I repeat the
question: Under such conditions, should we
be surprised if we find them suddenly non
compos mentis, though they may seem general-
ly sane?
Looking at the subject in this light,
should not our hearts open to a deeper com-
passion for them? Should we not withhold
judgment and say to ourselves: "If I had
been born under such circumstances, and had
lived in similar environment; if I was spiri-
tually blinded and did not know the way -
might not I have found myself in a like
position?"
The urge of my heart and of my soul is
to bring to people the realization of their
responsibility in human life.
The whole of humanity, even the noblest
and the best of us, are tainted by the psy-
chology of our age; and this psychology is
largely the result of the teachings of past
136 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
ages, which have caused men to lose faith
in themselves instead of enabling them to
know themselves. All that is true and noble
and beautiful is mirrored at times in the as-
pirations of our thought-life. But no man can
make these aspirations a part of his daily
conduct by depending solely on an intellec-
tual grasp of life's meaning. It is utterly im-
possible until man accepts himself as a being
divine in essence.
Let a man hold to this belief for a time,
if he cannot reason it out with his brain-
mind at once, and after a while his weak-
nesses will pass away, because he will be above
them. He will find a new hope, a broader
vista, a larger life. He will do his part to
make the world more beautiful and more true.
In doing this he climbs; though he suffers he
learns; when he falls he rises again and goes
on climbing, until he knows the truth; and
then the truth will make him free.
Our responsibilities to humanity are so
great that we should think three or four times
before acting, lest we take a false step.
CRIME AND ITS PREVENTION 137
All Nature about us is filled with beauty;
our best thoughts are often inspiring; why
then cannot our lives equal our yearnings
and our hopes? Because the will of man, de-
pending upon the mentality alone, is too weak
to dominate the life. Hence there are so
many failures, so many disappointments. That
is why our prisons are full. That is why every
day we read of new manifestations of crime
that twenty years ago we could not have
believed possible. These things that now
stare us in the face are a terrible commentary
on the psychology of the age. ·
We must go into the arena of new effort,
open our eyes wide, throw aside prejudices
and opinions, and seek facts. Finding facts
we reach the truth, and truth gives us light
and illumination; the will is strengthened by
the conviction that man is essentially a spiri-
tual being, which is the keynote of the philo-
sophy of Theosophy.
There is a ray of spirituality even in
the worst of men; and as long as that ray
is present, we can still hope for them.
Another
Chance
/or All
138 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
The beauty and the glory and the supreme
joy of Theosophy are revealed in the following:
It says to every man, even to the lowest
and the meanest: "There is another chance!"
The state may hang a man; it may keep him
in prison for life, helping him to grow worse
instead of better, alas! but no one can touch
the spiritual soul, because it is eternal. It
manifests its splendor just as far as the mind
permits it to do so.
I repeat: the charm and the wonder and
the comfort of Theosophy shine forth in its
teaching that all men have another chance,
even the most discouraged, those who have
lost faith in humanity, and the injured and
the oppressed.
The teachings of Theosophy ·will make
clear the way, will explain all apparent in-
justices; the twin doctrines of Karma and
Reincarnation will answer the most perplex-
ing questions.
Realize that the spiritual soul of man is
divine; look for the treasures of heaven with-
in yourself! Cherish all the beautiful thoughts
REINCARNATION 139
and the deepest yearnings of your soul. See
how few of them have been realized. Look Reincarna-
at life as it is in its eternity, in its vastness. lion brings
Know that the soul in its growth is going Enlighten-
step by step in self-directed evolution towards ment
the goal of ultimate perfection. Find your-
self and find peace!
The subject of Reincarnation is very dear
to me. It is one of the cardinal teachings of
Theosophy, and it contains in itself the pana-
cea for all the ills of the world. In the first
place it offers an explanation of all the ap-
parent injustices of life. It gives to the whole
of life an entirely new aspect. One's under-
standing of life grows and progresses, and be-
comes richer and more sacred and divine.
The very eagerness and restlessness of
human faces tell the story that the heart of
man is crying for something all the time:
Where is the Truth? Where is the Light?
Where can we find the answer to our pains
and our agonies and our heartaches? Preach-
.ers and teachers may talk to you from Mon-
day morning until Saturday night, but you
140 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
cannot find that which your soul craves until
you yourself work for it. And when you work
for it, turn your face towards that which
proves itself to be helpful. So I say study the
doctrine of Reincarnation.
To accept the idea of more than one
life on earth, or even to believe that it may
be possible, must necessarily change the whole
outlook of one's mind. It will bring something
new into the consciousness. But of course
the subject must be considered and studied to
be understood, just as must any other serious
subject. No matter how brilliant a man may
be or what abilities he may have, he never
goes very far in his knowledge of music, for
instance, without application and practice,
and without determined will-power. And so
it is with this subject.
The doctrine of Reincarnation brings en-
lightenment to the human mind. It takes
man out of his mental imprisonment and
holds before him a picture of the eternal veri-
ties. It shows that the divine laws that
govern us all are of a quality that appeals to
REINCARNATION 141
our souls as well as to our minds. And our
lives should be so tinctured with them, and
our minds should be so strongly impressed
with them, that, while we do our daily duties
down to the very letter, yet the greater joy
of living would be in finding the truth and
following the path of research - daring to
challenge these higher and divine laws about
which we know so little.
We have no broad conceptions of the
meaning and purpose of life; for if we had,
we would not allow conditions to be as they
are. We would declare ourselves insane and
lost if we were to accept the idea that man
is limited to just one short lifetime of seventy-
seven or a hundred years on earth, as we
know it today.
In saying this, I feel that I am revering
the Higher Law that governs this great uni-
verse and all the universes and all tha( goes
on in the wonderful mysteries of Nature, more
than those who limit human existence to one
life. I revere the Universal Law that holds
us all in its keeping. I feel a sacred trust
142 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
in it, and everyone should have that trust.
Let the thoughtful mother not attempt
to bring up her child according to the old
forms that her grandparents accepted; but let
her bring it up in trust in the light and strength
of its own inner knowledge. Let it feel the
richness and power of its own soul and the
enlightenment to be had from its own spiri-
tual nature; and it will be able to go forth
into the world strong and unafraid, compas-
sionate and true. Such a one will be much
better equipped to fulfil his highest destiny
than one brought up with the limited idea
of one earth-life and the fear of a punishing,
revengeful God, and the conviction of his
eternal sinfulness!
The doctrine of Reincarnation frees the
mind of man. Suppose, for the sake of ar-
gument, I accept the belief in only one life,
what have I to be proud of? What have I
to revere? What have I to love? What have
I to serve? Where is my God? What is life?
Why, it is a farce or a horrible nightmare!
It is true that those old dogmas have
REINCARNATION 143
been accepted by very good and splendid
people. But they were such in spite of those
teachings, and their lives proved their essen-
tial divinity and bore out the teachings of
Theosophy! One of the most beautiful of
its doctrines is that there is eternal life for
those who go out in the shadows as well as
for. those who go out in the light, because
the divine laws are merciful.
Somewhere along the great journey we all
have had a touch of the real spirit of Love -
but only a touch; because if we had fully
grasped all that the divine life has to offer us,
we would not be here questioning; we would
not have our present shadows and our heart-
aches.
Mothers and fathers know some of the
depths of life and something of love. They
can tell us the story. And they know that
seventy years are all too short for their loved
ones. We must have the opportunities of eter-
nity in order to grow and to become and to
evolve on the road of self-directed evolution.
Such is the majestic teaching of Theosophy.
144 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Accept it, and I assure you, you will
walk in the light; you will touch the fringe
of great truths; you will feel the majesty of
the Divine Law, and the glory of living, the
glory of loving, and the glory of serving, even
in this one life. That is what Theosophy is
trying to do: to liberate the minds of men,
to bring them to a point of understanding,
so that they can see these great truths from
all angles and then begin to apply them to
their own lives; to challenge themselves and
bring themselves in the silence of their own
inner chambers, in the quietude of their own
hearts, to an understanding of the world's
woes. When they reach that point, it will
not be long before great changes will come.
But now the air is filled with the selfish-
ness of human life. And how can we expect
humanity to raise its standards and move
out into the great, broad blue of an eternal
Trust, if men have only seventy-seven or a
hundred years inwhich to test themselves and
to grow into spiritual maturity? I ask you.
SECTION IV
~bt lltrftctibilit!' of jf(an
" The upward progress of the Soul is a
series of awakenings.''
-H. P. BLAVATSKY
THE PERFECTIBILITY OF MAN
I FEEL that my responsibility as a Theo-
sophical teacher is very great, first on The
account of the necessity of adequately PruiouJnul
presenting our wonderful Theosophical teach- of the
ings, and secondly because time is so precious; Moment
it is so valuable; and it is so very much mis-
used even by intelligent and well-meaning
people. One ·can appreciate time more in
remembering that this particular moment will
never be ours again. We must work and study.
In studying these great teachings, the
heart is attuned to aspirations that lift one na-
turally out of the material and every-day way
of thinking, into great hopes, great dreams,
great visions, and great resolutions. While one
may not respond always to such thoughts at
the moment, still, sometimes from the smallest
endeavor, if the conscience is clear and the mo-
tive high, great things can and do happen.
Not only is time misused, but human
•
148 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
life is also misused. The great majority of
people today either have no serious beliefs at
all regarding the soul and its destiny, or con-
tent themselves with a sort of half-belief in one
earth-life only, without any knowledge at all
of the future. The limitations that necessari-
ly result from holding such restricted ideas
greatly impede one's spiritual advancement.
But from the moment when one can at-
tune his spiritual aspirations to a high stan-
dard of living, even in just one earth-life, the
soul is immediately aroused and the results
are beyond all reckoning; because each man
is absolutely his own savior or his own de-
stroyer. There is no question about this in
the mind of any really thinking human being.
The treasures that belong to the in-
ner life, that is to say, to· the spiritual man,
can be found only by research, by living
in accord with the higher law of the spirit,
and by holding firmly to aspiration. In
following this path one will be better able
to understand the Theosophical teachings and
the wide field of thought that they embrace.
PROOF OF THE PERFECTIBILITY OF MAN 149
There are three outstanding principles of
Theosophy which should never be forgotten; Proof of the
they are the doctrines of Karma, of Reincar- Perfecti·
nation, and of the actuality of human per- hility of
fectibility. Man
In regard to this last doctrine we have
not only the belief, but the absolute know-
ledge, that man can attain through self-de-
vised efforts to such a high degree of evolu-
tion that for any one period he may be said
to have reached a state of relative perfection,
but with the possibility of attaining a still
larger and profounder state of development
in future evolutionary periods.
When I first came into the Theosophical
Movement I had only the Theosophical books
and H. P. Blavatsky's knowledge of her Great
Teachers on which to rely. But since that
time, I have had in my own experience the
proof of those truths which Theosop~y ex-
pounds in reference to man's attainment of
a state of perfection so far as it can be reached
in one earth-life. This fact of relative hu-
man perfection was revealed to me through
150 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
a personal meeting with such a man - one
of our Great Teachers.
What I tell you is not the result of fancy,
nor of dreams, nor of delusions, nor of an
imagined self-sufficiency in my own spiritual
discernment. I do not ·mean anything like
that; but I do tell you what happened and
what I saw and what I myself learned.
Not so many years ago, on my first tour
through Egypt and India, I received an in-
vitation to meet a Great Teacher.
I met this great character in India.
·Early in the morning before the sun was up
I had a call from the Teacher's 'chela,' as
they called him, who brought four servants
and a special escort with their open palan-
quin. The chela acted as guide, and, with
my maid, I went out up the mountains, and
up the mountains, and up the mountains.
The heat of the day was beyond anything
that you can conceive of.
After miles of travel we arrived at noon
at an almost unimaginable height. Every-
thing except the great range looked small
MY MEETING WITH THE TEACHER 151
and insignificant. In looking out over the
wonderful prospect, one could see how very· My Med-
easy it would be for one living up there all the ins wit/a tlae
time to have high aspirations and great ideas Teac/aer
and to grow and to become royal and splen-
did. All that was possible.
I had my mind fashioned, as I think
you~s might have been, to see something quite
remarkable - some astounding manifestation.
But when I reached this person, he was stand-
ing leaning against a tree with an English
jack-knife in his hand. He · was cutting a
little piece of wood. When he saw me he
came to meet me, asking me to excuse him
for a short time, because one of the bullocks
with which one of his chelas was plowing
had suffered an injury to his neck and he
was trying to repair the yoke.
I looked straight at the man. Now, even
in H. P. Blavatsky~s time he was considered
to be quite old in years; but he looked very
young when I saw him. I would have said
that he was then not more than thirty-two or
thirty-three years of age. He appeared to ,be
152 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Tibetan, dark of skin. His face was unlike
any other that I had ever seen before. His
whole life was lighted up with an inner light
that had toned his features, had brightened
his eyes, and had brought to him the glow of
youthfulness and splendor of character. One
could not look merely at his face. His whole
figure commanded attention. Yet he was
very unpretentious in manner.
I did not ask many questions, because
I found that he anticipated them - questions
that I had wanted an answer to ever since
I came into the Theosophical Society; es-
pecially as to how I was to meet the heavy
responsibilities that became mine when I was
named as the Leader of the Society for life -
the responsibility of helping to direct this
Society of aspirants for spiritual wisdom and
knowledge, at a time when I was unknown
to all save perhaps one or two members of
the Society.
I am trying to enter again into that
meeting with the Teacher, so that I may
give you whatever I am allowed to speak·of.
MY MEETING WITH THE TEACHER 153
In the first place, there was a conversation
in reference to the little time that I could
stay there. He urged me to hasten back in
order to be inside the village before dark-
ness, because there were bandits and queer
people all about.
He then gave me many ideas, which of
course might not interest the public, because
they pertained very largely to my Theoso-
phical work. Besides, it is very hard to find
the language to describe the most glorious,
superb, magnificent things in life. The most
wonderful things that one ever see~ in all
their beauty can never be described.
But in his presence I felt the greatness
of life, the true splendor of life, and its royal
promise. My mind at this meeting was un-
usually alert and awake.
It was utterly impossible that this man
was an impostor, as some might falsely think;
because he referred to incidents in my own
past that I had almost forgotten - incidents
that at the time turned my footsteps in this
or in that direction, and that finally led .to
154 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
my meeting with Mr. W. Q. Judge and even-
tually to his appointment of me as his suc-
cessor in the leadership of the Society.
Mr. Judge had found me working among
the poor of the slums - one might call them,
-on the East Side of New York City, try-
ing to help the unfortunate and to lift some
of their burdens in an honest and determined
way. That in itself was to me a great big
world of effort. It seemed to me at the
time that it was about as much as I could
handle.
But here was ·a man who had grown
great in unison with the higher expressions
of life, to which he had attuned his whole
being in utter self-forgetfulness. We all have
this same opportunity; but he was a great
soul, and welcomed this opportunity and
profited by it daily.
We must all, sooner or later, believe in
the marvelous powers of the spiritual soul
of man. We must all sooner or later fathom
the depths of our own nature and find there-
in the royal talisman of wisdom and truth.
FORCE OF THE TEACHER'S PRESENCE 155
This is what I found with him and in him.
Just while I was standing there with The lllumi-
him, I discovered anew, under the great force nation anJ
of his presence - and it came to me like an Force of the
illumination,- that there was something in- Teaclaer·s
deed in me more than the mere mentality; Pruence
that there was a vital, latent force inside me
that desired to come out and inspire me to
achieve things that I had never done before.
It seemed to me as if I had never really
lived before that moment, and never known
so much about life as I then knew; and yet
H. P. Blavatsky and Mr. Judge had both
said that I was a Theosophist born. Yet
this was the great day of my life - a day
of greater promise for my work for all hu-
manity.
Since then I have felt that it would
be easy to go through fire and suffering and
persecution and anything to push this mes-
sage of Theosophy out to the world. The
credit for this spirit of courage within me
is not mine; it came to me from being in
the presence of this Great Teacher, and from
156 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
realizing in him to what heights a true man
can reach.
There are some things which I cannot
tell of this meeting, because they do not
belong to the public, but only, possibly, to
old and pledged members of our Society. But
they were truly wonderful and grand. I will
only add now that when I went to visit this
Teacher, I was weighed down with the res-
ponsibility of carrying on the work of the
Theosophical Society throughout the world
and of meeting the conditions that I knew
must be changed; because my Predecessor,
William Quan Judge, had been ill for two
years, and during his illness many things had
drifted along in the Society by no means in
accordance with the highest Theosophical
standards.
But when I bade goodbye to that won-
derful character and looked into his bright,
kindly eyes (I never saw a pair like them),
I had renewed life. I was then under the
care of physicians, who declared I never would
live to reach home. And traveling on the
FORCE OF THE TEACHER'S PRESENCE 157
cars from town to town, it was daily ex-
pected that I would die. It may be very
hard to believe it, but it should be believed;
because I am truthful: I recovered my health,
although I had been condemned by three of
the best physicians in London and two in
New York to die from Bright's disease.
No great magic was performed, and I
did not become well the very next day. But
physically and mentally I was so aroused
that I steadily improved. My whole nature
was alert, so that it was impossible for me to
give way! And here I am still active, thir-
ty years later! This really did happen.
I do not think it was any 'miracle.' I do
not believe in anything supernatural at all.
I believe that my soul was hungry; that
I was to a degree weary of the weight of woe
in the world. I saw people everywhere
struggling, making their mistakes, and I was
oppressed with the thought: "Poor me!
What can I do to spread these great Theo-
sophical teachings throughout the world?"
Therein I was belittling my own power and
158 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
almost losing sight of my own soul-strength,
when I entertained such thoughts.
And then I met this Great Teacher. My
soul-hunger was satisfied, my questions were
answered, and my tired body responded and
was cured!
Believing in Reincarnation, as we do,-
that man has life after life in which to reach
ever higher states of perfection,- one can
imagine how much grander even this Great
Teacher himself would be in yet another life!
The greatest language that. was ever
uttered can never fully bring to you the con-
sciousness of your own essential divinity until
you have aspired to even more than I speak of,
until you have looked within yourselves, chal-
lenged yourselves, and rebuked yourselves just
enough to find your strength to go forward
and to become. Take Theosophy in this way
and thus find its possibilities.
I absolutely challenge everyone, no mat-
ter what line of spiritual thought he has been
following, to study the evidence that Theo-
sophy presents in proof of its own intrinsic
THE CHALLENGE OF THEOSOPHY 159
truth. You cannot get it elsewhere. You
must have the basis, the anchorage, the foot- Tlte Chal-
ing, that Theosophy gives; and, above all, /enfe of
you must have a spiritual awakening. You Theosophy
cannot tell when it comes or how it comes,
or anything of that sort.
All you have to do is to open your minds
and look at the universe as something so
vastly superior to anything you had dreamed
of it as being before; loo~ upon life as some-
thing sacred and gra.
nd and sublime in its
promise and possibilities. Then recall what
your aspirations and your dreams of noble
action have been; think of your hopes and
of the fragmentary touches that you have
had of the spiritual life. Then you will find
revelations upon revelations right within your-
selves - . in your inner nature. They are
priceless.
I suppose that if we were told today that
far off in the desert somewhere there were
rich gold-mines waiting to be worked, we
would all be up bright and early and start out
in the morning and walk or run thither bare-
·.
160 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
footed, if there were no other way by which
to reach the gold-mines! But if you are told
of the beautiful spiritual treasures of Theo-
sophical truth, that are right at hand in your
own lives, in your own thoughts, within your-
selves, few stir themselves even sufficiently
to investigate!
Of course there may be some who are
self-satisfied and think this is all nonsense
and that you will not accept it. But a true
Theosophist is fearless. That is one of the
first evidences one sees of the glory and mag-
nificence of these teachings of the Ancient
Wisdom. These enable the true disciple to
go through life unafraid.
Most beautiful of all, the true Theo-
sophist is unafraid of death. He has a new
view of death. And life itself is so lovely and
sublime, if rightly lived, even in one in-
carnation!
No matter what your cares and your
disappointments, you can depend on the inner
life and find its pe~ce without money and
without price. When you realize this truth
THE CHALLENGE OF THEOSOPHY 161
and take it into your mind and your heart
and into your very soul, you may be sure that
life is joy, and that every moment is beautiful
and sacred.
Each of you has a responsibility that you
know very little about, unless you know some-
thing of Theosophy. You do not yet under-
stand the real value of yourselves and your
moments. So it is the duty of every man who
can believe, and think, and dare, to fulfil
his mission to the very end.
Theosophy tells you: Do not talk des-
pondently about old age. Perhaps the body
is indeed becoming old and tired; but think
of the soul growing young in its splendid
vitality, in its inner vision of things, in its
realization of the value and the virtue of
the spiritual life!
I know the day is coming, perhaps before
I go to another life - certainly in the next
twenty-five or fifty years,- when H. P. Bla-
vatsky's sacred teachings, as they are im-
bodied in Theosophy, will be better understood
and appreciated, even more than they are to-
162 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
day, all over the world, and especially in
Europe.
I say strange things sometimes, but I
mean them; and I know what I am talking
about when I tell you that Humanity will
have to have many more·shocks, more alarm-
ing tragedies and calamities, before the people
awaken. Yet a true Theosophist must be able
to look upon the most terrible things with open
mind and stand unafraid throughout the
storm. Why? Because Theosophy will en-
lighten the mind so that it understands, and
the soul becomes receptive; it stands firm and
is ready to meet and overcome all obstacles.
How trivial human existence is when
viewed from the standpoint of only one life-
time on earth! Why, what can the man with
even the greatest aspirations really do or work
out in these few years that he passes here in
this school of experience of one lifetime? But
Theosophy says that he ·has another chance
in another life, and after that other chances
in other lives! Why, even Nature teaches
us this lesson in its repeated seasons of going
CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE SOUL-LIFE 163
to sleep in its wintry rest and reawakening
in the spring! The Con-
The one great need is for man so to lciou&nu& of
arouse his mentality to the conception that the Soul-
he is a soul, that there can be the conquest life
by the soul. When men have reached this
point, we shall not need any more prisons nor
punishments. I do not believe we shall then
have any more murderers anywhere; for the
very atmosphere will be teeming with these
finer forces that I am talking about, and which
science is bringing forward to our view very
rapidly. These will lead man to his heritage,
to his light, to his own salvation.
Lest we should, perhaps when too late,
look back over the record of our lives and
be dismayed at the thought of what we
might have done, I say again: Time is
precious; Time is precious. In the short
space of five or ten minutes, one can change
his life for the better to an almost incon-
ceivable degree.
I am not referring to ·matters beyond
your comprehension. Let even those with
164 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
the most obtuse minds, those who are in-
different to anything but to eat, sleep, and
be merry, just feel once the thrill of the know-
ledge of the soul - of the real life! Awaken
to that knowledge, and then time will be-
come indeed very precious to you!
How royally and magnificently an awak-
ened soul uses his moments! How joyfully
he sets behind him all temptations and weak-
nesses! No vain regrets, nor great suffering,
nor self-imposed martyrdom, nor anything
of that .sort! He just steps into the new life,
rejuvenated, so to speak, renovated, restored
to his spiritual rights and to that quality of
knowledge that is essential for a man in order
that he may understand his own responsi-
bilities in life.
The reason why Theosophy is not ac-
cepted by everybody is that there are many
people in the world, as everyone knows, who
do not aspire. They have been miseducated
for so long, as were their ancestors before
them, that it is in their very blood to suppose
that when a man dies, that is the end of every-
CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE SOUL-LIFE 165
thing; or, if he has been reasonably good,
he goes to Heaven, and if he is not among
the elect, he goes to the other place! 0 ye
gods! What nonsense!
To the Theosophist, on the other hand,
the picture is such that he learns to realize
how precious life is. He values every moment
of his time and makes good use of it. He ap-
plies his aspirations to real living. He stands
constantly in the knowledge of his soul-life.
He finds himself alert, alive, and moving posi-
tively onwards!
I hold that if one has the real teachings
of Theosophy teeming in his very blood, he
can never turn back. It is only those who
merely half-place themselves in touch with
these ideas and then play hide-and-go-seek
with their own souls, who fail. - Yes, who
fail for this life, but for whom there is an-
other chance in the next life!
One who has the thrill of really divine
aspirations sufficiently to believe himself a
necessary factor in the spiritual scheme of
human life, is always ready to look into Theo-
166 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
sophy. Remember that Theosophy is nothing
Real anJ new; it is no innovation of recent centuries;
Counterfeit it is very old, so old that we cannot go back
Theo$ophy to its beginnings, to those far distant ages
when men and women lived closer to truth
and to the simple life than they do now. It
is as old as thinking man.
I feel that it is my religious duty again
and again to call the attention of the public
to some of the popular delusions and false
ideas that, unfortunately, many still have
about Theosophy. I think it is abominable,
outrageous, and a crime, that the word Theo-
sophy, which means Divine Wisdom, has been
so misused and misapplied by certain people
who have sought to make themselves popular.
This mistake does not happen among the
members of our Society. In fact, I feel like
saying that it would be dangerous if we ever
gained such cheap popularity! There would
then be too much likelihood of fraud, of im-
position, and of the misrepresentation of great
truths taking place. Such a condition is
enough to stir the blood of every one of us.
REAL AND COUNTERFEIT THEOSOPHY 167
We must all make our choice some time;
and the question is, shall we do it now or
shall we wait until another life? Then we
shall look back and see the time we wasted
and the opportunities we lost, and how we
turned away from the true path.
These are the thoughts that come upon
me so strongly in meeting people as I do when
I lecture; because I know that they are very
earnest; I know that they come to receive
some light or some thoughts that will per-
haps open up some new way for them - some
happier way of thinking and living.
As I looked at our Memorial Temple of
Peace on entering it today, dedicated as it is
to the memory of my Predecessors, H. P.
Blavatsky and William Quan Judge, I was
thinking: "If this Temple had not been built,
you would not be here today. And in my
opinion you would have missed something
that belongs to you, and which will ultimately
greatly help you."
I am as sure as I live that there are
always some who come to my lectures who
168 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
-
will be affected with an honest interest in
the sublime truths of Theosophy that can be
found so easily. And that is what my work
is. I call it my soul's energy, because I be-
lieve I am essentially a spiritual being, as
all other humans are in essence. But I know
that through my devotion to the principles
of Theosophy, the Good Law has brought
me here and has given me this opportunity
to do what I can with an earnest heart to
lift humanity's burdens. That is my true
desire, for I love my fellow-men.
I am not a pessimist; for I realize that
despite the crimes and the disappointments
and the despair from which the world suffers
today, there is a great promise of better things
ahead. A change is coming. We are reaching
the tether end of things as they are, and in
the course of time something will happen that
will suddenly arouse humanity to a realiza-
tion that the only safe thing to hold to, will be
the great and inspiring truths of the majestic
Theosophical philosophy; for all that I tell
you _
is verily your rightful human heritage.
SECTION V
~be Jntemational ~beo~opbital
.,eabquarte~
"Before we can achiefle political reforms, we
must achieve a reform in human nature."
-H. P. BLAVATSKY
THE INTERNATIONAL THEOSO-
PHICAL HEADQUARTERS
PoiNT LoMA, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA
IT was nearly thirty-one years ago that
the story of Point Lorna as a spiritual
and cultural center for the whole of
humanity began.
On February 23, 1897, I laid here the
corner-stone of 'The School for the Revival
of the Lost Mysteries of Antiquity,' on what
was then a barren, almost inaccessible promon-
tory, practically uninhabited save by jack-
rabbits, coyotes, and rattle-snakes, with no
trees or houses, no water, gas, electricity, or
other modem conveniences~ and approachable
only by trails scarcely worthy the name of
roads, across the flats where now the U. S.
Naval Training Station, the U. S. Marine
Barracks, and the Ryan Air Field are located,
which were frequently flooded by rain and
high tides and rendered well-nigh impassable.
172 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
What a vast change these three decades
have wrought!
To go back to my childhood-dream of
the 'White City' that I would some day
build in the 'Gold Land of the West' : the
travail of my own soul during the years that
intervened before the realization of the dream
seemed even remotely possible: the streng-
thening of my trust in the sacred laws of life,
by General John C. Fremont, who told me
in New York a few weeks before he died,
when I described to him the place of my
dreams, which I had never seen, that there
was such a place in California, that he had
seen it with his own eyes, and that it was
at Point Lorna, across the bay from San
Diego: would doubtless be an interesting
story to many, but it would lead me far
afield from present purposes.
Suffice it to say that at the death of
William Quan Judge, co-founder of the Theo-
sophical Society in New York in 1875 with
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky -the great Rus-
sian mystic of royal blood, cosmopolitan cui-
THE THEOSOPHICAL HEADQUARTERS 173
ture, and profoundest erudition - and her
successor as the real Leader and Teacher of
the Theosophical Movement in modern times,
I found myself named by him in turn as his
successor, with active centers all over the
world whose members were enthusiastically
devoted to the teachings of Theosophy - the
Ancient Wisdom-Religion,- and within whose
ranks at least a strong nucleus were eager to
put into practice the teachings and to join
me in establishing a World-Center for the
exemplification of Theosophical principles in
daily life.
The Headquarters of our Society were
then at 144 Madison Avenue, New York.
Shortly after Mr. Judge passed away there
in 1896.
, I organized the first 'Theosophical
Crusade' around the world for the spreading
of the doctrines of genuine Theosophy, in
contradistinction to the weird, fantastic, far-
fetched, and often .dangerous teachings that
were then being promulgated and have with
increasing persiste~ce since been promulgated
by certain so-called theosophists who short-
174 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
ened Mr. Judge's life by their cruel persecu-
tion of him and their opposition to real Theo-
sophical principles.
Leaving New York on June 13, 1896,
the party of American Theosophists, including
besides myself soine of the most earnest and
prominent members of our Organization in
this country, circled the globe and climaxed
this tour by the laying of the corner-stone of
our future work at Point Lorna as already
mentioned.
At that time San Diego .had the appear-
ance of a struggling mining town with little
promise of ever being the beautiful city it
now is nor the magnificent metropolis - the
'Port Orient' of the Southwest- which it is
destined to become. But of course it had
certain advantages which no one could rob
it of- its fine landlocked harbor, its wonder-
ful climate in the unsurpassed setting of
purple mountains, calm seas, and blue skies
the year around. And the best situation of
all, in my judgment, was that which I chose
for the World's Theosophical Center at Point
THE THEOSOPHICAL HEADQUARTERS 175
Lorna. All that was required was the faith
of far-seeing men in San Diego's future and
the energy to make the vision an actuality.
And I must confess that, when at the
end of our trip around the world, the mem-
bers of my staff first visited Point Lorna with
me in 1897 over the rough country trails and
under the conditions already described, their
trust in their Leader was put to a severe test.
It was hard to imagine that this 'jumping-off
place' would some day be world-famous as
a center of spiritual and intellectual culture
and refinement, beautiful gardens, fine build-
ings of original architecture, magnificent homes
and limitless possibilities.
Some of the hard-headed business-men
of New York, who were members of my cabi-
net, said among themselves at that time:
"Well, Katherine Tingley is all right as a
Theosophical teacher, but petticoats cannot
know anything about real estate, or she never
would have had money invested in this God-
forsaken spot." But there was no question
of their devotion to Theosophy nor of their
176 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
loyalty to the Leader whom it was their
choice to follow.
And now, speaking solely from a material
standpoint and leaving entirely out of con-
sideration for the moment matters of far
greater lasting importance to the world, I
may mention that a portion of the land which
was purchased by me in 1897 for $100 an
acre I sold last year - still unimproved and
not needed for my purposes - for $5500 an
acre! Even an unimaginative real-estate deal-
er, who measures life in terms of profit and
loss, can understand the force of these facts!
In February, 1900, I came with my staff
of workers to Point Lorna for permanent resi-
dence, and the International Theosophical
Headquarters and all its departments were
transferred from 144 Madison Avenue, New
York. In May of that year I established the
now world-famous Raja-Yoga System of Edu-
cation at Point Lorna.
What does Raja-Yoga mean and what
are the principles upon which my school was
established? I repeat here what I have said
THE THEOSOPHICAL HEADQUARTERS 177
many times before in answer to similar ques-
tions:
'Raja-Yoga' is an ancient Sanskrit term;
etymologically it means the 'Royal Union.'
This term was selected by me as best ex-
pressing in its real meaning the purpose of
my system of education, viz.: the balance of
all the faculties, physical, mental, moral, and
spiritual. The system was originated by me
as the result of my own experience and know-
ledge, gained largely while working for the
poor and unfortunate on the East Side of
New York City.
I found that the conditions of suffering
in the world were due largely to lack of know-
ledge governing human life. I realized that
nearly all our systems of helpfulness were
totally backhanded. We dealt then, and most
people deal now, with effects rather than
causes. After the damage is done we attempt
to repair. I saw a picture of reaching down
to fundamental causes, starting the child right
and fitting him to meet the exigencies of life
with some possibility of building his character,
178 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
gaining self-confidence, keeping the upper
hand, retaining originality, purity, and ideals,
and leading a clean life. What I planned to
do was to prevent the damage being done.
The world was well equipped with havens
for the beaten and the fallen. I wanted to
evolve an institution to take humanity in
hand before it was worsted in the struggle
of life.
I said then, as I say now, that the truest
and fairest thing of all as regards education
is to attract the mind of the pupil to the
fact that the immortal self is ever seeking to
bring the whole being into a state of perfec-
tion. The real secret of the Raja-Yoga sys-
tem is rather to evolve the child's character
than to overtax the child's mind; it is to
bring out rather than to bring to the faculties
of the child. The grander part is from
within.
In 1919 the Theosophical University at
Point Lorna, of which I have the honor to be
the Foundress and President for life, was
chartered by the State of California and has
THE THEOSOPHICAL HEADQUARTERS 179
since been accredited by the U. S. Depart.:
ment of Labor as an institution of learning
which may receive bona fide foreign students
as non-quota immigrants.
What is Theosophy? Thus have I de-
fined it in one of my first published works,
Theosophy: the Path of the Mystic: Theo-
sophy is no system of sterile thought but a
light, a teacher, a companion, ever calling
to compassionate action, ever urging to nobler
efforts. Think of Theosophy not so much
as a body of philosophic or other teaching,
but as the highest law of conduct, which is
the enacted expression of divine love or
.
compassion.
My predecessor, William Quan Judge,
in the opening paragraph of his work, The
Ocean of Theosophy, thus defines it:
"Theosophy is that ocean of knowledge
which spreads from shore to shore of the
evolution of sentient beings; unfathomable
in its deepest parts, it gives the greatest
minds their fullest scope, y~t, shallow enough
180 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
at its shores, it will not overwhelm the under-
standing of a child."
And H. P. Blavatsky, Foundress of the
modern Theosophical Movement, author of
The Secret Doctrine, Isis Unveiled, The Key
to Theosophy, etc., thus - defines Theosophy
or 'Divine Wisdom':
"Behold the Truth before you: a clean
life, an open mind, a pure heart, an eager
intellect, an unveiled -
spiritual perception, a
brotherliness for one's co-disciple, a readiness
to give and receive advice and instruction,
a loyal sense of duty to the Teacher, a will-
.ing obedience to the behests of TRUTH, once
we have placed our confidence in and be-
lieve that Teacher to be in possession of it;
a courageous endurance of personal injustice,
a brave declaration of principles, a valiant
defense of those who are unjustly attacked,
and a constant eye to the ideal of human
progression and perfection which the Secret
Science depicts - these are the golden stairs
up the steps of which the learner may climb
to the temple of Divine Wisdom."
THE THEOSOPHICAL HEADQUARTERS 181
A free correspondence- and information-
bureau has been maintained for more than
thirty years at the International Theosophical
Headquarters, for the benefit of all who are
seriously interested in Theosophy and the
work here being carried on; and thousands
of illustrated magazines, pamphlets, press-
reports, etc., have been freely distributed to
all quarters of the globe every year for the
past three decades.
In conclusion, I repeat what I stated
publicly about twenty-five years ago: that
San Diego, which of course includes Point
Lorna, is destined to become the Athens of
America. It is already an acknowledged
.World-Center.
[The foregoing part of this section ia an
article written for and reprinted from the
59th Annual Edition of " The San Diego
Union'' of January 2, 1928]
182 ·THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
To THE REsiDENT-MEMBERS AND STUDENTs
AT THE WoRLD's THEosoPHICAL CENTER,
PoiNT LoMA, CALIFORNIA
THERE is enough of genuine spiritual
The Spirit virility in all of you to make this Movement
of LomalanJ tell for tremendous, mighty things in the next
few years! Our Institution itself is impreg-
. nable, so long ·as we have the superb harmony,
this royal unity of hearts and hands and minds,
all working like one great golden stream of
enlightenment down through the months and
the years and the ages of the future. It is
readily understood by those who open their
minds to the truth that this Institution is
the light of the world today; and every day
it is throwing out more light, so that ulti-
mately it will be the spiritual Mecca of the
world!
So long as we join hands in this great
mental and spiritual effort, just so long can
we say in the truest and highest sense that
we are marching on to victory - not alone
to victory for ourselves but to victory for
THE SPIRIT OF LOMALAND 183
the whole world; for the whole world needs
just the victory that .we can bring, because
never in the history that I know anything
about, were conditions more terrible than
they are today.
So we are constantly challenged, implored,
and pleaded with from the inmost depths of
our hearts and from the silent moments of
our minds: "Do better! Grow stronger!
Hold your heads up and live for the eternal
verities!" These verities are to be found in
the teachings of Theosophy. Live in Theo-
sophy! Grow strong, pure, true, and beauti-
ful; and all the rest will come to you!
This is a very sacred place to those who
are closely connected with our Institution.
The lives of very many noble men and women
have been dedicated to it. It is no ordinary
effort. Those who first came here to this
uncultivated country came, in a sense, to a
new land, far away from the advantages that
most human beings deem essential. They
came not with golden promises nor supported
by the wealth of the world; but they came
'
184 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
with one superb motive and a superb· con-
fidence, which, if we could ingrain them into
the hearts of the mothers and fathers of to-
day, would enable us to make the world over.
One might claim that all humanity has
a certain quality of confidence; but the early
Theosophical pioneers- particularly H. P.
Blavatsky and William Quan Judge- had a
rare confidence, a great understanding of life,
and a broad and deep conception of all that
human beings undertake to do.
The superb message that this one single
woman brought - when she came to this
country, unfamiliar with our language, un-
known to our people, and facing the preju-
dice there w.as at that time against all innova-
tions - her superb message has warmed the
hearts of all the dear members and workers
here and throughout the world, and it has
influenced very many, far and near, to turn
with greater hope to a brighter view of life.
The one great secret which she tried first
of all to give to humanity was a knowledge of
man's own essential divinity. And the next
THE SPIRIT OF LOMALAND 185
thing which we must all realize and take to
heart and believe in, before we can under-
stand ourselves, and before we shall be pre-
pared to enter the next life, is the teaching
of Reincarnation - of another chance, and
another chance, and still another chance.
Let us sing it out into the atmosphere in order
to give a new hope to humanity! It is not
a far-fetched doctrine; it is not a dream;
it is a reality!
Our beautiful ideals, our hopes and our
prayers and our yearnings, are not to remain
forever unanswered! The future holds for
us glory and beauty and charm and power
and majesty; and, above all, Reincarnation
brings home to all some conception of the
inherent dignity of manhood and woman-
hood. These are the things we must think
about.
The little children are teaching us the
fundamental ideas, showing the joy of unity
· and co-operation and the gladness which they
feel in loving the true and the beautiful.
There is nothing to mar this happiness in
186 · THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Lomaland. The dear mothers and fathers
who have entrusted their children to us must
feel that the little ones are breathing in the
very essence of the things that all humanity
should have.
We are not teaching the children Theo-
sophy in any other way than by the example
of the teachers' lives. And in the very at-
mosphere of co-operation among parents, chil-
dren, and teachers, something is growing in
the natures of these little folk that is pre-
paring them for the next condition of life,
when they are older.
I presume to take this opportunity to
impress upon those who are not identified
with our Organization that there is some-
thing to be found by coming into contact
with the work of the Universal Brotherhood
and Theosophical Society- especially with
the members at~our International Headquar-
ters here at Point Lorna, and most of all with
the children. There is something in the very
atmosphere of this Institution that a.ll should
have- especially those who are not satisfied.
THE SPIRIT OF LOMALAND 187
Theosophy offers the key to the great
problems of life: "Man, know thyself!"
Through the study of the ·Ancient Wisdom,
man can find the glorious anthem, the great
symphony of life, that is ringing in the very
atmosphere of our surroundings. But we
have been too dead to hear. We must awaken
and find the way and open the door and be-
come the truest and grandest and the most
superb guardians of the young ones.
It is our youth we must protect; and we
can protect them if we will bring them closer
to a realization of the meaning of life and
its duties than we have before done. Then
we shall make a great step forward in the
advancement of the human race.
This is a very beautiful time, an exqui-
sitely sacred and solemn hour. Our hearts
have been touched. We have discovered
something in the very depths of our natures,
which perhaps we had never thought of be-
fore. It is a wonderful thing to meet together,
especially in this World-Center, and to find
ourselves rejoicing like little children.
188 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
I wish to congratulate mothers and fath-
ers for showing the wisdom to send their
children to the RAja-Yoga School. I believe
that great blessings will come to them as a
result of this - new life and new possibilities.
As for the little folk, they are making
their lives very beautiful. Just as far as they
do right, just as far as they are sincere, just
as far as they love truth better than false-
hood, just as far as they love the sunshine
more than the shadows, just as far as they
love their mothers and fathers and their com-
rades and all whom they know, they will
find more in life than ever before.
Raja-Yoga is the sacred symphony of
life that is ringing all about us. We have
not yet heard it fully. But the sound is
drawing nearer; the way is opening; and
the light is breaking. The great spirit of
love hovers over us, breathing out of the most
tender parts of our hearts something beauti-
ful which we cannot express. Let us try to
make it something more for the whole world.
Let us make our lives more beautiful,
THE SPffiiT OF LOMALAND 189
more true, and glorious examples; so that we
will not only do our own parts, but encourage
our little folk to a higher realization of life's
possibilities.
If we can keep our hearts attuned to
the true and the beautiful, even though we
may be failing in a sense, and even though
we have not reached the point that our as-
pirations demand, if we are moving forward,
if we are up and doing, if we are striving to
climb upwards, then we are safe, we are in
the light and under the influence of the High-
er Law, and we cannot go backwards.
So all of us are growing in spite of our
imperfections. We are gaining the light and
the strength that we need to grip the deeper
problems of life through our own experiences.
It is through these, I think, that we acquire
the greatest knowledge.
I like to visualize H. P. Blavatsky and
William Quan Judge as standing there in the
doorway. I think each of them would say:
"It is better than I could have expected."
I believe they would have taken some long
190 THE· VOICE OF THE SOUL
breaths and would have added: "But there
is so much more that you can do. It is
easily done, and right at hand, if you will
only go directly for it, reach out for it, move
away from your odd ideas and the 'unfinished
business' in your natures~ Move away from
all the weaknesses you know of, and make
a leap, so to speak! Take immediately the
first one, then the second, and the third, and
so forth."
Today marks another period in the prog-
ress of our work on the Screen of Time,
which is a real thing to me. I think we have
done well in many things since last year;
and if I dare to look ahead three or four
years I shall be smiling even more than I am
today, and if I live, my eyes will be brighter,
my heart will be stronger, my hopes will be
greater. It all depends on you. This great
work, this Theosophical Movement, depends
on you even more than it does on the mem-
bers throughout the world; for you are here
at the Center, and you are closer to the
realization of what the work means. You
THE SPIRIT OF LOMALAND 191
have not the distressing and destructive con-
ditions of the world to meet every day.
It is a broad speech for me to make, but
I make it: this body of people here on this
Hill hold humanity in their hands. It is a
tremendous responsibility; but oh! how splen-
did and glorious it is that we can be the
great factors in this mighty work!
I do appreciate the work of every member
here and throughout the world! Every de-
partment of our Organization tells a great story
of the efforts and sacrifices that have been
made by many, of the days and months and
years of patient service! The unity of purpose
back of it all haunts me. The charm of the
whole beautiful spiritual work seems to breathe
itself out into blossoming consciousness!
SECTION VI
t!tbt t!tbto~pbical ~onteption
of Ialu anb f>rber
" Tlw difficulty, my friends, is not in avmd-
ing death, but in avoiding unrighteousness; for
that runs faster than death."
-SOCRATES
THE THEOSOPHICAL CONCEPTION
OF LAW AND ORDER
THE great truths of Theosophy are in
themselves, intrinsically, so compelling, TheoJophy
so convincing, and its principles are so the En-
powerful in arou$ing the virtues, t~at even a liglltener
mere outline of it often proves itself actually
a revelation, bringing to the consciousness of
the listener unfamiliar with Theosophy some-
thing he never had before.
In the first place, Theosophy makes one
better acquainted with himself. And while it
makes one feel more keenly his highest needs,
it also meets those needs. The most beauti-
ful aspect of it is that it enables one to ob-
tain in its teachings the remedy for the
world's disappointments and heartaches, the
explanation of the injustices of life, and the
solution of all the serious problems of the
time. And I declare that these problems can-
not adequately be met in any other way than
196 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
through the teachings of the Ancient Wisdom.
It requires no very great observation on
the part of one who knows something of the
menacing conditions of the world today to
realize that somehow, somewhere, under some
circumstances, in the course of humanity's
evolutionary journey, important factors were
overlooked.
In the first place, in the present age, the
large majority of men do not dream of what
their heritage is, or of what their possibilities
are. Few indeed are happy, though some
perhaps have the appearance of being so.
Thousands and thousands live in the belief
of the one life only.
I cannot conceive how the reasoning mind
of man can contemplate the idea of the one
life and be satisfied with it. If ·we consider
merely his unfulfilled aspirations, the many
things that happen that should not happen,
and the much that his heart craves for that
is not his, we must realize that he finds him-
self all awry unless he takes the broader con-
ception of human life which Theosophy offers;
THEOSOPHY THE ENLIGHTENER 197
that is, that the doctrine of Reincarnation
is true.
Then he looks out beyond the days and
the years, beyond the one lifetime, and catches
a glimpse of the infinite possibilities of the
spiritual soul of man. He becomes imbued
with the consciousness that he himself is es-
sentially divine. From the time that he dis-
covers this, all the aspects of life change.
Where there was despair there is now hope;
where there was darkness there is light;
where there were errors there is truth.
Just these few words should be enough
to startle the ordinary mind of man into
looking at human life differently, into fashion-
ing in thoughts, in aspirations, in dreams, in
hopes, in plans, and in service, a quality of
supreme manhood and womanhood that would
outdo anything known at the present time,
except to Theosophists.
Metaphysical research has its place, I
am sure; but if we are to reach down to the
absolute facts of life, we must have a basis
of knowledge, and that knowledge must open
198 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
our minds to the truth, so that we are im-
TireMOplry mediately convinced of the truth; so that
Offers Truth we cannot escape it.
There is only one way of meeting the
awful injustices that we know of, and that
is by basing our knowledge on truth. Theo-
sophy offers the truth.
How is it that the people of this cen-
tury have drifted into the chaotic condition
that now confronts us? How is it that the
mothers and fathers of the present day, with
all their longings, with.all their love, all their
devotion, all the yearnings of their heaPts, and
the disposition of self-sacrifice, have missed
the key to that knowledge which is absolutely
necessary in order to bring man to the con-
sciousness of the divine life? That key is in
man himself, in the divine side of his nature.
When that is discovered it is the real en-
lightenment.
If we have no knowledge of the higher
laws that govern our lives, and give us the
hope and promise of_another life, if we have
no consciousness of our sacred duties - the
THEOSOPHY OFFERS TRUTH 199
duties of the real man, the soul - it is indeed
wonderful that we can stand on our feet, as
to some extent we do, and move along to-
gether without destroying each other. Why
is this possible? It is because the divine ray
is still present in every man and illumines
his life as much as he permits it to do so.
The sun shines and gives you light; but
it is very easy for you to turn your back on
the light and live in darkness. So is it with
these Theosophical teachings. We must meet
them half way. We must meet the duties of
life half way also. And in doing so, among
other very essential qualities, we must culti-
vate an absolute devotion to law and order.
Even the best of men, those whose lives
are unsullied, whose minds are full of good
intentions and hopes, if they have not Theo-
sophy are moving along in the shadows;
they cannot find themselves; they do not
realize the essential divinity of human life.
We must of course accept light from the
inner life, from the inner portion of man's
nature. We must move out beyond our
200 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
prejudices and misconceptions and limitations.
We must create a grand and magnificent pic-
ture of man's superb possibilities.
Watch Nature. See how the flowers
grow, apparently without effort, in a natural
way. One part ·works with another. There
is inward harmony. Nature gives us wonder-
ful examples and beautiful lessons; but we
do not look at them. We are too much occu-
pied with the bread-and-butter question. We
have identified ourselves almost completely
with the methods, the processes, and the non-
essentials of the times, so that we have as-
sumed artificial responsibilites.
Therefore it is very difficult for one like
myself, or one more capable than I am, to
bring that quality of knowledge to the mind
of man that would convince him that without,
and within, that afar, and near, are hidden
forces and currents of the beautiful spiritual
life. We must meet them in the natural way;
work in harmony with them - with these
higher laws that bring to us the superb con-
sciousness of our own essential divinity. If
NO HARSH REMEDIES 201
we have this we have all, in a sense, that is
needed; for the rest follows in natural se- No Harsh
quence. Remedies
These treasures of truth are right at
hand sleeping in the hearts of men. But
they are ignored and set aside because the
brain-mind depends upon many things with
which it really has very little to do. The
brain-mind has its place, of course; it gives
us a certain quality of knowledge and en-
lightenment. But we must have a companion
for the brain-mind- an accompanying power,
and this comes from the spiritual side of man.
The two must work in unity, the brain-mind
enlightened by the spiritual, each fulfilling
its proper mission.
Let us picture to ourselves the mothers
of several generations back. Of course in
some ways they knew more about.the essen-
tial things of life than we do. But think
what a progeny would have been theirs had
they known of the deeper spiritual responsi-
bilities of motherhood, had they drawn upon
the rich inner knowledge that was sleeping
,
202 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
within their very souls. Do you not believe
that despite all that they taught, and despite
all the obstacles that they overcame, they
would have left a still nobler heritage to their
offspring- that the spiritual part would have
been cultivated at least equally with the
physical?
With our overdoing in attention to the
physical aspects of life and our lack of atten-
tion to man's spiritual life, the inner real life,
we must admit that most of us are half asleep.
If this condition had not existed for genera-
tions back, can you not believe that we would
have less sin, less sorrow, less crime, and none
of these monstrous murders that are such a
dreadful social afHiction today?
It is a sad picture- the present civiliza-
tion! It is an appalling picture; it is a mon-
strous picture, that in this twentieth century
we still believe it is our duty to attempt to
correct human errors with force, with menac-
ing punishments. It is proof of the lack
of that spiritual knowledge which men should
have in order to make them declare: "With-
NO HARSH REMEDIES 203
hold! No sacrifice of human life! No har8h
and barbaric remedies at all!"
The spiritual nature of man, the en-
lightening and saving power within him,
should come into action and cry out to in-
different people for more mercy, even for the
most downtrodden, the most horrible and
beastly creature in human shape. Mercy and
justice! Can we remedy human error by
force and fear? What examples do we set
to our posterity when we attempt to do so?
How many people are there today who
would have the courage to declare from the
very depths of their hearts that they had
found those qualities that make up the divine
in man? Had they really found those quali-
ties they could face the world with such know-
ledge and meet all opposition and prejudice,
and even persecution and punishment. Not
many; because we are a timid people; we
have been educated to be timid; we have
been brought up not to be sure of ourselves;
we depend upon this book and on that book,
on this teaching and on that teaching; we
204 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
gather a little from each, and in the end
The Hie~- there is more confusion and uncertainty than
man Ca3e there was in the beginning.
But Theosophy offers the key to the ig-
norance of the age. That is why we preach
and we work, so that we may help those who
really need Theosophy. But the unfortunate
psychology, not of this age alone but of the
ages, has brought humanity to the point
of despair.
There are splendid, noble fathers and
mothers everywhere; but when their children
arrive at the most crucial point in their de-
velopment, the parents ask themselves, even
if they ask no one else, for more light, for
more understanding, for a better system of
thought, for something that they have not
yet found, so that their children may be
protected.
Let us turn to this dreadful picture up
in Los A11:geles- that poor Hickman. We
do not need to spend any moments in the
horror of it all, the terror of it all. What
we need to do is to give our thoughts to what
THE HICKMAN CASE 205
remedies are to be applied. What are we
promised in the future? How do you who
have children know whether tomorrow one
of your children may be taken from you in
the same way?
Does the so-called remedy- the im-
prisonment and prosecution and punishment
-save the others? Not at all. On the con-
trary, harshness engenders more crime; the
psychology of crime increases, because there
is not sufficient spiritual power existing today
among the people to hold back the horrors
of these things.
Going back to Hickman again: Accord-
ing to the best authority, I learn that Hickman
was born less than ten months after his mother
came out of an insane-asylum. There is some-
thing very serious to think about. People
don't say much about it in the newspapers,
but they keep reiterating and reiterating and
reiterating the story of that awful crime,
thereby actually cultivating hatred and the
spirit of vengeance in the very blood of their
children by associating them with such in
206 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
their thought-life, thus creating added horrors!
Thought is a power. In one aspect of
psychology, pure, high, and uplifting thought
is a quality that we need in order to break
down such conditions.
A law ought to be enacted to prevent
the publication of such horrible crimes, so
that our children may be protected from any-
thing and everything that will soil their minds
or interfere with their progress as souls.
In spite of our homes and our schools
and· our teachers, these things do happen;
and it is a most awful travesty on justice
and on manhood and womanhood that this
is so. Everywhere there is confusion and
conflict and chaos, and, let me say it in plain
English, it is hell for the father and mother;
it is hell for the man who is in the lowest
depths of degradation; and it is a double
hell for those who love the true and the beauti-
ful and who realize their inability to over-
come these conditions.
I read the statistics with great care.
Every day they reveal to us the fact of a
THE HICKMAN CASE 207
large increase in the number of criminals.
Stop and think for a moment that only fifteen
or twenty years ago most of them were inno-
cent little children in their mothers' arms.
Yet all must see that something was lacking
then for them.
At this point Theosophy offers its teach-
ings of the duality of human nature - that
man in his essence is divine, but that he is
also imperfect. It is only through self-
directed evolution that he can attempt to
follow the path towards perfection. This all-
important fact was never given to these chil-
dren. Yet Jesus Christ taught it, and the
ancient teachers taught it. But it was never
fully impressed upon the minds of the people.
So the struggling, heart-aching mothers and
fathers, with their children and their prob-
lems, have never known the beauty and sav-
ing teachings of the spiritual law. And yet
Theosophy can be obtained without· money
and without price.
May I tell you what I would do with
Hickman today? I would make an example
208 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
of him for the whole world. I would point
out the barbarity of a law that would take
the life of a human being, because legal
murder is an outrage.
One might think differently of it if we
could see better conditions resulting from it.
If we could follow the soul of a man who had
been hanged, through its evolution, we should
find indeed that it has another chance after
all; but we do not give it any chance here
in earth-life.
If I had the control of Hickman's case,
I should declare to the world that he is a
mental invalid, insane beyond all power of
description; because with his education and
all that he had in his environment as a boy,
if he had not had the seeds of insanity born
in his very blood and nurtured in the ignor-
ance of the age, he might have been giving
as much happiness to his family as some of
your children are doing. It is the law and
order in which we bring up our children
that determine whether their lives will tell
for the salvation of humanity or its damnation.
THE HICKMAN CASE 209
Put aside your prejudice; look upon
yourselves as greater than you have ever
been before; believe that you have the power
to discern, and see. "Judge not that ye be
not judged." Let those words of Jesus Christ
burn into your hearts, sink into your minds,
and fire you with a sense of justice that will
say: "Hands off! No repetition of this crime!
No picturing of it in the newspapers! No
brutal measures to force this insane boy to
this or that and drive him still more insane!"
Believing as I do in the power of thought,
let me tell you that we do not know how far
this added insanity precipitated by the treat-
ment that he has had, may affect disastrously
many others of his kind.
One incident that may appear to some
to be insignificant struck me as very signi-
ficant. I noticed in the papers that in a cell
either under or over Hickman's, a man com-
mitted suicide. My explanation of this would
be that he was affected by the thought-
atmosphere there. He was despondent; he
had no faith in himself and that was enough.
210 THE ·VOICE OF THE SOUL
He became psychologized by the whole affair
and committed suicide.
And so it is that we are fashioning angels
or devils as we go through life. I do not mean
the kind of angels or devils described by the
old theology; I mean man's own higher and
lower nature: on the one hand his spiritual
will, the angel; and on the other hand his
weaknesses and passions and the undeveloped
parts of his lower nature, the demons, which
are very often the controlling powers in his
life.
The more you cultivate the true and the
beautiful and the more you accentuate the
nobler side of your life, the higher are you
climbing, the more are you overcoming and
becoming.
Properly to express the divine laws, a
human being must be well balanced. Balance
is the result of law and order. Let parents
give their children superb examples of such
balance; so that the young minds shall be
thrown neither to one extreme nor to an-
other, but grow through natural evolution
THE HICKMAN CASE 211
under the guidance of those who care for
them.
I hold that a child from the time it is
born until it is seven years of age is at the
mercy of either the good or the bad, the
strong and the weak. It is at the mercy of
. its environment. If it is guided rightly from
its earliest stages of growth, when it reaches
the age of seven years something happens
to it, like a spiritual baptism. It is like the
blossoming of a flower. Its growth has been
going on all the time. But by the proper
nursing and through evolution it reaches a
point where it develops into an exquisite
blossom. Beautiful Nature is our teacher.
I wish that I could leave out the sound of
my voice from any Theosophical teachings,
because the moment such teachings come
through the lips of any one, their beauty and
grandeur and truth are limited. Each one, too,
must find them for himself. A man may be
thirsting for a glass of water; 'he may be told
where there is water; but until he drinks the
water for himself he cannot quench his thirst.
212 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
There are law and order in the great
universal Scheme of Life. It is law and
order that keep the stars in their places,
and keep the sun shining as it does, within
bounds, so that it benefits us and does not
destroy us. It is a spiritual law; it cannot
be moved; it is immutable. So must we
live in seeking to find spiritual advancement.
We must keep in mind the influence of law
and order .as we seek knowledge.
What should we do to a poor soul like
Hickman? I can fancy that if he were my
charge I would have him carried far off, up
into the mountains to a hospital, surrounded
by great beautiful trees, with an abundance
of sweet, pure air. I would give him some-
thing that nobody had ever thought of giv-
ing him before.
We cannot undo the wrong that he has
done. The sacred Law of life will work
that out with him; but you could set a
splendid example of mercy; so that even
those so far degraded ·as almost to have
lost their manhood would respond to the
THE HICKMAN CASE 213
example of your orderly life, of your mercy
and generosity, and love of justice. New
light and added forc~s of spiritual being
would spring into life, and awaken men and
women to their real duty and to the spirit
of brotherly love towards all their fellows.
•
SECTION VII
~bt iarama
I learned to love Shakespeare when I was a
little girl, and I have been faithful in my loyalty
to him all these years, reading and re-reading his
plays, and thinking ooer his life and his crea-
tions, and admiring the soul of the man, who,
under such difficulties, pulled himself through
and made himself a warld-star of the first magni-
tude in the intellectual life of humanity.
THE DRAMA
T
HE DRAMA has been very much on my
mind within the last two or three weeks, "The
because we are preparing for a pre- Eumenitle$"
sentation of one of the ancient mystery-dramas April, 19S7
of Aeschylus at the Greek Theater here.
Moreover, this seems to me a most opportune
time for one who loves the true drama to
accentuate the fact that the real drama was
taught and presented in a magnificent way
centuries before the birth of Christ.
If one looks into ancient history, especial-
ly into that of Greece, one finds much that
is both interesting and inspiring in connexion
with the religious aspect of the drama. There
was a time when the Greeks, as many as
thirty thousand of them, would meet in the
morning and carry out their devotion to the
superb religious dramas of their master-poets
until sundown!
Thinking of this fact, one can realize
,
218 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
bow much we have lost through the inter-
vening years. It is only occasionally that
one hears anything about the classical Greek
dramas today. Of course, scholars are fami-
liar with them to a degree; but the average
person today, even among those who think,
knows little about antiquity; and it is a
great pity that the bread-and-butter ques-
tion should be of such absorbing concern that
much of the beauty, and grandeur, and in-
spiration, and splendid spiritual support to
be derived from the ancient dramas, are lost.
One of the objects of the work which I
represent is to create a greater love for the
higher qualities of the drama, and to impress
again upon the human mind through the
drama, the necessity for a religious view of
life. To the ancients the drama was not
merely a means of relaxation and amusement:
it was a part of their religious life. And it is
well known what lovers of the good, the true,
and the beautiful, the Greeks were. Those
familiar with their literature know what
great ideas anq sentiments they have left to us.
"THE EUMENIDES" 219
I consider the drama one of the most
essential factors in the education of our
people - especially in the education of the
youth. Let them become familiar with the
splendid dramas and philosophies of anti-
quity, instead of allowing them to fill their
minds with the trash that we meet nowadays
in the efforts of many theatrical producers,
which, far from raising the minds of the youth
to a higher contemplation of life - to some
conception of the truth and of the magni-
ficent aspects and possibilities of man - drag
them down, or at best merely entertain, or
please the fancy, and amuse.
There is a sanctification that comes from
studying and working over one of these an-
cient dramas. I know that after each per-
formance of The Eumenides here in our Greek
Theater it takes me several days to come back
to the every-day way of living. So one can
imagine with what joy our members here at
the International Theosophical Headquarters,
who have come from many parts of the world,
joined with me in my work of raising the
220 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
drama to a higher level by a revival of the
classics. There is no money in it, no pecuniary
recompense, no honors, no fame, for any who
take part in it. But there is an inner joy
that no language can express.
The study of Theosophy, particularly as
applied to the study of the ancient dramas,
gives us many splendid secrets - secrets which
I fancy if one had to pay for them, he would
go to the ends of the earth to find! But
Theosophy gives them freely, as far as one
wishes to understand and accept them.
Real drama affords man one of the grand-
est opportunities to understand himself. I
refer particularly to the ancient Greek dramas.
Practically every line in The Eumenides, for
instance, contains a profound truth of the
ancient Mysteries. The more one reads, the
more one desires to know about it. The more
he studies, the more enlightened he becomes.
Here he sees clearly that man, being dual in
nature, possesses on the one hand the attri-
butes of the spiritual soul and the possibilities
of great perfection; while, on the other hand,
"THE EUMENIDES" 221
he has much in his nature that, unless he
conquers it, will destroy him.
We must move into the feeling of the
sacred drama - the trend of men's minds in
their aspirations, in their devotion, in their
love of the true and the beautiful. Even
those who make the greatest mistakes and
who are most indifferent to the real drama of
life, are religious in the deepest side of their
nature. They are a part of the great human
family, divine in or~gin. Nothing is lost.
None can be overlooked.
We should look upon human life as a
great drama- a great mystery-drama, filled
with limitless possibilities. The kingdom of
heaven is within; and so is the kingdom of
hell, which is the kingdom of ignorance, of
dissatisfaction, of delusion, and of unhappi-
ness.
If we wish to help to purify the world, to
purify our nation, our city, and to breathe
the sweet air of a new life, we must first
allow ourselves to dream of the possibility
of it. We must dare to go towards it and
-
222 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
become the masters and understanders of our
own lives first of all. Then we shall have the
key to understanding the real drama of life.
SECTION VIII
J
tEbt Jletu ilap
~a~ttr, 1928
"For nothing else but the body and iU
desires causes wars, seditions and fightings."
-PLATO
THE NEW DAY-EASTER, 1928
THIS is Easter-day! How very wonderful
it would be if all humanity could every Ea3ler
day in the year find their Easter -
in themselves, in their souls, in their friends,
in Nature, in the Divine! What a wonderful
world we should have! And if it is possible
to do this today, it is possible ever afterwards!
The divine light that is ever attempting
to shine in the hearts of men is an ever-
present, divine power. But poor humanity
has drifted so far away from its moorings,
from the realization of its own essential
divinity and its royal heritage, that it has
lost its way; yet not lost it entirely, as is
proved by the fact that at every Easter
we do find ourselves meeting together -
many of us strangers - touched more deep-
ly, perhaps, than at other times, with the
outward manifestation of gladsome Nature,
which we to our loss so little understand.
226 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
The Easter-celebration is very ancient in
its origin. For thousands of ages before
Jesus Christ, people absolutely believed in
their own essential divinity; not just an indi-
vidual here and there, but the great sweeping
mass of the people in those.olden times had a
firm belief in the essential divinity of man's
soul. They were aware of the beautiful possi-
bilities of following the divine urge in us:
while we have been drifting steadily down-
wards.
No matter how much wealth, or intellect,
or education, or culture we have in the out-
ward sense, what man really needs to give
him the secret of living, the 'worthwhileness'
of life, so to speak, is that quality of the soul
and of the heart which bespeaks the divinity
within. Each one of you has known it at
some time and under some circumstances;
otherwise you could not smile; you could
not love anything; you would be at cross-
purposes with everything. It is the eternal,
divine life growing in the hearts of men.
Nature awaits all the time our recogni-
EASTER 227
tion of the wonderful, invisible forces of the
inner life. And the reason we do not take
into our souls the sweeping forces of these
divine, eternal, permanent qualities, is that
we have lost faith .in ourselves, in our fellow-
men, and in our inner God.
· That is the great trouble with humanity.
H it were not so, we would have no war, no
semblance of war. We would all be living
together peacefully, doing the duties of every-
day life, but spiritually conscious of the inner
life, drinking in the strength and the beauty
of the eternal life.
It is only those who haye felt the touch
of the Divine who can talk about it; and
those who have felt it more than once can
talk about it perhaps better than those who
seem not to know anything about it. But
the fact is that every man, when he tests his
strength, when he challenges his own soul,
reaches out into the sunshine of life and finds
that life is worth living.
In the ancient days, ages before the time
of Jesus Christ, the Pagans understood the
228 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
symbology of the Easter-time; and simply
because in later days they introduced many
things that were not right, the Pagans have
been much looked down upon. But the cele-
bration of Easter was originally a Pagan fes-
tival, which the church-fathers later adopted
and turned into a Christian observance when
they found that the ideas associated with it
were so ingrained into the very lives of the
multitude that it was of no use to attempt
to change them. That is the real history
of the origin of Easter.
Theosophy is the Ancient Wisdom and
it gives its students wonderful lessons in
interpreting the symbology of ancient beliefs
and customs. The teachings of Theosophy
emphasize the importance of the inner life
and the spiritual side of man, which is eternal.
To the true Theosophist death is very
beautiful; for in death the spiritual soul, the
inner life of man, finds its place - it is resur-
rected. The body is tired and worn out,
but the change for the next life is advance-
ment, progress, for those who wish it; and
EASTER 229
those who turn away from it will have to
wait for their next turn, their next incarnation.
When I look at the beauties of Nature,
the flowers and the trees give me more ser-
mons in every breath I draw than have ever
been preached or printed. We can find our
own souls in the silence of Nature; and also
in the innocence of little children.
The real purpose of the ancient Easter-
festival of the Pagans was to impress upon
the minds of men the power of the Christos
or Christ-spirit that is in every man.
If there is any place in the world where
man can find his own soul, I think it is in
California. The flowers and the trees, the
mighty ocean and the breezes from the moun-
tains and the sea, and the caressing climate,
are forever whispering to us the secret of
the real meaning of Easter.
Theosophy gives us a closer knowledge
of man's needs and possibilities, and conse-
quently there grows in our hearts a royal
sympathy for all humanity; and sympathy
is the very thing that the world most needs
230 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
today. So think of the force that must be
at work on inner lines, on a day like this,
in the aggregation of thoughts and lofty feel-
ings experienced by millions all over the world
in their Easter-celebrations.
If I could convince you of the beauty
and the grandeur of human life, and the possi-
bilities of man's soul-advancement through
self-directed evolution, it would be worth
more to you than all the wealth of the world;
it would be something that could not be
taken from you. It would give you such a
divine trust in humanity that you could not
rest without working for something better for
all mankind. Self-directed evolution means
the salvation of man.
We have opportunities continuously of
making every day an Easter-festival, a day
of the resurrection or the evoking of the spiri-
tual side of our natures; for every man is a
Christ in degree. But we and our ancestors
before us have been moving along under the
psychology of the ages, half-blinded with the
teaching that Jesus alone was the special son
RESURRECT THE DIVINE IN MAN 231
of God, and that the rest of humanity were
miserable sinners whose only salvation lay Relurrect
in something outside themselves. Such a con- the Dioine
ception deprives humanity of its rightful spiri- in Man
tual heritage.
But on a day lik~ this, when millions
are celebrating the Easter-festival all over the
world, people are very much affected by the
idea of the resurrection, even though they
do not fully understand its meaning. For
the time being it takes one away from the
limitations of worldly things, away from the
distractions and allurements that blind so
many, away from one's peculiarities, his idio-
syncrasies, his fears, his doubts, his mistakes,
and the pains of everyday existence. These
all disappear when one can view life from a
Theosophical standpoint, and realize that the
meaning of the resurrection is the coming
of the spiritual soul in man into its own
splendor.
We are all travelers along life's path-
way, aiming to reach perfection. Theoso-
phists believe in the doctrine of Reincarna-
232 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
tion, and declare that it is the great process
by which it is possible for man to advance
towards this goal of perfection. Keeping these
thoughts in mind, and invoking the power of
the higher imagination, we can all create ideals
in our own lives, and then work for them,
strive for them, and realize them in degree.
A recognition of man's essential divinity
is the spiritual basis on which to stand. Let
this be well fixed in the mind. Clear away
the rubbish that is there, and begin to believe
in man's royal spiritual heritage.
Let us leave humanity out of the picture
of this world of ours for the moment, and
consider the grandeur of Nature. Let us
think of the flowers as we have never thought
of them before. They preach eternity to us;
they also preach Reincarnation; they tell us
in their silent language that man is divine
in essence; and in that one keynote, the whole
great program of man's future advancement
is held.
On a day like this, it is impossible to
look upon Nature in our usual every-day way.
THEOSOPHY AND CHRISTIANITY 233
The flowers talk to us; the great ocean, the
sky, the majestic trees that cover the land; Tht0$0phy
everything away from man himself preaches and Chris·
the splendor of Eternal Life. tianity
Easter is a day of invocation not only to
Nature and the gods but to every human
being, to awaken, to arouse himself from half-
sleeping, half-thinking, and to step out into
a new world of beauty and great possibilities,
bringing the divine man to the conscious
recognition of the masses.
It is a fact that humanity has been mov-
ing along half-asleep ever since the time when
Christianity was established. In saying this
it should be remembered that true Theoso-
phists find much in Christianity that is very
beautiful, and much of this was found also
in the Pagan religions; but many of the
forms are not accepted. The forms of the
Christian religion were fashioned by the minds
of men. Let us not question their motives;
let us assume that they did it for the benefit
of humanity. But a religion that constantly
reminds one of his sins, of his mi~takes, and
234 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
of his weaknesses, appeals principally to the
negative side of man's nature, especially when
the effort is forever repeated to have him
realize that the only way by which he can
be 'redeemed' is by resting all hope of spiri-
tual advancement upon faith alone or on a
power outside himself.
Let it be remembered that true Theoso-
phists are never disposed to belittle Jesus.
We look upon him as a great Initiate; we
bow to the divinity of his nature; we have
learned that he was one of the few great men
who, at different epochs, have arisen to a
position where they have consciously known
their essential divinity and have lived in it
and have rejoiced in it, smiling with complete
trust in it.
Jesus loved humanity; he served it glo-
riously and magnificently; and the picture
comes to me that the saving power of the
divine that was in him is in all of us, if we
could only reach it, if we could only be
aroused and awakened, as Jesus was, if we
would look forward and accept the spiri-
A DAY OF CHALLENGE 235
tual heritage that belongs to all humanity.
With this conception, and with a convic- A Day of
tion of the truth of the sacred doctrine of Challenge
Reincarnation, which gives man opportunity
after opportunity in his different lives, at the
various stages of his progress, we can face
the inmost weaknesses of our own natures
with the bright picture ever before us of the
godlike qualities lying hid in man. But these
must be aroused, developed, accentuated, if
man is to advance in self-directed evolution.
Man cannot face the universe with that
quality of trust that is the working of the
spark of divinity within him, until he is
generous enough to see that some of this same
spiritual life is in all humanity.
This is the meaning of the New Day:
It is the opportunity for man to challenge
himself, to look within himself for the divine
ray that is his real Self. It is a superb day
for making new resolutions and holding to
them. No matter what the difficulties are,
no matter what the sorrows are, no matter
how poor and forgotten and ignored and
236 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
apparently helpless one may be, Theosophy
teaches that this is the right of every man.
But each must find the path for him-
self; each must seek the way of salvation
through his own efforts rather than to wear
his soul out, weighed down with the con-
sciousness of his weaknesses and of his mis-
takes, depending upon everything but the
godlike qualities within himself. Bear in
mind, this negative attitude of thought leads
a man away from his rightful spiritual heri-
tage. No wonder, then, that he ceases effort
and follows the downward path of degenera-
tion, along with those who lack the spiritual
knowledge that should be theirs!
The man who believes not in his own
essential divinity, who has in his thought no
future beyond the one life on earth, is verily
to be pitied; for truly he has lost his way.
But Theosophy says that not even he is per-
manently lost; for there is another chance
for him too. So no matter from what stand-
point or premisses one may argue, he will
find that Theosophy is the panacea for all
A DAY OF CHALLENGE 237
the ills of the world. However disturbing
the psychology of the age, it cannot affect
the real deeper divinity of man, which the
spiritually awakened man alone has the sacred
privilege of understanding.
What Theosophists are trying to do is
to arouse humanity as a whole; to awaken
it, so that it may not waste so much time
in despair, so many incarnations in its long
turns and twists off the path, while living
without the knowledge of Theosophy.
Today, now, this very moment, is an
appropriate time for man to invoke some-
thing new and better within himself. He
cannot help others until he believes in him-
self- note this, please. He must·know the
inner quality of his divine nature; he must
feel its presence constantly - its support, its
inspiration. Verily, he must feel that inner
urge which accentuates the fact that all men
are immortal; that inner urge which makes
humanity like unto a host of young gods
traveling along the path to perfection.
Why waste your time in fears and doubts
238 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
or in discouragement and despair? Learn to
respect the holy part of man's nature- the
divine soul,- that each life may be pure and
true and strong and clean and forceful. Above
all things, realize the sacredness of human
life. This is what every awakened man and
woman must do. And it is the easier way;
it is the way that will keep the sun shining in
one's heart and eyes, even when he is parting
from his tired and worn-out body.
Can you not go with me in thought for a
moment to a sick-room, where the immortal
soul of someone is winging its way to the Eter-
nal, while the body is breathing its last on this
plane? Can you not see what a marvelous
difference the knowledge of Theosophy makes?
How differently one meets death, who believes
in his own essential divinity, who knows his
spiritual rights, who has moved along the path
of self-directed evolution: how different such
a one meets death, I say, from the one who ac-
cepts merely on faith the philosophy of re-
demption through another!
Consider the glorious picture of a man
NATURE'S RESPONSE 239
in his godlike qualities, convinced of the truth
of Reincarnation, going forward along the Nature'&
path fully alive, pregnant with bright hope Ruporue
and divine trust, believing in this life and
another and still another, and meeting eter-
nity with the courage of a god! With this
consciousness pulsating in his very blood, he
would set his difficulties behind him and be-
come a glorious and splendid example of
the Christ-spirit!
If we could step forth into the silence of
Nature with new courage, new trust, new
hope, seeking within ourselves the eternity
of things, it would not be long before the
very trees and the flowers would talk to us,
and the swish of the ocean washing the shores
would sing a new song to us, and the sun
would shine more gloriously: the very silence
of Nature would preach to us the greatness
of the Christos-spirit in man; of man living
in his dignity, in the consciousness of his
power, making every moment so sacred and
sweet and clean as to wipe out the record of
past mistakes and prejudices and hatreds and
•
240 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
dislikes; bathing in the light of man's god-
like nature, feeling the whole universe alive
with th~ possibilities ahead for the world's
children - for you and for me!
Would not this word-picture be excellent
for some of the poor criminals in prison?
What do you think about the wretched fel-
lows that are soon to be hanged? True, they
have done great wrong. But now those who
call themselves the helpers and protectors of
civilization are daily repeating in cold blood,
under the sanction of man-made laws, the
very crime of those incarcerated! What hope
of redemption and reformation does such bar-
barous work afford? Under what conditions
does the soul, the immortal part of a prisoner
condemned to legalized murder, leave the
body? What prospect is there of his doing
any better either in this life or the next, when
he goes out filled with the memory of man's
vindictive punishment?
Just as long as we permit this relic of
the dark ages to continue, just so long are we
contributing to the brutalizing of humanity.
NATURE's RESPONSE 241
Just so long as we make such mistakes, just-
so long as we follow false teachings, just so
long as we ignore the great. and beautiful
truth of man's innate divinity, just so long
are we making bad karma for our country
and for all countries, as well as for ourselves,
and just so long are we helping the great hu-
man family on the downward path of retro-
.
greSSIOn.
But instead of this, why not set our-
selves to do right in the thought that on this
glorious new day of the resurrection, we should
prepare ourselves for the battle of life: which
will mean victory and permanence for all
those things which go towards the enlighten-
ment and uplifting of the human race?
All through history we read the won-
derful records of great and splendid charac-
ters. Some were materialists; others be-
longed to this or to that faith; and many
of them did soulful things to lighten the
burdens of the world. But think what
they might have done, if they had had
the inspiring knowledge of Theosophy!
r
,.
242 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Consider, for example, some of our great
musical geniuses. Surely they must have
been in preparation in former lives for their
marvelous work in this life! Think of them
making their records of glorious victories along
the path; and then think how much more
glorious their victories might have been, if
they had had at all times the consciousness
which they must have had at the times of
their inspiration, when they were touched by
the enlightening and uplifting power of the
true and the beautiful! They must have
had it at such times; but. the great thing is
to be sure of it at all times, to hold within
oneself the consciousness of the essential divi-
nity of man to such a degree that nothing
can uproot its power. This is one of the
greatest treasures and most blessed privileges
that anyone can have.
When one reaches this point, he will not
have to talk so much in order to make people
understand even a little. His very soul will
be illuminated and his voice will speak in
tones that he has never made before. His
KNOWLEDGE OF THEOSOPHY ESSENTIAL 243
very presence will sing to the world in the
silence of the glories of the Higher Law, of Knowledge
the eternal man, of the peace of the world, ojTheosophy
and of love for all humanity. Essential
Then, if one allows his imagination to
spread out a little farther, he will vision the
marvelous triumphs that mankind will achieve
even in one life. But of course it takes time
- everything worth while requires time to
consummate.
Many good people suffer today unneces-
sarily, because they do not understand Theo-
sophy, or the meaning of life's apparent in-
justices. So they become discouraged and
lose faith in themselves and then they lose
faith in humanity.
So it is time that we talked of the New
Day. It is time that we brought again to
the attention of the world the great philo-
sophy of the Ancient Wisdom, that humanity
may know what it holds for them. It is time
that we ingrained into our minds, into the
very basic forces of our natures, the truths
of Theosophy; for Theosophy is really the
244 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
panacea for all the ills of ·the world.
Then life would be beautiful; our minds
would be in accord with all that lives; our
souls would be enlightened on the journey
along the eternal path; our vista would be
enlarged; every truth would have a mighty
•
meaning.
Set aside arguments; rise above mere
reason; reach the spiritual conception, which
is the rightful heritage of every man, as he
advances along the road of self-respect and
self-control and enlightenment.
The very best remedy today for most of
the ills that humanity suffers from is the
practice of self-control. But how can we ex-
pect human beings to practise self-control
without the key that unlocks the secrets of
acquiring self-control? This key is the know-
ledge of man's essential divinity. This is the
key that opes the door to many of the mys-
teries of life and explains them. It makes
a golden road for man to tread along the
journey of his life. Conscious of his essen-
tial divinity, of his spiritual dignity, of his
KNOWLEDGE OF THEOSOPHY ESSENTIAL 245
sacred responsibilities, man may walk verily
like a god.
There are, of course, different degrees
of godhood - I am referring to the godlike
qualities in man; for there is innate divinity
in man and he will find it after a while, after
many experiences on earth, after many trials
and failures in different lives.
Theosophy is ever aiming to teach hu-
manity that life can be made very beauti-
ful in spite of the fact that it is so often
made the other way.
But what an insult to the great Central
Source of Light for anyone to accept the idea
that the Creator established this earth to be
filled with millions of human beings, who
have seemingly nothing to do with their com-
ing irito existence, who have no choice in
the matter, and that then this same Crea-
tor allowed his own creatures to be born
in sin and condemned them to go through
life powerless to meet their difficulties and
to overcome their weaknesses! What a hor-
rible thing to think of! What chance has
I
246 ' THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
humanity, if such a doctrine be true?
The New Today is the New Day! It is the be-
.
.
Day ginning of a New Time! In times to come
we shall hear of this as the greatest day we
have had for long, long years. Something
is going to happen that will reveal this. in
such a way that many will turn towards the
light. Verily it is a glorious day, a day of
peace - perfect in degree. The air about
us now is full of joy. The very flowers talk
to us! Nature is pleading with us, singing
the song of the soul-life of man. But the
message of this New Day is the message of
reform in the highest sense - the knowledge
of the Universal Life ever in us and with us and
working ever for us: and of our essential divi-
nity to believe ·in, to live in, and to become.
SECTION IX
llnibtt~al Jjrotbtrboob
"Karma does not always manifest itself
as suffering, by any means: it is quite as
likely to produce joy as sorrow."
- W. Q. JUDGE
UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD
SALUTATIONS TO ALL THE PEOPLE
oF THE WoRLD
OUT beyond all the many manifestations
of inconsistency in human life, and the
cruelties of man to man, those who
have a trust in their own essential divinity
and that of their fellow-men have yet a royal
hope that a New Order of Ages will come ere
long to the restless people of the world. With-
out this hope life would not be worth living.
So at this Christmas-Time, with our
hearts burning with the desire to lift Hu-
manity's burdens, we bid the Season's Good
Cheer to all the people of the World.
May this Sacred Holiday-Time bring a
new promise of better things! And may we en-
ter the New Year with a courage born of our
divine trust in the justice of the Higher Law!
Salutations! Salutations!
December, 1927.
250 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
A NEW-YEAR'S MESSAGE
TO THE RESIDENT-MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
AT THE WoRLD's THEosoPHICAL CENTER,
PoiNT LoMA, CALIFORNIA
WE need all the fine touches of the beauty
and pathos of the heart, before we
can arrive at a conception of what our
duty is.
We have been psychologized by the
world, so to speak, from the day we were
born. That psychology goes far back. Much
of it is in our very blood. The battles and
struggles that we have in life over things
that to most of us seem so serious and so
hard, are put upon us by our own limitations,
especially by our limited conception of only
one earth-life. The Theosophical teachings
concerning the hereafter reveal to us the glory
of eternity. But the hindrances of the past
hold man down, shut out the light from him,
so that in very truth often he loses his way.
A NEW-YEAR's MESSAGE 251
The heart-touch evoked by the children
brings a benediction to all. We can feel great
promise for the future even in the midst of
the pleasure of the moment, the joy of the
occasion, and all the glorious evidences of
the heart-touch everywhere felt. We can do
greater things; we can have a deeper and
more profound conception of life; and we can
step out into a new world of thought that
will be all of our own creation.
Perhaps more than at any other time in
our lives we are knocking at the portals of
a new epoch. The· higher our resolves the
more will those outside be helped. There is
no limit to the power of a beautiful thought.
The force of many beautiful thoughts and
splendid resolutions combined must bring
about something that_ we have never had
before.
So I say from the depths of my heart:
A Happy New Year! Many, many happy
New Years!
Surely the time is coming when we shall
have a new view of the grandeur and beauty
252 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
of life, in spite of all the horrors that we see
in the world around us. A new energy has
been born, which stands out in the potency of
spiritual power by contrast with the degrading
and horrifying experiences that the world
is going through.
My heart is touched with a deeper quality
of compassion than I have ever felt before,
for all those who have erred.
The time will come when all will find
what the inner life means - the beauty of it,
the glory of a soul filled with aspirations
towards a perfect life, a pure life, a noble life,
a trusting life, born into an atmosphere where
each can go through the struggles unafraid!
There is nothing for us to be afraid of ex-
cept our own weaknesses!
Something new and splendid will surely
spring from our thoughts, because the Higher
Law brought us together. Let us knock at
the doors of our own hearts, realize the spiri-
tual dignity of human life, and dare to step
forward and demand from ourselves the resto-
ration of that knowledge and that inner satis-
UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD 253
faction which the heart craves. Then we
shall find the joy of living. The Lioing
Remember that the outer life is the Spirit of
transitory and the inner life is the eternal. Universal
Thousands of people all over the world Brother-
look upon New Year's Day as a time in which hood
to make new resolutions. The beginning of
new efforts awakens in the minds of those
who are looking away from their restlessness,
royal hopes and aspirations. It creates new
ideals and arouses new hope.
Among the representatives of different
religious beliefs, each religion is supposed to
be the superior one to those who participate
in it. Yet we all know that there are no end
of errors in many of the teachings of the
various religions.
The first thing to wish for and to hope
for is that all humanity were united in the
living spirit of Universal Brotherhood. Their
comprehension and their ideals have far out-
grown the old ideas.
An entirely new act, in a sense, has been
created in the great drama of life for Theo-
254 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
sophists; because it is impossible for us to
accept the idea of a personal God. One who
accepts that idea is looking back upon him-
self, with a very limited view of the future,
if any at all.
Many men at present ·are shut in, held
down, and blinded by the thought of only
one life on earth for man. Fancy! Only one
life of a hundred or a hundred and twenty
years at the most for an aspiring soul_
! It
is very pitiful that any religion should hold
man down to a belief in only one life.
· I have often met those who were nearing
death; and many who had been most certain
of their future in heaven and of the love and
mercy of their God when in health, were later
full of q~estionings, and many of them passed
out of this physical life in black doubt.
But if man looks forward to the future
at all seriously, he is conscious of something
intangible that the soul senses, that the heart
craves for, and that the mind conceives, but
that has not yet been reached. Outside the
ranks of Theosophists many humans ap-
A NEW QUALITY OF OPTIMISM NEEDED 255
proach the next life with fear and doubt.
More than anything else the world needs A New
today a new quality of Optimism. One need Quality of
only see the statistics of crimes committed Opiimi1m
and the menacing conditions that result there- Needed
from to realize that humanity is today on
the downward path. Of course, many may be
aspiring in their intentions to raise themselves,
but present conditions are a bad omen for the
future. The fact is that man is retrograding
at the present time through his own wilfulness.
We have our mind with which we think.
That is what the mind is for. It is a great
factor in man's evolution. But it is not the
saving power for him. He must clarify the
mind to such a degree that, while thinking
rationally, he will turn away from extreme
ideas, and from imagining that his own no-
tions and opinions and idiosyncracies are
superior to anything else in life. The moment
one imagines that, he is in serious danger.
What is needed is that we should throw
ourselves sufficiently and with courage into
our inner natures where we shall find true
256 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
answers to our questions. Then we shall be
assured of finding ourselves on the right path.
Surely it does not require a word from
me to show that humanity as a whole is
not at present on the right path. If all hu-
manity had Theosophy as an inspiring guide,
they would also have an optimism that would
lift man above his weaknesses, make him
forget his lack of faith in himself and his
fellows, and, as a result, the world would
present a very different picture from what
it does today.
After a very short while man would be-
gin to find himself, to find that real life is
beautiful and joyful; that the disagreeable
experiences which all must go through, afford
the necessary lessons which we must learn.
We cannot pass these by. If we overlook
them we shall have to take them up again
later, either in this life or in some future
incarnation.
On this beautiful New Year's Day, let
us have a clear view of the essential dignity of
humanity, of the spiritual life of man, and
BLACK MARKS ON AMERICA'S HISTORY 257
of the .eternity of the divine spark within us.
Then we shall realize that the secrets of Blac~
life all lie within, and that man must be their Mar~& on
revealer to himself. Then we shall make America'&
royal New Year's resolutions- not resolu- Hi&tory
tions that come merely from the brain-mind
or from foolish sentiment, but resolutions born
absolutely from man's spiritual will, which is
above ordinary mental processes.
Man's spiritual will is the faculty that
enables him to round out his life nobly, to
build up his character, to enlarge his men-
tality, so that his whole being works in har-
mony with those higher laws which hold us
all safe within their keeping.
The awful crimes that are such a menace
to the future of our country are leaving ter-
ribly black marks on our national history.
There is no country in the world that has
such a record of crime as America has today.
Our foreign critics admit that we have great
wealth and abounding material prosperity;
but our crime-record stares them in the face,
and I am afraid that many of them are justi-
•
'
-...
258 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
tied in feeling that we·have not enough spiri-
tuality as a nation. True, we may say that
our foreign critics also have very little spiri-
tuality; but the fact remains that an essential
something is lacking in our country today,
which is proved by our frightful inability to
cope adequately with crime.
We have very many churches, we have
fine institutions, we have splendid minds en-
deavoring to lift the burdens; but crimes of
all kinds are increasing all the time; and so
are our disappointments, our heartaches, our
despair, and our misery.
With conditions as they are in the world
today, I am glad that I have no children.
What have we of great worth to offer to our
children under the present condition of things?
I tell you, it is a sad and pathetic picture.
We must bring ourselves to the point
where we dare to examine ourselves.
I know that man has a heritage that is
glorious and magnificent in power of possible
service. When a man looks away from himself
he gains a clear vision, and is moved by a
•
BLACK MARKS ON AMERICA'S HISTORY 259
quality of compassion that takes every suffer-
ing human being into his heart. He does not
condemn others; neither does he pass judg-
ment on them. Instead, he spends his time
in purifying his own life, in seeking the right
path, and in finding the light. Having found
it, he holds on to it with a stedfast resolution
that also fills him with a conviction of the
sacredness and the nobility of life. Once a
man accentuates these qualities, which really
represent the divine life in him, I do not be-
lieve that he could ever fall back.
Let us meet conditions i~ such a way
that when tomorrow comes, we shall have
the consciousness of having made a new
record, that will be the result of the attitude
of mind one is in when he says to himself:
"I am determined," "I am resolved," "I dare
to face the future," "I dare to meet life's
issues, which heretofore my opinions and my
notions have prevented me from understand-
ing," "I dare to open the book of life, to study
myself and to challenge all the weaknesses of
my nature." In this lie wisdom and peace.
260 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Such a true attitude of mind cannot fail
No Self- you. It has not failed me, and it has not
Deception failed many.
As soon as we are sure of man's spiri-
tuality, another page in the book of Life is
opened for us and we begin to find ourselves
in a whirl of splendid efforts; and we then
see that the questions which puzzled us yes-
terday and which we ignored, are now right
at hand ready to be looked into and solved.
A resolution supported by the spiritual
will is of a magnificent and sacred quality.
Such a resolution promises a great and superb
future for man, if he will only move away
from his weaknesses and abominate them as
he would the ravages of some terrible disease.
Under the Higher Law there can be no
self-deception. Man must treat himself as a
being too sacred to be soiled or spoiled or be-
meaned. He must hold himself with thought,
will, and vision, to a new quality of dignity
which never comes from the mentality alone.
Theosophists are trying to enlighten the
mind of man so that he will be unafraid of
NO SELF-DECEPTION 261
himself, and so that he will realize that in
his own nature there are the two qualities
that will either make his life a blessing or
mar it. Although he may carry the appear-
ance of dignity and honor and decency, so
long as there is one hidden weakness in his
nature that he passes by or excuses or tem-
porizes with, he is bemeaning himself, dragging
himself down to inevitable degradation.
Theosophists realize that if we study our-·
selves honestly and begin the conquest of our
own weaknesses we shall then have no time
to condemn others. We have just as much as
we can do to take ·care of ourselves, to dis-
criminate at all times between right and
wrong, between justice and injustice, between
our personal limitations and the larger im~
personal view of life. If we follow this path
conscientiously we can arise each morning and
meet the day with joy.
No matter what the difficulties that we
may encounter at any time, we can meet
them with courage, when we understand
Theosophy; because we then know that man
262 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
is essentially divine. This essential divinity
Tire Place shows itself by the way in which he lives his
of Reason life, and by his living in harmony with the
nobler aspects of life, thus fulfilling the de-
crees of the Higher Law. Every sane man
at one time or another has high ideals and
aspirations. The failures come when the per-
sonal will is not directed nor inspired by the
spiritual nature.
One may think all day with mere brain-
mind thoughts, and they will carry him only
just so far; because one cannot find the peace
and the joy of life nor the real explanations
of life simply by reasoning. Reason is a great
factor in our makeup, it is true; it must be
educated and cultivated; but it is certainly
not the sublime, central Fire in man.
The great spiritual message that is in
the air today, which Theosophy brings once
more to humanity, is that man is an in-
separable part of the great eternal Scheme of
Life; that as he applies the truths of right
living to his daily conduct, and thus beautifies
and purifies his own life, he feels his inner
THE PLACE OF REASON 263
strength and realizes the glory of right living;
he moves ever upward and onward in life
after life, experience after experience, until ·
he reaches a state which to us is relative
perfection.
There is surely nothing irrational about
such a philosophy! There are many thou-
sands of people who a few years ago knew
nothing about Theosophy, but who today are
living in the joy of its discovery, and in the
peace which this discovery brings. They
have within themselves that quality of sted-
fast resolution that springs from the spiritual
· will. The key to it all is the belief in man's
essential divinity.
Man must have this belief in his own
essential divinity, in his power to make his
life such that in time we shall see magnificent
types of manhood and womanhood among us.
Then we shall have children born in accord-
ance with the divine scheme of things - born
in purity, in virtue, and showing at least
some of the strength of the spiritual will.
The greater things that we are to find,
264 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
that we must make active from day to day
Human and from hour to hour, come from man's
Duality knowledge of his own inner nature. He must
realize that it is the imperfections of the indi-
vidual that bring to humanity its misery.
He must face himself so honestly that he will
say to himself: "I dare not meet the conse-
quences that will come from my failures. I
am no longer satisfied with my limitations,
with my ignorance. I will aspire; I am re-
solved to make of my life a beautiful thing!
I will become!"
I wish I had the power of the greatest
artist to paint the picture of the two na-
tures in man, the higher and the lower.
When I was a child, I was taught to
look for His Satanic Majesty outside of my-
self, but since I was eight years of age, I
have had different conceptions.
Theosophy is so reasonable and so true;
it does not make me in my estimation any
greater than any one else; but it does give
me the power to know the right from the
wrong in myself and to acknowledge that
HUMAN DUALITY 265
whatever weakness there is, as far as I am
concerned, it is inside myself, in the unde-
veloped part of my nature, in those ten-
dencies that I was born with, and that I
inherited from generations past. So, as I
have said before, I have no time to waste
in condemning others.
The future is before us with its sublime
possibilities. The spiritual laws are working
all the time and have been active for untold
millions and millions of years, on this plane
and on all planes. When we understand this
we shall have a larger vision of life, and a
belief in the glory of the Universal ever
living in man.
Every man has within him a divine ray,
and it can be aroused. As long as he has that,
he has the power to change his life in a mo-
ment, if he so will, and to look back upon all
former mistakes as something pitiful and ter-
rible, to be sure, but to be entirely shut out
from the picture of the future, which is filled
with golden hopes of the new life. The secret
of making this change lies within himself.
266 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Let us give to the sacredness of life its
true value. Let us realize its spiritual beauty
and its deeper intimacies with the Divine.
Let us become so imbued with these larger
views that we shall ourselves find peace and
give peace to all others and thus change the
whole aspect of the world for the better.
SECTION X
~trt anb t!tbtrt
To fulfil the law of our own being we must
know our own essential Divinity and thus hold
ourselves spiritually self-centered, ever living
in a higher state of consciousness.
ON LOMALAND'S PERENNIAL
CHARMS
Point Loma, California,
June, 1927.
ALL days are lovely here in our beauti-
ful California, even when we have the
soft, gray days. They all seem to
have a special meaning. . . .
Our gardens are filled with flowers and
our rooms carry the perfume of the same all
through the days. And we never had so
many birds as this year. They are the dear-
est things; they prattle and sing away as
though they had just come home after being
away in a cold storm somewhere. They come
to our windows in such a friendly way, as
though they remembered us. . . .
Let me tell you that when we look out
on the wonderful trees and the beautiful
flowers that grow on this Hill, we can see a
dream of beauty and grandeur and real in-
270 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
spiration; but if we should set about trying
to look up the things that we did not like,
our mind would be so filled with the dis-
agreeable images of our own creation that we
could not see the beautiful things that every-
body else sees. We should probably see only
the faded flowers in the garden, the dead
branches on the trees, withered leaves and
broken limbs, or some other imperfection of
Nature that one can always find if that is
what he is looking for.
But the cause of it all would be that
our minds would·be twisted. For you know,
"Two things cannot occupy the same place
at the same time."
Point Loma, California,
July, 1927.
NATURE is indeed bountiful here. The
flowers and the birds and the sweet pure air of
Lomaland, and the gladness of the children,
and the hopes and services of the members, all
go to make life unique and splendid for us all.
The climate here is more glorious than
ON LOMALAND'S PERENNIAL CHARMS 271
you can imagine. In December the flowers
are in bloom, the birds are singing, and the
trees are spreading their beautiful coloring
through the atmosphere, and the grass is
growing and our rich fruits have come, and
we have the benefits of them, to bring us
back to health.
Point Lorna is a dream of beauty. It
is said to be a paradise. The trees have
grown up beyond the roofs of the houses,
and our grounds are covered also with flowers
and shrubbery and ·new buildings. . . .
If I had not had Theosophy all these
years, I would have left this world long ago.
The deception, the insincerity, and the rQtten-
ness in so many people who stand in the
world as 'all right,' and who pass for good
friends, have shocked me so that I have
turned away from doing anything in .the world
but to work out these great problems of
Theosophy, which I love, in order that people
may from them receive the inspiration and
the help and the knowledge that will make
life worth living. It is causes that interest me.
272 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
Thank the gods! While the whole world
may desert me, I shall have that abiding know-
ledge and faith that there is another life, and
then another, and then others, and that love
is eternal; and once it opens itself out into
the service of humanity, it does not stop.
What the future has in store, I do not
know. But I do the best I can. I have a
supreme faith in the Higher Law; and I keep
my conscience clear and do my full duty
by those whom I meet as well as by myself,
and particularly so with members. So I
must pull through. . . .
ON "MOTHERS' DAY"
MOTHERS' DAY-a very grand day,
I think, because it appeals to the bet-
ter.side of our natures; and wherever it is con-
sidered in the sacred sense in which we should
consider it, it must bring out grand and splen-
did results in the hearts of the people.
So many beautiful and exquisite thoughts
come up in connexion with Mothers' Day,
ON "MOTHERS' DAY" 273
that I know it is alive with high purposes.
I have been wishing that we had Mothers'
Day every day, and that we had had it all
down the ages, so that the condition of the
world might prove that mother had never
been forgotten!
Limited as mothers' education must have
been in comparison with what it will be, still
all that we love, the best and noblest, was
evoked in their motherhood.
It is not enough to think of their virtues
and the beautiful things that have been done
by them; but if we reflect a little, we can
pay tribute to them by remembering the things
that have not been done for them- the op-
portunities that have been denied them, the
education which should have been theirs, in
order that they might have lived out the
fuller, richer, and grander aspirations of their
souls. They should have been freed ages ago
from that terrible idea, against which I speak
every Sunday, about being 'born in sin'-
they and their children! They should have
had no fear, no anxiety, no sorrow; for the
f
274 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
mother's life is very holy, very beautiful;
and if it is sanctified with high purposes
and unselfish work, it blesses succeeding
ages.
Greater things- deeper wisdom, more
profound knowledge of life and its meaning -
must be ours as a people, if we are to pass
on to posterity something that will live and
become an enlightening power for humanity.
It is the very lack of these enlightening and
spiritual teachings, which should have been
ours, that has prevented us from attaining
real civilization.
It is wonderful how well mothers have
done without them. But oh! how much
grander, how much better, how much more
wonderful a civilization we should have to-
day- one that we could really pride our-
selves on - if our dear mothers, with their
sorrows and their heartaches and their anxie-
ties, could have beeri freed from all the fet-
ters of ignorance and of false teachings that
hold down the minds of the people! ·
So I hold that the greatest tribute that
ON "MOTHERS' DAY" 275
we can pay to mothers today is to try to
establish in the minds of the people - even
of the indifferent, the careless, the half-
hearted, and the ungrateful- something of
the spirit that comes from a knowledge that
man is divine in essence, that he has the
power to ~h'ape his life for glorious achieve-
ments. That is what we must awaken in
the minds of all.
This day must not be one of tribute and
dedication only; but everyone must be filled
with a new idea of a better posterity, a better
condition of human life. It is time that the
united people of our ~ountry, or at any rate
the united force of a few, should sweep away
the horrible things that we have to meet
from day to day.
I should feel ill at ease if I went to bed
tonight with the thought that I had spent
my time in paying merely verbal tribute to
the mothers. Let us pay tribute to them,
of course; but let us do something more!
Let us honor them so truly that we give
something worth while to pass on to those
#'
.-
276 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
who follow after them! To the mothers with
us now, I say that they may find within the
teachings of Theosophy those fundamental
principles -
and forces that can make one over
again. Theosophy brings new hope, new
joy; it gives a new vista of life.
ON WHITE LOTUS DAY
THIS day is very sacred to Theosophists.
Our members all over the world cele-
brate today as "White Lotus Day"- the
anniversary of the passing away in London,
on May 8, 1891, of Helena Petrovna Bla-
vatsky, the Foundress of the modern Theo-
_
sophical Movement.
Perhaps in a few hundred years, H. P.
Blavat~ky will be universally recognised as
the very remarkable character that Theoso-
phists now know her to have been.
She possessed rare qualities of unselfish
devotion to humanity. If she had held in
ON WHITE LOTUS DAY 277
abeyance some of the superb enthusiasm that
was hers, she might not have been so much
misunderstood. If she had kept back some
of the glorious teachings of the Ancient Wis-
dom, which she brought again to the western
world, possibly a great many more would
have at least half-believed in her.
But she was imbued with a force of
character that knew no limit and that marked
her from the time we first knew her until
she passed away, as a friend of the people-
a soulful character, who moved out from a
home of princely afHuence and great prestige
in Russia, with everything at her command
in the worldly sense; all of which she gave
up for a great purpose - to teach Theosophy.
She must have sought for Theosophy
far and wide in lives before this incarnation,
and have mastered the spiritual and intel-
lectual import of many languages, sciences,
religions, and philosophies; and thus having
found Theosophy - 'Divine Wisdom'- her
great purpose was to reach the hearts of
the people with its message. She traveled
278 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
through many different countries, in this life,
sowing the seeds of brotherhood and of all
the wonderful doctrines that are found in
the teachings of Theosophy.
But from the beginning of her public
work until the end, she was outrageously
abused. Nevertheless she worked incessant-
ly, sowing the seeds of brotherhood wherever
she went; and she wrote her books that are
the marvel of the age. Even today the great-
est .
savants are bafHed when they read her
Secret Doctrine and her Isis Unveiled. The
depth of her knowledge and the scope of her
spiritual erudition are staggering.
The whole beauty of her character lay
in the nobility of her high purposes. She
had grand principles to support her in the
teachings of Theosophy, which she inculcated
into the minds of people all over the world,
and the in.
fluence of her life-work is growing
more and more rapidly all the time.
To pay adequate tribute to her in words
is utterly impossible. But in the silence of
our hearts, we Theosophists here and through-
ON OPTIMISM 279
out the world, today are rejoicing in the
thought that such a soul came to the world
in our time, and that her work is a living
power in the life of humanity, and that we
have the privilege of participating in it. ·
And that is the greatest tribute we can
pay to her; for no language can describe our
admiration for her and our confidence in her
mission, and the inspiration we have re-
ceived from all that she said and did.
ON OPTIMISM
To AN OLD FRIEND AFFLICTED WITH ILL
HEALTH AND DISCOURAGEMENT
JN your letter you say: ''All memories are
tinged with sadness." I agree with you
that most of them are, but not all of them;
and the very fact that most of them are
tinged with sadness makes me doubly appre-
ciate those that are not. If we did not have the
contrasts, we should become so used to having
everything as we wanted it that we should
280 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
not appreciate our very best memories. So
keep a cheerful thought! In that way we
won't be led to do something foolish and
throw ourselves off the track.
· You say, "The present is unendurable
and the future utterly hopeless." I won't
have it, because I know better! It is no
miracle, and it requires no great marvelous
effort. Oh! if you would take one whole day
and claim it as your own, and swear by the
eternal gods, no matter how many aches or
pains you have, no matter how much dis-
appointment you have, you are going to make
of the day something that will bring you
contentment - Peace!
Of course, in doing this, you would have
to give up some of your notions; because you
have absolutely got notions. Your notion is
that you are depressed, and that your nerves
are all gone. And then you fail, instead of
trusting in the power of those invisible and
higher laws that do help us when we help
ourselves.
You see, I know you have made many
ON OPTIMISM 281
splendid efforts in your life; but you have not
in this case made a bit of effort to pull your-
self out of the idea that "the mind is so in-
comprehensible."
And then you say: "I conclude that
man is a machine, that every thought and
action is the result of outside influences."
I will not admit that a man is a machine. No!
The mind is an instrument of power and
ability, if a man will trust his own inner
nature and have the courage to meet his
weaknesses and overcome them!
You continue: "Every thought and ac-
tion is the result of outside influences, the im-
pressions of what you see, what you hear,
what you run up against!" Yes, if you be-
come receptive and ready to let them run up
against you. But we must be ready to de-
fend that which is ourselves- our soul's
rights, our opportunities, our honor, and our
happiness! We have to be on the defensive;
this gives us strength.
You say further: ''Each affects the mind
and therefore the mind has to work exactly
282 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
as it does ... according to the laws given to
the machine." Yes, it does, just as long as
you let it. But why open the doors to those
things that do not belong to you, that you
do not want? Why not remove fear, and
doubt, and swear there will be a few days in
your life that shall tell for something akin
to your aspirations and your ideals? You
cannot formulate them; but you can go into
the spirit of something new. And if you were
with me, I would pull you out of your present
depressed state of mind.
And then again, you are away off the
track when you say: "We have but little, if
any responsibility." Why, , it is just
the other way! It is not until one begins to
find that he is responsible, that he pulls out
of his moods, and doubts, and questionings,
etc. And it is no hard fight at all! I have
found that every effort made in that line by
me doubles my power to help those I know,
and I grow spiritually also.
If we are going to let the mere nature-
forces run a man, we shall have the lower part
ON OPTIMISM 283
of his nature, his weaknesses, and his doubts,
all the time mingling in with his aspirations.
Oh, your attitude is pathetic, and I am not
going to allow it!
There is something amusingly contra-
dictory in your letter; for, in spite of all
these things that you say at the beginning,
which I have referred to, you say: "But we
must all try to improve the future." But
my de~r , you are putting your future too
far away from you. Improve the now;
improve the day all by yourself in your
thought!
Seek the sunshine in your thoughts! Do
not allow the suggestion of a thought to re-
main with you that will make any shadows,
nor anything that will make you unhappy. I
tell you that life lived aright, is joy! Just play
a part! Be an actor for a while; and see what
will come of it. Thus may you find yourself.
284 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
ON THE IMMORTALITY OF GENIUS
To THE BEREAVED SISTER OF A GREAT
ARTIST
you have my fullest sympathy in the loss
of your dear brother. But remember,
that that which you loved most in him is im-
mortal and can never die! And then think
what a beautiful memory of himself he has
left for all time in his lovely paintings.
Do believe me, dear, your brother is still
close to you in essence, though not in form,
because the latter would be retrogression in-
stead of advancement for the soul, and Theo-
sophy does not teach that. But love is eter-
nal, and his highest thoughts are probably
close to you now, and his hopes and his wishes,
unmarred by the brain-mind and the flesh-
life. Believe in·it and trust in it!
In his present soul-existence, he goes on
painting his beautiful pictures, because the
soul is living in the glory of what it accom-
ON ''THE LIFE OF PYTHAGORAS'' 285
plished here in this life and further creation.
If he had known the secrets of preserving
his health, he might have been with us today.
He will be wiser in the next incarnation.
Have trust, dear, in the wonderful, opti-
mistic teachings of Theosophy!
ON "THE LIFE OF PYTHAGORAS"
BY IAMBLICHUS
(THOMAS TAYLOR's TRANSLATION)
WELL worth reading; brim full of the
sweet gems of thought and spiritual
hints that give one new knowledge every time
he reads a line.
Pythagoras was most truly a great Mys-
tic, and the simplicity of his life reminds me
very much of Judge's. Both were very
spiritual men, born at different times, under
different conditions; but their light still
shines, and their books will be read by thou-
sands and thousands in the future.
286 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
ON "LETTERS FROM A CHINESE
OFFICIAL"
JHAVE read three times a little book en-
titled, Letters from a Chinese Oificial:
Being an Eastern View of Western Civiliza-:
tion; and am going to read it again.
How I do admire the writer! How clear-
sighted he is! How unbiased! How true!
How far-visioned! Awfully clever, he was
too, to write what he knew was the truth,
and at the same time prevent any possi-
bility of his being misunderstood by political
intriguers to the detriment of China. He
so wisely 'knocked into smithereens' so many
things that are unnecessary in the human
life of the Western World!
ON COLONEL CHARLES A. LINDBERGH
MY thoughts turn to young Lindbergh,
the aviator. Somewhere along the
way, it will be found that he marked time
ON COLONEL CHARLES A. LINDBERGH 287
with a positive quality of his nature that
brought the spirit of self-control; and that
self-control has marked the history of his whole
life in very small things; so that when his
hands were guiding his aeroplane all that long
distance from New York to Paris, the revela-
tion came to him of the lessons he had learned,
and the conquests he had made from child-
hood.
Then the power and majesty of soul,
which had given its enlightenment in small
ways- in devotion to duty, in real honesty,
and great conscientiousness,- enabled him
to become the controller of his destiny, and
to win the honor of the best in the world.
Great lessons can be learned from study-
ing the life of this young man.
When we all come to the point where we
are absolutely honest with ourselves, with not
a bit of anything false in us, we also shall
make our mark, a high mark that cannot
be dreamed of yet.
In this new-born time, new opportunities
are ours, if we will take them. And they are
288 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
nearer to us, because of what this young
Lindbergh has achieved in his simple, heroic
effort and in his self-control as a man.
• • • • •
I THINK that there is something behind
Lindbergh's coming out as he did. I believe
in the guidance of the Real Teachers, and
there is much that could be said.
I think time will prove that internation-
ally the thought-world in a sense has been
vastly changed through the splendid way
he conducted himself in his daring inter-
national venture. It is a stimulus and may
set some weaklings to turn about and try
to do better and make the world more glad.
TO A CONSCIENTIOUS MOTHER
KEEP young people ever pushing forward!
Let them feel that they have to work
for ever higher achievements; that they can
make mistakes, and that they should always
be ready to be guided and directed in the
TO A CONSCIE·NTIOUS MOTHER 289
right way. If you let a child feel that it can
do everything that it wishes, or that it ·is
close to perfection, she will not strive much
in the direction of improvement and growth;
and then when trouble comes, she is not
ready.
I pray that you may have no disappoint-
ments, no heartaches; but I know that, being
such a thoughtful mother, you are looking
well ahead and are helping your daughter to
find her strength, which comes not just from
her brain-mind, and not just from what she
accomplishes that is in a general way satis-
factory, but from that part of her nature
which rounds out her character from the spiri-
tual side of her being, and makes her true
- true to herself all the time.
ON FRIENDSHIP
WHAT a beautiful thing is a dear, noble,
unselfish friendship! It makes one
forget so many disappointments and heart-
290 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
aches, and it ·makes one feel more sure of
the great value, inspiration, and protection
that the Higher Law affords us, when we
work with it.
ON INNER PEACE
THERE is an inner peace that one can
find that is .the keynote of one's life.
It opens the inner possibilities of one's heart;
makes one become more receptive to his high-
er thoughts; and it holds one enthroned, so
to speak, in strength.
LIGHT FROM THE MOUNTAIN-TOPS
STICK to your place; hold to your duty;
do it fully; keep the conscience clean;
live in the sunshine of the eternal things,
and all good things whatsoever will come
to you!
Our Work goes along splendidly, and I
"THE CARAVAN MOVES ON" 291
have evidence of the silent assistance that
comes when I have done my best. It is
great that the radiant light of Truth is ever
near, if we can bend our heads and listen in
silence. It is joy unspeakable, and keeps
one ever climbing. A great idea that of
climbing! .
Well, the ball keeps rolling, rolling; the
dear old Masters are tramping along the great
pathway, and the Light shines forth in resplen-
dent glory from the mountain-tops, where the
eyes of most men fail to glimpse it.
"THE CARAVAN MOVES ON"
HOW quickly the time passes when one's
mind is occupied in such stupendous
efforts for the benefit of the human race: and
how much sorrow passes us by, with simply a
nod, because we are not on the road of worry
and anxiety and selfishness/
The different states of mind that men
have are very puzzling; and only those who
292 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
move out of the limitations of these states of
mind, can tell of the grandeur of the growth
of the inner life.
It is surely a joy to live and work for
these great, these noble purposes, which have
fascinated thousands and thousands of pil-
grims along the way through aeons of time.
The Great Caravan moves on, and we are
in the march.
There is music in the air, there is joy
in the heart; and so we salute the day as our
day, the winning day, because we can per-
petuate the glorious life and thoughts of
H. P. Blavatsky and William Q. Judge.
ON SELF-CONFIDENCE AND COURAGE
To A YOUNG AsPIRANT
CERTAINLY you are on the right road
to find the light. But this light cannot
come from me nor from any other than
yourself. It will spring from your heart,
ON SELF-CONFIDENCE AND COURAGE 293
out of the yearnings of your soul for better
things.
If people would only take up their bur-
dens with a courage that acknowledges no
defeat, life would be very different. Such
courage gives one a royal soul-optimism.
This in turn gives one confidence in oneself.
And self-confidence strikes a deeper note
in the life - a spiritual note, an inspiring
note,- whereby the soul can rise and go
out in thought into the larger realms of
being, and th~rein find that peace which
passeth all understanding. . . .
Here is one little hint that I can give
you to make your path easier: Live each
day as though it were your last. In other
words, make up your mind that each day
shall be filled with an undeniable record of
your devotion to truth and to principle.
Let each day prove that you appreciate the
value of time to such extent that you only
do those things that tell for good and that
you set behind you all temptations to draw
you away from the path you have chosen.
294 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
ON THE UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD
AND THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
THERE is nothing in the Universal Brother-
hood and Theosophical ·Society that un-
selfish, aspiring, intelligent people could ob-
ject to. The selfish and the ambitious might
object to the management of the Organiza-
tion being left entirely in the hands of the
Leader and Official Head, by our constitu-
t~on; but the oldest members of our Society,
as well as the most active and intelligent
among the younger members, appreciate the
fact that only so can the unity of the whole
be preserved and the teachings be kept pure
and undefiled, and the Organization be saved
from exploitation by the unworthy.
All the Sages of the past knew and most
thoughtful people of today realize that it is
safer in a spiritual movement to have power
centralized in the hands of one person of
true character to guide the affairs and the
policy of the Organization along the right
OBLIGATIONS OF A THEOSOPHIST 295
path, and to preserve harmony. The very
teachings of Theosophy themselves are a
guarantee against dogmatism and bigotry.
Once the people acknowledge to them-
selves this self-evident fact, I am sure they
will individually seek the protection and the
real spirit of Brotherhood afforded by member-
ship in our Society, which is established on a
solid foundation and is destined to an ever-
widening influence in the world for the good
of all humanity.
ON THE SACRED OBLIGATIONS OF
A THEOSOPHIST
JAM thinking of H. P. Blavatsky and
William Q. Judge - in their experiences,
their struggles, their great efforts, and also
in all their victories; for their victories were
many. But the world knew not of them
and could not have comprehended them,
even if it had known them.
And then I thought of the great changes
296 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
that have been wrought in the interval of
time since H. P. Blavatsky was bending her
energy and her soul-effort to enlighten the
public of America, and since dear William Q.
Judge was working along in his great Theo-
sophical efforts.
Of course those who belong to the old
days will recall the desperate efforts that were
made by our opponents from the very be-
ginning to crush out all possibility of Theo-
sophy becoming a living power in the lives of
the people of the world. Few will know how
many schemes were made and carried out to
make impossible the work of establishing the
Theosophical Society in America.
When we go back in thought, during our
quiet moments, we must recall struggle after
struggle that H. P. Blavatsky had and that
Mr. Judge had in their own inner lives, while
waiting for the results of their grand efforts.
But there is a great charm about Theoso-
phical study. Once the mind is conscious that
the spiritual soul exists, there is a superb com-
panionship through all the struggles and de-
OBLIGATIONS OF A THEOSOPHIST 297
feats as well as all the successes and victories;
and, above all, in the visions for the future.
So those two people in everything that they ex-
perienced had ever before them the vision of
the future of Theosophy for the whole world,
and we have already begun to glimpse it.
Think what these two people were doing
in carrying out this great unselfish effort to
lift humanity's burdens- in the beginning,
practically alone! Suppose they had failed!
Suppose they had carried out their wishes
rather than their duties, where would we be
today and where would Theosophy be today?
And where could we find a promise for the
future of humanity?
In these thoughts there is a great lesson.
No man, no woman, no Theosophist, knows
how far his influence goes in ingraining into
the thought-atmosphere of the world these
beautiful teachings. One cannot tell how
far they will go.
It is difficult to think towards any one
of the principles of the Theosophical teach-
ings without feeling new life, and new hope,
298 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
and new determinatio~, and the will streng-
thened through the efforts and application
of one's mind to self-improvement and to
the service of humanity.
In marking time with the age, and, in-
deed, in stepping out ahead of it, one has to be
well acquainted with oneself; one must be
at home with oneself; one must have respect
for oneself; one must have trust in oneself.
And this cannot come without a recognition
of the essential divinity of man.
Step by step we can trace the growth of
the Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical
Society and point out how much has been
accomplished by this one woman from Russia,
when she came to the western world; but
no matter how much we may think of it,
every day in the year, we cannot approxi-
mate what she wanted to do, or what she
did do, or what she meant that we should do.
She enfolded in her arms, so to speak, the
great universal family of the world. Why?
Because her vision was so large, and her soul
told her that all she had to do was day by
OBLIGATIONS OF A THEOSOPHIST 299
day to follow her duty, do her noble service,
forget herself in that service; and from that
would come the superb strength that brought
her to victory, preserved this Society, and
gave us the grand opportunity and satisfac- ·
tion that are ours in having established and
maintained this World's Center of Theo-
sophy at Point Lorna.
With the help of Mr. Judge she carried
the Society on; so that on inner planes it is
really marvelous how much was done in
the early days.
According to the laws of Occultism, as I
understand them, when our thoughts are in-
grained into the atmosphere where we are
carrying on our Theosophical work, when our
purposes are true and our wills are behind
them, there is no limitation to the power of
even one individual effort.
So when one thinks of the combined
efforts of the body of people that we have at
Point Lorna now and of the members through-
out the world all working together, it seems
almost impossible to think how great the
3()() THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
transition has been in the short space of
thirty years and how wonderful the advance-
ment of the Theosophical Movement that has
been made since the time when H. P. Bla-
vatsky stood here in this country alone and
persecuted. Look where our work stands now
before the world!
But we must not stop here. We must
have prevision; we must extend our souls'
vision out so far that, while we keep on in
the performance of our daily duties, we can
concentrate our thoughts on the superb pos-
sibilities of the future -not only on the
possibilities of the members of this Society,
but on those of the whole world.
If every student had done his full duty
to the full extent of the knowledge of Theoso-
phy that was his, to this date, we should have
tens of thousands of members for every hun-
dred that we have today; and our whole great
Theosophical body would have been farther
advanced, because there would have been a
stronger unity and a more profound expression
of the real Theosophical life throughout.
OBLIGATIONS OF A THEOSOPHIST 301
So, while we are doing very well, and
while we are doing better perhaps than many
of us ever thought we could do, we are still
doing so very little in comparison with what
we may do. But this is where we must stand.
If we dare to look backward or to throw our
thoughts on to ourselves as to our own in-
ability and say to ourselves: "I cannot," or
, "I will not," or "I want," and allow our-
selves to wander on to the path of desire,
we lose our way; and we know not how much
we lose. In just dropping the mind for five
minutes into a support of the wrong side of
one's nature, one does not know how much
will creep in; one does not ·know how much
harm is done, nor how much these small do-
ings may lead to greater wrong.
Not until we can brighten our minds with
the m_
ore divine thoughts, until we can en-
liven our beings with a determination to make
the spiritual life a glorious reality within us,
shall we find our true places in the Divine
Scheme.
If we truly serve the Cause of Theo-
302 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
sophy, depend upon it and serve it fully,
all else goes ·well. But if in our mental limi-
tations we shy off from our duty and slip
into this mood and that mood, or this desire
and that desire, remember we shall have to go
over the same ground again, and perhaps not
under such favorable circumstances; because
there is always a lesson - a lesson that only
the soul or the mind can comprehend, that
cannot be talked about, but that is made evi-
dent whenever there is even a half-failure,
when there is the play of the two forces in
the nature.
Oh, the tremendous egoism that exists
today, alas! even with some of our so-called
Theosophists! They have it to a very re-
markable degree .sometimes. In their own
estimation they are in a position to judge all
others as to their Theosophical attitude. Such
egoists cannot be taught anything. They go
along with their heads set high and with an
air of impressing their own importance upon
their fellows as the greatest and grandest type
of woman or man. When such egoism is con-
OBLIGATIONS OF A THEOSOPHIST 303
trolling the life, if one could see on inner
planes, one would see clouds, one would see
smoke, one would see discouragement and
.despair. Then comes pity and then come
tears because it is so.
Returning to my picture of H. P. Bla-
vatsky and William Q. Judge, I feel that
they are both rejoicing with us; and that in
their hearts is something that overrides any
thought of what their approbation would be.
Knowing that they loved·us so well, I think
they would say even more than I have said:
that we cannot stand still for a moment.
We must not be satisfied with just one stride
we make for the day; but that stride, or
that effort, or that devotion, or that con-
centration, must be vivified with the real
spiritual vitality of soul-action.
So I refer very often to the sacredness
of duty, and the sacredness of our opportuni-
ties, and the profound sacredness of our obli-
gations as honest and devoted Theosophists.
304 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
ON THE VALUE OF TIME AND THEO-
SOPHICAL RESPONSIBILITIES
THEfeeling of the value of time, and of the
responsibilities that are ours in our Theo-
sophical efforts, takes us quite away from the
everyday forces of life, away from personal
ends, and carries us out into a realm of
thought that is so universal and so alive with
possibilities that we find ourselves in a new
world, a world of greater effort, of sublime
effort, for the advancement of the human race.
Let us consider for a moment the subject
'Why not Cultivate the Real Man and
Woman instead of the Artificial?' When one
thinks of and takes up these larger subjects,
when one gives the· right thought towards
the meaning of each life and of the great
creative forces that are back of each life,
then one realizes.that- aside from Theoso-
phy - we know nothing about all these won-
derful things. We cannot otherwise tell
whence come these great forces into our
THEOSOPHICAL RESPONSIBILITIES 305
individual lives every day, waiting for us to
utilize them; and we stand or move along
trying to do something; but we do not do it
richly and fully and understandingly enough.
We ought to count ourselves as very im-
portant factors in the universe. We should
look upon ourselves as spiritual beings in
preparation for a glorious work that the world
has not known for ages; and we are trying
to revivify and to resuscitate those ancient
teachings that were so sacred and so sublime
of old. They have lived in the silence and
in the memories of the great workers and of
the great Teachers; they have lived in the
inner life of the great men all through the ages.
But if H. P. Blavatsky and William Q.
Judge had not come here and done their
great work, these teachings would not have
been given to the outer world.
Challenge yourselves every night and
every morning, as you challenge the glory of
· the sun in the morning and the gladness of
the day! Carry out the great idea of the
opportunities that you have of being real
306 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
heralders, real protectors, of this Sacred
Work, of which if even one failed, possibly
the whole would be lost. ·
You are challenged; and the beauty of
it is that you want to be. ~e all must de-
sire to be challenged; we must rejoice in the
thought that we have the opportunity to de-
clare the sublimity of life and the joy of
life, and the divine influence of Theosophy.
It grows more beautiful every day.
The larger your vision, the broader your
field of work, the more determined and the
more strenuous you are, the nearer do these
richer opportunities come, and the nearer
comes the knowledge of your essential divinity.
A HEART-MESSAGE
TO THE LITTLE FOLK ALL OVER THE WORLD
Lomaland, December 18, 1927.
DEAR CHILDREN: Christmas will soon
be here and we are all in good cheer.
Even the birds are singing a glad song of the
A HEART-MESSAGE 307
happy time of Christmas. If the birds can
sing and the flowers can smile and love so
well, why cannot the little folk all join now in
being the most gladsome of all that lives?
Little girls and boys should have their
minds pure and clean. Then they would al-
ways be happy; and jolly, and glad. They
should live in the sunshine and love the
flowers and sing as the birds sing, and join
in the glad time of Christmas; and never lose .
their tempers or be naughty or untruthful
• •
or Insincere.
All the little children throughout the
world, feeling these beautiful thoughts and
wishing to make this year the happiest year
of their lives, are singing the one great song
of a happy, merry Christmas.
So, dear children, I who love all the little
boys and girls ev~rywhere, and who have
many Lotus-Children in different countries,
join with you in saying: "A Merry Christmas!
A Merry Christmas! A Merry Christmas to
you, to Father and Mother and all the
family, and to all the world!"
,
308 THE VOICE OF THE SOUL
And, above everything, let us remember
all the little children who have not as much
comfort and happiness as we have -many
who are suffering and lying sick in the hospi-
tals or crippled or injured. It is they whom we
must think of. We must not make Christmas
a selfish day, but an unselfish day, a glad day,
a love-day. Then these unhappy children
will read your hearts and know your loving
thoughts.
Good-bye! Salutations to you and to
your dear teachers!
Affectionately,
KATHERINE TINGLEY.
STANDARD
THEOSOPHICAL LITERATURE
published or for sale by the
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
a department of the
UNIVERSAL BRoTHERHOOD AND THEOSOPHICAL SociETY
Point Lorna, California
UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF KATHERINE TINGLEY
THE SECRET DocTRINE: The Synthesis
of Science, Religion, and Philosophy,
by H. P. Blavatsky. Virtually a ver-
batim reprint of the original edition pub-
lished in 1888 by by H. P. Blavatsky
2 vols., in 4 parts (limp)
2 vols., in 2 parts (fabr.)
Isis UNVEILED: A Master-Key to the M ys-
per set
12.00
10.00
teries of Ancient and Modern Science and per set
Theology, by H. P. Blavatsky (4 vols.) 12.00
THE KEY TO THEOSOPHY: A Clear Exposi-
tion, in the Form of Question and Answer,
of the Ethics, Science, and Philosophy, for
the Study of which The Universal Brother-
hood and Theosophical Society has been
founded, with a copious Glossary of Gene- per copy
ral Theosophical Terms, by H. P. Blavatsky 2.25
THEosoPHY: THE PATH OF THE MYSTic: per copy
A unique 90llection of Citations gilt edge 3 .25
from the Teachings of Katherine gift 2. 50
Tingley, including extracts from fabrikoid 1.25
Private Instructions paper .75
THE WINE OF LIFE: The Wisdom of sane
mysticism presented with a beauty of dic-
tion and wealth ofillustration unsurpassed.
per copy
3.00
An inspiration for the daily life of the in-
dividual, home, nation, and humanity, by
Katherine Tingley. Special Autograph leather 5.()()
THE Gons AWAIT: A lucid exposition ofthe
higher philosophy of life; fragrant with the per copy
aroma of spirituality, by Katherine Tingley 2 .00
THE TRAVAIL OF TilE SouL: Old wisdom in
twentieth-century language. Profound per copy
truths simply put, by Katherine Tingley 2.00
THE VoiCE oF THE SouL: SeUing forth in
beautiful language the part played by man's
spiritual nature in the drama of life, by per copy
Katherine Tingley 2.00
BHAGAVAD-GIT1: The Book of Devotion.
A Dialog between Krishna, Lord of Devo-
tion, and Arjuna, Prince of India. An
Episode from the M ahdbhdrata, India's per copy
Great Epic. Recension by W. Q. Judge 1.00
THE VoiCE OF THE SILENCE, and other frag·
ments from the Book of the Golden Pre-
cepts. Dedicated to the Few. Translated
and Annotated by H. P. Blavatsky
THE OcEAN oF THEOSOPHY: A Statement
offundamental truths made in such a man·
ner as to be under:ttandable by the ordinary
reader, by William Q. Judge
EcHOES FROM THE ORIENT: A Broad Out-
line of Theosophical Doctrine, by William
QuanJudge
REINCARNATION: A STuDY oF FoRGOTTEN
TRUTH, by E. D. Walker. A work valu-
per copy
.75
per copy
cloth 1.00
paper .75
per copy
cloth .50
paper .25
able alike to the student of Theosophy per copy
and to the general reader. Point Loma ed. (cloth) 1.75
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY, by Kath·
erine Tingley: with Quotations from the
writings of H. P. Blavatsky; tributes
by W. Q. Judge and Students
A NosEGAY OF EVERLASTINGS: from
Katherine Tingley's Garden of Helpful
Thoughts. Short extracts culled from
various addresses delivered in Europe
and America
per copy
cloth .90
paper .75
per copy
cloth .75
paper .50
OM: THE SECRET OF AHBOR VALLEY: Pro-
found truths in the guise of vivid and fasci-
natingfiction, by one of the most prominent per copy
writers oftoday. A novel by Talbot Mundy .75
THE SEcRET MouNTAIN: Mystical stories,
toW, with true poetical imagination, by per copy
Kenneth Morris 2 .00
THE FATES OF THE PRINCES OF DYFED:
A Romancefrom that Wonderland of Celtic
Mythology of which so many literary ex-
ponents have won fame in the last thirty
years: derived, however, from Welsh and
not, as the mass ofN eo-Celtic literature has per copy
been, from I risk sources, by Cenydd Morus 2. 00
THE PLOUGH AND THE CRoss: A Story of per copy
New Ireland, by Wm. Patrick O'Ryan 1.00
A NosEGAY OF 'YORICK's' EDITORIALS:
Compiled by a Student of Theosophical
University, in memory ofEdwin H. Clough, per copy
America's Great Journalist and Critic .25
LoMALAND: An Album of Views of the In-
ternational Headquarters at Point Lorna,
and Quotations from the three Theoso- per copy
phical Leaders (10 x 13 in., post. 6c. extra) .50
KATHERINE TINGLEY ON MARRIAGE AND per copy
THE HoME, by Claire Merton .25
CLAssiCAL DRAMA SERIEs: SouvENIR AL-
BUM No. 1 - The Eumenides. Beauti-
ful half-tones of scenes from Aeschylus'
Drama, as presented by Katherine Ting-
ley in the Greek Theater; other pictures
of topical interest; and an essay on "The
Eumenides" by J. H. Fussell (48 pp. 9 x 12)
per copy
1.00
THEOSOPHICAL PAMPHLETS: 15c. per copy
AN EPITOME OF THEOSOPHY, by William Quan Judge
THE MYSTICAL CHRIST, by Katherine Tingley
THE READJUSTMENT OF THE HUMAN RACE THROUGH
THEOSOPHY, by Katherine Tingley
DEATH, THE TwrN-SrsTER OF LIFE, by
Katherine Tingley
KATHERINE TINGLEY AND HER RAJA-YoGA SYsTEM
OF EDUCATION, by Lilian Whiting
KATHERINE TINGLEY: THEOSOPHIST AND HUMANI-
TARIAN, by Lilian Whiting
SoME oF THE ERRORs oF CHRISTIAN SciENCE, by
H. P. Blavatsky and W. Q. Judge
THE EviLS OF HYPNOTISM, by Lydia Ross, M.D.
THEOSOPHY AND OccuLTISM. A Reply to M. Jules
Bois, by J. H. Fussell
ON VERSE, "FREE VERSE," AND THE DuAL NATURE
OF MAN, by Kenneth Morris
THEOSOPHICAL MANUALS
HANDBOOKS FOR STUDENTS
Per set (19 vols.), paper $4. 00; cloth $5.50
t paper .25; cloth .35 per copy
No. 1. Elementary Theosophy
No. 2. The Seven Principles of Man
No. 3. Karma
No. 4. Reincarnation
No. 5. Man after Death
No. 6. KAma-loka and Devachan
No. 7. Teachers and Their Disciples
No. 8. The .Doctrine of Cycles
No. 9. Psychism, Ghostology, and the Astral Plane
No. 10. The Astral Light
No. 11. Psychometry, Clairvoyance, and Thought-
Transference
No. 12. The Angel and the Demon, 2 vols., 35c. each
No. 13. The Flame and the Clay -
No. 14. On God and Prayer
No. 15. Theosophy: the Mother of Religions
No. 16. From Crypt to Pronaos: An Essay on the
Rise and Fall of Dogma
No. 17. Earth: Its Parentage, its Rounds and its
Races
No. 18. Sons of the Fire-Mist: A Study of Man
NEW CENTURY SERIES
THE PITH AND MARROW OF SoME SACRED WRITINGS
25c. per copy
ScRIPT 1- Contents: The Relation of Universal Bro-
therhood to Christianity- No Man can Serve Two
Masters - In this Place is a Greater Thing
ScRIPT 2- Contents: A Vision of Judgment- The
Great Victory- Co-Heirs with Christ- The 'Woes'
of the Prophets - Fragment: from the Bhagavad-
Gttd - Jesus the Man
ScRIPT 3- Contents: Lesson of Israel's History-
Man's Divinity and Perfectibility- The Man Born
Blind - The Everlasting Covenant - Burden of the
Lord
SCRIPT 4 - Contents: Reincarnation in the Bible -
The Money-Changers in the Temple - The Mys-
teries of the Kingdom of Heaven- The Heart
Doctrine - The Temple of God
SCRIPT 9- Contents: Traces of the Wisdom-Religion
in Zoroastrianism, Mithraism, and their modern
representative, Parseeism - The Druses of Mount
Lebanon
ScRIPT 10- Contents: The Religions of China
SCRIPT 11- Contents: Druidism- Druidism and its
Connexion with Ireland
THE PATH SERIES
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR INQUIRERS IN THEOSOPHY
5c. per copy
No. 1. The Purpose of the Universal Brotherhood
and Theosophical Society
No. 2. Theosophy Generally Stated (W. Q. Judge):
Reprinted from Official Report, World's Parliament
of Religions, Chicago, 1893
No. 3. Mislaid Mysteries (Herbert Coryn, M.D.)
No. 4. Theosophy and its Counterfeits
No. 5. Some Perverted Presentations of Theosophy
(H. T. Edge, M. A.)
No. 6. What is Theosophy? (H. T. Edge. M.A.)
LOTUS LIBRARY FOR YOUNG FOLK
Introduced under the direction of.Katherine Tingley
per copy
CoMING OF THE KING, THE: by R. Machell (cloth) $.35
LITTLE BuiLDERS, and their Voyage to Rangi, THE:
by R. N. .50
LoTus SoNG: "The Sun Temple," with music .15
LoTus SoNG BooK. Fifty original songs with
copyrighted music (boards) .50
Luz STAR-EYE's DREAM-JOURNEY TO THE IsLES
oF THE SouTHERN SEA. A Story for Children
by YLVA. Illustrations by the Author (cloth) .75
STRANGE LITTLE GIRL, THE: A Story for
Children, by V. M. Illustrations by N. Roth (cloth) .75
PAPERS OF THE SCHOOL OF ANTIQUITY
20c. per copy
No. 2. The Relation of Religion to Art in Anti-
quity and the Middle Ages: by Oavald Siren, Ph. D.
No. 3. Notes on Peruvian Antiquities (illustrated):
by Fred. J. Dick, M. Inst. C. E.
No. 8. Studies in Evolution: by H. T. Edge, M. A.
No. 9. The School of Antiquity.: Its Meaning, Pur-
pose, and Scope: by J. H. Fussell
No. 10. Problems in Ethnology: by J. 0. Kinna-
man, A . M., Ph. D.
No. 11. Neglected Fundamentals in Geometry: by
Fred. J. Dick, M. Inst. C. E.
No. 13. Prehistoric Man and Darwinism: by C. J.
Ryan
•
No. 12. Maya Chronology (illustrated): by Fred. J.
Dick, M. Inst. C. E. - 2 parts 30c.
PERIODICALS
THE THEOSOPHICAL PATH (illustrated, monthly) Edited
by Katherine Tingley
per copy, domestic .30; foreign .35 or 1s 6d.
per year $3 .00; Canadian postage, .35; Foreign .50
PERIODICALS-continued
R1JA-YOGA MEssENGER (illwttrated, bi-monthly) Con-
ducted by students of the RAja-Yoga College, under
the direction of Katherine Tingley
per copy, domestic .20; foreign .25 or Is.
per year $1. 00; Canadian postage~ .10; Foreign .20
THE NEW WAY (illustrated, monthly) Under the direc-
tion of Katherine Tingley: per copy .10
per year .75; Foreign $1 .00
TRANsPORTATION CHARGES PREPAID
LITERATURE IN SWEDISH, DUTCH, GERMAN,
FRENCH, SPANISH, ITALIAN and JAPANESE
FOREIGN AGENCIES
GREAT BRITAIN- Theosophical Book Co.,
1 Bloomsbury St., LoNDON, W. C. 1, ENGLAND
SWEDEN- Universella Broderskapets Forlag, Teg-
nergatan 29, STOCKHOLM
HOLLAND - A. Goud, Tolsteegsingel 29, 0. Z.,
UTRECHT
GERMANY- Dr. Hans Hackmann, Bayerischer
Platz 12 BERLIN W. 30
AUSTRALIA- Box 1292 G. P. 0., SYDNEY, N. S. W.
